

Life
Assurance
The safe
investment and
the family’s
safeguard.
Use it for your
own peace of
mind and the
security of
your Family.
%
M
...
v : :
....
P s
t
ff
War Risk
Full risk is
carried on
pre-war
Policyholders in
their Country’s
Service either at
home or abroad
without extra
Premium.
HEAD OFFICE.
CORNER HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
&/>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879
An Insurance Society which belongs to its Policyholders
and
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia
Assets Exceed £10,000,000
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED.
WM. BENNETT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 60.—N0. 3123.
Wednesday, December 20, 1939.
The Great Peace Swindle
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
Packed with the best books of the day.
Also gift stationery. Post free anywhere.
Write for one now!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George St., Sydney.
TWfonsa
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
BRITAIN'S STATESMEN.
Right Honorable Gentlemen, by
“Watchman” (Hamish Hamilton), is
described as “a candid study of our
leaders of today.” They are Britain’s
leading statesmen: that they seem not
only more interesting but more familiar
here than Australia’s statesmen carries
its own comment both on the present
practically exclusive importance of
foreign affairs and on an Australian
foreign policy for some time past
evasively balanced between nebulous and
nil.
“Watchman”— not of A.B.C. —reads
like a British Parliamentary press gallery
writer. He has his enthusiasms —among
them Churchill, who would seem to have
mesmerised him:
When I first heard him speak I began
by thinking he was half-witted. A moment
later I _ was imagining that he had dined
too lavishly. I ended by utter capitulation.
Sometimes, too, a personality—such as
that of Sir John Simon —baffles him to
present it sympathetically. But most of
his portraits are done without either
favor or hard feeling; they are neither
eulogies nor essays in debunking. He
sets up the present occupants of the lime-
light in turn, shows what they look like
and talk like, and reviews their perform-
ances and prospects. Points from some
of his depictions:
Chamberlain. —His whole body sug-
gests the resistive qualities of iron, but
political friends lament the certainty that
he cannot lead them much longer. Lloyd
George was 59 when deposed; Ramsay
MacDonald retired at 68; Baldwin,
when just short of 70. No use pointing
to Gladstone: Chamberlain may possess
some of Gladstone’s inner fires, but the
burden of supreme responsibility is to-
day too heavy for any man to sustain for
very long after he has reached three
score years and ten. “Not from Cham-
berlain,” however, “will come any flinch-
ing or wavering.”
Lloyd George. Will be 77 next
month; before the coming year is out
will have represented Carnarvon Bor-
oughs for an unbroken period of half
a century. Still possesses prodigious
vitality and wonderful health. His out-
size in sons, Gwilym—a biological
phenomenon, considering the size of the
father and diminutive sister member
Megan—is hot favorite for the Speaker-
ship when next that office falls vacant;
in that event Gwilym will “become by
title what his father has long been in
fact, the first commoner of the realm.”
If Lloyd George were 20 years younger
and lacked his historic associations he
would make the ideal Radical leader
whom the Opposition so pitiably lack ;
he would have had the National Gov-
ernment out of office on a dozen different
occasions. These days he sometimes
seems dazzled by his own headlights. No
other explanation is possible for his
deviations from the high road of sanity.
Simon. —Intellect like a sword; owes
the important positions he holds to his
powers of advocacy, which have made
him almost indispensable to the Govern-
ment. There is a fashion to murmur
malevolently about him. The tale is told
that he radiates physical coldness. You
must sail as boldly as you can up to
the edges of the iceberg; there, so the
story goes, you will spend a few very
chilly moments. He earned prodigious
remuneration at the Bar. When a Judge
was delivering a judgment he would
begin perusing another brief; and each
pile of documents would probably be
marked “Sir John Simon 1000 guineas.”
His notorious arm-linkings and accost-
ings of the unknown by wrong Christian
names are lapses into a democratic de-
portment for which essentially he has
no use. He is perfectly at home in the
chilly element that surrounds him.
Churchill. —This “wayward and mag-
netic genius” still looks as though the
months he spent in his cradle were a
specially significant part of his career.
Forty years ago he arrived at two philo-
sophies —Radicalism and Imperialism;
“on this basis his dizziest somersaults
become rational and almost inevitable.”
His private behavior has points in common
with his public performance: nobody
can give a more courtly, a more amiable
greeting or pay a more
graceful compliment; no-
body, when sulkiness de-
scends upon him, can give
a more faithful imitation
of a bear with a sore head.
“He is the centre of the universe. It is
only with impatience that he can bother
to iisten to others as they speak or con-
verse.”
Eden. —Contrary to the idea photo-
graphs have no doubt conveyed, “would
need severe treatment from a make-up
artist before he could safely walk the
stage” and “would never excel as a film
actor.” He has a strange gait. He rolls
slightly from side to side as he strides
along like an earnest and amiable school-
prefect. His chin might with advantage
have been bigger. Today the female
vote in Britain outnumbers the men by
hundreds of thousands, and as women
persist in thinking he is “lovely” he might
yet fly high. There would be disillusion-
ment if one of those who decide by the
photo, got nearer to her idol. “If he
had no glasses on he would screw up his
eyes to see his fan’s face. Or he might
peer at her through the heavy lenses of
his spectacles.” And he has “a rather
high-pitched, tired, almost blase deli-
very.” One of whom his friends are
so fond that, with an almost feminine
tenderness, they speak of him as “Dear
Anthony”!
Duff Cooper. —“ His eyes flashed and
he seemed about to boil and burst.”
Electioneering, “he would blow himself
out like a frog and explode with
vehemence,” while “in the front row sat
his wife and other celebrated relatives,
listening to the man with the sharp pug-
nacity of a cat and the terrifying expan-
siveness of a frog who now barked at
an unresponsive audience like a hound.”
“Is going to matter considerably in the
days to come.”
Attlee. —Possesses a nimble, waspish
brain, but “He has so magnetic a person-
ality that men and women will work
themselves to a shadow in the cause of
which he should be the embodiment? I
am sorry to say that the mere idea is
laughable. He is like a point, which has
no position and no magnitude.” In
speaking leaves an impression of some-
one conscientiously reproducing the epi-
grams, the sarcasms and the eloquence
that he has worked out at his desk.
Greenwood. —“The festive West Rid-
ing figure of Arthur Greenwood.” His
manner well described by Chamberlain
as “rumbustious.” “He stands with a
hectic flush upon his features pouring
out a torrent of apparently spontaneous
abuse.”
Herbert Morrison. —The king among
Cockneys. Began his career as an errand-
boy, and to this day “as he walks along
he seems to be bent on some perpetual
errand.”
Cripps. —Labor men beside and behind
him think of his wealth and smile cyni-
cally as he thunders away about “the
working-class movement,” the injustices
suffered by “the working classes” and
the need for “working-class solidarity.”
“You have often seen him in photographs
which commonly catch him in his most
memorable pose—with his mouth wide
open as though in acute physical pain.
He might be howling. He looks un-
happy, with the sorrows, real or imagi-
nary, of others; he seems conscious that
he is failing to fit into the political
scene.”
After dealing with those and one or
two others, the observer turns his search-
light on Youth, but in two chapters says
nothing more important about it than
that “the average age of the House of
Commons has increased and is increas-
ing, though it ought to be diminished.”
He then turns to Hore-Belisha, Kingsley
Wood, Hoare and W. S. Morrison, and
winds up with Halifax, who appears to
be above reproach:—-
Contemporary critics retreat before a
character and a personality that are im-
impregnable. Thirty years hence some
literary descendant of Lytton Strachey may
take it upon himself, by fresh flights of
imagination and scraps of doubtful history,
to blacken our more virtuous contempo-
raries for the entertainment of an in-
quisitive posterity. He will need to work
hard to persuade any mud to stick on
Lord Halifax.
Featherweights .
The only outstanding difference be-
tween William Douglas Home’s Home
Truths (Bodley Head) and Nicolas Bent-
ley’s Second Thoughts (Michael Joseph)
is that Home’s dust-jacket is red, Bent-
ley’s blue. Both are books of light,
mechanical epigrams on subjects near to
the hearts of readers of “Punch.”
Bentley, illustrating his own verses,
digs his quill into a series of notabilities
—J. B. Priestley, Beverley Nichols, Duff
Cooper, Mosley and others. Sample:
Cecil B. de Mille,
Rather against his will,
Was persuaded to leave Moses
Out of “The Wars of the Roses.”
Home runs through the alphabet,
sniping at actors, debs., Judges, million-
aires, huntin’ men and similar fauna. He
remarks with some point:
The Editors that I have known
Have private sorrows of their own.
Perhaps it’s only those I’ve met
That suffer from so much regret.
Vicky, his illustrator, is excellent; one
drawing of a huntin’ man leading a mare
in bridal finery to the altar is much the
funniest thing in either book.
The home truth is, a book so cursory
Is suited only for the nursery;
And thoughtful Mr. Nicolas Bentley
Should think again, to put it gently.
Paderewski.
The most interesting book that could
be written about Paderewski at the
moment would be an account of his poli-
tical career in Poland. Mary Lawton,
his “official” biographer, has saved that
for a second volume, and the. 391 pages
of her Paderewski Memoirs (Collins;
Angus and Robertson) are concerned
with his life as a pianist and end at the
outbreak of the 1914 war.
The book is a prolonged interview in
the style of interviews with celebrities
which women journalists publish in gossip
columns of dailies. Paderewski talked to
Miss Lawton; Miss Lawton faithfully
reported the conversation ; and the result
is given in the first person, Paderewski
speaking all the time.
In one sense, the method makes for
accurate portraiture. Paderewski’s con-
versation on music, on people and on
places is necessarily interesting; some-
times, because Miss Lawton hasn’t Angli-
cised his idioms, it is comic. He observes
the Maoris:
The Maoris are a fine, handsome people,
but the women become perfectly abomin-
able when they are married, for they im-
mediately tattoo their chins horribly—an
awful sight. They have curious habits, too,
and the principal sport of the men is to
show their tongues to frighten the enemy.
They have very big tongues which hang
down very far. Quite dreadful to look at.
Then there is the story of the two
Yankee flappers in Leipzig who burst into
his room and demanded an autograph.
While he was writing it:
One of the young ladies opened her little
bag and drew out, with a flourish, a
pair of sharp and shining little scissors.
At that time, I must regretfully admit,
I had much more hair than I have now.
When I saw the scissors and the look in
that young woman’s eye I confess I became
very frightened. I realised at once her
fell purpose, and I realised, too, that I
might become (without any help for it)
disfigured for life at her hands. “We want
some locks of your beautiful hair,” one of
the young ladies said.
Paderewski backed away to the door,
and, he says, ran for his life. They
chased him through his apartments:
And then as a last resort I saw another
room with the door half-open. It was a
room belonging to someone else, whom,
I did not know or care. I rushed in and
closed the door. I pushed it shut with
all the force of my body and held myself
against it. All the time those girls were
racing after me with their scissors ready
for the attack. Finally I locked the door
and then I was safe! though I still
trembled with fear as they knocked and
knocked and tried to force their way in.
Thank God the door held! If it had
given way, who can say what might have
happened.
This is Miss Lawton’s Paderewski:
naive, affected, effeminate; and she
appears to have convicted him out of
his own mouth. The portrait is super-
ficially accurate, and it may be so funda-
mentally, but that’s open to question. If
Paderewski had written the book him-
self, in the Polish in which he thinks, it
might all have sounded very different.
The man who fled in terror from the girl
became the leader of a nation. In her
appallingly gushing introduction Miss
Lawton reduces Bernard Shaw to a sort
of bright old lady at a tea party, and it’s
probable that she has effeminised
Paderewski in the book.
She has “drawn” him on the wrong
topics. His hair, his food, his fads, his
concern about money, his reverence for
aristocracy, his pursuit of fame. The
important facts of his personal life, the
tragic death of his first wife, the circum-
stances of his second marriage, the death
of his son are skimmed over briefly. The
story of his rise to fame is told in great
detail; but neither the young man whose
teacher told him to stick to the trombone
because —though he would never make
a pianist—a great future awaited him
with that instrument, nor the acknow-
ledged master who was baited by the
Jews of America because money he had
sent to Poland was used to found an anti-
Semitic newspaper, emerges as a living
personality. It is a bill-board portrait.
There is too much of the Paderewski
who raised the price for his “at-home”
concerts to 500 guineas, too little of the
young Pole who saw the Russian soldiers
frozen to death at the roadside.
There is a chapter on Australia and
M.L. with some typical tourist’s criti-
cism and a charming story of the parrot
Cockey Roberts, a hard-swearing bird
who left these shores as Paderewski’s
companion and died in Geneva after a
fight with a cow.
Bernard Shaw says this is “a great
autobiography.” It’s not; it’s a fapade.
But you’d go a long way to find a better
piece of gossip-writing.
Batch of Mysteries.
In The Channel Mystery, by W. F.
Morris (Michael Joseph), Tony Gerrard
tackles the submarine menace. It was a
dastardly affair. Meyer, a really vile
villain, had the brilliant scientist Dr.
Lindsey— and Lindsey’s daughter Janet —
in his power, and was working to estab-
lish submarine bases in the English
Channel! Gerrard beat them, but not
before there had been murders, kid-
nappings and what not. Janet at the
finish is ministering to Tony’s wounds.
A breezy, fast-moving yarn, well told.
The ladies and gentlemen in Carol
Carnac’s When The Devil Was Sick
(Peter Davies) keep their quarrels as far
as possible within the family, and when
they stoop to murder they do things
dramatically and with near relations or
old family servants as victims. They’re
the aristocratic Saint Cleres ; their ways
may appear a little peculiar to mere
plebs, but they provide Inspector Ryvett
with an intriguing problem.
If Hulbert Footner’s The Murder That
Had Everything (Crime Club) is to be
believed, it’s pot the “four hundred” who
are so much to blame for what little
murders deplete their numbers as the
parasites they attract —the handsome
young men, “attractive animals,” who
force their way in to marry their daugh-
ters, and the gossip writers, male and
female, who live by recounting their
inanities. The “everything” this particular
homicide could claim above others was
“wealth, glamor, high society and sex
appeal.” It required Lee Mappin, crimin-
ologist and author, to unravel all its
incongruities. He’s to be complimented
on a neat bit of detection.
Those three make first-rate mysteries.
An Australian thriller, E. V. Timms’s
Dark Interlude (Angus and Robertson),
begins better than any of them. Sus-
pense is strikingly maintained; some-
thing to give some clue as to how such
things could ever happen is always just
over the page. It seems there could never
be any adequate explanation. There
isn’t. The author might have done better
by putting down the story and saying
“There it is; can you explain things?
I can’t.”
From 27 Bowen-street, Wellington,
M.L., “Oriflamme,” a new poetry maga-
zine which is to be “issued free of charge
to all desiring it.” Verses in the first
issue are both conventional and uncon-
ventional. If it lasts it may give young
writers a chance they haven’t had since
the N.Z. “Mercury” went west. From
the Left Book Club, Sydney, “The
People’s Poetry” ; a little magazine of
bad verse in which a gentleman observes
“Freedom’s army moving against attack”
—presumably from the countless hordes
of Finland.
The Farmer’s Wife, by Anne Earncliff
Brown, is a picture of 365 days on a farm
in Canterbury (M.L.). Everything that
interested the farmer’s wife during the
year has been set down clearly and simply
and with humor: the beauties of the
seasons ; the changing work on the farm ;
sayings and doings of children, neighbors,
tradesmen and swaggies; politics;
books; sport; new recipes; and the
ethics of spring-cleaning. It’s not a series
of essays on set themes, but a calendar
recording events as they occurred. There
are some attractive photographs of the
farming country and of the Southern
Alps, and Whitcombe and Tombs have
made a neat book of it.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —in all sincerity.
“THE SENIOR STORE
108D535
108D516
108D516—"Peerless" Scooter
No. 29, fitted with 9in. disc
wheels with fin. pattern
tyres, drum brake and stand,
patent knee-action shock ab-
sorber. Length 35in., height
35in. At Anthony Horderns'
Price, each 19/9
108D533
108D533—"Peerless" Scooter
No. 30. Streamlined mud-
guards, patent knee - action
shock absorber, pedal brake,
llin. disc wheels with |in.
pattern tyres, roller bearing
wheels. Height 36in., length
42in. Enamelled Red. At
Anthony Horderns' ... 31/6
J08D534
108D534 Pneumatic Tyred
Scooters, 12in. ball-bearing
cycle wheels, streamlined
mudguards, pedal brakes.
Anthony Horderns' Prices,
each 58/3, 60/-
108D632
108D632 Pneumatic Tyred
Scooters, 12in. disc wheels,
mudguards and brake. At
Anthony Horderns' Prices,
ea h 41/-. 42/-
108D42—Scooters to suit all
ages, similar to illustration.
sin. wheels 8/11
6in. wheels 10/9
7in. wheels, 10/6, 12/3, 12/9
Bin. wheels 14/6
108D506
108D25 "Cyclops" Scooter No. 3.
Length 44in., height 35in. Stream-
lined mudguards, pedal brake, roller
bearing 11 in. disc wheels. Anthony
Horderns' Price 31/6
108D506— "Cyclops" Scooter No. 10.
Length 40in., height 34£in., 9in.
wheels; brake and stand. Anthony
Horderns' Price • • •
Also No. 11 with 11 in. wheels, 23/11
108D508 —"Peerless" Scooter No. 4.
The lowest priced Scooter with a
drum brake and stand. Height 34in.,
length 34in., Bin. disc wheels. At
Anthony Horderns' Price 17/9
108D535 Three-wheel Scooters
for the little ones.
4in. wheels. Price 10/9
sin. wheels. Price 12/9
1Q8D508
108D43
4
108D43—Sturdy Dinkies, for children
3 to 6 years. Wood seat. Anthony
Horderns' Price 23/9
With steel seat. Price 21/9
108D48 \J *
108D48—Dinkies, for children 2 to 4
years, similar to illustration. Anthony
Horderns' Prices 11/3, 12/3
With spoke wheels, 16/6
108D14
108DI4—Dinkies, for children 2 to 6
years, similar to illustration. Anthony,
Horderns, Prices 14/3, 16/6
Others. Prices ........ 18/9, 20/6
Give your little ones the thrill of
meeting Santa Claus before it is too
late. There are only a few more
days left now before Christmas.
And the marvellous trip on the
Magic Covered Waggon is part and
parcel of this wonderful occasion.
RIDE IN THE
COVERED WAGGON
TO SANTA'S
MAGIC CASTLE
All is wonder and excitement as the
horses jog along the prairies to the
most thrilling destination in all the
world ... Santa’s Magic Castle. And
he has a special surprise for each of
his little visitors. Do not delay!
# Santaland—Second Floor .
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night


INFORMATION
BY A. C. HEADLEY.
WAR, according to Mr. Podder, was declared
the year Kingsburgh with 6.12 won the Mel-
bourne Cup; the Armistice was signed in
Night Watch’s year. The year he was married
Richmond Main was beaten by Artilleryman, and the
death of Mrs. Podder’s mother was recalled by the
time Wotan came from nowhere to make people say
in unbelieving tones, “a ’undred t’ one.”
Mr. Podder’s small life was regulated by horses.
He lived in a two-roomed flat with Mrs. Podder, a
dozen photographs of famous horses and a cigarette-
manufacturer’s calendar giving a comprehensive table
of the winners of the chief events of the Australian
turf. Long ago Mr. Podder had decided that the
sport of kings was also the sport of barbers. Every
Monday and Thursday evening, with a form paper
spread across the table, he studied the matter care-
fully.
“First,” said Mr. Podder this evening, looking
over his spectacles and thinning his face more than
ever, “first you discard the paper fav’rites, an’ the
same with the mares an’ fillies, unless it’s a race wot’s
restricted to ’em. Then you take the ’orses wot’s left,
an’ find out which ’as been placed in fifty per cent,
an’ won a third of their last nine starts an’ you got
the winner.”
Mrs. Podder’s fat comprehension was unequal to
the task. She jabbed a needle viciously into one of
Mr. Podder’s socks. “You,” she said testily, “you an’
your winners.”
“It’s a system,” said Mr. Podder patiently, “it’s
all explained in this magazine.”
“You an’ your systems,” said Mrs. Podder with
another jab of the needle.
Mr. Podder studied his wife with bland patronage.
It was an amazingly simple system. He opened his
form paper and settled down in earnest.
The Hurdle race he ruled out immediately. No
sense in selecting a race where a stumble could nul-
lify all the systems in the world. He discarded the
two divisions of the Nursery as having no horses
qualified by the necessary nine starts, and his atten-
tion halted at the Flying. The paper favorite dis-
appeared beneath his censorious pencil, half a dozen
mares passed into the discard, and he confined his
attention to the remaining eight runners. In ten
minutes Mr. Podder was leaning back in his chair
with the fate of the Flying already decided.
“Emmy,” he said, “the system’s give me Snow
Black in the Flyin’.”
Mrs. Podder didn’t even bother to look up from
her darning.
Snow Black. The more Mr. Podder reflected on
the system the more feasible it seemed. The question
vaguely bothering him now was how much it would
be advisable to invest on his selection. Two and six
each way or take a risk with five shillings straight?
But there was plenty of time to think about that.
There was all day Friday and then Saturday morning.
Plenty of time.
On Friday morning, on his way to the shop, he
stopped to have a chat with Mrs. O’Reardon.
“I’ve got one for y’ to-morrer,” he said.
“Wot?” Mrs. O’Reardon demanded briefly.
“It’s in the Flyin’.” Mr. Podder savored his sense
of importance.
“Wot?” Mrs. O’Reardon repeated.
“Snow Black,” said Mr. Podder. “It can’t lose.”
“Good information?”
“I got it,” said Mr. Podder ambiguously, “for a
good thing.”
44 TIMMY,” said Mrs. O’Reardon, “I ’eard one for
tomorrer. I got it from old Podder. ’E gits
pretty good information. ’E says it won’t git beat. I
think ’e gits it from the stable. Anyway ’e reckons
this Snow Black is on the job tomorrer.”
Jimmy O’Reardon opened his form paper and
made an inspection. “It’s got the form,” he said.
“It’s good information,” said his mother.
4 4 "THE feller I git the information from,” said Jimmy
* O’Reardon, “gits it straight from the trainer.
’E’s a relation or somethin’. ’E always lets me know
when it’s goin’ orf. I ’ad it from ’im the last time it
won. Five to one it was, too. You might git better
out at the course tomorrer. I’d ’ave a couple of quid
on it if I was you, Snowy.”
44 [ OOK,” said Snowy Gilshenan, “I gotter git a
*—' punter for this ’orse. Orright, what do I do?
I come to you. For twenty quid, Mr. Backhouse, you
can be in on it. All I want is the odds to a tenner
for meself an’ the odds to a tenner for the trainer,
an’ you can ’ave the rest of the market for yourself.
It’s been set for this race. The other day it did a
secret trial in forty-eight an’ a ’alf, an’ if that ain’t a
winnin’ gallop I don’t know what is. The odds to
twenty and we’ll see it don’t make itself tired pullin’
against no strong-arm.”
Backhouse rubbed at his chin.
“Snowy,” he said, “it looks as though tomorrow
will be a good day for the races. The odds to twenty
quid you said?”
“That’s right,” said Snowy. “Snow Black it is,
Mr. Backhouse. They been keepin’ it for this race.
They’re only frightened of Definition, an’ they’ve ’ad
a few words with Definition’s jockey.”
“I hope you’re right,” said Backhouse.
“I tell you,” said Snowy, “it’s thrown into the
race at the weights. Andy Muldoon, that’s the trainer,
reckons it can’t win be less than three lengths. They’re
tryin’ to git Bottle to ride it, but it don’t matter who
rides it. It’ll win orright. I’ll see y’ tomorrer night
f’r me winnin’s.”
BUSINESS was slack. Mr. Podder rested comfort-
ably in the barber’s chair awaiting a customer.
Occasionally he thought of his system. There was
no doubt about it. It was good. Logical was the way
Mr. Podder summarised it. He had already decided
that his investment the following day was to be five
shillings straight. This backing them each way wasn’t
worth while. If a horse was good enough it won,
and if it wasn’t it was hardly worth backing for a
place. He twisted abruptly in the chair, and nodded
towards the customer.
“This chair, Mr. Backhouse,” he said pleasantly.
Mr. Backhouse climbed into the chair. “How’re
you picking them, Basil?”
Mr. Podder fixed the towel at the back of his
customer’s neck. “I’m ’oldin’ me own.”
“ Halt —for heaven's sake!”
“Having a bet tomorrow?”
“Might,” conceded Mr. Podder cautiously.
“Haircut,” said Backhouse. “I’ll give you one
for tomorrow if you can keep it under your hat. This
is straight from the owner.”
“Yes?” said Mr. Podder.
“Snow Black in the Flying.”
“’Oo?” yelped Mr. Podder.
“Snow Black. It’s on the job tomorrow. They
tell me it did a gallop the other day that could win
a Newmarket. This is straight from Regal, the owner.
I was talking to him yesterday and he told me not to
be off it.”
Mr. Podder’s hand was trembling. Here was Mr.
Backhouse offering a justification for his system. It
made him feel almost as though the race was over.
You could rely on anything Backhouse told you. He
was in the know.
“Thanks, Mr. Backhouse,” he said, “I’ll risk a
couple of bob on it tomorrer.” The clippers moved
along his customer’s neck. But even while he was
working his mind kept telling him how inadequate
was a five-shilling bet on such a good thing as this.
Five shillings. Even at six to one you only won
thirty shillings. Now, if it were five pounds! Thirty
pounds was a lot of money. Insidious thoughts were
beginning to creep into his mind. The family bank-
book was in his name. The system had given him Snow
Black and here was Mr. Backhouse telling him not
to be off it. At a possible seven to one that would be
thirty-five pounds. And with practically no risk.
Hadn’t it done a gallop good enough for a New-
market? It was the opportunity of a lifetime.
“I ’ad it picked out meself, Mr. Backhouse,” he
said. “I thought they might ’ave been cheatin’ with
it its last couple of starts.”
“They won’t be cheating tomorrow,” Backhouse
informed him confidently. “I’m having a packet on
it myself. It cost me twenty quid for the information.
That’s how good it is.”
“Thanks,” said Mr. Podder again. “I might go
out to the course meself.”
“Don’t forget,” warned Mr. Backhouse, “to keep
it under your hat.”
“Not a word,” said Mr. Podder.
HTOGETHER with a few odd shillings, five fresh
* one pound notes nestled in Mr. Podder’s pocket.
The day was bright and sunny and his work *Was
finished. A tram to the railway and another to the
course and he stood near the fence looking along the
straight. Mr. Podder was confident. The Hurdle and
the divisions of the Nursery he watched without
interest. As the horses for the second division went
past the post he moved into the betting ring.
“What price,” he inquired, “Snow Black?”
“Fives.”
He moved away.
“You can ’ave sixes.”
Mr. Podder kept walking. He heard a seven to
one Snow Black and moved in its direction. Sevens.
It was a fair price.
“What price Snow Black?”
“Six to one.”
“Snow Black?”
“Sixes.”
He dived quickly to the other side of the ring.
“Sevens.” Mr. Podder thrust his five pounds at
the bookmaker and took the ticket for forty pounds.
It was done. Now he was beginning to feel nervous,
remembering all the things that could happen to a
horse in a race. There was such a thing as interfer-
ence and being knocked back to the tail-end of the
field, and being pocketed and not being able to get a
run. He started to think of Mrs. Podder. Slowly he
climbed to the top of the stand and settled down to
watch the race.
5. Snow Black, 5 yrs., by Snow King (imp.)-Black
Lady.
Rider .... ID. Oaker Post Position .... 4
That was how he appeared in Mr. Podder’s race-
book. He stood quietly at the barrier. From away
on the other side of the course the noise of the crowd
came in a pleasant hum. Snow Black tossed his head
in the air and snorted lustily. He saw Typewriter
standing inside him and frisked gaily away out of
line for her benefit. Rider D. Oaker’s hand patted his
neck and with one final plunge he allowed himself to
be guided into post position 4.
The tapes blurred up in front of him, and he felt
the sudden surge of horses. His hooves were stabbing
into the turf and the wind was joyously rimming his
head. It was good to run fast, but he was not run-
ning as fast as he could. The pressure of the bit in his
mouth was holding him. At the turn he was moving
comfortably in third place behind The Potato and
Typewriter.
Typewriter! He noticed the rhythm of her move-
ment, the silken ripple of extended muscles. The
pressure of the bit was still hard in his mouth, but
the desire to parade his magnificence before Type-
writer was overwhelming. In a few strides he ranged
up by her side, passed her and went galloping
splendidly a length ahead. Then patronisingly he
allowed himself to be ruled by the bit. In a moment
he dropped back to the field. Typewriter took up
the running. At the turn into the straight she was
(Continued on next page.)


still in front, but he knew he could run past her at
any time. He was beginning to creep up on her
quarters now. Twenty yards and he was within a
neck.
It was at that precise moment that Typewriter
threw him the plaintive look. Snow Black was a
gentleman. His stride faltered and he was back on
her quarters. He could feel rider D. Oaker urging
him to go faster. The spurs were hurting and the
whip was hitting him with solid power. But what did
it matter? Typewriter was a length and a half in
front, the rest of the field was somewhere behind him.
Snow Black settled down to watch the manner in
which she gathered in the last few yards.
MR. PODDER from his seat in the stand stared
glumly in the direction of the horses going off
the track, and tore up his ticket. “Information!” he
said bitterly. “Information! A man does better if he
jist picks ’em ’imself.”
LOSER
DRINKS FIRST
BY J. B. BLAIR.
TEST cricket, Shield cricket and grade cricket are
all very well in their way, but to any true lover
of the game they are of small import when
compared with the real game as played the
length and breadth of the country every week-end
throughout the summer.
You know the sort of thing: “Like a game of
cricket next Saturday? We’re a couple of men short
for our match with the Sloggers. Ought to be a
good game. We’ve got Squarecut that used to play
for New South, an’ we’re taking three nine-
gallons.” No real cricketer can refuse an invitation
like that, and no real cricketer ever does.
In an atmosphere such as this the Limpinghome
Leatherhunters have played the grand old game for
upwards of seventy seasons, during which period their
victories have been almost as rare as the occasions
on which they have returned home without emptying
the last keg.
It has always been a well-accepted canon of tactics
with the Leatherhunters and the clubs they engage in
friendly combat for the winner of the toss to put the
other side in, whatever the state of the wicket. The
reason for this apparent quixotry will be best under-
stood by taking a glimpse at the system in practice —
an occasion on which, by the way, this tactical
manoeuvring bore no very successful results.
THE match is between the Leatherhunters and their
old rivals the Glenmore Gladiators. Glenmore has
won the toss and of course has elected to field. The
first keg has been opened, and the health of both
teams has been drunk. So far the two sides are on an
equal footing, but presently, when the Gladiators have
taken the field and the Limpinghome opening pair
have walked to the wicket, the strategy of the “put
’em in” theory becomes apparent.
After the Leatherhunters waiting to bat have had
a drink to celebrate the first run, the first boundary,
ten up and twenty up, they have another to console
the first man out, and of course another to buck up
the man who takes his place. Thus fortified, he sur-
vives an appeal for leg-before, and this is the signal
for all in the pavilion to have another drink.
Just as the bowler is about to bowl again the
batsman steps away from the wicket and signals for
a new bat. He is misunderstood, and a tankard of
beer is brought out instead. Not wishing to appear
ungrateful, he drinks the beer and decides that the
old bat will do after all. Meanwhile, the batsman at
the other end, who has appealed for neither bat nor
beer, is nevertheless being supplied with refreshment
just in case. Someone then suggests it is “time the
Gladiators had one,” so the Gladiators have two or
three —all excepting the bowler, who is alternately
winding up his arm and practising seam-grips.
The game is resumed. The bowler strides back to
commence his run, feeling that his Spartan abstention
from liquor entitles him to a couple of quick wickets.
The first ball sends the off stump flying, and it is
time for the Leatherhunters to have another drink.
The remainder of the Limpinghome innings
follows the usual course of such matches. One by
one the Leatherhunters sally forth to the wicket, stand
up awhile against the foe, accept at frequent intervals
their meed of applause and beer, strive valiantly to
avert their inevitable doom and return to the barrel
more or less conscious of duty nobly done.
The last man eventually in-
vites the Gladiators to come back
with him and have a drink. The
scorers announce the total as 107.
They immediately become very
unpopular. Limpinghome con-
siders that this understates its
achievement by at least 50 runs,
and the Glenmore team claims
that its opponents could not have
passed 80 at the very outside.
There’s time for half-a-dozen
while it is argued out and before
the figure is at last accepted.
THE afternoon speeds on ; the Gladiators’ hopes are
soaring high and the beer supply is falling low.
A glance at either the score-books or the field will
prove with equal certainty the efficacy of the “put
’em in” tactics. Only three wickets have fallen for
90 runs, there is not a Leatherhunter who has not
dropped at least two catches, and Sundries, thanks to
wides and no-balls, looks like being top-scorer for the
match.
Then comes a change, as in rapid succession two
batsmen return from wicket to barrel, victims to a
Limpinghome bowler who has accidentally mixed
a couple of good balls among his wides and full-tosses.
A few more runs are scored, then Ponto Prigg goes
on to bowl.
The most outstanding thing about Ponto’s bowling
is its infinite variety. The batsman has faced Ponto
before and, undecided whether to expect a fast wide
or a slow donkey-drop, he is caught in two minds,
momentarily forgets there is a wicket behind him and
steps back on it. “Out!” says the umpire regretfully.
He is a Gladiator man, deputising for the official cap-
holder, who, feeling faint, has retired to the pavilion.
Six for 98. The Leatherhunters take heart,
and for the first time refuse refreshments offered
them by the batting side. The next man scores a
four and then luck smiles again on Ponto. One of his
fast semi-wides which the batsman is allowing to pass
by changes its mind at the last second, hits a pebble
on the edge of the pitch, breaks in almost at right
angles and takes the off stump. The umpire sadly
gives him out. Seven for 102.
Six runs to win! The next man is determined to
get them all off the first ball. It is a slow ball and he
decides to meet it half-way down the pitch. The ball
not only meets him there, it passes him, and he is still
sprawling on the pitch when the keeper manages at
the third grab to remove the bails. The umpire
swallows hard and nods his head in answer to the
appeal.
“We only want six to win,” the new man has
been told. “Take it easy.”
He takes it easy for one ball, then lashes out at
a loose one. For a moment it looks like the winning
hit, and the Gladiators are already cheering. But
their cheers are premature, as the ball is going in the
one direction in which a sixer is not possible —a gum-
tree standing inside the boundary will see to that.
Worse is to follow, for the ball has stuck in the tree
and several fieldsmen are hurling up sticks in an
effort to dislodge it. The batsmen have run two —
three —they are turning for the fourth. The ball
drops. A forest of hands are raised towards it, and
the only catch of the innings is recorded —by whom
no one will ever know, since five separate Leather-
hunters each claim the honor.
The hapless umpire, torn between heart and con-
science, murmurs the fateful word that sends another
team-mate to the pavilion and makes an unsuccessful
attempt to resign his position.
In comes the last man. One to tie, two to win.
While he is walking to the wicket the umpire loudly
harangues the Limpinghome fieldsmen, warning them
that from now on it is a matter of bowling or catch-
ing them out —he will ignore all appeals for 1.b.w.,
run-out, stumping and finer points of strategy.
Lastman reaches the wicket. Ponto gloats
openly. He sends down the last ball of his over.
Somehow Lastman’s bat manages to reach it, and it
trickles away towards point.
Lastman is now safe —the man at the other end
will probably score the two runs required for victory.
But Lastman doesn’t know this. He is under the de-
lusion that having hit the ball it is compulsory to
run, and he accordingly jogs a few paces up the pitch.
A terrific shout of “Go back! ” from the vicinity of the
beer supply and a frantic yell from his partner warn
him that he is apparently not doing the right thing,
and he scrambles back.
The Gladiators, who have nearly dropped their
beer in their excitement, now hastily drink it to steady
their nerves and to celebrate the passing of the crisis.
But has it passed? Lastman still seems to be the
centre of much activity. Point, who fielded the ball,
has sauntered casually up and removed the bails.
“ ’Owzat?” he asks, pointing to Lastman’s feet and
bat, which are fully eighteen inches outside his crease.
The unfortunate umpire makes no reply.
If Lastman only knew it he is giving him time to
step back, when he intends to say quite blatantly
“Not out.” But Lastman doesn’t know it. He is
standing like a statue. It appears that he once
attended a Test match, and although most of the points
of the game were lost on him he was much impressed
by the way in which the batsman, when an appeal was
made, stood immobile waiting for the umpire’s ver-
dict. He feels that whatever he may not know about
batting he can at least do this correctly. He is as
steady as a rock and as unresponsive to the umpire’s
telepathic messages.
Point appeals again ; the wicketkeeper appeals ;
the captain appeals and the whole team cluster around
pointing to the gap between Lastman’s heels and the
crease. Ponto bends down and spreads a silk handker-
chief in the space.
“Look, he’s still out,” he insists.
“ ’Owzat?” roars the team in a combined appeal.
“The blanky fool’s out,” explodes the umpire.
The Leatherhunters have won. They seize Last-
man and carry him shoulder high to the pavilion,
where they ply him with drinks while he wonders
what it is all about. The Gladiators, now that it’s all
over, bear no grudge. There are still a few gallons
left. Good old Lastman! Good old Ponto! Good
old That’s real cricket!
“There's a bit ’ere about a bloke Wot boozed ’imself t ’ death.”
“An 'eres us, cant get enough t' keep us alive”


9
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
dftfbte liirie l of tote mellcumcM anddvuq/uet
London, while intensely conservative in
many ways is, on the other hand,
superlatively modern. This is reflected
in what shall be termed “its amusement
side.” As a world-centre, actually the
world-centre, in a financial, political and
governmental sense, it has to supply de-
mands made upon it from all quarters.
Today the cinema pursues its all-conquer-
ing course. It has captured mankind, and
is now, as a form of entertainment,
facile princeps. How long the passion
will endure is another matter. But bear-
ing in mind the old Biblical declaration,
“there is no new thing under the sun,”
the overseas visitor to London may be
reminded that the predecessor of the
“movies” of today a century ago,
designated variously panorama, diorama,
cyclorama and so forth, provided
an entertainment, some consider, in
realistic effects, superior to what has
been labelled “the triumph of science
adapted to the movies.” The buildings
in which this form of entertainment, and
it may be added “true” education in
a sense not widely applicable to its
present-day successor, were housed, were
dignified externally, architecturally,
smacking oft of the classical, while
internally arrangements would even in this 20th
century be classed “down to date.” Going back a
hundred years, the Colosseum, illustrated, situated on the
east side of Regents Park, with an entrance from Albany
Street, is now but a memory. Designed after the model
of the Pantheon at Rome and erected in 1824, it was for
years celebrated for its panoramas of London and other
cities, casmoramas, dioramas and so on. The modern
Plaza “picture theatre” with its dome may be taken as the
nearest 20th-century approach to the early 19th in
external appearance London possesses. Saunders has left
a vivid description of the “picture” Paris, as displayed
at the Colosseum, and in the reading the question arises
whether anything the “movies” now displays provided any-
thing quite so realistic as our ancestors experienced. Take
this excerpt:
“Hark! The clock of Notre Dame strikes! and low
and musical come the sounds —it is midnight—scarcely
has the vibration of the last note ceased before the
organ is heard, and the solemn service of the Catholic
Church begins—beautiful, inexpressibly beautiful —one
forgets creeds at such a time, and thinks only of
prayer ; we long to join them. And yet all this is
illusion (the sounds, of course, excepted)—a flat
piece of canvas with some colors distributed upon it
is all that is before us; though where that canvas can
be, it seems to one’s eyes at least, impossible to
determine; they cannot by any mental process be
satisfied that buildings, distance, atmosphere are not
before them —to such perfection has the Diorama been
brought.”
Visitors to London, no matter from whence, find a well of
history from which to draw. A minor well, perhaps, the
“movies” has discovered.
UPPER: THE COLOSSEUM, 1839. LOWER: THE PLAZA, 1939.


OUTSKI!
“Member of the League for five years, Russia has been expelled.”
“Nobody put me out—1 put meself out. And I’ll fight any woman in the house.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE GREAT PEACE SWINDLE.
“Russia’s goal is peace and brotherhood, not war
and dominance.” Thus the Dean of Canterbury in
a pamphlet published by Gollancz, of the Left Book
Club. The pamphlet reached Australia in a second
edition as Stalin struck out for that goal in Finland.
The Dean is easily explained—yet another victim
of the great peace swindle worked by Soviet Russia
on tens of thousands of dupes. “Clever” men
especially—counterparts in this of the smart alicks
who fall for three-card sharpers—have been taken in.
A library of puffs for the Soviet, many published by
Gollancz, had been compiled over recent years by
many eminent, and other, pens.
“S. M. Herald,” on the very day the Reds invaded
Finland, had a leader pointing out how Stalin had
abstained from “seeking territorial aggrandisement”
and from “the direct use of armed force.” That this
sort of thing was being foisted on Australia, not only
as Stalin was plunging into Finland but a mere matter
of weeks after he had swooped on broken and
defeated Poland, is no more than characteristic of
what the dupes of the great peace swindle have swal-
lowed.
It is not at all improbable that they will swallow
even the Soviet performance in Finland ; that there
will still be Parlor Pinks prepared to represent the
“mighty Soviet” and its leader as patterns of civilisa-
tion. They swallowed in turn the callous starving
to death of millions of peasants, the scores of thou-
sands herded into concentration camps and sentenced
to years of slavery on enforced labor, the repeated
mock-trials and wholesale executions. More recently
they swallowed the Soviet agreement with Germany
which enabled the war to be launched ; on top of that
the swarming into Poland, with executions and cruel-
ties that have not been reported.
The Soviet part in Spain was not made known
to Australia by papers that could, and should, have
made it known. Not until nearly a week after the
invasion of Finland was the truth about the British
negotiations with the Soviet for a peace pact even
hinted at. Only then was it admitted that
The main reason for the failure of the British,
French and Soviet negotiations was the refusal of the
British and French Governments to agree to the Russian
demands. The Soviet Government insisted that Britain
and France should persuade Finland and the Baltic
countries to put at the disposal of the Soviet Fleet naval
bases on the coast of Oesel and Dago and the Aaland
Islands. Britain and France were not prepared to traffic
in the sovereignty of small States. Herr von Ribben-
trop proved less scrupulous.
That had been pointed out in The Bulletin before
the invasion of Finland:
The negotiations failed, as they were bound to fail.
It was politically impossible for Britain and France to
combine a Russian alliance for the purpose of defending
third parties against aggression with a tacit and compen-
sating connivance at Russian aggression against those
very third parties.
Elsewhere the failure was attributed to blundering
J. Bull.
The Soviet’s peace swindle was properly launched
in all countries where its Communist agents operate
in 1934, when it joined the League of Nations. Com-
munists everywhere were instructed to represent
Moscow as the world’s hub of all peace movements.
From then on Stalin and other Soviet leaders took
every opportunity that offered to keep Moscow’s
agents abroad well stocked with their ass-fodder. Thus
Stalin at this year’s 18th Congress of the party, when
Soviet negotiations with Germany for an agreement
were well on the way:
We stand for peace and the strengthening of busi-
ness relations with all countries. We stand for peaceful,
close and friendly relations with all the neighboring
countries which have common frontiers with the
USSR We stand for the support of nations which
are the victims of aggression and are fighting for the
independence of their country. The tasks of the party
in the sphere of foreign policy are to continue the
policy of peace and to strengthen the international
bonds of friendship with the working people of all
countries who are interested in peace and friendship
among nations.
In a May Day oration this year Voroshilov
declared:
Today, when the international situation constitutes a
tangle of blood, intrigue, filth, blackmail and cowardice
on the part of the ruling bourgeoisie, the toiling people
the world over, as well as all other honest people in
capitalist countries, will realise more clearly than ever
that the Soviet Union is the only country whose people
and Government are consistently fighting for peace
throughout the world. Only the Soviet State, throughout
its entire existence, has always consistently and
untiringly pursued a policy of struggle against war,
against all those who provoke bloody shambles, a
struggle for genuine peace and brotherhood of peoples.
And Molotov, “justifying” the “non-aggression
pact” with Germany:
The Soviet Union stands for non-intervention in
the domestic affairs of other countries.
For five years this peace-swindle patter has poured
out in a voluminous flood from the always voluble
Soviet. It has been repeated by Communists every-
where. Australian Communists issued a “Programme
for Peace” boosting
That powerful buttress of liberty and world peace, the
Soviet Union The example of the Soviet Union, the
work it is doing for peace and democracy more than
anything else, has inspired the mighty resistance of
the masses in all parts of the globe.
In the August issue of “Soviet To-day,” published in
London, Sir Stafford Cripps, M.P., declared:
There can be no doubt that the way to peace today
lies in the possibility of this country arriving at an
agreement with Russia before world events, in the form
of Fascist aggression, have brought us either into war
or into a new surrender.
Nowhere did Parlor Pinks fall heavier for the
Soviet peace swindle than in Australia. Right up
to the day of Stalin’s invasion of Finland they were
apologists for that alleged apostle of peace and his
works. They have since been turning somersaults all
over the place, particularly in leader columns, of
dailies which for years have urged J. Bull to action,
cocksure of the “peace-loving Soviet s support. The
swindle has now been self-exposed ; but it would be
too much to expect that the dupes who swallowed so
much have got all the patter out of their systems
overnight. They will be heard from again, still bab-
bling that “Russia’s goal is peace and brotherhood,
not war and dominance.”
A.B.C. and its Paper.
From C. J. A. Moses, general manager of A.8.C., in
reply to “two articles in your issue of December 6,
‘A.B.C. Publication’ and ‘A.B.C. News’”:
It was said of the Commission, in connection with
its news commentators: “It has no mandate to be an
apologist for any particular cause, and it has no
authority to pursue a one-sided policy which is not
subscribed to by many of its listeners.” Again, in
connection with an article on Stalin in the “A.B.C.
Weekly,” it was stated: “It [the Commission] is a
public institution. Therefore, the country on which
it publishes provocative insults can regard these as
official—made on behalf of the Australian people with
Parliamentary approval.” .
The Commission wishes to point out m explanation
of its policy that it does not take any responsibility for
the views expressed by individual speakers. In fact, it
makes a point of programming several speakers each
week from the national stations with the object ot
ensuring that a variety of points of view shall be
broadcast. This course also enables the A.B.C. to use
men who are experts on the particular subjects on
Similarly, the policy of the A.B.C. Weekly is not
to be that of a Government propaganda sheet. It will
be as independent of Government control as any other
journal in Australia. Thus any comments on controver-
sial subjects published by the “Weekly” cannot be
construed in any way as the official Government
opinion or even as an official opinion of the A.B.C.
The article on Stalin, criticised in The Bulletin, was
submitted as an interesting biographical interpretation,
such as might have been printed by any other paper
published in a community enjoying freedom ot the
press.
So the Commission aims at “ensuring that a
variety of points of view shall be broadcast. How
much “variety” did it give the public when Mr.
Chamberlain was striving for a settlement without
war? As The Bulletin remembers, there was one
sympathetic interpreter of the Chamberlain policy in
the Australian radio field, and he wasn’t a national-
station man. , ,
And how much “variety” did the public get rrom
national stations when their “news commentators” and
professors and so forth were roaring for a Russian
alliance? On that subject these A.B.C. employees fell
in very badly, and they don’t seem to have got over
it yet.
it was not “in connection with an article on
Stalin” that “provocative insults” were mentioned in
“A.B.C. Publication.” They appeared in another
article, “War’s Background,” published in the first
issue of the “A.B.C. Weekly.” They were references
to “60 million Chinese refugeed from the cruellest of
invaders” ; to Japan’s “tottering economy” and “re-
newed interest in the Dutch Indies, particularly since
Holland’s frontier crisis,” and to “Spaniards” who
“faced their end like Spaniards as they were roped
together in the bull rings.” In an article by the same
writer, published in the third issue of the “Weekly,”
Japan was represented again as casting “covetous eyes
on the Indies” and continuing “to pick up vantage
points for a southward thrust” ; the Dutch —who put
their faith in neutrality and angrily resent in-
sinuations that it is not really their national policy-
are alleged to have “retained the Indies largely because
of British support” (“a defensive alliance never
been officially signed, but it is always implied”), and
Australia is informed that “if the Indies pass to the
control of a powerful aggressor-nation the history of
British-Australia would not be written much beyond
its present 150-odd years.” And in “Editorial Intro-
ductions” there is mention of “Vittorio, son of Benito,
who got such a thrill when he saw his bombs ‘open
like a rose’ over Abyssinia.”
That sort of writing is prejudicial to relations
which the Empire is trying to maintain with neutrals
in difficult and delicate circumstances, and it is idle
to pretend that such “comments on controversial
jects cannot be construed in any way as official.” If
offended neutrals choose so to construe them, they
may. They know well enough that the publication is
issued by an Australian Government Commission and
is financed from the proceeds of an (excessive) charge
on the Australian people.
As for the Stalin article being “such as might
have been printed by any other paper,” it wouldn’t
have been printed in this paper at any time, let alone
a time when, in violation of non-aggression agreement,
League Covenant and Kellogg Pact, Stalin was about
to start his ghastly Red war on Finland. Neither
would The Bulletin have printed the two pages of
“Trotsky Among the Dovecots” (with portrait), which
figured in the third issue of the “A.B.C. Weekly.” It
has got some private fun out of the impertinences of
Left Wing journalism, whose dingy heroes by their
recent performances have left so many cocksure
writing boys gasping, but it is not interested in the
criminal classes.
“A.B.C. News” appeared in the section reserved
for correspondents. “A.B.C. Publication” was The
Bulletin’s own article. It dealt largely with the mon-
strous waste of paper associated with the first issue
of the “A.B.C. Weekly” and gave a short list of sales
and returns which recalled the tavern bill found in
Falstaff’s pocket. Though this matter concerns all
listeners and all taxpayers, Mr. Moses doesn’t men-
tion it in his reply. He is invited to rectify the omis-
sion, and to state how many copies of the first three
issues of the “weakly” have been sold and how many
returned. He might also explain how much has been
spent in advertising, and how it is that the 18 pages
of advertisements with which the waste of paper,
money and broadcasting time started off on December
2 had got down below six pages on December 16.
Looking Down on Maoriland.
F. W. Doidge, the Maoriland M.P., has been revisit-
ing N.S.W., of which he is a native, and Victoria. On
returning to Wellington he said he had seen in the
two States “evidence of abounding prosperity” and
had encountered “a general feeling that, despite the
war, Australia is in for boom times.” Indeed, “Aus-
tralia’s economy is well organised ; her London funds
are in good shape ; she is superbly confident about her
own immediate future” ; and so on.
But Australia, Mr. Doidge learned, is “profoundly
concerned about Maoriland’s immediate future.”
I visited Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. I met
many of the leading politicians and a number of
prominent business men. They were outspokenly
anxious about New Zealand.
Strange, for while these worthies may be out-
spoken in pubs or clubrooms when wandering
members of the M.L. Opposition are about, they have
concealed their anxiety from the Australian public.
Certainly it has not found expression in any of our
seven Parliaments. To Mr. Doidge, however, “noted
politicians” held forth in a most superior strain. “In
New Zealand you have no population, no background,”
was the “crushing comment” of one. Another, “gener-
ally regarded as one of Australia’s outstanding states-
men,” said: “The only course left open to you, so far
as I can see, is to make overtures for inclusion in the
Commonwealth. It will be a doubtful for us,
but it would mean salvation for New Zealand.”
Mr. Doidge protested that “such a course was un-
thinkable.” To that “one of Australia’s outstanding
statesmen” replied:
Geographically, Wellington is not as far from Can-
berra as Perth. In national safety, you have every-
thing to gain; New Zealand at present is the most
vulnerable part of the Empire. Anyway, what alterna-
tive have you? You have reached a position which
it is beyond your banking system to rectify. New
Zealand is in much the same position as New South
Wales at the end of the Lang regime. But in your
case there is no Federal Constitution to which you
can turn. Your Government is out of its depth.
To Australia alone can you look for a lifeline.
It is very questionable whether Maoriland is “the
most vulnerable part of the Empire.” In any case,
events are forcing on our two Dominions a common
defence policy, and they will sink or swim together.
In 1891 Maoriland sent Sir George Grey, Premier
Atkinson and Captain Russell to the first National
Australasian Convention, “empowered to consider and
report on an adequate scheme for a Federal Consti-
tution.” Had the aeroplane annihilated distance then,
as it has done since, Maoriland might have become an
original State of the Commonwealth, and it may send
members to one Australasian Parliament yet. But
union will never be brought about in the spirit in
which “leading politicians” and “prominent business-
men” discoursed to Mr. Doidge.
To say that “New Zealand is in much the same
position as New South Wales at the end of the Lang
rdgime” is all bunkum. One of the merits of the
Maoriland system, which admits of swift action in
emergencies without the meddling and muddling with
which Australia is only too well acquainted, is that it
makes provincial Langs impossible. Under our seven
clumsy Constitutions they are still possible. Only the
vote of one High Court Judge prevented Lang from
smashing the edifice of Australian Government finance,
though at least 80 p.c. of the Australian people were
opposed to him and his methods ; and a position as
bad (or worse), necessitating another reference to a
High Court whose constitutional interpretations tend
to change with its composition, may arise again. It
could not arise in Maoriland.
Considering the way in which seven Parliaments
and the vast establishments they have set up run Aus-
tralia, it is rank impudence for Australian politicians
to affect superiority to Maoriland and its Parliament.
It may be in the interests of both countries to renew
the negotiations begun half a century ago, but on this
side of the Tasman a bad constitutional mess, attended
with all manner of complications which the citizen
finds burdensome and vexatious, will have to be cleared
up first.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
This Is Better.
The air-training plan for the R.A.A.F. will, Mr. Men-
zies says, cost not less than £50,000,000. This sum
will include £20,000,000 in capital expenditure, while
maintenance will add £15,000,000 a year when the
scheme is in full swing. About 26,000 men (10,400
pilots and 15,600 observers, wireless operators and
gunners) will be trained —6000 in Canada, the rest in
the Commonwealth —and thousands of technicians will
be required for ground staffs.
Australia will build all machines for elementary
training, with a contribution from Britain of 50 per
cent, of engines in cash or kind. Britain will also
contribute towards the provision of Wirraways, which
are to be used for intermediate instruction, and pro-
vide instructors and aircraft for advanced training—
Fairey Battles, the “maids of all work” of the front
line, and Avro Anson amphibians, of which the
R.A.A.F. already has a number.
Thirty-four training schools will be established.
Some will deal exclusively with wireless and navigation.
Pay will be found in Australia by the Common-
wealth ; on embarkation, by the British Government —
at English rates. It is here that the one contentious
feature of the plan arises. Although the Government
has laid it down that the Australian identity of the
trained men shall be retained “as far as possible,” they
will, after embarkation, cease to belong to the R.A.A.F.
and become members of the R.A.F. or R.C.A.F.
For the period of the war at least this amounts v
to building up a British air force instead of an Aus-
tralian one —certainly with great help from
Britain. It is not as if only a few squadrons too
limited in numbers to justify a separate head-
quarters were being provided. The force to be sent,
had it been constituted even on the eve of the war,
would have placed Australia among the great aerial
Powers.
The independence and unity of the expedi-
tion should be insisted upon. Like the A.I.F. it should
fight as an Australian organisation under Australian
command and .control.
What—Another ?
Barely giving taxpayers a chance to recover from
staggering deficit revelations and increased taxes, the
Sydney Cabinet has instructed its Transport Minister
Bruxner to get a survey for a 120-mile railway
from Inverell to Guyra. Estimated cost is £5,000,000,
and it will reduce the rail journey from Inverell to
Sydney by exactly two miles.
Inverell is connected with Sydney by a line to
Moree which, traversing practically level country, cost
nearly £500,000, and lost £25,000 last year. The loss
on a longer line, which would have to climb the New
England tableland, and which would pass for a good
portion of its length through big sheep holdings, must
be greater. Glenreagh to Dorrigo, not half the dis-
tance of the Cabinet’s latest dream, cost £1,384,331.
Annual loss was £72,562 in 1937 and £79,952 in 1938.
Northern N.S.W. hasn’t asked for an Inverell-
Guyra line. It has asked for one from Glen Innes to
Grafton, which would bring the north and north-west
200 miles closer to a port, but would have to be built
over some of the most difficult country in Australia.
In the present state of its finances N.S.W. can’t
stand any more railways. It needs more and better
roads. Not fly-by-night speedways for inter-city travel,
but substantial roads from centres such as Inverell
to places like Grafton, with feeder routes. The war
may temporarily restrict motor transport because of
petrol shortage, but charcoal gas and other fuels will
come into their own. Nor can State Transport Acts
check commercial transport progress much longer.
Restless taxpayers looking for excuses to dump
State Parliaments could scarcely need a better one
than this mad proposal to throw £5,000,000 down a
sink which, in annual losses alone, has swallowed
£26,000,000 in 13 years.
The Australian Revolution.
“Old-timer” writes its history :
It would be hard to say just where the thing began.
There are grounds for the belief that it came to life in
a military camp, where a few thousand Australian men sud-
denly realised that though the Government considered them
good enough to die for their country it couldn’t trust them
with a pot of beer.
There were growls and vague threats, but no attempt
at concerted action until some evil-minded person—possibly
an enemy agent pointed out that among the many
things which they must be prepared to defend with their lives
were the rights of minorities. Hence they must loyally defend
the right of a minority to deprive them in civil life of a drink
after 6 p.m., no matter how dry the night, to deprive them
while in military service of the right to a drink at all, and to
attempt to extend this rule to the nation at large.
Eyewitnesses say that, after that, there was dead silence
in that camp, and men were to be seen in attitudes which
suggested deep thought. Then there arose a wild yell of revolt,
and the whole camp gathered round the O.C.’s tent. Later,
a rumor sifted into the near-by town. It spread to other
towns, to the cities, up and down the coast, inland.
Cheering was heard in streets and factories, on farms, in
trains, in lonely bagmen’s camps and by the rivers of the
plains. Aeroplanes flew in all directions dropping leaflets
which were seized and read avidly by all who found them.
Everywhere men gathered at focal points, mostly at
town and shire halls, and put their names to a great manifesto.
In the capitals central committees were formed, and to them
were rushed the reams of signatures as fast as they could
be signed and consigned.
Six State Governments immediately met. Twelve Royal
Commissions were set up. Twenty-four boards were created.
The Prune Minister was urged to hold a Premiers’ Conference
and make financial grants to the States. The Ministry of
Information was quadrupled, and Ministers of Revolution and
of Extra-Internal Affairs began to assemble staffs and give
radio addresses as to what they intended to do.
Then the revolutionary envoys presented the manifesto.
It was short, and very sweet:
“We, soldiers and citizens of a free and enlightened
democracy, having at long last awakened to the fact that a
small bunch of wowsers, narks and cranks have been trying
to prohibit by law the drinking of fermented and spirituous
liquors,, now propose to reverse the position.
“W*e demand that unless a law be passed at once to make
drinking compulsory we shall support a Wet party at the
next election. We are men of all parties and creeds, but
we are united in this, and our votes are more than sufficient
to wipe out any party that opposes us. By cripes, this ought
to make you blokes sit up!”
Of course the seven Governments were helpless. The
required law was rushed through all Houses at once, and the
revolutionaries returned to their shops, homes and camps.
There were violent attempts to resist the new law.
Impassioned speakers declared it wasn’t fair. Wet leaders
coldly remarked that it was just as fair to force a man to
drink as to force him to stop drinking. Volunteers to enforce
the law offered in their thousands. They went from house to
house, dug out suspected wowsers, and poured beer into
them as Mussolini once poured castor oil into anti-Fascists.
Some died of shock, of course, but few worried about
that, the general impression being that narks were better
dead, anyhow. A remarkable number recanted their Dry
faith with suspicious haste after the first two or three enforced
drinks. A small band of Prohibitionists barricaded them-
selves in a city building and threatened a hunger strike, but
enforcement officers called out fire-engines, coupled the hoses
to a near-by brewery and flooded the place with beer. Many
hundreds waded and swam through the flood, gulping hard,
declaring they’d pull the Probs. out. But the Probs. came
out, staggering, two of them singing ribald airs, and sur-
rendered.
Scattered members of the Dry brigade met in secret
cellars and drank water, lemonade and milk. A small bootleg
industry sprang up, and the public revenue benefited from
fines inflicted for sly-milk and -water selling. An attempt to
run a cargo of orangeade was nipped in the bud by the
cruiser Canikin, and the milk-drinkers were dealt with by
feeding all cows on hops, malted barley and yeast.
Australia changed. Men no longer slunk furtively home
with Gladstone bags at night, but met their fellows at the
gate and cheerfully knocked the top off one. Former narks,
mellowed by the camaraderie of a beer or two, became
good fellows. The tourist trade reached astounding propor-
tions. It looked as if Utopia had arrived. But the strange
fact emerged that, with everybody compelled to drink by law,
the old Australian antagonism to compulsion took a new
turn, and though most men didn’t refuse to drink they now
drank with the ill-grace with which formerly they paid taxes.
From this it was but a short step to drink-evasion, and
those who were convicted of it were looked on as martyrs
and fit to join Edward Kelly in the Australian Valhalla.
In time beer became like education. The Governments
made it free and compulsory. Cost of law enforcement was
enormous, and it became increasingly obvious that if Aus-
tralia was to maintain her war effort she must give up her
beer effort. Old Guard revolutionaries held that we could
not let a war destroy hard-fought-for institutions, but public
indifference to beer became more marked, and the end was
that the Australian went grumblingly for his daily pot like
the small boy to get his cascara.
This situation would have pleased the Drys tremendously
—had there been any left. But the spirit of the wowser was
still strong, and thus there arose the usual narks and cranks
who formed societies, wrote articles and urged the Govern-
ments to prohibit entirely all liquids except of a fermented
nature.
Indignant citizens, sneaking to water-taps after dark,
cursed these meddlers, calling them “wowsers” and “narks”
and wondered why they couldn’t mind their own business.
Thus the Australian revolution, like most others, grave
and gay, found itself at full circle on the cycle of history,
and preparing for another turn.
Wine and the Soldier.
“Lord Luvus”: In a broadcast address on “Wine,
from the Temperance Viewpoint,” Rev. R. Ambrose
Roberts, spokesman of the Victorian anti-liquor in-
terests, trotted out all the old arguments which served
the Cause so ill at the last referendum, includ-
ing the quotation from Shakspeare comparing wine
to the devil. This the reverend gentleman presented as
Shakspeare’s opinion, regardless of the fact that there
is not a single authentic opinion of Shakspeare’s extant
on anything.
The address concluded:
Australia, which drinks very little wine, consumes
4.31 litres of absolute alcohol per head annually, but
France, a wine-drinking country, consumes 17.61 litres
of absolute alcohol per head.
This was an innocent-enough looking statement,
but, his address being finished, the reverend broad-
caster then went on for a few minutes with some notes
which amounted to a violent attack on our French
ally: -
It is frequently asserted that France affords an
excellent example of a wine-drinking country. Let us
see. Dr. Degrain, “of Paris,” said that when the men
were called up to the colors in France in 1914 every
fourth man was found to be afflicted with alcoholic
trembling.
He supplemented this choice bit of information
with the testimony of “three French doctors” —names
and status not given—who stated at a congress at War-
saw that
France, the highest consumer of wine in the world,
is also amongst the first on the list as regards general
mortality and morbidity, and takes no heed of the
growing number of her mentally-deficient and of her
backward or imbecile children.
A child could see through the logic of ascribing
the alleged high mortality, morbidity, imbecility and
mental deficiency in France to the consumption of
chablis. But to say that France takes no heed of
the growing number of her mentally-deficient, back-
ward and imbecile children is to slander a country
which has been one of the world’s leaders in dealing
with these problems. In “Damaged Goods” it is stated
that the only hereditary disease is syphilis, and the
writer was a Frenchman.
An equally foolish suggestion was that one out
of four of the poilus who fought alongside the Diggers
in 1914-18 was suffering from alcoholic poisoning. If
the A.B.C. directors who supervise these matters knew
their subject better they would have been aware that
the French official medical authority, after exhaustive
investigation, advised the Government to increase the
wine allowance to the troops, as wine had been found
to be a valuable antidote to fatigue, and to improve
the spirit and endurance of the soldier, and that the
Government accepted the suggestion. And have they
no literary experts to tell them that the opinions of
Shakspeare’s characters are not necessarily Shaks-
peare’s opinions?
If the Rev. Roberts had permission to broadcast
his views on the French nation, A.B.C. committed a
grave error. If they were broadcast without permis-
sion he was taking an unwarranted liberty.
Australia Must Build Ships.
Steadily rising options in Chicago and Winnipeg
brought the third price-rise for Australian wheat since
harvesting began, the Wheat Board quoting 3s. 7d_. and
3s. lOd. a bushel for bulk and bagged. Growers,
harvesting a crop which revised estimates place at
182,568,000 bushels, and which generally is a splendid
sample, would be jubilant but for one thing—dearth'
of shipping.
This last has caused serious trouble in N.S.W.,
which expects 66,000,000 bushels —more than half as
much again as Victoria, and almost as much as South
Australia and Westralia put together. N.S.W. silos
are full, and bulk-heads are being rushed up at country
sidings to hold the grain. Some growers plan to hold
their crops on the farm. Loaded lorries have stood idle
for days, there being nowhere to put the wheat.
So the country has now the prospect of a high
export value for its huge crop. Shortage of shipping
has become the disturbing factor. Canberra has said
something about U.S. ships transporting wheat to
Mexico or somewhere, whence British bottoms would
reload for shipment to Britain. What this would
cost in added freight charges won’t bear thinking
about.
The convoy system has been effective for the
purpose for which it was designed. But it slows down
sea transport enormously, and Britain can scarcely be
expected to send on the long Australian charter ships
urgently needed for transporting essential goods from
Atlantic countries. It becomes increasingly evident
that we have to do things for ourselves, since Britain
must concentrate all on her fight for life.
Continued losses of British and neutral shipping
are certain. Australia must try to make up the de-
ficiency as far as it can. Australia must build ships,
and the sooner it starts in earnest the better.
Gandhi.
“Feng-Shui,” his analysis:
The chief characteristic of English newspapers in India
is their obsession with Gandhi. Everything the Mahatma
says and does is reported. Every second leader in the dailies
discusses his ideas. And the average leader-writer, when dealing
with Gandhi’s utterances, abandons emotion and emulates
Gandhi’s dialectical method to the best of his ability, no doubt
requiring an extra block of ice on his head to do it. A
Madras paper recently headed a leader exultantly: “‘I am a
mortal, as liable to err as any other,’ remarks Mr. Gandhi.”
Then it proceeded to prove where Mr. Gandhi erred.
But there is one thing in which Gandhi has not erred,
from the point of view of what he set out to do. He is
entirely without material possessions, unless his shirt, his loin-
cloth, his rice bowl and the hut at Segaon from which he
rules so many Indians can be called possessions. There can’t
be many people in the world so poor as not to be able to
own what Gandhi owns, but at one time he was earning
£20,000 a year as a lawyer in South Africa.
Most people are tyrannised over by their possessions.
The thinking of a stockbroker can’t help but »be conditioned
by his possession of a bank account. If I have investments
in China, from the point of view of having investments I
will want China to beat Japan; but if my investments are
in Japan I will want Japan to beat China.
Gandhi deliberately set to work to reduce his requirements
until they reached the minimum set by Diogenes. When
a Greek stopped in front of Diogenes’s tub and asked him
if there was anything he could do to make him happier,
Diogenes said: ‘‘Yes, you can get out of my light!” Gandhi
wanted to show that possessions tend to stand in their owner’s
light, and the more he shed his possessions the more his
influence grew. If he still had his £20,000 a year, that
would not increase his influence; it would stand in the way
of his thinking, and it is the quality of his ideas which
gives him his control over India and enables him to perform
feats like this:
“On receiving Sir Samuel Hoare’s statement in the
Commons (on Dominion status for India), Babu Rajendra
Prasad, Mr. Jairamdas Daulatram, Sind Congress leader, and
Pundit R. S. Shukla, Premier of the Central Provinces, pro-
ceeded to Segaon, where they studied it. About 4 p.m. they
left Mahatma Gandhi’s cottage and Babu Rajendra Prasad
got immediately in telephonic touch with the Hon. Mr. C.
Rajagopalachariar, Madras Premier, to advise him to tender
his resignation. Later, he learnt that the Madras Ministry had
tendered its resignation. Other Ministers will follow suit.”
As they have done since.
There is something almost ludicrous about the spectacle
of this little 70-year-old thinker without position or political
party skittling these pundits, Premiers and honorables out
of their posts with an idea. Most of them are rich men.
"Dudley Flats."
“Dudley Flats” is the popular nickname for the
unsavory collection of rusty scrap-iron which has hung
together on the foreshore at West Melbourne for de-
cades, throwing up jobs for police courts at more and
more frequent intervals.
In a recent affray a man was bitten, and another
had skull and arms fractured. A few months ago a
person went after a couple with a razor and their miser-
able humpy was burnt down in the process. When
the ambulance turned up the other day to attend to
casualties the men opened the door of the wrong
humpy and were attacked by 12 ferocious dogs.
Victoria’s elaborate State Parliament, with two
Houses, has been talking about “Dudley Flats” inter-
mittently for donkey’s years. It has a Housing Com-
mission costing an annual half-million and all the
necessary powers to remove the social excrescence.
Evidently such an effort is beyond a State Parliament.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: I liked that daily-paper report
of the Greyhound Owners, Breeders and
Trainers of Brisbane Water (N.S.W.)
who, served with a demand for a regis-
tration fee of half a guinea a head (men.
not dogs), protested that “it was against
the spirit of the British Constitution laid
down by Cromwell.” But they don’t
know much about history at Brisbane
Water, however much they may know
about hounds. In point of fact Cromwell
made a nasty mess of the British Con-
stitution, and all Three Estates found
him ruthless. He killed a King,
abolished the Lords and shut up
the Commons, driving out the Rump
of the Long Parliament with a run-
ning fire of insults about mem-
bers’ private lives and personal habits.
And Cromwell would have had no use
for mechanical coursing. On the con-
trary, if any contemporary equivalent of
the Brisbane Water Association of Grey-
hound Owners, Breeders and Trainers had
set up a tin-hare joint in Puritan England,
the members would have soon found
themselves in the clink or the stocks, and
not a dawg would have been left to scoff
his steak ration.
* * * *
“Wester”: There was an O. Henry
touch about the finish to a send-off in
Kalgoorlie (W.A.). Four mates of the
mines gathered to celebrate the departure
of one to a farm he had acquired, and
the chief burden of their valedictory
speeches was envy of the “lucky cow,”
who was getting out of a mucky job
at last. The,party broke up and the
departing guest went to his room on the
second floor of the pub. Going to the
window for fresh air, he toppled out
and crashed to death in the lane below.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: I don’t think it is
horror of eating horse and love of eating
it which differentiates Australians and
Frenchmen (B. 13/12/’39). Nor is it
sentiment or the economic aspect. It is
the way they would each cook the equine.
I don’t suppose Frenchmen liked the idea
of eating camel until one died in a circus.
A Paris chef bought the carcass and
advertised that he would put it on the
menu at his restaurant. All the epicures
rolled up. The reason was simple. They
had complete confidence in his culinary
science.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Maoriland had a lady mayor
—at Onehunga just on 50 years ago,
and has had others since. Newtown
(N.S.W.) rejoiced in one this last year—
the first in Australia, Newtown proudly
claimed —but the Labor Caucus to which
she belonged has appointed a successor
from the other sex. One of the Sydney
dailies ungallantly placed it on record
that her Worship was “deposed and did
not run for office,” and that in her last
speech she “gave aldermen what she
called ‘a piece of her tongue.’ ”
She told them she had been the victim
of a whispering campaign. “For a week
lying rumors have been jammed down my
throat,” she said. “I am reported to have
said that I would put the skids under
anyone who beat me for Mayor.”
But her Worship had the last word—and
vote.
By her casting vote Mrs. Fowler de-
feated a move to compel her to resign
as chairman of the Newtown War and Pat-
riotic Fund. She had heated exchanges
with its sponsor, Alderman Greenup.
The Labor paper did not report any
“heated exchanges” but mentioned chival-
rously that “Mrs. Fowler paid warm
tributes to her successor: there was no
more honest, sincere resident in the dis-
trict than Alderman Beaufils.”
* * * *
“Old School Tie”: When Baldwin
formed his first Cabinet he said it was a
Government of which no old Harrovian
could feel ashamed. Six of its members
had been caned at Harrow. Neville
Chamberlain is not so old-schoolish. He
was at Rugby, but he’s the only Rugby
man in his Cabinet. Churchill was at
Harrow, Eden and Halifax at Eton and
Hore-Belisha at Clifton. Malcolm Mac-
Donald represents the new type of public
school (Bedales). Eton has, however, a
preponderance of proconsuls: Gowrie
(Australia), Linlithgow (India), and Gal-
way (M.L.) are all old Etonians. In fact,
in the governing business Tweedsmuir
(Canada), who was formerly John
Buchan, the author, is the only non-
school-tieman. He was at Glasgow Uni.
and afterwards at Oxford, and might be
expected to speak with a Glaswoxon
accent.
♦ * * aft
“Fi. fa.”: “In the few months I have
been on the Bench,” said Justice Philp
in the Criminal Court at Brisbane, “two
boys of 16 and a boy of 18 have been
convicted of murder. A boy of \l\ was
convicted of rape. Two others were
convicted of hitting a taxi-driver over the
head with a bottle. I would say that
about 30 per cent, of the prisoners who
“ Didn't you ’ear me whistle, blast you ?”
come up here are youths.” His Honor
went on to point out that the custom of
letting boy offenders go on bond tends to
foster the idea that boys are privileged.
Absence of police power to control
larrikin gangs is another factor tending
to encourage youthful crime. An effort
towards improving matters with old-
fashioned ways of correcting naughty
boys, such as the birch, would carry no
political risks. Their voting parents would
mostly be relieved that the job was off
their shoulders.
“E.J.W.”: A Sydney ruffian, aged 23,
is under sentence of death for rape. The
circumstances must be unique in the his-
tory of case-hardened villainy ; the crime
was committed on the night of a party-
held to celebrate his escape from another
rape charge.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Some people still have
pleasant mental associations with the
aeroplane, which is terrorising Europe. A
wedding in the air has been arranged in
Melbourne —the second of the kind in
local history, the previous one having
taken place over St. Kilda. Guests wiil
follow the bridal pair in another aero-
plane. The bridegroom is the leading
egg producer in the Commonwealth, the
bride is his secretary. They attended the
same Werribee school together.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The death of Freud had
stimulated the discussion of obsessional
neuroses at a cafe in Melbourne. “What
is the queerest case you know of?” asked
a member of the party of an eminent psy-
chiatrist. “The case of a man of 91 who
attributed his neurotic condition to his
having got a girl into trouble when he
was 80.” “How did you class it?”
“Amongst the delusions of grandeur,”
said Freud’s disciple.
“Pitt-street”: I can’t help wondering
what Freud would have made of the
fellow potted in Sydney last week for in-
dulging his passion for antiques so much
as to go round stealing curios and objets
d’art from private homes. Ostensibly
calling for boots to repair, he spied out
the land and returned later for the raid.
His flat in Bondi was decorated with
£l5OO worth of valuable knick-knacks,
no attempt to “fence” them being made.
When, in the course of hurried hauls, the
“collector” found gold in the objects he
melted it down and sold it, hurled likely-
to-be-identified jewellery into the sea, and
(the Robin Hood-Turpin-Kelly touch)
gave linen to charitable institutions. No
doubt the Burglars’ Union will declare
this nuisance “black.”
* * * *
“Tovarish”: I nominate as this year’s
most original suggestion for a Christmas-
box the plea of the manager of the Aus-
tralian “Communist Review”: “Give
your friend a 12 months’ subscription.”
“Tradition,” says the C.R., “associates
the sentiments of peace and goodwill with
the Christmas period We think the
C.R. has been and will continue to be a
good champion of the cause of peace.”
Some of the efforts towards peace and
goodwill in the current issue include
some wishful thinking on revolution
in India to sprag Britain’s war effort
against Moscow’s friends in Berlin, an
article on Marxist-Leninist philosophy,
with a presentation picture of Mr. Marx,
an attack on the Church in Spain and
on the Franco Government (“Something
must happen in Spain, it must happen
soon”). I expect at any moment to see
the shops full of greeting cards cheerily
exemplifying the spirit of Christmas in a
series of pictures of the war in Finland,
the shooting of Zinoviev and the last
famine in the Ukraine.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Second A.I.F. men arriving
at Launceston the other morning for a
march through the city were greeted by
Mayor Ockerby. They were then lunched
at the Albert Hall as the city’s guests, but
the chief host was Mayor Boatwright. A
mayoral election had been held in the
interim.
“Atrax”: A drab volume of figure-
columns on Australian Demography for
1938 doesn’t look interesting, but it re-
veals some curious human happenings.
For example, a bride of 12 who mar-
ried a husband of 22, another of 13 with
a 34-year-old ’groom, and a husband of
14 with a wife of 15. The oldest bachelor
risked matrimony at 82, the oldest spin-
ster at 77. The oldest widower to re-
marry was 88, his bride 53. That widows
need never lose hope was proved by one
of 82 led to the altar by a swain of 58.
The youngest remarrying widows were
three of 19 ; the two youngest remarried
divorcees were also 19. The youngest
remarrying widowers were each 21 ; so
were the youngest remarrying divorced
lads. The youngest mother was 14, the
oldest 46. In three marriages the first
child was born after 23 years, in 12,153
within eight months from, the ceremony
. . . but enough.
* * * *
“M.’s Mate”: If any wild motor-cars,
horses or cattle are seen tearing along
country roads they’re probably after
Charlie Callaghan, a Dungog (N.S.W.)
man who, at 13, had a cow fall on him.
breaking three ribs and injuring a kidney.
Next, while riding work, his mount fell
and threw him against a rail. More ribs
and his collar bone went. Five months
later a saddle slipped and he was
dragged. Then he fell off a load of wool.
Then a horse ran him into a tree. After
seven car accidents he was tossed by a
bull, then by an elephant, and again
from the saddle. Now 35, he was in
Lithgow (N.S.W.) Hospital last week
after a motor-lorry opened its door and
threw him out. He was knocked by the
same car and driver twice, with an inter-
val of three months and 40 miles. Charlie
seems to be unbreakable. His accidents
ranged all over N.S.W. and Queensland.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Stretton, J., has had to deal
with a queer case of anti-Semitism in
Carlton, Melbourne. Two youths, one an
ex-Sunday-school teacher, were charged
with breaking and stealing on various
occasions and bag-snatching offences.
Their counsel pleaded that they had been
infected with the anti-lewish virus. It
turned out that they selected for their
attentions Jewish women, never Jewish
men; and a psychiatrist testified that
one apparently got “psychic satis-
faction” from his operations. ’Sonah
remarked that when youths picked on
foreign women who had come to this
country for asylum, the plain Australian
word “hooliganism” was more in order.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I was thrilled to read in a
collection of flapper papers that Sydney’s
Lord-Mayor-elect has a string of race-
horses, “a fine yacht” and a “lovely home
at Wahroonga,” with 5| acres of garden,
all as a result of attending to business —
in this case, moving pictures —so strictly
that our hero was able to retire at 50
and begin cultivating the arts and graces
of public life. These flapper-press reve-
lations must have been a source of in-
tense gratification to the soldiers at
Ingleburn who marched through Sydney
as a preliminary to the Patriotic Fund
stunt stage-managed by the Lord-
Mayor-elect. No meal was spread for
them, but they received a Patriotic Fund
issue of one and six apiece for recruiting
their flagging powers after their hot
perambulations on bitumen and concrete.
Yes; eighteenpence a nob, and spend it
how and where you liked!
* * * *
“Colbun” pays a call:
There is a second-floor room in a Brisbane
office building for which no rent is charged,
although it houses an incorporated association
and has many visitors. It is the headquarters
of the T.Ps., as they call themselves, short for
the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers’
Association. Very few T.Ps. are able to reach
it without help; any of them who spends less
than six months of every year in hospital is
regarded as lucky. Not one is over 50 in
years or under 70 in expectation of life. Pain
is the daily portion of most of them, and
most of life’s enjoyments are denied to all.
There are about 274 qualified T.Ps. in
Queensland and about two more qualify for
membership monthly—not enough to replace
losses. Their expressed opinion, individual and
collective, is that they are a lucky lot of
geezers to have so many new friends and so
many old cobbers, and who can expect to live
for ever, anyhow? There are no grouchers
amongst them, and no gloom-merchants. Their
views on the present-day world situation are
completely cheerful, and they consider Fritz
has some bigger surprises ahead of him when
the Second A.I.F. gets overseas than they
helped to contribute with the original one.
Any average Australian citizen who feels a
bit worried about his health or his business
could get a wonderful kick out of a call on the
T.Ps. If he can’t call, or even if he can,
he is at liberty to widen the T.P. grin a trifle
and to confirm yet further the optimism of
which it is the outward and visible sign. A
cheque sent to Room 218, A.M.P. Building,
Queen-street, Brisbane, will provide them with
yet another proof of what a good sort of a
world it is. In considering the amount he
pause a while to compare his own re-
action to partial and temporary troubles with
the total and permanent disablement which is
the only qualification which can secure enrol-
ment as a T.P.
THE LOST LEADERS.
Where are the leaders of other days,
The men who thrilled us so oft of yore
With their mastery of the flashing phrase,
Their grip on the telling metaphor?
Is there never a one, in this year of grace,
To grab their mantle and take their place?
They can talk, it may be, the modern crowd,
Our guides and rulers who’ve made their bid
And won to office, as long and loud
As ever our olden-timers did.
At stolid spruiking they’re just as slick,
But not with the words that stir and stick.
They mean, undoubtedly, just as well
As Deakin or Berry, Parkes or Reid,
But I sometimes wish that the way they tell
Their policy, and recite their creed,
Were a trifle less like a midday meal,
Of lukewarm cabbage and cold boiled veal.
Where are the leaders of long ago?
Dead and buried and off the maps.
Though you lack their gift of the gab, we know,
You might put more ginger into it, chaps.
Deeds may be better than words, it’s true,
But ringing words have their value, too.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“TURNED INTO FLATS.”
This garden was the mirror of the man
Who with deep thought and care
Set lilies here, and roses there,
Lovingly sowed his seeds,
Foresaw the season’s needs,
Imposed upon the whole
The pattern and the keynote of his soul.
Now the man is gone,
With his plotting mind and tender hand;
What was the home of one
Is the pen of a herded band;
The garden is nobody’s now,
Gone are the grace and the glow;
A hireling rattles the mower over the lawns,
With eye on the clock and—bored —yawns,
Stubs in a few gaudy annuals—six are enough—
And hurries oil.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
Jj: * * *
“Amicus Curiae”: Action of a Judge
at Melbourne General Sessions who
abandoned a trial because the foreman
of the jury said he felt he would be
influenced by the fact that the accused
person was a soldier in uniform has
aroused a buzz of controversy in legal
circles. Doubtless there’s a huge body
of case law decisions that could, be
bandied, pro and con. But the issue
seems to boil itself down to the ques-
tion whether a civil court, in time of
war, can properly ignore the fact of a
state of war and the relation to that
state of war of persons brought within
its jurisdiction, and whether a civil court
can order a soldier or a sailor, bound
by military or naval regulations to wear
his uniform, to take it off so that it
may deal with him on his merits as a
civilian. Let’s try a reductio ad absur-
dum case. Viscount Gort is brought
before a civil court on a charge in-
volving his imprisonment if convicted.
Warfare is raging on the Western Front.
Must the Court shut its mind to the mili-
tary consequences of imprisoning the
commander of the nation’s forces?
* * * *
“X.S.”: The most brazen theft for a
long time in Melbourne occurred in
Swanston-street in full view of passers-
by, and on a Saturday afternoon. The
desperadoes got into the top floor of a
three-storey building, helped themselves
to the contents of a clothing manufac-
turer’s warehouse, made a hole in the
floor and descended to another. Then
they dropped their loot through a third
hole into the showroom of a motor firm,
loaded it into a smart 1940 model and
charged the whole collection through the
glass front doors to freedom.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: “F.S.” says (B. 6/12/’39):
“Can any argument over aesthetics have
sense?” Yes, the question of what is
beauty can be discussed, but a knowledge
of aesthetics is not a knowledge of indi-
vidual works of art, and an artist can
have a knowledge of his art and have
no knowledge of aesthetics whatever.
Bertrand Russell talks plenty of sense
about aesthetics and Rodin talked a great
deal of illogical nonsense. But nobody,
except, perhaps, an aesthetician of the
Melbourne “Herald,” would say that
Russell’s opinion on a piece of sculpture
was as good as Rodin’s.
* * *
“Syd N.”: The flour tax led to a
comedy in a Sydney court the other day
when a citizen was charged with obstruct-
ing a taxation official in the execution of
his duty. The official said he had asked
the defendant to allow him to inspect
some flour at the rear of a bakehouse.
Defendant retreated within his gate.
There were two large dogs present, one
of which seemed to regard the official
without affection. Defendant refused to
be responsible for what the dogs would
do if the official approached the flour,
so the official didn’t. Haled to court,
defendant disclaimed connection with
flour, premises and dogs. For all he
cared, the official could have inspected
the flour for the rest of his life. Case
dismissed.
* * * *
“Fritz”: A Sydney morning news-
paper, ever endeavoring in this time of
conflict helpful to be, published some
little diagrams with directions how huge
bridges may be bombed. One method
calls for aeroplanes flying at an altitude
of from 5000 to 30,000 feet; another for
’planes at 2100 feet, and neither very
efficient seems to be. Neither is it likely
they could in Sydney into operation be
put. A much better plan for scuttling
Sydney Harbor bridge in my file re-
poses. At 8.50 a.m. on a week day seven
motor-lorries, bearing cases marked
“Glass with care” but with T.N.T. filled,
go to selected spots near the pylons,
have breakdowns, and, a few minutes
after their drivers have withdrawn, are
by electric wires exploded. But it has
been by scouts discovered that at all
times stupid policemen around the bridge
approaches wander. Perhaps the “D.T.”
another bright idea, with diagrams, will
soon produce.
* * # *
“K.P.”: Figures regarding medical
grounds for final rejection from the
“Please, sir, no guns today. The hoys has all got a hangover .”
Second A.I.F. show that of the total, 301,
only one, a Queenslander, was turned
down for general poor physique, probably
due to malnutrition. Deformities and in-
juries, including flat feet or hammer toe,
formed, with 79 cases, the most common
ground. W.A. topped the list with 20,
followed by Queensland with 17, Vic. 16
and N.S.W. and S.A. 13 each. Tasmania
contributed none. Of 59 rejects on
account of heart disease, including high
blood pressure, Vic. led with 19, S.A.
had 15, Tas. 12, W.A. 6, Queensland 5
and N.S.W. 2. The second examination
was conducted on standard lines by ex-
perienced army M.Os., and any personal
factors of method or skill can be dis-
regarded. The explanation of the various
and curious discrepancies could prob-
ably be found in individual outlook
among the first examiners concerning
national needs rather than physical facts.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne “Argus”
philologist has discovered—as generations
of schoolboys have done—that “Nuliar-
bor” looks strikingly like Latin, and
savants have started speculating on a
possible Roman origin of the abo. This
is the “strong” of it. Gesar, a downy
bird, took the prophecy about the Ides of
March seriously and engaged a locum
tenens, a la Hitler, on the celebrated occa-
sion of the stabbing at the Capitol. He
himself escaped to Naples with a few
chosen companions, stole a galley, passed
through the Pillars of Hercules, rounded
the Cape and, after various vicissitudes,
was washed up on the shores of the Aus-
tralian Bight, near Fowler’s Bay. Giving
its present name to the Nullarbor Plain
in passing on account of the lack of
shade, he proceeded to an oasis between
Lake Disappointment and Mount Re-
markable which as yet has not been dis-
covered by an Australian explorer. Being
all males, his followers had to indulge
in miscegenation, and their descendants
are now a light coffee color and almost
indistinguishable from the Aruntas and
other varieties of Binghi, except for their
Roman noses. When I last visited them
they were complaining about the lack of
war news and the biased comments of
“The Watchman.”
* * * *
“Old Opencut”: Tell “C.Q.” (B.
6/12/’39) not to worry about his Cam-
berwell (Vic.) councillor’s idea of Hitler’s
secret weapon. I’ll guarantee to stop
every car approaching within 12ft. of
the Bulletin office any day of the week.
Run them into an intense magnetic field
and you depolarise the magnets of the
magnetos of those so fitted and reverse
the current flow in the ignition system
of cars fitted with coils. But you can’t
win wars that way. Tanks and other
heavy vehicles are powered with Diesel
engines, started with compressed-air
motors. They haven’t any electrical
gadgets in their makeup likely to be
affected by magnetic lines of force, high-
frequency waves or any form of con-
centrated essence of lightning.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Technicolor, which came
in with a bang a few years ago, announc-
ing that it would completely replace
black-and-white photography, appears to
“Sorry, your majesty—We don't take foreign currency."
be gently fading out, and it would be a
good thing if it were abolished altogether.
Despite asseverations to the contrary, it
is not more but less like Nature than
the monochrome, and necessarily so. It
can’t give the effect of Nature because
the range of tones is not great enough ;
but it pretends to give more, and it is
this pretence which unconsciously irri-
tates an audience. There
is not this pretence in
the black-and-white film,
and if the talkie people
studied the public in-
stead of their own propa-
ganda they would find
that the public prefer it.
The artist can give more
of Nature in color than
in black-and-white, be-
cause he is conscious of
the limitations of his
medium and makes a
compromise. He knows
that his whitest white is
immensely less white
than the brightest light
in Nature, and he plays
his variations accord-
ingly. But the camera
can’t select; it can only
try to give everything,
and in the process fails
dismally.
* *
“Bumpkin”: The Rus-
sian invasion of Finland,
if successful, will prob-
ably give the coup de
grace to the windjammer
trade with Australia.
Twelve of the 14 remain-
ing members of the dying
species hail from the
shipyards of G. Eriksson,
of the Aaland Islands, and the Aaland
Islands are much coveted by Stalin. The
last of the season’s grain fleet has arrived
at Falmouth, there is one sailer some-
where in the Indian Ocean and a mine
has sent another, the Olivebank, to the
bottom. That leaves 13. I remember
a pretty picture in my distant youth
when I used to look out of my bedroom
window every morning and see upwards
of 30 sailers anchored off Largs Bay in
South Australia waiting for the slant of
wind which would take them out of St.
Vincent’s Gulf into the ocean. Week
after week they would still be there, and
the one thing I longed for was to see
the magnificent spectacle of their depar-
ture. But one morning I would look out
and the horizon would be empty. The
shift of wind had come ; but I always
missed it.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: It was proposed to
test air-raid sirens in Sydney next
Friday during the busiest shopping
hours the idea being to discover
if they could be heard over the
noise of the crowds but traders rose
and denounced the foolishness. It may
be held at a later date. My bet is that,
when and if it comes off, there’ll be
plenty who will rush round looking for
the fire or ambulance. No matter how
much publicity these things are given,
always there are people upon whom
it is wasted. When Prime Minister
Lyons’s funeral cortege was crossing Pitt-
street an agitated middle-aged lady,
accompanied by a flapper daughter, find-
ing herself caught in the crowd jammed
on the police barriers, plucked my arm
and inquired anxiously, “Has there been
an accident?”
* * * *
“Q.C.”: The cant that Melbourne
dailies print on the subject of enlistment
is apt to sicken individuals who have to
deal with the realities. A case herewith:
A man and wife and 13 children. Two-
roomed house without windows. Two
boys in a reformatory, a girl in a mental
home. The rest of the brood sleep in
two beds adjoining one another like rows
of sardines. Measles swept this com-
munity during the recent epidemic, fol-
lowed later by influenza. Father gets odd
jobs. The expected arrival of a fourteenth
child synchronised with a great recruiting
campaign in the city, hailed as a brilliant
success for their propaganda by the press
of the metropolis. Father enlisted.
* * * *
“F.S.”: In purchasing for £1750 the
head by Van Gogh which figured in the
“Herald” art exhibition, Victorian Nat.
Gallery trustees didn’t necessarily ac-
quire the most representative work by
this god of the moderns. If it were hung
in a show as the work of some local
artist it would get the praise its vigor
demands, but 1 doubt if it would fetch a
fiver of the Felton Bequest’s money.
Same applies to the powerful but clumsy
Gauguin portrait bought by the Sydney
Gallery trustees. It isn’t a typical
Gauguin, and if an Australian student
had done it most Australian authorities
would have told him he showed promise
but needed a lot more lessons.


(jw> CRAVEN A
1190
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies, on September 8:
Gladstone, who presented thirteen
Budgets, had to wait until near the end
of his career to present to the British
Parliament his first £100,000,000 Budget.
I have the unhappy distinction of present-
ing a £100,000,000 Budget for the first
time in the history of the Commonwealth.
But Gladstone never rushed a £100,000,000
Budget through Parliament in 8| hours
at an all-night sitting without discussion
of one item. He would never have tried
or been suffered to do what Menzies did
—or what Spender did for Menzies.
“The U.S.S.R. is no longer a member
of the League.” This was declared at
Geneva last week by votes of the
Assembly and the Council, China,
Greece and Yugoslavia abstaining in the
latter case. Britain and France are now
sending help to Finland. A few remarks
are called for from bishops, deans,
novelists, magazine writers, Feminist
Leaders and other members of League
Unions and Leagues against War and
Fascism who had such a passion of ad-
miration for dear Mr. Litvinov when
Lit. was performing at Geneva ; but they
have all been struck dumb.
The rising public clamor for abolition
is penetrating the smoke screens around
State Premiers. Latest to feel the impact
is Victoria’s Dunstan, who said that it
would be a “sorry day” for Australia
when the people found themselves gov-
erned by one Parliament. We have
heard something like that from Sydney
and Adelaide. Has someone been feed-
ing Dunstan on bird-seed?
The Bremen, Germany’s proudest liner,
is safe in a home port after an adven-
turous voyage from New York. Bolshies
gave her harborage in Murmansk, and
sneaking down from the Arctic she could
have been torpedoed by a British sub-
marine. The commander held his fire
because he had no means of saving the
enemies on board. For this he has been
slated by newspapers that make a god
of Churchill, but most people are of
opinion that it is better that even a
Bremen should escape than that the
Royal Navy should cease to assert the
old chivalry of the sea. In the same
spirit, the Navy was represented at
the burial of the dead from the beaten
Graf Spee. In his “mad-dog” speech
Churchill descended to the Goebbels
level. The Navy has nobler traditions.
Beasley is right—we shall have to do
what we can to reduce the shipping
shortage by building ships in Australia,
even if it means asking the British Gov-
ernment to co-operate. But there is no
cause for concentration of shipbuilding
in One Big Port. At least four States
have neglected and less-exposed harbors
in which ships could be built.
Ross (Kogarah) and Lloyd (Concord),
the bad boys of the Sydney U.A.P., who
got into hot water for supporting an
Independent in the Upper Hunter by-
election (Rose, a C.P. man, got in), have
been whitewashed and may now hold
their heads up again. The U.A.P. Council
was all set to “censure” them, but, after
Premier Mair had had a fatherly talk
with the bad boys, the censure motion
was withdrawn. All very family-like and
futile.
Canberra intends to call the Premiers
together (for the thousandth time) to dis-
cuss wheat-acreage restriction, though the
thing could be enforced under the
National Security Act without bothering
about provincial superfluities whose day
is nearly done. Extent of restriction
“will probably not be decided until just
before planting of crops begins.” So
growers will have to go on working
ground that won’t be seeded, for they
can’t stop while Premiers gas and dawdle
—the wheat won’t wait. What is the
highly-paid Wheat Board for?
“Disabilities” is the burden of every
Westralian Budget speech and every
Westralian appearance before the Grants
Commission. When Thompson, of the
Primary Producers, was asked to become
g.m. of the Australian Wheat Board he
must have murmured the magic word.
Anyway, his salary was fixed at £3OOO
p.a., plus “a disabilities allowance of
£2OOO for the first year.”
Just when the Stunt Press was spread-
ing itself on the subject of the money
Australia is going to make out of the
war —one of its favorite themes since it
"I WANT TO BE HAPPY !" ANY OFFERS?
“It is still possible for me to give to my
active experience and my natural capacity for
the fact that I have this hope of service. ]
is in national service. That is not wholly for
future offers to me a place for service to my
got its war —Menzies, replying to Rose-
vear, M.H.R., mentioned what the last
war cost Australia. Apart from casual-
ties incalculable in pounds, shillings and
pence—sB,l32 were killed and 135,684
wounded —the cost in principal and in-
terest was £878,144,900, and £269,000,000
is still owing. Australia will make no
money out of any war to which Aus-
tralia is a party.
Westralian Labor has made one impost
of its income and emergency-relief taxes.
Declared objects, to remove burdens on
family men with small incomes and. to
“encourage” single men in comfortable
circumstances to marry. “Scientific
taxation” the Government called it.
“On a taxable income of £400,” Cornell,
M.L.C., commented, “the increase in the
case of a single man will be £6 45., and
in the case of a single man on £BOO it
will be £1 12s. ; but a single man on
£9OO will pay 10s. less than he is paying
now.” The old Digger wound up by
suggesting that this was blinding the
country with science.
The Royal Auto Club is co-operating
with the British Government in a car-
sharing plan to save petrol; motorists
who live in the same district travel to
and from work in parties, using one car
in every five. Anybody game to sneak
up on any Australian transport czar and
spring the idea on him?
For five months of 1939-40 the Sydney
Government went £5,697,800 to the bad.
Expenditure rose by nearly half a million
and, though the new taxes are operating,
revenue increase was £160,000 short of
the additional outlay. As evidence that it
is quite hopeless, the Government is now
chewing over plans for guaranteeing the
overdrafts of film-making concerns.
Alderman Crick is to become Lord
Mayor of Sydney by grace of the “Re-
form” party, though a majority of the
aldermen would have preferred the un-
willing Nock. As managing director of
the Fox concern, Alderman Crick made
country that service for which my 30 years’
hard work qualify me. I make no secret of
I am grateful for the suggestions that my place
me to say, but.... I shall be happy if the
fellow-countrymen.”— Ex-Premier Stevens.
pots of money in the Hollywood film
business, and as such may be said to have
contributed to the education of flappers,
thousands of whom walk, talk, dress and
makeup just like their film favorites.
Other qualifications are required of the
chief magistrate of Sydney, who should
be the head of an expanding municipal
government. It is to be hoped Alderman
Crick possesses them.
“S. M. Herald” has made the
melancholy admission that “the war
found Britain with a depleted merchant
navy which had declined dangerously
during the post-war years ; it was actually
smaller by some 2000 ships and 3,500,000
tons than the merchant navy with which
Britain embarked on the war in 1914.”
Presumably this knowledge has been in
Granny’s possession for some time, to-
gether with the knowledge that the British
Army and Air Force and even the Navy
had been neglected by the dreaming
doctrinaires who made the covenant of
the League “the corner-stone of British
foreign policy.” It did not prevent the
Old Girl from howling about the “be-
trayal” of Czechoslovakia and screaming
for intervention in China and Spain.
Like the politicians at Canberra, the
Adelaide Assemblymen sat all night to
get their legislative duties done for the
year, winding up at half-past four in
the morning with a “Thank God that's
settled” air. Sitting three days a week
for five months, they considered 72 bills
in their fashion, and passed 49. One,
adopted at the last moment, was the
constitu ional measure reducing the Par-
liamentary term from five years to three ;
so the session was not all barren.
While the Sydney Government was
thinking better of its plan for sending
German doctors to rural parts, Adelaide
Assembly threw out a bill designed to
relieve the S.A. Medical Board of its
obligation to register aliens with Italian
or Scottish degrees. Local practitioners
asked for the legislation, pointing out
that nine alien doctors had been regis-
tered within 12 months and that six
more were applying, also that the con-
cession of Scottish degrees had been so
overdone that the Home Office had
refused alien possessors of them per-
mission to practise in England. When
the State president of the B.M.A. heard
what the Assembly had done (the Council
passed the bill) he said bitterly that South
Australia, already “an open State for
refugee doctors,” could expect an im-
mediate influx of them from other parts
—“probably to squat on the practices of
the Australians who have enlisted.”
Every rise in the price of petrol—it
went up to 2s. Id. last week—has a pain-
ful interest for N.S.W. taxpayers, as well
as for motorists and the trade. It means
a substantial addition to the loss of
£48,000 blithely estimated for 1939-40
by the Transport Commission, which runs
Government trams and buses, and puts
new buses on the road every week or so
—in a growing number of cases to com-
pete with the insolvent Government rail-
ways.
N.S.W. Transport Commission has two
enthusiasms: (1) buying buses and (2)
scrapping tramlines. A Parliamentary
Public Works Committee, paid special
fees, reported on the tramlines, and the
alleged Parliament authorised their con-
struction and voted the money; but the
alleged Parliament let the Commission
scrap the Manly tramlines and heaven
knows how much equipment without a
word of protest.
A miracle has been consummated at
Sydney Trades Hall, where the Labor
Council hangs out. For the first time
for 21 years, the panegyrists of the
“Workers’ Republic” who herd in that
galley have been frozen into a Great
White Silence which has lasted at least
a fortnight. The Fascist attack on Fin-
land from Leningrad has paralysed the
clacking tongue of the noisest blather-
skite on the premises.
The Reds who collected Australian
money from the credulous (one well-
advertised contributor was a fudge’s
wife) for “victims of the barbarous
Franco” are still sending some of it
abroad. If they had any sense of fair-
ness they would send what is left to
victims of the barbarous Stalin. As it
is, they are justifying Stalin’s war on
the very principle which impelled them
to denounce Franco’s. Next to Stalin,
Kutussin or some such name is now
their hero, though at best he is a Finnish
Franco without even a pale shadow of
the support that Franco had from the
beginning.


SIMPLE “LIFERS.”
“Saturday afternoon hikes for prisoners are included in the new policy of penal administration in Victoria.”


The Kicliardson Chain Hotel
ill!
:
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR AND INDUSTRY
AUSTRALIA’S CHANGING ECONOMY AND THE
EFFECT OF WAR ON FINANCE.
A FULL BUDGET
OF WAR-TIME FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS, BALANCE-
SHEET REVIEWS AND MINING INFORMATION.
December Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2J- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Nobby II.”: Commodore H. H. Har-
wood, who has received the traditional
reward of the victorious R.N. squadron
commander, a K.C.B. and promotion— to
rear-admiral —is a torpedo expert, and
served in the last war in H.M.S. Royal
Sovereign. He was afterwards sent to a
shore job in the Plans Division of the
Admiralty, after which he was torpedo
boss in the Third Battle Squadron and
commanded H.M.S. Cumberland, a sister
ship to the Australia and Canberra, and
H.M.S. London, an improved version.
Since 1936 he has been commodore in
command of the S. American Division
of the West Indies Squadron, of which
Vice-Admiral G. S. Arbuthnot has been
C.-in-C. since just before the outbreak
of the war. Harwood’s flag has flown in
H.M.S. Exeter. His three captains, Parry
(Achilles), Woodhouse (Ajax) and Bell
(Exeter), have been made C.Bs. In the
Achilles’s wardroom were several officers
from the N.Z. station, including Com-
mander D. M. L. Neame, Lt.-Commander
P. T. A. Love and Engineer-Commander
H. W. Head.
Died at sea at 55, Rear-Admiral Wil-
fred Neville Custance, who was on his
way to rejoin the R.N. after two years
in command of the R.A.N. Custance
had been 40 years at sea, and was one
of the world’s leading gunnery experts.
He was a commander during the last
war, was promoted captain in 1926, and
went from the command of the Devon-
port Gunnery School to that of H.M.S.
Rodney, one of the two largest and
latest British battleships, in 1934. He
led the Naval Brigade at the coronation
of George VI. Custance did a great
deal for the technical development of the
R.A.N. and was a keen advocate of the
Australian R.A.N. man. His period of
command will be remembered for its
promotion of Australians to senior com-
mands and for the new expansion of the
R.A.N.
Robert William Chapman, professor
of engineering at Adelaide Uni. since
1907, succeeds knight Langdon Bonython
PROFESSOR R.W. CHAPMAN.
as president of the Council of the S.A.
School of Mines. The professor, English
by birth, came to Australia young and
graduated at Melbourne Uni. He’s
been on the Adelaide Uni. staff for over
50 years. A knighthood came his way
two years ago. His next birthday, two
days after Christmas, will be his 73rd.
He likes a game of bowls.
Bruce Dellit, still in his thirties, is one
of the Commonwealth’s most versatile
and picturesque architects. Before he
was 21 he was chief of the architectural
staff which planned Brisbane’s mil-
lion-pound Town Hall, and soon after-
wards packed his seven and a quarter
sombrero and moved to Sydney to join
BRUCE DELLIT.
Spain and Cosh as a partner. Sydney
has many landmarks of the partnership
—Scottish House, Bridge-street, is one.
Later he launched out for himself, won
the competition for Sydney’s War Memo-
rial and supervised its building, and has
left his brand on several Sydney streets
—Kyle House in Macquarie-place, the
Liberty Theatre and the new N. S. Wales
Bank colossus of an office in O’Connell-
street, nearing completion, are some of his
monuments. Dellit is a vigorous advocate
of Australian art and a close friend of
Norman Lindsay, and every client is
faced with his demand to incorporate the
work of our leading painters in their
foyers and counting-houses, so that it
may be perpetuated in architecture, as
was that of the Old Masters in the
churches of Rome.
Resigned from the headship of Bris-
bane Grammar School, Stuart Stephen-
son, M.A., after fulfilling the school
tradition of a generation of service estab-
lished by R. H. Roe. The school has
had three heads in 62 years. Roe came
out as a young man of 27 from Balliol
in 1877 and served till 1909. F. S. N.
Bousfield came from Lincoln College,
Oxford, in 1888 as second master and
succeeded as head when Roe resigned.
Stephenson, another Oxford honor man,
left the headship of Prince Albert Col-
lege, Auckland (M.L.), to become second
master in 1910 and succeeded Bousfield
10 years ago. G. Carson Cooling, who
takes over as acting-head, is a Queens-
land product entirely—an old boy of the
school, a science graduate of Queensland
Uni. and a former sergeant of the 3rd
Field Ambulance Brigade, A.I.F. He has
been on the staff for 17 years.
Most people would think that a
teacher of music who had only blind
pupils would be at a serious disadvantage
relative to other teachers. But David
Palmer, musical director of the Victorian
Institute for the Blind, has the distinc-
tion of having trained two sightless
bachelors of music, and is now training
a potential third, Arthur .McKay, who
began to learn the feel of the piano key-
board when he was nine, at 17
won an Ormond Entrance exhibition to
the Uni. Con., and last year won a cham-
pionship in the Music Teachers’ Asso-
ciation competitions. Palmer’s two other
outstanding successes are George Find-
lay, familiar to audiences on many Mel-
bourne platforms, and Hugh Jeffrey, who
passed eight musical examinations under
him, three theoretic examinations with
honors under his sightless colleague Find-
(Modelled by Frith.)
lay, and a string of other trophies under
Waldemar Seidel. Both are teachers now.
The “Drys” have lost a champion.
Arthur Toombes was superintendent of
Queensland Temperance League, and had
worked for the cause strenuously
in Australia and M.L. He had served
it also in U.S.A. and was to have rep-
resented Australia at the International
Lodge of Good Templars in Helsinki,
capital of Finland. He died on the job
—at a committee meeting in Brisbane’s
big boozeless Hotel Canberra, which he
helped to establish.
When death took John Monash from
the chair of the Vic. Electricity Commis-
sion in 1931, Francis William Clements
took his place. He followed the lines
laid down by Monash, and standard regu-
lations he established were adopted in his
own State, S.A. and N.S.W. He prepared
an electricity scheme for Canberra. The
Kernot Memorial Medal and the Peter
Nicol Russel Medal were two of his engi-
neering awards. He retired in 1937, and
died last week at 73.
Adelaide is to have two new bishops—
Anglican and Roman Catholic. The latter
appointment, an archbishopric, goes to
Melbourne-born Dr. Matthew Beovich,
who comes of Dalmatian stock. He was
educated in Melbourne and at the Propa-
ganda College at Rome. Aged 43, he’s
one of the youngest archbishops in the
world. Like Dr. Gilroy, Coadjutor-Arch-
bishop of Sydney, he worked for a while
in the post office. A successor to Dr.
Nutter Thomas, Anglican Bishop of
Adelaide, whose resignation takes effect
next year, has not yet been appointed.
Dr. Thomas was born in England, and
his path to a crook and mitre came via
a chaplaincy to the Archbishop of York.
Two Maorilanders have patented a
new system of bridge-building which
has been accepted by the War Office:
Captain A. M. Hamilton (Christchurch)
and G. D. White Parsons (Lyttelton).
After the 'Great War Hamilton was
engineer for a part of the great road that
opened up Irak to the world. He had
under him a queer assortment of nation-
alities and had to contend with seven
languages. His book Road Through
Kurdistan is a classic in its way.
. W. H. Schneider, new head of the
mechanical engineering department of
Adelaide School of Mines, got his fellow-
ship diploma and B.E. at Adelaide Uni.
in 1920. He added a Bachelorship of
Commerce at Tas. Uni., where he lectured
on mechanical engineering. He was boss
of the mechanical engineering department
of Hobart Tech. His more recent re-
searches have been into the application
of producer-gas to motor transport.
Christened in Sydney’s Pitt-street Con-
gregational Church 50 years ago, Rev.
C. Bernard Cockett came back from
London to take charge of it the other
day. His parents were married there.
He was at the Vine Memorial Church
in London when war broke out, and all
but three of the male choir were called
up. Formerly at Hobart (Tas.) Memorial
Church, Rev. Cockett went to a pas-
torate in Bedford (Eng.), and later be-
came a Freeman of London City and a
Fellow of the Philosophical and Royal
Geographical Societies. He says Lon-
doners are waiting to cheer the new
A.I.F. down the Strand.
Joseph Merrett, of Sydney, now
Metropolitan Meat Industry Commis-
sioner, and as such controller of N. S.
Wales State Abattoirs, the biggest killing
unit in the world, is a Melbourne-born
civil servant who became a figure in the
meat business during the 1914-18 war,
when he was accountant to the first Meat
Industry Board and later to the Board
of Control of Meat Supply for Imperial
Uses. He’s 51, and addicted to golf and
tennis.
JOSEPH MERRETT.


“T'his
whet e
cotne
said JoHnnie
IS
1
m
Wcdker
mm
ww»s?fxsgjBSx®^
t m
m
:■■■■
m
mm
-rnmm
k “
“There’s always the warmest of welcomes
for Johnnie Walker at Christmas as at
all other times. This fine whisky, so per-
fectly matured, so skilfully blended, is
famous for its smoothness and distinctive
flavour. Make sure, then, that you have
a bottle of Johnnie Walker in the house
for Christmas, so that you and your friends
can enjoy Scotch whisky at its very best.”
For your convenience the half-bottle and smaller flasks
are made to fit the pocket —both ways.
8ui
JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Born 1820 —still going strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK,
SYDNEY


ABORIGINALITIES
Don't be alarmed, madam. I'm not one of those Russian bears."
“Horace Horseface”: “I might ’ave
been an ’appy-married man now only f
me blasted tongue waggin’ too much,”
remarked Joe Staggers ruefully. “Old
Bob Haytosser ’ad two fine daughters,
Mag an’ Nell. They was that good on
the farm that old Bob used t’ spend
most of ’is time curled up on the veran-
dah readin’. Mag was a good-looker,
but always bustin’ ’er money up on trips
an’ fal-lals ; Nell was no oil-paintin’, but
steady an’ all for sockin’ the money
down south. Yair, I fell in love with
Nell. Bringin’ ’er ’ome from a darnce
one night I popped the question. Talk
about a s’prise packet! ‘I know your
sort, Joe Staggers,’ she snapped. ‘You
just make that ’orse trot an’ give up
thinkin’ about my bank book.’ Cripes, I
did me block. ‘ ’Ow dare you insinuate
I’m one of them lousy coots what goes
crawlin’ about findin’ out what a
woman’s worth before I offers ’em my
’and in marriage! ’ I roars. ‘All the same,’
she ses very tart, ‘you cut no ice with
me. That bandicoot farm of yours ain't
no fit place fer a woman —an’ mind that
creek-crossin’ we’re cornin’ to.’ ‘Bandi-
coot farm it might be,’ I spluttered, ‘but
with a good man’s love an’ that eight
’undred quid you’ve got I’ But that’s
all I remember sayin’. When I found
meself scragged by the neck an’ dumped
in the creek I decided that the bloke who
said wimmin was an eternal mystery
knew what ’e was talkin’ about.”
aft * * *
“Paton”: “The meanest bloke I ever
worked for,” said Joe, “was old Bill
Blake, a wheat cocky up in northern
Victoria. We were busy harvestin’ one
blazin’ hot day, with him standin’ near
the fence watchin’ every blarsted move
we made. Propped up in the shade of a
small tree near by were a couple of quart
bottles, one filled with cold tea and the
other with heavy oil. Feelin’ thirsty, the
trump made a grab for the bottle of tea,
without takin’ his eyes off us. He grabbed
the wrong one and got a mouthful of
oil. Did he spit it out in disgust? Not
him—he waited till the tractor came
around again, and when it stopped he
went over and squirted the oil into its
innards.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: In the good old days
when most country pubs put on free
Christmas dinner and a ration of beer
for all hands, Hungry Wilson was mak-
ing for Forbes (N.S.W.), which had 11
pubs, but somehow got his dates and
miles mixed, and he arrived in Eugowra
on Boxing Day. Both pubs were eaten
out, and the beer ration had vanished.
Famishing and nigh dead of thirst,
Hungry sat on the bank of Mandadgerie
Creek and thought hard, waited till some-
body crossed the bridge, then slipped
quietly into the water and floated down-
stream. Fished out, he provided the
locals with a harrowing story, but over-
did it, and finished up on the woodheap
in the lock-up yard. Moodily poking the
wood about, he uncovered a brown snake
and clouted it with the axe. Over the
fence played happily the trooper’s bonnic-
children, and over that fence sailed the
battered snake and Hungry. When the
trooper’s missus arrived she saw the
snake, the frightened kids and Hungry
standing by with his little hatchet. The
rest was easy, and, as Hungry lay under
the stars that night, replete with good
things and beer, and jingled the grateful
woman’s silver (or what was left of it),
he reflected that woodheaps had their
uses after all.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Next time “Bushy Park”
(B. 6/12/’39) catches a cat in a trap he
should get a long pole with a fork on the
end, place the fork over the cat’s neck
and hold it down while he frees it from
the trap. Then he retreats to the end of
the pole and lets the victim up. No
scratches, just a swearing cat vanishing
into the scrub.
* * * *
“Bungham”: A lot of sentimental guff
is written abjout the joyous carolling of
the birds. The widely-held view that
they greet the dawn with a burst of song
is only partly true. At that hour much
of their vocal efforts are confined to
squawking and bickering. With a few
notable exceptions our feathered friends
are a melancholy tribe. The magpie,
superb songster though he be, is rarely
heard in full spate. The musical notes of
the grey thrush are overshadowed by
the querulous calls ; the spinebill and tree-
creeper are chronic squealers. None of
the birds of the wild are capable of the
full-throated joyousness of the caged
canary, excepting perhaps the warbler
known as the flyeater. Even the kooka-
burra’s visage seems more solemn after
a burst of cachinnation.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Arid tracts are generally
regarded as poor hunting fields, but the
north-western corner of N.S.W. and along
the south-western Queensland border was
always good country for the blacks.
Civilisation had more drastic effects on
the tribes than droughts. They flourished
there long before the rabbit provided
easily-got tucker, and a remarkable thing
was the number of extra-fat fellows in
that hard, dry corner. I saw more heavy-
weights there before the remnant was
herded on the reserve near Pooncarie
than I ever met in coastal towns. The
present champion is a Wanaaring lubra,
who was taken some time ago to Bourke
hospital, 118 miles away. This dusky
lady, who is blind and has one leg
paralysed, weighs 30 stone.
* * * *
“E.C.G.”: Just after the beginning
of copious rains on Norley station,
Thargomindah (Q.), I was camped on a
small waterhole in the bed of a big
creek. Preparing for bed, I noticed a
crab crawl through my tent and make
for higher ground, despite the fact that
my tent was already pitched beyond pre-
vious flood marks. He hid under a sheet
of iron which was lying further out.
Having in mind a Bulletin par. I had
read some time previously, anent the
instinct which warns crustaceans to make
for higher ground in advance of flood-
waters, I looked in the direction of a
storm raging up the creek and decided
it was not bad enough to warrant my
shifting. Then l turned in. About three
hours later I was awakened by roaring
floodwaters that had already begun to
run through the tent. I saved my per-
sonal belongings, but only just. Later
I noticed that high-water mark had come
within a foot of the crab.
* * * •
“Nor’-west”: Cow-juice isn’t the only
comestible that sells short up Wyndham
way. It’s hopeless to take a passion for
salads up there. Our cobber Jones was a
vegetarian and never ceased to lament the
ill-fortune that had landed him in a
veritable citadel of meat. Rich red beef,
of the choicest cuts, made him shudder.
Beef extract, to be had by the pint, might
have been so much cyanide. His yearn
was for a lettuce, a tomato, a few spring
onions or a cucumber. Then a drover
bloke blew in with a yarn of cucumbers
up the Forrest River, “growing wild in
the bush all around the Mission Station.”
Next Sunday not only Jones but the rest
of us were off. And we took along the
vinegar. Twenty miles up the Gulf and
another eight miles up the river. The
dream seemed true ; seen from the launch
the bush was literally strung with vines,
cucumbers hanging everywhere, the big-
gest we had ever seen, though some did
seem to be curiously light, dry-looking
and waving in the wind. Leaping ashore,
Jones picked a lovely green specimen and
bit deep. Next minute he was spluttering
“Nothing but fibre; no juice at all!” Then
somebody tried a dry one. The rind
crumbled like parched paper, seeds fell
out —and he was holding a loofah sponge,
one of those long fibre-growths so useful
in the bathroom. Escaped from the
Mission garden, the loofah-vines were
overrunning the jungle; in sight were
enough sponges to have furnished half
the bathrooms in Australia.
* * * *
“Potential”: Tell “The 0.D.” (B.
6/12/’39) that drivers can still sit in
their steel-bodied cars, safe from light-
ning strikes, provided they use closed
models. I suspect it was an open motor-
truck that figured in the Goondiwindi
tragedy. The reason is that an electric
charge cannot penetrate a hollow con-
ductor but stays oh the surface till it can
discharge itself. In America open oil
tanks are protected by a screen of metal
rods fairly wide apart. The scheme, of
course, would be too expensive for the
protection of buildings where lightning
conductors, though not perfect, are in
general use. Wet or dusty rubber is not
an insulator, as is shown by the seep-
age of static charge, generated by fric-
tion between tyre and road, into the metal
parts of a car. This charge, unless
eliminated by water-jet or metal strap in
the roadway, is apt to cause a greater
shock to toll-collectors when they touch
a driver’s hand than the later discovery
that the coin collected is a brum.
* H= * * J
“Chook”: The oddest home-made in-
cubator ever I saw was on a station out-
side Longreach (C.Q.) that was run by
bachelors. They didn’t know much about
fowls, but they had whips of ingenuity.
Decided to set a batch of eggs ; and there
wasn’t a hen on the place that was will-
ing to oblige. A nest was made in a
tin washing-basin ; the eggs were placed
on the straw, and an old rooster was
deputed to do the job. Two holes were
punched in the bottom of the tin, one
on each side of the eggs. The rooster
had a leg put through each hole, hobbled
underneath, and was fed and watered
with great care. In fact, the old boy
enjoyed it. Admittedly, after bringing
out two clutches he was a bit groggy on
his pins, but pride in his achievements
compensated for temporary incon-
venience.
* * * *
“K.W.C.”: Some “green” lumpers at
the wheat-dump were complaining about
the bags getting heavy. “Strike me ’and-
some,” said Purdy, “you blokes don’t
know what heavy wheat is. I was over
at Bellatta a few weeks back when some
of the cockies ran outer bags, so they
used woolpacks. Cripes, and that
wouldn’t’ve been so bad either, only the
cows pressed ’em!”
* * *
“Kooragai”: A bird that takes toll of
wild ducks when shooters harry them
from swamp to swamp is the little falcon
(Falco lunulatus). Usually ducks keep
on the water during the day to avoid
hawks, taking wing to other feeding
grounds about dusk. The little falcon,
which is also known as duck hawk, is
the speedster of the hawk tribe, and a
special terror of the ducks, which it strikes
and kills in the air. The victim sud-
denly drops limp, leaving a few feathers
floating where its flight ended. Then the
falcon, turning sharply, swoops with
lightning speed and catches it. The
vicious raider is fairly common, and at
some bush homesteads is a menace to
young chickens. Instead of being scared
off, the sound of guns on a swamp
attracts it.
* * # *
“Riverina”: The cutter was at work on
Benson’s place. A sheet of iron had been
lifted from the chaff-house roof and two
nomads, hired for the day, stood on a
platform and tipped the loose chaff
through the opening. They were critically
watched by Grandad Benson, too old
for work but in his day one of the rip-
and-tear school and now contemptuous
of all modern toilers. To him the steady
activities of the tippers seemed a demon-
stration of slow-motion. At last he could
stand the strain no longer. Hobbling up
to the platform, he issued a warning:
“Be careful yer don’t fall, lads!” “That’s
all right, old man,” one of the pair
assured him patronisingly. “This plat-
form is safe. We won’t fall off.” “It
wasn’t falling off I meant,” said the old
nark witheringly. “It was falling asleepV ’
* * * *
“Weka”: “E. O’D.’s” tale of wedded
bliss in Papua (B. 6/12/’39) reminds me
of Hemi’s episode with Toroti, his
wahine, during the kumera-planting
season. I met Hemi on the way to town
and asked how Toroti was. “She orright,”
said Hemi. “I ko to town and she stay
home and prant te kumera.” I remarked
in surprise that I had already met Toroti
with two lady friends, Mere and Rua, on
the way to the station. “Tat like Toroti, ’
Hemi complained. “Werra, I catch her
in town and kick her all round te prace.
I ko in te pub and she ko past when I
not see her.” Three days later I met
Toroti in the village, and casually men-
tioned her visit to town. “Oh, I had te
kood time,” Toroti assured me. “Hemi
he come and say I ko home, but Rua
knock him down, and Mere take his
money when I hold him, and we puy te
new hats. Hemi te pig fool.” “And
where’s Hemi now?” I asked. “He in
town,” said Toroti brightly. “He got no
money come home, so he stay. Next
week I ko to town and pring him home
to prant te kumera.”
THE WIND, OLD DROVER.
Peg out your tent, old drover,
In the sky paths, and be glad:
Dusk’s peaceful boughs lean over
Your lonely pad.
It has been weary droving
Over the blue all day
While the grey mob was moving
Slowly away.
The tawny sun is setting,
Dew decks the fern’s dark fan:
Now is the time for getting
New dreams, old man.
The frogmouth will not wake you,
That darkling seeks his prey;
Slumber will not forsake you
When plovers play.
Water your horse, old drover,
At the deep wells of night:
Your airy-maned old lover
Will browse in sight.
The stars in silence rally
To guard your wandering flock;
The kind moon carves the tally
In gold on rock.
Peg out your tent, old drover,
Lay weary head on arm:
Nor you nor flock will ever
Come to harm.
N.S.W.
TOM ROSE.


“Wang”: One evening the city girl
who was holidaying at the farm came
stamping into the living-room with a
flushed face and angrily glinting eyes,
and without a word to those assembled
there walked through to her own room,
slamming the door loudly behind her. A
few minutes later Dave made his appear-
ance, looking rather downcast. “Hullo! ”
said Dad to him. “Had a row with her
ladyship?” “No, we ain’t had no row,”
replied Dave shortly. “What’s upset her
then?” persisted Dad. “She looked as
mad as a snake.” “I dunno,” Dave
answered. “Can’t make it out no-
how. I follered out instructions all
right.” “What instructions?” queried
Dad. “Well,” said Dave, “I bought a
book a week or two ago, one of them
’bout eterkit, an’ knowin’ the right thing
to do an’ say an’ that sorta thing. There’s
a chapter on love-makin’ in it, too, an’
it ses ’bout praisin’ a woman up, as all
women like flatt’ry, an’ it gives a few
samples. So I tries it on t’night. I tell
her that her skin is soft an’ brown, an
her eyes is bright an’ shiny like Straw-
“Lishen, boy—I shtill think I'm the sheaman."
berry’s new calf’s is, half a dozen times,
an’ all of a sudden she gets up from the
log we wus sittin’ on an’ stumps inside.
An’ she coulder seen what I wus sayin
wus true, too ; I had me arm round the
calf’s neck all the time! ”
# * * *
“I Know”: The stillness of a summer
evening was broken by the fierce cawing
of two crows which were attacking a
kite. Suddenly one of the crows came
out of a swoop to collide head-on with
the kite. They both fell like stones.
Riding over to investigate, I found both
dead; the crow’s beak had penetrated
the kite’s breast, and in turn the kite’s
“Jilt me, would you? Then gimme back me ring!”
claws had closed in a death-clutch on
the crow’s tail, imprisoning its beak.
Kelly’s neck was broken. I still wonder
whether it was accidental or whether the
crow shares with the British Navy the
preference for ramming the enemy on
sight.
* * * *
“Atrax”: What species of bird builds
the biggest nests? There is—unless some
visiting vandal has destroyed it—one
built by white-breasted sea eagles on an
islet north-eastward of Cape Flattery
(N.Q.) which was, ten years ago, when
I last saw it 12ft. high from ground
level, with a base girth of over 30ft. It
was described in 1849 by a naval officer
and must be well over a century old.
The wedgetailed eagle often, but not
always, goes in for large-scale nursery-
building, and after a nest has been added
to in successive years it would make a
fair load for a lorry. But my vote is
for the scrub-fowl, that shy grey-and-
brown megapode which lives in dense
rain-jungle country from Lombok in the
Dutch Indies down almost to Rockhamp-
ton. One N.Q. example measured over
100 ft. and 15ft. high, with a cubic capa-
city of over 8000 ft. Even larger ones
have been reliably reported. They are,
of course, a communal effort by a
number of birds working possibly for
many generations.
* * * *
“Opal Lynn”: The chap who was
giving us a hand to build the haystack
was talking about the boss he worked
for last year. “Bad-tempered he was,”
said Bob. “Me and him has some words,
and he comes for me. I didn’t want
to fight and I didn’t want to run, and,
having heard a lot over the wireless
about that there appeasement policy that
was so popular then, I thought I’d try
it, so 1 lays down on the ground. And,
would you believe it, that cow lay down
along side o’ me and starts beltin’ into
me! ”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: During a recent heat-
wave Brisbane was invaded from the
skies by millions of Teutons, but didn t
even trouble to sound one of the new
air-raid sirens. Its only response was:
“Cripes, look at the butterflies!” Those
Teutons were the travelling butterfly,
Ahaphaeis java teutonia, whose larvse
feed on the wild caper plant of the
western plains. When the white adult
forms emerge they spread their black-
bordered, gold-marked wings and sail off
with the winds on a wilder caper still.
It is a marriage-flight, which may take
them across hundreds of miles of coun-
try like a mile-wide snowcloud. Often
they land on the decks of ships far off
the eastern coast; oftener still great
drifts of their dead pile up along the
beaches. It looks like attempted race
suicide on the grand scale, as the species
cannot survive without the caper plant
for food, but enough adults must remain
in the home country to keep the birth-
rate up to standard.
* * * *
“E.M.8.”: Water isn’t anathema to all
the feline tribe. I know two fummies
which take to it not only fearlessly but
with considerable enjoyment. One goes
for the ducks on a lagoon, which is a
sanctuary near our N.Q. station. Scorn-
ing the niceties of the law, it stalks
them .successfully via the dog-paddle—
mostly young ducks. The other cat my
brother released from a partly submerged
fishtrap which it had been raiding and
in which it had itself been caught. Im-
mediately it struck out for the farther
bank. It was an old hand at the game.
The lure of fish must be strong to over-
come what seems to be an age-old anti-
pathy.
* * * *
“Ak Shorr”: An energetic hunter
among freshly cleared scrubland, the
large black digger-wasp, possesses nous
worthy of a much larger body. Observed
one lugging a spider up the bank of a
small swift stream. It was apparent that
he wished to cross over, but at each
attempt lost his foothold. Coming to a
spot where the stream broadened over a
narrow but firm granite bottom, he
dropped his burden and waded in to
test the going. Good! He returned,
picked up his dinner and set off. With
a fine disregard of depth, he walked
right across on the bottom with an inch
or two of water swirling over him, to
emerge as sprightly as ever on the oppo-
site bank.
“Riverina”: A “gun” fencer who
scorned orthodox hours of toil was Jack-
the-Diver, who operated around the
Western Riverina (N.S.W.) some years
ago. A prolific reader, Jack favored the
heavy type of literature, and, because of
the freedom it gave him to work any
hours he liked, he specialised in contract
work. With his nose buried into a
weighty tome he might read right through
the night, then snore off all next day.
Most of his work was done by moon-
light.
* * * *
“How E.”: Working on an ironstone
hill two miles from water, I always leave
my waterbag in the same place. The
ants have noticed this, and each time I
have a drink I find the bag covered with
biters. At first I thought they may have
been just cooling off, but investigation
revealed that they come and go, no one
ant staying for more than the bare time
necessary to quench its thirst. Now,
what I want to know is this: How did
those ants fare before I came along, or,
alternatively, if they can live without
water, why the rush on my supply? My
private theory is that water to the ant
is like beer to the average bloke: f.e.,
that it can exist indefinitely without it,
but finds it essential to a reasonable en-
joyment of life. Any others?
* * * *
“Murlonga”: T’other day I saw some
abos. at dinner. They passed plates,
begged pardons, “might-I-trouble-you d”
and observed other amenities of the fes-
tive board with ease and grace. When I
was a youngster they handled things in
a different manner. Then the old boys
took first cut at all things eatable. After
them the fathers and those graduating to
senatorial rank took a chew. After
them—the deluge! All bucks, down to
the fellow just able to help himself, and
no females or dogs were allowed to take
a pick. As the men finished they slung
half-picked bones and other oddments
over their shoulders to the ring outside
them, which consisted of a collection of
dogs and all females of the tribe. It may
not have been gallant, but it was rather
amusing to see a pot-bellied youngster of
about 10 or 12, just imagining he was a
man, half-fearfully toss over his shoulder
a ’roo bone which was only half-eaten.
He knew his rights as a male to eat first;
at the same time he knew his female rela-
tives would put him in his place if he
picked that bone too clean before hand-
ing it on to them. Now, s’elp me good-
ness, the ladies were served first, with
nary a dog in sight, and bucks who would
in olden days have taken first and largest
choice stood back politely and pretended
to like the altered order of things.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: The blazed-tree line is
sometimes a delusion. An old bloke was
brought to Colinton (Q.) one day in a
knocked-out condition. He had been
directed to follow a blazed-tree line, and
to ignore all wheeltracks he saw as they
were made by timber-getters. He fol-
lowed the line for three miles, then lost
it, and in beating about trying to pick
it up again he lost himself. When he
was found next day by a stockman he
complained that the timber-getters had
cut the track down and taken it to the
sawmill. “How did they do that?” he
was asked. “Why,” he explained, “they
took the blazed trees an’ left the flamin’
track with no blazes at all.”
NIGHT RAID.
Into the camp there came one day
A time-worn Digger, old and grey.
He’d known the Sinai and the sand.
The mud of France, the giddy Strand;
Admiring troops prepared to hear
Some stirring tales of yesteryear :
The Lone Pine charge, the Fleurbaix stunt,
St Quentin, Flers, the old Somme front.
It fired their youthful dreams of glory
To hear a dinkum Anzac’s story.
“You betcha lives I saw some fights—
I orter got the Cross, be rights,
F’r what I did one night in France
When our ol’ captain takes a chance
An’ sends me out t’ do a scout
Around a strongly-held redoubt.
I’m sneakin’ through the muddy dark
When emma gees begin t’ bark!
By cripes, y’ don’t feel very merry
T’ be a sittin’ shot f’r Jerry!
“Then both sides started slingin’ shells
An’ there I’m caught between two hells;
But still I keeps me courage bold
By recollectin’ what I’m told.
The captain says t’ me, ‘Now, Dan,
You bring ’im back alive, my man;
I had a prisoner t’ get
An’ so I waits there in the wet
With H.E., gas and shrapnel shellin’,
An’ nervous Fritzes round me yellin’.
“The gunners stop their little game,
An’ by a star-shell’s sudden flame
I spots what I’d set out t’ find
An’ jumps upon ’im from behind!
He squeals an’ fights like twenty cats,
He bites me ear an’ kicks me slats;
The cow is big, an’ greasy, too,
An’ lively as a kangaroo;
He screams like ’ltler tacklin’ Jewry —
The front erupts in cracklin’ fury!
“Well, just as I am feelin’ done
There comes towards me, on the run,
A bunch of Aussies. In that din
They drags me an’ the captive in.
The captain’s there an’ shakes me dook
An’ sends a runner for the cook.
The whole mob shouts, ‘Good on y’, Dan!’
The captain says, ‘My thanks, ol’ man,
Of all brave deeds this feat’s the winner;
We'll have him for tomorrow’s dinner!’”
A young “loot,” listening to this tale,
About his gills turns sickly pale—
“ Good heavens, man, you mean to say
You ate your prisoner that way?”
“Too right.” the ancient Digger said;
“Y’ know, the boys weren’t overfed,
An’ ’twasn’t ev’ry day they got
A hunk o’ pork, served pipin’ hot.
You bet y’ life they thought it grand,
That porker nabbed from no-man’s-land! ”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED
183 4
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
Ha
MSB
JtjjijjjU
PM
V,;
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
£4,739,012 10 0
£4,300,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND
(Used wholly in the business)
£4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE CAPITAL
DIRECTORS:
Edward Ritchie Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips,
Robert John Allwright Massie; Geoffrey Forrest Hughes;
Col. Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES: THROUGHOUT
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
QUEENSLAND AND AT CANBERRA, A.C.T.
LONDON BANKERS: THE BANK OF ENGLAND,
WESTMINSTER BANK, LTD., BARCLAY’S BANK, LTD.,
NATIONAL PROVINCIAL BANK, LTD.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance
Industrial
, —Ordinary Dept.
Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 200,012 42,909 98,385 512 277,380
1930.. 195,250 33,922 77,966 6,714 365,456
1931.. 167,941 43,469 59,619 2,766 433,075
Written off, £5894 427,181
1932.. 143,238 50,791 63,839 2,367 458,156
Written off, £4834 453,322
1933.. 147,281 47,371 66,436 1,338 488,134
Written off, £6371 481,763
1934.. 157,314 56,331 62,018 900 521,628
Written off, £7322 .. .. .. 514,300
1935.. 151,952 46,265 60,104 1,230 561,119
Written off, £4974 .. .. .. 556,145
1936.. 157.771 45,755 65,486 4,706 607,381
Written off, £4779 -. 602,602
1937.. 152,314 58,018 56,527 628 640,999
Written off. £4207 636,792
1938.. 150,993 64,995 40,586 3,516 685,720
Written off. £3221 682,499
1939.. 145,171 64,727 36,403 3.202 729,742
Written off, £2717 725,025
* Net funds apart from capital and contingencies
provision (£4161).
Considering the help it received, and
continues to get, from well-established
farmers’ co-operative organisations
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, this 19-year-old might reason-
ably be expected to be a long way further
along the road than it is. Part of the
trouble lay in the Industrial branch,
where the growth of liabilities under poli-
cies outstripped the growth in funds. So
the writing of new Industrial business
was discontinued from the beginning of
1938, with benefit to both policy-holders
and shareholders.
The other part of the trouble lay on
the doorstep of those in control. A
couple of years ago there was an
internecine fight on the board, and some
of the directors feared it would ultimately
result in dissipation of the remaining
rights of policy-holders. The McArthur
group (about whose activities a royal
commission said scathing things in 1934),
operating through a small concern known
as National Stock Exchange, Ltd., was
endeavoring to obtain control of the co.
Control, of course, meant control of the
assets, which at that time belonged en-
tirely to policy-holders, the paid-up
share capital and more besides being un-
represented by tangibles in the books.
So, at the request of the board and of
the Premiers of S. Aus. and Vic., the
N. S. Wales Government stepped in and
placed the co. under the care of the
Public Trustee. There has since been a
complete overhaul of the organisation,
which is now definitely heading in the
right direction, though it has a long way
to travel yet before substantial bonuses
to policy-holders and divs. to share-
holders can be looked for.
When the actuary made an interim
valuation of liabilities under policies at
the end of August last, he figured that
for the two years to that date the excess
of incomings over outgoings exceeded the
growth in liabilities under policies by
£81,469, an average of £40,734 p.a. The
£81,469 was used to strengthen reserves
and the basis of actuarial valuation by
£41,206, to reduce goodwill (now £4000)
by £lO,OOO, lower the advance for estab-
lishment charges to the Industrial section
(now £14,780) by £2OO and £13,471 was
handed to policy-holders in the form of
a reversionary bonus of £1 p.c. for 1939.
The other £16,572 was carried forward.
The main establishment account remained
unaltered at £102,981.
The full actuarial report, including a
classification of policies and the amount
allowed for exes., was not sent out with
the balance sheet, and it should have
been. Under existing conditions, life
assurance in Australia is controlled by
half a dozen widely varying State laws,
none of which gives the policy-holder the
protection he deserves. A uniform law
for the whole Commonwealth is an obvi-
ous and urgent need.
The co.’s position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it is as follows:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Government securities. . £149,600 £129,970 £114,760
Mortgages . . . . 182,591 228,639 298.421
Loans on policies . . 88,751 79,643 70,336
Book debts, cash, etc. 72.260 46,408 43,960
Equipment . . . . 13,024 11,818 10,072
Freehold . . . . 252,363 329,121 323,748
Total tangible assets .. £758.589 £825,599 £861,297
Liabilities* .. .. 5,947 26,982 18,997
Net tangibles .. . . £752,642 £798.617 £842.300
Assurance funds . . 768,773 814.481 832,215
Paid capital . . . . 108,475 108,475 108,475
* Apart from premiums paid in advance.
Mortgages (up £69,782 last term) are the
centre of the board’s investment policy
at the moment. The year’s improvement
in the net tangible position was £43,683.
When the books closed net tangibles ex-
ceeded the assurance funds by £10,085,
whereas the assurance funds exceeded net
tangibles by £15,864 at the previous
balance. But the £10,085 was all there
was in the way of tangible representation
for the £108,475 of capital put up by
shareholders. Freeholds are reported in
first-class order and to be returning a
satisfactory rate of interest, and two Bris-
bane properties are claimed to be worth
more than their book value.
The co. scores heaviest from interest.
It assumes that its funds will earn 4 p.c.
Last term the net effective rate on the
assurance funds in the Ordinary branch
was 5.22 p.c. as against 4.73 p.c. for the
preceding 12 months.
In the Ordinary branch £324,169 (down
£16,829) of new business was put on the
books. There was little change in the
average per policy (£324), and the average
premium p.c. (£2 11s. 9d.) was only
Is. 3d. p.c. lighter. Exes., less taxes, etc.,
took 32.9 p.c. on the year’s net premiums
as against 33.8, 41.9 and 47.5 p.c. for
the three preceding years —heartening
movements, which need to continue. The
excess of incomings over outgoings was
£44,041, compared with £45,412 in 1938.
In .the Industrial section the expense
rate dropped from 63.2 p.c. in 1937 to
26.8 p.c. last term, owing to the halt in
writing new business.
The prospects of the business look
more promising than at any time in the
co.’s history, and regular and slowly-
increasing bonuses to policy-holders are
a distinct possibility. The best way
policy-holders can assist is to continue
paying their premiums.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 6i p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£■ £, £,£,£,
1929. .265,837 8125 28 p.c.=154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 26,647
1930. .223,578 8125 22 p.c.-156,367 59,086 85,733
1931. .147.934 8125 9 „ „ 98,316 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 .. .. 75,226
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 ~,,110,000 63,993 212,199
1934. .186,748 8125 10 „ ~110,000 68,623 280.822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935..209.707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 (-
Written off, £41,031.. d4,7b0
Reserves.
1936. .226 529 8125 12 p c.=132,000 j 45 291 10)625
Written off, £41,113.. .. ) ’
1937. .259 659 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 ) 7 g 001 ; g 8 62a
Written off. £41,533. . . . \
1938. .295.770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 ) 17s ,„ q
Written off, £43,682.. .. j 89,963 178,489
1939. .280 984 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 I n 804 250>293
Written off, £47,005 . ’
This is the largest and one of the most
prosperous newspaper organisations in
the Commonwealth. Since the recon-
struction in 1924, when the ords. were
handed a three-for-two gift-scrip issue,
divs. have averaged 15.3 p.c., with wide
margins. Also, £690,594 (£275,000 of it
was bonus scrip) has been added to paid
capital, raising the figure to £1,225,000
in 125,000 6\ p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,100,000 ords.
Including its shareholdings, the co.’s
interests embrace a string of daily and
other publications, etc., in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane ; it is also in the
broadcasting business, and, together with
other newspaper cos., is putting up mills
for the manufacture of newsprint at
Boyer, on the Derwent (Tas.). All ex-
cept the paper mills, now in course of
erection, are healthy contributors to the
pool. Last term “Table Talk” dropped
out of the list of the co.’s own publica-
tions, reducing the number to 10, of
which the most important are the
“Herald” (it has long been the backbone
of the business, and has outlived one
competitor after another in the Mel-
bourne evening field) and the “Sun,” a
morning paper with a circulation of over
250,000. Outside interests include con-
trol of Advertiser Newspapers, Ltd., and
News, Ltd., both in Adelaide, and a sub-
stantial interest in Queensland Newspaper
Pty., Ltd., which amalgamated the
“Courier” and “Mail” cos. in Brisbane.
The broadcasting stations in the network
are 3DB Melbourne, 2LK Lubeck in
western Victoria, and SAD Adelaide.
The return from general investments was
£38,408 (up £4424), or 7.9 p.c. on the
figure at which they appear in the books.
After setting aside £52,723 for
taxation and an additional £3373
for depreciation (£47,055), net earn-
ings from all sources were £18,159
lighter at £233,929, which was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 20.5 p.c. on
ord. capital. But in 1927 the board ad-
mitted that visible allowances were “in
excess of normal provision for deprecia-
tion.” Including the £47,054 therefore,
the £280,984 (down £14,786) of profit
shown in the introductory table was
24.8 p.c. on ord. capital after allowing
for the pref. div., as against 26.1, 22.8,
19.8, 18.1, 16.2 and 15.8 p.c. back to
1933. The distribution, which was lifted
from 12 p.c. to 14 p.c. in 1938, was


A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
CARE in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
Many a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
when the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest. T . ... T ,
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. 1
may be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company’s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of \ our Executor and Trus e
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
r DIRECTORS: . „ „ T ,
T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair M.L.C. ; E. R, Knox;
K. de L. Cudmore; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. *• Cureton, Manager.
Executor and! Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Airencv Funds under administration exceed £56,000,000.
38-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
/ \
UCA
BRITISH W MADE.
THERE IS A
LUCAS
BATTERY
n
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
W
■ m|i *»
*Ar>
JO
9.M
LUCAS Quality Batteries
are Warranted for 2 Years!
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Bennett & Wood Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company,
15 Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Hannan Bros., Ltd.,
58-62 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
W. T. Burns,
46 Brisbane Street,
HOBART.
Bell’s Auto Eleetrieal Service,
166 Brisbane Street,
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd.,
156 Lonsdale Street
MELBOURNE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Adelaide and Wharf Streets,
BRISBANE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.
15 East Street,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Sturt Street,
TOWNSVILLE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
6 Alp in Street,
LAUNCESTON.
Joseph JLueas
CAIRNS.
(Aust.) Tty., Ltd., 627-639 Wellington Street, PERTH.
maintained at the higher rate, of which
2 p.c. is labelled bonus.
The already strong financial position
was further strengthened:
1936. 1938. 1939.
Stock.. £104,679 £150,729 £295,455 £327,890
l e < te!°. r !’ 89,116 214,911 229,273 232,859
Sh ?>' esi " 337 840 340,944 486,627
c 2 oS.’m 39,556 56,487 50,488
T . ~ T7(T~982 £743 036 £922,159 £1,097,870
fciEla/SS 126,812 m 0,190
Surplus.. £660,625 £604,540 £795,347 £907,0<4
J ete! h ?! dS ’ 331,711 421,364 460,226 462,455
ffigS 445,513 320,721 291,829 262,818
s£eta £1,437,849 £1,346,625 £1,547,402 £1,632,947
Movements last term which catch the
are a growth of £145,683 in shares in
other cos., mainly on account of the paper-
manufacturing business, and an increase
of £32,441 in the book value of stock,
chiefly paper, the cost of which is likely
to increase further. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£907,674) was £112,327.
As for the current term, war is not
likely to reduce circulation, although at
the outset it did affect advertising revenue
a little. There has, however, been a rise
in the cost both of overseas and local
services, with a steep increase in taxation
and what looks like a permanent and sub-
stantial rise in the cost of newsprint.
The market, which notes the co.’s
strong position, financially and otherwise,
and the comfortable margin between
earnings and distributions, prices the
pound ords. at 58s. (same as a year ago),
at which figure the return is 4.8 p.c. on
a 14 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 265.
yield 5 p.c. Visibly the net tangible
cover is £ll 16s. prefs. and 245. 6d.
ords.
Goliath Portland Cement Co. (Tas.)
Towards
Net f Dividends Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 4,423 Nil Nil 4,423 17,774
8 p.c.
1930.. 15,261 5,292 Nil 9.969 7,805
1931.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 .. .. 32,916
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933.. 28,264 22,894 p.c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. • • 19,402
7 p.c.
1934.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 „ ~ 25,586 9,500 39,372
1936.. 48,204 10,016 12* ~ ~21,321 16,867 56,239
1937.. 69,063 10,016 15 ~ ~25,586 33,461 89,700
Reserves capitalised, £85,263 .. •• 4,437
Reserves disappear, £24 .. .. •• 4,413
1938.. 51.794 10.016 11.8 p.c.=30,381 11,397 15,810
1939.. 66,601 10,016 15 ~ ~ 38,375 18,210 34,020
Only once (in 1937) has the co. shown
a better profit than that. Gross earn-
ings (£112,888 in 1937) were £118,847
(up£21,190) last term. Exes. (£52,503) took
£6382 of last year’s increase, and, includ-
ing an unexplained addition to reserves
of £257, the net result was £14,807 better
at £66,601. That was enough to hand
the prefs. their 7 p.c. (£10,016) and show
an attractive 22.1 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 16.3 p.c. for the previous
term, when the £85,000-odd of capital
written off five years earlier was restored
by a one-for-two gift issue to the ords.
The div., which was lowered from 15
p.c. in 1937 to 11.8 p.c. for the follow-
ing year, was lifted to 15 p.c. again.
The £18,210 of declared profit put on
the shelf lifted the visible lay-by to
£34,020, which looks like a very slender
prop for £398,926 of capital.
But reserves are not always what they
look in a manufacturing concern. Much
depends upon what has been spent on
additions, replacements and renewals and
charged to earnings. By liberal allow-
ances for depreciation a high degree of
plant efficiency and capacity can be de-
veloped in relation to share capital. Last
term £30,000 (same as for the two pre-
ceding terms, and double the allowance
for ’34) was set aside for depreciation ;
it was over 14 p.c. of the book value
of freehold and plant combined at the
end of September last.
With the works alongside good shale,
limestone and clay deposits at Railton
(Tas.), where cheap power is drawn from
the State hydro-electric service, the co.
is a low-cost producer. Besides supply-
ing practically all the cement require-
ments of its home State, it shares
the big market in Victoria with Aus-
tralian Cement, and has even broken into
the N. S. Wales market.
As for the current term, public ex-
penditure upon defence and other public
works augurs well for maintenance of
the physical volume of turnover. But
the demands of the taxgatherer will grow
louder, and there has been a stinging
increase in shipping freights and other
costs. However, the wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions makes
the 15 p.c. div. look as comfortable as
anything of the kind can look in this
class of business, which depends largely
upon the spendings of Government and
semi-Government bodies on public
works.
The already comfortable finances were
further strengthened:
1934. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £295,266 £313,663 £398,926 £398,926
Overdraft • • 2,896
Sundry creditors 8,250 9,346 8,384 9,966
300,390 256,915 236,552 209,913
Stacks’ .. 22,179 23,010 44,348 49,798
Book debts .. 42,833 79,755 72,362
Cash, etc. . . 45 83,830 86,356 134,880
Shares in other
cos 1,900 2,000 17,000 17,000
Outstanding features last year were the
reduction of £26,639 in the book value
of freehold, plant, etc., and a growth of
£48,524 in cash, etc. The relatively small
outside debt increased by £1582. Includ-
ing stocks but pot shares in other cos.,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus was £56,245, making
it £250,927, or sufficient to return the
whole of the pref. capital (£143,092) and
still leave Bs. 4d. per pound of ord.
capital.
At 265. (same as a year ago) the
13s. 4d. f.-p. ords. return 7.7 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 255. 6d.
(28s. a year ago) yield 5.5 p.c. The book
value of the net tangible cover is 60s. 6d.
prefs. and 15s. Id. ords.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten Towards Re-
April, Profit Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 17,641 8 p.c. = 13,250 3683 708 20,548
1930.. 15,145 7 „ „ 11,594 3290 261 20,809
1931.. 10,642 4„ „ 6,625 3023 994 21,803
Loss.
1932.. 549 Nil 3056 18,198
1933.. 6,304 Nil 3002 8.892
Profit.
1934.. 3,060 Nil 2727 333 9,225
1935.. 13,504 4 p.c. = 6,625 3031 3,848 13,073
1936.. 15,613 5 „ „ 8,281 3365 3,967 17,040
1937.. 18,903 6 „ ~ 9,938 3714 5,251 22,291
1938.. 19,704 74 „ „ 12,422 3752 3,530 25,821
1939.. 19,027 74,, ~ 12,422 4048 2,557 28,378
Turnover continued to expand, the
spring in gross earnings (£154,975) being
£6339. But, owing to bigger tax and
wages bills, a slightly larger allowance
for depreciation and the upward trend
of other costs, exes. (£139,996, including
depreciation, shown as written oft in the
table) took all the increase and a clear
£973 besides. The £14,979 that remained
was 9 p.c. on capital as against 9.6,9.4, 7.3,
and 6.3 p.c. for the four preceding terms.
The div. was kept at p.c., the final
being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a. as against
8 p.c. p.a. for the last half of the 1938
term. The £2557 put on the shelf lifted
the lay-by £28,378 in excess of goodwill
(£22,110, not treated as an asset herein).
The market notes the none-too-stout
prop for capital, the steep climb in taxa-
tion and other costs, the fierceness of com-
petition, which means narrow profit
margins, and the varied nature of stock ;
it therefore prices the f.-p. pound shares
at 15s. 4d. as against 19s. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 9.7 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the lOs.-paid contribs. at 7s. (Bs.
a year ago) yield 10.7 p.c. At 15s. 4d.
the fully-paids would return a shade
under 6 p.c. on a 4\ p.c. div. basis. In-
vestors thus appear to have liberally dis-
counted the future. The net tangible
cover per pound of paid capital is
235. 6d., all in freehold and plant.
The co., which is well handled, is
Sydney’s biggest vendor of sporting
goods, tobacco, haircuts, etc., and has
strong connections among suburban re-
tailers and sporting bodies. Shareholders
averaged a wink under 10 p.c., sweetened
with £40,625 of bonus scrip, during the
11 years to the close of accounts in 1922.
For the next nine years the average was
8 p.c. Then, for the three years to the
(Continued on next page.)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.’
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OIL
from Australian
Coal and Shale
There exists today an outstanding oppor-
tunity for highly profitable investment in
the production of PETROL and DIESEL
OIL of high quality, and other products
from Australian coal and shale. The Eng-
lish Scientist and Chemical Engineer, Dr.
J. Stanley Morgan, has perfected a process
and plant which gives high economic
returns for a comparatively small outlay.
MORGAN PLANTS OVERSEAS
Dr. Morgan’s process has definitely passed
the experimental and developmental stage.
Already in England several commercial
plants are (or are being) erected, and one
of these —a 200-ton-per-day coal plant—is
in production.
HIGH RETURNS
Profits shown by Morgan plants are really
remarkable: On bulk tests of N.S.W.
Shale (67 gallons per ton —Gray-King
test) a profit is shown from £4/1/9 to
£6/2/1 per ton according to products to
be marketed. Maitland coal (lower Greta
seam) shows estimated profits from £l/4/7
to £2/15/1 per ton. These profits are
computed allowing for the sale of Petrol at
1/- per gallon and Diesel Oil at 6 d. per
gallon at the plant.
WILL BE MADE AND ERECTED IN
AUSTRALIA IN 6 MONTHS
Within six months of placing the order
a complete Morgan plant comprising
carbonising, condensing and scrubbing
equipment, together with Diesel and Petrol
refining units —could be erected in Aus-
tralia. These Australian-made plants with
a capacity for treatment of 250 tons coal
or 375/450 tons shale per day cost from
£17,000 to £19.000 erected. The profits
quoted above show a very high return on
capital. What other industry can show
such profits on outlay?
Consideration will be given to reserving
territory to those installing early plants.
Enquiries welcomed from those substan-
tially interested.
MORGAN DISTILLATION
PROCESS
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
How to Win
PEACE
OF MIND
Assets with which to do
the things you want to do
THE A.M.P. is the most demo-
cratic of institutions. It belongs
to carpenters, ships’ officers, typistes,
merchants, farmers, housewives,
etc., etc.; men and women of every
trade and profession banded
together for their mutual security,
and so that they may build up the
assets with which to do the things
they want to do.
The small policy of the working
girl is backed by the £120,000,000
of assets just as securely as the large
policies of the wealthy man.
In the last five years the A.M.P.
has paid out £33,772,272 to its
members. Nearly seven millions last
year alone! If you are not enjoying
its protection, do not let a day pass
before joining the Society. If you
are a member, see to it that you
make more use of the Society. It
exists to help you to the limit!
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send you a copy of a new book,
Peace of Mind.” You will find it
cheerful reading. It may help you
to a peace of mind you have never
known. Write to-day.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
. in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL ...
But even with approx* £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . . .
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES, NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Dividend (the
9th) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been
declared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Saturday, the
27th day of January, 1940.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will
close at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the 9th day of
January, 1940, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Thurs-
day, the 11th day of January, 1940, and share-
holders registered on Wednesday, the 10th day
of January, 1940, will be entitled to receive the
dividend.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS
Registered Office,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne,
15th December, 1939.
, Manager.
end of April, 1934, there was a drought,
owing to slump, price-cutting and with-
drawal of the buses. But with the turn
of the economic tide, closure of the Bris-
bane branch, which was a drag, and
partial restoration of bus services, the
business quickly became profitable again,
and divs. averaging 6 p.c. have been paid
over the last five years.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1936. 1938. 1939
Paid capital.. £166,008 £166,008 £166,008 £166,008
Mortgage . . 133,978 131,211 130,207 129,704
Other liabilities 118,158 115,306 102,981 122,533
Freeholds . . 216,397 212,183 212,915 212,915
Plant, etc. . . 21,859 19,286 19,288 17,686
Stocks.. .. 144,980 99,383 102,433 112,006
Book debts . . 60,081 103,194 105,517 115,901
Cash, etc. . . 602 487 543 541
To carry an extra £10,384 of debtors’
balances and £9633 more stock, £19,552
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors last term. Including
mortgages, the amount of outside money
in the business exceeded more or less
liquids by £23,729 when the books closed,
an improvement of £966 over the twelve-
month.
At 1.43 gr. last term, gold returns from
Mataki Junction, the Burma Malay ven-
ture at Murchison (M.L.), averaged only
34 p.c. or so of original bore indi-
cations. Working surplus was £5654,
over a third of which was swallowed by
p. and 1. items, leaving £3745 net; a
5 p.c. div. in Nov., ’3B, called for £2474.
On turnover of 725,000 c.y. mine costs
averaged o.Bd. per c.y. more at 4.08 d.,
owing to constant dredge holdups be-
cause of the tightly-packed gravels. At
last term’s rate of digging, remaining life
is around six years in ground discounted
to average I.3gr. Issued capital is in
400,000 2s. 6d. shares, 44,000 of them
owned by Burma Malay. Including the
old export duty of 12s. 6d. an ounce,
effective Dominion gold tax is now
£1 10s. 9d. an ounce, or nearly double
the Commonwealth impost.
4= * * *
Four Perth-controlled goldmining cos.
operating in the West —First Hit and
Lady Shenton at Menzies, Spargo’s
Reward at Coolgardie, and Metropolitan,
near Mt. Magnet—issued their annual
reports the other day.
First Hit’s production was worth
£46,865, and its profit was £17,782, after
charging development, £6298. Four three-
penny dividends aggregating £18,642
were paid. At date of balance sheet
(October 31) co. had cash and bullion
totalling £14,037. The manager describes
the picking-up of the lost Queensland
Menzies shoot as the outstanding de-
velopment of the year. Ore reserves are
calculated at 18,205 tons of unstated
value.
Owing mainly to unprofitable develop-
ment in the bottom workings and re-
sultless diamond-drilling, Lady Shenton’s
accounts show a loss on the year’s opera-
tions of £5146. Board states that ex-
penditure has ceased on the Lady Shen-
ton mine and that funds are being con-
served to test another near-by property
held under option, said to have encourag-
ing prospects. Disposal of the power
and treatment plant on the Shenton is
contemplated provided something more
substantial than an old-iron price can
be got. Here is a case where a plant
costing a big figure was installed when
a small mill running into very much less
would have met all requirements.
Spargo’s Reward admits a loss on the
year to June 30 of £5226, after deducting
£2605 for development and £707 for in-
terest. In the succeeding four months to
October 31 profits are stated to have
aggregated £1961. Manager reckons
that the condition of the mine now justi-
fies increasing the mill throughput, and
for the present it is intended to treat
1300 tons of ore and re-treat 1400 tons
of sands a month. Ore reserves remain
substantially the same as a year ago,
when proved ore was estimated at 52,000
tons assaying 6.4dwt., probable at 13,000
tons assaying 7dwt., and possible 30,000
tons, average value of which is not given.
At a recent meeting of debenture-holders
it was resolved to extend the date of
payment of half the principal from
Nov. 30, 1939, to Nov. 30, 1940.
Metropolitan Mining, a small concern
in which several well-known Westralian
mining men and a few of the late H. E.
Vail’s Eastern States friends are inter-
ested, pays a dividend (the first) of Is. 6d.
this month. Co. treats ore from its Black
Cat block at public batteries. Last year’s
receipts aggregated £11,121. Ore re-
serves are at present limited to a few
thousand tons. Co.’s holding has pros-
pects, and there are possibilities of its
becoming a bigger thing.
* * * *
Market in Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) was recently stimulated by the
report that an increased rate of dividend
was contemplated. Directors have since
announced that in view of present un-
certain conditions and possible further
taxation they are unable to recommend it.
* * * *
Mines Minister Panton considers the
Westralian gold yield for 1939 will reach
1,250,0000 z., and that divs. will total
£1,200,000. Since inception of the Gov-
ernment prospecting scheme in July,
1933, assisted diggers have crushed
59,072 tons for 30,1190 z.; 8135 have
so far been granted assistance, and 765
are now being helped. At Dec. 31 last
24 State batteries were in commission.
All but £100,310 of the expenditure in
connection therewith (£2,350,310) had
been offset by revenue. Government
policy of financially aiding struggling
mines is also being continued. Two
helped—Tindals at Coolgardie and Cele-
bration, Hampton Plains —came into pro-
duction this year.
* * m m
With £19,279 brought in, Lake View
and Star (W.A.) had £545,738 available
at June 30. Four 6d. divs. took £280,000,
directors divided £lO,OOO additional re-
muneration, £130,000 was earmarked for
taxation, and £101,435 allowed for
special development, depreciation, etc.,
left £24,303 to carry forward. All figures
are in sterling. An interim 6d. dividend
for the current year goes out today (20th).
* * * *
The average grade of gold ore treated
in Westralia has fallen from 13dwt. in
1930 to 6+dwt. Thus, while the metal
has more than doubled its price the grade
has come down more than one-half.
Among the bigger mines in the State, Mt.
Magnet at present treats the lowest grade
(2.56dwt.); then follow Ingliston Consols
(2.94dwt.), Big Bell (3.52dwt.), Wiluna
(3.54dwt.), Emu (4.94dwt.), Central
Norseman (4.98dwt.), Lake View and Star
(6.09dwt.) and Sons of Gwalia (6.61dwt.).
Of 32 mines producing 5000 oz. or more
last year, only six averaged over lOdwt.
The ore in many of these producers re-
quires special and costly treatment, yet
their owners pay the same excise duty as
those operating mines containing free-
milling ore.
* * * *
Westralia has a goldmine 40 miles
from Perth in the Darling Ranges, near
Toodyay. A recent crushing of 164 tons
sent to Kalgoorlie for treatment is
reckoned to have averaged 7dwt., includ-
ing what remained in the sands. The
locality has been prospected by a few
battlers off and on for some years, and
a little alluvial gold has been specked.
It is not a place, however, where a co.
should seek its fortune.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas’ treatment
plant should be running shortly. Co.’s
available ore supplies are small, and the
output will be small, too.
* * * *
It is a pity to see the Little Wonder
coppermine at Cloncurry (N.Q.) aban-
doned. It had a promising start with the
Mines Department’s blessing, and also
with its machinery. For months past it
has been turning out carbonate ores rang-
ing from 8 p.c. to 15 p.c. copper ; very
occasionally a spot of gold also. Any-
thing under 10 p.c. ore seems a non-
paying proposition on Cloncurry under
present conditions. The Chillagoe
Smelters may prove to be the graveyard
of such as the Little Wonder because of
the costs of getting ores and concentrates
from Cloncurry, despite striking conces-
sions by the Government. Fortunately a
number of the shows carry copper glance
along with the carbonates and can stand
the racket.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F. 8.5.: Quite sound, but suggest comparison
of benefits offered by A.M.P., National Mutual,
M.L.C. or other front-line Australian office.
Paper: (1) Well secured, but yield rather
low. (2) A promising concern that should do
well now. No div. has yet been earned. (3)
Prospects are good, and so are present profits,
but the spreading nature of the business may
keep divs. down for a time. The ords. are
the more attractive. (4) Security of the seconds
is quite good, and the yield is higher. No. 1
is the most solid investment, and at 245. is
lower than for some time. Suggest that prices
of Nos. 2 and 3 last week were due for a
setback following overconfident rise, and a little
waiting may result in more favorable buying.
Castlemaine Perkins, in your own State, yields
5.7 p.c. on present div. rate and price, or
4.5 p.c. should the div. fall back to 8 p.c.
It is worth consideration from the point of
security... .M.U.G.: Sale of the prefs. and
investment in Queensland Insurance, W. R.
Carpenter or Burns Philp (South Seas) might
be better. Two-ways commission is now
charged on Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne
’Changes.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co, (Melb.). — Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* *l*
“Keep a Watch for Pickpockets.”— Heading.
Certainly—what sort do they like?
4* 4* *J*
Then there was the flapper who
thought that lawyers’ briefs were the
shorts they wore on holidays.
»£« ’i* *** *f*
“Movie film passes through the projection
machine at the rate of 16 frames a second.
—Movie mag.
In Westerns, of course, it’s sixteen
frame-ups a second.
4* *l* *l*
“Man claims record with 92 cousins.”
—News item.
It’s to be hoped he never gets into
Parliament.
4* 4* 4*
“Most of our politicians come from the
middle classes.” — Article.
For middle read muddle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Angler hooks his own nose.” — “D.T.”
That’d give him something to blow
about.
4* 4* *i* ***
“Most literary aspirants use too many adjec-
tives.” — Literary course.
This is also a common failing among
bullock-drivers and golfers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Being killed by a bomb is something like
being killed in a motor accident.”
—Duchess of Windsor.
It’s just as fatal, anyhow.
“The day may soon come when every law
court will have a lie-detector installed in it.
—Scientific article.
But aren’t there enough married
women holding down jobs now?
4* 4* 4 1
“Do you know the most important thing
when mailing M.S. to editors?”
—Literary course.
Yes ; the stamped envelope for return.
•E 4* 4*
“When Maisie reached the city she soon
forgot her country sweetheart and became in-
fatuated with a clarinet player.”
—Extract from short story.
A bird in the band is worth two in
the bush.
V i * •
“Are you getting clear water?” — Advt.
We are, but the landlady will persist
in calling it soup.
•i* 4* 4*
“The most striking thing about the front
benches of the Legislative Assembly is the
number of members who wear boots.” — “Sun.
Electors would be glad to give ’em
socks.
4* 4* +
“Jazz is a crime.” — Musical mag.
Yes, most of the modern songs are
stolen from the classics and then they’re
murdered.
“What's there about me you don't appreciate, sir?”
A politician is a man who possesses no
ideals and lives up to all of them.
4* * * *
“Sword-swallowing these days is a pre-
carious career.” — Article.
Still, even in its heyday it was only a
hand-to-mouth existence.
“Now remember, Charlie, if you see a U-boat ram it.”
Proviso.
Oh, Isobel! My soul, my life!
Though others change in fickle fashion,
I swear that I, through calm or strife,
Will love you with abiding passion.
I’ll kneel to you, when years roll by,
As fervently as now I’m kneeling !
That is, of course, provided I
Don’t meet another more appealing!
T.W. NATHAN.
“Ars Longa”....
“People who have seen ‘The Man Flower,’
Salvador Dali’s great picture at the modern
art exhibition, cannot agree what it is all about.
And Dali won’t tell them.” — “D.T.”
Madda Zahatta, the great surrealist
painter, sat patiently trying to fit an
octagonal peg into a square hole. This
was his invariable method of attaining that
“Freudian subconscious” without which
he could never work. Zahatta was acutely
aware that he was the one completely
sane man in a world of lunatics. He
had a supreme contempt for those idiots
who painted, say, an egg to look like an
egg. They could never hope to reach
the sublime heights of creative art to
which he aspired. ...
Gradually his eyes developed the far-
away look that betokens his absorption
into the subconscious, and as the wheels
began to go faster he knew that he had
at last got the inspiration for what was
to be his greatest opus,' a masterpiece to
interpret which would baffle even a
flapper-press critic. Dreamily his hands
reached for palette and brushes.
Soon there appeared on the canvas a
purple crescent which, transfixed by a
long orange pole, leaned against a drab-
grey house brick surmounted by a ceru-
lean garbage-tin lid and some toy bal-
loons. A staring, detached eye gazed at an
elephantiasis-stricken arm lying in what
could have been either long grass or
short trees. Wearily, as if in great men-
tal travail —as indeed he was —Madda at
last threw down his brushes. Neverthe-
less, liis sigh was one of satisfaction.
Soon the connoisseurs would be fighting
to get this great product of his genius.
Its title would be “Billygoat Eating a
Bowler Hat in a Blood-and-bone Fac-
tory.” .
Came the great day when it was hung
in his exhibition. The artist, the better
to hear undetected the puzzled comments
of the critics, attended disguised as a
woman. He was behind Eza Ratbagge,
of the “Daily Brassiere,” when that great
critic announced to an astounded audi-
ence of fellow-critics that he could easily
discern the animal chewing the hat, and
that the background was so vividly real-
istic that he could actually smell the
blood and bone.
They found Madda Zahatta’s body next
day in his studio. Mortified that anyone
besides himself could have interpreted it
he had strangled himself with a length ol
stovepipe.
BO.
Revealing.
“What does your pen reveal?”— “Tiuth.”
The pen reveals your character,
It shows up hidden traits and signs;
And when the pen reveals too much
The jury reads between the lines.
E.
Facing the Music.
“Even his troubles were transmuted into
music.” — “D.T.”
In a way the same thing happens to my
own troubles. When Marie, forte in two
senses, bursts upon me with an air of
anger, the peace of “Emohruo” is cleft.
The atmosphere is full of crotchets (hers)
and quavers (mine); she makes a treble of
all her statements, which are chiefly
about my bass behavior, and in quick
time she has me tremolo and speaking
very pianissimo, if I get a semi-breve
chance to speak at all. The argument is
mostly about my alleged beating it to
the bar at every opportunity.
Opening the viols of her wrath, she
flutes about my shortcomings, and
never short of wind, laying on the wood
and talking scornfully about my brass;
while, if she finds a hair on my coat or
a letter in a woman’s hand in my pocket,
she uses these as symbols of the eternal
triangle, and drums out her supposed
facts staccato and frequently agitato and
impassionato. The only thing I can do
in this blare is to pipe down very small;
there’s no chance for me to horn in with
any defence.
But at the end I have to supply a few
notes as the only means of restoring
harmony.
H.M.
Around the Army.
VI.
Thl Private.
He mustn’t backchat a stripe or star,
Nor of his mess-hut make a bar.
In fact, life’s one long “mustn’t” to a
swaddie;
But when parade has been dismissed
With double milk-shake in his fist
He doesn’t give a damn for any body.
There are many advantages in being
a private. Foremost, of course, is the
fact that he has no fear of being reduced
in rank. Nor can he get the
sack. His campaign worries, too, are
limited to wondering whether the next
town they’re to be billeted in will have
a good boozer where there’s a decenl
sort operating the beer-pump.
In no ranks is the pure spirit of cama-
raderie more pronounced than among
privates. This is strikingly manifested
on active service, and especially by the
real affection displayed by the old hands
towards newly-arrived reinforcements.
Thus it is a common sight to see one
of the hard-heads, tough in the ways of
war, taking one of the “green” rein-
stoushments under his wing. Slapping
him on the back with genuine bonhomie,
the old h.-h. says: “G’day, Blue. Now
you just stick around me and I’ll show
you the ropes. There’s plenty of traps
for young players in this game, but you’’l
soon settle down with the mob. By the
way, they tell me you don’t go the
i-diddle-dum.”
“The what?”
“You know, the rum.”
“No, as a matter of fact, I never
touch it.”
“You’re pretty wise, sonno, the stuff’s
no good to y\ But there’s no sense in
knocking it back, though, when the issue
is on. The Q.M.’ll only flog it or lash
into it himself, the cow. You just draw
it and hand it over to me, see? I always
like to keep a spare issue in me water-
bottle just in case any poor cow in the
unit happens to chuck a doubler. Thanks,
pal.”
One of the proudest distinctions that,
can be attained by one of the ordinary
troops in the ranks is that of “furphy
king.” The noun is apt, too, for he holds
court for those who come looking for
information, aware of his importance.
And the seekers after “what’s doing?”
aren’t confined to his fellow-swaddies,
either. Even the colonel makes it his
business to “chat” the “furphy king” as
to what he knows, although he does it
under the guise of a bantering casual-
ness.
“Good morning, Williams. I suppose,
of course, that you can tell me what’s
doing about the battalion’s movements
in the near future?”
The “furphy king” isn’t deceived by
the exaggerated carelessness of the O.C.’s
tone. He is aware that behind it is an
acute anxiety to be told of things that
will only reach him officially, perhaps, at
a later date.
“Yes, sir. As a matter of fact, I got
the good oil that we’re being withdrawn
from the line next week, and that we’re
being taken to billets for three months’
rest and reorganisation about 50 miles
behind the line. After that we’re going
to be used as special shock troops in the
big offensive we’re planning down south.
And they tell me that when we go in next
time you’ll get the brigade. Congrats.,
sir.”
“Thanks, Williams,” and the colonel
smiles in simulated disbelief. All the
same, in the officers’ mess that night the
prospects of early relief for the battalion
will be discussed with animation.
Although ability to scrounge is not
included in the army’s official curricu-
lum, this accomplishment forms a major
part of a private’s education. It mostly
takes the form of raids on friendly terri-
tory, and is done solely to get practice
for subsequent raids on enemy terri-
tory. Terrain selected is always a dump
owned by some other unit or army.
Where Tommy units are handy these are
greatly favored. Most popular and effec-
tive method is for two privates to take
souvenired wagon up to dump, press into
guard’s hand a piece of paper, say “It’s
an order from your Q.M. for us to take
a case of jam, a bag of bread and four
S.R.Ds., choom,” and then help them-
selves. Outside
th e paymaster,
the champion
scrounger is a
unit’s most popu-
lar member.
Fatigue duty
falls to the lot of
the private, yet,
properly handled,
this need not be
so arduous as it
sounds. Say it in-
volves digging a
pit to bury a lot
of camp rubbish
in. All that re-
mains is to kid
the cor p. in
charge to take a
walk and select a
place screened
from the camp
for the pit. Soon
the sound of “I’ve
got a couple of
John Dillons to
say he heads ’em” and “They’re Micks!”
proclaim that the fatigue is in full swing.
After that all the fatigue party need do
is to toss the rubbish in among the
nearest thick scrub.
S.W.K.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
A Room Market
Buoyancy on a wide front was
evident among industrial shares in
the Australian markets early last
week, and later quietness still left it
at a high level. It is expected that
by Christmas half the wool clip will
have been appraised and growers paid
90 p.c. of the proceeds. Nearly 1,100,000
bales had been valued by the end of
November, up to which time 527,000
bales had been shipped. By Dec. 31
816,000 bales will be away.
Already the benefit of shipments is to
be seen in our overseas trade figures.
November showed a favorable balance
of £5,169,000 sterling, compared with
£2,490,000 for November last year. For
the five months of the financial year run
there has been a favorable balance on
commodity account alone (leaving gold
exports out) of £315,000, which compares
with an adverse balance of £2,142,000
for the same period of last year.
Imports are now declining in value, the
movement being assisted by recent pro-
hibitions and quotas, while export values
are rising, thanks to our war-time con-
tracts with Britain. Though there are
obvious limits to the extent of both these
movements, their influence to date has
been so financially refreshing that bank
managers are losing some of those hard
lines around their mouths and a loosen-
ing-up of credit facilities has resulted.
Not that our economic position is any-
thing to blow about yet; but there has
been definite relief for the moment,
though the future is clouded with un-
certainty and handicapped by the
economic weaknesses that were slowing
us down before war occurred and dis-
guised the situation.
War, of course, cannot add to our
strength except so far as it deprives
us of the imports of overseas countries
and throws us on our own resources,
thus broadening our industrial shoulders.
The inflation of war, giving a boom
appearance to many industries, is largely
a mirage, because the proportion of time
industry works in order to pay taxes to
finance the war increases with the speed
of war’s waste, and the incidence of
these taxes cannot be avoided simply by
raising prices, as by that means a devas-
tating form of inflation is begun.
The greatest domestic problem of this
war will be to spread the burden of its
cost equitably; if it is so spread in
Australia we shall have a minimum of
financial reaction both during and after
the contest. If we pay a maximum
portion of the cost out of revenue as
we go, and if the cost is spread equitably,
then there will be no extraordinary
profits or benefits for anyone. . Those
cos. which make undue profits (in terms
of present money values) as a result of
the war will invite special taxation, since
their increased profits, unless the cos.
are finding employment for a larger num-
ber of people and a greater amount of
capital, will be provided in part from
the national sacrifice. Such a state of
affairs would be intolerable.
It is not reasonable to expect that a
country working to the capacity of its
resources to pursue a war should be-
come affluent as a result. The amount
of labor diverted to war work represents
so much less labor available for the
production of peace-time necessities and
luxuries. It is true that Australia, by
forced activity, must expand its indus-
trial resources as a result of its partici-
pation in war, but if we are called on
to do our utmost during the conflict any
indirect benefits will not become obvious
until after the conflagration is over. Thus
those who judge prosperity merely in
terms of money, prices, borrowing and
spending, mistake the shadow for the
substance. Inflation, costs, taxes, etc.,
have to be given full prominence as an
offset. And the only true way to gauge
prosperity is by the standard of living
and the state of employment. It would
obviously be foolish to take a rising cost
of living as an indication of growing
prosperity. And yet, after a little
analysis, it will be found that that is what
many of us are in the habit of doing.
To the extent that the buying power
of our money may depreciate as a result
of this war, higher prices for shares in
concerns the value of whose production
and margin of profit may expand as a
result of such inflation is perhaps justifi-
able from an investor’s point of view. But
an elaborate system of price control is
now operating in this country, and so
long as the control is effective, fair and
reasonably equitable, and so long as the
policy of financing the war from taxation
to the fullest possible extent is pursued,
there is not likely to be any sustained
runaway movement in profits. If we
“pay as we go,” if we don’t try to defer
the reckoning-day by artifice or humbug,
and if we don’t endeavor to wriggle out
of responsibilities amongst ourselves, then
boomsters and inflationists will find that
they have got a little ahead of themselves
in thinking that the sky’s the limit simply
because we have become involved in a
wasteful war.
In last week’s extraordinary efferves-
cence on ’Change, Drug Houses shares
rose as high as 28s. 9d. before reacting.
They have been as low as 21s. 6d. this
year, and previous highest quote during
the last two years was 265. 9d. Chemicals
have lifted in price since war broke out,
but to what extent this will benefit share-
holders in the final wash-up it is. diffi-
cult to foresee. If price-control is strict
—and it should be strict, or not exer-
cised at all—no undue profits will be
made out of price movements since the
outbreak of war ; but by the same token
there should be no undue losses, either.
Australian Consolidated Industries,
said to be preoccupied with the idea of
making motor-cars under the Govern-
ment’s bounty scheme, saw 38s. 9d. paid
for its ords. last week —far and away a
record price. The immediate yield has
“Why didn't you use your revolver?”
“Thought it might go off, sir”
dropped to just under 3.9 p.c., which,
nevertheless, is still higher than B.H.P.’s
3.2 p.c. B.H.P.’s melon-cutting, and the
subsequent income benefits anticipated
but not so far guaranteed, have yet to
come. The market for B.H.P. scrip was
3s. a share slacker last week.
Fairymead Sugar went to a two-year
record price of 395. 6d. It is doing well in
the sugar section of its business, but there
may be difficulty in shifting the Malayta
Co.’s copra to European markets. Gib-
son and Howes shares have firmed more
moderately to 325. 9d., which is just
about the level of the highest quote of
the past two years.
Felt and Textiles scrip rattled up to
365. 9d., highest quote of 1938. Though
a partial dependence on‘furnishing and
home-building activity would seem to
make this concern susceptible to trade
cycles, no evidence of a setback is
yet in sight. General Industries, in-
terested in other aspects of home-furnish-
ing—chiefly the kitchen and bathroom—
is not strongly supported at the moment.
Nor are the shares in Wunderlich,
Kandos or Standard Cement particularly
firm. Australian Gypsum keeps fairly
steady, but isn’t buoyant. Carpet Manu-
facturers, a new co. in a new industry,
has been put on its feet by the war,
and its shares are strong at 265. 3d.
Meggitt, Ltd., interested in the paint and
lino, trades, has a firm market for its
scrip now.
* * * *
Following on the announcement that
Davies, Coop and Co. had bought
General Motors-Holden’s old factory at
Marrickville (Sydney) for £40,000 and
that it was intended to use the place for
manufacturing tyre cord, canvas, duck
and other cotton textiles, increased
duties on canvas and duck are to come
into force (totalling about a yard),
and a bounty of 3|d. a pound on tyre
cord is proposed. Davies, Coop (N.S.W.),
Ltd., a subsidiary of the Victorian parent
(formed in April), is to issue 50,000 6
p.c. prefs. to the public and 100,000
ords. to the holding co. Altogether
£250,000 is proposed to be spent on the
Sydney factory.
In anticipation of the new £lOO,OOO
share issue to finance the parent’s par-
ticipation in this expansion, and bucked
up by the new duties, the sharemarket
bid up to 31s. 9d. for Davies, Coop ords.
last week, a record price for the scrip.
Introduction of deferred duties on cer-
tain cotton goods three years ago lifted
the co. out of the ruck and gave it a
real chance —previously it was largely
dependent on its men’s-mercery and knit-
ting factories —and the present extension
of the business, plus the new duties and
war-time protection granted to the in-
dustry, raise possibilities of further
digging-in on a basis profitable to share-
holders. An Adelaide subsidiary has
already been formed, financed on the
same basis and to the same extent as
the Sydney co.
The Australian cotton-spinning and
-weaving industry at present supplies
considerably less than a tenth of the
Commonwealth’s total requirements, in
spite of recent rapid expansion. Brad-
ford Cotton, Sydney, the progress of
which has been recorded in detail in
these pages of late, has made swift ex-
tensions to its business, absorbing Aus-
tral Silk and Cotton and tying-up with
Dunlop-Perdriau in the process. It is
more strongly capitalised than Davies,
Coop, the market paying 495. for the
ords., which are also cum rights to a
new issue to be made to finance manu-
facture of canvas and duck and the link-
up with the tyre concern.
Stirling Henry is a newer and smaller
Sydney co. making fat profits out of its
cotton mill. The acquisition by Davies,
Coop of Holden’s old factory raises
doubts as to whether the proposed merger
with, this concern will now occur. Stirling
Henry ss. shares were very strong at
10s. 3d. last week.
Sydney Cotton Mills, newest member
of the trade, was formed by a break-
away from Bradford Cotton’s staff. Its
weaving mills are now in full production,
but it buys its yarn outside. Last sales
of its £1 shares were at 235. 6d.
* * * *
A shrewd summing-up of the parts
“credit” may and may not play in financ-
ing Australia’s share of the cost of the
present war: —•
Credit expansion is a valuable instrument of
financial policy for bringing into the eco-
nomic system resources which might otherwise
remain unused. The Government has shown
by its financial policy at the present time that
it is prepared to avail itself of this instrument
for its appropriate purpose. It must, however,
be used with discretion. We learned some
lessons from the last war when credit ex-
pansion was carried to excess by , most bellige-
rent countries and even by Australia. . This
excess was reflected in the spiral of rising
prices and costs, profiteering, industrial unrest
and in the burden on fixed incomes and qlso
on salaries and wages - which lagged behind
prices. Moreover, to undue monetary expan-
sion in the last war must ,be attributed much
of the economic instability of the post-wa#
period. It is the intention of the Government
to avoid these evils in Australia so far as lies
in its power.
The simple fact is'that defence must'be paid
for now with men and materials. No manipu-
lation can alter the burden. All that can .be
done is to change its incidence. Credit expan-
sion overdone is one of the easiest ways of
doing this, but the results are very different
from what its advocates believe. While wage-
and salary-earners suffer and savings are
whittled away, those engaged in trade inevit-
ably profit from the war, and the large investor
protects and increases his wealth by holding
equities the value of which will rise as the
purchasing-power of money declines. Not only
is it unjust in its incidence, but it brings reper-
cussions which are harmful't'o the whole eco-
nomic life of the community. For every
undue expansion we shall ultimately pay the
price.
That is an extract from the Supplemen-
tary Budget speech of Acting-Treasurer
P. C. Spender, delivered on Nov. 30. It
is possible that Mr. Spender, a lawyer,
is well advised by the Commonwealth
Bank on financial matters ; but if that
is so, it shows that at least he has wis-
dom enough to heed good advice.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government hav-
ing placed an embargo on a wide range
of imports from foreign countries and
Canada, some latitude should be allowed
by the Prices Commissioner to importers
with regard to the stocks they still have
on hand. A number of importers will
have to go out of business, and closing
down may mean that considerable estab-
lishment costs will now go for nothing,
and represent a dead loss. Therefore,
since the imports are apparently con-
sidered non-essential, a reasonable load-
ing of additional profit on available
stocks to cover some of the closing-down
loss would not seem at all inequitable.
Each case would need to be considered
on its merits, of course.
*.* * #
At 3.93 dollars to the £ sterling last
week, the price of gold in New York
(35 dollars the fine ounce) was equivalent
to £8 18s. sterling, as against the Bank
of England’s buying price of £8 Bs. per
fine ounce.
* * * *
It is ten years ago almost to the month
since the Bank of New South Wales, by
cutting the 2\ p.c. bonus out of its div.
rate, heralded the approach of a finan-
cial storm that will always represent a -
landmark as outstanding as the Great
War to those who lived through it. It
was not until 12 months later that the
exchange rate, held at a depreciation of
under 10 p.c. for several months, sank to
£l3O, iater strengthening to £125 Aus-
tralian to the £lOO Eng-
lish. At £125 it still stands.
Meantime we have had
two or three years of
widespread prosperity, dur-
ing which period the moral
effect of depression, un-
employment and wasted
years' were more evident
among those who previ-
ously suffered than any
continuing lack of oppor-
tunity for employment;
we have had signs and
portents indicating the
return of slump ; and now
we have the whole econo-
mic outlook obscured by
the smoke-clouds of another war. Just
as a P.S. it may be worth men-
tioning that the Bank of N. S. Wales
div., \2\ p.c. in 1928, is now no higher
than 6 p.c., having climbed from 5 p.c.
at the end of 1936.
* * * *
Here is a compilation by the New
York “Times” which compares, in index
form, various types of U.S.A. industrial
activity to the middle of November with
corresponding figures a year earlier:
Week Ended
Nov. Nov. Nov.
11, 4, 12,
1939. 1939. 1938.
Miscellaneous car loadings 96.3 87.4 74.9
Other car loadings .. .. 109.7 104.3 86.3
Steel ingot production .. 142.0 140.4 92.9
Electric power production.. 103.8 104.3 96.6
Automobile production .. 94.0 100.6 89.8
Lumber production .. 91.2 86.6 65.8
Cotton mill activity .. 135.2 137.9 118.7
Combined index .. .. 107.2 105.3 90.3
Price index .. .. .. 81.8 81.9 79.9
“Car loadings,” it may be necessary to
explain to Australians, represent railway
freights. The rest is intelligible and in-
teresting, especially the lift to 142 in the
index of steel production, which com-
pares with 92.9 a year earlier. In spite
of all this industrial revival in the U.S.A.,
however —most of it since the outbreak
of the European war —share prices in
New York have weakened over the past
month. Last- time the N.Y. “Times”
index touched 107 on an upward swing
was in Dec., 1936. At that time Wall-
street prices were 40 p.c. higher than
on Nov. 11.
• • • r * •
One reason put forward for the present
comparative weakness on Wall-street is
that the Allies will be cashing-in on
their dollar securities from time to time.
This happens to be the reverse of the
procedure during the 1936-37 boom,
when British, Continental and even Aus-
tralian money was freely flowing to New
York for investment.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests,
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from .. 5/6
Double Room, from ..11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern <1 la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
“For
CHEVS.
—Fve proved
Insulated
Oil is
best”
says
■m
m.
?■', V:
m
tm
52
Mr. C. Jensen,
79 Old South Head Road, Bellevue Hill,
who drove his ’36 Chevrolet in the
SECRETOILTEST
“I have been in the motor in-
dustry for 29 years and I
recommend Insulated Oil to all
motorists,” said Mr. C. Jensen
at the end of his 1,500 mile
drive. “My Chev. improved
remarkably.”
Mr. Jensen and 130 other drivers
all tested the New Insulated
Motor Oil before it was put on
the market. They proved that it
protects the engine from heat
and prevents harmful varnish
from forming. They found that
their engines ran easier and
smoother on Insulated Oil.
WHY DID TEXACO INSULATE THIS NEW OIL?
Closer fitting pistons and tighter
moving parts make modern en-
gines run hotter. Old style oil
breaks down through this heat
and forms gummy varnish on
cylinders, valves and pistons.
Engines become sluggish and
stiff; pistons may even seize.
Insulated Oil withstands heat and
prevents this varnish from form-
ing. It gives smoother, easier
running and improves engine
performance. Insulated oil is
essential for new model engines
—it gives new life to all cars.
NEW INSULATED OIL WAS TESTED IN
131 CARS Read what the drivers say:
bui
1933 FORD B
I did not expect such
an improvement in the
performance. Texaco
Insulated Oil certainly
suits my engine the
best. It developed more
power.
Mr. A. Davies, Acacia Drive,
ASHGROVE, Q.
bui
1934 YAUXHALL
“My Vauxhall was
driven hard in the hill
districts during the
1,000 mile test. She
used less oil and the
engine ran sweeter than
ever on Insulated Oil.”
Mr, A. J. Turnbull , 35 Glad •
Hone Av., NORTHCOTE, VIC.
bui
1939 STANDARD
After giving my car a
1,000 mile test, I advise
Standard owners to use
Texaco Insulated Oil.
The engine is far more
1 ively and runs smoother.
Miss C. Baker, 4 Victory
Street, ROSE BAY, N.S.W.
1
1939 AUSTIN
“My Austin pulled eas-
ily over hills in top
gear where previously
it was necessary to
change down. I was
surprised at the added
life and liveliness.”
Mr. P. Harris, 12 Greenbank
St., HURSTVILLE, N.S.IV.
■mm-
1938 FORD V 8
Particularly noticeable
was the cooler engine
on long runs and a
feeling of added power
in traffic. The Texaco
Oil was clean when
drained out.
Miss L . Croston, Balder-
stone St., CORIND A, Q.
bui
1937 PONTIAC
My Pontiac started
more readily from cold
the engine was
smoother. There was a
complete freedom from
gumminess. I am de-
lighted with Texaco.
Mr. T. G. Macintosh, 35
Rix St., GLEN IRIS, VIC.
bui
1938 MORRIS
I tested Texaco In-
sulated Oil and found
that the consumption
was less than in the
past. I noticed a defin-
ite improvement in
starting and flexibility.
Mr. E. M. Rogers, 1544 High
St., E. MALVERN, VIC.
ubi
1931 DODGE
I have run 1,000 miles
on the new Texaco
Insulated Motor Oil—
decided improvement
in engine—good start-
ing at all temperatures.
Texaco suits the Dodge.
Mr. B. G. Waugh, Kings-
way, LAUNCESTON, TAS.
Drain and refill with
NEW
TEXACO
Fb
INSULATED
MOTOR OIL
Metal Prices Fixed
The Federal Government has made a
far-reaching move in its action of fixing
maximum prices for lead, spelter, copper
and tin in Australia. Only in the case of
one of those products—copper, on which
a small tariff protection operates under
certain circumstances has noteworthy
Government assistance been granted in
the past, the mining industry being gener-
ally expected to stand on its own legs.
The Commonwealth Government, it is
on record, promised a gold bounty just
about the time depression arrived, but
backed out when depreciation of the Aus-
tralian pound lifted the price of gold,
which rose further when England aban-
doned gold in Sept., 1931, further again
when the U.S.A revalued the dollar in
February, 1934, and still higher on the
outbreak of the present war. From £4 ss.
sterling an ounce in 1931, gold has risen
to £8 Bs. an ounce in Britain and to
nearly £9 sterling an ounce in the U.S.A.
Australian gold is bought in this country
at £lO 12s. 6d. Australian by the Com-
monwealth and its agents, and this is
based on gold at £8 Bs. sterling. If gold
is shipped by the Commonwealth to New
York it is worth £ll 2s. 6d. Australian
per fine ounce.
Of the Commonwealth price of £lO
12s. 6d., 16s. 3d. an ounce, representing
half the price above £9 an ounce, has to
be handed to the Government in a special
tax. The Federal authorities, to whom
all gold must be sold, are also at liberty
to make whatever extra profits are pos-
sible from reselling gold in foreign
centres, such as New York.
The higher “price” of gold above £9 ss.
Australian, of course, is a direct result
of the Empire’s present difficulties. In
actual fact our money has depreciated in
the foreign exchanges to the extent that
the “price” of gold has seemingly risen
sharply. Few disinterested people will
quibble over the argument that, so long
as the Government’s price-fixing activi-
ties are capable of keeping inflation out
of the cost of any war-time
inflation “benefits” in the price of gold
should largely pass to the national fight-
ing fund. No one section is morally
entitled to profit from the national diffi-
culty.
But, however justifiable its interfer-
ence now, the Government is establish-
ing grounds for special treatment of
the Australian mining industry in the
future. This is particularly so in the
case of base metals. Lead and
spelter, it is true, at Broken Hill are
turned out from one of the most bounti-
ful silver-lead fields in the world, but
copper and tin are comparatively poor-
man industries in this country, and
hitherto they have had to sink or swim
almost unaided. Whenever assistance has
been granted it has been mostly with re-
gard to prospecting or taxation.
Copper has.been pegged, as from last
week, at an Australian home-consump-
tion price of £63 17s. 6d. a ton, and
practically all Mt. Lyell’s copper is sold
within the Commonwealth. Spelter has
been fixed at £2O 2s. 6d., lead at
£2O 17s. 3d. and tin at £299. With the
exception of tin, these are approximately
London maximum prices converted into
Australian money, and plus the benefit of
freight and insurance costs. Metal being
sold to Britain under contract with the
Barrier mines and the E.Z. co. on the
same basis runs out at £lB 15s. a ton
for spelter and £lB 16s. 7d. a ton for
lead.
Tin is in a special category. Here we
have a small industry, producing not
much more than 3000 tons a year (worth,
it is true, perhaps £750,000), which has
led a hazardous existence for a number
of years. Before war broke out the
price of tin was controlled at £230
sterling in London, and the Australian
price of £299 now fixed is on that basis,
plus an extra £ll or £l2 a ton. Last
week, however, tin sold in London as
high as £275 sterling—steadying at £260,
which is the equivalent of £325 in Aus-
tralian money.
The idea of preventing inflation
creeping into the cost of commodities
of which our base metals form a part
depends for its equity and soundness on
the prevention of other forms of inflation,
such as in wages, other costs, protected
landmen’s earnings and the profits of
manufacturers and retailers. There should
also be some guarantee that the fixed
maximum prices for metals shall also be
the minimum prices for at least 12
months.
The Bulletin in the issue of
15/11/ ’39 pointed out that the price of
gold in New York was at times as much
as 13s. sterling an ounce higher than the
Bank of England’s buying price; and
there have been instances of base metals
and commodities being similarly under-
valued in Britain. Outstanding among the
base metals has been tin. For some
months both before and after the out-
break of war the Buffer Pool had fixed
a price of about £230 a ton ; this figure
was maintained in spite of increased
war-time demand for the metal on the
one hand and increased production
quotas on the other. In New York the
price, after war broke out, was always
considerably higher.
At the beginning of last week the price
of tin was freed in London, and it imme-
diately jumped to £275 spot, and to
£268 for three months’ delivery, not-
withstanding that the production quota
for the first quarter of 1940 has been
raised to 120 p.c. The highest price tin
reached during the short-lived “rearma-
ment boom” early in March, 1937, was
£3ll. In 1918 it had touched £399, and
in 1920 £423 was paid. In 1931 the
low figure of £lOO was recorded, while
in 1938, after Roosevelt had talked of
revaluing the dollar and before the Buffer
Pool got into operation, £153 a ton was
the lowest quote. The Buffer Pool did
a good job to get the price back to
£230, but before that was done the pro-
duction quota fell as low as 40 p.c. at
one stage.
Australian cos. benefit from higher
prices for export tin but derive no
benefit or disadvantage from upward or
downward movements in the quota, ex-
cept to the extent that quota movements
affect the price of the metal. Now the
price for home consumption has been
pegged at £299 Aust. Briseis' (Tas.) is the
principal Australian producer, while
Tableland Tin, at Return Creek (N.Q.),
now turning out \\ tons of .tin a day
with its small dredge, promises to
be the largest tin concern this
country has seen when its proposed
4,000,000 c.y. dredge gets going. There
are a number of smaller shows on the
eastern side of this continent and in
Tasmania, but Australian investment in-
terest is chiefly in the; Federated Malay
States and nearby islands and countries.
Malayan tin stocks rose en masse last
Tuesday, increases in prices amounting
to as much as 10 p.c. in some cases.
There was a relapse when tin came
back to £260 sterling in London later in
the week.
* * * *
The removal of the limit on tin prices
seemed to be taken as an indicator that
the lid would be lifted off the base-metal
market in London altogether, and on the
day that tin shares soared Mt. Lyell,
Barriers and Electrolytic Zinc were
entirely in sympathy, notwithstanding
that our lead production for the next
twelve months has been mostly disposed
of to Britain at fixed prices, together
with a substantial proportion of our
spelter. Lyells rose by 2s. 3d. to 31s. 3d.,
New B.H. Consolidated by Is. 7d. to
21s. 7d., Norths by Is. 6d. to 485., Souths
by Is. 6d. to 28s. 9d., and Zinc Corps,
by 4s. 6d. to 86s. 6d. These represented
the first notable movements in our
copper and silver-lead stocks for some
months. On announcement of the peg-
ging of base-metal prices support again
faded.
* * * *
Australia’s national debt at Sept. 30
was £1,299,181,073, treating the Aus-
tralian and English pounds as the same
unit. Actually about another £150,000,000
must be added to convert the overseas
portion of the debt into Australian cur-
rency. The annual interest bill is over
£50,000,000 a year in our money.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“THE YANKS AREN’T COMING!”
o Condensed from an article by Don lddon. New York
correspondent of London “Sunday Dispatch")
Quite a few well-meaning English people are
writing letters these days from their homes in the
British Isles to the editors of American newspapers.
They are indignant letters, and demand to know
what the United States means by “skulking” out of
things after all its brave and bold talk of stopping
Hitler. They are being published here in New York,
and are provoking quite a boiling-point of contro-
versy. But they are doing no good. In fact, they
are making the men whose difficult job it is to present
the British case dither in apprehension.
Other people, equally well meaning, who happen
to be in the United States, temporarily, are going
around off their mouths about the “super
Munich’ the United States has somersaulted into since
the war began. They are asking Americans why on
earth they ever bothered to get into such a lather of
wrath against Nazism if, as soon as war broke out,
they intended to remain strictly out. Some of them
are even saying that they remember very well the
charges of decadence and cowardice brought against
Britain when she refused to march against Germany
lor Czechoslovakia, but America must know who is
decadent and cowardly now—dear old Uncle Sam
himself!
I suppose this sort of thing is understandable.
I find it irritating to hear Walter Winchell, who has
screamed against Hitler for two years and has referred
frequently to our country as “Britain (formerly
Great),” now yelling into the microphone, “We aren’t
going over until it’s over over there,” and “The Yanks
are not coming.” And I don’t like the editorials, which
were full of such dreadful warnings against Hitler
before the war and loaded with lashings of smug
advice for us, now clamoring against a single row-
boat under the Stars and Stripes being sent to Europe.
But we have to stomach it. It is senseless to try to
shame the United States into the war.
Our best plan, surely, is to keep our friends and
make them friendlier. And, although it might prove
something of a strain to get nothing but loud advice
and non-transported goods at high prices, we simply
have to keep our shirts on. It is the easiest thing
in the world to make a case for the hotheads . . . if,
as America says, there’s a mad dog loose in the world,
then why doesn’t she aid in its extermination, and
so on . . . but it just won’t do us any good.
Living here, I am practising the most stringent
self-control. When people come up to me and say
with a shade of superiority, “Well, when does Britain
begin to make war?” or “What’s the matter with that
supposedly wonderful Navy of yours?” I take it on
the chin. No hard feelings.
America, you know, has a case, too—almost an
unanswerable one —millions of dollars in war debts
from the last rumpus which she will never receive ;
tens of thousands killed ; not a cent’s worth of gain
out of the peace *settlement; her entire participation
marked down in red on the debit side ; the ultimate
smashing not the saving of democracy. These are the
things that the United States remembers as the sum
total of her last entrance into a European war. It
would have been better, possibly, if she had remem-
bered them more vividly before war broke out, and
thus kept her song and dance against Nazism on a
less militant key, but she had an idea that strong
words might stave off actual hostilities.
In any case, her moral gymnastics—mass meetings
demanding action one year (during the 1938 Jewish
persecutions), mass meetings clamoring for peace at
any price the next —are her own concern ; just as our
tactics prior to our declaration of war were ours and
not America’s, though anyone reading newspapers here
would have thought them hers.
The United States citizen bases his neutrality
stand on another platform as well. He points out that
the Allies are not at the present in the slightest need
of man-power. No troops from the Dominions and
Colonies have arrived in Europe yet, and thousands
of eager young Englishmen are still waiting to be
called. Therefore, says the typical American, what
more can we do than supply Britain and France with
war ’planes and war materials? It’s true they have
to be paid for, but when Britain buys goods from
Canada or Australia or New Zealand she has to pay
cash just the same. So why the indignation? Per-
sonally, I cannot think of any convincing answer
to this.
Much as I dislike the prevalent Yankee attitude —
“This war is a phoney” —rather in the manner of the
ringside-seat customer who is disappointed by two
heavyweights shadow-boxing, I respect their policy
to keep well out. When it is all over and we have
won, the co-operation of a sympathetic neutral with
no axe to grind might be invaluable in framing a sen-
sible and just peace treaty.
It is no use laboring under any illusions about
the United States teaming up directly in the war.
Unless there is a drastic change of heart and thought
provoked by a series of anti-American atrocities —and
the Germans in their stupidity are always capable of
this sort of blunder —America is staying out. Her
sympathies and moral support are with us —almost
100 per cent. She wants us to win and is for us with
a fervent partisanship . . . but as for going in herself
—Nossir.
One other point. There is a Presidential election
looming, and it looks as if Roosevelt is going to try
to run a third term. Naturally, he has to move slowly
and carefully in carrying out his foreign policy unless
he wants to commit political suicide and put the
Democratic party in the wilderness. It isn’t the slight-
est use drawing attention to his rolling phrases about
“quarantining the aggressors” or “the totalitarian
States seeing the red light.” That was in the distant
past. Now there’s an election on the way and it has
to be won.
Meanwhile, the arms embargo has been lifted and
the country is militantly anti-Hitler in sentiment.
Propagandists in U.S.A.
('Condensed from an article by C. V. R. Thompson,
London “Daily Express” New York correspondent.)
For heaven’s sake, don’t send over any more Eng-
lish lecturers to America. Keep Lord So-and-so and
the Right Hon. Which-and-which at home. America
won’t be steered into this war. Left to its own devices,
America opened up its munitions markets to the Allies.
It would have done so long before if Congressmen had
not been irked by inspired interference from abroad.
Lord Marley has been lecturing here for some
weeks. So has Alfred Duff Cooper. There has been
criticism regarding both of them. Criticism in news-
papers, in magazines, in Congress. They have been
told they are not even subtle in their strategy. They
are suspect. They are trying to get America into the
war, it has been said.
Americans have grown up since the Great War.
No longer can they be classed as being “next to the
Chinese the most gullible sheep in the world,” as Sir
Gilbert Parker, England’s propaganda chief in the last
war, described them. The whisper of the lecturer, the
shout of the great propaganda machine at home, will
damage us in American public opinion. All America
wants from us in this war is news. If we give them
news —bad news as well as good news when it is un-
avoidable —we shall have America’s moral support to
the end.
Without any lecturers, without any atrocity stories,
without any artificially colored reports, the Allies have
in America three of the best propagandists in the
world, and at least 75,000,000 agents. The propagan-
“De Telegraaf,” Amsterdam.
THE DUTCH MAGINOT LINE.
This unusual cartoon appeared in the Amsterdam daily “De
Telegraaf” with the caption:
Stronger than concrete, more durable than
steel, a better obstacle than barbed wire, friend
of our friends, foe of our foes, our Maginot
Line, our Siegfried Line —our Water Line!
dists are, in order of their value to the Allies, Adolf
Hitler, Joseph Goebbels and Fritz Kuhn, Fiihrer of
the German-American Bund. The names of the
75,000,000 agents can be found in the last census of
the citizenry of the United States. According to
surveys at least that proportion of America’s
120,000,000 is working daily in conversation on behalf
of the Allies.
Americans want the Allies to win, want Hitler and
Hitlerism to be defeated. But they must be left alone.
No country has ever flooded America with as much
propaganda as has Germany since the war started.
Every particle of it has fallen flat, or, worse still,
boomeranged. Nothing is believed. On the other
hand, what news comes from England is believed. It
would be dangerous if that credibility were damaged
—perhaps irreparably—by bad propaganda. We don’t
have to embroider or lie for America. We can leave
that to the other side. So let us keep those English
lecturers and other propagandists at home, and tell
America the truth.
Germany’s Home Front.
. [One of the most persistently propagated notions
in cables just now is that an early collapse will occur
inside Germany. The items here condensed discount
this notion heavily.]
(From a Manchester “Guardian” leading article .)
The German home front is in striking contrast
with our own. Control has gone to lengths that we
can hardly dream of —control over employment, con-
trol of wages, control of prices, the rationing of most
of the necessities of -life. It is tempting to regard
these measures as an admission of weakness, just as
it is consoling to record the restiveness of the people
against the interferences with their normal methods
of living. But there is another side to it, and one that
carries a warning.
The Germans are organising themselves to stand
the war with a thoroughness that is a little frighten-
ing by comparison with our own leisurely ways. They
are probably overorganising (as they always do), but
we shall be safer hot to count on this as a certain
cause of their defeat or to take the natural grumbling
that accompanies the first war privations as a sign of
an early break up from within.
We cannot afford to underestimate the sheer tech-
nical efficiency of the German war machine or to
despise it because it adopts from the start measures
to which we should only be driven as a last resort.
In November the German Government put into
force a new rationing scheme for the civilian purchase
of textiles which, in its rigor of interference with the
consumer’s spending power and the normal processes
of trade, takes the breath away. Prices are controlled,
and so also is the consumer’s right to purchase. He
is given 100 coupons to last him for a year, and as
each garment has a certain coupon value he must use
his ingenuity in spreading his 100 coupons over the
most useful articles. Money is no longer the prime
measure.
Rationing starts after a child’s first birthday ; linen
for babies under 12 months is obtainable by certificate
of need. Overcoats are also covered by certificate,
and it is characteristic that the old one must be sur-
rendered so that the rags can be worked up again.
Such expedients seem very desperate to us in our
relatively free economy. It will be a miracle if they
can be carried through. But the sobering thought is
that, given the docile German temperament, the ruth-
less German administration and a determination to
continue the war, it is possible that they may work
longer than we British individualists might suppose.
The sentiment which the German Government and
press try hardest to inculcate is that “in the life struggle
of the German nation there are no civilians any
longer” ; that no one can expect to live as comfort-
ably as he did before ; that sacrifice and privation are
a patriotic duty. It is a spirit to be reckoned with.
(From London “Economist")
In the nature of things, there must be widespread
latent opposition to the Nazi regime, but the majority
of the German population would not dare to have
anything to do with the “enemies of the State,” and
only defeat, hardship and privation could shake their
confidence in their Fiihrer.
Meanwhile, life goes on in as normal a way as
possible. The population is calm —except in the non-
German conquered territories —and there is a gay,
almost hectic, night life in the large towns. The
younger generation is confident and ready for sacri-
fices, though the older people, who remember the last
war and realise the significance of having to register
again for the rationing of the necessaries of life, are
notably nervous.
It is claimed that stocks are sufficient for several
years of war, and that large supplies will then be
coming in from Russia, the Balkans and the northern
neutrals.
[From one of a series of Articles by Oswald Garrison
Villard in London “Daily Telegraph.” Mr. Villard’s
article, dealing as well with other aspects of Germany’s
home front, was reprinted in Sydney “Sun” last week.
The brief portion here given deals only with the question
of the much-prophesied “early collapse” in Germany.]
The German people do not expect defeat; nor
revolution. They are certain that they cannot be
conquered by force, but they are not so sure as to
what may happen to them in the economic field.
Of course they are all patriotic, and the middle
and upper classes have somewhat rallied to Hitler in
response to appeals to stand by the nation and to
present a united front to the enemy. The attempted
assassination of the Fiihrer has doubtless won sym-
pathy for him. But I am convinced that there is far
from a united front. Every time I reached workers
I found, with one exception, discontent, dissatisfac-
tion, opposition to the Government, expressed with
such frankness as to be little less than startling.
It must not be deduced that the German people
are near breaking point. The British and French
Governments could make no greater mistake than to
think that there is an early possibility of an internal
collapse. The German is a natural-born grumbler if
things go not to his liking. He will growl about food
conditions to anyone who will listen, but he will
tighten his belt and go along none the less. There are
no opposition leaders for him to rally to and no
alternative platform or programme to those of the
Nazis. Things must get very much worse before
anyone will be willing to move.
There is the deepest desire for peace, clearly
illustrated by the extraordinary manifestations of joy
on every side which took place when the rumor was
circulated that Mr. Chamberlain had resigned and
given place to a Cabinet pledged to make peace. Every
shopkeeper told his customers about it. Peace is what
almost everyone lives and prays for. Every thoughtful
person tells you that if the war lasts two or three years
—and some make it a shorter period—European civili-
sation will collapse.
As for the food conditions I did not meet one
person, whether Nazi or bitterly anti-Nazi or in-
between, who was not certain that the Germans could
hold out for two or more years, and this was also the
opinion of American and other neutral observers. They
will suffer and complain bitterly, but they will have
enough food to exist on —if rationing works out as
promised—unless something unexpected happens. I
was astonished at the unanimity of this sentiment and
the forcefulness with which it was argued by men who
were praying for the downfall of Hitler.
The same is true regarding raw materials. There
will be certain shortages, notably of petrol and man-
ganese, bauxite, tin and copper, but one of the most
influential businessmen with whom I talked was cer-
tain that the deficiencies would be made good some-
how —by theft or seizure or in some other way. There
was much testimony also to the remarkably improved
quality of the substitutes, the “ersatz” products. Thus
“buna,” the synthetic rubber, is now actually more
durable than the natural product, and it is, therefore,
being given to the army for its tyres.
The Forgotten War.
(Condensed from a London "Times” leading article.)
The Japanese armies remain embedded in the
Chinese morass. Their great offensive in Kiangsi
and Honan has obviously miscarried, and the troops
who took part in what was described as a “vast cam-
paign of rounding up Chinese forces” have returned
with diminished numbers to their starting ooints. It


is not necessary to accept Chinese estimates of the
Japanese casualties. Both sides are given to the use
of astronomical figures when they estimate then oppo
nents’ losses. But it is clear that an ambitious mili-
tary drive has failed, that the Chinese regular armies
are still very much “in being,” and that the Japanese
will experience great difficulties if they wish to plunge
further into the interior. .
So long as the railway linking French Indo-China
with Yunnan and the motor roads from Burma and
from Russian Mongolia are open, the Chinese Gov-
ernment will have arms and munitions enough to con-
tinue the struggle. On the other side, there can be
no doubt that the morale of the Japanese troops has
declined. Guerrilla warfare, the tedium of a cam-
paign which was to have been over in six months and
has dragged on for over two years, and, above all, the
inconclusive nature of the operations have taken the
edge off their ardor. A large majority of them are
reservists, and their long absence overseas is bound
in the end to cause discontent even among such a
disciplined and patriotic people as are the Japanese,
There can be no doubt that the Japanese Govern-
ment and the army chiefs realise the improbability
of any decisive military success. They are conse-
quently endeavoring to achieve by political manoeuvres
what they have failed to do by force. The situation
may change ; the Chinese Central Government may be
worn down or attacked in rear by its own Commu-
nist allies. But there is no sign as yet that such
changes are at all probable. Meanwhile, the Japanese,
if they have hooked their fish, have not caught him
yet. His demands for a degree of authority and inde-
pendence which his would-be captors are loth to give
him may signify that he now regrets his first rush at
the bait, and will do his best to avoid the landing-net.
While the Japanese Government is thus manoeuvr-
ing for Chinese support, it is about to open negotia-
tions for the settlement of numerous pending questions
with the Government of the U.S.S.R. This new de-
velopment our Tokio correspondent regards as a
turning-point in Japanese policy. In China, where
it will not be forgotten that the refusal of the Poles
to join Germany in an anti-Soviet crusade did not
prevent the annexation of half their country by Soviet
Russia, fears have been expressed that Japan and
Russia may reach agreement on the backs of the
Chinese. It is true, on the other hand, that stories
of Russian demands on China as the price of con-
tinued support mostly emanate from Tokio, where a
“rumor offensive” has been vigorously pressed. Still,
after weighing the evidence it appears most probable
that Russians and Japanese, whose respective interests
in Eastern Europe and in China draw them in opposite
geographical directions, have decided to settle minor
points of dispute without prejudice to major issues.
It is certainly hard to see what compensation
Japan could possibly offer Russia for the abandon-
ment of her political and commercial interests in
China. But even in that event there are other Powers
which are not disposed to efface themselves in the
Far East. The American Government has made it
clear that its abrogation of the Treaty of Commerce
with Japan—which will become effective next January
—is its reply both to the Japanese breach of the Nine-
Power Treaty of 1922 and to numerous Japanese
violations of American rights in China. By that
Treaty America, Japan and other nations guaranteed
the independence and territorial integrity of China
and the maintenance of the Open Door. It is officially
stated at Washington that no negotiations have yet
been opened for a new Treaty of Commerce. It is
obvious that an economic conflict between Japan and
the United States would have a disastrous effect on
Japanese finances, and that if Japan desires to safe-
guard her trade relations with America the time is
running short.
Germany Vulnerable to Air Attack.
(From an article in London “Economist.”)
The most vulnerable belt of Germany, within
50 miles of the Allied air bases or the coast, com-
prises 11 per cent, of total German industrial output,
10 per cent, of the heavy industries, which include
armaments and armament materials, and 12 per cent,
of export industry. About three-quarters of this is
in the belt within 50 miles of France. The Saar
alone accounts for 11 per cent, of German pig-iron
production, and the Palatinate for nearly 10 per cent,
of the chemical industry. Within 50 miles of the
north-west coast is Hamburg, which is among the
most heavily industrialised parts of Germany.
Summed up, 50 per cent, of the total industrial
output of Germany, 57 per cent, of the heavy indus-
try and 57 per cent, of the output for export are
pioduced within 150 miles —less than an hour’s flight
—of the West Front, and an additional 3-4 per cent,
of each total within 50 miles of the north-west coast.
A further indication of the extreme geographical
vulnerability of German industry is the fact that
nbarly a fifth of the total output is produced on the
teft of the Rhine.
Germany, then, is in a very vulnerable position
in any intensive air warfare. Half her industry and
more than half of her heavy armament industry is
within very easy range of bombers based on, aero-
dromes in Lorraine. A direct comparison between the
vulnerability of Great Britain and Germany is not
statistically possible, for the simple reason that while
hostile bombers can be, and are, based within a mile
qr two of the German frontier, there are no hostile
ba&es within 240 miles, at the very nearest, of the
English coast.
The nearest British industrial area of any conse-
quence to the German coast is Lincolnshire, which
is 300 miles from the Frisian Islands. A round trip
qf 600 to 800 miles over the North Sea is not, of
course, an obstacle comparable to the same distance
flown over watchful and well-defended hostile terri-
tory. But it does mean that more fuel must be carried,
and therefore fewer bombs, that warning of approach
may be given much sooner, and that there is a greater
chdnce of casualties on the way out or the return
journey. Possibly, most important of all, it means
that bombers cannot be convoyed by fighters.
If we reckon one mile over the sea as being the
equivalent of only one-third of a mile over hostile
land, even London is 150 “hostile miles” from the
nearest German base. In a rough comparison nearly
half of total German industrial output, and distinctly
more than half of heavy industry and export industry,
is within a total area of about 30 million acres not
more than 150 miles from the French frontier. On
the other hand, a penetration of 100 miles into Eng-
land, on top of 250 to 400 miles over the North Sea,
would be required to cover a little over half of total
British industry and a little less than half of heavy
industry. This British industrial area, however, is
more concentrated, comprising about 20 million acres.
These facts may possibly explain why, in spite
of the boasted superiority of the Nazi air fleet, Gor-
ing has hitherto been too “humane” to use it.
Refugees from Poland.
[The plight of Polish refugees in Rumania and
Hungary is indicated in this (condensed) article by a
correspondent in London “Times.” Also, that disease
worse than war itself might spread in Europe from
these wretched unfortunates if the war lasts.]
There are now about 30,000 Polish refugees in
Rumania and 50,000 in Hungary. About 10,000 in
each country are civilians. Most entered Rumania
and Hungary in the third week in September, when
immediate attempts to register, delouse and distribute
them completely broke down. The confusion is only
“Inquirer,” Philadelphia.
“But you should’ve seen the one that got away!”
now being straightened out; and there remain in-
numerable refugees who do not know whether their
wives and children are in Germany or Russia or
Rumania or Hungary, or even whether they are alive.
Many were sent on arrival to the Dobrudja, a
region of marshes and pelicans, “empty” from the
military point of view but heavily infected with
malaria. The result has been that a considerable
number of the soldiers, though now in non-malarial
districts, have fallen sick with the disease.
In Hungary many of the civilians have been
privately billeted, but most are either in military
camps or in civilian camps, which vary from good to
very grim indeed. Some hundreds of Polish Boy
Scouts and boys of school age were at first interned
with the military, and in most of the camps we visited
we found boys of from 12 to 16 years old cold,
verminous and living under conditions which were
often hardly tolerable for grown men.
Most of the men are sleeping on loose straw,
often with no blankets, and with only the clothes they
arrived in. Some of the more unfortunate were in
linen uniforms and without overcoats, in weather
that was already becoming bitterly cold. In one camp
(a derelict vinegar factory) 500 men were sleeping in
a warehouse below ground level, in darkness except
for one small oil lamp. When I asked about their
clothes, half a dozen men stripped off their uniforms
to show their shirts, filthy and in rags, which they
jiad worn day and night for the past six weeks. An
enterprising Boy Scout started to introduce his lice
individually: “See, here is Ludwik! He has come
on foot from Cracow.”
There is a very real danger of typhus this winter
in Rumania, where it is normally endemic, and where
it accounted for a great number of deaths in the
last war.
What Blockade Means.
C From a London “Daily Herald” article by Vera Brittain .3
Some of my acquaintances—kindly, well-meaning
people who would hesitate to kill a fly and would
certainly draw the line at running over a dog—talk
with glib optimism about the effectiveness of “our
blockade.” “After all,” they assure each other, “we’ve
got command of the sea. We’ll soon starve Germany
into submission!”
What exactly does that mean in terms of social
misery and individual suffering?
I have never forgotten an evening in 1924, when
I spoke about the League of Nations to a group of
tolerant, friendly razor-makers from a factory at
Solingen, near Cologne. My host, the local pastor,
before the meeting showed me the photograph of
his eldest child. “We lost her,” he told me. “She
was delicate, and we could not get milk for her during
the blockade.”
Only recently a correspondent confirmed my
own recollections of Central Europe during those
nightmare years which will soon repeat themselves
in German homes. “What I saw,” she writes, “in
Germany soon after the last war when, as a member
of the Society of Friends, I went there to help with
the feeding of the children has lain like a heavy
burden on my mind ever since.”
Another post-war visitor to Central Europe has
told me how, in 1921, he observed Austrian children,
their bones soft as paper from undernourishment,
lying like limp rag dolls in the parks of Vienna. By
1924 this pitiful suffering had been tidied out of the
streets, but the slums and hospitals of German cities
were still filled with children of all ages suffering from
rickets and tuberculosis.
And now we, who have made such proud progress
during the past twenty years in the feeding and care
of our own young, are preparing to rejoice that Ger-
man children will suffer once more. The policy of
blockade, though less gruesome than air raids, is more
malevolent because its effects continue. Long after
States have ceased to quarrel, the consequences of
their disputes are visible in the impaired development,
the depleted vitality, sometimes even the living death,
of their weakest and most vulnerable citizens.
Those who suffer most in economic warfare are
pregnant women, nursing mothers, babies and small
children. Bombs create surface devastation, but
blockade cuts at the root of a people’s life, and its
effects endure from generation to generation.
Comparative Strength at Sea.
[From London “Daily Mail.” Latest figure for
British warships now under construction is 1,000,000
tons.]
Britain’s immense—and growing—naval might, as
compared with Nazi Germany, is revealed in the
latest edition of Jane’s Fighting Ships. It should be
remembered that the French Navy is lined up against
Hitler, too.
British. German.
Capital ships .... 15 5
(Two being reconstructed.)
Aircraft carriers .. 6 Nil
Heavy cruisers ... 15 2
Other cruisers .. 43 6
(Two being reconstructed!)
Anti-aircraft ships .. 6 Nil
(Two being reconstructed.)
Destroyers .... 179 22
Submarines .... 57 65
Torpedo boats .. Nil 12
Motor torpedo boats 26 30
The overwhelming superiority of the British Fleet
is maintained in ships under construction. Four ships
of the Lion class are believed to be designed for a
displacement of between 40,000 and 45,000 tons. Five
35,000-ton battleships of the King George V. class
will be completed within the next two years. Six
aircraft carriers have been ordered, and four are due
to be completed next year. They will have a dis-
placement of 23,000 tons.
Apart from the “pocket battleships,” Germany’s
only big capital ships at the moment are the Scharn-
horst and Gneisenau, vessels of 26,000 tons and mount-
ing llin. guns. Eleven ocean-going and seven sea-
going submarines are also under construction, and
Jane’s Fighting Ships confirms the view expressed by
Mr. Winston Churchill that by Christmas Germany
will have a fleet of 100 U-boats, less those destroyed
since the war began.
A record programme of new construction has
been initiated in France.
World Wheat.
[From an article by the financial editor of Man-
chester “Guardian.” Latest estimate of the Australian
crop is 182,500,000 bushels, an increase of 7,500,000
bushels on the previous estimate.]
According to the recently-published forecast of
the International Institute of Agriculture, world pro-
duction of wheat, excluding Russia, China, Iraq and
Iran, for which no data are available, is likely to
amount to 4,175,000,000 bushels in the present season,
compared with last season’s crop of 4,503,000,000
bushels. Exportable surpluses will be about
1,313,000,000 bushels. World import requirements
are reckoned to be 600,000,000 bushels, so that stocks
at the end of this season would reach 713,000,000
bushels.
Even if a number of cargoes should be destroyed
at sea, there is no need to fear any shortage of bread,
at any rate in the countries that can keep their ocean
routes open. In 1914 supply conditions were not
nearly so favorable. In the average of the last five
years before the World War world production of
wheat did not exceed 3,048,000,000 bushels —one-
fourth less than it is now. Moreover, while pro-
duction of wheat has exceeded requirements in the
two crop years preceding this war, the period before
the World War had been one of undersupplies. It
was largely owing to the continued scarcity of sup-
plies that the world wheat acreage was greatly
extended during the last war, with results that have
presented problems still unsolved.
France, heavily dependent on wheat imports in
1914-18, is now self-sufficient. In the United States
the average acreage under wheat has been extended
from 52,000,000 acres before the World War to
68,000,000 acres at present. In Canada the acreage
has been increased from 10,000,000 to 24,000,000
acres. In Australia the increase was from 8,000,000
to 13,000,000 acres, and in Argentina from 16,000,000
to 19,000,000 acres.
In the United Kingdom the bread consumption
is roughly equal to 270,000,000 bushels per year, of
which about 200,000,000 bushels must be imported in
the form of wheat and wheat flour. Canada’s export-
able surplus alone will be about 450,000,000 bushels
this season, and there are other countries, including
Australia, India and Argentina all anxious to sell.


w
'^SMIWSS
%
If
BUY YOUR USED CAR
WITH A PEDIGREE TOO
We are exclusive Metropolitan Dealers
under R. & G. Used Car Plan sponsored
by Ford Motor Company. From us
you may buy with utmost confidence
a Used Car with a Pedigree—Recon-
ditioned and Guaranteed, a used car
of real quality with a long life
ahead of it. We stand
squarely behind our used
cars, and proof of this
is that we give you:
ubi
A Signed Guarantee Certificate.
■jt A 5-day Free Exchange Privilege,
-jfcf A Free Lubrication Contract.
If you’re interested in a really good
used car for Christmas, why not call
around at our showrooms and in-
spect our stocks? Until you see
these R. & G. Cars of
various makes, you'll
never realise just how
good a used car can be!
Sole Metropolitan Ford Distributors:
actings Meeting
USED CAR DIVISION
PTY.
LTD.
Corner William and Riley Streets, Sydney. ’Phone: F 0466 (25 lines)
INVESTMENT *U
OPPORTUNITY
OPPORTUNITY knocks but once, according to the old
saying. To-day, however, with modern investment facili-
ties, opportunity continues to knock at the door of those wish-
ing to obtain security, independence or advancement.
A first step towards the achievement of these ambitions is to
seek a safe, sound investment for part of your earnings—no
matter how small. In this connection your attention is drawn
to the following advantages of a Fixed Deposit with the
Rural Bank: —
1. The security, backed by the Government, is unquestioned.
2. Your investment returns you interes' at current bahking
rates.
3. You may make a Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank from
£5 upwards.
4. Making such an investment is simple, and can be com-
pleted in a few minutes.
5. You will be banking with an institution which lends portion
of its funds for carrying out important, special functions
that contribute to the welfare and prosperity of the whole
community.
(sural (Banh
or NEW so «? X H wAI K 8
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you—Serving
the State.
Johnson Iron Horse
GENERATOR
Gives You
Dependable ELECTRIC LIGHT
For Approximately 1/" Per Week
•300 Watts •12 Volts
(Double the Usual Capacity.)
Lights 12- 25 Watt Globes
mm
m
SmlHUn
mu
1
Don’t be any longer without the
boon of to-day’s civilisation—
Electric Light, which is now
available to every country resident
with this low-priced dependable
generator, Charging operates
immediately the electric starting
button is pressed, and by turning
a knob the output is controlled
from nothing to 300 watts. Elec-
tric Light (with the Johnson
Generator) costs you less than the
messy, dangerous old-fashioned
lamps— you can use 3 lights for
3 '2 hours every night at a cost of
approximately If - per week.
bui
Here are some of the more important features: —
300 watts—l 2 volts—lights 12-25 watt globes—electric starting
full range control—special built-m generator powered by a Jobrron
Iron Horse 4-cycle petrol engine—automatic cut o «t disconnects
when not running—quiet operation—minimum vibration— shielded
ignition—suction carburettor. -C O/i / 1 f|/-
Cash Price A v
SPECIAL TERMS FROM £lO DEPOSIT:—
For a deposit of £lO approved country residents can obtain
immediate possession. No charge is made foi __
interest if the balance is paid within 12
months. The small weekly payments^
amount to no more than
the average city
light bill.
(Batteries extra.)
ted
att a
Iflw
tpe
\aT s
&
tUc*
cop?
O
pa
tuU
G.P
tVou
aod
A23o^
pu?
ag eY
*? 0 )de Y
itPoot
Mia**
atoT
fte» elc
pie
td
p(ot& e
tot^: a
IVOO
ste®
v\eas e
soo
T\t
3oPO
avwe
ca s >
Ad^ esS
KNOW THE VALUE OF
THE FOOD YOU EAT
9*o
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
COOKERY BOOK
400 PAGES AND NEARLY 3000
TESTED RECIPES.
Food Value in Proteins, Calories, Vitamins, etc., given by a
Well-known Woman Doctor.
Advanced medical opinion to-day subscribes to the idea
that most of the diseases of civilisation are due to an
ill-balanced diet. This book shows you how to choose
well-balanced meals without faddism.
The food value, in proteins, calories, etc., is shown alongside each recipe, also
the vitamin content of the various dishes.
This scheme, introduced by the Mirror for the first time in any Recipe Book,
gives additional value to what is already acknowledged by thousands of satisfied
readers as the best offer of its kind ever made to the housewives of Australia
and New Zealand.
If you have not already ordered your copy send to the Mirror Office 3/6
(Post Free 3/8), together with your name and address, and receive a copy by
return post.
Mark envelopes “Mirror Recipe Book” and address to the Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN’S MIRROR,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.


Australian Jockey Club
RANDWICK RACES
Saturday - - - December 23
Tuesday - - - December 26
Geo. T. Rowe,
Secretary.
6 Bligh Street,
Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was a lot that was interesting in
Saturday’s racing at Rosehill, and at its
conclusion many takers of Villiers and
Summer Cup doubles were not on exactly
good terms with themselves. It will need
a complete upset of form to enable them
to land their wagers.
Vergure was one that did not come up
to the expectations of those who had made
him their first leg of the A.J.C. double.
Fourth to Jocular, The Kaiser and Del-
mestor entering the straight in the Dun-
das Handicap, he weakened badly over
the last furlong. The run made him a
Villiers scratching. Delmestor ran a great
race with 9.13, but it stopped her after
she got to the front in the straight, Grey
Derby wearing her down. Mildura, who
was being pushed along before reaching
the straight, was making a run on the
rails when he was squeezed out just after
passing the leger, and then was hampered
when attempting to come round the
horses ahead of him. I do not think he
could have won even if he had got
through, but he might have got third.
Mildura drops 51b., Grey Derby 91b.,
Korimako 41b., Rival Hit 51b., and Del-
mestor 101 b. in the Villiers.
Jocular and The Kaiser found the final
furlong one too many, while Korimako,
who was not advantaged by drawing
No. 1 at the barrier, and was ahead of
only two other runners after going a
couple of furlongs, did well to finish
fourth. Notwithstanding he won recently
at Menangle, Rival Hit’s close third in
this field was a surprise, and he may yet
return to his earlier form. Early Bird
did not improve upon her recent effort
at Randwick. She and Sedunum both
looked as if more racing would benefit
them. The time, 1.25, was fast, being
only a quarter-second outside the Rose-
hill record.
Numerically there was a strong field
for the Maiden Hurdle, but Glaucus
proved that it did not include much that
was promising. He led out of the
straight, and over the remainder of the
journey nothing outside Tweedside and
King Otho looked like making a race
of it with him. In the straight he left
them, and equalled the track hurdle
record for a mile and a half. Apart from
the place-getters, only Plural, a George
Graves gelding, trained by R. W. Mc-
Kinnon, was worth noting. Jester’s Lady
was backed, but was hopelessly out of
it after going six furlongs. Exning is
scarcely as good as a little while back.
Rosehill-trained Hydra (Bullhead-
Eager Air) was supposed to have a mort-
gage on the Nursery Flandicap, but Many
Ways, who continues to improve, went
a little too fast for her in the early part,
and ran away from her in the straight.
Roxford, a grey gelding by a grey sire,
Roxburgh, was third from the time the
field settled down, and was beaten only
a head for second by Hydra.
Interference at the star* disposed of
Our Barney, and, in addition to being
drawn on the extreme outside, Dawn
Mary struck trouble at the jump-off. She
was never really dangerous, but still ran
well enough to suggest she is worth fol-
lowing. Columbus did not show form
in keeping with his looks, nor did Air
Link (Marconigram-Sweet Maggie) or
Cape Amber (Madagascar-Nom-de-
plume), but Hall Mark colts in David
Copperfield and Passport ran fairly.
Passport, who is trained by D. Lewis for
H. S. Thompson and P. C. Basche, is
out of Gloaming’s Sister, so he should
be able to gallop.
Amateur rider W. Player handled
Spear Arrow well in the Rosehill Corin-
thian Cup. He did not bustle his mount
when a couple of other runners closed
on him at the five furlongs, but, letting
him draw away a little later, and stick-
ing close to the rails, had the pleasure of
an easy win. Braeman and The Kite
were in the front rank throughout, but
the well-backed Blue Blood gave his
backers an indifferent run. Cloudy
jumped out smartly, but could not hold
his place. Many racegoers are opposed
to amateur races, but I think they aie
occasionally worth a place on any met-
ropolitan programme. Spear Arrow is
trained and owned by C. Cullen.
As Kurrawid ran last in a race of
similar distance at Randwick the previous
Saturday, form did not specially point
to him for the December Handicap, but
he won after a good set-to with Santa,
who looked like beating him half a fur-
long from home. Gimme was third, just
ahead of Santa’s more-fancied stable-
companion Bringa, who, however, was
awkwardly placed commencing the back
stretch, and then, striking a little trouble
at the five furlongs, was left with too
much ground to make up to be trouble-
some in the run home'.
Perimond’s recent form did not war-
rant his favoritism, and it should be
some time before he again touches 3 to 1
in an average field. He was well beaten
half-way down the straight. Perimond
ran prominently in the last Summer
Cup with 8.0, but has not since acted
up to that form.
The betting market suggested that the
Carlingford Handicap was likely to prove
little more than a match between Talkalot
and Fakenham. The latter was never
doing well enough to look like succeed-
ing, but though Talkalot only ran third
it seemed as if more expert handling
would have landed her a winner. As
it was, Gambier and Trumpeter in turn
did the early pacemaking, but though the
latter led into the straight he then gave
place to Glorious and Sidcup. Glorious
fought on well to beat Sidcup narrowly,
and she evidently likes Rosehill, this
being her second success at that track.
Sidcup has been out of the winning
list since the St. George Handicap at
Moorefield last March, and though when
he came from Melbourne a lot was ex-
pected of him as a stayer his two wins
last season were at a mile. He may now
score at a middle distance. Gambier
was a good fourth, and an addition to
his winning account should not be long
in coming his way.
* * * *
Last year Bradford made a great bid
for the Villiers Stakes with 7.10, being
defeated a head by Fakenham. Each
went up 21b. this time, but the latter’s
showing at Rosehill last week discounted
him. On the other hand Bradford
won a six-furlongs race at Randwick
with such a good finishing run a fort-
night ago that it is probable he will
again start favorite for the Villiers.
To me it seems a most open race, and
backers generally must share that idea.
The other day a bookmaker remarked:
“You may think it impossible, but, though
backers are not going outside four for
the Summer Cup, I have laid doubles
commencing with nearly twenty horses.”
Some of those are now unlikely run-
ners.
On Dundas Handicap form there can
be little between Delmestor, Grey Derby,
Rival Hit and Korimako, though the last-
named will be 51b. worse off compared
with Grey Derby, and 61b. with Delmes-
tor. The latter’s drop of 101 b. is bound to
make a great difference to her chance,
and with 8.7 she was very little over a
neck away from Geebung in the last
Epsom. She has 101 b. more than in
that race, and Korimako has 610. more
than when second to Gold Rod in the
Doncaster. Rival Hit actually finished
better than Grey Derby or Delmestor,
but will meet them worse.
Korimako should be all the better for
last week’s run, and, though in a field
that promises to be large the fact of
being a slow beginner may tell against
her, she is bound to take a lot of beat-
ing. Mildura was unlucky at Rosehill,
but though he looked particularly well
he did not altogether please me in the
way he galloped in the early part, and
he can scarcely be selected in preference
to the horses that finished ahead of him
in the Dundas Handicap. Grey Derby
has yet to show himself a Randwick
horse. Rodborough, who was not a
Rosehill runner, has won at a mile and
a quarter at Randwick. He has shaped
well in two welters recently, and, being
of opinion that the lower scale will do
a lot for him, I shall make him my selec-
tion. “Below the standard necessary” is
the opinion of many good judges, but he
has 61b. less than when he was expected
to win the 1938 Epsom, and is probably
a little better now. If they should run
he will meet Bel Oiseau 101 b. and Talkalot
131 b. better than when they recently beat
him at Randwick.
Binnia Hero might be better suited by
something beyond a mile, and neither
Denis nor Diamond Wedding may like
that distance as well as six furlongs. Gee-
bung strikes me as having plenty in 9.0,
and notwithstanding that Bobby is a
recent winner he does not appeal. How-
ever, he has only the same weight as
when he ran second to King’s Head in
the 1938 Epsom, and I suppose he will
be a starter. Red Thespian may run
well, but without winning, and though
Klimop is improving and can get a mile
a Villiers may be too tough for him.
It would be possible to select seven or
eight horses and then miss the winner,
but I look to Rodborough, Korimako,
Bradford and Delmestor to furnish a
couple of place-getters.
As Malagigi represents a heavy-betting
stable the odds are in favor of his starting
favorite for the Summer Cup, though at
present there is little between him and
John Peel in the quotations. Malagigi has
proved he can get 13 furlongs, while
nothing is known of John Peel beyond
a mile. Each time he has won at that
distance he has finished as if a longer
trip would not come amiss to him.
Assuming he carries 21b. overweight
he will have only 6.12, and will be run-
ning with a stone less than weight-for-
age, against Malagigi’s 81b. If John
Peel is a staying three-year-old he should,
on those terms, beat Malagigi, who,
though a good handicap horse, is not
quite first-class. Bristol can also get the
Summer Cup distance, and, while I ex-
pect the lower scale of weights to be of
assistance to him, Malagigi reads like
again defeating him.
Kurrawid’s Rosehill form was well
ahead of that shown by him in Malagigi’s
race, but as he will be meeting the latter
21b. worse further improvement will be
necessary to enable him to turn the
tables. Prior to Saturday I had
a fancy for Bringa, but it would now
savor of optimism to expect him to beat
Kurrawid, who is giving him 101 b.
against 201 b. at Rosehill. Santa actually
reads better than his stable-companion
Bringa, but as he will meet Kurrawid 81b.
worse than last week his prospects are
not bright.
Own Folk is prominent in the quota-
tions, but he has 8.0 against the 7.8 he
carried when he won the Sydney Handi-
cap, and he may have been a trifle lucky
to beat L’Aiglon, who was giving him
151 b. on that occasion. It must be added
that Bristol (7.10) and Kurrawid (7.0)
were unplaced runners in that race, and
Own Folk now meets both much better.
However, if Payten’s stable is to win the
Summer Cup I think it will be with John
Peel. Geebung may have more than he
can handle over the distance, and Young
Crusader has been running so indiffer-
ently that there does not seem much hope
for him even with 181 b. less than when
he ran second a year ago.
Kilogram and Klimop may be two of
the lightly-weighted runners, but it is hard
to visualise either winning. Backers
appear to be well on the mark in prin-
cipally confining themselves to John Peel,
Malagigi, Bristol and Own Folk, though
I have not quite abandoned hope of
Bringa doing better than at Rosehill.
* * * *
Winning Cup races is nothing in the
life of Keeping Watch. He can afford
to be blase about such things, his suc-
cess in the Ascot (Vic.) Cup on Saturday
being his fifth Cup win. The Coronation
(Ascot), Launceston, Woodend and Wer-
ribee Cups also stand to the credit of
this aged The Night Patrol-Eumaralla
gelding, who is trained at Werribee by
Steve Murphy, and he was first past the
post in the Terang Cup, which, however,
he lost on protest. He has always had
a fondness for Ascot, where the “horses-
for-courses” theory is an established
fact. He has won over hurdles on this
course, and holds the flat record of 2.8
for a mile and a quarter and 40 yards.
Keeping Watch was one second outside
that time on Saturday, but he was able
to lead practically all the way and out-
stay Keelie after the Epsom Cup winner
had run to him rounding the home bend.
Keelie had every chance, but Morvren
might have done better than third had
she not been squeezed back last near the
half-mile.
Steve Murphy is a stickler for giving
his apprentices every possible opportu-
nity. V. Hartney, T. Griffiths and
J. Logan are three promising lads at-
tached to his stable, Hartney having led
all other apprentices in the winning met-
ropolitan riders’ list last season. Grif-
fiths has done well this season, the Ascot
Cup on Keeping Watch being his most
important win. Keeping Watch goes
particularly well for Griffiths, who has
ridden him in four races for three wins
and a second.
• •••••
Murphy appeared to have bright pros-
pects of winning a treble at Ascot, but
the first two “legs” crashed before Keep-
ing Watch came to the rescue. King
Arthur and Earl Marshal, other mem-
FOR RANDWICK.
(By "PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Spearbine, 1 ;
Harley, 2 ; Glaucus, 3.
December Nursery Handicap:
Pan Pipe, 1 ; Fearless Fox, 2 ; Wel-
come News, 3.
Villiers Stakes: Rodborough, 1 ;
Korimako, 2 ; Bradford, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Gretchen,
1 ; Dinny O’Dowd, 2; Diogenes, 3.
Holiday Handicap: Santa, 1 ;
Own Folk, 2 ; Breeze, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Baveon,
1 ; Curiosity, 2 ; Glorious, 3.
SECOND DAY.
December Stakes: Dark Elegance,
1 ; Pan Pipe, 2 ; Fearless Fox, 3.
Summer Cup: John Peel, 1 ;
Malagigi, 2 ; Bristol, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(By "SENTRY.”)
Trial Hurdle Race: Good Boy,
1 ; King Arthur, 2 ; Kong, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap:
Deirdre, 1 ; Heart’s Desire, 2 ; Old
Vienna, 3.
Maiden Plate: French Legion, 1 ;
Bureaucrat, 2 ; Coramine, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Sir
Romeo, 1 ; Considerate, 2; Mac
Rob, 3.
Fund Handicap: Lady Montague,
1 ; Mac Rob, 2 ; Our Boy, 3.
Welter Handicap: Chaldean, 1 ;
Lord Windburra, 2 ; Destiny Bay, 3.


NEW ZEALAND NATIONAL
THOROUGHBRED SALES
JANUARY 17 AND 19, AT THE TRENTHAM STABLES,
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Record Entries Representing 54 Leading English-
and Colonial-bred Sires.
Every New Zealand stud is strongly represented. Full particulars and
Catalogues in due course from the undersigned. The 220 Yearlings are
by such sires as Bulandshar (sire of High Caste), Defoe (Defaulter),
Posterity (Mosaic), Lord Quex (Catalogue), Siegfried (Wotan), Lord
Warden (Gold Salute), Iliad (Homer), Lackham (Mala), Hunting Song
(Gaine Carrington), Vaals (Cheval de Volee), Night Raid (Phar Lap),
and 43 younger tried and untried sires. The Catalogue for the Sale of
Brood Mares includes several small but select studs, and five highly-bred
English-bred fillies and a colt by Flamingo.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.,
Head Office, Wellington, N.Z., or Henty House, 449 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne. )
WM. INGLIS & SON PTY., LTD., I PYNE, GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD.,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney. | 178 Cashel Street, Christchurch.
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO
INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
are an aid to SAFE T Y
Good acceleration is a definite
aid to safety. Ability to dart
swiftly out of danger may save
your car from an accident.
Install Champion spark
plugs. They keep your car at
its peak performance. And
Champions save you money
in fuel economy. ,
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
wMtsiiM
bers of his team, started favorite for the
Delamere Trial Hurdle and Mallacoota
Handicap respectively. King Arthur
stumbled over a fallen horse at the
second jump and jolted his rider out
of the saddle, while Earl Marshal, though
he finished second, was no match for
Partoer on the day. Earl Marshal is the
season’s unluckiest juvenile, his four
starts having yielded three seconds and
a third, and although he has repaid £320
of his yearling price of 325 guineas it
would be interesting to know exactly
how much he has cost in losing bets.
Partoer, winner of the Mallacoota
Handicap, was one of the bargains of the
last yearling sales in Melbourne. Cost-
ing owner-trainer F. W. Ehrhorn only
100 guineas, the Portofino-Trench filly
has won three races and £7OO in stakes.
Further, she must be one of the hardiest
juveniles in training, having started nine
times in 10 weeks. Loss of form after
wins at Caulfield and Moonee Valley in
October was attributed to the possibility
that she had had enough racing, but her
trainer freshened her up during the three
weeks separating last Saturday and her
previous appearance, and Partoer led
throughout to win decisively from Earl
Marshal and New Warrior.
Trainer Jack Smedley’s appeal against
a disqualification imposed on him at
Sunbury recently was upheld by the
V.R.C. committee last Friday—appeals
by the owner and rider of Phildoll was
dismissed—and he can look forward with
some confidence concerning the imme-
diate future of his Hostile-Art Gallery
colt New Warrior. Smedley won many
races, including the Cantala Stakes, with
Hostile, who raced again after siring
New Warrior, and the latter seems to
have inherited some of Hostile’s pace.
He was having his first race on Saturday,
and judging by his starting price of
33 to 1 his third was a better perform-
ance than generally anticipated. New
Warrior will be all the better for the
race.
Big things were expected of Atlas
(Heroic-White Swan) when A. W.
Thompson and the late E. L. Baillieu
gave 1700 guineas for him at the 1938
yearling sales, and, although he recorded
only one minor placing in that owner-
ship, a bright future was still predicted
for him when he was resold for 1150
guineas to Mrs. C. Cook several months
ago. Remaining in the Ajax stable of
Frank Musgrave, Atlas had his chance
to win his first race in the first division
of the Pembroke Trial Handicap at
Ascot, but after sharing the lead to the
home turn he was comfortably beaten
into second place by the favorite, Pine
Peak. Being only a three-year-old, there
is plenty of time for Atlas to improve,
as no doubt he will, but so far he is
only a small name on the racing map.
A. (“Scobie”) Breasley, one of Mel-
bourne’s most successful jockeys, was be-
sieged by friends and acquaintances wish-
ing to congratulate him at Ascot on
Saturday. A winning double on Pine
Peak and Buoyancy merited a pat on
the back, but Breasley’s well-wishers were
more concerned with the fact that his
wife gave birth to a daughter during the
afternoon. The news was conveyed to
Breasley between his two wins, and
maybe it added zest to his riding of
Buoyancy in the last race of the day.
Buoyancy was hard to have on his form
at Moonee Valley a fortnight earlier,
when he had stopped badly after leading
for the first three of a six-furlongs race.
Well backed at 6 to 7 to 1, Buoyancy led
throughout to win clearly from Po Yang
and Gilt.
Full-brothers Kong and Po Yang, both
by Graculus-Pung, brought off an un-
usual but unlucky double for their
owners at Ascot. Each was beaten into
second place, Kong in the Delamere
Trial Hurdle and Po Yang in the Berke-
ley Welter Handicap. Kong, a six-year-
old gelding, owned and trained by T.
Branigan, was backed from twenties down
to tens, and, although beaten by Fighting
Cock, his performance contained a lot
of promise. He is a nice type of hurdler
and, as he was having only his second
race over jumps, is almost certain to im-
prove. Po Yang, a five-year-old mare
owned by A. J. Webb, made a game
attempt to complete the hat-trick —she
had won successive races at Ascot and
Bendigo—but Buoyancy set too fast a
pace for her.
Narrama’s success in the second divi-
sion of the Pembroke Trial Handicap
represented a last-to-first reversal. He
failed to beat a horse home in a mile
Encourage Handicap at Bendigo at his
previous start, but over a furlong shorter
distance on Saturday he finished too well
for the favorite, High Falutin, after the
latter had looked to have the race won.
In view of the lack of support for Nar-
rama, however —he started practically
friendless at 16 to I—his improved form
must have surprised his connections as
much as it did most other people on the
course. He is a five-year-old gelding by
Quiamong-Goldweight, trained by H.
Kilfoyle for S. Chatfield.
Connections of Riviera expected to win
the Oaks with the Portofino filly, but,
although she failed in that race, succes-
sive wins at Caulfield and Ascot have
provided ample compensation. Har-
monic Law, also trained by R. Sinclair,
would have been one of the favorites for
the Ascot Lincolnshire Handicap had he
started, but Sinclair withdrew him at
acceptance time, and left Riviera in. His
judgment was sound, for Riviera, solidly
backed, was never farther back than
fourth,, shared the lead rounding the
turn and won well from Ramdin and
Lord Windburra. She acted right up
to a reported brilliant trial at Williams-
town during the week. The favorite, Lord
Windburra, was one of four horses to
prejudice their chances at barrier-rise.
Miss Burn, Destiny Bay and Grand Song
were the others. Miss Burn might have
been hard to beat with an even start. As
it was, she rushed round the field and
actually hit the front between the three
and two furlongs, but the exertion to
get there left her without anything in
reserve after she had rounded the turn
with Riviera, and she dropped back
fourth at the finish.
* * * *
The only thing surprising in connec-
tion with the clipping of wires in Mel-
bourne on Saturday so as to prevent
broadcasts while a race was in progress
is that it has not happened before. Some
years ago telephone wires were cut at
a provincial meeting outside Sydney.
In America all sorts of interference have
been tried with varying success.
“Jachris”: Technically, the affair in
which land lines carrying broadcast de-
scriptions of the races at Ascot to other
States were cut —in one case before the
last race had begun, and in another while
it was in progress—to admit of an attempt
at a betting-on-a-certainty coup, was
cleverly conceived. 3AW (Victoria)
serves its own State. N.S.W. is served by
three relays—from 3LO to national sta-
tions, from 3DB to 2UW, and from 3XY
to 2UE, 2KY, 2GZ (Orange), 2CA
(Canberra) and 2CK (Cessnock). It was
the wires carrying the 3LO and 3DB de-
scriptions that were cut, though not be-
fore the 3DB man had announced the
start. That seemingly was the only hitch.
From 3AW came the description to Vic-
toria as usual. The 3XY account was be-
lated. At Orange, Lithgow, Newcastle
and Goulburn (N.S.W.), where broad-
casts from local stations were featuring
the belated account, “strangers,” between
the finish of the race and that of the be-
lated broadcast, had backed the winner.
The police theory is that “members of
the gang heard the result from 3AW
by powerful radios in cars parked close
to where bets were to be made.” In the
districts mentioned Victorian stations can
be easily heard in daytime. The incident
recalls the backing of Noreen in Perth
after the 1906 Sydney Cup finish ; but
that is another story.
* * * *
As High Caste has been doing some
sprint work it was thought he might be a
runner for the Villiers Stakes, but that is
not his owner’s intention. High Caste is
a first-class colt, but 8.12 represents 101 b.
over weight-for-age, and it would be set-
ting him a stiff task to win on those
terms in a good handicap field.
*
The principal item of note in connec-
tion with betting on the Villiers Stakes is
the advance of Korimako. On Monday
she was almost up with Bradford, Mil-
dura being the most prominent of the
remainder. Denis, Delmestor and Grey
Derby were together next, while of the
remainder Binnia Hero, Geebung,
Klimop, Red Thespian and Rodborough
were receiving most mention. John Peel
and Malagigi shared favoritism for the
Summer Cup, with Bristol and Own Folk
following, and then Anpapejo, Kurrawid
and L’Aiglon.
* * * *
B. Page, who has been acting as
starter in the Sydney metropolitan area
during J. Gaxieu’s absence through illness,
has made a success of the business, but
Te Hero was too much for him in the
Dundas Handicap at the Rosehill meet-
ing. For a time there seemed a possi-
bility of the Maorilander jumping off, but
he ended by stopping at the post. At
provincial meetings, with runners few, he
might win more races, but seemingly
large fields upset him. It is unfortunate
for an owner to have a brilliant galloper
with Te Hero’s disposition, but it is
understandable that other owners and
trainers are of opinion that he should
now be added to the “not-wanted” divi-
sion. They think he has been given
sufficient opportunity to overcome his
unpleasant ways at the barrier.
« * * »
Apprentice riders will be given a
chance of distinguishing themselves in
the mile Trial Stakes at Tattersall’s meet-
ing at Randwick. It will be open to all
apprentices. Naturally opinions differ,
but in such races I think riding should be
confined to the lesser lights by limiting
the number of wins. It scarcely seems
right that those apprentices who have
shown themselves superior to most of the
licensed jockeys should have mounts.
* * * *
An exchange says that the ex-Austra-
lian jockey B. Carslake, who promises
to wear as well as did John Osborne, has
been giving radio talks in England. Some
of his opinions are bound to bring Eng-
lish old-timers down on him. In discuss-
ing jockeys he said that Archer would
have been hard put to it to hold his own
with some of the present century’s talent.
There was no draw for places in Archer’s
day, and he generally selected his own
post position, which was undoubtedly a
tremendous advantage. Given that privi-
lege some Australian riders would have a
great record in sprint races. English
critics credit Carslake with rarely having
ridden better than this season, and he is
now well past the half-century. He won
the Adelaide Cup on Sport Royal in
1904, and the Doncaster Handicap on
Famous in 1905.
* * * *
“You pressmen are partly to blame
for spoiling some apprentices who give
promise,” commented a Sydney trainer
the other day. “A youngster has only to
ride a few winners in quick succession
and he is photographed and boomed as
if he were quite out of the ordinary.
Some youngsters can stand corn, but
others take newspaper opinions so seri-
ously that it makes it difficult for their
employers. The boys think they have
reached the top, and cannot be told any-
thing. Then, if a trainer attempts to dis-
cipline them in the least by restricting
their mounts, the chances are they (the
trainers) will have the parents down on
them for alleged unfair treatment of
their sons. If an apprentice really does
anything deserving of recognition, give it
him, but don’t overdo praise when one
wins on something that has almost ‘car-
ried him home.’ ”
* * * *
It is often claimed that the present-day
faster times, as compared with earlier
years, are due to greatly improved tracks.
According to many trainers, Rand wick
cannot be included in the latter category,
and they compare it unfavorably with
Victoria Park and Rosebery, to one or
other of which tracks they occasionally
take their horses when they wish to
do something in the way of fast gallop-
ing. Some years ago I heard a Mel-
bourne trainer say, relative to Randwick:
“If a man cannot get horses fit on tracks
like these he doesn’t know his business.”
For a long time past, however, various
visiting trainers have given other tracks
preference when they required something
special of their horses. Exactly to what
it is attributable I cannot say, but Syd-
ney and Melbourne trainers share the
opinion that, for training purposes, Rand-
wick has deteriorated.
a* & $ ae
Considering the number of horses now
schooled in Sydney and the encourage-
ment offered owners, it is surprising so
few good hurdlers have come to light
during the past year. Cheery Jack is the
only development of real account, and,
winner of a Trial Hurdle with 9.2 at
Warwick Farm in December of last year,
he is now rated one of Australia’s best
hurdlers—in fact, not far from the best.
It is a pity he was unable to start in
the last V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle
Race owing to a mishap. Cheery Jack
is getting a long spell, but his owner is
already looking forward to next year’s
Grand National. He is aware his horse
will get a lot of weight, but Cheery Jack


Qlpie^
m
y
5^
W
or
ri
ns
w
©
©
little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
Gordon’s
Gin
in lomLi, fylmd
mmm
I
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
! f 3he Uttyett gin dtitiUM in the woild
TANQUERAY,GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
has built up considerably as a result
of his hurdling experience, and, as he is
only six years old, which is young for
a jumper, he may continue improving for
another season or two.
*•••*'
Syntax has not gone on as well as
anticipated, but Sydney has another good
jumper in Masterpiece. He won at!
two miles and three furlongs at Rand-
wick last autumn, and his recent success
on the flat points to his being an im-
proved horse. He looks up to any weight,
and at seven years he may show himself
a much better hurdler even than when
he won. El Banado is useful, but a long
way from first-class. He has paid ex-
penses this season, and more wins for
him are possible. Keewong is another
who did well, but, on the whole, our
hurdlers have not been up to the standard
of some previous years.
* * * *
So far this season Sydney has seen
only four really good two-year-olds
Broadcaster, Flying Knight, Trueness
and Dark Elegance. The first-mentioned
three brought 450gns., 600gns. and
550gns. respectively at auction as year-
lings. Bearing on their relative
merits, I should say it is probable Broao-
caster was a trifle better in Melbourne
than when he raced in Sydney, though
there was nothing fluky in his defeat by
Flying Knight in the Breeders’ Plate.
However, Flying Knight is a nippier type
than Broadcaster, and for that reason
I think the latter is likely to make
greater progress by the autumn.
Trueness defeated Dark Elegance in
the Gimcrack Stakes, and also won in
Melbourne, but if they were to meet
now at five furlongs I should be in-
clined to give the latter preference. Her
pace is undeniable, and it is possible she
is staying a little better than when she
so narrowly missed the Gimcrack Stakes.
In the Kirkham Stakes she cleared right
out from her opponents in the straight,
winning by five lengths in time a second
and a quarter faster than Many Ways
recorded in the Nursery Handicap earlier
in . the day. Her for five furlongs
was much the same as Anne’s 1.121
for six in the Camden Handicap, and
she carried 31b. more than the latter. In
her present form Dark Elegance would
trouble the best of the colts.
* * * *
Ex-Australian W. Johnstone was riding
so well when the war caused suspension
Of racing in France that he had an
excellent chance of heading this year’s
jockeys’ list in that country. When
racing stopped he was rapidly over-
hauling the leader, T. Rochetti, who had
won 67 of the 412 races in which he
had ridden, against Johnstone’s 60 wins
from 351 mounts. Dupuit was next
with 43. In percentage C. Elliott was
an easy first, with 25 wins from 102
mounts. The trainer who had done best
on the flat was C. Barriller, who had 86
wins from 511 starts, next to him coming
H. Count, with 39 winners from 230
runners. It is not surprising Barriller’s
wins were numerous, as during the
season he generally had over 100 horses
in work. Most of his wins were in
small handicaps and selling plates.
* * * *
England has some great yearling-
buyers. Lord Glanely, Miss D. Paget
and J. V. Rank are of the number. The
last-named has been a good customer for
Sledmere Stud yearlings, paying 3000 gns.
for Scottish Union, 3600gns. for Buoyant,
and last year 13,000gns. for the colt by
Bahram out of Trustful. This year the
Sledmere youngsters were catalogued for
Doncaster, and, when those sales were
abandoned owing to the war, Rank
bought the six colts that were to have
been offered. It must have meant heavy
expenditure, as there is always keen com-
petition for Sledmere youngsters.
n: * * *
American racing clubs, as a whole,
believe in keeping the horses as close to
the spectators as possible. Consequently
tracks of nine furlongs in circumference
—or even less —are more favored than
any longer distance. Belmont Park (New
York’s principal course) has a mile and
a half track, but it is said it will not occa-
sion surprise if this is cut down to nine
furlongs, while Aqueduct (another New
York track) is being reduced from a mile
and a quarter to a mile. If Belmont
Park’s circumference is lessened to the
extent suggested, that will leave Sara-
toga’s mile and a quarter the biggest
track in the State of New York.
* * * *
The spring and early summer months
are generally regarded as disadvantageous
to mares, but over the last 18 years they
have a good record in the Carrington
Stakes. Winners during that period were
Etive, Tressie, Valicare, Gay Ballerina,
Pavilion, Dame Moab, Brown Baroness
and Delmestor, while Trimacre, Valais
Queen, Persuasion, Whitta, Raisin,
Lucre, Porcia and Early Bird ran second.
Delmestor’s 8.13 was the most carried by
any of those mentioned. Up to the end
of December the w.f.a. scale provides
for 51b. allowance for mares, but many
have shown to greater advantage in that
month and January than at any other
time.
* * * *
Maoriland National Sales are sure to
draw many Australian buyers to Welling-
ton in January. As usual, the sales will
be jointly conducted by Wright, Stephen-
son and Co. (Wellington), W. Inglis and
Son (Sydney) and Pyne, Gould and Guin-
ness (Christchurch). For the coming sales
220 yearlings are catalogued, represent-
ing 55 different sires and 120 breeders.
Bulandshar (sire of High Caste) and
Tiderace (son of Fairway) head the list
with 15 each, followed by Phaleron Bay
with 14. Foxbridge is also strongly rep-
resented. There are not many youngsters
by Defoe, who never serves more than
15 mares in a season. Still, they may
include another Defaulter.
There are some newcomers in the cata-
logue, these including Man’s Pal (by
Manna), while Sandwich, Blandonian and
Thrapston are represented by youngsters
sired in England. Among other sires are
Hunting Song, Iliad, Nightmarch, Sieg-
fried, Tidal, Vaals, Solicitor-General,
Lord Quex, Matarma, Colossus, Captain
Bunsby, Gascony, Nightly, Pombal, Ring-
master, Lerghon, Inflation, Safari, Lack--
ham, Foxlight, Theio and St. Boswells,
so buyers will not be limited in their
choice. After the yearling sales there
are some stud dispersals, and a ship-
ment of English colts and fillies will also
be offered.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes has won a fair number
of races, but he has already had his share
of disappointments. When Rival Chief
decisively won the Canonbury Stakes he
looked like developing into a horse above
the average. It was his only placing
last season, and, though he won a divi-
sion of a Flying Handicap at Rosebery
a few weeks ago, he still continues to fall
far short of early promise. He ran in
the Farm Progressive Handicap on Satur-
day with 121 b. from the minimum, and
as he beat only two home in a field of
18 further success for him seems a long
way off. He is not the only two-year-
old successful at last year’s A.J.C. spring
meeting that has fallen short of expecta-
tions. The Breeders’ Plate dead-heaters.
Beaucaire and Royal Sceptre, have not
added to their wins.
* * * *
Of jockeys who will be riding in the
Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup, E.
Bartle has the best record in those races.
His Villiers Stakes winners are Pavilion,
Closing Time and King’s Head; and he
won the Summer Cup on Braille in 1920
and again the following year on King of
the Forest. His subsequent winners were
Dalston and Young Crusader. McCarten,
D. Munro and A. Knox are others of
present-day riders who have also won
both races. Although Bartle later showed
all-round form, backers had little liking
for him in sprints in his earlier days.
With experience he developed the nippi-
ness necessary in the early part of such
races, and still possesses it.
* * * *
H. Beasley, who was one of the famous
amateur riders in his day, died in Ire-
land in October at the age of 87. When
he was over 70 he rode a winner at the
Punchestown meeting, and would have
ridden there subsequently, only that he
was restrained by his jockey sons, Pat,
Harry and Willie. Beasley, who did a
great deal of riding over the jumps, used
to say he had every bone in his body
broken at least twice. He trained and
rode Come Away, the 1891 Liverpool
Grand National winner.
* * * *
When, at the beginning of the war, the
Betting Control Board decided the totali-
sator should not again be used in Eng-
land this year, it was in the belief there
would be so little racing, and with such
poor attendances, that the machine would
not pay expenses. However, the an-
nouncement that there would be 20 days
of jumping meetings from the last week
in November to the end of December
made a difference, and the tote again
became operative.
It will continue so right throughout the
regular jumping season, which concludes
towards the end of March. This spoilt
bookmakers’ visions of a good season, as
a result of no tote opposition and a low
fee for standing up, instead of up to five
times the amount charged the ordinary
racegoer for admission. Bookmakers are
not licensed in England, but the Betting
Act provides for extra admission pay-
ment by them to racing clubs. At the
two days of the Cambridgeshire meeting
in October the “books” were charged the
same rate as the general public—grand-
stand and paddock 15s. and 3s. tax. How
thoroughly Sydney bookmakers would
appreciate doing business at Randwick on
those terms.
* * * *
Reports of substantial starting-price
coups brought off in Sydney point to
“off the course” business again being on
the up-grade. Admittedly it has re-
covered to some extent from the atten-
tion it received from the police last year,
but it is improbable that it provides
opportunity for backing horses for the
large amounts possible at one period. As
clubs are not complaining that there is
any falling off in attendance at their
meetings, they must be satisfied that
starting-price betting is not rampant, and
that wins of many thousands are news-
paper stories.
* * * *
Among the several interesting racing
writers I met during a short stay in
England some years ago was Willie
Standring, who writes for the London
“Sporting Life” under the pen-name of
“Warren Hill.” In some recent reminis-
cences of training at Newmarket he
mentioned Robert Roderigo who, in his
day, was known as the “King of the
touts.” At one period Roderigo was
warned off Newmarket because of his
alleged rudeness to Lord Calthorpe, a
member of the Jockey Club. One morn-
ing that nobleman, who was watching a
string of horses, not his own, on the
heath at Newmarket, sharply asked
Roderigo, who was in the vicinity, what
he was doing there. “Same as you;
watching what other people’s horses do,”
was the reply.
The upshot was a warning-off notice
which inspired Roderigo to build an
“observatory” on the top of his house,
situate in one of the highest parts of New-
market, and commanding a view of the
training grounds. Here he rigged up a
telescope, with swivel attachment, and
he missed few gallops of any importance.
It was Sir Charles Russell, then legal
adviser to the Jockey Club, who found
a way out of the warning-off difficulty,
and since then no obstacles have been
placed in the way of those who report
the gallops.
* * * *
“Benn”: Queensland racegoers are
racking their brains to remember a
bigger horse than Glarrydon, a maiden
performer who won his first race on
November 18 on the sharp-cornered sand
track at Albion. Glarrydon stands 17
hands and is out and away the mightiest
horse in size running in the northopolis.
How he lumbered round the corners is
still something of a mystery.
Nineteenth Hole
(By JIM FERRIER .)
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
Alteration of the manner in which the
Australian championships are conducted
is to be considered at a meeting in March.
The idea was first mooted in Melbourne
in August during the national champion-
ship meeting, but the new proposals
didn’t find many supporters among either
players or inter-State delegates.
The suggested alterations seem to have
been put forward with little thought as to
the players themselves. Commencing
with the amateur foursomes champion-
ship on the Monday over 36 holes, the
inter-State matches are to occupy Tues-
day and Wednesday; then the amateur
championship starts on Thursday and
concludes on the following Wednesday.
During the three days immediately
following, the open championship of 72
holes stroke play is held. In this pro-
gramme it is proposed that there should
be no qualifying rounds for the amateur
championship, which is to be one big
draw, with 18-hole matches and a 36-hole
final. The professional championship is
to be abandoned and the prize-money in
the open increased slightly.
• •••••
Looking at the programme from a
player’s point of view it doesn’t com-
pare with the present methods of play.
Severing the amateur championship from
the open and making it a separate event
doesn’t make much difference, but no
qualifying rounds and 18-hole matches!
Eighteen-hole games are no test of
golf under modern conditions, for
the element of luck, which usually evens
out over a 36-hole match, sometimes
allows an inferior player having an excep-
tional run to beat his opponent.
Some few years ago both New South
Wales and Victoria tried this way of de-
ciding their State championships, but


GIVE HEALTH
m
Ik
£
V 1
MX
C
fsisf
<&■
a
\&V<
%
V
*
z
%
TAS
MAN
lAN
1
•%
<kC
2
&P
Aff
ft
-CL
~Sfe
CIDER
IT has the sparkle and bod/ of champagne . . . it’s alive with the
freshness, tang and goodness of the apple. Mercury Sparkling
Cider is energising . . . exhilarating ... a healthful and delicious
beverage, rich in all the vitamins of rosy, sun-ripened Tasmanian
apples. Mercury Sparkling Cider is a welcome present .. . give
your friend a dozen ! Leading hotels will deliver Mercury to
any address.
acE n t s
SWIFT E COMPANY. PTY.,LTD.
26-30 CLARENCE ST. SYDNEY ‘PHONE B 7377
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1945 of 1939.
BETWEEN MYRA AILEEN NISBET Peti-
tioner
And JOHN NISBET Respondent.
TO JOHN NISBET formerly of 27 Joyners
Street Westmead Sydney but now of parts
unknown Naval Rating.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MYRA
AILEEN NISBET has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court before the First day of
March 1940 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of December,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. MORRIS DUNKLEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1799 of 1939.
BETWEEN ELLEN CAMERON Petitioner
And ALEXANDER WALLACE
CAMERON Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER WALLACE CAMERON
formerly of “Koahale” Princes Avenue
Vaucluse Sydney but now of parts un-
known Overseer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN
CAMERON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion during three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court before the First day of March 1940 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge. „
DATED this Eleventh day of December,
1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. MORRIS DUNKLEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2205 of 1939.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN JESSIE WYNDRUM
Petitioner
And PERCIVAL SINCLAIR WYNDRUM
Respondent. , ,
TO PERCIVAL SINCLAIR WYNDRUM also
known as Percival Sinclair Armour for-
merly of 32 Patterson Street Concord m
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
JESSIE WYNDRUM has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit in the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Thirteenth day of March One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined notwithstand-
ing your absence. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had by you on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this Eleventh day of December, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. R. THOMSON, Solicitor for Petitioner,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1952 of 1939.
BETWEEN ADA EVANS Petitioner
And WILLIAM VALENTINE EVANS
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM VALENTINE EVANS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADA EVANS
has commenced a suit against you in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twelfth
day of March next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of December,
1939
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ROWLEY, ROSEBY & CO., Solicitors, 107-9
Elizabeth Street, Sydney; Town Agents for
NEIL STEWART, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Wangaratta, Victoria.
dropped the idea as being unsound. In a
country like Australia, where players are
called upon to travel long distances to
the national championships, the con-
ditions of play should be made less
strenuous rather than more. The current
proposal would mean that, after battling
through six days to reach the final of the
amateur championship, those left in
would start next day to play in the most
difficult and trying event of all —the open.
• • • • • •
At present the open concludes on a
Saturday, and the leading 16 amateurs in
the event begin on the Monday playing-
off in 36-hole matches after a much-
needed day’s break. Modern champion-
ship golf calls for high-class play and con-
sistently brilliant scoring, but were this
idea to be brought into force I can’t see
a leading amateur, after struggling
through his championship, ever winning
the open.
The present methods have produced fit-
ting winners of open, amateur and pro-
fessional events for many years. Why
alter them, and why abandon the pro-
fessional championship? With the best
professionals attracted to the open, there
should always be a championship for
them as well as the amateurs. Another
point against the suggested changes that
the first prize for a pro. of £lOO is re-
duced to £65 if an amateur is successful
in the open. The total prize-money of
£175 is reduced to £135.
I pride myself on getting into tiptop
condition, both physically and mentally,
for the national championships, but if
these changes are made I would find it
necessary to miss foursomes and inter-
state fixtures. I have never heard any
criticism of the present conditions, which
undoubtedly have improved the standard
of Australian golf.
One alteration there should be—more
prize-money for professionals. This is
the only feature of our golf that does
not compare with overseas tournaments.
The professionals are in the game for a
living, and to offer the winner of an open
championship £lOO is paltry. An open
should be worth at least £5OO to a pro.
* * * *
During a visit to Goulburn (N.S.W.)
last Sunday I struck one of the finest
country courses I have played on. Ex-
ceptionally well laid out and possessing
many fine and testing holes, it measures
6154 yards and has a par of 72. With
slight alterations the course could be put
into the champion class ; at present it is
the equal of several of the Sydney clubs,
and interesting to both the scratch and
handicap golfer. The greens are well
kept, true and evenly paced, and
are unlike most country greens in
that the ball can ba pitched well
up to the flag. J. Senior, the Royal Can-
berra amateur, and myself defeated
j. p et terson and W. Holder, 4 and 3.
Senior, a promising young golfer with a
deliberate swing and a bagful of shots,
had a round of 68, which, com-
bined with my 62, gave us a best-ball of
60.
"
Ins and Outs
NOT OUT.
{Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Astonishing has been the consistency
of Don Bradman ever since he made his
first appearance in the N.S.W. eleven in
1927. That match was against S.A., and
Don started with a century (118). He was
then a country youth of 19, but by no
means raw. On the contrary, he proved
himself self-possessed, with a wonderful
eye, an analytical brain and a nervous
system under complete control.
......
The responsibilities of leadership often
interfere with the concentration of a
batsman on his own cricket. As captain,
state or Australian, Bradman has shown
t h at j t j s not so w fih him.
......
Now in his 32nd year, Bradman
played one of his really great knocks for
S.A. v. N.S.W. at Adelaide on Saturday:
251 not out out of 430, giving his side a
lead of 94 on the first innings. In flaw-
less skill and in attacking genius, shown
a t its highest when the side was in a
difficult position, that innings takes rank
with almost anything that Don has ever
done. Batting 4 hours 31 minutes he
hit 36 fours and two sixes,
• ••••*
It was Bradman’s 33rd 200 in first-
class matches. Moreover, he completed
his thousand runs against N.S.W. (1009
at 144). In four innings against his
native State he has made 633 runs for
once out —104 not out, 143, 135 not out
and 251 not out.
Though Bill O’Reilly took 5 for 108
he could discern no weak spot in the
Bradman armor.
S. J. McCabe (40 and 47) was l.b.w. in
each Adelaide innings to Grimmett. The
little bowler had not previously had any
particular success against the Sydney
dasher. But Solomon (131 and 46) was the
outstanding N.S.W. batsman. Old hands
compared the fire in Solomon’s driving
with that of big Jack Lyons in his four
Adelaide centuries against Victoria.
South Australian stars of the ball were
peppered on Friday. Colts selected as
batsmen got wickets cheaply. Last
season Klose was a Prospect club-mate
of Cotton, whose bag was 25 wickets at
15. Klose captured 3 at 76. Tregonning
topped Adelaide University batting
averages, but did not bowl at all for the
team in 1938-39. On Friday Klose got
4 for 23 and Tregonning 1 for 9. On
Saturday and Monday Grimmett came
off, getting six wickets for 122 and settling
N.S.W.’s chance of pulling the match out
of the fire. S.A. knocked off the runs
required for the loss of three wickets.
Bradman then was 90 not out.
* * * *
G. Tamblyn as an opening batsman
has already made good for Victoria: 67,
27 and 107 are scores to awaken Com-
monwealth interest in the St. Kilda bats-
man.
When A. L. Hassett was snapped up by
Don Tallon off Dixon for 83, he had
been looking sure to get his third century
in successive matches against Queensland.
In any case, he, Lee (52) and Tamblyn
had already given Victoria assurance of a
substantial first-innings lead..
D. Ring, Victoria’s spin bowler, showed
promise last summer which he is now
redeeming. He has done best for his
State so far. Moreover, he bagged Brad-
man’s wicket at Adelaide recently.
• ••••*
The Victorian batsmen treated C.
Christ’s bowling with the respect gener-
ally given to good length. He kept them
quiet. Looking far ahead Christ may
develop into the left-hander for next tour
of England.
V * * *
P. Neal, who hit five successive sixes
in an over off C. Richardson for Rand-
wick v. Glebe in Sydney’s premiership
at Jubilee Oval, is chosen as a bowler.
Last season his cricket was mainly with
Paddington second eleven. As a right-
hand medium-pace bowler he did well,
but made few runs.
* * * *
Saggers, the Marrickville wicket-
keeper, repeated the Paddington century
last Saturday with 140 against Mosman.
Apart from his wicketkeeping—which is
quite good —Saggers is worthy of Shield
honors on form. Many expect to see him
in the eleven for the Sydney matches.
* * * *
The star turn at Brisbane on Saturday
was J. Coats’s 217 for North Brisbane v.
West, when facing a total of 281. With
four down for 417, North won hand-
somely, Montgomery helping with 97.
Brisbane cricket is improving, with im-
proved wickets a factor.
* * * *
Tom McKibbin, the old international
cricketer, is dead in N.S.W. at 70. He
was educated at All Saints’ College,
Bathurst, where as a boy he admired
the huge hits of George Bonnor. Though
he used to limp when walkings—through
injury to his right ankle —McKibbin
was a slick runner on cricket and Rugby
football fields. He was a good man at
billiards, tennis and rifle-shooting as well.
But his fame rested on off-break bowl-
ing. Jim Phillips, who umpired for Stod-
dart’s team in 1894-95, said he knew of
no other bowler who could make the ball
break so much from the off on a first-
class wicket. George Giffen said the
same. In this they were confirmed by
Tom’s exploits in England in 1896, when
he surpassed the older bowlers in the
side.
McKibbin had never seen a first-class
match until he was selected for N.S.W.
against Stoddart’s team in 1894. He had
come down from Bathurst for Country
Week in Sydney. In Combined Country
v. Metropolis, Charlie Bannerman no-
balled him several times for throwing.
Later, however, old Charlie passed his
bowling. After retiring from cricket
McKibbin lived in Westralia for a time,
but finally settled on the land in Bathurst.
Versatile in sport and a volatile spirit, he
retained his buoyant interest in the games
of the field.
From London: Europe got its seventh
bridge championship safely over just
before the war started. The competition
is just as keen as that for the Davis Cup,
though it does not get one-tenth of the
publicity ; and the results are a steady
surprise to those who imagine that bridge
is a British game. Britain has never yet
been better than fourth. The Austrians
were great while they existed, and won
it three times, their Hungarian neighbors
twice, and France once. This year Britain
was only sixth, with the placings:
Sweden, Yugoslavia, Germany, Hol-
land, Hungary, Britain, Belgium, Nor-
way, Finland, Denmark and Italy. France
was for some reason not competing ; but
its women were, and won, from Britain,
Holland and Denmark.


btu
AT THE
WILL MAHONEY.
Evie Hayes. Scott Sanders.
And New Variety Acts from Overseas.
SALICI’S PARISIAN PUPPETS.
Bobby Morris and New Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Rulers of the Sea,” Etc.
Among the collection of brief items
that make up the support fare in the cur-
rent bill at Sydney Prince Edward is a
presentation of the song, “Thanks for the
Memory,” which won the American Aca-
demy gold-tipped doughnut as the year’s
best excuse for warbling in the bath-
room.
A duet, it is, of course, crooned; but
it’s either a refined sort of crooning or
else present commentator’s aural appa-
ratus has been thrown off its hinges by
years of listening to this peculiarly
American form of vocal expression. It
was sung without any noticeable effort
by a male and female crooner who kept
their mouths open throughout the per-
formance but produced the sounds they
were making entirely through their nasal
organ. Yet there seemed to be quite a
passable sort of melody in it, of the kind
called “haunting.” Present scribe, there-
fore, has arranged to see an ear doctor,
and won’t be insulted if anybody sug-
gests an alienist as well.
* * * *
Prince Edward’s main item is a bois-
terous stretch of action melodrama,
“Rulers of the Sea,” dealing with the
well-worn but evidently very popular
theme of spurned genius struggling to
get a hearing, being greeted everywhere
with the loud ha-ha! but bravely carry-
ing on and eventually winning against
the odds. In this case the genius is a
homely old Scot working in a shipyard
on sailing craft, but making at home the
model of an engine that is destined,
after the usual run of ups and downs, to
knock sail out of the running.
It’s a patchy film. Parts of it —almost
every bit in which Will Fyffe figures—
have a touch of real class. Kept up to
this standard it would have been a
masterpiece. Unfortunately, it shifts from
good to very bad so repeatedly as to give
an impression of its having been made
under two entirely different directors.
The old Scot is an excellent bit of
character-acting by the old reliable Will
Fyffe. He makes the part completely
convincing ; is so very good in his genial
style that the poor stretches of the film
can be easily borne with in the hope
of seeing him again. He’s well supported
by young Fairbanks, who is improving
out of recognition in open-air romantic
hero parts. Fyffe provides the brains,
Fairbanks the energy, and Margaret
Lockwood, as Fyffe’s daughter, adds the
feminine interest in a partnership that
would have been a thousand times more
interesting if only the lady had been a
thousand times less wooden.
* * * *
Shorts at the P.E. include Popeye
enacting the title role in “Aladdin and
His Wonderful Lamp” —far and away the
least handsome, not to say the coarsest,
pantomime hero ever witnessed. All to
the good; he’s an uproar. The genie
represents an even more startling de-
parture from traditional usage. To speak
plainly, he’s a pansy. On top of that,
he takes sides, doing the villain’s dirty
work only when flogged into it. Hitherto,
every genie present fantodologist ever en-
countered was as strictly neutral as
Switzerland. This chap —as regards his
neutrality only, of course —seems more to
represent Uncle Sam.
* * * *
“The Old Maid”
The best and moving qualities of this
current Sydney Century film are occa-
sionally adulterated with an injection of
syrup and with Miss Bette Davis’s inclina-
tion to be a great tragedienne. That Miss
Davis is a very fine actress is not denied
for a moment. But, recently, successive
films have so bathed her in tragedy that
she is beginning to display a noticeable
predilection to wallow.
This current story concerns a woman
who has a child to her sister’s lover.
Sister marries money and settles down to
a life of affluence, taking child and
mother under her roof. Child accepts
sister as her mother, and Miss Davis
grows old and bitter watching her illegi-
timate offspring flourish under the care
of her adopted parent.
Miss Davis’s performance is grim and
successful, as witnessed by the sniffles
and tear-sodden handkerchiefs of the
ladies at the Century, but it is strongly
reminiscent of an old maid playing the
role of Bette Davis. Miriam Hopkins as
the wealthy sister is much more alive and
natural.
* * * *
A current short purporting to show
nine French ’planes in “thrilling com-
bat” with 27 Nazi ’planes tends rather
to demonstrate how much better fictional
representation is than photographs of
the real thing, regarded as entertain-
ment. In the film of the actual air fight-
ing in France there is abundant inci-
dental noise—so much that it’s a bit
suspect, unless they do their fighting these
days 100 ft. or so from the ground. Pic-
torially, it’s all very vague and hazy,
except for early shots of nine French
’planes setting out, and they, of course,
could be any nine ’planes of similar type,
photographed at any old time. A couple
of ’planes are somewhat dimly seen
hurtling to earth out of control.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Gaslight”
As thrillers go, Sydney Minerva’s latest
is a comparatively unthreatening piece of
Fairbanks, jun., sees Will Fyffe more or less safely home in “Rulers of the Sea,”
at Sydney Prince Edward.
work. To a certain extent it resembles
“Night Must Fall” in that it’s a straight-
out study of a murderer without any old
herrings or false suspense. But in “Night
Must Fall” the murderer is a homicidal
maniac and the girl, though knowing that,
is attracted to him by a morbid infatua-
tion. There isn’t that drama in “Gas-
light.”
In the first act the Manninghams’ draw-
ing-room is invaded by a detective who
tells Mrs. Manningham that her husband
cut a woman’s throat 20 years earlier in
an attempt to lift several thousand quids’
worth of rubies. He failed to find the
loot, and waited nearly 20 years until he
could rent the house and search for it
again.
At that stage the whole play is exposed.
Mrs. Manningham knows that what she
thought were signs of her approaching
insanity are only incidents in her hus-
band’s elaborate scheme to be rid of her.
She knows he is a murderer, and the rest
of the drama —two acts —rests on his
return to the house and arrest by the
police, conveniently waiting around the
corner.
The calculating murderer of “Gas-
light,” killing with a definite object, is
neither as horrifying nor as interesting as
the homicidal maniac of “Night Must
Fall.” Nor is there any real attempt to
make him so by investigating his mind.
Lloyd Lamble interpreted the sinister as
an overbearing calmness.
Hilda Scurr as Mrs. Manningham, be-
lieving herself to be going insane and
slowly being driven that way by her hus-
band, had better opportunity. The whole
play is reflected in her role, and there
are some good moments when she is spar-
ring with her husband after she is aware
of his real identity. Of her last and best
chance, however, when she returns to
taunt her husband after the police have
nabbed him, she made a hysterical scene
when it could have been a masterpiece of
quiet understatement.
Frank Bradley made a rich rural figure
of the retired detective; Pat McDonald
and Erna Living were two good servants.
* , *. * . * „
As a broadcasting entertainment AJ3.C.
sponsored a performance in Sydney Town
Hall of Schubert s Mass in E Flat, with
Sydney Symphony Orchestra, Sydney
Radio Choir and Wireless Chorus, aug-
mented by members of the Hurlstone
Choral Society, and five excellent soloists,
Prof. Bernard Heinze conducted the work
(which was written in the last year of
Schubert’s life and contains some of his
rare excursions into fugal writing) in the
proper devotional spirit. Orchestra was
adequate, but the choir could have done
with more rehearsals.
Broadcasting transmission was poor,
the band, instead of preserving equality
with the singers, being ever in the fore-
front, though the distribution of voices
as heard in the body of the hall was well
balanced.
Second part of the programme (not
broadcast) was given over to a really fine
rendition of the Cesar Franck Symphony,
The orchestra has never shaped better
under the most exalted of imported con-
ductors, and the long-continued tumult
of applause that followed was well de-
served. Once again the box-office patrons
got the pick of the basket.
For‘its performance of Handel's
“Messiah” at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night, Sydney Phil, co-operated
with the Hurlstone Choral Society. An
innovation was a relay of conductors,
Vern Barnett following V. W. Peterson.
Choral singing was well drilled ; orches-
tral support adequate. Soloists Elsie
Findlay, Jessie Shaw and Godfrey Stirling
did their best with arias which were a
little beyond their calibre. Stanley Clark-
son, basso, was more successful.
it: * * *
The Presbyterian Oratorio Choir, the
Malvern Choral Society, the Baptist
Assembly Choir and the St. Paul’s
Cathedral Old Boys’ Choir united in an
undenominational attack on Handel’s
glorious “Messiah” at Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday under Herbert Davis’s
baton, with soprano Freda Treweek,
contralto Frances Forbes, tenor Jephcott
and basso Lasslett as soloists. Miss Tre-
week is a tried oratorio singer and sang
“Come Unto Him, All Ye That Labor”
magnificently. Miss Forbes has a lovely
voice and used it to effect in “He Shall
Feed His Flock.” The basso and tenor
shared male honors. Lack of sufficient
rehearsal may have accounted for some
of the choruses sounding muffled, and
“Surely” has been heard to more thrilling
effect on other occasions, but the “Halle-
lujah” and “Amen” more than came up
to expectations. Conductor Davis is a
model of self-effacement and deserved
the ovation he got at the finish.
* * * *
Jeanne Gautier, the French violinist
imported by the A.8.C., fiddled for a
small audience at the Assembly Hall,
Melbourne. Her most arresting achieve-
ment was the “Suite Italienne” of
Stravinsky, whose name has become
synonymous for modernity. There was
nothing out of the way in this piece, how-
ever, and Miss Gautier played its 11
short movements with delicacy and re-
finement. This was her only solo appear-
ance in Melbourne, but she was billed to
appear at the second free Sydney Myer
concert at the Town Hall.
Arthur sts.
General Australian experience hitherto
has been that war-time is a poor time for
painters. But in Sydney and Melbourne
this war seems to have given Art an
impetus.
The big Modern Art Show, of course,
was arranged before hostilities broke out,
but every week hitherto has seen an out-
crop of shows by local artists in larger
numbers than has been the case for years.
And buyers, instead of being deterred by
rising taxation and living costs, as has
been the case during former wars, seem
to be opening their purse-strings more
generously.
Taking into account the big prices paid
by Sydney and Melbourne gallery trustees
for imported impressionist works, sales
during the last 15 weeks must pretty
nearly constitute a record for such a
period.
Annual show of East
Sydney Technical College,
at the N. S. Wales Edu-
cation Dept.’s Gallery,
covers a wide range of
pure and applied art.
Majority of the exhibits
are unsigned, and there
were no catalogues on tap
when this critic made his
round, so comments must
be general. Some of the
posters and decorative de-
signs are first-class; most
students seem to be sound
in design, whatever they
are in execution.
Douglas Watson, who
has a wall to himself and
overflows on to another,
seems to have tackled
every medium of graphic
expression, and shows
facility in all. Yvonne le
Gros is a modeller of real
talent; she has strength
and grace at her fingertips.
Monica McArdell, Lorna
Munro, Jean Farleigh and
Margaret Mort are stu-
dents whose work is iden-
tifiable and who show
promise.
At the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney,
is the first show of a young painter,
William J. Spencer. He paints figures,
landscapes and seascapes in oil and in
water-color, and in most of his efforts
has bitten off more than he can chew.
But his courage is boundless and his
“Beethoven,” “Charge of the Light
Brigade” and “Rocky Shore” give en-
couraging glimpses of what his work may
be when he has broadened his style (at
present a bit tight and hard) and decided
upon what field best suits his talents.
* * * Me
Mussolini scowls under a beetling brow
at the Pope, Rasputin glares through his
whiskers at the Duke of Kent, Hitler
takes no notice of Josef Stalin, and
Landru, the French Bluebeard, ignores
the presence of Ned Kelly in a display
of sculpture which has been opened in
the basement of Newspaper House, Mel-
bourne.
The sculptor is ,a Czech who was
trained at the Beaux Arts in Paris, and
his medium is the fatty excrement of the
bee —in other words, they are waxworks.
It is probably inherent in the medium
that a waxwork always looks like a wax-
work, even when it gives the observer a
momentary shock and he thinks he is
looking at a human being. The best of
Antoine’s productions is his Holiness,
who is a dignified-looking figure, and the
worst is the Duchess of Windsor. If she
really looks like that, Edward Windsor’s
abdication becomes a profounder mystery
than ever.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
%
m
Ml
ft ti
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood ; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
g>y&nry (grammar S>rl]rnnl
Spiral 3?m*sr
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927,
conducted under the direction of the Trustees by
a School House Board. Early application for 1940
is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER ,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The most heartening sight of last week
was a small boy in a northern-suburbs
street standing on the top rung of a
ladder. He was polishing the window-
panes of his mother’s sitting-room and
singing at the top of his treble —not “The
Siegfried Line,” nor any martial tune.
As he polished he sang:
He came from His high throne
To Bethlehem, a stranger.
He had no house or home,
And His bed was a manger!
“Gaslight” was turned on for Minerva
first-nighters last Saturday. The Dar-
linghurst theatre drew a shimmery, rather
dazzling audience, among the interested
being Mrs. R. G. Casey, wife of the
Minister of Supply. She came with Mrs.
Leon Lyons. Ginette Scamps’s white silk
pique outfit was made dashing by black
embroideries. Betty Munro’s long white
skirt was topped by a red-and-white-
checked taffeta blouse. Robin Eakin was
swathed in wistaria-toned chiffons. The
Princess Radziwill decorated a box with
poinsettia-red frock and silver-fox furs.
Barbara Dare and Diana Downes were
there.
An appetiser to the Monte Carlo
Russian Ballet which will spring into
action at the end of December was last
week’s ballet matinee. For this the
Theatre Royal was sold out beforehand.
Everybody in the social spotlight had
bought tickets. Lady Gowrie bought a
packet. The French-Australian League
of Help promoted the entertainment, and
Frances Scully and her school of ballet
did the rest. The haunting beauty of
“The Sylphides” was the afternoon’s
big work. Our own Audrae Swayn was
a lyric on tiptoe. Isobel Anderson, too,
gave pleasure.
Members of Sydney’s last visiting
ballet, Tamara Tchinarova and Valentin
Zeglovsky, gave professional touches.
The wife of Denmark’s Vice-Consul
Erik Fischer had done her bit by coach-
ing some of the young performers.
Stephanie Edye’s dances added a Spanish
flavor. Consul-General for France
Tremoulet was in the audience ; so was
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who had worked
morning, afternoon and night to make
the affair a success. Mrs. Playoust, Mrs.
Brenac, Brazilian singer Olga Coelho,
Mrs. Pierre Remond, Mrs. Carleton
Kelly and the Jordan lady were among
the entertaining and entertained.
The Christmas party of the Lance
Fallaws could almost claim to be
international. French, English, Austra-
lian and a dash of Irish were all talking
their heads off over cocktails, limejuice
drinks and savories of every nation. The
Fallaws live in one of the pleasant
homes of Cremorne, and the party filled
the rooms with neighbors as well as city-
siders. Writer Ivy Moore brought in a
breath of the Navy when she arrived with
her smartly-uniformed son Jim and his
best girl. Writers present included Jennie
Ranken and Dora Payter. Professor
Shellshear and Mrs. Shellshear were
among the scientific group. Hostess’s
printed silks were trig and crisp in spite
of the sizzling mercury.
The signatures of 45 doctors are en-
graved on the solid silver salver given to
Dr. Walter Burfitt last Saturday night.
The salver, with speeches of affection
and eulogy, was handed to the doctor
by the staff of Lewisham, with which
hospital Dr. Burfitt has been associated
for almost 40 years. A dinner at the
Royal Sydney Golf Club surrounded the
presentation.
At least one listener to the Chinese
orchestra at the Musical Association was
whisked back to childhood days and the
thickly-populous streets of Hong Kong.
There is a sort of bitter sweetness about
the music of the drum and the gong and
the stringed instruments, to which the
audience turned an attentive ear. Pekin
blues, rose-reds, peacock greens, golds
and silvers flashed in the rich brocades
of the players’ national costumes—quite
a dazzle of color. There was scarcely
foothold for the vast crowds who, despite
the heat of the night, had come along to
make a gala for Gladys Moncrieff.
Gladys was the guest of honor, and some
millionaire admirer had sent along that
pale mauve orchid she wore in her ivory
crepe frock.
President of the women’s committee,
Mrs. Hope Gibson, looked as cool as an
ice cube in her flower-sprinkled geor-
gettes. That was a bit of an achievement
after giving her own Christmas party in
the afternoon. China’s Consul-General
and Mrs. Pao were there. Ernest Lash-
mar, Lindley Evans and Alfred Hill all
spoke to the glory of the Moncrieff notes.
Mrs. A. E. McCartney brought a pretty
daughter. The F. J. Davys and the Ernest
Lashmars were among those seated within
the dining-room for supper. The Clancys
of the Overflow spread out into the
lounges.
This is Mrs. S.'S. Crick, Sydney’s new
Mayoress, who starts her civic duties at
the beginning of the New Year. Her
home at Wahroonga is surrounded by
nearly six acres of garden. Yachting is
OMe of her pastimes, and she is the owner
of Mosaic. Photograph by Dayne.
The Australia simply buzzed on Satur-
day night with the meetings and greet-
ings of the Roland Fosters’ wedding re-
ception. It took the ballroom to hold the
guests, and the scene was as blithe as a
fragment of light Italian opera. Indeed,
there were so many singers and musi-
cians it wouldn’t have surprised this
Letter if the party had suddenly resolved
itself into an opera. Perhaps this sug-
gestion was strongest when Hilda Mulli-
gan, Roland’s conspirator at the Con.
Opera School, was at hand. The bride, too,
known to Sydney as Thelma Houston,
with her caped frock of Florentine blue,
her blue halo hat and armful of pink
camellia-like gladioli, looked the radi-
ant heroine. More color was added by
an attendant in his coat of red who an-
nounced the guests. Thelma’s lifelong
friend Mrs. Paton acted as hostess.
Everybody from the Con. was there,
members of the concert hall staff as well
as the teachers and the director. Neville
Smith, who will probably spend most of
his vacation painting, told of friend Erik
Langker’s Christmas show in his own
studio. Lloyd Davies was being con-
gratulated on his appointment to Adel-
aide Con. He goes there as leader of
the quartet. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s ivory
chiffons were coolly flowered, and she
sat at the bride’s table, one of those
opposite the wedding cake, which was of
luscious ice-cream.
The Ernest Lashmars were there, and
the newly-returned-from-England Keith
Morris couple. Mrs. Morris’s pale-gold
lame frock was made with a great bustle
bow. Sapphire-blue were Mrs. Harold
Bott’s crepes, and her hair was brushed
up into a fluff of curls. Handsomes at
the party were Mrs. Florence Taylor,
Mrs. A. E. Grace, Mrs. Ferrand and
Mrs. McCartney. There was music—a
wedding march. Virginia Bassetti sang
goldenly “Love’s Old Sweet Song,” and
everybody joined in the chorus. Ray-
mond Beatty and Heather Kinnaird
offered and declined “The Keys of
Heaven.” These were just two items of
a long programme of music.
Francis Halls, just off to Adelaide,
should be pleased with the way his pupils
sang at their end-of-the-year concert.
This was in Paling’s concert-hall, which
by eight o’clock was fragrant with the
flowers brought as offerings for the vari-
ous larks and linnets. The programme
covered grand-opera arias and old Eng-
lish and French numbers.
Denise Dettmann is on her way home.
She has plucked another diploma with
distinction for archaeology. This also
carried a travelling scholarship in Greece,
which won’t be available till after the
war. Denise has been three years at
Oxford, and in her quietly casual way has
plucked a bagful of academic laurels.
The makings of a symphony orchestra
and a grand opera company were at
Mrs. Hope Gibson’s Christmas party in
the Carlton. That is to say, if you could
run g.o. without males. Mrs. Hope
Gibson is president of the Women’s
Committee of the Musical Association,
and an important in the music-clubs
movement. She served rainbow-striped
ice-cream cake in a navy outfit that had a
Roman striped blouse. Mrs. de Cairos
Rego added beflowered frocking to the
scene. Mrs. Harold Bott’s frock was
clover pink, and Phyllis McDonald’s dress
smacked of Mexican influence. Mrs.
Moses was a trig figure. The balloons
were large, gay and sturdy. The flowers
triumphed above the heat-wave.
Sydney Grammar got a cool, crisp day
for its prize-giving. Cool and crisp, too,
were the sisters and young mothers who
applauded the prize-winners. Head-
master Dettmann’s report was cut to the
bone and as full of marrow as a dispatch
by Julius Csesar. The Governor handed
out the expensive-looking tomes (small
mountains of them to some of the lads)
and made a good speech. It was the
speech of a writer. It had thought,
plain English, and ended up with a
quotation from St. Paul, the com-
plete letter writer. Boys of the school’s
cadet corps stepped forward among the
prize-winners. Such honored names in
the city’s law world as Backhouse, Fitz-
hardinge, Milner Stephen and Leverrier
were mentioned among Grammar’s old
boys. Quite in the Mr. Chips tradition,
too, masters were mentioned who had
given 37 years of service to the school.
Later there was tea in the school hall
and in the headmaster’s room, where the
Governor met, among others, little Wilga
Fergusson, who was busily helping Mrs.
Dettmann entertain. Here was an ex-
pupil, celebrating the fiftieth anniver-
sary of his own last prize-getting. Here
were the Brearleys, Norman Cowper,
Orwell Phillips and Mitchell, K.C. It
was proved that, though Headmaster
Dettmann might make child’s play of the
classics, any lower-former could have
sprinted a mile ahead in the art of de-
molishing that ice-cream bomber known
as a two-in-one.
Pretty Jean Mackay, whose father,
Major-General I. G. Mackay, is head-
master of Cranbrook, has just become
engaged to Lieutenant W. H. Travers
2nd/Ist Battalion A.I.F. His father, too,
is a soldier—Lieutenant-Colonel R. J.
Travers, of Kirribilli. Dayne photograph.
The red lamp drew more than patients
to the home of Dr. George Duncan last
Saturday. Doctors and their wives were
among the carloads who popped into the
hospitable Randwick doorway. These
Christmas parties of Dr. and Mrs. Dun-
can have quite a place on their friends’
calendars. Part of the fun is to have
the white ladies and the pink gins on
the flagged terrace that looks down a
long poplar-lined vista. The parties,
which start about six, by half-past seven
are half-way down the garden. By half-
past eight there’s a drift back to the
lounge rooms, where there is music. Much
of this is supplied by the men guests.
Last Saturday nine doctors who had
been at Lewisham’s farewell dinner to
Dr. Walter Burfitt came in, and their
contribution to the night was a group of
Irish airs. Captain Patrick stuck to his
sea chantey. Lurline Hammond sang
with the real artist touch grand opera or
old songs fraught with memories. Jean-
ette Paterson turned out to be a runner-
up to Ruth Draper. Mrs. Duncan’s
frock of mulberry-toned chiffons suited
her serene looks. Likeable were Mrs.
Tansey’s junior postilion hat, Mrs.
Butler’s crisp haircut, Mrs. Walter Bur-
fitt’s black-and-silver frock and Mrs. de
Baun’s smile. Supper under the poplars
rounded off the fun.
Hundreds responded to the call of the
bush last Friday. When the kookaburra’s
laugh rang through the ballrom of the
Wentworth everybody stopped whatever
engaged upon, whether opening a bottle
of beer, flirting, talking politics-or .poetry,
and laughed, too. The Fellowship of
Australian Writers was having its Christ-
mas party, all the merrier because of
the kookaburra’s laugh (even recorded)
and the family of koalas in the lemon
gum tree at the top of the room. Rod
Quinn, at the official table, sooner or
later drew each member into his orbit.
Dora Wilcox, Lilian Paton, of Queens-
land, Marjorie Quinn, Frank Edwards
(the friend of the koala) and George
Clune held conference over the coffee.
The Bulletin’s Don Knock was there
in khaki. Talking to him were gallant
Sister McLean and Sister Mears,
volunteers for service with the A.I.F.
Mrs. Bill Fitz Henry, youthful-looking in
flowered taffetas, and Mrs. Berry were
congratulating Jan Kowsky on the suc-
cess of his ballet. The grace of the
principal ballerina, the flying verve of the
Russian number are things to remember.
Pretty girl was Fleurette McCay.
Josephine Marks’s ivory lace shawl was
admired. ,
The International Society had quite a
good idea for its Christmas party. Spot
chosen was Florida, the house with the
marble encrustments and the view of
Rose Bay. It was a non-stop merry-
making between six and ten-thirty, so
that the toiler from the city was sus-
tained by sherry and savory, cocktail and
chat before descending to the ballroom.
Everybody danced energetically till. ten,
then back to the lounge all trooped for
coffee.
Anthea Mack, looking like a Christmas
lily, became the wife of Dr. Gerald Holt
at St. Stephen’s in Macquarie-street. In
spite of the blistering heat both the bride
and her lily-of-the-valley had a dewy
look. Her frock was of snow-white
satin, her tulle veil drifted like the
spray of a mountain waterfall, the
effect cool and refreshing. Blue hya-
cinths circled the heads of her attendants.
These included matron of honor sister
Mrs. Gordon Munro. Blue was their
color scheme, lit up with pink and
mauve flower pieces. Country people
and doctors abounded at the reception
at the Royal Sydney Golf Club. Bride’s
parents are the George Macks, of
Trangie. From Inverell, Scone and
Bingara came Mary Throsby, Honor
Kater and Mrs. Gordon Munro.
’Groom’s mother is Mrs. E. J. Holt, of
Darling Point.
Who was more suitable to bless the
dual controls of Nancy Bird’s and her
Charles Walton’s flight into matrimony
than Flynn of the Inland? The intrepid
little airwoman had given much time to
aerial ambulance service, and that, of
course, is the Reverend Flynn’s great
objective.


PETIT.
HOPEWOOD HOUSE
HOMECRAFT AND FINISHING SCHOOL ...
. . . Darling Point, SYDNEY
Hopewood House, in beautiful surroundings overlooking the Harbour,
is the only school of its kind in Australasia. It offers expert tuition
and training in all cultural subjects and accomplishments, under
ideal conditions, on the lines of the leading finishing schools abroad.
There are three complete Special Courses:
FINISHING—HOMECRAFT (with special
fully-equipped Practice Flat) —and SECRE-
TARIAL.
All subjects are taught by specialists, and
foreign languages by experts in their own
tongue.
A special course of general education on
non-examination lines has been arranged
for pupils of fourteen .years or over.
School reopens FEBRUARY 14, 1940.
Illustrated brochure and full particulars
may be obtained from the Principal . . .
MISS NANCY JOBSON, M.A. (Melb.).
Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF ALBERT JOHN SHARP.—WiII
ALBERT LIONEL SHARP, father of Albert
John Sharp, late of Alexandria, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney?
WHITE, Ronald Henry, son of Mrs. Ada
Isabelle White, of Mosman, who died on 19th
October, 1939, please communicate at once
with her Trustees, c/o MESSRS. McINTYRE,
CONLON & CO., Solicitors, 250 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE WILLIAM RANDOLPH LENNARD, also
known as WILLIAM BROWN, late of
Acacia Lane, Warwick, in the State of
Queensland, Baker, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that HARRIOT
LENNARD (nee LOWE) and all persons claim-
ing to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
WILLIAM RANDOLPH LENNARD, also
known as WILLIAM BROWN, late of Acacia
Lane, Warwick, in the State of Queensland,
deceased, who died on or about the Sixteenth
day of May, 1939, at Riding Road, Balmoral,
Brisbane, in the State aforesaid, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relationship
to the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on or
before the Fourteenth day of June, 1940, and
that after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date the Public Curator will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard only
to the claims of which he shall then have had
notice.
DATED this Fourteenth day of December,
1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
RE PHILIP HENRY GOULD, late of 9
Wandoo Street, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane,
Storeman and Packer.
NOTICE is hereby given that MARY ANN,
MARY or ANN GOULD, believed to have
been known as POLLY' GOULD, the lawful
daughter of PHILIP GOULD and DINAH
GOULD (nde COOK), and all persons claim-
ing through her by will or other derivative
title howsoever are required to forward proof
of her or their relationship to the above-
named Philip Henry Gould, who died at Bris-
bane on the Thirtieth day of May, 1939, or
proof of her or their right to participate in
the distribution of the estate of the said de-
ceased on or before the Thirtieth day of June,
1940, otherwise after the expiration of the
last-mentioned date the PUBLIC CURATOR
will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased among the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice.
DATED this Fourteenth day of December,
1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Victorian Centenary Club spread
itself at a Christmas party at the Windsor,
with its president, Mrs. Britomarte
James, as guest of honor. Mrs. James
is relieved to be home again among her
good friends. Abroad she had bad health
and also experienced the exigencies of
London blackouts during September and
early October. Madame Sedgley arranged
the musical programme and Edith Harrhy
accompanied with her usual skill.
Mrs. James was also the honored guest
at a 'luncheon of the Victorian Women
Citizens’ Movement, of which society
she is past president. As a preliminary
to the restful midday repast (for every-
body seemed to be in the midst of Christ-
mas shopping) Mrs. James spoke briefly
of her experiences abroad. Mrs. J. D.
Johnson, Mrs. E. A. Shollick and Mrs.
Talbot Hill did the honors.
Miss K. H. G. Pearce received a silver
trowel when she (figuratively speaking)
well and truly laid the foundation stone
of the new Travellers’ Aid Hostel in
Lonsdale-street. The architect and the
contractor used their accumulated weight
to push the memorial tablet into place in
front of a zinc box containing the day’s
newspapers, etc., while all the time a din
of industry within the building was as
music to the ears of those concerned in
its inauguration. The hostel is nearly up
to the stage of window-glazing and
painters. The little gathering on the
footpath was augmented by passers-by
who saw a crowd and joined it through
force of habit.
Returned army war nurses have been
seeing a lot of one another recently. They
are on the job again with their comforts
fund, and their well-attended half-yearly
meeting at Anzac House fell very soon
after the Kyarra anniversary. At the
meeting members heard details of the
goods that had been dispatched to the
men in camp—4s2 pairs of socks were the
excellent effort of Miss E. Kendall’s knit-
ting committee.
The Kyarra reunion was held this year
at the home of Mrs. Roy Chambers in
Moonga-road, and instead of the tradi-
tional dinner it resolved itself into an
evening party with husbands and friends
of either sex included for the first time,
for this is jubilee year and worthy of an
extra bit of festivity. Dr. and Mrs.
Chambers received their 80-odd guests in
the hall under the lee of the good ship
Kyarra, modelled in white hydrangeas
and carnations. Mrs. Ted Milne, of Syd-
ney, again came down for the party, and
again she brought with her a birthday
cake baked in her own kitchen. Minia-
ture Kyarras have on several occasions
ploughed the smooth sea of icing on the
topmost layer. This time Mrs. Milne de-
viated to a little Kyarra nurse.
The padres are kept busy just before
Christmas with the usual quota of
romantic assignments from brides and
’grooms. Among last week’s weddings
was that of Pamela Browning and Ken
Waters in Christ Church, South Yarra.
The bride wore a blue gown with white
hat and orchids (her only concession
towards luxury) pinned to her white bag.
She is the only child of the Harold
Brownings, of Coolullah-avenue, and the
’groom is the eldest son of the Rev. and
Mrs. D. F. Waters, of Clayworth Rectory,
Nottinghamshire, England. Rejoicings,
with intimate friends as guests, took place
at Dr. and Mrs. R. Fox’s home in
Rockley-road, South Yarra.
Captain and Mrs. Moffat-Pender
helped the French Red Cross on Satur-
day afternoon, but no function could
happen at No. 9 Gordon Grove without
a bit of the Gaelic in it somewhere. In-
ternational figures like Father Christmas
and Father Neptune came to the chil-
dren’s and grown-ups’ garden party, and
there were pony rides and a Punch and
Judy show, but there were also Scottish
dances and “Flora Macdonald,” with
Patricia Wright in the name part. Cap-
tain Moffat-Pender wrote the play in
Gaelic and translated it into French for
Saturday’s performance.
Two hundred children of all nations
had a grand time at the International
Club’s party in the Lower Town Hall on
Saturday. Until the arrival of Lady
Dugan, when a programme commenced
of Greek and Swedish dances as a prelude
to lemonade and hundreds-and-thousands,
the children amused themselves to music.
Even the babies Boomped and Lambeth
Walked and had a try at the Chestnut
Tree. The star turns at the party were
the little Japanese who tried to keep in
the background, for they were very shy,
but the other children were enthralled
with the young visitors and gradually
persuaded them to call on Father Christ-
mas for snowballs, ice-creams and sur-
prise packets of sweets. Father Christmas,
a linguist of no mean ability, was able
to speak to most of the children in their
own languages.
This is a Broothorn portrait of Mrs.
Boyard Taft, who recently returned to
Australia with her husband. The couple
left Melbourne on their honeymoon two-
and-a-half years ago, and their wander-
ings included visits to the Continent and
America, where they were when war
broke out. Dr. Taft also did post-gradu-
ate study and secured a degree in anaes-
thetics. Mrs. Taft’s sister, Pearl Dabs-
cheek, is to be married tomorrow (21st)
to David Cohen. Rejoicings will take
the form of a cocktail party at the Aus-
tralia.
Quite unfluttered, Mrs. Karl Kumm
coped with a full day last week which
included her opening of the Ballance-
Larking exhibition of pictures and her
official appearance as hospital president
at the Women’s Hospital Auxiliary meet-
ing in the Lower Town Hall. The auxili-
ary raised £5OOO in the last year. How
it does it is amazing, which applies to
the auxiliaries of other hospitals also.
Refugees, according to Constance Dun-
can, who introduced Mrs. Kumm, will
benefit from the exhibition, for Miss
M. H. de Ballance and Miss L. M. Lark-
ing offered all proceeds to official funds
for their relief. The show, held at the
International Club, was a success in more
ways than one, for the pictures were not
too large to be accommodated in a
modern flat and neither were they beyond
the reach of a modest pocket. Technique
and subject matter were pleasing and
sales satisfactory. Fifty per cent, wore
red seals on the opening afternoon.
The artists, Miss de Ballance, who is
English, and Miss L. M. Larking, who
is an Australian from Melbourne (though
she has lived abroad for many years),
came out here on a painting journey, in-
tending to take their pictures back with
them to England next year. In a short
while they have seen a lot of the country.
It is Miss de Ballance’s first visit.
They sailed to the Barrier Reef and
spent a week on each of Heron,
Hook and Hayman islands, painting
so hard they didn’t have time to
catch a fish. They toured Vic-
torian roads by car, setting up their
easels in the Mallee and Mildura and
around the beaches of Flinders, New-
haven and Shoreham. Also included in
the exhibition were pictures of old Inns-
bruck, Carcassonne and Aigues-Mortes
and some glimpses of Ireland, where they
enjoyed seven and a half fine days out
of thirty-four.
They lived in England at St. Ives, a
little Cornish town that’s a nest of artists
and fishermen. Miss de Ballance has in
her absence lent her house to some
refugees,* but Miss Larking, to quote her
own words, has basely let hers for profit.
The artists are planning to return in
March.
A marriage of interest in more places
than Melbourne is that of the wrestler
Bonnie Alan Muir and Mrs. M. Marco.
“Bonnie Alan,” who was evidently chris-
tened thus, for that was what he piped
up with when asked about his name by
inquisitive small boys on his first day at
Melbourne Grammar, is the son of E. H.
Muir, as well known as a wit as he is
as a dentist. Bonnie always shone at
sports, and those who ought to know
say that if he hadn’t become a wrestler
he’d have been a notable boxer.
His wife, Moira Tivey that was,
at an early age showed histrionic
talent as a member of the Perth
Repertory Club. When her father, Wil-
liam Tivey, retired from the management
of the National Bank in Perth, he and
his family lost little time in migrat-
ing to the South of France, where they
have spent several years in the sun, usu-
ally the one that shines over Juan-les-
pins. They returned to Australia recently
via America.
This week is an eventful one in the
life of Pat Clarke, daughter of the Presi-
dent of the Legislative Council. On
Monday, after completing her Christmas
shopping while packing trousseau and
Redding presents, she left by train for
Adelaide. Thence she took to the air,
travelling by way of Alice Springs to
Darwin, where her marriage takes place
tomorrow to Raymond Vincent O’Byrne.
Pat has a sense of humor and capacity
for enjoying life and will make the best
of the climate and of the house her hus-
band-to-be has with great luck managed
to find near Vesteys, where his work is.
Her only regret is that she couldn’t take
with her her antique furniture, perish-
able in such humidity. For her wedding
she will wear the simple frock of silk
sheer figured in pink and black in which
she received good wishes at the farewell
cocktail party given by her parents.
Spencer Shier photograph.
Something new for the lucky child who
is given everything in the world to make
its nursery attractive is a musical chair.
It plays a tune every time its small owner
sits upon it. The chair is in the children’s
department of one of Melbourne’s stores
and is naturally very popular with any
small visitor who comes within earshot.
Christmas decorations in the shops are
less lavish this year, but commercial
artists and designers have made them
original and amusing.
The animals (dinosaur size) which
waggle their heads and wobble their
wings under the ceiling of one of
the largest shops are much admired
whenever anyone has time to pause
in the orgy of buying on the ground
floor. There are fewer Father Christ-
mases about this year. The children be-
lieve it is something to do with the old
boy’s reindeer up in Finland helping to
repel invasion. One Father Christmas
is on duty under the roof of a flower-
girt cottage. In the store next door one
of his brothers is handing out toys from
an ice-and-snow child’s paradise —at least
it looks like a paradise, for there is a
mannequin child angel playing the organ.
The plum met with most often in the
“Christmas Pie” revue was Keith Mac-
artney, whose name recurred some dozen
times upon the programme. This year’s
“Pie” was cooked and eaten in two
nights’ sittings in the University Union
Theatre. The ingredients were mostly of
good quality, and the baking was timed
to a minute. Frances Dillon was like the
tablespoon of brandy giving the show
a professional taste. She and Ruby May
put over “Healthy, Happy Homes,” in-
vented by Keith Macartney while eaves-
dropping at world-of-women meetings.
Noel Coward also contributed, and was
interpreted with skill by Miss Dillon and
Joy Youlden with a lyric and a sketch
apiece. The same two were also in
Coward’s “Hall of Fame,” wherein Gwen
Young sang the lines of the star. The
pie would have been even more palat-
able for extra helpings of her voice.
“Mass Observation” was a burlesque on
the general public’s reactions to the
modern, art exhibition. “Missing Links,”
which opened the show, was nothing to
do with monkeys, but a dig at late arri-
vals crawling over other people’s knees
in the darkness —it got the audience in
a good humor bright and early.
“French as She Is Spoke” revived
memories of school and the awful way
they taught French then, but a liaison was
thrown in just to make it more diges-
tible. Bonita Freeman was the woman
dressed up in the whaleboned neck of
the ’nineties. Melodrama was ladled on
thick in “For England”—the Admir-r-r-
-alty plans are in the safe and the villain
is on his wicked way to get them. lan
Braid accompanied and directed the
music. Proceeds will be divided between
the University women’s war comforts
fund and new curtains for the Union
Theatre.
“The Tyros” are people who don’t be-
lieve in letting time and tide slip away
from under their feet. Only a month
ago they ran their first effort, a bridge
party in the Palais, which was such a
success that they were up and doing with
a Christmas party, also at the Palais.
Instead of booking the whole ballroom
they sold tickets for the usual Friday-
night dance with a percentage for their
charity and a P.S. inviting everybody to
bring toys for the Christmas-tree. While
the evening was still very young the fir
branches groaned under the weight of
aeroplanes, dolls, trumpets, etc., presents
for the little orphans in the Sutherland
Homes.
The money raised paid for -the bus
which goes up to Diamond Creek
one day this week to collect the children,
bringing them down to St. Kilda for a
swim (if fine) and for games in the Palais f
(if wet) before the tea party at which
Father Christmas calls in to hand out
the gifts. Among those who co-operated
successfully at the head of the com-
mittee were Mrs. Standish Falkiner, Mrs.
Garnet St. John Curwen and Dorothy
Walsh.


FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of. pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and' filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN'S
BACKACHE KIDNEY’ TILLS at your chemist
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth
500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Perth
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus-
tralian equivalent of 3 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office. 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
THE SERVICE MAN
End of One Pocket-battleship.
Off the coast of Uruguay on Wednes-
day three light British cruisers fought a
fight with the German pocket-battleship
Admiral Graf Spee (at first thought to
be the Admiral von Scheer) which has
thrilled the world.
The British squadron is of particular
interest to Australia. The largest,
H.M.S. Exeter, 8390 tons, one of the two
ships of the York class completed in
1931, carries six Bin. guns—our Aus-
tralia and Canberra, 1000 tons greater in
displacement, carry eight guns of the
same size and type. With her were the
Ajax and the Achilles, 7000-ton ships of
the Leander class, very similar to the
Sydney, Hobart and Perth. The speed of
the British squadron was round 32 knots.
The Achilles is attached normally to the
Maoriland squadron and was in Sydney
last year.
The Spee was 10,000 tons, but against
the light armor of the cruisers she carried
7in. on her big gun turrets. Her main
batteries of six 1 lin. guns fired 6701 b.
shells against the 2561 b. shells of the
Exeter and the 1001 b. missiles of the
smaller vessels. In addition, she carried
eight 5.9 in. guns and six 4. lin., so that,
with her secondary armament alone, she
was on an equal footing with either of
the two lighter cruisers. Her one dis-
advantage was speed ; 26 knots is her
rating.
The fight will go into naval textbooks
as a model of attack by light ships on
a heavy ship which could outgun them.
H.M.S. Ajax came on the Spee, which
was chasing a French liner. She soon
caught up, and was followed by the
Achilles. Superior speed and handling
enabled them to choose their light and
positions. After the Ajax had thrown a
smoke screen between the liner and
the raider, they swung to landward, where
they would have been next to invisible
while the Spee stood out clear against the
sea horizon.
With 1001 b. ammunition, however,
though they were capable of doing great
damage, there was little chance that they
could deliver a fatal blow. At the same
time, a single well-aimed salvo from the
1 lin. guns of the Spee could have sunk
either of them. They scored direct hits
at once, protected themselves by smoke
screen and mancevure, and held on till
the early appearance of H.M.S. Exeter,
which immediately became the centre
of the battle, and suffered damage.
British marksmanship seems to have
been perfect, and the Bin. guns, about
the effectiveness of which there has been
controversy since they were put into the
Australia and Canberra and other post-
Washington ships, proved their worth.
The cruisers dogged the enemy ship till
darkness fell, when, holed in several
places and short of fuel, she ran for
Montevideo Harbor. She must have had
on board a pilot familiar with the tor-
tuous entrances to the harbor, and he
steered her in at speed sufficient to save
her from destruction.
Anchored in the Uruguayan harbor the
Germans handed over 61 officers and sea-
men from sunken ships (they must have
had a fearful time while the battle was
raging), and buried their dead —36. The
British cruisers made a chivalrous ges-
ture by sending 100 men ashore with a
wreath to attend the funeral. Then the
enemy commander, given till sundown
on Sunday to effect repairs and quit, had
to choose between sinking his battered
battleship and being sunk by the
assembling British fleet waiting outside
territorial waters.
Followed by her oil-tanker, the
Tacoma, to which all her married ratings
had been transferred, the Spee set out in
the direction of Buenos Ayres at 6 p.m.
and then turned towards the open sea.
Two hours later she was a sinking wreck.
Her captain, Langsdorff, had said “If I
can’t run the blockade I’ll sink her,” and
sink her he did. Terrific explosions were
heard, flaming oil and dense smoke-
columns were seen, and down she went;
but not before officers and crew had
been transferred by launches to the
Tacoma.
The whole world united in praise of
British seamanship, tactics and gallantry.
Mr, Churchill had a special word of
praise for the Achilles, whose services
were given on the outbreak of war by
the Maoriland Government, and for the
gallant action fought by her 60-per-cent.-
Maorilander crew. Two of the boys
“I must say that new subaltern has a very poor sense of humor."
from the Dominion were killed and two
seriously wounded; two Britons were
killed and one wounded. Ajax losses
were seven killed and five wounded;
Exeter had 61 killed and 23 wounded.
The "Mighty" Soviet's
Achievement.
“Tovarish”: If ever there was a war
in which there should be plenty of move-
ment it is the Russo-Finnish. Any other
military Power, claiming to have 11,000,000
trained men and 12,000 fighting aero-
planes, faced with the task of conquer-
ing 3,800,000 people with a common
frontier, and possessing a military base
with a population of nearly 3,000,000
only a few miles from the frontier, would
merely walk in and take possession, no
matter what the weather. But a fortnight
after the outbreak of war the Finns,
enormously outnumbered in men and
machines, were still hanging on.
Turning the tables after the bombing
attacks on Helsinki and the capture of
Petsamo, they recaptured that Arctic port,
and held the advance which was de-
signed to cut Finland at the waist. They
even ventured on reprisals despite
the mighty Red Army—“a great armed
force, terrible in the struggle against the
enemy, a force which will ever crush all
who dare to encroach upon the sacred
rights, soil and honor of the victorious
Soviet Union.”
They bombed Murmansk; and the
German liner Bremen, which had been
sheltering at that Russian port, hastily
departed. They also inflicted heavy losses
on the Russians who tried to bomb the
Imatra hydro-electric works. The
Moscow version of that incident is up to
sample:
Any other airmen would have im-
mediately bombed the works, and the
Soviet airmen had every ground for wiping
it off the face of the earth, for this power
station feeds the military establishments
on the Karelian Isthmus. But Soviet
airmen are farsighted; they think of the
morrow when the working people will need
this power station. Not a single bomb
was dropped on the station, but the Soviet
airmen destroyed the transmission line to
the Karelian Isthmus.
At the beginning of the third week
weight of numbers and metal was telling.
Though still hanging on splendidly in the
south, the defenders had been pushed
back in the centre and the north. Pet-
samo had been isolated, if not taken.
Reports that Germany was permitting
the passage of Italian ’planes bound for
Finland have been denied. Britain and
France stand committed to help the Finns
with machines and in other ways. But
Russian inefficiency, which if prolonged
and unconcealable may produce un-
pleasant consequences for Stalin and
Molotov within the U.S.S.R. itself —that,
plus the indomitable spirit of the Finnish
nation, may be the little Republic’s best
bet.
“Nobby II.”: The Bremen, one of the
two crack German Atlantic liners, bolted
from the shelter of Murmansk, apparently
frightened out by Finnish bombing, and
crept home. A British submarine sighted
her and could have sent her to the
bottom, but the commander held his
fire, because to sink a merchantman
without warning and without making
provision for the safety of the comple-
ment is contrary to international law.
This display of British chivalry was re-
ceived with amazement by the world, but
it had its practical side. The Bremen, at
home, is a bigger responsibility than in
the safety of a neutral port. She is too
valuable and too heavy a consumer of
fuel and too good a mark for every kind
of offensive weapon to be of much use
as a commerce raider. She needs a large
staff to keep her in order in harbor. If
she is docked she needs one of the big-
gest dock spaces in the world, and her
owners will never be able to hear raiding
aircraft without a shiver. The same
British sub. afterwards sank a U-boat
and torpedoed a cruiser; and the enemy
admits “damage” to the cruiser.
* * * *
“Salt”: Nothing the movies have ever
thought up could excel the action of the
Shaw Savill motorship Karamea, whose
Captain E. T. Grayson got the 0.8. E. for
saving his ship from an enemy submarine.
The Karamea had outside position
with the British Lochavon and the
French Louisiane and Bretagne, which
were steaming abreast when a sub.
bobbed up between the Karamea and the
Lochavon and let go at both. The Loch-
avon copped it, but the torpedo grazed
the Karamea’s bows and she crammed
on all speed. Meantime the sub. slipped
round the Louisiane, torpedoed her,
shelled the Bretagne into a sinking con-
dition and set out after the Karamea.
Though the ship had a four-mile start
the enemy was overtaking her and shells
began to fall all round until it looked
like the end. Just then four British
destroyers came surging up and the sub.
dived, though it is believed depth bombs
got her. The Karamea’s chief engineer
said that for the four hours the chase
lasted his engines were overloaded, seven
out of twelve pistons cracked under the
strain and, when the nick-of-time rescuers
hove in sight, his engine-room was a
wreck.
* # * *
“Ek D.”: Communists have been pre-
paring followers for a military alliance
with Germany. They see it as on the
cards that for a time the interests of the
Soviets and Germany will run so
closely parallel that they “might be found
fighting side by side against the enemies
of the workers of the world, the French
and British imperialists.” They are also
suggesting that Turkey and Rumania
might feel the Bear’s paw, and that some
attention would be given to India.
Nothing would suit Germany better
than a joint attack on British and French
communications in the Middle East, the
capture of British oil and the menacing
of trade routes to the Dominions which
run through Suez. It is a job which
could scarcely be done without the
U.S.S.R., which controls the best lines
of approach—through the Caucasus and
Iran.
* * * *
“ASQ.”: I have met many of the
new A.1.F., and in them I see my old
cobbers in new uniforms; they are the
same spirited, devil-may-care haters of
red-tape and bumptious officialdom;
ready to drill, to learn, to do anything
that leads effectively to doing the job.
In one thing only do they differ from
the old A.1.F.: the low percentage of
ex-imperial soldiers and men from over-
seas. “Blarney’s Own” is a Dinkum
Aussie division —Australians led by Aus-
tralians. Many of them are Anzacs’ sons,
mine amongst them.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: To any lass who loves
a sailor likely to face European winter
seas let me give a bit of advice that will
keep at least his feet warm and grateful
to her memory—knit him a couple of
pairs of real sea-boot stockings. They
should be of thick soft wool, fairly loose-
fitting in the foot, at least 24in. in leg-
length, and wide enough to go over the
folded trouser legs. Australian ideas of
material and construction for such articles
are liable to underestimate the real needs.
Get a pattern of the kind that is used by
trawler and minesweeper crews. And
while you’re about it add a pair of wool-
len mitts with separate thumbs and
gauntlet extensions reaching half way to
the elbow and big enough to go over the
coat sleeve. Work two small openings in
each in the right places for him to get a
thumb and forefinger through when he’s
using binoculars and he’ll regard you as
the most sensible girl on earth.
* * * *
“X.Q.”: That “regulation 30in. step”
is the bane of the bush recruit’s life. It
leaves the muscles on the front of his legs
aching and tires him all over. But swing
the arms, elbows rigid, and it braces the
whole body, pulls in the tummy, throws
out the chest and keeps the head up. It’s
the surest way of eliminating all those
peculiarities of gait which every man de-
velops according to stature and the class
of work he follows, and trains all to a
uniform action. It’s a far cry from the
stockyard amble or the city mickey’s strut
to the parade ground but the Second
A.I.F. is capable of it.
* * V *
“Gurush”: To the confusion of his-
torians, there were two Donald Camerons
with the A.L.H. in Palestine (B. 6/12/’3?).
Both were S. African veterans, both won
D.S.Os. and both commanded regiments
—Donald from Scone, N.S.W., the 12th
and Donald from Queensland the sth.
Both were in the Beersheba business, but
it was Donald of Scone who led the great
charge. And he was in the fierce break-
through fight in November, 1917, when
the supporting 11th Light Horse had
every man in a charging squadron killed
or wounded. His last battle was at
Kaukab during the advance on Damas-
cus. ? 4


MEN!
Sydney
CHEMIST, 319 George Street
BRANDAUER3
m
=> €>
*
6<T.V
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a br.anda.bkr * co. luu Birmingham, eng
THE FLYING COLUMN
Air War Lessons.
“Dee Kay”: Nothing like active ser-
vice for showing up faults. British
“Aeroplane” records that after a month
of air war German fighter squad-
rons found the Messerschmitt Me 109
single-seat fighters to be very vulner-
able to tracer bullets. If attacked from
behind they were frequently brought
down in flames.
The main fuel tank of these machines
is immediately behind the pilot- 1°
our own fighters the tanks are in front
of the pilot, which means that they are
protected by the bulk of the motor from
frontal attack, and are not so easily hit
from the rear.
Deficiencies have shown up in some
of the R.A.F. machines also. Certain
multi-seat fighters, light bombers and
reconnaisance machines are at a serious
disadvantage under war conditions be-
cause of the lack of a gun position undei
the fuselage to deal with attacks from
below. This is something that should
have been well learned from the last war.
The first Gotha to be taken intact had a
gun tunnel, providing an arc of fire down-
wards, under the tail, the gunner work-
ing in a prone position. In this war a
number of British reconnaisance
machines have been shot down by at-
tacks from below.
That may explain why so many recon-
naisance flights have been at such low
altitudes. It is not at all easy to hit high-
speed ’planes from the ground when fly-
ing below 300 ft. Fighters cannot attack
from below, and when approaching fro/ 11
above are forced to face fire from the
rear gunner. Even the single-seat fightei
could be fitted with twin fixed guns firing
at an angle underneath the tail, and con-
trolled by the pilot.
Nazi Fighter Types.
“Ailo”: There are several types of
Messerschmitt fighter. Melo9 achieved
prominence in the Spanish war with the
German Condor Legion. It was then fitted
with Junkers Jumo Diesel oil engines, but
the more recent and speedier types use
the Daimler-Benz 950-h.p. petrol engine.
Armament varies considerably, but twin
synchronised machine-guns are always
fitted above the engine cowling. Two
additional machine-guns or shell guns can
be mounted in the wings.
With the Jumo engine, top speed at
13,100 ft. is 285 m.p.h. Climb to 16,400 ft.
takes 6min. Bsec., with ceiling of 26,541 ft.
and range of 340 miles. With the Daimler-
Benz 600, top speed is 323 m.p.h. and
climb to 16,400 ft. takes just over five
minutes. A range of 445 miles is claimed.
A special Messerschmitt, of which
nothing has since been heard, was flown
on April 26, 1939, at 469.225 m.p.h. That
machine was known as the Bf 109 R. It
was powered with a Daimler-Benz engine
said to deliver 1800 h.p. at 3500 r.p.m.
Another formidable German fighter is
the Heinkel Hel 12, a monoplane of canti-
lever wing design, fitted with a Junkers
Jumo engine. This machine has reached
a speed of 463.95 m.p.h.
The standard German twin-engined
fighter is the Messerschmitt Mel 10 two-
seater. Top speed is 379 m.p.h. at
16,400 ft. It is suitable for escort work
and can be used also for light bombing,
ground attack or reconnaisance.
The Soviet Air Force.
The well-informed Imperial Policy
Group, whose monthly reviews have been
frequently quoted in The Bulletin, says
that the Soviet’s aircraft production,
though quite considerable, is notmng
approaching Britain’s or Germany s.
Potential output is 500 machines ol all
types, military and civil, per month.
There are 16 factories, of which four are
in Siberia. , _
No. 1 in Moscow delivers three
biplane fighters and three escort biplanes
per day. No. 22 at Fili delivers six twin-
engined bombers and two quadruple-
engined T.B. a day. Others turn out
from one to six machines per day, and
four factories with a maximum of 30
units per day build engines—one Russian
Mikoulins, one Hispano Suiza 12’s, one
Wright Cyclones and one the Gnome et
Rhone k. 14. For that matter, the Rus-
sians, under license, have tried everything
in the foreign engine line —Junkers, de
Havillands, Liberty, Pratt and Whitney
Wasps, Wright Cyclones, Diesels. The
“This is the view I Was telling you about. Isn't it bonzer ?”
Mikoulin, the only native power unit, is
so heavy that it can be used only in out-
sized machines.
Copper is still being imported for air-
craft construction. So are German tech-
nicians, since “in the purges the best engi-
neers and directors were liquidated.”
Voroshilov’s yarn is that Soviet military
aviation has been increased by 138 p.c.
since 1934, with an increase of 130 p.c. in
reserve machines ; that bomber squadrons
now constitute 20.6 p.c. of the total
effectives instead of 10.6 p.c. in 1934 ,
that fighters represent 30 p.c. as against
12.6 p.c. then, and light bombers, recon-
naissance and attack machines 26 p.c. He
gave a total of 2600 machines for 1934
(280 heavy bombers, 320 fighters, 1300
light bombers, reconnaissance and attack
machines, and 700 school machines).
Russia had not at that time begun to
organise her bombing squadrons, and
many of the fighter squadrons used two-
seaters. The large figures of recon-
naissance, attack and light bomber
machines indicate that the Red Air
Force’s principal job was to be army
co-operation work, but in 1935 the num-
bers of bombers and fighters began to
be raised. Present strength is estimated
at about 6000 machines, including 1200
heavy bombers, 1800 fighters, 1500 light
bombers, reconnaissance and attack
machines, and 1500 school machines.
But many of these machines are anti-
quated and have no military value and
performance in Finland has been singu-
larly poor.
The Air War Day by Day.
Dec. i 1: Two German machines chased
away from Suffolk. No damage done.
Dec. 12: Yorkshire saw two German
’planes. No damage.
Dec. 13: British patrol over Heligoland
Bight —“Successful: subjected to con-
siderable anti-aircraft fire. The Ger-
man communique said: ‘Anti-aircraft
fire prevented raiders from reaching
North Sea coast.” .
Two German flying-boats driven off
East Coast of Scotland. Both rear-
gunners hit; both Dormers damaged.
Dec 15: “Intense” battle over Heligo-
land Bight; five Messerschmitts and
three British ’planes down. The fight
lasted over an hour, German battle-
ships helping with a.-a. fire. The uer-
mans claim that 20 British ’planes were
engaged and that 10 were brought
down, and that one Nazi machine was
lost!
“T”: “Where is the Ark Royal?” This
question was boomed from a Berlin radio
station about a hundred times a month.
The Ark Royal is the latest and largest
aircraft-carrier, and the insinuation was
that she had met the same fate as the
Courageous, only the British wouldn
admit it. The “missing” craft has bobbed
up at Rio Janeiro, having crossed the
South Atlantic swiftly from the Cape ,
so Berlin will have to try something else.
* * * *
“Jachris”: The R.A.F. is throwing an
aircraft patrol about Heligoland every
night to stop seaplanes laying mines in
the North Sea. For this very dangerous
work heavy bombers are used. They ve
struck heavy anti-aircraft barrages from
battleships and coastal defences, but at
time of writing they had covered their
150-mile beat along the Bight without
casualty.
* * * *
Swiss estimates place German ’plane
losses in Poland at 421—89 Messerschmitts
(Melo9’s) and Heinkel Hell2’s, 216 light
bombers, 107 heavy bombers and nine
reconnaissance ’planes. No wonder the
enemy is conserving his machines on the
Western Front.
* * * *
“B.”: The Walsh brothers may have
their work commemorated at Maoriland’s
Centennial Exhibition. It was at Mission
Bay in 1914 that the brothers built the
first successful ’planes in Maoriland,
using imported engines. Though slow, the
’planes were good enough for training, and
many a pilot on the Western Front owed
his knowledge of flying to them. The
first ’plane built in Maoriland was the
work of a Wellington cabinetmaker
named Schaef, in 1908. He modelled his
machine on the one used by Wright in
his first flights, and imported the motor.
* * * *
“Fifty-six M.C.”: That fault in the
ultra-high-frequency radio beacon system
for the guidance of airliners to and from
Australia’s main airports was forecast by
radio experimenters versed in direc-
tive transmission at u.h.fs. It stands
to reason that to erect a directive aerial
array in the mass of a steel tower is to
effect considerable distortion of the
radiation pattern and the generation of
spurious signals. The towers, which cost
about £5OO each for steel, fabrication
and concrete foundations, must now be
replaced by wooden structures.
“T.”: At the beginning of October
Churchill broadcast a warning to the
U.K. that it “might be intensely bombed
soon.” On the following day alarmed
Britons heard the reassuring voice of
Lord Derby to the effect that experts
didn’t believe it; ground defences stopped
air raids in 1917, and they were now
“eminently satisfactory.” Moreover,
blind navigation had become more diffi-
cult, wireless could not be used, and
weather reports were not available to
the enemy.
Hitler, ignoring the tactical unsoundness
of the plan, may start indiscriminate long-
range bombing, which necessarily will be
countered by similar raids, but experts
consider that he realises the situation.
Therefore I contend that serious bomb-
ings are unlikely, at least before the
spring.
The wise old Lancashireman was Secre-
tary for War in 1916-18. So far he has
been right and Churchill wrong.
* * * *
“A.P.N.”: Safety air lanes have been
established between England and France
along which allied military aeroplanes
can carry diplomatic couriers and other
official personages. British and French
anti-aircraft units have instructions not
to fire on aeroplanes using these routes.
Such lanes have been used on several
occasions for the transport by air of
members of the Supreme War Council
to meetings in France and England.
* * * *
“Marija”: According to the British
Secretary for Air British aircraft produc-
tion has been doubled in the last year,
and still more powerful machines are
on the way. Spitfires and Hurricanes
have proved superior to Messerschmitts,
having twice the gunfire and greater
manoeuvrability. Though he had a lot
to say last week for the skill of pilots
who have carried out reconnaissance
work over Hamburg, Bremen, Berlin,
Nuremburg and Munich, Sir Kingsley
Wood is proudest perhaps of his coastal
command squadrons. Those divisions fly
a million miles a month, and in 57 attacks
on U-boats they have seriously damaged
19.
* * * *
“Aldis”: Though a Dutch DC2 airliner
recently fell foul of a German fighter
which failed to recognise its markings,
there has surprisingly been no attack on
any British commercial ’plane. Britain’s
air routes must be well guarded.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Light ’planes entered in
England for the Wakefield Challenge
Trophy —since abandoned because of war
—showed many interesting new develop-
ments. Most important was the introduc-
tion of variable-pitch airscrews. Such
airscrews, of controllable and constant-
speed types, are in general use on com
mercial and military machines, but their
weight, cost and complexity have hitherto
prevented their use in light machines.
Recently it has been reported from the
U.S.A. that a new V.P. airscrew of light
weight and simple in operation has been
successful. Such a screw suitable for an
engine of 100 h.p. or thereabouts pro-
duced at low cost would give light aero-
plane flying a great boost.
jj: «!•
“Don”: A new 9-cyl.-radial Diesel
aero engine, the Phoenix, is being de-
veloped by the Bristol Aeroplane Co.,
England. When produced experimentally
four years ago this engine was rated at
470 h.p.; now the rating has been in-
creased to 635 h.p. for take-off. It is
likely that the improved version will be
produced with sleeve-valves and a two-
speed supercharger.
* * * *
“T.T.E.”: Metal construction was
some time ago adopted for airframes
by the R.A.F. and the use of wood
gradually diminished. Steel was favored
not only for structural but supply
reasons, and that metal is now used
extensively in fighters and bombers. But
there has been some difficulty with
supply. In the latest training machine,
Miles Master, the fuselage is of semi-
monocoque wooden construction and
formed o.n spruce longerons from 17
birch frames with three-ply covering.
Wings are of the two-spar type with
stressed skin of plywood. Use of plastics
for airframes has not become general,
but much developmental work has been
done. During the war the question of
headway with plastics will be influenced
by supply. For certain kinds of work
plastics are well suited, and they do not
deteriorate in tropical climates.


IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO PURCHASE
A PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
* the imperial
GOOD COMPANION
THE ENGLISH
PORTABLE
i TYPEWRITER
I
hae
REMEMBER THE ENGLISH
TYPEWRITER IS
£ £ £s LOWER IN PRICE
POUNDS LIGHTER IN
WEIGHT.
EVERY STANDARD TYPE-
WRITER FEATURE.
Write or call at your nearest agent.
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 47 Creek Street. BRISBANE; Jackson & O’Sullivan, Queen Street,
BRISBANE. Dobell Pty.. Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Roneo Co., Ltd., 21 Hunter Street.
SYDNEY. Johnson and Hey, 37 Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Raitt & Co.. Ltd., 407
Collins Street, MELBOURNE; John Withers & Sons, 210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Holds worth <fc Co., Ltd.. 51 Grenfell Street. ADELAIDE. Burridge & Warren. Ltd.. 0!) King
Street. PERTH. J. Waleli & Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie Street, HOBART; J. C.-McPhee Pty.,
Ltd., 00 Collins Street, HOBART.
TO-DAY—Buy the Typewriter made in England.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Troubles at the Tennant
“X.T.”: The Commonwealth has been
active in N. Territory mining “reform”
for the past four years. It has recast the
mining ordinances and appointed a
Director of Mines —Mr. Hughes, from
W.A. It keeps him at Darwin, 700 miles
from the only field which is yielding any
quantity of metal—Tennant Creek.
The Tennant has been producing a lot
of gold in a modest way. Nine mines
since their inception have yielded
21,0000 z. —the Rising Sun has crushed
8624 tons for 72140 z., Eldorado 13,239
tons for 67640 z.
The Government “assists” by the pro-
vision of two batteries which are turn-
ing out so true to type as a State enter-
prise that the Miners and Lessees’ Asso-
ciation sent their representative, Owen
Rowe, to Canberra the other day to
protest. A deputation headed by A. M.
Blain, M.P., in which several other
Ms.P. joined, put the case to Minister
for the Interior Foil.
Treatment at the Tennant is straight-
out crushing, cyaniding and amalgamat-
ing. The Government began by fixing
an all-over charge of 12s. 6d. per ton
for crushing and amalgamation. Tennant
is a free-gold field.
Then a sliding scale was adopted.
First, 10 p.c. of tonnage is deducted to
provide for loss of sands—miners get
credit for 90 tons of sands for 100 tons
of stone over the bridge. Next comes a
2dwt.-per-ton charge for treatment and
loss in cyaniding. On top there is the
crushing charge.
Rowe told the Minister that the total
charge “varied from 255. to £9 per ton.”
He mentioned a parcel of 324- tons,
yielding about 7dwt., in which charges
worked out at £7B 16s. 5d. —£2 Bs. sd.
per ton; another with 26.178dwt. cost
£5 2s. per ton to treat. The asso-
ciation claims that apart from these
charges there is heavy loss through the
inexperience of amalgamators, sick mer-
cury and the general condition of the
batteries.
As for the batteries, “No. 1 took 18
months to build, and then portion of it
had to be pulled down and rebuilt, and
even now No. 1 engine is rocking on
its foundations.” And while the opinion
of the Adelaide School of Mines is that
screens used should be 900 holes to the
sq. in.—in W.A. 900 is standard, in
Queensland 800 —400-hole screens are in
use on Tennant batteries, and they operate
on a sin. discharge instead of 7in. to
Bin., which the association considers
should be normal.
Miners are asking that the Govern-
ment adopt S.A. rates — charge on
a yield of sdwt., 2dwt. on lOdwt. up
to J sdwt. yield, and a maximum of 3dwt.
over 15dwt., plus a basic crushing fee
of ss. per ton.
Senator Foil says that he will call
for a report. Ministers are great on
calling for reports. The position demands
independent investigation by an experi-
enced metallurgist, who should have
power to act.
“Brisbane’s New Government.”
J. A. Fihelly, sometime State
Treasurer and city alderman, writes:
Any rot that may have set in is primarily
due to the policy and sort of administration
instituted in the first Greater Brisbane Council
under the mayoralty of Mr. W. A. Jolly. I
was a member of that Greater Brisbane Council
for six years, and can affirm that all things,
from finance to administration, were left in
the hands of petty heads. Lord Mayor Jones’s
main fault —certainly a grievous one—was that,
instead of making an effort to mend or break
this outrageous system, he acquiesced in it.
Apart from ordinary municipal or local-
authority work the council engages in many
business enterprises, ranging from tramways
to water supply. A body of aldermen cannot
humanly be expected to manage such concerns
profitably. Nor can such concerns be ade-
quately or efficiently conducted by low-salaried
office staffs, mostly indoor men. But aldermen
could, deal with general policy and finance,
leaving the rest to a town clerk, commissioner
or manager, who would employ trained sub-
heads in accordance with good judgment and
the dictates of a wide experience.
In my opinion—and his politics are opposed
to mine—Brisbane’s first town clerk, Colonel
Annand, was the ideal type of a man to re-
vitalise the administration and control the
city’s activities. But I suppose 90 per cent,
of his recommendations were shelved, and he
concluded that he had collided with the
immovable official wall of Practice, Procedure
and Precedent, the triple curse of non-private
enterprise businesses. At all events, he re-
signed.
The Home Secretary is quoted as saying that
“drastic legislation was called for to deal with
the situation.” Fiddlesticks! The situation —
at any rate since Lord Mayor Jones’s accession
“Nothin like Christmas Day in the open fer enjoyin' yerself, eh, Ma?"
to office—could never have arisen had Cabinet
been doing its simple, obvious duty or seen to
it that officials were doing theirs. The Audit
Department, which is part and parcel of the
Premier’s Department, keeps a weekly check
upon the City Council’s financial incomings
and outgoings. Premier Smith should have
known long ago from the Audit Department
how matters stood with the council. Next,
the Home Department is in complete control
of all local authorities. Finally, the council
cannot secure a loan or an overdraft without
the concurrence of the State Treasurer. Con-
sequently it seems to me that something
“drastic was called for to deal with” the
Ministers and their departmental advisers for
indifference to the alleged “rotten” state of
affairs within the council.
“Sambio”: They take their war pre-
cautions seriously in Rabaul. All
arrangements have been made for
evacuating civil residents in the case of
a “sudden international emergency.”
Refugees are to be parked in a gully
system under Namanula Ridge, handy
to the house of the Chief Civil Warden,
who is also the Chief Judge. Emergency
tracks have been laid out and sign-
posted from all parts of the town, a
parking area has been blocked off and
labelled, and when the alarm is sounded
—by bugle—the population will have to
light out for the shelter armed with a
“small supply of drinking water in a
handy container, a waterproof sheet, a
blanket and two days’ provisions.” If
I might suggest it, half a dozen Bulle-
tin’s will be a help. They will solace
the exiles while the foe is busy razing
the city, and on wet volcanic soil they
are grand to sleep on.
* * . * . . *
Kaloa : New Guinea is in the throes
of another commission of inquiry—this
time into all aspects of native labor.
The commission consists of three civil
servants the Native Affairs director, the
Crown Law officer and a medical officer
—and two representatives of private em-
ployers. The joke of the matter is that
the Native Affairs director has been
specifically named as chairman and given
a casting vote in the event of the private
and civil service members reaching a
deadlock. And the director is, of course,
head of the native labor administration,
whose laws and operations are being in-
quired into. The commission has a tough
job ahead. It is asked to report whether
“any alterations in the present native
labor system are desirable.” All New
Guinea is asking “desirable for whom?”
—the natives, the Native Affairs Depart-
ment, the Commonwealth, the white
population or the League?
“Zedo”: Brisbane City Council’s meet-
ing chamber is being hurriedly re-
organised to suit the new parliamentary
system. There will be a chair for the
chairman and a “Treasury Bench” for
the Lud Mayor and his satellites, and
Ministerialists will be divided from
Oppositionists by an expanse of floor
space. There are other resemblances
to State Parliaments. The first meet-
ing under the new system raised the
city rate by 3|d. in the £ to Is. l|d. and
the general rate on rural land by l|d.
to 6|d. Lord Mayor Jones says cheer-
fully that it would be “wrong to convey
to the people that the new rate will con-
tinue indefinitely,” and he still hopes
for a loan of £250,000, which would
allow the council to “get back to
normal.” Ratepayers are trembling at
the thought of any more of Alf’s
“normality.”
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The Taylor-Black expedition,
which roamed the hinterland of New
Guinea for months recently, has dis-
covered a new bird with a 3ft. tail, a
9in. body and a voice like a pneumatic
riveter. In reverence for their chief, the
discoverers have named their find “Mc-
Nicoll’s Ribbon-tailed Bird of Paradise.”
The Miners’ Association would have pre-
ferred the discovery of a steam shovel
or two en route to build the Salamaua-
Wau road.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Queensland Labor is wrenched
to its vitals by controversy over the
rebirth of bingo. Bingo first became a
national pastime in the regal days of
Theodore. It was one of the instruments
of Liberty Fair, the returns from
which went to swell party funds. There
used to be great outcries against
Liberty Fair, but none from Labor. Its
privileges became so expansive that it
was allowed to operate in the Brisbane
Botanical Gardens, and when it moved
to Bundaberg part of the courthouse
fence was removed to give it air. With
the advent of soberer times and of
lotteries, Liberty Fair died, but bingo
is back and the Brisbane City Caucus
paused amid its perplexities to decide
that it would not object to the Aus-
tralian A.L.P. literature, committee using
council land as a venue for the game,
Labor M.L.As. are not so unanimous,
J. E. Duggan, M.L.A., the youthful
member for Toowoomba, says he has
“lodged an emphatic protest.” He hopes
bingo will never be seen in Toowoomba.
* * * *
“Philp”: It’s sad but true that the
N.T. isn’t what it used to be. Travellers
pass through in caravans with collapsible
tents and bathtubs; a mild outbreak of
§ p Adelaide River is jumped on un-
mercifully ; a Tennant Creek miner buys
a ca ravan with all mod. cons, and takes
it back t 0 the field to live in . and I
see wbere Darwin Police Court has
charged one Darwinite with driving past
tbe courthouse while the Supreme Court
was sittings and fined anoth er 10s. with
15s . costs for riding a mot or-scoote r on
the wrong side of a silent CO p. At this
rate ini be no time before buffaio-
- are sipping creme-de-menthe at
a cocktad bar on the Darwin-Birdum
express, and wearing clean shirts,
$ * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Mt. Morgan (C.Q.) had its
biggest fire the other day when 12 shops
were destroyed in the main street. The
Mount has had its ups and downs for
50 years. Dams have been built in the
winding river bed, and at times there
have been over 5000 people living within
a three-mile radius—present population
about 3300. Millions
of pounds’ worth of
gold have been taken
from the mine, and a
good many millions of
tons of ore await
treatment; but the old
place, which looks, in
summer, as if the hobs
of hell were just across
the Razorback, has
not got beyond the
amenities of a primi-
tive mining camp. In
the very heart of the
main street “no water
supply was available
to quench the fire
except from the tanks
at the rear of the
burning buildings.” In-
cidentally, the block
which has gone carries
strange memories for
older hands. Coming
out of school one
afternoon I saw across
the street a crowd
in which Irishwomen were keening. A
quarter of a mile of solemn Cousin
Jacks and Geordies, fresh off afternoon
shift, sat along the gutter passing the
three-quart cutter —filled with good beer
for a shilling. Old gentlemen leaned
against the hitching posts looking as if
the end of the world had come. Dimly
scrawled on a blackboard were the
words: “News has been received that
Her Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria
has expired.” .
* * * *
“East Point”: Darwin’s Defence Force
has fired its first shot in the war. The
target was a pearling lugger which was
making for the port and which failed
to stop for examination. When identified
it proved to belong to an airman who
had had it at sea for a couple of months
under a Japanese skipper.
* * * *
“D.” reviews the history of a hospital:
Darwin’s hospital was built before the Com-
monwealth took over the N.T. Fifteen years
ago it was declared inadequate, and since then
Darwin has been asking for a new one.
An architect was sent from Canberra to
Darwin, Java and Singapore to investigate
hospital architecture in the tropics. Plans for
a hospital containing 132 beds and costing
£85,000 were drawn up and referred to the
Commonwealth Public Works Committee.
The committee, whch included neither doctor
nor architect, hied itself to Darwin and found
the estimated cost had jumped to £120,000.
It stayed in Darwin long enough to question
one doctor, one matron, two architects, the
Railways Commissioner, the Government,Secre-
tary and the Works Director. Thereupon it
reduced the proposed accommodation to 60
beds and the cost to £67,000.
The committee’s report was tabled on
October 5, 1938. Forgotten until May 19, 1939,
it was then approved of by the House. What
was said about it occupied 11 pages of “Han-
sard” and included a pertinent remark by
H. L. Anthony, who has had experience of
hospital administration: “If the daily average
at the present time is 40 in-patients the pro-
vision of 60 beds is only about sufficient to
meet present needs and does not allow for
expansion of population.”.
The old hospital is still battling along
with accommodation for 40 persons. Sipce
the committee visited Darwin the population
has increased by 1000 and, in the words of
Darwin’s “Northern Standard” (21/11/ ’39),
“Already there are 50 patients All the wards
are full, and many patients are sleeping on the
verandahs. What will happen to them wh£n
the driving monsoonal rains set in is another
problem which Darwin officials will have to
solve.”


CANADIAN AUSIBALASIAN LINE
Monthly sailings across the Pacific to
CANADA U.S.A. EUROPE
via
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
by R.M.S. "Aorangi" and R.M.S. "Niagara”
‘Uisit the lew 2eafcind (Centennial (Exhibition !
NOVEMBER, 1939 TO APRIL, 1940
Only Days from Sydney by the Luxury Liner
“A W A T E A”
14,000 TONS 23 KNOTS
SPEED AND SAFETY SERVICE GAIETY
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z, LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
59 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE
Yon can’t go wrong
if yon give him
GILLETTE
8^
Vt«
•<&>
1
&
• : v
4
:;■s>
im
m*
m
n
%
■<k
m
■>&&
No other method of shaving, regardless of price, gives
a man such smooth, comfortable shaves as Gillette . . .
and millions of men know it. Then what a practical
solution to your gift problem! Give him an up-to-date
Gillette razor set and he’ll bless your thoughtfulness
for years to come. Gillette, for Christmas, is packed in
gaily-coloured cartons. Prices range from 1/9 to 45/-.
No. 47 SET. Comprises the
new Gillette 'one-piece ’ Razor
(Popular Model) no loose
parts, no separate pieces to
assemble, and three Blue
Gillette Blades in highly
polished nickel - plated case
with specially embossed lid.
Price 12/6.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY
(PTY) LTD.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
11
MEN OF SELF-RESPECT SHAVE WITH GILLETTE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.M.8.: “Dawn”: Sunset K.H.H.:
Haven’t we seen them before?.—D.M.: Not
a bad effort... .H.M.: It’s a familiar theme.
L.L.H.: Not quite C.D.K.: Just
managed to stop “My Last Tooth”... .A.W.H.:
No teddy-bears shall play peek-a-boo in these
columns. . . .N. 8.: Cut the “fingernails” and
try “Song” elsewhere D.S.: “War Aim
misses by a mile... .H.C.: Reprove them in
prose, . i .E. 8.: So “the birds e’en must sing
half-known praises fond,” must they?....
M.J.L.: C105e....P.M.: “The trees their hush
default” is a clumsy way of saying they made
a noise H.T.: Elsewhere, perhaps R.S.:
Mild R.D.: “Gas without Tears” is just
gas D.G.S.: A point, but not a poem
T.E.McC.: “If you don’t accept this I cer-
tainly will send you no more.” Something like
a Christmas present!... .M.MacE.: Sorry, can’t
use them... .G.H.: Improving poem about
beer regretfully declined... .W.H.K.: Some-
body else might take an interest in Winifred.
...8.J.K.: Mad verses need to be madder
than that H.G.H.: N0....J.J.: Off our
beat C.S.W.: Nearly G.H.F.: Keats has
a corner in “easeful death”... .G.R.: Well,
it was a nice cool ballad for a hot day.
G.S.C.: Lack of form weakens them
T.E.McC.: You’ll win the war yet J.F.:
This is something we had suspected for a long
time: —
Oh, I’ve been thinking deeply
Since I’ve been lying here,
And I’ve come to the conclusion
That the Road to Hell is Beer.
G.W.: Just misses... .N.C.: Competent
exhortations, but not poems... .P.J.E.: Keep
at it, but don’t rhyme “thieves” with “seas.”
C.P.T.: It’s hard to find a new joke
about politicians P.K. : “Squad” dismissed.
H.K.T.: You say some funny things, but
they don’t make a funny story C.D.S.:
There’s an idea in the finish 8.R.V.: Even
“Bribery” won’t get it through 8.G.L.:
That and the heat-wave were too much for us.
B.G.R.: You’re very much in the amateur
class H.J.T.: The fact that it’s true doesn’t
make a yarn of it... .F.R.L.: ‘Local color
doesn’t consist of exhaustive slabs of geography.
C.F.K.: Use fewer adjectives and work
more movement into your yarns F.P.T.:
“It’s sad but true.” No, true but sad....
F.G.L.: Was it called “Warning” because of
what followed... .H.G.: Too flat... .H.N.R.:
You should start a recruiting campaign....
C.F.D.: “It took me six months to hatch this
fledgling.” The egg was addled before you
started L.P.T.: “Ordinary Australian
people” don’t behave like that C.G.F.:
As an historical authority you rival Madame
Tabouis G.T.8.: Even “The Real Father
Christmas” won’t park his sleigh at our door.
C.L.F.: You beat about the bush too
much before getting down to the yarn
H.R.S.: You’ve been reading too many fables.
H.T.G.: The w.p.b. was wider than “Wide
Open Spaces”... .C.S.T., J.R.M., 8.H., C.L.D.:
Try them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.S.: A mediocre drawing and the week’s
most feeble gag....N.H.: We’re not in the
market for comic strips E.J.T.: A stock
wheeze among undertakers W.R.: It looks
as if you used a sack of potatoes as a
model for Dad N.N.: You are slowly
overcoming your faults... .M.C.: Suffers from
all the maladies of the average first attempt
T.J.: Your coy bathing beauty belongs to two
generations ag0.... L.S.: That antique about
the burglar and the girl under the shower
has been on our banned list for many years
8.M.: Not the type to set a continent laugh-
ing M.A.: It collapsed on the way to the
judges’ box K. 8.5.: You’re a heavy-handed
artist and a dull punster 8.L.: It wouldn’t
be Christmas time if that old friend didn’t
put in an appearance E.G.: You’re still
carrying on without any regard for the rules of
perspective N.J.: A weak trio G.R.M.:
More like a battle between a couple of water-
spouts than anything else M.C.K.: Didn’t
fancy the illiterate sky writer... A.8.W.: It
almost got through... .J.D.: Polish and re-
submit H.T.: It’s faults outnumber its
merits H.A.E.: Not altogether hopeless, but
nowhere near publication standard.
THE CEDAR-GETTERS
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
A HUNDRED years ago the Hawkes-
bury, the Hunter, the Illawarra and
the Shoalhaven districts of New
South Wales had been, ever since
the beginning of the century, continu-
ously exploited for the splendid red cedar
(Cedrela toona ) abounding in the river
valleys and the ranges thereabout. To-
day, though the writer is well on in years
and knows these districts well, the only
red cedar he has ever seen growing is in
Sydney’s Botanic Gardens. There are
old houses in and about Windsor, Parra-
matta, Maitland, Wollongong and Nowra
with small fortunes locked up in the
cedar panelling and fittings they con-
tain, and when you see them it is pos-
sible to realise how the timber became
so completely wiped out in the first half
of the nineteenth century. And what
went overseas?
The spoilers or the forests were almost
as picturesque a lot as the West Indian
logwood men described by Will Dampier,
and here is a sketch of some of them
made by a man who made their ac-
quaintance as one of themselves about
1825. Years afterwards, in London,
Alexander Harris wrote the story of his
colonial experiences (Settlers and Con-
victs : By an Emigrant Mechanic ), and
the rare little volume remains one of the
best authorities on the realities of Aus-
tralian pioneering available to us to-day.
“One incident only of a much more
unpleasant than unusual character marks
this period. A lot of sawyers from
various pits had met at the old sea cap-
tain’s farm, where a large cask of brandy
had arrived. After letting them drink
very freely, he took it into his head not
to let them have any more. This at first
they would not submit to ; but the old
gentleman, who, by the bye, was not at
all behind with them in their own way,
showed such very strong symptoms of
using his sword and pistols that they
thought best to decamp. A council of
war was then held, and someone sug-
gesting that I and my mate had a lot of
rum still left, down they came in a body
to the amount of about twelve or fifteen.
“At first we did not much heed the
shouting and shrieking in every tone and
dialect, from that of cockneyism to that
of the Irish province which is said to be
a mile beyond his Satanic Majesty’s resi-
dence : but it came nearer and nearer. At
last it crossed the river, and came up the
road through the bush ; and by the time
we were out at the fire in our shirts, the
whole corps debouched before us. Some
wore check shirts, some wore woollen ;
some were in red ones and some in blue,
and some in none at all; some had straw
hats, some Scotch caps, some old work-
ing skull-caps, some nothing but their
own shock heads of hair ; some had sticks
in their hands, some the ration-bags they
had been to get filled ; some the axe they
had been sharpening at the grindstone
and some three or four ribs of salted
beef for to-morrow’s dinner; some sang,
some yelled, some said nothing, but the
one unanimous demand was the re-
mainder of our stock of rum.
“All remonstrances were ineffectual. I
was told at last that if I did not give it
they would take it, and put me on the
fire for a back-log.
“Of course, further parley was useless ;
I brought it out, and they set to at it with
all the pannikins they could muster.
R , whose habituation to such emer-
gencies from his infancy rendered him
much more a match for them than I was,
employed himself in getting hold of every
vessel that he could, and pouring it out
unobserved on the ground ; and as they
were filling only pint and quart pots this
proceeding soon lowered their stock ; and
by sunrise it was all gone. They then
gradually began to disperse ; a couple,
however, took possession of our bed and
slept all day ; and after having supper
with us at night, went home. Such affairs
were pretty well understood to be only
jokes, and no ill-will is allowed to be
borne about them afterwards. We took
nothing for the liquor, though several
offered to pay their ‘whack.’ I could not
reconcile it to my conscience to take any
payment for it, for it would not do to
tell them how it had been disposed of;
and unless we had let them pay for what
they had not had, that seemed unavoid-
able.”


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Coins have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
giILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A CORN
fcILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
i iconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
yILK at (id. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
UIUMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq ; C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. tORBkS.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and H 4 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South pa w}f’nnd the World tlds
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australas:‘' ini business
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all guieial bankny, business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
. wants typing work; used to handling MSS.,
neat and accurate. —5630.
Elderly man, retired schoolteacher, wants
position as caretaker or similar j0b.—5582.
' Middle-aged man requires position in
aerated-water trade. Has gained first prizes for
lemonade and dry ginger ale at Royal Bris-
bane Show. —5598.
Well-established Sydney agency firm desires
to represent Australian manufacturers.-—5576.
Whereabouts of Thomas Watkins, late of
England and Brisbane. (Reply to C. Deans,
■ Dudley-street, Annerley, ' Brisbane.)
Information Sought.
When was the first volunteer corps raised for
defence in Australia ? —5650.
In 1800 when Governor Hunter, sus-
picious of some Irish exiles, raised two
bodies of 50 volunteers each at Sydney and
Parramatta to. strengthen. the- existing forces.
Called the “Loyal and Associated Corps,” the
volunteers were .disbanded by Governor King,
but were reinstated and clothed, fed and armed
at the Government’s expense, when news came
of a fresh outbreak of war between England
and France in 1803. They were again dis-
banded in 1809, when Macquarie‘arrived with
the 73rd Foot. Not until- 1854, when the
Crimean War broke out, did volunteers appear
again. , , ..... , ,
* * * *
A brief history of Finland ? —5606.
The Finns have been there about 1100 years,
having appeared from the Volga regions,
whence they were driven by Bulgars. Swedish
crusaders Christianised them, and for centuries
afterwards they were united with Sweden,
which fought most of its wars with Russia
from the Middle Ages onwards on Finnish soil.
In 1809 Finland became an autonomous grand
duchy of Russia, which respected its rights
and liberties until 1898, when a rising national-
democratic sentiment caused Russia to set up
a military dictatorship and Finland was reduced
to little more than a Russian province. Bobrikoff,
a Russian military governor, was assassinated
in 1904, and the Finns got back some of their
privileges, but later Russianising policy was re-
sumed and intensified up to the outbreak of
the 1914-18 war. In 1917, following the Bol-
shevik revolution, the Finns recovered all their
old rights, but Bolshevism broke out and
there was civil war between Finnish Red
Guards and Soviet allies and Finnish White
Guards and German allies. The latter won. A
year later a monarchy was sought and the
throne offered to Frederick Charles of Hesse,
who refused it. General Mannerheim ruled as
regent for some time, then a republic was set
up, with Professor Stahlberg as first presi-
dent.
*,* * *
How has the war affected the radio amateurs
of the world? —5609.
With the exception of the Union of South
Africa, the. licenses of all experimental radio
transmitting stations in the British Empire have
been suspended (not cancelled). Some neutral
countries have acted similarly as a precaution.
There is no suspension of amateur radio in
U.S.A., but strict observance of neutrality is
enforced. There must be no,reference to or
discussion of the war between amateurs on
the air in U'.S.A. and American possessions.
The official organ of the American Radio
Relay League, “QST,” estimates that as a re-
sult of the outbreak of war more than 70 p.c.
of the world’s radio amateurs are off the air.
In England, Scotland, Wales and portion of
Ireland the equipment used by amateurs was
confiscated for the duration of the war by the
P.M.G. In Australia there has been no con-
fiscation, the order to disconnect-and dismantle
all equipment being considered sufficient.
Amateur radio organisations- throughout the
British Empire are endeavoring to continue
their administrative activities so that. experi-
mental station operation may be recommenced'
at the conclusion of the war.
*.* . * *
(1 ) How is the war affecting the radio broad-
cast receiver .industry ? (2) What is the posi-
tion of■ television in England during the war?
—5600. • , , , . •.
(1)-Conditions, in-the Australian radio in-
dustry have, ,on the whole, , been satisfactory.
Demand for radio has Been intensified by-the
war, .and trade has. improved. All kinds of
sets have been bought,-but there has been a
particularly keen demand for battery sets of
the modern portable type, using the new low-
drain dry-cell valves. There has even been a
revival in the secoriddiand ■ market. .(2)'Alex-
andra Palace television broadcasts were stopped
as soon as war broke out. British progress
in the television field is therefore at a stand-
still.
* * * *
If a Commonwealth railway employee
married after qualifying for superannuation
would his widow be entitled to an allowance ?
—5485.
Commonwealth railways employees are
granted pensions on retirement under the pro-
visions of the Commonwealth Superannuation
Act, 1930-37. Section 32, sub-section 4, reads:
“Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section, where a pensioner marries after his
retirement from the service, pension shall not,
upon the death of the pensioner, be payable
to the widow or in respect of the children of
that marriage.”
* * * *
On a visit to the country I was told a good
axeman could fall a tree in any direction he
wished. How is it done? —s63B.
A deep cut is made on that side of the tree
facing the direction in which it is required to
fall. Then a second cut is made higher up
on the other side. With a naturally leaning
tree, however, a rope is generally attached to
the top and pull, exerted if it is desired to fall
the tree away from the direction of its lean.
A strong wind is likely to upset calculations.
* * * *
Is Annette Kellermann, the swimmer, related
to the late Dame Melba ? —5632.
No. Their only connection is that Dame
Melba, when very young and before she began
singing, was taught the piano by Madame
Charbonnet-Kellermann, mother of Annette
Kellermann.
* * * *
Is James Lionel Michael of any importance
in the history of Australian literature? —s64l.
Hardly. A solicitor, he came from England
in-search of gold in 1853, but was soon prac-
tising law in Sydney, where he published Songs
Without Music and John Cumberland, two
books of undistinguished verse. Perhaps his
best service was to give Henry Kendall a job
in his F Sydney office and to take the poet
with him-when he moved to Grafton.
* * * *
What are the principal types of bark used
by tanneries in N. S. Wales, and from what
districts in Australia are these types of bark
usually procured ? —5461.
Principal types of bark used are Acacia
molissima and Acacia decurrens. Bark from
both these trees contains approximately 40 p.c.
of tannins and is ranged amongst the best
tanning materials in the world. These barks
are obtained from coastal districts of N. S.
Wales and the eastern slopes district from
Nowra southwards.
* * * *
A child was born before marriage, but as
soon after as the mother could get about she
and the father were married by a District
Registrar (N.S.W.). Was that enough to make
the child legally legitimate? If not, can any-
thing be done now to make him so? —5634.
Assuming that at the time of the child’s birth
there was no legal impediment to the mar-
riage, and seemingly there was not, the father
may apply to a District Registrar (N.S.W.) and
produce to him a statutory declaration in the
form prescribed by the .Legitimation Act, to-
gether with a certified copy of the entry of his
marriage with the child’s mother. The Regis-
trar will then register the child as the lawful
issue of the man and his wife. , Disclosure of
the registration to the public is provided
against.
* * * * j
If a pound-keeper lets his pound fall into
disrepair so that a cow escapes and is in-
jured, who pays ? And what about a bull ?
5656.
A pound-keeper is legally bound to keep his
pound in good repair, and he is responsible
for any loss or damage to the cow resulting
from his negligence or that of his
servants. In the case of a violent bull
damaging himself against the structure of a
sound and well-constructed pound the pound-
keeper would not appear to be responsible.
* h= * . *
What is meant by an “equitable” mortgage
as distinguished from an ordinary mortgage?
—5665.
Such a mortgage is constituted by the de-
posit of the title deeds or certificate of title of
the estate with a creditor or some person or
institution, usually a bank, as security against
a debt or advance. The property remains
in the owner’s name, the deposit being deemed
evidence of an executed argreement or contract
for-a mortgage over the estate. It is a usual
practice in. cases where a bank calls for some
security against an overdraft, the bank hold-
ing the deeds till the overdraft is met, and
then returning them to the owner, without
any formal conveyance.
■■* * * *
At a recent concert at Sydney Con. the pro-
gramme contained the item “Haydn’s Sym-
phony No. 104.” Did he .write that many?
On other occasions there have been references
to Haydn symphonies distinguished , by letters
of the alphabet. Whence come these identifi-
cations, and why aren’t opus numbers given as
in the case of the other composers ? —5647.
Haydn wrote no fewer than 125 symphonies,
but unfortunately he didn’t number them;
in most cases didn’t name them, sometimes
didn’t even give the year of composition, and
but rarely gave any definite distinguishing
mark whatever. Such marks as are given nowa-
days are references to various catalogues—for
instance, letters ABC and on to W come
from the catalogue of the Philharmonic Society
of London. Numbers may be taken from the
catalogue of Peters, who first printed most
of the scores, or from those of Brietkopf and
Hartel, Litolff, Simrock, Augener and other pub-
lishers. All adopt different classifications. The
symphony Sydney Con. knows as No. 104 is
titled in some editions “The London” or “The
Londoner,” and is one of a set of 12 written
by Haydn for Saloman’s concerts in London.
These are quite the best-known, and include
“The Surprise,” “The Clock” and “The Mili-
Some particulars concerning Katherine Mans-
field ?— 5618.
Born in M.L. in 1890, daughter of Harold
Beauchamp, a banker, she was educated
in England. Her writing was first noticed
and encouraged by A. P. Orage, editor
of the “New Age,” London. Katherine Mans-
field was a pen-name. Her first collected
volume of stories, In a German Pension, was
published in 1911. She married J. M. Murry,
at one time editor of the “Athenaeum.” In
Dec., 1917, she contracted pleurisy, and from
then till she died, at Fontainebleau in 1923,
her life was a weary battle against disease.
Collections of her short stories include Bliss
and The Garden Party.
* * * *
Dates of Bulletins in which the “Shepherd
Kings of Canterbury" series of short stories
by the late C. A. Jeffries appeared? —s62s.
August 23 and December 13, 1906;-June
20, August 8, December 12 and December
26, 1907; July 30, 1908; January 21, June 17,
July 8 and December 30, 1909; January 27,
1910; February 2 and September 21, 1911;
and December 19, 1912.
* * * *
Some details about wolf spiders ? —5281.
The Lycosidce (wolf spiders).are terrestrial,
and make fairly deep burrows in the soil,
lining them with silk in much the same manner
as trapdoor spiders. Generally speaking,
they do not construct trapdoors, although desert
forms have been found that do. Some species
build a turret to protect the entrance.
They are more or less nocturnal. Female
lycosids carry their egg-sac attached to the
spinarets: After hatching the young climb upon
the body of the mother, and are carried about
by her for a considerable time. When old
enough to forage for themselves, the spider-
lings are distributed by the process of “balloon-
ing.” Nine genera, 84 species and a few
varieties have been so far. recorded from Aus-
tralia.
r ** * *
How much concrete would be necessary for
a cricket pitch? Best mixture to use? —5207.
For a pitch of standard dimensions, 66ft. by
6ft. Bin., to a depth of 3in., four cub. yds.
of cement would be required. A mixture of
one-part of cement, two parts of sand and
three parts of >'■ stone is recommended. The
foundation should be excavated to a depth of
sin. and a: cushion. course of 2in. of sand or
ashes well consolidated between foundation
and concrete. The pitch should be divided
every 22ft. by means of an expansion joint
and the adjoining slabs connected by means
of edge dowel bars.
ijc ■'* * * *
How to eradicate white-ants with either Paris
green or sodium fluosilicate ? —5592.
In treating white-ants with either Paris green
or sodium fluosilicate, - which are used (in
finely divided form and should not be adulter-
ated with any other material, it is essential
not to disturb the affected area of timber, but
to gently split and lift up with a chisel a
portion of the board showing infestation with-
out breaking off any of the woodwork.
Insert the nozzle of a small insect-powder
blower (obtainable from a chemist) and blow
into the runways an ounce or so of the dust,
then remove the chisel and let the lifted portion
of the wood sink back so that the tunnels
of the ants are covered. The dust should blow
about a foot or so along the tunnels so
treated. Do this in six or ten or more of
the principal boards where the infestation is
apparent. The secret of success from this treat-
ment. is in ensuring that the tunnels are not
disturbed prior to the treatment. The ants
should be killed in,about a :week, and about
14 days after treatment badly-infested boards
should be removed and replaced.
* * * *
(1) I have a Lee-Enfield long rifle, the stock
of which has been cut down to sporting, weight.
Barrel was originally made for Mark VI. cart-
ridges. . Is there any difference in the chamber-
ing' of the new-pattern rifle barrel? (2) Is
there any loss -of accuracy when using Mark
VII. cartridges?,'* (3) 'Does the Mark VII.
ammunition cause damage to the barrel? (4)
Is it safe to use Mark VII. cartridges in the old
type of barrel ? —5509. . , •
(1) The chamber in the barrel of the rifle
will take either Mark VI. or Mark VII. cart-
ridges. (2T No, provided the barrel is. not an
old one. (3) It wilTwear out the rifling of the
barrel very much earlier than <if Mark VI.
ammunition was used. (4) Yes.
My light car, which has done about 25,000
miles, seems to have lost its power. It is slug-
gish in get-away and does not pull on hills as
it should. Should I have a rebore? —5623.
A rebore should not be necessary. The
timing may be out or the valves may need
grinding, or both. Have timing checked and
corrected and the valves reseated.
;*■ ~ v *
, (1) How many times was John Robertson
Premier of N.S.W. ? < (2) What were the
periods ? —5629.
(1) Five. (2) 1860-61, 1868-70, 1875-77,
again in 1877 for four months,' and 1885-86.
* * * *
(1) Are the two species of Entomyza related
to the friar-birds ? (2) In what respects do
they differ from the friar-birds,? (3) In what
parts of Australia are they found ? —5lBl.
(1) Yes. (2) They differ decidedly in color,
being rich yellowish-green above and white
beneath, with black patches on the head and
breast. The sides of the head are naked, and
the skin is a rich greenish blue. (3) The
blue-faced honey-eater ( E. cyanotis ) is fairly
common in south-eastern Australia; the white-
quilled honey-eater ( E. albipennis) occurs in
northern Queensland and the Northern Ter-
ritory.
Does Anybody Know?
Source of the following quotation, “Beyond
the last peaks and all seas of the world, lies
the ultimate truth” ? —5619.
* * * *
Who was “Thersites” who wrote an article
on Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”) in “Steele
Rudd’s Magazine” for February 6, 1904; also,
who did the Waratah design, signed “H.A.,”
for the cover of “Tom Collins’s” Such Is Life ?
—5631.
Brief Answers.
R.F.Y.: Apart from Broken Hill Prop, and
Lysaght Bros., there are no firms in Australia
likely to be interested in manufacture of the
product mentioned... .A.K.H.: (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (5) All appear to be German local stamps.
Such items are not catalogued in Gibbons’s
Catalogue, nor is there any catalogue which
lists such stamps. (6) This stamp (Canada
12ic.) is catalogued as No. 15 in Gibbons’s
Simplified Catalogue, 1939. (7) No. 23 in same
catalogue. (8) No. 20 in same catalogue. (9)
Illustrated on p. 734 of same catalogue. (10)
Duty or fiscal stamps have little or no value
to the philatelist. They are not catalogued....
W.S.: The position is rather obscure, as many
lines are now unavailable or have increased
in price. In the circumstances regular cata-
logues are somewhat out of date, but if you
called on D. and W. Murray, Ltd., York-
street, Sydney, they would be pleased to fur-
nish information on the subject... .W.C.R.:
The national income of Australia for the year
1937-38 amounted to £708;300,000, according
to the method adopted by J. T. Sutcliffe. No
official estimates of the national income have
been made by the Commonwealth Bureau of
Census and Statistics, and, pending an in-
quiry, no opinion is expressed on the validity
of the method adopted in determining the
figure above quoted... .D.R.D.: Montgomerie’s
Sister in Charge, Bs. 6d., and Through a Ward
Window,, 145., are out of stock but could be
procured by Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
F.D.: (1) A student of massage is required to
hold a leaving or matriculation certificate if
she desires to train in N.S.W. If she wishes
to do the course in Q’land, she must produce
the senior public certificate. The length of the
course in Q’larid is three years and in N.S.W.
2i years. (2) A person who has been nursing
for several years in small hospitals but has
not passed any examinations is known as an
assistant in nursing—she is neither a nurse nor
a probationer. A nurse is a fully-qualified
person who has completed her training and
passed the final examination; “probationer” is
the title given to the student nurse during the
first three months of her training D.M.M.:
(1) Write Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (2)
Get in touch with Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-
street,. Sydney .. . .H.J.R.: Invisible mending
and reweaving and stocking mending are not
taught at any colleges. The only way to obtain
a training in such work is to take up employ-
ment with one of the firms specialising in it.
. ...C.M.: Yes, it is possible, but it would
occur in exceptional cases 0n1y... .A. 8.:
Write Tyrrell’s, 281 George-street, Sydney
A.F.8.: Write secretary, Correspondence
Division, Sydney Technical College, Sydney.
Digger: (1) Lord Allenby visited Australia
in 1926. (2) See “S. M. Herald” for May 18,
1936 N. 8.: Records not available in Sid-
ney G.J.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney G.C.: The wages-
tax deduction, of 4s. sd. per week is correct on
the basis of the figures supplied M.K.:
Write Navigation Department, Wellington,
M.L.....R.M.: (1) It is mostly a matter of
negotiation-between the person who furnishes
the idea and the illustrator. There is no set
scale of rates. (2) Write to any of the artists
whose works appeal to you and make them an
offer D.C.: (1) J. H. Carruthers (Premier
and Treasurer), Jas. Ashton (Lands), T. Waddell
(Colonial' Secretary), C. J. Wade (Attorney-
General and Justice), C. A. Lee (Public Works),
J. A. Hogue (Education and Labor and In-
dustry), ' S. W. Moore (Mines and Agricul-
ture), John Hughes (Vice-President, Executive
Council), and W. T. Dick and J. N. Brunker
(Honorary Ministers). (2) E. A. McTiernan
was N.S.W. Attorney-General and Minister
of Justice from April 12, 1920, to Oct. 10,
1921, and Attorney-General from Oct. 10, 1921,
to April 13, 1922. He was Attorney-General
again from June 17, 1925, to May 26, 1927,
and Acting Minister of Justice from Feb. 11,
1927, to May 26, 1927 F.D.: Florists get
over the difficulty by dropping liquid paraffin
on the anthers of waterlily blooms to keep
the flower leaves from closing L.N.:
Write Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney.
. ...A.C.A.: You are responsible for the pay-
ment of the costs as from the date you re-
ceived the writ, referred to by you as "the
papers” informing you of the action. You
will have to pay them, but might arrange with
the solicitor to receive payment by instalments
if you cannot make an immediate adjustment.
... C.E.H.: Write Cement and Concrete Ad-
visory Assoc. Pty., Ltd., Shell House, Car-
rington-street, Sydney... .G.F.D.: The dis-
ability from which you suffer would be a
definite disqualification on medical grounds for
entry to any branch of the Air Force....
W.H.R.: No record of anyone representing in
Australia the manufacturers of the “Victor”
Kerosene Engine J.P.: The circumstances of
a pensioner’s parents must be taken into con-
sideration in assessing the pension rate. In
view of the father’s annual rate of earnings,
the pension paid in this case is deemed reason-
able and adequate. Should the father’s cir-
cumstances materially alter the Pensions De-
partment should be notified and the case will
be reviewed... .1.W.H.(1) No. It is granite
included into sedimentary strata now highly
metamorphosed. (2) 1251 ft. (3) No, but at
its foot is the mine where the Welcome Nugget
was discovered... .S.T.N.: S.S. Coogee col-
lided with the Italian barque Fortunato Figari
at 3.45 a.m. on Christmas morning, 1903
The barque’s <■ bowsprit swept the Coogee’s
deck and the captain Frederick Carrington and
able seaman Frank Golly were killed. The
funeral, in Melbourne, was attended by 10,000
people A.W.8.: To make a strong paste
that will keep, dissolve ioz. of alum in one
pint of warm water and when cold add flour
to make a creamy fluid. Add boiling water and
stir till thick, then add four cloves,
powdered resin and a few drops of corrosive
sublimate (get threepenn’orth from your
chemist). Bottle and keep corked. Can be
made in large quantities, same proportions....
W.E.P.: What you need is a textbook on
architectural perspective. Any big bookseller
should be able to give you a list of suitable
books 8.M.: “Tibby” Cotter, the cricketer,
died while on active service with the A.I.F.
on October 20, 1917, at the age of 33 S.S.:
Information not available in Sydney 8.D.:
Get in touch with Dept, of Agriculture, Mel-
bourne... .H.W.: James McEwan and Co.,
119 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne R.J.S.:
Write Mechanical Horse (Australasia), Ltd., 14
Spring-street, Sydney... .C.L.R.: Ajax No. 18
baking varnish would be suitable for tropical
conditions.


Are you feeding the best mineral supplement ?
qJa/.-Gx£-Cm.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
•
is the most reliable source of calcium and phosphorus
for sheep, cattle, pigs, etc. It ensures early maturity,
maintains good health and increases production.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70 per cent, tricalcic
phosphate ... it costs the farmer less and goes further.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.SM' .
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
m
o
ijaii
%p(S^
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PEKTH, WESTEKN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Black Disease.
“J.R.D.”: Though black disease and
liver fluke are totally different, b.d. is
dependent on fluke and both troubles
can be attacked together.
The adult fluke is a flat pear-shaped
parasite about the size of sixpence and
is found in the bile ducts of the sheep s
liver. The eggs are voided with sheep’s
droppings. On dry soil they perish. Sur-
vival depends on their reaching water
and a certain species of small snail within
a day or so; these snails abound in
N.S.W. on the Monaro, New England
and other high tablelands as well as the
Moree watercourse. Fluke eggs need
warm weather for hatching, and larvae
may have gone through the snail period
and be ready to be picked up by sheep
grazing on moist country, swamps or
along creeks by the end of December,
or earlier in some districts.
The immature fluke makes its way to
the liver, where it remains about six
weeks, causing a lot of damage and in-
cidentally forming conditions for black
disease. On reaching maturity the fluke
enters the bile duct and starts egg laying.
There are two main methods of getting
rid of fluke. First is drenching with
carbon tet., but, as this is only effective
against adult fluke, drenching must be
repeated. The other is to destroy the
snail without which the fluke larvae can-
not survive. These snails have small
blackish shells, not much bigger than a
grain of wheat, and live in slow-running
creeks or stagnant water.
First step is to drain swamps and
springs and to clear creeks. The snails
can be destroyed by a very weak solu-
tion of bluestone which will not affect
stock drinking the water. Where a creek
enters the property and at frequent in-
tervals, hang bags of bluestone crystals
in the water. Marshy areas should be
broadcast with powdered bluestone (1
part to 3 parts sand); allow lewt. of the
mixture per acre.
Bluestoning should be carried out be-
fore fluke eggs hatch. Late winter is
the best time. It is practically impossible
to get a 100 p.c. kill of snails, so drench-
ing must be carried out in conjunction.
First drench should be aimed at ridding
the sheep of any fluke carried through
the winter. If not already done, sheep
should get carb. tet. before the end of
December.
Black disease germs can remain in a
sheep’s liver for years without doing any
harm until the young fluke starts to
plough its way through the liver. Sheep
die of black disease without showing pre-
vious symptoms. Young sheep are not
affected to the same extent as older ones,
and there is no need to inoculate lambs.
A small dose of vaccine (2c.c.) gives
immunity for a year, and it is thought
that a second dose the following year will
give lifelong immunity.
Sheep moved to country free from b.d.
should still be inoculated as, if they have
already picked up fluke and the b.d.
germ, losses will occur. Single-strength
carbon, tet. will kill fluke, but the use of
double-strength (2c.c. carb. tet. to 3c.c.
paraffin) is more economical, as it is
also 100 p.c. effective against stomach
worms. Sheep should be drenched at
regular intervals from March till July
on fluky country.
Maoriland’s New Meat Act.
“Mookau”: Maoriland will have new
meat legislation in operation in April,
1940 — a complete reconstruction and
consolidation of all the laws in force.
All boroughs with a population of 2500
will be compelled to establish abattoirs ;
smaller districts may do so at their dis-
“Wha's matter widdun, lad? Lockjaw?"
cretion. Districts and towns may also
establish boiling-down works.
All meat for sale in abattoir districts
is subject to rigid inspection. Pig
slaughterhouses which kill for export
must in future be licensed. Stock con-
demned, provided more than 25 per cent,
of the carcass dressed weight is con-
sidered unfit for consumption, will be
compensated for provided the beast does
not show obvious signs of disease before
slaughter.
Dosing Animals.
“Wundi”: It’s easy and safe when you
know how.
If a bottle is used for drenching, case
it in leather. A smashed bottle-neck can
make a horrible mess of Flossie’s mouth.
When dosing a cow, put the left arm over
the nose from the right-hand side and
grip the upper lip firmly with left hand.
Now push the bottle-neck into the right
side of the mouth, so that the dose runs
on to the middle of the tongue. Pour
slowly and gently to give the cow plenty
of time to swallow. Be careful, if you
have to hold the animal to prevent
struggling, that breathing is not interfered
with.
For drenching pigs there is nothing
better than an old shoe with a hole in the
toe. Push the toe into Dennis’s mouth
and pour in the nip.
Sheep should not be sat up on their
tails when being dosed. If in the open,
hold sheep between your legs at the
shoulders. Run the left hand round the
lower jaw with the thumb in the sheep’s
mouth to hold it open.
Drenching guns should be used with
care so that the sheep shall not be injured.
With the wrong type of nozzle it is easy
to make a nasty gash inside the cheek.
Stick to blunt or rubber-protected nozzles.
Horse-drenching calls for the greatest
skill of all. Run a loop of clothesline
under the noseband and into the animal’s
mouth. The rope end is then tied over a
rafter or high rail and lips cleared of the
loop. Raise the head a little and pour
in the dose.
Super, in the Mallee.
“R.E.G.”: After 14 years of experi-
menting it now seems fairly certain that
the best rate of super, for wheat sown
on fallow on typical Victorian mallee soil
is 901 b. to the acre. Beyond that, though
there is an increase in yield, increased
cost of the super, is scarcely met. Be-
tween 601 b. and 901 b. super., yield in-
crease represents 2s. 3d. with wheat at
2s. 6d. a bushel; between 901 b. and
1201 b., vield increase represents only
Is. 3d.
Tests with super, for stubble-sown
crops suggest that, provided the crop
from which the stubble comes was
adequately manured, from 301 b. to 401 b.
of super, an acre is about as far as it
is advisable to go. In the tests, which
cover only two seasons, yield was actually
slightly lower when the super, applica-
tion was above the suggested rate.
Though Ghurka and Ranee 4H are
still the most popular Mallee wheats,
Bencubbin is gaining, some who have
watched its performances in W.A. and
N.S.W. being satisfied that it is the best
dual-purpose wheat for the Mallee,
though its straw-weakness should be
noted. Regalia, which is the new name
for the Ranee-Free Gallipoli W 5807
cross, has proved itself a good yielder
under Mallee conditions, and is recom-
mended for early-maturity in the north.
Farming Poor Land.
“B. Cubbin”: W. H. Heywood, on
very light soil out from Boggabri
(N.S.W.), has shown that even the
poorest of land will respond to good
farming. Gum country and rather sandy,
its only natural herbage was three-awned
spear-grass, and it would not carry better
than a sheep to eight acres in winter.
Now, ploughed 6in. or Sin. deep, sown
to oats and with lcwt. of super, per acre,
it will grow a good grain crop or feed
five to ten sheep an acre on greenstuff
for one hour a day all through the cold
months.
Light red soil has been topdressed witii
super., and, combined with stubble pad-
docks, has allowed Heywood to increase
his stock by half. To maintain this stock-
ing he conserves plenty of fodder. His
rotation is wheat, pasture, oats, pasture,
which helps to build up fertility. He
avoids burning stubble as far as possible,
satisfied that it provides a certain amount
of feed, protects the ground from rain
and wind erosion, and allows the self-
sown herbage to come away strongly.
(He may find disease a problem later on.)
Application of super, then gives him a
good body of feed; moreover, lambs
raised on the supered areas do not suffer
the deformities of those raised on soil
lacking in phosphates.
Heywood grew four good crops on a
bit of sandy country branded useless by
two different experts and practically all
his neighbors. Without super, he declares
any attempt at crop-growing “entirely a
humorous one.”
Grasshoppers Arrive Again.
“Zedo”: Grasshoppers have turned up
in greater force in the N.S.W. north and
north-west than for some years past.
Around Coonabarabran many wheat
crops have been stripped to one-third
normal yield, and oats have had a bad
doing. Coonamble, which usually misses
the invasions, has been struck, and the
local stock inspector says that the next
hatching there will test the bait and labor
supply. The insects have come to Tam-
worth from the west and are laying on
a large scale in dozens of beds. The
swarm was 150 miles wide and came
down inches thick round Bingara and
Warialda.
The ’hopper likes a flush, hot season,
and the worst feature of his invasions is
that each seems a bit worse than the one
before. Everybody knows what should
be done in handling the swarms, but
about one man in three is energetic
enough to do it. Those who do take
proper measures under board supervision
too often slacken off before the job is
done and give the pests a fresh start.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pappamosca”: All pigs need char-
coal. It is best to feed it in powder, but
if lumps are thrown into the pen animals
will help themselves as they need it.
“J. Want”: Maoriland Agricultural
Department is recommending chou rnoel-
lier as a fodder crop. It makes fine graz-
ing for sheep, has almost double the dry
matter content of turnips and is richer
in digestible proteins. It likes heavier
types of land. One of the best ways to
sow it is in 28in. rows —up to 21b. seed
to the acre. Chou likes fertiliser —super,
and lime in equal quantities, about scwt.
to the acre on heavy land, or 3cwt. on


BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
IBn
PER PAIR
buti
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with tired feet in the
Summertime by wearing Sandals. They’re serviceable and comfortable;
just the things to wear for coolness and ease. And as they are Abbey
Sandals they will give long-time wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
53 Castlereagh Street,
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow-—Oops Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold—Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
bui
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
■
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9/9/.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
Deluxe—
Fcutucn
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Founded 1831.
m
First Term, 1940, begins
February 7th.
H. D. HAKE, M.A.,
Headmaster.
light land. It is a crop that excels in
snow country.
“Mookau”: Bloodmeal is good for
dairy cattle when fed with bran, pollard
or maizemeal. The great difficulty is
to keep feed-boxes in which it has been
used free from smell and fermentation.
Wash them down at intervals with boil-
ing water, but see that they dry out.
Moisture, where bloodmeal is used, is
the mother of decay.
“Mt. Boppy”: It is a lengthy job to
get a horse with cracked hoofs right.
Prevent further cracking by shoeing with
light plates. Keep the heels low to take
pressure off them, but don’t use the rasp
on the walls of the hoofs. Keep the
walls smeared with equal parts of oil
and tar. To stimulate growth of sound
horn, rub a mild embrocation around the
coronets for two or three minutes every
second day. Cease the application for a
time if a scurf forms. Don’t get the
embrocation on the heels or the skin will
crack.
“8.C.”: In dry, hot weather heavy
harness will soon become hard and liable
to crack. Wipe off the dust and sweat
every night and, at regular intervals, give
a dressing of neatsfoot oil.
“Wester”: When buying a new saw,
test it by holding the handle and bending
the tip round. If they strongly resist
meeting the saw is too stiff; if they meet
easily and a buckle appears in the saw
it is too limp. Buy the one that comes
round fairly stiffly and then springs back
without a trace of buckle.
“Cub”: Dundee, a good yielder nor-
mally, failed in N.S.W. Riverina wheat
areas this season, falling a victim to stem
rust and frost damage of the stalk. As
a big proportion of the crops were of
this variety, Riverina yield is likely to be
down somewhat.
“A.A.D.”: The current N.S.W. wheat
season has proved a triumph for Ford.
Highly resistant to stem rust, it has shown
to advantage in a year when susceptible
varieties such as Dundee have suffered
badly. Ford supplied eight of the 15
prize-winning crops in the five R.A.S.
championships, the grain filling to a good
bushel weight. Of medium strong flour
quality, the grain, when ripened under
good conditions, sometimes becomes suf-
ficiently vitreous to be graded as hard.
Early samples from the North Star dis-
trict, near the Queensland border, re-
turned 18 p.c. gluten under test, a stand-
ard seldom attained by strong flour pre-
mium wheats.
“Yarrunga”: S.A. Department of
Agriculture has registered a new wheat,
Rapier, produced at Roseworthy College.
A selection from Sword, it is claimed to
be a definite improvement on that variety.
In N.S.W. Sword is officially recom-
mended for further trial as a rust-
resistant early maturer, but has not made
much headway.
“Yarrunga”: Farms all over the
N.S.W. wheat districts are embarrassed
with good grain crops of oats. Increased
acreages were sown as a set-off to low
wheat prices, and many crops put in
for winter grazing for sheep were not
required for that purpose. Now, with
greater production and less demand for
fodder, farmers are being offered lOd. to
Is. a bushel for feed quality. Looks
like a good chance for graziers to secure
cheap reserves to hold for the next dry
season.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. growers are getting
premiums of 2d. to 4d. a bushel for
strong-flour wheats sold direct to millers.
The ascending range is for Gular, Cail-
loux, Carrabin, and the Pusas. Pusa 111.
has been added to the recommended
varieties as suitable for the N.S.W. north-
west slopes and north-central plain. Of
Indian origin it is a selection from Pusa
IV., the highest baking-quality wheat
grown here, and has similar characteris-
tics. It is slightly more productive than
the parent type, especially under dry con-
ditions. The new rust-immune Eureka
is recommended for sowing in small lots
in the north and north-west. It gives a
high-quality grain.
“Ovis”: Maoriland expects an 84 p.c.
lambing against 80 p.c. last year. This
should produce 9,500,000 new sheep, and
next year the number of breeding ewes
will pass the 11,000,000 mark, just when
the increase is most wanted.
“Nagheer”: Some of the best-flavored
mangoes in the world are grown in the
Townsville (N.Q.) district, and the in-
dustry is developing rapidly. During the
first three weeks of the season railings
to Brisbane and other southern centres
totalled 4406 cases weighing 114 tons.
Brisbane prices run from 6s. to Bs. the
bushel case, so that the market value of
the crop topped £l5OO for less than a
quarter of its probable duration. The
State experimental station is doing valu-
able work in selecting and developing
well-flavored strains which will travel
well and retain their attractive appear-
ance. Absence of excessive seasonal rain-
falls makes Townsville neighborhood
particularly suitable for large-scale
mango growing. The trees come into
bearing in three years, are little troubled
by disease and require less attention than
most orchard trees.
“Ess”: Every Noogoora burr plant can
produce 100,000 burrs, each containing
two seeds. One seed germinates a season
after the other, thus providing for a
double-up every year. It will poison pigs
in its very young stages, though big
stock and sheep are much less liable to
suffer. A. W. McLeish, who runs station
properties near Quambone (N.S.W.), beats
it by heavy stocking with sheep between
November and April the growing
season.
“Oiler”: Yanco (N.S.W.) is getting
ready to harvest the first large crop of
linseed grown in the M.1.A.; an adapted
rice header is to be used. Annual Aus-
tralian imports of linseed are over the
1,000,000 bushel mark ; it is worth about
7s. a bushel. An average yield of about
20 bushels an acre is expected under
irrigation.
“Yeno Ham”: N. S. Bate, Bodalla
(N.S.W.), winner of this year’s N.S.W.
Master Farmer competition (coastal
division) is a barracker for pasture im-
provement and fodder conservation. He
milks an average of 72 A.I.S. cows.
He works 250 acres for dairying, a big
portion being improved grassland. There
are perennial rye grass, cocksfoot and red
clover on 90 acres of flat country, in
addition to 30 acres of perennial rye,
cocksfoot and sub. clover on the hills.
All of the pastures, including natural
grasses, are topdressed with 2cwt. of
super, annually. Bate ploughs up pas-
tures every four or five years to keep
them fresh, growing fodder crops before
resowing with grasses and clovers. He
begins grazing for an hour a day, gradu-
ally increasing to two hours a day. As
soon as the pastures begin to go off he
shuts the paddock up and lets the herbage
grow until it is long enough to be cut,
when it is converted into hay or silage.
He grows maize for both silage and grain.
Pig raising is a sideline. Bate uses a pure-
bred Tamworth boar on the seven Tam-
worth and crossbred sows.
The Bulletin
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4%d. per line;
all others at 2ld. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Too many contributors want to write about the war.
For an interesting defence of the syndication of worth-while matter a Queens-
land writer will be paid double rates.
Syndicated Stuff
Without attempting to justify the im-
portation and syndication of the vast
bulk of bilge that seeps into this country
of ours, I cannot deny that syndi-
cation does make available to immense
numbers of Australians, at the inclusive
cost of their daily, weekly or monthly
journal, a good deal of fine writing and
thought that would not reach them other-
wise.
There is serious abuse of syndication,
of course, but in the long run it (not the
abuse) has its advantages.
If Australian literature is to flourish it
must do so on a world-wide basis. It will
be either good or bad, not “not bad for
an Australian,” or “excellent by Aus-
tralian standards.”
Otherwise we are on the same footing
as people who won’t play or hear Ger-
man music because we are at war with
Germany; or won’t go to the Russian
Ballet because they don’t like Commu-
nism ; or won’t attend American pictures
because they disapprove of neutrality.—
J. B. (Q.).
“J. B.” is J. Bennett, Breakfast Creek-
road, Newstead (Q.).
Ourselves
Isn’t it time we Australians stood on
our own feet instead of being weak
echoes of other countries and other folk?
Why should we build houses with pepper-
pot roofs just because Norway and
Sweden do? Why should we, with all
Australia to build upon, erect skyscrapers
after the fashion of New York, where
there is no room to build out? Why
can’t we evolve our own type of build-
ing suitable to our own Australian
climate?
Why should our wives and sisters and
daughters have to be mere imita-
tions of Hollywooden morons? Can’t
we just be ourselves, clean, whole-
some and happy? Why should our
fingernails be painted red, our cheeks
mauve, our lips purple just because some
fifth-rate actress chooses those colors to
start folk staring at her?
Why should our fashion-books instruct
us to copy demi-mondaines and courte-
sans of the Old World; why haven’t
their publishers brains enough to develop
new fashions to suit Australian women?
Why can’t we be 100 per cent. Aus-
tralians? We have a whole continent
inhabited by a few million folk, white
Australians; why don’t we evolve our
own fashion, dress, buildings, morals and
magazines?— Wingella (N.T.).
Churchill, 1931 Model
After reading The Bulletin leader,
“Churchill’s Last and Worst” (B.
22/11/’39), I opened my album of news-
paper cuttings and looked up the follow-
ing from the London “Daily Telegraph”:
A monster has been born into our
modern world. A cold, reptilian blood
flows in its veins. It possesses the science
of civilisation without its mercy, the fan-
aticism of religion without God, the ex-
ploitation of human passions and appetites
without any ideal beyond their gratifica-
tion —and that not achieved.
We are in the presence of a sub-human
degeneration, which, if not luckily in-
herently morbid, would reduce great
nations, nay, all mankind, to the con-
ditions which M. Maeterlinck has so
vividly displayed in his history of the
• White Ant. Or again, it is a cancer
bacillus feeding and spreading itself upon
the starving body, thriving by the very
process which tortures and destroys its
victim. How vain to traffic or parley with
a cancer. How foolish to make a pet of a
crocodile, or coax a cobra or a copper-
head.
English and American philanthropists,
enterprising, hopeful concessionaries, ardent
French, British, German, Dutch or Bel-
gian Socialists or trade unionists, highly
competent German industrialists, skilled
engineers from both sides of the Atlantic,
laboring men from many countries, perse-
vering Mr. Urquhart, the Lena Goldfields
Company, young Mr. Harriman, old Mr.
Vandervelde —all in turn have sought to
clasp that clammy hand.
All in turn have recoiled injured, in-
fected or at least defiled by its chill
poisonous sweat.
This was written by Churchill some-
time in March, 1931, and the Govern-
ment so scathingly castigated was the
same Soviet Government with which a
little while ago Churchill sought an alli-
ance on its own terms.
Lord Fisher certainly knew his
Churchill when he said that the latter
“changes his opinions as he changes his
shirt.”— Tom (N.S.W.).
Scapa Flow
“Nautilus” (B. 25/10/’39) is talking
some of that “usual rubbish” himself
when he says that “Scapa was chosen as
a war base.... chiefly because it was
considered to be out of submarine
range.” Nowadays it is impossible for
a fleet to remain continuously at sea. A
blockade can only be carried out against
a strong enemy by light cruisers operat-
ing at long range from the enemy’s coast-
line and supported by a handily-based
battle fleet. Scapa was so obvious a
choice in a war with Germany that Ger-
man naval officers, prior to 1914, refused
to believe the place was not secretly
fortified and used to chip their British
confreres about it.
“Nautilus” is also informed that
Churchill was right when he said the
anchorage was immune from submarine
attack during the last war. From the
beginning to the end of the war no hos-
tile submarine entered the Flow. It was
not the presence of U-boats, but the fear
of them, that made Jellicoe leave Scapa
until proper harbor defences had been
provided. It was also the fear of harbor
defences, at first non-existent, that kept
the Germans out.
Lastly the Audacious was not sunk by
a torpedo from a U-boat but by a mine
laid by the Berlin off the Irish, coast. —
Maybloom (Vic.).
The War Spirit
“D. Aitch” says (B. 6/12/’39) that
Britons have entered this war more united
than in 1914, and that the Great War
came as a profound shock to most
people.
For years Lord Roberts had warned
Britain what was ahead, and every school
kid knew that a show-down with the
German Navy was coming. When war
did come, the whole country was united
in a flash by a spirit of fierce determi-
nation.
The issue then was the safety of British
sea routes, for without her overseas trade
Britain must starve. That is the issue
today, too, only it has been obscured by
the rubbish poured out by Communist
propagandists and their dupes.
If the leaders want a national response
similar to that in 1914, they must drop
this silly “crusade” talk and tell people
the plain issue—victory or starvation.
Above all, let it be proclaimed in lan-
guage that Lord Fisher would have used
and not in the mincing tones of
8.8. C. commentators. —J. N. Rookledge
(N.S.W.).
“Business As Usual”
Cheers for “Petty Canker” (B.
29 /11 / ’39), who champions the cause of
the folk who run mountain and seaside
businesses, when he mentions the great
stroke that G.M. of the public monopoly
thought he made when he compelled his
salaried staff to forgo a week of their
annual leave for the duration.
What a farce it was to read the big
headlines from Mr. Menzies about “busi-
ness as usual!” To those whose lot is
cast in mountain holiday resorts, where
the whole community lives for one thing
—the tourist —it certainly was a joke to
hold the paper in one hand with assur-
ances of “business as usual,” while the
telephone ran hot in the other hand with
cancellations.
Surely holidays are more necessary
than ever in these times, when the strain
of war conditions imposes a drain on
our nervous system. Doctors’ bills are
dearer than holidays.— Ben N. (N.S.W.).
The Fallen Idol
The German invasion of Poland, un-
justifiable though it was, pales into insig-
nificance beside the wanton bullying of
the Bolshevik attack on Finland, follow-
ing so close on the same country’s in-
vasion of Poland. With Poland, Ger-
many at least had a quarrel. Russia had
no real quarrel and no legitimate cause
for complaint against Finland.
The perpetrators of the crime are those
whom our daily press would have had
as our allies. For several years up to
the outbreak of war the desirability, the
necessity even of an alliance with the
Communists has been canvassed by our
dailies. It should have been obvious
they were backing the wrong horse. They
have been rewarded by (1) the victory
of Franco, (2) the Russo-German pact,
(3) the Russian invasion of Poland, (4)
the Russian invasion of Finland, (5) and
now what?
The value of any pact we might have
had with Russia is measured in her de-
nunciation of her own non-aggression
pact with Finland.
Pious horror and indignation have now
been suitably expressed by practically all
our daily newspapers at the actions of
their former idol. It is not enough. Admit-
tedly it is geographically impossible to
go to Finland’s aid in a military sense,
but it is not impossible to sever diplo-
matic relations with Moscow, prohibit
imports from and exports to Russia, and
make Australia extremely uncomfortable
for Communists. In fact, if Australia in-
tends to be regarded as a Christian and
democratic State, these measures should
be taken immediately.—J. A. L. (N.S.W.).
A Utopian Peace?
No sooner had this war been declared
than English intellectuals and their no
less vociferous Australian brethren pro-
ceeded with planning a world order
which will make another war both un-
necessary and impossible. Men like
Wickham Steed, Norman Angell, H. G.
Wells and a host of lesser lights are rant-
ing about world federation, international
solidarity, pooling and socialisation of
resources and all the rest of the brother-
hood-of-man notions.
It is almost incredible that the grim
lessons of the last 20 years —the dismal
failure of the League of Nations, the
emergence of bitterly hostile ideologies,
civil wars and wars of barefaced aggres-
sion—should have left so little trace on
these men that they are seriously advo-
cating a new world order on a basis of
universal brotherhood. At a time, more-
over, when Germany’s avowed intention
is to crush England and the British Em-
pire, and Russia, vulturelike, is out for
what pickings there may be.
Billy Hughes once said, regarding the
possibility of our relinquishing New
Guinea, “What we have we hold.” A
sound maxim.—C. A. B. (Q.).
Romance v. Reality
Anthony Eden has joined Nevile Hen-
derson and the other medievalists in de-
claring the new war-to-end-war a crus-
ade. Remembering what the Crusades
achieved in proportion to their cost in
health, wealth and happiness, the com-
parison may prove to be apt.
But if sacrifice is to be applied to social
effort in our time I can think of a better
use for it nearer home: taking out
life insurance for Australia by making
adequate arrangements for rearing its
future citizens.
In Westralia last year, out of 400 best
immigrants whose parents were either
dead or absentminded 300 had to be
given a home by the Roman Catholic
Church in default of any public arrange-
ment. God knows, and the politicians
don’t seem to care, what happened to
the other 100.
The Methodist Church in W.A. main-
tains a home for hand-picked young Aus-
tralians from destitute families, but it
can afford only to keep 80, and last year
had to turn away about 140 children
whose subsequent fate is unknown.
Last night I attended a small rural
church where a few not wealthy people
were being urged to give of their poverty
towards saving Australia’s greatest asset.
A servant girl near me gave 15 p.c. of
her current income. Thus religion in
W.A. has to scrounge for shillings where-
by the future Anthony Edens may have
more recruits for new crusades on which
to spend thousands of millions of pounds.
—Centaur (W.A.).
The Real Danger
It seems to me that our danger is not
defeatism, but the subtler evil of taking
the issue for granted and assuming that,
because our cause is just, we have the
universe on our side. Haig’s famous
Order of the Day of April 13, 1918, is
lying before me, and its message seems
to sound a warning as well as a rally.
Then we fought with our backs to the
wall; it was in that situation that we
turned and transformed despair into vic-
tory. In a similar situation Jerry is likely
to prove very tough. We shall have to steel
our nerves and stiffen our resolve against
the day when our pitiless, efficient and
well-prepared foe lets hell loose, rather
than face the ignominy and bitterness of
another lost war.
For twenty years he has eaten of sour
grapes, and for much of that time has
lived grimly for the come-back (wouldn’t
we?). Any Digger who recalls the
psychological effect on individuals of
Haig’s fateful words will make no mis-
take about Jerry’s reactions when, fight-
ing with his back to the wall, he turns
and rends with the courage of despair.—
Tynesider (S.A.).
Payment for Copy
A genuine cause for complaint
arises when pseudo-“literary” publi-
cations start lapping up the crumbs that
fall from the rich newspapers’ literary
table. An article of mine was lifted by
one of these publications recently—out
of a daily paper—and when I wrote to
complain the editor replied that (a) news-
paper copyright expires in 24 hours, ( b )
that he had permission and (c) that I
ought to feel flattered.
In regard to ( b ) the editor of the daily
concerned wrote and told me that no
such permission had been granted. This
sort of thing should be jumped on with
both feet. — King’s Inns (N.S.W.).
Radio Serials
As a teacher of English in a country
district I recently had a startling illus-
tration of the effects of sponsored radio
serials (B. 15/11/’39). A few weeks
after our show, I set as a composition
subject “Two Farmers Chatting After
the Show.” As a result I waded through
“Bulletin” Style
Lay off The Bulletin style, you Other
Fellows! To a certain extent there is such
an animal, but it consists chiefly of con-
densing the subject matter so that nothing
is lacking but nothing unnecessary is
included. As far as paragraph writers are
concerned, they do not have to conform
to a fixed style—if a par. is interesting
and to the point it will find its way into
The Bully’s pages.
This is in pleasant contrast to most
other papers. Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
provides an example. It has a daily sec-
tion consisting of contributed letterettes
of not more than 50 words. Evidently a
set style must be adhered to, or else its
readers all have single-track minds. What-
ever the reason, the pars, consist almost
entirely of arguments as to the respec-
tive beauty of girls from different towns,
lovesick ravings from youths who have
seen their “dream-girls,” and pleas from
swains who want to know whether or not
to give up their girls or something equally
insipid.
If The Bulletin style ever degenerated
to this level, God help us!
BOP (N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Literary Fund
Six months ago a fund was made avail-
able for the encouragement of Australian
literature. The scheme was to grant
fellowships in order “to aid persons who
have proved their capacity to do creative
work in the field of literature, but who
are prevented from exercising their abili-
ties because of financial stringency.” The
fellows were to undertake and be paid
for research work of a specified nature.
Unemployed genius was to be given a
job. Splendid!
The Prime Minister has announced the
allocations of the fund for 1940 —four
writers have been given tasks at the rate
of £250 per annum. Then comes the
astounding statement that it is proposed
to grant £lOO to the universities in each
State to subsidise lectures on Australian
literature. Mr. Menzies remarked naively
that the universities were willing to
receive the grant.
This appears to be a complete depar-
ture from the original object of the fund.
A university is not a person. Its lec-
turers are not necessarily capable of
creative work. And they are not notice-
ably suffering from financial stringency.
The money legally belongs, not to pros-
perous institutions, but to unfortunate
individuals whose abilities and deserts
have been proved, but whose prospects
have been ruined by world conditions
over which they have no control.-
HIM
WHO HATH (S.A.).


50 slightly varied rehashes of the inane
and petty abuse indulged in by “Dad and
Dave.”
It’s a sad reflection on originality in
Australian thought when the rising gen-
eration has no better example than this
to follow, Henry Lawson wrote
genuinely of our quaintness and origi-
nality without any suggestion of belittling
his subjects—it’s a poor craftsman who
has to ridicule one section of the com-
munity for the amusement of the rest.
Would the city-dweller find it amusing
to be portrayed constantly as the seeker
of butts, the oafish fight-fan, the bull-
necked, full-fed sport, or the Australian
foreigner who adds flavor to the coffee
lounges? Then why should our country
folk be depicted four times weekly as
clowns and boors when the majority of
them are as well educated and as man-
nerly as their city brethren? — Nugunk
(Vic.).
School Broadcasts
I don’t know the position in other
States, but in W.A. the school broadcasts
position gives food for thought. The
Commonwealth Government provides the
broadcasting service, and the State Gov-
ernment runs the schools and permits its
teaching staff to co-operate with A.B.C.
in the preparation and delivery of the
broadcasts.
Neither State nor Federal Govern-
ments, however, will pay for school wire-
less licenses (or exempt schools from
licensing), nor will they provide the
receiving sets. Schools with energetic
parents’ and teachers’ bodies have re-
ceivers ; those who have no such willing
honorary workers go without.
If school broadcasting is an important
part of education —and the recognition
given to it indicates that it is—then it is
unfair of Governments to expect parents’
and teachers’ voluntary bodies to provide
sets in Government schools and license
them.—R. H. A. (W.A.).
Education and Politics
The undignified crossfire between
N.S.W. Education Minister Drummond
and the president of the Teachers’ Fed-
eration is an example of the proficiency
of the politician in seizing on any pretext
which may be turned to advantage.
A Federation man made a statement
that anyone who cut the education vote
was disloyal to democracy. The Minister
insisted on regarding this as a personal
attack on his leader, and with heavy and
much-publicised loyalty refuses to hear
the Federation or even to recognise it
until complete retraction is made.
Apart from the ridiculous childishness
of it all, there emerges the fact that the
Minister has laid himself open to the
charge of inconsistency, if not that of
insincerity. In a foreword to the recently-
published “Social Services in Australia”
he says: “The solution of the world’s
troubles, which largely arise _ from
economic causes, is, in my opinion, to
be found in the whole-hearted recogni-
tion of the fact that while one person
is underfed, while one person is unedu-
cated or ill-educated so long will it
be impossible to organise this world upon
a peaceful basis.”
Perhaps the Minister cannot see that
educational leaders are too occupied with
the serious business of making the world
better to waste time in attacking the
frayed dignity of a politician. B. Ec.
(N.S.W.).
Poison
Recently noticed a can of poison with
its antidote printed on it. Why not make
it compulsory for all poisons to have
this information attached. — Empty (Q.).
The Value of Philosophy
A fig for R. Conquest when he
asserts (B. 29 /11 / ’39) that philosophy “is
but the surveying of difficulties from all
angles until the good aspects are found
to predominate.” Buddha, when he left
his palace to contemplate under a Bo
tree, may have been a philosopher, but
philosophy is not Buddhism. Nor is it
the mixture of stoicism and complacency
in which “R.C.” appears to believe.
Philosophy is the study of the cause
of things. It is an attempt to provide a
synthesis embracing all knowledge, and
philosophic theories past and present are
as dissimilar as the men who conceived
them. “R.C.” is confusing philosophy
as a whole with his particular theories.
And, contrary to his idea of it, every
philosopher of note must perforce have
been a sceptic in that he refused to ac-
cept the theories of his day and revolu-
tionised thought by propounding new
ones of his own.
Not all philosophic theories are good
by accepted standards. Consider the
effect of Nietzsche on German culture.
And even the less materialistic philoso-
phies have their pitfalls. The danger is
that, having worked out a theory on the
basis of, say, good predominating over
evil, you sit and think of all human ac-
tivity in terms of it, until, becoming sure
of your theory, it is needless to think
about it further, and so you just sit. The
resulting bovine complacency is the nega-
tion of all progress.
There is today no shortage of philo-
sophers. Bergson, Santayana, Bertram
Russell, Joad, Wells and Shaw are all
alive-o and ready to explain the universe
to their own satisfaction at least. Then,
in addition to the philosophies of the
ages, there are those embraced by the
various orthodox religions; so you can
take your pick. And, as “R.C.” says,
choose you must if you want peace of
mind.
Personally I like the way “Propagan-
dum” puts it (B. 15/11/’39) “Man
builds his own citadel, independent of
the world, past, present or future. The
secret of security is locked within his
own being, and it is for him to find the
key.” I am sure he meant each man. —
T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Cavemen, 1940
I’ve been wondering lately if it isn’t
over-rating civilisation to call it Progress.
As far as I can see the only difference
beween us and the early cavemen is
that we’ve got wireless, motor-cars,
X-rays, etc.
To our distant ancestors Nature was
represented by various gods and god-
desses, and the laws of these were not
to be flouted with impunity. Then came
science disproving the existence of these
deities and tabulating the laws of Nature.
And finally science discovered means of
altering the effects of these laws, and even
of flouting them.
Mankind, ever eager to run its own
life, promptly started in to make use of
these new-found powers. When Nature
issued a warning that her laws were
being transgressed, Man introduced some
new device calculated to cancel out any
ill results. Actually he succeeded only
in postponing the day of reckoning.
The complicated tangle Man finds him-
self in today is mainly due to our stupid
delusion that we can teach old Grand-
mother Nature to suck eggs. Take away
the devices of modern science and what
have we? We can’t even see or hear
as far as Jacky the blackfellow can. What
we want to do is to cultivate self-
sufficiency and self-reliance to the utmost
in individuals. Take care of personal
pennies and the pounds of progress will
look after themselves. — Timothy Tywire
(Q-).
Refugees and War
The Commonwealth Government is
constantly appealing for a grand united
war effort from the nation. Yet we find
the paradoxical situation of a section of
the community, most eager to partici-
pate, peremptorily excluded from making
any practical contribution. None know
better than Jewish refugees the horrors
and terrors of Hitlerism. That is why
they are so ready to assist in the fight
against it. Their loyalty and enthu-
siasm are acknowledged by all, so why do
the authorities decline this reserve of
patriotism and brains?
At the recruiting booth the refugee is
politely informed he cannot be accepted
for the army, and he is denied admittance
to the militia. There can be but one
result. The rejected Jew will ask him-
self whether the Government is really
sincere in its plea that he should be
assimilated into the community, or
whether it intends that he should be an
outcast. Nothing is more likely to make
him lose his patriotism and desire to help
than this policy of indifference.
And what of the many refugee doctors
and specialists who may feel disposed to
offer their skill and services? The B.M.A.
may not permit them to practise in
isolated country, districts, but that is no
excuse why military authorities should
not welcome them with open arms. Few
will cavil at their qualifications, and in
modern warfare one of the best assets
a country can have, either at the front
line or at home, is an army of well-
trained competent medical men. —-
Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Secondary Industries
Giving every possible credit for the
work primary industries are doing, I rise
to remark that “Mallyree” (B. 29/11/’39)
hits the nail on the head when he points
out that our primary resources are not
inexhaustible. If we are to get scores
of millions to populate Australia and
hold it for the white race, it will not be
by farming, grazing or dairying. Mining
is out, wheatgrowing has a doubtful
future, and immigrants must be offered
something better than what the Britishers
saw when they asked for a “please ex-
plain” from the people who induced them
to come out here.
Secondary industries are the key, and
if the war lasts long enough they should
receive a boost like that which the last
war gave to flying, wireless and other
war babies.
Professor Griffith Taylor points out
that there is only 21 p.c. of Australia’s
land which is fair farming country, and
all but 5 p.c. of that is eliminated as too
rugged, too far from transport facilities,
or for other reasons. There are no “hun-
dreds of millions of potential Austra-
lians” visible to me there.
After the war I hope to see the foun-
dation of a prosperous secondary in-
dustry raked from the embers. — Horse-
face (N.S.W.).
New Coins
I heartily endorse the plan for new
coins (B. 6/12 / ’39), but may I suggest
alternative designs?
For the ha’penny, a typical Australian,
rampant, environed about the middle with
a pair of Clark Gable swimming trunks
and chained to a tax-collector. For the
penny, a dead marine, between fumes of
alcohol, argent. For the threepence, the
kilt of the Homebush Highlanders on a
clothes-horse pierced through the back
teeth with a set of bagpipes.
The sixpence could have an s.p. book-
maker charged with a demi-lion under a
policeman’s helmet; the shilling, a pugil-
ist, noir, superimposed on a charter dis-
playing the words “White Australia
Policy.” For the crown, an anchor, tout
seul. And for the sovereign, what about
a gold pass, demi rampant, between two
franked letters, superimposed on seven
Parliamentary buildings, with a racehorse,
a greyhound and a tin hare, passant guar-
dant? — Angus Mac Hooch (N.S.W.).
Save the Winegrowers!
Before the war wine was one of
our major exports. Now, with restricted
shipping space, we have only the home
market, where wine has never had a
fair chance.
Much liquor-control legislation has
been prejudicial to wine as compared with
beer. And, for the most part, hotels,
in many cases under the control of
breweries, neither carry good stocks of
wine nor encourage its consumption.
A “bounty” given to the grower out
of excise duty is so negligible that it
doesn’t nearly repay him for the loss of
a cheap market. Some of his grapes are
made into brandy, and here the ramp is
much worse. One grower told me that
the grapes off one acre of his vineyard
had paid the Government £4OO in excise
duty. He would have been content to
receive a financial yield iof £2O, but
didn’t.
A tremendous amount of money is in-
vested in vineyards and the irrigation
systems that serve them. The fine body
of people engaged in the industry can’t
be abandoned to their fate, and I suggest
that, for the duration of the war at least,
the Government permit serving of bever-
age wines with meals at hotels and res-
taurants at all hours/ —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
W. L. Payne’s Wool Report
Woolgrowers of Australia, and Queens-
land in particular, have had it in the
neck from every quarter for a good many
years. Wool appraisement, although it
has been fixed at a price which is on the
low side and barely profitable to many
growers, is a glimpse of something
better.
The Queensland Government commis-
sioned W. L. Payne to inquire into the
wool industry. He turned in an unbiased
and comprehensive report chockful of
helpful suggestions and recommendations.
Sheepmen were hopeful that the State
Government would give heed to many
of them, but for some reason the report
has not even been considered by Par-
liament. Yet unless action is taken along
lines similar to those indicated by Payne
(whose knowledge of the true position
of the wool industry is probably un-
equalled), it will not be long before the
death knell of the industry is sounded.
It is unfortunate that many politicians,
Government officials and employees are
laboring under the delusion that wool
appraisement has provided a cure-all. The
sooner the true position of the industry is
realised and the work of rehabilitation
begun the better. —A. J. H. (Q.).
Tung Oil
So many N. S. Wales farmers have
established groves of tung-trees that the
industry has passed the infant stage, and
some expert instruction and guidance
would not come amiss. If there is
nothing to be made from tung-oil pro-
duction, the Department of Agriculture
should say so, and why, to save farmers
from losing money. If the industry has
any promise the department should see
that it is worked properly. At present it
maintains an oyster-like silence.
Unless the department gets to work
immediately it is likely to find that a
big industry has sprung up of which its
officers know nothing, or that hundreds
of farmers have wasted both time and
money.— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Silted Rivers
Like a good many other onoe-fine
streams, the Hunter River (N.S.W.) is
silting up through the clearing of timber
from its banks. A low-level bridge near
West Maitland is half-buried under silt
and consequently useless. Another bridge
built a little lower down is expected to
be rendered useless in the same way,
while an island of mud and sand has
formed between the two. Along the
banks of this section not a tree has been
left on either side. It’s a Government
responsibility to save the rivers and
creeks by ensuring that no trees or shrubs
are cut for a couple of chains on each
side. — Willeroo (N.S.W.).
Neglect of Poetry
Of the enormous amount of reading
poetry forms too small a part, and most
versifiers travel as rough a road as did
the Grub-street writers of the eighteenth
century. Ask the average reader his
opinion of a certain poet, and his answer
will be “I haven’t read any of that stuff
since my schooldays.”
Methods of teaching poetry at school
are never likely to inspire a child with
an affection for the poets. We were
made to stand up in turn and repeat a
line each from memory until some
masterpiece had been droned through by
the entire indifferent class. As for Aus-
tralian poetry we scarcely saw a line
of it. I didn’t find the beauty in such
poems as “Paradise Lost,” “The De-
serted Village,” Fitzgerald’s “Omar,”
Gray’s “Elegy” and others until long
after I had left school.
Why should all this be neglected? It
is sheer relief to turn even briefly from
the strife of every day and follow the
poet’s thoughts and visions. And, inci-
dentally, it’s time we handed Australian
poets a bit of encouragement by reading
more of their works. — Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
Cost of Spectacles
I visited a number of opticians and
received quotes for glasses varying from
355. to £3 155., and in each case I was
assured of first-class service. Not satis-
fied, I went to a suburban man that I
knew and was supplied with satisfac-
tory glasses for 255., and he told me that
he was making sufficient profit at that
price.
Only in very special cases do lenses
cost more than a few pence, while the
frames are so cheap that it is difficult
to see how a pair of glasses can cost more
than five shillings. Allowing a fair
margin for the optician’s skill and ser-
vices in testing the eyes, the most that
should be charged for ordinary glasses
is about 15s.
Glasses are an absolute necessity, and
the prices need controlling as much as
bread and butter prices or rents. —
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Too Old at 40?
Is the lot of the man who is told that
he is too old for a job at 40 any dif-
ferent from the lot of the German who
is told that he has no right to have
Jewish blood in his veins? If a man
really becomes incapable at 40, why not
disenfranchise him? If he is not fit
for any sort of work, how can he be
fitted to exercise an intelligent vote?
And if there is no employment for people
of 40 and upwards, why not have old-
age pensions start at 40?
In the United States men over 40 have
organised themselves into active groups
to secure job 3 in industry. At Rochester,
New York, 36 enterprises, employing
35,000 men, have now adopted a policy
of maintaining the proportion between
older and younger workers. This
Rochester formula could easily be
applied in Australia. —1897 (N.S.W.).


1 ijs‘ ' /, ,- r yV s
1
.
: •':
I
:
m
V i
■
£gj£2 M-y/y.,; i
■
DOT NATURE
For Constipation Leads
to Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly —at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
Constipation also makes you look and
feel dull, bad tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
proved remedy for regulating the Bowels
and restoring the system to proper working
order in a thorough yet gentle manner.
A course will convince.
Dr. Morses
is)
Cl
1
I
PIUS
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
II so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
tree.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
bui
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly witb the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra) .
t>«-V
&
s'..e >
■ x v> ..••■ ..<*s&&***
vS s
«s#*
6 V^ v 01
\ v
-


iiiSlii
PlMi
MS ' floi> . N
BpHpHgip^li
N ->gxs. •
111 HP " .v W®*
<x«S®s® ->\--.v • .v.
1
iiililll
nV \-,
iiiiiii
nil
ill
lliii
........ ./j
1111 l
glti 'ißflfl
§!£
an
i«:
WgH
lilltit
mill!
, : ;: , -, ■ - :
IPIM
Ipf HR
s
§bx; ■ :- c. • „
mmsM'''
11, " 'fl * ; '■■ : : #C-- '?lf"'' : '* 1
V%% s ' .
mm* mmmmm:*m*m
rt l^mn
■ • ■ ' -.'; : .
. -;, ***
’
I ' '■
| ■
|v
**, . . gj|H|g|jg|if ■*?- : <-.gg
ililllllfl
IHll
liilPHStsst
■IP*
il|;
SI
in
■ ®
ill
sQuality Castle OE UMTfHtfi
from Malt ami i ci iOfi&U'W* |
tied at W & V *lt "
Han’t
§tn, 6i
« tom SK aw
b Resident a„(J hcfiwfvfkfr »
Ssftforalh!i.V 1 have
'|»j ijJJnJJ** “'tti or th.Hgrtfetei*|>fesi<>r
,»„ dtl CwtV QC £*fo
,2 ft * aUr 'hii fcrn :*«l
It does :
u rl| l«” OIMIIUd nhj !* Mr O>J« .$
» 'Of Ole oil TttjiSd) <m
PRODUCE tt?
