

C9
7
mm
m
j
-
LEADERS
OF AERONAUTICAL RADIO
COMMUNICATION IN AUSTRALIA
(§>
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
/ Tfy!GiAJ?ei
d&ixru
ffajfcr*U
odo4ecs/cs€rt<. -
OUtA^cAxi^t
A.W.A. is the first and only company to manufacture ultra-high frequency
beacons in Australia. The first of the Australian beacons was installed at
Kingsford Smith aerodrome.
The ultra-high frequency beacon emits a wireless ray or guiding path in certain
set directions. Airmen approaching or receding from the beacon fly along
these paths. Should a ’plane diverge to right or left, an indicator reveals the
deflection and the course can be immediately corrected.
A.W.A. is the first and only company to manufacture marker beacons in
Australia.
The marker beacon is installed in the vicinity of the aerodrome and projects
a radio beacon vertically into the air, thus fixing for the pilot the precise posi-
tion in relation to the landing ground.
A.W.A. manufactured, in Australia, aeronautical radio stations for tele-
phone and telegraph communication with aircraft—2o being supplied and
installed to the order of the Civil Aviation Department.
A.W.A. is the first company in Australia to manufacture for the Civil Avia-
tion Department direction-finding equipment for aerodromes and radio
compass sets for commercial aircraft.
A.W.A. has manufactured in Australia radio transmitters and receivers for
35 Australian commercial ’planes. A.W.A. is the only company with skilled
technicians at the principal aerodromes to service all radio equipment in
aircraft.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LIMITED
The Bulletin
The First-prize Short Story: page 4
Vol. 60.—N0. 3081.
Wednesday, March 1, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
£3OO
S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize
Fifth Annual Competition
Closing June 6 ,
1939.
Any prose work will be eligible for entry in
the fifth year’s (1939) competition for this annual
Literary Prize, which will amount to £3OO, no
awards having been made in 1937 and 1938.
The Prize will be awarded for the prose work
—fiction, biography, autobiography, history, etc.
—that is considered the most outstanding contri-
bution to Australian literature.
Entries, which close on June 6, 1939, will be
limited to the unpublished w'ork of Australian
authors. (Australian for this purpose means bom
or naturalised in Australia. New Zealand or the
British South Pacific islands or a bona fide resi-
dent of any of these places for the two years
preceding the closing date.)
All rights, including book, serial, dramatic,
cinema and radio, are reserved to the author,
subject to the proviso that The Bulletin shall
have the option to purchase the first Australian
serial rights of any work submitted, such option
to be forfeited if not exercised within two months
of the publication of the judges’ award.
Every work must be submitted under a nom
de plume, and the correct name and address of
the author, with the nom de plume, must accom-
pany the MS. in a sealed envelope. The author’s
name must not appear on the MS. Entries which
do not comply with this rule will not be eligible
for the Prize, and no work will be deemed as being
entered for the competition until its receipt has
been acknowledged by the Trustees, through the
columns of The Bulletin.
Stamps for return must accompany all MSS.,
which should be typewritten.
All MSS. and communications to be addressed
to the Trustees, S. H. Prior Memorial Prize,
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street North, Sydney.
The Trustees shall have the right to with-
hold the Prize if no work submitted is, in the
opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If
this should occur in any year, the amount of the
Prize will be added to the following year’s Prize.
No award having been made in 1937 and 1938,
£2OO has been added to the 1939 Prize.
The Red Page
PICTURES FROM PERSIA.
Alice Fullerton’s To Persia for Flowers (Oxford
University Press) is one of the freshest and most
pleasant books that have come to hand in a long time.
The author and a friend, Nancy Lindsay, went to
Persia, under the tegis of the British Museum, to col-
lect and classify the flowers of the country. Their
predecessor in the job was a Russian traveller of the
eighteenth century, and his incomplete and scattered
notes were the only information the botanists had
about the country that gave Europe roses, lilac and
tulips. No one could tell them anything useful about
Persia, so they prepared for every eventuality and set
off with 27 pieces of luggage and an Anglo-Persian
conversation book.
They travelled via Russia, and the story of that
train journey is the only grim chapter in the book.
Mrs. Fullerton doesn’t set up as an authority on the
U.S.S.R. on the strength of what, literally and figura-
tively, was a passing acquaintance, but she was dis-
tressed by the poverty and misery that surged on to
the platform every time the train stopped. In Russia
she observed two classes ; the officials, well dressed
and fed, alert and friendly, and the people, hungry,
ragged, apathetic and cold.
The train journey took seven days, and they had
to live on the biscuits, potted meat and chocolate
which they had brought from England. Everywhere
they were asked about England, but an account of
English social service, free education, free medical
treatment and unemployment insurance was greeted
coldly. The Russians knew it all for lying propaganda.
Such things existed only in their own country.
The first glimpse of Persia was like the landscape
of a legend, painted by Dulac.
Snow still lay on the mountain peaks. Lower down
was a mixture of henna-red, brown and a deep blue in
the distance. It looked as if some terrific upheaval had
thrown the rocks down violently, and left them unfinished
and barren as they fell. It was a picture of complete
desolation, aloof and beautiful ; the colors and shapes
seemed unreal against the vivid blue sky, and their cold
icy clearness made them untouchable and unfriendly.
Not a tree or sign of. green appeared anywhere; only one
pink bush and a few pushing leaves of bulbs. It was
bitterly cold with a wind that cut like a knife.
They went first to Teheran, the capital, and found
it much Westernised. The Shah, a benevolent despot,
the father of his people, with all that that implies in
the East, has his heart set on modernising his coun-
try. He had invited the women to discard the veil,
and some of the younger ones had done so. He was
building schools, hospitals and Government buildings
in the latest European design, and had just prohibited
the use of the national hat. His fad for Occidental
ideas hadn’t yet affected his subjects’ traditional mis-
use of the water supply—open channels in the streets,
in which they bathed and washed clothes before
drinking.
Cities were no good to the botanists, but they had
difficulty in getting out of them in a country unpre-
pared for tourists. The normal means of transport
was begging lifts on the Anglo-Persian Oil Company’s
petrol wagons—not so easy with 27 pieces of baggage.
Housing was a problem. Renting is an idea that has
not yet penetrated to rural Persia. They finally got
a tumbledown two-roomed cottage, used for years as
a granary, from a very enlightened landowner at
Sultanabad, a village of the Persian plain. Here they
stayed for five months and reaped a rich botanical
reward.
The plain is immense and grassless. The villages,
built of mud, lose themselves in the landscape. Apart
from the one intrusion of big business—Anglo-Persian
Oil —the country is in the pastoral age, its wealth in
flocks, herds and village handicrafts. The most valued
thing in the people’s lives are water rights. The plain
is irrigated, a feat of engineering whose origin is lost
in antiquity. Right to the water is hereditary, the in-
heritance of sons and sometimes the dowry of daugh-
ters, but never sold or otherwise alienated.
The villagers, all Mohammedans, were good-
natured, cheerful, honest and, above all, friendly.
There was always a group of them standing in the
garden peering through the curtainless windows. A
bath was a matter for expert diplomacy. They had a
passion for being photographed and for dropping the
author’s steel mirror to prove its magic unbreakable-
ness. They assumed that the foreigners could cure
any disease and flocked to them with their complaints.
As they had never taken medicines before, patent
preparations worked on their systems with almost
magical effects. They expressed their gratitude with
large gifts of food. A strong mutual affection sprang
up between the two Englishwomen and many of the
villagers, and portraits of the latter are lovingly drawn.
To Persia for Flowers yields many picturesque
glimpses of a strange world and its customs —the
dying of babies’ hair with henna and the painting of
their palms orange; the caravanserais that are no
more than a series of cells scooped in rock, open on
one side to the world, where travellers can sleep and
eat free of charge ; the bazaars:
The streets are lined with tiny shops full of strange
merchandise, the tinsmiths with their small forges make
samovars, pots and pans from the universal petrol-tins,
or in the better shops from copper, and these are beauti-
ful and really cheap. There are small open-fronted
kitchens, where your kabab is cooked before you, and
given you wrapped in a thin flap of bread with tarragon
and mint. The fruitshops are filled with the small,
hard, sweet apricots in piles, delicious and refreshing
thin-skinned cucumbers, which the Persians eat as fruit,
mounds of raisins and almonds, the latter dyed with
henna and dipped in some sweet, sticky mixture, cakes
of almond paste and of a sandy flour, pistachio nuts,
mulberries, black and white, tasting like sugar and water,
pyramids of eggs, hard-boiled and painted in futuristic
colors.
The book is well illustrated, and at the back there
is an appendix, “for flower lovers only,” on the prac-
tical results of the expedition.
Tidewater Men.
In the novel River Man (Appleton-Century;
Angus and Robertson), William Heylinger deals with
the tribulations of oyster-tongers.
Oyster-tonging is one of the traditional industries
along the Virginian coast. The tongers are a race to
themselves with a long line of tonging ancestors be-
hind them. Each man is his own master, poor but
independent. He earns his living by wrenching oysters
in masses off submerged rocks with a huge pair of iron
tongs. The catch is sorted into barrel oysters, ready
to be eaten, and seed oysters, which the tongers sell
to the owners of oyster leases.
When the story opens the tongers are in bitter
conflict with the oyster barons, as they call the men
who own the leases, because the public rock has been
so persistently tonged that the supply is giving out.
The tongers can’t expand their field because all bot-
toms adjacent to the public rock are leased. There is
talk of leasing out some of the barren or exhausted
areas of public rock to be replanted by private indi-
viduals. The outcry raised by the tongers at this pro-
posal has all the blind passion of the peasant who sees
the common lands being enclosed.
Among the tongers there is a twenty-year-old boy,
brighter than the rest, who conceives the idea of estab-
lishing the tongers on their own leases and so getting
the profit at present flowing into the coffers of the
oyster barons. He persists in his plan, although he is
treated as a scab by the other tongers and cast off by
his brother Tom, to whom he is devoted. In the war
that follows, one young man against a community,
Clay holds his own in the face of every sort of perse-
cution. He keeps his hands clean when everyone else
dirties theirs, and in the end he is rewarded, not only
in the success of his oyster lease, but in winning back
the admiration of his brother.
River Man looks like an attempt at one of those
extremely simple, near-to-nature novels. It doesn’t
quite succeed in that category because the writer is
given to conventional and worldly values, but it is in-
teresting as a picture of an unusual and little-known
side of life. No woman enters the story.
Astrology in 1939.
Time was when not much more than a zodiac,
a set of calendars and a fruity imagination were neces-
sary to the practice of astrology. Nowadays, accord-
ing to Edward Lyndoe in Complete Practical Astrology
(Angus and Robertson ; 12s. 6d.), a bewildering array
of tables and textbooks is brought into play.
Mr. Lyndoe is one of those seers whose analyses
of character and prophetic cautions are published in
a Great Daily Newspaper. He takes himself very
seriously, and claims to have prophesied almost every
important historical development in the last quarter
of a century. He dates the inception of his “science”
back to “the priests of Sargon 1.,” who discovered
that the time and date of a child’s birth determined
its character and future by reason of the interaction
of the constellations, the planets and the sun.
How this comes about, whether the influence is
magnetic or a matter of cosmic rays, why it operates
only at the exact second when the new-born infant
first gets air into its lungs and exudes it in feeble wail
or lusty bellow, Mr. Lyndoe is not very clear:
It is as though life which enters a child at birth is
somehow conditioned by having to enter through (can
we say?) a certain kind of atmosphere. That is an awk-
ward way of putting it. Perhaps a better way would be
by likening birth to the “inspiration” we experience from
music.
The music of the spheres, so to speak. The
“priests of Sargon I.” probably reckoned that human
life commenced at birth. Subsequent biological in-
vestigation has placed the date nine months backward,
but astrology is a venerably-old science. If, as we may
concede to Mr. Lyndoe, the Romans got the material
for their zodiacal cosmogony from earlier savants,
they also inherited the agile fancy which attributed to
the configuration of constellations a resemblance to
various creatures, divine and otherwise. To twentieth-
century eyes they all look very much like whales in
butter boats, but the “priests of Sargon I.” and their
Roman followers saw crabs, rams, bulls, fishes and
lions, a water-carrier, an unmarried girl, a scorpion, a
pair of scales, half a goat and half a fish, a centaur
with a bow and arrow and a pair of twins.
Turning then to the natal influences that exerted
themselves when the sun was in one of the zodiacal
“houses,” they associated the lion with dignity and
ruling ability—the “king of beasts” ; the archer with
sportsmanship ; the virgin with purity ; the fishes with
a peaceful existence ; the crab with tenacity; the bull
with obstinacy. It was discovered many centuries
later that the patterns these savants imagined in the
sky were made by unrelated suns millions of light
years apart. But Mr. Lyndoe, undeterred, follows all
the old associations of imagined contour with charac-
teristic attributes. His fishes, too, lead quiet lives; his
bull is obstinate ; his virgin is pure ; his lion is kingly,
and his archer is a good sport.
Lyndoe, before he casts a horoscope, insists on
knowing the exact minute of birth. If that isn’t on
record —and obviously it can’t be applied when ad-
vising all newspaper readers who were born on Sep-
tember 13, for instance —a method of “generalisation”
is adopted, but still “a good measure of accuracy is
obtained.”
Modem astrology makes great play with the
moon, sun and planets. Aries, for instance, is under
the mastership of Mars, Taurus is ruled by Venus,
Cancer owns the moon as controller and Leo is under
the sun. Probably all the planets weren’t known to
“the priests of Sargon I.” Pluto certainly wasn’t, for
though Lowell predicted its existence late in the nine-
teenth century it wasn’t actually sighted till 1930.
Says Mr. Lyndoe:
You will find I have left Pluto entirely out of my cal-
culations .... Research work will have to be conducted
for some years before astrologers can come to any
really definite agreement about the significance and
proper use of a new planet.
It wouldn’t be surprising—in fact, quite in accord-
ance with all the traditions of this remarkable science
—to find that when PL does take its place in the
charts it will be given a whale of an influence in
financial affairs.
There is a strong branch of astrology that
specialises in advice in finance. Mr. Lyndoe tells with
glee how he vetted a company prospectus—cast its
horoscope, in fact —and was able to prophesy that
“the issue is not being made at a good time and will in
all probability disappoint the directors in its results.’
And, lo! a few days later the directors decided not
to proceed to allotment and returned subscriptions.
A very fine performance ; much better than when the
horoscope of Soviet Russia was drawn (when did it
first draw the breath of life, by the way?) and Mr.
Lyndoe announced to a breathless world that “a threat
to Stalin’s dictatorship would be exposed within a
short while.” Purges followed ; but haven’t they been
chronic?
But this field of financial astrology might well be
taken as a crucial test of the whole alleged science.
If a sufficient number of investors could be produced
who had become even moderately wealthy by consult-
ing the stars there’d be a £lO,OOO-a-year job for a first-
class astrologist in every big financial house in the
world.
Portrait of England.
My England, by Edward Shanks (Jarrolds), is of
particular interest because it is one of a series, each an
expression of independent opinion, with which the
publishers are covering the Empire. My Australia,
to be published later in the year, is being written by
M. Barnard Eldershaw. Ireland has been “done b}
Lord Dunsany, Scotland by A. G. Macdonell, Wales
by Rhys Davies. Few limitations appear to be put on
the authors. A. G. Macdonell, for instance, is a Home
Ruler, and makes his views clear with considerabe
energy. . „ c „ tr)
Shanks labels My England “E. and O.fc.
assure his reader that he makes no claims to inta -
bility and that his book is an essay, not a treatise.
o Continued on page 8.)


h
ENGLISH
SAC SUITS
English made Sac Suits,
London tailored! Cut smart-
ly in the latest Bond Street
styles. Attractive Greys and
Blues in checks and stripes.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PRICE, suit £B/8/-
English "Aquascutum" Coats
Tailored in England in West of Eng-
land lightweight Tweeds. ' Loose
fitting Raglan styles in Mid or Dark
Greys, Fawns, Browns, Blues, etc.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE,
each £lO/10/-
"DEXTER" TOP COATS
Lightweight Wool Gabardines. Proof-
ed against wind or rain. Loose fit-
ting Raglans. Strong proofed lin-
ing. A coat for years of service.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS', PRICE,
each 126/-
Better Qualify'....: 168/-
NEW STYLE SPORTS TROUS.
Sports Trousers here in- the exact
shades to match the Browns, Greens,
Blues, Fawns in the Coats. "Sure-
grip'' self-supporting waists.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE,
pair 30/-
NEW STYLE SPORTS COATS
Rich Brown, Green, Blue, Fawn with
contrast checks are available in all
wool Worsteds. Suitable for the
autumn and winter. Tailored in new
styles with plain or action backs.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE,
each 49/6
* Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
HORDERNS’
Postal Address:
P.O. Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Sydney.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone:
M 2401, Day or Night.


The Story Placed First in "The Bulletin’s” Competition
ANTI-CLIMAX
By H.Dsake-Bsockman
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
5 AY what you like, travelling with a lion was no
joke! Monk hitched himself further into the
furthermost corner of the railway van. He’d
got so used to the dark he could see in it almost
as well as could those eyes moving like two lumps of
phosphorus behind the bars of the big cage.
Watching him, those eyes. Watching all the time.
The least move. You’d think the b. Hon’d sleep
sometime —well, he did snooze off in the daytime,
when the hot desert sunlight made dazzle stripes
through the chinks of the van, but if Monk so much
as shifted a cramped foot one of those eyes would slit
open and glare. Monk daren’t shut his own eyes, not
for a minute. If he shut them he might pop off and
roll over, or the train might jerk him over, no more
than an inch or two, but near enough for one of those
long carroty paws to come searching out from the
bars.
He’d got a great reach, had the lion! There was
an extra rent in one of Monk’s trouser-legs which
hadn’t been there when Ali Ben smuggled him into the
van.
Monk hadn’t thought much of the lion then.
He’d stretched himself out in comfort, shot his hat
over his face, as if he were baking on the beach,
and snored off. And then he woke up. With a new
tear in his pants and a scratch on the knee he’d had to
suck clean till he was dry.
He licked his lips now, and took out the makings.
It wasn’t no good. Ali Ben must have got the wind
up ; the blooming nigger hadn’t slipped him any water
for hours and hours. The bag he’d started with was
shrunk up like a bit of leather seaweed left high and
dry in the sun.
A tip of Monk’s tongue sought his lips, only the
air was so dry any spittle he had got wasted. Sell
his soul, he would, for a pot!
Well now, come to think of it, he didn’t know
that he would. That’s to say, he wouldn’t sell his
memories, not even for a barrel! His old mum, she’d
seen through him bright and early, when he was still
a kid. She’d said more than once, sarcastic, but with
a softness in the eye: “Lying down there on the sand
till you look like you’ve mistaken y’rself f’r a paira
tan boots and been at the polish! Wasting y’r time,
Monk. Y’re an ideelist, that’s what you are. But y’re
only wasting y’r time.”
An idealist. Wasting his time, was he? Well, the
first meant the sort of cove who wanted to live up to
the sort of bright ideas he’d got about life. And hadn’t
he? Just once, anyhow! Wasting his time? Well,
if it hadn’t done anything else, all that lying still and
alert on the beach was keeping him out of the lion’s
claws now. Though perhaps it wouldn’t matter much
if the lion did get him. What was the use of wanting
to live up to any bright ideas you might have about
life when life wouldn’t even hand you a tucker-claim?
You could travel in a railway van over the desert,
with a b. lion what smelt like fifty tomcats and
watched you all the time like you were a blinking
piece of meat, and yet at the same time, sort of, you
could be marching down to the beach, a great yellow
flag flying proudly out, the ranks behind you made
up of six-foot fellers, following you. And you could
hear the crowd applauding. “Look at this lot —crikey,
look at this lot; aren’t they corker?”
What if a kid did sing out: “Auntie, oh, auntie,
see the little man carrying the yellow flag. Just like
a monkey, he is!”
Well, he was used to hearing that. The old man
had christened him Monk before he was old enough
to understand the joke. And when he did —well, he
got over it, like he’d had to get over a sight worse
things. But he could have blessed that kid’s auntie
for her answer: “He’s probably done something very
brave, dear. You don’t have to be big to be brave
or to save lives, you know.” He’d always been sorry
he couldn’t turn his head and see what that woman
looked like.
MONK couldn’t remember the time when he hadn’t
wanted to be a lifesaver. His dad had steady
work when he was little, a good job cleaning ujp one
of the beaches after the crowds, and in winter the
council found him a bit of repair work and all sorts.
Since he could walk, almost, Monk had watched the
lifesavers.
If any of the careless passers had troubled to read
the eyes of the leathery little imp crouched day after
day on the sands, maybe they’d have learnt a bit about
worship, yearning and determination. Ten to one
they’d have smiled at the first two —and laughed at the
Year after year Monk swam and
dived and trained himself. He
didn’t do much good at school.
The masters said he must be
waterlogged.
last. All the mob admired was the bronze and the
deep chests and the natty little caps and so forth.
Monk admired all those, too. And the badges! But
more than these was the fact that the lifesavers did all
the hard training, took risks, gave up hours and hours
of their time and saved lives —all for nothing! Heroes!
Too right, heroes.
“B. fools,” said Monk’s dad.
It was this sneer of his dad’s which set Monk off
thinking about the idea behind all the bronze, the
goose-step drill and the natty little caps, And that
idea came to make a little sort of warm glowing point
of satisfaction away down inside him.
Something for npthing—that was the sort of idea
he’d been bred to. His dad was always buying
lottery tickets and all the men he knew were always
having a bob on ; his mum —even she always bought
certain brands because if you saved up enough coupons
you got a free gift. All the world seemed dead set on
getting something for nothing. Except the lifesavers
who all summer long patrolled the beaches and kept
them safe for the mob. The lifesavers, they gave
something for nothing!
“B. fools,” snorted Monk’s dad when Monk tried
to point this out. “And even if you was silly enough
t’ think anybody’d ever make you inter a lifesaver,
you’ve got another think coming. If a drowning bloke
saw you going for ’im, he’d mistake you f’r a sardine
and reckon he was sunk for sure.”
Year after year the surf carnivals got Monk so
excited he went off his tucker and sleep. Year after
year he swam and dived and trained himself. He didn’t
do much good at school. The masters said he must
be waterlogged. And though he scrimped and saved
after he left school and got a job delivering vegetables
and bought a book on how to add an inch to your
height in a week, he remained just what the girl in the
veg. shop called him —“that little squirt with the
monkey dial.”
And then he did it! He got his badge!
OUDDENLY the lion made a horrible noise like
some coot going to retch. Monk jerked himself
flat against the reap boards in the nick of time. The
long, searching, carroty paw missed again. Monk
jeered.
“Garn, y’ purred too soon, sonny, and a damn’
good job you did. Interrupt a bloke’s memories,
wouldj’r? Can’t y’r rake up a few f’r yourself and
let me alone?” Monk started to laugh aloud. Going
looney, was he, talking to a lion! The first sign, they
said. And before you conked out, supposing you did
a perish, you always took your pants off.
Monk hitched his up extra tight. He wasn’t so
far gone as to be taking his pants off yet, but if that
blooming nigger didn’t show his face soon Tor-
ture, it was, with a great built-in troughful of water
right under his nose, too —only it happened to be
nearer the b. lion’s nose. What a finish! To do a
perish jumping the rattler along with a caged lion!
Monk laughed again. The lion growled.
“Oh, I ain’t laughing at you,
Dig.—though you ain’t come to
such a smart end y’rself, have y’r?
When you was a cub now, didn’t you
have no grand ideas? What did you
reckon life would be? Well, whatever
you reckoned, here you are in y’r cage,
and here am I in another cage o’ sorts, and
so far we ain’t either of us got out.
“But I’ve had me moment, mind you, I’ve had
me moment. And I ain’t ever forgot what I read on
a piece o’ paper back in the veg. shop. Some coot
reckoned that if ever you get y’r big moment in life —
well, all wot comes after is only a blooming anti-
climax, anyhow. And what’s an anti-climax, old
whiskers? Don’tcher know? Well, this is—
you and me, who was meant to be free, you and
me here together rattling over the blooming desert
eyeing each other off ; and if we get off this train
you’ll have t’ start in doing your tricks again, and
I’ll start mine. Looking f’r a job! Ever since I was
a blooming kid —looking f’r a job!”
Out of the vegetable shop into lollies and ice-
cream at the beach picture-show, out of that into
odd jobs anywhere. He wouldn’t leave the beach,
Monk wouldn’t. When the depresh came on good and
handsome, his dad got paid off after the summer
season. For a time the family hung on in their quid-
a-week cottage, but it couldn’t last. His dad got a
bit of road work out in one of the northern suburbs,
and though his mother badly wanted Monk to shift
too —he might get jobs gardening or some such—he
wouldn’t. He wasn’t going to chuck in all the years
he’d spent training to be a lifesaver, not he!
Fourteen to nineteen he’d been at it. Hard as a
splinter of steel, he was. If he got through the winter,
next summer he reckoned he’d win out. His mum
sighed and said: “Well, don’t f’rget I told you you
was wasting y’r time, Monk. Don’t take it too hard
when they give you the laugh.”
WHAT he took hard was that his mother died in the
winter. She’d not been too good for years, and
when the old man cut out on the roads she’d gone
daily cleaning and done herself in, so that, after all,
she wasn’t able to be on the beach the day they gave
Monk his badge.
They started by treating Monk as a real joke.
But he hung round and hung round till they gave him
a try on the line, now and then. Always there, morn-
ing, noon and night, they reckoned. They reckoned
they didn’t know when he did any work, or what he
used for money. Monk reckoned he didn’t know
either. But he got through.
And then they let him carry the banner in the
carnival. So’s not to spoil the ranks. He’d look all
right out there in front, they reckoned. And, what’s
more, they put him on the line. “Just to show ’em
what our smallest man can do,” said the captain. And,
what’s more still, their team won the trophy.
When the Mayor handed the big silver shield to
the captain, and the huge mob on the beach bellowed
applause, Monk felt he could have passed right out
with —well, he never had been able to discover exactly
the right word for the feelings he had!
But he never saved a life. He never got the
chance.
The next winter after that it got too hard to live.
He had to move off the beach, looking for work enough
to buy food. He couldn’t find it. He had to go on
the dole. He hated that. He soon drifted off, moving
on, getting a feed here, “Any wood you want chopped,
missus?” a slammed door there, “Got a job, boss?
Anything, boss, I’m handy” Sometimes he landed
curses, more often laughs, sometimes a few bob.
Even when times got better he’d gone on moving.
By that time he’d got the itchy feet he couldn t settle.
If he’d got work near a beach now. But there weren t
settled jobs near beaches for his sort who had never
learnt any one thing, who were only handy. Get out
into the country if it’s work you want, young filler.
He’d got west as far as Port Augusta when he
joined up with the circus. “Found y’r real place, only
should be behind the bars ” the chaps told him. Monk
thought of the beach, and the day he had earned t e
yellow banner, as he set about doing the job they a
given him, cleaning out the horses. . .
He soon cobbered up with All Ben, who looked
after the lions. Ali Ben wasn’t a bad sort easygoing,
wasn’t afraid of lions, but nearly died of fright when


at last he gave in to Monk’s persuasive powers and
smuggled him into the van with the big cat’s cage, on
the circus special, going west. Ali Ben reckoned he’d
get the sack for a dead cert. Hadn’t the boss paid
Monk off? Stablehands grew by the roadside ; they’d
easy pick up another in Kalgoorlie. The management
wasn’t paying fares west for stablehands! And what
would they reckon if Monk turned up , again, away
there across the desert? Monk didn’t think they’d not
recognise him again, did he?
Monk vowed by a lot of unchristian oaths that
he’d hop it before Kalgoorlie. So here he was alone
with a b. lion, and nearly doing a perish because Ali
Ben seemed to have gone cold on his promise about
water.
A FAINT light started through the chinks of the
*'■ van. A second dawn —the end in sight. Monk
glued one eye to a but what he could see
wouldn’t have impressed a mosquito, and was just the
same as yesterday, anyhow. Mile after mile after mile.
All the same. He turned and stared at the lion. The
brute stared back. “Hey, you,” said Monk disgustedly.
“You just go t’ sleep, dearie ; I won’t hurtcher!”
The heat got fierce. Red dust came in through the
cracks as if the van were a sieve made specially to
catch it. Monk began discussing with himself whether
or not, now, he’d be prepared to sell his soul, and all
his memories chucked in, for a single long pot, when
he saw the lion had fallen asleep. Instantly, Monk
stretched every cramped muscle. Gosh, was it good?
And if he could get a hatful of water!
He crept forward on his knees, hat in hand.
Going well, the whole thing, the b. lion snoring hap-
pily, the water within arm’s length, when the red dust
had to tickle Monk’s nose. He sneezed.
The lion opened both eyes and hated what he saw.
He let out a roar and made a grab at Monk. Monk
scuttled back flat against the far side of the van, but
the lion didn’t like it at all —he was sick of this silly
sprawling spider in his den, and he went on letting the
world know it at the top of his voice. Gosh, was it
awful! Monk reckoned the van must fall to pieces if
the brute didn’t stop soon. It wasn’t like travelling
with a thunderstorm ; it was like being shut up in the
centre of a cyclone.
The train slowed down, came to a standstill. So
did Monk’s heart. But not the lion. Roar after roar
rocked the van. Monk heard feet running outside, slip-
ping on the ballasting. The door of the van opened.
Ali Ben’s face appeared, the look on it saying as plain
as possible that, if he wasn’t black, he’d have been
white as a corpse.
“Monk,” he whispered, “what you been doing
to that thar lion?”
“Tried t’ pinch his water,” grinned Monk. “You
letting me do a perish?”
“You get out,” said Ali Ben, hard as nails. “You
hear, you get out damn’ quick. Boss coming now.”
“What, get out into the desert?”
Ali Ben shook his head and clambered in and
banged the door. The lion let up for a second to
sniff. He knew the smell of Ali Ben. “We’re here.
You get out. Damn’ quick. This side.” Ali began to
mutter sweet soothings to the lion as he fiddled with
the bolts on the offside door. A hammering started
on the one he’d come in by. That set the lion off
again. “All right, sar, all right,” panted Ali Ben and
fairly shoved Monk out on his nose.
There were a couple of railwaymen away down the
line. They stared at Monk for a minute in surprise,
then remembered this was a circus special and you
couldn’t be surprised at anything you saw! They
were in a hurry, anyhow, to get round the other side
of the train and see what all the fuss-up was over.
They slipped through between the couplings while
Monk picked himself up and darted across into some
handy scrub.
Half an hour later he strolled out of the scrub,
sauntering along a track he’d discovered, and looking
as if he were just some dryblower come in for a Sun-
day spell-off from his plant back there in the bush.
Too easy!
So this was the Golden West! A station board
told him he’d arrived at Parkeston, but over on the
horizon he could see the dumps and smokestacks of
the Golden Mile. If he hadn’t been so thirsty, he’d
have admired them ; they made quite a show up
against the cloudless sky, kind of exciting when you
thought of all the cash they represented—a cove ought
to be able to land a job here!
He eyed the engine tanks with more real interest.
But he couldn’t sight a tap anywhere. The circus train
had moved off west into Kalgoorlie, the siding was
deserted, the office shut, the store shut, the engine-
sheds dead.
And then Monk spied what he wanted. Gosh, was
it good? Nice and black and outstanding on a white-
washed shack across the railway track: HOTEL. He
set off at a jogtrot, his tongue all but hanging out.
He had exactly four bob in his pocket.
The flies hung round like a buzzing halo and
crawled on his hot neck. That half-mile might have
been five miles ; the red dust made him long for clean
sand under his feet and curling breakers ahead. He’d
have been able to run then, all right!
He’d forgotten it was Sunday till he found the
bar shut. His worries ; if he wasn’t a traveller nobody
was! He hammered on the door till he got let in.
After the van and the sun and the scrub, the bar-
room was heaven, all cleaned up, floor sprinkled with
water, a piano in the corner, a couple of prints in
frames on the walls, and the first taste of cold beer.
Monk sighed and licked his lips. It was a shame he
only had four bob! He asked the chap who served
him if he knew of any jobs going. He said he didn’t.
But he gave Monk the strength of the two-up ring
instead. He talked so much about it that Monk put his
second two-bob back in his pocket. All he had to
do, it seemed, was to sidetrack a bit on the way into
Kalgoorlie. You couldn’t miss the ring, the bar chap
said, not on a Sunday morning.
A STAKED-UP wall of hessian pretended to hide
the ring from the road, but the crowd of men
spilled over in all directions. From the distance it
looked and sounded like a swarm of blowflies clus-
tering round a sore, the bare patch of red earth.
When he got nearer Monk could see fellers hung
six and seven deep, the front ones sitting hunched up
on dumped sanitary pans upended. All sorts there
were too. An outside ring of motor-cars, flash new
models with radio sets, old bush buses hanging on to
themselves with bits of fencing wire, all sorts. Smart
chaps in town clothes, flash dagos in double-breasted
coats, blokes in half singlets and red-dusted pants,
old blokes and young fellers chewing fags and trying
to look like men. Hundreds of ’em. And hundreds
of empties lying round.
It took Monk quite a time to get over all the
money lying there in the red earth.
“Oh, yeh, but that ain’t nothing," said a big fat
coot he mentioned it to. “You should’ve been here
last Sunday morning ; there was a thousand quid cold
lying in the dirt at one time.”
Notes and silver —and the two bronze pennies
spinning and spinning off the kip. It fascinated Monk.
Something for nothing!
Monk didn’t think much of the big fat coot he’d
sort of palled up with because he happened to stand
next him. The fellow had a loose jowl and a thick,
seamed neck, all out of condition and beer-fed. Those
thick, stumpy fingers weren’t the sort to give anything
away in a hurry. Their owner had a habit of keep-
ing them well in his pockets except when he fetched
them out to grasp a bottle and pour beer down his
neck. He didn’t offer Monk any beer either. But he
wanted to know wasn’t Monk going to bet?
“You ain’t y’self,” retorted Monk. One or two
standing by laughed at that.
“No. I don’t need to. But won’t you try your
luck?”
Monk hesitated. He’d saved up his two bob, but
his pots of beer had given him an appetite. And just
two bob, which had seemed quite a bit. when you’d
been used to zacks, now seemed kind of mean. “Well,”
he hesitated, “can I get work here?”
“Work? Gorblimey, who wants t’ work? Where’d
you spring from, anyhow?”
Monk told him-. The men round nearly died
laughing. The fat coot roared like the lion. “Well,
you got guts, monkey-face. Maybe I could find you
a job meself, you never know ; I like young fellers
what have guts and ain’t too scared of the johns. Come
on. Let’s see your money.”
Monk fetched out his two bob. And he won,
and he won. He made nearly a tenner before he got
the wind up and stopped. He’d never had so much
money all at once before. Something for nothing!
He got so excited he forgot he didn’t like the red dust
and the beer-conditioned fellows. But he didn’t get so
excited as to lose his alert attention to all that was
going on round about.
Too deep-trained into him, that alert attention.
Which was why he saw what the wild-looking dago
was up to in time to stop him. Stone motherless, the
dago was. He’d made a fuss over being stood back
from the front of the ring after he’d done all his
dough. Done fifty quid cold, he kept shouting. No
one thought anything of that, or the row he made —it
o Continued on page 7.)
“Hey, you, you can't do that!” yelled Monk,
and shot out a hand to stop him.


A Story of That Attractive Dandy Mr. Arthur Filkington
UOT OF THE
PAST
The Housekeeper.
J-H-M-ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
‘ < 1OU thee, my dear fellowth,” observed Mr.
\ J Acting-Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-General
y Pilkington to his friends Ensign Calder, of
6 the 46th, and Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, of
H.M.S. Emu, as they sat over a bowl of punch in the
dining-room of Moorefield Villa, Mr. Pilkington’s
pleasant cottage on the Rocks, “ ’tith thith way. A
man in my pothithion hath an ecthample to thet that
ith of conthiderwable importanth to the community.
You, Patthy, and you, Gwegowy, may do the motht
utterly thcandalouth thingth without ecthiting much
comment outhide the thircleth of your wethpective
thervitheth. But anyone occupying thuch a pothithion
ath I have the honor to fill in the Thivil Thervithe, he
hath to be careful. He mutht obtherve hith p’th and
q’th. The common people look to him for a lead.
Now”
He was interrupted by a shout of laughter from
Mr. Wicks. “Oh, stow that vaporing, Brum. You
and ,your good examples! And your high position in
the civil service. Why, damme, you’re only a junior
clerk in the Stores —not nearly so important as a ship’s
boy. A midshipman would take precedence of you
any day. How’d he rank in your gang, Patsy?”
“Rank! He wouldn’t rank at all. There’s no
rank would correspond to Brum’s job—unless it was
that of orderly man in a barrack-room or a potato-
peeler in the cookhouse. God bless my soul, Pansy,
and he has the damned impudence to talk of his exalted
position! ”
Mr. Pilkington regarded them with pained though
lofty dignity.
Mr. Wicks went on. “And even supposing this
office-boy’s job of his in the Stores really was of some
importance, what sort of an example has he already
set to the inhabitants of Sydney, to the common
people? I ask it of you, Patrick.”
“Spending his leave with a loose woman, hey?”
“Attending cockfights at Tom Nutting’s. What
about that?”
“Fighting with the night-watch!”
“Getting drunk on the King’s birthday!”
“Slapping that German prince’s face, and •punch-
ing Captain Penruddock in the nose!”
“By Jove,” said Mr. Wicks, regarding the
A.D.A.C.G. with malicious good humor. “A pretty
fellow you are, Brummell, my boy, to set good
examples to the common people.”
Mr. Pilkington laid his pipe upon the table and
ladled himself another glass of punch. He bowed in
turn to each of his friends and raised his glass with
much elegance. “I am going to pwopothe the health
of that gweat and utheful department of the Thivil
Government which I wepwethent, coupled with my
own name. I twutht you two will do me the favor
to dwink it. If you don’t,” he added languidly as a
sort of afterthought, “I’ll punch both your headth!”
Messrs. Calder and Wicks made haste to replenish
their glasses also, and raised them aloft in imitation
of their host. Both were grinning amusedly, but each
of them knew that Mr. Pilkington, the favorite pupil
of that star of the prize-ring Mr. Isaac Simmons,
better known as The Tilbury Trifle and the best boxer
in New South Wales, was quite capable of putting
his threat into execution.
“To the Commithawiat Thervith!” proposed
Mr. Pilkington.
“To the Commissariat!” murmured his two guests
in chorus, draining their glasses—which they immedi-
ately filled again.
Mr. Pilkington’s good humor was restored. He
relit his pipe before resuming the discourse which the
ribald laughter of his friends had interrupted.
“Ath I wath thaying,” he went on, “it behooveth
a man in ,my pothithion to walk thircumthpectly. I
have unfortunately lotht poor Larkinth, and it ith
nethethawy he thyould be weplathed. But ’tith not
eathy to find a thubthtitute for thuch ath Larkinth
amongtht the male pwithonerth of the Cwown. Tho
I mutht look to the other thecth —I mutht endeavor to
thecure the thervitheth of a houthekeeper.”
“Well, why not?” observed Mr. Calder, winking
covertly at Mr. Wicks. “Why not —eh, Pansy?”
“ ’Tis not a matter of any great difficulty, as I
understand it,” responded Mr. Wicks gravely, his eyes
twinkling and his mouth twitching in the effort not
to laugh. “You simply go to the Factory at Parra-
matta, or on board the first convict transport carrying
female prisoners, and make your choice. That’s all
there is in it. The Governor, we know, thinks a lot
of you, Brum. You’d have much less difficulty over
the business than Patsy or I would. I doubt whether
Macquarie’d regard us as being at all eligible to have
female prisoners assigned to us —but you’re well in
with Old Solemnity.”
“God knows why!” muttered Mr. Calder.
“And you’ve an excellent chance just now, my
dear Brum, of getting a housekeeper fresh from Eng-
land. The Lady Mary came in this morning. All
you’ve got to do is to go aboard her to-morrow when
they’re sorting out the prisoners and there you are.
You’ll be able to suit yourself.”
Again Mr. Pilkington laid down his pipe and
regarded his two friends with great portentousness.
“Ah, my dear Panthy, that ith jutht what I can’t do.
My pothithion forbidth of my taking thuch a courthe.
’Twould give an opening for the tongue of thlander
if I were to choothe a woman mythelf.
“ ’Twould be thaid, if I were to thelect a pwetty
wench, that there wath thome awwiere-penthee behind
it —and I could not thtand an ugly old hawwidan. But
if thome fwiend were to do the choothing for me, who
could thay anything wong? And thith fwiend —or
maybe a committee of fwiendth —could get me thome-
thing—thomething neat but not gaudy in the way of
houthekeeperth. Now, how would it be, Patthy, and
you, Panthy, if you two were to dithcharge thith
fwiendly offithe? I would be vathtly obliged if you
would. If I were to give you witten authowity to
act on my behalf, I am thure there could be no objec-
tionth on the part of hith Ecthellenthy or the Thuper-
intendent of Convicth.”
With sudden animation the two young officers
made almost instant response.
“By God, yes, Brummell! ” exclaimed Mr. Calder,
thumping the table with his fist.
“Oh, hell, rather!” said Mr. Wicks.
“Good morning—er
— ma’am,” said Mr.
Calder a little awk-
wardly.
I T was close to noon when the two young officers
1 boarded the Lady Mary lying out at the mouth of
the Cove, and already the business of sorting out her
partly fair and mostly frail assortment of compulsory
passengers had begun. His Excellency the Governor
had already made his inspection, which had by no
means been a perfunctory one. Macquarie was always
careful to overlook in person new arrivals amongst the
female convicts.
“Upon these poor creatures,” he once remarked
to Mrs. Macquarie—“upon them largely depends the
future of the colony. For good or evil, their influence
in the community is bound to count enormously.
Many of them, of course, will not relinquish the
depravity of morals and manners that has brought
them here. But not a few are destined to become
the mothers of a new nation, which, in this fine coun-
try, will inevitably become one of the most virile
branches of the British race. I am bound to make
it clear that I take a high personal interest in their
welfare. They will be exposed to many tribulations
and many temptations. The least I can do, as Gover-
nor, is to give them to understand that I have their
interests more or less at heart.”
So, to the infinite impatience of the officials con-
cerned —an impatience that was never made manifest
during the Governor’s visit to the ships—Macquarie
would inspect and question every individual prisoner,
and would always depart with strict injunctions that
the women were to be treated with the utmost con-
sideration and respect.
Mr. Calder had breakfasted with Mr. Wicks in
the wardroom of H.M.S. Emu, and as soon as they
had seen the Governor’s boat leave the side of the
Lady Mary they had boarded the transport. As they
came up the side ladder they heard the unpleasant
voice of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, Principal Superin-
tendent of Convicts, uttering a somewhat malicious
counterblast to Macquarie’s hopeful exhortation.
“And see here, ye hussies,” he was saying, “I give
ye fair warning. Ye’ll not find that ye have it all
your own way here —at least, not so long as I’ve got
the handling of you. Behave yourselves like Christians
and ye’ll be tolerated. Behave yourselves like the
abandoned wretches most of you are, and ye’ll find
’twill go hard with you. So chew that over, and bear
it in mind. Gentlemen” —he turned to a little group
of officers and civilians who stood on the quarter-
deck before the cabin door—“you may make your
selections. Don’t be long about if, if you please. His
Excellency has occupied more time than usual this
morning, and I’m anxious to get the business over.’
He noticed the two most recent arrivals. “Ah,
Mr. Calder and Mr. Wicks, glad to see you. But you
surely are aware that single subaltern officers are not
permitted to select female domestic servants from
amongst the prisoners.”
Mr. Calder saluted the Principal Superintendent a
little stiffly and held out a letter to him. Mr. Wicks
did not salute him at all. “Damned impudent turn-
key!” he muttered.
“I have no desire to select a domestic servant, Mr.
Hutchinson,” said Mr. Calder, “but I’ve been deputed
by a friend to choose a housekeeper for him. Perhaps
you will read his communication —here it is, sir.”
Mr. Hutchinson took the letter, which was
addressed to him, and broke the seal. He read it aloud
in a low tone.
“Dear Sir, —/ have been granted permission
by his Excellency to select a housekeeper from
amongst the female convicts recently arrived
per the Lady Mary. As important business in
my office prevents me from doing so in person
this morning I beg that you will be good enough
to afford Ensign Calder and Lieutenant Wicks
facilities to make such selection on my behalf.
I have the honor to be, Sir, your obed. humble
servant.
“A. M. PILKINGTON.’
“Humph! ” grunted Mr. Hutchinson, surveying
Mr. Pilkington’s emissaries with obvious disapproval.
“The Governor’s permission! Ah. Well, well, make
your choice, gentlemen. I suppose ’tis all in order.
“Do you doubt us, pray, Mr. Hutchinson?” in-
quired Mr. Wicks aggressively, so that the Superin-
tendent became a little alarmed.
“Oh dear! no, Mr. Wicks. But pray be speedy.
I have to get those others ashore as soon as I can.
Those not assigned have to go up to the Factory this
afternoon. I shall be obliged if you will lose as little
time as possible.”
<tr~NO you see over there, Patsy?” whispered Mr.
U Wicks to his co-selector. “Over there by t
mainmast. That one with the black hair and the ro>.
cheeks. By George, ain’t she a stunner!”


was always happening. But Monk, being new, even
if he was excited, noticed that dago come sidling round
behind the big fat coot. And he saw the knife.
“Hey, you, you can’t do that!” yelled Monk, and
shot out a hand to stop him. Stopped him all right.
The knife-blade dug into Monk’s tough right arm as
if it’d been made of cheese.
He must have gone out to it, for the next he
could remember they were sitting in a bunch on the
dago, who was blubbering. And someone had put a
tourniquet round his own arm, and the big fat coot
was blubbering with emotion almost as loud as the
dago.
“You saved me life, you did —you saved me life,”
he kept on repeating till Monk had to shut his eyes
again in disgust. “Godfrey’s my name. Don’t you
forget it, young ’un —don’t you forget Godfrey, and
Godfrey’ll never forget you.”
/''jODFREY took Monk into hospital in his car. He
told Monk not to say how it happened, to say it
was an accident —cut himself with a razor, any damned
thing. They didn’t want trouble with the johns.
Couldn’t risk trouble at the ring. They’d got to keep
the game clean. But Monk was all right; they’d look
after Monk. They’d look after that dago too—with-
out the help of the johns! But Monk wasn’t to worry.
He’d only to remember he’d saved Godfrey’s life, too
right he had —Monk was all right!
Monk said nothing at all. He hated Godfrey, and
he felt weak. He shut his eyes tight and thought about
the clean surf. Too right he was all right—and he
wasn’t going to bother over Mister Blubbery Godfrey!
The catch was, Monk’s arm wasn’t all right. It
wasn’t going ever to be all right again. A nerve was
cut. And they just couldn’t make a job of it. God-
frey said not to worry, anyhow; he had a permanent
job fixed up for Monk the moment they let him out
of dock. Monk could keep the ring in order. Monk
could get just enough exercise tidying up the ring
after the mob, and in betting hours he could keep that
quick eye of his open for disturbances. A nice little
job. Godfrey didn’t exactly own the ring—but he did
have a good say in what was doing.
Monk looked down at his wasted right arm and
thought of his mum: “Wasting y’r time, Monk. Don’t
take it too hard when they give you the laugh. An
ideelist, Monk, that’s what you are. But y’re only
wasting y’r time.”
Y"'ODFREY doesn’t think so! Godfrey reckons
Monk is the luckiest find he’s ever had. The
cheeky grin is wiped off Monk’s little round dial, and
he gets potted now and then at the whitewashed pub ;
but year in, year out, he lives in a kipsy built close
to the ring, and he minds the raw red ring as if it
were gold-plated, and he sees fights brewing before
they have time to get going, and he keeps his mouth
shut. Sometimes Godfrey reckons it would be better
if Monk were a bit more talkative, but so long as he
doesn’t get potted too often, what’s the odds?
It’s all to the good, too, that he doesn’t talk even
when he’s potted! He sits with his wasted right arm on
the table in front of him, staring ahead like a monkey
in a cage, and all anybody can ever get out of him is
two words that don’t even make sense. “Bloody anti-
climax,” that’s all anybody can ever get out of Monk
when he’s potted.
“Lord, yes!” replied Ensign Calder in the same
guarded tones. “But isn’t she too damn’ pretty for
old Brummell to have hanging about him? What
about the voice of scandal he’s so frightened of?”
“Oh, that’s neither here nor there. Whatever sort
of female we choose for him, there’s bound to be a
scandal in Sydney—even if she were old enough to be
his grandmother. He might as well be hanged for a
lamb a 9 for an old ewe. Bowl up to her before the
others notice. If you don’t she’ll be snapped up before
you can wink. Hurry up! We’ll
have to cut her out before these
other pirates.”
She really was pretty, and even
the clumsy uniform of a female
prisoner could not disguise the
grace of her carriage. Amongst
the rather squalid and common-
place throng of her companions in
misfortune she looked a veritable
queen.
“Good morning—er—ma’am,”
said Mr. Calder a little awkwardly,
saluting, while Mr. Wicks remained
a pace or so behind him.
The girl turned a pair of dark,
bright eyes upon the subaltern with
a look of contemptuous inquiry in
them, but she answered civilly
enough.
“Yes, sir. Do you wish to
engage me?”
“I would very much like to, my
dear,” began Mr. Calder, but her
little frown warned him he was on
dangerous ground. “I—that is,
my friend and I —have been de-
puted to engage a housekeeper for a gentleman in the
Civil Establishment of the colony. We —er —rather
thought you might suit —if your services had not been
bespoken. ’Tis a good place, where you’ll be very
comfortable. Will you accept of the position?”
“Of course I will,” said the girl with a little bitter-
ness. “I understand any place is better than the Fac-
tory. Yes. But you may inform your friend I’m not
what perhaps he may be inclined to take me for.”
She lowered her tone and looked intently at Mr.
Calder. “Let him take any liberties, and by God
I’ll”-
“Oh, of course not; he’d not dream of taking
liberties.”
“Won’t he, though!” murmured Mr. Wicks to
himself. “I should! ”
“Very well, then,” said the girl with an air of
resignation.
| N celebration of the success of his new domestic
arrangements, Mr. Pilkington gave a little dinner party
to some of his more intimate acquaintances in the social
world of Sydney. He did it partly to mark his appre-
ciation of the successful efforts of his friends Messrs.
Calder and Wicks in the delicate task of choosing him
a housekeeper, partly to show what a good cook he
had secured, and more particularly to demonstrate to
his friends that there was nothing whatever credible
in the slanderous whispers which had already been
busy with his reputation.
Besides the two friends there were present Captain
William Blake, the Adjutant of the 46th, and Mr.
John Thomas Campbell, Secretary to his Excellency
the Governor. The main function of dining was at
an end, and the gentlemen were seated round Mr.
Pilkington’s polished red cedar in the enjoyment of
some of that rare and ancient port which came origi-
nally from the well-stocked cellars of Mr. Alderman
Pilkington, of St. Swithin’s Lane, within the City of
London.
“You thee, Mr. Campbell and Captain Blake,”
their host was saying, “ ’twath inevitable that tho hand-
thome a cweature ath Peggy Glatton could not enter
the domethtic thervithe of a bachelor like mythelf with-
out cauthing the tongueth of malithiouth gothip to
become buthy. I do not wegard it ath ecthtwaordi-
nawy that thith thyould be tho. The betht and motht
mowal of uth cannot ecthpect to ethcape thlander at
thome time or other, can we? But I have athked you
two gentlemen here in order that you may be in a
pothithion to contwadict any thuch wumorth ath may
aththail your earth fwom time to time. You, Mr.
Campbell, at Government Houthe, and you, my dear
Bill Blake, in the offitherth’ meth at the bawackth. I
feel thure that after thith evening you will feel that
you may do tho with perfect wegard for the twuth.”
He was interrupted by Mr. Calder, who spoke in
an injured tone. “Well, but, Brum, old lad, what about
me and Pansy here? Can’t you depend on us to do
a bit for your spotless reputation also?
Mr. Pilkington waved his hand graciously in the
direction of his two intimates. “Of courthe, betht of
Patwickth. I know that you and Gwegowy would do
n ir° U C ° Uld t 0 P wetherve a fwiend’th name un-
thullied and unbethmirched—even to the ecthtent of
ca ing out the utterer of any libel, if nethethawy. But,
my dear fellow, tith unfortunately the cathe that a
wecommendation of one’th virtue fwom either you or
Panthy would inevitably be conthtwued into a con-
demnation of it. ’Tith thad that thith thyould be tho,
but tho it ith.”
Adjutant* f ° r y ° U ’ Calder! ” guffawed he
“Of courthe, betht of Patwickth. But, my
dear fellow, unfortunately a wecommen-
dation of one’th virtue fwom either you
or Panthy would inevitably be con-
thtwued into a condemnation of it.”
“But, my dear Mr. Pilkington,” said the Secretary,
“we have not yet seen your paragon of a housekeeper.
Pray, why do you not call her in, so that we may dis-
°f 3 *' An,h °" y
, ™ «h>*U-
luted when thhe came here—amongtht other thingth
of a more perthonal character, ath to the nature of
whick y . ou , may thurmithe-that thhe would not be
wequired to wait at table when company wath
pwethenth. Of courthe, I agweed. That ith why you
have been wailed upon thith evening by Michael Mul-
doon, Patthy’th thervant. But thhe wath wholly
wethponthible for the dinner-which I think you’ll
aoropnmth nnt it.if hori ”
' .
. .Indeed yes, murmured Mr. Campbell appre-
“atively. Our cook at Government House is not to
be c y a^ to yourB - .
Mr. Pilkington beamed.
‘‘Gentlemen,’’he said, “we will go to the kitchen
pwcffiently and thank her ourthelveth. But before
we go, I with to tell you thomething. It may, perhapth,
thurpwithe you thomewhat-I confeth, I am a little
thurpwithed mythelf when I contemplate it dith-
pathionately. ] am going t 0 app i y to hith Ecthellenthy
for a conditional pardon for thith young woman. Do
you think Mither Macquawie would be likely to
acthede to my wequetht, Mithter Thecwetawy?”
“j am sure d e would, Mr. Pilkington, especially
you could give him your assurance that she was
about to marry.” '
“Then, that’th alwight. I intend to mawwy her
mythelf.”
Had a bombshell exploded in the middle of the
round table it could hardly have produced more con-
sternation amongst Mr. Pilkington’s guests. Mr.
Calder gave vent to a low whistle of astonishment, and
struck Mr. Wicks in the chest with his clenched fist,
so that the bewildered naval officer grunted, “My
God' ”
V?” Mr Campbe "-
silent,
nit y Mr. Pilkington gazed complacently at his four
guestg
“My dear Pilkington,” he gasped. “Damme, you
ratVt kj-- . , * ,
know ’tj s not done!” ’
, ‘ £tT
, r ’ R ! ing on r °f e ? 1S ee '. * attbur f you ’
my dear B ake ’ 11 WIU
l utht tho thoon ath hlth Ecthellenthy gwanth Mar-
garet Glatton a pardon. Come, gentlemen. Pleathe
to follow me. I with to intwoduthe you to the fairetht,
the motht virtU outh, the motht ecthellent of her thecth.
Pway, follow me, if you pleathe. Thith way, gentle-
men ” &
.
| dumb amazement they rose and followed him
the room. He led them down a passage to the
back of the turned the handle of a door—and
discovered the beautiful housekeeper seated upon the
knee of that fine-looking soldier of the 46th, Private
Michael Muldoon, her arms about his neck, his about
her P liant bod y- she was engaged in kissing and
hugging him shamelessly. Their backs were to the
door, and they were so absorbed that they had not
heard it open. Quietly, Mr. Pilkington pulled it to, and
ed dle wa Y back to the dining-room. He was a little
P ale > but otherwise seemed undisturbed.
“Patwick,” he said to Mr. Calder, “will you bwew
a bowl of punch? You will find all the ingwedienth
upon the thideboard. Mithter Campbell—pway take
a thigar, thir.”


is a picture of his native land drawn with infinite affec-
tion, from an entirely personal standpoint. The
essence of England, according to Shanks, is the Eng-
lish character, and he traces its development, as re-
flected in its institutions, codes and manners, from
Roman times to the present. He touches humorously
on the anomalies of the Constitution, the asininities of
the law, the muddled moralities, the amiable incon-
sistencies of public and private life, but somehow he
manages to turn all these things into matters for pride.
England muddles through because English hearts
are in the right place. The inconsistencies are a virtue
because they prevent institutions from becoming rigid
and brittle. Englishmen recognise a debatable ground
between conflicting rights ; they leave a spiritual no-
man’s-land into which they can expand in moments
of distress —another name, possibly, for compromise.
There are no rigid class barriers, opportunity is, at
least theoretically, open to all, and equality is increas-
ing, not declining. England is still in a state of becom-
ing, because there is a quality in the national charac-
ter—a happy blending of adventurousness and
stolidity—that keeps English life plastic.
The book moves from the discussion of history
and institutions towards a picture of private life in
England, because Shanks believes that the final and
most important achievement of government should
be a full and happy life for the average citizen. He
staunchly believes that this has been attained more
fully in England than anywhere else in the world. It
augurs well for the future. He cannot see any reason
why England should not go on indefinitely as she is,
tramping steadily down the middle of the road.
Here I hold 3io brief for or against either Fas-
cism or Communism. My only business is to point
out why no system of totalitarianism could possibly
succeed here. It would imperil too far the freedom of
private lives which we value.... God knows that there
are men, women and children in England living lives
that no human being ought to be asked to live. You
will find some of them in back-to-back houses in the
north or in the caravan towns.
Even so, you will not find in this country a sum of
human misery equal to what existed in the first three
or four decades of the last century—and then we,
collectively, did not think it worth a revolution. Even
the most sensitive of us do not think the grievances
that are left worth a revolution now. We believe in
doing things gradually. The decisive argument is that
we have built up a treasure of private lives which we
shall not willingly offer to the risks of an upheaval. In
her political stability—irritating as it sometimes is—we
can see England’s satisfaction with what she has
achieved; a reasonable degree of richness and variety
in the lives of a reasonably large number of her inhabi-
tants and a prospect of better things for all her inhabi-
tants.
The main theme of Shanks’s argument carries
along with it little independent essays on such subjects
as the English landscape (largely responsible for Eng-
lish character), the poets (valued by all Englishmen,
if read by few), sport (on which subject he warns that
his views are largely heterodox as he doesn’t disapprove
of professionalism and isn’t quite sure that cricket is
always “cricket”).
The whole length and breadth of the book is suf-
fused with that modest pride which is in the very
essence of good taste for Englishmen. Nothing illus-
trates this better than an anecdote he tells. He met
a young man, English by birth, who had been a gang-
ster in America, but had reformed and returned home
to earn an honest living. “He said that, were he dis-
appointed in this, he would return to crime. ‘But,’
he added earnestly, ‘not here. It’s not good enough
here. I shall go back to the States. You see,’ he
went on, ‘over there, when we held up a bank, I was
the stick-up man. I used to go in with a couple of
automatics and tell the clerks to stick ’em up! Every-
thing depends’—here he became more earnestly ex-
planatory than ever —‘on how you say it. If you do
it just right they stick ’em up, and you hear the
manager shouting from his office that it’s all right,
the money’s insured —and you don’t have to shoot.
But over here I don’t know what would be the right
way to say it. They’d laugh and start chucking ledgers
at you, and the whole thing would be a mess-up.’ ”
My England is a soothing book, not without
mellow charm. It is illustrated by some very pleasant
-—even if not particularly pertinent—photographs.
Pilgrimage of Genius.
A genius attracts one type of author in the way
a millionaire or a millionaire’s daughter attracts an-
other. In each case the character has had a good
push toward distinction before the writer starts work.
It is something to catch the reader’s eye, and that is
half the battle. Naturally, too, it is easier for a reader
to identify himself or herself with somebody out of
the ordinary and to obtain more wish-fulfilment from
a character with a magnificent superfluity of brains
or money.
James Hill, whose first novel, Loving Memory,
was reviewed on this page last year, has chosen a
genius of the piano for the hero of No Victory for the
Soldier (Collins). It is a long genetic novel tracing
the career of Johann Sebastian Knox from the age of
seven, when he was already an infant prodigy, till his
death in the Spanish war while still young. It is a
study in success and failure, for Johann succeeded as
a pianist and attained a faultless technique, only to
fail as a composer, and it was as a composer that he
chose most passionately to express himself.
He made the money that, in his pinched and
humiliated youth, seemed the Open Sesame of a good
life, but he failed in his personal relations. He loved
his mother and was a good son to her, but their rela-
tionship was ruined by the painful pity she aroused in
him. He admired his father as a musician, but felt
contempt for him as a man. Of the women in his life
Elizabeth was dear but undependable, irresponsible,
shallow; Margaret, his wife, was cold and jealous of
his fame ; Lovell died just as their love was coming
to flower. It is a tragic—and sometimes moving—
story of flaws, of a life that just failed of fruition. In
war Johann seeks catharsis of the spirit and finds
death. There is no victory for him anywhere. The
reader is led by devious courses into the night.
No Victory for the Soldier begins very well in-
deed. It has crispness and distinction, and the self-
possessed little boy who realises his own gifts and the
burden they lay upon him, who is confident of the
future even when most depressed by the present, and
who finds a swift shining joy in the most unexpected
places is both charming and real. You feel his genius ;
and the people around him are alive, too ; his over-
anxious, overloving mother, willing to humiliate her-
self, and him, too, to cadge patronage ; the father
who is loose and slipshod in everything except his
music and leaves the responsibility of providing for
the family—by a succession of forced concerts —to
the child when he is nine ; the old German, Neumann,
who helps Johann, himself something of a mystery.
This man was the rock-bottom of Johann’s career.
The many minor characters are also 'well hit off, from
the chambermaid who kept a pet parrot in the lavatory
to the businessman who tried to detach the boy from
the unprofitable career of music: “I’ll say to you,
boy, what I am always saying . . . Think of your
widow.”
This early part is the best of the book. When
Johann grows up and begins falling in love the interest
is a little dissipated ; the story becomes like so many
others. Its end begins to weigh upon it. The standard
of prose, which is high, is maintained to the last, but
the impression grows that the author is carrying the
book through out of sheer obstinacy.
With regard to the grand finale, it really would
be a novelty if dejected heroes refrained from dying
in Spain. This habit has become more monotonous
than their disposition to go big-game shooting in an
earlier literary era.
Study of a Loving Tyrant.
Surface dexterity and a pinch of bitter philosophy
have enabled Anne Parrish to put together in Mr.
Despondency’s Daughter (Hamish Hamilton) a novel
that entertains while making small demands of the
reader. It purports to be the journal of a spoilt
woman, who, growing old, comes to realise that she
has harmed all the people she loves, and to find, to
her own chagrined surprise, that under her appealing
charm there lurks a cast-iron selfishness.
A psychologist, called in to her son, who has
become mentally deranged through a mother fixation,
first cracks her self-esteem. Her friends rush into the
breach, and at last she comes to the conclusion that
she has harmed the lives of everyone about her.
By fretting and falling ill she prevented her father
from marrying a second time. If she did not exactly
kill her husband she made him willing to die by ten-
derly thwarting his every ambition. For her sake her
devoted maid gave up marriage. She broke up one
son’s engagement, ruined another’s marriage and de-
bauched with excessive love the little son of her third
and only independent child, who was killed in the war.
There are other tragedies, all her well-meaning fault.
Like Mr. Despondency’s daughter in Pilgrim’s
Progress, Lisa tries to reform. The only reparation she
can think of is to give up everything she cares for,
including her adored home —and so make everyone
around her twice as miserable as before. Some sort
of solution is, however, patched up for the comfort
of the reader. The son whose mind was fraying away
finds peace in the Church, the other son remarries the
woman from whom his mother had so gently but in-
exorably parted him. Lisa goes down at last in the
perfume of restored sanctity.
The story, being in journal form, is told in re-
verse ; the events trickle out back to front, everyone’s
motives are turned inside out and, in the best psycho-
logical manner, shown to be the exact opposite of
their face value. A delicate and very feminine malice
is the book’s best offering, together with such small
bitter plums of wisdom as, “Perhaps there is some-
thing nasty about pity ; sniffing at pain, tasting it, en-
joying it, needing it to make one feel.” Or, “What is
the use of all the bliss and anguish if at the end we
laugh when we remember?”
Odyssey of Youth.
A surprising number of young men seem to have
set out on lives of adventure apparently for the ex-
press purpose of writing about it afterwards. The
latest is Carl Fallas, a young newspaperman, who has
entered the lists with The Gate Is Open (Heinemann).
The author seems to be in some doubt as to
whether his aim is to provide thrills or to philosophise.
He opens with a section called “Panorama,” in which
he touches on the highlights of his career, offering
fragmentary pictures in no particular order, possibly
with the idea of whetting the reader’s curiosity and
giving the ensuing narrative philosophical perspective.
Once this section is negotiated in all its angular self-
consciousness, the tale becomes quite interesting.
At 21 Fallas sailed for Colombo to take up a job
on a newspaper. He had a pleasant time and saw the
sights, but, tiring of security, he took his all—£2s
and set out for Asia, third class, on a French liner.
There were two classes below him, and he fared very
well, except that his cabin was next to a lively and
vocal bull. In Japan he worked for an American
paper and saw some more life. It is his opinion that
Japanese character is largely conditioned by the fre-
quency of earthquakes—he counted 93 in four months.
From the general precariousness of life they have de-
veloped tenacity and taciturnity, as if they were per-
petually on guard.
From Japan Fallas went to America, and from
San Francisco he travelled back to England before
the mast on a sailing ship ; 23 weeks and a day round
the Horn. The war mopped him up ; he survived it
and became a novelist as well as a journalist.
On the well-worn theme of war he has this reflec-
tion to offer:
For two decades since then, the younger generation
of men have been taught to believe that war breeds com-
radeship. But I think there is a difference between the
highlights of comradeship which war reveals and war as
the source of these things. While the field of war may
be a positive forcing ground for high deeds, for the
spirit of mutuality in endeavor, and in steadfast endur-
ance, my dominant feeling about it is this: war releases
self-interest in its acutest forms. This it does individually
as well as nationally.
A quarter of The Gate Is Open is expended on
the story of the voyage in the sailing ship ; obviously
the zenith of the author’s life to date. There is the
feeling that the book as a whole was an excuse to
tell about that voyage.
Sob Story.
Publisher Gollancz proclaims William Cameron’s
first novel, Common People, a discovery. This re-
viewer is willing to admit that Cameron looks like a
writer with a future, but Common People shows all
the immaturities peculiar to first novels.
Its theme is the sorrows of the poor, and they are
revealed on every page. They are driven into the
reader’s consciousness like nails. It is impossible to
doubt Cameron’s sincerity, but what he doesn’t realise
is that a descriptive novel on this theme is old history.
It competes in an overloaded market.
The story of Common People is simple and
human. Dick Copley is a glass-cutter and lives with
his father in the East End of London. Pa does the
housework. Dick had been walking out with Connie
Jarvis, but gave her up out of sheer despair. Her
people were too numerous and too poor. He realised
the probable burdens of the future.
At a loose end, he meets Annie at . the pictures.
After they had walked the streets of London and
kissed in dark doorways for some weeks they become
engaged and start saving for their home. One night
Connie’s mother comes to say she is dying in hospital
of a rheumatic heart, and would Dick go to see her?
He goes, and in his pity lets her think they will marry
when she is better. He helps her family out of his
and Annie’s joint savings. When Annie finds out
she not only expostulates.; she bites, kicks and returns
Dick’s ten-shilling engagement ring.
Meanwhile happiness had wrought a miracle for
Connie. She gets better. Dick makes up his mind
that they will be happy together. Connie has her
pathetic charm and prettiness. She is a little waif
who has never had a chance. She is starving for beauty
and has been an outcast among her companions
because she reads poetry. Dick plans to get a job in
the country and build up her strength, but Annie
comes and tells him she is going to have a baby. He
has to break it to Connie that their marriage is off
She receives the news with a faint smile and within a
few days she is dead. It is, as Dick acknowledges, for
the best. He pays her memory the tribute of fighting
the police and bailiffs who come to evict her mother,
but the consequent month in prison is hidden from his
employer, and he marries Annie full of hope for the
future. Pa gets a widow with a nice little nest-egg
and everyone is comparatively happy.
This is the Victorian sob story —of which
Dickens’s tale of poor Joe is the finest literary flower,
and to which the genre painters of the period devoted
acres of canvas. It is here re-dressed in present fashion
and told with raw indignation, in clipped, rough prose,
speeded up by the omission of all superfluous words.
The characters are cut to suit the story and have only
rare flashes of individuality. The book lacks power,
not because the author lacks a factual basis for his
yarn, but because he makes a too direct and too
traditional attack on his subject.
Ursula's Prescription.
The latest book on “How to Write” comes from
the pen of Ursula Bloom. She started writing at the
age of seven, and has been going ever since. Her
advice starts in the most hopeful way imaginable:
Anybody who can write a good letter which holds
the interest of his friends, and who is willing to learn,
can become a writer ... If he will. Most of them won’t.
Very soon we learn of her own success at the
writing game. In 1921, when, presumably, she began
to make a business of writing, Ursula’s income was
£73 6s. 6d. from literary sources. But in 1930 her
income was around the £2OOO-a-year mark; and,
apparently, it is ascending progressively each year.
This is so astonishing that it has astonished even the
lady herself, for she naively asks: “In what other
profession could I have earned over two thousand
a year in just under 10 years? None at all, I should
think, because I am not a clever woman.”
Ursula tells us that her face was a great handicap
to her in the literary market. Her face, which is
extraordinarily easy to look at, appears twice in
photographs in connection with this publication. It’s
on the jacket, and it forms the frontispiece of the book
itself. She warns us not to run away with the idea
that her face has been her fortune, and the reason is:
“Editors don’t have pets.”
Ursula certainly has gone into the writing busi-
ness pretty thoroughly, and knows the market —from
the 2d. magazines upwards. She can turn her pen to
verse, articles, short-stories, serials and novels. Her
locale is Fleet-street, on which she descended origi-
nally from a country parsonage.
The A B C of Authorship, by Ursula Bloom
(Blackie: Dymock’s, ss. 3d.), surely justifies its title.
Everything in this book has all been said before.
but writers and would-be writers, being peculiarly
obtuse people, need to have this sort of stuff drummed
into them again and again—if only to remind them
of the fact that money can be made in the writing
game if it be approached with the very same sort
of calculation and cunning that the successtu
businessman brings to his own job.


Free Lessons for New Writers
Why New
Writers
Are
Wanted
By a Former Page Editor of
a Leading Daily Newspaper
How wide and varied is the
scope for the new writer can be
fully appreciated only by those
who keep in close touch with the
literary market.
There is a great and con-
tinuous demand for articles and
short stories from outside con-
tributors.
The dearth of good work is
often embarrassing to editors.
They need fresh, well-written
contributions and cannot rely on
a few tried writers for all their
requirements. They conscien-
tiously wade through dull,
shoddy work not because they
have a sentimental feeling for
the unknown free lance, but
because they are so eager to
secure a “find.”
Writers who can supply what
is wanted have little difficulty in
selling their MSS. Their work
is often commissioned long before
it is written.
Whenever I found promising
writers I suggested further
articles they could do for me.
My requests for more contribu-
tions were not always responded
to, because these journalists had
already as much Work as they
could undertake.
Success awaits the new writer
who can prove that he knows his
job.
WHAT STUDENTS SAY
“A New Interest in Life”
The Regent Institute is con-
stantly receiving letters from
students expressing their delight
at the sheer interest of the lessons
and the clear method of tuition.
The following are typical:
“I am very sorry my Course has come
to an end, and if I did not have another
acceptance I should not say my time had
been wasted. On the contrary, it has
broadened my outlook and taught me to
study the finer things of life.”
“I don’t know when I have felt so much
enthusiasm for anything as I have for
journalism... .Your lessons are, to say
the least, the most interesting study I have
yet encountered.”
“It [the Course] gives one a new in-
terest in life and things.”
Send to-day for a free copy
of the Institute’s prospectus,
“How to Succeed as a Writer.”
It may mean the beginning of a
new and more prosperous—and
more interesting—life to you.
A Remarkable Offer to Readers of
the Sydney “Bulletin”
WORLD-FAMOUS POSTAL COURSE
Recommended by Editors
Readers of the Sydney “Bulletin’’ who have literary ambitions should
write to the Regent Institute for a specimen lesson of the fascinating and
practical Cburse in Journalism and Short Story Writing conducted by that
well-known correspondence school, which has a world-wide reputation
for success in training free-lance journalists. Applications should he
addressed to The Regent Institute (Dept. 60D), Regent House, Palace
Gate, London, W.B, England.
The practical value of the tuition given by the Institute has been
endorsed by the editors of many leading journals. “The Regent Institute
has an enviable record of unbroken success,” wrote the editor of a well-
known weekly. “Their pupils have met with amazing success,” said
another editor in advising new writers to seek the aid of the Institute.
The great field of opportunity for new writers is described in the
following article by a successful author and journalist:
One of the gifts which many
people have but which few use
to the full is the gift of expres-
sion. Because you have never
tried to write anything other than
letters or essays when you were
at school that does not necessarily
mean that you have not literary
ability. Anyone who can interest
or entertain his friends by his
letters probably has literary apti-
tude, and if that aptitude is
properly cultivated it can be ex-
ploited both for pleasure and for
profit.
Some free lances (as outside
contributors are aptly called) are
certainly “professional” in that
they devote all their time to liter-
ary work; but the great major-
ity are people w r ho write for the
Press in their spare time. Ex-
cellent prices are paid for good
work.
Does this interest you?
Even if you have never before
contemplated the idea of writing
for the Press you should
consider the possibility now, for
there is a way by which the
drudgery and waiting usually
attached to the first “breaking
into print” can be eliminated.
First of all ask yourself, “Have
Earning While
Learning
Hundreds of Regent students
have earned money while learn-
ing. One pupil received sixty-six
guineas for four short stories
written during the first few
lessons. Read these extracts
from students’ letters:
“Since starting the Course I have
earned £3O. It is all due to your excel-
lent training.”
“I have already paid for my lessons.”
“During my first lesson I sold an article
for one guinea; during the second lesson
I sold an article for six guineas. Another
article brought me in three guineas. I
have recently been asked to write six
articles for a well-known journal.”
I a spark of literary ability?” for
aptitude is essential. If you can
write an interesting letter you
probably have literary ability;
if you are observant and reflec-
tive, if you are interested in men
and affairs, you most certainly
have something to write about.
But between you and a steady
sale of your MSS. lies technique
the knowledge of what to
write about, how to shape your
MSS. and how to market them.
You must have that knowledge
to succeed as a writer.
You can gain it without ardu-
ous study. The method em-
ployed by the Regent Institute
is so practical that often the com-
plete novice sells to the Press the
first exercise that he submits for
criticism. The instruction is in
the hands of competent authors
and journalists who know the
craft of authorship from A to Z.
How is it done? Write for a
specimen lesson and the Insti-
tute’s free booklet, “How to
Succeed as a Writer,” and you
will see how you, if you have a
little natural aptitude, can be
turned in a few months into a
free-lance journalist or story
writer who is capable of earning
a second income in leisure hours.
Writing for
Profit
A Second Income in
Spare Time
STRIKING LETTERS
Because of the high rates of
payment given and the enormous
demand for articles and stories,
writing can be made the most
profitable of hobbies.
Moreover, the range of publi-
cations is so extremely varied
that almost anyone who has
literary ability and has learnt
technique can find a niche
for himself, whatever be his
educational attainments or his
experience of life.
Proof of the substantial oppor-
tunities. that await the amateur
writer is afforded by the many
success reports received by the
Regent Institute. A few ex-
tracts from students’ letters are
given below:
“My last year’s literary work
yielded a net profit of £l2O. For one
who can only spare one full evening
a week for writing, I don’t think this
is too bad.”
{From an Engineer.)
“I average at present about 30s. a
week.”
{From a Teacher.)
“I have gone from success to suc-
cess. I have had acceptances from
practically every paper to which I
have submitted my contributions.”
{From a Clerk.)
“I am getting on well with my
journalism... .1 greatly benefited by
my course with you and recommend
it to every literary aspirant.” (This
student earned the fee many times
over during tuition.)
{From a Secretary.)
“I have had thirty books published
now.”
{From a Housewife.)
By posting the coupon you
will have the opportunity of
reading the first lesson of
a course that has enabled
many hundreds of men and
women to increase their in-
come by writing in their
leisure hours.
Don't miss this valuable
opportunity . Fill in and post
the coupon nowm
THE REGENT INSTITUTE (Dept. 60D),
Regent House, Palace Gate, London, W.B, England.
I shall be glad to receive the following on the under-
standing that I am not committed to any expense or obligation:
(a) A free specimen lesson of the Postal Course in Journalism
and Short Story Writing.
(b) A free copy of your prospectus, “How to Succeed as a
Writer,” with full particulars of your postal tuition.
Name
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Address
Write for Your Free Lesson NOW


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
,Tl Arc'd Wie me/lcmiedSnndTemi/uet
THE THAMES AT PANGBOURNE REACH.
It is no mere idle or vainglorious boast which leads the Englishman to declare the Thames has no rival. It has been poetically likened
to “the most loved of all the ocean’s sons.” Everyone is familiar with the opening line of Wordsworth’s Ode to the Thames, composed
upon Westminster Bridge on the morning of September 3rd, 1802: —
Earth has not anything to show more fair.
The great poet-teacher of the last century saw beauty where the average man or woman fails to find it—in bricks, mortar, smoke,
chimneys and other manifestations of commercial activity, no less than in solitudes “far from the madding crowd.”- Yet this line is
singularly applicable to much of the scenery the upper reaches of the Thames from Kew Bridge on presents. Hence it is little matter
for surprise that no visit to England can be regarded as complete unless these scenes of gorgeous loveliness are witnessed during the months
of May, June, July and August. One of the most exquisite of them is presented by Pangbourne Reach, where the river cuts through
the long range of the Berkshire Downs and the Chiltern Hills amid scenery of ever-increasing beauty. The arboreal wealth lining the
banks firs, poplars and elms, to indicate three whose lavishness is unsurpassed— presents such a spectacle of “almost heavenly beauty”
that artists have ever found it a favorite haunt. Pangbourne Reach has other interests for the visitor than those Nature has bestowed
with so lavish a hand. It passes through a terrain where once resided Law, the celebrated “projector” of the South Sea and Mississippi
Bubbles, and that founder of our Indian Dependency, Warren Hastings. The disciple of Isaak Walton will find this Reach satisfy his
every desire. If he cast the fly, the Reach will yield plenty of work. Trout abound and rise kindly. If he prefer trolling, there are some
stout jack awaiting him, and should he be content “to fish at bottom,” he may always reckon on a good basket of barbel,’roach or chub,
provided he knows how to properly handle his tackle. Amidst ever-changing scenes of new delights the Thames glides through Pangbourne
Reach, and some miles on its journey to the sea passes through another section of wondrous loveliness overlooked by Cooper’s Hill
Here Sir John Denham composed his beautiful descriptive poem, “Cooper’s Hill,” wherein the Thames is addressed in words whose
impressiveness and peculiar appropriateness at once appealed and still appeal wherever the English language is spoken: —
O, could I flow like thee, and make thy stream
My great example, as it is my theme!
Though deep, yet clear; though gentle, yet not dull;
Strong without rage; without o’er flowing full.


IN THE VALLEY OF PREVARICATION.
“If businessmen will only refuse to regard gloomy possibilities as probabilities they will create a wave of confidence across every ocean. There are grounds for hoping
that the path leading to a higher level of world prosperity has been entered upon.”— Duke of Gloucester at a British Industries Fair dinner.
“Tremble, royal prince! In me you see the Jitterbeast.”
“Well, you ARE a silly old anachronism!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House , 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lamb ton Quay,
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months,, 7s, (Exchange rrtust be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months , Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months,, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d., per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HENCE THE JITTERS.
Every reader of the daily press must be struck by an
extraordinary contrast between two pictures principally
exhibited therein each day: on the one hand, the
apparent calm of the threatening dictator countries ;
on the other hand, the apparent excitability of the
threatened democracies.
Like much else in daily-press representation, this
is no doubt a false picture. The main underlying
cause of jitters is fear of war, and the fact that Mr.
Chamberlain, the peace-seeker, has become an im-
mensely popular figure in Germany and Italy is
evidence that fear of war is not peculiar to democ-
racies. Also, people of both the apparently threatening
dictator countries have vivid recollections of the last
war, from direct contact with its horrors, of the lasting
effect of which remote countries like Australia and
America can have no notion.
From these and other considerations it is a fair
assumption that the bulk of the peoples in the
“aggressor countries” have no more stomach for war
than have the peoples of the “peaceful countries.”
The same applies to their leaders, who are not such
fools as to be unaware that the combined democracies
—now that these are powerfully rearmed and daily
increasing their defensive strength —represent so tough
a nut to crack that the attempt would be madness.
France, with its Maginot Line, is defended as
never before: that the French, with the greatest army
in the world, could not hold Maginot is incredible.
Britain, already armed as never before and rapidly
increasing its strength, has now for some time, in Mr.
Chamberlain’s words, been ready to fulfil its obliga-
tions. Sheer self-interest in the face of threat, real or
imaginary, at present holds the Empire countries bound
in a close alliance. The U.S.A., while its readiness to
leap into the fray without considerable deep thinking
must be doubted by all sensible people, would almost
certainly have to favor the other democracies in a war
in their own defence.
Despite all this, anyone taking his gospel from
dailies must be struck by that contrast of apparent
calm on the dictator side and apparent jumpiness on
the other. It has got to the stage where the alarmist
furphy ascribed to President Roosevelt —touching on
“disturbing reports” and “ominous cables” from
Europe making possible an interruption of his mere
fortnight’s inspection of the U.S.A. Fleet —can be held
up to mirth in German newspapers as “just another
example of the hysteria and war psychosis which
seem to prevail uninterruptedly in the democratic
countries.” Certainly American and Australian poli-
ticians and newspapers and those whom they influence
have got the jitters in an acute form. As for England,
a staff writer on the “Daily Mail” lately commented:
In Heaven’s name what Terror bug is this which
has inoculated our countrymen with so deadly a virus
that we begin to jump at our own shadow?
Apart from the underlying cause —the general
fear of war, common to dictatorships and democracies
alike —there are evident causes for this extraordinary
state of affairs.
(1) Keeping people in a state of jitters makes
politics child’s play. In the U.S.A. and in Australia,
it diverts their thoughts from the domestic situation.
It is not enough for statesmanship to know that the
defences being provided are vital to national security ;
the public has to be put into a suitable frame of mind
for footing the bill without expressing resentment in
the way that comes hardest to politicians. Hence Mr.
Lyons’s alarmist statements: it follows as axiomatic
that the weaker the statesman the more alarming the
statements he will utter.
To be as prepared as the situation conjured up
by Mr. Lyons would warrant, Australia would need
every bit of the defence now being provided, and
double it, with universal training as an immediate
essential. Anything so plainly necessary to the en-
visaged circumstances not being in the programme,
it must be assumed (a) that Mr. Lyons lacks the cour-
age to back up his alarmist statements with appro-
priate action, or (b) that he is merely encouraging the
jitters to make politics easy. That he may be mis-
reading information in which Mr. Savage sees nothing
to get excited about, and possessing which Mr. Cham-
berlain remains calm, and grows optimistic, does not
change the facts that Mr. Lyons stands alone in Aus-
tralia for alarming statements, and that the jitters serve
his purpose passing well.
(2) The prevailing state of jitters suits daily news-
papers. It enables the most trumpery matter to be
built up into a sensational story every day. There is
no longer any need for an earthquake or other human
catastrophe, or for any other sort of outstanding oc-
currence. “Tension” has become a magic word, trans-
lating the most ignorant of speculation, the most flag-
rant of lies, the most commonplace of happenings,
into “news” of high value. There is no longer any
anxiety about what story can be featured: while the
jitters last the traffic in crises will continue. This is
a complementary service: it both trades on the jitters
and provides the serum to keep the jitterbugs jumping.
(3) In Britain the Government has been em-
powered to increase from £400,000,000 to £800,000,000
the amount which may be borrowed for defence.
Britain’s defence expenditure for the current year will
total £406,000,000 ; next year, when it “will be in full
blast,” the total will be £580,000,000. That it is neces-
sary to so strengthen Britain—overtaking the damage
done by pacifists, League cranks and crusaders —-will
not be questioned by anyone who takes a realistic
view of national needs. The same applies to Australia’s
expenditure of seventy or eighty millions. At the same
time, it is irrefutable that a fair number of people are
getting a tidy rake-off from this colossal expenditure.
Keeping the jitters alive suits their book.
(4) It also suits the book of the increasingly
large number of people scattered about the world who
have the best of reasons for hating Germany and
desiring revenge. Active and clever propagandists, it
suits them that people of the democracies should be kept
on the jump. It suits Communists in particular. Despite
their resemblances to the Communist system, Fascism
and Nazism are avowed enemies of Communism.
Therefore, while the hope remains that the present
rearming of the democracies must lead in the end to
a clash with the detested dictator countries, Com-
munists and all of like color will back up the continu-
ance of the effort, and all that goes with it, including
the helpful cultivation of the jitters.
(5) In addition to these active forces, there is the
spreading infectiousness of all the people who are
genuine sufferers from the disease itself. These
people, infected with the jitters by one or other of the
foregoing agents, are approaching the dangerous stage
where the outbreak of war would be a positive relief
to them. By one or other of the active agents—for
the variety of reasons given—they have been con-
ditioned to believe that the only interpretation that can
be placed on world events, or anything related thereto,
is the worst one. It does not occur to them, for
example, that Mr. Lyons —allowing his motives to be
of the purest —makes an extraordinarily different inter-
pretation of information and appearances from that
made by Mr. Savage, or Maoriland as a whble, for
that matter. In Australia the demand is that Parlia-
ment should be called together in view of Mr. Lyons’s
alarming utterances ; in Maoriland the same demand
is heard, but there it is concerned with the country’s
internal affairs: in Australia no one could imagine,
with Parliament still on its extended loaf, that there
were any internal affairs needing its attention.
Least of all does it seem to occur to those who
are suffering worst from the jitters that they are being
ruthlessly exploited by all who have found that keep-
ing the jitters active is a paying proposition. It is a
sorry sort of traffic, but while it pays it will last.
Two Prophets with One Technique.
“We have been active in deeds.” —Radio Uncle Lyons.
“Deeds” —a little word, but one to which the heart of
every historian warms. When he hears it, he knows
that he has dredged from the rubbish heap of time
something that he can catch hold of, wrap up in a
little moralising and serve, complete and satisfying,
over the counter.
All the best-remembered milestones of history are
“deeds.” “Balbus built a wall,” “Caesar conquered
Gaul,” “Drake circumnavigated' the globe,” “Cook
discovered Botany Bay”—these are deeds ; concise,
finished, irrevocable achievements.
Surveying the record of Mr. Joseph Aloysius
Lyons, it seems that the meaning of the word must
have changed. What will the harassed teacher of a.d.
2039 answer when an inky hand goes up before the
question “Please, sir, what were those deeds Mr. Lyons
mentioned in his great oration of February, 1939?”
If the embarrassed tutor feels he can do anything but
stutter, he will be no disciple of truth and honesty.
Gazing through the spyglass of Time Past, he
will have sensations such as the blistered wanderer
experiences in Sturt’s Stony Desert, where shifting
haze and glare lend movement to every object and
even the dying saltbush seems to be acrobatic in four
dimensions.
Even in trying to decide who the rulers of Aus-
tralia were during the period 1932-39, the next century
will be faced with this shifting formlessness. No
other Commonwealth Ministry has been so changing
and so chancy.
Of the original Ministers of State, only Mr. Lyons
remains. With Mr. Perkins and Mr. Hughes and Mr.
Harrison it has been a case of “in agin, out agin, in
agin,” like Finnigin in the song. “‘Where are now
Jem Roper and Jack Hall?” Where are Jim Fenton.
Harry Gullett, George Pearce, Charlie Marr, Fred
Stewart, Massy-Greene, Josh Francis, Tom Brennan,
Tommy White, Tummas Paterson, Jimmy Hunter,
Alick McLachlan? All —and more —were among Mr.
Lyons’s Ministers.
When it comes to explaining Mr. Lyons’s thoughts
and intentions, they will be discovered to be as un-
stable as his Administration,
What will posterity say about a Prime Minister
who will not reintroduce universal training--it would
require only a Cabinet decision and a “Gazette” notice
—though he asserts that the country is in dire peril?
What will it make of the history of aerial defence?
With the help of the archives, it will see Mr. Pearce, the
Defence Minister, surge up in 1932 and admit that 88
aeroplanes are not enough for the defence of the
Commonwealth and its territories.
But where on earth are we to get the money to build
more?
It will hear a faint echo of the same Pearce sounding
the clarion or the reveille or something in 1933, and
it will find him in 1934 introducing plans to achieve
an R.A.A.F. with 200 fighting aeroplanes. From then,
the searcher after truth will be able to track the
spoors of Messrs. Pearce, Parkhill, Thorby and Lyons
as they hurtle on their quest for those machines.
Looking back to 1939, posterity will see Mr. Lyons
and Mr. Street —the fourth Defence Minister in four
years—still with fewer than half the 200, including the
obsolescents and the obsolete. It will hear them shout-
ing that they are determined to raise the number
to 212, though it costs them £12,000,000. It will muse
on their defence programme, on which £70,000,000 is
to be spent in h hurry, and doubtless wonder what
proportion of the £70,000,000 should be set down as
sheer waste because of past neglect.
No doubt the peoples Qf a later age, taught by
the vicissitudes which will intervene and some of
which are now being born of the Lyons era, will be
more clear-sighted than the present generation in dis-
tinguishing great issues from small. If they single
out anything significant in the career of Mr. Lyons, it
will be his failures. He is Australia’s greatest Mind-
changer and Misser-of-chances.
What an opportunity was his when he became
Prime Minister! Electors were then prepared to submit,
even enthusiastically, to the establishment of financial
sobriety and the burial of the post-war “policy” of
boom, borrow and bust. When he achieved office they
were sick of the antics of State Governments. The
people of all the States had learned how they could
suffer for the sins of a Lang. But instead of seizing
the opportunity to secure for the Commonwealth
power to control transport, health and education, in-
stead of exercising the financial control assigned''’
the Commonwealth by an overwhelming popular vot
instead of striving to make Australia in reality “ok
nation with one flag and one destiny,” Mr. Lyons
went off on a sidetrack.
Yielding to pressure groups, he tried to take market-
ing powers and powers of restraint over individuals
which the Constitution said he had not got. In the
domain of transport he allowed State Governments
to make a mockery of Section 92. While Maoriland,
Canada and Britain are served by one Parliament
with supreme and unchallengeable powers, Mr. Lyons
has marched blindly back along the road of disunity
and provincial politics. Of Parkes, Deakin, Kingston,
given his opportunities, it might have been written
“This man made a nation,” but this can never be
written of Mr. Lyons.
Nor will the surveyor of international affairs give
Mr. Lyons any credit for “deeds.” The rela-
tions of other Dominions with the have-not nations
have not deteriorated. Their peoples are not alarmed by
the heads of their Governments with agitated pro-
phecies of war; their Governments have kept calm
and cool. Nor has Canada, Maoriland or South
Africa started a quarrel with its second-best customer
—hazarding in the process its greatest industry and
its finance—for the sake of Manchester.
There is only one thing which posterity is certain
to find stable in the history of the present Govern-
ment' —its technique. Mr. Lyons is a follower of ancient
precedent. The Book of Jeremiah seems to be his
constant companion. He has all the arts of Jeremiah,
claiming knowledge not vouchsafed to lesser men, and
crying “Woe! Woe!” whenever it is necessary to
frighten his public into acquiescence.
At a distance of a thousand years, it will be
difficult to tell the words of Joseph from the words
of Jeremiah, or to say whether they were uttered in
the Land of Canberra or the Land of Benjamin:
The Lord said unto me, Out of the north an evil
shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land.
For I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the
north, and they shall come and set every one his
throne... .against all the cities of Judah.... Be
astonished at this and be horribly afraid, be ye very
desolate Blow ye the trumpet, cry, gather together
and say, Assemble yourselves, and let us go into the
defended cities.... Set up the standard towards Zion,
retire, stay not....the lion is come up from his
thicket and the destroyer of the Gentiles is on his way.
Even the phrase “The lions [or Lyons] roared
upon him and yelled,” and the “Why gaddest thou
about so much?” which has assailed wandering Can-
berra Ministers, have a contemporary ring.
“Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physi-
cian there?” There is only one reason why that cry
has not dominated the clamor of our “leaders.” The
public has feared that the prophet John is no better
than the prophet Joseph.
Joseph suits U.A.P. inner groups, he suits Country
party bosses, he suits State Premiers. He is the most
obliging mouthpiece they have ever had.
El Verdugo.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stumbling to Its Sedan.
Members of the U.A.P. and the Country party have
been summoned to Canberra for a joint conference.
Not to consider the peace that “hangs by a slender
thread” or the war that is “thundering at our gates,”
but to relieve the Lyons Administration of the burden
of making up its mind—or what passes for that col-
lective organ —on a domestic issue.
Ten months ago, after receiving the report of an
English expert, Sir Walter Kinnear, Mr. Casey, the
Treasurer, introduced what he called the National
Health and Pensions Insurance Bill, 1938. Dr. Page,
now Minister of Commerce, had in 1928 introduced
what he called the National Insurance Bill, but Mr.
Casey explained that his legislative child was much
bigger and brighter—“no measure of anything
approaching such social importance has previously
been presented to Parliament or people.” It was the
proud “fulfilment of a pledge given by the Prime
Minister before the general election” ; it would bring
“directly within its scope over 1,850,000 persons” and
affect nearly as many more. And if there was “no
undue delay in the passage of the bill,” the manifold
blessings promised would begin to flow “on the first
of January next.”
There was no “undue delay” in Parliament; but
protests began to pour in—from doctors, farmers,
friendly societies. Alterations were made and others
were promised. A huge staff began to. be assembled.
Scores of “approved societies” were formed. The Chief
Arbitration Judge was commissioned to inquire into
the grievances of the doctors. Their counsel and in-
structing solicitors were lost in the wreck of the
Kyeema. Then the royal commissioner died. The
inquiry was thus delayed and the doctors’ grievances
remain unredressed.
Meanwhile Ministers counted the cost, so far as
they could calculate it, and began to wonder whether
the nation could stand it and the emergency defence
expenditure as well. C.P. members, never enthusiastic,
counselled indefinite postponement. Two U.A.P.
Ministers agreed that inauguration on January 1 was
irrfjxjssible, but hinted that, if indefinite postponement
were decided upon, they would resign. After “a crisis”
of sorts the beginning date was shifted to September 4.
All this time the “approved societies” were round-
ing up members and the huge staff was surrounding
itself with files and issuing brochures and bulletins.
A paragraph in the latest bulletin reads: “Economic
and financial trends suggest that September will be an
excellent time for the commencement of contribu-
tions.” During the week in which that appeared, Dr.
Page suggested that the scheme should be dropped
and his colleague Hughes insisted that it shouldn’t be.
If it is dropped, the nation will be “up” for possibly
half a million, in compensation for the huge staff and
the “approved societies” and in irrecoverable expendi-
ture in other directions. But that feature worries the
Administration less than the prospect of Ministerial
resignations or of a severance of the U.A.P.-C.P.
alliance —possibilities which do not worry the public
at all.
Observers who are accounted shrewd are of the
opinion that the Administration is about to fall to
pieces. Others allow that it may survive the party
meeting, though they predict its finish before winter
sets in. Mr. Lyons very palpably has been Prime
Minister too long. He is a prey to inertia and inde-
cision, except when horrid dreams of war “ride him
o’ nights like the mare.” Two new Ministers
have shown energy, combined with the capacity to
say no —Mr. Street and Mr. Cameron. Reconstruc-
tion, with Mr. Menzies or Mr. Street substituted for
Mr. Lyons, and Mr. Cameron for Dr. Page, would
probably not avert defeat at the general election, but
it might stave that off for 18 months, and in the mean-
time the two new heads could get things done, neces-
sary things which would be remembered to their credit
if Labor failed again. Under the present leadership
the coalition is drifting to irremediable disaster.
South Africa Can Do It.
With the seven Government railway systems losing
money hand over fist, with mainland departments
periodically accusing one another of rigging rates so as
to steal trade, and with the biggest preparing to sock its
enforced customers again, it is pertinent to quote from
the report of the Commonwealth man, Edward Simms,
who was sent to South Africa on transport-investiga-
tion business:
Although there are four provinces in the Union,
traffic passes over the railways of one or the other
under one control; and, apart from some port adjust-
ing rates, uniform rating applies.
The administration controlling the railways also
controls the harbors. Railways, ports and harbors are
administered on business principles, due regard being
had to agricultural and industrial development and
promotion, by means of cheap transport, of the settle-
ment of an agricultural and industrial population in the
inland portions of all provinces There are 13 harbors.
This is the direction in which Australia ought to
be moving. One control of transport and harbors has
become necessary for the defence of the country, and
necessary also for that and other purposes, sufficiently
obvious to thoughtful people, is the shifting of popu-
lation from overcrowded coastal capitals. “Cheap
transport,” designed to promote the settlement not
only of an agricultural but an industrial population in
the inland portions of all States, would patently be a
great help. In point of fact, one South African Minis-
ter and his advisers control “not only railways and
harbors,” but “steamship, motor and airway services,
floating docks, pre-cooling stores and grain silos’’
and defence as well.
The administration owns a number of ocean
steamers, tugs, lighters and launches. It owns and
aKpiL 3 VC f ry lar , ge ? eet of vehicles for collection
and delivery of goods. It operates over 11,000 miles of
motor services and owns and controls practically all the
internal air services in the Union. It is a very large
transport department, and by the control of the four
main arms of transport has been able to co-ordinate
and harmonise each, avoiding overlapping and uneco-
nomic competition, so evident elsewhere.
For elsewhere read “in Australia,” though the
investigator was too polite to say so. “The chief ad-
vantages derived from the unified control and man-
agement of South African railways and harbors” he
summarises in ten paragraphs, one of which puts it
that unified control over all ports on the national sea-
board enables port development schemes to be carried
out in due order of urgency.” And the system pays.
. The administration is very successful from a financial
point of view. Railways and harbors are returning very
handsome surpluses. After providing for adequate
depreciation, payment of interest, etc., for the year to
March 31, 1936, there was a net revenue of £6,101,500.
This is pre-eminently an example that Australia
should follow, but it requires national leadership, and
that Australia hasn’t got. It has only Mr. Lyons, now
squeaking in alarm at the international position, while
he invents excuses for not summoning Parliament, and
now mumbling “Tune-in to Britain.” Like South
Africa, Britain has only one Parliament, but “tuning-
in” doesn’t extend to that.
Hubert Murray and Amalgamation.
Like any ordinary passenger, Hubert Murray, Lieu-
tenant-Governor of Papua, stepped off a ship in
Sydney the other day. No Commonwealth official
met him. There was a time when Lieutenant-Gover-
nors with less authority and less territory received
13-gun salutes when they landed, and regiments were
drawn up for them at the present when they visited
territory not their own.
Hubert Murray would consider that fuss a nui-
sance. His status and record are such that they do
their own saluting for him. He has been 32 years
at the head of affairs in Papua. The nearest approach
to that term of office in Australia was Governor
Macquarie’s 12 years.
When Murray went to Papua it was a savage
country. He had a residue of officials from the days
of British rule. His own assets were great height—
impressive to savages—a fine physique, courage, quick
decision and a strong will, together with scholarship, a
capacity for seeing the native point of view, humor
and patience. He did not punish unless there was
some purpose to be gained by punishing.
In course of his reign, he has weathered many
administrative vicissitudes—depressions through the
low price of copra, war-time doldrums, setbacks in
expansion through the overboldness or intrusive-
ness of would-be prospectors or “explorers” who have
got themselves lost or killed. He trained most of
the men who have comprised his force in recent years.
Some of the younger ones —like Hides—were born
in Papua, and have demonstrated the fallacy of the
belief in the inertness of the tropic white.
Most of the exploring work which has turned
Papua from a fringe along the sea coast and the rivers,
shut off behind by the Owen Stanley Range, has been
done by officers whom Murray schooled—beginning
in the post-war period with little, slightly-built Austen,
who found his way into the limestone mountains of
the Star Range, reaching its peak with Hides’s patrols.
Moresby has changed from a tin-can village into
a healthy town, with a good port and modern hotels.
The natives of the coastal region have been civilised,
and they have not lost their language. Though there
are complaints of their cheekiness since oil companies
began to operate, there is no need in Papua for the
flogging that goes on in Rabaul to check sex offences.
In many villages, councils of grave citizens whose
fathers spent their Saturday nights hunting heads
spend theirs discussing municipal regulations. The
biggest village near Moresby, Hanuabada, has electric
light.
Trade flourishes. Moresby is soon to become a
fortified outpost of Australia. And Hubert Murray
has “confident expectations that oil will soon be dis-
covered in immense commercial quantities; the oil-
search operations, on which vast sums of overseas
capital have been spent, are an eye-opener.” He is
not the man to canvas such prophecies without some
reason.
These possibilities make it all the more urgent
that the ultimate trend of government in Papua and
Mandated New Guinea should be settled. If vast
oilfields were discovered in the mandated area Aus-
tralia would find it very difficult, under the League,
to establish a prior claim on the oil.
The Government should waste no time. While
Murray is in Australia he should be asked to join
with that other wise old head, Robert Garran, in
framing a scheme for the amalgamation and govern-
ment of the two territories.
It would be a fine and just compliment to the
veteran to raise his status to that of Governor and
place him at the head of United New Guinea.
Our Friends the Dutch.
From “Feng-Shui”:
While in Australia Mr. H. G. Wells said that the British
Navy was no longer our navy and we would have to take
care of ourselves. As a step in that direction we should think
about our relationship with those very important people the
Dutch, who, like ourselves, are a democratic people, in danger
of being isolated by the “retraction” of the British Empire
which began with the desertion of Czechoslovakia. Disciples
of Mr. Wells are writing in the same strain; but where is the
logic in it?
The Dutch think themselves of very little importance in
the Pacific scene, whatever Mr. Wells may think of them.
They think themselves of such slight importance that they
have been ardently cultivating friendship with the British
Empire for a long time, not the other way about. It was
the other way about once. That was when the Dutch had
command of all the seas. They ousted the Portuguese from
Jakatra, in Java, and the British from Bencoelen, in Sumatra.
Mr. Wells might as well have said that we should think
about the Portuguese. They have the remnants of a ram-
shackle empire at Timor, which is used by Imperial Airways
as a landing base, and at Chinese Macao, which British civil
servants from Hong Kong use as a gambling base. The
Portuguese have lately become less friendly to the British
Pmpire and more friendly to Spain, Germany and Italy, because
tney don t think their empire of much account and know
perfectly well that they would lose it the moment Britain
lost command of the seas. The Dutch know it is precisely
the same with them, but they do attach importance to their
colonial empire, with its 80,000,000 colored subjects and its
present and potential commercial wealth in sugar, rubber, tin,
oil, coffee, tea _ and goodness knows what else. Hence they
are m the position of the borrower who thinks a lot about the
man with possible reserves of cash.
Mr. H. G. Wells made a mistake in stressing the import-
ance to Australia of the “Dutch.” If he had stressed the import-
ance E as t Indies it would have been more to the point.
11 the Dutch East Indies cease to be Dutch they will become
an awful conglomerate of hundreds of different races, the
hegemony of which will go to some other Power or be fought
lor by the 200,000 Eurasians who, except for the 30,000 or so
pine Dutchmen, will be all that will be left in the archipelago
of a controlling influence. That is what happened in Spanish
America when Spanish America ceased to be Spanish.
_ Necessity is the mother of invention, and, as in Haiti, a
half-caste Napoleon might arise, on oceans of blood and weld
the Javanese, the Macassarese, the Balinese and Sumatrans into
a great nation capable of taking care of itself. If they
succeed in doing that they may be an advantage to Australia
from the point of view of what Mr. Wells is aiming at without
being demqcrats or Dutch.
Humcmitarianism and Trouble.
Agrippa”: No doubt the Lyons Ministry has con-
sidered most carefully future implications of its
promise to take 15,000 refugee Jews —careful con-
sideration is its long suit. But if it has in this case
departed from its —er —practice, it might study the
remarks of Sir John Hope Simpson, an authority on
the subject. He says that it is probable almost to the
point of certainty that there will be forced emigra-
tions of Jews from Hungary, Rumania, Poland and
Lithuania.
We have seen relief organisations and the charity
of the civilised world respond to a process equivalent
to blackmail. The temptation to follow tjie German
example is obvious. Other countries may argue that
the only way they can secure the interest of the inter-
national community in their population problems is to
adopt a similar policy and begin to convert the domestic
problem into an international problem of refugees.
vSir John reckons the present Jewish population
of Germany and Austria at 541,000. Jewish popu-
lation of the other countries he mentions:
Poland. 3,275,000
Rumania 800,000
Hungary 440,000
Lithuania (without Memel) .. 160,000
Total 4,675,000
If the same proportion held good the Commonwealth’s
share when the great trek begins would be 130,000.
Will we be prepared to take this little lot? If not,
what excuse will there be for drawing back once the
hand has been put to the plough?
Cups or Lives ?
Written by an old seafaring man:
A dangerous tendency is developing amongst Australian
surf livesaving clubs to design and build surfboats primarily
to win races at competitions. Some late models are mere
racing shells, incapable of standing up to the strains involved
in getting put or in through a heavy surf. Even gunwale life-
lines are discarded —a factor of the utmost importance in any
lifesaving craft for enabling exhausted swimmers to keep
their heads above water alongside, until they can be further
assisted.
The concept to be borne in mind as to the essential pur-
pose and use of such boats is that of a dozen or more swimmers
swept suddenly out by a swirl of current in the break of a
strong swell. Even if the boat is already afloat she will need
to be brought ashore with the rescued. If not, she will also
need to be launched. Very few lifesaver coxswains or crews
are really expert in such work, for reasons of lack of frequent
practice under all beach conditions.
It is fatally easy for a dumping sea to crash tons of
water into a boat while her keel is—even momentarily—fast
on the sand, or even to turn her end for end with stem or
stern for a pivot. Unless she is strongly built she will be
stove, or get her back broken. In either case she will be
useless, and, except for what can be done by swimmers, those
in danger will be left without succor.
It is far too great a risk to take for merely sporting
reasons. The Australian Beach Lifesaving Association has
provided in its official handbook a soundly-designed model
of surf lifesaving boat. It should also formulate minimal
structural requirements for such craft, capable of withstanding
all reasonable strains and stresses from the most exacting
conditions of actual lifesaving use, and should disqualify from
competition all which fail to attain them. The job for which
the boat is there is to rescue people in rough water, not to
win cups.
The Country Doctor.
“E.H.M.”: The medical profession fears the influx of
foreign refugees. It says doctors have accumulated
in hundreds during the past few years, and the train-
ing capacity of medical schools is taxed, though the
length of the M.B. course has been increased to six
years.
Still there are not enough doctors —in the right
places. In N. S. Wales, at least, the ambition of every
graduate is to get to Sydney, on which, as the “D.T.”
said proudly the other day, “one-fifth of Australia’s
population are dependent for their jobs.”
The Boulia (W.Q.) Hospital committee would have
preferred an Australian doctor, but couldn’t get one
and appointed a German. Ivanhoe (N.S.W.) wanted
one recently—guaranteed earnings £BOO p.a. There
was none available.
The position is well illustrated in prosperous West
Wyalong (N.S.W.). At West Wyalong there used to
be four doctors in full practice, and five small towns
—Ungarie, Weethalle, Barmedman, Tullibigeal, Tal-
limba —each had a medico of its own.
Now there are two medicoes at West Wyalong;
the five towns —though ready to give guarantees to
suitable men —have none. -
It might be a good thing if the Medical Board
made it a condition of registration that every young
M.B. should spend a certain number of years in a
country town.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Craiser”: A Melbourne artist had
been celebrating, and on his homeward
way along Collins-street he picked up a
whistle lying on the pavement. A simple
chain of associations led him to stop at
a building in process of erection, insert
a foot in a sling suspended from the top-
most tier of scaffolding and blow a couple
of piercing blasts. A second later he
found himself hurtling skywards. He
was whirling towards the seventh storey
when the gang on the ground discovered
that an unofficial dogman was being
hoisted. He returned to the ground again
stone sober.
* * * *
“De Facto”: Charles Marr’s proposal
for a bob-in to raise a memorial to Henry
Parkes has not raised a clink. I’m not
very enthusiastic meself. Though he had
more brains than most of them, Parkes
was a true politician. Against Marr’s
claim that he established a White Aus-
tralia it must be remembered that in
1854 Parkes imported 25 Eurasian com-
positors for his newspaper, the “Empire,”
which died anyway. Parkes talked more
migration than a Federal Minister. He
did what an admirer calls a “not very
profitable tour” of 14 months to promote
it. His savage attack on Dailey for offer-
ing the Sudan Contingent came curiously
from the copyrighter of the “crimson
thread of kinship” phrase. He denounced
the Federal Council which others had
founded on lines that he himself had
originally proposed. One of his last poli-
tical moves was to let it be known that
he, almost a lifelong Freetrader, was
ready to join the Protectionists in outing
a Freetrade Ministry. Still, though he
wrote awful verse, his encouragement to
artists and writers contrasts strongly with
present-day Federal treatment.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Maoriland Labor
Government’s campaign to support Jocal
industry and “buy more N.Z. goods” gets
much publicity from the Government’s
weekly monthpiece, the “Standard.” For
its serial fiction this journal is running
some syndicated tripe based on the Holly-
wood fillum about Robin Hood.
* * * *
“Dodger”: Although the Statute of
Limitations protects a debtor if no de-
mand has been made for seven years
(six in some parts of the Empire), there
are ways of bringing a debtor within
reach of the law again. A Sydney subur-
ban grocer recently recovered a debt in-
curred by one of his customers after a
lapse of 10 years. He learned that the de-
faulter, who hadn’t been worth powder
and shot for donkey’s years, had at last
a constant job with a city firm, so sent
him a money order for 10s. with a letter
explaining it represented an overcharge
on some purchases made by him when
the account was first opened. The de-
faulter swallowed the bait and cashed
the postal note, but, playing for safety
as he thought, did not send a receipt.
However, the Post Office records showed
the order had been cashed ; the account
was thus technically reopened and the
grocer was able to get judgment with
costs for the old debt.
* * * *
“Jeb”: Every time I have passed the
weatherboard hut which the recruiting
authorities have built in Sydney’s Martin-
place I have felt a sense of unease, a
realisation of a disturbing subconscious
memory. There is nothing outwardly to
breed fear in the onlooker. It is a neat
hut. A flag waves over it. It was only
after seeing it several times that I real-
ised the association between my feeling
of discomfort and the hut. With its door
invitingly open, it looks really like the
possum traps we used to make out
of kerosene-cases in the bush and camou-
flage as nearly as possible to the color of
the bark of the surrounding tall turpen-
tines.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: The cabaret preferences
of Big Pots continue to be discussed with
animation by Sydney pressmen over their
beer and bread and cheese. In an Indus-
trial Court case in which Romano’s was
concerned, a witness stated that he had
seen Police Commissioner Mac Kay in
“Wonder what 'e can do to the gallon of beer ?”
the restaurant “on several occasions” ;
and a barrister said “I am going to bring
evidence that Mr. Mac Kay was served
with drinks.” He didn’t; all evidence
relating to the Boss Cop was disallowed.
Another barrister applied for it to be
“struck out of the records, so that it
won’t appear in the press.” The magis-
trate replied that the latter injunction
was beyond his power. “S. M. Herald”
reported these exchanges with the stern
fidelity that prompted it to record that the
Carl Thomas Club had been concerned
in a sly-grog case —Granny graciously un-
bent to the extent of announcing that the
joint had had a birthday celebration, sym-
bolised by a cake with one candle. The
Mac Kay feature also figured in the
“Daily News” report, but the “D.T.,” to
which the Chief is a hero, said nothing
about it.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Bushfire relief in Vic. has im-
proved the material status of some suf-
ferers by the recent disaster. One man,
whose wardrobe prior to Black Friday
consisted of some negligible articles, iS
now the owner of a dozen suits, includ-
ing the first dinner suit he has ever had
in his possession. In due course the
shack made of scraps of timber from
which he escaped when the fires de-
scended on him will be replaced by a
substantial dwelling, and he has sufficient
boots to last him his lifetime.
* * * *
“Jachris”: I don’t care what the pro-
fessional critics say; “The Women” is a
dull play. Determined that I d see it
before any changes were made, I man-
aged to slip into the dress rehearsal. Per-
haps it wasn’t the best way to see the
show ; one of the most interesting charac-
ters _ a gentleman called “Clarrie” whom
file producer repeatedly commanded
to shut a door somewhere down in the
orchestra pit—couldn’t be persuaded to
put in an appearance. But, however much
more presentable it could have been made
for the opening, its dreariness could never
be enlivened. The Women gossip about
the same things—and in the same manner
that they have gossiped about ever
since Adam first took his two boys out to
till the fields. I have the authority of
the matron of a maternity hospital for
saying that their gags don’t compare with
those she hears every day, and I have
the authority of the playwright for
saying that the play is intentionally dull.
Wit, Miss Boothe explains in her
preface, is foreign to “The Women.” “I
would not, if I could, gild their futilities,
They speak not with the tongues of
angels, or even diabolically clever sophis-
ticates. One is quite justified in being
bored with them ; that they strike audi-
ences as being funny instead of dull is a
happy accident at the box-office.’ The
play’s cleverness lies not in anything glit-
teringly witty in its dialogue, but in the
fidelity with which Miss Boothe has
drawn “a small group of ladies native to
the Park-avenue of America.”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: A retired Melbourne civil
servant, a bachelor with a taste for con-
noisseurship, collects clocks of all sorts,
grandfather clocks, ormulu clocks and so
forth Nothing unusual in that, but there
is in this: Sixty that chime have been
set each one a minute later than the last
one So for the 24 hours of the day the
house resounds with a continuous chim-
* „. * *
“Coaster”: “Toeclip” asks ( B .
15/2/’39) about some missing bicycles.
To an extent English conservatism killed
the export trade to Australia. The
machines were too heavy and too high
in the frame, Australian liking was for
a light, low bicycle, with a long saddle-
pillar for height adjustment. Later some
English parts-makers, notably 8.5. A., met
the Australian demand by turning out
fittings for the sort of bicycle required,
and machines were built locally. This
is still the state of affairs; Australian
bicycles differ from all others. Inci-
dentally, the bike trade thrived on
depression, and floated thereon into
boom times. Between them two promi-
nent cycle firms turn out 100,000 cycles
annually, and 1,000,000 Australians cling
to the pedals. The value of the yearly
output tots £1,000,000.
* * * *
“Cauboy”- There was a disturbance at
“Idiots’ Delight” at Melb. King’s the
other night. A man objected loudly to
the Australian girls in the cast giving the
Fascist salute to some military officers,
also in the cast, and the ushers led him
out One of the newspapers which re-
ported the event, evidently with a due
regard to its ludicrous element, was in-
volved in just as absurd an incident a
couple of years ago. Two German vessels
were in port on Armistice Day, and the
captains had been given strict instruc-
tions to observe the usual rules of inter-
national courtesy. Although the day was
a symbol for German humiliation, the
Nazi flag was flown on all the masts and
at eleven lowered to half-mast and then
hoisted again. The newspaper in ques-
tion reported that every ship in port
observed the ceremony except the two
German vessels. The indignant Germans
reported the matter to their Consul, the
Consul confirmed their version of the
affair and a denial of the published
account was sent to the newspaper. It
never appeared.
<t _ * „ * „* . * • .
. P: E \ : Punch reflects the mind
«* Britain, Nan Germany has few friends
in that country. In an ode to the depart-
>?« V*** Mr - A - p - Herbert ° r “ e barb
with a less conspicuous snout grows quite
savage.
Tortured and robbed....
Stj ll, “p unc h” is subject to periodical out-
freaks of that sort of thing. I have an
1864 vo i ume j n w hich it was almost as
hard on Lincoln as it is on Hitler. Other
um on leaders, notably Sumner and even
Bryant, were flayed because they contri-
uted ’ to a subscription raised for the
Irish Nationalist cause;- and over
Mitchel, Gavan Duffy and the rest
“Punch” poured boiling ink. It didnt
even spare Adah Isaacs Menken a
Jewess who is attracting the least respect-
able portion of playgoers by an exhibi-
tion not quite so disgraceful as the pictures
that invite them, but sufficienty vulgar
and indecent.” Perhaps the “Punch
writer had been mashed on the dazzling
creature, as were Dickens and Swinburne.
She rejected all the writing men for a
pug, John C. Heenan, the Benicia. Boy,
and led him a pretty dance.
, *
“Dash o’ Bitter”: A few years ago a
Bulletin paragraphist bemoaned the
growing effeminacy of Sydney’s younger
literati. Bohemianism was dying out, he
declared. Junior poets were more con-
cerned about the latest fashion in shirts
than in crayfish and young story-writers
preferred milk to beer. But lately I have
detected a tendency to revive the good
old days. There is an increased attend-
ance of writers and artists at the Friday-
afternoon gatherings at taverns round
about newspaper offices. Better times,
the revival of the Artists’ Ball and the
popularity of so-called Bohemian revels
organised by writers’ groups may be
causes. Whatever the reason, a fe"
of the lads are certainly making up
for lost time. One busted a week >
pay on an after-midnight taxi drive
to Katoomba to see the sun rise
from Echo Point, forgetting that Echo
Point faces west. Another paid a water-
man 30 bob to row him home from P° r
Macquarie to Manly after an all-mg
party. Then a small group, celebrating
the sale of a serial, engaged one of
few surviving cabbies in Sydney to trans
port them on a three-day pub-crawl, m
Bohemia is still somewhere on the ma*
of Sydney.
HIS BEST FRIEND.
“Federal and State Ministers will attend a show-
boat excursion and dance on March 2 in honor of
N.S.W. Premier Stevens, who has held office con-
tinuously for six years and nine months, beating all
previous records.”
He’s earned him a rank among “ringers”
Who’s headed and left in the lurch
Some dozens of previous dingers
To an ever precarious perch.
But while he is feted and petted
And the tables they loyally bang,
And throats in his honor are wetted,
Will they think on how much he’s indebted,
I wonder, to Lang?
Our Premiers who erstwhile were crackers
Of records —Parkes, Holman and those —
Had towers of strength in their backers
But never a one in their foes.
They were fighters, persistent and plucky;
They were masters of fluent harangue;
Withal they were never so lucky
To strike in their wrangles as mucky
A foeman as Lang.
You may count his achievement a thriller,
And one ’twill be hard to approach
For the term of a hand on the tiller,
A seat on the box of the coach.
Still, a fellow may slumber securely
And never get bothered a hang
About losing his job prematurely
When the choice depends, simply and surely,
Between him and Lang.
Here’s luck to you, Tubby, old cocky,
For you have some good points, I confess,
And, long as your frame keeps as stocky,
Your shadow need never grow less.
Three cheers are admittedly, brother,
Your due, but no clatter and clang
Of tongues that applaud you should smother
The thought of your debt to one other —
Your savior was Lang!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ Ramsbottom , sir — Mr. Eric Ramsbottom. You may call me Eric if I get the job.”
“S.T.S.”: A cheerful reprobate has
gone to gaol for eight months in Adel-
aide for passing worthless cheques. With
over 70 convictions in N.S.W., Vic. and
M.L. (as Cameron, Robinson, Parkinson
or Rogers) and twice declared a habitual
criminal, he retains at 80 a persuasive
charm which got cheques readily cashed
by a leading hotel and two prominent
stock-agent cos. “There is not a bad
point in me, except for these dashed
cheques,” he told the Court pleasantly.
“That temptation I can’t resist. I
shouldn’t like to die in gaol on account
of my people. But I can pull through
eight months all right.”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: It is a far cry from a naval
battle in the Indian Ocean in 1914 to a
sentence of imprisonment imposed on a
Chinese coolie in 1939, but coincidence
has covered the distance. Japanese
fishermen after scrap iron salvaged some
of the old bones of the Emden on Cocos
Island. Pursued by water police, the
Japs heaved their cargo overboard in
shallow water near Singapore. The jetti-
soned cargo was salvaged once more and
put in custody at the marine police
station. A coolie pinched a brass water-
cock valued at a dollar, and, the Court
deciding that what remained of Von
Mueller’s raider was the property of the
Australian Government, the robber got
six weeks’ durance vile in the Singapore
lockup.
* * * f
“Dusty”: The growing city’s inexor-
able squeeze and the fact that the site
had grown too valuable for its building
recently gave the demolisher’s pick a job
when the old Presbyterian Church at the
rear of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
went down in dust. The ancient building
had a history that stretched back to 1833,
and was a reminder that that portion of
Sydney was once largely residential. The
Rev. John McGarvie was first minister.
He lived at the Manse in Kent-street, and
reigned till his death in 1853. In 1908
the site was offered to the City Council
for £9500, and the end seemed nigh. Yet
it survived 31 years! At this rate of
movement Hyde Park Barracks should
last at least another century.
* * * *
“Genung”: Lately come into the Bal-
larat Historical Museum is a tombstone
with a history. In 1896 C. C. Shoppee
proposed that a dirty, very smelly block
of Sturt-street, occupied by a long string
of waiting vans, should be changed into
a flower garden, and carried his proposal
despite bitter opposition. The vans were
banished, eight plots were formed and
kerbed with polished basalt, and then,
before planting flowers, there was a pause
pending the arrival of ornamental rail-
ings ordered from Germany. A local
newspaper suggested that the square
should be called the C. C. Square, both
after the initials of Shoppee and also to
stand for Central Cemetery. This gave
a monumental stonemason an idea. Dur-
ing the dead of night he placed at the
head of one of the plots a fine marble
tombstone with the inscription: “Sacred
to the memory of the City Council.
Erected by A. Ratepayer and Co.” There
was much joy in Ballarat that morning.
The tombstone was uprooted by the irate
councillors and buried deep in the
dungeons under the City Hall, where it
lay for 43 years till it was rescued in
January of this year and placed in the
Historical Museum.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Eleven sailing vessels
will comprise the fleet of windjammers to
load wheat at S. Australian outports for
the 1939 season. They are the Viking,
Pamir, Archibald Russell, Pommern,
Passat, Moshulu, Olivebank, Killoran,
Lawhill, Winterhude and Abraham Ryd-
berg. The barque Penang may show up
late in the season, delayed by her dis-
masting off M.L. early in June, when
homeward bound with last season’s wheat
lading. One long-familiar ship will be
missing from the white-winged concourse.
The Admiral Karpfanger sailed from
Spencer’s Gulf a year ago, was last
spoken in the South Pacific a month later,
and has not since been heard of.
* * * *
“Old Opencut”: A dispute unique in the
history of militant unionism in the Silver
City has cropped up at Broken Hill
(N.S.W.). The Zinc Corporation laid
down a very fine playing-field. All was
well until the opening of the cricket
season, when -a zealous umpire suddenly
remembered that no unionist was per-
mitted to remain on any portion of a
mine lease from Friday to Monday, and
as the Zinc oval was on a mine lease he
and his co-umpire could not stay. The
players, rather than hold up the game,
appointed umpires from the spectators
and carried on. As a result the matter
was referred to the Barrier Industrial
Council, which declared all playing-
grounds black. The dispute is still
on, though at the moment it looks
as if it will -be settled by sport-
ing clubs omitting the Zinc oval from
their playing schedules. Strangely enough
no one has noticed that the Z.C.’s swim-
ming pool is also on a mineral lease.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Chairman Bell, of Melbourne
Tramways Board, wants conscience boxes
placed at the exits of trams for the con-
venience of contrite taxpayers, as is done
in Glasgow. It looks as if the installa-
tion would cost more than the contribu-
tions. Conscience money received by the
State Treasury last financial year
amounted to £7B, but that was a record.
The previous year it was £6.
* * * *
“D.Y.”: While waiting for a suburban
telephone number the other day I occu-
pied my time trying to find out
the most popular color-surname. My
authority was the November, 1938,
edition of the Sydney telephone directory.
Black and White I decided to admit, but
not names like Whitehead, Brownlow or
Greenfield. The Browns and Brownes,
I discovered, led the field with seven
columns. Next came the Whites and
Whytes, three columns behind. The
Greens and Greenes accounted for two
columns, while the Blacks ran to one
column. There were nine Blues, but
no Reds, though there were eight Scar-
letts, three Pinks and one Crimson. There
were no Yellows, Purples or Mauves, but
there were two Violets, though they, like
the column'or so of Roses, surely derived
their surnames from the horticultural
world.
* * # *
From the Office Antiquary:
A Sydney “Herald” footnote to an early
chapter of “Banjo” Paterson’s reminiscences de-
clared that the old poet’s “fee” for “Clancy
of the Overflow,” published in The Bulletin
of December 21, 1889, was “the munificent sum
of 13s. 6d.” “Banjo” repeated the statement
in the next instalment—“l remember getting
exactly thirteen and sixpence for writing
‘Clancy of the Overflow.’ ” This was incidental
to a reference to an agreement with Henry
Lawson.
One day he suggested that we should write
against each other, he putting the bush from
his point of view and I putting it from mine.
“We ought to be able to get in three or four
sets of verse each before they stop us.” So we
slam-banged away at each other for weeks
and weeks until we ran out of material.
Henry’s widow has denied the existence of
any such arrangement; and I suggest that
“Banjo’s” memory has also played him false
about the thirteen and six. Records are no
longer available, but “Clancy” consists of 32
lines each with an “overfun.” For as long
as I can remember it has been Bulletin prac-
tice to pay full linage rates for over-
runs; so I put it that “Banjo” was really paid
for 64 lines at sd.—not 13s. 6d., but £1 6s. Bd.
In any case, right of republication was reserved
to him, and was, of course, exercised, with
satisfactory results. “Clancy” must still be
turning in something, for Paterson’s verses have
not lost their power to charm.
“ They'll never get ME to another cocktail party on a submarine."
MARCH.
March, with the city streets and the far-flung
spaces
Wilting a trifle less in the glare of noon,
For the autumn hounds are sniffing at summer’s
traces
And, thank the Lord, will be hard upon them
soon.
March, if not yet compelling at least foretelling
The end of the suns that scorch and the
winds that parch,
And the stubborn dog-days one by one fare-
welling,
March!
March, like a lion coming, a lamb receding—
So fancy features you in northern seas.
We greet you, too, and would hasten on your
speeding
With equal heartiness in climes like these.
You may ring grim winter’s knell with the
first beginnings
Of tiny leaves on the oak and elm and larch,
But I like you better closing our summer’s
innings,
March!
March, and another month will scatter the
forces
That line the sides of the sea in our sunny
lands,
The sturdy surfmen riding their wild white
horses,
The lissome flappers a-bake on the golden
sands.
Another moon, and beer will be slower flowing
And cuffs and collars longer retain their
starch,
And we’ll prize you more the faster you are
in going,
March!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


m
m
mm
1 S 3
CRAVEN A tm*
turn vttoki-tiwf'te,,
akvMjS smooth tfjtedr!
10 for 9d 20 for 1 7 6
E 1867 _
PREVENT
THROATS
SORE
POLITICAL POINTS
Only £4,800,000 of ihe £8,500,000 asked
for by Casey was subscribed by the
public. While Casey was struggling to
Minister for\\forks U and Locaf Misgovern-
ment, came out with a grand scheme
for “organising” State loai expenditure,
and blithely mentioned that N.S.W.’s
annual requirements would be £10,000,000
nr fl?nnonna Perhan<i that wan whv
or ±.IZ,UUU,UUU. remaps mat was wny
investors buttoned up.
ry, ~ j .. j o j
Two well-advertised young Sydney
U.A.P. politicians, McCall and Solomon,
have been named lieutenants in the
militia, after 10 minutes or so as privates.
The appointments are conditional on
their passing an examination within 18
months. The rule is for sergeants to have
preference in the granting of provisional
commissions; but in these cases sergeants
were unavailable or unsuitable or some-
“Record bookings for Europe are reported by shipping offices. The Orcades alone is taking 1000 passengers.”
Joe
Granny
“They don’t believe us!”
thing, Perhaps bob-a-nob pre-selection
is to be extended to the army.
TT . _ T T , ,TT ff ru
U A.P., Lang Labor and Heffron Labor
candidates are out for Hurstville. At
last year’s election Dr. Webb, now dead,
was opposed by a Lang Labonte, whom
he beat by 11,493 to 8983. Dr. Webb
had a district practice and a strong pull.
Like Parramatta, the place has a trade
of its own, being a distributing centre for
South Coast hamlets, and local patriotism
may be the deciding factor in the by-
election. '
„„,. . _ ,
Heffron Labor is runmne a Svdney
barrister who lives at fashionable Pymble,
on the North Shore line, for Hurst-
ville, in which electorate are included
Kogarah West, Carlton, Bexley and
Kingsgrove. The candidate is recom-
mended “as a fearless fighter for Labor”
by Mr. Denford, State boss of the Iron-
workers’ Union, which, as a “Daily
News” writer put it (the “Daily News”
and the Labor Council are equally en-
thusiastic), “announced that it would not
assist in Lyons’s ‘defence’ policy, and ad-
vised its members to avoid giving infor-
mation to the so-called National
Register.” Praise from Mr. Denford is
praise indeed.
1 Considering the part Mr. Keith Mur-
doch is supposed to have played in
putting Lyons where he is, it is odd to
find a correspondent who feeds the Mur-
doch group of papers writing savagely
about the embargo on Maoriland
potatoes. “The pretence that it was de-
signed to protect Tasmanian potato
areas from corky scab,” he hissed, “has
long been dropped.”
The Prime Minister and the Speaker rep-
resent the two largest potato-growing areas
in Australia. Repeal of the embargo would
probably result in the defeat of one or
both at the next election.
So the P.M. and his pal remain potato-
minded, and consumers can go to the
devil.
The hard-pressed Westralian Labor
party has summoned Curtin to its assist-
ance ; hence his recent silence on Com-
monwealth affairs. The Opposition has
hopes of wresting a goldfields seat or
two from the party which has held them
so long. For one thing, it is challenging
ex-Premier Collier in Boulder. Collier is
just on 65, and his influence has waned
J since & days when Labofs main
e lection-cry was “Keep Collier Premier’';
but he can stiU make a more interesting
S p eecb than any other Assemblyman. He
has been Boulder’s member for 34 years,
Melbourne Age, pleading
seiit-for Government which on other
occasions it has banged so severely, pro-
tests that “Ministers should be permitted,
with the minimum of distraction, to con-
centrate upon major tasks.” Who or what
j s detracting them?
. . . A , u ... <
u As in Australia, the Opposition leader
beyond the Tasman has asked for the
immediate summoning of Parliament,
and the P-M- has weighed in with a
refusal. But instead of quoting Primims-
terial rubbish about peace hanging by a
slender thread, Hamilton gave, as reasons
for an early session, the present financial
and economic crisis and such other mat-
ters of urgent national importance as, for
example, national defence. Savage tartly
replied that he had “no intention of call-
ing Parliament together before the usual
time, unless special circumstances should
warrant it, which is certainly not the case
at present.” How different from Our
Joe!
The Auditor-General’s summary of the
N.S.W. Government railway accounts for
the year to June 30 bears the name of
John R. Moore, John Spence’s deputy;
but on essential points it differs in no
way from Spence’s own summaries. For
instance, it mentions that the surplus of
£51,469 claimed “is subject to qualifica-
tions”:—
Operating expenses are understated to
the extent that insufficient provision has
been made for depreciation.
Operating expenses have been tempo-
rarily relieved by loan expenditure on re-
conditioning of tracks.
Charges for interest, exchange, sinking
fund and loan management expenses are
tentative pending determination of the
capital debt.
Deputy Moore, like his chief, refuses to
regard tax-money as railway earnings,
and his analysis closes with this appalling
line: “Accumulated losses for 14 years
ended June 30, 1938, £23,164,167.”
The Maoriland Nationalists’ demand
“that the Government immediately call
Parliament together” was made in the
name of “This caucus of his Majesty’s
Loyal Opposition.” That sort of thing
really doesn’t go down.
„ , , - ", ... r
Perhaps by way of showing that they
stick at nothing in the scaremonger ng
line Great Dailies announce, on the
authonty of Reynolds s N ws, j
L ord Hahfax advocated a firmer stand
JP“ S * t . h t I R ? me ‘ B 4. rl t n axls ’ a ? d
the latest Madame Tabouis prophecy of
the next world crisis in detail:-
(1) Japan will threaten Indo-China; (2)
Italy will probably attempt to provoke
riots in Jibuti and Tunis, and Fascist
(TSni n a„? ri 3
demand recognition of its colonial claims
as the price of not backing Italy.
Madame must have the worst memory
in the world. Her previous prediction
read, “On January 30 Hitler will an-
nounce his support for Italy’s territorial
claims” (he didn’t mention them); “on
February 4 Mussolini will send an ulti-
matum to France” (another washout),
“Reynolds’s” is the rag that consigned the
late Pope to Australia to save him from
his fellow-countrymen, who are 99.6 per
cent. Catholic.
Sydney’s Labor Council, which loses
all its strikes, is sending round the hat
for, among others, two colored firemen
who quitted or were induced to quit the
Dalfram during the pig-iron rumpus at
Port Kembla. Let its “Daily News” in-
troduce “Ameer (Peter) Ahmed”:
His home town is Rangoon, Burma,
where his mother and father and young
sister and brother live [and where his com-
patriots are giving the British heaps of
trouble, by all accounts].
“I have been working under English
articles for six years,” said Ahmed last
nigty. “I am engaged to a girl in England
and we’re going to be married as soon as
I get back.”
“Put something in the hat for Ahmed,
Comrades! Help him to raise a fine
crop of half-castes for the Cause!”
With bitter experience of what happens
when London funds fall to a dangerous
level because of overborrowing, over-
importing and a price-slump, Australians
have not been hypercritical of Maori-
land Labor’s import-restriction measures;
but its explanations don’t hang together.
The general-election story was that boom-
ing imports were nothing to worry about,
being merely a normal result of Tory
scrimping and Labor munificence. When
import licenses were introduced Savage
said, “We are expanding production,
which means that there will be more
imports.” Now Minister Semple’s
account is that importers made a welter
of it for years and they are to get it in
the neck.
The Silliest Labor Party in the Empire
is in a worse state of mental confusion
than ever. Its first idea was that collec-
tive security could be enforced without
maintaining more than skeleton services.
Very reluctantly it was driven to vote
for rearmament, and it solaced its con-
science, or what passes for such, by de-
manding intervention in Abyssinia, Spain,
China and Czechoslovakia —in each
case on the doomed side. Now, having,
in a manner of speaking, marched with
the French Left, wagging its jaw and
spilling ink incessantly, it finds that the
French expect it to support conscription ;
and it hates conscription almost as much
as it hates dictators—Stalin excepted.
For a long time the N.S.W. Railway
Department has been barging into the
furniture-removal business and under-
cutting common carriers, who pay taxes
—the department feeds on taxes. The
fact was mentioned in a conciliation
court case as a defence to a claim for
higher wages. It is a miserable form of
competition, and only an anti-socialist
Government like Stevens’s would allow it.
The Japanese have apologised and
promised to pay compensation for aerial
bombing which killed 11 Chinese half a
mile inside the Hong Kong line. In
London “undisciplined or overambitious
airmen” are blamed. That is the worst
of modern weapons ; in all countries they
are apt to be placed in the hands of boys
as silly as or sillier than the flash youths
who drive cars and joyboats at break-
neck speeds, and fly low over cities. It
is one of the incalculable factors of the
world situation. Incidentally, the U.S.
House of Representatives, though still
under Democratic control, has refused
to vote money for the fortifying of
Guam.
A few grey hairs, particles of soot
from a man’s singlet, dark stains on
women’s pyjamas and a bill with a pen-
cilled address have led to the conviction
of a chimney sweep for the murder of
a benevolent old lady and her young
niece in their home at Glenroy (Vic.)
last November. If a crime as fearful
occurred in N.S.W. and the death sen-
tence were pronounced an immediate
sequel would be a deputation to the
Minister snivelling for a reprieve. Feel-
ing in Victoria from the Murray to the
sea is that hanging in such a case is
merciful.


CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER “CASES.”
“Sydney transport officials gave varied reasons why men predominate in jaywalking prosecutions, but one policeman confessed it was ‘downright chivalry."


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-'
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
The Richardson Chain Hotel
3 3
I
!Life
MELBOURNE'S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from . . 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
*PKpne: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
PERSONAL ITEMS
W. W. Killen, just dead, was about
the tallest man in the Commonwealth
Parliament during the Bruce period,
when he sat for Riverina. His dour
Ulster exterior hid a sense of humor
which made it difficult for him to take
Parliamentary life seriously. Asked his
opinion of one of Australia’s smaller
but more eloquent statesmen, he re-
marked : “One of the worst killers I ever
saw —give a block test of about thirty
per cent, and a cheap hide.” He owned
many stations in his 50-odd years of
grazing, founded a fine merino stud and
was a councillor of the first Australian
Meat Council.
Oscar L. Isaachsen, who succeeds “Big
Bill” Masson as g.m. of the Bank of
Adelaide, had as granddad on his father’s
side H. T. Isaachsen, a merchant who
migrated from Norway to Australia in
1848, and on his mother’s side his grand-
sire was Richard Smith, a Yorkshire
sheepbreeder. O. L. Isaachsen was edu-
cated at Pulteney Grammar School,
OSCAR L. ISAACHSEN.
Prince Alfred College and Adelaide
Uni. He joined the bank in 1905,
was chief clerk at head office in 1924,
and the posts of accountant, assist-
ant manager and assistant general
manager have been rungs of his subse-
quent climb up the ladder. Takes a far-
sighted view of his bank’s responsibili-
ties in the matter of developing primary
and secondary industries, studies world
economics deeply, and relaxes himself in
the world of sport.
To-day (March 1), B. S. B. Stevens,
beats by one day Billy Holman’s record
of six years nine months of continuous
service as Premier of N. S. Wales. Appro-
priate festivities, among them a show-
boat excursion, will mark the occasion.
Stevens was 38 when he entered politics
in 1927, and became an Assistant Minis-
ter right from the jump, a full-blown
Minister 18 months afterwards, and
Premier in 1932, which was very fast
travelling. Holman was only 27 when
Grenfell sent him to the Leg. Assembly,
but he had to wait 12 years before be-
coming Attorney-General and Minister
of Justice under Jimmy McGowen. He
was 42 when he replaced McGowen as
Premier in 1913 ; Stevens was 43 when
he outed J. T. Lang. George Reid, by
the way, made an unbroken run for a
little over five years, from 1894 to 1899,
and Henry Parkes lasted once for four
years and 14 days. Parkes, who was five
times Premier, however, scored one
record which will take some beating. He
was Premier for an aggregate period of
11 years nine months and 15 days.
Irving Benson, the journalistic parson
who fills the post of religious editor
to Melbourne “Herald,” is off in March
on a lecturing tour of Canada, England
and Europe. English-born, he was edu-
cated for the Methodist dispensation by
private tutors, and his first ministry was
in Hamilton, Vic. His next circuit was
exclusive Toorak. A prolific scribbler,
he has contributed to a host of English
and American journals on literary and
religious subjects, and his weekly dis-
course in the “Herald” is devoured by
readers of all denominations. He is
studiously non-political in his views and
mildly liberal in his theology.
Retired Police Sergeant Billy Williams
who died at Annandale (Sydney) the
other day, played a heroic part when
the Maitland was wrecked in 1898. With
lifeline in hand he swam to the wreck
and saved many lives. Williams was one
of five brothers in the N.S.W. police
force, all with good records.
Some March birthdays:
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb.), 65, on Ist; J. B.
Cramsie (Syd.), 68, N.S.W. Local Govt. Minis-
ter Spooner, 48, and poet Louis Lavater, 72,
on 2nd; S.A. Min. for Lands Malcolm Mc-
Intosh, 51, Col. Alfred Spain (Syd.), 71, Geof-
frey Syme (Melb.), 66, on 3rd; Archbishop
Mannix, 75, N.S.W. Senator Dein, 50, and Roy
Hendy (Town Clerk, Syd.), 49, on 4th; former
Vic. Premier Lawson, 64, on sth; Maj.-Gen.
Bruche, 66, and naturalist David Stead (N.S.W.),
62, on 6th; Rev. J. W. Burton (Syd.), 64, on
7th; Prof. R. C. Mills (Syd.), 53, on Bth;
S.A. Senator Jas. McLachlan, 68, on 9th;
artist-knight John Longstaff, 77, and Speck
Premier Ogilvie, 48, on 10th; knight Sam
Cohen (Syd.), 70, A. C. W. Fisken (former
M.H.R. for Ballarat), 42, and Syd.-born Geof-
frey Knox (British Minister at Budapest), 55,
on 11th; authoress Kylie Tennant on 12th;
knight Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.),
60, G. S. Knowles (Federal Solicitor-General),
57, Prof. Todd (Syd.), 59, and ex-N.S.W.
Senator Arthur Rae, 79, on 14th; Mat Charlton
(ex-Federal Labor leader)), 73, Henry Gregory,
M.H.R. (Swan), 79, Chancellor knight Mitchell
(Adel. Uni.), 78, and knight Wm. Goodman
(Adel.), 67, on 15th; authoress Flora Eldershaw
on 16th; authors Bernard Cronin, 55, and Wil-
liam Hatfield, 47, Clem Hill, 61, and artist
Louis McCubbin, 48, on 18th; Father O’Leary
(Riverview Observatory), 70, on 19th; poet
Arthur Bayldon, 74, knight Ben Fuller, 64,
author Rev. John Armour (Vic.), 50, and
Brigadier J. L. Hardie, 57, on 20th; E. J.
Ward, M.H.R. (East Sydney), 40, on 21st;
Bishop Baddeley (Melanesia), 55, on 22nd;
novelist. Roy Bridges, 54, and knight Chas.
Marr, M.H.R. (Parkes), 58, on 23rd; N.S.W.
Deputy Premier and Minister Mick Bruxner,
57, and musician Harold Elvins (Melb.), 61, on
25th; Postmaster-General Archie Cameron, 44,
and knight Harry Gullett, M.H.R. (Henty), 61,
on 26th; knight Jas. Clemens (Canberra), 66,
and Prof. A. P. Elkin (Syd.), 46, on 27th; C. E.
Weigall (N.S.W. Solicitor-General), 69, author
Alex. Chisholm, 49, Q’land Senator Courtice,
53, Josiah Francis, M.H.R. (Moreton), 49,
and J. S. MacDonald (Director Vic. Art Gal-
lery), 61, on 28th; W.A. Agent.-Gen. Hal Cole-
batch, 67, Federal Minister for the Interior
McEwen, 39, and L. V. Biggs (Melb. “Age”),
66, on 29th; former Speck Senator Sampson,
57, and Vic. Min. of Public Works Goudie,
73, on 30th; Bishop Wylde (Bathurst), 59,
Bishop O’Collins (Geraldton), 47, former S.A.
Premier Butler, 54, former N.S.W. Chief Sec.
Chaffey, M.L.A., 51, Norman Makin, M.H.R.
(Hindmarsh), 50, and Adel.-born Prof. W. Law-
rence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel Prize winner), 49,
on 31st.
Tall, personable Claude Delalande,
dead last week, was once one of the best-
known pressmen in Sydney ; he developed
a faculty for special articles which made
him forsake staff work for a freelance
career. He wrote a few Bulletin stories.
A good chap, he was 54 at the finish.
Sydney-born, and a graduate of
Sydney Uni., John Lane Mullins, who
has passed on at 81, was admitted
as a solicitor in 1885 after a dis-
tinguished commercial career, and
became a barrister 45 years later. He
was a director of Toohey’s and of City
Mutual Fire. Son of the treasurer of
St. Mary’s Cathedral, he succeeded to
this office, and was also for 25 years
hon. sec. of St. Vincent’s Hospital and
later hon. treas. For his services to his
Church he received a papal knighthood in
1917. In the same year he was appointed
an M.L.C. and served till 1934. Always
an enthusiastic patron of art, he was at
the time of his death president of the
N. S. Wales National Art Gallery. One
of his hobbies was the collection of book-
plates, and he was president of the Aus-
tralian Ex Libris Society.
Robert Chapman, who has just had a
golden wedding in Adelaide, has cer-
tainly handed down that genius for engi-
neering which brought him a professor-
ship at the University and a title. Of
his six sons (one was killed in Mesopo-
tamia) one is chief engineer for S.A.
Railways, another deputy-engineer for
Adelaide Corporation, one is a surveyor
on the Goolwa barrage at the Murray
mouth, and another has a hydraulic-
sluicing claim in New Guinea.
Earl Castle Stewart (the Earl is a
Christian name, not a title), visiting for a
look at the Mt. Isa (n.-w. Q.) mining
property, has a family connection with
Queensland through an uncle, the late
Richard Wingfield Stuart, a dashing
figure of pastoral days two generations
ago. “Dick” made a name for himself
as a horseman in a hard-riding country,
even among such breakneck company as
W. E. Parry-Okeden, afterwards Com-
missioner of Police. He was also a
practical joker of renown in the manner
of the day —one feat was to drive four-
in-hand along Queen-street with a team
of three spirited nags and an unbroken
bullock. A very capable artist, he once
held a London exhibition of his works
which attracted attention. In later,
quieter years he acquired extensive min-
ing interests, was one of the original
holders in the W.Q. Pastoral Company,
and built Stuartholme, the big house
near Toowong (Brisbane) now the Stuart-
holme Convent.
The 1938 Harper prize for “the most
distinguished and significant verse pub-
lished in any American newspaper in
1938” went to Max Montesole, formerly
Paul Robeson’s producer. Max lives at
Gosnells (W.A.), whither he has retired
with his wife, who, as Elsie Mackay, was
one of the most successful Australian
actresses overseas. Mrs. Montesole is
Westralian-born. Occasionally, when he
gets tired of retirement, Montesole’s voice
is heard over the wireless. He has a
novel about theatre life getting ready for
the press in London at the moment.
A. L. L. Ponting, who passed out at
Caulfield Military Hospital the other day,
was a cot case for 21 years. His spine
was injured in France in 1917, but up to
the last he was the most cheerful
patient in the place. As Duke of York
in 1927, the King visited the hospital
and talked to him. His cot was a regu-
lar visitant to race and sports meetings
and took four trips to Sydney.
T. C. Roughley, acting curator of the
Technological Museum, Sydney, has
been economic zoologist at the Harris-
street institution since 1911, having gone
there at 23, after being educated at Syd-
ney High School and Sydney University.
What he doesn’t know about the habits
of fish, sharks, oysters and whales is
hardly worth bothering about. A lot of
his knowledge has found its way between
the covers of books. He has written five ;
on the fishes of Australia, oysters, gold-
fish and aquariums, the Great Barrier
Reef and Lawrence Hargrave. He has been
president of the Royal Zoological Society
(1934-36) and the Microscopical Society
(1926-27) and of various big-game and
angling societies. He is a keen photo-
grapher, and plays a good game of golf
and tennis when he can spare time from
his scientific activities. A tall and genial
fellow, he is always ready to place his
knowledge at the disposal of others, and
The Bulletin Service Department counts
him among its most helpful outside
advisers.
Had a seventy-fourth birthday in Adel-
aide, T. S. O’Halloran, a busy K.C. His
one outside hobby is the Australian code
of football; he has an unchallenged posi-
tion as president of S.A. League, and
has been made a life member of the
National Football Council of Australia.
The pale, aesthetic-looking face with
the half-smile on it of William G. James
will be missing from symphony concerts
in Melbourne this year, the A.B.C. having
posted their Comptroller of Music off to
Europe to investigate (he foreign field.
The unobtrusiveness of James cloaks a
far from ordinary assemblage of talents.
Born at Ballarat, he studied at the
Melb. Uni. Con., and went to Lon-
don in 1914. He played some big con-
certos at the Albert Hall when he was
20, and conducted his own composition,
“By Candlelight,” in the same place at
21. He made several appearances in
Melbourne after the war, and then his
organising gifts were seized on by the
A.B.C. His mother was a pianist, his
father a publisher, and he married a
French operatic singer. A ballet of his
was produced at the Savoy, London, and
an orchestral suite at the Queen’s Hall
during the World War. His “Six Aus-
tralian Bush Songs” easily lead the field
in that particular line.
The Captain Cook depicted by Du-
bois, Nicol ITancis of that ilk, first dis-
CAPT. N. J. COOK, OF THE
WESTRALIA.
covered Australia in 1911 and has been
navigating big steamers in these waters
ever since. Bora in Glenrock, Scotland,
he had had 17 years in sail and a few
more in steam before he came south.
Now he’s skipper of the Westralia. His
hobby is deep-sea fishing.


ff
I
1
Better
Buy Cap stan '
.They
blended belter
We
SPECIAL MILD
- Red Packs
MEDIUM STRENGTH
Blue Packs
FULL STRENGTH
Brown Packs
10 for 6d.
20 for I/-
also flat and round 50's and
100's
They’re fad because they’re absolutely Pttte/


ABORIGINALITIES
“Dominic”: “Yes,” remarked the loco-
driver, “the driest stretch I ever done was
between Mudup and Bogwalla Creek.
And on the old engine at that! We are
just topping the long rise out from
Mudup when the feed-pump begins to
race. ‘Gripes! ’ says me fireman. ‘There’s
no water in the glass and there
can’t be any in the feed-tank.’ There
wasn’t; the tender was drained dry.
Carrying a circus, you see, and havin’ no
thought, they’d put Jumbo, the biggest
ele’phant in the world, into an open truck
next to the tender. Feelin’ dry, Jumbo
had just reached over with his trunk —
and there was all the water gone! A big
hill between us and Mudup —and 50 miles
on to Bogwalla Creek. Not a water
tank over the whole distance. Nothing
to do but pull up before the crown of
the firebox comes down. Then the circus
boss comes roaring up. ‘What’s the
delay? Don’t you know we’ve got to
show at Bogwalla to-night?’ ‘Well,
you’ll have to push her!’ I says. ‘Yer
blanky elephant’s drunk us dry.’ For a
couple of minutes he squawks and waves
his hands, then he rushes to Jumbo’s
truck, pulls down the door and boots the
big brute out. ‘You’ve stopped us and
now you’ll pull us!’ he snorts. Five
minutes later we’re off again, with Jumbo
harnessed to the cowcatcher, me and the
fireman ridin’ de luxe. Yes, he did
stagger a bit going up the inclines, but
that elephant got us there all right. The
circus showed that night, though Jumbo
did look a bit tired —50 miles with 200
tons behind him was a bit of a strain
even for an elephant. But the surprise
was when a couple of weeks later I gets
a letter from the W.A. Railways Com-
missioner. Reprimand? No! Com-
mending me on the fastest run ever made
between Mudup and Bogwalla Creek.”
* * * *
“Bolloween”: Sheep are offered some
queer menus in drought time, but the
most pathetic sight I ever saw was an
aged ewe, poor as Lazarus, chewing away
at a Spanish onion with the tears stream-
ing down her cheeks. She finished it,
shook her head and seemed to wonder
what the blazes she was crying about.
* St * If;
“Mulgo”: Victoria has some queer
place-names as well as the Ma State. One
with a quaint history is No Good
Damper, near Dandenong. In the early
1840’s a carrier, carting lime from Mel-
bourne to Dandenong, used to camp a
night there, and one morning while he
was away looking for a couple of strayed
horses blacks stole some lime. On being
taxed with the theft later, one old fellow
remarked pathetically, “No good damper
that pfeller.” Later one De Villiers opened
a pub in the locality and called it the
No Good Damper Inn —a name that
brought many a traveller to the bar to
learn the reason of it. A couplet
atached to the sign rather whetted the
appetite:
Not here you’ll find the lime-made damper,
But bread and beer to fill your hamper.
* * * *
“Grylltis”: For two days a fierce
killer has taken toll of the abounding
bird life in the scrub below this cliff-
edge, yet I have done nothing in the
birds’ defence. Yesterday a small flock of
ground-doves were feeding in an open
space, “doo-doo”-ing as they sought for
seeds. A swift snowy' - shape flashed on
long wings out of nowhere, picked one
up in powerful claws, and bore it off
to a limb of a big dead grey gum. With
the glasses one could see its arrogant,
unwinking stare as it looked fiercely
about before commencing to rend the
victim into eatable fragments. It was a
white goshawk, one of the rarest and
certainly -the most beautiful of Austra-
lian birds of prey, zoologically identical
with the more common grey goshawk,
“Told yer so! Give Bill enough rope an' ’ell ’ang ’imself.”
but a true dimorphic variant, not a mere
albino. The name comes from “goose-
hawk,” relic of the days of falconry,
when the closely-allied European species
was trained to the sport. If we kept
poultry I might be less tolerant of that
gallant pirate.
r * * *
“Hopper Man”: It is unfortunate for
“Records” (B. l/2/’39) that The Bulle-
tin finds its way into practically every
School of Arts library attached to sugar
mills in Queensland, otherwise his par.
about the “gun” bag-sewer at Bingera with
a tally of 980 in eight hours might have
got past. There are only three mills in
the Mackay district wherp 1000 bags per
shift is the minimum, and “R.” must
surely know • there are numerous mills
which crush at a far higher crushing rate
than those at Bundaberg. I’m glad “R.”
didn’t hear the remarks of two average
bag-sewers who were looking over my
shoulder when I read his par.; they can
only sew between 1300 and 1400 ner shift
of eight hours, unassisted by either bar-
rowmen or hoppermen. But perhaps his
Bingera “gun” wasn’t on contract.
* * *
“Deadline”: These blokes with tough
beards that have to be ringbarked with
a chilled-steel razor (B. 1/2/’39) should
take a hint from my barber. Specialising
in denuding the face foliage of old-age
pensioners and indigent freelance jour-
nalists at a trey a time (and with most of
his clients sporting growths that would
suit an in-smoke burglar), he first swipes
the jowls with his electric bullswool
clipper. This reduces the toughest
whisker to mere stumps inside a few
seconds. Then a slap with the lather
brush and a wipe with a good old cut-
throat blade and —“Next, please!”
4: # * if.
“Picanpen”: “K.Mc.” (B. 8/2/’39)
overlooked a habit of many vixens when
engaged in catering for a hungry family.
In a great number of cases they prefer
to make a kill at a considerable distance
from the “earth,” thereby lessening the
chances of the family of young cubs
being discovered. Have known a vixen
with a thriving family located within
coo-ee of a fowlyard travel a couple of
miles or more to make a kill rather than
cause a disturbance on her doorstep. This
may account for the family of rabbits
remaining undisturbed. On a West-
tralian wheatbelt farm 38 lambs were
killed by foxes in one night. Sandhills
adjacent to the property were alive with
rabbits, but Brer Fox was not worrying
about “underground mutton” when
spring lamb was on the menu.
# * * *
“Bohemian”: I met Henare leading his
stallion. “What’s his name?” I asked.
“Mussleeni,” said Henare. “That’s a
strange name to give him,” I commented.
“Well, you see, boss,” said Henare, “my
horse, he te ’Talyin. And Mussleeni, he
te ’Talyin, too!”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: “Salmon Gums’s” yarn
(B. l/2/’39) about those cement-hard
rabbit tracks that turned the sharpest
ploughshare in a paddock on the W.A.
wheatbelt reminds me of the time when
fire and dust came swooping down on
Bungyoureyesup, not far from Lake
Billybugalugs, on the same wheatbelt.
What with the fire burning the already
parched crop right out to the roots, and
then the wind scooping it up as dust (it
was estimated that about two million
tons of the finest B’up loam finally
landed on Kalgporlie, 250 miles away) it
looked as if there wouldn’t be any arable
land left in the district. But, no. Stroll-
ing around the day after, I found all the
paddocks looking like War Office relief
maps, countless small ridges crisscrossing
the burnt-out stretches like earthy spider
webs. “Mice,” my cocky explained.
“Huntin' grasshoppers around among the
wheat-stalks they tread the ground as hard
as concrete. It’s generally a cow to
plough the year after, but this time those
little dears have saved me farm.” But,
would you believe it, the W.A. Agricul-
ture Department quite facetiously de-
clined my brochure on “Mice as Factors
in Preventing Soil Erosion”?
* * * *
“How E.”: I hadn’t seen the son of
the neighboring farmer for some weeks,
so I asked the old chap where he was.
“He had to go away for a spell,” I was
told ; “he was working himself to death.”
I remarked that it was good weather for
a holiday at the coast. “Coast be
blowed! ” was the retort. “He took a job
with the people next door! ”
* * * *
“Billo”: I dunno about catching hares
with the bare hands, but I’ve seen it done
with snakes —even when I was a kid. Had
a pal, Mick, aged 14, whom we other
youngsters regarded as “mad.” Strolling
through the western Vic. bush Mick
might come on a snake, either at rest or
moving. With a swift snatch he would
have Joe by the tail and into a centri-
fugal whirl. The nearest tree or fence
post did the rest, the whirl culminating
in Joe’s head and the tree meeting. One
smack was enough. During that same
period of adolescence I often heard of
legendary heroes who, scorning the use of
a tree, brought about Joe’s demise simply
by snapping his head off as one cracks
a stockwhip. It was in endeavoring to
emulate these legendary ones that Mick
evolved his rather inferior technique, but
he was never able to stay the whirling
serpent long enough to get in the crack.
Suspended by the tail and not whirled
Blake demonstrated a diabolical ability
to swing up on himself and drive his
fangs home in the hand of his captor.
* * * *
“Gassa”: Heard a thinking man say
that if they don’t soon strike oil in
Bananaland the supply of artesian water
there will peter out. He blames the tap-
ping of the gas reservoirs for the lessen-
ing flow from the bores, his idea being
that the pressure of the natural gas under-
ground forces up the water when it is
tapped.
i 4 ?
“Heresone”: So frogmouths are owls
and owls are swallows, and “Hanko” (B.
8/2/’39) is a great ornithologist! As he
mightn’t believe me, I appeal to a higher
authority than either of us. According
to J. A. Leach, Order XVI comprises
owls, including the boobook.
Order XVIII includes, inter alia,
frogmouths, kingfishers the
kookaburra is a kingfisher—and
swifts (“Hanko’s” swallows?).
The swallows are found in
o Order XXI, perching birds.
Leach gives “mopoke” as an
alternative name for the tawny
frogmouth (not boobook owl), but dis-
approves of it.
* * * *
“Perry”: Dad bought a new wheel-
barrow which Bill, on the farm next door,
immediately borrowed. When Dad
wanted to use it he had to go over and
get the barrow. This went on for about
ten weeks, until the rightful owner, fed
up, went across one day and, leaning on
the fence, inquired with heavy sarcasm,
“Would it be convenient fer yer t’ loan
me that barrer y’ have here?” A week
later he went over to get it again, and
this time intimated that henceforth the
barrow was going to stay at home. “But
it’s my ba'rrer,” protested Bill. “Y’ give
it t’ me.” “What’s that y’ sayin’?” roared
Dad. “I never did no such thing.” “Well,
y’ come here and says can y’ have it fer
a loan. Y’ wouldn’t be sayin’ that about
yer own barrer, would yer?” was the
retort. It caused a breach between the
two farms until Mum, always a peace-
maker, told Bill for goodness’ sake to
keep the darned old barrer, and bought
Dad a new one out of the egg money.
* * * *
“M.McG.”: Where did “K.Mc.” (B-
-8/2/’39) get the idea that sheep are sala-
mandrine? Their non-inflammable woolly
coats offer protection up to a point, but
in a sweeping bushfire poor jumbuck’s
armpits and legpits, where no wool grows
and which exude a greasy substance,
prove very vulnerable. A sheep that has
run through the blaze will scamper away
apparently unharmed, but you will find
him next day walking stiffly ; and if the
inflammation set up is sufficiently severe
he will be dead within three days. I
would be glad to take a sensational press
reporter’s assessment of the damage done
to a flock of mine just after a grass fire
had swept the paddock in which they
were grazing.
A REEL FISHERMAN.
“These big-game fishiiT coves,” said Steve, as
on his hook he clapped a squid,
“ ’Oo sit strapped up in swivel chairs, with rods
that corst five ’undred quid,
An’ reels with brakes an’ gadgets on, a mile
o’ line, an’ fancy bait—
Why, spare me days! they murder fish. That’s
my ideer, at any rate.
“Yore tie-an’-collar fisherman, dolled up like
Jacky—stone the crows!
’E’d go all green about the gills if underneath
’is dainty nose
Was stuck some week-old mullet gut or
mackerel that’s gittin’ ‘high’;
Moreover, ’e’d be just a mug if ’e used gear
like you an’ I.
“I’ll back me china-plate, old Jim, ’oo yanks
’is fish in with ’is fists,
Against these la-di-da galoots, these so-called
anglin’ scien lists.
I’ll tell yer jist ’ow good ’e is. ’E’s got ’is
dinghy out one day
An’ gits among the redfish on the reef along
Yuliar Bay.
“ ’E’s loaded to the gun’ls with ’is catch—all
old-man snapper—but
’E’s still got bait for one more throw —a few
old nobs o’ mullet gut.
’E puts ’em on ’is old cord line —a No. B—an’
slings ’er out,
An’ in a jiffy bang she goes! ’ls cork starts
leapin’ all about.
“ ’E dives on that there line, an’, though ’e
keeps on wettin’ it, it saws
’ls finger till it’s near in ’alves
(an’ Jim ain’t got a sissy’s
paws).
’E don’t know what ’e’s fastened
to, but up an’ down the
bay ’e tears
That day an’ all the next —’e
snoozed while ’oldin’ to the
line, ’e swears.
“At last ’e got the upper ’and,
an’ w’en ’e’d run the boat
aground
’E lands ’is fish—rock-cod it
was, an’ goes a flat eight
’undred pound.
Eight ’undred pound; an’, wot is more (ole
Jim was never known ter lie),
’E ’adn’t ’ooked it properly—’e’d on’y jagged
it through the eve!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“For the tenth and last time, are you going to stick 'em up?"
“Walkagee”: Old Joe was notoriously
forgetful. When he departed for a neigh-
boring farm late the other evening, hurri-
cane-lamp in hand, one of the lads laid
him ten to one he’d leave tlie lantern
behind when he returned. Joe accepted
the offer with gusto. “You’re backin’ a
loser this time, laddie,” he boasted. “I
bin studyin’ a way lately to get rid of me
absentmindedness. Association, they calls
it. Yer see, this here wire handle on
the lantern leaves a red mark across me
hand. All I got to do when I’m leavin’
Morrie’s joint is ter look at the mark on
me hand, and I’ll know I was carryin’
somethin’ with a wire handle. No, laddie,
there ain’t no chance of me forgettin’ me
lantern ter-night.” Three hours later Joe
returned carrying the wire meatsafe that
always stands on the table just outside
Morrie’s back door.
* * * *
“Fore Royal”: The necessity of the
female’s answering cry to complete the
call of the male is not confined to bell-
birds. The swish and crack of “the
coachman” leaves the listener with a
sense of something missing should the
quick double crack of the female not
follow it closely in answer. In the triple
call of the mistletoe bird, two slurred
notes down and one up, the sharp down-
ward note of his mate is needed as an
adjunct, or the rhythm of the call is lost,
and the quick double note of that little
jewel of the Australian bush the ground
diamond very soon palls unless the reply
of his lady housekeeper—one sharp note
just a tone down the scale—is heard to
break the monotony.
* * * *
“Komediak”: The modern bushman
may not be as expert in the production of
music by means of gumleaves, comb and
tissue-paper and jew’s-harp as was the
outback dweller of yesteryear, but he has
at least invented a simpler and more
economical method of sound-producing
than was used formerly. This consists
in sticking a cigarette-paper over, and
then humming a tune through, clenched
lips. The effect is practically the same
as that of the tissue-paper-comb combina-
tion, and, besides being easier to carry,
the instrument saves the modern bagman
from the embarrassment of being found
in possession of such a sissy implement
as a comb. Up Turton’s Track (Otway
district, Vic.) recently I heard a tattered
virtuoso give a swing rendition of “Corn-
in’ Thro’ the Rye” that was much easier
to listen to than the jazz-band version of
the same opus given over the radio.
* * * *
“Pisces”: “Nor’-west” and I talk two
different languages (B. 15/2/’39). I come
from Queensland and know its northern
coastal waters. With us a skipjack is a
Long Tom, an alligator gar, and never a
trevally. He talks about night-angling for
kingfish. Our kingies, or the things we
call kings, observe early-closing hours
“Keep ’im busy, Joe, till I come back with the bullets!"
and don’t bite after dark. Perhaps his
king isn’t a mackerel. Ours is. And we
do anchor for bottom fishing. In a
four-knot current how is a man to get
his line to the bottom if he doesn’t
anchor? Further, barring kings and other
trolling fish, it is all bottom stuff that
we get on our lines, unless a man plays
the fool with little stuff near the beach.
“Toheroa”: To giant waves (B.
15/2/’39) add one that was encountered
some years ago by a small schooner
bound from the Bluff (M.L.) to Mel-
bourne. Out of a smooth expanse of sea
about midway be-
tween the two ports
the captain noticed
a green mountain
range arise and
move towards his
vessel. It looked to
him, he afterwards
related, about
100ft. in height,
even though some
miles away. The
little ship was made
ready to meet it,
and all hands
awaited what
looked like certain
destruction. She
climbed dizzily up
a wall of water,
tottered on the
summit, and
swayed down the
other side of the
unbroken blind
roller, which went
majestically on to
crash on Antarctic
i c e floes. “And
that’s what happens
to some ships that
are heard of no
more,” said the Old
Man as he mopped
his brow. “Had it been night we’d have
gone under.”
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad lit his pipe, then pro-
ceeded to initiate the new hand into the
mysteries of post-splitting. “First, y’
take a small wedge an’ tap it in erlong
the line of the grain like this,” he ex-
plained, demonstrating. “Then y’ get
a bigger wedge an’ drive it in. Wait a
sec. till I get this damn’ pipe goin’ agen.”
The hand watched him raptly. “Good-o! ”
Dad resumed, pleased at the hand’s evi-
dent interest. “Glad t’ see yer take so
much notice. It’s alwus a pleasure t’
show a bloke anything if ’e takes an
int’rest in what yer doin’. Now, we’ll
perceed farther,” and for the next ten
minutes, with three or four pauses to
relight his pipe, which kept going out,
Dad, with deft manipulation of the maul
and wedges, knocked out of the log
several posts. The whole time the hand
stood entranced, occasionally ejaculating,
“Well, yer are a blanky marvel how yer
manage it.” “I’ve won prizes at it,” said
Dad modestly. “I’ll bet yer have,” re-
plied the hand. “I never seen a bloke
yer equal at it in me life.” Dad looked
at the hand suspiciously. “I thought y’
sed yer’d never seen posts split before,”
he said. “Neither I have,” replied the
other ; “but it wusn’t that I wus meanin’.
It’s the way y’ can light that short stump
of a pipe of yers without setting yer face-
grass on fire.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: I came across a “vegetable
caterpillar” in the garden to-day. Kids
nowadays don’t seem to take any in-
terest in them, but they had a definite
swapping-value in my schooldays late last
century. Above ground it shows a slim
stem with a club head a few inches long,
Dig it out carefully, and you find that
the stem comes from just behind the head
of a soft, whitish fungus-caterpillar, which
hardens when dried. It is a caterpillar,
too —o r was —the larva of one of the
big, handsome Swift moths. They tunnel
underground, feeding on grass roots, and
often making a mess of a lawn. The
spores of a Cordyceps fungus are some-
times taken in with the food and germi-
nate in the stomach, gradually killing the
caterpillar and replacing its body tissues
with fungoid growth. When mature it
sends up the stalk above ground, and
develops more spores from the clubbed
end, to infect more caterpillars in their
turn.
* * * *
“B’gurra”: During the recent heat-
waves I noticed that the water in the
earth-tanks on our western N.S.W.
station, which for years past has, owing
to the suspended silt in it, been “soupy,”
suddenly became clear. Any explana-
tion? Rule out any idea that the whole
tank had boiled —the water was only hot.
* * * *
“Louden”: Filled by floodwater in
1931, a 240-acre lake on Gillenbah
station, Narrandera (N.S.W.), went dry
towards the end of last summer. In
October the entire lakebed was covered
by clover (ball and burr), which made
prolific growth in the rich soil. That the
broadcasting of the clover seed was done
by the cyclone that swept the district last
Easter is the generally accepted opinion.
If correct, why didn’t one or more of the
established grasses make an appearance
on the lakebed? Pasture on the sur-
rounding areas consists largely of white-
top, crowfoot and barley grass inter-
spersed with the abovementioned clovers.
# * * *
“Induna” (Rabaul): The story of the
Garden of Eden as told me by one of
my boat’s crew: “Now, long time too
much pefore, number one Marsta ’e work
’im first time one fella man, name belong
’im Adam. Now, ’e catch ’im liklik ’arf
bone belong Marsta, now ’e work ’im
good too much, behind work ’im pinish
one fella Mary ’e come up. Awrite, now
number one Marsta ’e talk straight along
this two fella, ‘You two fella, you walk
about along didimans, plarnty kowkow,
now moolie, now coolow ’e stop along
kaikai belong you fella. Now along front
fella harf along didimans one big fella
tree ’e stop, now you two fella lookout
along ’im, ’e got something no good along
kaikai. Now you harim good along talk
belong me fella?’ Awrite, now ’im two
fella ’e sind down along didimans. Now
behind long time liklik this fella Mary
’e look ’im one big fella seenake. • Now
,seenake ’e makim talk along missus,
‘Wha’ name you no kaikai ’im something
along big fella tree? ’lm ’e good fella
too much. Big fella Marsta ’e talk gam-
mon, ’im ’e no savvy catch ’im this fella
something.’ Now missus ’e catch ’im
two fella something, now ’e give ’im
one fella along Marsta. Now ’im two
fella kaikai ’im one time. Now Marsta
’e no savvy kaikai ’im true, ’e fas’ along
neck belong ’im. Now seenake ’e larf
strong too much along time missus now
Marsta work ’im Bombom [leaves] along
coverim up skin belong ’im. Now behind
big fella Marsta ’e harim seenake larf
’im-’e talk this fashion, ‘Awrite, me cross
too much along you two fella, now you
catch ’im bokis, now blanket, now dis\
now spoon. Now you rouse!’ Now
behind time big fella Marsta ’e sorry
liklik along this two fella now ’e call ’im,
‘Awrite, now piccanin belong you like
makim straight along me fella, ’im ’e
catch ’im wash atong Popee [church]
first time. Me fella talk pinish.’ ”
BARREN ODYSSEY.
Twas said the friends of Speiwa Ted were
legion in a week,
When word was passed that Ed had bought
the pub at Catfish Creek.
For far and wide in Riverine old Speiwa had
the name
Of being the sort who shared his luck with
all who made a claim.
So all along those storied streams, from Yass
to Benanee,
The whalers turned their bluchers south, and
headed for the spree.
They tramped from out their lonely lairs;
before them visions shone
Of foaming seas of amber ale as Speiwa turned
it on.
Tis said the urgent tread of feet caused so
much dust to rise
That people on the far-off coast looked west
with anxious eyes
As down the roads of red and brown the
thirsty army drove;
Each Riverina roamer out to beat the other
cove.
By night the old, forgotten graves, from Ade-
long to Ki,
Gave up the ghosts of ancient men whose spirits
still were dry.
They battled through the startled towns and
ate the stations out,
As southward hurried Speiwa’s mates to help
him break the drought—
“Yanga Joe” and “Razor’s” ghost, “The One
and “Flyin’ Duck,”
And close upon a hundred more to drink to
Speiwa’s luck.
And so to Catfish Creek they came, parched
pilgrims of the beer,
And slowly learned the awful news; the shock
was so severe
That strong men crumpled in their tracks or
stood in silent grief
While stragglers heard the whispered tale; ’twas
stunning, cruel, brief —•
Old Ted had bought the pub all right, of that
there was no doubt,
But in the few days’ start he’d had he’d drunk
the place right out!
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED IST2.
Head Offices Ocean House* 32 Martin Place* Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors; ____ „in
0 E FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAiND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. _
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ-
Feb., Profit. 15 p.c. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
124 p.c.
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
7 p.c. To Reserves.
1931.. 283,019 280,000 3,019 4,940,010
4 p.c.
1932.. 160,954 160,000 954 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
54 p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.*
1937.. 254,383 235,333 1
To special centenary fund, V 4,995,914
£20,000 .. .. J
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
This solid 101-year-old Anglo-Australian
bank now gathers about 32 p.c. of its
deposits in Vic., 20 p.c. N. S. Wales,
9 p.c. Queensland, 8 p.c. S. Aust., 7 p.c.
Westralia, 2 p.c Tas., and 22 p.c. Maori-
land. Over the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts earnings had not felt
the full effects of the fall in export prices,
though a growth of £2,351,947 in advances
was accompanied by a contraction of
£2,729,294 in liquids and of £341,116
in deposits.
Gross earnings (£1,232,243) sprang
£61,306. Exes. (£762,492) made off
with £45,140 of the increase, while the
taxgatherers (one in Maoriland, another
in Australia and a third in Britain) took
£225,068 (up £25,867), or only £8265
less than shareholders got out of the
business. The declared net result was
thus £9700 lighter than the previous year’s
at 6.1 p.c. on the £4,000,000 of share
capital, which visibly had the support and
assistance of £5,007,264 of reserves when
the books closed. So on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
net return was a mere 2.7 p.c., which is
a bit below the earning power exhibited
by most of the co.’s competitors. The
div., which was kept at 7 p.c., was paid in
sterling, less U.K. income tax, equal to
3s. 4d. in the pound for 1938 as against
3s. 2|d. in 1937 ; prior to 1937 divs.
were free from this tax. It needs to be
remembered, however, that the board
has pursued a policy of issuing capital
at a substantial premium (as much as
120 p.c. in 1924), which makes the div.
worth no more than slightly over half
the declared rate on three of the four
millions of capital.
The market, doubtful what the future
holds for private banking in Australia
and Maoriland and of the effect of the
U.K. national defence tax, prices the
£l5 shares paid to £5 (the other £lO is
callable only in the event of liquidation)
at £7 19s. as against £lO ss. a year ago
and £ll 12 months before that. Allow-
ing for exchange and income tax, the
return at £7 19s. is 4.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis. Visibly the net tangible back-
ing is £ll ss. 2d., or £3 6s. 2d. per share
more than the market pays, and the inner
strength is believed to be substantial.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
Liabilities.
1934. 1937. 1938.
Xotes . . . , £280,617 £7,565 £7,559
Bills etc... .. 760,429 1,549,562 1,521,063
Deposits , . . . 36,460,479 37,328,085 36,986,969
Liquid assets .. 13,786,512 15,654,598 12,925,304
Advances . . . . 32,417,659 31,923,737 34,275,684
Premises . . . . 376,386 438,124 457,200
About 66 p.c. of the deposits is interest-
bearing as against 64 p.c. a couple of
years ago, both figures being above the
average for the 10 trading banks in Aus-
tralia. When the books closed liquids
amounted to 33.5 p.c. of the liabilities
to the public as against 40.2 p.c. at the
previous balance, and advances 92.6 p.c.
of deposits as against 85.5 p.c. a year
earlier, while the co. was holding only
£4 ss. 6d. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own.
Toward the close of 1938 a Federal
bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank
Act got as far as the second reading,
and there it has remained. It provides
for establishment of a Long-term Mort-
gage Department of the Commonwealth
Bank, and for other matters not vital
to the trading banks. The Government
has not made plain its intentions con-
cerning the thorny problem of compulsory
minimum deposits. But many leaders of
trade and industry have hastened to assert
their opposition to any such proposal,
whereby statutory percentages are sub-
stituted for co-operation—banking is not
a business which lends itself to rigidity.
In Maoriland there is very little, if
any, profit in private banking these days,
owing to crippling taxation, which has no
relation to actual earnings. Total assets
and liabilities in the Dominion are added
together, and a profit of \\ p.c. is arbi-
trarily assumed on this aggregate figure.
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off Re-
June, Profit. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
1929.. 337,590 17 „ „ 255,000 25,000 1,727,942
1930.. 210,946 10 ~-,,150,000 25,000 1,738,888
Inner reserves disclosed, £67,729 ..1,806,617
1931.. 35,741 7 p.c. = 105,000 1,712,358
Inner reserves disclosed, £175,177 .. 1,887,535
Loss.
1932.. 131,070 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,656,465
Inner reserves disclosed, £61,908 .. 1,718,373
Profit.
1933.. 13,530 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,631,903
1934.. 97,575 5 „ „ 75,000 1,629,478
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,000 ..1,669,478
1935.. 46,789 6 p.c. = 75,000 1,616,267
Exchange repayment debs., £100,000.. 1,516,267
1936.. 120,851 6 p.c. 90,000 1,522,118
Exchange repayment debs., £40,000.. 1,482,118
1937.. 148,044 8 p.c. = 120,000 1,485.162
1938.. 107,375 6 „ „ 90,000 1,477,537
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
This big pastoral-finance organisation is
the world’s premier wool-selling house.
It also does a large agency business in
shipping, motor-cars, insurance, grain,
dairy produce, metals and a number of
other lines, as well as some fairly ex-
tensive merchandising on its own
account. Headquarters are in London,
and there is a branch at Kenya, East
Africa, but most of the business is done
in Australia and Maoriland.
The contraction in last year’s earnings
was due mainly to the fall in the price
of wool and wheat. Last season’s clip
—3,338,038 bales (up 91,762 bales) for
the Commonwealth and 855,138 bales
(up 88,006 bales) for Maoriland was
the high-water mark of production in
each country. But fewer bales were put
under the hammer owing to heavy with-
drawals, following a persistent and steep
decline in prices, which was reflected in
a sharp contraction in the aggregate
value of sales. The Australian cheque
(£44,045,757) was £16,505,815 lighter, and
the one for the Dominion (£9,027,905)
was £6,316,326 short of the previous
season’s.
• After setting aside whatever was
considered necessary for bad and doubt-
ful debts and other contingencies, the
slip in the co.’s gross earnings was
£57,559:
19g9 1936 1937 1938.
Gross profits. . £676,376 £885,754 £937,412 £879,853
Outgoings—
Salaries, etc... 574,781 503,499 515,688 510,558
Interest . . 161.494 173,016 161,369 149,408
Taxes . . 61,171 63,388 87,311 87,512
Total outgo. £797,446 £739,903 £764,368 £747.478
There was a saving of £16,890 in out-
goings, mainly on account of debenture
interest (down £11,961), following repay-
ment of £292,854 of terminable deben-
tures in the previous term. After send-
ing £25,000 (same as in the previous
term) to the staff fund, the amount avail-
able for shareholders was £40,669 less
at £107,375. This was enough to pay
the prefs. their 5 p.c. (£25,000) and
show 5.4 p.c. on the £1,500,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 8.2, 6.3, 1.4, 4.8,
two losses, and then profits of 0.7, 12.3,
and 24.1 p.c. back to 1929, when the cost
of exchange didn’t enter into the picture.
A couple of points were chipped off the
div., reducing it to 6 p.c. again, equal
’to 4.65 p.c. after deducting British in-
come tax. However, to those on the
Australian register 4.65 p.c. is worth 5.81
p.c. in local currency.
When the books closed the preference
share and debenture capital combined
(£4,249,590, up £37,926) was costing the
co. approximately 4.4 p.c. This was
cheap money during the boom, when in-
terest rates were comparatively high in
Australia, and the ords., who received a
regular 17 p.c. for the half-dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1929, bene-
fited. With the drop in interest rates
and depreciation of the Australian pound
in terms of sterling, this British money
became less profitable, and the co. re-
duced its terminable debentures from
£S 1,376,647 to £5736,214 between 1934
and 1937. Last term, however, £37,926
of fresh terminable debentures was issued
to help finance clients in drought-stricken
areas':
Liabilities.
1932. 19:37. 1938.
.Capital . . . . £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Perpetual ih p.c.. . 749,910 749,910 749,910
„ 4 „ . . 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Redeemable 4,} p.c. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Terminable* .. 678,900 736,214 774,140
Sundry creditors, etc.t2,327,590 3,009,624 2,911,948
Staff fund .'. 366,000 431,000 456,000
* Rates not stated. t Includes unspecified provision
for contingencies and taxes.
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. . . £6,784,231 £5,821,004 £6,704,038
Premises, etc. . . 329,621 399,985 525,055
Stock .. .. 462,241 530,025 600,762
Sundry debtors . . 1,020,913 1,211,645 1,199,919
Cash & investments 1,447,402 2,763,545 1,647,805
To put out an extra £883,034 net on
advance, add £125,070 to premises,
£70,737 to stocks, and reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£97,676, cash and investments were
drawn upon for £1,115,740, debtors’
balances were reduced by £11,726, and
the terminable debenture debt increased
by £37,926 net. When the books closed,
stock, debtors, cash, etc., alone exceeded
the floating debt and staff fund com-
bined by £55,538.
As for the current term, prospects are
for a further slight contraction in earn-
ings, despite the heavy wool carryover
from the previous season, which has been
partly responsible for the further drop
in price. For the seven months to the
end of January the Australian average
per bale was £l3 Bs. 9d. as against
£l5 15s. sd. for the 12 months to June
30 last and £2O 14s. 2d. for the year
before that.
During 1938 the co.’s £2O shares paid
to £5 fluctuated between £8 11s. 3d. and
£7 18s. on the market. Last week-end
the figure was £7 18s., at which price
the return is 3.6 p.c. on the basis of last
year’s distribution, and allowing for ex-
change and British tax (4s. 6d in the £).
Tfie well-protected prefs. seldom come
on to the market. The net tangible
cover per pound of paid capital is
visibly 295. 9d. ords. and £6 19s. prefs.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 60,983 8 p.c. = 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „„ 49,867 58,267
1930.. 39,501 61 „ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28.739 '6 ~ ~ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 . . 57,667
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 57,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner reserves, £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 6J p.c. = 11,050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 63,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
From tax reserve, £5258 .. .. 58,292
Written off, £3258 .. .. .. 55,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. .. 62,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 .. .. 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 .. .. 51,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,258 50,353
Share premiums, £65 . . . . 50,418
Insurance claims, £1279 . . . . 49,139
1938.. 13,505 6 p.c. = 14,963 47,681
The outlook for shareholders changed
when the Harbor Bridge wiped out what
used to be the co.’s chief source of
revenue. That was in 1931, when
£453,332 of capital was returned, re-
ducing the figure to £170,000 —passengers
were charged a bit more to enable the
co. to do it. Since then the backbone
of the business has been the Mosman,
Cremorne, Athol, Neutral Bay, Lane
Cove and Parramatta services, and the
Land and Harbor Transport Co., a sub-
sidiary which took over most of the
parent’s land properties in 1919. Also, in
an assault upon costs, the management
converted many of the old steam craft
to Diesel power, and introduced new
types of boats, including tourist show-
boats, the second of which (a three-
decker) only began to contribute to earn-
ings shortly before the close of last
accounts. For the seven years to that
date net earnings totalled £72,420 ; that
was after £17,038 had been charged
direct against reserves. Over the same
period £86,066 was handed out in divs.,
averaging 6.5 p.c., which obviously
weren’t earned, according to the pub-
lished figures, and there is no reason to
suppose that the co. is doing any better
than the board says it is.
Since 1932 £133,893 has been added
to the book value of the fleet, mainly
on account of the conversions and
additions already referred to. To meet
the outlay £79,387 of fresh capital was
gathered, liquids being drawn upon for
the balance:
1932. 1936.' 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £170,000 £201,154 £245,613 £249,387
Liabilities .. 41,478 19,720 21,269 41,940
Landed pi’operty 28,434 26.211 25,583 23,540
Ship property 29,921 77,641 132,271 163,814
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 4,78 7 6,5 4 9 6,92 1 6,797
Fuel, stores, etc. 7,942 8,125 9,882 7,322
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 30,9 0 9 4 7,2 4 9 3 7,42 7 30,497
Public securities,
etc. .. .. 62,251 4,483 4,325 4,172
Cash . . . . 2,271 2,157 700 1.100
Last year’s addition of £31,543 to ship
property was mainly on account of the
new showboat. The amount coming to
outsiders increased by £20,671. When
the books closed the debt exceeded more
or less liquids, excluding shares in other
cos., by £5171, a slip of £26,354 over
the twelvemonth.
The year’s revenue from ferry services,
except Balmain, and from the show
boat, increased, despite a certain amount
of dislocation and interruption caused
by construction work on the waterfront
at Circular Quay. But increased revenue
was offset by the rise in costs. The wage
bill, which accounts for about 66 p.c.
of total expenditure, was £B5BB heavier
than for 1937, and £15,489 up on the
1936 figure. The subsidiary’s distribution
(rate and amount not stated) included
£1703 from its reserves. After striking
off £5268 for depreciation (£l4Ol in
previous year), and transferring £1279
(down £828) from the insurance
fund (£44,113), the parent’s net
result was £266 lighter at 5.4 p.c. on
average capital as against 6.3, 7.2, 6.6
and 3.4 p.c. back to 1934. A point was
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


A SOUND INVESTMENT IN AN ESTABLISHED AND PROFITABLE COMPANY
(Abridged Prospectus)
GASH ORDERS AND GENERAL FINANCE LIMITED
(A Company registered under the provisions of the N.S.W. Companies Act).
Nominal Capital - - - - £250,000
DIVIDED INTO:
60,000 6g% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each £60,000
185,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £185,000
5,000 Deferred Shares of £1 each £5,000
250,000 Shares £250,000
of which have been issued:
15,800 6g% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, on which has been paid. . . £15,725
54,323 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, on which has been paid £52,569
1,007 Deferred Shares of £1 each, on which has been paid £1,007
71,130 Shares . £69,301
No Shares have been issued other than for full payment in cash.
DIRECTORS:
Henry Elmer Messenger, “Araluen,”
New South Head Road, Edgecliff,
New South Wales.
Neville Harradine Francis, A.R.A. (N.Z.),
L.1.C.A., Company Director, 14
Prince Albert Street, Mosman, New
South Wales.
Judah Moss Solomon, Manager, 7
Beaconsfield Road, Mosman, New
South Wales.
SECRETARY:
Albert C. Palfreyman, A.1.C.A., A.A.I.S.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
9 Martin Place, Sydney.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANT:
Howard K. Ingham, Chartered Accoun-
tant (Aust.), (Secretary, Victorian
Cash Order Association), Victoria
House. Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BANKERS:
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Ltd.,
273 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
and
339 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SOLICITORS:
A. J. McLachlan Arnott and Co., Bank
of New Zealand Chambers, George
and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
E. S. Wolfenden, Chartered Accountant
(Aust.) and . Consulting Actuary,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUDITORS OF VICTORIAN
SUBSIDIARIES:
Gandy, Cohen and Hiscock, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), 44-46 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Vic.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The objects of the Company are fully set out in the Memorandum of Association,
The business carried on is that of a —
(1) Cash Order Company, and
(2) General Financing Company,
The Company is taking advantage of the further safe and profitable cash order and finance business that is available to it.
THE UNDERMENTIONED SHARES ARE NOW OFFERED IN CASH ORDERS AND GENERAL FINANCE, LIMITED, BY
CHURCHILLS LIMITED
(A Company registered under the provisions of the Companies Acts, New South Wales),
who have acquired the rights thereto.
HEAD OFFICE: Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: 5 7 Queen Street, Melbourne, and Brookman Building, 35 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
THE SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR SALE UNDER THE
REGISTERED PROSPECTUS ARE
50,000 Ordinary £l Shares at 30/- PER SHARE
(Premium of 10/- per share) with option rights hereinafter
mentioned.
DIVIDEND RIGHTS:
Preference Shares confer the right to a fixed cumulative
preferential dividend of increasing to a maximum of
8 % in any one year by % of 1 % for every 1 % by which the
dividend on the Ordinary Shares exceeds 10% in that year.
Deferred Shares rank for dividend only after a dividend
of is paid on Ordinary Shares, and then holders of the
Deferred Shares receive a similar percentage, the balance of
the divisible profit being distributed (after providing for the
participating rights of Preference Shareholders) in the propor-
tion of two-thirds to Ordinary Shareholders and one-third to
Deferred Shareholders.
TERMS OF PURCHASE:
50,000 Ordinary £l Shares are now offered for sale at
£l/10/- per share, payable as follows:
10/- per share on application,
2/- per share on allotment,
18/- per share in calls not exceeding 2/- per share,
at intervals of not less than one month;
or, alternatively,
30/- per share with application in full payment.
OPTION RIGHTS:
Purchasers of these shares will be given the right to
apply for, and have allotted to them at any time within six
months of purchase, one further Ordinary Share at par (20/-)
for every share now purchased, thus making the nett price
equal to 25/- per share. This, on the Company s present divi-
dend basis of 10% per annum on Ordinary Shares (payable
quarterly), gives a yield of 8 % per annum.
COMPANY’S HISTORY:
Cash Orders and General Finance Limited was registered
on 14th February, 1936, with the intention of establishing a
cash order and general finance business. The Management
soon realised that it would be in the Company s interest first
to purchase an established business upon which to build, and
they, therefore, commenced operations in December of the
same year, when the whole of the share capital of the Mutual
Cash Order Co. Pty., Ltd., of Melbourne, Victoria, was pur-
chased.
This latter business had been carried on successfully since
1920, and was sold only because the vendor, after 17 years
continuous and profitable ownership, decided, because of ill-
health, to make an extended tour of the world.
As the Company was able to offer immediate payment
in cash of the full amount of the purchase price, it obtained
the business on a very favorable basis.
Briefly, progress has been as under:—
1 4/2/’ 36: Company incorporated at Sydney.
6/5/’36: Articles of Association of the Company altered
to comply with the requirements of the Associated
Stock Exchanges of Australia.
9/12/’ 36: As from this date the Company acquired the 16-
year-old business of the Mutual Cash Order Com-
pany of Melbourne.
15/4/’37: Company paid a first interim dividend of 6^%
per annum on Preference capital, and 10 % per
annum on Ordinary capital. Preference dividend
calculated from 1 4/2/’36, Ordinary from 1/7/’ 36.
17/9/’37: Company purchased the cash order business of
Lincoln Credits, Ltd., of Melbourne, and formed
a Subsidiary Company—Manchester Cash Orders
& Finance Pty., Ltd.—to operate that business.
18/10/’3B: The Company commenced trading operations in
Sydney Metropolitan area under the firm name
of Mutual Cash Order & General Finance Com-
pany, and the new business is making very satis-
factory progress, and producing substantial
profits.
27/1 0/’3B: Mutual Cash Order Co. Pty., Ltd., purchased the
profitable Melbourne financing business of T. A.
and V. Steele.
7/11/’3B: On this date the whole of the cash order and
ordinary finance business of Manchester Cash
Orders & Finance Pty., Ltd., was absorbed by
Mutual Cash Order Co. Pty., Ltd. The latter
Company is now handling the whole of the busi-
ness at a substantially lower percentage of cost.
15/1/’39: The Company paid usual quarterly dividend at
the rate of % per annum on Preference capital
and 10 % per annum on Ordinary capital.
Dividends at the rate of % per annum on Preference
capital and 10 % per annum on Ordinary capital have been
regularly paid quarterly since 14/2/’36 on Preference, and
1/7/ 36 on Ordinary capital, and are always calculated on
the amounts paid up on the shares from time to time.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS OF THE
NEW SOUTH WALES “COMPANIES ACT 1936.”
(1) All the requirements of Section 137 of the “Companies
Act 1936’’ (N.S.W.) have not been complied with in
this advertisement.
(2) Copies of the full Prospectus and forms of application
for shares attached thereto may be obtained at the offices
of Churchills, Limited, whose addresses are given in this
advertisement.
(3) Applications for shares will be received only on one of
the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
(4) This advertisement is an epitome of the Prospectus, copies
of which have been filed with the Registrar-General for
New South Wales, dated at Sydney on the Twenty-fourth
day of February, 1939, delivered and/or filed as required
by the Companies Act New Zealand and the Companies
Act 1934, South Australia, and the Companies Act 1928,
Victoria.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT IS INSERTED BY CHURCHILLS, LIMITED,
FROM WHOM COPIES OF THE REGISTERED PROSPECTUS MAY
BE OBTAINED UPON APPLICATION.


h : : i
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest, way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
LUDOWICI PIONEER
m
LEATHER BELTING
In the Power Transmission Field, Pioneer Leather Belting
stands supreme with a standard ol quality unrivalled
for 80 years. Many of the largest industrial under-
takings in Australia are equiped with this dependable
Belting that is made by the oldest established, and
by far the largest leather belting manufacturers in
the Southern Hemisphere.'
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
\sr.,
&*mmm
s®
.. -tr;iru . —-•
Bwss
jss 1
.:
».:=", j'fJS'z' W 2 f v >- <w
m
YOU CAN
PLAY with
a light heart
When you have a
sound financial plan
THE man who can take time off, for
an occasional game of golf is usually
the man who has planned his finances.
Even a man on a small income can
have a Plan to meet his needs. The
Plan should cover the risk of his death,
i.e., it should provide for enough A.M.P.
Eife Assurance:
(a) To pay off mortgages.
(b) To pay bills owing at death.
(c) To provide enough income for
wife and family to live in reason-
able comfort.
(d) To provide money for the
children’s education.
(e) To enable the man himself to
retire in comfort at 65 or there-
abouts if he live that. long.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send
an experienced man to talk this over.
He will respect your confidence. Send
to-day. Get the Plan going as soon as
possible.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A! E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
chipped off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.,
and it is by no means certain that that
rate can be maintained.
The market prices the f.-p. ss. shares
at ss. Sd. as against 6s. lOd. a year ago.
The return at ss. Bd. is 5.3 p.c. on a 6
p.c. div. basis. The cover is ss. lid. in
net tangibles.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends N
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 7$ p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £'
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929. . 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930. . 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 . . . . 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 .. 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790) capital written
off = £23,558 .. .. *.. .. 211,330
Reserves oapitalised, £185,148 .. 26,182
6J p.c. 3 p.c.
1938.. 68,009 18,090 19,338 12,148 7,771 36,934
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Early in the last term capital was recon-
structed and arrears of pref. divs. wiped
out, thus putting the business on a more
even financial keel and opening the way
for what looks like regular payments to
the prefs. and moderate distributions to
the ords., who had been shown an empty
basket since 1930. The trouble occurred
mainly in connection with subsidiary
interests, which comprised the ords., or
all but a fraction of them, in Bon Marche
(Syd.) and Marcus Clark (Vic.). The
latter co. controlled Miller Anderson
(Adelaide) and Craig, Williamson (Melb.),
which ceased trading in March, 1937.
The amount of capital reckoned to be
unrepresented by available assets was
£243,348, of which £17,827 was struck off
from general reserves and £5731 from
inner reserves, leaving £219,790, which
was wiped out by lopping 10s. off each
£1 ord. share. Arrears of pref. divs.
(£201,270) were met by payment of
£16,122 in cash (£7500 firsts and £8622
seconds) and £185,148 in f.-p. 10s. ord.
shares (135,000 to the firsts and 235,296
to the seconds). The pref. divs., which
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act had been lowered from 6 p.c. and
p.c. to 5 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. were fixed
at 6 p.c. and 6\ p.c. on the firsts and
seconds respectively, both free from the
Act just referred to. The capitalisation
means a gain to the prefs, of approxi-
mately one-quarter of 1 p.c. for each
1 p.c. of ord. div. paid.
During the last term, a substantial in-
crease in sales was partly offset by a
growth of about £25,000 in the wage and
tax bills combined. After providing for
taxation and setting aside £7771 for de-
preciation (shown as written off in the
table), the net result was £10,847 better
at £60,238, or enough to pay the prefs.
their 6 p.c. and p.c. respectively and
show 5.6 p.c. on ord. capital. The £10,752
that remained lifted reserves to £36,934,
subject to goodwill, in at £72,378.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1,035,401 1,035,895 1,035,895 1,002,786
Mortgages.. 480,831 534,807 530,360 517,639
Other debts 128,782 115,192 114,094 101,771
Freeholds .. 599,194 656,612 656,687 661,809'
Leaseholds.. 28,853 3,626 4,426 4,^26
Plant, etc. 74,272 70,412 68,540 67.163
Stocks .. 161,035 180,273 191,117 183,532
Book debts 573,339 590,931 556,368 569,967
Shares in
other cos. 312,900 312,900 125,947 122,456
Cash, etc... 7,689 9,089 12,916 8,426
The reduction of £33,109 in capital is
the net result of the adjustments already
referred to. The book value of share
holdings, etc., had been adjusted at the
previous balance. Last year’s surplus
earnings, etc., enabled mortgages and the
amount coming to sundry creditors to be
reduced by £12,721 and £12,323 re-
spectively, while £13,599 was added to
book debts, which, together with stocks
(down £7585), is the most vulnerable
point in the co.’s armor. Including stocks
but not shares in other cos., the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£142,515) was £26,568. Neither
Marcus Clark (Vic.) nor Bon Marche
(Syd.) paid an ord. div. last year, and it
is difficult to say exactly when they are
likely to.
As for the current term, international
developments at the end of September
last, drought in some of the country
districts, the strike at Newcastle and the
dispute at Port Kembla make substantial
improvement in net earnings doubtful.
The return from the first prefs. at
15s. lOd. is 7.6 p.c. The seconds at
13s. 7d. yield 9.5 p.c., and are well worth
consideration. The more speculative
ords. at 4s. return 7.5 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div.
basis. Last year’s net earnings nearly
3i times covered the first prefs.’ 6 p.c.
div., after allowing for which more than
twice the seconds’ annual requirements
remained. The net tangible cover is
£3 4s. 6d. firsts, £2 4s. lOd. seconds and
9s. lOd. ords.
Felt and Textiles (A’sia), Ltd.
To help lighten the outside debt and
finance further expansion of the business,
this co. is putting out 200,000 new £1
second 6 p.c! cum. prefs. at par. The
issue has been underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son, Melbourne, who have also
made a firm application for half of it.
The other half is reserved for application
by ord. shareholders on the register at
Feb. 23, allotment being at the discretion
of the directors; so there will be no
quota rights, and therefore no market in
them. The cost of the issue, including
brokerage, is put at £7OOO, or 34 p.c.,
which is moderate. When all the money
on the new issues is in paid capital will
be £821,281 in 40,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs.,
200,000 second 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
581,281 ords. The prefs. rank in the
order stated for capital and dividends.
The co., formed in 1921 with a capital
of £6OOO, pioneered the manufacture of
felt piecegoods in Australia, and is now
the centre of a group which makes felt
and felt products, carpets., wool-tops,
cotton-wool, wadding and allied materials
in the Commonwealth, Maoriland and S.
Africa. All phases of manufacture, from
treatment of raw materials (some are pro-
cessed in the co.’s own factories in India)
to the production of the finished articles,
are undertaken. The aggregate net earn-
ings of the group for the 12 months to
June 30 last were £60,376 (up £5482).
After paying the first prefs. their £2400,
the balance nearly five times covered the
seconds’ annual requirements, and there
should be a substantial saving in interest
owing to reduction of the outside debt.
Also, since the close of last accounts, the
wool-scouring and -carbonising works in
Sydney and Melbourne, and the top-
making plant, have been operating at full
capacity (together handling about 1000
bales per week), and so has the carpet
factory of Baldwin and Grant, a subsi-
diary, and all are reported) to be earning
satisfactory profits. The board expects
that earnings will be more than sufficient
to maintain 10 p.c. on ord. capital.
At June 30 last combined figures of
the parent and subsidiaries showed that
there was £295,182 coming to the cos.’
bankers and £171,141 to sundry creditors.
Stocks (£400,106) and debtors’ balances
(£190,886) totalled £590,992. Freeholds
figured at £171,273, plant £288,102 and
shares in other cos. £21,599. Since then
a lot of money has been spent on a fine
new showrooms and headquarters build-
ing for the parent co. at the corner of
George and Jamieson streets, Sydney.
On the basis of these figures, and allow-
ing for the new issue and expenses con-
nected therewith, the net tangible back-
ing for the second prefs. will be £3
14s. lOd.
At 245. 3d. the first prefs. yield a shade
under 5 p.c., and the ords. at 31s. 3d.
return 6.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
There should be a shilling or so capital
profit to be had on the new prefs.
Unless recoveries look up meantime,
Rothsay, at Yalgoo (W.A.), another
example of plant before development,
will put in a caretaker after March.
To handle the copper ore, a 2500-ton-
monthly flotation unit was started up last
year. For the seven months of the cur-
rent financial period to January 11,140
tons ore was put through for 253 loz.
gold, a recovery of 4.sdwt. As much as
I.9dwt. has been getting away in the
sands; extraction for January was 75
p.c. as against 73 p.c. and 72 p.c. for the
two preceding milling periods. When last
broadcast, costs, including Is. sd. a ton
for development, were making off with
41s. Id. a ton. The mine has been opened
up by two levels down to 265 ft., the ore-
bodies consisting of narrow lenticular
shoots. Treatment over the last few
months has been running at only half-
capacity. The co. has a 500,000 2s. share
issue. Including a debenture liability of
£35,485, there was £38,113 coming to
outsiders at June 30 last. Cash, etc., then
totalled £4521.
* * * *
Wiluna’s latest return is anything but
cheerful for shareholders. It shows
a decrease of 4697 tons in output for
January, and a reduction of £5067 in
value. Tonnage treated and flotation
recovery were affected by a mill stop-
page, following power failure due to
severe storms. In Australian currency
the estimated value of the yield, (at 148 s.
sterling a fine ounce) was £70,880. Work-
ing costs (excluding development £12,827,
and construction equipment, etc., £3940)
were £54,001. In the main workings
actual development results are still no-
thing to shout about, but colorful
rumors continue to spread about the de-
velopment position in the northern
(Happy Jack and Bulletin) workings.
* * * *
Gladiator, latest De Bernales co. to
commence crushing in Westralia, now
has its plant running to capacity—2ooo
short tons monthly. Second (January)
return showed 5430 z. gold from 2022
tons, a recovery of s.3dwt. Costs ran
to 30s. 7d. a ton ; working surplus, after
charging £836 for development, amount-
ing to £1094. Allowing 10 p.c. for
dilution, grade of ore (59,200 short tons,
excluding the low*-grade New Lode) is
put at 7.53dwt. Six levels have been
driven, deepest at 561 ft., and shaft-
sinking is proceeding to open up two
more.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L. (W.A.),
will shortly distribute 100,000 Norseman
Development shares, which it has owned
for some time. The co. proposes to pay
on April 17 to shareholders registered on
March 13 a sixpenny dividend in the
form of one Norseman Development for
every five Norseman shares held, plus
lid. div. in the form of one Norseman
Development for every 20 Norsemans
held. In both cases fractions of shares
will be sold and the cash distributed
to those entitled to it.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s next four-
monthly dividend will be paid in April.
Recently-published official figures showed
that mine profits for the first half of the
current financial year (£259,310) were up
£24,000, the growth being at the rate of
nearly 10 p.c. p.a. But rising costs and
a heavier load of taxation may prevent
a lift in the annual rate of div. (50 p.c.
last year).
* * * *
Alastaif Fraser, one of the English
board of directors, is visiting the Youanmi
and Mt. Magnet goldmines (W.A.). Both
ventures are on -the producing list, and
Mt. Magnet has already given pref. and.
ord. holders something. Mr. Fraser told a
Perth interviewer that, owing to the dis-
turbed political situation in Europe, there
was absolutely nothing doing for any-
thing on the London investment market.


h
SMOKE-OH!
“He took some sandwiches for a walk on the
mountains.” — Women’s paper.
Even kindness to sandwiches is a thing
to be admired.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She served joints which her boarders were
unable to eat.” — Women’s paper.
And then she made more hashes of
them.
•F 4* *l* 4*
“Doctor says the vogue for flats will pass
like measles.”
Except that it will leave some ugly
spots behind.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Arch of Rifles at Wedding.”
It’s to be hoped nobody got shot.
•F *F 4* 4*
“Butter firm but quiet.”— Market report.
It’s usually the cheese that stands up
and shouts.
•F 4* 4* *F
“Beware of long-winded Romeos.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
But surely politicians are entitled to a
little romance.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There is a place for everything.”
— Women’s mag.
Except the horses we back.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Have you made your will?” asks advt.
We have, but our wives no doubt will
alter it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Suburban undertakers have picnic at sea-
side.” — Melbourne “Sun.”
It is understood that a skeleton staff
was left in charge.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What colors do men find most attractive?”
—Furnishing note.
Blonde, brunette and red-head.
4* 4* 4* 4*
One’s nearest relatives are seldom the
dearest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In a real battle of tongues no woman
can hold her own.
4* 4* 4* 4"
“Boarding-houses have found it necessary to
give less meat for breakfast.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Even before it was not much chop.
Our Unique Flag.
“In spite of all that our enemies may do our
flag will still float inflexible as fate.”
—Recruiting rally speech.
We leave it to other people’s flags to
flutter in the breeze. Our flag stands as
solid as concrete upon the rock of our
democratic freedom, which, scorning to
yield an inch of ground to the foe, will,
sword in hand, march forward at the
masthead of our army until the rough
seas of trouble are again lulled to
quietude and the sturdy foot of the farmer
can once more draw the plough over
them and reap the earth’s plenty. Our
battlecry of freedom is born in the cradle
of our race, and we nail it to the mast;
so, in spite of the sneers we can see on
the black hearts of tyrants whose heavy
hands trample on the independence of
the people they govern, that flag of ours
shall remain inflexible.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Rang Taxi, Got Fire-engine.”— “D.T.”
He must have been going to an old
flame.
•F *F *F 4* '
“Tortoises have peculiariy sensitive hearing,
and once they become accustomed Jo a
person’s voice will come when called.”
— “World's News.”
The trouble is that by the time they
arrive the person is so old he can’t
recognise them.
•F *F *F *F
“The average reader little senses the news
behind the news.” — “World’s News.”
By the time he finds the news in his
paper he’s so exhausted he can’t sense
anything.
“I goiter shoot a dawg when I c'n find time."
“Favors Women on Art Board. ’
—“Daily Telegraph.
Even those who don t paint much can
still be artful.
4» 4* 4* 4*
“Husband ‘Haunted by Poundkeeper.’ ”
—“Daily Telegraph.
Many wives are pence-keepers, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Reassured.
I gazed blankly at the headlines:
“Hissolini and Other Axis Powers Reveal
Plans for Immediate Disarmament!”
I had a sudden feeling of depression.
Surely war must be imminent when an
erstwhile death-or-glory rag would re-
verse its policy and headlines so quickly.
Later I awoke! My first conscious
thought was to rush for the “News-Rag. ’
Scare headlines met my eyes: “Axis
Powers Demand....”
I was reassured. Life will go on as
usual.
Huglow.
4» 4* *l* 4*
“There are many people in the world who
ought to be liquidated.” — Bernard Shaw.
Well, let us start with John Barleycorn.
*s*
“Your shopping-bag should have a rubber
cover ready for use if rain comes.”
— Women’s paper.
Moreover, if the bottle breaks in it you
won’t lose the gin so easily.
4* *I | 4‘ 4*
“Glass, with all his superficial wit, was merely
a fool; very soon she broke off her engagement
with him.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Turned down the empty Glass.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She considered her penniless condition
Then she thought of Ray, wealthy and eligible,
with his five thousand a year ."—Short story.
A Ray of hope?
Fishy.
“Lost, lady’s leather handbag, containing
fishing tackle. Reward.”
—Notice in Melbourne shop window.
By gar! no longer eel appear
To perch around her plaice;
Now all the lovely salmon tints
Have faded from her face.
His sole was once with rapture filled;
He’d not be on the shelf
If he cod only snapper up
And kipper for himself.
The scales have fallen from his eyes,
No longer she’s his crays,
His squid he never squanders now
On her gold-fishing ways.
He learnt to flounder out of reach,
The simple-minded skate,
And she can never catch him now,
For she has lost the bait.
But when she gets it back, I bet
She’ll hook some other fathead yet.
J. D.
The Unachievable.
7 care not what your calling is, your
means of livelihood —
You may be boss of Parliament or
merely bake our bread;
You may be coiner, priest or king; be
virtueless or good;
Be lady’s maid or mannequin; be
married or unwed.
You may perform a leading role or play
a lowly part;
You may, when it’s unwise to speak,
have wit to shut your trap.
But I’ll defy you, man or miss, though
you’re refined and smart,
To keep a paper napkin spread for
long upon your lap !
P. 0. M. C.
The Art of Politics.
II.
A session is a short gathering of Parlia-
ment, convened for the purpose of giving
members a much-needed rest from the
strenuous sporting and social activities
which their profession makes it incum-
bent upon them to perform during the
months they spend in recess.
While no educational or intellectual
standard is demanded of a politician,
two requisites, without which he would
bo a complete dud, are a brassy voice
which can be heard above the crescendo
of concerted snoring in a crowded House
and the gift of backchat.
Regarding the latter,, members have
been known to parry a verbal thrust with
a Latin tag, an allusion to classical
mythology or even a genuine piece of wit.
Only the rawest political tyro would be
guilty of such a faux pas, and the
enormity of his offence is usually brought
home to him by the looks, redolent of
suspicion of his sanity, that are bent on
him by friend and foe alike.
lt is only by making the amende honor-
able that he can hope to avoid the de-
served contempt of his fellow-legislators
for such a breach of tradition, and this
the member who is not entirely devoid
of nous will do at the first opportunity,
Soon, if he is schooled aright, he will be
able to enter into the true spirit of Par-
hamentary debate by flashing back at an
Opposition gibe with Garn, crawl into
yer kennel and bite fleas off yer belly like
any other mong!”
Should he improve on this with in-
vention and vitriolic quality his popu-
larity with his own party will be assured ;
if he also possesses the faculty of keep-
ing up a running fire of dull and point-
less interjections while one of the oppo-
site party is speaking, and add a few safe
challenges to “hop outside,” he will
qualify, on his demise, for eloquent
tributes to his “devotion to duty and
his earnest and thoughtful contributions
to debate.”
Sometimes a member whose make-up
is devoid of pugnacity, but who is suffer-
ing from either a chronic liver or an acute
hangover, may, either by accident or de-
s i§ n ’ catch . t ,^ ie s P eaker s e ye- In his
speech he will consequently display con-
siderable petulance and, if sufficiently
provoked by interjectors, fly off the
handle. He can then confidently look
forward to seeing in the next morning’s
papers a vivid discretion of his “fight-
Once a member is acknowledged to
have made one fighting speech all subse-
quent speeches he may make, whether
m or out Parliament, will bear this ,
hall-mark,
The shrewd member who is thus
pushed into an unnatural bellicose role
will play up to it for all he is worth. It
j s marvellous how even the mildest-
featured and -mannered individual can,
j£ he a fcw hours a day in £ront
of a mirror, simulate in time a positive
hdliuerenrv
rrenzy or oeiugerency.
It must be remembered that a politi-
cian, though he may not have sufficient
grey matter to pour rainwater out of his
boot even with directions clearly printed
large ‘VP* On the sole, nor possess
sufficient combative instinct to push his
way out of a paper-bag, may, if he is
sufficiently credited by the press with the
ability to make “fighting speeches,” go
f ar enough to run his country one day
p er b a p S to the ver y brink of war.
Impetuosity has cost many a young
and inexperienced politician his seat. To
win bj s S p Urs anc i ge t j n t 0 the public eye
through the Stunt Press, he will natu-
raiiy impugn the honor of one of the
opposite party. If it is a Minister he
can tackle so much the better,
This is good tactics, but where he
makes his fatal mistake is, not in levelling
, substantiated,
~r a A
but in the tuning of his disclosure A
reckless charge, for instance, that is
blown out in an inquiry when Parlia-
ment has two years to run is stark folly,
Not only will the member be made to
look even a bigger goat than he actu-
afly is, but he gains no advantage. Cer-
tainly his photo, may appear in the popu-
jar p resSi but in most cases this is a
se y ere handicap.
Obviously the proper time ,o mabe
sensational charges, especially of corrup-
tion, is immediately prior to an election.
There will then be no time to hold am
inquiry, yet he will receive all the bene-
fits of publicity. Moreover, in the hulla-
baloo he thus creates, the electors may
even forget that the only time he opened
his mouth during the whole of the last
Parliament was to yawn prodigiously be-
fore going to sleep on someone’s
shoulder.
When a Government’s allotted span is
up it must “go to the country,” a term
denoting that it must face the electors
and go to, and often up, the poll.
Sometimes a Government will sport-
ingly decide to face its masters before
there is actual need. If there occurs a
serious split in the Opposition, restoration
of cuts in Public Service salaries or a rise
in the basic wage immediately prior to
this decision, it is, of course, purely for-
tuitious. Only the low suspicions of a
spiteful Opposition would read into the
coincidence ulterior motives. Should a
party lack a policy electors can be made
to forget the sad fact by trotting out an
“issue” or a catchcry.
An “issue” is a point of contention on
which both parties agree that an election
will be fought. By its very nature an
“issue” is elastic. Thus, if a Government
gets back into power on the “issue” of
whether poker machines should be
allowed at Sunday-school picnics, it can
claim, when hotly criticised for borrow-
ing another hundred million overseas or
setting up several more boards to do
its work, that it was given a “mandate”
to do so at the elections.
S. W. K.


Kandos Cement.
Last Friday in Melbourne Aus-
tralian Cement £1 shares soared to
the record figure of 375. If they
are worth that price then Kandos
16s. scrip in Sydney (28s. the same
day) is worth 325. 6d., taking their
holdings in Australian Portland
Cement to be the only important
asset in the case of each co.
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you ; beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. "MERKUR”
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth- water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901 ~
MW
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE - 312 COLLINS STREET,
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON,
•' *' ' J ‘ - • •
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
i
AUSTRALIA* ITALIA
SiHIOMKI© DST®.
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Behind the Markets
A quietness was generally evident on
the Australian sharemarkets last week,
particularly in Sydney. As is usual in
such circumstances, the stocks principally
to make headway in the sharemarket
barometer belonged to the less-active
class ; day-to-day counters were usually
marked down slightly. Bonds were weaker
all round in consequence of the poor
support shown for. the Commonwealth
Loan; it followed the big conversion
operation by less than two months, and
the underwriters will have to take most
of it. The failure wasn’t entirely unex-
pected, though there were hopes that
some of those who didn’t convert in the
last operation would have toyed with
their cash redemption long enough to
become favorably disposed to a yield of
£3 17s. 6d. per cent., gilt edged.
For just 18 months—from April, 1937,
until October, 1938, to be precise—Aus-
tralian sharemarkets were On a decline.
The weakening was by steps rather than
a steady drop, and since the September
war scare (and peace pact) the falls
have usually been followed promptly by
a rebound that restored the level of
prices. For instance, British Tobacco,
Henry Jones, Colonial Sugar, Yarra
Falls, Tooth, Carlton, Myer, David
Jones, Electro. Zinc, Howard Smith and
Adelaide Steam ord. shares last week
corresponded in price to the quotes re-
corded during the last week in October.
Prices for B.H.P. showed a slight weaken-
ing over the four months, and bank
shares generally have slipped noticeably.
Drug Houses ords. (special reasons here)
have dropped a couple of shillings. G. J.
Coles ords. are also down substantially.
But Woolworths, most cement scrip,
Castlemaine Perkins and Australian Con-'
solidated Industries (nee Australian
Glass), cum hopes concerning the pro-
jected bonus issue, have all moved up.
Base-metal shares are weaker all round.
Good gold slocks have more than held
their own on the whole, with Placer
Development and Bulolo showing little
change. Over the period under con-
sideration gold has lifted in price, but
lead and spelter have weakened, with a
smaller proportionate decline also in
copper. Tin has strengthened, but
Malayan stocks have found this advan-
tage offset to some extent by reduced
selling quotas (which had a lot to do
with the metal’s lift in price). Australian
tin producers aren’t subject to restriction
of output.
Wool sales move along the even tenor
of their way towards the close of the
season. The price keeps very steady at
an average of lid. or slightly under.
What most people can’t understand is
why, with such a small clip to sell, prices
don’t throw off their mediocre steadiness
and move up to more remunerative
prices. But if the cheque for the season’s
clip, plus last year’s carryover, nets
£40,000,000 in Australian currency it
won’t be so bad. Statistics on world
trade show a 13.4 p.c. drop in 1938, and
Australia, as an exporter of primary pro-
duce, might have been expected to suffer
particularly severely. Wheatgrowers have
in fact been badly hit. But the nation
as a whole, partly because of its more
industrialised nature compared with 10
years ago, hasn’t suffered any severe
economic jolts as yet. The worst aspects
of the outlook are public finance and the
cost of living.
Goldmining is becoming one of our
valuable export industries once again.
“ 'Tween me 'n' you, boay, 'e got a turr'ble down on t'other dictators."
Over 1,500,000 fine ounces was turned
out in 1938, worth more than £10,000,000
sterling, and more than £13,000,000 in
Australian currency. Here is an example
of what can be done in the way of in-
creasing a country’s productive capacity
when costs are brought down to a reason-
ably low figure. Even £9 an ounce in
Australian currency won’t pay if inflation
in costs takes place. The selfsame infla-
tion wouldn’t do anyone any good, by
the way, but it would inevitably be fol-
lowed by unemployment and an economic
revolution such as we saw in the last
depression.
In spite of some apparently slack
months at Newcastle just lately, output
of steel by Broken Hill Prop, keeps
slightly ahead of the figures for 1937-38,
and 36 weeks of the current financial
year (ending May 31) have now passed.
B.H.P.’s results this term will be awaited
with great interest. Wages and other
costs have risen, though to counter this
prices of some of the co.’s products were
lifted a while back. Port Kembla should
be growing more useful to the co., and
when the numerous subsidiary interests
there become div.-paying they should
help to offset the decline in other con-
struction trades now becoming evident.
* ♦ * #
According to the index compiled by
the N. S. Wales Statistician, average
prices for wool at the Sydney sales
haven’t varied by one per cent, for five
months.
* * * *
Peters contribs. are seeking leave to
appeal to the Privy Council.
* * * *
A useful service rendered by the League
of Nations is the supply of statistics re-
lating to world trade. Figures out last
week showed that for 1938 the volume
of international trade had dropped 13.4
p.c. in terms of gold compared with 1937.
Britain imported 11 p.c. less and exported
10 p.c. less; Japan bought 29 p.c. less
and sold 15 p.c. less ; Australia bought
4 p.c. more and sold 10 p.c. less; the
United States bought 33 p.c. less, but main-
tained its exports better than most other
countries. This cut by one-third in the
U.S.A.’s purchases of raw materials out-
side its own boundaries largely accounts
for the weakness in metals and many
other commodities. Reduced British buy-
ing has been a factor also.
* * * *
Because absence of rain until about
10 days ago caused a withholding in
the ground revenue expected to be won
from dredging operations at least a month
before, Tableland Tin (Mt. Garnet, Q.)
has made another call of a shilling a
share (making 14s. 6d. called up) for the
purpose of going ahead with equipment
of the area for No. 2 dredge. Kennedy,
of Anglo-Oriental, has been on the job
with Horsburgh during No. 1 dredge's
teething operations. For a few initial
weeks lack of water made it difficult
for the 1,000,000-c.y.-p.a. dredge to dig
the richer bottom wash effectively, and
the first return showed
only about a quarter of
a pound to the yard—
mostly from over-
burden dealt with dur-
ing opening-out opera-
tions. A pound a yard
was more like the aver-
age of the boreholes in
this area, and since the
dredge buckets have
been digging in the hard
bottom wash operations
are reported to be
“yielding well.”
* *
Osmiridium (Tas.),
N.L., working an ore-
body, said by engineer
Robert Cameron to be
2000 ft. long, at Adams-
field, near the Speck’s
Gordon River, has
what appears to be a
good lode on the 76ft.
level, and recently 15
tons- of ore was milled
for 6oz. osmiridium-
which conforms with
the grade mentioned in
the prospectus. At the
moment output is re-
tarded owing to drought conditions,
but by pumping water from the shaft
operations are being continued. Osmiri-
dium is quoted at £l6-£l9 sterling per
ounce in London.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls shares firmed to 375. 3d.,
highest quote for a considerable time. An
interim div. is due in April. The maintenance
of profit-earning by Holeproof, in another
branch of the textile trade, seems to have
steadied the market slightly for spinning, weav-
ing and knitting shares. On a 10 p.c. div.
basis Yarra Falls returns 5.4 p.c.
Huddart, Parker ords., now. on a 14 p.c.
div. basis, sold up to 545. On the same div.
basis 11 years ago the scrip was at 50s. Ten
years ago it was at 48s. 6d., nine years ago
395.. In 1931 sales were made at under 255.


S&ORPQ7S
m
30
1835
TRAVELLERS
v-.v.'VT
Jr
; .
*r:Vt
■k*
/-v'’
|L#M£
ll*ii
Issued in
fHil
Amounts of
£2, £5 or £lO.
-
When you go abroad, carry
your money in a safe con-
venient form by using The
Bank of Australasia Travel-
lers’ Cheques.
These may be purchased
through any of the numerous
Branches of the Bank
throughout Australia or New
Zealand and are negotiable
wherever you go.
Letters of Credit. are also
available, or internal trans-
fers may be made through any
of the Bank’s numerous
Agents throughout the world,
thus obviating the possibility
of loss or robbery while
travelling.
Travellers’ Cheques in Italian
Tourist Lire are also avail-
able at special concession
rates to travellers visiting
Italy or Italian possessions.
LONDON HEAD OFFICE: 4 Threadneedle St., E.C.2,
(Opposite The Bank of England.)
THE WEST END BRANCH, at 17 Northumberland Ave., W.C.2, is
to meet all requirements of visitors to London from Australia o
specially equipped
r New Zealand.
The Bank of Australasia
The Oldest Bank Now Trading in Australia as Originally Constituted.
Incorporated in England • • The Liability of the
*>y Koyal Charter in 1835. Members is limited.
Ifl
3B
m
o
o
Ja
O
O
o
*r;
B
i :,¥.
■s< Above:
The mighty Victoria
Falls the world's
greatest twice as
wide, and over two
and a half times as
high as Niagara.
The New 2 7,000 ton Shaw
Savill M. Vessel, “Dom-
inion Monarch," largest
Liner to enter Australian
trade, sails from Sydney
2Uh April, 1939.
Information obtainable from all offices, of
DfILGETV & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
6
i v s r,
00
5
uA
Juftt
VOP
■<s*
r
oB=S
-r« R ''
Lysaght’s Newcastle and Port
Kembla works pay over £500,000
in wages direct to Australian
workers every year. 502,000 tons
of Australian coal, 165,000 tons
of steel and 16,000 tons of zinc
are used annually in the produc-
tion of more than 12,000,000
sheets of galvanized roofing and
tank-making iron.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.)
PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Fremantle
h
GALVANIZED ROOFING
and TANK MAKING SHEETS
The bookkeeping entry carried out by
the Bank of England early this month,
whereby its gold stocks were written up
from 85s. per fine ounce to more like
148 s. an ounce, looked as though it repre-
sented the end of a section so far as the
old statutory price was concerned. Some
of the bank’s gold cost it 85s. an ounce ;
what the Exchange Equalisation Fund
acquired through the bank, as agent, cost
the current market price at the time of
buying—perhaps anything between £6
and £7 10s. an ounce. So, obviously, the
books had to be balanced at some time
or other, as long as the Equalisation
Fund held stocks of gold. If it had sold
all its gold on the open market it might
have made a loss in the long run, but
more likely a profit would have resulted,
as at present sterling is at a depressed
level and sold is at a high one
* * *
. .
The inflation that has taken place in
Britain s cost of living has depreciated to
some extent the internal buying power of
its currency in recent years. Australia
has seen something of the same sort
happen. Just as rising costs within the
Commonwealth make it difficult for wool-
and wheatgrowers to export at a profit
(particularly with world prices so low), so
costs in Britain have handicapped British
manufacturers in the export market. In
such circumstances a return to a much
lower price for gold (which would mean
lower prices for production, as against
high costs of production) seems right out
of the question. In fact, if the past is
any guide, progressive devaluation of
currency and a stepping-up of the value
of gold seem to be indicated in the long-
term view.
* * * *
The final div. of Howard Smith, Ltd.
(3 p.c.), makes 5 p.c. p.a.—an unchanged
rate. Accounts are made up to Dec.
qi t inn „„„
31, and are due shortly. In 1937 earn-
ings represented 6.5 p.c. on ord. capital.
7„H„r S i ?VenUe ' P ‘? S m 5
include Shipp mg, cement, sugar and
'I., 1 ” 8 m y
agency iees.
* * * *
Southern Portland Cement (N.S.W.),
one of the Howard Smith investments
that helped to swell that holding co.’s
profits in 1937, has shown a profit
of £53,639 for the year to October 31,
against £42,401 in 1936-37. Pref. arrears
have now been paid off, and the ords.
get 2\ p.c. this term, while almost as
much profit as is being distributed is
carried to reserves.
* * * *
The resignation of A. H. Pellow,
managing-director of Producers and
General Finance (Sydney), was announced
last week. The co.’s ords. keep around
45., the prefs. around 11s. 6d.
The interim div. of Claude Neon In-
dustries, representing a merger of the
principal N.S.W. and Vic. neon sign cos.,
is at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., payable on
March 31. To those who received nine
Industries shares for every five Claude
Neon (N. S. Wales) shares in September
last, the present distribution will represent
18 p.c. p.a., against 15 p.c. p.a. on their
old scrip ; old holders of Claude Neon
Lights (Vic.), who took six for five, will
be getting 12 p.c. p.a., against 10 p.c. p.a.
In other words, income to both classes
of shareholders has been increased by a
fifth on the basis of the current Indus-
tries interim div. At 30s. each, Industries
shares yield 6.9 p.c., deducting the div.
(Is.) accrued,
* *
Lite is coming back to the market tor
Castlemaine Perkins (Brisbane) shares (B.
15/2/’39). Last week 235. 3d. was offered,
representing a rise of Is. in about a
m onth. A div. (unchanged at 8 p.c. p.a.)
j s payable next month,
'** * *
Recent developments at Mt. Morgan
(Q.) suggest that the co. will soon be
getting some concrete return for all the
capital outlay on overburden removal,
low-grade treatment plant equipment and
smelter erection. The outlook for share-
holders is better than it was, though the
glueing-up of the financial position owing
to accumulation of unshipped concen-
trates and expenditure on plant additions
may defer benefits to shareholders in the
form of increased divs. for some time,
The smelters, advocated here for months
before the board decided on building
them, should be in operation before long,
and the whole idea of them is to reduce
realisation exes., which were running to
£BO,OOO or so a year. There should be
g° od sco P e for reducing that item of
°utgo.
~ v
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie s Melbourne
, . aA ■
-o con erned^n
options over “several leases, including
J held b the Mt . chaVlotte co.”
had been recently exercised. G. M. of
Kal> o nce had an option over
300,000 2s. shares in Mt. Charlotte, but
j t was allowed to lapse. Incidentally,
North Kalgurli United is the show with
Claude de Bernales on the board that
owns leases adjoining North Kal. Taken
over j n 1934, they lie between the Union
j ackj Croesus and Eclipse leases of North
Ka p (1912), Ltd. Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, formed in London in Nov., 1934,
took over a number of Kalgoorlie leases,
including the Iron Duke and Oroya, and
is under the management of Western
Mining Corp. De Bernales is not a
director. The ownership of leases on the
Goiden Mile, and who holds options
over or share-interests in them, is a very
mixed business.
Buckley and Nunn’s ord. interim of
4 p.c. p.a. is the same as for last year,
and, considering the drought- and fire-
stricken condition of Victoria, it is better
than it might have been.
* * * *
Australasian Paper and Cumberland
Paper (B. 22/2/’39) are maintaining
an interim of 8 p.c. p.a. on all classes
of shares. A.P.’s distribution (9.6 d.
a share) goes out on March 21.
Australian Paper Manufacturers, the
working co., is nearing commercial pro-
duction of eucalyptus pulp, hnd mean-
while the brown-paper and cardboard end
of the business pays undiminished divs.
on the whole of the capital, old and new,
involved in the undertaking.
* * * *
N. S. Wales coal figures are always
interesting. Partly because of a strike,
output for 1938 was 480,589 tons lower
at 9,570,930 tons. Average value of coal
at pit’s mouth was 11s. B{d. a ton, com-
pared with 11s. 7d. in the preceding year,
The industry employed 15,815 hands in
1938, and, notwithstanding mechanisa-
tion, strikes, etc., that was an increase of
834. The State turned out 1,135,446 tons
°- coke during the year, up 195,502 tons.
Coke 1S used extensively in the Newcastle
and P° rt Kembla steelworks, and its
average value is around 9s. sd. a ton.
art fro ™ , the steelworks, themselves,
Mawarra , Coke and \ he § a u s cos * are the
cdie *. mak 9£ s coke > though gas-co.
cok e is a difierent product from that used
in steelworks,
* * * *
j n Melbourne, “Herald” ord. shares
made a notable recovery, standing at
61s. for a time, but settling at 60s. last
week. For a time they were down to
565. An interim div. is payable this
month. On the basis of last year’s div.
(14 p.c.), yield at 60s. is 4.7 p.c.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
America’s Royal Visitors
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by Ben
Robertson.)
When their Majesties George VI. and Queen
Elizabeth come to U.S.A. to be guests at the White
House, they will be leaving a home and a way of life
unique in the world to-day. Buckingham Palace is a
Shakspearean stage setting catapulted into a reno-
vated modern apartment building with electric lights,
running water, elevators, central heating and a tele-
phone exchange.
Their Majesties live in this palace home in the
medieval manner of King Henry VIII., only they use
knives and forks instead of their fingers, and they
have done away officially with the court fool. They
also have dropped the royal falconer from their pay-
roll, but all the other Shakspearean characters com-
prising the cast of the play “Henry VIII.” are still
drawing salaries and going strong. The lord chamber-
lain is still attached to the huge entourage of his
Majesty’s household. So are the gentlemen ushers and
the lords and ladies in waiting, and the gold sticks and
all the red-coated soldiers.
King George Vl.’s palace is too modern to take
any public notice of ghosts. It has a swimming pool,
and there is a new bombproof room in the basement.
A vast number of ladies and gentlemen stand around
in Elizabethan costumes and keep up an elaborate
palace ritual. They bow and scrape at formal court
functions and yet they dance in the palace ballroom to
the swing music of a hi-de-ho orchestra. Their
Majesties actually occupy the thrones of Richard the
Lion-hearted and good Queen Bess —and they drink
pineapple juice for their breakfast. It is their unique
role —rthey are the symbol of a thousand noble years
of England’s past, and, at $2,050,000 a year, they now
are their nation’s present.
This is King George’s own reign, and he and
Queen Elizabeth are the King and Queen that never
die. The King as the visible sovereign links John Bull
in spirit to King Arthur and the knights. In the
ancient and expensive pageantry of the Buckingham
court, King George stands as a timeless figure in the
midst of England’s time.
The King thoroughly realises this conception.
When his Majesty drives along a London street and
an Englishman shouts “Long live the King!” this
loyal subject is not cheering King George VI. alone —
King George knows that. The man, with that lyrical
strain that is part of every Britisher, is also cheering
for himself and for England, his country. He is
sounding off for “Rule Britannia” and “England ex-
pects every man to do his duty.” His King personifies
for him the Magna Charta tradition and Trafalgar and
Waterloo. The King is the romantic emperor of
India ; the imperial inspiration of Kipling’s “palm and
pine.” The satisfaction that his presence gives a
Britisher is such that, even at $2,050,000 a year, his
Majesty is a bargain.
The King represents British security and freedom
—the England that for 900 years has never been in-
vaded. The Englishman cheers and his Majesty rides
on and everyone likes to feel “All is well.” The guards
in the flame-colored coats salute and the King disap-
pears through the palace gates. Buckingham Palace
is the King’s private residence —he owns it personally
—and no Englishman would think of entering the
King’s home without a special invitation. The
Britisher is a royalist at heart and Buckingham
Palace is a high Tory institution.
The White House at Washington is a Whig
establishment. A plain house with a picket fence. It,
too, is living history, for the White House has about
it the illusion of the American dream. It possesses
the simple dignity of the Puritan’s faith, and its ideal
remains Jefferson’s —that, at least politically, all men
ought to be equal. After a hundred and thirty-odd
years its doors are still open. Any citizen can enter.
And being American, there is no great entourage about
the White House —a guard at the front steps, a colored
doorman, the usher. The President and Mrs. Roose-
velt stand somewhere near the front door when they
hold White House receptions, and they shake hands
with their company. Usually some Cabinet officer
and his wife, or an aide, or sometimes Vice-President
and Mrs. Garner, stand with the President and First
Lady, forming an old-fashioned American receiving
line.
The King and Queen receive from the throne in
Buckingham Palace, and their guests bow low in the
royal presence and curtsy. The King, splendid on
these occasions in a State uniform, is attended by a
parlorful of people, by the lord chamberlain, the lord
steward, the master of the horse, a colonel called the
“gold stick in waiting,” a vice-admiral of the United
Kingdom, a lord and groom in waiting, the captain
of the gentlemen-at-arms, the captain of the yeomen
of the guard, the entire household in waiting and four
Indian orderlies with a British officer in charge. With
the Queen, encrusted in jewels and decorations, are
the ladies and gentlemen of her own household.
What this means is simply that Buckingham
Palace is a formal place and the White House is an
informal one. It means that Buckingham is stiff be-
cause the British people like it that way. If, by com-
parison, the White House seems breezy, it is because
we are a nation of hello folks. We like to shake hands
and say to everyone, “It sure is a fine day to-day.”
Their Majesties are not pretentious. In their
private lives, their ways are simple. Visiting at the
White House, the King will have a room of his own
and a bath. Across the hall, the Queen will have her
own room and her bath. And that is about all that
any guest can ask of any host, provided the beds are
comfortable. There is nothing wrong with the White
House beds. Their Majesties ought to enjoy their stay
at Washington. It is the kind of place that they like.
They are the kind of people who would be peculiarly
interested in seeing how the President runs the Presi-
dency and how the First Lady manages her endless
activities. They may even be a little wistful —there is
so much that Presidents and their wives can get away
with.
Hitler on the Churches.
[A further passage from the complete translation
of Herr Hitler’s speech before the Reichstag on Janu-
ary 30. The German leader’s statements on other
matters, particularly trade and colonies, were given
at length in last week’s Uncabled Additions.]
Among outcries against Germany is the assertion
that National-Socialist Germany is an anti-religious
State. I therefore wish to make the following solemn
declaration to the whole German nation:
No one in Germany has hitherto been perse-
cuted for his religious views, nor will anyone be per-
secuted on that account!
The National-Socialist State since January 30,
1933, has, through its State organs, placed the follow-
ing sums accruing from public taxes at the disposal
of both Churches.
The Evangelical Church received: In 1933, Reich-
marks 130 million ; in 1934, RM. 170 million ; in 1935,
RM. 250 million ; in 1936, RM. 320 million; in 1937,
RM. 400 million ; in 1938, RM. 500 million. To these
sums must be added approximately RM. 85 million per
annum of additional payments made by the various
German States, and a further RM. 7 million per annum
from the parishes and parish unions.
Incidentally, the Churches are the biggest property-
owners in the country after the State itself. The value
of agricultural and forest properties owned by them
exceeds RM. 10 milliard ; their income therefrom is
probably more than RM. 300 million per annum. In
addition to all this come numerous gifts, legacies and,
above all, the sums collected in church. Moreover the
Church in the National-Socialist State receives favor-
able treatment in many tax matters —gifts, legacies,
etc., to it being tax-free. It is therefore a piece of
impertinence—to put it mildly—for foreign politicians
of all people to talk about hostility to religion in the
Third Reich. If, however, the German Churches really
should regard this position as unbearable, the National-
Socialist State would at any time be prepared to make
a clear separation between Church and State, such as
prevails in France, America and other countries.
The National-Socialist State has neither closed
any church nor prevented any service from being
held, nor has it ever influenced the form of a church
service. It has neither interfered with the doctrinal
teaching nor with the creed of any denomination.
But the National-Socialist State will ruthlessly
make clear to those clergy who, instead of being God’s
ministers, regard it as their mission to speak insultingly
of our present Reich, its organisations or its leaders,
that no one will tolerate a destruction of this State,
and that clergy who place themselves beyond the pale
of the law will be called to account before the law like
any other German citizen. Let it be mentioned, how-
ever, that there are tens of thousands of clergy of all
Christian denominations who fulfil their ecclesiastical
duties just as well or probably better than the political
agitators, without ever coming into conflict with the
laws of the State. The State considers their protection
its task. The destruction of the enemies of the State
is its duty.
The National-Socialist State is neither prudish
nor deceitful. There are, however, certain moral prin-
ciples, adherence to which is in the interests of the
biological health of a nation, and with which we
tolerate no tampering. Persons in public or private
life, even priests, guilty of sexual offences are accord-
ing to law sentenced to terms of imprisonment or hard
labor.
For the rest, this State has only once interfered
in the inner organisation of the Churches. This hap-
pened in 1933 when I myself attempted to unite the
hopelessly disrupted Regional Churches in Germany
into one large and powerful Reich Church. The
attempt failed owing to the opposition of some of the
Regional bishops. In consequence no further efforts
were made ; after all it is not our task to defend the
Protestant Church or even to strengthen it by forcible
means in face,of the opposition of its own supporters!
There can only be political reasons for other coun-
tries, and for certain democratic statesmen in particu-
lar, taking up cudgels on behalf of individual German
clergy, for these same statesmen were silent when hun-
dreds of thousands of priests were butchered or burnt
in Russia; they were silent when in Spain tens of
thousands of priests and nuns were massacred with
bestial cruelty and burnt alive. They could not, and
cannot, deny these facts, but they were silent and are
silent now. Meanwhile—l must mention this to the
democratic statesmen —it was just because of such
butchery that numerous National-Socialist and Fascist
volunteers placed' themselves at the disposal of
General Franco in order to help him in his efforts to
prevent the Bolshevik lust for blood from spreading
over Europe and over the greater part of the civilised
world. It was anxiety for European culture and for
real civilisation which compelled Germany to take
sides in the fight carried on in National Spain against
the Bolshevik destroyer. It does not say much for the
mentality predominant in various countries which
cannot conceive such a step being taken for purely
unselfish reasons.
However, National-Socialist Germany sympathised
with General Franco’s uprising out of a sincere desire
to see him succeed in delivering his country from the
danger which at one time had threatened to engulf
Germany herself. Thus it cannot be sympathy or pity
for God’s persecuted ministers which mobilises the
interest of democratic citizens for individual German
clergy in conflict with the law, but rather an interest
in the enemy of the German State. Let one thing,
however, be borne in mind in this connection: we
shall protect the German clergy in their capacity as
God’s ministers ; but we shall destroy clergy who are
the enemies of the German Reich. We believe that in
so doing we shall be able to prevent more easily a de-
velopment of affairs which —as Spain has taught us—
might all too easily call for defensive measures of
inconceivable proportions.
Labor and the Fascist Spectre.
{From an article by the Socialist writer Hugh Ross
Williamson in the "Fortnightly.”)
From the welter of hysterical emotionalism, pro-
pagandist lies and political manoeuvres known as the
“Munich Crisis,” one main fact emerged. Conser-
vative statesmanship had won the most spectacular
triumph of the century. Four years ago it was faced
by a peace movement of such dimensions that it could
not have contemplated fighting any war whatever.
The Labor leaders had threatened a general strike to
prevent war; the peace ballot had shown that, on the
side of peace, there were more people than had ever
voted for any political party ; and a Tory Premier had
to confess that the state of the country, under this
inspiration from the Left, was such that he dared not
even advocate rearmament without the certainty of
defeat at the polls.
By September, 1938, all that was changed. The
trade-unions’ enthusiasm for amaments outran even
that of the armament firms; the “International Peace
Campaign” urged a policy amounting to a world war
with an energy that was frightening ; the mantle of
imperialistic militarism had fallen from the shoulders
of the “Morning Post” on to those of the “Daily
Herald,” which wore it, if not with dignity, at least
with delight; Labor leaders like Mr. Herbert Morrison
and Mr. A. V. Alexander grew lyrical about the duty
of protecting the Empire ; Mr. Attlee made a speech
which, substituting “gallant little Belgium” for “demo-
cratic little Czechoslovakia,” might have been deli-
vered by a recruiting sergeant in October, 1914.
Seldom can there have been so complete a volte-
face. Sir Stafford Cripps’s organ, the “Tribune,” was
no less militant than the “Daily Herald.” Mr. Gol-
lancz’s Left Book Club whooped into the fray with
its variegated following of near-intellectuals and Com-
munists, unsure of everything but that Soviet Russia
was the earthly paradise.
Deeper and deeper gloom descended on the
genuine Socialists, who, while having every sympathy
with the oppressed everywhere, wondered why, with
ten million people in England existing at starvation
level, thousands of pounds should be sent to the
Czechs and not a farthing to our own distressed areas.
Something, they thought, seemed to have gone very
wrong with Labor policy. A peace movement had
apparently been transformed into a war party over-
night. “Official” Labor found its spiritual leader in
Mr. Duff Cooper, whom for years every shade of
Labor opinion had been denouncing with unparalleled
fury as an arch-reactionary.
How was it that the Labor movement, which since
1920 had been clamoring for justice for the Sudeten
Germans, suddenly announced that it was prepared to
risk Armageddon to prevent it? The answer, elusive
at first, suddenly crystallised. It had been done by one
word, “Fascism.” “Fascism” had become a propaganda
swear-word, the exact equivalent of the war-time
“Hun.” It was possible to stampede the Left into any
war or indeed any policy whatever, provided it were
represented as an “anti-Fascist” crusade.
The reason for this was not far to seek. “Fascism
is the organised expression of the capitalists to stick
at nothing in order to stay in power.” This, ex
cathedra, had become the Left view. To question it, in
Left circles, was to be dismissed as certainly a fool
and probably a knave. “How can we even reason with
men,” cries Mr. John Strachey, “who do not grasp
this most basic of all facts of the world situation
to-day?”
This belief, and this belief alone, was, it gradually
became clear, the sole reason for the extraordinary
behavior of the official Left during the crisis. They
were convinced that in fighting the German people
they were fighting Fascism and, therefore, capitalism.
Had the Bruning Government demanded the return
of the Sudeten areas, Labor would have done its best
to ensure that the British Prime Minister arranged their
surrender more quickly than in fact he did. Had the
German Republic demanded Tanganyika, and a Tory
Adolf the Magician.
Sydney “Sunday Sun” cable:—
Germany imported from Spain in
1938 300,000,000,000 tons of iron ore,
27,000,000,000 tons of copper ore,
13,000,000,000 tons of zinc, and
800,000,000,000 tons of iron pyrites.
A boat the size of the Queen Mary would
carry about 40,000 tons of cargo, and would
do at the most one round trip a fortnight. To
have shifted the amount of cargo which “Ger-
many imported from Spain in 1938” Hitler must
have had 1,100,000 such ships, each doing one
round trip a fortnight throughout the year.
The Tivoli would pay good money for a
turn by Hitler ... or somebody.


Imperialist Premier showed signs of refusing it, Labor
might well have risked a general strike. But return
either to German Fascism (i.e., aggressive capitalism)?
Better go to war and exterminate Western civilisation
altogether.
That “basic fact” must, one felt, be extremely
well authenticated to lead to such stubborn conclu-
sions. Consequently it was with some surprise that, on
looking into the matter, one found that it was not a
fact at all; that there was not a shred of evidence to
prove it ; and that it was merely an assumption based
on a belief in the infallibility of Karl Marx.
Marx predicted a final struggle of disintegrating
capitalism ; what, in fact, happened was the appear-
ance of Fascism. Thereform Fascism is the final
struggle of disintegrating capitalism. That is the
argument. There is no other, and there never has been.
Here, then, was a singular flaw in Socialist
thought. Had it been a matter of mere intellectual
debate, it would not have mattered overmuch. But
its consequences were not confined to theoretical
speculations. They had brought the world to the very
edge of war. A movement which, after 1918, had
said —and meant —“Never again!” had been fooled
by it.
The parallel with the years of the Great War was
uncomfortable. After 1918 every man and woman of
the Left thought that experience had brought wisdom.
Never again would they believe atrocity stories or be
stirred by hatred of the “Hun” and similar mytho-
logical figures. Never again would a “Hang-the-
Kaiser” election sweep the country. And 20 years later
the official leaders of Labor fell, without any excep-
tion but Mr. Lansbury, for precisely the same propa-
ganda. And all because of an unthinking and inaccu-
rate identification of “Fascism” with “capitalist aggres-
sion,” on the basis of the infallibility of Karl Marx.
Eyewitness Account of Spain’s War.
[ln last week’s “Uncabled Additions” appeared an
extract from a London “Times” letter by Lieut. Peter
Kemp, an English officer who has been a close eye-
witness of the fighting in Spain for more than two years.
In the article liere condensed from the “National
Review” Lieut. Kemp gives his general impressions of
Spain’s civil war.]
All the great European Powers, except England,
used Spain as a trial ground for weapons designed
for a greater conflict, and three of them —Germany,
Italy and the U.S.S.R. —have used it as an armament
training camp. The General Staffs of the remaining
countries look eagerly for conclusions to be drawn as
to the conduct of operations in the future. The
lessons of this war may, therefore, be of great value,
but it is necessary first to grasp the essential distinc-
tions between this war and any future international
conflict, and to qualify all judgments accordingly.
In the first place, this is a civil war, and the whole
cost must be borne by Spain —for there can be no
indemnities. Therefore both sides are anxious to
avoid unnecessary destruction and to reduce the
damage to towns, industries, crops and non-combatants
to a minimum. On the other hand, an exaggerated
moral importance is attached to the occupation of
square miles. This was also true of the Great War,
but applies even more to a civil war where men are
fighting for the possession of their own country against
their own countrymen.
For this reason both sides will hold towns or
strips of territory when by all the laws of strategy
they should be abandoned. In January, 1938, the
Nationalists were strategically no worse off for the
loss of Teruel, nor had the Republicans gained any-
thing important by its capture ; yet during the three
bitterest months of the winter a fierce battle was fought
for the possession of that tiny town, and, as Professor
Sencourt says, “It was estimated that 40,000 men fell
amidst hardships and sufferings beyond the normal
endurance of men.” Similarly, in November, 1936, the
possession of the University City in the north of
Madrid was more of a liability to the Nationalists
than an asset; but they chose to lose numbers of men
every day rather than retire.
As always, geography has had a great effect on
the direction of the war. Spain is intersected by high
and often impassable mountain ranges, which cut
across the line of the front dividing it naturally into
sectors. Communications between these sectors are
difficult owing to the lack of roads and the nature
of the country. Offensives on the scale of those of the
Great War are therefore impracticable, and advances
must be confined to a very limited front. An offen-
sive seldom is pushed far enough to have a decisive
effect owing to the difficulties of bringing up supplies,
artillery and fresh reinforcements. The advance has
to progress slowly, giving the defence time to re-
organise and consolidate further back.
A third element that distinguishes this war from a
European war is the peculiar temperament of the
Spaniards. It must be clearly understood that, in spite
of foreign intervention in Spain, this is essentially a
war between Spaniards. They are a proud and ob-
stinate and passionate people ; they do not, forget
wrongs, and they neither give nor expect mercy. It
takes a great deal of hatred to arouse a country to
civil war, but that hatred, which had its roots in the
last century and had been steadily accumulating dur-
ing this, finally exploded in July, 1936.
The war has engendered yet more bitterness, with
the death of more than a million Spaniards, and they
will not leave off until one side obtains a complete
victory with the unconditional surrender of the other.
Battles are contested with a ferocity inconceivable in
an international war; units will fight to the death
rather than be captured, feeling that they can expect
little generous treatment at the hands of their adver-
saries. This is due partly to the propaganda in which
both sides are saturated and partly to the fiery patriot-
ism of the Spaniard, which makes each side regard
its enemies as traitors to Spain and therefore worthy
of death. However, the treatment of prisoners of war
has improved since the first year of fighting.
Artillery, in particular, has not been able to play
in Spain the important part which it played in the
Great War and must play in any future war. Although
aviation and, to a lesser degree, tanks have been used
to supplement the deficiency in artillery, the para-
mount and deciding part in the war has been played
by the infantry. In the sixteenth century the Spanish
infantry were the pride of their country and the
terror of Europe. In this war they are showing once
again those qualities of courage, discipline and endur-
ance which made them famous as “the men who
walked over Europe” 400 years ago. It is to the speed,
tenacity and power of manoeuvre of his infantry rather
than predominance of material—much more apparent
than real —that Franco owes his success in this war.
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that the
brunt of the fighting in this war has been borne by
Spaniards, and not, as is too often stated, by
foreigners. Such statements are rightly resented by
the Spanish people on both sides as an insult to their
patriotism and their courage.
General Dawes Applauds Chamberlain.
[Condensed from a speech by General Dawes, for-
merly Vice-President of the United States and close
associate of General Pershing in the Great War,
addressing the Chicago Association of Commerce.]
“It is my contention that Americans in general
fail to understand how much the suffering and
enormous human losses of the World War meant to
the peoples of the major countries in Europe, because
as an Associate Power in the war our army casualties
were so few as compared with those of the Allies.
“European peoples are now in the play of a
tremendous force —fear and hatred of war. In the
grasp of this force are the dictators and the dictatorial
Governments as well as the democratic Governments,
and if the result of its operation is not eventually en-
during peace in Europe then the world may despair
of any civilisation hereafter not destroying itself by
war.
“There will possibly be a continuance of minor
military outbreaks and rioting. I believe each Govern-
ment will have to make some concessions which will
so antagonise domestic minority groups that only the
clear alternative of war will bring about ratification,
but when war is the clear alternative agreement in
order to ensure peace will follow.
“As far as the Munich settlement is concerned
I range myself strongly on the side of the British
Prime Minister. I can see that to all those in this or
any other country who believe in attempting to im-
pose ethical systems upon foreign Governments by
force it seemed a cowardly surrender. But to the great
majority of the peoples of Europe who had been cruci-
fied in the Great War, Mr. Chamberlain’s act was
that of a great and fearless leader. It meant to them
that he had helped to save them from destruction ;
that he had the moral courage, in seeking their pro-
tection from war, to accept the risk of great decisions ;
that his patience bespoke not cowardice but nobility
of soul and tenacity of high purpose, and that there
had come to them, largely through his efforts, hope
of an enduring peace.
“In this interpretation of Mr. Chamberlain and
the Munich Agreement, arising subconsciously from
the emotions and instincts of the masses, and far
different from the fallible current judgments of the
human mind, I believe history will concur. And in
that interpretation, springing from their hearts and
consciences, I believe a great number of Americans
now concur, among whom I am proud to be
numbered.”
Jewish Home in Siberia.
(Condensed from London “Times.”)
The plan in 1928 was to settle a region of some-
thing over 30,000 square kilometres in Siberia with
Jews from the Ukraine, White Russia and other parts
of the Soviet Union, who were to establish collective
farms and State farms, to exploit the rich mineral
resources and the timber of the region, and gradually
to create a self-supporting economic unit.
The region then had a population of about 34,000 ;
these included virtually no Jews. The area suitable
for arable land was estimated at about 5,000,000 acres,
of which only about 250,000 acres was then under
cultivation. It was planned to settle 100,000 Jews on
this land within 10 years, that is, by 1938.
Settlement proceeded slowly. By 1931 only about
7000 Jewish immigrants had gone to the region, but
then the first industrial enterprises were started. By
the end of 1933 some 19,000 had gone to the locality,
but of these about 12,000 had “disappeared,” and only
7000 were left.
Information of a general nature on the subject
is copious but very untrustworthy ; statistics for the
last five years are extremely scanty.
The region was officially raised to the status of
“an autonomous Jewish Republic” in 1934, and fresh
efforts were made to convert it into a home for the
surplus Jews, not only of the Soviet Union, but also
of Poland, Lithuania, America and even Palestine. To
those countries invitations were sent for suitable Jews
to come and colonise the Far Eastern Jewish Republic.
The meagre official figures show that during the
next few years the influx of settlers was about 6000
a year. There must also, however, have been a great
exodus, since the total Jewish population of the
Republic appears now to be fewer than 20,000 persons,
and of these approximately three-quarters have settled
not on the land but in the new town of Birobijan,
the population of which exceeds 20,000.
The Soviet system has not succeeded in inducing
Jews to establish and maintain farms and agriculture
in the locality. The non-Jewish inhabitants of the
Republic outnumber the Jews there by about three to
one, and the proportion of Jews is likely to become
even less, because the immigrants into the territory
are now largely non-Jews imported to man the farms
and cultivate the soil of farms deserted or avoided by
the Jewish immigrants for whom they were intended.
The only possible conclusion is that the Soviet experi-
ment has so far failed.
Building Up Britain’s Air-strength.
l“On the sea, on land, and in the air, as a result of
the last two or three years’ intensive drive, Great Britain
is a long way on the road to resuming its ancient
strength. If trouble came, and there was a temptation
in any quarter to think that this country would not
give a good account of itself, those holding that opinion
would make a bad mistake.” — Lord Halifax, speaking
at Hull this month. The article here condensed from
London “Times” indicates the tremendous advance in
building up John Bull’s air-strength.]
Attempts are being made in many countries to
estimate the monthly output of aircraft in Great
Britain. Though guesses are unlikely to tempt the
Government to depart from its rule of secrecy, it
can be said that these estimates are very much on the
low side.
In two years from when first steps were taken
towards increasing the strength of the Royal Air
Force the labor strength of the industry rose from
about 30,000 to 80,000 men. To-day it is much higher,
because extra firms have been drawn into the
business of manufacturing aircraft, and sub-contract-
ing is being undertaken by some 3500 outside firms.
Slowness in the rise of the output rate in the
initial stages is to be explained by the necessity of
expanding the industry many times. This required the
building of new factories and the employment of large
numbers of men, most of whom had to be trained.
There was no really comparable industry on which the
aircraft firm might draw for its labor. Men who came
into the industry had to be used carefully to supple-
ment a core of workers who were already accustomed
to the methods ; and -the rate of expansion depended
in most cases on the size of this nucleus.
The back of all this work has now been broken.
All over the country can be seen new factories that
are either in full production or are in rapid process
of reaching that level.
The air expansion programme called for one of
the biggest engineering schemes attempted since the
war, and one of the biggest which has ever presented
itself. The cost is high, as is sufficiently shown in the
fact that, while the Air Estimates in 1935 were
£22,000,000, this year they will amount to something
like £200,000,000. The needs led to big orders, of
which that given to Lord Nuffield for 1000 Spitfires
over and above those already on order from the de-
signing firm is a typical example. Thousands of other
machines were ordered in large batches. The wheels
of the industry are now turning smoothly and quickly,
and to-day it can be truly said that the Air Force is
rapidly moving forward from strength to strength.
“A Nation of Madame Tabouises.”
(Condensed from a London “Daily Mail” article by
C. Knox.)
Round the world reverberates a sound as if moun-
tains had come crashing to earth. But no proud moun-
tains have fallen. Is then the noise merely the sound
of the knees of the British nation knocking together?
One and all of us would at once indignantly deny
such a possibility as being beyond all the realms of
reason, and entirely out of keeping with our great
tradition. As indeed it is. But though this noise is
not caused by the trembling of British knees, there
are nations on this troubled earth to-day who, with
their ears to the ground, ascribe the faintest tremor of
our island to a panic-stricken collapse.
It makes me sick and tired, this unmanly appre-
hension. All the weapons of a mighty nation, all the
ships, the aeroplanes, the bombs, the gas and the
engines of death will not arm Fear.
It is a fine thing—a pretty thing indeed! —if we
are to become a nation of Mme. Tabouises. They are
fools to read the agonised end of the world into
what may be and is, for all we know, but the begin-
ning of a new world of peace and understanding.
It is not the fellow who in a war would have to
man the front line who is quivering like an aspen leaf.
It never is. It never will be.
Anti-jitters Serum.
Mr. R. S. Hudson, Secretary to the Depart-
ment of Overseas Trade, as reported in London
“Daily Mail” (4/2/’39):—
“I am encouraged to think that confidence
in the future of peace is increasing in Europe
by the fact that my department has already
received notices from a record number of
overseas buyers of their intention to visit Eng-
land for the British Industries Fair.
“Buyers do not come from overseas if they
think that war is going to interrupt their pur-
chases or prevent purchases they make being
delivered. The fact that they are coming in
record numbers this year is one of the best
auguries for a successful 12 months that I have
yet come across.”
Mr. Hudson said that “one of the main pos-
sible occasions for war” to-day was the per-
sistence of a belief in certain circles that
Britain would not stand the overwhelming
shock of war.
“I am convinced that that opinion is wrong,”
he said.
“But that did not absolve us as a Govern-
ment or as a people from straining every nerve
to place ourselves in as good a. position as
possible to resist such a shock."


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Before he was taken to Melbourne
Unishak (Shakuni-Lady Adelaide) won
thrice in succession in Adelaide. The
first race was a seven-furlong handi-
cap, and the brown gelding led all the
way, though the time, lmin. 27sec., was
nothing out of the ordinary. In the
third, the Greenhill Handicap at Victoria
Park, Unishak cut the course record for
five furlongs to 59sec., after running wide
at the home turn and being eased up
over the last 50 yards—he won by five
lengths. In the Oakleigh Plate Unishak
paced it with Brazandt, and, though in-
terfered with by the Sydney flier so
badly as to have some of the steam
knocked out of him, he bounded away
from Brazandt. At the end, Aurie’s Star
and Pamelus beat him, but he did not
finish badly; and with more work and
an uninterrupted passage he ought to give
his backers a good run for their money in
the Newmarket. He is The Bulletin’s
choice.
* * * *
When Ajax returned to scale after win-
ning the Caulfield Futurity Stakes some-
one in the members’ stand shouted:
“Three cheers for Ajax!” Already there
had been a storm of applause, but the
invitation to “Hip, hip, hurrah! ” was
enthusiastically responded to.
Ajax thoroughly deserved the unusual
demonstration. He carried lOst. 61b. on
a rain-soaked track (because of that the
Ring consented to take 9 to 4), and ran
seven furlongs in lmin. 28|sec. This
time was 4sec. outside Winooka’s course
record ; but earlier in the afternoon High
Caste, esteemed the best juvenile in Aus-
tralasia, took lmin. 17sec. for six fur-
longs.
Over the final five furlongs the Futurity
was virtually a match between Ajax and
Pamelus. With a pull of 121 b. in weight
the Queensland-bred stallion made a great
race of it until they entered the straight.
Then Ajax began to draw away.
Just before he reached the furlong post
Badger gave his mount a kick, and Ajax
achieved his greatest triumph by reaching
the judge with three lengths to spare.
Pamelus tired, and was only half a head
in advance of the fast-finishing El Golea,
whose Newmarket prospects were en-
hanced by this display. „
With 16 wins on end and £27,475 in
stakes, Ajax now is eighteenth on the
list of great winners in Australasia. He
will go much farther before the season
ends, but, of course, can never approach
Phar Lap’s total of £66,738. That in-
cluded two very rich handicaps, and ap-
parently the owners of Ajax are concen-
trating on easy money at weight-for-age.
Frank McGrath fed cases of apples to
Amounis during his racing career. Franic
Musgrave rewarded Ajax with an outsize
carrot after the Futurity Stakes. Miss
Mary Baillieu, whose uncle is a part-
owner of the chestnut, supplemented the
trainer’s gift with a rosy apple.
Despite incessant rain—which they wel-
comed after months of drought—Caul-
field patrons had an enjoyable afternoon.
They saw Ajax at his best, and witnessed
the smashing success of High Caste
(Bulandshar-The Begum) in a division of
the juvenile event.
High Caste is a topnotcher. James
Scobie pronounced the colt the nicest-
looking horse in Melbourne; “he’s really
lovely,” exclaimed Scobie. The veteran
trainer expressed the opinion that High.
Caste would measure Bin. below the knee.
The ease with which High Caste scored
proved that he is as good as he looks.
After even money had been laid the colt
firmed to 5 to 4 on. Clearing away from
Meteorical (33 to 1) at the turn, High
Caste was unextended to beat that rival
by three lengths, with Mitosis, another
outsider, in third position.
First division of the Alma Stakes was
won by John Wren’s Wilson, who, like
High Caste, was bred in Maoriland. Both
Historian and Cyclist were preferred to
Wilson, the last-named starting at 11
to 2. With a phenomenal finishing run
Wilson defeated Hall Mark’s brother,
Pure Gold, by half a neck.
When High Caste and Wilson meet
there should be a thrilling struggle. Wil-
son is lazy. Bailey told Frank Musgrave
that the Siegfried colt wouldn’t extend
himself until struck with the whip ; he
then swept through the field with a light-
ning rush.
Pure Gold’s downfall was another set-
back for Jack Holt, but the Mordialloc
trainer is hoping that Nuffield, star mem-
ber of his string, may be able, after all,
to run in the St. Leger at Randwick. Dis-
tinct improvement in the physical condi-
tion of Nuffield is apparent. It had been
intended to throw him out of training
until towards the spring of next year.
Best odds about Spear Chief for the
Woodcliff Handicap were 6 to 4. Mc-
Carten’s vigorous riding enabled him to
squeeze home by half a head from Tem-
pest (7 to 1), but many blamed McCarten
for allowing Tempest and Caragona to
obtain a three lengths’ break coming
to the turn. George Price has Spear
Chief in splendid trim.
Lou Robertson landed the St. Clair
Trial with imported Landlaw, who has
made a rapid advance in condition since
his debut in the Standish Handicap on
New Year’s Day. In an open betting
race Landlaw figured at twelves. National
(tens) beat Landlaw by half a neck, but
palpable interference had taken place, and
on a protest being entered the platings
were reversed. O. Phillips was disquali-
fied for six months for alleged foul rid-
ing. In 1936 Phillips won the Melbourne
Cup on Wo tan.
Disdain, another from Maoriland, was
supported from fives down to threes for
the Hawksburn Handicap, and registered
a clear-cut win. Hawksburn Handicap
form often has had an important bearing
on Newmarket prospects. Though only
three years old, Disdain is a smart filly,
and her chance over the “straight six”
next Saturday is highly regarded.
The Stanley Steeple, won by Gaskill
at 16 to 1, was the only really good result
for ringmen. Owned in Tasmania, Gas-
kill has been in Melbourne for two
seasons. This was his first success on
the mainland.
* * * *
“J,”: A Jeremiah I know is going
to back something to beat Ajax in his
next race. His argument is that the
champion was distressed after the
Futurity, and that the effects of hump-
ing lOst. 61b. through Caulfield slush,
matched against horses like Pamelus and
El Golea, will take more than a few
days to wear off. It may be so; but
Chatham surmounted greater difficulties
without suffering damage when he car-
ried lOst. 41b. to victory in the Don-
caster on Easter Saturday, 1934. The
going was as bad as it was at Caulfield
last Saturday, the distance was a furlong
longer (time for the mile was 1.40+),
and there were 14 starters —in Ajax’s
race there were seven. Four days later
Chatham, jumping out of his skin, beat
Kuvera and Rogilla pointless in the All-
Aged Stakes, and he wound up the meet-
ing by doing the same to Golden Wings
(second in the Epsom) and Closing Time
(winner of the Villiers) in the Cropper
Plate. And he wasn’t so robust a type
as Ajax.
* * * *
That there is nothing wrong with
Manolive was shown when he galloped
a mile and a quarter at Epsom in 2min.
9|sec., the last mile in lmin. 42|sec. If he
doesn’t twist a plate or try to run Ajax
off his legs he should make a much better
showing against the chestnut next time
they meet. There are no points in
attempting to make a champion crack
up.
* * * sic
Two-year-old races with a maximum
weight of 9st. are all right if brisk com-
petition can be got. It was absent from
the Juvenile Handicap at Kensington
(Sydney), and in the result E. J. Watt
collected £2OO for letting Waireka have
an exercise gallop. The betting was 7 to
1 on Waireka, 12 to 1 bar one. The
A.J.C. committeeman’s filly won by four
lengths, and cut the race record (distance,
5-2- furlongs) to lmin. Bsec.
W. F. Ross, M.L.A. for Cootamundra
and former polo player, races a few
horses as a hobby. St. Robert (Cistercian-
Pukka Lass) carries his colors, and won
the Jumpers’ Flat for him at 6 to 4. St.
Robert was ridden by Gollop. Gollop
did not ask him to gallop until half the
journey (a mile) had been traversed. At
that point St. Robert was lengths behind
Silver Coat, but the latter tired, and the
favorite won easily from the pacemaker
and Lord Sun. Cush’s gelding looked
burly, and will not be at tens next time.
Lawler, a promising apprentice, rode
Gymkhana to victory in the first divi-
sion of the Flying Welter. New tactics
were tried with Abbs’s gelding; he was
ridden patiently, instead of hell-for-
leather. He came home like the wind,
beating Belgravia and Lady Curia easily.
There were only a few pounds here and
there for Gymkhana, who started at 20
to 1. The bookie who tried to lay him
at 50 to 1 a few minutes before the start
must have had a skinner.
The second division also made the bag-
men glad they were fielding at Kensing-
ton. John Laird, who is owned by J.
-Carter, a Moree man, and is trained by
Max Laidlaw at Victoria Park, got up in
the last stride or two to down Senora and
Trimercian—who looked a fair thing
beaten. The roan horse Grey Derby was
made favorite. In front early, he weak-
ened in the run home, and finished
fourth. Behind him was the former Vic-
torian, Tuhitarata, backed from tens to
7 to 2. John Laird is by the Newmarket
winner Valiard out of a John L.D. mare.
He is a plain-looking four-year-old, but
evidently inherits a lot of speed.
Stuffy was withdrawn from the
Jumpers’ Flat and reserved for the Pro-
gressive Handicap, for which he was
backed at sevens. He won that race,
which doesn’t say much for the form,
since he was conceding lumps of weight
to the runner-up, Law King, and the
third horse, The Freak. He took charge
three furlongs from home and led along
the short straight. When raced by Dick
Wootton, Stuffy was a failure, but since
Miss N. D. Starr bought him he has been
a model of consistency, having won four
races and been placed on several occa-
sions. Galloping plays little part in his
training. He does a lot of road work,
and visits Centennial Park for exercise.
The best betting race of the day was
the Fourteen-two. Be Aero was favorite,
but could only run third to Beryl Joyce
and Ben Riz. The winner started at
sevens. She is a three-year-old, and it
was her fourth start.
Hedonic, a Sydney Cup candidate, beat
another, Edible, in the Kensington Han-
dicap, but was lucky; Edible was almost
down as they approached the two-fur-
long post. Rosante was third, and Love
from Maggie fourth. The Blizzard was
bothered by the track, and dropped
back after being prominent for nearly
a mile. Hedonic was supported from
fives to 7 to 2. He was well ridden by
the veteran Roy James.
* * * *
Pastoralist C. J. Withycombe, who won
a Sydney Cup with Broad Arrow, has
hopes of doing it again with Proceed.
Proceed won the Trial Stakes at Rose-
bery in the style of a stayer, and he is
bred to stay, being a four-year-old stal-
lion by Pantheon-Recede. He has been
given plenty of time to mature.
* .* * *
Dermid, like Silver Ring, has—very
belatedly been retired. He was raced
on lease by Donohoe; the owner is
Hunter White, the A.J.C. committeeman.
Should committeemen give leases of
horses? There is nothing to prevent it
in Australia, though almost unheard of
in some States. In England it Simply
Isn’t Done.
* * * *
Allunga is to be ridden in his autumn
engagements by Darby Munro. His
owners, Hunter Bowman and Harry
Oakes —Hunter Bowman trains him—
believe that the old horse will test the
stayers ip the weight-for-age races. He
is to run at Warwick Farm on April 1,
and he generally goes well there. Gold
Rod is another who will sport silk at the
Farm. He is expected to win the Rawson
Stakes at Rosehill on March 25, as De-
faulter will not run and Ajax is very
unlikely to be among the nominations.
* * * *
For people who improve their minds
by buying that intellectual organ the
Sydney “D.T.,” “ ‘Martian,’ a prominent
city astrologer, reads the stars and in-
terprets their influence on the races,”
and he did it on “Rosebery” morning.
Simpletons and others born under the
sign of Aries were promised “a splendid
day” ; of Cancer, “a favorable day”; of
Sagittarius, “an excellent day”; of
Aquarius, “a good day for speculation”;
of Pisces, “an excellent betting day,’”
an adjective being thrown in without
extra charge. Boobs born under other
signs of the zodiac were warned to go
easy, but Virgo and Capricorn as well
as Pisces mugs were advised that No. 8
was their lucky number for the first
race, though in the case of Taurus the
lucky number for that race was 9. The
seer went on to certify that “the unseen
influence in racing is undoubtedly the
effect that the planets have on each
horse.” Then he gave a list of “horses
which astrology indicates are apt to be
fortunate in each race”—there were
seven. He got the first winner, Con-
sonance, No. 2 in the book, and 7 to 4
on. He didn’t get another. Query, what
star glimmered at the' nativity of punters
who paid 275. for Emperor mine shares
now saleable round 95.? Jiminy, Mumbo-
Jumbo or Mungana?
* * * *
Defaulter has made an excellent im-
pression on Randwick trainers and other
watchers of gallops. He arrived in fairly
good condition, considering that his
trainer, F. A. Roberts, had gone easy
with him at Riccarton after his Auck-
land Cup victory, and it won’t take
long to get him in proper racing shape.
The programme mapped out for De-
faulter comprises the Chipping Norton
Stakes at Warwick Farm, the Autumn
Plate, the All-Aged Plate and the Cum-
berland Plate at Randwick. The colt
is also in the Sydney Cup, and in the
Randwick Plate on the fourth day of
the A.J.C. round, but a start in either
will depend, first, on what the handi-
capper gives him, and, second, on how
he stands up to his racing. All going
well, he will tackle Ajax in the All-
Aged Plate, at least.
On the day Defaulter made his first
appearance on Randwick tracks a
humble relation of the same age, Post-
man, by Defoe-Brown Paper, won a
five-furlong race at Menangle Park. He
beat nothing of any account, but his
trainer, Pat Nailon, was rather pleased
with his showing. There are not many
of Defoe’s offspring in Australia, but
one, Footmark, is reckoned a handsome
investment by his Perth owners, the
brothers Mills. They are bringing over
from Maoriland a yearling colt by
Defoe-Oread ; he cost them 800 guineas,
after 700 guineas had been refused at
the sales.
* * * *
“0.H.”: In 1912 Desire, owned in
Tasmania, won the Newmarket Handi-
cap. So far horses from the island State
have not distinguished themselves in the
Australian Cup. Mac O’Roni, its repre-
sentative in this year’s Cup, has a staying
pedigree. Marconigram, his sire, was the
sire of Marabou. Belle o’ the Scots,
the dam, has Cyllene blood on both
sides. She was got in England but foaled
in Australia.
(<Continued on page 32.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Newmarket: Unishak, 1; El
Golea, 2 ; Amiable, 3. .
King’s Cup: - Ajax, if started.
Otherwise, Manolive; next,
Marauder.
St. Leger: Respirator; next,
Tempest.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: High
Caste ; next, Wilson.
Brunswick Stakes: Panax; next,
Pageant.
Autumn Handicap: Marauder ;
next, Ortelle’s Star.
Bourke Handicap: Hamurah;
next, Panax.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Mosaic ; next, Lady Curia.
St. George Handicap: Herarde
or Sidcup ; next, Jocular.
Moorefield Handicap: Herarde
or Sidcup ; next, Constant.
Flying Welter: Trimmer; next,
Grey Derby.


COST LESS TO OWN
because they last longer,
crank faster,
don't let you down
Willard Storage Battery Company of Australia Pty. Limited,
Manchester Unity Building, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia


euujetke TRUTH,
KIK
P|l«
iigs
Price,
9/6
u ith a
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Either your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. Have complete confidence in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate—the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed
Accurate —
Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
flat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic.
Under the Whip
Mac O’Roni, that Tasmanian candidate
for the Australian Cup (B. 22/2/’39), gave
a rather pleasing display in the Nonga
Handicap at Moonee Valley last Wed-
nesday. Starting second favorite, he
finished very resolutely in third position.
Royal Jubilee (fives) beat Barametric (15
to 1) by half a head.
There is no more improved galloper
in Australia than Royal Jubilee. During
a period of less than three months the
Beau Fils stallion has registered seven
wins—six of them in a row. He is
almost a full brother to Historian, on
whom “Darcy” Eccles and his friends
made a sensational plunge in a division
of the Federal Stakes for juveniles on
Oakleigh Plate day.
Cecil Godby secured the services of
O’Sullivan, the Sydney jockey, for Bara-
metric at the Valley.. But for Royal
Jubilee they would have landed a nice
coup. Barametric ought to capture a
minor handicap at one of the autumn
meetings. Bred by Percy Miller, he is
by Baralong from Mimic, by Magpie
from a sister to King Ingoda.
Jack Holt is having a distinctly bad
run of luck as a trainer. Hall Mark’s
juvenile brother, Pure Gold, let him
down on Oakleigh Plate day, and an-
other heavy betting venture came undone
when Glynt (Gay Lothario-Savate)
missed a place at the Valley on Wednes-
day.
Glynt is owned by Mrs. L. R. Buxton,
for whom Holt won numerous rich stakes
with High Syce, Highland, Heros and
other horses. The race for which Glynt
was backed down to 11 to 8 went to
Chaldean, a Portofino colt trained at
Williamstown by Bob Sinclair, who was
associated with the Oakleigh Plate
triumph of Aurie’s Star.
Later in the afternoon Sinclair saddled
up Caucasian for a division of the
Morang Trial, but the colt shaped poorly,
and at the close of the afternoon he was
handed over to Fred Hoysted to be made
into a jumper.
Caucasian is one of two Pantheon
colts that were purchased by “Mortimer
Alson” and E. A. Underwood in Sydney
two years ago. The other is Swetten-
ham, a brother to Panto. Both are
black in color. Brunette, the dam of
Caucasian, is by Magpie from Winsome
Queen, a sister to Artilleryman.
Fact of first and second places in the
Oakleigh Plate being filled by Adelaide
sprinters contributed to Glentor (King
of Mirth-Tessier) being made a 6-to-4
favorite for the Keera Welter at Moonee
Valley. He had all the good luck imagin-
able in running, and led into the straight,
but lost on the post to Softstead
(twelves). On this form the Newmarket
prospects of Glentor seem negligible.
Spruce, from F. W. Hoysted’s stable,
developed lameness on the way to the
post for the second division of the Syd-
enham Handicap at Moonee Valley. She
had to be withdrawn, and betting com-
plications followed.
Stewards ordered that bets made before
2.10 p.m. (time of withdrawal) should
be paid at totalisator odds. They acted
under a new rule, formulated because of
bookmakers suffering an injustice when
Evening Mist won a Flemington race from
which Soltoi was withdrawn after the
remainder of the field had lined up.
On that occasion fielders had to return
Soltoi money and pay full odds to
supporters of Evening Mist —an obvious
unfairness. In principle the correct thing
might be to declare all bets off and have
fresh wagering, but with nine events
already on the card that was hardly
practicable.
“Munni”: Isaac Moore, dead in
Q ueensland > was one of those men who
, ever , P, the mselves forward. He
stayed . in the same . places, followed the
sam^. cherished the same friends
1 * , lte * Hls whole tangible ambit
J^ as ±uUy sumn ]ansed m the Brisbane
Sch^ 01 Annals: Baram-
bah Station-Committee, Q.T.C.” Yet
he gave the impression of living through
a wide and varied career. Isaac Moore
took oyer Barambah, on the Burnett,
| rom Bis father, and had some of its
* a nds to the last. He built up a fine
Hereford stud, and was about the
[f 8 * the old Queensland horse-
breeding squires who hated to race
Worses that did not come out of
their own studs. He bred and raced
extensively, but when others had hun-
dred? °n his horses he often had
nothing. When he did bet it was merely
a pound or two, “for the fun of the
thing.” His St. Patrick won the New-
market at Ascot (Q.), and Inglewood
gave him both the St. Leger and the
Queensland Cup, and came second in
the Queensland Derby. Isaac Moore
had been on the Q.T.C. committee for
"Stick to it, boy — they're Weakening !”
many years. He married a niece of
Arthur Morgan, once Queensland
Premier.
* * * *
As a means of promoting the higher
education, the exhibition of Phar Lap’s
hide and heart must be written down a
failure. At an A.B.C. general-knowledge
test one of the questions was, “Who was
Phar Lap’s sire?” The bright lad to
whom it was put had his answer pat—
“ Heroic.”
* * * *
Scobie, like Pay ten (B. 22/2/’39) had
no scruples about running two-year-olds
in open company. With Charles Stuart,
about the first galloper that E. E. D.
Clarke ever owned, he put up a mile
record at Randwick in weight-for-age
company, Charles Stuart then being only
a two-year-old. And they used to run
two-year-olds in the Doncaster. Briseis
scored with sst. 71b. in 1876 and Crossfire
with 6st. 21b. in 1886. Briseis trained on
to win a Victoria Derby and Melbourne
Cup, while Crossfire was a big stud suc-
cess, one of her progeny being Alawa.
* * * *
At the annual election of officers of
City Tattersall’s, Sydney, Tom O’Brien
was defeated for committeeman by D. B.
Moloney, the solicitor. O’Brien, a book-
maker, took his defeat in good part;
indeed, he was the first to congratulate
his conqueror and to allow that Moloney
has little to learn about the game.
* * * *
Ajax now is being raced with a three-
piece bit, which Harold Badger con-
siders gives him greater control of the
champion. This device has been referred
to as the “Donoghue” T>it, but isn’t known
as such in England, whence it was intro-
duced some years ago. James Scobie
used it on Hua, who narrowly vanquished
Ajax in the Victoria Derby of 1937.
Frank Musgrave has a mare called
Court Gossip, who hangs out with far
greater obstinacy than Ajax. The
three-piece bit failed with Court Gossip,
and Musgrave has decided to handle her
with a “cheeker” of the type that he
used 60 years ago. Blunted tacks are
embedded in this “cheeker,” which was
commonly employed by old-time trainers.
* * * *
In a two-year-old race at Menangle
Park (N.S.W.) a sterling exhibition of
horsemanship was given by Cracknell.
His mount, Eastbourne (Eastern
Monarch-Osuki San), was the medium
of a starting-price commission, and those
who placed it collected at tens; but in
the circumstances they were lucky in
their choice of a boy. Few jockeys
could have done what Cracknell did.
He rode the nag bareback for three
furlongs, the saddle having slipped, and
got the last ounce out of him with hands
and heels. Craeknells have been asso-
ciated with the Australian Turf for some-
thing like 70 years. It was in 1879 that
Sammy Cracknell rode Darriwell, win-
ner of the Melbourne Cup. The present
Cracknell is in request for riding green
two-year-olds—a severe test of jockey-
ship—but nowadays he doesn’t get nearly
as many good opportunities as he got
in the days of Claro (Epsom and Can-
tala, 1922). However, he was on Capris
when that good mare, now at the stud,
won the 1936 Epsom.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Henneberry on a Foul
Staged at Sydney Arena, it all began
nice and pleasant, and, indeed, rather
pretty. Fred Henneberry, scaling list.
21b., got into the ring enwrapped in a
smartly-tailored cream dressing-gown,
with green piping, and silver-glinting zip-
fasteners from wrist to elbow. It did
not detract from but added emphasis to
the fighting visage of its wearer. Sitting
in his corner he looked the complete
fighter; the personification of Stoush.
Opposite, the husky Californian Red
Farmer (list. s|lb.) looked the part of
his surname as much as his sobriquet.
His kind can be discovered driving a
plough along, swinging a squaring axe
or bullocking as Rugby forwards any-
where between Wilson’s Promontory and
the Cape. He has one striking advantage
over many imports—youth. He looked
as strong and vigorous as a bull-buffalo,
and, as it turned out, there was to be
something buffalo-like in his perform-
ance.
Over the first couple of rounds Red
looked a bit slow to be reasonably safe
in the same ring with a spitfire fighter of
Fred’s quality. Going in crouched, head
forward, smothered up, Fred carried the
fight to him from the start, got inside
his defence with ease, and beat him in
such infighting as ensued. Fred also
scored freely with light left jabs to the
mouth, and in the second round let go
a couple of tidy rights. Of more sig-
nificance, though it didn’t look particu-
larly out of the ordinary at the time, was
a typical smothered-up attack of Fred’s
in which his head went close to being
the leading weapon. Hitherto Red had
fought with his head high in the air;
now he, too, crouched a bit, with head
down and out-thrust.
From here on things happened. Red,
who’d evidently been restraining a natural
urge, began to swing ’em, as most of the
present crop of Americans do. That
would have been right into Fred’s book
if only Red’s control of aim had been
a bit better or his idea of what con-
stitutes a legitimate target had been a
shade less expansive. A left rip, maybe
intended for the body, landed a foot
or so low, and Red leapt for’ard after
it, head down and out. Fred was violently
knocked back against the ropes ; there
was head-to-head mauling, and when ref.
Lacey got ’em apart the local lad’s bad
left eye was laid open across the top,
blood filling the eye and trickling down
his cheek.
Mr. Lacey addressed some remarks to
Red; but, as has been commented on
here before, with Fred’s present manner
of fighting—face well smothered up and
the top of his head jutting forward —
head-bumps look practically unavoidable
—accidental ones, if nothing worse. In
any case, if this sort of thing is done
it might as well be well done, and Red
did it superlatively. As Mr. Lacey waved
them to box on, Red charged in again
with his head by far his best weapon.
With his eye now bleeding freely, Fred
was in trouble. The local lad still scored
with rights to the jaw, but the hand
writing on the wall was already started
on Finis when the round ended. Still,
when the bottle-holders had done their
work, Fred looked in fighting shape
again, bar the bulging flush above his left
optic. The Californian across the ring
sat unmarked and apparently bursting
for action.
The crowd were on their feet when
the pair of them shaped up for the fourth.
As they came together Fred hooked home
a clinking left to the ear, warded off
Red’s heavy swings or made ’em miss
him, and snapped a dandy right to the
point. This lot had about as much effect
on Red as houseflies on a buffalo ; and
now, like a buffalo, the Californian
charged once more, bearing Fred, back
against the ropes with what must have
bumped like a ball of ironstone heaving
into his face. Mr. Lacey yanked them
rudely apart, and spoke with improving
frankness to Red ; but a second later the
performance was on again, with a low
left rip thrown in for variety.
The local lad doubled up in apparent
agony. While Mr. Lacey warned Red off,
Fred staggered across to his comer, hold-
ing his injuries with one hand and indi-
cating with the other that he’d had a
bellyful of it. Mr. Lacey came after
him, and Fred, being apparently in a
hopeless state, was declared the winner.
At that pandemonium broke loose.
There was a surge out of the Californian


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
v %
A
> '==
- m
i3£
T^ania
EAL holiday
Flowers, Fruit,
Scenery, History
Tasmania undoubtedly is the Garden
State, the Scenic Wonderland, the
ideal holiday Island. And the Tas-
manian Govt. Tourist Dept, provides
the utmost variety of tour itineraries
to ensure your enjoyment and
travel comfort.
Decide now to call or write for details and
literature and plan your next holiday in the
lovely "air-conditioned" State!
W&M:
: ll
i MB
A glimpse of Mi. Ida and Lake St. Clair.
Take your Camera. Enter for
Tasmanian Photographic
Competition. CASH PRIZE?
NO ENTRANCE PEE!
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST DEPT.,
Hobart
Sydney
Melbourne . .
, Macquarie and Murray Streets
. Challis House, 4 Martin Place
“The Block,” 286 Collins Street
Perth
Adelaide . .
Brisbane ..
. . A.M.P. Building, William Street
l2 Pirie Street
196 Adelaide Street
runurunte
ra_i
\
&/J vw
m
Since•■ ■
11765
I The foundation of the House of Hennessy's
has a romantic rather than a businesslike
setting. Richard Hennessy, a wounded
soldier of the "Irish Brigade," stationed in
Cognac in 1765, finding the local product to
his liking, saw the possibilities of a great
enterprise.
Adopting France as his country, and Cognac
as his home, he started an industry that has
passed in sequence through six generations
of the Hennessy family. The result of 174
years of unceasing activity to give the world
the purest and most delightful brandy is
adequately expressed in Hennessy's to-day.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles, Half
Bottles, Quarter Bottles, and Eighth Bottles
Joint Sole Agents for N.S.W.
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
HARBOTTLE BROWN AND CO. PTY. LTD.
h
☆ ☆ ☆
BRANDY
corner; from both sides bottleholders
leapt in ; Red was on his feet evidently
ready to take on the world ; Fred leapt
forward with somewhat astonishing
agility, but shortly returned to his corner
and sat there watching, with blood
streaming down his face, while some 20
or 30 fought out a world championship
heavyweight Donnybrook in the ring—a
great show while it lasted.
The strongest possible comment on
the scrap that led up to this momentarily
all-in mill was provided by the mob
when the shindy had been got in hand.
It cheered Fred! —significant because,
whatever high opinion may be held of
Fred as a fighter, he could hardly be
described as a popular favorite.
Farrington on Points
Frank Farrington, the Sydney feather-
weight, proved too good for Harry Fields,
the Victorian, in the main contest at West
Melbourne on Wednesday night. The
Sydney youth gave a capital display of
two-fisted boxing, delivering his punches
smartly, and often with power.
Hall Again Loses
In what amounted to a repeat perform-
ance of their Sydney encounter, Jackie
Wilson (Bst. 13J1b.) beat Joe Hall (9st.
£lb.) over 12 rounds at Melbourne
Stadium. Again the little darkie made
the fight, plugging away in his busy
fashion at the Australian, who fought
as if conserving his energy to sustain him
in his old age.
After the Sydney scrap on identical
lines, it was evident that Hall had it in
him to beat the American, but never on
points. Hall is a solid hitter, but seems
lacking in the will to win, or some such
quality. Against a weaker boy that’s all
right, and Hall has many times won
respect for his refusal to damage a beaterf
lad unduly; but this has got him into
the habit of fighting only in spasms, and,
unless a knockout happens, a busy
points-scrapper like this vest-pocket-size
darkie will beat him every time.
Ins and Outs
It rained all Thursday in Adelaide,
and, winning the toss for S.A. on Friday
morning, Bradman put the Victorians in
on a wicket which, as someone said, was
“sweating visibly.” But it played weil
enough for the visitors, batting methodi-
cally, to have 284 on the board, with
four wickets in hand, at the end of the day;
Rigg 78, Gregory 33, Barnett 51 (he was
run out) and Hassett 84 n.o. On Satur-
day Hassett carried his score to 102
before Ward bowled him (Ward took
4 for 57); the total was 321. The South
Australians started shakily, and when
Thorn, the Northcote bowler (2 for 51),
got Bradman, c. F.-Smith (5), and Scott
(2 for 49) dismissed Badcock (14), the Vic-
torians looked certainties for the Shield.
Thorn was picked because Sievers con-
tracted ’flu in Brisbane and made a slow
recovery.
* * * *
Syd Smith, president of the N.S.W.C.A.,
is no admirer of cottonwool cricketers.
Fed up with rubbish about the harrow-
ing experiences to which last year’s
tourists were subjected, and the frightful
injuries which some of them suffered
(“cut fingers and broken fingernails”),
Syd pointed out at an association meet-
ing that those young men played 36
matches and had two days’ rest before
each Test. The 1921 team, he recalled,
played 45 matches in England and South
Africa, and had no rest before any
English Test. McDonald, an express,
bowled on that tour 1029 overs;
O’Reilly, alleged to have been grievously
overworked in 1938, bowled 709 overs
at medium—very medium —pace. Jack
Gregory’s achievement in 1921 was 870
overs, 1400 runs and whips of catches
in the slips. Jack used to run 20 yards
to the wickets and end with a kangaroo
leap, and he was more active in the field
than any 1938 man.
Smith’s comparison was made by way
of clinching a protest against the non-
appearance of some of the returned
wanderers in the N.S.W. team during the
season now closing. On this subject he
will have nearly everyone with him.
Their companions recognised their obli-
gations to Victoria and South Australia,
with the result that S.A. and Victoria
played in the Sheffield Shield final and
their associations have profited substan-
tially. Lacking Australian-Eleven men, the
N.S.W. team had a ghastly season, and
the association wound up with a serious
loss. Representative cricketers who, after
a trip to England, refuse to play for
their States in their own cities without
just cause should not be invited to play
again.
* * * *
“Hanuabada”: Neville Cardus should
take a trip to Papua next time he comes
out with a cricket team. The island
supplies some of the brightest and most
concise cricket reporting in the five
continents. It lacks the allegory in which
flowery English and imitative Australian
scribes wallow, but can any of the top-
notchers lead off better than this?
Sunday was a lovely day. The dickie
birds bounced from bough to bough, and
the ground had its north-west clothes on.
Students of botany were charmed with the
rich crop of paddy-weed, and kookarooks
(chickens) marred the landscape. In the
gunyah was glowing amber which quick-
ened the pulses of, and brought perspira-
tion from, 22 fine lads.
One team produced six ducks, and the
best bowler got eight for 16. His name
is Stopp.
* * * *
“D.”: When Oldfield takes up his
position behind the wickets in the Mel-
bourne match A.I.F. versus Old Inter-
nationals he will see half a dozen six-
footers in the field. Diggers are un-
decided whether Japk Gregory, Jack
Murray or Eric Bull is the tallest, and
plenty of drinks will be wagered on the
point. Had the war spared R. J. A.
Massie’s bowling arm and Tibby Cotter’s
life, the A.I.F. XI would have had at
least eight giants. After the war Eric
Bull played for the Mosman club. Watch-
ing him one day I heard a woman com-
ment to another on his fine appearance.
“Ah,” the other sighed, “since 1918 we
don’t see many young men like that
about.” Nor did you, nor do you nowa-
days—on cricket fields, anyway. I
wouldn’t make invidious comparisons for
the world, but the last lot of lads that
went to England were the homeliest-
looking team we ever sent there. There
were exceptions. Of one, a Bright Young
Thing, a fellow-passenger, was heard to
protest in the bathing pool, with the
frank insolence of modern girlhood, that
“he doesn’t strip well!”
Miscellaneous
In a Police Carnival race on Sydney
Showground, A. J. Stubbs, of the Eastern
Suburbs club, walked a mile in 6min.
18 l-ssec. Best world and Australian
figures are 6min. 25 4-ssec. and 6min.
28 l-ssec. respectively. Unfortunately
the International Amateur Athletic
Federation has dropped the distance
from the book, so if a record is claimed
for Stubbs it is unlikely to be allowed.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A 60-year-old contro-
versy came to a hdad when Justice
Martin ruled that the Melbourne Ex-
hibition trustees have no authority to let
their oval for sporting purposes—in effect,
that the citizen has the same right of
free access to the land surrounding the
great whale of a building as he has to
a sea beach. Position now is that trus-
tees are collecting rent on an oval that
legally doesn’t exist, lessees are collecting
bobs for admitting the public to non-
existent facilities, and people are paying
to look at a spectacle which, from the
law’s point of view, isn’t there. If a
private citizen is stopped at the gate he
is, ipso facto, being treated offensively.
The disputed patch is used for board-
track racing. There are several other
sports grounds, including some used for
League football, which come under
similar Acts.
* * * *
The question whether Harry Sunder-
land, the Queenslander, or Horrie Miller,
the Sydneysider, is to control the slipping
League Rugby game has apparently been
decided in favor of Sunderland, now
secretary-manager of Wigan. Sunderland
suggested a tour of N.S.W. and Queens-
land by his club, which is now doing well.
The Miller influence was thrown against
the proposal, but recommendations for
acceptance are to go from N.S.W. and Q..
to the Board of Control. Australian sport
has everything to gain and nothing to lose
from tours of this description. An
occasional visit from a representative
English county team, particularly the
Yorkshiremen, would be a welcome
change from the dreariness of Sheffield
Shield cricket.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Passed over, at 59, Frank
Glasgow, one of Gallagher’s Maoriland
Rugby team of 1905. He did not be-
come an international till he had turned
28—rather elderly for an All-Black —but,
a solid, rugged, strenuous forward, he
made a great impression in England, and
when he retired from the pack he proved
himself a very competent ref. A banker,
Glasgow was manager of the Te Aro
Bank of N.Z., and of huge proportions
when the call came.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Competition in S.A. eight-
oar championships used to be between
city clubs and Port Adelaide. Then
river clubs came in, and Murray Bridge
and others topped the bill for some
years. Now Port Pirie has finished the
course three miles, salt water, Port
Adelaide river—far ahead of three city
crews.
* * * *
Bob Skene, the Australian, is a mem-
ber of the British team of polo-players
now in the U.S.A. intent on capturing
the Westchester Cup; but a tragedy has
disorganised the combination. Captain
Roark had a fatal fall in a match at
Pasadena; his pony rolled over him
and he died of cerebral haemorrhage.
And Roark was the team’s best bet.


h
ĥ
AT THE.
WBWBUILI
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-6
“YOUNG BROODS OF VARIETY/’
featuring
BUSTER WEST & UUCIIXE PAGE
And 10 Other Acts.
“THE BIG FUN SHOW OF 1939.”
Ada Brown, Radcliffe and Rodgers.
13 Star Variety Acts.
Be Popular amongst Your Friends
ħ
You can play
the Accordeon
immedi a t e 1 y
without any
knowledge of
music. It is one
of the most
beautiful and
easiest instru-
ments to play.
SEND 5/- DE-
POSIT, and this
Accordeon will
be immediately
sent. If you like it pay the balance
at 3/- weekly for 12 weeks. A genuine
offer.
THE TALKERIES
Q.V. Buildings, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Heart of the North.”
Dick Foran, Patric Knowles, Gloria Dickson.
Full Technicolor exploitation of rugged
and beautiful scenery and a story which,
if a little old, is at least filled in with
plenty of vigorous action are the best
points of this current offering at Sydney
Plaza.
There’s no doubt that filmsmiths are
making canny use of color. Whenever a
story threatens to wear thin they switch
on a couple of nice green trees, a patch
of bright blue sky and several clouds.
It works quite effectively at present, but
soon the film-makers will need to invent
something else to make poor films
palatable.
The color in this offering is excellent.
Reds and yellows are still a little too
vivid, but other colors seem to be just
about perfect. Sky tints, water and
dark-green trees seem almost real, and
horses in rich living brown come out
even better than human hair. Some of
the men are a bit blue about the cheeks,
while others appear to be in urgent need
of a good dose of sunburn, but the ladies
would pass muster anywhere, particu-
larly one lass with bright blue eyes.
The camera roams along rivers, over
pine-clad hills, through forests and any-
where else where a spot of decent scenery
might be offering. There are some ex-
cellent shots of a waterfall and natural
reservoir being fired with fracteur;
others of a launch driving along a
narrow river, and still more of broad
panoramas taken from the air.
The story is what might be expected
to happen when a mounted policeman,
complete in nice red coat an’ all, gets
bumped off by a crowd of bad ’uns who
hold up a paddle-steamer to lift its
consignment of furs and gold. His cobber
barges off into the mountain fastness
to get ’em, which he does in due course
and after much excitement in the form of
great stoush, aerial derring-do, machine-
gunnery and bang-bang-bang galore.
There’s heart interest with rivalry
between city and country goils, the rural
lass being daughter of one arrested for
moider. Also in the piece is, objection-
able small cheild as daughter of moidered
cop and with a massive and likeable
tyke to protect her.
An f.a.q. entertainer all boiling up
into a regular storm of pother, subsiding
in time for fadeout clinch and drifting
pleasantly from the mind.
“Man’s Castle.”
Spencer Tracy, Loretta Young.
Although it shows evidence of some
simple sincerity and is a vehicle for
Tracy’s customary excellent acting and
tip-top support from Miss Young, this
current offering at Sydney Embassy falls
short, mainly because its makers, in seek-
ing to avoid exaggeration, have made a
oronounced understatement.
It is impossible to lose the illusion of
watching a screen-play ; and restraint has
been so effectively carried out that the
film will not come out to an audience.
A spectator must make an almost con-
scious effort to step into the film and
adjust his perspective to that of the
people in it to recognise what strength
there is in the production.
Elusiveness is increased by intro-
ducing Characters —each as a glaring
artifice to help the story—and dropping
them when they have served the purpose.
Add old-fashioned sentiment and ideal-
ism plus a certain obvious staging of
scenes, and the impression created is that
the film might have been made several
years ago.
Tracy is a drifter, a man of the slums
and gutters with intelligence limited by
his environment and a certain measure
of human kindness in his make-up. He
picks up a starving girl, gives her a feed,
takes her to his humpy and, mainly
through sympathy, goes through a form
of marriage with her. It means a new
life to the girl—some sort of haven from
a world that was getting the better of her
—but to Tracy it means nothing but an
act of kindness, a wife if he likes, but
certainly nothing to keep him tied down.
The true line of narrative centres
around the girl’s attempts to hold Tracy,
his fight against being so held, and then,
with his acquiescence, his struggle to hold
himself in spite of the urge to keep
moving. It is a slight and sketchy story
that doesn’t emerge very plainly from
the body of the film in spite of the great
efforts of the main players.
Tracy works his role for everything
it offers. His performance is natural
and submerged in character. Miss Young
plays to him excellently, and only slips
once or twice in suggesting that she is an
“ But I’ve talked about myself for an hour. Now YOU talk. Tell me
what you think of my new self-portrait.”
actress and not the actual person of her
role.
Walter Connelly and Glenda Farrell,
in supporting parts, are more of interest
as being well removed from their usual
paths than in being of any use to the
film.
“She Married an Artist”
John Boles, Luli Deste.
Though for a start it has Mr. Boles
singing and then spending a considerable
time discussing with Miss Deste the
merits of cold artichokes and what the
pair of them did in Paris several years
earlier, this support at Sydney Embassy
gathers a little speed about half-way
through and develops into a light stretch
of farcical comedy.
Mr. Boles is Amurrica’s leading maga-
zine illustrator; Miss Deste is the best
that Paris can produce in the way of
dress-designers. The pair of them, after
five years’ estrangement, meet in N’Yark
and decide to see what sort of job they
can make of matrimony.
Thereafter the film follows conven-
tional lines except that it sustains both
its farce and comedy to the finish. At
least it is to be hoped that it is farce,
otherwise Mr. Boles is guilty of some of
the most lamentable overacting this com-
mentator has witnessed. There are the
usual percussions between wife and
model, the usual separations and the
usual reconciliations all piling up until
the film’s allotted span is through.
Frances Drake as the model who’d like
to scratch wife’s eyes out, is quite good.
Miss Deste is an interesting newcomer
possessed of some intelligence.
Amateur Color Film.
Assistant sec. of the R.A.S. A. W.
Skidmore must have worked overtime
with his camera on his recent trip to the
U.S.A., the pleasant result a long travel
film in Technicolor screened at the Went-
worth Hotel last week.
In a few patches the film was a clinker.
There were some beautiful splashes of
flowers, good shots of scenery in the
Canadian mountain country, and some
interesting bits of the Duke of Windsor’s
Canadian ranch.
Oddly enough—or so it struck present
commentator —there was a minimum of
show scenes; of prize stock, that is, for
there was plenty of the circus side of
the show game—buckjumping, steer-
tossing and the like. What stock was
shown —apart from the good beasts on
the Duke of Windsor’s ranch didn’t
look up to much. Mostly it seemed to
be either in poor nick or lamentably
weak about the hindquarters.
“Off the Record,” at Sydney Plaza,
has Pat O’Brien and Joan Blondell as
a brace of news-sleuths who clean up a
nest of crooks, one of these a pugnacious
youngster who goes to a reformatory.
Conscience smites the Blondell, so she
extricates the youth and adopts him
much to the chagrin of Mr. O’Brien.
Reconciliations all round within about
65 minutes.
“I Stand Accused,” at Sydney Capitol,
deals with a couple of young lawyers,
one of whom takes the straight and
narrow and stays poor, while the other
goes crooked and rakes in the oof. By
some muddled scheme bad guy saves the
hahnest chap from failure and both are
restored to family circle and respecta-
bility. Dull.
“Blackwell’s Island,” at Sydney Capi-
tol, purports to have some foundation in
fact, but is more easily swallowed with
a grain or two of salt and an elastic im-
agination. A racketeer locked in an island
gaol has such power over city politicians
that he can subjugate the whole of the
prison staff to his wishes, demand pro-
tection money from other inmates, take
a spell in the city when he needs it, a'nd
generally run the caboose as a cross be-
tween a posh pub and a gambling joint.
Efforts of a newspaper sleuth finally
catch him out. Stanley Fields as the
gangster lends a touch of gusty humor
here and there.
Adelaide Amateurs.
The Independent has got in early
among Adelaide’s now numerous ama-
teur theatres with two showings of a
condensed “As You Like It.”
Don Jordon and May Haynes were
romantic as the lovers, Edgar Wise suit-
ably, sententious as Jaques and Frank
Bailey quaint as Touchstone. Agnes
Dobson did great work as producer, stag-
ing the play (in the inadequate Stow
Hall) in 11 scenes—two exteriors and the
rest curtains.
* * * *
The trouble with “The School for Hus-
bands,” the Repertory’s first production
(of 10 promised, three evenings each)
for the season, is that Frederick Jackson
has adapted so many plays from the
French that his mind now naturally
works that way.
Utterly Parisian is this story of an
otherwise good English wife allotting a
professional seducer exactly five hours
by the clock to see if he can persuade
her into sinning ; so is the elaborate atmo-
sphere of lies and bogus far journeys in
which both husbands and both wives live.
The play centres on Phyllis Simpson
as the woman who resolutely plays with
fire and is not burnt. Merle Schulze is
the other wife, who offers herself and is
declined, Alex. McEwin (a valuable new
recruit) and Irving Johnston the two
stolid husbands. Frank Waters, though
lacking the Parisian air of which he
boasts, gave the amorist’s lines with ease,
but was at his best when giving good
advice to the husbands on “wife insur-
ance” against other men for the future
Frederick James produced.
Young Bloods of Variety.
The current show at Melbourne Tivoli
seems to be nine-tenths noise. Yet there
is tons of skill in it.
If the members of the Federal Ministry
had as much skill in their line as Billy
Blake, the trumpeter, George Lyons, the
harpist, the Three Nonchalants, rough
and tumble artists, Walthon and Murray,
acrobats, and Ben Beri, the juggler, have
in theirs, the Millennium would be round
the corner. Even so, the harpist makes
a strange and terrible din whose only
merit is that it deadens the full impact of
his singing, and the trumpeter, though he
has more technical proficiency than the
average member of a metropolitan
orchestra, makes a musical shambles of
his impersonation of famous American
trumpeters. If these musicians played
a few nice things present commentator
is convinced that the audience would
blow kisses to them.
So the best impression is left by the
acrobats and the juggler, who throw dire
with death with a sureness that brine
the house down.
It is a good show of its kind; Lucille
Page takes half-hitches in her shapely
legs and ties her beautiful body into
reefknots in the name of dancing;
several ladies sing of luv like castiron
nightingales, and the Tivoli Adorables
make numerous appearances, the most
rapturously received being “The High-
land Swing,” in which the gals are
assisted by a not-too-dour-faced piper.
ARTBURSTS .
Melbourne
The post-mortem exhibition of the
works of Miles Evergood at Melb. Ath-
enaeum reveal a painter who, although
he left Victoria at an early age and for
the major portion of his life was assailed
by the storms of modernism, futurism
and vorticism in the art centres of Lon-
don, Paris and New York, remained
strictly faithful to his academic training
and his romantic viewpoint.
His son Philip, on the other hand, be-
came a modernist, and a donated picture
of his, which was hung for a short time
in the Melbourne National Gallery, raised
a controversy.
The present exhibition comprises oils
painted in Europe, America and Aus-
tralia. The seascapes are the most
attractive.
* * # *
Sydney
A somewhat mixed show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, has as its main
attraction a group of four characteristic
J. J. Hilder water-colors —all well known
—“The Schooner,” “Reflections,” “Foot-
bridge Over Dora Creek” and “Stoakes
Bridge.”
With these are associated one of
Hilder’s infrequent oils, “View from


it
WOMAN
3 VOLUMES
X
■
mam
a
mm
■
V
■
Authoritative
information on
Feminine Structure
and Sex Problems
AMIDST the mass of literature in all lan-
guages concerning woman and her place in
civilised and savage societies, this famous
work by Drs. Ploss and Bartels, leading
German authorities, stands out pre-
eminently in the mind of every anthro-
pological student. This is the authorised
English version of the original work.
These volumes comprise the most com-
plete guide of anthropological literature
relating to woman ever brought together in
one work. For over a period of half a
century this work has been known and
valued as a standard and authoritative
compilation of almost all that was known
of feminine structure, its function and
occupation, both normal and abnormal.
The English edition being described here
has been improved and enlarged with more
recent information on the subject of woman,
together with additional illustrations of sur-
passing interest and curiosity.
As the only authoritative monograph in its
field, “Woman” is indispensable to the
anthropologist who wishes to become
acquainted with much material usually to
be found only in obscure publications buried
in foreign libraries. Write for prospectus
containing full information of this work.
3 VOLUMES, COMPRISING OVER
2000 PAGES, WITH MORE THAN
1000 ILLUSTRATIONS.
OPINIONS
“Nature” (London): “A unique compilation
on womankind ... a really remarkable com-
pendium . . . But it is to anthropologists
especially that the work will be of value,
as it places at their disposal a wealth of
material which otherwise it would be
Impossible for them to acquire.”
“The British Medical Journal” says: “111
this improved, enlarged and abundantly
illustrated form it is a remarkable work
at last available for English readers.”
“The Lancet”: “An anthropologist or
ethnologist who wants to know something
about woman’s ways in any place will find
in this book whatever may be known on
the matter.”
Aldous Huxley in “The New Statesman and
Nation” (London): “I am full of an
appalled admiration for so much industry,
such accumulations of knowledge.”
“The Times Literary Supplement”: “A
standard work for half a century.”
Send for Free Prospectus.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me a prospectus containing full
information of “Woman,” by Drs. Heinrich Floss,
Max Bartels and Paul Bartels, three volumes.
This places me under no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 239
Pymble Heights,” in a manner reminis-
cent of Streeton in his young days, and
a water-color painted in 1897, “Anchored,
Sydney Harbor,” an exquisite miniature
in the old album style, showing no trace of
the broader and better-known Hilder style.
Streeton is represented by a slapdash
oil panel, “Gembrook, Victoria,” in his
most direct style, and a very “ninetyish”
still-life in drab tones. Of later vintage
is a romantic and colorful version of
Mosman Bay.
A farmyard scene painted in 1922 with
even more than his present sincerity and
care by Hans Heysen, a characteristic
equestrian study, “Bush Sunday,” by
Frank Mahony, a yellowy-browny old
Conrad Martens, a couple of fairly rep-
resentative water-colors by Blamire
Young, a Meldrum, two Elioth Griiners
and a Norman Lindsay are other items
of an interesting collection,
* * * *
Adelaide
The auction of paintings presented to
the S.A. Bushfires Fund was hardly corn-
pfimentary to the artists. A few enthusi-
asts gave 40 guineas for a local land-
SC ape by Heysen, 16 for a Centralian
scene by Ragless and 15 for a dainty
coastal bit by Whinnen ; but most of the
res t went for nominal prices. Total for
ne arly 40 pictures, £144.
“Cauboy”: I remember Marjorie Law-
rence’s first appearances in Melbourne
ten years ago. She came from a farm
at Winchelsea with nothing much in her
favor but the urge to become a Melba.
After twelve months’ training by a lead-
ing local teacher she won an aria com-
petition and a vocal championship at
Geelong, where Brownlee comes from.
On the advice of that distinguished
singer she betook herself to Paris after
a series of spectacular triumphs on the
concert platform. Now she is returning
from the Metropolitan, New York—the
fourth Australian to be a leading oper-
atic singer at that playhouse. Hard work,
perseverance and courage seem to be the
main elements of her success. A voice
is only one of many requirements.
FINAL SENTENCE COMPETITION
Overwhelming in numbers, and well
up with the front-runners in ingenuity,
in this third and final Sentence Com-
petition—for which sentences with a dash
of humor had to be constructed from the
Aboriginalities pages—were the attempts
made to pin down, by definition and
description, the most curious species of
all among the remarkable carnivori in-
habiting those great open spaces—-the
notorious Aboliar himself.
What struck the judges as the most
successful of these attempts carried off
the first prize of £2O for J. E. Cameron,
c/o Cleary’s Mail, Wentworth, River
Trained an ordinary fish.
Darling (N.S.W.), an address every word
of it eloquent of first-hand knowledge
and personal observation: —-
The Aboliar is a weird and uncanny
creature of unlimited imagination seldom
seen far from beer.
This the judges pronounced to be “a
restrained and familiar picture”; cer-
tainly it struck a responsive cord in
many breasts when it was hawked round
the Bulletin premises. On all sides
experts who have spent years studying
the species took their oaths by the shade
of “Jimmy Pannikin” that it was in all
particulars a true bill, and from none
was this testimony more emphatic than
from the bloke now running the Abo.
Catch them perching.
Pages, who was at once reminded of
something, and put on his hat and went
out.
The Second Prize of £lO went to Mrs.
P. E. Temple, 474 Ipswich-road, Anner-
ley, Brisbane, herself well qualified for
While his wife scorched him.
a place on the Council, to judge by her
entry:
F orty sporting fcmoke-dry skeletons
burnt their legs sprinting through hell for
a bottle of beer;
a fit and proper testimonial to a glorious
beverage all the more conclusive for
coming from a member of the discerning
sex.
A particularly acute definition of the
Aboliar wins one of the 20 £1 prizes for
John Broadgate, c/o H. Potter, The Oaks,
Hotham-road, Sutherland (N.S.W.):
Aboliar is one who could report
himself as wearing pants kept up with
a wheatbelt.
The word Aboliar, by the way, appears
in trie Partridge’s monumental Diction-
ary of Slang, but Mr. Partridge, who
knows his slang as do few men living,
has missed the effects of the influence
on the word of the company it some-
times keeps in the Abo. pages, where
a man who can keep his pants up with
a wheatbelt is always very much at home.
Mr. Partridge has Aboliar as one who
writes on abo. lore or tells abo. stories:
he should note these prize-winning de-
finitions for future editions of his great
work.
Close nature-study relating to the same
extraordinary species is noted in the
effort which wins one of the £1 prizes
from Mrs. I. F. Vaudin, Norman-terrace,
Enoggera, N.W.2 (Q.):
An Aboliar trained an ordinary fish to
smoke in a rest-room, tip porters and
whistle for a pot of beer.
“Is that Mother ?”
Another of the 20 prizes of £1 each
goes to Neil Macfarlane, Jeeralang
(Vic.), for a tragic picture of the species
tested beyond endurance to the point of
homicide:
An outraged Aboliar, made fractious by
abstinence, dominoed thousands of press
brothers of scrubby ancestry.
Whatever else may be open to ques-
tion in the £1 prize-winning effort of T. J.
Palmer, 46 Palmer-street, Balmain, Syd-
ney, it is apparently to be presumed that
this Aboliar’s worry was not beer:
The blissful Aboliar had seven young-
sters, but the camp-cook was the daddy
of them all.
Whether Monty, mentioned by
E. A. R. Meissner, M.V. Corinda,
A.U.S.N. Co., Sydney, was an Aboliar
or not, he appears to have shared the
obsessing hobby of the species:
Monty crooned to his crays, while his
wife scorched him in a screaming falsetto.
Others with the tastes indicated would
include the bloke observed by H. S. Lord,
Lord’s Business Service Pty., Ltd., Box
2224 T, G.P.0., Sydney:
“Cripes, must have another,” he
crooned, rolling them down carefully with
imagination and characteristic ease in
blithesome swallows; “it’s BEER!”
and certainly Dad, as veraciously re-
ported on by E. M. Debenham, 42 Rox-
borough-street, West Maitland (N.S.W.),
once indulged a similar taste: —•
Cripes, it took a 12ft. goanna wearing
pants and a helmeted bunny screaming
curses to make Dad knock off beer.
A less-dubious testimonial for the
same celestial liquid,
To devour old elephants, catch them
perching, belt with axe, stew slowly, and
tackle with warm beer,
though adjectively suggestive of either
singular taste or inexperience, deservedly
wins a £1 prize for Mrs. C. Arnold, Post
Office, Home Hill (Q.). Another effort
touching on beer (also, incidentally, from
Queensland) is that of Walter R. Oswin,
Box 30, Ayr (N.Q.), who lifts the dis-
cussion (temporarily) into the realms of
musical criticism: —-
A musical saxophone, like a blue
wombat, depends on the imagination, or,
more often, on beer,
on which exalted plane also enters P. S.
Hossfeld, 36 Payneham-road, St. Peters,
Adelaide, whose thought, too, turns on
the wily wombat: —-
A saxophone band might attract a wom-
bat, but there is no evidence that it is
musical.
Similarly, there is no evidence that
there would be anything sweetly musical
about the noise emitted by the boss in
the experience imagined by A. N. Falk,
11 Weir-street, Balwyn, E.B (Vic.):
A bloodthirsty lady fixed her over fresh
boss by driving a hairpin inches in with
graceful stab.
Though she might stand alone in
gracefulness, the lady mentioned would
Outraged koala.
be nothing ahead in vigor of Mother
(or whoever Eve was) in the spirited
action-picture submitted by S. L. Hughes,
c/o M. A. Irvine, Dowerin (W.A.):
“Cripes,” gasped Bill’s youngster, “is
that Mother?” as Eve, wearing pants,
jumped through the kitchen window and
snatched Dad’s beer.
Dad figures in other of the prize-
taking entries, surprisingly, not to say
incredibly, in a mostly passive state, as
in this entry from Dan J. Scanlon, P. 0.,
Blackall (Q.):
When Dad suggested to Jackey measur-
ing the tree in strides, the silly Abo.
snatched off his trousers,
though perhaps passive is less the right
word for the Dad conjured up by Mrs.
M. M. Ruhle, 163 Fernberg-road, Pad-
dington, Brisbane:
“Cripes,” gasped the blissful new Dad,
“having seven youngsters in one day is
worth a two-bob rise,”
nor, perhaps, is passive altogether the
right word for the Dad depicted by Mrs.
S. E. Baker, 41 Grandview Grove,
Heidelberg, N. 22 (Vic.):
Dad, forty and sporting, certainly
deserves the lecture for an obvious fancy
for a woman measuring five yards around,
while there is nothing whatever passive
about Dad as known to G. Byrne, Uki,
Tweed River (N.S.W.):
Dad, with battle in his eye, jumped to
the brakes, ready to tackle the back-seat
tractor-driver.
“Worth a two-bob rise !”
An assortment of astonishing pictures
win the remaining £1 prizes. From E. N.
Marks, 101 Wickham-terrace, Brisbane:
Bill, the bush genius, grew so lean as
he thought great thoughts that one day
the poor chap vanished;
from Mrs. T. Honeyman, Woodward-
road, Orange (N.S.W.): —
An outraged koala grunts that the extra-
ordinary-looking creature that governed
Australia is no relative of the family;
from D. McCormick, 181 Wood-street,
East Preston, N.lB (Vic.):
A half-inch gum-leaf was all that black
Eve was wearing, for she used to attract
attention in trousers;
and, finally, ftom D. Shanks, Montpelier-
street, Wilston, Brisbane, this infinitely
touching item: —•
Of thirst and abstinence weary, I hand
in this exquisitely characteristic but
pathetic little exercise.
Fixed her over fresh boss.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2056 of 1938.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH AGNES CONATY
Petitioner
And FRANCES JOSEPH CONATY Re-
spondent. , ,
TO FRANCES JOSEPH CONATY late of 24
Blue’s Point Road North Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
AGNES CONATY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court, and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds, of desertion during
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fifteenth day of May next and in
the event or your not doing so within tne
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard ana
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Febru-
ary ’ 1939 ' (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
NEIL HALLEY McINTYRE, Solicitor foi
the Petitioner, of McINTYRE, CONLOb
CO., 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Wakehurst didn’t sail through
the Heads outward bound in the Orcades
last Wednesday. She waited till Friday ;
then went by train to Melbourne and
picked up her ship there. One glad
morning which she will press in the
lavender of memory was spent aboard
the launch Premier surrounded by the
wives of State Ministers. They had
chosen Port Jackson as a setting for their
farewell morning-tea party. There were
red roses and tall spears of gladioli as
well as billy brew for the guest. A
dinner party at Government House was
brightened by her presence midway
through last week. Among the guests
then entertained by the Governor and
Lady Wakehurst were Minister for Labor
and Industry Hawkins and Mrs. Hawkins,
knight Norman Paul and his lady, the
knightly Thomas Gordon couple, the
Consul-General for Japan and Mrs.
Wakamatsu, the Justice Webbs, the
Jimmy Burnses and Clifton Love and his
lady.
Three Pancake Tuesday weddings
riveted public attention. St. Mark’s at
Darling Point, St: Mary’s Cathedral and
the little church of St. Joseph in Neutral
Bay bestowed the blessings. St. Mark’s
managed to look aloof and cool in spite
of the afternoon’s heat when Lindsay
Macdonald Sinclair sought its portals.
Her wedding dress was supple and silver.
The sheen of pearl and crystal embroid-
ery was worked into the high round neck-
line. The train was square and of great
length. It was followed by three brides-
maids (all from the country)—Daisy
Osborne, of Jugiong, June Osborne, from
the same district, and Peggy Buchanan,
of Pokataroo. Their frocks were of blue
lace, soft and flouncy, the skirts hooped.
Lily-of-the-valley and mauve orchids were
worn in the hair and in the hands. Both
bride and ’groom, Sam Throsby Osborne,
belong to country families. Her people
are the J. A. Sinclairs, of Collymongle,
Pokataroo. He is the younger son of the
late B. M. Osbornes, of Harden.
Other points commented on as the pro-
cession made its way up the aisle were
the ’maids’ bracelets of pearls and plati-
num and the two blue-satin-clad train-
bearers, Brigid and Jeremy Blyth. The
reception was at the Royal Sydney Golf
Club. Mrs. Sinclair mingled deep Floren-
tine blues and cyclamen in her frock and
hat. Mrs. H. C. Osborne, the ’groom’s
aunt, wore a large black hat with her
black frock. There were heaps of
guests, many from the country, and in
the evening younger guests carried on
the celebrations by dancing at Prince’s.
Not satisfied with having a clutter of
doctors among her own brothers and
sisters, Kathleen MacMahon (father was
T. P. MacMahon, of Cootamundra) took
one to husband. He is Dr. Bristow John-
son, and altogether, with ushers and
doctor sister Dora, and sister Mrs. Daly,
whose husband is a doctor, there were
eight fully-fledged medicals to keep an
eye on the carving of the cake.
This was done at the Carlton, where
the bride had dressed amidst a whirl of
comings and goings of press and friends.
The wedding frock was a delicate affair
of palest pink and ivory Chantilly lace
embroidered with pearls. Both the bride
and her ’maid wore trained Empire frocks
of the same toning. The similarity of
dressing was repeated in the veils worn
by each. Kathleen’s veil was, of course,
longer, and her coronet was of pearls
and crystal, while sister Dorothy ’maided
supported by a less exalted one of pink
pearls. Mrs. MacMahon hostessed in
black lace and tulle.
There was quite a stir about St.
Joseph’s Church in Neutral Bay when
Caroline Chisholm was married to Clyde
Scott Timmins, of Tasmania. Yes, you’ve
guessed it —Cara is a direct descendant
of the great Caroline Chisholm whose
name was blessed by the women emigrants
and the pioneers of our beginning days.
This was a white wedding. The bride’s
frock of white tulle was embroidered with
lily-of-the-valley ; her lace veil was made
over 100 years ago in a convent in
Ireland. Her three attendants rustled in
white chiffon over taffeta. They carried
sheaves of field flowers and wheat. Bride’s
father, E. A. Chisholm, of Neutral Bay,
armed his younger daughter to the altar.
He and Mrs. Chisholm held a reception
for a flock of guests at the Warringah
Hall.
The little town of Thirroul has made
surf history. Its 50 bronze-medallists so
aroused the interest of promising local
youngsters that the club decided to form
the first Juvenile S.L.S. Branch on the
coast. Now 30 boys, averaging 12 to 15
years, hold proficiency certificates. They
hold carnivals and give displays of
rescue and resuscitation over the same
distances as senior medallists, only age
barring them from eligibility for
medallions. To encourage them the local
Improvement Committee and Shire Coun-
cil presented a chromium-plated reel with .
the latest adjustments and fittings.
Mrs. Mary Quirk, the new member of
Parliament for Balmain, has a forceful
face, and the women of this State are
backing her to make her weight felt in
any humanitarian or social-service move-
ment. She was sworn in last week while
a ladies’ gallery watched with close atten-
tion. Among admirers were Mrs. Quirk’s
three daughters.
Mrs. Quirk is the State’s second woman
M.L.A. The first was Miss Preston-
Stanley. There was quite a courtlv air
about both Mr. Stevens’s and Mr. Lang’s
welcome to the lady. Mrs. Quirk wore a
black sheer frock lightened by a red
flower for the swearing-in. After that
ceremonial she was given her place on
the front bench of the Opposition. Her
late husband used to sit there.
The crowded lunch party of the week
at the Feminist Club was that given in
honor of Mrs. Quirk. The long tables
sparkled with roses. President Mrs.
Cameron welcomed the guests ; and when
Mrs. Quirk talked of the need of lower
prices for household necessities every
womtfn present recognised that she knew
not only her onions, but her potatoes.
Marie Houston, now an A.B.C. singer,
is lucky to possess, in addition to her lyric
soprano, letters from such stars of yes-
terday as Melba and Adelina Patti. These
were left to her by her teacher, Louise
Dotti, also celebrated as an opera singer
in her day. To this gifted student was
also bequeathed Louise Dotti’s musical
library. In between her concert tours,
which take her from coast to coast of the
U.S.A., Marie does quite a bit of travel-
ling. And until this trip to Australia she
had never bought a steamer ticket. She
has had singing engagements on the big
liners, and has cruised, in return for one
concert a week, to such places of fas-
cination as South America, Cuba,
Panama, Bermuda and Iceland. In all
she manages to cover about 40,000 miles
a year.
This singer has had the joy of recogni-
tion in her own country. Her family has
been in America for over 200 years, and
the artist’s musical education has been
altogether in America. Now she is coached,
between tours, by Frank La Forge, of
New York, the teacher of Lily Pons,
Richard Crooks and Sydney’s own
Robert Nicholson. On the concert plat-
form, Marie presents her musical pro-
gramme in authentic costume. Her ac-
companist, too, wears attire correct in
every detail. Songs from Shakspeare
have a special attraction for this singer.
Frank La Forge has dedicated to her his
arrangement of a Mexican folk song,
“Las Gaviotas” (The Seagulls).
The other morning when the atmo-
sphere itself was like a steamy blanket,
this Letter was virtuously returning from
an A.R.P. class. Her ears, full of horrors
—phosgene, lewisite and chlorine —were
suddenly assailed by a cheerful and care-
free voice saying “Where have you
been?” On this Letter, rather smugly,
displaying her little textbook the insou-
ciant one exclaimed lightly: “Oh, air
raids. I’m not bothering about those.
Handing out tea and toast and a bright
smile behind the lines is my programme.”
And she floated on her way.
The Bulletin is quoted in many
places, but it did come as a pleasant
surprise to one former Sydneyite to hear
it quoted from the pulpit of a London
church by a bishop. The speaker was
Dr. Chambers, one time of this city, but
now Bishop of Tanganyika. Giving the
Anniversary Day address in St. Clement’s
Dane church, he referred to his farewell
gathering in Sydney at which a friend
had remarked that it was a far cry to Tan-
ganyika. “But indeed it isn’t.” said the
bishop. “.One has only to turn to a recent
Bulletin cartoon where an Australian
youth is shown pointing to three bombing
’planes and saying, ‘Africa to Australia
in two days! Doesn’t it make you
think?’ ”
Among those listening to this comment
on Norman Lindsay’s cartoon “The
Thinkers” were J. S. Duncan, there in
S, M. Bruce’s place, various Agents-
Generals and their wives, Clifford Hay
among them, Hanbury Davis, Red Cross
stalwart, and' cheerful little Dr. Susie
O’Reilly, over in the fogs and snows for
six months’ holiday. Members of the
London branch of the Anzac Fellowship
of Women- founded by Dr. Mary Booth
when she was last holidaying in England
were busy distributing leaflets for a “do”
in aid of the Australian Bushfire Relief
Fund. Busnfires! And London had been
blanketed with snow for two days.
On Saturday night at the Pickwick
Club there’s a “Let’s Go Native” inter-
lude. This is going to be lots of fun,
and is to help the funds of the British-
American Co-operation for World Peace.
Kenn Brodziak is busy with the arrange-
ments, and good-looking Margaret
Linsley Freeman is to act as hostess.
As gently as he had lived John
Lane Mullins died. On his eighty-first
birthday he was spoken of in these
columns as an “Australian, a scholar, and
a gentleman.” His interest in and pre-
occupation with art and letters were un-
failing. His ready help for the struggler
in the creative realm was as well known
and as expected as his presence at the
city’s exhibitions of painting. His loves
were his family, his books and his old
friends, and his home in Elizabeth Bay-
crescent was never without -some of all
three. For years he was a trustee and
in the end the president of the National
Gallery. He was president of the Ex
Libris Society.
Probably his proudest honor was his
papal knighthood of high rank. St.
Mary’s Cathedral by his death has lost
one of its oldest friends. As a small boy
he was present at the laying of its foun-
dation stone by Archbishop Polding. His
father was St. Mary’s first treasurer, and
more than half a century later John
Lane Mullins took over this duty.
Daughters Hilda and Barbara, who
have been his almost-constant com-
panions these last two or three years,
are going to feel particularly bereft. Two
other daughters grieving are Mrs. Norris,
widow of Colonel Norris, who was killed
in the war, and Mrs. John Tansey.
When the Duchess of Kent arrives in
Australia there will be one Sydney girl
who will note with interest any artificial
flowers used by H.R.H. That girl is
Beatrice Follett, whose flower-making is
a thing of beauty. She studied her art in
a London studio which supplied flowers
to Molyneux, West End salons, and also
created special designs for wearing by
the Duchess of Kent. Some of Miss
Follett’s flowers are on conventional,
some on futuristic lines. But mostly she
follows nature, her coloring and design
being true to the growing flower. Should
a client desire it, an original design in a
special color scheme to go with some
particular evening or afternoon frock can
be produced.
This making of flowers is fascinating
and exquisitely careful work. Before any
flower is commenced a close study is
made of its formation, leaf and stem.
A choice is made of the material most
suited for its texture, which is then
treated with special preparations. Then
comes the tinting, for which special dye
is used, and lastly the shaping of the
flower itself. Beatrice is a sister of
airman Follett. Photograph from
Freeman.
Jean Wyndham can have no doubt of
the popularity of her appointment as
principal of the Sydney Kindergarten
and Preparatory Teachers’ College. She
was the heroine of a reception held by
the College Graduates’ Association last
week, and the Blaxland Galleries vibrated
with congratulation, laudation and glad-
some smiles. Jean was a student and
graduate of the College, so it is the more
notable that she is now made its head.
President of the college council Peter
Board told of advertising the position
in both U.S.A. and England, and of the
council’s being informed by experts in
both countries that the Australian was
the one for the job. Jean, in a smart
brown outfit, looked the pleasure she
was feeling, and in her speech of thanks
uttered some sound commonsense on pre-
school child development. Importants
included Miss Polly King, H. D. Hall,
and Melbournites Mrs. T. a’Beckett and
Mrs. E. F. Allen, who had come all the
way from Melbourne to the party.
The late Kate Howarde was one of two
sisters who were both leading their own
theatrical companies before they had
parted from their teens. They got their
early experience with Johnny Sheridan ;
Billie, the other sister, died at a com-
paratively early age. Kate had her first
company when she was 17 years old;
George Cross (new Cinesound’s casting
manager) was one of her early “juvenile
leads,” and Bert Bailey did character for
her. The lady was versatile: she wrote
a number of plays. One of the worst
setbacks in a life of ups and downs
occurred when the San Francisco earth-
quake gobbled up her properties and
brought an end to a promising season.
When Wal Taylor was in France he
called on a son of the people with whom
he had been billeted in war days. The
young man is now working a lift in
a bjg Paris store. The Australian
waited in the art department.
Presently the young man in his
smart uniform arrived; and although
he had been only a lad during the war
he recognised his visitor at once, rushed
up to him and kissed him on both
cheeks. Wal said later on, “You were
very young when I stayed at your home,
Why do you remember me so clearly?”
The young man said, “I will never for-
get you. I had at that time a horribl?
boil on the neck, and you let it out!”
The British Drama League has re-
ceived an anonymous gift of £3 from a
council member for the purchase of
books, so the library will benefit by sets
of She Passed Through Lorraine, The
Mocking Bird, Jacob’s Ladder, to be
hired for readings. These plays are pub-
lished by the Year Book Press, whose
Short Story and Path of Glory have also
been found acceptable for amateur per-
formance in Australia. The League has
undertaken the Australian agency for
distribution of Year Book Press publica-
tions, and would be glad to answer in-
quiries about these.
The red and white wines of Bohemia
are not considered the nectar of more
gilded citizens. A little lunching club kept
a modest stock of very light white wines
and clarets on hand. By courtesy of the
authorities these were allowed a corner in
the cellar of the club which housed the
lunches. This club also has a spacious
room which it rents to wedding parties.
And one day the inevitable happened, and
the lunching club’s thinnish wines got
mixed up with the nobler brands of a de
luxe wedding. Explanations all round.
But the wines of Bohemia have been ex-
pelled the cellar, and seek another home.


m.
SSS 3
m.
(
!f
As Good
for Women
as for Men
Wolfe’s Schnapps with iced water or cordials, as
preferred, makes a distinctly delightful stimulant. In
character and constituents, Wolfe’s Schnapps is essen-
tially and above all a health drink and contains
medicinal properties not found in any other stimulant.
It is highly recommended for tiredness, backache, poor
appetite and all the other everyday ills of life—and
to women especially, its gentle, cleansing, diuretic
action is of inestimable benefit in helping to overcome
fatigue and indisposition arising
from natural disorders.
OLFE
amODUCT OF HOLLAND
r=r— THIS
gg«*TtC ALCOHOLIC
FTgSnfifact tired %xelusivelr in
*'• *
powibk QMlityi*****
: attention of AmUua
U-"ssrs»w
LCwdial. em'oofcejrftß
as protection
'- Rotterd.
TTttairt «i*7 attempt at infringe
ET:tPUtflFl. OZ
WOLFE'S
<zdb'unidti£ Stkiulam
SCHNAPPS
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in large,
half and quarter size bottles at all
hotels . Take a bottle home to-night l
4SL
%
W. 5.142.8.
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
Horn
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
The Bulletin, Sydney,
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
are given away free for a penny
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do notning
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great Alters of tn
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to w
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy P
sons should pass 3 pints a day and soget
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become cloggea,
bladder passages are scanty, burning a
smarting. The acids and wastes that shoma
be passed out of the body, stay jn the Wood
and become poisonous. This condition •
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of PAP
energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
feet and ankles, puffipess under the 5
rheumatic pains and dizziness. n nA\’S
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist f°r DOA
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS Hf f e< L*nie
cessfully the world over by millions of P P
suffering with backache and other
disorders. They give quick relief and i
help flush out the 15 miles of k *hney
So be sure you get DOAN'S BACKACHE
KIDNEY DILLS.
Melbourne
Chatter
Last week the hot weather seemed to
take no spring out of the insteps of the
Women’s League of Health and Beauty.
Up on the top floor of Chartres House
girls in black shorts and white shirts prac-
tised bending, stretching and breathing
with untiring pertinacity (all good pre-
paration for the exercises that keep their
muscles pliable). Their object is to pro-
duce a first-class display in Como Park
on Labor Day, March 20. It’s to be an
all-Australia display ; delegates are com-
ing from all centres to make up the 200
taking part. The league’s chief-of-staff,
Thea Hughes, is due to arrive here soon
from Sydney with Melbourne’s new
group-leader, Ethel Lanser. Miss Lanser
was a nurse with many years’ experience
at her profession before she tossed it
overboard in favor of league work. She
did particularly well in her course, and
for the last two years has been group-
leader at Canberra.
Sturdy young enthusiast Beatrice
Lynch will remain in Melbourne
with Miss Lanser, but Joan Mel-
vaine will be saying good-bye to her
Melbourne classes, for after a holiday
at the end of the summer she is off to
spread the creed of physical fitness in
Brisbane. There, owing to the exigen-
cies of the climate, league activities only
operate for some eight months of the
year. A new centre in Perth will shortly
be opened by Miss Hughes, who is ac-
companying Dorothy Dowling on her
journey westwards. Mrs. Dowling, who
will be in charge at Perth, comes from
Adelaide.
Two large tin trunks carried into the
fernery and packed tightly with bottles
and chipped ice were Group-Captain and
Mrs. Harrison’s answer to the sudden
burst of humid heat that arrived on the
day of their party. Their brainwave
was a tremendous success, the battered
and ancient trunks doing their job so well
that frost was on every glass. The party
was a farewell, a welcome-home and
an opportunity for felicitations. The
latter were offered to Greta Harrison and
to Dr. Keith Cowan, who announced
their engagement during the evening.
Dr. Cowan had his medical degree con-
ferred last year and is one of the new
residents at Royal Melbourne Hospital.
Air Commodore Goble, from this week
Air Vice-Marshal and chief of the Aus-
tralian Air Force, was congratulated on
all sides, and he and Mrs. “Jimmy” were
welcomed back to Australia by any
friends who hadn’t seen them since their
return.
Among other returned travellers
who found friendly words to warm the
cockles of their hearts were Dr. and
Mrs. R. F. Harvey, back once more in
their home in Whernside-avenue after
six months’ wandering in far-away places.
Among those who came in for good-
byes were Mrs. Adrian Boccard and
Peggy Tronson, off in the Monterey for
six months at least. Group-Captain
Hepburn also left Australia on Saturday,
but the speed of his journey did him
out of farewells over its distance. In
a couple of short high hops he expects
to get up to Port Moresby and back
again within a week or so.
Melbourne’s American colony seems
to be either coming or going. Several
members of it present at a party given
last week by Mrs. George Saenger were
heard reminding one another of how they
met face to face in California two years
ago, or else they were making dates for
locating one another in London in a
few months’ time. Among those with
trips ahead of them were Mrs. Harold
Nock, Mrs. Brooke Hutchings and Mrs.
Saenger. Mrs. Hutchings and Mrs.
Saenger are keeping each other com-
pany, leaving in the Nieuw Zeeland next
month for Java, Singapore and England.
Mrs. Saenger is resisting the temptation
to visit her native U.S.A. yet again, and
is breaking new country on her return
journey via South Africa as a passenger,
if timetables fit, in the Dominion
Monarch.
Among others who were farewelled at
the party were Mrs. David Robertson,
who boarded the Monterey and is being
joined in Sydney by her daughter, Mrs.
Eric Nettheim, who will keep her com-
pany on a holiday in the U.S.A. A
recently-returned was Mrs. Jud Holt,
with the bloom of travel upon her
clothes. Her ensemble included a gaily-
figured frock, a crisp white , organdie,
ruching around the crown of her hat and
fishnet stockings worn with shoes whose
heels were unguarded. Mrs. Hugh Brain
was another guest just back from far
afield. She and her children had a very
interesting tour of Europe, and were in
Germany just before the stir of last Sep-
tember.
In the Spencer Shier photograph is
Mrs. Wallis Kendall, of London, who
with her three children is visiting her
mother, Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy,
of Toorak. Mrs. Kendall, who is mar-
ried to a surgeon, is a children’s
physician, and practises in Harley-street
as Dr. Verna Hackett. Brains and per-
sonality were never lacking in the Win-
throp Hackett family. John, the only
son, who is gifted in several spheres, is
a captain in the Eighth Hussars at
present stationed in the Transjordan
area. He received an M.B.E. in the New
Year honors. Joan, who specialises in
languages, has recently thrown herself
heart and soul into organisation work
for the A.R.P. in London. She hopes to
visit Australia this year. Pat is well
known as a barrister and as the
chatelaine of a Solomon Island home-
stead. Deb, otherwise Mrs. Mac Knox,
undertook matrimony when she was still
too young to have thought much about
a career.
Among passengers who sailed away in
the Monterey on Monday was Mrs.
D. H. Dureau, bound for the U.S.A.,
where she will meet her husband, at
present on a business trip to Europe. The
couple will be home again in three
months’ time. A farewell tea party for
Mrs. Dureau was given last week by her
three daughters, Mrs. Pat Cahill, Mrs.
Jack Goulding and Mrs. Keith White-
head. It was at Menzies, a cool shelter
from the ominous outside heat which
threatened any moment to break into a
storm and drench everybody on the way
home.
The welcome rain did come, but
much later in the evening, so that it was
some of the after-the-pictures people who
found umbrellas useful. At the party
Mrs. Dureau wore a presentation spray
of tuberoses on her black gown. Mrs.
Cahill was also in black, and Mrs. Gould-
ing used with successful effect a couple
of green parrots as twin brooches upon
her linen frock. Mrs. Whitehead, whose
green frock played a frivolous note with
its crisp white organdie bows, has been
spending a holiday with her children at
Mentone. The young folk approve of
the beach so loudly and so often that
their mother is giving them a few extra
weeks at Black Rock before she takes
them back to Urana.
Professor and Mrs. Lodewyckx no
longer address letters to their daughter
Dymphna Lodewyckx in Munich; in-
stead they send them to Mrs. Manning
Clark, in Oxford, for Dymphna and her
fiance, who sailed away on the same ship
from Australia last August, a pair of
clever students in search of further
knowledge of their particular subjects,
decided after a short separation that it
wasn’t much fun being engaged and living
several frontiers apart. So Dymphna
gave up Munich and went to Oxford,
where Manning was studying at Balliol
College for his Ph.D. There the wedding
took place. It was a quiet ceremony, but
some old friends, including Alan Shaw
and George Kerford, who were fellow-
students of the ’groom at Melbourne
Grammar and afterwards at Trinity Col-
lege, were present to drink a toast for
old times’ sake. Mrs. Clark is continu-
ing her German studies. The couple
have a flat in Oxford, and write, that
married life is grand.
Last week knight Arthur Robinson,
well known in the legal and business
world, was married to Beverley Nelson
Wood, whose photograph is by Athol
Shmith. The young bride, who is a past-
pupil of The Hermitage, Geelong, trained
as a nurse at the Kitchener Memorial
Hospital, Geelong, and was later ap-
pointed as a “special” on the staff of St.
Ives, East Melbourne. The quiet wed-
ding at the Littlejohn Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, was followed by a lun-
cheon at the home of the Wesley Ince
couple in East Malvern, and by the de-
parture of the bride and ’groom from
Essendon for a flight across Bass Strait.
Mrs. Huntly Griffith was present at the
ceremony, having timed her holiday from
her home in Ceylon to coincide with her
father’s wedding.
Revisiting Melbourne after many years’
absence are Mrs. L. Slutzkin and her
daughter Queenie, who have interesting
stories to tell of life in Palestine. Miss
Slutzkin, who teaches English in a
Hebrew school at Tel-Aviv, mentions the
co-operative system whereby mothers
(most of whom have jobs) who live in
the same district share the same nurse-
maid for their children. It’s a common
sight to see one maid taking four or five
children to the beach every morning.
By the sea and in the gardens there are
milk-bars prepared for youthful cus-
tomers, with kindergarten chairs and
tables and ice-cold “leban” (something
like junket) and bananas, which these
small people love as much as ours do
“two-in-ones” and “polar pies.”
The townsfolk of Tel-Aviv live in
modern flats. A small flat can be had
for about £6 per month, and all furni-
ture necessary, unpretentious but no less
attractive, can be purchased for £3O.
Domestic help can be found for 9d. per
hour. In the working people’s cafeterias
an excellent meal can be had for 9d., and
the really expensive restaurants put on
something very special indeed for 2s. 6d.
Miss Slutzkin often marvels at the intel-
ligence of her young pupils, and puts it
down to the Jewish child’s ambition and
his desire to learn, coupled with his
powers of concentration. His attention
never wanders while anything is being
explained.
Another interesting point is that
there is no snobbishness in these
Jewish schools. Flaxen-headed children
who can speak only German may be sit-
ting next to almost black boys and girls
from Arabia. They play together hap-
pily, and perhaps the little black skins,
who speak fluent Hebrew and have writ-
ten it since they first went to school, help
the new arrivals to master this ancient
language of their race. The children
learn English easily, and pick up quite
a lot from notices and advertisements.
Miss Slutzkin says that every Jewish vil-
lage, however small, has its school. Mrs.
Slutzkin, who is an Australian and has
many friends here, hopes before she
leaves in May to get them interested in
the Ezra Association maternity aid in
Palestine, its object being to provide free
beds for mothers in Tel-Aviv, and even-
tually right through the Mandate.
Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy went off
to Adelaide last week for a few days,
travelling both ways in her favorite
manner, up aloft a few thousand feet.
For her return journey she was expecting
to have two important pieces of “excess
luggage,” one aged three, the other twelve
months, the children of her niece, Mrs.
Peter Gebhardt, who before her marriage
was Mary Drake-Brockman. Mrs. Geb-
hardt is leaving Whyalla very soon for a
holiday in Melbourne, and will arrive
here in time for the dance Dr. Deborah
is giving on March 7 for Althea Drake-
Brockman.
The Johannes Engleberts, who sail for
their home country, Germany, this week
in the Alster, are departing with several
regret-s. In their two years here they
have made a number of friends, and have
appreciated the climate, and their small
daughter, who looks like a bit of gold
fluff and who chats easily in two
languages, has had a grand time on the
beach at Brighton. Mr. Englebert, who
is the representative of the Junkers Air-
craft Co., flew a Junkers ’plane to Aus-
tralia two years ago, his wife and child
following by sea. At the farewell cod-
tail party the couple gave last weei at
the Windsor there were several guests
present with aviation interests, include
Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Dickie
Williams, themselves being farewelled,
the Edgar Johnstons, and the Ivan and
the Dare Holymans. Several of the
women present looked particularly smart
in black with white accessories, among
them being Mrs. Englebert, Mrs. M.
Oetel and Eric Pyke.
There’s to be a Soapbox Derby on
April Fool’s Day. It’s nothing political;
actions not speeches are required from
box or ground level, and the date is just
a coincidence. Competitors will be small
boys backed by business firms who are
appreciating the idea of something
different in the field of advertisement.
There are parades for the smartest soap-
box floats, and a speed race for those
designed to lick up the distance over the
St. Kilda course. The Apex Club and a
couple of bright-minded organisers,
Maurice Nathan and Lindsay Cust,
propagated the, idea, and are sending out
the kind of cunning propaganda that is
certain to have results —a dig in the ribs
for each businessman out of the days
when he was a kid, wagged school and
raced his own home-made cart. Derby
profits are for the Brotherhood of St.
Laurence.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Bight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED —ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
AUTOMATIC OVERFLOW—DOES NOT REQUIRE EMPTYING
OVER 850 SOLD—SHELL CO., 60 REPEAT ORDERS; BANK OF N.S.W., 15
h
NO SMELLS , FLIES OR GERMS
The Hygeia Dissolvenator Fully Guaranteed
PRICE £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET
Agents all States.
ĥ
Spread death and destruction
among the insects that pester
you—lnsectibane powder will
do it with devastating effect.
And Insectibane is safe, non-
irritating, can neither stain
nor taint! For positive results,
INSECTIBANE is your weapon
against every insect pest.
Chemists or stores throughout
Australia can supply you:
ask for Insectibane! Ask to
see the new Insectibane Appli-
cator ... it enables better dis-
tribution of the powder . . .
gets better results!
INSECTIBANE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Motu”: A lot of hardy old pioneers
must be glad they have abandoned
Moresby, which is becoming a sissy sort
of a tourist town. A bloke can’t even
put his feet on the dining-room table or
pick his teeth with the forks without
raising a protest. The new wing of the
Hotel Moresby gives it dining-room for
80 people, lounges, running water in all
rooms, “a de-luxe suite,” built-in ward-
robes, hot and cold water, and electric
toasters. And it seems only the other
day that a customer left one of Moresby’s
hostelries with a loud roar of, “Lavin'?
Sure, Oi’m lavin’! Does the divil think
he can insult a gintleman be puttin’ soap
iu his bedroom?”
* * * *
“X.T.”: “Travellin’ North to Darwin”
(B. 22/2/’39) made me look up a 1924
diary. “A dozen or so streets in
Alice Springs”—nearly all new since
my time. Government employees then
were Sergeant Stott and family, a
constable, a schoolmistress and the
O.T. staff. Ti Tree has a store —that’s
new; ditto the pub at Barrow Creek and
the “roofs of Tennant”: when last I
saw it Tennant was an O.T. station look-
ing just as it had looked before the war.
Birdum is entirely new, ditto the railway,
ditto the commerce of Daly Waters, ditto
Mataranka —old Bitter Springs. The only
settlement that might have been called a
town by any stretch of imagination be-
tween the Alice and Katherine in my day
was Marranboy. Travellers on the O.T.
route must find it hard to believe that
the man who journeyed alone over it
ran some risk with his life even three or
four years before T 4.
* * :1s *
“J. Want”: Queer fellows, these poli-
ticians who talk of “defence.” Go where
you will in North Queensland, you will
find eager rifleshots. A staple paragraph
which every correspondent keeps ready
in February is: “Owing to the rains, all
sports were off but rifle-shooting.” At
least a couple of dozen towns and town-
ships have been shooting off their seasonal
matches this February. But one town
which is anxious to have a club has
drawn a blank. When the Cooktown
lads wrote xo the State supervisor of
clubs, they were advised that “provision
is now made each year for the formation
of only a small number of rifle clubs.
The number approved this year is five.
Your application is 62 on the list.” So
when an enemy lands in Cooktown —and
it is a very likely place for one to choose
as a landing, as Cook did when he made
Australia’s first temporary British settle-
ment there to careen the Endeavour —the
citizens, having no military force, will
have to knock ’em over with waddies.
sic *
“Calliungal”: Justice Brennan has
brought a lot of original methods to the
Queensland Bench since his appointment
in 1925. He told the press the other day
that he had let 200 prisoners out on
permanent remand for sentence, “and
only three have come back a second
time.” His method, it seems, “gives
what they call in the vernacular a ‘mug’
criminal a chance of reforming and the
youth a chance of getting on the correct
path”; besides, it “saves the taxpayers
from having to maintain them in gaol.”
It sounds fine. If every Judge would
adopt the Brennan method the police
would soon see the futility of arresting
criminals. The public would become
philosophic and just put up with sinners.
All the gaols could be turned into beau-
tiful schools like the one at Darlinghurst
(N.S.W.) which houses the East Sydney
Technical College. And after that we
might be able to retire all the Judges
—on pensions, of course.
#** , *
There were 6498 men —a record —on
main - road work in Queensland in
January. Expenditure waq £149,000. In
addition local authorities had £140,000
worth of new work in hand. Most of
the roads and bridges being built are in
the country. They will be useful when
the transport-strangulation policy perishes
of its own ineptitude.
* * * *
“Mangarumai”: Queensland’s Cher-
bourg abo. settlement —from which the
Commonwealth could well learn a lesson
“P'r' aps it Was them barbed-wire traces, Ma !”
in management of the Territory black-
fellow —has given another illustration of
what can be done by catching Binghi
young and taking him gently. The settle-
ment has acquired a church. A local
contractor supervised, but the logs were
cut by natives, sawn by them at the
settlement sawmill and put up by native
carpenters and joiners. The ornamental
main doors and the altar were Binghi-
made.
“Taurus”: Glad to see such an
authority as Dr. Flecker, of Cairns
(N.Q.), naturalist as well as medico, pooh-
poohjng the dangers of scorpion sting,
on the basis of half a dozen cases which
were each voted “mild.” The northern
black scorp. is a fearsome-looking beast,
sometimes inches across, but one which
spent a happy hour in my blankets on a
wet night and got me in the elbow joint
when I thought he had gone home was
a poor hand at killing. He certainly
caused a lot of swelling, a considerable
thirst and a kind of temporary seasick-
ness, but having been bitten by bulldogs,
greenheads, native cats, ringtail possums,
a Murray cod, a centipede, a carpet
snake and a horse, I vote him an amateur.
* * * *
“Narine”: The next centenary tp be
celebrated will be that of the Darling
Downs, and it will be run along the usual
lines a committee with lots of poli-
ticians as patrons and vice-patrons, in-
cluding Messrs. Lyons, Forgan Smith
and Moore ; “souvenir books, pamphlets,
brochures, posters”; footraces, horse-
races, beautiful ladies on lorries, fire-
works, speeches, limelighting; Dad,
Dave, Mum, Pat Leslie, Leichhardt, the
first plough and the last bottle. Why
not, for a change, something original,
such as buying one of the fine old
patriarchal properties of the Downs and
endowing it for the pastoral training of
the sons of dead Queensland Diggers,
under the management of the Legacy
Clubs? That would give the pioneers
a permanent and useful commemoration.
Many of them were younger sons of
county families, driven out of England
by the long peace which followed
Waterloo and inhibited their normal
chances of a military career.
* * * •*
“Zedo”: Commonwealth assistance to
the pearlshell industry this year will be
£23,550 in cash, and advances by State
Governments —W.A. and Queensland —
will bring the total to £32,000. Pearlers
are to repay out of next year’s catch.
The pity is that some means cannot be
found of using only white and Australian
and Papuan labor.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Among the forgotten lore
acquired by early white settlers from
abos. in Queensland and northern N. S.
Wales was the tradition of a vast and
prolonged drought that even destroyed
the forests. Its truth is to be seen in the
ironbarks even today. From north of
Townsville, well down into northern
N. S. Wales, the only really old living
trees are found in creek beds, deep allu-
vial flats or sand ridge valleys with water
below. In the intervening country giants
are still left, but they are dead giants,
and were dead before white men ever saw
them. Where the growth rings of the
ancient survivors have been examined
there is evidence to show that for four
or five consecutive years, 150 to 200 years
previously, they had made practically no
growth, which meant a hard struggle to
live. It is a disquieting fact, one which
should receive careful scientific attention
in the interests of the future.
jfc -Y v
“Dickie Beech”: That resolute com-
bination of speed and staying power
known in S.Q. waters as the lack mac-
kerel, and by scientific folk as Scom-
beromorus commersoni, is called in
America the wahoo, and is regarded as
the world’s best fighter among medium-
weight game fish. Although American
waters see it for only a three or four
months’ season, it is common all the
year round off S.Q. and northern N. S.
Wales. Commanding a ready market, it
is a valuable standby for professionals
when reef-fishing is poor. If we are ever
allowed to develop a real Australian
fisheries industry, the giant mackerels will
yield big money for canning. Weight for
weight, they return more usable fish-
meat and less waste than almost any
other species. And there are plenty of
American anglers who would ask no-
thing better than a year, or years, of
wahoo fishing, no matter how many
dahlars it cost. Why don’t our tourist
departments whoop it up in Gahd’s Own
Country and bring in those dahlars.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A tragic experience
befell two men, one of them 68, when
their car stuck in the dry sandy bed of
the Yappar River between Ifley and
Croydon in the far N.Q. Gulf country,
and they found that their water drum
had leaked dry. The younger managed
to cover the 20 dry-perish miles to Clara-
ville station, and returned with water-
bags just in time to get his older
companion in alive. For part of the
return journey he had to carry him, and
it was a plucky performance on the part
of both. The real tragedy of the situa-
tion only occurred to them while they
were putting in a week recovering—the
car radiator tank had, all t e time, een
0 rm a ewa er-
.
Dick Tafone . In ris an
massive Ludmayor e ° neS r - ( fI 1 f .
nounced that he had saved the city £3OOO
P-a. in salaries by merging the water and
sewerage departments under a clerical
manager, and giving him a couple of
engineers at £650 or so. That same year
the aldermen added £2OOO to their own
screws. Now the city is short ot water,
because there are not enough mains, and
"“strpet
unea sy ratepayers to demand out-
eng}neering opinion before liability
j ncurred Sewerage is even less satis-
factory> It looks as if Brisbane’s city
f atkers w jq have to face the hard fact
that brains and experience have to be
pa id f or .


Doctors say that il your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. \ Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT. ‘ZTTL
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Pickups and Microphones for
Audio Reproduction.
Microphones and pickups have kept
pace with audio development. High
fidelity, which previously was available
only at a high price, is now associated
with the humblest microphone and pick-
up accessories. The selection of the cor-
rect microphone for each installation has
been the sound engineer’s chief difficulty,
as the required microphone characteris-
tics depend upon differing acoustical con-
ditions —speech-making, singing, acting
all call for differing types of microphone.
The English “Television and Short Wave
World” has recently made a classification
of microphones and pickups which
Four-channel mixer and pre-amplifier designed to enable the mixing of
four input sources of 80,000 to 100,000 ohms to one amplifier channel.
With this unit, combinations of four microphones may be added to each
microphone input channel.
should be of interest to sound engineers
and those interested in audio reproduc-
tion.
Microphone Types.
Present-day microphones are of the fol-
lowing basic types: (1) Velocity or ribbon
type. These are well suited for sound-
pickup purposes three or four feet dis-
tant from the microphone. For musical
reproduction and singing by artists in
stage plays and vocalists with an orches-
tra, the velocity microphone is excellent.
(2) Crystal, Because of high output, com-
pactness and ruggedness of construction,
crystal microphones are popular with
P.A. engineers and sound-equipment
manufacturers. Owing to high impedance
output, line transformers are not needed
over long distances, eliminating possible
pickup of hum through the transformer
into the first stages of the amplifier.
The response from 60 to 7500 cycles
is more than adequate for average
P.A. work. Lower frequencies are not
necessary when speech is used ex-
clusively, and “boominess” is reduced
by a crystal microphone. This type
is the most commonly used. (3)
Dynamic types. These are used exten-
sively in broadcasting and are not appre-
ciably affected by temperature, wind or
atmospheric conditions. Close speaking
rarely causes “boominess.”
The three types mentioned have dif-
ferent models, such as lapel, semi-direc-
tional, spherical and other mechanical
forms. The condenser microphone has
been supplanted. The necessary pre-
amplifier is a complication. Carbon
button microphones which call for a
power supply are also seldom used. They
are, however, still useful where a rela-
tively low-gain amplifier must be used,
and in the latest forms they have been
considerably improved.
Lapel microphones are not generally
used in outdoor P.A. or in large halls
when more than one person uses the same
microphone. Wires may easily be broken.
For general announcement work, micro-
phones may well include a crystal type
and where possible, in a permanent in-
stallation, a ribbon-velocity microphone.
The carbon microphone is useful in air-
craft work.
More of the amateur-type microphones
as made in U.S.A. are being used by
sound engineers because of their excellent
characteristics for voice transmission.
They are not so suitable for music, how-
ever, because of sharp cut-off character-
istics. The use of a high-impedance input
eliminates the cost and inconvenience of
matching transformers, which are neces-
sary for a 200-ohm or 500-ohm micro-
phone. Feedback must be overcome
solely by the placement of loudspeakers,
as the microphone must in any case be
placed in a certain position. Heavy drap-
ing at the rear of the microphone will
reduce feedback.
Pickups and Recording.
Certain essentials of any pickup
should be carefully noted: The needle
pressure should not exceed 3oz. maxi-
mum. The arm must be designed to
travel freely, and must not bind in any
position. It must also be free from vibra-
tion. There are two distinct types of pick-
A novel circuit offering advantages over
the conventional design. By use of this
filter circuit record scratch is attenuated
without any• modification on the part
of the amplifier.
up —crystal and magnetic. The former
are popular to-day because of their high
fidelity of reproduction and high output.
The magnetic type was the first invented,
and is still apparently preferred in broad-
casting and by many sound engineers.
Some of the new pickup models have
a tangent or offset head which almost
eliminates record wear. Such improve-
ments give better reproduction and lower
surface noise. Selection of needles as
recommended by the manufacturers in-
clude half-tone steel needles with a pref-
erence for shadowgraphed needles. The
latter are tested by magnification of their
shadow. A perfectly round point is thus
obtained. Cheap needles do not seat per-
fectly in the groove but scrape on the
sides.
Scratch Filter.
Use of the scratch filter shown will
materially remove much of the scratch
from recordings without cutting down the
high-fidelity response of the system. The
decibel table of sound loss and gain is
the standard unit of measurement. Zero
level in a system is referred to as .066
watt. By the use of this table, knowing
the gain of the amplifier from manufac-
turer’s data, it is a simple matter to deter-
mine which microphone or pickup will
give full excitation and output. For
example: With overall gain 130 db, and
power output 60 watts, or 40db, full
output will be made with a microphone
of 90db. (Subtract power output from
gain to give needed decibel ratio of
microphone or pickup.)
As the majority of microphones range
from —65 db to —42 db they are well
suited for this purpose.
T. S. W.
Civil Aeronautics Progress
in U.S.A.
The importance of radio in the de-
velopment of American civil aviation is
shown by an “Aero Digest” summary.
By the end of January, 1939, there were
in operation 81 new full-power, simul-
taneous range and communications radio
beacons with vertical radiators, and 50
old-style, full-power beacons had been
modernised. Thirty medium- and low-
power simultaneous voice and communi-
cations beacons have been added, and
100 ultra-high-frequency cone-of-silence
and 21 ultra-high-frequency fan-markers
installed. In addition, some 7000 miles
of teletype circuits and a large quantity
of miscellaneous apparatus and equip-
ment have been placed in operation.
This year will be the u.-h.-f. year in
American civil aviation. A large part of
the programme is to be devoted to further
development and wider adoption of the
many services made possible by the char-
acteristics of radio waves shorter than 10
metres. Extremely satisfactory results
have been obtained with u.-h.-f. beacons
operating on 63 megacycles, which is
higher in frequency than the amateur
five-metre band.
Of immediate importance is the aboli-
tion of the 278 kc. (low) frequency for
airport traffic control and its substitution
by a frequency of 125 megacycles
(around two metres).
An important contribution to safety in
the air will be the adoption of a nation-
wide system of instrument landing. Work
is also nearing completion on develop-
ment of a u.-h.-f. radio teletype circuit
between ground stations and aircraft in
flight.. Micro waves are employed in the
developmental work on a new absolute
type radio altimeter which is effective
only 20ft. above ground. Another prob-
lem occupying American aviation-radio
engineers is the development of anti-
collision devices. Preliminary work has
already reached a point where commer-
cial production can be commenced.
D. B. K.
Receivers for Islands
Locations.
R.C.L., of Tulagi, Solomon Islands,
writes:
That 1.4-volt valve receiver tested on the
Queensland road tour (B. 14/12/’3B and
21/12/’3B) seems to have many of the quali-
ties we need in a design for the Islands.
Radio receivers for this climate need to be
totally enclosed to keep out spiders and a
host of other vermin, and also damp air.
I suggest a plain wooden box (bottom, top,
back and ends), with everything attached to
the front panel so that it can be pushed in
and screwed on. It could have a small
back panel to butt up against the back of
the box, which should have a hole just
large enough to allow for plug-in connec-
tions. Possibly a piece of felt around the
inside of this hole would help to caulk it.
Portability is a virtue, since a lot of us
move about on boats and the like, and
take our sets along.
[Portability and the complete boxing-
in of a receiver are much simplified by
the advent of the 1.4-volt valves. A com-
prehensive dual-wave superhet running
from only 90 volts of B battery and the
special long-life 1.5-volt filament cell can
be fitted into the carrying case. Only
connections necessary would be aerial
and earth, and, short of white-ants, in-
sects wouldn’t have a chance of entering.
The use of well-impregnated parts and
low-drift permeability-tuned I.F. stages
would overcome weather difficulties.—
Ed.]
New York Television Aerial.
The new R.C.A.-N.B.C. “streamlined”
television aerial system on top of the
Empire State Building in New York City
marks a revolutionary advance in aerial
ara Y s for television radiation. R.C.A.
engineers claim that the device overcomes
a technical bottleneck in transmission of
television signals by departing from the
use w i res or their equivalent in pipes
or masts in various arrays.
.The system is designed to radiate tele-
vision waves over a band-width of 30
megacycles per second without accen-
tuating the energy in any portion of the
band. The transmission characteristic, in
engineering terms, is “flat” over the 30mc.
band. At the time the first field tests
were conducted in New York with the
present experimental standard of a 441-
line picture, aerial designs existing at the
time were found to be insufficient to
handle the desired band-width. This new
array accommodates six times the desired
band coverage.
Radiation components consist of two
“doublets” for the picture signal and
four “doublets” for the accompanying
sound. Both these aerials are energised
through concentric feeders in a common
vertical shaft. Interference between
sound and vision channels is eliminated
by calculated arrangement of the two
radiating systems and by using the
equivalent of a closed loop for the sound
and open radiators for the vision signals.
The torpedo-shaped objects in the illus-
tration are the open radiators for vision.
The entire system includes electrical heat-
ing units to prevent the formation of ice,"
which would enlarge the effective physi-
cal dimensions and detract from
efficiency.
R. N.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Of chief interest recently has been the
new Shanghai station, first heard on
23 /1 / ”39. Programme commences at
8 p.m.; wave-length is 24.53 metres,
frequency 12.23mc. Callsign is XNHA.
Reception is often marred by strong
Morse signals, but normal signal strength
is excellent. A % station, presumably
Indian, has been heard strongly at 9.30
p.m. on 25.6 metres approximately. At
9.49 p.m. the new experimental station at
Saigon opens up on 25.55 metres with a
strong signal.
At present RNE and GSE are varying
a good deal, but the 19-metre band is
excellent at night. PCJ is noted as an
extra on 19.71 metres, and XGOX on
19.73 metres is one of the best stations,
the signal being powerful both at night
and between noon and 2 p.m. A new
Filipino has come to light in Manila
around 49.55 metres, just above WBXAL,
but the signal is not comparable with the
two on the 31-metre band. Rome on
16.83 metres has improved considerably,


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to yop in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
\ou can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/ per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking —Wages Page 39
Rations » 15
Sheep bought » 20
Wire netting » 51
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 25 2 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
and by 10.30 p.m. is as strong as GSV
and GSG. . .
Morning reception is also improving
with 2RO on 31.13 metres, about the best
station in this channel. Of the 25-metre
stations, W2XE and WBXK are doing
well, but TPA3 varies widely. Reception
on 19 metres is improving in the morn-
ings, and GSO can be listened to com-
fortably in the news session at 7.15 a.m.
K. B. G. (Thargomindah, Q.).
Amateur Chatter.
In January Americans attempted a
56mc. DX relay, but conditions were not
particularly favorable. Some good DX
work was done, however. The relay
method of covering ground at 56mc. is
interesting for U.S.A., but will not be
possible in Australia until more distant
stations are established.
An interesting test was run off recently
between VK2AFO, of Katoomba, Blue
Mountains, N.S.W., and VK2LZ. The
latter left with 56mc.-equipped car for
Bathurst, with steady I.C.W. tone run-
ning throughout the trip. In Katoomba
the signal was held clear to Bathurst,
thus proving a four-year-old contention
of the writer that two-way 56mc. working
between Mt. Victoria district and
Bathurst should be possible. Here is one
instance where a relay scheme could be
put to use. VK2VU, of Singleton,
N.S.W., is making plans for installation
of advanced equipment for the band, and
in the near future VK2CI, of Newcastle,
will be co-operating with VK2NO in
establishing a permanent Sydney-New-
castle 56mc. link.
Enthusiasts for 14mc. ’phone DX have
been complaining of increasing difficulty
in maintaining communication with far-
distant stations which have, in the last
three years, been “easy.” This patchiness
appears to herald the reversion for a
number of years to less favorable DX
conditions on the lower frequencies in
accordance with sunspot activity, and in
view of this some thought should be
given to the future of the 7mc. band. In
Australia 7mc. has lately been looked
upon as the jumping-off ground for new-
comers. Probationers usually put in their
six months there, and almost immediately
afterward break out on telephony. At
present short skip on the band clutters
up the dial. With the gradual return of
DX conditions on 7mc. it is not difficult
to imagine what the band will be like in
a few years’ time, when skip is as long
as on 14mc. at present. It will be a
very difficult matter to work any DX
at all if there are the present-day number
of VK ’phones trying to work with some-
body “across town.”
As in many countries ’phone is not
permitted on 7mc., many ’phone men
will need to learn C.W. all over again
if they wish to enjoy overseas contacts.
The band, for practical purposes, will
also be narrower, as from September this
year 7200 kc. to 7300 kc. will be open
to short-wave broadcasters. This will be
a good portion of the band for the DX
man to steer clear of, even though it is
a “shared” channel. The 7mc. band will
soon have to be treated as something else
than a “lids” band. Attention, too, must
needs be paid to the question of duplex
’phone on 80 metres.
Bruce Mann, who operates VK3BM at
Quambatook (Vic.), plans to tackle
56mc. seriously. His station excels all
other VKs in the matter of extensive
aerial systems, there being four V beams
over 200 ft. long in various directions,
supported at the apex by a 120 ft. mast.
With only 32-volt homestead power
facilities, VK3BM is well under the 50-
watt rating. With 40 watts or so the
four beam arrays have been responsible
for communication on telephony with 52
countries. This has been on 14mc. since
October, 1938, and conditions for “good”
DX have not been exceptional since then.
For 56mc. Mann is erecting a vertical
six-section WBJK beam array, to be hung
from the big mast over the operating
room. Distance to Melbourne is 200-odd
miles, and over 400 to Sydney, but with
crystal control and this well-elevated
array something should be done. A
56mc. superhet converter on the lines of
that described in B. 11/1/ ’39 is to be
used ahead of the communications re-
ceiver used for the DX bands.
At Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.) A. R. Pay-
ten, listening on a 56mc. T.R.F. receiver
built by VK3ML, reports what may be
DX reception on this band, or else har-
monics. On 11/2/’39 he heard several
C.W. stations, but, not being conversant
with Morse code, was unable to identify
them. Later he heard part of a ’phone
conversation on approximately 5.6
metres, in which a lady was heard to
say that she “expected to be in Wyndham
in March.” A reply was heard from
another station saying that signal strength
was holding up well. From this latter
reception harmonics would appear to be
responsible. That harmonics are occasion-
ally heard in North Coast N.S.W. loca-
tions is evident from signals heard on
56mc. by VK2UC, of Lismore. Sydney
14mc. stations have been heard there on
56mc.
In a communication from their authori-
ties, ZLs have had their attention
directed to breaches of regulations among
telephony operators in allowing third
parties to converse over their stations.
A reprimand is also issued regarding
remarks which may be in bad taste. It
must be remembered that the station
with which one is in communication is
not the only listener; there are public
dual- and all-wavers by the thousand.
Illustrated is a “QST” design for a
highly efficient vertical 56mc. aerial of
co-axial type. There are reasons why a
“J” type aerial may be a poor performer,
which faults this type of co-axial arrange-
ment eliminates. Concentric line may
appear to be a snag in construction, but
the originator made his up by pulling
No. 14 rubber-covered house wire
through a length of iin. brass tubing.
A piece of -gin. copper tubing was
soldered to the end of this, and the top
quarter-wave section used as an exten-
sion of the inner conductor. Apparently
a vertical “J”-type aerial with a vertical
quarter-wave “zepp” matching section at
the end of the half-wave radiator has
voltage which is out of phase 180 deg.
in each side. The feeder becomes part
of the aerial if it does any radiating it-
self, which is likely to be the case. This
makes an unwanted three-quarter-wave
aerial which has a strong lobe of high-
angle radiation and a weak lobe of hori-
zontal radiation. This new method of
feeding as shown is claimed to match up
the half-wave radiator perfectly, and to
give complete horizontal radiation. The
idea could be applied to lower fre-
quencies.
VK6FL, of Geraldton, W.A., has been
south, and maintained contacts at
VK6WZ. Before leaving for Perth, his
efforts in the Senior B.E.R.U. Contest
were marred by radio-inductive interfer-
ence in Geraldton from D.C. machinery.
Latest introduction to the QRM medley
has been tracked down to the power-
house itself, where a machine, newly
installed, makes the ether hideous be-
tween seven and eleven each night.
VK6BB, 56mc. Westralian pioneer, is
still persevering with his 56.744mc.
schedules, but the only reports so far are
from local experimenters. There are no
country reports nor reports from 56mc.
SWLs. VK6BB considers SWLs could
do useful work listening on “five.”
Several SWLs are breaking ground on
u.-h.-fs., notably in N.S.W., where Sydney
56mc. men have good SWL co-operation.
VK6BB is gradually talking Westralian
“DX band inhabitants” into building
56mc. receivers, so as to work duplex. He
listens on 14mc. or 7mc. and replies on
56mc. Several have given the scheme a
trial, and VKs 6LW and 6DF have
worked 688 in this manner.
VK2NO.
To Replace Coil Switching.
Shown here is a rotating coil turret
designed and .constructed by Don B.
Knock for use in a T.R.F. receiver to
cover waves from nine to 1000 metres.
Two such turrets are used —for R.F.
and detector stages respectively. The
assembly is of bakelite, but the bar
carrying the spring contacts and the
coil mounting strip are of WT/22 in-
sulation. This system is actually a
mechanical method of plugging-in coils,
and is more efficient than the usual
switching schemes, which suffer from
dead-end loss.
"Radio" for February.
Main technical articles in the current
issue of “Radio” (U.S.A.) to hand deal
with “Characteristics of Antennas with
Closely-spaced Elements,” by J. D. Kraus
(WBJK), “Power Amplifier for Beam
Tetrodes with A.C. or D.C. Application,”
“Pulsing Amateur Transmitters for lono-
sphere Sounding,” “Push-button Trans-
mitter Control,” “Remote Control Switch-
ing Without Wire Lines,” “Reviving 80-
and 160-Metre DX," “Mobile 10-Metre
Equipment” and “Flasher Type Modu-
lation Indicator.” Subscription to
“Radio” is 18s. 6d. annually, accepted
through The Bulletin Office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
Radio Comment.
“Diod”: “Cluny” (B. 8/2/’39) isn’t
altogether right in maintaining that aerial
wires don’t need renewing periodically.
High-frequency currents always follow
the outer surface of a conductor, which
might advantageously be hollow. When
copper wire has been exposed to the
weather for some time, the oxygen in the
air forms copper oxide on the surface
and reduces conduction. If this high-
resistance surface is allowed to remain
the aerial has lost most of its effective-
ness as a conductor of H.F. currents. For
short-wave reception, change your bare
copper aerial wire at least every two
years.
[Better procedure is to instal 14 enam-
elled solid drawn copper wire as used for
most amateur transmission aerials. The
protective layer of enamel preserves the
bright surface of the wire,
and is no barrier to H.F.
currents either way. If such
wire is scraped clean for
soldering it should be re-
enamelled afterwards. —Ed.]
* * *
“Alpha”: Home construc-
tors using aluminium chassis
often find difficulty in solder-
ing. A useful solder can be
made by mixing tin, 10 parts ;
cadmium, 10 parts; zinc, 10
parts, and lead, 1 part. Resin,
nitrate ' of silver and zinc
chloride are suitable fluxes.
The main difficulties in sol-
dering are, firstly, that alu-
minium dissipates heat from
the iron, and, secondly, it
forms an oxidised coating
under the applied solder, preventing a
proper joint. Make the iron exceptionally
hot, and stand it over melted solder on
one section of the joint, scraping the sur-
face beneath with the point of the iron
to disturb the oxidation process until the
spot is tinned. Repeat on the other face,
and then complete the joint in the usual
way.
The Question Box.
I am told that the Morse code was not de-
vised by Morse, but by his business partner,
Alfred Vail (1807-1859). Is this true?— 7sl.
Webster’s New International Dictionary (1937)
attributes it to Samuel F. B. Morse.
* * * *
The rheostat of my six-valve battery set
failed recently, and was replaced. Now, when
the receiver is switched on, reception is per-
fect for about 20 minutes, and then a noise
like a liner’s steam siren persists for about 10
seconds. After this, reception is weaker and
blurred. What can be the cause? —753.
Owing to the length of time elapsing before
the trouble shows up, it is not likely to be
due to the rheostat. A faulty resistor of old
design, giving poor contact, could be respon-
sible. A leaky by-pass paper type condenser
might show similar symptoms. Have all parts
thoroughly checked over by a competent radio
service mechanic, or find where the trouble
lies tjy elimination —substituting new parts
for those suspected.


SILENT,
\ _____ ' " ■■ '.< §
m
i m
i
1111
7
THE ONLY TYRE
LONG MILEAGE,
SAFETY AND
COMPLETE SILENCE
DUNLOP PERDRfAU RUBBER CO LTD. I INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA.
F 93- 48
A MIXED GRILL.
“Spokeshave”: At least one Melbourne
literary club will retain a vivid persona!
memory of H. G. Wells. It wired to
Fremantle making him an honorary mem-
ber and begging him to make use of the
facilities of the club whenever he liked.
Wells todk the invitation literally, turned
up one afternoon, walked straight to a
long chair and, subsiding mto it, fell at
once into a profound sleep. A couple ot
hours later he woke up and was gone
before the astounded members could wish
him the time of day.
* * *' *
“F.S.”: A literary society was gathered
together in Melbourne the other evening
listening to one of its number reading
the story “Rainj” in which the high-
light was a description of a downpour
falling on a city. At the psychological
moment the drought broke, and more
rain fell on the roof of the building dur-
ing the reading of the story than had-
fallen in'the city during the previous
three months.
* * * m
“T.D.”: It is a pity that R. J. Logan
j s dead and his,body committed .to the
sea off . the Twofold Bay that he loved,
The present invasion scares and talk of
the.enemy' at the gates would have given
him a new text for pointing out that a
hostile force might occupy Twofold Bay,
a h ou t midway between Sydney and Mel-
bourne and the only good harbor near
Cape Howe, round which passes most of
Australia’s coastwise traffic and the
greatest part of her overseas trade. By
land this fertile and well-watered bit of
country is accessible only by the coast
road and the mountain roads that drop
down from the Monaro, all of which
could easily be blocked. The Big Jack-
road, which comes direct to Eden, has
one grade of one. in four, and the Xan-
tawanglo Mountain is nearly as steep. It
was just round the corner from Twofold
Bay that the Cumberland was sunk by
a mine laid by the German raider Wolf,
about the time when the Wolf’s seaplane
is said to have flown over Sydney. From
Twofold Bay an invader might attack
Canberra if he had no better sense.
* . * * *
“Morehead”: “F.S.’s” old-timer (B.
22/2/.’39) -who has spent 40 years or
more studying art reminds me of another
stubborn failure. - He was a Victorian
who, until lately, wrote one short story,
and sometimes two, every week for
The Bulletin . and never had one
accepted. He’d been - sending them in
for ' years before s I joined the staff in
1917, and went on without a break until
his death in : 1937.: Not one story- got
within a mile of. publication level, yet he
undauritedLy> carried on. His stuff was
long rambling effusions written in archaic
style and without any pretence to plot,
characterisation or atmosphere. He must
have written over four million words
during my time alone, worn out shop-
fuls of typewriter ribbons and spent a tidy
sum on stamps and stationery. All with-
out reward. Strange to say, I can’t
recall one word of complaint ;’not even
one inquiry as to why his stories were
rejected. More, he never wrote a single
covering letter. We who had to read
his stories forgave him a Jot for that.
“Passenger”: l Port Adelaide’s “inner”
harbor has fallen into line at last with
other ports by numbering its berths,
Those on the city side now run from
j to 20, on the Birkenhead side from
A to H. A lot of interesting old names
disappear in the change, such as Dar-
ling and McLaren, but the gain in avoid-
ing confusion is obvious. A Harbors
Board for S.A. took over control from
the old private ownership over 20 years
ago, and since then concrete has replaced
timber over some mile and a quarter of
deep-water frontage.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,000,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
fad
. jl
JxrJ
V*
Jxrv
*l/3
u^
af
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lambs on Darling Downs.
“Ghanam”: E. A. Elliott, of N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, says that fat-
lamb raising can be profitably engaged m
on the Darling Downs and should add
another string to the wheatfarmer’s bow.
He saw a first-class stud of Southdowns
on Yandilla, the old Lomax station,
belonging to Mr. Stratton, based on
Brindley Park and Maoriland stock and
an excellent Dorset Horn stud. A little
further out good Border Leicesters are
being bred at Cambooya and Gatton.
To me there seems to be a mixture
of everything, and no attempt to develop
a standard breed or type.
Unless things improve there will soon
be only a very restricted market
for any new mutton business. The
restrictions on import imposed by
the British Government threaten the
end of Australian expansion. A
considerable effort is to be made to
increase British output, and it can be
successful when a million or so acres
of the quite reasonable sheep land which
still lies open around England and Scot-
land is turned from waste heath into
grazing country.
There is an industry which could easily
become permanent on the Downs —pigs
on the Argentine scale. There is a mar-
ket ready and capable of expansion.
Unfortunately it has yet to dawn on
Australian farmers that pigs can be
grazed on a large scale in the open.
They cannot be carried through drought
like sheep, but there are few parts of
the Downs on which a grain and hay
reserve could not be tucked away for
hard seasons.
Skirt Rams.
“C.V.S.”: Rams’ wool is most
neglected in the clip-some growers
merely pull off the dags and bundle the
rest together, and some, too, include
bellies carrying heavy stain.
Rams’ fleeces should always show good
breeding, and because of favorable pas-
turage are usually better grown than
flock wool. This is particularly notice-
able in a dry season. Fleeces should
be carefully skirted. Skirtings may be
mixed with the heavier line of wether
pieces, and bellies should be put with the
wethers’ after removing stain.
Main factor affecting rams’ wool price
is the low yield, but young rams pro-
duce attractive and fairly light wool.
With merinos, make two or three lines
if in sufficient quantity, keeping top line
long, fine and soft, throwing out shorter
and hard, gluey fleeces. The third line
will accommodate all .very broad fleeces.
In smaller flocks merely keep out the
heaviest gluey fleeces, which are usually
the shortest.
With Corriedales more attention should
be paid to spinning quality than to style.
Do Crossbred Ewes Pay?
“Granova”: Despite the talk of the
demand for crossbred ewes for fat-lamb
raising, prices are not high enough to
encourage graziers in the inner N.S.W.
districts to supply them. It does not pay
to keep for an extra year a crossbred
ewe lamb that can be sold for much the
same price as a sucker. The only extra
return is the wool, and two-tooth cross-
bred ewes do not cut more than 71b. or
81b. In addition, the carryover of ewe
lambs will displace portion of the breed-
ing flock.
At present prices, crossbred ewes will
come from low-rainfall areas where fat-
lamb raising is out of the question. Lamb-
ings are uncertain there, and their own
flocks have to be maintained and wool-
growers supplied to the tablelands.
If lamb-raisers want a steady supply
of suitable ewes they will have to pay
about 30s. for two-tooths off-shears. At
this price margin-land wheatgrowers
who can run big flocks with the use of
fodder crops would have a sideline that
would be more profitable than fat-lambs.
Grazier’s Pig Farm.
“Porcine”: Duncan Sinclair, brother of
the N.S.W. Minister for Lands, sees good
money in pig-farming for graziers in
“safe” districts where feed crops can be
economically produced. He proposes be-
ginning in the industry with two to three
hundred Tamworth and Berkshire brood
sows at Fraser’s Creek, Ashford (N.S.W.).
The farm already produces lucerne
(irrigated), maize and wheat, and is to
“Mulga Charley bin say him go up south, boss, and go longa down north-east to West, boss."
be subdivided for convenient grazing pad-
docks. Inverell co-operative bacon fac-
tory is a ready outlet for all baconers
turned off in the surrounding districts.
Fraser’s Creek, 13,900 acres, usually
carries 12,500 sheep and a couple of
hundred head of beef cattle. And Sin-
clair has two assets needed in large-scale
pig-production —he is a hard worker and
a good organiser.
The Break in Victoria.
“Zedo”: Victoria has had a bad year
—drought, which cut down many staple
crops, including wheat, by nearly two-
thirds, and killed thousands of sheep and
cattle, was followed by bushfires, and
farmers were facing one of the worst
winters in memory.
But good rain has fallen from the
Murray to the sea. Castlemaine had
ljin. in an hour. The Mallee got a
drenching. A few more falls and the
months ahead will look bright.
Sugar and Tractors.
“Dungeness”: Gatton Agricultural
College did a valuable job for Queens-
land’s sugar industry by organising a
Sugar Agricultural and Tractor School
for outside students. A fee of £3 14s. 6d.
covered the fortnight at the college,
and the Railway Department allowed
concession fares. The Bureau of
Sugar Experiment Stations, the A.S.P.C.
and the Q. Canegrowers’ Council co-
operated, and 12 tractors of light and
heavy types, with 15 mechanics and
demonstrators, were provided by com-
mercial firms.
All of the 78 students were Australian-
born, and farmers or sons of farmers ;
ages ranged from 17 to 55. Work began
at 7 a.m. and ended at 5 p.m. With lec-
tures, demonstrations, films, laboratory
work and tractor-driving, it covered a
range from magnetos to animal nutrition
and veterinary practice, and from sugar-
cane irrigation to the properties of soils.
The objectives were to show how pro-
duction costs could be lowered, and some
of the difficulties met with in regard to
overseas marketing. The fertilising value
of leguminous crops, the selection of
correct fertilisers for particular conditions
and the economics of tractor-manage-
ment were important subjects. The next
school is suggested for January, 1941.
Premium Wheat Area.
“A.A.D.”: The N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department’s plant-breeding and
wheat-improvement programme for the
north-western slopes and plains is to con-
centrate upon the production of hard
wheats of strong-flour class. It aims
ultimately to supersede such present-day
popular and productive varieties as Ford,
Geeralying and Bencubbin in this area by
types of at least equal yield ability and
of superior quality.
The north-west produces grain of
higher average baking quality than does
any other section of the State by reason
of early maturity and the larger propor-
tion of premium varieties grown. Pusa
4, Pusa 3, Gular and Cailloux form
the basis, and to these will now be added
Eureka and Waterhouse’s Fedweb 1.
S. J. Maclndoe, who produced the
former cross at Glen Innes farm, is en-
gaged on the major problem of evolving
early and mid-season types with the de-
sired characteristics.
Centralism Fodders.
“Peregrine Potwalloper”: Consider the
Centralian fodders. Trees include box,
Stuart’s bean-tree, kurrajong, supplejack,
whitewood, mulgas (several), ironwood,
gidya, native oranges (four kinds), all
eaten by camels, nearly all by cattle,
sheep and goats and some by horses.
Among shrubs are native plum, kon-
kaberry (a bush currant fruit in single
berries, not clusters), quandong, witchetty
bush, fuchsia bush.
Also there are saltbush—old-man salt-
bush, cottonbush, blue bush, broom
bush. A lot of this last has dis-
appeared ; cut down by rabbits as cleanly
as if pruned with a knife.
Herbage includes bindi-eyes, goat-
horns, three-cornered jack, a low prickly,
succulent bush (cactus variety), para-
keelia and munyeroo.
Grasses are Mitchell, Flinders, star or
button grass, an oaty grass (particularly
good horsefeed) and numerous others.
Also porcupine tops and clover (red-
flowering) are to be found in some few
localities.
Good-bye to Mother Earth.
“J. Want”: Two Americans —Carlton
Ellis and Miller Swaney —have written a
handy little textbook on Soilless Growth
of Plants (Reinhold Publishing Co.,
N’Yorkj, which should be useful to cave-
dwellers, flat-dwellers and the inhabitants


1=
1 X
,\\ » ' '
\l I
rf-VthdL
1308
There s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price ~ , , 27/6
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.'
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
ħ
MODERNISES A BEDROOM
n
i
SB
It was a bedroom of the dear dead days;
out-moded; over-"decorated"; fussily ceil-
inged, cracked; as to walls. Pasee.
\
7
r
"There's only one answer," said Builder
Brown, gazing on ancient plaster, cracks,
holes and shabbiness. "Cane-ite right away!"
"The more limited your budget, the
more you'll appreciate the infinite
possibilities of modernising with
Cane-ite. I can quote you an attrac-
tive price for re-vamping a room
or a home because Cane-ite itself
is economical and because a Cane-
ite job can be done quickly as
well as faultlessly. By modernising
with Cane-ite you get rooms which
are PEACEFUL as well as comfort-
able. Cane-ite deadens sound just
as effectively as it neutralises ex-
tremes in temperature . . and it
lends itself to every up-to-date de-
corative scheme under the sun."
BUILDER BROWN
Transformation! In came the handy-
sized, easily-worked, white-ant-proofed
Cane-ite sheets. Insulation and decora-
tion began in one inexpensive operation.
Cane-ite walls and ceiling . . the walls
colour-washed in delightful - graded blue
. . the ceiling left in attractive natural
Cane-ite. A new room for an old!
jt
Your builder can achieve
further miracles of moderni-
sation with MASONITE, "The
Wonder Board of 1000 Uses."
Ask him about Masonite
Presdwood, Tempered Presd-
wood and Masonite Temprtile
. . grainless, steel-strong, non-
warping and ECONOMICAL
DISTRIBUTORS:
Dickson Primer & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
George Hudson Pty., Ltd.
A. C. Ingham Pty., Ltd.
Malley’s Limited.
Vanderfleld & Reid, Ltd.
C ANE-ITE
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
LIMITED (Building Materials Division)*
Please send me sample and literature on
□ MASONITE □ CANE-ITE
NAME.
ADDRESS
* Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. S-l-3 CA-3-9
JJifTfyttlleZz/nL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
SE’S
60
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St.. Sydmy
CONCRETE
FENCE
POSTS
WILL NOT BURN
WILL NOT ROT
“THEIR FIRST COST IS THE LAST COST
Write for Free Advice and Booklets on
METHOD OF MAKING CON-
CRETE
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS
CONCRETE FOR FARM AND
STATION
LEAKING TANKS CONQUERED
WITH CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS
CONCRETE TROUGHS,TANKS
AND WELLS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON ST., SYDNEY Phone: 82471
of the sampans which are a feature of
China’s rivers, or to anybody who wishes
to avoid contamination with the soil.
It isn’t new. I played with the same
idea myself before the war and turned
off some pretty creditable pines and toma-
toes, though they did not have anything
like the flavor of the ones that came out
of Mother Earth.
The theory of the Ellis-Swaney method
is that while soil, or at least good soil,
holds all the elements of plant growth
the latter are in highly insoluble form
but are dissolved particularly by rain-
water and carried to the roots. The soil
is not essential provided nutrients are got
to the plant by some other means, and
the promoters claim that, by growing in
clean sand or water and by supplying
nutriment in liquid form, soil diseases are
avoided, root spread encouraged, and
plants are produced capable of growing
to an enormous size.
The general method of water culture is
to place the young plants in wire baskets,
packing them in with fibre and allowing.
their roots to trail in nutrient fluid
through the wire mesh. Even potatoes
can be grown this way.
There are numbers of solutions suitable
for different types of plant. A sample
is two teaspoonfuls super., two sodium
nitrate, 2i magnesium sulphate, each
mixed in a pint of water, then thrown
together and finally diluted to five gal-
lons—this is recommended not only for
tomatoes, potatoes and other vegetables
but for garden flowers.
It sounds easy, but it is just about as
hard work as running a hothouse.
Remaking “Useless” Citrus.
“Oranje”: The Queensland Agricul-
tural Department favors the following
method: Trees should be cut well back
for reworking, shoots not needed re-
moved.
To protect against sunburn in hot dis-
tricts, whitewash.
Make a cut lin. to long near
the base of the tree, down to the cambium
layer, and another across the top, form-
ing a letter “T.”
Bud from good producers. Trim leaves
off shoot used for. budding, which should
be as thick as an ordinary lead pencil
and under a year old. Leave a trifle of
each leaf. The cut should be made from
about half an inch below the bud and
end half an inch above, using a very
sharp knife. Raise the bark on the
stock, cut and push the bud stick gently
in. Then bandage the two tightly into
contact.
In three weeks, the bud should have
“taken.” If at that time it is still green,
cut the bandage and shorten back the
head of the graft. When the bud shoot
gets a good start, take off the stub alto-
gether.
“Karaway”: An experimental ship-
ment of 4j tons of brined cherries to
M.L. is expected to open export markets
for a new industry at Orange (N.S.W.).
Already it employs about 50 hands.
“Dimon”: In Canada and parts of
U.S.A., a black rice grows wild on the
edges of marshes, and sells at prices
ranging up to 75 cents a pound. It should
be worth investigating by Australian
growers.
“Mulyan”: A grass that will soon
spread over wide areas when a patch
here and there is allowed to seed is silver
top. The small seed has a light fluffy
case that is carried easily by the wind.
The grass grows to 3ft. high, and stands
heavy grazing. When cultivated and cut
in the flowering stage it makes excellent
hay. Many graziers place it among the
first half-dozen natives for fattening. Its
deeply-penetrating roots enable it to
withstand drought. Sheep are particu-
larly fond of it. On the upper parts of
the Richmond River (N.S.W.), where it
is sprinkled amongst kangaroo grass, we
used to pick the tops to mix with flowers
in the vases.
“Correa”: During the recent heat-
wave, on the day that a large white sow
at the Government Farm, Northfield
(S.A.), produced a litter of 10, her milk
dried up. An “artificial foster-mother”
was fixed up, using 10 babies’ bottles in a
wooden frame, with the teats projecting
through a long wooden board. The litter
is being fed from these bottles with fresh
cow’s milk, to which is added cod liver
oil. By the end of their first fortnight the
average weight of the piglets was five
pounds.
“Merino”: Much interest centred in
the Springfield clip from the Goulburn
district catalogued in the last series of
Sydney sales. The wool was of charac-
teristic depth of staple, robust fibre, soft,
and in nice condition. Springfield stud
was founded in 1838 by W. P. Faithfull,
father of the present owner, A. Lucian
Faithfull, who took over the manage-
ment in 1871. It is the oldest stud in
Australia and the only registered merino
flock to have been continuously in the
hands of one family for 100 years.
“Mookau”: S. Australia is dipping
into the t.b. question, and there is a
move to provide for compulsory testing
of cows, elimination of the infected, and
compensation to the owners. Seems to
me that it is time there was comprehen-
sive and uniform legislation throughout
the States dealing with diseases of various
types and with the elimination of the
scrub bull, which does more harm to the
cattle business than all the diseases put
together. There are still many farmers
who will pay £4OO or £5OO for a motor-
car in which to go and collect the price
of the milk but who boggle at the price
of a a topnotch bull.


AUSTRALIA’S MOST POPULAR
MB
■
*
I n
■
Hii
■
1®
m
■
■
■
■
VI
■I
m
■
H
: ':U
1
:W
■ ■■
H
m
■
bhhhh
Hi
:4:
MM
■
■ 'V'
1
m
m
'
m
11
m
R
■
H
BPpHfel
■
:
I
I
■
1
■
# - f
m
93
■
t'f-
mm
11
M
■
1H
■
aHffl BBW
»£*L
gSUSS
3351/37.
Gt. Brit. 34771/37.
N. Zealand 78955/37.
Vnrpi on Pat. ne.ndino.
The Weldon Radio Clock
(Mantel Model).
RADIO
SET
The 1939
WELDON
RADIO
CLOCK
Whether you live in the crowded city areas or in a remote rural district, you owe it to yourself to inspect
the 1939 Weldon range. See for yourelf the magnificent cabinet designs and hear for yourself the glorious
tonal qualities. If there is no Weldon dealer in your district, write for full particulars direct to
the manufacturers and distributors, BLOCH & GERBER, LIMITED, with which is associated Weldon
Electric Supply Co., 46-48 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6291 (10 lines).
WELDON SEWING MACHINES
This is the most up-to-date range of sewing machines available
in Australia to-day. Following is a list of Models, with short
descriptions and list prices.
ELECTRIC PORTABLES
Model. Description.
EGPl—Electric Vibrating Shuttle in Fibre Case . . 19 Gns.
EGP2—Electric Vibrating Shuttle in De Luxe Case, 20 Gns.
ELPl—Elec. Central Bobbin Shut, in Fibre Case. . £2l/10-
ELP2—Elec. Central Bobbin Shut, in De Luxe Case, 23 Gns.
ELECTRIC CONSOLE MODELS
(Entirely New Cabinet Design of Rare Beauty)
ELC9—Central Bobbin in No. M 9 Cabinet 26 Gns.
ELC32—Central Bobbin in No. M 32 Cabinet ....... 30 Gns.
NON-ELECTRIC CONSOLE MODELS
FGC9—Vibrat. Shuttle in M 9 Cabinet ......... 18 Gns.
FLC9—Central B. Shuttle in M 9 Cabinet 21 Gns,
FGC32—Vibrating Shuttle in M 32 Cabinet .... £22/10-
FLC32—Central B. Shuttle in M 32 Cabinet ..... £25/17/6
In addition to Weldon Sewing Machines, BLOCH &
GERBER, LTD. (which is the largest radio and electrical
wholesale warehouse in Australia), carry comprehensive
stocks of all other radio and electrical lines, including:—
WELDON RADIOS AND RADIO CLOCKS
ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS (SEVERAL BEST
KNOWN MAKES)
WASHING MACHINES (AUSTRALIAN AND
CANADIAN)
VACUUM CLEANERS
WELDON IRONS
WELDON JUGS
WELDON TOASTERS
LAMPS
VALVES
FLEXIBLES
WIRES
RADIO ACCESSORIES
WELDON BICYCLES
IMMERSION HEATERS
BATTERY CLOCKS
RADIATORS
LIGHTING FIXTURES
BATTERIES
ELECTRIC CLOCKS
CABLES
ELECTRICAL
ACCESSORIES
DEALERS! We guarantee to give better prices, the best
parts and the speediest and most courteous service in
Australia.
WRITE FOR COMPREHENSIVE CATALOGUE.
Agencies are still available in districts where we are not already represented.
WELDON PRODUCTS, DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED AND DISTRIBUTED BY
BLOCH & GERBER Ltd
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED
WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.
46 48 York Street, SYDNEY, ’Phone: MA6291 (10 lines).


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
mis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ĥ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free-
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tq hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Grazier’s daughter, Sydney, desires position
anywhere as companion in home or travelling
or teacher. Business qualifications, domesti-
cated.—2ss9.
Experienced stenographer, Sydney, desires
position as companion secretary. Refs. —2563.
Invalid youth (18), Q’land, accountancy
student, desires clerical position.—2sl9.
By ambitious, energetic young man, N.S.W.,
apprenticeship or opening in radio or electrical
trade. Fair theoretical knowledge radio, and
prepared to study at radio college if given
position with small wage to start. —2546.
Copy of newspaper in which appeared an
advertisement some time ago asking for where-
abouts of two brothers named Walker, late of
Windemere, near Ballarat (Vic.).—2526.
Information Sought.
(1) Which carries the weight of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, arch or roadway? (2) Is the
roadway level or is it arched; if arched, to
what extent ? —2204.
(1) The roadway is suspended from the arch,
which also carries the whole of the deck
system. (2) The roadway rises on a grade of
1 in 40 from each approach towards the mid
span of the bridge, where the grades are eased
over a central length of 500 ft. The rise of the
roadway at mid span is 17ft. Bin. above the
level of the roadway at the pylon abutments.
* * * <.
Which is correct, the left or the right side
of the road, for a pedestrian or man on horse
to travel in N.S.W. ? —2454.
A person walking along a public road where
no footpath is provided is required by the
Pedestrian Traffic Regulations to keep as near
as practicable to the boundary of the carriage-
way on his right-hand side. The rider of a
horse upon any public road is required by the
General Traffic Regulations to keep as near as
practicable to the boundary of the carriageway
on his left-hand side.
* * * *
(1) Is the tonnage of ships as shown in ad-
vertisements gross or net tonnage? (2) Differ-
ence between gross, net, dead-weight and dis-
placement tonnages ? —2427.
(1) The tonnage of passenger and cargo ships
as shown in the advertisements is usually the
gross registered tonnage. (2) Gross tonnage
is the sum in cubic feet of all the various
enclosed spaces of a vessel, divided by 100.
Net tonnage is the gross tonnage less certain
deductions on account of crew spaces, engine-
room, water ballast and other spaces not used
for passengers or cargo. Dead-weight tonnage
is the number of tons (of 22401 b.) that a vessel
is capable of carrying when charged to the load
waterline, made up of cargo, fuel oil or coal,
stores, water, mails, baggage, spare gear, water
or other movable ballast. Displacement ton-
nage is the number of tons of sea water dis-
placed by a vessel when charged to the load
waterline —the weight of the vessel and contents
in tons.
* * * *
(1) What arc “black” diamonds? (2) Their
value? (3) Where can very good imitation
emeralds be procured in Sydney, and their
approximate cost ? —2452.
(l) Black diamonds are found in India, the
Congo and Brazil, and are very rare and
beautiful. (2) They command the same price
as fine blue-white diamonds of equal weight.
(3) Good imitation emeralds can be supplied
by most high-class jewellers. There are two
kinds. The first is the reconstructed emerald,
which is composed of-very small real emeralds
or the chippings of emeralds, fused together so
as to form one whole stone. The coloring is
equal to the natural emerald. The price of
them ranges from one-eighth or less of the price
of a real emerald of equal size. The other
imitation is a synthetic stone, which is a gem
in which the various elements that make
emeralds are manufactured into one emerald-
colored gem. The price of these ranges from
one-twenty-fifth or less of the price of a real
emerald of equal size. Reconstructed emeralds
in sizes suitable for rings are available from
30s. upwards, while the synthetic emeralds are
from 15s. upwards.
* * * *
How is gunpowder manufactured, and what
is its composition ? —2477.
The subject is fully explained in Explosives,
by E. de Barry Barnett. Manufacture in any
quantity is illegal in N.S.W. unless under
license.
* * * *
As a weekly tenant can I claim compensa-
tion from my landlord for the value of lino-
leum destroyed when the floors of the house
were attacked by dry rot; also, need I pay
rent for the week during which the floors
were repaired? Over this period the house
was only available at night. —247l.
Unless a landlord agrees specifically when let-
ting the premises that he will keep them in
repair during the tenancy he is not bound
to do so. , You are liable for rent over the
period of repairing; and cannot recover for the
linoleum, except as a matter of grace.
What books were banned by the Irish Free
State last year? —2sl4.
Among better-known works: Eric Link-
later’s Juan in China, M. Sadlier’s These
Foolish Things, Fanny Hurst’s Great Laughter,
V. Wilkins’s And So Victoria, L. Bromfield’s
The Strange Case of Miss Annie Spragg, C.
Morley’s Thunder on the Left, S. Cloete’s
Turning Wheels, Ernest Hemingway’s To Have
and Have Not, D. Wheatley’s Uncharted
Seas, H. McCoy's I Should Have Stayed Home
and Beverley Nichols’s Self.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to produce power alcohol
from sugarcane ? (2) Cost per gallon for large-
scale production ? (3) Areas suitable for pro-
duction of cane? (4) Probable effect of this
industry established on a large scale on the
retail' price of cane sugar ? (5) What is Aus-
tralia’s annual consumption of power alcohol?
(6) M.L.’s consumption of petrol? (7) Princi-
pal sources of present supply? (8) Value of
Australia’s exports to these countries? —2417.
(1) Yes, to the extent of about 20 gallons
or more per ton of cane. (2) The manufac-
turing costs, apart altogether from the cost of
purchasing the cane, would be of the order of
6d. per gallon if it were possible to spread the
production over a considerable period of the
year. If the production were particularly
seasonal in character the costs per gallon would
be correspondingly higher, and could easily
reach Is. per gallon. To this amount it would,
of course, be necessary to add Is. 6d. per gallon
with cane at 30s. per ton. (3) In general warm
tropical areas are required; cane grows well in
Q’land and the northern parts of N. S. Wales.
(4) It is difficult to give any very definite answer
to this query. The sugar industry has from time
to time put forward proposals that the present
“surplus” cane, i.e., cane corresponding to the
amount of sugar that is now exported from Aus-
tralia at a loss, should be converted into power
alcohol. (5) Australia’s consumption of power
alcohol, which is practically all produced at
Sarina, Q’land, is of the order of one million
gallons per annum. The consumption of petrol
is in the legion of 350 million gallons per
annum. (6) About 85 million gallons per
annum. (7) Netherlands East Indies and U.S.A.
(small amounts from Iran). (8) Netherlands
East Indies about £1,500,000 per annum.
U.S.A. about £10,000,000 per annum.
* * * *
(1) What Government abolished the Queens-
land Leg. Council and in what year? (2)
Who first introduced preferential voting in
Queensland —was it a Labor Government ? (3)
What Government introduced old-age pensions
in the Federal Parliament ? —2501.
(1) The Theodore Labor Government. Act
passed, by Legislative Assembly October 25,
1921, and by Legislative Council October 27,
1921, and received royal assent, March 23,
1922. At a referendum, when the people
were asked if they were in favor of abolition
of the Upper House, held May 5, 1917, the
majority against abolition was over 63,000.
(2) Contingent voting in Queensland is not
compulsory; first contained in the Elections
Amendment Act 1892, Sections 20-27, passed
by the Griffith Ministry, and same provision
was retained in the 1915 Act passed by T. J.
Ryan, of the first Labor Government in Queens-
land —Section 65. (3) The Deakin Ministry
passed the Old-age Pension Act in 1908.
Fisher defeated Deakin on November 13, 1908,
and did not pay pensions. Deakin came back
into power again on June 2, 1909, and the
first pensions were paid by his Government.
* * * *
A few details concerning the Desborough
Calendar ? —25 H.
The Desborough Plan of Calendar Reform
provides for a perpetual 12-month year, begin-
ning on a Sunday, with equal quarters of 91
days; and with Easter Day falling always on
Sunday, April 8. The first month of each
quarter would have 31 days and the second
and third months 30 days. The 365th day
would bear a name of its own {e.g., New Year’s
Eve), and thus every date in the year would
be linked to the same day every year. In
leap years June 31 would be inserted with the
name Leap Day.
* * * *
(1) Who composed the music for the late
Sir W. S. Gilbert's “Utopia, Limited,” and
“The Grand Duke” ? (2) Is “The Gondoliers”
the final instance of collaboration of Sullivan
with Gilbert? (3) Did Gilbert write anything
{other than “The Bab Ballads”) not intended
for the stage? (4) Is Gilbert credited with any
literary status ? —2549.
(1) Sir Arthur Sullivan. (2) No. “Utopia,
Ltd.,” came four years after “The Gondoliers.”
(3) Nothing that has survived. (4) Excerpts
from his verses are included in Bartlett’s and
other standard dictionaries of quotations.
* ■* * *
Best method of planting wattle seeds ?
Should the seeds be soaked first? —2506.
There are two ways of propagating wattles.
(1) Place the seeds in hot to boiling water for
two hours and let the water go cold; then
sow seed. (2) Make a small incision just
through the outer coating of the seed, after
which sow without being placed in water.
Unless the seed is treated in some way it will
remain in the soil for years without germinat-
ing. Spring and summer are the right planting
times.
(1) Names and population of the 20 largest
towns in Queensland ? (2) Particulars regarding
Tully, N.Q. ? (3) Area and population of the
six leading Powers of the world? —2348.
Population, Population,
Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
Town. 1938. Town. 1938.
Brisbane .. 324,970 Charters Towers 8,150
Townsville .. 31,414 Warwick .. 7,000
Rockhampton 30,000 Southport .. 6,000
Toowoomba.. 29,056 Redcliffe .. 6,000
Ipswich .. 22,506 Ayr .. .. 4,792*
Cairns .. 14,600 Gladstone .. 4,100
Bundaberg .. 12,860 Roma .. 3,369
Mackay .. 11,850 Charleville .. 3,344
Maryborough 11,415 Longreach .. 3,274*
Gympie .. 8,350 Mt. Morgan 3,262*
* Population as at Census, June 30, 1933.
(2) The population of Tully as at Census
June 30, 1933, was 2688. (3) —
Area, Sq. Miles. Population.
Russia .. .. 8,241,673 162,143,000
U.S. of America .. 3,738,000 137,000,000
Japan .. .. 260,000 98,000,000
Germany .. .. 229,000 81,000,000
Great Britain and
Ireland .. .. 95,030 44,500,000
Italy .. .. 120,000 43,606,000
France .. .. 213,000 42,000,000
* * * *
(1) I have passed the preliminary examina-
tion of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
What is your opinion of accountancy as a
profession ? (2) Is it true that there is a
general attempt to exploit qualified men because
they are not covered by awards? (3) Should
a man qualified under the Institute of Char-
tered Accountants’ examinations have any
difficulty in securing a position of reasonable
standing? (4) Average salary paid to an
accountant employed by a company? (5) Is
the profession overcrowded ? —2460.
(1) Accountancy offers scope with adequate
rewards for the skilled man who can both
diagnose and prescribe for the solving of finan-
cial problems, including production and costing.
(2) No. Clerks employed by members of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants are not sub-
ject to any award. Clerks employed by public
accountants, whether certificated by other insti-
tutes or not, work under the commercial clerks
award/ (3) All depends on the man. He can
always practise on his own account, work for
a practising accountant or seek a position in
the commercial field, where practical experi-
ence is important. (4) Salary varies in accord-
ance with size and importance of companies;
it ranges up to £l5OO per annum.. (5) Not
for first-class men. There is a growing demand
for the services of qualified cost accountants.
* * * *
(1) Will many grape-pickers be employed at
Mildura this year? (2) Best place to write for
information concerning employment ? (3) When
does the season start? —23s3.
(1) and (3) Grape-picking at Mildura began
in earnest about the middle of February, and
will continue for four to six weeks. The crop
this year will probably exceed the average for
the preceding five years. (2) Submit address
and requirements to the managers of the
Settlers’ Club, Irymple Packing Co. or the Co-
operative Packing Shed—all Mildura.
* * * #
Recipe for mango chutney? —249l.
Assemble 21b. peeled, seeded mango fruit
which is ripe but firm, lib. brown sugar, 4oz.
finely-sliced onion, 4oz. roughly-cut raisins,
2oz. salt, one teaspoon ground ginger, two tea-
spoons allspice, half-teaspoon pepper and
sufficient vinegar to cover. Cut the mango
flesh to any desired size and place in a
saucepan, add all the other ingredients, the
spice and ginger being tied in a small piece of
muslin to be discarded later, and use enough
vinegar to cover the mixture. Bring to the
boil, and keep just at' boiling-point until the
fruit and onion are soft and the whole forms
a spicy brown mass. Remove the bag of spices
and fill the chutney into jars which have been
heated to sterilise them; allow to stand until
cold, then cover and store in a cool place.
This recipe may be made sweeter, saltier or
more peppery to taste. The addition of one
or two tomatoes will give a reddish tint which
is pleasing.
* * * • *
(1) What method is employed to ascertain
the winner of the Sheffield Shield when two
teams gain the same number of points? (2)
How are the points scored ? (3) Can a cricketer
play for more than one State in S.S. cricket ?
1988.
(1) Law 5 of Sheffield Shield rules states:
“In the event of two or more States gaining
the same number of points their relative posi-
tions shall be determined by averages. For the
purpose of ascertaining averages the following
system shall be adopted: The batting average
for a State shall be obtained by dividing the
total number of runs scored by the total number
of wickets lost. The batting average against
such State shall be obtained by dividing the
total number of runs scored against it by the
total number of wickets taken. The former
shall be divided by the latter. The State having
the higher quotient shall be considered to have
the better performance.” (2) Outright win
five points, win on first innings three points,
draw or tie two points, loss on first innings
one point, outright loss no points, abandoned
match two points to each team. (3) There
is nothing to debar any cricketer playing for
more than one State. The residential quali-
fication is three months, but no player shall
be eligible to play for more than one State
in any one season.
* * * *
(1) In the third and fifth Test matches in Eng-
land in 1930, what were Bradman’s scores and
the totals of the rest of the team? (2) What
was Bradman’s average in the five Tests, and
who was the next batsman on the list? (3)
Umpires in the five Tests? —2064.
(1) In the third Test Bradman scored 334,
the other 10 players 218, sundries 14—total 566.
In the fifth Test Bradman scored 232, other
10 419, sundries 44—total 695. (2) Seven
innings, 974 runs, 334 highest score, no not outs,
average 139.14. Woodfull’s 345 runs, average
57.50, was next. (3) Parry and Hardstaff in the
first and fifth, Chester and Oates in the second,
Bestwick and Oates in the third, and Chester
and Hardstaff in the fourth.
Brief Answers.
H.E.M.: So far as can be traced the ex-
pression was only used in the film mentioned.
. ...L.W.: (1) and (2) Only means is by
making direct application to the various steam-
ship companies. (3) No, but it would be help-
ful. (4) Not very bright; many experienced
persons are unemployed. (5) No C.V.S.:
Cannot trace article. Suggest you write to the
Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney
R.G.N.: Write Under-Secretary, Agricultural
Department, Brisbane... .E.G.: Write to the
sergeant of police at the town mentioned. He
would probably undertake to have inquiries
made L.H.: Write Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Territories, Canberra, A.C.T
W.L.: (1) Write Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-
street, Covent Garden, London. (2) 15 p.c.
on sales. (3) Depends entirely upon the class
of material submitted. (4) Not necessary to
copyright; you would be dealing with a repu-
table firm... .H.E.M.: Neville Chamberlain
was born March 18, 1869. He entered politics
as M.P. for the Ladywood division of Birming-
ham in December, 1918 E.M.T.: It occurred
at Toowoomba (Q.) in December, 1934. The
warning was made by Fireman J. G. Patterson.
... .H.A.D.: Excise is an inland duty or impost
levied upon the manufacture, sale or consump-
tion of commodities within the country, in
Australia excise is levied upon the manufac-
ture of beer and spirits, tobacco, cigars and
cigarettes and various other commodities
G. : Depends upon conditions of lease. It
is presumed that access has already been pro-
vided. If further access is desired you should
write to the District Surveyor, Lands Depart-
ment, East Maitland. Probably lease provides
that the right of the public to the use of any
thoroughfare which was in use prior to the
granting of the lease shall not be interfered
with. Leases granted under N.S.W. Crown
Lands Act are controlled by the Lands De-
partment, Sydney... .K.J.K.: Such articles are
not indexed, and it would take a considerable
time to trace references. Suggest that you
search files at Melbourne Public Library
L. : Information is set out in considerable
detail in the Commonwealth Official Year-Book,
the 1938 edition of which should be now avail-
able M.L.8.: Biographical details are con-
tained in Who’s Who in Australia (1938
edition). See also Red Page article, The
Bulletin, July 6, 1938 S.L.: Prince John,
the sixth and youngest child of King George
V. was born July 12, 1905, and died January
18, 1919... .N.T.: Address inquiry to Robert
Pears, secretary, Royal Warrant Holders’
Association, 8 Hanover-square, London, W.l.
. ...M.8.J.: Margaret Rawlings, the actress,
was born at Osaka, Japan, on June 5, 1907.
Her father was the Rev. G. W. Rawlings. She
made her first appearance on the professional
stage in March, 1927, with Charles Macdona’s
Shaw Repertory Co., as Jennifer in “The
Doctor’s Dilemma”... .A.W.: Modern Pise
Building, by K. J. Ellington, and Building in
Cob and Pise de Terre, published by
H. M. Stationery Office, London....
J.S.M.: N.S.W. Agricultural Department, Syd-
ney, will supply pamphlets on the subject upon
application J.W.G.: Great Britain, at the
rate of 3 p.c.; Commonwealth, £l, together
with an additional 2s. for every £lOOO or part
in excess of £2OOO (when the estate passes
to a widow these rates are subject to a re-
bate of one-third); Tasmania, at the rate of
p.c. up to £1500; Victoria, not exceeding
£2OOO at rate of 4\ p.c. Duty is charged on
estates as a whole. Each State has its own
taxation machinery and functions independently.
... .8.H.F.: Commonwealth tax where the value
of the estate for duty does not exceed £2OOO
is £1 per cent., increasing by one-fifth of £1
for each £lOOO or part in excess of £2OOO, so
that the percentage should not exceed £l5.
Where the estate passes to a widow, children
or grandchildren, the duty is payable at two-
thirds of the ordinary rate. These rates have
been applicable since 1914 M.C.: It is the
opening line of Vachell Lindsay’s poem
“Congo,” which can be found in his Collected
Poems (McMillan, New York, 1925)... .M.A.:
The net profit derived for the year ending June
30, 1938, from the Ashfield-Burwood-Cabarita
(N.S.W.) tramway service was £8679
W. : No regular agent; spare parts, needles,
and information can be supplied by Pinnock
Sewing Machine C0.,-72 Druitt-street, Sydney
J.C.N.: (1) Paragraphs and short articles on
the subject appear in Henley’s Book of Recipes
and Formulas, price 305., N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Sydney. (2) Write to booksellers for a list of
books on the subject in which you are inter-
ested... .W.E.W.M.: No special value, unless
to an institution having a file of the paper
from which this supplement might be missing.
. ...H.M.W.: The Strathfieldsaye arrived on
January 26, 1838, and the .Lady McNaughton
on January 28, 1839. No ship arrived from
Scotland on January 26, 1839 E.D.: France
has adult suffrage for men. A candidate for the
Chamber of Deputies who obtains an absolute
majority of votes is proclaimed elected.
If no candidate has obtained an absolute major-
ity there is a second poll, after which the can-
didate who has obtained the greatest number
of votes (whatever the number is) is elected
T.M.: Owners of adjoining properties are re-
quired to contribute in equal proportions to the
cost of erecting the dividing fence. He is liable
for his half-share E.M.M.: There are no
herrings in M.L. waters, the nearest relatives
being anchovies, pilchards and sprats. Com-
municate with A. E. Hefford, Chief Inspector
of Fisheries, Marine Department, Wellington,
M. R.L.: You are entitled to cut back the
branches and roots of the trespassing tree to
your boundary line and throw them back on
your neighbor’s land. You cannot, however,
compel him to remove the offending tree from
his ground, but could proceed in the Small
Debts Court for any damage done to the gut-
tering of your house, etc., by the accumula-
tion of its dead leaves. If you cut down your
own trees you must pay for removal... .W.F.:
Write Division of Wood Technology, Forestry
Commission of New South Wales, Sydney.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
92 YEARS OLD-AND
FIT AS A FIDDLE
Takes Kruschen Every Morning
“I feel in duty bound,” writes Mrs.
A.J.W., “to express my gratitude for the
marvellous results my father has obtained
from Kruschen Salts. They should
really be called ‘Miracles.’ He is ninety-
two years old, and is as fit as a fiddle.
He can nip about, and run up and down
stairs. His friends marvel why it is he
is always alert, and never feels slack.
He always tells them the reason : ‘my
regular daily dose of Kruschen Salts in
my first cup of tea every morning.’ ”
(Mrs.) A.J.W.
Most people grow old long before their
time because they neglect one vital
need of health—the need for internal
cleanliness.
Eventually they start the healthy
Kruschen habit. Then, probably for
the first time in their lives, they start
getting rid every day of all waste matter
from the system. Instead of being
clogged the intestines are clean and clear.
Instead of liver and kidneys being
sluggish they are active and efficient.
New, healthy blood goes coursing through
the veins—carrying health and strength
and energy to every part of the body.
h
ħ
Who pays
them
after
youre
yone ?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
• . . whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PRO BATE
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane^
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
h
v.-.f
\ % % gf
m
m.
Head Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South \tales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notin’ < P xr*nt of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re conmbuttpns
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members or the staff personally.
r wr • “The I adv” began well, but went
tn the does Crikey• Its fault is that it
does’n't swfi along but reads like chopped-
un nrose § C S • N0....E.F.: We get that
sketch with‘variations, three times a week....
RL • And vours is an old acquaintance....
HP- Not up to standard... W.H.E.: We
always have to repress a shudder at the part
where “the dense, drenched undergrowth slowly
parted and from it peered a face, whether of
brute or human would have been difficult at
first glance to determine”... .E.M.: “Shiner”
Jones is dulv shelved... .R.M.P.: An old one.
V R- Hon" the lady married her Duke-
we didn’t' get to the finish... .McW.: Nothing
new in the ratified offering... .N.C.P.: You
picked a bad market for “free verse”....
lies: With “Karioi Races” we got as far as
the racecourse, and then gave it best
M.C.D.: Images in it are all right, but you
don’t seem to have studied verse craft to much
purpose C.E.: You’re a bit young yet; it’s
a long road and a tough 0ne.... A.C.H.
(Canada): “The Landing” was a perfect
gutser; covering note appreciated.... M.R.:
It’s been done before... .V.T.W.: Not up.
E.H.: Still fades towards the finish.
W.J.W.: Don’t like white men leading
Myall raiders... .G.H.G.D.: Mr. Platt is mis-
placed here... .D.G.: Not even in 1971....
H.H.P.: Obvious H. 8.: No “Compensa-
tion” J.M.: Longwinded E.H.: It’s not
amusing... .V.MacL.: Cut it and try again.
... .S.H.C.: Still not up... .E.M.W.: Not far
off E.C.: And “Auction Sale” almost
brought a bid G.K.S.: Good yarn badly
written S.T.: Alter the start and handle it
more carefully... .L.M.: That’s the 896,348 th
exposition of the ’plane-crashing-on-farm-and-
aviator-lifting-the-mortgage theme,.. .P.S.N.:
Nicely done, but not worth doing... .L.D.Y.:
Try your hand on something lighter... .F.G.L.:
Agree with the sentiments, but that’s a 11....
D.8.D.: Much too long for what’s in it
8.F.: Wherever did you unearth that skeleton?
... .K.L.D.: You’re browsing in another man’s
pastures... .M.C.M.: Come again when you
have something with more body in it... .J.J.R.:
You’ve been seeing too many films.. . .S.D.:
And send that gunman back to America....
K. Not bad, but off our beat... .8.5.:
Very raw, but keep trying DJ.J.: Too late
for last Christmas and too early for next....
J.N.: Did you really think we’d publish that?
. ...M.D.R.: “Our Feathered Friends” are
still seeking a nest... .N.Y.: Come and get
it....C.J.8.: Essay on temperance sent us
hurrying out for a couple of long glasses....
P.A.L.: Might stand a chance if you rewrite
it with a different plot J.M.S.: An awkward
subject to deal with, but try us with something
else... .D.F.N.: Suggest you stick to knitting.
... .8.8. D.: Sorry, but it left us speechless....
M.N.D.: Heavy going S.F.R.: None of
those, but try “Metropolitan” elsewhere
L. : Cut by half it might stand a chance.
C.L.B.: A new finish is its main need
J.G.8.: Where did you see a station homestead
like that? F.S.A.: Even if you don’t like
stops, commas or capitals, you might at least
paragraph "your work... .M.F.: Might com-
ment if we could read it... .N.O’M.: “Rocket”
a dud... .L.G.8.: And your bushfires are
pretty dull affairs N.A.A.: “Signs and
Signals” led to the w.p.b S.S.S.: Has the
distinction of being this year’s worst
M. You’d stand a better chance if you
dropped the sentimentalism T.S.M.: At
least your “Ship” is coming home
F.L.McC.: Needs much better handling....
D.G.N.: And that’s not worth handling at all.
B.A.N.: Lose it, burn it, anything
1.P.: When you said, “Elise! Pull up sharpy
You are unleashing forces you cannot control,”
that must have startled her... .A.H.J.: We
wept when they threw the whisky overboard.
A.F.C.: Neither.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.P.: Couldn’t see the picture for the frills.
A.L.: Crosscountry rider didn’t negotiate
the first hurdle... .M.8.J.: Faint signs of
promise, but you’ll need a few years’ training.
S.T.: You’re making slow progress; gags
need to be a lot brighter... .N.C.: Not a smile
in the whole batch... .H.J.G.: You couldn’t
shave the whiskers off that ancient wheeze....
P.D.: No admission for gent, with clubfeet
and withered hands... .H.R.: We don’t doubt
your ability to draw wildfiowers, but can you
turn out a humorous drawing?.... A.N.C.: Side-
show spruiker talked his way into the w.p.b.
.. ..S.H.: Your first-born did not find a place.
W.S.M.: You’re aiming too high; try some-
thing simpler G.R.: Wash drawings are
muddy, streaky and out of proportion
N. : Get someone to teach you about per-
spective D. 8.: The bull is all right, so is
the china shop, but where is the point of
the drawing? 8.R.: Joe makes a very de-
pressing-looking St. George.. . .P.Q.: You’re
an energetic scratcher, but you get nowhere
near the mark K.D.: As a designer of
wooden building blocks you might go far
T.J.: You’ll be turning them in on the backs
of visiting cards next... .N.J.A.: That is
version No. 159 of the milkman and the water-
tap gag C.C.: Drawing has some merit, gag
is as old as Mount Kosciusko R.C.G.:
Sketch arrived three weeks too late... .A.D.:
Better study anatomical details for a while
1.H.: We want them in black-and-white; also,
gags must be original... .J.T.: Can’t see any
cheques fluttering your way for a long time
to come V.M.: You’ll have to use better
bait than that to tempt us G.L.: There’s
a nice, clean look about them; a wooden air
and poor jests let you down.
According to the “Saturday Even-
ing Post,” Roosevelt’s idea that the
U.S.A. could borrow and bonus its way
out of the slump was imparted to him
by J. M. Keynes, whose most ardent
disciple in Australia is Stevens, the Syd-
ney Premier. Two results of the ex-
periment, as recorded by the “Post”:
For all the myriad plans and all the
billions of dollars which the New Deal
has showered upon agriculture, farm in-
come is still 25 per cent, below the average
of the 1920’5, which were years of grave
agricultural depression. One-sixth of the
population is now receiving benefits direct
from the Government in wages, pensions
and subventions.
And the national debt has been doubled
and there are still round 12,000,000 un-
employed.
* * * *
Lord Strabolgi, of Big Dipper cele-
brity, is back in London with the report
that Australia and Maoriland “haven’t
got the jitters like Britain.” That’s a
comfort, especially as his Lordship left
the impression in Australia (he was quiet
enough in Maoriland) that he had them
himself.
* Jf6 * *
Probably the most encyclopaedic
authority in Melbourne is A. S. Kenyon,
M.1.E., anthropologist, numismatist,
historian of past and present Victoria,
engineer, collector and expert on the lore
of the now-vanished aboriginal. As
honorary numismatist of the National
Museum he can put a new feather in
his cap, inasmuch as the British Museum
has recently decided to adopt the Mel-
bourne institution’s method of displaying
coins and medals, on the advice of an
authority who inspected it a year ago.
On matters concerning Melbourne’s early
history it is difficult to fault him, as
was found in the controversies which
raged around the question of the foun-
dation of the city during the Centenary.
Kenyon was educated at St. Stephen’s,
Richmond, and Melbourne Uni., was
Commissioner of State Rivers and Water
Supply from 1932 to 1935, has written a
host of books on historical and ethno-
logical matters, and is president, past-
president, sec. or something of the sort
of every important local society con-
cerned with his subjects, as well as a
member of similar associations in Eng-
land and America.
* * * *
“Father of Water” is the popular title
in Jodhpur State, Rajputana, for F. F.
Ferguson, an old A.I.F. (Field Engineers)
man who has for six years been senior
executive engineer there. During that
period he has trebled the supply of water
in Jodhpur. Apart from providing more
water, mainly from dams and wells,
stocks of fodder have been built up
in order to save stock in dry seasons.
The rainfall in Jodhpur city over 51
years has averaged 13.85 in. For the
rest of the State it ranges from sin.
to 23in. with a very heavy rate of
evaporation loss. With that Jodhpur sup-
ports over 2,000,000 people on 36,000
square miles, and Ferguson thinks that
it can do a good deal better. Australia
might do with a Ferguson or two.
* 51= * *
“Australia,” Lang says, “will not be-
come embroiled in imperialistic wars,
so-called preventive wars or wars of
ideological blocs.” Nobody gave him
any right to speak for Australia ; still,
most Australians would be relieved if
the party leaders at Canberra expressed
the same sentiment in their own words.
There are lots of politicians like Attlee,
Eden, Churchill and Cripps about, and
lots of angry old gentlemen like Wells,
Steed and the editor of the “Cronk-
News”; and they all seem to take it
for granted that the Dominions will hurl
themselves into any crazy crusade in
any part of the world without as much
as a muttered “Why?”


A MESSAGE
TO INVESTORS
For persons of moderate means,
as well as the wealthy, a Fixed
Deposit in the Rural Bank is an ex-
cellent form of investment. Interest
is paid half-yearly at a definite
rate and the money invested is
repaid in full at the end of the
specified time, or the deposit may
be renewed. Amounts from £5 up-
wards are accepted at all branches.
And an interest-bearing Fixed
Deposit in the Rural Bank is a
lawful investment for trust funds.
Ml m
■! >
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE - • - MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you, Serving the State
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
m
JOHN DANKS & SON My. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
N.S.W.'s NORTHERN rOAD
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
y ILE main road between Sydney and
C Newcastle is now the Pacific High-
way, a splendidly-graded con-
creted track running more or less
along the coast between North Sydney
and Port Hunter. It crosses the Hawkes-
bury at Peat’s Ferry, where a bridge is
presently to supersede the Diesel-engined
transports now in use. But it was the
o d North Road, surveyed and con-
structed by Sir Thomas Mitchell over a
century ago, which crosses the river at
beautiful Wiseman’s Ferry, that first
established land communication between
the capital and the northern areas of
N. S. Wales.
Compared with the two great roads
that opened up the west and south, it is
something of a junior, for it was ten
years after Blaxland’s party had got
across the Blue Mountains and Captain
Cox had made a highway to Bathurst that
the wilderness of ranges lying between
the Hawkesbury and Hunter Valleys was
first traversed by a white man—that is to
say, in any journey of which there is
authentic records.
Major Morrissett, the flogging com-
mandant at Newcastle, did the job, and
those who know the wild mountain coun-
try he traversed can realise what a terrific
job it was.
Major Morrissett left Newcastle on
April 25, 1825, and took nine days to
get to Windsor. His exact route is un-
certain, but it is probable that the present
road from Maitland to Wiseman’s Ferry
roughly indicates its course. He went
alone on horseback, crossed the river at
Wiseman’s, and came through the present
Dural district to the Sydney-Windsor
road, which he struck at a point about
17 miles from Windsor.
Morrissett estimated—maybe with a
little exaggeration, though he had to
make some wide detours—that the dis-
tance he travelled was about 170 miles.
Mitchell surveyed a road four years
later, and by 1830 about 20 miles of it
had been constructed, due north of the
Ferry, but this line was abandoned a few
years afterwards for the present route,
It was not until 1835 that the main road
linking up the two valleys was completed,
though horseback traffic along a rough
bridle-path was common enough before
that time.
The best-known place on the old North
Road was, of course, at the Ferry, where
Solomon Wiseman had settled long be-
fore it had been constructed. Here he
established the first boat -crossing over
the Lower Hawkesbury, and for many
years it was the only one. To carve out
Mitchell’s roadway up the mountains on
each side of the river large gangs of
prisoners were sent to the Ferry, and
Wiseman was appointed District Super-
intendent of Convicts. He built a fine
“early colonial” house—it still does duty
as the local hotel—and founded a for-
tune by contracting to feed the iron-
gangs, making over £3OOO net per
annum. In Mr. Justice Therry’s remi-
niscences he tells a good story of the
Lord of the Ferry.
“Solomon attached this meaning to the
words ‘Protestants and Romanists,’ that
the former were Englishmen and, the
latter either denizens of Rome or descen-
dants from Romans who had early emi-
grated to England. With this impression,
and in the belief that the Catholic Arch-
bishop was a Roman, he said, ‘I am very
sorry to tell your Grace that there’s a
great down upon the Romans in this
country.’ ‘I don’t think so,’ said his
Grace (thinking, of course, that Solomon
meant the Roman Catholic portion of
the community). ‘I have received great
kindness,’ his Grace added, ‘from persons
of all religious denominations here.’ ‘Oh,
my Lord, ’tis a fact, I assure you. There’s
a great down upon the Romans.’ ‘And
why should there be?’ inquired his Grace,
‘Because, my Lord, the English people
will never forgive Julius Caesar for in-
vading their country.’”
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Orp”: One Krumland is reported—
in U.S.A., naturally—to have invented
an egg with a rubber shell. His
simple process is to feed the seeds
of the Mexican rubber plant to
the duckies, after which they pro-
duel a fruit which can be sat on in
the tram and which bounces off a poli-
tician. Seem to be great possibilities in
it, but I suspect that the principle has
been known in Australia for a long time.
The chickens I buy in Darlinghurst are
without the slightest doubt produced by
a maternal diet of iron spikes and motor
tyres
* * * .
“Feng-Shui”: “EkDum”(B. 15/2/’39)
gives a public picture of the late Gaekwar
of Baroda. I can give a domestic one.
In 1914 after the war had started I was
travelling from London to Australia with
my wife and a three-weeks-old baby My
wife placed the baby in a cot in a shel-
tered corner of the main deck every
morning, and every morning the Gaekwar
would emerge from his elaborate suite
of cabins, place his deckchair imme-
diately behind the child’s cot and whistle
softly, interluding this with gentle cluck-
ing noises. This pastime, which did not
appear to hurt the baby, seemed com-
pletely to satisfy his soul, and he never
varied the routine until the vessel berthed
at Bombay. He never read a book
never engaged in anything but the most
desultory conversation, and never took
the slightest notice of his handsome wife,
who changed into a new sari every day
each more beautiful than the other, and
spent her time leaning on the rail gazing
at the horizon. She took no notice of
the baby. A few years before this the
potentate had had his salute of 21 guns
reduced in number for turning his back
on the King-Emperor at a Durbar, and
many Anglo-Indians on board regarded
him as a dangerous character.
* * * *
“Exogenarian”: At 84, Bernard Shaw
. . , • u . tt -.x
appears to be losing heart. He writes o
a cousin, Charles M. Shaw, of Toorak,
Melbourne, apologising for the delay in
finishing his latest play, having been
overwhelmed with other jobs. “I almost
started for Australia to get time on the
ship; but we funked the journey at our
a § e -” This is inexplicable. Has the
octogenarian forgotten that Titian
Panted his masterpiece at 92, then tern-
P° rar ily went under to an attack of the
®/ ac h Plague, but recovered and was still
vigorously painting with a brush and a
bucket of whitewash when he died just
one year sb o rt °f the century? Inciden-
ta.y ’ Shaw’s Melbourne cousin has
wntten a book, Bernard’s Brethren, which
a London publisher will issue shortly. He
15 a former secretary of the Metropolitan
Golf Club.
■ * * * *
Feng-Shui”: Hainan, which the Japa-
nese have occu P ied > has a population of
2,000,000 Chinese, plus 100,000 aborigines,
Pnnc T al ex P orts are P>Bs, eggs, poul-
try ’ bullocks and domestic servants. The
domestlc servants form the caste known
as Hylams ’ and B°.to Shanghai, Singa-
P ore > J ava , the Philippines, Borneo or
wherever the white man wants his boots
removed or a wh isky soda placed at his
elbow : The Hylams are n Sid trade-
umonlsts ’ and have often been a tb orn in
th e sffie of Bnfish officialdom in the
Malay , A y cbl P e l a go, but they have a
nat l ural talent for ? legant servitude if sen-
Slbly treated ‘ A whlte man who has been
accustomed to Indlan servants and who
tne " treat a Hylaml after the . fashion
an Man would regard as quite in order
ls askm S f° r trouble. I beheld the most
extra ordinary concerted mass movement
1 have ever f en in tbe Adelphl Hotel in
Singapore when an officer from India was
j f viag * ft “ dinae <\ £ bad 8 0t about
tbat be bad kicked his Hylam loom-boy,
and th ?. staff P r ° tested Jo the management
unavalbn gly. Every Hylam left his table
and flmetly walked after him until he got
* be road way. They suirounded him
in deadly silence, and then there was a
sudden flurry of pigtails and white
trousers. Two later a British
officer completely naked was disappear-
ing in the £ stan y ce jn a rickshaw PP TJie
“boys” then quietly returned to their
tables and resumed their deferential ser-
vice.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition was begun on August 24, the intention being that it should
last for six months. It has been so eminently successful that it will be continued
until further notice. The conditions are now familiar.
There will be no more quarterly £lO prizes, but every week a first prize of
£3 3s. will be awarded, and everything published will be paid for (the winning con-
tribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
W. D. Dodd, of Proserpine (Q-), wins this week’s first prize (and gets 2£d. per
line in addition) for a pithy statement of a lamentable case, closing with a useful
suggestion. Australian birds need valiant championship.
Bird Protection
Since Captain Cook paid a visit to
these shores the balance of nature has
been fearfully upset. Many of our dis-
abilities can be attributed to unwise im-
portations—prickly-pear, burrs of many
varieties, sparrows, foxes, rabbits, cattle-
ticks and a host of other abominations,
including every obnoxious brand of poli-
tics and ism.
The domestic cat is another pest, for
the method of disposal of surplus pussies
has generally been to liberate them at any
spot far from home. This has resulted
in the feline increasing in population in
outside areas and the killing of insecti-
vorous birds has allowed the cedar-borer
to multiply to such an extent in Queens-
land that the Forestry Department is hav-
ing difficulty in growing this valuable
cabinet timber.
Plagues of grasshoppers are not natural
to Australia, nor are the increases of
insect life in the N.Q. canefields and
other districts.
My suggestion to assist bird protection
is an affiliation of every committee in the
farming and pastoral areas, no matter
how small, giving power to all members
to prosecute for breaches of Native Birds’
Protection Acts. In Queensland, at any
rate, this duty is incumbent only on police
and honorary rangers. W. D. Dodd
(N.Q.).
Passing the Buck
The increasing hold which astrology is
obtaining in the minds of the people both
here and in England has a very simple
explanation. It is due to the decay of
good government.
In the days of Britain’s greatness the
rulers were drawn from a class with a
devoted and self-sacrificing sense of duty
to the spirit of the nation. They had a
fine tradition —always excepting isolated
instances, they did not seek or use posi-
tion for the purpose of personal aggran-
disement or moneygrubbing. Rank was
an honor gained by service and not
bought with money. The early days of
Australian history knew many men of
this stamp. Then came the decay ; tradi-
tion and moral values were pushed aside
in a scramble for power as a means to
riches; the traditional incorruptible ruler
gave place to professional politicians.
The people want to be governed, but
in the cause of a deep-seated national
tradition, not in the interests of party
politicians and all they stand for. Mus-
solini and Hitler supplied the answer for
their nations. We are still crying out in
vain for regeneration, so the people turn
unconsciously to the stars in search of
impartial government. Human nature is
like that. Americans call it “passing the
buck.” —J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Cure for Jitters
Within two miles of my home is the
homestead of a station which has be-
longed to the same family since 1845.
In the library is a collection of bound
volumes of the “Illustrated London
News” running back to 1850. Whenever
I feel depressed by news from overseas
I visit that library, select a volume at
random and study history. It is a grand
tonic.
You can find a score of parallels to
our present troubles. Within a space of
less than 90 years there has been crisis
after crisis, with fools in high places
howling that war was inevitable and level-
headed statesmen telling the people that
Britain would not be drawn in. With
the exception of the Boer, Crimea and
Great wars, the level-headed men have
been right. Time and time again some-
one has invented a “new and formidable
engine of destruction” which was going
to wipe out the opposing force, but
always the odds have been with defen-
sive measures. When the Armstrong gun
sent a shell through a target built up to
correspond to the armor of H.M.S.
Warrior, many people feared that our
fleet would be helpless in the face of a
foe armed with similar weapons; but
armor was soon made which the new
shell could not penetrate, and the same
thing has happened ever since with every
weapon devised.
The thing which stands out above
everything else is the restrained and un-
embroidered way in which the news of
the world was presented to the reading
public. The “I. L. News” had correspon-
dents in every quarter of the globe, and
they sent one thing alone —plain facts.
When there was nothing to write or cable
home they kept quiet. The paper printed
no rumors. “It is alleged,” “it is said”
and similar expressions never appeared
in its pages. On the very rare occasions
when a canard or a furphy got into its
columns the correction was printed
promptly and given prominence.
In every city there are public libraries
with back files of the leading newspapers
stored in their vaults. If more people
were to spend a few hours every week
studying them and learning the lessons
to be taken from their pages, much of
the present public uneasiness and fear of
the future would vanish. —H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.). __
“Guests’ Responsibilities’ 1
Everyone must agree with “Enzed-
der’s” views regarding ill-considered
statements made by distinguished casual
visitors (B. 15/2/’39). However, his
example of a noble lord who refused to
be so indiscreet is unconvincing.
Lord Strabolgi was visiting Maoriland
on business connected with amusement
concessions at a forthcoming exhibition.
To have criticised Mick Savage’s Govern-
ment would have been not only “highly
improper” but in the circumstances utter
imbecility, of which an astute business-
man could hardly be guilty. —J. J. M.
(N.S.W.).
They
You’ll hear it on every hand. “They”
are going to tax us, “they” are consider-
ing some new legislation, “they” prevent
or hamper one’s movements, what will
“they” say? “They” may be the Gov-
ernment, any authority, or the general
public. Boiled down, “they” are “we.”
“We” frame our laws, determine our
collective action, define our conventions.
But such is our attitude towards authority
—which we have constituted —that in-
variably we mentally relegate ourselves
to slavery. It’s a comfortable attitude,
and a lazy one, and makes us shirkers
from habit. But habits can be shaken off.
When next you are discussing some
new legislation, try saying “we” (through
our representative) consider this or
that, or are going to place portion of
our collective earnings, as a tax, at our
country’s service ; when your city coun-
cil or road board undertakes some public
work, refer to it as “our” job which “we”
are prosecuting ; reflect that “we” won’t
permit “ourselves” to commit crimes,
and that “we” ordain that certain con-
ventions shall be observed. Salmon
Gums (W.A.).
Communal Homes
There is considerable chatter on the
Continent and other breeding-grounds of
“advanced” ideas on the subject of “com-
munal homes.” Personally, I cannot see
how the two ideas can be reconciled, be-
cause a home is a private affair, not to
be shared. The words have nothing in
common.
“Home” conjures up a happy vision of
men returning from a day of toil to the
smiles and welcome of wife and family.
“Communal,” on the other hand, is a
cold word. It shows a harassed hus-
band and still more harassed wife rush-
ing from the train to a poky little flat,
an anxious eye on the town clock as
they wonder if they will cook potatoes
or merely open the tin of cold beef left
in the safe.
All too true are the poet’s words:
“The world is too much with us late and
soon.” Why, therefore, deny men and
women the last stronghold of human
privacy which yet remains? —N. B.
(N.S.W.).
Sending Money Abroad
On the O.F.M. page of B. 8/2/’39
“W.P.T.” suggests the sale of British
postal notes in Australian post offices
as a convenient method of remitting
small sums to the U.K. For many years
Maoriland has been doing this, and it
is only one of the many ways in which
Australia lags behind the rest of the
world. These postal notes are certainly
a great convenience.—O. I. Saye (Vic.).
Advertisements
Nothing appealed to me more when I
read Looking Backward in my youth
than its description of small shops giving
way to what we now call “chain stores,”
and these in turn to State control and
management. A great advantage, it was
pointed out, would be the vast saving
due to the elimination of the stupendous
costs of advertising by rival selling estab-
lishments. I often think of this as I
ruin my eyes and waste my time hunting
for the parts of the metropolitan dailies
that interest me, concealed among enor-
mous photographs of young women
bathing or showing them with the un-
mistakable “I’ve got him!” air of the
engaged; or the still more obtrusive
sheets of advertisements of bargain sales.
Do people really read these advertise-
ments? Presumably they must, or all
these thousands of pounds would not be
spent. Why, the amount spent on adver-
tisements throughout the world must be
almost as much as they are spending on
preparation for the Armageddon that is
promised to destroy us all. Personally,
I find the press photographs pall by con-
stant repetition.
As Gilbert observed:
When everybody’s somebody
Then nobody’s anybody.
It is no longer a distinction to have
a photograph in the paper. I am bored
with them, and no longer look at them.
So with the advertisements. I decline
to be a “slave to big letters,” and look
forward to the day when either Arma-
geddon or State socialism will abolish
them. — John Alpin (Q.).
Difficulties of Going to Sea
“True Blue’s” advice (B. 15/2/’39) to
young men to go to sea is very sound. I
went to sea for nearly 10 years, and the
four generations that preceded me also
served as seamen. But in trying to get
one of my sons aged 18 to sea I struck
a snag.
I took my boy to interview the Ship-
ping Master at Dawes Point (Sydney),
and while waiting to see him (a matter
of an hour and a half) I had plenty of
opportunities to see the method employed
to recruit seamen for Australian ships.
Three Scandinavians who could hardly
make themselves understood were apply-
ing for licenses to ship on the Australian
coast. On production of their discharge
certificates they were told something
about a medical examination, and were
assured that licenses would be granted if
everything was O.K. There were a few
others with various excuses as to why
they had not been to sea for some time,
and licenses were granted or not, accord-
ing to the excuse. When our turn came
we were told that the Shipping Master
could do nothing, and were advised to
write to shipping companies. No other
advice or suggestion was given.
It seemed very different from the days
when Captains Lindeman and Mason
were Shipping Masters; they tried to get
as many Australians as they could to go
to sea.
Will these foreign seamen who are em-
ployed in preference to Australians be
available for service in our armed mer-
chantmen, transports or hospital ships
should we become embroiled in war?
Or will the powers that be look to Aus-
tralian boys, without experience, to train
in a month or two, who should have had
years of experience? If the Government
would do as the much-despised United
States mercantile marine does and give
Australian-born seamen first preference,
Britishers from overseas and naturalised
Australians second preference, and then
aliens, if there was room for them, the
young men of Australia could and would
go to sea.— E. J. Barrett (N.S.W.).
A National Guard
Whenever there are floods in the Mis-
sissippi valley, tornadoes in the south or
earthquakes in the west, cables from the
United States will proclaim that the
soldiers of the National Guard have taken
charge, relieving the distressed, succor-
ing the injured, feeding the hungry, keep-
ing lines of communication clear, and
checking the depredations of looters.
During the devastating bushfires the
militia in camp at Seymour gave Vic-
torians an inkling of what trained and
disciplined men can do in such emer-
gencies. At short notice a special train
took the majority of the young artillery-
men to fight the fires that threatened
Bright and other towns in the north-east.
Residents of Bright say these boys saved
the town. Meanwhile the skeleton staff
left in the camp prepared to house and
feed the refugees from burnt-out Wood’s
Point, and, working desperately against
time, had everything ready when the
special train steamed into the station.
Now, if Australia had a National
Guard, or whatever you like to call it
(say a division of regular troops, as
General Squires has suggested to Cabinet
for quite another adequate reason), such
events would become a useful, common-
place part of its work, and rightly so. —
Two Js (Vic.).
Unfair to the Employer
Have just had brought home to me
the unfair way reports of workers’ com-
pensation cases referred to the Com-
mission are given to the public.
The employer is not concerned with
the wages or compensation paid, nor is
he responsible for the medical or hos-
pital fees —these are solely the concern
of the company with which he is insured.
If the claim is not allowed it is the in-
surance company that refuses to pay, not
the employer, and yet it is the latter who
gets the blame: “The mean cow wouldn’t
pay poor Bill his compensation and had
to be taken to court before Bill could
get what was due to him.”
In these times when relations between
employer and employee are difficult
enough, this tends to make feeling more
bitter. By sheltering behind policy-
holders companies can keep their
identity hidden and thus avoid the risk
of becoming unpopular with the insuring
public—and the employers get all the
kicks from popular opinion. Mac
(N.S.W.).
More Fibro Houses
Bumbledom in general looks askance
at any structure that isn’t built of brick.
Outlying municipal councils show too
great a readiness to proclaim “brick
areas,” and many people of limited
means are debarred from building their
own homes because they cannot afford
brick houses.
To meet their need there should be
zones where other than brick houses can
be built. Surely no exception can be
taken to the fibro house from an aesthetic
standpoint—provided, of course, that it
is well designed and kept painted and in
good repair. Fibro lends itself to artistic
treatment in ways not possible with brick.
—Elwood (N.S.W.).
Childless
Thank goodness someone (B. 8/2/’39)
considers the childless couple. My wife
and I have been married for four years ;
I have a fairly secure job which would
comfortably support a family of four
at least (even with car and radio); we
both are very fond of children, and are
normally healthy individuals in every
respect, marital and physical.
After two childless years of marriage
we were both examined by a local doctor,
as a result of which my wife had a minor
but painful operation, which the quack
said would right things (he charged 15
guineas, hospital 10 guineas). At the end
of another year he suggested that perhaps
her teeth were at fault, so there was an-
other somewhat painful experience for
her. After a year more still “no can
see.”
Perhaps doctors here don’t make
a particular study of the subject, but
after reading a few works by Van de
Velde and others it seems to me that
they could, with satisfactory results for
the Aussie birthrate. Of course, some will
suggest adoption, and that’s one way out,
but not quite as satisfactory as the own-
grown article. One of Them —Male
(Q-).
I disagree with “One of Them” (B.
8/2/’39). Doctors are certainly not dis-
interested in such couples; on the con-
trary, they are most sympathetic and will-
ing to help. So far there are no clinics


for such treatment; if there were how
many childless couples would pay the fee
which would be charged?
One hears bitter complaints about these
fees, but what woman complains of the
price of “waves” or cosmetics? That,
however, doesn’t matter ; she still has her
“freedom” and the sympathy of her
friends. Little does she realise that she is
depriving herself and her husband of
the greatest pleasure on earth and a far
happier home simply because in the
majority of cases she is too selfish and
frightened of what is ahead of her.
In genuine cases, where treatment has
failed, I feel truly sorry for these couples,
but for the rest they should remember
“what’s worth having is worth paying
for.” — Through the Mill (Q.).
Sermon on Mt. Margaret
The forest fires were ancient history.
Forest officers, sawmillers and townsfolk
all said so. What they now had to
concern themselves with was, “Who was
to be thrown to the lions because the
fires had occurred?” Every man was
wondering what questions this Royal
Commission which an uneasy Govern-
ment had appointed was going to ask.
A tiny puff of smoke came over the
range from the far north-east, but that
was nobody’s business. A few people
watched it anxiously; then came a light
rain. “That’s out,” everyone declared,
believing just what they wanted to be-
lieve.
A few more days and the smoke was
again in evidence, beyond Mount Mar-
garet —a little larger, a little closer to the
only unburned forest in the district.
But forest officers were otherwise occu-
pied with matters relating to the royal
commission. Only junior officers were
free to see to fires, and they weren’t
allowed to take a body of men into the
fire without permission from their
seniors.
Then came the hot northerlies, and
soon the whole of Mt. Margaret was
ablaze. Members of the commission
were taken by car to view the fire and
to get first-hand experience of a real
bushfire.
Before them was all the
needed to show why fires become such
a terrible menace.
It was nobody’s business. Nobody
started it,- and as I write no one has been
able to extinguish it.
Eight miles of milling forest and six
miles of the beautiful Cumberland Valley
have been burned by this fire. — Sawdust
Sal (Vic.).
Captive Birds in the Heat
May I plead for those unfortunate caged
birds that suffer during the present hot
weather —the caged birds now to be
seen too often exposed. to the intense
heat of the sun, hanging in their prisons
on hot brick walls without protection.
Thoughtless owners should remember that
the free bird, living its natural life, seeks
shade during the excessive heat of the
day, and that the miseries of imprison-
ment are increased by exposing the
prisoner to the heat of the sun. —J. D. H.
(N.S.W.).
A “Leader” or “Leaders”?
“Dafty’s” plea for a “leader” (B.
15/2/’39), with its Lyons touch of cryptic
pessimism—“ Surely we can find one man
to save our country before it is too late”
—is surprising in view of the experience
of those unfortunate peoples who from
time to time have found a leader. In-
evitably the Cassars, Napoleons and Mus-
solinis of the past have led their people
by the nose into wars against neighbors
for unwanted and uncontrollable terri-
tories, and have induced them in the
sacred name of the “State” to resign what
rights they had to individual liberty,
wreaking “reforms” desired by nobody.
No, we Australians don’t want a
“leader,” but leaders —men of training,
ability and judgment who are prepared
to govern by co-operation and sink-
ing petty differences so that liberty, jus-
tice and security are ensured for all. Can
we find such men? I think so ; we have
found capable men for the big jobs in
industry, and we could do the same where
government is concerned —if we were
moderate in our wants as regards quan-
tity and reasonable as regards reward.
We could afford to pay 50 or 60 mem-
bers of a National Parliament several
times the sums received by presentrday
State or Federal politicians; and we
would attract to an up-to-date, efficient
Parliament working all the year round,
instead of in short sessions, men whose
capabilities are at present made use of
only by private concerns. — Wusslean
(Vic.).
The Sack at 21
One of the gravest injustices still meted
out to modern youth is the practice of
dismissing him at 21.
Regardless of how painstakingly loyal
and diligent he has been, or how many
years of faithful service he has rendered,
immediately he reaches maturity and is
looking forward to a decent wage that
will perhaps enable him to marry and
have a family he is ruthlessly sacked.
All his hopes and ambitions are dashed
to the ground, and unfortunately he is
often without a trade, or is only semi-
skilled.
Is it surprising that many wander
round brooding, with a grudge agqinst
society, to perhaps become, criminals or
embrace Communism? And, remember,
it is to these young men that the nation
will turn in the event of war.
The Government will have to. take
steps to end this exploitation which is
forcing decent young fellows, through no
fault of their own, to become a burden
to the community. Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Seven Weeks a Year
If we are going to have an army of
70,000 why not have it thoroughly and
efficiently trained? Any returned Digger
will tell you that it takes . 12 months of
solid training to make a good soldier.
Eighteen days per year is quite insuffi-
cient to train an army. Why not one day
per week at the present rate of Bs. per day,
which would cost consolidated revenue
roughly only one and a half millions,
which at the present rate of spending on
defence is not much by comparison?
Seventy thousand is a big number, but
if not well trained they would not be
equal to 50,000 efficiently-trained men.
An untrained man could not feed him-
self. A fact. Give a raw recruit bully-
beef and biscuits to live on and he would
starve, as he wouldn’t know how to eat
it. It’s hard food, but—how it hardens
you! Yes, seven weeks a year, to my
way of thinking, would hot be too severe.
—Civilian (Q.).
Remedy for Unemployment?
The greater the weight of taxation, de-
signed to lift the incidence of unemploy-
ment, the greater the unemployment. It’s
a vicious squeeze. Costs of wages, rents
and foodstuffs soar, and with them soar
the numbers of the workless.
Let private and commercial money be
free of the impost to pay for useless and
unproductive Government department
buildings, and let a degrading dole go.
Register money (and the individualshold-
ing it) and compel it to give employment
in proportion to quantity as revealed by
income-tax returns.
Private enterprise, backed by the force
of legislation, can think up better ways
of employing people than the official
mind bound by precedent. The difficulty
is decentralised and loses its awful mass
inertia, being split up. There would,
moreover, be a movement created
towards the adjustment of the present
cruel anomaly of the overwealthy living
alongside the overpoor.
With a stronger tide of employment
throughout the whole continent, increased
production would lower living costs, and
maybe we could all live better on less
wages, even if union officials, politicians
and public servants drew down a little
less.
Making every allowance for the kinks
in human nature, a stronger tie between
employer and employed would be created.
The abolition of an impost by a scheme
for mutual help would create a much
better atmosphere everywhere. The rich
man would not be the poor man’s enemy,
nor the poor man his most bitter critic.
Pitiful apologies for Ministers would
be abolished. Eventually they and the
members of Parliament would be found
useful work, if possible. And it would
be a long step towards the discovery of
an antidote for the disease now attackng
our democracy, viz., overcentralisation
of power in a bureaucracy. —L. V.
Norman (N.S.W.).
Government by Boards
When politicians desire to avoid an
issue they almost invariably appoint a
board or a commission. The commission
may be instructed to take wide evidence
and thus waste time, or, if the Govern-
ment approves of the findings, the recom-
mendations may be put into operation.
If the Government' does not like the
recommendations a pigeonhole is always
handy. Arrangements, too, can always
be made to tide over the elections. Again,
the commission may corner the white-
wash market for years on account of its
wide use of that commodity.
The boards are established to do the
work members of Parliament are paid
for. So a double expense comes on the
community. Is there anything in the
code on this subject? These boards are
at times beneficial and at times detri-
mental ; at times they appear to be
illegal, vide the Fruit Board and the
Privy Council appeal by James, of S.A.
How many other ways, under party
government, are there by which mem-
bers avoid their obligations. Judging by
the large minority (about 15) of Indepen-
dents elected last time in S.A., it appears
that the central State electors are going
to shake things up.—O. (W.A.).
Engagements
’Tis an age of free thought. I am
about to throw down the gage. The
finger of scorn or the nod of approval
will be as one to me, and I shall prob-
ably incur both. Away with false senti-
ment and the expensive engagement-ring,
which is merely an outward and visible
symbol! A visible symbol of what?
True love and true devotion are not
measured by baubles Which are flaunted
to the world —baubles which, tease and
fondle one’s conceit and mock at the
less fortunate “sister” who has “missed
out.” Not baubles! How many girls
wear the ring on all occasions? How
many; would be satisfied to wear any
ring? Surely it is the spirit in which a
gift is offered, not the value, which
counts.
To my mind an engagement should be
pledged by a simple gold band —go on
the gold standard plus a useful gift
for the future home.—J. O’B. (N.S.W.). /
Urgently-needed Invention
My father gets quite a deal.of pleasure
from his wireless set by. turning it off and
then saying, “What a devil of, a row.
you’d make if only I’d let you!’.’ Also, if
some radio babbler is being particularly
irritating he knows that with one turn
of a switch he can shut him up immedi-
ately.
But for me this is not enough. I’d like
to go one further. If someone would
only invent a means by which we could
let the broadcaster know that we had
turned him off! For instance, if, on
turning off our set, a loud click was regis-
tered in the studio of the broadcasting
station, just imagine how disconcerting'
if would be for the speaker when half-
way through his oration to hear a suc-
cession of loud clicks!
Perhaps by such a means stations
might wake up to the fact that some of
their star commentators are not appre-
ciated quite as much as they thought
they were. But I sign myself— Optimist
(Q-). "... \ , 7. ‘ .
Universal Training
. It would be wise absolutely to eliminate
the words “conscription” - and “com-
pulsory,” as'those words are anathema to
many typical Australians. The Diggers
proved that, yet they were acknowledged
as of the best and most cheerful fighters
in the Great War.
Aussies will willingly and readily
accept universal training when they
know it applies to everybody without
exception, rich and poor alike, as long as
they are within certain age limits and
are physically fit and capable. The
Anzac spirit is in this generation as it
was in earlier days, and it requires only
practical and sympathetic handling to
bring it to active life. — Turalla (N.S.W.).
Brides for “Jacks” and Bookkeepers
Much has been said and written about
two subjects closely allied —the falling
birthrate and the number of unmarried
men in country districts.
Pastoral companies and syndicates staff
their stations with a manager, book-
keeper, overseer, jackeroos and working
men. The manager and his wife live .in
the homestead, the working men are
frequently boundary-riders with cot-
tages, while all the men between live to-
gether in barracks.
By the time he is 25 or so the average
“jack” has become an overseer. He gets
£3 a week or a bit more and has saved
enough to get married ; but in nine cases
out of ten the only difference in his quar-
ters is a room to himself in the barracks.
The same applies to the bookkeeper.
Very rarely does the attainment of these
positions bring a cottage with them, and
so these men are unable to marry.
If two cottages were built on every large
holding I feel sure that the men would
soon marry the girls they leave behind
after their holidays in the cities. And
although the salary isn’t princely, it is
enough to live on, with meat at about
twopence per pound and dairy and garden
produce at corresponding prices.
Two young couples, with their small
children, would then be company for each
°th er , and city girls could not complain
or loneliness.
I know one young man who has quali-
fied as bookkeeper and overseer. He
longs to marry a city girl, but is
quite unable to find a position which
provides any home for a wife, and so they
continue a correspondence full of hopes
which has already lasted six years.—
Alison (N.S.W.).
The Red-tape Industry
Why is it that strangling red-tape and
Government administration must inevit-
ably go hand in hand? While there is
hardly one of us that has not had
occasion to kick against it at one time
or another, we are all too prone to accept
it as something inevitable. Why should
it be? And why is it that dealings with
Government departments must be car-
ried out by methods roundabout and
painfully slow, and to the accompani-
ment of eternal form-filling?
If an ordinary businessman carried on
so and procrastinated as do Govern-
ment departments he’d have to file his
schedule in no time. The centralisation
of Government departments is partly to
blame, but it does not excuse the sense-
less delays and holdups that occur.
North-west Mallee (Vic.) wheat-
growers, many of whom have had to
rely ! on such Government “aid,” can
testify to its tragic effects. Farmers, held
up in the midst of harvesting by a break-
down, have been known to wait, a week
for the. essential sanction to buy the
necessary part. Then we have the spec-
tacle of the Department of Agriculture
urging, settlers to complete their sowing
by May, and another department holding
up the granting of superphosphate sup-
plies sometimes until June. • The solution,
of course, would be to establish an official,
clothed with full authority, at key centres,
and banish red-tape completely from his
equipment. It is one of Australia’s great-
est curses.— Geedee (Vic.).
Crime and Punishment
I am a firm believer in‘making the
punishment fit.the crime, but I do not
believe in making to-day’s view of a. crime
and its fitting punishment the view of 20,
30, 40 or even 50 years hence. Else,
reasoning inversely, I would still believe
that the hanging of a minor was a fair
punishment for. the. theft of 25., and that
the rigors and terrors, of the old penal
settlements should have been preserved.
I did not know that that was my
reasoning, however, until after I had
thought over a talk .with a prison official
of many years’ experience. He spoke of
the crimes of some of the long-sentenced
men. The crimes.are forgotten ; the men
who committed them are still in gaol with
“time” still to go, or with papers marked
“never to be released.” There are some
so doomed who are now in their early
twenties. In their case' to-day’s view
of their crime is taken to be that of
50 years hence. In the case of some of
the men who have already done 15 or
20 years it is doubtful whether a con-
viction would have been recorded by a
jury of to-day.
To keep punishments in tune with the
views and treatment of the times, I sug-
gest that it would be only fair for
evidence to be recorded and filed and
reviewed, say, every 10 years by a
Chief Justice or some other Judge ap-
pointed for the purpose, that Judge to
alter the sentence where it is considered
to be too savage for the day’s view of
the crime.—A. S. D. F. G. (N.S.W.).
Will They Be Allowed to Fight?
In its anxiety to fill the breaches in
Australia’s defences as soon as possible,
the Government is accepting for voluntary
service all persons who are physically fit,
regardless of whether they will ever be
allowed in the firing line. A friend who
has almost completed his university
course in dentistry was about to enlist —
was ready to sign the necessary papers,
in fact —when he was informed (but not
by the recruiting officer) that dentistry
was classed as a key profession, and that
therefore in the event of war he would
not be permitted to bear arms. In other
words, the Government was quite willing
to spend a considerable amount of the
taxpayers’ money in teaching him to
perform tasks which it would never ask
him to do in war-time. This and similar
instances which have occurred indicate
pretty clearly that, however scrupulous the
“voluntary army” section of the Govern-
ment may be about keeping election
promises which it had no right to
make unconditionally, it is not at ah
worried at the waste of time and effort
concerned in building a skeleton defence
force. —D. J. G. (Vic.).


Every Day a
Day of Opportunity
m
m
Kay Vaughan
Mr. Compton Mackenzie
fayss —
“Pelmanism definitely cultivates the im -
agination, and I do not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who would not benefit by a
Course.”
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality training. Of these over 40,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
C.l, where it has been established for
30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932, Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is em-
phasised by every one of the many
opinions and letters published in “The
Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are
posted free. Write or call.
Pelmanism is an all-round train-
ing. It develops agreeably, smoothly
and without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the
following are outstanding:
Observation Self-Confidence
Concentration Judgment
Decisiveness Initiative
Will-Power Social Ease
The Constructive Imagination
And a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Develop the Constructive
Imagination
Opportunities are made or they come by chance. It is literally
true that no one knows what each day will bring forth, and every
morning we all face a waking period of 16 or 1 7 hours in which
conjunctions of time and place will give us opportunities of making
our lives pleasanter and more fruitful, of showing courage and
resource.
A suitable combination of conditions is actually created by
those who have a strong purpose supported by initiative and power
of original thought. Chance opportunities result from circumstances
outside the control of the individual and are useful to those with
quickened perceptions, the faculty of prompt decision and the
ability to make those movements that bring them and the circum-
stances together.
If opportunity is round the corner and stays there We must go
round to meet it. If it comes round the corner to us We must
see it and seize it.
The qualities needed to make the most of opportunities are
not confined to any type or class; they are inherent in every man
and woman. That is why society is always in a state of flux, some
going up and others going down. The more important of these
qualities are observation and quick perception, initiative, concen-
tration, self-control, judgment, decision, self-confidence and a good
memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, places and useful
data of all kinds.
Pelmanism develops these qualities. Half an hour a day of
attention to Pelmanism for a few weeks creates in normal people
those habits of body, mind and will that attract opportunity and
make full use of it.
Write for a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post
tree, and examine fully the claims and the evidence that
Pelmanism is a sound and speedy preparation for taking advantage
of the opportunities of each day as they come. Be amongst those
who enjoy work and effort, looking upon them not as a struggle for
existence but as a means to greater power and influence.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
ĥ
Sir Herbert Barker,
England’s Leading Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
‘lt is impossible to speak too highly of
Pelmanism.”
Extracts from letters written by a few
of hundreds who have recently prepared
to take advantage of opportunity: —
20th November, 1037.
“I have made definite progress. Have
been made Secretary of the Company with
a rise in salary.”
—Accountant (Queensland).
18th November, 1937.
“I have just turned 35 and feel with
confidence that I am in a strong position to
face the ever-existing struggle of life with
ari eagerness and spirit for fight which 1
have never felt before.”
—Dentist (N. S. Wales).
Bth July, 1938.
“Pelmanism has completely changed my
mental outlook. I owe a debt of gratitude
to the Pelman Institute and to you
personally.”
—Electrician (N. S'. Wales).
4th July, 1938.
“I feel that this lesson (on Inferiority
Consciousness) has been of immense value
to me. I have completely changed my
whole outlook on life.”
—Engineer (Victoria).
20th December, 1937.
“I see and perceive things 1 never saw
or perceived before. My mental capacity is
greater than it was before my serious ill-
ness. My whole life and work is a pleasure.”
—Civil Servant (Tasmania).
3rd July, 1938.
“Self-confidence, a lively interest and an
•T can’ state of mind have enabled me to
produce tennis form that has surprised my-
self The credit is due entirely to Pelmanism.”
—Public Servant (A.C.T.).
2nd December, 1937.
“This was the first public occasion c
which I had spoken. I went with the fixed
intention of making a success, and I am
pleased to say that I succeeded beyond ex-
pectation.” . . s
—Police Officer (Victoria).
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free,
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
’ [ .' v :
NAME
ADDRESS
.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ħ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
*****
I* r.M£
? ** v iS
yours
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
“The World
Is Yours’
*»*' ■ j A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukoi
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
1'6
Post Free
*5/
MS
.~e &)
e
\fS
/
v6
#•’
#*'
0<
..**’ .**
••' °
0 v lV \0 \* S^ 4 '
&Vo^«
QX'S .‘\N
,\\)° u


If
m
s
OTTIES
BY'
01 LB EY’S
Qm%—Caatle OB tJUSWEETDIED GIN-wM
from Malt and Grain, and highly
fled at W & A Gilbey’a Distillerj.
the delicate flavor of the Juniper
BETWEEN
SEASONS
NET: 1 PINT 6 028.
PRODUCE OF AUSTRALIA
I :
WH tom SIR CHARL V J|
k President and Professor of Hygie*
t Royal College of Su,
* bare Analyeed the conti
Boehot that article In the etoror a;
. lfclu Castle OE GIN V#sL
properly-dletllled and •
•leUl. ***» P>li oin will be found “‘‘T'S:
u It deee extract of Juniper Berrtee
(Signed) CH»«L'
N *»«t>llie nirtlllMj (Tin In thin bottle w _*ejn"<le
which »hl» “
•h# Gin on which this rrnort was
PRODUCE OF AUSTRAIt ,A
Don't day yin, day -
THE CIN
CIN ERATION S
This is the period of the year many
people find most enervating. Many
minor complaints are about, too, at
this time. The healthful, stimulating
qualities of Gilbey’s Gin, rich with
Juniper and diuretic herbs, form a
wholesome and palatable safeguard
as well as a delightful beverage.
NOW COSTS NO MORE
THAN ORDINARY GINS
GUARANTEED STANDARD STRENGTH
GUARANTEED GILBEY QUALITY
