

Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY,
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
67>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
Anzac Day
Vol. 60.—N0. 3089.
Wednesday, April 26, 1939,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
*% . ■ V *
at HOME
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street , Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Neiv Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Hui-letix.
My Name
My Address
5.15. 239
The Red Page
KYLIE TENNANT'S NEW NOVEL.
In 1935 Kylie Tennant won the Prior Memorial
Prize with her country-town novel Tiburon. It was
a remarkable achievement for a first book, broad in
its sympathy, stimulating in its promise. That a
second edition was almost immediately called for
suggests that readers of Australian literature endorsed
the opinion of the judges.
Its successor, Foveaux (Gollancz), more than ful-
fils the promise of the first book. To the portrait
of the country town she has added the portrait of an
inner suburb of Sydney, sinking into slumdom, “a
kind of seashore with flotsam and jetsam tumbled
together in the strangest heaps.” It’s a strange world
and a familiar world at once, belonging both to the
imagination—that terrain under lightning—and to
reality; the coast of Bohemia populated by the most
commonplace people.
It is imagination that fuses the mass of the novel
into a whole, that saves it from being a sociological
tract, infusing it with passion that sounds beneath
the action like a muffled drum. The book’s point of
fusion is outside the covers, in the author’s mind.
It is the story of the whole suburb from 1912 to
1932 its dingy back streets, its open, raucous slums,
its terraces of respectability in the jaws of poverty,
its scatter of big houses and well-to-do citizens being
driven out by a Gresham’s law of poverty, its great
square flaunting in the accumulated life of the whole
district, its people in all their diversity; Honest
John Hutchinson, the mayor, with a gift for depreda-
tion that would grace a jungle ; Bross, the slum owner,
who is as content to live among them as a spider is
content to live in its web ; Bud Pellager, the hunch-
back newsagent, whose shop was a centre for ne-
farious traffic; the landladies, the barrowmen, the
taxi-drivers, the prostitutes, the knockabouts, the
stand-over men, the child welfare inspectors, Com-
munists, rent-collectors, old soaks, oddities, children,
cats and dogs.
Their lives all interlace in a crazy pattern, help-
less and at the mercy of great tides, lifted with the
post-war boom, dumped with the depression,
struggling back again with depleted energies to some
sort of precarious safety. The surface of this great
surge is broken into waves —strikes, meetings,
evictions, all recorded with spirit and detail.
When Jock Jamieson’s landlord evicted him the
whole neighborhood gathered round, fortified the
cottage with barbed wire and hit the police over
the head with sticks as they tried to enter. “It was
grand while it lasted” ; but Jock’s wife, Elsie, was of
a different opinion:
“Burning the electric light day and night,” she com-
plained. “They don’t seem to realise the electric light’s
in my name. Oh, well, we just won’t be able to pay it,
that’s all. And they may talk about collecting donations
for food, but how about broken cups? I borrowed a
dozen from Mrs. Dent and I’m ashamed to look the
woman in the face. Don’t talk to me about eviction
campaigns again. If Jock wants to get himself evicted
in style next time he can do it on his own.”
And there was the demonstration outside the
courthouse that fell flat:
The crowds were there with the true Foveauvian
expectancy of trouble; mothers had brought their
children in push carts, some had even brought their
lunches in anticipation of a long court sitting, the
unemployed were there with their banners and shilla-
laghs; but there was no demonstration, no trouble.
The police simply refused to let the mob into the court,
and a handful of them kept over a thousand people
from doing anything but walk about and look foolish.
Everyone waited for someone else to start something.
It was a self-conscious mob. There was not even a
chance to give an ovation to the prisoners, who were
smuggled in and out of the court by a back way.
Change moves through the book. It begins with
an Eight-hour Day procession, and that procession
keeps moving on toward a gathering darkness. Cir-
cumstances change the outlook of people. Discreet
and personal acts of violence gradually change into
co-ordinated social violence. Men torn out of the
context of their lives join together on a new basis.
Unrest and acquiescence spring together—a will to
overthrow society and an acquiescence in the means,
expressed in increasing toleration of violence and
lawbreaking, indifference to prison, a re-orientation
of public opinion against all the old gods of respecta-
bility. Foveaux is the story of an armed camp
within a city, an urban jungle where a new law holds
good. Human courage, generosity and kindness still
flower in this black earth.
Through the great mass of characters and events,
private and public, runs the story of Linnie Montague,
Jimmy Rolfe and Bramley Cornish. Linnie’s mother
runs a boardinghouse, and Linnie herself works in
Bud’s paper shop, Jimmy is an architect’s clerk with
ideas in his head, Bramley is the good boy of the
neighborhood. They join forces, they are going to
“do something,” a slum-clearance league to begin
with. It proves a dam of straws across a river in
flood, and the depression sucks them down. Linnie’s
mother dies slowly, agonisingly, of cancer. The boys
stand by her.
The mother dies, Bud goes to gaol, Jimmy loses
his job, Bramley becomes Bross’s rent collector,
Linnie tries to cut loose from Foveaux but is beaten.
She reaches the women’s refuge when Jimmy has
arrived at the men’s dosshouse. They meet at a
church handout. They have hit rock-bottom and
there is nothing more to fear. Linnie decides that
they will begin life together. Jimmy finds a mate
and they run an unlicensed fruit barrow, eking out
trade with tricks. He and Linnie marry, bigamously,
and set up house in Foveaux’s worst slum. All is
not lost, because they do not believe it is. They have
survived.
The writing of Foveaux is racy and homely.
There are endless pictures with the feeling of truth
about them. A fish shop flowering in a mean street
on a wet day:
There “were mullet in crisp overcoats of yellow batter,
their tails turned up in an inviting stiff curl. Pink and
scarlet prawns rioted on the ferns in great heaps of
color, and lobsters hung from a rail above like a flock
of flamingos or lay split in pearly halves adorned with
lemon slices and parsley. The scales of the snapper
shone, their round eyes fastened glassily on the cus-
tomer through the misty windows, down which trickles
of water enhanced their voluptuous invitation as that
of nymphs beneath a waterfall. Something of ancient
poetry and bloodstained romance lay in the ferns,
in the reddened armor of the lobster. From within,
the warm waft of frying fish and drying humanity
reinforced the urgings of the window.
All the similes are homely. Mr. Bross “doddered,
through the dances in the manner of a hen walking
over an ants’ nest,” and Mrs. Cornish had an “old-
fashioned gaiety, like frills on a petticoat.”
Foveaux is by no means the perfect book; it
sprawls, it is slow getting under way, its humor is
sometimes self-conscious and maladroit, it has dead
patches. But it has a quality of bigness that triumphs
over minor blemishes. It is wide and strong and in-
fused with fire. It cannot be judged by its parts but
must be seen as a whole.
Aspects of World Affairs.
The Empire on Guard, by W. F, Wentworth-
Shields (Faber), a slender vol. selling at 2s. net, has
a tidy amount of information packed tidily into it.
The author reviews the armed strength, on the land
and sea and in the air, of the Empire considered as
a fighting unit. He holds that it will be able to give
a good account of itself; that, apart from any other
ties, self-interest will bind its parts together for any
real test. “It must be admitted that to-day there are
few who honestly wish to break the association.” An
Australian who has spent the last 10 years in Eng-
land, he takes a view of the Empire much more em-
bracing than many English writers seem able to
manage.
Graham Hutton, in Danuhian Destiny (Harrap),
shifts the scene to inside Europe, the fate of the
whole of which continent “lies in the hands of those
responsible for the destinies of the Third Reich.”
Every one of his pages is cluttered with the names
of towns and States or their leaders ; if only they
were a bit more musical they’d set up a rhythm and
turn his economics prose into verse. He makes a
grimly factual examination of the heart of Europe;
the reader gets the impression that he is not missing
a single square foot of it. He submits: The economic
theories of militant dictators haven’t altered. The
Third Reich and Italy, like Napoleon, have to try
to turn all Europe behind their western borders into
a vast arsenal, storehouse and granary. If they can’t
accomplish this, they will have to depend on the ex-
tremely undependable lightning war to mould the
destinies of the Continent. Yet if they do set about
the immense task it will force them to slow down
the tempo of their domestic and foreign policies,
political, military and economic. A grievous dilemma.
He suggests that the democracies also face a dilemma
—they can be as effective as the dictatorships, but
only by adopting “a voluntary and democratic totali-
tarianism,” which, whatever it may be, sounds
grievous enough for any taste.
Word Warfare, by John Gloag (Nicholson and
Watson), isn’t very long, which is at least one thing
in its favor. Propaganda is so vast a matter, of such
tremendous importance, and has, anyway, been so
written about and examined already, that it would
be hard to sustain patience with a superficial treat-
ment of it carried to any greater length. One reveal-
ing phrase: the “woefully inefficient General Franco.”
Major-General Sir Henry Thuillier’s Gas in the
Next War is the latest addition to the “Next War”
series edited by Captain Liddell Hart and published
by Geoffrey Bles. We may hope that gas may not
be employed in the next war, says Sir Henry, but we
must be absolutely prepared for the probable con-
tingency that it will. He writes frankly and coolly
on what can be done about it in advance, telling, on
the way, the grim story of the use of gas in warfare,
from the first clouds sent over by the Germans in
1915. Sir Henry mentions that the Allies had the
very strongest circumstantial evidence in advance
of the impending gas attack, but ignored it. Casual-
ties among the unprotected troops in that first attack
were 20,000, of whom, says Sir Henry, about 5000
died. In these and other casualty figures Sir Henry,
like most who have written on gas, counts in only
the more or less immediate deaths. This is to take
too gentle a view altogether—the fatal casualties of
gas have to be counted over years.
The best book of all in this present batch is a
reprint—Ernst Henri’s Hitler Over Europe (Dent),
first published in 1934, and since proved extraordi-
narily right in its prophetic vein. In a now-added
epilogue written this year, Henri proclaims: “Nazi-
Germany is rushing in the midst of European anarchy
along her allotted path. She will stop at nothing.
She knows no limits. Some gigantic engine within
her is driving her uninterruptedly forward, ever
farther, ever faster, ever more aggressive.” He holds
that Germany is following a destiny from which it
cannot escape, with only two perspectives—war or
civil war. He insists that there exists a widespread
anti-Hitler organisation in Germany, declares that
this works in “groups of five” and describes some
of its operations. The whole book is written at such
high pressure that you expect it to burst and blow
up from internal combustion at every page. Its
author nevet pauses for breath ; reading him is like
going over a Niagara of information started up from
behind the scenes, where many would have liked to
keep it hidden away for the time being. A most
arresting statement on Germany considered as a
Frankenstein monster that has got beyond controlling.
Harry J. Greenwall does much the same in Medi-
terranean Crisis (Nicholson and Watson) as he man-
aged in Pacific Scene. It’s not bad journalism, but it
stays much on the surface. An early statement which
may or may not fill the reader with great confidence
in _the author is that at the time Spain’s civil war got
going the Government of that tragic country “was
leaning towards the Right.” Another of about the
same weight is Geoffrey T. Garratt’s The Shadow of
the Swastika (Hamish Hamilton). It’s the story of
democracy in great danger from external and internal
forces of Fascism, and what are you going to do
about it?
Lawrence of Arabia Again.
T. E. Lawrence, out of modesty and out of
irritation at the mere accident of surnames tempting
critics to compare two very different types of writing,
hated to be linked with the D. H. Lawrence of
Kangaroo and Lady Chatterley’s Lover. “It’s a sin
against decency and proportion,” he wrote, “to let the
unhappy likeness of our names bracket us publicly.
If I could have published Revolt under any other
name I’d have left D.H.L. in his sole use. It’s like
writing an ode to a pet rabbit and signing it Shak-
speare.”
But, on the evidence of The Seven Pillars of
Wisdom, T. E. Lawrence was no pet rabbit, and, admit-
ting the comparison is accidental, there remains an
interest in relating the man who almost rejected sex
to the man obsessed by the subject, the man who
dreamed of revitalising the Arab civilisation to the
man who wanted to impose a new truth and a new
way of life on humanity, the soldier who organised
a revolt and the prophet with his pathetic little
“colonies,” T. E. Lawrence with the persecution com-
plex that drove him to shelter under the cloak of
“Aircrafthand Shaw,” D. H. Lawrence with the per-
secution complex that set him running round the
world, each man deliberately seeking the com-
pany of his intellectual inferiors, one with his rankers
and the other with his savages. It’s a job for a
psycho-analyst, and probably all he could do would
be to apply the correct jargon to the fact that each
man was possessed by genius too powerful for him
to sustain.
From a literary point of view there is one fact
that inevitably suggests relating them: each has left
a volume of letters of extraordinarily high quality.
D. H. Lawrence’s letters, edited by Aldous Huxley,
in their burning portrayal of a man, a mind and a
spirit were a delight. The Letters of T. E. Lawrence
(Cape; per Angus and Robertson), if the prose, ex-
cept in isolated instances, hasn’t the depth and sparkle
of the other’s, are almost equally satisfactory.
Very , much more than he objected to comparison
with his namesake, Lawrence of Arabia protested
against the “Lawrence legend,” the blah, the mystery,
the “romance” which was foisted on his' personality
because of war-time activities which, after the war,
he could regard impersonally, as if some alter ego
had been responsible for them. He was never quite
sincere; he intended The Seven Pillars to be one of
the great books of the world, he took very good
care that the right people should have access to it,
and the Letters, among amazing apologies and abase-
ments, show that he was intensely jealous of its
reputation; and, if he didn’t realise it of his own
accord, Bernard Shaw and the rest of his friends, as
well as Air Ministry officials, made it abundantly clear
to him that his attempts to hide himself in the Air
Force merely increased the public interest in his
personality.
But he was being as sincere as he could be.
Almost as much as he believed in his book, he
doubted it; and if he could not be entirely indifferent
to fame, he very earnestly desired seclusion. To
Bernard Shaw, who had asked him, “What is your
game really ?", he explained:
Do you never do things because you know you
must? Without wishing or daring to ask too deeply of
yourself why you must? I just can’t help it. You
see, I’m all smash inside: and I don’t want to look
prosperous or be prosperous while I know that. And
on the easy level of the other fellows in the R.A.A.F.
I feel safe: and often I forget that I’ve ever been
different.
If to-day the facts of Lawrence’s career are no
longer a mystery, the elusiveness of his character, of
which he could say no more than “I just can’t help
it,” remains. And for both his career and his charac-
ter the Letters are a rich source of information. They
are without affectation; gay or sad, simple or half-
mad, commonplace or metaphysical as fitted the
occasion and his state of mind. Beginning with a
schooldays letter to his mother and closing with a
telegram sent on the day he met his fatal accident,
they are the Complete Lawrence. The Seven Pillars
covered much of the early period, but half the new
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Qubumn SALE ißahqainA
m
mm
m
m
© Extended
Tuning Range
• Automatic
Volume Control
• Dustproof
Speakers
• Beam Power
Output
16 CNS. 5-VALVE MANTEL MODEL
Fitted with a full Console dial and extended
tuning range. Automatic volume control,
and perfected air-trimmer, make your
choice this 5 valve Mantel Model. (Sim-
ilar to one illustrated.) Dustproof speaker.
Beam power output.
Manufacturer's List Price, each, 16 Gns.
£12196
SALE PRICE, each £l2/19/6
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 26/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 20/6
■
w:
w
m
m
H
H :
mm
ms
I
31 Gns. 6-Valve Dual Wave CONSOLE
In making these offers, we have not forgotten the country
listener and this is the ideal receiver specially designed
for country reception. It is a powerful, convenient and
efficient Dual Wave Console Model in a beautifully veneered
cabinet. Manufacturer's List Price, each 31 Gns.
SALE PRICE, each 20 Gns.
20
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 42/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 33/1
£2710/- Combin. Radio & Gramophone
Offered for the first time in Australia at such a low
price. 5-Valve Dual Wave Combination Radio and
Gramophone. Sliding top gives bird's eye tuning.
High grade electric motor pick-up for gramophone.
In V/alnut veneered cabinet. Manufacturer's List
19
GNS
Price, £27/10/-. SALE PRICE £l9/19/-
EASY TERMS; Deposit 40/-. 12 Monthly Payments of 31/6.
• Electrical—Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Freight? paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
■ vm \
msm
mm
11
< imm
m
m.
m
H I
25 CNS. 6-VALVE
OUTSTANDING FEATURE RADIO
With all the outstanding features only found in the BEST sets.
Housed in a delightful Console Cabinet. Sets you can count
on being as new as to-morrow's! See them early .. . and
understand the enormous value!
Manufacturer's List Price, each 25 Gns.
SALE PRICE, each 13 Gns.
I3gns.
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 28/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 21/5
25 Gns. DUAL WAVE
CONSOLE MODEL
16 GNS.
In this price group you have two
handsome cabinets from which to
make your choice. Each cabinet
encases the same standard of
excellence in the components, and
each is beautifully veneered !
Consider the savings . . the
quality . . and don't hesitate to
buy! Manufacturer's List Price,
each 25 Gns.
SALE PRICE, each 16 Gns.
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 34/-.
12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF
26/5
i m
<>x>-
Y's:
mm
mm
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD.
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


A Sympathetic Sketch
MADELEINE BAILY
By ann macdongall
ILLUSTRATION BY JOHN MILLS.
ASK any of the older generation in Lynton if
they remember Madeleine Baily.
Though her name is' seldom spoken now,
there is not one of them, young when she was
young in those far-off days before the war, who will
ever forget her. They admired and envied, loved
and hated, condoned, criticised and condemned her,
but beneath all their conflicting opinions there was
an undercurrent of fierce pride. Whatever may be
said of her in Lynton no one outside may say a word
against her, for people there hold fast to their own
and Madeleine Baily belonged.
She was born in Lynton, her childhood and most
of her schooldays were spent there, but she was dif-
ferent ; her way of living was not their way. The>
were casual, lazy and slow; Madeleine moved so
swiftly that her light feet seemed scarcely to touch
the earth. Day follows day in their lives and they
accept whatever comes to them, but Madeleine fought
fiercely to wrest what she wanted from life herself.
Even the most unobservant sensed something
startling in her intense vitality ; she lived on tiptoe ;
and in sleepy, lazy Lynton she was rather like a young
doe that had strayed into a paddock with a mob of
placid sheep. There is little anyone ever does in
Lynton that the rest of the town doesn’t know about,
and Madeleine gave them a constant topic for con-
versation.
She was a child of thirteen, rather long in the
legs and a little too thin, in 1907 when her mother
took her to Sydney and left her with an aunt to
continue her education. She was eighteen when she
came home again to startle Lynton from its sleepy
lethargy.
T T was a peaceful, hazy summer. Looking at the
world from Lynton that year one might have been
forgiven for thinking that the whole world was a
quiet place, that unrest was a thing unheard of.
Lynton dozed while Madeleine packed her belong-
ings in Sydney and boarded the train for home.
She was born to dance. Most of us realise that
now; most of us realised it in 1912 when she came
back, gave a concert at the Town Hall and put a
notice in the paper to say that she was willing to
take pupils.
The whole town went to Madeleine Baily’s con-
cert. We shall never forget the excitement of that
night. A crowd of people were gathered outside the
Town Hall, and everyone seemed to be talking at once.
For one second there was a hush as Mrs. Baily and
her neighbor came up to the door. In that instant
Madeleine ceased to be Mrs. Baily’s daughter ; from
then on the old lady was known as Madeleine Baily’s
mother.
We fidgeted as we waited for the curtain to go
up. There were two musicians—Mrs. Pearson play-
ing the piano and Miss Gladwin, the music teacher,
playing the violin. Ned Pearson, who kept the Grand
Hotel, came out and sang “The Rose of Tralee” before
Madeleine appeared on the stage. Ned Pearson
always helped in concerts. We applauded Ned, and
then to the impatience of everyone he came back and
sang an encore.
The stage was empty for a moment, then the
music started again, and Madeleine flashed on to the
stage, dazzling us with scarlet and gold,' a wild, arro-
gant gipsy.
She won our hearts for ever in that dance. There
were stories about gipsies in the school library at
Lynton. We had all read them when we were at
school with Madeleine, and one might safely say that
each of us had locked away in memory a child’s
desire to live as the gipsies do. The applause was
like storm rain on a tin roof. The boys at the back
of the hall whistled and stamped their feet. What-
ever Madeleine Baily did was right after that.
She appeared in a different costume for every
dance. In a ragged frock of russet-brown and yellow-
green she danced like a falling leaf. In a scorched-
brown costume she rushed over the stage like a wind
from the western desert. She wore kilts and danced
the Highland fling, she had a green shawl over her
hair when she danced the Irish jig, and she wore a
mantilla and a long black gown when she came out
with a rose in her mouth to dance the Habanera.
There were few in Lynton who had ever before
seen anyone as clever or as beautiful as Madeleine
Baily, but whether it was that night or later that
Stan Melrose fell in love with her none can say. He
was sitting in one of the front rows with his wife
watching Madeleine dance, but, of course, no one took
particular notice of that. The Melroses went to
everything.
Ned Pearson came out and made a speech at the
end of the concert. The boys shouted “Hear, hear! ”
every time he paused to take a breath because he
was talking about Madeleine and praising her as a
dancer.
Mr. Carson, who kept the general store, drove
Madeleine, her mother and their neighbor home in
his very smart buggy drawn by two bays. We moved
to the side of the road as they passed us. The neigh-
bor sat in the centre seat with her back to the driver.
Madeleine leant out to smile at us as the wheels
rolled past. We were awkward and shy ; none of us
could think of anything to say. It seemed incredible
that this lovely girl could be our Madeleine Baily,
one of us who belonged to Lynton.
| T was at the beginning of the next winter that the
1 news seeped through, and the whole town was set
a-talking because Stan Melrose was in love with
Madeleine. He had a property ten miles out along
the river, and his wife was one of the most fashion-
ably dressed women who ever came into town. She
was rather reserved and aloof, and none of us ever
got to know her very well, but naturally the town
people wondered and commented and tempered their
sympathy for Mrs. Melrose with loyalty to Madeleine.
Most of the children of the town were being
taught to dance by Madeleine, and it was a child who
first carried the news that whenever Stan Melrose
came to see her he brought her violets. Violets grew
wild in the hollow land ; they were smaller than the
cultivated ones, but very sweet-scented. No one
could fail to notice that every day that winter she
wore violets pinned on her coat. And never, not even
when she danced on the stage, had she been more
radiant, more beautiful than she was then.
There were times when the contour of her face,
the cream-and-rose tinting of her skin and the bright-
ness of her eyes caused one to gaze at her for a
breathless moment. She was more than ever like a
young doe, so alert, so lithe and free that in an in-
stant she might run swiftly, light as the wind, and be
gone for ever.
It soon became obvious that Madeleine was as
much in love with Stan Melrose as he was with her.
It was also a well-known fact that Madeleine’s de-
votion to her mother, great as it had been before she
went to Sydney, was greater than ever now she had
come back. The white-haired old lady was always
sitting on her verandah in the late afternoon watching
for the first sight of Madeleine as she came around
the corner of the store and crossed the flat on her
way home. People wondered if Mrs. Melrose would
divorce Stan, but divorce was a rather terrible and
scandalous thing in those days, and, anyway, they
agreed, Madeleine would never leave her mother.
Violets grew scarce in the hollow land, wattle-
trees were a mass of bright gold. Throughout that
spring and summer Madeleine went boating on the
river with Stan Melrose. He kept two horses stabled
and paddocked close to town, and they used to ride
away toward the hills on Sunday mornings. The town
people never ceased to talk about them.
When the violets came again Madeleine wore
them every day. Her radiant loveliness had dimin-
ished a little in the passing of a year, her laughter
was less frequent. It was known then that Mrs.
Melrose had refused to divorce Stan.
In July of that year—it was 1914 —Stan and
Madeleine ran away. The news was told over and


over again. Some of the women went to fetch and
carry —the expression of mute sympathy —for the
white-haired lady. They brought the doctor when
she was unable to leave her bed one morning.
Nothing was heard of either Madeleine or Stan
until the end of 1914. The men had begun to enlist
from Lynton, and the news came through that Stan
had enlisted from Sydney. Mrs. Melrose had always
been a rather shadowy figure in Lynton ; she had
sought no friends among the town people, but we
heard about it when she went to Sydney, and when
she came back we heard that she had agreed to the
divorce proceedings. We thought a lot of Mrs. Mel-
rose for that. Stan was on the troopship before the
divorce was through, but Madeleine wrote to her
mother’s neighbor in Lynton and told her that she was
training for the Red Cross and would soon follow
Stan to France.
■THE war years went by—’ls with its terrible
* news of Gallipoli, T 6, T 7 and the longest year
of all, 1918, when hope grew faint and we felt that
all the ghastliness and horror would never end. In
May of 1918 Stan’s name was listed among those
killed in action.
A few years later Madeleine’s name was spoken
by someone who had seen her in Sydney. “You
would never know her. She is different now.”
It was at the time when we felt that all we had
valued most had gone from life. Sentiment was
gone, and romance. There was nothing left but a
hard, cold brittleness. It was good to remember
Madeleine then ; it was good to remember Lynton
as it had been when Madeleine was there.
Now all those years have gone. I, too, have
left Lynton, but I go back for a few weeks each
winter. The first violets are in the flower-shops in
Sydney. Yesterday I saw a smart, rather severely-
• dressed woman with violets pinned on her coat. I
recognised her instantly, but at the same time it was
hard to realise that this strange woman was Made-
leine. Her black hair is turning grey. She no longer
dances.
I glanced at the violets. She smiled.
“I wear them even yet,” she said. And then,
“Stan and I were married, you know.”
I nodded.
“In London,” she said.
I shall tell them at Lynton that I met her. The
older generation there will always be glad to hear
news of Madeleine Melrose.
FRIENDLY GESTURE
BY G.C.B.
IT ain’t pleasant to see two important citizens
always snappin’ and snarlin’ at each other, es-
pecially when one of ’em is a alderman, and
for a long time I ’ad been considerin’ ’ow to make
Alderman Pomfrey and old Andy Fish shake ’ands
and end the trouble wot ’ad started when Mr. Pom-
frey beat Andy in the Dahlia Show. But old Andy,
wot was wrapped up in ’is flowers, complete, couldn’t
get over it, because if he ’adn’t been beat that year
he would ’ave got the Dahlia Cup outright for win-
nin’ it two years runnin’.
For a ’ole year he sulked, and then when the
elections comes round he tries to get square by
standin’ against Mr. Pomfrey for alderman ; and, wot’s
more, he looked like beatin’ ’im.
“He ain’t a sport, Raggles,” ses Mr. Pomfrey.
‘Can’t take a honest lickin’; that’s ’is trouble.”
“I quite agrees, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses. “And now
you want to show ’im that you can take a lickin’ like
a gentleman.”
“It won’t be necessary, I ’ope,” he ses, short
and sharp.
“I ’ope so too,” I ses polite. “But I ’ave me
doubts. It’s wot they calls the floatin’ wimmen’s
vote wot wins elections, Mr. Pomfrey, and the floatin’
wimmen, and the kids as well, is ’elpin’ Andy on
account of ’is policy of lookin’ after the kids and
makin’ the council build that playground in the
park.”
“Just a catchcry,” ses Mr. Pomfrey. “Council’s
been goin’ to build that playground for years.”
“Still, it’s makin’ ’im popular,” I ses. “People
is sayin’ it’s thoughtful of ’im to worry about the
kids. I only ’ope he’ll be as thoughtful of the coun-
cil officers when he gets in. I’ll ’ave to remind ’im
that the ratcatcher ain’t ’ad a decent rise for”—
“And you ain’t likely to get one,” puts in Mr.
Pomfrey. “Not if he gets elected.”
Of course, I sees that Mr. Pomfrey was hintin’
that I’d get me long-overdue rise if he gets in ’im-
self ; but it wasn’t long before I realises that I’d ’ave
to rely on old Andy for it.
A LL the kids, led by me youngest, Jimmy, and
** urged on by Mrs. Raggles and the other mothers,
’ad ’urled themselves ’ole-’earted into Andy’s cam-
paign. Every day after school they paraded up and
down the streets wavin’ ’ome-made banners and bits
of cardboard with motters on ’em, “Vote for Fish
and Playgrounds,” “ ’Elp the Risin’ Sons” and so on.
And every evenin’ there was such a crowd of kids
waitin’ outside Andy’s gate to welcome ’im ’ome that
he must ’ave got sore ’ands from pattin’ their ’eads.
I never see such a enthusiastic election. Them
kids couldn’t do enough for Andy, chalkin’ ’is name
all over the footpaths and throwin’ mud all over Mr.
Pomfrey’s posters. They made old Andy the ’aughti-
est and ’appiest man alive, and Mr. Pomfrey the
miserablest, and about a week before the election
even Mr. Pomfrey ’ad to admit that Andy looked
as good as elected.
“Still, if he does beat me,” ses Mr. Pomfrey,
smilin’ unpleasant, “I’ll spend all me time with me
dahlias and get even with ’im at the flower show.
I've got some wonderful good blooms cornin’ on this
year.”
“That ain’t the right spirit, Mr. Pomfrey,” I
ses, shakin’ me ’ead. “It’s this gettin’ even business
wot’s caused the trouble between you two. You
want to act friendly towards Mr. Fish”
“Wot!” he ses. “Friendly to that”
“Exactly,” I puts in. “I’ve been thinkin’ things
over, Mr. Pomfrey, and it ’as occurred to me that
he might stand down from the election on account
of ’ealth reasons or somethin’. After all, one good
turn deserves another, Mr. Pomfrey, and I don’t
suppose you’re so anxious to win that Dahlia Cup
that you wouldn’t stand down from the show to
give Mr. Fish a chance.”
“I see,” ses Mr. Pomfrey after a bit. “Well,
now that you comes to mention it, Raggles, p’r’aps a
friendly gesture like that would be a good thing. All
this bickerin’ and arguin’ don’t do no good, and I’m
quite willin’ to sacrifice me chance of that cup for
the good of the town wot I know I can serve far
more efficient than that old—than Mr. Fish can. But
all the same,” he goes on, lookin’ gloomy again, “I
can ’ardly imagine any man wot’s sane givin’ up a
chance of becomin’ a alderman just to win a cup
for flowers.”
“Seems ridikerlus,” I agrees; “but Mr. Fish
ain’t wot you might call sane when it comes to
dahlias.”
j SLIPS around to Andy’s that evenin’ and finds
* ’im crouchin’ over ’is dahlias very earnest; but
when I mentions me suggestion he straightens up
quick.
“Wot’s that?” he ses. “Pomfrey stand down
from the flower show! But I’ve ’eard he ’as a excel-
lent chance this year of winnin’ the cup outright.”
“He ’as more than a chance, Mr. Fish,” I ses.
“But he’s willin’ to let it go, bein’ anxious to make
it up with you and shake ’ands.”
“Willin’ to let the Dahlia Cup go!” ses Andy
in a ’ushed voice. “The Dahlia Cup!” He stares
at me, and then he looks around ’is garden wot’s
jammed with dahlias just cornin’ out. I could see he
was ’avin’ a severe struggle with ’imself, but just
when I’m beginnin’ to think that me idea ’as been a
success he closes ’is mouth with a snap and shakes
’is ’ead.
“Very clever,” he ses, sneerin’. “Well, you can
tell Pomfrey that I ain’t as silly as he thinks. No
one would give up a chance of winnin’ that cup just
to become a alderman, and that fat old swindler
don’t intend to neither, because the flower show ain’t
’eld till a week after the elections.”
“Mr. Pomfrey’s makin\ a friendly gesture, Mr.
Fish,” I ses dignified. “You ’ave ’is word of honor
that he won’t go in for the show.”
“Oh, ’ave I! ” he ses. “Well, tell ’im I’ll consider
’is friendly gesture when I ’ave ’is word of honor
on paper.”
CVF course, Mr. Pomfrey wouldn’t ’ear of trustin’
Andy with a dangerous paper like that, and back I
’ad to go first thing next mornin’ to tell ’im so. I
was surprised to find ’im in ’is back garden sweatin’
away like a slave puttin’ up a barb’-wire fence around
it. ’Owever, when I notices that ’is dahlias is tied up
to sticks I thinks I understands and sympathises with
’im tackful.
“No,” he snaps, suckin’ ’is ’and wot ’ad got
mixed up with a wire ; “it ain’t nothin’ of the sort.
It’s them conf —them children.”
“Wot!” I ses. “You don’t mean to tell me, Mr.
Fish, that them kids wot’s so fond of you would
interfere with your prize dahlias?”
“They—they mean well, I suppose,” he ses,
breathin’ ’eavy ; “but if ever they start ’elpin’ me
again by weedin’ and prunin’ like they did in me
front garden I’ll —I mean, they might do some
damage.”
I understands proper then, rememberin’ that
young Jimmy ’ad been listenin’ very earnest when I
’ad mentioned to Mrs. Raggles the night before ’ow
neglected Andy’s front garden was since he ’ad been
electionin’.
As soon as I tells ’im wot Mr. Pomfrey ’ad said
he smiles nasty and says it’s just wot he expected, and
then tells me to get out and not come near ’im no
more with that fat old swindler’s suggestions.
I SUPPOSE anyone else would ’ave give up tryin’
* to bring them two together again, but not me. I
’ad been thinkin’ things over careful, and I ’ad ’it on
a idea of provin’ to Andy that Mr. Pomfrey was in
earnest about ’is friendly gesture, and ’adn’t no inten-
tion of puttin’ ’is dahlias in the show.
Knowin’ Mr. Pomfrey’s pride I didn’t tell ’im me
idea ; instead, I goes to ’is place with a few traps, and
after settin’ ’em I waits me chance and slips into ’is
garden, and by the time I ’ad finished there Mr. Pom-
frey didn’t ’ave no choice about standin’ down from
the show. And then, thinkin’ that it would be a
’appy idea to let the kids act as peacemakers, as the
sayin’ is, I divides up the prize dahlias I ’ad picked
between Jimmy and ’is friends and gives them in-
structions.
I didn’t ’ave the slightest doubt that old Andy
would rekernise them dahlias as Mr. Pomfrey’s
friendly gesture, and if he ’ad give ’imself a chance
to look close at ’em he would ’ave. But as it was,
as soon as he turns the corner and sees all them kids
gathered around ’is front gate as usual, and loaded
with beautiful dahlias, he jumps to the wrong idea
and also jumps at the kids, sendin’ ’em screamin’ and
scatterin’ in all directions. And two minutes later all
that was left of the friendly gesture was a lot of
squashed-up leaves and stalks on the footpath, with
Andy dancin’ on ’em energetic and collectin’ quite a
interested crowd.
It was the last crowd he did collect, because by
the time he ’ad discovered ’is mistake them pore
scared kids ’ad got ’ome ; and after the mothers,, ’ad
’eld a indignation meetin’ Andy wasn’t game to show
’is face at no more election meetin’s, and he might
as well ’ave stood down for all the chance he ’ad of
becomin’ Alderman Fish.
WAR
BY MARGARET TRIST.
THERE had been a war. Trudie’s eldest brother
and her father and an uncle had gone to it.
She’d only been a tiny baby when they went,
so she couldn’t remember them at all. She’d
never know her uncle now because he was one of
“Our Glorious Dead,” but her brother and father
were quite safe and were on their way home from
“the other side” with a number of others of “Aus-
tralia’s Gallant Sons.”
Trudie had no idea where “the other side” was,
but she liked the sound of it, and once her father
had sent her a picture book from there, and he said
such funny things in his letters that she thought he
must be having a great time. She wasn’t exactly
sure what a war was either, but it had a nice exciting
sound like “Church Bazaar” and “Annual Show.”
On Armistice Day the school-children marched
along the main street with the fire brigade and the
town band and the ambulance and the poor men who
hadn’t been able to go to the war because they had
had to get other men to go. Everyone waved flags
and wore bright new medals on their chests; and
everyone shouted and sang “God Save the King,”
“Advance, Australia Fair,” and “Rule, Britannia.”
Then the music stopped, and everyone was silent for
a minute and thought of the “Glorious Dead.” After
that everyone seemed undecided whether to be sorry
about “Our Glorious Dead” or glad about “Our
Gallant Sorts” who were coming home, but the
school-children went on waving flags and sticking out
their chests to show the bright medals.
At night there was a bonfire in the Showground.
Trudie didn’t go to it, but from her bed on the
verandah she could see the flames jumping into the
sky and hear the people shouting. Trudie wriggled
excitedly under the sheets and, pressing her face into
the cool pillow, said, “Thank you, God, for a lovely
war.”
IT wasn’t till after Easter that her father and brother
* came home. There was a party held for them in
the Oddfellows’ Hall. The band played on the front
steps and “Welcome Home” was wreathed in arti-
ficial flowers above the door. Inside the hall there
was a banner with “Our Gallant Sons” on it, and
there were knots of red, white and blue ribbons
tied to the photos, of the Mayor and the King and
Queen. The supper was of sandwiches and cakes
with pink icing and coffee made from essence donated
by the Mayor, who also kept a grocery shop. At the
close of the evening the returned men were pre-
sented with photographs of themselves mounted on
embroidery satin.
After that life was almost as if there had never
been a war. Father turned out to be a tired man
whose hands shook when he held anything in them,
and who coughed a little when the weather turned
damp. When Trudie made a noise he shouted at
her, and sometimes he lost his temper and smacked
her. But he was always sorry afterwards and would
pet her to make up for it.
Her brother was just like the younger brothers,
only that he could never stop still, and found great
difficulty in keeping a job because he didn’t like tak-
ing orders from men who had remained at home while
he went away. But he had to get used to that because
he’d been running around having a good time at the
war while the men at home were learning how to
make a living and now had to put up with the con-
sequences.
Life after the war seemed rather dull. “When
will there be another war, father?” Trudie asked
hopefully.
“There won’t be. another one,” said father
proudly. He stopped to cough because the weather
was damp, then went on proudly, “We fought, and
our fighting made the world safe for democracy for
ever.”
Trudie didn’t know what democracy was, but
she felt very sad about everything and went away
and wept for all the glorious days that were done.


These Women Again
GENTLEMAN
GUS
By
A.C.
Headley
DRAWINGS BY LOCK.
I CAN remember how I felt when Willie put his
fist against the jaw of the coalfields terror. It
gave me a feeling up and down my spine think-
ing about what was due to happen .to us at the
hands of Donovan and the miners’ aid society. But
I could have saved myself the trouble of keeping my
heart behind my teeth because it turned out that
Skinny had rigged the whole business, and instead
of riding out of town on a rail it looked as though
we could afford about fifty sleepers and a private
carriage on the dough our ex-partner, Jimmy Hood,
had traded for a tenner, safety and security.
After the fight we came back to the pub, Skinny
spending all his time telling me how good Willie was
and how grateful he was to Mimi for telling us about
him. It was good sitting there, talking about it and
counting our dough. Willie was in bed. We’d given
him a bottle of lemonade and a couple of straws,
and when I looked in he was staring at a photo, of
Mimi and looking as though he’d been kicked in
the head by the favorite for the Flying Welter.
“Scut,” said Skinny, “we gotter lead Willie in
the way ’e oughter go. You seen what ’e done to
Micky Jukes. Orright, what’s to stop ’im doing it
to someone else with the same margin of profit? All
we gotter do is buy ’im a couple of bottles of
lemonade; ’e’s ’appy and we can spend our time
counting the profit.”
“Skinny,” said I, “the idea was good and the
profit, but there ain’t too many Jimmy Hoods with
pockets flowing with milk and money.”
Skinny separated a couple of quid notes.
“Scut,” he said, “that was graft and dishonest.
I was thinking of the fighting game as a means of
legitimate and honest income. Maybe we might even
make Willie into a champion.”
“There’s a difference,” said I, “in fightin’ a champ,
and in letting the pride of the coalfields rest his chin
on your glove.”
Just then in walked Willie, wearing the old shirt
that he used for pyjamas and holding Mimi’s photo,
in his hand.
“Mr. ’Azlitt,” he said, “I gotter go. I gotter
see Mimi. Me ’eart’s with ’er. I gotter go to ’er.”
Skinny’s mouth dropped open. “Willie,” he said,
“what is all this ungrateful talk after what we’re
tryin’ to do for you to make Mimi proud?”
Willie shuffled his feet. “Mr. ’Azlitt,” he said, “I
can’t stand the separation.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “you just go to bed an’
’ave a good cry and we’ll talk it over in the morning.”
Willie gave a sniff and doubled' back into his
bedroom.
“It looks,” said I, “as though we stop punching
our meal ticket.”
“It looks,” said Skinny, “as if we’ve got to intro
duce Mimi as an active partner.”
In the morning it seemed as though Willie hadn’t
been to sleep because he started the conversation
right where he’d left off.
“Listen,” said Skinny after ten minutes, “I got
good news for you. I got a surprise when we git
back to the city that’ll make you very ’appy.”
“Mimi! ” yelped Willie, his mouth dropping open.
“I ain’t sayin’,” said Skinny, in a way that
meant it was nothing else but Mimi. “It’s a great
surprise an’ I’m not to tell you.”
Willie pulled Mimi’s photo, out of his pocket.
“She’s got a sweet nature,” he said.
“Skinny,” said I when we got away from him,
“I don’t recall Mimi saying anything about happy
reunions in the city. It might hold Willie for a while,
but where does it get us from there?”
“Where,” said Skinny, “is there a barmaid who
don’t want to make money? The first thing we do is
ring Mimi.” About ten minutes later he was telling
her about the advantages of life in the big city.
“She’s meetin’ us at the train,” he said when
he hung up the receiver. “Willie can be ’appy and a
source of profit again.”
U/ILLIE started leaning out of the train at Suther-
* “ land looking for her, and when we got to Cen-
tral there she was.
“Willie,” she said, “I come down to the city to
be near you.”
“Did yer?” said Willie, looking happy.
“I come down to see you win y’ way to fame
an’ fortchin.”
It wasn’t hard to get Willie a fight. All we had
to do was point to the way he’d k.o.’d the miners’
pride in two rounds, and the rest was easy. There
was an eight-rounder to start with against a pretty
fair boy in the suburbs, and all it did was make
Willie wonder why they called them eight-rounders
when they were over in two. Then came a ten-
rounder at the same stadium, and once again Mimi
was telling her love how gorgeous he was. It looked
as though Skinny and I were on the way to easy and
honest dough. We’d picked up a little on the betting
already, and our only pay-out besides a couple of
bottles of lemonade was a few quid to Mimi. We
were getting so confident we even let Willie go out
into the big city on his own.
That’s what started it. One afternoon Willie
came back, and after spending two hours telling us
about the dead animals in the museum he men-
tioned casually that he’d met Mr. ’Ood.
“Mr. ’Oo?” yelped Skinny.
“Mr. ’Ood,” said Willie, “wot was ’elpin’ you
manage me for me first fight. ’E was very nice, an’
bought me a lemonade, an’ arst after your ’ealth. ’E
seemed to think you’d been sick or met with a nasty
accident.”
“An’ you told ’im there was nothin’ the matter
an’ never ’ad been?”
“ ’E said ’e’d ’eard you met with an accident
just after I beat Micky Jukes,” said Willie, “but I
told him ’e was wrong an’ you’d won a lot of money.
’E said ’e’ll be round to see you to-morrer about
three o’clock.”
“Skinny,” said I, “something seems to tell me
someone is going to try and take the ink out of our
fountain-pens.”
SKINNY opened the door when Jimmy Hood
showed up. “Jimmy!” he said, as though it was
the most pleasant surprise he’d had in years. “Jimmy
’Ood! ”
Jimmy Hood came into the room. “I’m glad
you’re pleased to see me,” he said, “because if my
memory ain’t done me dirt the last time you saw me
you was glad to be rid of me. It ad somethin’ to
do with buyin’ my interest in a fighter, an’ givin’
me a tenner for a few ’undred quid in bets. Some-
thin’ seems to tell me I made a mistake sellin’ out
for a tenner.”
I was wondering what Skinny was going to say
when there was a knock on the door. Skinny cleared
his throat. “Come in.”
In came Mimi. She had been using some of her
commission for looking after Willie on clothes, and
she was looking like something out of Hollywood.
It’s wonderful what clothes can do for a girl. Skinny
swallowed so that I could hear him.
“ ’Lo, Mimi,” he said, “you’ve met Mr. ’Ood.
You remember ’e came up with us to have a look
at Willie.”
“How d’ you do?” said Mimi.
“Me an’ Mr. ’Ood,” said Skinny, “ ’ave been
talkin’ about old times.”
Mimi came over and perched on the bed. “You
just go right ahead,” she said. “I just come over to
bring happiness to my lover.”
“Your lover?” said Jimmy, very polite.
“Willie,” explained Mimi.
“Willie?” said Jimmy, trying to understand.
“Didn’t Skinny tell you,” said Mimi. “I’m the
only reason Willie keeps on with his fighting. He’s in
love with me, and he’ll do anything I say.”
“Ah,” said Jimmy, and he looked at Skinny and
grinned. “You wouldn’t consider letting me buy my
share of Willie back for a tenner? You wouldn’t
consider it just for old times’ sake?”
“You’re right,” said Skinny, “we wouldn’t.”
“In that case I’d better be going.” He turned
to Mimi. “If you’re going my way”
“She isn’t,” said Skinny; “she’s waitin’ for
Willie.”
“I could see him to-morrow,” said Mimi.
When they were gone I looked at Skinny.
“Skinny,” said I, “my corn tells me it’s going to
rain.”
Skinny looked at me with a look of pity. “Scut,”
he said, “don’t you ever stop to think why Mimi
turned up at that exact time? Don’t you think it
might’ve been because I told ’er to?”
“You mean,” said 1, “that all she’s doing is
keepin’ an eye on Jimmy for us?”
“You guessed in one,” said Skinny. “Before
long Jimmy’ll be thinkin’ she’s on ’is side, and
they’ll be talkin’ about ways of beatin’ us. I ain’t
takin’ no chances with Jimmy, and with Mimi ’elpin’
us we might even be able to make a bit of dough
out of ’im.”
“And how about Willie?” said I. “What’s he goin’
to do if he finds Mimi knockin’ around with another
feller.”
Skinny grinned. “I got that fixed.”
L_J \LF an hour later Willie turned up. He opened
1 / the door and blinked around the room. “Where’s
Mimi? She said she’d be ’ere.”
Skinny looked serious.
“Willie,” he said, “she’s been but I sent ’er away.”
“Whalfor?” demanded Willie.
‘‘Because,” said Skinny, “you ain’t got to see
too much of Mimi from now on.” He paused. “Listen,
Willie, ’ave you ever ’eard of a gambling ring?”
“Two-up school,” suggested Willie.
Skinny waved his hand. “Willie,” he said, “how
would you like it if someone was to kidnap Mimi
and cut off one of her ears if you wouldn’t promise
to lose a fight?”
“I wouldn’t like it,” said Willie.
“Orright,” said Skinny, “that’s what we gotter
take care of. No one must know that Mimi is your
girl. You ain’t got to see ’er too much.” He looked
mysterious. “Listen, Willie, ’ave you ever ’eard of
Gentleman Gus?”
Willie shook his head and blinked.
“Orright,” said Skinny, “I ain’t sayin’ nothin’
because I don’t want to go in fear of me life.”
“Gee,” said Willie.
“It’s safer,” said Skinny, “if you don’t see Mimi.”
“Gee,” said Willie.
“She’ll be at all your fights,” said Skinny, “but
it’ll be better if you don’t recognise her.”
“Sometimes,” said I after we’d sent Willie out
for a lemonade, “I even think you’ve got something
that could pass for brains.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “it’s about time that Willie
lost a fight. ’ls price is gettin’ too short to back
’im for a win. We’d make twice as much if we was
to back the other feller an’ Willie lost.”
“Willie wouldn’t do it,” said I; “he’s been brought
up wrong.”
“’E might,” said Skinny, “if ’e got note from
Gentleman Gus mentioning Mimi’s ears.”
“Skinny,” said I, “they are brains.”


“Yeah,” said Skinny, “and suppose we got
Jimmy ’Ood bettin’ on Willie to win, wouldn’t it
make the price better still? Scut, we gotter see Mimi.”
Skinny rang Mimi up and we went round to see
her, and told her all about it.
“Listen, Mimi,” said Skinny, “you can tell Jimmy
all about ’ow we’re goin’ to send Willie a note signed
by Gentleman Gus tellin’ ’im to lie down in the
eighth or you’ll meet a fate worse’n death. Then
you can put it up to ’im that it would be a good idea
and a source of profit if ’e was to back Willie to win,
and instead of you stayin’ away from the stadium so
that Willie would think you was kidnapped you
would promise to meet Jimmy outside the stadium
just about the time of the fight. Then you could
tell ’im that as soon as ’e took you inside and let
Willie see you Willie would finish off the fight just
to be near ’is love.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and suppose he does meet Mimi
outside and let Willie see she’s safe. I thought the
idea was for Willie to lose.”
Skinny grinned. “It is,” he said. “The only
trouble with Jimmy’s ’alf of the performance is that
when ’e goes out to bring Mimi in she won’t be there.
By the time the eighth round comes round ’e’ll be
gnashin’ ’is gums because ’is teeth will be wore out.”
“Leave it to me,” said Mimi. “Jimmy will kiss
my feet for revealing your dastardly plan. Leave it
to me.”
“I couldn’t do better,” said Skinny, “and there’s
a packet for you when it’s over.”
IT took me a couple of days to get used to the idea
of Willie and Gentleman Gus. Willie would get
around walking casually near a door and then sud-
denly tearing it open and jumping into the passage.
He started talking about disguises.
We had a fight fixed up. It was an easy fight,
one that Willie could have finished in half a round.
The night before it was due Mimi came round to tell
us that everything was jake.
“He’s got it all fixed like you said,” she ex-
plained. “I’ve got to be outside the stadium when
the fight starts.”
“That,” said Skinny, “is what Jimmy thinks.”
Mimi smiled. “It’ll break his heart,” she said.
The night of the fight came round, and the note.
Jimmy Hood was in the dressing-room when it
arrived. That was Skinny’s idea. He told Mimi it
would look better. A feller came up to Willie, said
“Hist!” gave him the note and vanished.
Willie’s face went white as he read the note, and
his hand started to shake. “They got ’er,” he said
hoarsely. “Gentleman Gus.”
Skinny grabbed the note and read it out loud.
“You will be knocked out in the eighth round or
To think of Mimi in
the ’ands of that villain.
something will happen to someone near and dear
to you. (Signed) G.G.”
Skinny gave a yelp. “It’s terrible. To think of
Mimi in the ’ands of that villain.”
“I’ll call the p’lice if you like,” said'Jimmy Hood,
trying to keep the smile off his face.
Skinny turned around. “You oughter know
better,” he said ; “bringing the p’lice in’d only make
it worse for poor Mimi. I’d sooner lose all the
money I bet on Willie to win and ’ave ’er back
safe ’n’ sound.”
“It looks like the only way,” said I. “Willie
will ’ave to lose the fight for Mimi’s sake.”
Willie woke from his daze. “You’re real gents,”
he said.
I saw Jimmy Hood slip out the door, and Skinny
and I, after trying to cheer Willie up, went out into
the stadium.
“It’s all fixed up,” said Skinny. “Mimi’s sup-
posed to meet Jimmy outside the stadium after the
third round.”
“Where’s Jimmy now?” said I. “I’d feel hap-
pier if I was near him.”
“You can’t blame ’im,” said Skinny, “if ’e
wants to place a few quid on Willie’s chances.”
“Ain’t it time,” said I, “we placed our roll on
the other boy? With Jimmy going for Willie we
might get a price.”
Skinny looked at me. “Scut,” he said, “one of
these years I’m gonna teach you to take precautions.
Ain’t you ever ’eard that you can’t trust women?
’Ow would it be if Mimi was to double-cross us?
What if she was to walk up the aisle with Jimmy
about the fifth round? Scut, we ain’t placin’ a bet
not till we’re sure. If everything’s jake we can still
get a fair price about the other feller, and if it ain’t,
and Mimi turns up, we can take a short price about
Willie.”
“Skinny,” said I, “I wish there was a better word
than brains.”
We got to the ringside and Jimmy Hood was
there. He grinned. “It oughter be a good fight.”
Eli OR three rounds it went all right, Willie dodging
* and ducking most of the time, and then Jimmy
Hood got up. “I can’t stand it,” he said, “I’m thinkin’
of poor Mimi.”
We sat back to await developments, and no one
could have been more thankful than me when it
turned out that Skinny’s precautions were justified.
I was watching the door when they came in, Jimmy
Hood and Mimi. I gave Skinny a dig and he saw
the same thing, and the next moment I was busy
backing Willie with the ring bookies. He was a shade
of odds-on.
When I came back Skinny was looking at Mimi
as though he would have liked to strop his razor on
her throat.
Jimmy Hood said: “You needn’t insult the lady.
She ain’t workin’ for you no more.”
Mimi smiled. “I couldn’t bear nothin’ dishonest,”
she said.
By this time Willie had seen Mimi. He looked
happy and kept waving his glove from the corner.
For two rounds Willie put on an exhibition for
fier, jumping around and placing a punch when and
where he wanted. He made the other feller look
silly, and he hadn’t even started to use any power in
his punches.
Then they were coming up for the eighth round,
and one minute there was Willie and the other pug
dancing around the ring and the next there was
Willie stretched out on the canvas and the referee
swinging his arm. I looked at Skinny and you could
have knocked his eyes off with a stick. Jimmy Hood
looked like a sick cattle pup.
He got up suddenly from his seat and, not
bothering about Mimi, disappeared, while we sat there
looking at Willie waking from his sleep.
It was then that I saw Mimi. She was laughing
and clapping her hands and throwing kisses to Willie.
“Skinny,” I said, “I’d better slap her in the face.
It’s a cure for hysterics.”
Mimi turned round.
“Ain’t it great?” she said. “I knew I’d surprise
you when I turned up with Jimmy Hood, and you’d
think I was dreadful. I was just having a bit
of fun because I fixed it up with Willie to
lose in the eighth round in any case. I
told him I might marry him. You
oughter give us a nice wedding present
now. You must have won a lot of
money. Gee, it was funny to
see the looks on your faces! ”
HE HAD A PASS
BY B. M. RAMSDEN.
JUST across Prince’s Bridge a man got on the
tram rather unsteadily, and after standing hold-
ing on to the rail for a moment or two came
and sat beside me. I was sitting on one of
the outside seats facing the inside compartment.
When the conductor came along he gave him two-
pence and said: “I had a pass but I’ve lost it.”
The conductor smiled and gave him his ticket.
He was wearing a grey suit, clean but not new or
recently pressed, and a clean singlet showed above
his waistcoat. He wore a badge in his lapel with
“A.1.F.” in the centre and “Association” —the only
other word I could read —along the bottom.
He brought out a cigarette butt and a box of
matches, and started to light the cigarette. It took
much fumbling and five or six matches. It was the
thinnest butt of a home-made cigarette I have ever
seen.
He sat still for a few seconds, and then he turned
to me and said: “I had a pass but I’ve lost it.”
I was thinking, not expecting to be spoken to, and
did not catch wharhe said. “I beg your pardon.”
“I had a tram pass but I’ve lost it.”
“That’s bad luck.”
“It’s more than bad luck, it’s an expense.”
I said nothing more, and he was quiet for a
couple of minutes except for some mumbled lines
of poetry, something about “gold in her hair and
the moonlight that she wandered in.” Then he
leaned towards me as though about to say some-
thing confidential and important. “Are you married?”
he asked seriously.
“No.”
“Would you like to be?”
“Not particularly.”
“I would. I want to get married.”
“You’re probably just as well off as you are.”
Silence for a few seconds. Then, “Would you
like to marry me? I’ve got four pounds a week.”
I smiled and said “No, thank you.”
“Wouldn’t you? Well, there’s no harm in ask-
ing. Whenever I see anybody nice I always ask them
if they’ll marry me.”
There were only two other passengers on the
tram, a middle-aged man sitting inside where he
could look straight at us, and another grey-haired
man, well-dressed in a light grey suit, holding a
library book and with a bunch of flowers on the seat
beside him. He was sitting behind us on the outside
of the tram watching us. So was the conductor; all
were smiling.
The man who wanted to get married began to
rise unsteadily, and the conductor came along and
said: “Do you want the Repatriation?”
“No, one stop, the next stop after.”
“Well, wait till the car stops.”
He walked unsteadily towards the door and held
on to the rail. At Domain-road he got off and
walked towards Queen’s-road.
Both the other passengers were smiling. His
badge indicated active service and his four pounds a
week was certainly a pension. He was well-spoken,
gentle, his manner straightforward and natural —
whimsically drunken. He had a pass, but he’d lost it.


Baker’s Sheep-fly Outfit,
made of strong leather
to carry on saddle, 32/6-
Postage 1/6.
W. JNO. BAKER Stands for BEST CUTLERY
Three-blade Stock Knife, 4in. smooth
horn handle, 7/6. Post free.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
W. .Tno. Baker Standard Razor, white
xylonite handle, extra full hollow
ground, 13/6 each.
. JNO. BAKER
PTY.
LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
“Chatsworth” Cabinet. Oak Case,
fitted with Baker’s Stainless Steel Knives
and Silver-plated Spoons and Forks. Con-
tents : 6 each Table and Dessert Knives;
ti each Table and Dessert Forks; (> each
Table, Dessert and Tea Spoons. In
B Quality Silverware, £6/9/6 complete.
big book (it is 846 pages) deals with his life after the
war, and the letters from Arabia are in any case an
interesting supplement to matter already published.
Only one fault can be found with David Garnett’s
editing—the lack of a summary of Lawrence’s life
as an introduction; for most readers, a summing-
up, though not essential, would have been useful for
reference, and it would have given the book a more
finished effect. It’s a small point, however, for the
drama unfolds clearly if slowly through the letters,
and Garnett’s footnotes are at once illuminating and
admirably inconspicuous.
The book is in five parts, each prefaced by a
brief commentary: Archaeology, The War, Dogfight
in Downing-street, The Years of Hide and Seek, and
Flying Boats. Garnett refers to Lawrence’s boyhood
at Oxford when, “fair of complexion and gentle of
speech,” he developed a passion for archaeology and
for “climbing trees, rocks and buildings, swimming,
canoeing, wrestling, bicycling long distances, and all
feats requiring great endurance and strength.” The
early letters to his mother or his brothers, typically
‘ family” communications, are all concerned with
archaeology or physical hardihood. His cycling feats
when at the age of 18 he was exploring the castles
of France foreshadow the stoicism that led him to
seek hardship and suffering in the desert and after-
wards. Garnett comments on a letter of the first trip
East, on which Lawrence, against all advice, wandered
on foot to study the Crusader castles in Palestine and
Syria, “It was typical of Lawrence’s consideration for
his mother to write about his good digestion, and to
say, ‘I suppose my exercise is responsible for my
health,’ after having had four attacks of malaria, and
having been so badly smashed up by Kurds that he
was not fit to travel.”
Unexpectedly, the war letters are the least interest-
ing section. There is a confusion of place-names and
personalities and no clear picture of the campaign
as a whole emerges. But there are some magnificent
battle descriptions that Lawrence contributed to the
“Arab Bulletin.” From that source is taken a full
and exciting account of the destruction of the Turkish
Fourth Army and the taking of Damascus ; and this,
of an earlier engagement:
When sunset came Auda collected the fifty horsemen
now with us in a hollow valley about 200 yards from
the Turks, but under cover, and suddenly charged at
a wild gallop into the brown of them, shooting furi-
ously from the saddle as he came. The unexpectedness
of the move seemed to strike panic into the Turks
(about 550 strong), and after a burst of riflefire they
scattered in all directions. This was our signal, and the
rest of our force (perhaps 350 men) dashed down the
hillsides into the hollow as fast as the camels would
go. The Turks were all infantry, and the Arabs all
mounted, and the mixup round the spring in the dusk,
with 1000 men shooting like mad, was considerable.
As the Turks scattered, their position at once became
hopeless, and in five minutes it was merely a
massacre... .Auda was wildly pleased with the whole
affair.
After the war it was Versailles and Downing-
street. Sickened by the betrayals and the compromises,
the intrigues, the quarrels, the dying of his dream
of “morning” in the squalid, interminable arguments,
Lawrence wrote: —•
On the whole I believe that not doing is better than
doing, and I believe mankind will reach its zenith when
it determines to propagate art no more. I have done
with politics, I have done with the Orient, and I have
done with intellectuality. O Lord, lam so tired! I
want so much to lie down and sleep and die. Die is
best because there is no reveille. I want to forget my
sins and the world’s weariness.
That, on page 349, states the theme which with
the most fascinating variations is carried on for the
next 500 pages. Lawrence’s interest in literature, his
opinions and his contacts with luminaries of his day
is a variation which alone would make the book
worth while. There is the story of the publication
of his own books, and his reactions of mingled delight
and horror at everything connected with them. There
are his letters to Robert Graves, James Hanley, E. M.
Forster, C. M. Doughty ; to Edward Garnett, John
Buchan and the publisher Cape ; comments on writers
by the score, from Dostoievsky to Edgar Wallace.
“I don’t like Wells —he has written 80 books” ; “Dear
Cape, I think this is a coming thing, though you
won’t think it, the man being a poet and his work
verse” (Roy Campbell’s Flaming Terrapin ); “ ‘Dreary,
artificial, sob-stuffed thing,’ I snorted, having read
Good Companions” ; “I’ve been reading I, Claudius :
hard-hearted and bloody: what a strange road Graves
has travelled.”
There are many letters to Bernard Shaw, and
Garnett quotes a few of Shaw’s in reply—G.B.S. told
him that his wanting to hide in the air force was as
if Nelson had come back from Trafalgar and applied
for a job at the tiller of a barge. Lawrence was
friendly with Thomas Hardy and his wife, too, and
portrays the old man with fine understanding. On
contemporary letters in general he has the obser-
vation, “The Joyces and the Kiplings, the Steins and
Wellses, the Forsters and D. H. Lawrences, they
will all date within 20 years by some imperceptible
solidarity; there will be a common thread between
T. S. Eliot and Alfred Noyes.”
In five remarkable letters to Lionel Curtis, when
he had been jockeyed out of the air force and into
the tank corps, Lawrence reverts to the theme of
his renunciation:
This sort of thing must be madness and sometimes
I wonder how far mad I am, and if a madhouse
would not be my next (and merciful) stage. Merciful
compared with this place, which hurts me, body and
soul. It’s terrible to hold myself voluntarily here: and
yet I want to stay here until it no longer hurts me:
till the burnt child no longer feels the fire. Do you
think there have been many lay monks of my per-
suasion? One used to think that such frames of mind
would have perished with the age of religion: and
yet here they rise up, purely secular.
A letter, quite soon after the war, threatening
suicide; the analyses to Curtis; letters from his
R.A.F. station in India indicating extreme confusion
and agony of mind reducing him to utter weariness;
letters showing the mocking delight he took in danger
and the spiritual escape he found in speeding on his
motor-cycle along the crowded highways of England
—practically every document in those concluding 500
pages make his early death seem inevitable. The
letters move like Greek tragedy, slow, remorseless,
and dark with the intense psychological struggle under-
lying them.
Jack the Ripper's Jubilee.
The English are a forgetful race. It’s bad
enough not being able to remember Boadicea’s birth-
day or the day Queen Anne kicked the bucket; but
it’s even more melancholy to reflect that 1939, Jack
the Ripper’s jubilee, is passing without a sigh, a pil-
grimage or even an ode from Mr. Masefield. Only
one faithful soul has remembered.
Signing himself William Stewart, Artist, he says
in the preface to Jack the Ripper (Quality Press), “In
this year, the jubilee of the Jack the Ripper mystery,
I have attempted to present the most painstaking
effort to solve this mystery which has ever appeared.”
Mr. Stewart has made the pilgrimage, too: “We have
carefully gone over the spots where the murders of
Mary Nicholls, Annie Chapman and Catherine
Eddows took place, each of us acting an assigned part
so as to reproduce each murder as faithfully as our
information and the circumstances would permit.”
The jolly Jack, Mr. Stewart recalls, was credited
with the murder of seven women, but four was his
real bag. Somebody else did in the others. He
preyed on street-walkers in the East End of London,
had the whole city in the jitters, baffled the police and
roused the press to a fury that must have warmed
its circulation as much as it chilled the public’s. He
was never caught.
Mr. Stewart thinks that everybody was looking
for the wrong man ; whether they looked for an ordi-
nary maniac, a mad doctor, a peculiar policeman or
a bargee (because the murders were all week-end
amusements and that’s when the barges 'came in
with cattle and bargees from the north), or even if
suspicion, as conceivably it could have, had centred
on a cow, they were all wrong. It was, he submits,
a woman who did the dirty deed. It’s an ingenious
theory ; he has to be a bit bodily to support it, but
murder books will out.
J. the R. is illustrated with photographs of the
spots marked X, and also of the unfortunate victims,
all of whom the artist has seen fit to mark X with
extraordinarily grim-looking noses. All that the book
lacks, indeed, is a photograph of Mr. Stewart and
his friends pretending to murder each other all over
the East End in the cause of truth and the jubilee.
A Dodie Smith Comedy.
Dodie Smith has never quite repeated the suc-
cess of Autumn' Crocus, but having the craft of the
theatre at her fingertips she can always produce play-
able drama. Her. latest, Dear Octopus (Heinemann),
was first produced at the Queen’s Theatre, Lon-
don, last September, with a brilliant cast, including
Marie Tempest, John Gielgud and Angela Baddeley.
The story centres round the golden wedding cele-
bration of Charles and Dora 'Randolph. The family
are gathered together for the occasion. There is a
great deal of character work and not very much
action. Dora is the “Dear Octopus,” beloved by her
children but recognised by them as a minor tyrant,
whose chief object in life is finding “little jobs” for
everyone. Her husband is an author, manque because
he never could find time between the jobs to write
his masterpiece. Dora is a most exasperating old lady,
but when a strain is put upon her and she discovers
the full extent of her daughter Cynthia’s prodigality
she turns up trumps, takes calmly the news that they
thought would kill her and smooths out the path for
the erring one. This is a dramatic turn that always
goes down well.
The characters are well assorted. Dora, who
grows old gracefully, is balanced by her sister-in-law,
Belle, who refuses—at 75 —to grow old at all. Hilda
has complexes, Edna has a tongue that is sweetly
venomous, Marjory is fat, Nicholas is a fascinating
bachelor, and Laurel and Kenneth the very mirror of
young lovers. The cast is rounded out by three
children: Bill, the enfant terrible; Scrap, the pathetic
motherless little girl; Flouncey, the vain little bag-
gage. The sub-plot is furnished by the love story of
Grace Fenning, Mrs. Randolph’s downtrodden com-
panion.
There is every reason why this should be a suc-
cessful play ; it concerns the right people, all hand-
some and affluent; it is full of jokes about growing
old and fat —“What’s bred in the beam comes out in
the bust” —and the cattiness of women. These are
all bull’s-eyes and very easy to understand. Further,
it has as much sentiment as humor, and it ends hap-
pily. Dora turns out to be a grand old lady, the
black lamb returns to the fold, Grace is rewarded
with the heart and hand of the elegant Nicholas,
Scrap finds another mother in her Aunt Cynthia, and
—last but not least —it affords an excellent part for
Miss Marie Tempest. Dear Octopus is another bed-
time story expertly told. The text is illustrated with
photographs of the original cast.
The "London Mercury" Goes West.
Only a month or so before his death the last
poems of W. B. Yeats —including one splendid ex-
ample of his later manner
Fifteen apparitions have I seen,
The worst a coat upon a coathanger —
appeared in the “London Mercury.” Not so long
before that it published a poem and a short story by
Maoriland’s young Gloria Rawlinson. Now the
journal that could find space for writings so diverse,
for promise as well as reputation, has gone out of
existence. The April number is its last.
Its rights have been merged in “Life and Letters
To-day,” so that London will still have one monthly
at any rate which relies upon literary quality for its
sales, but it’s a pity to see the “Mercury” go out.
Squire, who founded it, made it a haven for poets.
In short stories it looked for power, and, especially
of recent years, it would take bizarre or eccentric
matter that would never have found publication in
an ordinary magazine. There was good criticism
of art, music and films, and its book reviews were
outstanding.
Under Squire, who let in the last ripples of the
Georgian movement, it eventually became weak, but
four years' ago R. A. Scott-James took over the editor-
ship and made a desperate attempt to revive what
may have then been a doomed paper. Scott-lames,
who did well in rooting out the pretty-pretty, prob-
ably made a mistake in going too far the other
way. He made it very “Left” politically, and may
have antagonised many old subscribers. And he made
it very “Left” in literature; it must have been a
jolt to readers who had been fed on Georgian birds
and bees for years suddenly to have nuts and bolts
and bombers and all the paraphernalia of the “new”
verse hurled at their heads. Yeats was practically the
only compromise between post-Georgian guns and
Georgian butter. Possibly the support for his inno-
vations was weakened by the fact that the “Criterion”
was catering for Eliot’s school, and the chirpy “New
Verse” for the slums-and-dictators group. But the
“Criterion” pre-deceased the “Mercury” by a couple
of months, so that it looks as if there’s a general
blight upon literary periodicals in England at the
moment.
Both editors of the “Mercury” published some
amazing twaddle. W. H. Davies at his worst never
bleated so feebly as some of Squire’s lambs, and under
Scott-James’s banner appeared the line once repeated
in awe on The Bulletin’s Society page, “Your navel
like a bubble in stirred cream.” But both, according
to their lights, were doing their level best for contem-
porary letters, and the paper had influence. It will be
missed for its illustrations almost as much as its letter-
press ; Wyndham Lewis once published drawings of
Cripps and Mosley in it, and every month there were
excellent woodcuts.


A complete range of Models from .
rs a thrill in store for YOU!
Tonal Realism . . . Greater Sensitivity and Selectivity . . .
Super Efficient Circuits . . . New “Legi-Line” Tuning.
Dnly the resources of the World’s Largest Radio Manufacturers
could have created Philips “NEW LISTENING.”
Don’t take it for granted! Hear it for yourself at your
nearest Philips Retailer, or contact the local Philips Branch
to arrange a demonstration.
ILLUSTRATED
MODEL 1941 (Mantel)
For A.C. Operation
I 3 GNS.
Available also for Battery Operation in
cabinet of similar design Model 1949
19 Gns.
MODEL 1852 (Console)
For Electric Mains
(World-Wide)
25 GNS.
Available also for Battery Operation in
cabinet of similar design Model 1840
28 Gns.
#
m
0
&
%
by THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS AND VALVES


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ndiifon&tfpuv fFJUMonziii dyvisf&MmL &
/
In fiction and history, the terms “Old
Bailey” and “Newgate” denote the most
famous though not the largest of Lon-
don’s prisons. Located at the corner of
Newgate-street and Old Bailey, it derives
its double appellation from those topo-
graphical localities. The illustrations in-
dicate how vast a change was brought
about when the old building, completed
in 1783, was replaced by the handsome
looking structure in 1905. With the pos-
sible exception of The Tombs, New
York’s world-famed prison, no “house
of detention” in countries termed “civil-
ised” existed with a “sterner” appearance
than the Old Bailey or Newgate gaol as
it stood a century ago and later. In
that building, as in the present elegant
structure, the Central Criminal Court
was located, the prison portion being
simply a gaol of detention for persons
to be tried, but at an earlier period it
sufficed both for that purpose and for
all undergoing sentence for offences in
London and the County of Middlesex.
The exterior of the earlier Newgate de-
picted was just, as might be supposed, as
a prison in ancient Rome may have been.
Here Daniel Defoe was “shut up,”
and public executions for generations
attracted thousands of morbid sightseers
and other less desirable members of
society. The new Old Bailey architec-
turally indicates how great has been the
progress communally and morally in
public ideas since howling, ribald mobs
made festivals of the gruesome scenes
enacted when outside Newgate unfor-
tunate creatures were “swung off into
eternity,” as a somewhat brutal phrase
had it. What a scene the locality must
have witnessed when on February 22,
1864, five of the seven pirates convicted
of the murder of the Captain of the
Flowery Land were hanged in front of
Newgate, in, as a contemporary writer
stated, “the presence of an immense
gathering of people.” Newgate, or the
Old Bailey, synonymous terms, must con-
tinue to be visited by persons from over-
seas, if only for the wealth of association
it possesses concerning phases of life
likely to remain until the last vestige of
the Old Adam is eradicated from the
human composition.
THE OLD BAILEY OR NEWGATE— 1839-1939.


HANDING IT ON.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch {Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to.. any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HATS OFF TO ROOSEVELT!
Gratitude is the rarest and most evanescent of
human virtues, but there have been times when an
individual has inspired it among whole nations. This
was the case with Woodrow Wilson in 1917, and again
at the end of 1918. The same exalted experience has
now been reserved for the second Roosevelt.
When the thirty-second President wrote his
address to the rulers of Germany and Italy the harsh
fate of the President whom he served in a subordinate
capacity must have been in his mind. Neither he
nor any other leader of a democracy is independent
of the caprices of constituencies ; but there is no citizen
of the British Commonwealth who does not admire
his courage and wish him precious gifts that were
denied to Wilson —health, happiness and length of
days.
Wilson tried to make the world safe for democ-
racy. Mr. Roosevelt is trying to make it safe for the
peoples of all nations, whatever their forms of govern-
ment. In doing so he, too, is challenging the very
strong isolationist sentiment of his people. It beat
Wilson ; it may beat him. If he aspires to a third
term, his candidature has already been damaged.
Wilson was re-elected on the cry of “He kept us out
of war.” What hope will there be for Mr. Roosevelt
or for the Democratic party if, as a result of his mes-
sage, his country is involved in war again? We have
been told that his gesture to Europe and the equally
significant transfer of the United States Fleet from
the Atlantic to the Pacific are extolled by the entire
British press. That, to put it mildly, will not help
him in his own country ; and the cables are silent as
to whether his bold departure from traditional Ameri-
can policy has received any decided support from the
American press other than that of New York.
Himself a New Yorker, he can be reasonably
sure of New York State. Can he be equally sure of
New England or the Middle West, or —in respect of
his challenge to the dictators to put their cards on
the table —the Pacific Slope? It is extremely doubtful.
We read that Senator Pittman, chairman of the
Senate’s Foreign Affairs Committee “pleaded, in a
broadcast, for a strict ‘cash-and-carry’ neutrality law.”
“Cash and carry”!—that ignoble plan for selling
’planes and guns and munitions and foodstuffs to the
British and French for money down, they to trans-
port the purchases in their own bottoms and brave
all perils by sea and air.
We can understand how isolation, as a national
policy, appeals to a republic whose first President
warned it against “entangling alliances,” and whose
one war in the Mad Continent was not only costly
in lives, blood and treasure, but was followed by
pestilence and general disillusion. Many loyal
subjects of King George wish that Britain had stuck
to isolation —splendid isolation, it used to be called.
Instead, it has drifted into the position of being tied
to France —seriously weakened by its own follies —of
pledging itself to protect remote peoples whose Great
War record was rotten, who themselves give no pledges
and who are not even grateful, and (reckless of what
dalliance with Russian Communism has cost France)
of moving towards a Russian alliance —now demanded
by a section which, not many years ago, was
shouting that even to have trade relations with the
U.S.S.R. would be Shaking Hands with Murder. But
this “cash-and-carry” business is altogether con-
temptible.
The President has asked the dictators “to give an
assurance that you will not attack or invade any of
the independent nations hereafter enumerated” ; and
he enumerates 31. The Dominions are not mentioned
—no doubt because mention of “Great Britain” was
held to cover them —nor, significantly, is Danzig.
“A minimum period of assured non-aggression
of at least ten years” is suggested; “a quarter
of a century, if we dare look that far ahead.”
If the replies are favorable, the President will
request “each of the nations enumerated to give
a like assurance to you, who have stated often
that neither the Italian people nor the German people
desires war.” Such reciprocal guarantees would “bring
to the world an immediate measure of relief.” If
given, “essential problems shall be promptly dis-
cussed” : the “most effective and immediate manner
in which the peoples of the world can obtain relief
from the crushing burden of armaments,” and “the
most practical manner of opening up avenues of inter-
national trade, so that every nation in the world may
be enabled to buy and sell on equal terms in the world’s
markets, as well as to possess an assurance of obtain-
ing the materials and products of a peaceful economic
life.” In these discussions, the United States will take
part. There are “other necessary political discussions”
which “those Governments other than that of the
United States” could undertake “in an atmosphere
of peace. Such an atmosphere cannot exist if nego-
tiations are overshadowed by the threat of force or
the fear of war.”
The address is said to have astonished America,
and it must have come like a thunderbolt to Germany
and Italy. The tone of their press was critical, con-
temptuous, hostile. Then, after chewing over the
contents of the communication for five days, Signor
Mussolini was heard from. Saying he mighty not
reply to “President Roosevelt’s famous message,” he
did, in effect, reply—on the face of it in no concilia-
tory spirit, but not without uttering reassuring sen-
tences :
It is absurd to place the Axis Powers in the dock.
We reply that the Axis Powers are working for peace
We want to get on with our work. Our policy is
collaboration for peace. We do not allow ourselves to
be impressed by press campaigns, gossip and Messianic
messages. A 10 years’ reciprocal guarantee is as absurd
as it is horrible. A geographical pyramid has been
constructed by certain individuals with a rudimentary
knowledge of European affairs.
The United States should limit itself to its customary
role of distant spectator of any conference. Experi-
ence has given us bitter lessons that the greater number
of persons participating the more certain is failure.
Herr Hitler has summoned the Reichstag for April
28 to hear his reply.
What will he say? Much about the past, no
doubt. He is pretty sure to suggest that anti-aggression
pacts should have dated from 1897, when an earlier
Roosevelt was Vice-President, and when Spain had not
lost Cuba, Puerto Rico or the Philippines, nor the
Boers their two republics. There will be a great deal
about Russia, and about the unfairness of inviting
Germany and Italy to enter into bonds to keep theii
hands off a country which has been trying to Bolshevise
them, by various devices, for 20 years, and nearly
succeeded, as it nearly succeeded in Spain.
Russia is the weak point of the President’s case.
Demands for guarantees against Communist pene-
tration, such as the immediate dissolution of the
Comintern, may be considered certain. It is possible
that Germany will agree to sign non-aggression pacts
with every country but Russia, conditionally, in the
case of the British Empire, on its regaining its colonies ;
possible that Italy will stipulate, not only for the
exclusion of Russia, but for the cession of Djibouti
and part of Tunisia, on the ground that it was
promised compensation in Africa for waiving its 1915-
treaty claims to European territory, and that, though
the British granted it, ceding most of Jubaland, the
French yielded nothing.
It is no easy task to which this President has set
his hand. Between desire and accomplishment there
is a gulf which can be bridged only by patient nego-
tiation ; and that may be interrupted by check after
check. The fact remains that he has spoken to the
dictators in the name of imperilled humanity. He has
placed them on the defensive, without denying them
the right to state their case and, if they can, give reasons
why they should get more than he offers. If they flatly
reject his overtures, they will put themselves entirely
in the wrong, and the world will know what to expect,
and whom to blame if the worst comes.
Menzies Prime Minister.
The manoeuvres that preceded and the scene that fol-
lowed the selection of a Prime Minister have not in-
creased Australia’s respect for the way they do things
at Canberra.
The Lyons Government became a prey to inertia.
Parliament met seldom, and much of its work was
crammed into a few days. The U.A.P., never free
from provincial jealousies and private ambitions,
divided on the question of national insurance.
The U.C.P. was in no better shape. Before Mr.
Lyons died, the Victorian Agrarians, who have one
representative at Canberra, decided to challenge it
by extending its operations to other States. Queens-
land and S. Australia have loag been dissatisfied with
the present U.C.P. leadership, but not so dissatisfied
as they became when the first U.C.P. Prime Minister
was closing his brief career as such.
Dr. Page made it clear that he had no intention
of becoming a candidate for the permanent job. He
told his colleagues that when the U.A.P. elected a
leader he would hand over the Prime Ministership,
“and restore the status quo ante as early as possible.”
This did not prevent him from issuing a virtual
ultimatum on the morning on which the U.A.P. was
to choose its leader —an ultimatum to the effect that
his party would not work with Mr. Menzies. He had
set his heart on bringing Mr. Bruce back to Aus-
tralia, and Mr. Bruce professed to be willing. But
he named impossible terms —for himself a non-party
standing, and for the rest a national Government com-
posed of all parties, one of which, Labor, would not
come in at any price.
In the election of the U.A.P. leader Dr. Page’s
attempt at dictation was very properly rejected. The
candidates were Mr. Casey and Mr. Hughes, who
had succeeded in staying in the Lyons Cabinet, and
Mr. Menzies and Mr. White, who had left it. Mr.
Menzies was chosen, and Mr. Menzies was the obvious
choice. The only orator in the party, an unknown
quantity as leader, but a man with modern ideas,
he was the best man in sight; head and shoulders
over the other candidates.
Dr. Page then suggested that the Prime Minister
should be elected at a joint meeting of the U.A.P.
and the U.C.P. The move failed, and as stopgap P.M.
Dr. Page met Parliament. There he delivered an
attack on Mr. Menzies which has achieved only one
noticeable result —the eclipse of Dr. Page.
It was an attack which nothing could excuse. Dr.
Page accused his late colleague of disloyalty to Mr.
Lyons, offering no proof, of resigning from the Min-
istry on the national-insurance question when “the
country was spending untold millions preparing
for war” and of having failed to fight in the Great
War.
An onlooker might wonder why Dr. Page’s objec-
tion on the last ground to sitting in a Cabinet with Mr.
Menzies as Prime Minister did not apply equally
to his acceptance of Mr. Menzies as a senior Minister.
In any case, the speech outraged the average Austra-
lian’s sense of decency and fairness. And it could
obviously serve no purpose useful to a country in
which government and the development of the defence
programme must go on.
Mr. Menzies declared that the speech bolted and
barred the Cabinet door against the U.C.P. leader,
though he is still willing to work with the Country
party. Two Queensland members of that party, Mr.
A. W. Fadden (Darling Downs) and Mr. Bernard
Corser (Wide Bay), resigned from it after listening
to Dr. Page’s effort, and at the week-end Mr. Bad-
man (Grey, S.A.) was considering his position.
Dr. Page has made sacrifices for politics. Though
it does not excuse his conduct or justify his logic, he
is a tired and worried man. His career as Minister —
at times very useful —is now finished, and he should
retire gracefully from a position in which he has
become not only a menace to political stability, but
a hindrance to his party.
Retirement would leave the way open for the
U.C.P. to continue to work with the U.A.P., as
it should. It would avoid the need for depriving the
Ministry of the services of Mr. Cameron and Mr.
McEwen. Neither Parliament nor the country is
anxious for a general election. The times are too
uncertain. But a general election is certain if the
Country party, or what is left of it, decides to follow
its lost leader blindly.
Twenty-fourth Anzac.
The new threat of war on an unimaginable scale
must make Gallipoli seem more than ever a
mythical place even to those still living of the Anzacs
who fought there. Here, apparently, are world-leaders
and near-leaders —not all of them foreign—as well as
Fireside Fusiliers and Famous Armchair Fighters in
voluble profusion, flourishing their furious pens or
standing fiercely up to microphones, ready, the lot
of them, to see all that cruel futility enacted over
again. Through this amazing screen, to speak nothing
of the more restful sort imposed by the mists of
time, remaining Anzacs must look back with mixed
feelings and see Gallipoli, if they recognise it at all,
as others perhaps have seen it all along—no longer
a grim reality, but wholly a place of the imagination,
a country of the mind.
Because it is so much else besides, this so much
else obscures the cold truth that to-day Gallipoli is
a graveyard. Scores of thousands of men who would
now have been living citizens in their different coun-
tries —the fathers by this time of a generation as old
as many of them were when they died —are buried
along those barren slopes and in the gullies there. A
Turkish army order in July that year decreed that
the “carcasses of the enemy” were to be “gathered
into a big pit and burned.” An eyewitness writing
of May 25, when there had to be an armistice for
burying, “looked down through gullies filled with
thyme, where there lay about 4000 Turkish dead,”
with “two wounded crying in that multitude of
silence.” The dead “filled acres of ground,” “their
heads doubled under them with the impetus of their
rush” ; “It was as if God had breathed in their faces.”
A Turkish captain said: “At this spectacle even the
most gentle must feel savage, and the most savage
must weep.” Another Turk, pointing to the dug
graves, remarked: “That’s politics.” Then he pointed
to the dead bodies, and said: “That’s diplomacy.”
An observer after the early August shambles
wrote of the Maoriland wounded: “They lie in the
sand in rows upon rows, their faces caked with sand
and blood; one murmur for water ; no shelter from
the sun” ; some of them “almost mad with thirst,
cursing.” He added: “We have a terrible view here :
lines of wounded creeping up from the hospital to
the cemetery like a tide, and the cemetery is going
down like a live thing to meet the wounded.” When
it was all over the French gathered up “a tremendous
collection of bones” in a white house above Morto
Bay, before they “proceeded to bury them again.”
Since then, as far as it was possible, the War Graves
Commission, with the aid of charts and identity disks
and regimental badges, has long concluded its work
of reburying British, Australian and Maoriland dead,
and “at the cost of a few million pounds the Galli-
poli peninsula has been put into a clean and tidy con-
dition.”
For the rest: “The trenches which they dug and
held to the death have crumbled into furrows,
covered with grass and flowers, or with crops more
fertile for so deep a ploughing. The graves are
obliterated, and the scattered bones that cost so much
in the breeding have returned to earth.” Another
later visitor there has put down his impression of
Gallipoli to-day: “Even those who return to the
Peninsula to keep an appointment with the dead
intrude upon its loneliness, its emptiness, its shatter-
ing silence.” Thus it strikes the visitor now—as a
graveyard and a place of fantasy, brooding over the
seas that lan Hamilton saw at the Landing being
whipped up all along the beach by a pelting storm of
rifle bullets.” . , . , .
In Australia, especially, and in Maoriland, Anzac
of course stands for something more than all this.
By one of the ironies of history and human choice,
a bitter military failure has become an enduring


popular tradition. This is not so inexplicable, either.
The old romantic conception of war as a glorious
and heroic enterprise carried well on into the Galli-
poli campaign, and even survived it, despite the asso-
ciations of disease and death. Until the long-drawn-
out continuance of the war, and the more beastly hor-
ribleness of the Somme, Passchendaele and elsewhere
had finally written good-bye to all that, the old mis-
taken ideas about war remained fixed and hard to
part with. It might well be doubted just now if those
ideas have been completely eradicated yet. This has
peculiar point in regard to the commemoration of
Anzac, which probably has so fully seized the public
imagination chiefly because it all happened in the pre-
disillusionment era—when there still seemed to be
something grand about men going off to die and,
yes, to rot—literally to rot—on distant battlefields,
for “politics” and “diplomacy.”
If there is one danger in the Anzac tradition it is
that of its being confused with the so-called glory
of war which is all vainglory. One thing about it is
worth, and well worth, commemorating: “The only
figures in the canvas of the campaign who never
failed were the men. Never in the whole history of
the campaign did they fail to go forward when the
order was given, although it must now be obvious
that on nine out of ten occasions that order meant
the most rudimentary form of self-destruction.” Also:
“If it is still possible to think of this story of unre-
lieved failure as ‘splendid,’ it is only because the men
redeem it.” A tradition of this sort, at this present
time, is of the very highest significance to both Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, open as they are, and with
their man-power untrained, and thus unready,
for their defence. Even so, they will put up heroic
esistance if it now should come to the test.
They did it once ; they would again do it, and more.
That they should be so left untrained and unready,
with the world situation what it is and has been,
must be one of the more bitter thoughts likely to
occur just now, to Anzacs especially.
MACANN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Odds Against War.
One unfortunate consequence of the carving up of
Czechoslovakia was that it reinvigorated the swarm
of scaremongers and prophets of evil and increased
their opportunities. Though prophets of evil continue
to be bowled out —witness Madame Tabouis and her
prediction of a German invasion of Poland and Hol-
land on April 15 —they are still employed, and scare-
mongers have redoubled their efforts. They exist in
all countries, run in all shapes and employ all the
resources which science and invention place at their
disposal.
One day it is announced that “there have been
vast concentrations of German troops along the
whole length of the Polish frontier” ; the next that
“four classes of conscripts are being called up in Bel-
gium.” Bari and Brindisi are reported black with
Fascist armies about to do something malevolent
in the Balkans. To the astonishment 6f the Admir-
alty “strong British and French naval squadrons”
arrive in Greek waters and British naval units land
on Corfu. Simultaneously Soviet warships set out
for Vladivostok and/or Greece, and hordes of Franco-
ists, with German and Italian auxiliaries, gather men-
acingly about Gibraltar and mass for an attack on
Tangier.
All these tales and others like them are officially
denied, and last week some of the most fantastic were
dismissed by B.B.C.—itself denounced in Britain as
alarmist —and by the British Foreign Secretary ; but
their inventors and embellishers go on. They are
nearly always prefixed with “It is said,” “It is be-
lieved,” “It is reliably reported” or “reliably stated,”
“It has been ascertained from a high authority’,’ or
“on unimpeachable evidence.” To the journalist who
learned his trade when facts were all-in-all, that sig-
nifies guessing or plain or fancy lying.
This barrage of misinformation in cold type
is repeated over the air by national stations, plus the
blood-chilling comments of Mr. Kurt Offenburg, who
sees Hitler at the gates of Delhi, and of “The Watch-
man,” who frightens the wits out of women and chil-
dren. “The Watchman” was in Parliament for six
years, and was not there accepted as an authority on
any political subject, but A.B.C. presents him as hav-
ing foreign affairs at his fingers’ ends and as knowing
perfectly what is in the dictators’ devilish minds.
Australian public men ■ might reasonably be ex-
pected to do something to counteract this campaign,
as British public men are doing ; but some of them
have the jitters themselves. Mr. Stevens’s utterances
are gloomy in the extreme, and almost every day his
Government comes to light with some agitated pro-
posal for a war book, a. register, strategic roads,
strategic railways and national emergency services,
which are not its job at all. Mr. Ogilvie has dis-
covered that there were “43 warships,” presumably
Japanese, off New Guinea in September—this when
the Japanese were fully occupied in China and had
—as they always will have —a very critical U.S.A. on
one flank and an unfriendly U.S.S.R. on the other.
The Ogilvie blah synchronised with the news
from Tokio that “the new Consul-General, Mr.
Akiyama,” was leaving for Sydney on April 21, and
would “open negotiations for a renewal of the Aus-
tralian-Japanese trade pact.” At the top of the
column in which that appeared there was a remark
of Dr. Page, speaking as Prime Minister in the House
of Representatives: “Everyone .realises that we are
perhaps on the threshold of war.” In another part of
the paper there was a reference to the programme for
the King and Queen, who are going to North America
on May 6 and will be in New York for five days,
June 7-11.
The Bulletin has never gone in for scaremonger-
ing and is not going to start now. It does not reject
the possibility of a war in which Australia and Maori-
land would be involved, and that possibility will
increase if Britain enters into an alliance with the
U.S.S.R. —that gimcrack Power which has never had a
warship or even a merchantman in Port Jackson or
Port Phillip Bay—but the odds are decidedly against
such a war breaking out. Reasons were presented in
“What’s the Dictators’ Game?” (B. 19/4/’39). One
was elaborated by Mussolini himself in a speech to the
committee entrusted with the preparations for Italy’s
1942 Exhibition —“If we wished to light the fuse and
plan threats and aggressions we would not dedicate
ourselves to the gigantic work of organising this
exhibition, the buildings of which will have the pro-
portions of St. Peter’s and of the Coliseum.” He was
ranting as usual —rant is expected of dictators —but
he was also in his way conveying a great truth ; the
Axis could not make war on the grand scale without
suffering prodigious losses.
Some Advantages.
Here and there, at any rate, there are advantages in
Australia in not being Australian.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” had an article with the
heading—across two columns —“Brothers in Buda-
pest Seek Jobs Here —Will Undertake Anything.”
Exactly what special consideration anybody from
Budapest is entitled to it is hard to say. Mr. Hitler
is not operating there, nor is Mr. Mussolini. Buda-
pest is a very pleasant Hungarian city about the size
of Melbourne ; and the address the young men give
doesn’t suggest that they are on the breadline. But
their appeal to an employment agency to find them
work as “waiters, simple workmen, motor-mounters,
domestics or in a warehouse or a shop” is quoted to
the extent of 12in.'of type.
The editor was glad to learn that the head of the
agency proposed to “explore every avenue to try to
place the brothers in jobs.” *
In the Government’s “Economic News” a couple
of lines of small type explain that there are 10,270
unemployed in Queensland, including 1210 on part-
time relief work. No doubt, some of them are motor-
ists as “fully qualified” as the two Hungarians, and
many of them ipust have families. Certainly, there is
none among them who would not appreciate the in-
terest of an employment agency willing to “explore
every avenue” to get them jobs, and of a metropoli-
tan newspaper willing to give them a few pounds’
worth of free advertising. Being only poor Austra-
lians, they won’t get .it.
Of a piece with this romantic interest in Hun-
garians is the attitude of the Spanish Relief Com-
mittee and the N.S.W. Council for Relief of Spanish
Distress which backed the wrong horse in Spain.
These concerns have had the face to ask the Com-
monwealth Government to admit refugees from Spain,
number and brand of politics unspecified, under-
taking to place the “adults” in “suitable occupations.”
Laws against sweating, slave-driving and keeping
shops open till all hours are observed by Australians
in the Australian spirit. They are persistently
broken by foreigners, but Governments don’t seem
to care.
Five Hundred a Year.
Those whose business or pleasure it is to read
Budget papers—there is small pleasure in it for tax-
payers—could scarcely have overlooked an item on
the N.S.W. Estimates, 1938-39, under “Other Pen-
sions and Allowances.”
Mr. A. B. Piddington, K.C., formerly President
Industrial Commission —Pension, £3OO.
And if they looked through the Commonwealth Esti-
mates, 1938-39, they must have, struck this:
1938/39 1937/38
» t> , Vote Expenditure
A. B. Piddington, | r ?nn f ,,-
Annual Allowance /
No doubt these students of Budget papers read
“S. M. Herald” law reports and followed the
Supreme Court case of A. B. Piddington v. Bennett
and Wood, in which plaintiff claimed £15,000 as
damages for injuries received in a motor-cycle acci-
dent, charging negligence. Such of them as remem-
bered the Piddington items must have been consider-
ably astonished at portion of the plaintiff’s evidence,
as recorded in the third person by the “Herald”:
Between 1910 and 1912 he had commissions to
inquire into labor shortage and female labor, and also
had a commission of inquiry into arbitration. For
seven years, until 1921, he was President of the Inter-
State Commission. In 1926 he was appointed to the
Industrial Commission of New South Wales, and had
remained there till 1932. Thereafter, until he was injured,
he practised in all jurisdictions except divorce.
Earned £2OOO a Year.
He had been earning £2OOO a year at the Bar, and his
earnings had been increasing.
At a later stage of the case, according to the
“Herald”:
Counsel for Mr. A. B. Piddington, K.C., tendered
a letter from the Taxation Department stating that Mr.
Piddington had returned the following amounts as gross
income for taxation purposes: 1935 (part only), £508;
1936, £1115; 1937, £1381; and 1938, £1226.
The taxation year closes on June 30. The,accident
took place in April, 1938. So, during a twelvemonth
in which Mr. Piddington’s gross income was returned
at upwards of £2O a week, £l6 was expended by
the Commonwealth Government for Mr. Piddington’s
benefit, though the record says there was no vote.
And, between them, the Commonwealth and N.S.W.
Governments blithely arranged to allow £5OO a year
to this former holder of well-paid Government
appointments and subsequent barrister with a lucra-
tive practice, dating it from July 1, 1938. The N.S.W.
£3OO is just £5 less than the amounts distributed
among two widows of Cabinet Ministers (one of
whom had 36 years’ service in Parliament and
Cabinet) and four grandchildren of a bygone Premier.
Mr. Piddington lost his case.
Australian Aerodromes.
It has been announced that before 40-passenger
Douglas machines can be placed on Australian routes
landing grounds will have to be enlarged. Some of
them couldn’t be enlarged without pulling down a
suburb or a radio tower or filling in a bit of the
ocean.
Sydney’s Rose Bay flying-boat base has been out-
stripped by needs before its founders have succeeded
in completing a hangar.
At Mascot, Sydney, a ’plane with 17 passengers
aboard was being towed out to take off when one
of its giant wheels crashed through the concrete
covering over a drain. Passengers were thrown from
their seats. It took three hours to release the wheel.
Naturally, an inquiry will be held —an inquiry
always is.
At Canberra, on the previous day, the aerodrome
—a paddock, virgin as to hoes and mowers, and with
no efficient gravel or tarmac runway—was “several
inches under water after a heavy storm” when the
Melbourne-Sydney air-mail put in. The then Prime
Minister and six members of Cabinet were aboard.
When the machine tried to take off it sank in
the mud —mark that the ground is in daily use by
mail machines. The aerodrome staff spent a busy
half-hour retrieving it and guiding it back to the con-
crete apron round the office, along an improvised
track of bags and planks. Mr. Thorby, then Minister
of Civil Aviation, was among the rescuers. He took
a shovel and turned navvy for the time. Hitherto
Civil Aviation Ministers have, as Ministers, been
capital navvies.
For Diggers Only.
“Auld Snootie’s Batman”: The scene is Manchuria ;
the day, July 28, 1938. The bugle sounds, and Red
Army men are assembled by an officer and “given a
detailed account of the sortie of the Japanese who
dared to violate the frontiers of the Soviet Union.”
Indignation was universal, and then and there
fighters and commanders applied for membership in
the Young Communist League or the Communist Party.
“If I perish let it be known that I died for the
cause of the Revolution, a Communist,” a Comrade
cried.
Artillery, ’planes and tanks prepared the way
for a decisive attack. “Long-range guns shelled accu-
rately ; pursuit ’planes rained a hurricane of machine-
gun fire ; heavy bombing ’planes hit the mark with
their deadly cargo, tanks crashed through barbed-
wire entanglements, their guns firing point-blank at
the Japanese.”
Private Boris A. Agapov—it sounds like the
Greek word for “love” —was “summoned to the chief-
of-staff, who was in the front trenches.”
“Boris A. Agapov,” the c.-0.-s. said, “take this
message back to the commander of the unit
400 metres behind us.”
The only shelters on the way “were ditches and
trenches 40 or 50 yards apart.” Boris A. Agapov was
“an easy target for the Japanese.” Dashing to the
nearest ditch he dropped in. “Bullets whizzed over
the hole. None fell into it.”
“Under heavy fire he reached his destination.”
The unit commander handed him a reply. “The suc-
cess of the operation,” said the gallant officer,
“depends on you. This message is strictly secret and
cannot be transmitted by telephone.” -
On the return journey bullets sent up whirls of
dust round Boris A. Agapov. Snipers were trying to
get him. A shell exploded near him. He lost con-
sciousness for a moment, but on coming to “at once
felt for his dispatch case.” Four yards from home,
with the Lake Hassan 440-yard unpaced record
almost in his pocket, Boris A. Agapov discovered
that the enemy was “concentrating so deadly
a machine-gun fire at this point that there was little
chance of breaking through.”
He dropped to the ground. He heard the whistle
of machine-gun bullets. “With one long leap he
landed in the trench,” beating the bullets by a whisker.
“Comrade Agapov,” said the chief-of-staff as
he “warmly wrung his hand,” “are you all right? Is
there anything you want?” “Water,” gasped the
fighter.
Now, Boris A. Agapov is back at Kolomna, his
home town. They have made him a ‘(candidate” —in
other Words, promoted him to be a member of the
governing class, the Communist party. He has “the
Order of the Red Star on his breast.” He reads
Stanislavsky’s book My Life and Art and the Shak-
spearean tragedies, also Bernard Shaw and the Rus-
sian dramatists, whose work he helped to stage in
the Red Army club. He has “developed into an
excellent regisseur.”
And “residents of Kolomna are now awaiting
the premiere of a play to be staged by the local
dramatic troupe under the guidance of Boris A.
Agapov, Hassan Hero, Red Fighter.”
Fairy tale? No ; official history, translated for
the benefit of borjoice, festering capitalists and
ravenous imperialists who speak English.
Nothing like the epic of Boris A. Agapov hap-
pened in France or Flanders when Bill and Jim were
there.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Zedo”: Australian National Travel
Association is being original again. It
has produced a poster showing a beauti-
ful girl with a slender waist and a bright
smile coming briskly up a beach in an
attitude to display all her charms. They’ll
fairly rush that over in Atlantic City,
where they haven’t seen a girl in a bath-
ing suit for the last decade. At least, not
what the A.N.T.A. would call a bathing
suit.
JF * * *
“Ente Marid”: The lad who pulled
his motor-car over a 30ft. embankment
and fractured his jaw when a rat ran
up his leg was lucky to get off so lightly.
One of the worst accidents I ever saw
was caused by a tram ticket blowing
across the eyes of a fast-moving driver.
He hurriedly put his face down to shake
off the nuisance and swerved into a shop.
Result: Four funerals and a fire which
did hundreds of pounds’ worth of
damage.
$ * * *
“El Verdugo”: A word which Archie
Cameron, M.H.R. for Barker, wishes he
had never heard has just had some expen-
sive advertising among 3,500,000 Yankees
who read the “Saturday Evening Post.”
“That clean skin in Australia,” asks ?,
.U.S.A. dental firm, “is it the skin you
love to touch?” It explains that it isn’t.
“Clear skins or clean skins in Australia.
are unbranded cattle approximate
American equivalent is maverick.” Mr.
Cameron achieved the distinction of being
the first Minister to be suspended from
the service of the House after he had re-
marked that there was a “clean skin” on
the Opposition benches. It was a happy
choice of phrase. “Maverick” would
probably have earned him a week in the
pillory.
* * * *
“Snotty’s Mate”: Every time I look at
our cruisers lying at Garden Island I say
a short thanksgiving that they are such
cheap weapons. You can run one of
the big ones for round £BOO,OOO a year
when she is in the full flower of health
and activity. And from the Australia
and the Canberra a full broadside can
be fired with the Bin. armament —the total
weighs 24081 b a mere four hundred
quid. Now, if we had been goats enough
to go in for a battleship with 16in. guns
like Britain’s Nelson and Rodney, the
cost of letting off three guns in one of
the triple turrets would be about £750.
All the same, a triple turret of sixteen-
inchers is a moral to kill any sparrow it
hits. The shell weighs 24611 b., and the
effective range is 35,000yds.—Sydney
Heads to Parramatta.
* * * *
“Zeter and Mordio”: Covering our
faces with our handkerchiefs so as not
to feel shy in the presence of so much
human convexity, my friend Billo and I
attended the Sydney meeting at which a
large number of refugee patriots affirmed
their desire to fight for their new King
and countrymen against their old dictators
and countrymen. “Like to have a few of
them in your section?” I asked Billo,
who used to be a sergeant before the
Q.M. caught him leaving Amiens or
somewhere with a dozen of champagne
and two guinea-fowls packed into the
knotted-up legs of the Brig.’s best slacks.
“Yairs,” said Billo. “Me great trouble
in this war I used to be in was carryin’
me pillow. If I had one of them he’d
walk. And look,” he added, “what a
thin cove like me could hide in the shirt
of that big bloke over there if I had it
on.”
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The establishment
on the Union liner Awatea of a fully-
equipped weather bureau and research
station, in charge of a trained meteorolo-
gist from the Commonwealth Bureau,
represents an outstanding advance of first-
rate importance to air navigation. It is
the first of its kind to be carried on a
merchant ship, although basic meteoro-
logical data are regularly collected and
transmitted from many vessels. The
Awatea’s weekly round trip, Sydney-
M.L., gives a maximum of observing time
“Why doncher stay down where you belong ?”
on the Tasman Sea, and her high speed
will enable local disturbed areas to be
mapped accurately from direct obser-
vation. The data will be wirelessed to
Sydney and Auckland for collation with
other observations as a basis of daily
forecasts of weather over the Tasman
Sea. In the next few years the records
of the Awatea station will constitute a
textbook of meteorological study.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The silliest practical joke
on record occurred when a leading citi-
zen of Kiewa (Vic.) turned a switch to
inaugurate the township’s brand-new elec-
tric light supply. Nothing happened.
Somebody had short-circuited the outfit
by throwing a piece of wire attached to
two bricks over the high-tension cables,
voltage of which is 22,000.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: An Albanian who left
his native country a few weeks before
Mussolini’s cohorts brought war into it
got a job as gardener to a doctor in a
Vic. township. One day the doctor’s
lady asked him how he liked Australia.
“I love the country,” he cried in broken
English with a voice charged with emo-
tion. “I love it!” “What do you like
about it?” asked the lady. “Is the
climate better than Albania?” “No,
worse,” said the Albanian. “Do you
like the people better?” she persisted.
“No, worse,” he repeated. “Then what
do you like about us?” “If I walk down
the street, madam,” said the gardener
with feeling, “I don’t get filled with
bullets and I don’t get strangled.”
“T.”: I know now why Zog lost his
kingdom. He recruited an Amazon
brigade. I saw their pictures in the paper
—flapper, of course just as in other
days I saw pictures of Chinese Amazons,
Spanish Amazons and Abyssinian
Amazons, all showing large portions of
leg and trying to look terrible and some
certainly succeeded. At the moment
young Australian women are joining
quasi-military organisations at a great
rate ; and presently, no doubt, they will
be breaking out in all manner of uni-
form. For a lot of those I have seen
it seems to be a glorious lark. But I
don’t think Our Girls will form Amazon
brigades—l hope not, anyway, for Aus-
tralia’s sake. A country that goes in
for Amazons is a country doomed.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Adelaide Hospital is hous-
ing a case of Lost memory—a middle-
aged man who, after he had been there
a week, remembered that he was William
Powell, of Mosman (N.S.W.). He still
cannot recall the past, though he carries
a patch of receipts tor rent ot a barber s
shop, the latest of them six months old.
* ic *
,, . „ A • .. j-
Qwert Yuiop : A prominently-dis-
played ad., captioned New C.R.G. World
Centre Line, and depicting 11 books in
a contraption described as the Two Blue
Screw Chrome Book Press, has intrigued
Brisbane. It is “guaranteed to hold any-
thirnr safplv and keen Red Black or
ming sately ana Keep Ke ,
Green insects from getting between the
leaves.” The book-titles range from the
Bible, Mein Kampf, Das Kapital and
Yellow Peril to Psychology and Black
Arts. An accompanying statement runs.
il The Frigid Blue Void, where little else
but Beauty and Justice dwell, and where
intuitions come from that control per-
manently power-mad men who kill
women, children and dogs. Screws turn
nnlv to the Right T eft Screws can-
only .o me Klgnt. screws
not be supplied. Price (at a suburban
address, given in full), 88s. per pair, 445.
each. Opinions are divided as to whethei
i< is a preliminary to a new brand o£
whisky or an idea of Mr. W. M. Hughes
for Stimulating recruiting.
* * * *
, .
“C. 8.”: There are likely to be mdlg-
nant comments in Melbourne about an
awkward fact which came out at one of
Lotte Lehmann’s Town Hall recitals. No
souvenir programmes were available, and
single sheets, obviously hastily printed,
were distributed gratis. It leaked out
that a washaway on the inter-State rail-
way was responsible, the supplies having
been held up on their way from Sydney,
This was the first intimation anybody
outside the A.B.C. had that Melbourne’s
programmes are printed in Sydney, and
there are certain to be some loud “Whaf-
fors” from fervent upholders of State
rights. But the worst aspect of the thing
was that the people who ascertain from
the printed annotations what they ought
to feel about the music were frustrated,
and embarrassment hung over their con-
versations in the foyer,
* * * *
“Shorus”: The windows on the
northern end of our block of flats get a
plentiful supply of sun ; so all the flat-
hes on g 0 j n f or orn ate window-
gardens. One resident was clearing up
her breakfast things the other morning
w hen she heard a distant crash, and dis-
covered that her pet begonia had toppled,
p an q j n t 0 s q e et. She was won-
dering whether it was worth while to
salvage the remains when there was a
r i n g q,e bell. In the doorway stood
a s tout citizen, red with indignation, hold-
jn g a mass 0 f earth and greenish pulp in
a piece of newspaper. Over the lady’s
astonished head he hurled the mass into
tbe living-room, where it bespattered
her best rug. “That, madam,” said
the visitor tensely, “is all that’s left of
your plant. I’m sorry I can’t return the
po t—it smashed itself on my skull.”
* * * *
Tribute t 0 a patriarch; _
In Canberra last week it fell to Curtir y s
i ot to sa y a j ew kindly words about the pass-
ing of the only politician he ever feared, albeit
he thought no end of the man—William Watson,
of Fremantle. Standing, for no party, Watson
t w j ce bea t Curtin for the Fremantle seat,
though, as Curtin used to say with philoso-
phic resignation, no one else could. If Watson
™ P “
rather talkative old butter merchant with a
superannuated goatee.” But he had no enemy,
being as generous a soul as ever helped fellow-
Creatures in distress, and all Fremantle knew
it Bmce admired him greatly, finding Lin-
colnian characteristics .in him.
Watson had a son, as lovable as himself,
coupon* 1 the^oldlst
member of his p i at oon half-dead with cold.
j t was a one-time Bulletin poet, Tom “Cross-
cut” Wilson, who, though he had pitched a
e J s uac a veteran 0 of the very first
(1S85) Australian contingent. Lieutenant
Watson had on a pair of fur-lined gloves
which his father had sent hint; he took them
off and drew them on Wllson > s shivering hands.
when wilson> invalided out of the army,
j earned Q f his death, he made the incident
the text of as moving a bit of prose as Digger
"^5 “Tp'akrf GIovS”. S “£oS
afterwards j. me t Watson for the first time, and
asked him whether he had ever read it. Very
softly and slowly the old man said that he
had, and that it was a lasting regret that cir-
cumstances had prevented him from acknow-
ledging his debt to the writer until poor Wilson
was beyond his he p.
* „ *
“Oxmead’ :
“Mr. Menzies’s Election”—“Mr. Men-
zies’s Career.”- Headlines from a recent
lssue °f le ; ' ' ~ „
I don’t know if Menziess P „
sessive is more correct than Menaes
but the three sibilants make it a sing
larly uneuphomous word. Perhaps som
better-informed person than myself wifi
dig up a ruling from Fowler or Webster
to settle the point.
A NEW SUDORIFIC.
“After a two-hour recital at the Albert Hall,
Yehudi Menuhin, the violinist, was 2 A lb. lighter than
when he began.” —London cable.
You jocks., with a problem besetting
And troubling you early and late
In re the best method of getting
A bit off your bodily weight,
Here’s something will leave you more perky
And fitter —paste this in your caps!
Than baths that we’ve borrowed from Turkey
Or tramps ’neath a mountain of wraps.
A pleasanter recipe—give it a spin!
Is a couple of hours with a gay violin.
You pugs, whom the imminence frightens
Of leaving the class where you are
Acclaimed as the best of the light ’uns
With bulkier bruisers to spar,
Bethink that you still may be winners
In grades where you’re sure of the dough,
Without cutting down on your dinners,
If you only give music a show.
Still, you, I suggest, being hardier fellows
Might get better value from violoncellos.
You girls, ever preening and sprucing,
Delectable damsels and dames,
Intent all alike on reducing
The avoirdupois of your frames,
Here’s a way should be welcome to women
Addicted to chops and to chocs.
To linger, seductive and slim, in
The latest of frillies and frocks:
For checking or curbing a spread in the middle
There’s naught like a couple of hours with a
fiddle.
There’s nothing like music for smoothing
The creases from foreheads distressed,
Or setting a spell that is soothing
On the veriest savage’s breast.
There’s a charm in its skilful rendition
That none may ignore or repel,
And, it seems, for the toiling musician
There’s a sure sudorific as well.
But if fiddlers perspire so abundantly—Cripes!
I wonder what pipers sweat off with their
pipes J
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Better grill him while he's fresh."
“Jack High”: In the wee sma’ hours
came a call to a Sydney suburban medico,
preceded by cautious inquiries concern-
ing the fee. The case, it appeared, was
15 miles out of town. No other doctor
was available. When, with the young
man who had rung the night bell, he
arrived at his destination the medico’s
companion handed him the agreed-on
30 shillings. “There’s no patient,” it
was explained ; “I’ve been to a party in
town and your car was the only thing on
wheels that would do the trip under
45 bob.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : The quaintest risk that has
been sought in Melbourne insurance his-
{Qj-y Is a cover for the Uni. students
revue “Getting the Bird,” which is' to
stagger the community at the King’s on
May" 16. Main point of the opus is a
satire on Mussolini, Chamberlain and
Hitler, and the promoters want to be
insured against the fall from office of
those eminent statesmen in the interval.
No Melbourne house being prepared to
look at it the Sydney houses are to be
tried.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Whether Henry Clarence
Kendall was born in 1839 or 1841 is
doubtful. The poet himself inclined to
the latter date, and the Oxford Book of
Victorian Verse concurs. Sydney “Sun”
remarks that “in either case you may
take off your hat to him,” a sentiment
with which nobody will quarrel. It seems
a pity that it should go on to demonstrate
an imperfect acquaintance with the sub-
ject of its eulogy by attributing to Ken-
dall the authorship of “that famous
Federation prophecy” containing the
lines:
Where footfalls of appointed things,
Reverberant of things to be,
Are heard in forecast echoings.
The quotation, of course, is from The
Dominion of Australia, by Brunton
Stephens.
* * * *
“Miro”: An elderly Maoriland lady
had a queer experience on a visit
to Sydney. She was staying near Cen-
tennial Park, and on a warm morning
strolled with a woman friend, an en-
thusiastic photographer, along the paik s
byways. Feeling very tired and hot, she
left the friend to wander on and snap
beauty spots while she rested against a
shady tree, pulled her hat well down over
her eyes and fell asleep. When she
awoke some time later she was not
exactly alone. By her side stood a
large unopened bottle of beer. She was
gazing in astonishment at it when her
friend arrived in some haste. “For
goodness’ sake,” she explained breath-
lessly, “get up at once and let’s go. All
the people going past have been staring
at you and laughing. Two cars slowed
down to have a better view. You look
just like some old drunk getting over a
spree with that awful bottle parked be-
side you with the label outwards, and
you asleep.” And after some reflection
the subject of the commotion decided
that’s just what the kindly, understand-
ing unknown donor of the beer thought
she was.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The wildest mystery
that has ever bewildered the Vic. rail-
way authorities occurred recently. A
train arrived at a station near Melbourne
with a bicycle festooned around the cow-
catcher. No trace of the rider was dis-
covered and nobody reported the loss
of the vehicle.
* * * #
“Hawkshaw”: Sydney’s Licensing Re-
duction Board has had something timely
to say on a subject that possibly isn’t
exactly its business, but which calls for
sharp comment anyhow
—-“night clubs.” Prin-
cipal cause of these in-
stitutions, of course, is
a cockeyed licensing law
that shuts the pubs dur-
ing those hours when
they are likely to be most
in demand and opens
them while the city is at
work. There are “clubs”
that are just open sly-
grog shops. The L.R.B.’s
report says some of them
are controlled by people
with criminal records,
and that they are fre-
quented by “the dregs of
the city.” As to the
character of the patrons,
the frequency with which
these resorts figure in
police reports of assaults
and worse is pretty
fair testimony that a lot
of the people who go
there have their roots in
what our yellowest news-
papers love to call “the
underworld.” These
places, being unlicensed,
can’t be disciplined like
ordinary pubs by threats
of license endorsement,
and, they’ve developed a
technique (part of which is the prompt
sacking of convicted waiters) which
avoids heavy penalties for sly-grogging.
Commonsense remedy is to grant 6 p.m.
to midnight licenses to
respectable restaurants,
but that would outrage
the wowser minority
who have made the
liquor-licensing business
a sour joke.
* #
“M.H.”: Forty years
ago, when The Bulle-
tin shifted its type,
machines and parapher-
nalia from Pitt-street to
Lower George - street,
the view from the front
windows was chiefly
Chinese shops. Harbor
Trust Commissioners
skittled the frowsier of
the Asiatic dens by
erecting brick shops,
and higher rents shifted
most of the foreigners
to Campbell-street, but
two or three better-
class Chinese and Japa-
nese firms lingered on.
The other day the last
of these disappeared.
George - street North
without its brawls and
whiffs of opium, roast
duck, etc., was never
the same to old-timers
and journalists after the
demolition, and now it
will be even less delect-
able.
* *
“Tovarish”: Noticed
the comrade from
whom I buy my weekly
thruppence worth of
brotherhood indulging
in some high-pressure
salesmanship. Object of
sale proved to be a gaudy children’s
pamphlet, brilliantly illustrated —“Nur-
sery Rhymes About the Children in
Spain, by Agnes Barto, Drawings by M.
Rodionov, translated from the Russian
by Padraic Breslin, printed in U.S.S.R.
by Mezhdunarodnaja Niga, Moscow,
Seventh Govt. Printery.” My friend
apparently expected a big sale for them,
too, judging by the pile on the counter:
In the morning, if the fascists
Fly in ’planes and bomb the town,
Dad will give the foes a thrashing,
Dad will fire and bring them down.
Also:
We’re for peace and we’re for freedom
Victory for us is certain.
We Young Pioneers avenge
Comrades fallen in the fight.
At the same time, I am sure that Miss
Barto’s effort will be pushed off the Rus-
sian market —at least in the special
schools which they have established over
there to “guard against a fascist out-
look” in the segregated orphans of the
“liquidated”—when I issue my special
anti-Fascist version of C. J. Dennis’s
priceless “Here Comes the Butcher”:
Flipperty-flop, flipperty-flop,
The Ogpu are blowing off grandfather’s top.
Shuffling, shuffling down the cold corridor;
Each thrilling moment the tension grows
horrider.
Crack! They’ve blown grandpa all over the
shop—
Flipperty-flop, flipperty-FLOP!
Illustrations will be by Young Pioneer
Frith, of the Kurraba Konsomol.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Spare the rod and
spoil the child” is an ancient aphorism
which attracts frowns from the modern
child-psychologist, although it is popu-
larly supposed to emanate direct from
Holy Writ. Solomon is generally credited
with saying it, and it is the sort of thing
to be expected from a family man of
his experience. But it doesn’t, and he
didn’t. The nearest approach to it in
the Scriptures is Proverbs xiii, 24: “He
that spareth his rod hateth his son: But
he that loveth him chasteneth him be-
times.” From the kid’s point of view it
comes to much the same thing, but after he
grows up it’s sound stuff to win a bet with.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Look at any fairly large-
scale world map and you will realise what
a funny lot of faces this earth presents
each 24 hours to the sun’s derisive eye.
Australia’s isn’t the least like the tradi-
tional north-looking profile, but a grim,
battered dial, the eye at Brisbane, flat-
tened nose above the mouth at Sydney,
and a solid rounded chin and jaw over
Bass Strait. From above, the incredibly
old bearded face of Eastern Asia, the
eye appropriately at Peiping, bends
threateningly down from behind. Africa,
an eye at Mombasa, mouth at
Marques, is the profile of a surly old
negro. South America is the head of an
old, wise Spanish-Indian with a goatee
bearcj ending at Cape Horn. The United
States shows as a shrieking old hag, with
the Gulf of Mexico wide open beneath
the long, inquisitive nose formed by the
Florida peninsula and Yucatan as the
wobbling chin. Canada makes for her
an untidy, draggled bonnet.
* * * ' #
“Uramao”: Justifying his policy of
spending money prodigiously on making
good roads in Maoriland, Bob Semple,
Minister of Public Works, claimed re-
cently that M.L. is now the second most
highly-motorised country in the world,
there being enough motor vehicles in
the Dominion to transport at one time
every man, woman and child in the
country. Semple has done his bit to
swell the motor-census. Ever since he’s
been P.W. Minister he’s been indefati-
gable in importing motor bull-dozers,
tree-dozers, trench-diggers and other
mechanised appliances for toying with
the bowels of the earth.
* * * *
“Pat Macginty”: The best axeman I
ever knew in the distressful country was
Arthur MacMonough Kavanagh, one of
the gentry, descended from the kings of
Leinster, and he had neither hands nor
feet. His arms stopped short at elbow
level, and his leg stumps went no further
than any ordinary one’s knees. That’s
the way his mother (Lady Henrietta
Kavanagh) brought him into the world,
but she gave him a stout heart as com-
pensation. He used to ride too, straight
as a die, over any country, strapped on
a special saddle; and he could shoot
with an artfully-contrived gun. When
felling trees he used to squat right close
to the butt (much nearer than any
ordinary man could get), and his axe
had a looped sort of handle in which
he placed his right arm stump, and with
his left directed the fall and rise of
the axe. He’d cut a “plate” as level as
a billiard table, and no man in Co. Car-
low was the better of him with an axe.
“You all right there? I can smell somethin' burnin' !"
SHAKSPEARE UP TO DATE.
“There is a cuckoo trying to climb into the Laboi
Party nest.”— Mr. Lang at Waverley.
When Beasleys bleat and Baddeleys moo
And other loyal comrades blight
With curses anybody who
Dares to deny that “Lang is right,”
The cuckoo then, with careless glee,
Mocks Inner Groups; for thus sings he,
Cuckoo!
Cuckoo, cuckoo—a fearsome word,
Unpleasing to a sitting bird!
When Labor heads with iron jaws
And leather lungs pull up their socks
To roar devotion to the Cause
And pour contempt on weathercocks,
The cuckoo, then, gets in a free
Kick, so to speak; for thus sings he,
Cuckoo!
Cuckoo, cuckoo! —unpleasant word
That jars upon a sitting bird!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


. vX-v
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
CRAVENA
IjouU appteciaU tkefo
• 0
jy, ««•« M*f.'
A
E 1869
> E S PECIALLY
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
When Menzies accepted a commission
to form a Government he was not sure
that he had a party majority in either
House. Early Prime Ministers were in
a worse position ; they were sure they
hadn’t. It did not prevent the Barton
(1901-1903) and Deakin (1905-1908) Min-
istries from doing excellent work, nor
the Reid-McLean (1904-1905) and Fisher
(1908-09) Administrations from filling
the gaps.
Going to Parliament House before he
was named U.A.P. leader, Menzies came
down heavily on concrete and suffered
damage to an elbow. Didn’t a Roman
Consul slip on the steps of the Capitol
after his election and, brushing the dust
off his toga, pronounce it a good omen?
Possibly Bob will seek an interpretation
from one of the astrologers now infesting
“It's Cyppo for sling y'r ’ ook , an' it goes f'r all of youse .”
Australia, thanks chiefly to the Stunt
Press; but, being a man who doesn’t
suffer fools or frauds gladly, probably
he won’t.
Advice to a party with a blotted Page
—cut it out.
The campaign for Bruce as P.M. was
sudden in its inception and its finish.
U.A.P. bosses, as well as Page, favored
it; the collapse came when Page an-
nounced Bruce’s terms. Introduced with
the words “I am prepared to return and
help if the people want me and elect
me, and I am prepared to form a Gov-
ernment,” they were, in effect, that (1)
he must be invited by both Ministerial
parties and be elected leader by both ;
(2) he wouldn’t be bound to support
either ; (3) he wouldn’t give either any
definite proportion of portfolios ; (4) he
must be free to include Labor members
and call the combination a National
Government. It would have been better
to say straight out that he wouldn’t come
back.
Labor expects to win the Wilmot
(Tas.) seat, and perhaps it will. But
actually only Lyons has won it for Labor
—in 1929 ; previously Atkinson had been
the member for 22 years, 1906-1928. In
1937 Lyons’s majority over two Labor
candidates was 1470 in a poll of 23,260.
The votes he got as U.A.P. differed little
—12,622 in 1931, 12,924 in ’34 and
12,365 in ’37, but there were 2553 more
electors in ’37 than in ’3l.
Parliament is to be asked to vote a
thousand a year to Mrs. Lyons and her
11 children —£500 for the widow for life,
and the rest until the youngest child, a
girl, is 21. She is now six and nine of
her brothers (four) and sisters are minors.
It seems a fair arrangement. Certainly
the nation will not begrudge the money,
nor will it cease to take an interest in
the family of a P.M. who served it so
conscientiously for seven years.
C. E. Martin, the Heffron Labor man,
is in for Waverley. With 1000 or so
postal and “section” votes to be counted,
his score was 6086, that of Mrs. Waddell,
widow of the U.A.P. member, being
6041. J. B. Ormonde, the Lang Labor
man, brought up the rear with 5295. All
things considered, Lang Labor did better
than in the Hurstville contest, but not
well enough to save Lang from trouble in
large quantities. It is expected that mem-
bers who were his meek followers for
longer periods than Heffron and Martin
will now discover, all of a sudden, that
they never had any use for him.
The Waverley by-election saw Stevens
and Lang reach airy heights of oratory:
Mr. Stevens said that the electors would
do well to return Mrs. Waddell, instead
of flirting with unknown quantities.”
“Flirting with unknown quantities!” and
the candidate an attractive widow! It’s
almost as good as the Stevens apologia
for sacking a Minister —“Mr. Weaver has
enjoyed bad health for a long time.”
Lang’s achievement as phrase-maker was
“The cuckoo candidate in this election is
Martin ; he and his supporters want to
reap Labor’s harvest.” It recalls those
beautiful lines of the poet: “O cuckoo,
art thou yet a bird Or just a harvest
hand?”
The Italians claim to have Yugoslavia
in the bag ; and perhaps they have. But
Sydney “D.T.” is sure of Jacko —“Tur-
key’s decision to join the anti-aggression
pact with Britain may be announced
almost immediately.” In the same
column it mentioned that Turkey had
given a £2,250,000 naval-base contract to
Germany. Britain’s new friends are an
untrustworthy lot, and they set a tremen-
dous price on their uncertain favors. The
Old Man ought to give up trying to
police Europe and return to the Empire
—that Empire which has never let him
down.
“Unilateral,” a clumsy word in which
the Edens and their newspaper champions
delight, has been used appropriately at
last. The Rumanian Foreign Minister has
been seeing Von Ribbentrop in Berlin, and
the pair are certified to have arrived “in
a spirit of friendship” at “a far-reaching
similarity of views.” “S. M. Herald”
printed this German report, prefixing it
with an assurance that Rumania “strongly
approves of the unilateral character of
the British military guarantee, in return
for which she has given no guarantee of
her own,” and that the wandering
Rumanian gentleman “will seek economic
enforcement of the British guarantee in
London.” “Unilateral”? Our Dominion
oath. Britain’s “ally” will take everything
and give nothing.
Light Horsemen who chased the Turk
from Megiddo to Damascus must rub
their eyes when they read how Jacko is
courted to-day. Britain and France are
making him offers, the Germans are send-
ing Von Papen as ambassador to Ankara,
doubtless with counter-offers, and his
country was one of the 31 for which
Roosevelt demands Italo-German guar-
antees against invasion. If there is any
gratitude in Jacko’s composition he ought
to be grateful to the Americans. They
didn’t declare war on him when they were
fighting Germany and Austria-Hungary.
If war comes it will find Eire neutral.
At all events, De Valera has made a
speech in which, while supporting Roose-
velt, he mentioned “neutrality” as his
Government’s “policy,” though he added
that it “could be attained only through
strength.” “Most cowardly,” is Craig-
avon’s comment. "They can remain
neutral, but we know our duty and will
amply fulfil it.”
“S. M. Herald,” in the first paragraph
of its first Saturday leader:
In Europe powerful and deadly currents
are running as swiftly as ever, and with a
set that is still unmistakably in the direc-
tion of war.
And on the next page, “From Our Own
Correspondent”:
The fact that all preparations are pro-
ceeding normally for the departure of the
King and the Queen for Canada and the
United States on May 6 indicates the
Government’s confident belief that no
reason will arise for the cancellation of the
tour or for the replacement of H.M.S.
Repulse.
They will be away for about two months,
and if war broke out they mightn’t be
able to get back, without danger of being
bombed, mined or torpedoed, for two
years. Would the British Government —
any British Government —knowingly take
risks with their Majesties’ lives?
A discreditable chapter in the history
of the Stunt Press, British and Australian,
has closed discreditably. The Stunt Press
was full of admiration for the “British”
shipowners (they were largely Greek) who
carried on an immensely profitable trade
with Red Spain and full of indignation
when “H.M.S. Unriskables” were not
allowed to protect them on the high seas.
It would have meant war, but the Stunt
Press was willing to let the Royal Navy
and the Empire take all risks. Now,
blockade running having ceased with the
flight of the Reds —with as much gold as
they could pinch—three of the patriot
ships have been sold —to Germany!
“Isolation or collective security, has
become an important question in the
[Waverley] by-election.” Thus “S. M.
Herald,” which sees Hitler behind every
bush and Mussolini in every cupboard.
Obviously the electors considered it a
tedious repetition of the struggle between
Stevens and Lang, and passed an over-
whelming no-confidence vote in both.
According to a Sydney Sunday paper,
which had the result of the Waverley by-
election in another column, “Mr. Men-
zies’s best move would be to take the
Country party to the elections and fight
it in every seat.” If he did it would be
his last move. v
From Molongloside:
It is very late in the day for Earle Page to
refuse to associate with a politician because he
is not a returned soldier. When the doctor
was Bruce’s Treasurer (Feb. 9, 1923, to Oct.
22, 1929) he had to meet State Premiers at
least three or four times a year. There were
never any Diggers among them; in fact, Tom
Playford, who succeeded Butler in Adelaide five
months ago, and Victoria’s Dr. Argyle (1932-
35) are the only A.I.F. men who have ever
been Premiers. Neither were there any Diggers
in the Scullin team —19 altogether.
Page alleged that “when Australia was in the
midst of the Gallipoli campaign, Mr. Menzies
held an A.M.F. commission, resigned it, and
did not go overseas.” Menzies replied that he
completed his period of universal training, re-
signed nothing, and did not “join my two
brothers in the A.I.F. for family reasons which
were, and are, compelling.” In 1915 he was a
boy of 20. Thousands of youngsters had to
make the same decision or let fathers or elder
brothers make it for them. Hughes could
have told Page that the strong Digger votes
against his 1916 and 1917 referendums were
largely due to objections to the conscription of
young brothers with the possible extinction of
families and the blighting of the parents’ lives.
Hughes could have told him also that, under
a 1916 conscription regulation, Menzies would
have been exempted from service, being “one
of the remaining sons of a family of whose
sons one-half at least have enlisted.”
Incidentally, Lyons was a single man, aged
35, when the Gallipoli campaign was launched
(he married on April 28, 1915); but no one
ever thought of dragging that up against him.


HOW TO WIN THE NEXT WAR (IF ANY).
“Beer is to be banned in all German army messes and canteens.” — Cable item.


WJ
BETTER AND
BETTER
EVERY DAY!
The mirror reflects daily improvement
in your complexion when you regu-
larly take Yeaston Tablets of pure
live yeast . . . they give that clear
lovely skin that denotes health from
within. Sparkling eyes . . . cheeks
glowing with health and color . . .
glamour that's natural . . . with
Yeaston's system - cleansing power!
Chemists everywhere sell Yeaston
Tablets: 36 for 2/-; 100 for 4/6.
YEASTO N
INVEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you secure a spread for your
I money over 20 leading Companies known through-
out Australia. Vou also obtain a yield of over
5 % p.a., potential capital appreciation and trustee
safeguards through the Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers of the Trust.
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,000,000.
Arthur
Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
PERSNAL ITEMS
Leonard Arthur Robb, though he has
been official secretary to the Governor
of N. S. Wales since Harry Budge re-
tired in 1936, is better known as presi-
dent of the N.S.W.R.S.S.I.LA., a post
he has held for the last nine years. He’s
a Maorilander, born at Wanganui 47
years ago. Was well planted in Aus-
tralia when the Great War broke out,
and served in A.I.F. Signals from 1914
to 1919. He has represented the Diggers
L. A. ROBB.
at conferences in Toronto and London,
and was chosen to represent the British
Empire Service League at the American
Legion Convention in Detroit in 1931.
Is a motorist, plays tennis and enjoys
surfing.
On April 15 Premier Forgan Smith
celebrated his 52nd birthday at Mackay
(N.Q.) amongst friends who first sent
him to Parliament 24 years ago, and
some who first knew him there in 1911
as a young Scots painter-immigrant verra
much frae Glesga’, ye ken. Four years
later he beat Minister for Railways
Paget for the Mackay seat, and has
held it ever since. Within five years
he was Minister for Works, after a term
as Chairman of Committees ; and when
Labor went out in 1929 he was the
party’s choice for succession to “Big Bill”
McCormack —blamed by Caucus for the
defeat. After three lively years in
Opposition he became Premier in 1932.
He holds records for length of Labor
Premiership in the Empire and for con-
tinuous length of party leadership in
Queensland. By August he will beat
Sam Griffith’s record for aggregate years
of Premiership, although that was built
up in many short runs, some of them
penny sections only.
“Brakesman”: Subject to the Dunstan
Government’s approval, which it has,
Canberra proposes to make Clapp g.m.
of its military aircraft-production scheme
at £4OOO p.a. Clapp has been Victoria’s
most-admired and most-abused public
servant ever since he took over the
chairmanship of the railways 18 years
ago. Born in Melbourne 64 years ago,
he had for father an unusual man,
an American who came to Mel-
bourne to start its cable trams. Clapp,
jun., was educated locally, and then ap-
prenticed to the Austral Otis engineering
firm at South Melbourne. Then he joined
the Brisbane trams, and in Brisbane he
met the lady he married. Clapp then went
to the U.S.A., and in General Motors,
Southern Pacific Railroad and other huge
concerns he got the experience which
caused the Victorian Government to in-
vite him to run its railways. Clapp has
a passion for tidiness. One of his customs
is to visit every part of his system at least
once yearly in a special train, stop at
every station and siding, look into every
goods-shed and let the deputations pour
in on him.
“D.F.”: Alan Villiers, the Australian
sailor-author, when last heard from was
second mate of the Arab dhow Bayan,
carrying a crew of 30 and 100 passengers
from Koweit in the Persian Gulf along
the coasts of Arabia and East Africa,
across to India and back to the Gulf.
Alan joined her at Aden two or three
months ago. He writes: “I am still plan-
ning to come to Australia, but I shall
finish with Arabia first. From Zanzibar
God knows where this ship will go.
There’s one good thing about her:
where she goes she stays a long time.”
Now on the high seas, bound for
weighty conferences in London and
Copenhagen, is Norman Harry Taylor,
president of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce of Australia. He’s a South
Australian, born at Glenelg 69 years ago,
and is chairman of J. N. Taylor and Co.,
the business founded by his father, and
a director of W.A. Insurance. N.H. will
miss the opening of S.A. ? s model road,
the Anzac Highway, linking Glenelg and
Adelaide, a project he has much at heart,
for he is president of the Anzac
Memorial Highway League, and has been
Australian president of the National
Roads Association. In war-time he was
Comptroller of Stores and Assistant
NORMAN HARRY TAYLOR.
Commissioner of the Australian Red
Cross in England and France, with rank
of major. Is a keen motorist, plays golf
and bowls, and has been president of
Adelaide Rotary.
Major-General John Dalyell Richard-
son, D. 5.0., V.D., is one of those who
might be expected to heave deep sighs
over army mechanisation, for he’s been
a horseman all his life. He was born
at Raymond Terrace, near New-
castle (N.S.W.), 59 years ago, and
educated at Sydney Grammar and
Hawkesbury Agricultural College. Was
a volunteer as soon as he was
old enough, and in the Great War
climbed from a lieutenancy in the 7th
Light Horse to command of the regi-
MAJOR-GENERAL RICHARDSON.
ment. He’s now in command of the Ist
Cavalry Division, A.M.F., is about the
most popular officer in the service, and is
still climbing—his step from brigadier to
major-general is fairly recent. He wields
a fluent pen, too, as witness his History
of the 7th Light Horse, A.I.F.
Geoffrey T. Clarke, who has recently
become secretary of the Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation of South Australia, is a chartered
accountant by profession ; is also chair-
man of the S.A. Young Liberal League
and secretary of the S.A. Pioneers’ Asso-
ciation, and takes an active interest in
a number of other public bodies. Now
in his middle thirties, he was educated
at Prince Alfred College and Adelaide
University (he became an Associate in
Commerce at the latter place). As chair-
man of the Young Liberal League he
is aiming at the forming of a Federal
body and the winning over of the youth
of Australia to its platform.
His interest in the history of Australia,
Canada and Maoriland accounts for the
presence in M.L. just now of Hope John-
ston, long resident in England, who is
trying to interest the Government in a
move to have the centennial of the
Dominion commemorated by the erec-
tion of a memorial to the founders of
M.L. outside St. Clement Dane’s Church,
in London’s Strand. He also suggests
a historical picture, painted by Algernon
Talmage, R.A. Though Hope Johnston
is head of one of the oldest families in
Australia, being great-grandson of the
aide-de-camp to Captain Phillip (George
Johnston) who later arrested Bligh, he
was born in the first house erected in
Hobson-street, Wellington (M.L.). The
other side of his family tree branches
from the Wellers, who established the
first whaling station in Otago in 1831.
For goodness knows how many years
knight Frank Clarke, President of Vic-
toria’s Legislative Council, has prosecuted
his hobby of defending the famous
Botanical Gardens of Melbourne from
spoliation at the hands of vandals, official
and otherwise, and his book on horticul-
ture has been a standard work for
garden-lovers for a generation. The other
day he took up the cudgels for the artists
by suggesting that a special exhibition of
Australian art should be held annually
and a prize of 1000 guineas offered for
the best genre picture, subject matter for
preference to be mythology or Australian
history. The reception must have sur-
prised him. Most of the painters were
agin him, the most pungent critic being
George Bell. Clark is a Felton Bequest
trustee, and the money was to come from
that immense benefaction. Few of his
fellow-trustees like the proposition either,
possibly because they didn’t think of it.
George English, transferred to Sydney
to strop the Harbor City’s choruses into
condition, has been doing it for some
years for the A.B.C. in Melbourne. All
the big visiting conductors have been in-
debted to English for the well-disciplined
vocal armies they have found waiting for
them when they dropped in to direct a
choral programme. Composer as well as
choirmaster, English has conducted two
of his own symphonies at the Melbourne
Town Hall. His energy is terrific, and
he can ruin more collars in the course
of an evening than any other conductor.
Passed through Melbourne the other
day, E. P. Logan. In 1888 he arrived
in Australia straight from Eton. At 18
he found himself droving in Queensland,
and his first job was taking a mob of
5000 head of cattle on a nine months’
trek to Victoria. Later he was sugar-
planting in Queensland, but chucked it
owing to a prejudice, which he shared
with The Bulletin, against cheap colored
labor. It was 50 years since he had seen
Australia.
Stephen H. Stack, whose efforts, with
those of Dr. William Wood, have resulted
in the establishment of the War Veterans’
Home at Narrabeen (N.S.W.), was born
in Sydney in 1893. First job was in the
Weather Bureau with meteorologist
Mares. He served in the 38th Battery
during the Great War, and after the
S. H. STACK.
Armistice entered the Taxation Depart-
ment, but soon left it for commercial
enterprises. He has been on N.S.W.
Swimming Council, and was for a while
president of the N.S.W. Football Asso-
ciation. He is a member of the Legacy
Club, and hon. sec. of the War Veterans’
Home Board. Plays golf when he can
spare the time.


The Demand for
increases daily
rata*
■mmm
M <
Tr a.-
W<»u
*ms*«i& ss« i
WMA
setoß*
Cork Tipped and Plain, 10 for 6d.
20 for 1/-.
Also flat and round 50’s and 100*s.
9835 B-4-9


ABORIGINALITIES
"IL's all right, Dad — Well have you out in a minute”
A note in anguish from “Gundy”:
Yesterday, about four o'clock, I goes to
bring in the cows. Just as I’m rounding
up the last straggler I sees a big black
snake. I drops me hat as usual to hold
him a “,rbVbfthVdme^7eif y bl?k°he
snake’s gone and so is me hat. The hands
come down after, but though we searched
till dark we drew a blank.
Fishermen and others frequenting the
bank of the near-by creek (it’s near
Wodonga, Vic.) are requested to keep a
lookout for a six-foot red-bellied black
wearing a slate-grey snap-brim felt hat
and a roguish smile. Finder will be suit-
ably rewarded if he returns hat care this
Page. >He may keep snake.
* * * *
“Miro”: Re the parrot-beak of the
octopus (B. 12/4/’39), one Maoriland
fisherman is glad he knew all about it
before he met an owner. He was fishing
off the Poor Knights when his dinghy
was clutched by a huge octopus. When
the creature raised itself out of the water
he saw the parrot-beak and realised it
would be a vulnerable spot. His handy
bait-chopper was his only weapon, but
he risked all on a throw. The chopper
hit the creature on the beak, and after
sagging for a moment the gruesome
visitor relaxed and dropped back into
the sea. The fisherman drew up his lines
and hurried home, for the Maoris say
the octopus always travels with a
vengeful mate.
* * * *
“D. 0.” (Noumea): A native woman
looking for shellfish at low tide was
standing in a foot or so of water when
a sea-snake about 3ft. 6in. long, reddish-
brown in color, with darker red spots,
darted at her from under a rock about
20ft. away. She jumped, knowing the
reputation of this terror of the reefs, but
was too late, and was bitten above the
ankle. In spite of gashing the wound
with a knife she was dead 15 minutes
later. This nasty customer is known to
science; in fact, Capt. Cook collected
the first specimen. This was caught by
one of his sailors, who grasped it close
behind the head with his bare hands as
it lay on the reef investigating a small
crab hole. It was placed in alcohol;
years later in London a museum atten-
dant who handled it incautiously was
scratched by one of its fangs and died.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Y’ strike humor in unex-
pected places at times,” remarked Dan.
“1 wus workin’ fer a cocky one time
who took on as an extra hand a bloke
who come along humpin’ his bluey. The
new bloke wus one of the quietest coots
I ever struck ; y’ cud hardly prise a word
outa him. The boss wus just the oppo-
site, he’d talk the leg orf an iron pot;
seemed to love the sound of his own
voice, ’specially at meal times. One night
after tea the new bloke opened out with
the longest speech I’d heard from him
since he came. ‘This boss of ours thinks
he’s smart,’ he ses, ‘but I’m a wake-up ter
him. He yaps most at grub time, 1
notice ; thinks hell get us arguin with
him, SO s we won t eat so much. i tell
ftim he’s dotty ; but he on’y grunts, an’
i a p ses inter silence agen. One day at
dinnertime the boss is goto' strong as
usual. Turnin’ to the new bloke e ses:
‘Yer a terrible silent bloke, Joe ; can’t
y’ w hile yer have yer grub?’ ‘I can,’
ses j oej ‘h u t I don’t wanter be a mur-
<jerer agen.’ The boss nearly fell orf his
c h a ir. ‘What!’ he yelped. ‘Whatcher
me an?’ ‘I killed the last bloke I worked
f or? ’ ses j G e, solemn as an owl. Then
w hy wasn’t yer arrested?’ ses the boss,
‘j never touched him,’ ses Joe; ‘all I did
wus to tell him funny stories at meal
times, an’ one day he larfed that much
he busted a bloodvessel an’ died. He
wus a fat chap, just like you, too.’ By
cripes, I thought he’d about caused an-
other tragedy ; the boss was dumb at
meal times for a week after.”
* * * *
“Ben Jamms”: Would some knowall
please put into ordinary words the reason
why one’s reflection in a concave sur-
face, such as a spoon, makes one appear
to be standing on one’s head? 1 have
unsuccessfully asked the wile, the
mother-in-law and Vera, the expert
handler of bottled solace at the pub.
The last-named has given the most sym-
pathetic consideration to the subject, and
I have just thought of another point I
should like to discuss with her. Where’s
my hat?
* * * *
“Brolga”: Neither “Mat’s Mate’s” list
of slavery nor that of “Gravelsnatcher”
(B. 29/3/’39) is complete without cane-
cutting. For one thing, the latter is the
daddy of the lot for occupational acci-
dents. Not that a rash of caneboils, the
loss of a finger or two, a broken collar-
bone or strained back sustained while
loading, fever and sprue are more than
minOr complaints. What really knocks
you is the heat and the pace—the gun
in front you have to keep up with
and the one behind you have to keep
ahead of or out you go. Primary quali-
fications for canecutting are broad shoul-
ders and a narrow forehead. A popular
excuse with triers who fail to qualify is
“cane killed Abel, but it won’t kill me.”
ts * * *
“Bluey”: Recent reference to working
a dog with a bit in his mouth reminds
me that that also is the best way to work
’em in poison country. A muzzle is a
cruel thing which kills by its weight, no
matter how light it is, and if it’s big
enough to allow a dog to pant with free-
dom it’s also roomy enough for him to
sneak a bait into his mouth. The best
bit I know is made from the thigh-bone
of a sheep. Cut the required length, with
a wire run through the hollow, and a
bridle fitted on that to go over the dog’s
head, Fido will accustom himself to it
in next to no time. Apart from giving
him immunity from baits, it blocks him
from biting and doesn’t interfere with
his breathing.
*’* * *
“Mooreover”: Doing the rounds of a
station paddock in the Roma (Q.) dis-
trict I came upon two lambs escaping
the intense midday heat in the end of
a large hollow log. As they scampered
off I heard a scramble further up the
log. Peeping through a crack I spotted
a fox, and having a rifle I shot him
through the crack. Madame- Reynard
proclaimed her presence also, and an-
other bullet settled her hash. Curious,
I opened them both up. They had dined
exclusively on hundreds of centipedes,
The fox is often unjustly blamed for
lamb mortality where the real culprits
are the hawk, the crow and the bush cat.
* * * *
“MacSavish”: I never saw any Aus-
tralian sheep-dog that could work on its
own without orders-nothing like the
way Border collies work, in snow, too.
Two years ago, when the snow piled up
tremendous drifts in the Lammermoor
Hills, so that fences and roads were
obliterated and cottages were buried so
deep that only the chimneys were visible,
it was the Border collies that saved the
sheep. Sheep can live under snow for
weeks if they don’t climb over each other
and die of exhaustion and suffocation,
but the Border collies will “point” sheep
wherever they’re buried. “Towser ’ (B.
12/4/’39) talks of “stamina and hard
work, but the Australian sheep-dog works
mostly in open country. Pul those dogs
to work in deep snow and see how they’d
get on. I’ve seen a mob of 900 sheep
left to the care of two Border collies
which, without orders, brought that flock
through miles of snow, and not one
missing or injured.
* * * *
“Bundalinga”: Once it was considered
not incompatible with dignity for a horse
and sulky due to appear in an event at
a country show to arrive under its own
power. Marching time has apparently
altered all that. At an outback N.S.W.
show I recently attended a couple of
trailers drawn by cars aroused my curi-
osity. One was covered with a light
tarpaulin. When the cloth was removed
the cargo turned out to be a rubber-tyred,
chromium-plated sulky. The necessary
horse was in the other trailer,
* * * *
“Kotikokura”: We were shearing out
Hungerford way. Joe was one of the
“brownie gorgers,” and he had feet on
him like fire-beaters ; so when he trod
on a nail, which wasn’t surprising, and
contracted blood-poisoning, which was,
the boss took him into Bourke and left
Bill to pack his things. Bill couldn’t find
any swag-straps, but, being a resourceful
cove, managed to make Joe’s belongings
into two neat bundles. He simply packed
Joe’s blankets into one of his trilbies and
his clothes and personal effects in the
other and laced ’em up.
* , „* , * *
Walkabout : It had been a dry run
with a cut-out certain on Friday unless
unexpected rain fell. When heavy storm
clouds gathered on Thursday afternoon
the shed hands grew optimistic of the
shed lasting over the week-end, and
when it was heard that the sheep being
brought to the shed had been literally
drenched by a storm that registered over
an inch the rouseabouts reckoned a
couple of days’ extra pay was as good
as in their pockets. But hopes were
rudely dashed next morning when, alter
shearing two of the wet sheep, the
barbers took the customary vote. When
the verdict of dry was conveyed to tne
boss, Jimmy, one of the pickers-up,
snorted as he threw a damp fleece on
the table. “Dry! Of course theyd be
dry ; this mob of greasies d shear sheep
if there was frogs hoppm outa tne
wool! ”
* M Q)
Manhole : If Botono (B. 15/ /
wants to see real root-penetration he
needs to take on a course of sewer-drain
cleaning around Perth. With the long,
dry summer the sand Which lorm
the foundations of that city dries rignt
out to a depth of 10f |/ n “
face roots, overwatered during the sodden
wet winter, then do a perish. borne in-
stinct however informs them That inside
the tiled sewer-drain is a stream ot highi
fertilising water. And let there > be never
so fine a crack in the cement jorating
the tiniest pinhole in the pipe itself tn
rootlets, fine as thread, wi
work through. Once ms de, the Mam
like rootlets grow-rgpidly, forming;amass
not unlike a loofah sponge. Loncre t
the outside of the tile-draan
in the vicinity of a tree is the only „u
anteed protection.
A PERENNIAL QUESTION.
Will Mars bestride the earth with clanking
sword,
Or will the dove effect precarious landing?
Can free, unfettered trading be restored?
Will all our varied taxes keep expanding?
In gullies deep, or on some outback run
Where ox-conductors wield the whistling
leather,
These questions fade before a greater one:
Bullock and bull—can they be worked together?
It’s heard from Pipeclay Plain to the Paroo,
From Kojonup across to Goondiwindi,
This whiskered argument that keeps so new
And still has power to start a proper shindy;
For fifty years and more the bush has rung
With sound of heated blah and testy blether
As back and forth the argument has flung:
Bullock and bull—can they be worked together?
One disputant will put it that the breath
Of any bull blown on its weaker brother
Inevitably spells the bullock’s death,
And while he’s arguing the toss another
Will loudly scorn the claim as “All me eye!”
Like cockies (black) denoting rainy weather.
Some other “puncher” thereupon will try
To prove the animals can’t work together.
Let long-haired bards compose their endless
odes
And sweetly sing of “bush so silent, dream-
ing” ;
They visualise the red, deserted roads,
The gums and coolabahs, the river gleaming,
But silence in the bush there cannot be
While bullockies, brass-throated, argue
whether
The world has seen or has no hope to see
A bullock and a bull at work together.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Lespy”: “I’m carrying the ’od fer a
gang o’ bricklayers one time,” said old
Ben the handyman, “and one o’ the
brickies falls orf the scaffold and gets
laid up fer a few days, so the foreman
gets a stranger to fill up till the other
bloke’s all right agen. The new ’and
starts, and after a while the foreman ses
ter me: ‘Take a screw at that bloke,
Ben.’ Blast me if ’e ain’t puttin’ the
mortar on the bricks and then scraping
it orf agen. So the foreman chats him
and the bloke ses, ‘Give us a charnce ter
get inter me stride ; I ain’t worked at
the trade fer four years.’ ‘Then wot
’ave yer been doin’?’ asks the foreman.
1 ’Elpin’ in a samwidge shop,’ ses the new
’and.”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: There must be something
in the theory that the accumulation of
eucalyptus-oil gas in the gullies of Gipps-
land is the cause of the terrific and
almost explosive spread of bushfires in
that region. The south-west of W.A.
carries forests just as dense as those of
Victoria, and with undergrowth just as
thick and as fiercely combustible as
bracken fern, but fires in that region
never compare with Victorian holocausts.
The reason probably is that the tree-life
of W.A., mainly jarrah and karri, while
of the eucalypt species, is singularly lack-
ing in the volatile oil. Certainly oil can
be distilled from jarrah leaves, but in
very small quantities compared with, say,
the bluegum. The hottest day in summer
would never distil an accumulation of gas
from a karri or a jarrah forest. Thus
the fiercest Westralian forest blaze can
never compare with the racing terrors of
Gippsland.
* He * *
“Reef Dodger” (Noumea): “Laetitia’s”
robber-crabs of the South Sea Islands
(B. 8/3/’39), or, as they are better known
locally, coconut crabs, must be a very
patient variety. I have watched and
eaten thousands and even been poisoned
by one which had been feeding on a
certain poisonous nut of the forests. 1
never saw one which
attacked the coconut in
any other way than to
husk the nut with the
two large claws, insert
the tip of the first leg
(not the claw) into the
eye of the nut, raise
the leg and dash the
nut on a stone. One or
two blows are enough.
The crab, to my know-
ledge, is nfever found
far from rocks, gener-
ally upraised coral
rock and cliffs. In the
breeding season males
issue challenges in the
same way by raising a
claw and drumming
on a stone. I have
planted hundreds of
nuts, only to have them
stolen by these exceed-
ingly edible crabs; and
I had the creatures
promenading about the
floor of my shack at
night when I first
began clearing for a
plantation. I thought
twice about walking
barefoot there at night,
having once seen a native have a finger
taken off by one of their 6in. claws.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: The leaves of the saltbush
(B. 22/3/’39), the chemical elements of
which, being strictly confined to the alkali
group, contain no sodium chloride, have
no monopoly when it comes to absorbing
moisture from the atmosphere. In vary-
ing degrees all plant life possesses the
same faculty, the prickly-pear probably
being more richly endowed with this
peculiar ability than most.
* * * *
“Bluetongue”: The grand old bush
seem to be dying out. Where
Wlll y°. u a man Willing to crawl
up behind a horse and fasten his tats in
its fetlock? In the old days practically
ever y bush town had its hop-soaker who
“ A W, il passes the time!”
would ape a cattle-dog and heel anything
for drinks. Another little habit that the
bush is well rid of was putting a jackeroo
up on a buckjumper, complete with
broncho strap, “kid” and anything else
the wits could think of, even to per-
suading one mug on in gumboots. Taking
it all round, the bush to-day is more
civilised than the cities—which is to say
that it is about half-civilised.
* * * *
“Kali”: The millions of tunny reputed
to be along the eastern seaboard may
or may not be cannable, but I do know
they make excellent fertiliser. Down at
the atoll in the Indian Ocean where I
spent three years of exile those fish were
as plentiful as soil was scarce. But they
didn’t go into the pot; instead they
formed the foundations of a garden plot
covered with a foot or so of soil. Decom-
position sets in quickly in the tropics, and
seedlings planted in these beds seemed
to become electrified in growth when
their roots reached the putrefying fish.
Have seen some outsize in vegetables up
in Queensland, but never anything to
compare with those we raised on the
island.
“If ’ee do look like mob o' goats, ledden no reason to bleat like 'em.”
“Madame True Blues”: I, too, have
found that the horsewhip is going out
of fashion (B. 12/4/’39), but around
Snoopadoop most of the young lads
seem to have taken to using fly-spray
with a hand-sprayer for the purpose of
Dobbin-urging. They claim that if you
chase away the flies the unwilling steed
becomes immediately more road-minded.
They explained the reaction as being
partly psychological, a sort of outcrop-
ping of the “jadipus complex,” or some-
thing like that. Their horses go five
miles to the gallon!
* * * *
“Bungham”: It is doubtful whether
taste and enjoyment figure very much in
the menu of a gull (B. 5/4/’39) or in
that of any other wild creature. Such
gustatory discrimination belongs only to
beings of higher and finer sensibilities,
Nature is a wise but not overlavish pro-
vider, and the food question in the animal
kingdom is a very serious problem. Quan-
tity before quality is the slogan of the
semi-starved creatures of the wild.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: The summer whirlwind, or
willy-willy, can play strange pranks. A
windmill caught in one is a funny sight;
the mill turns at the speed of an aero-
plane propeller for a few seconds, though
usually damage is confined to broken
pump-rods and bent vanes. I have seen
big gums twisted clean off their stumps,
and tents split up at front and back and
laid on the ground like a straight sheet,
I was at my beekeeping son’s apiary one
day when a willy-willy swept through it
and lifted every cover off a whole row of
hives. Some came down several hundred
yards away, falling undamaged on to
thick grass, but we never saw another
sign of the swarm which was starting to
settle when the whirlwind arrived ; the
bees were whisked away like a cloud of
black chaff. A drover named Fred
Knight returned to his home at Minyip
(Vic.) one day to find his gig missing ;
he presumed that it had been stolen or
hidden by a practical joker, but the
puzzling feature was the absence of
tracks. He located it in the middle of
the dam, and the clean-swept strip of
intervening ground indicated a willy-
willy. But the biggest I ever saw went
through Coolgardie (W.A.) one hot, still
summer day. The tall, straight column
of whirling dust rose to an immense
height, but it was only a few yards in
diameter. Tearing through a tinsmith’s
yard it lifted sheets of corrugated iron
as if they had been paper. When the
sun set that evening one of those sheets
of iron was still twisting about at such a
height that it resembled a playing-card.
* * * *
“Permanent Blot”: The jungle instinct
to exercise and obey strict leadership,
so strong in the elephant, is not dimmed
even after half a century of captivity.
The undisputed leader of the trained
troupe at Wirths’ Circus is Princess
Alice, aged 150. Elephants
invariably associate in
pairs, and Doll is her
favorite companion. Jessie,
another lady of the group,
with the usual jealousy of
her species, recently re-
sented Doll’s attachment
to Princess and, awaiting
her opportunity, let fly
with her hind legs. Doll slid straight
to the mat. Princess, chained some
20 yards distant, saw the incident,
trumpeted her command to cease the
brawl, broke her chains, strutted quietly
to Jessie and, bowling her over with a
well-placed kick, departed with lordly
dignity. The oldest of the herd is always
the leader.
* He * *
“Leon”: Although the new hand had
been barely a week on the farm, Dad
Bailup had already remarked the young
fellow’s fondness for spending sundry
odd moments in earnest conversation
with the eldest Miss Bailup, mostly behind
the haystack. Dad was secretly pleased
at this, for he had long despaired of
losing Alice; consequently, when one
night the new hand stood before him
looking very sheepish, the old man was
quick to size up the situation. “Now
don’t be shy, boy,” he said, slapping him
heartily on the back. “I know yer goin’
to ask me for Alice ; take her, me boy,
with my blessing.” “Alice?” stammered
the bewildered hand. “I didn’t come
about Alice. I want to know if you’ll
lend me the black mare to go into the
township.” “Me racin’ mare —not on
yer life!” roared Dad. “Why, dammit,
man, I hardly know yer!”
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Loading sheaves in the
Lockyer (Q.) we picked up a bandicoot
that had been reaped (and, as likely as
not, bound). Three legs and an inch or
two of tail were cleanly amputated, and
the remaining extremity hung by a shred
of skin. The wounds were all but
healed; the patient’s eye was bright, its
coat sleek, its body plump. But a stop-
work meeting reluctantly agreed that
when the harvest days were over the
valiant little monoped could not long
evade the Grim Reaper.
* * * *
“Chelaka”: Those glass-eating, razor-
swallowing gentry usually attribute im-
munity from harmful effects to Yogi
secrets. Such sideshow artists are fairly
common throughout the East. One I
remember well, not for any superlative
feat of swallowing, but because at the
time I reckoned he was a European de-
spite his native garb and Malayan monni-
ker of Inche Intan. I would have forgot-
ten all about the “mystic” but for a small
par. that lately appeared in the “Straits
Times.” It was to the effect that one
Inche Intan, once non-commissioned
officer in a British regiment serving in
Asia, had just spent three weeks in
Penang hospital for the removal of iron-
mongery comprising 84 razor blades,
200-odd nails, three pounds of broken
glass and a few hundred gramophone
needles. Which boils down to the fact
that, while the mystical cult of asceticism
may have given him the power to swal-
low these titbits, it took the more prosaic
surgeon’s knife to remove them.
* * * *
“Komediak” Proverbs and cliches
aren’t the only things that cause trouble
when taken literally (B. 29/3/’39). On
our farm the other day Choom came
rushing into the meal table with the news
that the boss’s two prize colts had broken
through the fence into the next-door pad-
dock. The boss, who has a habit of ab-
breviating his swear-words, curtly told
him “to stop acting the goat and hobble
the b’s.” Two hours later a swollen
and woebegone Choom wandered back
into the men’s quarters. “Hobble the
bees,” he said disgustedly. “I bin chasin
’em for two hours and couldn’t even get
near the deuced hives.”
KANAKA JOE.
It’s a thousand miles to the lonely hut,
A weary ride for me,
To the old Kanaka’s water-butt
And his Johnny-cakes and tea;
But I’d travel that, and ten more miles,
Though saddle-sore I’d be,
To see old Joe, for old Joe’s smiles
Were worth the trip to see.
Joe, old Joe, are you still up there
In the Gulf heat, brushing flies
From your patient lips and waiting eyes?
You were old then, Joe,
And your feet were slow
As you shuffled to place a chair
For the guest from anywhere.
Kanaka Joe, are your melons ripe
On the tended river bank?
Do you still suck hard on the empty pipe?
An old friend, Joe, though rank.
Are the mangoes ready, the apple kind,
Strawberry, pear and peach?
Joe, I’m dry, and have a mind
To taste the flesh of each;
But you are a thousand miles away
And northern going’s tough,
And if you’ve gone the human way,
I’ve travelled far enough.
QUEENSLAND.
BRIAN VREPONT.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP • • • £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
* Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALLS) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.46 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet 3 sent free , on request.
0 E FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD''(Chairman) SVmiLlf BUCKLAND
nwPTT IT nOYTF A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E y x WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT CLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ & £/ £
1930.. 138,108 9 p.c. = 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931.. 91,813 7 „„ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932 . . 66,776 4 „ „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933.. 53.727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934 . . 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 . . 57,973 4 „ „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 . . 01,337 U „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,056
1938 . . 65,788 5 „ ~ 62,500 3,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves, £20,000 . . . . 1,025,344
1939.. 71,121 5i p.c. = 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
The improvement in declared net earn-
ings was £5333, and quarter of one per
cent, was added to the div., making 5|
p.c. for the year, the final being at
the rate of 51 p.c. p.a. Still, the
market prices the co.’s £5-paid shares
(there is a contingent liability of £5 call-
able only in the event of liquidation) at
£5 15s. as against £6 7s. a year ago. The
slip in price is due partly to absence of
buying support and partly to a general
downward revision of security prices.
Ordinarily the market allows for future
profits in its bid for securities. But the
future has become so uncertain, follow-
ing recent disquieting moves on the in-
ternational stage that investors have, for
the most part, adopted a hand-to-mouth
policy—for the time being, at any rate.
At £5 15s. the Adelaide’s scrip returns
5 p.c. on a 5| p.c. div. basis—a very
satisfactory yield from a bank stock,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of £9 2s. 5d., which is £3 7s. sd.
more than the market pays; and the
inner strength is believed to be sub-
stantial.
The Adelaide, which has been operat-
ing in South Australia for the last 73
years, does little business outside its
home State, where it gathers about 84
p.c. of its deposits, which are equal to
about one-fifth of all deposits lodged
with the trading banks in that State. It
has always been a very solid concern,
and is one of the few banks which did
not close their doors during the financial
hurricane of the ’nineties. It operates,
however, on the low ratio of £3 3s. lOd.
of deposits, etc., for every pound be-
longing to shareholders in the business.
This is a strong position, but it means
relative restriction of loanable funds,
and therefore low earning capacity.
There was a sharp drop in the price
of wool and wheat last term, and the
grain harvest was below expectations,
owing to lack of finishing rains. But
there was marked increase in industrial
activity in the State, where contracts
have been placed for a mill building at
Islington to house the new steel-tube
industry, and B. H. Prop, has made a
start with construction of the new blast
furnace at Whyalla, while Imperial
Chemical Industries works at Osborne
are nearing completion, Die Casters,
Ltd., has commenced production, and
Cellulose Australia, Ltd., is on the mar-
ket for £150,000.
After setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, the
call for which was lightened by recent
rains, the Adelaide showed a growth of
£5333 in net earnings, which were equal
to 5.7 p.c. on the £1,250,000 of share
capital, compared with 5.2 p.c. for the
previous term. In 1929 the net return
on capital was 11.6 p.c. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) last year’s profit was a mere 3.1
p.c. Still, heartened by the rains already
referred to, the board lifted the div. a
trifle.
Owing to the change in seasonal out-
look (even pastoralists in the far north
and nor’-east of the State are in good
heart), borrowings by primary producers
are likely to be less heavy than was ex-
pected a few months ago, thus easing
what looked like a tendency toward
tighter money conditions. Here are the
co.’s balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1932. 1938. 1939.
Notes .. £6.713 £6,603 £6,574 £6,574
Bills, etc. 633,075 514,913 340,800 276,024
Deposits 6,177,592 6,031,331 6*,971,877 7,000,719
Liquid
assets 2,857,214 3,417,291 3,164,857 3,252,263
Advances 5,949,107 5,108,010 6,075,864 5,950,855
Premises,
etc. . . 347,434 343,117 405,125 395,416
A growth of £28,642 in deposits was
accompanied by a contraction of
£125,009 in advances, a shrinkage of
£64,776 in bills payable, and the addition
of £87,406 to liquids. When the books
closed liquids amounted to 44.6 p.c.
liabilities to the public, and advances
were 84.4 p.c. of deposits, as against
87.1 p.c. in 1938 and 96.3 p.c. in 1929.
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1925.-1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1930. . 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 j
Trans, to General Reserve, £200,000 ; 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
To Staff Fund, £14,023 .. .. 1 009709
1933. 1,486,785 188,306 52 ) 60i ’
To Staff Fund, £7189 .. .. t ~r 9Si ,
1934. . 2,202,168 1,456,873 192,823 ) ’
To Staff Fund, £10,882 .. .. I roq ina
1935. . 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 j 0 J
Profit on sale of securities, £7557 . . 1
To Staff Fund, £13,027 .. .. r 923,726
1936. . 2,649,319 1,446,134 273,988 J
To Staff Fund, £12,730 .. •• ti 077007
1937. . 2,806,347 1,422,983 290,006 2,641 ) 0
To Staff Fund, £13,021 . . . . 1
Profit on sale of securities, £3488 . . i 1,136,390
1938. . 2,951,504 1,512,566 293,015 J
♦lncludes dividends to shareholders.
fAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.) Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 ( 157 g 9 .>
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 j ’
To Staff Fund, £6293.. .. .. 1 201 243
1933.. 784,788 297,798 274,704 4750 )
To Staff Fund, £6312.. .. .. 1 295 466
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834)
To Staff Fund, £5063.. .. .. 1 333 950
1935.. 920,562 291,691 $88,557 1301 )
To Staff Fund, £5677 . . .. . . ) 350 772
1936.. 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 )
To Staff Fund, £5869 .. •. •• 1 365,096
1937. . 1,126,782 390,476 363,237 2104 )
To Staff Fund, £6387 . . . . •• 1 ion 340
1938. . 1,248,539 405,902 401,264 4643 ) * ou ’’
tAfter deducting taxes.
It was a notable year for the M.L.C.,
which is one of Australia’s most pro-
gressive life offices. Outstanding features
have been (1) capitalisation of £500,000
of reserves (since close of accounts),
making paid capital £700,000; (2)
erection of attractive ■ new head-
quarters, with plenty of letting space
(most of it already taken), at the corner
of Martin-place and Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, and construction of fine new
branch offices at Melbourne and Wel-
lington (M.L.); (3) appearance of a
profit of £280,000 on shareholders’
account from realisation and revaluation
of assets ; (4) change in investment policy
(more money being put into mortgages)
becomes more pronounced; (5) record
amount of new business written —co. was
one of the few life offices in the British
Empire to show an increase in new busi-
ness last year; (6) maintenance of
bonuses at the same attractive rates as
in 1937, and the appearance of satis-
factory margins in all matters upon
which bonuses depend.
The capitalisation (five for two) will
not affect earning capacity one way or
the other, yet it should advantage both
policy-holders and shareholders. For one
thing it will anchor £500,000 as additional
capital, thus removing any danger of
the money going out of the business by
way of cash dividends ; for another it
will make the position look more like
what it really is, because shareholders
are entitled to an adequate return on
their capital and reserves (the latter built
up over a long period of years) com-
bined. Last year £lBO,OOO was distri-
buted in divs., equal to 90 p.c. on
£200,000, or 25.8 p.c. on £700,000 of
capital. The £lBO,OOO came £111,215
from the Ordinary, £58,785 from the
Industrial and £lO,OOO from the General
section.
The business consists of three sections
—Ordinary, Industrial and General —all
watertight, except that funds in the
General or shareholders’ branch are
available for protection of policy-holders
in the other two. Of the divisible profits,
policy-holders are entitled to not less
than 85 p.c. nor more than 90 p.c. in
the Ordinary and to 80 p.c. in the In-
dustrial section. In the General branch
all net earnings belong to shareholders,
who have to earn from £5 13s. 4d. to
£9 for Ordinary and £4 for Industrial
policy-holders before they can take £1
for themselves in each of these depart-
ments. Also, when the books closed the
assurance funds (£19,962,052 Ordinary
and £5,711,821 Industrial), which were
in excess of actuarial liabilities under
policies, had the support and assistance
of other reserves amounting to £490,000
in the Ordinary and £79,000 in the In-
dustrial section. Reserves in the General
branch amounted to £509,288, of which
all but the £9288 is to be transferred to
capital, as already mentioned.
The surplus available for distribution
in the two life departments compares
as follows:
1929. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Ordinary . . £692,946 £671.296 £789,433 £849,680
Industrial . . 76,730 96,203 102,594 115,459
Total ■ .. £769,676 £767,499 £892,027 £965,139
The growth in the figures last year was
£60,247 Ordinary and £12,865 Industrial.
Surpluses are figured on the assumption
that funds reserved to meet policies as
they become claims earn no more than
H p.c. in the Ordinary and 2\ p.c. in
the Industrial section —it is the most
stringent basis of valuation used in Aus-
tralia. In the Industrial branch the assur-
ance fund includes a special provision
of £300,000 against suspended mortality,
etc., no longer required for that purpose.
What it is proposed to do with this sum
is not mentioned.
The ratio of exes, to premium income
was 14.25 p.c. in the Ordinary and 34.35
p.c. in the Industrial section, compared
with 14.82 p.c. and 32.92 p.c. respectively
for 1937. The ratio to total income was
9.61 p.c. Ordinary and 27.14 p.c. Indus-
trial, as against 10.05 p.c. and 25.81 p.c.
respeetively for the previous term. After
deducting taxes, the net effective rate of
interest earned was £4 15s. Id. p.c. in
the Ordinary and £4 13s. 6d. p.c. in the
Industrial branch; so there is a wide
margin between the assumed and actual
rate of earnings there. Also, consider-
ing that 63.8 p.c. of the assets is in
public securities, the high net interest
return suggests that assets in the two de-
partments are worth a lot more than
their book value.
The amount of new business put on
the books was £8,233,135 (up £74,781)
in the Ordinary and £4,440,654 (up
£38,880) in the Industrial section. Com-
bining the figures of all departments,
net premium income, plus consideration
for annuities, was £194,302 stronger
at £3,022,117. Interest and rents,
etc., less taxes (£56,624, up £10,197),
turned in £1,214,639, up £74,983. In-
cluding £3488 from the realisation of
securities, and after striking off £4643
for depreciation, etc., and sending
£19,408 to the staff fund, £1,566,732
was added to the assurance funds, rais-
ing them to £25,673,874.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Public securities. £19,308,763 71.8 £ 18,001.380 63.8
Mortgages . . 4,399,456 16.4 6,541,585 23.2
Loans on policies 1,793,750 6.7 1,824,606 6.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 510,661 1.9' 592.389 2.1
Property . . . . 275,610 1.0 698,976 2.5
Other assets . . 586,806 2.2 566,068 2.0
£26,874,946 £28.225,004
Liabilities* . . 1,649,578 1,119,576
Net assets . . £25,225,368 £27,105,428
* Other than under policies.
Of the growth of £2,142,129 in
mortgages, £1,216,937 was in respect of
loans (under Government guarantee) to
co-operative building societies. The
property item increased by £423,366 net
—during the year the co. sold Ocean
House, Martin-place, Sydney, at a profit,
and put up the new buildings already
referred to. The holding of Government
securities was reduced by £1,307,383 net.
The reduction of £530,002 in outside
liabilities was mainly on account of
deposits (£745,913, down £436,306). The
growth in net assets amounted to
£1,880,060.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To He— Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929 .. 19,732 12$ p.c. = 19,531 201 99,141
1930 . . 17,949 10 „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 . . 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO . . 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. .. 86,562
1932 . . 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 .. .. .. 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £366 .. 81,773
1933 . . 366 Nil 81,407
To staff fund, £B3l .. .. .. 80,576
Written off, £9OOO 71,576
Profit.
1934 . . 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 . . 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 . . 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 96,825
1938 . . 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
S'hare premiums, £5OOO .. .. 109,205
1939 .. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
This co. has been' in the carrying,
station-supply, produce and agency
business in the back-country of N. S.
Wales and Vic. for the last 55 years,
and its earnings have been up and down
according to seasons and prices. Divs.
averaged 11.4 p.c. for the 11 years to
the close of accounts in 1930, though
share premiums took a bit of the gilt
off the gingerbread. Then came the
collapse of prices, and shareholders went
without for the two years to the close
of accounts in 1933, when ss. per share
(£31,250) was returned and the outside
debt substantially reduced. The flow of
divs. began again in 1934, and the
volume of earnings has since continued
to swell, owing to absorptions and the
recuperative power of the outback.
Despite the fall in wool and wheat
prices, and after making provision for
contingencies, gross earnings (£159,088)
sprang £15,498 last term. Including pro-
vision for depreciation (£9315, down
£643) and taxation (£6520, down £1230),
exes. (£l-34,369) were £13,159 heavier,
largely owing to wage lifts. Since more
capital was at work, net earnings (up
£2339) dropped to 12.7 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 14.9, 14.4, 10.8,
7.2 and 4.8 p.c. back to 1934. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c. Subject to economic
and political and other developments,
the same rate looks like being still within


tj
mm
m
'
mm
m
'
RADIO
TELEPHONE
TO
NORTH AMERICA
from the telephone in your office or
home.
The recently opened direct Wireless
telephone service across the Pacific
has resulted in a reduction in rates
between Australia and North America.
The wireless equipment for the
Australian station of this service was
designed and manufactured by
GmitOxh.
ILtfecffaki
lUe^uco
$
AMALGAMATED
(AUSTRALASIA)
WIRELESS
LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


msm
wmm
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest, way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all sus pended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
VIA AMERICA
Travel across the Atlantic
by the Giant Vessels of the
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSLANTIQUE
(French Line)
From NEW YORK TO ENGLAND.
Travel from Australia to England via America
—book your reservations before leaving.
Accommodation and full particulars:
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
Travel Department 7 Bridge Street, Sydney. Thone: 87901
a nd at 7
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane, Auckland, N.Z., Wellington, N.Z.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* H* * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. —Advt.
* * * #
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
•—Advt.
* * * #
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney—Advt.
Mine Accountant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of Accountant to an important Mining Com-
pany in Malaya. ... .
Applicants must be experienced in mine cost-
ing and must be possessed of energy and
initiative. ,
Climate good and conditions congenial.
Commencing salasy £5OO sterling, plus com-
fortable bungalow. Passage paid.
Reply stating age, qualifications, and en-
closing references to ‘ Mmecount, C/o Cordon
and Gotch, Brisbane.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby, Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
&
Reservoirs of
Comfort
and Sunshine
A.M.P. Policies
Ease Troubles
AN A.M.P. Policy for £5OO or £lOOO is
a great reservoir of comfort and sunshine
to draw upon in time of trouble.
When a wife becomes unexpectedly a widow-
such a reservoir is worth even more than its
value in money. It gives her courage and
resource with which to face the world. It
gives her breathing time in which to adjust
herself to her new circumstances.
Far too many widows have to go out looking
for work —they can be seen any day waiting
outside the doors of employment agencies—
because they did not know that their husbands
were not assured.
This is good advice to the young wife: See
that your husband is a member of the A.M.P.,
and is assured for enough to give you and
your children a chance should anything happen
to him. Encourage him to build up several
reservoirs of comfort. Should he live to
retiring age they will bring sunshine to
both of you.
Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. office
or representative and take his advice,
can trust him with your confidence. Don’t
delay. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A W Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
reach at the close of next accounts,
thanks to recent rains.
Shortly before the close of accounts
in 1937 shareholders were offered, and
snapped, 50,000 new £1 shares at 245.
each. They took a further 25,000 at the
same price last term, when the financial
position showed marked improvement:
1920. 1934. 1936. 1938. 1939'.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 50,000 125,000 125,000 175,000 200,000
Liabilities . 79,212 38,025 80,267 218,142 181,782
Plant and
property 47,193 66,093 79,714 118,621 130;,553
Book debts. 90,583 103,646 119,886 226,089 216,485
Merchandise 32,883 58,490 71,499 141,626 143,689
Shares other
cos —■ 6,900 11,899 11,899 11,899
Cash, etc... 5,834 0,528 9,480 16,192 14,333
The fresh capital, share premiums and
surplus earnings, together with a reduc-
tion of £9604 in debtors’ balances and
£1859 in cash, etc., enabled £36,360 to
be lopped off the outside debt, £11,932
to be added to fixed assets (mainly on
account of extensions to branch
premises), and £2063 to stocks. Ex-
cluding shares in other cos., the more or
less liquid surplus (£192,725) was
£26,960 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The market, doubtful and nervous
about the future, prices the co.’s f.-p.
pound shares at 255. as against 30s. 6d.
(ex rights) a year ago. At the lower
figure the return is 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Each rise or fall of 1 p.c. in
the rate of distribution would affect the
return by approximately 0.8 p.c. The
cover is 31s. sd. in net tangibles.
Cellulose Australia, Ltd.
This new addition to Australia’s
secondary industries, which is on the
stocks in Adelaide, has a strong backing,
including the South Aus. Government.
Ultimately the aim is large-scale produc-
tion of a wide range of cellulose products
from the softwoods ( radiata ) of the State
forests, and from straw, near Millicent
(S. Aus.) —range and output to be deter-
mined as demand develops.
To start with, a small mill, to turn
out about 5000 tons of cellulose, etc.,
annually, is to be put up on an 80-acre
freehold near Millicent, adjacent to the
State forests, alongside Snuggery Drain,
from which ample fresh water is obtain-
able, and on the railway line to Beach-
port, on the coast 26 miles away. Fol-
lowing successful large-scale factory tests
of South Aus. Pinus radiata in Europe,
two types of machines are to be installed
—one to produce leatherboards and
white-pulp boards (used for making food
containers and for showcards, etc.), now
imported from Scandinavia ; the other is
to make straw-fibre building (or insulat-
ing) board by the Schacht (a German)
process. This equipment is expected to
be in full swing within the next 12
months.
The co. holds the rights in Australia
and Maoriland for the Schacht process,
which is claimed to have advantages as
to costs as well as quality, etc., on a
royalty basis —5 p.c. on sales of building
board, with a minimum of 10,000 R.M.
( —£A1000) p.a. J. C. Heerdt, an expert
in this process, has been brought from
Germany to supervise erection of the
plant, etc. The co.’s timber requirements
are secured under contract with the State
Government, it has a 21-year franchise,
with the right to renewal, in respect of
water, and ample straw is said to be
available in the neighboring district.
Nominal capital is £BOO,OOO in £1
shares, of which 165,000 are offered at
par—3s,ooo have been taken firm by the
underwriters, 115,000 are offered the
public, and 15,000 f.-p. go to the vendors,
Australasian Cellulose Manufacturers,
Ltd., Adelaide. The total amount of capital
underwritten is £125,000, the figure on
which the co. may go to allotment; and
there are nine underwriters, including the
South Aus. Government, whose propor-
tion is 25,000 shares. The underwriting
commission is Is. Id. per share on the
125,000, and 6d. each on all other shares
allotted. The vendors are entitled to a
proportionate number of f.-p. shares in
respect of any further capital raised by
the co., except such as may be subscribed
by the Government and State Bank, and
with a limit of 25,000 additional vendors’
shares.
Money from the present issue is to be
used £32,000 for mill-site and buildings ;
£87,620 plant (installed); £9OOO pre-
liminary exes., including brokerage and
underwriting; £21,380 working capital
and contingencies.
When the plant now being installed is
in full swing, sales are estimated at
£106,177 per annum. All-in costs, includ-
ing allowance for depreciation, etc., but
not taxation, are put at £81,141, leaving
a net profit, subject to taxation, of
£25,036, equal to 15.1 p.c. on a capital
of £165,000. Estimated establishment
and operating costs, compiled by J. C.
Heerdt, have been checked by the co.’s
auditors (Steele, Calder, Austin and
Slade) and found sound, subject to sales
figures being realised and provided no
unforeseen circumstances arise. Pro-
vided the quality of the co.’s cardboard
and its estimates are right, there shouldn’t
be much difficulty about the market, since
selling prices have been figured 25 p.c.
below imported cost, and demand is
on the up-grade. Later the co. will
come into competition with Australian
Paper Manufacturers, which has thus far
had practically a monopoly of the
market; but there should be room for
the two.
On the board are T. E. Barr-Smith,
jun., L. J. Hartnett, E. W. Holden, T. R.
Morris, A. D. Young, F. T. Perry and
A. G. Pickering. The last two represent
the Treasury.
“Old Centralian”: Things are less than
middling in the centre of the field at
Broken Hill. The Big Mine has ceased
underground operations, Block 14 is idle,
being held by Willyama Mining Pty.,
Ltd., under the control of North, South
and Zinc, while in Block 10 (Prop,
owned) there is undoubtedly a fair ton-
nage of ore which would certainly
lengthen the life of the Central (Sulphide
Corp., Ltd.), which is threatened with
extinction in the near future. Block 10
ore is identical with Central, and could
only be extracted from the Central end,
because numerous creeps have wrecked
the shafts and much of the workings. As
things are, the closing of the Central
would leave this substantial block of
ore in situ. After more than 50 years,
B. Prop, is drilling at depth to test a
theory (first propounded by Government
Geologist Pittman in the early ’nineties)
that other lodes may occur beneath the
old or original ones. Time and drilling
alone can tell. Meanwhile, the Block 10
bone could be thrown to the Central.
After charging ordinary development,
monthly returns of Wiluna G.M. indi-
cate a working surplus of £A94,680 for
the year to March. It compares with
£A207,577 for the previous term, when
further charges against p. and 1. were
£56,861 for special exploration, etc.,
£131,907 for depreciation and £6282 for
office exes.; in addition £63,989 was
written off on property account. The
slip in the latest showing appears chiefly
due to (a) fall in yields from 3.6Bdwt. to
3.4dwt. (of recent months they have
been down to 3.2 ’weights); ( b ) increase
in working costs (development excluded)
from 21s. 3d. to 225. Id. per ton, and ( c )
expenditure of an additional £40,000 or
thereabouts in the quest for ore enrich-
ments. Throughput fell just below
600,000 short tons. Failure of the smelter
to fulfil what was expected of it was one
of the year’s major disappointments.
Westralian opinion is that, although
absence of any payable shoot of conse-
quence in the main (southern) workings
at depth suggests the days of Wiluna as
a big mine are numbered, prospects at
the north end indicate it will go on pro-
ducing in a less impressive way for years.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Options, N.L., has
ceased operations at The Three Boys,
Southern Cross (W.A.), because of (1)
extremely low-bulk value of ore from
development (3dwt. average), (2) hardness
of the ore and impossibility of dealing
with it without expenditure beyond the
co.’s means —grade of ore doesn’t justify
expenditure on new plant; and (3) new
manager’s advice that it would be futile
to carry on in the circumstances. It is
proposed to treat the residues, and an-
nounce future policy of the co. later. In
January last the new manager gave the
length of the main gold-carrier in the
mine as approximately 350 ft., and its
average value 6dwt. He reckoned that
certain development work which he
recommended should open up 10,600 tons
of backs, averaging 6dwt. He estimated
all-in costs at 30s. a ton.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
V.R.: Position very doubtful; probably do
better elsewhere... .E.M.W.: (1) To say that
a share is fully paid while it carries a lia-
bility, contingent or otherwise, would be a
contradiction in terms. (2) Each bank issued
its own notes until 1911, when the penal
section of the Australian Notes Act of 1910
came into operation E.J.J.: (1) Equities or
ordinary shares. (2) No, but best holdings
are usually sound industrials; fixed-interest-
bearing securities suffer most E.J.: (1) Yes,
but they are a speculation, and the odds are
against you. (2) Made splendid progress during
last few years, but not yet out of the wood.
Neither bonuses to policy-holders nor divs. to
shareholders yet in sight T.A.Y.: Write
secretary N.Z. Forest Products, Shortland-
street, Auckland.


SMOKE-OH!
“A mob of goats that invaded the race-
course started the horses plunging in all
directions.” — “Sun.”
It is generally the goats that do the
plunging on a racecourse.
•b Sr Sr •b
“Stated that a husband and wife once fought
a duel with swords.”
Now married couples dispense with the
first “s.”
Sr Sr Sr Sr
“Church Leader Deplores Communism.”
A canon off the Red.
•Sr Sr
“Arrested for begging in a Brisbane street,
a man struck the constable.”
Assault at alms.
Sr Sr Sr 4*
“Writers should draw on their imagination.”
—Literary course.
It’s about all they can draw on.
Sr •Sr 4*
“Most women are interested in the way
their husbands dress.” — Women’s paper.
Others don’t give a darn.
•Sr •Sr "Sr +
A “successful housewife” is one who
can open a tin of her husband’s dinner
without dropping cigarette-ash in the
contents.
Sr Sr Sr Sr
“The average wife goes through a lot.
— Women’s mag.
Still, her blithe philosophy is: “There’s
plenty more where that came from.”
“Earn a second income.” — Advt.
This should suit those who live double
lives.
•Sr 4* 4* •Sr
“The ideal dance-band combination con-
sists of five pieces.” —Musical magazine.
But there is no peace for the listener.
•Sr •Sr •Sr Se
“It takes twelve minutes to boil a tiuee-
minute egg at 8000ft.” —Scientific journal.
Now we know where some of these
restaurant cooks get to.
•Sr ‘Sr •Sr •Sr
“A Spanish bullfight reminds one of a Test
match in England or Australia.”
—Travel magazine.
So much depends on the toss.
“Confusion at Wynyard. Peak-hour Trams.
Scramble for Seats.”— “S.M.H.”
Only the tough eggs don’t get
scrambled.
•Sr Sr "S' •Sr
“Fire in Hosiery Factory.” —“Daily News.”
Ladders were welcomed by the man-
agement.
Sr Sr S' Sr
“Light backgrounds are best for white
flowers.” —“Sunday Sun.”
That’s why flappers wear them on their
heads.
Sr Sr Sr Sr
“Footpaths have a purpose.”— “Truth.”
But they get so downtrodden.
Honeymoods.
“To the average young husband, his bride is
a dual personality,” says a women’s paper.
On Monday (when we twain were spliced)
She thrilled my lips with eager kisses.
On Tuesday just a peck sufficed,
For now she’d earned the prefix “Mrs.”
On Wednesday she was meek and mild,
On Thursday she was pert and
mocking,
On Friday, like a thwarted child,
Her petulance was frankly shocking.
Yes, flighty, solemn, haughty, peeved,
Her manner changed so frequently
That by the week-end I believed
That I’d committed bigamy!
P. M.
Onions Over Egypt.
“The first onions from Egypt are expected
shortly ; agents describe them as of a very
superior quality.” —Market note.
How Egypt came to be a big producer
of onions is interesting.
One of the Pharaohs was working off
some pretty choice language at the locust
plague that blackened the sky when an
old crank hopped off his camel and
craved audience.
“Mighty one,” he said to Pharaoh, “I
have had a dream.”
“ ’Struth!” howled Pharaoh, “another
one? Hast thou too dreamed the winner
of the big chariot race, mug?”
“Nay, master. But it has been re-
vealed to your slave how to convert the
locust plague into a boon.”
“Nay! ”
“Yea!”
When the locusts came the following
year Egypt was heavily cropped with
onions. Time after time the locusts
swooped down on the onion fields, only
to rise again weeping bitterly. Is it any
wonder that under this continuous scheme
of irrigation Egyptian onions captured
the world’s markets?
The old crank became a powerful man
at the Court of the Pharaoh, who granted
him permission to marry twelve hundred
wives. That was his finish. He took to
coming home pickled, and eventually
went completely off his onion.
D. McM.
Expensive.
“Some authors pay to have their works
published.” —Literary mag.
Some authors pay—although it does seem
odd —
To see their humble efforts duly
printed.
I’m one; my only work cost me a wad
Because at marriage it had faintly
hinted.
MELTON.
Escape.
“Now by this time I was feeling I
could give poor old Frank two strokes
a hole and still beat him without much
trouble. So when we got to the dogleg
fifth I decided I’d try to hit clean over
the elbow and not potter about with two
drives along the fairway.
“The only man who’d done it before
was Sarazen when he was out here with
Kirkwood. But all day I’d been hitting
the longest ball I’d ever hit, so I took
the new steel-shafted I bought last week
and aimed straight for the pin.
“Well, George, I’ve been playing golf
for ten years now, but I’ve never smacked
such a perfect drive. She soared up in
the air, yet not too loftily, and carried
until it looked as if she’d go clean over
"We should've woke up to this long ago!"
the green. Then she landed as sweetly as
a bird and ran just the right distance,
went dead between the two bunkers and
stopped six inches from the hole.
“Frank simply couldn’t believe his eyes.
I tell you, George, all the fellows in
sight wanted me to shout—it was so near
being a hole in one. And you know the
length of the fifth.
“Oh, darn it! Quick, George, this way.
Phew!
“That was a narrow escape. Arthur
Byson was bearing down on us and I
thought for a moment we were spotted.
He’s a nice enough chap, but a frightful
bore. He never talks about anything
except his golf!”
Hoots AWA'.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPLETE GUIDE.
II.
If you’ve tested the new mower on the
table to get the correct cutting height, it
is now plain sailing to complete its as-
semblage. Take care to screw up tightly
every nut and screw ; nothing is more
annoying than noise when you are mow-
ing. The handle is, of course, bolted into
place last of all.
Now take the mower out on the lawn.
Select a part where the paspalum and
nut grass are fairly high and give a hearty
push. You need not be afraid that your
forward-surging chest will meet the
stationary handle, for the latter will be
set so low that it would give the Pin-
headed Chinese Dwarf curvature of the
spine trying to bend low enough to push
it. But watch your shins as the locked
knives prevent the mower’s moving.
Consultation of the chart will reveal
that you must slacken the sole-plate end
screw (Q 24). While it was comparatively
simple to identify this gadget before
assembling, its recognition now will not
be easy—so many screws look alike.
Moreover, with all the kids lined up
waiting for the demonstration it would
obviously create an unfavorable impres-
sion if you had to admit that Q 24 had
you stumped. Therefore get the screw-
driver and loosen everything you can
see. Q 24 must be among them.
When the blades move, not away from
you as they should, but towards you, just
give a nod of approval.
Now order all the kids inside. Obvi-
ously the trouble is caused either
through the handle being fitted the
wrong way round, or because the mower
has been made for a left-handed pusher ;
it will be best to remedy both.
Lift the roller up by screwing down
the roller bolts (Dll) as far as they will
go Let the handle go so that the mower
falls into its natural position I.will then
he an easy ma ter to unbolt the handle
and put it back the way the new post-
Now I™se7t "your right-
handed style of pushing. Further refer-
ence to the chart will show that practi-
cally every part has two sides: e.g., side-
plate assembly, R.H.; side-plate
assembly, L.H.; spider end, R.H.; spider
end, L.H., etc. By taking each of
these out and putting the left-hand
part where the right-hand was, and
vice versa, it is obvious that the
whole movement will be put the other
way round, and on reassembling you will
find (after fitting the other four parts
you found under the wrapping-paper)
that the cutting blades will then go the
correct way. . ... ,
thrilled to see the knives spin with per-
feet freedom; so freely will they spin, in
fact, that they will merely bend the grass
instead of cutting it as they pass over it.
Try it now on longer grass so that you
may gauge how much you will need to
lift the cutting blade to adjust it for short
grass. Don’t be alarmed when the cut-
ting knives stop suddenly with a metallic
clank. Just upend the whole thing and
you will see a brightly-painted screw
jammed between the knives and the cut-
ting blade —your old friend the shaft
bracket adjustment screw (H 23) which
jumped out of its socket when you
loosened it (among others) and has been
picked up in the long grass by the blades.
Here is an excellent opportunity to
test your ability to get out of mechani-
cal trouble. It will be useless trying to
force the screw out by turning the
knives, for they will not budge either
backwards or forwards. You could, of
course, get it out by banging it out with
a cold chisel and hammer. But no one
would risk spoiling a good screw by
this method. The best way is to cut it
with an oxy-acetylene blowpipe ; if your
workshop doesn’t boast one, a hacksaw
should do.
Turn the mower over so that the up-
turned knives will be more accessible to
your hacksaw. It will be no easy thing
to get it between the knives, and move-
ment back and forth will be limited to
an inch or two, but persevere and you
will be rewarded in half an hour or so
by a clean cut. A little wobbling of the
cylinder and the two halves of the screw
should fall apart, leaving the knives free.
Don’t worry about the screw looking
a bit short. All screws on a lawnmower
are made much larger than is absolutely
necessary. What might cause slight
trouble in getting the screw back is the
chewed end of the thread not permitting
a grip. If it will not respond get a file
and burr the thread. ■ It can then be
easily hammered into place.
It now only needs to reset the cutting-
blade. Again consulting your invaluable
chart, you will note the following in-
struction: “To adjust for keen cutting.—
Every mower is adjusted before leaving
the factory to cut paper l/250in. thick.
If necessary to reset, adjust bottom blade
by releasing Ql7 and screwing down
Gl7a hard.”
Pursue these instructions until the
bottom blade is raised close to the cutting
knives. Now comes the most ticklish part
of the work, to get the knives to cut paper
l/250in. thick. The adjustment itself
won’t give you much trouble-4t is only
a matter of delicately releasing and screw-
ing down. But it might not be so easy
to get paper of the required thinness.
Some domestic mechanics might be
content to say, “Oh, I’ll try it on a
cigarette paper.” That is slipshod work,
for cigarette paper might be only 1/230th
of an inch thick. Buy a ruler which gives
this measurement. It may also be neces-
sary to buy paper of this thickness if you
have none in the house or cannot shave
any down to the required slenderness.
After all, what is a few days’ or even a
few weeks’ delay when set against the
perfect cutting edge?
With an adequate supply of l/250in.
paper, insert a piece between the cutting
knives and the blade and commence your
final adjustment. Not until the revolving
knives cut the paper cleanly should you
be satisfied that the mower is fit to whittle
down your paspalum and nut grass
evenly.
S.W.K.


Howard Smith Ords.
At 17s. 9d. the ords. in Howard
Smith yield £5 13s. per cent, on a
5 p.c. div. basis. If bought at cur-
rent quotations these shares have
promise as a holding proposition.
V:-'-
a
m
-
SS
*
■
.
asm
m
AUSTRALIA-ITALIA
skmhpipdm© eoKum^mrft
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 8637 L:
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event oi-your death.
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old agej Itthe msw*
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly - cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
lenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
Assurance
CO., LTD., ) ■;
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. '
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- AC A Building, 118-126 Queen. Street Melbourne.
Oufensiand- A C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Austral*: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Business.Rollesy.Ete
Two Years of Dullness
As last week progressed a better feel-
ing was evident in trade and business
owing to an absence of war overseas
after war had been freely prophesied.
The Stock Exchanges picked up, though
there was no excitement to record, and
turnover was mostly on the light side.
It is interesting to observe the theatrical
nature of the incidents, demonstrations
and palavers that go to make up the
present “international situation” in
Europe, but when a lull, or interval,
occurs, as it did towards the end of last
week, this “time for a Capstan” is widely
appreciated.
The theatricalism of the whole thing
makes one wonder whether the nations
of Europe aren’t already waging war by
propaganda. If they are, then the gravest
danger is that someone in the stalls may
get carried away and do something silly
that will begin a real war. It is difficult,
nevertheless, to see how, with mechanisa-
tion of arms advanced to its present pitch,
a Continental country without a large
seaboard, merchant marine and navy
would survive the “petrol famine” that
would appear inevitable if warfare were
prolonged. Shock tactics would, there-
fore, seem to be the mode of operations
indicated, yet if that is really so the
value of such tactics by the “Axis
Powers” looks like waning with the
effluxion of time and the extension of
Britain’s rearmament programme.
That, however, may be too reasonable
a view of the situation. Nearly all wars
are waged with stupidity and error.
Last week in London base metals were
firmer, though they still weren’t equal to
the March average. The best thing about
the appearance of the market was that
it showed a strengthening tone for
several days. Tin was at its best price
for a long while, but the influence of
restriction is principally at work here.
Still, the better price (£220, as against
£212 a few weeks ago) seems to show
that the new free production quota of
40 p.c. is not overhigh—and that is par-
ticularly satisfactory from the Australian
producer’s viewpoint.
As regards wool, the keystone of our
external trade, the market these last few
weeks has lost its punch. Recent Sydney
sales have averaged 9.2 d. But this page’s
early forecast that £40,000,000 Australian
should be reached seems likely to be justi-
fied. The greater part of the clip is now
sold, and there should be little or no
carryover. The 1939-40 clip should start
to come on to a clear market about the
beginning of September.
The banks appear to be handling the
credit position with skill. It is not
an easy position. Though over the
twelve months to Feb. 28 deposits in-
creased by only £1,700,000, an extra
£8,100,000 was put out on advance. Dur-
ing the period also these institutions, as
sub-underwriters, had to carry a propor-
tion of the Commonwealth loans that the
public didn’t take.
The position in regard to costs and
taxation isn’t so bright. With incomes
generally less buoyant than they were,
public revenue is showing a falling-off—
the Customs Department, for instance,
will suffer from reduced imports —
at a time when special outlay for
defence has become necessary. Loan
money is the opposite to abundant
just now, and taxation, in volume
and per head, is the heaviest on
record. Under these conditions, with rail-
way freights lifted in some States to boot,
the general loading-up of the cost of
“Will you join me in a milkshake, General ?”
living hasn’t been checked, but rather
aggravated. Inflation of costs when in-
come is falling is usually a sure indi-
cation of economic trouble brewing. No
one will willingly face the “readjustment”
of figures that generally becomes neces-
sary until, the disaster of slump takes full
effect. It remains to be seen whether
anything can be done to check the exist-
ing upward surge of costs. A good
recovery in world prices would defer the
necessity for readjustment. If such a
recovery doesn’t arrive there seems to
be little doubt that we are due for less
buoyant trade activity. In the building
industry slackness is already in evidence.
So far as the sharemarket is concerned
an extensive revision of anticipations has
already occurred. Tooth (Sydney) shares
have fallen from a “high” of 58s. 3d. in
1937 to 50s. 9d. last week. Bank of
N. S. Wales has come down from £3B
7s. 6d. to £2B 3s. —a very heavy drop.
.Electrolytic Zinc ords. have slumped
from 695. 3d. to 435. 3d., while British
Tobaccos have weakened from 51s. 3d. to
455. 3d. Broken Hill Prop, is down con-
siderably in the market, but the drop here
is hard to gauge owing to the fact that
two new share issues have been made in
recent years.
General Industries ords., after reach-
ing 225. 6d. in 1937, have receded to 17s.
3d. John McGrath shares have dropped
from 435., ex rights, to 325. David Jones
ords. have come down from 445. at one
period of 1938 to 325. last week. Cash
Orders (Amalg.) ords. have crashed from
255. 6d. in 1937 to 15s. 3d.
Among leading pref. share issues,
Goodyear 8 p.cs. have descended from
a “high” of 335. 9d. in 1937 to 325. now
—a moderate drop. Nestle’s 8 p.cs.
have slipped from 375. 9d. to 345. 6d.
General Motors-Holden’s and A.C.I.
issues haven’t fluctuated much, nor has
British Tobacco’s 6\ p.c. scrip.
A close scrutiny of the share-lists,
nevertheless, will show a wide marking-
down of security values compared with
the peak of two years ago. To that extent
there is a measure of security in the
prices now being offered for market
leaders.
General Motors-Holden’s, the huge
enterprise that represents a merger of
General Motors Australia and Holden’s
Motor Body Builders, has produced a
balance-sheet showing net profits at
£850,975, against £1,005,773 in 1937. A
div. on the bonus-increased ord. capital
at the rate of 55 p.c. is declared. The
enterprise, now largely controlled by
General Motors, of the U.S.A., had a
bad time during the slump, but with
the return of better times colossal profits
have been earned. At the same time a
proportion of these earnings has been
reinvested in the main and other busi-
nesses, though last year’s ord. div. is
obviously very juicy. It calls for
£962,500.
Was the drop of £154,798 in last
year’s earnings by G.M.-H. a true in-
dication of conditions in the motor trade
generally? For some time the opinion has
been expressed here that a slackening in
the demand for new cars was due at
any moment, and statistical figures cover-
ing several months support this view.
There are a number of smaller fry in
the motor business who will watch
General Motors’ figures with interest,
because up to a point they should be
a good indicator of the demand for cars.
With the Chevrolet a front-line seller,
and the Buick popular in the middle
of the field, the co.’s turnover should be
reasonably representative of sales in
American cars. The English light car
is in a class of its own, and, though
conditions vary from State to State, some
distributors report a fairly sustained
demand.
* * * *
Australian Consolidated Industries
ords., after lifting to 325. about the close
of the co.’s year (March 31), slipped
back to 30s. again owing to the general
uncertainty in the market. Since the
bonus scrip was distributed this year
they, have been as low as 28s. 3d. Fol-
lowing the declaration last week of a
final div. of Is. a share, making, with
the interim, 6.86 p.c. on the expanded
ord. capital, price of the ords. firmed
to 31s. 6d. Allowing for the div. accrued,
the yield would be 4.6 p.c. if 7 p.c. goes
out for the present year. This page
anticipated a div. of about 7 p.c. on
the new capital.
* * * *
C. Saunders, g.m. of Australasian
Petroleum Pty. and Island Exploration
Co. (Vacuum Oil interests), said last
week that his cos. were pushing ahead as
quickly as possible with their search for
oil in New Guinea. Since November
three aeroplanes have been engaged in
aerial survey work, and 5000 square miles
of prospecting country has been photo-
graphed. A site for drilling, it was
anticipated, would be chosen before the
end of this year, and equipment was
already being ordered from the U.S.A.
and England:
While there is, of course, no certainty
that the operations now in hand will be
successful, it is considered that the pros-
pects of the permits held by my companies
warrant the expenditure of large sums of
money, and our plans contemplate that
during 1939 at least £250,000 will be spent
on surveys and drilling in our areas held
under special permits. According to our
geological opinion, these are believed to
include some of the most promising sec-
tions in Papua and New Guinea from the
point of view of possible petroleum produc-
tion.
Australasian Petroleum is the co. in
which Oil Search, Ltd., is interested, as
explained in B. 12/4/’39.
V * *
In Melbourne last week: — ,
Broken Hill Prop, paids lifted to 555. 6d.
on Friday, British Tobacco ords. recovered to
465., and Australian Consolidated Indus-
tries to 31s. 6d. —all good gains on the week’s
lowest quotes. Howard Smith ords. remained
weak at 17s. 9d., and were being bought
quietly by bargain-hunters in other States.
Yarra Falls shares were dealt in at 345. 6d
and 345. 3d., following a sale at 335. 9d., the
lowest quote for several years.
Davies, Coop. ords. continued firm at 255.
3d. This co.’s past history and present ex-
pansion programme were mentioned in B.
5/4/’39.


'
m
m i
■
.
$
' .
•153
t&L ■; W* a®* wh»3a^,fflSBSB®
#•*■"'< -« 4f
v
(■ j »,
:ws*
m
■ s :sm :
riS4
a i
& V.. v, •
m
, /
/•fe -x i
Sc
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS'
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
FOUNDED 1886.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
The M.L.C. takes pleasure in announcing that the results for its fifty-
second year surpass all records.
STRENGTH.
Assets exceeded £28,000,000, of which over 74 per cent, was represented
by Government, Municipal and Local Body Loans, and Loans on Policies.
The valuation of the actuarial liabilities was made on strictly pure
premium bases, the rates of interest assumed being 2% per cent, for the
Industrial Branch, and 2f per cent, for the Ordinary Branch. These rates
are unsurpassed for strength in Australia.
PROGRESS.
The new Ordinary Branch business written was £8,233,135
The new Industrial Branch business written was ’. . . 4,440,654
£ 1 2,673,789
an increase over the previous best figures.
The increase in funds was £1,566,732 —the largest in the Company's
history. The total income increased by £282,228 to £4,297,964.
GOOD MANAGEMENT.
ECONOMY: Notwithstanding the record business written, the percentage of
income absorbed in expenses was only 9.61 in the Ordinary Branch,
and 27.14 in the Industrial Branch.
LIGHT MORTALITY: The mortality experienced was again light.
SOUND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS: The effective rate of interest earned on
funds and reserves was £5/0/1 per cent, in the Ordinary Branch, and
£4/16/10 per cent, in the Industrial Branch. Outstanding interest
at the end of the year amounted to £3421 only on assets of £28,000,000,
and none of it was brought into account as an asset.
THE RESULT.
The M.L.C. has been able to maintain the high bonus rates declared
for the year 1937. s
EXAMPLE: Whole of Life Policy in the Ordinary Branch, age 30 at entry.
Reversionary Bonus for the first year £2/5/- per cent., increasing to
£4/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
TRUSTEES:
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Mel-
bourne.
The Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Sydney.
Sir GEORGE JULIUS, K. 8., B.Sc.,
11. E., Sydney.
The Right Hon. W. A. WATT, P.C.,
Melbourne.
The Hon. F. W. EGGLESTON,
Melbourne.
J. S. WILSON, F.1.A., Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
ARTHUR EEDY, C.8.E., Managing F. LEVERRIER, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc.
Director. The Hon Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON,
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman. K.8.E., M.L.C.
A. G. COPELAND.
S E WE RAG E ...A Necessity inEveiyHome
Before you invest, consider
Sewerage WorJts Securities
Since 1898, the incidence of typhoid in the Metropolitan
area of Sydney and the South Coast has dropped from
1.93 to .02 per 1,000 of population per annum. This
reduction reflects to a large degree the benefits of the
Sydney and South Coast Sewerage systems as they
exist to-day.
Much yet remains to be done. Large and well-settled
areas on both sides of the Harbour are at present
unsewered. The Board has in hand an extensive pro-
gramme to provide sewerage facilities for these areas,
and for the treatment of sewage, prior to its discharge
into the sea, to avoid pollution of the beaches.
Assist the Board to safeguard the health of the com-
munity by investing in its £1,000,000 Loan, now open.
The Loan is guaranteed both by the revenues of the
Board and the Government of New South Wales.
Prospectuses and application forms are obtainable at
any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and
from Members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE BOARD. SYDNEY
LOA
INTEREST 4*%
REPAYABLE 1949
PRICE OF ISSUE
PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY
PAR
INVEST NOW
Great Boulder (W.A.) put through
31 300 short tons during March tor a
“mine profit” of £24,809 Australian.
Working costs were over 30s. per short
ton, and capital expenditure was £17,895.
This substantial item (too substantial,
some would say) is explained to be in
respect of “special development and
general maintenance of surface and un-
derground equipment. Main payments
were for a new roaster and compressor,
underground locomotive and trucks, and
the electrifying of the 2650 ft. level. The
high costs of mining and treatment in the
case of Great Boulder and the continued
heavy outlay on equipment are having
the effect of getting some shareholders’
hackles up. The position is really very
dissatisfying. Heavy outlay on plant
and equipment is only justifiable if it
increases throughput and reduces costs;
though in Great Boulder’s case tonnage
has been pushed up, nothing sensational
has so far happened in the way of re-
duced costs, and the heavy development
and other outlay labelled “capital ex-
penditure” continues to keep divisible
profits down to mere chicken-feed. On
a 37| p.c. div. basis it would take the
best part of 12 years for the present
market price of the scrip to be returned.
Yet, though it is unbelievable that “capi-
tal expenditure” on the scale of the last
two months will be necessary during the
mine’s lifetime, it is interesting to note
that “working profit,” less capital out-
lay, for February and March combined
was only £19,244 Aust. less than
£120,000 Aust. a year. Office exes, and
taxation have to be charged against the
mine profit in addition.
Great Boulder’s new plant is supposed
to be “completed,” and “giving entire
satisfaction.” The next few months
should show whether shareholders are
going to be satisfied or not. The mine
appears to contain a great body of re-
munerative ore, and it is time share-
holders were reaping real benefit from
it. Any arrears of plant and development
—and for a time there were such arrears
—should have been overcome by this.
❖ *
Briseis Consolidated (Derby, Tas.)
sluiced 722,000 c.y. during 1938 for 544-
tons of tin oxide, an average of 1.6851 b.
a yard. Realisations represented 29.44 d.
a yard net (up 1.57 d.), while working
costs were 16.15 d., inclusive of over-
burden removal (down 1.86 d.). Net profit
for the year, after providing £1631 for
development, £1266 for taxation and
£5150 for depreciation was £26,967 (up
£17,711). A 10 p.c. div. was paid, and
the financial position, which received a
knock-back following the flooding of
the mine during the early stages of the
present co.’s career, has improved a good
deal. The face of the ore-body looks
better than a year ago, and good values
are expected for 1939. No. 2 tunnel,
prospecting 2.31 b. a yard, is about six
chains ahead, and “should give favorable
returns for the next three years.” Tin
last week rose to £220 in London, well
up on the 1938 average price. Aus-
tralian producers are not subject to the
restriction scheme, though they benefit
from the better price aimed at (and at
present being achieved). Briseis ss.
shares are at Bs., equal to 325. per £1 of
capital.
* * * a>
It is encouraging to notice that, in
spite of greater activity at Port
Kembla, B.H.P.’s Newcastle steelworks
are still showing a slight increase in steel
production compared with figures for
the 1937-38 term. B.H.P. ords. at last
week’s quote of 555. 6d. carried a div.
of Is. 3d., payable May 31. On this
unchanged 12| p.c. div. basis the scrip
returns £4 12s. p.c.
* * * *
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum has
applied for the hire of a deep-drilling
outfit, and the Commonwealth Drilling
inspector is going to Papua to advise on
the type of plant required. The co.’s
shares were near ss. (par) last week.
Washington H. Soul, the Sydney
chain-store chemist, has kept its profit
steady at £35,000-odd for the half-year
ended January and pays an unchanged
15 p.c., which leaves £12,000-odd for
reserves. This is the concern shareholders
in which hope for a link-up with Boots,
the English chain chemists. W. H.
Soul’s latest report makes no mention
of the rumored merger. The £1 shares
at 86s. yield 3.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Tooth (Sydney) shares, for a long time
around 545. 6d., have been weak at 50s.
or thereabouts since the Czecho-Polo-
What-next? business. On the present div.
basis (lly p.c.) the yield is £4 12s. per
cent. It isn’t a bad return considering
that market hopes are still not altogether
dimmed concerning some future act of
generosity on the part of the board. This
stock is one of those Sydney issues which
for years have been run up the price-scale
every now and then in expectation of
something extra-special coming along.
Melbourne-registered Australian Glass
eventually did what the market con-
sidered the “right thing” by share-
holders in making a 15-for-four bonus
issue, though only after years of false
alarms. So as the years roll by it is con-
sidered that possibilities of .something
from Tooth and Co. grows nearer. The
last bonus issue (one-for-eight,‘following
one-for-four in 1927) took place in 1929,
after the absorption of Resch’s busi-
ness. The only “extras” received since
then have been a 2| p.c. centenary, bonus
in 1935 and a one-for-KT par issue in
1936. In the term to Sept. 30, 1938,
Tooth’s visible net earnings ran to 13.6
p.c. on capital.
:p * * #
Yarra Falls shares slumped to 335. 9d.
last week in Melbourne, to return 6-p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. This represented
a drop of 3s. 3d. on quotes of a month
or two ago, allowing for the div. of Is.
a share paid early this month. The next
distribution is due in October, and if it
is maintained at 10 p.c. p.a. the shares
at last week’s lowest price seemed to
represent very good buying. Although
disclosed earnings of late haven’t shown
much margin over div. requirements,
there is reason to believe that the trading
and financial position is very sound,
especially when the affairs of the Sydney
subsidiary, Globe Worsted Mills, are
taken into account. Globe figures are not
available to the public.
* * * *
Herbert Gepp, managing director of
Australian Paper Manufacturers, the
operating co. controlled by Australasian
Paper and Cumberland Paper, and which
has a public issue of 1,000,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs., has announced that the pulp mill
at Maryvale (Gippsland, Vic.) should
commence operations in July (capacity
27,500-50,000 tons), and a 25,000-ton-
p.a. paper and board machine alongside
of it should be working within 12 months.
Already Associated Pulp and Paper,
which has no connection with A.P.M.,
is turning out printing-paper from euca-
lyptus pulp at Buraie (Tas.). A.P.M.
is interested only in wrapping-paper and
cardboard ; it has a very large output
and a solid business connection. Finances
are in excellent shape, adequate depre-
ciation being allowed for. The ord.
shares in Australasian Paper, the chief
holding co., sold at . 275. 6d. last week,
yielding £5 Bs. per cent.
# * * *
On the day it was announced that the
U.S. Fleet, with the exception of the
newly-created Atlantic squadron, had
been ordered to return to the Pacific from
the eastern coast in order to keep “an
eye on Japan,” the London Stock Ex-
change industrial-share * index rose one
point, whereas the New York index fell
two points. Any suggestion of fighting
the “enemy” seems to be appreciated by
everyone except the party picked to do
the fighting.
* * * *
Australian Cement shares were dealt
in at 365. last week in Melbourne, the
high tide in prices for this scrip showing
no effect of the lunar (or lunatic) influ-
ences from the direction of the other
side of the globe. The scrip returned
6.9 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis. In
Sydney Kandos shares kept steady
around 265. 6d. and yielded 7.5 p.c.
Cement shares have maintained their
place on the share-list better than any
other particular class of stock. In a
type of its own, Gordon and Gotch
(wholesaler of periodicals,, paper, etc.)
has kept very steady also, the ords. sell-
ing last week at 545. and returning
5.1 p.c. " '


UMCABLED ADDITIONS
Hitler on Encirclement.
[The German leader’s Wilhelmshaven speech of
April 1, condensed from the London “Times” report,
and referred to in the accompanying panel item
headed “Hitler’s Speech.”]
We know from historical data that before 1914
the encirclement of Germany was carried out by
Britain systematically, because the annihilation of
Germany would ensure a greater quantity of food for
every British citizen. Germany’s mistake was that she
saw the encirclement coming, but did nothing against
it.
Although it was the least armed of all, the Ger-
man nation fought heroically during the Great War.
No people can take the credit for having defeated the
Germans. Germany remained undefeated on land,
by sea and in the air, and yet she lost the war. Ger-
many believed in the assurances given in Wilson’s
Fourteen Points, and in her faith that the Allies
would stand by their declarations she laid down her
weapons.
But as soon as our people had laid down their
weapons the time of oppression and hate began. The
vanquished were condemned for ever. Robbery fol-
lowed robbery, oppression followed oppression. No-
body in this democratic world worried about the
misery of our people. Even after the war the block-
ade was carried on so that our people could be
further oppressed. The German colonies were stolen
from us ; our war prisoners were not allowed to return
home. Germany’s credits abroad were taken from
us, as well as part of our merchant fleet.
To this was added the financial bilking of Ger-
many such as the world has never seen before. Hunger,
poverty and need took their cruel hold upon us. The
disarmament which Germany alone had to carry
through was disregarded by the others. As long as the
dictate of Versailles was weighing on the German
people, this people was in fact condemned to perish.
A French statesman coined the phrase: “There are
20,000,000 Germans too many.”
When, six years ago, I came to power I took over
a nation without hope. Germany was close to com-
plete breakdown. The German people was not created
by Providence for the purpose of obediently observ-
ing a law which Englishmen or French like, but for
the purpose of standing up for our vital rights. Now
this Reich is, thank God, strong enough to protect
your rights.
If an English statesman thinks to-day that all
problems must be frankly discussed, and that they
can be solved by negotiations, then I would like only
to say to this statesman that there was for 15 years
an opportunity to do this. We have come to the
conviction that we would not have achieved anything
if we had waited another 15 years for this ridiculous
institution of Geneva to take courage to solve
problems by talking. We would probably have had
to wait for all eternity. Now we have achieved every-
thing on our own. How much has been accomplished
how much will still be accomplished here! In
a few years we shall be far beyond the troubles which
perhaps we still have to-day.
If the world says to-day that the world is divided
into virtuous and those that are not virtuous —and
that Britain and France belong to the virtuous nations,
and Germany and Italy to the non-virtuous —then we
can only say: the verdict whether a nation is virtuous
or not is scarcely for a mortal to pronounce. That
would have to be left to the gods. Perhaps a British
statesman will say: “God has already pronounced
the verdict, for He gave to the virtuous nations a
quarter of the world and He has taken all from the
non-virtuous.”
Let us ask ourselves by what means the virtuous
nations have acquired this quarter of the world. For
300 years this England acted only as a non-virtuous
nation, and they talk in this late day of virtue. Thus
it came about that, while 46,000,000 Britons have
subdued a quarter of the world, 80,000,000 Germans,
in their lack of virtue, must live 140 to the square
kilometre. Twenty years ago it was considered in
conformity with virtue to take whatever you could
get. To-day any form of power is described as some-
thing appalling.
After we National-Socialists came to power I tried
to solve every problem by discussion. In the case
of every problem I made offers and they were re-
jected. If a British statesman to-day demands that
every problem which lies in the hearts of Germans —
vital interests and living space for our people—should
first be discussed with Great Britain, I can make just
the same claim that every British problem should
first be discussed with us. Britain will perhaps reply
to us that the Germans have nothing to seek in
Palestine; nor do we want to seek anything in
Palestine. But Britain has just as little to seek in our
sphere of existence as Germany has in Palestine.
What right has Britain got to shoot down Arabs in
Palestine who are fighting for their country? We
have solved our problems in a quiet and orderly
manner.
When the Allies changed the map of Europe
without taking into consideration utility, right,
historical tradition, or even commonsense we had
no power to prevent this. But if they expect the
present Germany to allow Satellite States to be set
up against Germany to grow until the meshes close,
then they mistake the present Germany. Those who
declare that they are ready to pull the chestnuts out
of the fire for the Great Powers must also be pre-
pared to burn their fingers.
If a former French Air Minister writes that
it is the task of Czechoslovakia, in view of its
excellent position, to shatter Germany’s industry in
the event of air attacks, people will understand it is
not without interest to us, and that we draw certain
conclusions. For us, at any rate, it was important
to prevent such an attack taking place.
I have, I believe, done a great service to peace,
for I have destroyed an instrument which was deter-
mined to be used effectively against Germany in a
war. If it is now said that this was the signal that
Germany wanted to attack the whole world, then I
do not believe that people who say so really mean
it. That could only be the expression of the worst
conscience in the world. Perhaps it is rage over
the lack of success of a carefully evolved plan aimed
at creating a tactical State for the new policy of en-
circlement. We would have had nothing against an
independent Czech State if this State had, first, no
oppressed Germans, and, secondly, had not been an
instrument for a future attack against Germany.
The German Reich is not going to put up with
a policy of intimidation or of encirclement.
I concluded once an agreement with Britain —
the Naval Pact. It is based on the fervent desire we
all possess never to go to war with England. If this
wish no longer exists in England, then the practical
condition for this agreement is removed. Germany
will be quite content to put up with this view. We
are so sure of ourselves because we are so strong. No
Power in the world will ever lure the weapons away
from us, no matter by what phrases. But if some-
one should really want to measure his strength with
ours by force, then the German people are also at
all times in a position to do this, and I am prepared
and determined.
The Axis will be more lasting than the transitory
ties of heterogeneous bodies on the other side ; for
if someone says to me to-day, “There are no world
philosophical or ideological differences between Great
Britain and Soviet Russia,” then I can only say, “I
congratulate you, gentlemen.” I believe that the time
is not far away when it may be proved that the
philosophical unity between Fascist Italy and National-
Socialist Germany is different from that between the
democratic Great Britain and the Bolshevist Russia
of Stalin.
We have given Central Europe a great fortune —
namely, peace, which is protected by the German
might. This might will never be broken by any
Power in the world. This is our vow.
Lopsided Axis.
(From an article in the April issue of the American
quarterly “Foreign Affairs.”)
From the German point of view, the Rome-Berlin
Axis served its main purpose at the time of the
annexation of Austria and the partitionment of Czecho-
slovakia. Hitler doubtless sees that he cannot count
on profiting much more from Italian support. More-
over, like most Germans, he does not place too great
reliance on Italy’s military strength in a possible war
against the united forces and resources of Great Britain
and France.
Italian friendliness meant much to Germany in
March and September, 1938 ; but, after all, the sup-
port given was only moral. Hitler considers that he
paid for these services by his declaration in April,
1938, regarding the inviolability of Italy’s frontier on
the Brenner and by his present support —likewise
moral —of Italian claims in the Mediterranean and
the Red Sea. It seems most unlikely that when on
January 30, 1939, Hitler pledged military support to
Italy he meant that he would straightway dispatch an
expeditionary force to help her in any war of aggres-
sion against France. More probably he was deli-
berately paying a last instalment on his debt to Musso-
lini—not a very expensive one, either, for he is right
if he reasons that Italy will not venture upon any seri-
ous undertaking unless the German Army is available
from the very outset.
Furthermore, it would be quite in line with Ger-
man modern diplomatic methods to have encouraged
Italian threats of aggression, with a view to compro-
mising Mussolini in the eyes of British and French
public opinion and so preventing a rapprochement
between Italy and the two great European democ-
racies. If France, supported unequivocally by Great
Britain, definitely refuses to grant any territorial con-
cessions to Italy, Hitler will probably withdraw his
promise of military support to Italy, pleading his
pacifism. He would count on thus regaining some
popularity in England and furthering his aim of a
German-British rapprochement.
Germany’s influence in the Danubian States is
at present stronger than Italy’s. But here, as through-
out the Balkans, there is more ground for German-
Italian rivalry than co-operation.
Economically and financially, an Italo-German
alliance has no great prospects, for in this realm neither
country can help the other. Moreover, both are
forced to import certain raw materials and foodstuffs,
and both are dependent to this extent on foreign
markets and credits. Will there not develop naturally
then a competition between Italy and Germany for
a rapprochement with Britain and the United States
as the only solution of their respective financial and
economic difficulties?
The psychological factor should also be taken
into consideration. Let us disregard for a moment
the great differences between Latin and Germanic
characteristics. It must be admitted that personally
the two dictators have many traits in common,
especially the love of theatrical effects and absolute
self-confidence, although Mussolini, the more experi-
enced and better educated of the two, possesses more
of the qualities of a statesman. Broady speaking, too.
the aims of Fascism and National Socialism are
similar: Mussolini aims at re-creating a modern
Roman Empire, Hitler at creating a German Empire.
Each regime has embodied in its programme some of
the fundamentals of Communism, and each has added
to these the ingredients of nationalism, militarism
and racism. In the present phase, their personal
relationship is one of emulation and imitation.
In essence, however, Hitler and Mussolini are
competitors for very much the same power and hege-
mony and therefore are potential enemies. Their alli-
ance, though it has served each of them well —especially
Germany—is not evenly balanced. Both partners have
the same boundless ambitions, but whereas Germany
thinks she possesses the force, actual or potential, to
threaten the world single-handed, to-day or to-morrow.
Italy knows that her resources allow her no such wild
imaginings. She realises that she must play second
fiddle to her towering companion. The association
is the uncomfortable one of a pedestrian alongside a
man walking on stilts. The Berlin-Rome Axis will
appear in history as an artificial alliance for temporary
ends between two Powers with essentially competing
interests.
“Discontent in Germany” ?
[Last week “S. M. Herald” had a long letter by a
B.A. back from Germany all about the “discontent,”
“disapproval” and “disillusionment” allegedly rampant
in Naziland. This constantly recurrent theme may cheer
up graveyard-whistlers, but there is much evidence to
the contrary adduced by competent observers, on the
lines of this (condensed) London “Spectator” article
by H. Powys Greenwood, who writes with long and
intimate first-hand knowledge.]
No one who has really studied the inside work-
ings of the great movement of which Adolf Hitler is
at once the creator, the symbol and the leader can
fail to realise its dynamic force. What is generally
called the Nazi, but should really be called the Ger-
man, Revolution represents just as fundamental an
upsurge of feeling and reversal of values as was the
case with the great French Revolution or the Com-
munist Revolution in Russia. Thus the possibility
always existed of the German Revolution sweeping
across Europe and indeed attempting to conquer the
world in the same way that the French Revolution
did under Napoleon.
But the challenge of the German Revolution is
not purely military. It is also the challenge of achieve-
ment. Under the impulse of the Revolution a de-
feated people, torn by political dissensions, rendered
despairing and prostrate by the impact of a great
economic and social crisis, has within a few years
organised itself into the most formidable political,
economic and military striking force the world has yet
seen.
In so doing it has tackled, and for the time being
at any rate mastered, many of the most acute social
problems of the age. While free countries like Great
Britain and America are letting millions of men run
to seed in idleness, Germany is crying out for more
workers. While democratic nations were bemoaning
their empty cradles and setting commissions to study
population problems, Germany succeeded in raising
the birthrate from 15.1 to 19 per thousand. In a world
where differences, inequalities and misunderstandings
between classes play a considerable part, Germany
Hitler’s Speech.
All the essentials in Herr Hitler’s speech
at Wilhelmshaven on April / are included in
the digest of a London “Times” report on
this page, headed “Hitler on Encirclement.”
It is given here so that readers can examine
for themselves Herr Hitler’s own words, which
happen in this case to be exceptionally reveal-
ing. The speech is the most uncompromising
towards Britain that the German leader has
made to date, and in this and other respects
probably foreshadows what he will have to say
on Friday this week, especially in regard to
what he represents as the offensive encircle-
ment of Germany.
As must become evident in the reading,
there is a provocative flavor about some of
the pronouncements, particularly the statement
that “Germany remained undefeated by land,
on sea and in the air” and only laid down
arms because of belief in the assurances con-
tained in Wilson’s Fourteen Points.
In addition to what is given in the “Times”
report, a listener in Australia at the time
heard Herr Hitler say that “when Wilson’s
Fourteen Points were announced many lead-
ing men in Germany believed in the pacifica-
tion of the entire world.”
Perhaps they did; but it remains fact that
those Points were offered to Germany in Feb-
ruary, 1918, when the Germans looked to have
a fair chance of winning the war, and were
then ignored. They were not accepted until
the Germans and their allies had lost the war.
Again, there is the sneer at Britain over
Palestine, coupled with the claim that in Ger-
many they have solved their problems “in a
quiet and orderly manner.” No German Jew
will ever admit it.


has taken by no means ineffective steps to bring the
classes together. And these examples do not exhaust
the list.
It is often supposed that in doing all this Ger-
many has imposed such a strain on the financial and
economic system, and above all on the standard of
living of her people, that the system is bound to break
down internally. I do not believe it. Ever since the
Nazis came to power the pundits of orthodoxy have
prophesied rapid collapse, but I have seen no signs
of it. On the contrary, Germany to-day appears on
the surface by no means unprosperous and certainly
busy and active. Real wages per hour of labor may
have fallen, for, though prices are comparatively stable,
the quality of many goods has deteriorated and there
are occasional shortages, but from the point of view
of working-class families the increase in employment
and hours worked has more than made this up. In
the last analysis the only fundamental sacrifice im-
posed by Nazi Germany on its population is that of
freedom —the freedom of the human mind. In the
long run that sacrifice will have its inevitable cramp-
ing effect. But it will be a very long run.
The achievements of dictatorship are a chal-
lenge to freedom. Unless the free countries can do
better they will not. prevail. Their failure to cope with
their problems in time of peace fatally weakens their
propaganda ; a German worker hearing of the bene-
fits of freedom would probably retort that Hitler at
any rate gave him work. And if they cannot organise
their much greater resources into a more effective
striking force than that of their potential opponents,
if they cannot inspire their peoples with a spirit and
a purpose equal to the great drive of the German
Revolution, there will be little chance of avoiding war
and a serious possibility of losing it.
A “Non-intervention” Observer’s Report.
[ln the article here condensed from the “Fort-
nightly,” Commander Oswald Frewen, R.N., one of the
small band of sea-observing officers for Non-interven-
tion in Spain, gives an account of the job he had to
do, with its comic-opera touches.]
At first we all took it most seriously, and it was
not until I had sent in the most precise details of the
four destroyers handed over by Italy to General
Franco, and a month later heard on our wireless that
the British Prime Minister “had no official informa-
tion” of the transaction, that I realised that an ob-
server may observe and may report his observations,
but that these are not necessarily passed on. After
that I took Non-intervention in the picnic spirit.
The most entertaining of all my ships was one
of those foreign-owned vessels flying the British ensign
which periodically caused indignation both in the
press and among seamen. Owned as to 51 p.c. by a
Russian, as to 48 p.c. by a Rumanian, both living
in Rumania, and as to 1 p.c. by an Englishman with
a registered office in London, she was manned by a
crew of Russians, two negroes and a Frenchman, col-
lected by an ex-Tsarist naval captain.
For insurance purposes she carried a duly certi-
ficated British master, who, I think, had never served
afloat in a higher capacity than second mate, and
who genially introduced himself to me as “the flag
captain.” He signed on the crew and carried out all
the port formalities before the British Consuls, but
on board celebrated a whole holiday for the duration
of the voyage and confined his activities to reading
novels and sewing settee covers. The real captain
had the fullest measure of Russian charm at its best.
, We cleared Marseilles for Sfax, to take phos-
phates to Barcelona, but once out of port made for
Bona and Susa and loaded for Valencia. The other
was “eyewash” for Franco spies. But Susa was dis-
tressingly efficient, and had us all ready for sea by
February 28. The captain confided to me that the
best astrologer in France had cast a horoscope for
the voyage, and warned him that the period March
1 to 7 was ill-aspected and “dangerous to his navi-
gation.” Sailing on February 28 for Valencia would
infallibly pass us through Franco’s patrols during
our worst aspects. I could but sympathise and sit
back to see what would happen. I was not surprised
when two days later the boiler developed a leak off
Algiers (quite reasonably, as it was 44 years old),
and we put into port for repairs which lasted till
March 8.
Our original regulations provided that we should
be fed and berthed free while embarked, but pay our
own hotel bills ashore. As at certain ports, notably
Gibraltar, an increasingly large proportion of calling
ships were British, which were not allowed to embark
British observers, we presently found “the foreigners”
(we were of all nationalities) doing a brisk trade while
some of us spent as long as six weeks on end kicking
our heels ashore. Then the influence of the strong.
Dutch contingent made itself felt. I believe it was
they who obtained for us grants towards hotel ex-
penses, and the boon of 6s. a day for every day spent
ashore after your first 30 in any quarter.
After that nobody cared whether he was afloat
or ashore, but When the bombing of the Republican
ports became almost continuous, and the only ships
that would go to them were British, with a thin
sprinkling of French, the non-British observers sud-
denly started the new hare of “equal sacrifices for
all.” The unequal sacrifice of the Britons languish-
ing on the Rock in the pay-your-own-hotel-expenses
days was forgotten, and the ukase went forth that
British observers could now be shipped in British ships
whenever these were bound for “the Bomberies.”
The hosannas of the heathen subsided very sud-
denly when our just and equitable Chief Adminis-
trator announced the further boon of £1 a day
“Danger Money” to every observer whilst in Spanish
Republican waters, and they realised to what a gold-
mine they had inadvertently admitted the Britons.
As a rough measure of the appalling dangers that we
underwent I must state that I myself qualified for 36
days of it, in the course of which I experienced one
raid, during which one bomb fell on board my ship
at a time when, by the courtesy of the Spaniards, I
was awaiting the “All-clear” signal in a refugio with
about 12ft. of masonry above me. No one was hurt.
Of course the observing officers did sulfer a few
casualties first and last, but they were a small per-
centage.
Between October, 1937, when I saw a double
daylight raid on Palma, with more noise from scores
of A.A. guns than all Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Shows
(and no more injury to actors or spectators), and
December, 1938, I had not seen one bomb dropped.
Bombing efficiency had improved meanwhile, and
Oran and Gibraltar hospitals were encumbered with
observers recovering from knee, shin and ankle in-
juries. I investigated these, with an eye to my own
impending embarkation for Valencia, and discovered
that without exception they had been incurred while
“rushing for the refugio,” and as often as not on a
false alarm. All were due to jumping or tripping up
or falling down. Not one was due to direct impact
of bomb or debris. I was much impressed.
When my ship berthed in Valencia she arrived
a little later than intended, and the pilot had to put
us alongside in the dangerous hour, between 10 and 2,
when the Savoias, climbing high into the sun’s eye,
would shut off engines and silently slide down their
own shadows so as to catch the dock workers in the
open before they could reach the refugios. He was in
such a hurry to get us alongside, in reach of a refugio,
that he lifted the mast out of the sunken wreck of
a gunboat ahead of us with our bows.
The ship’s officers assured me that “seconds
counted” when once the alarm was given, and that
the usual order of precedence in a raid was first
bombs, second A.A. guns and last the siren alarm.
Therefore the dockers had trained several dogs to
bay distant aeroplanes before they had come within
range of human ears. At the dog bark, up poured
all the workers from the holds, collecting the ship’s
personnel en route, and away they all went over the
side to the nearest refugio, leaving an eerie dead silence
behind them, more ominous than any I have ever
felt. This was the moment for knee, shin and ankle
injuries. Fortunately, I was hardly over convalescence
from an abdominal operation, and could not join the
rout. I had leisure to observe that the Spaniards,
while training their dogs to bay ’planes, had omitted
to train them not to bay cats. We had about 12
“public panics,” and not one raid, that voyage.
A dispassionate appraisal of percentages —of
bombs dropped to ships hit, of ships hit to observers
wounded on board them, of observers wounded at
all (I think about 2 p.c.)—enabled me to steer my
nerves in the opposite direction, so that when the real
raid came I was able to observe most of it, like a
wise old rabbit, from the mouth of my refugio, only
popping inside at the last moment. It is a nice cal-
culation that our leaders must make ; on the one
hand, to induce the population to get under cover
when bombers are due, but, on the other hand, to
avoid working up the panic nerves which lead to
distress of body and spirit.
China’s Wily Diplomats.
[The writer of the article here condensed from the
“National Review” is J. O. P. Bland, representative of
London “Times” in China for about, a quarter of a
century.]
Chiang Kai-shek’s remarkable prestige in the
eyes of foreigners probably owes as much to his own
oracular silences as to his gifted wife’s world-wide
loquacity, and has been greatly increased in the press
by the skilful propaganda work of his diplomatic
agents.
Ten years ago, the guiding spirits of the Kuomin-
tang first realised the useful role which the League
of Nations might be induced to play, as the friend
of China, in opposition to Japanese aggression, and
in the arid arena of international logomachy the influ-
ence exercised by Nanking’s carefully-chosen delegates
was repeatedly manifested. One of the most striking
manifestations of this influence, and of the rapidity
with which it takes effect in virgin soil, was afforded
by the late Mr. Ramsay MacDonald.
At a public meeting held in the Albert Hall on
February 6, 1927, he declared that “an hour’s conver-
sation with Mr. Eugene Chen was worth an army
corps in removing risks to men and women.” Anyone
conversant with Chinese affairs could have enlightened
Mr. MacDonald concerning Mr. Chen’s record as a
politician in China, but the oracles of Chatham House
and the “experts” of the 8.8. C., staunch supporters
of the Cantonese-cwm-Bolshevik section of the
Kuomintang, afforded authority for the belief that this
section (which Mr. Chen was then representing) was,
in fact, an effective Government, capable of maintain-
ing law and order and of fulfilling its international
obligations.
Mr. MacDonald’s Far Eastern policy remained
therefore unenlightened, and his conversations with
Mr. Chen impressed him so powerfully that he assured
the House of Commons that the Nationalist move-
ment “had become so powerful that we must frankly
recognise that China must have all the powers of an
independent, self-governing nation.” This delusion,
continually nourished by China’s adroit spokesmen at
Geneva, undoubtedly inspired England’s unfortunate
policy of encouraging the Chinese to defy Japan in
the matter of Manchuria, and thus may be said to
have contributed directly to the present deplorable
situation.
When the guiding minds of the Kuomintang
decided in 1929 to tickle the vanity of the League
Directorates by engaging the services of its appointed
experts to inaugurate grandiose schemes of national
reconstruction, their delegates at Geneva were able
to persuade public opinion in England and the United
States that, in supporting Chiang Kai-shek’s Govern-
ment, they would be serving the best interests of the
Chinese people. This opinion, now firmly established,
has found influential support in the great missionary
bodies and in the press, which since 1931 has been
naturally disposed to sympathise with the Chinese in
their unequal struggle against the invading Japanese.
Because of the cult and legend of Chiang Kai-
shek, the world at large firmly believes that under
his guidance China has definitely achieved political
unity and a wide measure of national consciousness.
This belief involves the assumption that China’s
modern-type officials in general, and those of Chiang’s
following in particular, have, with Western learning,
acquired a patriotic mentality, exempt from the para-
mount motive which has dominated Chinese politics
since the time of Confucius, namely, the desire for
family enrichment at the expense of other families.
The fallacious nature of this assumption is suffi-
ciently demonstrated by the personal records of the
various party leaders since the Revolution ; that it
persists, unchallenged, is a fact which must be ascribed
partly to the persuasive propaganda of the Kuomin-
tang at Geneva, and partly to the consensus of wish-
ful thinking and prudent silence maintained, in China,
by the missionary element and the local press respec-
tively. Belief in China’s newly-found political unity
has been so universally proclaimed that anything which
might tend to demonstrate its untenability is politely
ignored.
Very little has been said in the press with regard
to the latest activities of the Cantonese in opposition
to the Generalissimo, including the “peace movement”
conducted by such well-known politicians as Wang
Ching-wei, Wen Tsung-yao and Eugene Chen. The
truth of the matter is that China, roused to bitter
hatred of the Japanese by the barbarous methods of
their warfare, has achieved an undeniable and unprece-
dented measure of national consciousness and unity
in the face of a common danger, but this unity is
racial, not political, and the Japanese have done far
more to create it than Chiang Kai-shek.
Rations v. Submarines.
[When Britain was nearly starved out, as recalled
by Capt. Dorling, R.N. (Retd.), in a “National Review”
article from which this extract is taken. Capt. Dorling
apologises for “introducing these figures,” adding: “But
memories are short. The Great War is almost forgotten
and our younger generation never knew it.” The war-
urgers, of course, take all such matters in their stride.]
The unrestricted submarine campaign of 1917-18
was the gravest peril that has ever threatened the
British Empire. It was calculated to break Britain’s
resistance by the autumn of 1917. If 600,000 tons of
shipping were destroyed a month, and about 1,200,000
tons of neutral shipping were scared off through ter-
rorism, the argument ran, the war would be won
for Germany in five months. It nearly was.
Food was short in England, and severely rationed.
The total imports during the war were reduced by
over 19 million tons, roughly 35| p.c., and of this
decrease about one-third represented food. The
general shortage of meat, sugar and butter, the bad
quality of much of the meat and bacon released for
civilian consumption, the unaccustomed restrictions
on diet and habits, and the increase in the cost of
living to about 140 p.c. above the figure for 1914, all
had their repercussions in the widespread industrial
unrest after the war.
The queues at most English food shops during
the winter of 1917-18 are now almost forgotten. When
a scheme of sugar rationing was introduced, there
was no indication that a scarcity of other foods was
imminent. By the end of 1917, however, the distri-
bution of butter, margarine and tea had partially
broken down, and all over England people were find-
ing it necessary to hunt round to obtain even a por-
tion of the supplies to which they had become accus-
tomed. Meat queues were soon added to the mar-
garine queues, and there were extraordinary scenes
in London. Outside retail butchers’ shops near Smith-
field as many as 4000 people gathered in the queue,
and began to assemble as early as 2 a.m. In the
market itself retail butchers had to line up to get
meagre supplies for their shops.
Eventually there was compulsory rationing all
round, and a gigantic system of food cards which
older people will remember. Typical rations were four
ounces of butter or margarine and one ounce of tea
a week for each man, woman or child. Substitutes
for staple food had to be accepted—for instance,
potatoes instead of flour. Meat was very short,
and the only meat that was unrationed was what was
termed “offal.”
Poland’s 9 p.c.
Arresting figures quoted in an article by
London “Times” Warsaw correspondent:—
Many plans have been under consideration
in Warsaw directed towards “unloading”
Poland of her surplus Jews by mutual consent
and arrangement among the parties concerned,
without turning the outcasts into the world
destitute.
One of these is an ingenious plan of credit
bonds to enable emigrants to have a large part
of the benefits of their capital when abroad
without the inconvenience to Poland which
would follow if they were allowed to take it
with them.
The dislocation which would ensue if the
removal of capital were unrestricted may be
indicated by the fact that Jews are the chief
owners of urban real estate in Poland. There
are 3,200,000 of them, and, though they com-
prise only 9.8 per cent, of the total population,
they account for 62 per cent, of those engaged
in commerce, 40 per cent, of craftsmen, 23.5
per cent, of those employed in industry, 53 per
cent, of , doctors and 75 per cent, of lawyers.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
City Tatt.’s had fine weather for its
autumn meeting at Randwick and an
attendance of 28,000, an unusually large
proportion being in short skirts and silk
or near-silk stockings. There had been
a lavish distribution of free tickets. For
this hospitality the club reaped no
material reward, the average feminine
flutter per race running to a ss. tote
ticket at one and three a girl; but its
bookmaker-members had no complaints.
Five favorites went down, and for many
of the brotherhood two winners were
skinners.
Oliver Triggs, who is a .Sydney mar-
garine merchant, was present to receive
the £lOO trophy and the cheque for £BOO
reserved for the owner of the City Tatt.’s
Gold Cup winner. His chestnut gelding
Gill town caused a surprise by battling
out the 11 furlongs and at the end beat-
ing Sedunum by half a length, L’Aiglon
being a length and a half away third and
Will Rogers fourth. In a sense Val
William made the race for Gilltown, who
has never succeeded at even a middle
distance. When Val William had enough
at the top of the straight, Gilltown’s
light weight was of inestimable value on
a track which was dead. He fought on
gamely after Sedunum had joined him a
furlong from the finish. Gilltown went
out at 20 to 1, Sedunum —who would
probably have won had the going been
good —at 12 to 1. Gilltown dividends
were £6 os. 3d. and £1 14s. On out-
siders the machine generally pays better
odds than the Ring has offered.
Little Cooranga was favorite at 7 to 4,
punters arguing that she is at her best
on a softish track. But going out of the
straight a clod of dirt struck Bartle on the
bridge of the nose, portion scratching an
eyeball, and for the rest of the journey
he rode blind and bleeding. There were
15 starters and the mare finished eleventh
—understandable in the circumstances.
Bartle’s left eye was closed and swollen
to the size of a duck egg. He had been
engaged to ride Cherry Bar, who won
the Club Welter, so the accident was
costly as well as painful.
The Denman Stakes finish was a com-
pliment to the handicapper, Fred Wil-
son. June, Delmestor and Diamond
Wedding flashed across the line almost
together. June, on the outside, was
travelling best, and she beat Delmestor
by half a neck, Diamond Wedding being
a head away. June’s price was threes —
very good in view of her third to Aureus
and Red Thespian on the previous Satur-
day, and of there being only seven
starters. There was more money for
Delmestor at the same odds. Might Not
and Normandy ran wide at the home
turn. They had apprentice riders. Well
placed, both should win presently;—Nor-
mandy was not quite ready.
Former jockey Jim Munro has in his
stable a really good galloper in the two-
year-old Tel Asur. By Marconigram-
Intuition, Tel Asur cost 100 guineas as
a yearling, being bought by Sydney
sportsman W. Brown. In four starts he
has won three races, two of them at
Randwick. Yet in spite of his success
in better company the previous Saturday
he was allowed to go out at 7 to 1 for
the Youthful Stakes. Looking a cer-
tainty at every stage of the journey, he
came home full of running and beat
Binnia Hero, Merry Smile and Grand
Billy (they dead-heated for third) with
ease.
Tel Asur is a gelding, so there will be
no classics for him. This is not Worry-
ing the owner and trainer, who already
have their eyes on cups. Tel Asur is
one of the tallest and heaviest young-
sters in training.
Jim Munro’s brother Jack, who trains
his horses at Warwick Farm, led in
Karingal, winner of the Trial Handicap.
Karingal carried a three pounds penalty
for winning at Gosford, but it didn’t stop
him from romping home —at 20 to 1 in
the Ring ; the tote paid £5 15s. 3d. and
£1 9s. 6d. Second was Rosante, ridden
by Darby Munro, and Silver Joan was
third. Vestal and Baveon, badly placed
early, ran on strongly, as did Sigh, who
was cut out at the start. Pen Name
began smartly, but received a rough pas-
sage approaching the half-mile pole.
Parsons got the mount on Cherry Bar
that Bartle could not take. Arabia and
Poly Joy made the running and settled
one another properly; then Cherry Bar
(8 to 1) came along. She outstayed Par-
lance and Nabob in the run home. For-
ward, a street-corner tip, ran wretchedly.
Arabia probably needed the run and will
do better, especially if allowed to run
his own race in front.
Pantoon’s defeat by Great Eastern at
Mentone on April 15 was attributed by
his owner-trainer Jack Fryer to the M.L.-
bred gelding using up speed too early.
Pantoon races best when kept on the
rails and allowed to drop in behind the
pacemakers.
Ridden that type of race on Saturday
he registered a meritorious Victory in the
V.A.T.C. Glenhuntly Handicap. Ring-
men received a hard knock, Pantoon hav-
ing been backed from fives down to
5 to 2—odds difficult to obtain at barrier-
rise. He ousted Judean from favoritism.
In several previous outings—notably the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes and the Alister Clark
Stakes —Judean had ruined his chance at
the start. Elliot got him away really wcii
“Make this the last, Bert. Strawb’s gettin a bit fidgety."
at Caulfield, but was pratted out, being
only ninth after travelling half a mile.
Judge’s placings caused caustic criti-
cism. None questioned that Pantoon had
won; but Judean, awarded second
money, did not appear to be even third
in the opinion of pressmen and broad-
casters. Official verdict was “Pantoon by
half a length from Judean, with Irving
half a head farther away.”
Clive Leonard, chairman of the
V.A.T.C., has left for an extended trip
tc England and America. When in the
United States he will study the “magic-
eye” system of photographing finishes.
Until Australia falls into line with
America in this regard racing judges
will continue to occasion dissatisfaction
when horses flash over the line in a
bunch.
Irving’s form spoke well for his Adel-
aide Cup chance. He had not sported silk
since March 25, when he was an unplaced
favorite in the Moonee Ponds Handicap,
won by Plectrum. Since then F. W.
Hoysted has tuned the chestnut up to
approaching concert pitch.
Hoysted was represented in the first
division of the Maiden Two-year-old by
two Gay Lothario colts —Bluebeard and
Knight Errant. Bluebeard started favor-
ite at threes ; Knight Errant had relatively
few supporters.
With every chance in running, Blue-
beard lost to Strategy (9 to 2) by nearly
a length, Livingstone (fours) 3£ lengths
farther away. The winner is trained by
D. Judd, formerly foreman to D. J.
Price, for G. Hyman. Bred in M.L., he
is by Nightmarch (Melbourne Cup, 1929)
from Cheloma (imp.), who runs back to
Chelandry and is the dam of Nincom-
poop, an A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate winner.
Second division of the Maiden Two-
year-old saw Cavante (10 to 9) punched
right out to defeat Melito by half a
length; Wellington Maid third. Cavante
opened at odds-on, but eased in conse-
quence of heavy support for Argestes.
Unlucky in running , again, Argestes
missed a place. Chestnut in color, he
looks as massive as Phar Lap was at
similar age.
More will be heard of Melito, who
has made rapid improvement. By Mel-
fort-Bellevue Hill, he is a half-brother
to Bon Vue (by Bonnement), a winner in
Victoria, and to Patswood (by Rampion),
who gained considerable success on
Sydney courses.
Katandra Two-year-old fell to Mac
Rob (Parenthesis-Llamrei), trained by
Harry Gabell for two sportsmen of
Scotch descent. Tens were quoted against
Mac Rob. Minor places were filled by
The Progeny (50 to 1) and Kentish Boy
(tens). Muraille, 3-to-l favorite, faded
away after leading into the straight. She
is the smallest of the Manitobas.
Billy Duncan, crack jockey of a few
years ago, trains The Progeny. So far
Duncan has been even less fortunate in
his new role than Jim Pike, but The
Progeny may put him on the map to
some extent. The colt is by Beau Fils
(defunct), the sire of Waltzing Lily, who
was a topnotch sprinter.
Two horses brought over from Adel-
aide by E. R. Bidgood made their pres-
ence felt at Caulfield. Kentish Boy (by
Amalfi) finished a creditable third in the
Katandra Two-year-old, while Brazen
King (Shakuni-Troika) put in an over-
powering finish to land the Brighton
Welter from Ramdin and Rambler. Both
Kentish Boy and Rambler were ridden
by Harold Badger. As much as 12 to 1
was laid against Brazen King. Ramdin
was at the same price. Brazen King
firmed to eights.
King’s Head has run his last race. His
owner, pastoralist E. A. Haley, who bred
the handsome Bullhead stallion, is send-
ing him to Wimbledon, near Bathurst.
King’s Head was an uncommonly good
miler, and with a bit more luck would
have been among the top-liners in prize-
money. His wins included the Epsom
and the Villiers.
* * * *
McCarten has been engaged to ride
Spear Chief in the Brisbane Cup. The
Spearfelt horse won it last year with
8.3, and is a much better horse now.
Spear Chief’s trainer, Price, who has
Waireka in the Stradbroke Handicap, has
engaged Lappin to ride the filly.
* * * *
Dan Seaton bought Theo for stud pur-
poses when it was thought the dual
Derby winner’s racing days were over.
On the Seaton property at Scone
(N.S.W.) the son of Limond was exer-
cised daily, and Seaton tried him out in
his paddocks. As a result Frank
McGrath has been commissioned to get
him ready for long-distance events in
the spring. “We are badly off for
stayers,” his owner says, “and if Theo
stands a preparation he should pick up
a race or two.”
One of The Bulletin’s heroes when
it was very young was “Professor” Wil-
liam Miller. A statelier-looking man
never trod Melbourne streets, and for*
all-round excellence in indoor sports he
has never been surpassed in modern
times. In B. 17/2/’97 there was reprinted
an account, with “Hop’s” illustrations,
of his famous fight with Larry Foley.
Miller is dead in the U.S.A., and an
American correspondent sends us a copy
of the Baltimore “Sun” which shows that
Baltimore gave him an appropriate
send-off.
One of the greatest all-round athletes in
the world in the last three decades of the
nineteenth century, William Miller, long a
resident of Australia, but more recently of
Baltimore, is dead at the age of 92.
Mr. Miller, known as the “Professor,” died
on March 11 at Sinai Hospital and was buried
in Greenmount Cemetery.
He held championships in prizefighting,
Graeco-Roman wrestling, foil and broadsword
fencing, weight-lifting and walking. At the
turn of the century he once walked 102 miles
in 24 hours near Baltimore.
The son of a fencing instructor, Mr. Miller
was born in Liscard, Cheshire county, England.
At the age of four he went with his family to
Melbourne, Australia, where he remained until
1903.
Of a bearing described by contemporaries as
Olympian, Mr. Miller in his prime weighed
about 210 pounds, was sft. 9in. in height and
had a chest of 48in.
In the ’seventies and ’eighties he rose to
become the Graeco-Roman wrestling champion
of Australia. For some time he did not en-
gage in prizefights, because prizefighting was
illegal then, but when it was legitimate he
took up boxing with gloves.
In one memorable wrestling match he battled
his protege, William Muldoon, expert wrestler,
later to become the Tsar of boxing, for eight
hours in 1880 to a draw, neither contestant
gaining a single fall. He had discovered
Muldoon, who was 12 years his junior.
He won the boxing championships of Canada
and Australia, and in Cuba he captured the
foil-fencing championship.
Mr. Miller once vanquished the Scotch
broadsword champion, Duncan Ross, to
establish himself as a champion in that field
of fencing.
Some other feats of this all-round athlete
included the lifting of a 2001 b. dumbbell with
his right hand to the level of his shoulder,
while he raised a 901 b. dumbbell over his head
with his left hand. He also lifted a 1001 b.
dumbbell at arm’s length 19 times successively.
Wrestling Donald Dinnie, one of the greatest,
Mr. Miller suffered a fracture of the leg, but
was able to gain a draw. Later Mr. Miller
became manager and secretary of the Mel-
bourne Athletic Club, and trained Tom .Lees,
a great boxer, who later lost a 32-round contest
to Peter Jackson, the negro champion, whom
John L. Sullivan refused to meet.
Mr. Miller later came to the United States,
where he served as manager of the San Fran-
cisco Athletic Club and also was for a tinie
athletic instructor of the New York Police
Department. .
He came to live permanently in Baltimore
about 20 years ago. He gave some exhibition
at the Baltimore Athletic Club in his late
y Mr. Miller was married in Australia to the
late Lizzie Trible, a native of Virginia,
died in 1929. They had been married 57
yC Mr. Miller is survived by five nieces;.
Miss Marianne H. Miller, of Baltimore, Miss
Janet Miller, Miss Ada Milter, Mrs. U
Symons and Mrs. Kinder Smith, \v n nd
nephews, Alexander Miller and Henry
all of Melbourne.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Flying Handicap: Aureus; next,
Grey Derby.
April Handicap: Bachelor King ;
next, Cathartes.
Encourage Handicap: Sigh ; next,
Rebel Chief.
Novice Handicap: Adonis; next,
Red Eagle.
Sunnybrook Welter: Forestage ;
next, Tony.
FOR ASCOT.
Aylesford Handicap: Judean;
next, Bob Oh.
Wokingham Handicap: Soltoi;
next, Ronolive.
Plymouth Welter: Silver Bond ;
next, Hautboy.


THE NEW 1939
CHEVROLET
1, 11, 2 and 3 TON TRUCKS
15 CWT. COMMERCIALS
“MAPLE-LEAF” HEAVY-DUTY
3|-4 TON TRUCKS
MSS
? a
THE NEW 1939 CHEVROLET
1, 11, 2& 3 TONNERS ... .
Chevrolet, the world’s truck sales leader, presents for 1939 the most
complete, the most capable range of economically priced Truck
and Utilities ever offered in Australia . . . available in a series
of wheelbases and load ratings to provide the most efficient low-
cost haulage for every job. Massive all-truck styling, is an
outstanding feature and there’s an entirely new Chevrolet
3-tonner available on either 133 in. or in. wheelbases at a
price which eclipses all previous standards of value. See your
nearest Chevrolet dealer for full particulars.
WITH THESE TRUCK FEATURES:
6 Cyl. Overhead Valve Truck Engine (never needs replacing).
Torque (pulling power) 170 ft. lbs. at 850 r.p.m equal to 2 m.p.h.
in low gear. “Full Contact” Hydraulic Brakes. Four-Bearing
Crankshaft. Four-way Oiling System. Full Length Water Jackets.
Cast Iron Pistons. Four Speed Transmission. Full Floating Rear
Axle with Straddle-Mounted Pinion (30 cwt. upwards). New All-
steel Holden Cab with greatly increased visibility. “Armourplate”
Safety Glass Windscreen and No-Draught Ventilation.
Over the last 12 years, Chevrolet Truck and Utility sales in Australia totalled 52,000 — 20,000 more than the nearest competitor!
THE HEW ISIS 9
CHEVROIEIS9COMMmiAIS
s ts
Value is stepped up again in this smart new range of truck-styled
Chevrolet Commercials for 1939 —Australia’s most economical
units for 15 cwt. delivery work. Features include:—New all-
steel Holden Truck Cabs with greatly improved visibility; new
springing and longer wheel-base (113 J in.) for smooth riding;
6-cylinder Overhead Valve Truck Engine and an amazing overall
operating economy, plus Chevrolet durability and long life. Body
styles: Open, Wellsides, Flareboard, Dropsides, and Panel Van.
A complete range of Standard and Master de Luxe 10-12
cwt. Utilities also available.
II
THE MEW 1939 HEAVY-DUTY
MAPLE-LEAF" li-4 Ton TRUCKS
a
m
The new 1939 Maple Leaf” Trucks are your best investment for all heavv
duty haulage. They’re designed and engineered specifically for the toughest
jobs xn the transport field, and available at a price which on a value-for-money
basis, represents a saving of from £5O to £3OO to every “Maple-Leaf” buyer.
MAPLE LEAF * FEATURES INCLUDE : Heavy-Duty Frame. Heavy-
Duty Full Floating Rear Axle with Timken Roller Bearings. Four-pinion
Differential. Rear Axle Ratio, 7.16 to 1 (gives a first gear lift of 52 to 1).
Hotchkiss Drive. Special Heavy-Duty Clutch. Heavy-Duty Hydraulic
Brakes. Heavy-Duty I-beam Front Axle with Timken Wheel Bearings.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S MOST COMPLETE RANGE
CHEVROLET TRUCK CHASSIS
1- 123 in. W.B.
30 cwt. 133 in. W.B.
2- 133 in. W.B.
2- ISBJ in. W.B.
3- 133 in. W.B.
(Dual Rear)
3-ton IsB£ in. W.B.
(Dual Rear)
Single Rear
Single Rear
Dual Rear
Dual Rear
/with 7.00 x 20 tyres
\with 32 x 6 x 10 tyres
/ with 7.00 x 20 tyres
\with 32 x 6 x 10 tyres
PRICES
... £267
... £299
... £315
... £324
£332 10 0
£340 0 0
£341 10 0
£349 0 0
CHEVROLET UTILITY PRICES
Commercial Utility ... lI3J in. W.B. Chassis £247
Standard Utility ... ll2£ in. W.B. Chassis £255
Master de Luxe Utility lI2J in. W.B. Chassis £275
Commercial Utility with open body £316
Standard Utility with open body £330
Master de Luxe Utility with open body ... £350
Easy Terms Available under Confidential C.M.A.C. Plan
“MAPLE LEAF” CHASSIS PRICES
3i-ton 133} in. W.B. (Single Rear) with
32x6x10 tyres £342
3i-ton 133} in. W.B. / with 7.00 x2O tyres £359 10 0
(Dual Rear) \ with 32 x6x 10 tyres £367 0 0
4-ton 133 j in. W.B. (Dual Rear) with 7.00 x2O
tyres front and 34 x 7 x 10 tyres rear ... £3Bl
(All prices plus Sales Tax)
the»
fiultrdi*
Mart
Thrift^
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia.
C 665-48.
Under the Whip
Warrnambool will stage its historic
Grand Annual Steeplechase meeting on
May 2 and 4, with the intervening day
occupied by amateur racing. The “Grand
Annual,” run over country that rivals
Oakbank, in South Australia, and is
more picturesque than Flemington, has
attracted a fairly large entry, but quality
is lacking. “S. A. Rawdon” has nominated
Deckard, the former hunter. Jack Fryer
may be represented by Royal Fire, and
the aspirants include old-stagers like
Montargis, Wakerife, Sarno and Re-
minder. Nothing in the Warrnambool
Cup can be mentioned in the same
breath as previous winners such as The
Parisian and Purser.
* * * *
At Geelong on Wednesday R. A. Hart
had his first taste of success as an owner
for a quarter of a century. He landed
the Birregurra Trial with Merridale
(Gay Lothario-Merilas), a horse of his
own breeding that Harry Freedman
trains.
Hart’s last previous winner was Lord
Myram (imp.), prepared by the late Jack
Fielder. Being one of Melbourne’s
wealthiest men, Hart does not have to
worry over racing losses. Anyhow, he
never has more than one horse in
training.
Bob Oh, bought by his present owner
for £5, defeated G. J. Barton’s M.L.-bred
stallion Silver Bond with great ease in
the Autumn Handicap at Geelong. At
twos he was in nearly as good demand
as Silver Bond, whom Jack Fryer trains.
Fullarton, who both trains and rides
jumpers, provided three of the six run-
ners in the Trial Hurdle at Geelong. He
finished out of a place on Shanghai, but
ran first and second respectively with
Methuen (eights) and Galvano (evens).
Methuen (Spearfelt-Lady Savant) was
bought in Brisbane by Fullarton on be-
half of E. O. Kirby; so, too, was
Shanghai. The jumping team of Fullar-
ton is very large, Yards where the horses
are “schooled” partake of an American
rodeo atmosphere.
* * * *
For the Stradbroke Handicap, six fur-
longs (April 29), the Q.T.C. is putting up
£2OOO ; for the Brisbane Cup, two miles
(May 1), £3OOO ; for the Moreton Handi-
cap, 10 furlongs (May 6), £l5OO. Very
attractive prizes, and very flattering
handicaps have been made ; so Brisbane
is to see a number of representative Syd-
ney horses, as well as a returned wan-
derer in Spear Chief. Spear Chief has
had a lot of racing these last three
months, but he seems to have thrived
on it. He has 9.7 in the Cup and 9.9
in the Moreton, but there is a seven-stone
minimum. L’Aiglon has 8.12 in each
race ; Malagigi’s weights are 8.7 and 8.9,
Herarde’s 8.2 and 8.7, Cooranga’s 7.13
and 8.1. Spearbleu, 8.1 and 8.3, is
reckoned the best of the Queensland
horses. Mildura and Korimako, who
are not in the Cup, have 743 and 7.12
respectively in the Moreton.
For the Stradbroke Gold Rod was
awarded 9.10 —a nice weight, considering
his Doncaster success with 9.2; but the
chestnut is not to make the trip. The
owner, E. J. Watt, will, however, be
represented by Waireka, who has 7.5.
Two-year-old form has been above the
average this season, and if the hard Bris-
bane tracks suit the Waikare filly she
should have a chance. So should Hamu-
rah with 9.2 —she doesn’t mind Brisbane
a bit.
Waireka and Cooranga look a fair
double, but if Direct Lady is as good as
Queenslanders think she is she may beat
all the Sydney division. She won the
Queensland Cup with 7.10, and has the
same weight.
# * * j]e
The betting-shops have done nothing
for S.A. racing, and Adelaide won’t get


}Jou can dependon
CHAMPION mm
to REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Incomplete combustion results in
wasted fuel, carbon formation and un-
satisfactory engine performance. Put
in a new set of Champions and enjoy
the power, speed, acceleration and fuel
savings that come from complete
combustion. They will soon pay for
themselves.
An Empireproducl—made
in Windsor, Can.
s It
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
dftuujetke mum
Either your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. Have complete confidence in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate —the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed
Accurate —
<?
\v
V:
u itk &.
Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
flat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
ntnsuvKT
TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Me.
Price,
9/6
as many horses from Melbourne for its
May meetings as Brisbane will get from
Sydney. However, Dark David (8.7),
Irving (the same), Plectrum (8-3) and
Son of Aurous (7.9) may go after the
Adelaide Cup, even if Marauder (9.5)
doesn’t. The handicapper reckons
Tempest the equal of Dark David and
Irving. He may prove better than either.
F. W. Hoysted is sending Irving to
Adelaide, and the Salmagundi gelding
will be accompanied by Knight Errant,
a two-year-old by Gay Lothario from
Donna Serene. Knight Errant showed
some promise by finishing third to Black
Robin and Menkaura at Caulfield on
December 3 ; he has not since been pro-
duced.
Hoysted is likely to be as regular a
patron of Adelaide racing as the late
Adam Skirving used to be when he
trained for “S. A. Rawdon,” and as
James Scobie was until he ran out of
suitable galloping material. Lacking a
worthy successor to Hua, the present
Flemington team of Scobie is weak in
quality and size as well. Apropos, while
the autumn meetings were in progress
Scobie had to go into hospital with an
attack of bronchitis. He has recovered,
and attends the tracks on galloping
mornings with unabated enthusiasm. On
July 16 next Jim will celebrate his 79th
birthday.
Hoysted’s partiality for Morphettville
was induced by having, on two successive
annual visits, won the King’s Cup and
Adelaide Cup with Donaster and the
Fulham Park Plate last spring with Old
Red. It would pay Irving too high a
compliment to compare him with Don-
aster, but he is nicely weighted in the
Adelaide Cup. Last winter he carried
9st. 31b. to victory in the V.R.C. Bray-
brook Handicap, the minimum being
6st. 71b. He gave that good old battler
Aitchengee 41b. and a neck beating. Just
before that Irving won the V.A.T.C.
Glenhuntly Handicap with Bst. 61b. and
the Easter Cup at Williamstown with 9st.
Other Melbourne' horses likely to
figure in the Adelaide Cup are Plectrum,
Son of Aurous and Prince Sion. Despite
his poor displays in Sydney recently
Plectrum ha's not forfeited the confidence
of his experienced trainer, P. T. Hey-
wood. There are possibilities in Prince
Sion. He is too small to lump weight,
but should handle 7st. 61b. with credit.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Late Boxing Season
The grapplers nowadays taking charge
for the winter, the Noble Art in Aus-
tralia becomes a seasonal outbreak, the
bulk of it happening in the swelter of
summer nights. The just-concluded Syd-
ney “season” opened six months back
more promising than any for a couple of
decades, but it all fizzled out.
There were one or two bright spots.
Ron Richards, scrapping in the open-
air Sports Ground ring, had never fought
better. In this form he’s easily Aus-
tralia’s best, and no import troubled him,
but he has bulked out into a hefty light-
heavy, and is held to have lost the
middleweight title by default, unable to
get down again to the weight. This would
leave the title a snack for Henneberry,
who has lost some of the brilliance
he had at his peak, but makes amends
by reverting to the tigerish fighting that
first brought him up to make a fine trio
of it with Richards and Carroll.
Fred, however, is now badly handi-
capped by his so-easily-damaged eyes,
which always suffer even when he wins
comfortably, and so keep him out of the
ring for frequent stretches. Richards, for
his part, smashed a finger punching the
indestructible Alabama Kid, and that
rendered him, also, hors de combat for
the best part of the season.
Sabatino fought one or two memorable
battles, notably that in which he defeated
Ossie Stewart, the pride of the Rush-
cutter Bay establishment. But Sab was
another to fall a victim to eye-damage,
which lost him the return engagement
against Stewart. Another of the cullud
fraternity, Kingfish Dixon, gave splendid
displays against such opposition as they
were able to bring up against him at
Leichhardt, and late in the season the
Sports Arena got hold of a clinking little
“You ought l' git yourself an outrigger !”
American-Chinese scrapper, Kui Kong
Young, who just as easily disposed of
all the opponents brought against him.
And therein is explained the whole
trouble: each of the Sydney stoush em-
poriums had a topnotcher in its stable,
but none of them could fix up good
matches owing to contracts or weight
differences, but mainly because, apart
from the one or two topliners who were
mostly out of action, there was no local
talent capable of downing the imports.
Melbourne had some good scraps,
especially those in which Claude Varner
figured, but there, too, the paucity of
topnotch Australians eager to fight held
off the expected return of the Golden
Age of stoush.
Enter the Grapplers
The ladies God preserve ’em from
dropkicks and flying tackles! —were
there in force and variety for the begin-
ning of the grappling at Rushcutter Bay.
They didn’t turn out like this for the
Noble Art, which would seem to indi-
cate good judgment, but doesn’t. The
fair sex —literally so for the most part,
these grapple addicts, ranging from
platinum blonde to true-blue ginger, and
some topnotch lookers among ’em—
never have cottoned on to the scrappers,
but they’re great supporters and bar-
rackers for the Wild Men.
One of them sat muttering darkly into
her chins in a flat monotone throughout
the proceedings, “Deesqualify heem!
Deesqualify heem!” Only those within
a matter of feet could hear her, but no
doubt it moderated the fierce tumult
going on inside her buzum. Others were,
and always are, much more effectively
vocal. Shut the eyes when the din’s at
its top, and the gentle dears will be
heard at their best, piping up in 50 dif-
ferent sharps and flats. As for the advice
they give—it’s positively Hitlerian.
Whatever it is about the Noble Art
that doesn’t appeal to them, it certainly
can’t be that its coarseness offends their
tender sensibilities. They revel in a bit
of good open garrotting ; yell with joy
or rage at a bit of splendid gouging, de-
pending on whether it’s happening to the
right bloke or not; and they put a wild
strain on their vocal cords applauding
the fine points of a crutch dump that
shakes the whole building, or a splits
hold that looks to reach the acme of
both excruciating torture and Rabelaisian
rudeness.
Perhaps it’s a matter of letting go on
their inhibitions, the darlings being
really wild and uncouth animals under
the skin, etc. Anyway, an abrogation of
inhibitions isn’t restricted to them in
this matter. The grappling itself is above
all else a waiving of all the artificial
rules and regulations with which, in the
name of sport, natural instincts are
curbed and circumscribed. Whatever the
grapplers do —and they do a variety of
amazing things—they can at least be
safely relied on not to commit any act
ordinarily considered the sportin’ thing
to do. The things that aren’t done are
the very things they specialise in. No
wonder they’re popular! In their way
they express Everyman’s resentment of
civilisation’s twenty thousand restric-
tions.
On this occasion a matter of Bill
Hansen v. Andy Moen—the ref. not once
but frequently put the full force of his
boot down on Andy’s dial to give the
necessary leverage for making that
worthy let go an embedded grip on Bill’s
windpipe. In another spirited passage
the ref., trying to unloosen a mutual
nose-and-mouth grip, had a finger bitten,
and hopped round the ring holding the
injured mitt down between his knees.
After having taken the fall which won
the engagement, Andy rose, booted the
semi-conscious Bill in the rear and
walked on that victim’s upturned face
before stalking in victorious majesty
back to the corner.
The rendering of Bill semi-conscious
was a perfect example of ladies’ delight.
Andy was standing crouched with back
to the ropes on one side of the ring
when Bill catapulted across at him in
what’s called a flying tackle from the
elastic-like ropes on the opposite side.
Bill was thus flying like a projectile on
a flat trajectory aimed at Andy’s head,
when Andy bumped down a bit lower,
bumped up again under the flying Bill,
lifted him several feet higher into the
air and gave impetus to his flight a good
three feet above the topmost rope of
the ring, and so head first out and down
to crash far out among the ringside
spectators.
Bill had literally taken his life in his
hands. It would have been a highly
dangerous thing to do in a gym., with
a mattress to lob on. He had gone not
less than 30 feet
through the air, with
a drop of not less
than 10ft. to 15ft.
head down, with
hastily-vacated chairs
to land into. That
he didn’t break his
neck was both a
miracle and con-
clusive proof that, at
any rate, these Wild
Men can take it. An-
other time, flying at
each other off the
ropes, they met head
on with a resound-
ing crash of bone,
and fell insensible.
Nobody denies, least
of all the prac-
titioners themselves,
that a great part of
the business is out-
right showmanship,
but their cauliflower lugs and other signs
are there to indicate that it’s no game
for human seedlings.
Judged by its elfects on spectators, it
clearly provides the crowd with some-
thing they can’t these days get elsewhere.
It brings ’em to their feet —not in a man-
ner of speaking, but actually. A number
of times this night the whole of the
massed ringside was standing, arms in
the air, jumping about, yelling, howling
—and laughing. Maybe it’s the comedy
attached to it, as much as the abrogation
of the sportin’ outlook, that gets ’em.
Of all the variety of human noise that
swells the din, unrestrained belly laugh-
ter is probably the outstanding ingre-
dient. Except for those who can find
cause for merriment in the cock-a-hoop
international clowns, most people prob-
ably don’t find such a lot to laugh at
these days.
Moran Bantam Champ.
About a year or so back Dally Moran
was honorably mentioned in these ring-
side dispatches as an up-and-coming little
chap, in appearance a pocket-size replica
of Les Darcy. He then won some 17
scraps in a row, till Colin Fitzjohn
dropped him with a wild swing one
pleasant evening at the Sports Ground.
Unversed in craft, Dally bounced up
again from the canvas instanter, and,
open to the world, was outed.
Still with a lot to learn, but with all
time ahead of him, he wrested the N.S.W.
bantam title from Joe Kerwick last week
in a sterling contest at Sydney Arena. It
might have been the influence of the
crowd, which, though not big, was full
of vim and good humor, or there might
have been an extra nip in the air that


o, GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
I
m
Are
'A, >
BRITISH
BLADE
fds
i Sole AganliTjOUßEir^^OUßH^'p^^^oß
When you meet a man for the first time you may not
notice the colour of his eyes but you will notice
whether he is well shaved or not. For any man of self-
respect, then, the daily shave is an important matter.
You can be sure that he uses the method that gives
him the closest, smoothest shave possible. You won’t
find him experimenting with cheap blades —he knows
that it is a false economy. He uses Gillette, and goes
on using Gillette, because he finds it the finest (and the
most economical) shaving system that money can buy.
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
night— anyway, it was a fast, willing and
eager scrap for every moment of the 12
rounds.
Dally fights on the upright stance, uses
the straight left well, and counters very
gamely. His weakness, as yet, is in de-
fence, and Joe from time to time scored
heavily with left hooks'and right swings ;
but the straight left kept up its scoring
work, and the stand-and-deliver counter-
ing nullified much of Joe’s persistent
attack. They were as near as dammit to
all square at the end of the tenth ; Dally
won the next two. Then the crowd —the
first time present scribe has seen this
happen in any title bout —stood up and
pelted the contenders with coin of the
realm. Conscience money.
Louis has knocked another fellow out
in a round —one Jack Roper at Los
Angeles. Roper was a protege of the
film colony, and shadow actors and
actresses did a packet of easy money
on him. But the negro’s change of style
bodes ill for his future. In the long run
the One-Round Hogan type of fighter
always meets a slugger who gets his
punch in first.
Footbrawl
No Australian club playing any code
of football has a finer record than Col-
lingwood. The Magpies began the 1939
season brilliantly by putting Geelong
through at Victoria Park, scores being
18-14 to 14-7. The victory was particu-
larly gratifying to Collingwood sup-
porters, inasmuch as the club, in asso-
ciation with the municipal council, re-
fused to take part in an eleventh-hour
V.F.L. move for raising the outer-ground
charge from tenpence to a shilling.
Politics intrudes into the government of
Melbourne football. ’Wood traditions
are strictly democratic.
A prosperous season for Richmond
was indicated by the manner in which
the team settled Melbourne ; the scores,
17-19 to 11-18, were a fair reflection of
Richmond’s superiority. Carlton, too,
commenced auspiciously at the expense
of “Sowth,” the board showing 20-22 to
13-10 at the finish —very skilful shoot-
ing. And St. Kilda once more told a
flattering tale to its supporters; the
Saints routed Hawthorn by 18-20 to
9-13. Essendon v. Footscray and North
Melbourne v. Fitzroy were very close:
Essendon won 15-17 to 14-18, and North
11-9 to 9-12.
Ambrose Palmer retired from the ring
partly on account of injuries sustained
and partly because he preferred foot-
ball. Playing in the ruck for Footscray
on Saturday, Ambrose cannoned into two
Essendon players and fell like a log, his
jaw fractured in three places. It is un-
likely that the unlucky chap will play any
more this season. Meanwhile ’Scray is
aflame with indignation at reports that
five hospitals were communicated with
and an unreasonably long delay occurred
before its idol, who had been attended to
on the ground, was placed in a hospital
bed.
* * *
A Toowoomba (Q.) Rugby League side
once beat an English team that was very
successful that year in representative
matches. On last year’s performances,
the selectors of the Rugby Union team
for Britain would be justified in pick-
ing Randwick’s best fifteen and complet-
ing the combination from other clubs and
States. Strong in all departments, Rand-
wick gave a most dashing display in
defeating Western Suburbs, 46-8, on Con-
cord Oval. It actually scored ten tries to
one. Yet Concord is Wests’ own ground,
they had the internationals Ramalli and
Collins back, and they were runners-up
to Randwick last year.
’Wick now has Rankin at full-back —a
good player, fast and resourceful in at-
tack, determined in defence and accurate
in kicking for goal. Drummoyne, play-
ing Manly, missed him sorely, and was
beaten, 9-3, by a team not expected to
be of much account this year. The Vil-
lagers swear they will. surprise ’em.
Eastern Suburbs, thanks largely to
hooker Stone and Cerutti, downed Uni-
versity, 20-13 ; improving St. George got
away with Gordon, 14-6, and Northern
Suburbs pipped Parramatta, 11-9, con-
\ersion of a try deciding it.
* * * H=
In an open, hard-rucking, fast game
Canterbury-Bankstown, last year’s Rugby
League premiers, bit the sward before
the superior combination of Eastern
Suburbs, 20-9. Easts’ backs in particular
gave a polished display. Some of the
C.-B. men seemed to be short of a gallop.
St. George went flat out from the open-
ing whistle to hack large holes in South
Sydney’s defence. The red-and-greens
were never in it: 33-15. In the other
matches North Sydney beat Western
Suburbs, 15-8, and Balmain downed New-
town, 13-9 —a deadly-dull affair.
* * * *
A turn-up for the Soccer books was
Gladesville-Ryde’s 4-2 win against the
strong Adamstown side. For once the
renowned speed of the northerners was
unavailing against defence which grew
stronger as the game progressed. Good-
year, by comfortably defeating St.
George 4-0, went to the top of the com-
petition table with Granville, which had
a good win over Metters, 4-2. Wallsend,
with a 3-0 win over Weston, goes to
second place. Cessnock beat Woonona-
Bulli, 1-0, and Newcastle topped Leich-
hardt, 5-2.
* * * *
“Aussiemac”: A par. in “Footbrawl”
(B. 12/4/’39) suggests that Hodgson may
be helpful in curbing Gallic temperament
if the R.U. tour includes matches in
France. I nominate Queensland’s Bill
Monti for the job. I’ve seen every post-
war English League team, and am a
stadium habitue, but the cleanest knock-
out I’ve ever seen was the one Bill handed
to an exuberant All-Black in the second
Test at Brisbane last year. After the
“incident” a damsel behind exclaimed,
“Why, there’s an Enzed who was
cautioned fighting again.” “Yairs,” her
escort said, “but the bloke Monti
‘cautioned’ ain’t.”
Miscellaneous
Rowed in perfect conditions on the
Nepean course, with the finish now
above the bridge, Sydney G.P.S. Head
of the River was a splendid race to the
last quarter-mile, where Shore drew
away from High, and went on to win
by 2\ lengths. The winners rowed a
beautiful race, finishing full of power.
The Scots were a close third, with all
the other five crews also close up. High
took the double in the fours, beating
Grammar and St. Joseph’s in the first
event, and St. Ignatius’ and Newington
in the Yaralla Cup. Shore (Sydney
Church of England Grammar) has now
strung together three successive victories
in the eights, beating Sydney High School
on the last two occasions.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: In a cable about the boat-
race it was said that Cambridge’s un-
expected win had broken a run of Oxford
victories. The “run” broken was two
successive wins, the first of which broke
a run of 13 successive wins by Cambridge
that were threatening to knock all the
interest out of the annual fixture.
* * * *
Little Arthur Peck, the doyen of Mel-
bourne yachtsmen, will be 84 shortly.
An architect by profession, he got his
taste for the sea in his early youth in
a windjammer. He was one of the 17
Melburnians who bought the schooner
Dove for a disastrous gold-hunting ex-
pedition to then unknown New Guinea.
He has since sailed with every famous
yachtsman, including Lord Brassey, who
has visited Australia, and when he was 72
accompanied Elliot Giles, another lead-
ing local yachtsman, on his 5000-miles
cruise to the South Sea islands in the
Utiekah. When in his seventies Peck
raced his little yacht Maysie across the
Tasman. With the exception of Giles
he knows more about Bass Strait and
the coasts of Tassie and Vic. than any
other yachtsman. He still handles the
tiller, and can reef a mainsail in an
emergency.
* * * *
“Matsu”: Although Bardsley played
in all 37 matches on the 1912 tour in
England (B. 29/3/’39) he had only 53
innings. Others who never missed a
match on English tours were Murdoch
(60 innings), McDonnell (56), Bonnor
(50), Groube (57), and Palmer (43) in
1880 (37 matches); McDonnell (54),
Scott (51), Giffen (51), Alick Bannerman
(52), and Bonnor (52) in 1884 (32
matches); Harry Trott (61) and Bruce
(61) in 1893 (36 matches); and Ferris
(61) in 1888 (40 matches). Ferris that
year also bowled 2222 overs —998 were
maidens —and took 220 wickets, averag-
ing 14.10. Think of that, you moderns!
* * * *
“Dungeness”: North Queensland goats
have once more been taking a prominent
part in racing affairs. Not in their
customary capacity as the motive power
for goat-cart races, but as the cause of
a spectacular accident at the Roundstone
picnic races. Fifty of them strolled on
to the track during a race, and before
they could be chased off the horses were
on top of them. One rider collected a
broken collarbone, another a cut head, a
horse was badly damaged, and six goats
went west.
“Old-timer”: After battling round the
racecourses of the Mallee for years, old
Charlie the Skinner acquired a neddy
that once won a Trial. Ownership
changed the old tug. Every penny he
begged, borrowed, won or stole went
into feed for the nag. He trained the
thing assiduously, rode it at work him-
self, racking his wasted body night and
day. Meetings came and went, and
though the Skinner’s nag ran time after
time it was always nearer last than first.
But Charlie’s faith never wavered. His
horse, he claimed, never got a fair go.
Everybody was crook —stewards, jocks.,
books, punters. At last, however, triumph
smiled at him. His neddy was one of
three in a mile Welter at Patchewollock—•
one of three and twelve to one. They
came into the straight with the others
four lengths in front of Charlie’s hope,
and then the leaders collided. One came
down, the other veered off the course.
Thundering up the straight came the out-
sider. Charlie shrieked, tears ran from
his little red eyes, he danced. He rushed
on to the course, waving his hat and
scrpaming, “Come on, y’ ruddy beauty!
Come on, y’ snorter!” This was too
much for the snorter, which shied, fell
over the rail, lost its rider, got up and
bolted. They called it no race.
* * * *
“S. Tirrup”: “Fast runners!” scoffed
old Sam. “Garn, yer don’t know wot
they are nowerdays. I can see yer never
’eard of young Billy Brogan, an ’arf-
caste from West Oss. Fast! Cripes,
’e cud run down smoker parrots at a
trot! Wus a champ., wus Billy. Cleaned
up all the prizes on the fields and wus
thinkin’ of goin’ East w’en it ’appened.
’E’s runnin’ this day in ’is biggest race
yet, w’en alluva sudden ’e staggers and
drops dead! Of course, everybody
reckons ’e’d died of an overstrained
’eart, but the quack knocks us all flat
by tellin’ us Billy’d died of asphyxiation!
Yair. The pore cow’d run so flamin’
fast the air couldn’t keep up with ’im
an’ ’e’d sufficated ’imself.”


O~CU>V.
f
AT
THE
1
SYDNEY
Twice Dai230-3
commencing; Monday, may i.
B*k: New Company Overseas Stars featuring
the four franks
In Hollywood Hot Shots.
COMMENCING THURSDAY, MAY 4.
“The Laugh Round-up,” featuring
MILL MAHONEY
and 10 Other New Acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Stolen Life”
Elisabeth Bergner, Michael Redgrave.
This arresting Paramount production,
made in England and with English
players, is showing at Sydney Prince
Edward, and, supported by excellent and
varied short features, makes a top-
notch bill at that address.
The story, sustained by careful direct-
ing and first-class acting, is well above
average. It has to do with twin sisters,
identical in all outward appearances and
closely bound by their natural affinities,
but differing widely in character.
Martina has some depth, together with
restraint and a measure of fatalism,
causing her self-effacement before the
more assertive will of Sylvina—likeable,
but shallow and illiberal and taking the
lion’s share of the life which the pair
of them must naturally have together.
Into Martina’s ken drifts Redgrave,
mountaineer and explorer, getting in
some preparatory training for a trip to
Tibet. She meets him on one of his
climbs and several times thereafter, and
endeavors unsuccessfully to keep him
away from her sister. Sylvina and Red-
grave chance across each other—he, of
course, mistaking her for her sister —and
after some confusion, explanations and
readjustments they are married.
Even at this early stage the film is
something out of the box. Miss Bergner
plays the parts of both Martina and
Sylvina with such consummate skill that,
although Redgrave’s confusing the two
of them is entirely credible, the audience
is never in doubt as to which is which,
nor has the slightest impression that they
are one and the same person. She not
only makes two essentially different
characters of two outwardly identical
persons without any resort to the narra-
tive or to situations ; she plays the two
characters off against each other in a
manner worthy of two accomplished
actresses.
Redgrave goes off on his expedition
to Tibet, and during his absence Sylvina
is drowned when a storm catches her
and Martina out yachting. Martina is
rescued, unconscious and with her sister’s
wedding-ring clenched in her hand. It
goes without saying that Martina be-
comes Sylvina, but in assuming her
sister’s person she finds she must also
assume responsibilities for her wayward-
ness and deal with other complications
which she had never dreamed of.
In handling tiat impersonation Miss
Bergner has a still more difficult task
than playing the two roles in the earlier
sequences of the film. She must act the
role of Martina playing the part of
Sylvina—a character which she herself
has already created. She must make the
impersonation sufficiently genuine for
the other players’ acceptance of her as
Sylvina to be completely feasible, but
it must have just that shade of falseness
which will convince an audience that it
is an impersonation within the film;
that it is Martina, and not Miss Bergner,
playing the part of Sylvina.
It’s a good part for a good actress,
but one beset with difficulties from start
to finish. The whole production depends
on its success, and the slightest misstep
could easily damage the film beyond
repair. Miss Bergner does not once slip ;
faultless to the finest detail, she’ moves
through every intricacy with complete
assurance, rendering the character, or
characters, with full sincerity and with a
remarkable degree of understanding.
Redgrave improves on his earlier show-
ing in “The Lady Vanishes.” He is
mainly a foil for Miss Bergner, but being
that successfully entails a certain amount
of histrionic skill, and he fills the bill
admirably. As Miss Bergner’s father,
Wilfrid Lawson, who was Doolittle in
“Pygmalion,” has a role which, though
not so colorful as the earlier one, enables
him to avail himself of the opportunity
for a restrained and satisfying perform-
ance.
Also, the film is well presented, ex-
cellently photographed and directed
smoothly to develop in easy stages, keep-
ing the story moving fast enough to hold
interest, but not so fast as to prevent
full appreciation of it.
Miss Bergner’s performance must rank
her as one of the screen’s finest artists.
“La Kermesse Heroique
Battled through a rainstorm to inspect
this French offering at Sydney Savoy.
Finally weathered the flood to find that
that film-house has been all done out
with new and posh upholstery and car-
petings, and is inhabited by a bevy of
streamlined usherettes ready and willing
Plumbing Editor's suggestion—Bath for Flatette.
to take on any and all-comers in lingual
bouts of French, Russian, German and
sundry other tongues.
But, despite storms, new furnishings,
multi-lingual usherettes and the like, the
main event was, of course, the screening
of a Continental film in Sydney and,
what’s more, the inauguration of a policy
to go on screening them.
Heaven knows when a European film
was last shown in these parts. A full
and fair selection from the best of
American, European, English and Aus-
tralian studios would lift the entertain-
ment level by quite a few notches.
If European films can be judged by
this offering at the Savoy, they are ex-
cellent quality. Lingual difficulties are
surmounted by superimposing English
titling on the film, the printed words
generally preceding the actual speech by
a few seconds. Though this has the dis-
advantage of taking the element of sur-
prise from the spoken word, it’s a small
point to cavil at, and it is remarkable
how easily a spectator with just a smat-
tering of French can follow the film
with only the barest reference to the
titling.
“La Kermesse Heroique” won the
French prize for the best film of its
year, and, although it appears to have
earned the award more on its quality as
an example of film-making than on its
actual substance, it has a fair enough
story. Setting is a small Flemish village
in the days when the Spanish and French
spent most of their time knocking each
other’s heads off. A threatened Spanish
invasion leaves the male population of
the town panic-stricken and helpless, so
the ladies take over in an attempt to
save the day.
Their modus operandi — the same as
that which Eve pulled on Adam —makes
excellent light comedy. They meet the
invaders at the gates, offer them the
freedom of the town and thereafter
show ’em the time of their lives. To keep
a soft pedal on the celebrations the
burgomaster is supposedly dead and rest-
ing in state in his bedroom, while his
wife sets the example for the rest of the
feminine population by amusing the boss
of the invaders and herself as well. The
ladies don’t need much showing and go
to work willingly, leaving the home-team
of males somewhat perturbed thereat,
but unable to do anything about it with-
out risking an open declaration of hos-
tilities.
It’s a good set-up and it makes an even
better film. The French seem to be
masters of the light touch, and keep the
production frothy and bubbling all the
way. Their general humor is thinner,
their satire less keen and their farce
more boisterous than what’s encoun-
tered in average American films; their
acting is more emotional and they draw
more on sex for their laughs, but they
do it all deftly and very lightly. Acting
is good all round, the producers seeming
more anxious to have practically flawless
performances from every member of the
cast than to concentrate on featuring any
two or three particular players.
Compared with the general run of
films in these parts, “La Kermesse
Heroique” stands as a hand-made job
against machine-made stuff. Despite its
light and airy nature it is particularly
rich in character, costume and setting,
and is so excellently photographed that
almost every scene is an arresting study
in composition and effect. It has evi-
dence galore of meticulous attention to
detail, together with those touches of
individuality which, if such a distinction
is possible, distinguish film-making as
an art from film-making as a profession.
“Topper Takes a Trip ”
Connie Bennett, Roland Young, etc.
Those who enjoyed that diverting
comedy “Topper” should not be the least
disappointed by this main offering at
Sydney Century. It’s played by the same
crowd—Connie, Billie Burke, Roland
Young, Alan Mowbray, etc. —and built
on the same idea of a departed mortal
returning in ghostly form to take a con-
spicuous part in the worldly affairs of a
mild-mannered and much-confused little
banker.
In “Topper” Connie and husband Cary
Grant departed this earth in a motor
smash, but were unable to pass the pearly
gates until they had some good deed to
their credit. The charitable act —arrang-
ing a more harmonious state of affairs
in the Topper household —seemed to
have been accomplished by fadeout, but
it now appears that, although Mr. Grant
made the grade, Connie’s good deed mis-
fired somewhere and left the poor girl
still wandering about. Anyway, here she
is in this present offering (and some-
times isn’t, when the notion takes her to
vanish into smoke) trying to light on some
act of kindness that will let her through.
It also appears that Mr. and Mrs.
Topper were not reconciled after all, she
being decidedly suspicious of ghostly
feminine voices heard in conversation
with her husband. In effecting a final
and complete reconciliation, decides
Connie, lies her passport through the
pearly gates.
The ensuing tangle of events makes a
stretch of preposterous and entertaining
comedy. Mrs. Topper hikes for France
to get a divorce, with Mr. Topper in hot
pursuit, and with Connie floating about
in space and ready to intervene with the
best of intentions, but not always with
the best results. Her ghostly presence
invades everywhere from law courts to
the Casino at Monte Carlo, creating
havoc wherever it goes.
There is plenty of such comedy as is
provided by riderless bikes, driverless
cars and dogless chains, or by Mr.
Young having his breeks torn about by
a dog which isn’t there. Then, of course,
there are Mr. Young’s own comedic
talents, which are displayed along with
those of Miss Burke and Connie with
rib-bursting effect.
“Three Smart Girls Grow
Up”
Deanna Durbin.
This main item at Sydney State is a
very pleasant length of musicomedy.
Although the Deanna has progressed to
evening gowns, silk stockings, etc., she
still appears to be the same refreshing
youngster that she was in her other films.
Her voice seems as good as ever, though
she makes less use of it. She sings a
vocal arrangement for Weber’s “Invita-
tion to the Dance,” “La Capinera,” by
Julius Benedict, and “The Last Rose of
Summer.”
Plot is the usual string of artifices
whipped up to a fair pitch of frothiness,
wafted pleasantly about the mind for an
hour or so and wafted away just as easily
with other inconsequential matters.
Helen Parrish and Nan Grey make up
the trio with Miss Durbin, and Charles
Winninger is consistently funny as their
parent—an extra busy businessman and
a good caricature of absentmindedness.
Young Goluboff .
Sixteen-years-old violinist Grisha Golu-
boff’s last week in Sydney was a busy
one —three recitals, with programmes
including such giant classics as the
“Kreutzer,” the Brahms in D Minor and
the Cesar Franck sonatas, together with
many well-known bravura works by such
composers as Vieuxtemps, Wieniawski,
Sarasate and Paganini.
Grisha is an engaging lad, chock-full
of talent and ambition, and though he
doesn’t measure up to the young Heifetz
(who, anyway, was older when Sydney
first heard him) or to the placid, plump
Menuhin, or to Guila Bustabo, he
evokes as much enthusiasm and applause
from Sydney audiences as Kreisler could.
The lad has good temper, too. On
Saturday night two of his big items —the
Cesar Franck and the Wieniawski
“Souvenir de Moscow” were ruined
through the bungling of the turner-over-
of-pages. He showed no annoyance, and
the audience, to all appearances, was
totally oblivious.
A really interesting feature of these
recitals has been the fine duet-playing of
Goluboff and his accompanist John
Crown. Indeed the pianist has some-
times outshone the violinist.
“A Midsummer Night’s
Dream”
Sydney Players’ Club saluted the winter
very pleasantly with “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” at St. James’s Hall. It
wasn’t so compelling a show as the club’s
“Merchant of Venice” last year, parti}
because it’s very light comedy, partly
because it’s very much harder to stage
than the solider pieces. In “Lear” or
“Hamlet” all Shakspeare’s values still


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 7 of 1939.
BETWEEN DORIS ANNIE WOODS Petitioner
And WALTER EDWARD WOODS Re-
spondent.
TO WALTER EDWARD WOODS late of
Moree.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS
ANNIE WOODS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifth day of
July One thousand none hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not so doing the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of April, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN K. CUTLER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 264 of 1939.
BETWEEN EMMA CLARISSA CONNOLLY
Petitioner
And LEONARD JAMES CONNOLLY
Respondent.
TO LEONARD JAMES CONNOLLY late of
Harwood Island New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA
CLARISSA CONNOLLY has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free c^ ar ?. e - IcnQ
DATED this Nineteenth day of Apri1,.1939.
(1.5.) c. k. body,
Registrar.
•p M DONOVAN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Post Office Chambers, Victoria Street,
Grafton; by his Agents, E. A. CLEARY &
CO., Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
URtft
• • •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
hold good and are immediately intel-
ligible ; it’s very much harder work to
put over Elizabethan humor and Eliza-
bethan fantasy.
Nevertheless, the play’s most delightful
scene, the transformation of Bottom and
the intrigues and confusions in the woods,
was delightfully presented. Setting was
very good, and the light was kept de-
cently dim so that the stage, when every-
one was sleeping, didn’t look littered with
bodies as it sometimes does. Puck, played
by Sheelagh O’Sullivan, was as nimble
as could be wished ; C. E. Street played
the Weaver satisfactorily; Charles Kil-
burn and Frederick Cahill were Lysander
and Demetrius, and Molly Ramsay and
Sylvia Hawkins were outstandingly good
as Hermia and Helena. The fairies who
sang Titania to sleep, though they might
have said “Hence!” as if they meant it,
made a charming interlude.
Heinze Learns ’Em.
Melbourne Town Hall one afternoon
last week resembled a chessboard painted
in squares of green, blue, brown and
purple, occasion being the first of the
children’s concerts provided gratis by
that paternal institution the A.B.C. Ber-
nard Heinze was in the rostrum, intro-
ducing the various instruments, pointing
out the beauties of the scores and turn-
ing his back on his executants to tell the
assembled youngsters what he thought
the composer was doing.
Whether or no this method of annota-
tion will produce young Mozarts or con-
vey the impression that listening to music
is a more entertaining occupation than
learning the multiplication table, Heinze
is an extremely suave and graceful ex-
positionist and his programme was as
British as they make them.
Roger Quilter’s Children’s Overture
was both good music and easy to follow,
based as it is on the nursery tunes of
our grandmothers, but musically the best
performance was “The Kentish Suite”
of Hubert Clifford. Clifford’s suite
is an admirable piece of lucid writing.
Hamilton Harty, Elgar and Edward
German also figured on the programme.
Art Photography.
People who think that photography,
as an art, stands to painting as mechani-
cal piano-playing does to the achieve-
ments of a Paderewski are unjust to a
craft which presents to its practitioners
just as difficult problems as those which
beset the wielders of pencil and brush.
The Sydney Camera Circle’s show at
David Jones’s gallery is full of clever
solutions to such problems, and in
addition contains many pictures which
have as much claim to be considered
artistic as if they were the product of
pencil, brush or etching needle.
H. Cazneaux’s portraits of Hans and
Nora Heysen, coupled with such fine
studies of eucalypts as “Gums of the
Flinders,” show the latest influence to
sway this very accomplished technician.
Monte Luke scores heavily with his
portraits “Caz” and “Gretchen” and
three very clever waterside pieces—“ Low
Tide,” “Ebb Tide” and “Quiet Moor-
ings.” R. V. Simpson’s “Sea Lace,”
W. H. Moffitt’s “Impending Storm,”
C. F. Walton’s “Contre Jour,” Peter
Lawrence’s “Pastureland” and all of
J. W. Metcalfe’s quiet landscapes show
taste and imagination. L. Le Guay in
“Dead End” (Surry Hills?) has done
something that would delight the heart
of Vasallief, and has achieved a less
sombre sort of poetry in “Youth Chases
Sunlight.” H. N. Jones finds a bit of
old England in Melbourne—“Ye Old
Mitre Tavern,” and scores also with a
delicate fog effect, “Grey Morning.”
H. D. Dirck’s exotic gleanings are all
striking, particularly his Trafalgar Square
lions, and there’s some worth-while work
on show by Dr. A. E. F. Chaffer, F. D.
Collins and A. Ford.
Artbursts.
1938 Travelling Art Scholarship
The N. S. Wales award for 1938 goes
to well-known Sydney painter Lance V.
Solomon, who caught judge Harold
Herbert’s eye with some characteris-
tically delicate landscape studies. Good
students’ work is shown by D. M.
Barrie, runner-up. A very competent
competitor, Elsie Davis, shows a land-
scape which is a model of good technique,
and a flower piece painted with quite
remarkable cleverness.
* * * *
Adelaide
The Russian Ballet, now having an im-
mensely successful season at Adelaide
Royal (and strong especially on the femi-
nine side), gives a boost also to a sister
art. At Preece’s gallery is a fine show
of drawings by Daryl Lindsay.
The National Gallery of Adelaide has
got in early as a buyer.
Also, at the Australian Gallery in
Rundle-street is a large collection of
Kuehn photographs of the same or simi-
lar figures ; doing all that a “still” can
do to reproduce the vigorous life of the
originals. With these are Williamson
sketches, cleverly indicating with a few
curving strokes all the whirl of the dance.
HEAD OF THE RIVER
Time was when they rowed it on the
city reaches of the Parramatta—here-
abouts, not to speak too disrespectful, a
somewhat sullied watercourse.
Overgrown into a vested interest, its
accompaniments used to squat down and
spread out there for an annual Saturday
afternoon mass manifestation. Every
sort of craft capable of keeping afloat,
from ferries to launches and dinghies,
cluttered up and down the soupy lane
of water, the whole armada tilted
half-seas-over, clustered wnii ye- -.g
humanity, the wharves, chimney stacks,
gasholders, petrol tanks and grimy walls
of industry for a background, the whole
squidlike scene hung over with a panoply
of smoke and haze
_ , , , , ... 1V
It, of course, had dramatic possibilities,
or melodramatic, anyway. There was
always a middling chance of a craft
turning turtle and providing an outsize
Great Harbor Disaster for Poster pur-
c°u eS i Usually there was somebody being
fished back out of the water, in the
jumble collisions were common, and the
chance of a racing crew smashing into a
boatload of spectators added a lot to
the sporting appeal.
It was, in fact, always an amazing
afternoon a pandemonic outburst of
mass hysteria, worked up to a high pitch
by press publicity; many thousands in
coin of the realm changing hands in a
few hours ; professionalism writ large all
over it; a giddy uprush of idiots’ delight
in an appropriate setting.
The school people may have taken this
view of it. At all events, they shifted it
from Parramatta to Nepean, as unsuited
to purposes of press hysterics as Clancy
to the office.
Some 30 miles beyond the city gates,
the place is definitely rural. The sur-
roundings are given over to cows and
pumpkin vines, and Time has been trans-
formed into an old crock and hobbled
and turned loose to graze along the
roads.
The river is walled by high, grassy
banks, terraced for picnicking near
the finishing line on one side, where most
onlookers congregate. On the other
bank, and on both looking away up-
stream, willows trail in the water and
old oaks that look as if they might have
had a seedling acquaintance with the
blacks add depth and dignity to the quiet.
The stream winds away from the Blue
Mountains foothills, but straightens for
a clear mile to the finishing point, its
breadth just exactly wide enough over
the full course to take eight racing eights
rowing abreast with a yard or so between
blades.
An idyllic setting, but a good hour by
train from the city; sometimes longer
by car, depending on the crush. So
nowadays only addicts —nine-tenths from
one or other of the eight schools, or
only lately left, with adults mostly
parentally interested parties—brave the
privations of the journeys. Hence attend-
ance has dropped from the Parramatta’s
70,000 and upwards to a mere 12,000.
The environment has told, and the
whole affair has become a day’s outing
in the picnic manner, enlivened by three
peaks of exciting uproar while the races
are being rowed, and between times by
salvo bursts of boyish high spirits.
A fair enough din, this, as a trainload
of it starts out from Central. A dis-
cordant but a happy lot of noise, it has
a suddenly stimulating effect on every-
body passed along the way. Lorry-
drivers let go the wheel and wave like
lunatics, cyclists burst out laughing and
pedal faster to keep up with it, a backyard
gardener brandishes his hoe and does a
haka over the radishes, pedestrians every-
where stop, look up and laugh. It’s like
travelling on a long curved grin stretched
out from Sydney to Penrith and Emu
Plains.
Unloaded, the crowds trek along metal-
and-earth road and footpath nine inches
deep in grass, pay their way in through a
gap in a wire fence, and settle down at
once to open up hampers and tucker-
bags on the grassed terraces, with loud-
speakers, lashed to tops of sawn posts,
chattering at them of happenings at in-
credibly remote places —Randwick and
Caulfield, and Sydney and Melbourne
football grounds.
Eloquent of the surroundings, bees —
the sort they keep in hives —instantly are
buzzing in hundreds into this picnic
scene, perching on outsides and rims
of glasses and on bottles for a suck of
the gingerbeer and other sweet tack
opening up. The Ancient Order of Froth-
blowers might gather interesting nature
data by staging a picnic hereabouts, un-
less these earnest little black-and-gold
customers are what their present taste,
and that of the bivouackers they’re in-
vading, would seem to suggest.
With about an hour to go before the
first boatrace, a unanimous munching
sets in, punctuated by periodic rallies
among the clusterings of youth, a com-
prehensive assortment of homo sapiens
in the bud, festooned with school colors
and flourishing megaphones and pen-
nants.
The first boat to show up on the empty
river below is manned by his Majesty’s
N. S. Wales John Hops, one stumping
away with short paddles, the other deep
astern, cocking her nose in the air. Bqth
in the prime roastbeef of condition, they
look to be patrolling the course for mine-
fields or submarines: it’s innocent of
even a dead marine.
Presently a school Four shows up,
and another, and more of them, coming
through the arches of the railway bridge
just below the finishing point, and row-
ing a long, leisurely stroke upstream for
the start. The loudspeakers switch over
from what the Tigers are doing to the
Redlegs in Melbourne to the real business
at hand. The uproar even as the Fours
paddle past suggests that the loudspeakers
will have obliterating competition be-
fore it’s all over. So it turns out. They
hold their own against the swelling din
for the first hundred yards in a race ;
from there on the loudspeakers are hope-
lessly outclassed.
With the eight crews in each of the
races for Fours driving towards the
finishing point the crowd drops the picnic
mood for sustained outbursts of yelling
and dervish dancing. And these are only
preliminaries, for all that the lads put
into them and the fine spectacle they
make. The high climax of this dramatic
entertainment, spectacle and din together
is the championship race of the Eights.
By now the sun is slanting down from
the back of the coxswains and holds the
crews in a shafted spotlight. Over the
last half-mile it is spectacle just about
perfect. Every crew rowing its damnedest,
the eight boats, apparently abreast,
stretched across from bank to bank,
coming on out of the sun through a
flurry of white splash ; the bent backs
and driving thrust of the crews; the
blades dipping, sweeping and rising.
As they break away from the following
sun and come on to the finish, the din
increases to pandemonium, then sud-
denly subsides altogether. The trek back
starts at once.
Perched atop of a corner fencepost on
the way, absurdly got up in a bowler
lid with a pennant moored to it, a yellow
shirt, shorts, hairy legs and outsize boots,
is a hefty lump of a school youth biting
into a hot-dog-and-roll. He looks like
Anticlimax in person.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
m
TO
■MmMHimii
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, It Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
NORLAND NURSING COLLEGE
\
CHOOSE NURSING AS A CAREER.
A steadily increasing demand ensures a highly-paid
position for a Norland nurse. .
The Norland certificate is given at the end of a yeai s
training and three appointments are guaranteed
Under carefully selected qualified teachers the P r( * atlonL i
is taught invalid and children’s cookery, First Aid and
NORLAND NURSES are respected and recognised every-
where as being highly capable.
ENROL NOW for the April Term-
The NORLAND NURSERIES, which are attached to the
COLLEGE, 68 Charlotte Street, Ashfield, N.S.W.
BRANDAIPJS
Y\*
m
<&s
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOJSB * CO, JM.. BIRMINGHAM. KXO
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Maybe you were one of those who
waited at the Cenotaph for yesterday’s
dawning. You probably have been one
of the faithful who year by year have
told their beads of remembrance at the
Dawn Service, and later in the Domain.
Strange how Gallipoli is drawn closer
to our hearts as life moves on. Perhaps
it is that, as even time fails to corrode
the loves and loyalties of old, each year
is but a stronger link binding us to our
immortal dead. Flowers heaped on the
Cenotaph, the march of the veterans,
the flash of medals, prayers in church,
in Martin-place, in the Domain! Let
us pray for peace for the souls of the
brave dead, for peace for the living
world!
Bright blew the cloaks of the bishops
and monsignori at the garden party
given by the Apostolic Delegate, Dr.
Panico. Their scarlet was brave against
the overcast day, and if you were down
on one of the greeny slopes and looked
upwards the cluster of birettas that rose
above the hedge might have been taken
for a blooming of some new dahlia. The
Papal Delegate stood at the end of the
path that leads to the lower lawn, and
here were grouped the church dignitaries.
Here, too, were grouped the vice-regals
when they arrived with their little courts.
Army and Navy importants also stood
by, and presently a choir of girls in lilac
frocks, trained by the Ladies of the
Grail, sang with great sweetness. They
were grouped on the loggia which leads
to the garden and has a view that spreads
for miles towards the mountains and up
the harbor reaches.
The whole of the bottom floor of the
Delegation was thrown open, and the
dining and reception rooms made one
vista lighted by long windows lead-
ing to the terrace. The party was in
honor of the crowning of the new Pope,
and at the end of the room there was
a picture of the present Pontiff draped
with the Papal colors, and placed before
it were vases of flowers.
On the middle of the table in the
dining-room was a tall cake iced in pale
gold and white. Honorable mention for
whoever thought out the color scheme
for these rooms. In one room hang-
ings of water-green damask warmed to
mulberry tones in the lounge, and were
lightened to pale gold damask in the
third. As you passed you were con-
scious of the beauty of many works of
art. The parquetry floors are of the
loveliest of our woods.
The band had to play “God Save”
twice, because both the Governor-
General and Lord Wakehurst were
present. Lady Gowrie’s frock of pale
pink was worn under a coat of black
marquisette and lace. Daughter-in-law
Mrs. Hore-Ruthven’s frock was of dove-
grey. Mrs. Hore-Ruthven’s beret toned
with her frock. Like all the other women
present they wore furs, for the day was
cold and bleak, and almost, but just
didn’t, rain.
Talking of furs, you simply couldn’t
overlook the two bright McGirr girls.
Their fitting short coats of fur had full
sleeves. Beatrice was all silver fox —
her Cossack hat, too ; and Patricia’s coat
came from some silvery-blonde animal
—maybe lynx. Her hat had an up-
standing plume. Mrs. McGirr’s blue
frock crescendoed to a tiny blue hat
rich with royal blue plumes. The Bertie
Kellys, all-black velvet her choice ; the
Mark Sheldons, she, as usual, exquisite
to every detail; Mrs. Walter Burfitt,
burgundy touched with jacaranda blue
in her color scheme ; and Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy, her silver-fox cape over
a frock in one of the new shades of
violet, were others in the throng. Mrs.
E. Baume’s teal-blue frock was caped
in silver fox. All the Consuls and their
wives were glimpsed. The wife of
Japan’s Consul-General wore her national
costume (winter style) in greyey-blue
tones.
One of the smart was Mrs. George
Duncan, who came with her doctor hus-
band. Her black outfit was a tailored
joy, and her umbrella in its little silk
cover was the last word from Paris. Also
notable were the black and grey of
Beatrice McGirr’s, worn in a snakeskin
cover. The Tolmans came with good-
looking Mrs. Powell, from Melbourne.
The Norman McLeods were there, her
doll’s hat among the admired. The
Talty couple, Archbishop Gilroy’s
mother and sisters, Miss Kate Egan
and the Hollingdale family were im-
portants ; Kathleen Cobcroft in cruiser-
greys dashed about taking a motion
picture. Marie Houston, wearing ah
Elizabethan costume in rich reds, was
the day’s soloist, her voice sparkling
through the cold afternoon.
The Mayoral Nocks, the Major-
General Hardie couple, tfie Premier and
Minister for Education Drummond were
others. The pretty wife of Poland’s Con-
sul-General was a wearer of mignonette
green.
The girl with the pretty shoulder is
Gwen Moffitt, one of Sydney’s youngest
and newest solicitors (she was admitted
in August of last year and is employed by
one of our leading law firms). Although
very interested in the profession of the
law, she is keen also on art and literature,
and believes there could be no greater
achievement than to write a good book
or poem, or to paint a good picture.
The love of art is an inheritance from
father Judge Moffitt, better known to
Bulletin readers as Herbert W. Moffitt,
one of this journal’s black-and-white
artists for many years. Brother Athol
Randolph Moffitt, graduate in Arts and
Law, is now practising at the Bar of
N. S. Wales. He tied for first place in
his final law examination, and in his
fourth year shared the Dailey Prize.
Graduated LL.B. with first-class honors.
The Moffitt family is the only one in
Australia where father is a Judge, son
a barrister and daughter a solicitor.
Gwen’s sister Elaine married Lionel le
Gay Brereton, son of the professor-poet.
They live in Hong Kong.
Saturday was quite a packet of fun,
what with the boatraces and the Waver-
ley by-election. The evening was giddy
with regatta parties, and the weather was
perfect.
A new idea in gallery seats at the
regatta was supplied by ’plane spec-
tators. Olympian above the twelve
thousand or so shouting and bustling
and quivering humans who lined both
sides of the Nepean, they gazed their
fill at the wide, willow-edged stream
where the oars flashed in silver rhythm,
and saw Shore’s good win in the eights
and the crews of High coming home first
in the fours.
Two dances at night that drew coveys
of young things were the G.P.S. regatta
dance at David Jones’s and the Sydney
Grammar School’s flutter. At the first
the official table was bright with flowers,
and on the tallest flower piece flew the
pennant of “Shore,” which had won the
eights. Every woman at this table was
given a flower skiff complete with kewpie
rowers —as though in these days any
woman needs a hint to paddle her own
canoe. Alan Bridge, president of the
council of G.P.S. Old Boys’ Union, re-
ceived the guests, and Miss K. Hogan,
her black frock patterned in white,
acted as hostess. There were nearly 500
at Sydney Grammar School, where the
Women’s Association provided the
hostesses. President Mrs. A. Morrison
received. Sydney High, too, staged a
dance, at which hundreds made merry.
Now that Kathleen Robinson is back
with us perhaps there will be an impetus
to the effort to build a national theatre.
Kathleen has successfully produced plays
in the commercial theatres of London
and New York, and she knows the
theatrical game from start to finish. She
could at least give many hints to those
toying with the idea. To found a venture
like the Gate Theatre would take at
least twenty-five to thirty thousand
pounds. Actors and actresses at the
Gate get a level rate of a few pounds
a week. A Thorndike or a beginner
with one line (so this Letter has been
told) draws the same-size pay envelope.
The Queen’s Club, which has been the
background for so many of the Dett-
mann parties, was again requisitioned
by that family of the higher education
for daughter Dixie’s wedding reception.
Dixie is the elder daughter of the popular
Head of Sydney Grammar and his
equally-popular wife. Dr. Bruce Tas-
man Lovell, the ’groom, is the son of
the Prof. Tasman Lovells, of Neutral
Bay. Ivory lam£ patterned in gold leaves
made the bride’s frock. Mollie Butters
and Catherine Wood, whose mother had
attended Mrs. Dettmann at her wedding,
were the bridesmaids. St. John’s in Dar-
linghurst was the chosen church.
Bonnie Barber, of Yass, exchanged
vows with Thomas Hogan, of Concord
West, at St. Mary’s Basilica last Monday
in the hearing of many country people.
The bride’s popularity was evinced by
the fact that the Mayor of Yass, Aider-
man J. O’Connor, paid a special visit to
Sydney to give her away, and later at-
tended the reception.
Say farewell to Myrine Collins, who
goes off to New York and matrimony on
the twenty-eighth of this month. Myrine,
one of this city’s popular well-knowns,
has worked for many a good cause in
Sydney, and committees will miss her
helping hand and her bright smile.
Myrine’s affianced is James Harten, of
New York, whose forebears hailed from
Cavan, Ireland. The two met last
October when Myrine was on a world
tour. She will be married on the arrival
of the Monterey in New York, where
her future home will be. Photograph
from Montgomery Dunn.
Gladioli arrangements that were almost
heroic themselves, a foyer deeply car-
peted and a group of girl ushers in long
forest-green frocks, banded in gold braid,
created atmosphere at the opening of
Sydney's Continental film theatre. It’s
the Savoy, that used to screen revivals.
Now it has sprouted red velvet curtains
at the doors and on the stage. The last
has a dizzy-looking gold Eiffel Tower on
it. It’s all very effective, but the little
bandbox of a theatre will need to be
fitted with elastic walls. Also the two
front rows are really too close to the
screen. French is the language of
the current showing, “La Kermesse
Heroique.”
There was a stirring premiere, all
broadcast on the correct note of im-
pressiveness. France’s Consul-General
Tremoulet made a speech of some length.
Impeccable in every detail and smoothly-
plumaged came the daughters of France.
’"La Kermesse Heroique” is notable from
a woman’s point of view. It shows how
the sex stage-manages household and
State affairs ; and it brought to the gaze
film actresses who are fascinating and
good-looking without the standardised
gloss of Hollywood girls.
Listening to the galloping French dia-
logue were Mrs. P. Clementel and Mrs.
Jacques Play oust, her black tulles caped
in silver fox. Mrs. Danciger was there
with a handsome daughter—black velvet
and silver fox their choice. Chief Justice
Jordan and his wife were there ; and Mrs.
Stuart Doyle came with Marie Louise.
Clara Butter’s red coat was striking in
contrast to her fairness. Mrs. Ivy Moore
(whose song of St. George and England
was sung at the yearly dinner of the
Society of St. George last Saturday) wore
midnight-blue satin and lace under a
black velvet coat. Shirley Poynter came
with Sir Hugh Poynter. Very handsome
was Mrs. John Bridge. Mrs. Frank
Albert’s squirrel coat fascinated. The
Ferrands, so soon to depart for Paris,
and Mrs. Albert Doyle, wife of the Con-
sul for U.S.A., were in the audience.
The opening of the 17th annual con-
ference of the C.W.A. was a happy and
informal affair. Lord Wakehurst offi-
ciated, and made warm-hearted reference
to the hospitality extended to himself and
Lady Wakehurst on their journeys into
the outback of the State. In fact, he
deplored the risk to his waistline under
the bombardment of all the home-made
cakes and sweets (no, not sweeties) he
meets with in his travels.
State president Mrs. J. W. C. Beveridge,
who is not yet recovered from a recent
accident, was not present, so Mrs. A. J.
Studdy, a former president, did the
honors. Her velvets, old rose in hue,
were caped in fur, and she carried a posy
of autumn blooms. From Q land came
State president Mrs, Edward Farmer,
and Victoria’s State president, Mrs. O.
Hicken, told proudly of the “craft” work
of southern members. Minister for
Transport Bruxner and Minister for Edu-
cation Drummond also lent the light of
their countenance.
Just back from Europe, Mrs. Ham-
bridge and daughter Marjorie had a rous-
ing welcome at the lunch in their honor
held in the Lyceum Club rooms. The
handsome Australian girl has been work-
ing hard at advanced violin lessons from
the distinguished Szigeti, who is like the
elusive Pimpernel to locate —Paris is pos-
sibly his nearest notion of a home from
home.
“What’s an average daily routine of
work?” Marjorie was asked. “Five
hours —though in moving about as much
as we did at times I couldn’t always
keep it up. But now I’m settled at home
again that’s the regular rule.” Mrs. A. G.
Thomas was in the chair. Mrs. Muscio
rose to her small feet in a brief speech.
Also noted were hon. sec. of the club
Mrs. Darsow, hon. flower-lady Laura
Teague, who robs her garden at Turra-
murra for decorations, and vice-president
Elizabeth Allan, with a fine dash of sun-
tan on her face after a week’s motoring
with a nephew who is “doing” geology
and chips likely specimens off the face
of Nature.


TYRANNY OF THE 8.3 A.M.


Personal and Missing Friend.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of FRANK
GUY, formerly of Frankston Road, Chelsea,
in the State of Victoria, Investor, is requested
to communicate with LLOYD P. GOODE,
Solicitor, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne, in the
said State.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 710 of 1939.
BETWEEN WILFRED PARRY Petitioner
And ANNIE PARRY Respondent.
TO ANNIE PARRY late of Albury in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILFRED
PARRY has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
20th day of June 1939 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of April, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LAPPIN AND GRIFFIN, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Wagga Wagga; by their Town
Agents, BOWMAN AND MACKENZIE,
Solicitors, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 564 of 1939.
BETWEEN ENID MARY PETERSON Peti-
tioner
And FREDERICK WALTER PETERSON
Respondent.
TO FREDERICK WALTER PETERSON.
TAKE NOTICE that ENID MARY PETER-
SON has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion during
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to this suit
in the proper office of this Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, City Mutual Building, Hunter Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN KATE MARGARET BROWN
(formerly Kate Margaret McGearey) Peti-
tioner
And DESMOND FRANCIS BROWN
Respondent.
TO DESMOND FRANCIS BROWN late of
Murrumbateman.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATE MAR-
GARET BROWN has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of July 1939 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the peti-
tioner v/ill proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
REX REYNOLDS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, St. James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN ETHEL MAY CHARLTON (for-
merly Ethel May Armstrong) Petitioner
And ROWLAND CHARLTON Respon-
dent. „ . ,
O ROWLAND CHARLTON late of Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL MAY
:HARLTON has commenced a suit against
ou in this Court and is applying for a dis-
alution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
on for three years without just cause or ex-
use AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
uired to enter an appearance to the said suit
t the proper office of this Court on or before
le Sixth day of July 1939 and in the event
f your not doing so within the time limited
r obtaining further time the Petitioner will
roceed and the suit be heard and determined
our absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
etition filed herein may be had on application
a the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth <Hy of
<l S Registrar.
REX REYNOLDS, Solicitor for the Peh-
ioner, St. James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth
treet, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Furs of many breeds and cyclamen in
all varieties of depth and tone were
features of the Caulfield meeting, which
came and went in perfect weather. There
wasn’t even a wind of sufficient per-
tinacity to pull curls out of place. Mrs.
Hugh Crawford wore silver foxes of
generous proportions in her fingertip-
length cape which was protection for
her lightweight black frock designed with
a panel down the front of white silk
sheer. Mrs. Fred Dennett’s silver foxes
were about her shoulders and, as a perky
afterthought, an embellishment for her
small black hat. The Horsfall girls
played a merry autumnal melody in ex-
hilarating colors —Margaret in green with
a Pied Piper hat the color of a ripe
lemon, and Lorna in persimmon with a
couple of blue hearts stitched provo-
catively upon her corsage, gloves to
match her frock, and bag to match her
hearts.
Biddy Howat’s dahlia-red coat shel-
tered a pastel-pink frock. Mrs. Ron le
Soeuf also showed a lingering affection
for the lighter shades and materials of
summer and came forth in a lime-yellow
frock, its associate being a little fur cape.
Tailored garments of the style of Mrs.
Ted Nihill’s grey cloth coat were popular,
as they always are once the leaves have
begun to fall.
The International Club had its most
ingenue guest up to date for morning tea
last week, a dusky young woman with
bare feet and a black mop of wiry hair.
She was introduced as Mary, a short cut
over her name of Mere Takotavuki. She’s
from Fiji, where she works in a school
as a missionary teacher. Club members
who were present that morning heard
something from Mary of the marriage
customs of her particular isles of the
Pacific, and found themselves in informal
conversation with a Polynesian radical,
for Mary seems to be a w®man with a
mind of her own. She was game enough
to object to marrying a bridegroom
selected for her without a preview. After
much fuss and discussion a meeting was
arranged between the young couple.
Mary waited hour after hour, but the
young man had taken fright and didn’t
keep the appointment. So the affair
was off, and Mary clings to the freedom
of celibacy.
Had she lived just a few weeks longer
Mrs. Montague Cohen would have re-
joiced at the success of the Waverley
Club’s party for the Berry-street Found-
ling Home, for Mrs. Cohen was for
many years president of the Home’s
auxiliaries and. had a particularly warm
spot in her heart for each Berry-street
baby. Although there were 300 at the
party at Menzies’, the Waverley Club
is not a large society, but consists of
about 30 women who meet regularly at
one another’s homes for tea and bridge
and afternoons of knitting blue jumpers
for the foundlings. Henceforward its
largest annual gathering for its favorite
charity will be in the nature of a
memorial to Mrs. Cohen.
At the party were the hon. organisers,
Mrs. T. V. Millea and Mrs. C. G. Gam-
betta, whose respective daughters, Mary
and Noel, helped with the sales of lucky
envelopes. In deep concentration over
mah jongg tiles were Mrs. Gerald Kaye,
Mrs. J. Danglow, Mrs. Henry Shannon
and Mrs. Bill Christie, members of a
large group of mah jongg enthusiasts
who often play at one another’s houses
(while their husbands talk golf shot by
shot and wonder why women are so
fascinated by “childish games”). Among
those who pursued their luck with ever-
popular solo were Mrs. Laurie Chap-
man, Mrs. D. J. Whelan and Mrs. S. V.
Stutt. Mrs. Geoff Cohen, Irene and
Hilary Dunlea and Phyllis and Yvonne
Wearne saw that all tables were supplied
with chocolates and cigarettes.
Possibly knowing that a burst of pub-
licity was in the wind, Mrs. R. G. Men-
zies has been lying low in the matter of
studio photographs. She thinks that
snapshots taken out of doors and infor-
mally are good fun, but she feels her
smile grow stiff when facing studio lamps
and very seldom goes through the pro-
cedure, records of her presentation at
Courts being exceptions. Mrs. Menzies
before her marriage in 1920 was Pat
Leckie, daughter of Senator Leckie. She’s
the perfect wife-and-mother type, is of a
retiring disposition, and is quite happy
sitting back while the limelight is focused
on her husband. All the same, she has
plenty of energy, and will no doubt
make a good job of the difficult task
ahead of her. Useful experience is a
long line of speeches she has made at
various public functions that for years
have been part of many of her Saturday
afternoons. There are two sons, Keith
and lan, aged 17 and 15 respectively,
who are at Geelong College, and a
daughter, Heather, who is nearly 12, at
Ruyton.
Swan Hill will soon be welcoming back
to his solicitor’s office Tom Green, who
returns from his honeymoon with his
bride, who was Jan Angwin, of Mal-
vern. The Swan Hill district followed
the wedding plans with interest, and the
St. Arnaud Town Council, which appar-
ently votes Tom a stout fellow, offered
to send down to Melbourne flowers for
the wedding reception, but washaways
interfered with its plans.
The cocktail party following the
marriage in the Hawthorn kirk was
at the home of bride’s sister Mrs.
S. L. Thompson, where garden
decorations were not lacking, for
other friends came to the rescue. The
bride was given away by Pat Ramsden,
husband of her twin sister June. Pat
and the ’groom both made speeches
which met with general approbation.
Tom’s present to Jan was a set of steel-
shafted golf clubs in a handsome bag,
and her present to him a dressing case
fitted with enough brushes and combs
to keep him well groomed on all occa-
sions.
Eve Ray made this portrait of Mrs.
W. D. Murray-Smith, who is on the com-
mittee for the Picture Night at the
Regent, South Yarra, on the 27th in aid
of the Renown Free Kindergarten. Mrs.
Murray-Smith has undertaken the organi-
sation for the sweet stalls, so that just
now her thoughts even in her dreams veer
towards towers of marshmallows, the
pleasant aroma of home-made caramel
and the rustle of colored crinkly paper.
The last big effort for the Renown Kin-
dergarten was the Pay Party Ball. The
Picture Night is for maintenance, for
money in the bank has dwindled to an
alarmingly low level. All available
finances for the Renown were mopped up
by the baby room, a charming place for
the smallest people on the roll call to spend
several hours a day in, but expensive.
Voluntary helpers are urgently needed at
the kindergarten, and offers of assistance
with the children would be appreciated
by the director and students on the staff.
Mrs. George Bell’s property boxes
gave up their spoil for the season of
“Lavender Ladies” at the Little Theatre.
Camphor and moth balls were shaken
out from yards of rustling taffeta and
old lace worn by Mrs. Bell, who played
the part -of Rose. Jet beads, a bustle and
several petticoats were part of Jean
Campbell’s picture of adamant old
straightback, sister Anne. Dorothy
O’Keefe, as Tabitha, wore black taffeta
and a wide expanse of leg-of-mutton
sleeve. All three were particularly well
cast. Kenrick Hudson put a manly
backbone into the job of Haywood
Clear. Joan Denyer showed promise for
the future in her role of ingenue April.
Additions to the Little Theatre’s interior
are a warm-for-the-winter shade of rust
for the new curtains. Its exterior now
boasts a closed-in ticket-box, so that the
man on the door will not be a victim to
every cold wind that blows.
The day of the perfect tram has not
yet arrived. Melbourne has new trams
(known as “luxury,” an overworked
word) on the Richmond routes, with
glass swing doors to keep the rain out
of the verandah portions as their most
noticeable improvement. But judged by
the progress in standards of cars, trains
and aeroplanes during the last ten years,
the trarns come a bad last. No one has yet
invented some sort of parcel rack for the
overladen travellers who haven’t a spare
hand to fish a fare out of their bags. The
winter is coming, and the “luxury” trams,
like their commoner brethren of older
vintage, will have large cold puddles on
rainy days spreading into swilling lakes
over their floors. Dripping umbrellas
do the damage, for there are no gutters
or runways to carry off the flood.
Mrs. John Agar, pictured here by
Broothorn, is on the committee for the
Rice Bowl Festival at the Town Hall on
May 5. She is the daughter-in-law of
one of the committee’s vice-presidents,
Mrs. W. E. Agar, and before her marriage
last December was Mollie Wells, well
known as a swimmer, a popular student
at Janet Clarke Hall (hers was a Univer-
sity romance, for John, her future hus-
band, was at Trinity) and later a teacher
of French at the Hermitage. The Rice
Bowl Festival should be a date in every-
body’s notebook, for from 11 a.m. until
midnight or later delicious Chinese meals
may be had at the Town Hall for the
small cost of Is. 6d. (or 2s. 6d. if bowl
and chopsticks are souvenired). Money
raised is to fill the empty rice bowls of
China.
When a woman goes travelling one
can give her a variety of presents, from
orchids or a bunch of violets to utility
things like coat hangers a-dangle with
clothes pegs. But when a small imper-
sonal gift is indicated for a man, along
come cigarettes with monotonous regu-
larity. Corkscrews and bottle-openers
should be an easy way out of the diffi-
culty, but with souvenirs of Melbourne
excluded there has up to date been very
little offering among these small pocket
gadgets. It has been left to a young
man out at Essendon aerodrome, Selby
McLean, to recognise the market value
of such articles. His are usually designed
with aeroplanes in mind, for his worx-
shop is within earshot of ’planes landing
and taking off.
His two children, aged eight and five,
are a lucky pair in the matter of toys.
With such a handy father they only have
to ask persistently enough for something
“that goes” and they get it. When a lad
young McLean ran off to sea and served
several years under sail and in steam.
Then he took to the air and became a
pilot; alighting on earth again he tried
several jobs, usually in connection with
machinery. His present job is maker of
supplies for the souvenir shop of Aus-
tralian National Airways. His only
machine is a small grinder, so that he
depends upon handwork for most of his
craftsmanship in metals and other
materials. Aeroplanes and yachts are
among the models he works upon with
particular enthusiasm.
Winter descended upon Melbourne
last week on a day when two art shows
were opened —Will Ashton’s and Harold
Herbert’s wall each at the Sedon Gal-
leries, and John Loxton’s exhibition of
water-colors at the Athenaeum. Frank
Clarke declared the Sedon show open,
but neither Ashton nor Herbert was
present to hear his words of eulogy. Mrs.
Harold Herbert was the medium of
congratulations by proxy. Mrs. David
Doughton brought a note of color into
the sombre gallery with a sky-blue bow
upon her hat and matching motifs upon
her frock.
Though the weather out of doors
was no temptation to giddy head-
wear, Mrs. J. B. Tait achieved something
frolicsome with her black hat, mostly
large velvet bow, and Mrs. Eric Thomas
showed her individuality with a hat so
flat it must have been held in position
by will power augmented by the ad-
justment of a couple of ribbons. Accom-
paniment for Mrs. Dare Holyman s
sugar-and-spice checked suit was a small
brown hat speared with a mother-of-
pearl pin. Among others who paid after-
noon calls upon the. show were Mrs.
Louis McCubbin and her daughter Pat
Spiers Jackson, who are preparing to
return soon to Adelaide.
“Art is indeed not the bread, but the
wine, of life” was a word of wisdom
quoted by Dr. Douglas Thomas when
opening John Loxton’s show. Dr.
Thomas sips the wine himself on
occasions from his own paintbox and
finds it a splendid pick-me-up, a pleasant
and harmless hobby and an excellent
relaxation from his professional work.
He was thus able to speak knowledgeably
of Loxton’s work and his gift for color.
Dr. Thomas has* been a buyer at art
shows for years, and his house is full
of pictures even to the laundry, where
a landscape or two is a placid contrast
to the flurry of the soapsuds.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
r'-T
m
a
m
\
Ml
HOME
Cm
(? IS m
SaMiatchmi
This illustration was drawn in the Dining
Halt of the Victoria
w
Travellers from all over
the world come to the Victoria because of its
luxurious comfort and quietness and convenience.
It’s in the very centre of Melbourne, near theatres,
shops, trains, and trams. The completeness of its
services; the information gladly supplied about
Melbourne, and its friendly atmosphere, make the
Victoria an ideal home for the traveller.
In Melbourne, there is no service and comfort equal
to the Victoria’s. So when you come to Mel-
bourne, stay at the Victoria.
VICTORIA PALACE
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ROOM ONLY, DAILY
TARIFFS
Doubles, 8'- to 161-
Singles, 4'- to 7/6
Sidney D. Horns, Manager
(Next Town Hall)
Write for illustrated Booklet
“ MELBOURNE HOLIDAY ”
to Room 136, Victoria Palace.
Send 2d. in stamps to cover postage .
NORTH OF
TWENTRY-EIGHT
Island, and garrisoned by a civil service
of British “younger sons.” The sensible
thing would be to tack the Solomons to
the New Guinea Mandate and send a
district officer or two from the North to
run them.
* * * *
“Gain”: The withdrawal of one oil-
search company from New Guinea does
not seem to have damped the enthusiasm
of the others. The Australasian
Petroleum Co. intends to spend £250,000
on surveys and drilling this year.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s C.I.B.
bridled modestly when told by a Sydney
man that it had done more in six hours
towards locating his missing daughter
than the whole N.S.W. police force had
Sir Matthew Nathan
“II Vecchio”: Dead in London, Sir
Matthew Nathan, one of the ablest
Governors Australian States have had.
He was a Jew of the Monash type —they
might have been taken for brothers —
and the Dominions Office picked him
for the job in 1920 when Queensland
was facing the knotty problem of Leg.
Council “reform.” His early training
was somewhat similar to Monash’s, too
—he began life as a Royal Engineer.
After some active service Sir Matthew
became Governor of Sierra Leone at 37.
He was afterwards chosen to govern the
Gold Coast, Hong Kong and Natal. The
British Government sent him to Ireland,
where he was of considerable help, and
after he left Queensland he was on a
committee that reorganised the Constitu-
tion of Ceylon.
Sir Matthew’s influence on Queensland
politics was soothing, though he roused
some fury among die-hards by his in-
ability “to discover evidence of any
strong or widespread feeling in the
country” against the Council Abolition
Bill.
He was something of a scholar and a
keen student of character. After he gave
up his Governorship I met the old man
in London stumping across St. Martin’s-
in-the-Fields crossing towards Pall Mall,
and he seemed as excited to meet a
Queenslander as if that State had been his
home. By way of celebration he took me
into the National Portrait Gallery and
gave me a character reading of a long
line of English kings and statesmen. Then
he topped off the expedition with an ex-
cursion to Lyons’s Corner House for re-
freshment. You don’t realise how great
the British Empire is till you see a just-
retired Excellency modestly accepting tea
and a bun from a nippy.
“Nishi-kita”: Broome (W.A.) is now
to have Japanese pearling boats, the first
of which, a 38-ton sampan with a crew
of four divers and 10 others, turned up
from Palau the other day and passed
Customs. The news is that another 29
are due off Ninety-Mile Beach before
the May-July season opens. There is
no legal way of preventing the influx,
but surely a convention is possible be-
tween Australia and Japan to prevent
the fishing of baby shell and to arrange
some scheme of conservation and joint
policing of beds outside territorial
waters. Wholesale destruction of young
shell, of which Japanese are accused, is
to nobody’s advantage.
* * * *
“Vila Joe”: F. N. Ashley, Resident
Commissioner of the British Solomons
since 1929, retires and makes way for
W. S. Marchant. Marchant has been in the
African Protectorate service since 1919 ;
he has been Deputy-Provincial Com-
missioner in Tanganyika since 1937. The
administration of the Solomons is a pretty
poor joke, anyhow. Lying handy to Aus-
tralia, with a white population mainly
Australian, and within sight of New
Guinea territory, it is governed by Afri-
can-continent administrators who usually
have never before seen a Pacific
“How much further to the blacksoil plains ?”
accomplished in six days. The adven-
turous 16-year-old lass had been sent to
the bank on Easter Saturday to deposit
cheques and £BO in cash, takings from
the paternal pub in Balmain, Sydney, and
had not returned. Inquiries showed that
a girl answering to her description had
booked to Brisbane the same day by
train. Her father followed, traced her
through Cessnock and Casino to Bris-
bane, and, on the Thursday afternoon, in-
terviewed C. 1.8. He had brought photos.
These were handed to investigation p.c.
men and to taxi-drivers, and a systematic
search began. Late that night the girl
was found at a South Brisbane residen-
tial, much, altered in appearance by
changed hair-color and new dresses. She
had bought a share in a cafe.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Many a border grave
must have stirred indignantly on April
12 when a N.S.W. resident appealed at
Coolangatta (S.Q.) to a Queensland
Valuation Appeal Court for an increase
in valuation of a property at Palm Beach
and a Queensland P.M. refused to grant
it. The applicant—woman, of course —
said she had bought the land years ago
at a price much in excess of the council’s
valuation, and even that valuation had
since been reduced. She contended that
progress in local values should have in-
creased the rates instead of decreasing
them. When I was brung up in those
parts in pre-Federation days, any Queens-
land Beak who was even suspected of
throwing away good Queensland money
to them Noo South cows would have
barely escaped with his life. At any
rate, he wouldn’t have got his boots
cleaned at the pub. And there’s a Bul-
letin man who’ll bear me out, even
though he had the misfortune to live on
the Noo South side.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The disquieting things
done by a recent 15ft. Bin. tide in the
Pioneer River at Mackay (N.Q.) have
caused old residents to recall the cyclone
of January, 1918, and to wonder what
will happen to the new artificial harbor
outside when meteorological history re-
peats itself. Then the 169-ton steamer
Tay was torn from special hurricane
moorings and hurled through a hole in
the Sydney-street iron bridge just previ-
ously made by the smashing and sinking
of the 72-ton steamer Brinawarr, A 30-
ton section of the bridge was carried
along the riverbed for two miles. The
Alice May, a 74-ton steamer, was washed
up on the bank, and broke in two when
the tide fell. The State Shipping Inspec-
tor reported that “every vessel in Mackay
either sank at her moorings by battering
on the wharves or broke adrift and
stranded.” And that happened in a river,
sheltered from the immense seas that
broke nearly over Flat-top Island.
* * * *
“R.”: Though Brisbane saw much
pioneer work done in the development of
deep-X-ray therapy treatment of cancer,
and though some of the leading southern
practitioners are Queenslanders, it is only
now that Brisbane General has reached
the point of acquiring a modern high-
voltage plant. At a cost of £lO,OOO one
is to be installed—seven years after Syd-
ney General and Prince Alfred Hospitals,
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: The lads of the 31st
Battalion made a great showing when
they marched out to Kissing Point Camp
(Townsville), 810 strong, in columns of
companies—save, of course, for the fact
that some had no uniforms. At Ayr 150
men left for camp, but though Martens,
M.H.R., was able to assure the warriors
that he had received a telegram from the
Defence Minister saying that the uniform
shortage was being “investigated,” many
had to buy their shirts. However, if we
northerners can’t stonker the invader, we
shall at least be able to sing him blind,
The Sydney adjudicator at the Cairns
Eisteddfod, discussing the Townsville
Choir’s offering, remarked that “criti-
cism of such a finished performance
would be impertinence ; the tone was
gorgeous and the diction faultless.” That’s
the kind of material we have to provide
us with drill instructors,
* * * *
_ “Daru Dan”: Strange things happen
in Moresby these exciting days. What
with guns and gun-shields lying round on
the wharf and roads being laid down
at a mile a minute, everybody is a bit
jumpy, and when boarders at the Hotel
Papua heard loud popping sounds before
dawn, accompanied by a distant clang
and rattle, they looked out expecting to
see pickelhauben deploying in the street,
Instead, they saw a soft-drink store on
fire with bottles bursting all over the
place. The clanging noises explained
themselves by the arrival of a sanitary
wagon returning from its midnight
ramble full of empty cans and muscular
coons. The local copper having com-
mandeered both coons and cans, a
bucket brigade was soon at work, while
white Moresby looked on—far down
down wind.


&
"tv
%
CHEMIST...3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
YOUR SALES
with the combination t'iat serves you
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam . . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St George’s House, St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of "RADIO” ( US.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is onl.v
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount ot
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Synthetic Voices.
Some years ago a Russian artist experi-
menting with the wave-form of variable-
area sound-tracks on cinema film was
able to arrive at fairly accurate delinea-
tions of vowel and sibilant wave-forms.
He drew large-scale wave-forms on
charts, which were then photographed on
film. When these were passed through
a projector sound-head they reproduced
a voice speaking intelligibly. Engineers
of the Bell Telephone laboratories in
America have recently produced a
Showing how radio circuits create a synthetic
human voice in the device known as the
“Voder.”
machine, operated by manual keyboard,
in which control of oscillators results in
sounds of talking.
The electronic principle of this device,
known as the “Voder,” is quite simple,
as the schematic diagram from “Radio
and Television” shows. Only two noise
generators are empldyed, one, a gas-
filled tube, reproducing the “hiss” sounds
of the voice, and the other producing
sound waves similar to those produced
by vocal chords. Outputs of both gen-
erators are rich in harmonics, so that it
is possible to produce changes in the hiss
sound as well as the voiced sound. The
combination of manual and pedal con-
trols makes it possible for a skilled
operator to approximate the sounds of
a human voice so closely that it is diffi-
cult to distinguish it from genuine speech.
But skill in operation is not easily
acquired. Proficiency in operating the
machine is only obtained after at least
a year’s practice of three hours every
day.
“Electronics” (U.S.A.) says the device
talks with a slight “electrical accent.” A
newsreel now being shown in Australia
demonstrates the “Voder” in action. The
skill of the girl operator is shown in her
control over a simple sentence, such as
“She saw me.” At will, the accent is
placed on any of the three words.
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: Accustomed to taking
news direct from London on 19 metres
at 6 p.m. Sydney time, I warmed up the
dual-waver at 5.57 p.m. on 15/4/’39. At
about this time, London runs the interval
signal, aptly consisting of the pealing
of Bow Bells, prior to the news bulletin.
For weeks, the Daventry transmitters had
been roaring through like local broad-
casters, but on this occasion not a sound
could be heard. Turning to 31, 25, 16
and 13 metres in succession, not a trace
could be heard of London, or Berlin
either, and a horrible thought smote me.
Had Hitler put his alleged contemplation
into effect and launched an air attack on
Britain, with immediate retaliation (as
would be the case) on Germany? No
doubt the short-wave centres would be
immediate vital points for attention! My
fears were groundless, for a little search-
ing around revealed that weather condi-
tions were responsible. The seasonal
change to wintry conditions had put a
blanket over European short-wave signals
around this period. I wasn’t quite satis-
fied, however, until I heard the local
national news at 7.20 p.m., and a few
hours later the European short-wavers
were there in full force.
* * * *
“Veekay”: The future importance of
world-wide broadcasting by short waves
was but dimly realised by most radio
experimenters a few years ago. Even
prominent authorities —P. P. Eckersley
was one during his 1932 visit to this coun-
try —put little stock in the practical utility
of long-distance s.-w. broadcasting. Since
radio readers first heard his
name The Bulletin’s radio
editor at every opportunity has
stressed the future importance
of short waves, though as re-
cently as 1934 his advocacy of
short-wave receiver development
was decried by contemporary
critics. To-day the immense
value of short-wave broadcast-
ing from without and within the
coastline of Australia is more
than established. Outstanding in
this respect is the 8.8.C.’s Em-
pire short-wave service, now
putting its powerful voice any-
where over the surface of the
earth —a service in these times
of great value to all units of the
British Empire. When the rela-
tive youth of radio science is
considered, the consistency and reliability
of the 8.8.C.’s service is a high tribute
to the skill of the British radio engineer.
Almost at any period of the 24 hours the
8.8. C. programmes and, what is at
present of paramount importance, the
news bulletins can be heard in this and
other British territory. British subjects
everywhere are able by the simple opera-
tion of a dual- or all-wave receiver to
keep in direct touch with world events.
The listener using an ordinary broadcast
receiver, though he gets a very fail-
national service of news, loses a valuable
and important addition to his sources
of information through inability to cover
the short-wave channels. Particularly in
these times, the slight extra cost of a
dual-wave receiver is more than worth
while.
Unusual Ultra-short-wave
Phenomena in U.S.A.
A detailed report of peculiar behavior
of signals in the ultra-short-wave radio
spectrum comes from E. H. Conklin
(W9BNX), associate editor of “Radio,”
U.S.A. In North America a severe
ionosphere storm was noted from noon
on 24/2/’39 until 8 a.m. eastern U.S.A.
time on 26/2/’39. Another commenced
on 3/3/’39 at 10 a.m., ending on 4/3/’39
at 4p.m., and a third was recorded be-
tween 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. on 6/ 3/’39. Dis-
plays of aurora borealis were reported
at various points on 24/3/’39, and during
these periods a peculiar state of affairs
was noticed on amateur bands —56mc.
particularly.
In Johnsonville, near Albany, N.Y.,
W2KLZ was listening on 28mc. at 2.30
p.m. on February 24, and heard several
W 1 and W 2 stations with strong signals
but fluttering rapidly. Shifting to “five”
he struck a DX signal around 58mc. with
the same identifying flutter, then found
another station on the low end of the
band. These were heard all afternoon
well enough to have copied keying, but
the modulation, if there was any, was
made inaudible by the flutter. At 5 p.m.
he gave up calling CQ DX on “five,” and
went up to the 80-metre band, where sig-
nals were fading deeply and rapidly. At
7.30 there were more carriers on 56mc.,
and at last WBVO in Akron replied to a
CQ with code. WBSLU, near Pontiac,
Michigan, was heard at about 8.25 p.m.,
and both sides of a contact between
WBRV (Buffalo) and WBVO were logged.
A peculiar effect was that DX signals
averaged about the same level for long
periods of time. WBVO built up gradu-
ally, and then slowly faded out at about
9.30.
WBVO heard the band open up at
around 7 p.m. apparently for the first,
second, third, eighth and ninth districts.
At first stations had a clean C.W. note,
and then a mushy modulation gradually
set in, with many good crystal stations
like W2AMJ, W2KLZ, WBRV and
WBSLU spreading out to between 175 kc.
and 300 kc. wide. Not one word of ’phone
could be understood, and both C.W. and
I.C.W. sounded alike. The modulation
seemed to be above 7kc. and created a
loud racket in the receiver. Ordinarily
the receiver is only 25kc. broad. Stations
within 50 miles were the same as DX.
except louder. There was no periodical
fade except the modulation present on
all signals. A strong local oscillator would
not heterodyne any of the signals. Alto-
gether, 29 carriers were heard up to
58.5mc. before the mushy signals
appeared all over the dial. With bad
fading the DX went out shortly after
9 p.m.
Commercial stations on 2930 kc. and
3105 kc. were at times out of commission
owing to 10- to 25-cycle modulation on
their carriers, and several times from
QRM of unknown origin. Reports indi-
cated that even the 160-metre band was
subject to flutter, but the amplitude was
less than on higher frequencies.
In Glenview, near Chicago, W9VHG
heard all eastern and near-by districts
on 28mc. in the afternoon, and expected
something to happen on “five.” After
dark signals had a peculiar hollow sound
with a great deal of hum and noise, mak-
ing them hard to understand. At 7 p.m.
central time 56mc. started to come
through, and both sides of a WBRV-VO
contact were heard on a horizontal 10-
metre antenna. WBVO was R 7 and
WBRV R 3, but
both covered wide
bands more like
modulated oscilla-
tor signals.
WSBEN/9 saw the
aurora display that
night and learned
via 28mc. contacts
that it was visible in
England and M.L.
also. W9QDA, in
Chicago, heard
28mc. signals from
Indianapolis and.
from Springfield,
Illinois. Chicago
stations were heard
in Milwaukee.
In Akron, Ohio,
b was mentioned
that 14mc. was in
bad shape, W 2 and
W 9 stations sound-
ing as if they were
using 25-cycle-
power supplies •;
W6’s came through
all afternoon, but
only G2VF from
Europe. On “80”
the Ohio relay net
faded out around
seven o’clock, which gave him the idea
of listening on five metres.
According to a ten-metre report
GM6RG finally worked W3GSV, R 9
plus both ways, after midnight in Scot-
land.
Frank Lester, W2AMJ, observed that
WBVO’s signals were of the “around-the-
corner” type on the 24th, with none of
the characteristic fading that accompanies
DX signals. There were still plenty of
other carriers coming through, but ap-
parently with no modulation on them.
WBVO’s voice had a considerably lower
apparent percentage modulation than
1.C.W., in addition to being badly
scrambled. Practically all 10- and 20-
metre harmonics had a peculiar combina-
tion howl and roar on the carrier, with
various degrees of voice-modulation dis-
tortion. All of the 20-metre harmonics
were considerably worse in this respect
than 10-metre harmonics. The aurora
was quite pronounced, and its strength
was directly related to WBVO’s signals,
so it seems quite possible that it was
responsible for this transmission.
W2AMJ and WIEYM had been
observing the peculiar noise accompany-
ing carriers, and found it to a minor
decree several times earlier in February.
WIEYM noticed one night that it seemed
to shift around, with signals from dif-
ferent directions apparently taking on the
peculiar sound.
This behavior of 56mc. signals durine
these ionosphere conditions in America
is apparently something never previously
recorded. Experimenters in U.S.A. are so
numerous on 56mc. that their transmis-
sions are likely to be of great value in
discovering yet unknown properties of
ultra-high-frequency propagation. Sheer
weight of numbers means constant obser-
vation—a very different state of affairs
from Australia, where only a handful of
experimenters is active on 56mc.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
The writer, in common with others of
mature years and experience, has often
questioned the value of interminable DX
contests, on grounds too numerous to
recount here. Read the other day a de-
fence of such contests, containing the
plea that excessive QRM from such
activity resulted in the single-signal
superhet as the greatest contribution to
radio reception. A means to combat
self-inflicted interference is no justifica-
tion of existence of the cause. DX con-
tests cannot be claimed as the inspiration
for the development of the modern com-
munications or amateur-band superhet.
The quartz-crystal filter in I.F. circuits,
for example, was long before Lamb’s
s.-s. super. That was the work, around
1929, of an Englishman, Dr. Robinson,
and his development was named “Stenode
Radiostat.” Difference in ohtlook re-
garding DX contests is that in U.S.A.
those who partake in them come under
the heading of amateurs —but in Aus-
tralia the amateur is supposed to be
primarily an experimenter. He should
thus, under his experimental license,
justify himself on the useful side of
amateur radio. Nine-tenths of reading
matter originating in VK amateur circles
deals with a succession of DX contests
of no interest to the genuine experi-
menter.
Probably nobody has ever paused to
think what might or might not happen
if occasion should arise for the use of
an urgent distress call on the main
The 56mc. tuned R.F. receiver used by Mr. C. Bambury, of
Lidcombe, N.S.W., when telephony from VK2AKI, of Taree,
160 miles north, was received recently. The receiver is well
planned with plug-in coils, and incorporates an 1851 R.F.
stage, 76 detector and 42 audio.
amateur bands in Australia. At present
only recourse a station seeking immedi-
ate help for some reason or other has
is to bat out CQs as a means of attract-
ing attention. There should be a recog-
nised abbreviation for use as a distress
call, as in U.S.A., where the appearance
of the QRR call means instant attention
by all amateurs worthy of their keys. A


RADIO EQUIPMENT FOR DISPOSAL,
Two complete short-wave radio-telephone and telegraph transmitters and
receivers. These units were designed by Don B. Knock for the Mackay 1937
Survey Expedition to Central Australia. Ground station comprises crystal-
controlled transmitter using 6L6G tritet oscillator and push-pull 802 s.
Suppressor modulation. Receiver T.R.F. type with KF3, 15 and ID4 valves.
Aeroplane installation comprises equipment similar to ground station, but
with two 6P6’ sin the transmitter power amplifier. Both installations ideally
suitable for amateur transmitters or commercial use over long distances. No
reasonable offer refused.
_ Also for sale: The “2NO Amateur Band Superhet,” described B. 22/2/ 39.
1 his is a 7-valve high-gain receiver for the 10, 20, 40 and 80 metre amateur
Valves are: 6K7 R.F., EK2G mixer with 6J5 oscillator, 6K7 I.F.
at 465 kc., 6C6 plate detector, 76 8.F.0., 6V6G speaker output. Humless
oU rectifier power pack. Calibrated and ready for use, complete with valves
an permag midget speaker. A perfect receiver for the C.W. and
phone amateur.
Apply to Don B. Knock, Radio Editor, “The Bulletin.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the t>ook
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations »>
Sheep bought >»
Wire netting ”
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
position might arise where an amateur
station is placed in such circumstances
a S to warrant the speedy handling of
emergency traffic—it has happened be-
fore—but in these days the plaintive use
of a CQ call is likely to attract “lid”
operators as well. A man seeking speedy
key-work doesn’t want to be held up in
some emergency by unwittingly hooking
up with some indifferent operator who
may only be concerned with a stereo-
typed form of QSO of the “Tnx OM,
Handle here is So-and-so, please QSL,
vy 73’5,” etc. A recognised form of
distress call for the amateur bands —one
by regulation decreed to be used only
where circumstances warrant it —is
needed for Australia. Such a call as
U.S.A.’s QRR could well be adopted
internationally.
An ex-YL amateur is doing a good
job of work in defence organisation for
women in Sydney, and her efforts should
put to shame those VKs whose key capa-
bilities are so slight as to be valueless.
She is Mrs. F. V. McKenzie, well known
to pioneer Australian amateurs as 2FV,
or Flo Wallace, of the old Wireless
Shop, Royal Arcade, Sydney. These
days she is hard at it teaching Morse
code proficiency to several hundred mem-
bers of the Australian Women’s Flying
Club, 300 or so having already passed
through her capable hands. Flo
McKenzie is a qualified electrical and
radio engineer, and the Morse code has
been easy pie for her for the last 20
years. It is her determination to form
a squadron of 500 trained women tele-
graphists, capable of releasing men tele-
graphists from civil duties in time of
national emergency. She believes this
can be done in six months, and she is
fully capable of making a job of it.
At a Melbourne meeting it was sug-
gested that telephony be restricted on
7mc. and 14mc. to 14,000 kc. to 14,250 kc.
and 7200 kc. to 7300 kc. respectively. This
seems logical enough for the 14mc. band,
but evidently the acquisition by broad-
casters of the portion of 7mc. quoted
has been overlooked. If it is assumed
that no broadcasters will invade that ter-
ritory in the Southern Hemisphere, the
suggestion is workable. In Europe the
8.8. C. is placing two lOOkw. transmitters
between 7200 kc. and 7300 kc. and Paris
is already in full swing there. No
matter how the Cairo findings are
examined, the broadcasters won’t take
kindly to QRM from amateurs.
A useful guide to possible DX condi-
tions on 56mc. is the behavior of 28mc.
signals. If very short skip is noticed on
this band, then 56mc. is more than likely
to be productive of results between 400
and 1500 miles. Trouble is that such
ionosphere conditions may occur when
the 28mc. band shows little or no ac-
tivity along the coast. A good medium
for checking on 56mc. DX conditions
would be to keep a receiver tuned around
nine metres to the aircraft beacons. If
those at points about 200 miles distant
are heard strongly it is a safe bet that
56mc. will be “open.”
C. Bambury, of Lidcombe (N.S.W.), is
a constant listener on u.-s.-ws., and keeps
watch for any possible DX below 10
metres. Listening around seven metres
at 4 a.m. on 18/4/’39 he heard two sig-
nals at R 4, fading to inaudibility. Char-
acter of the signals sounded like high-
speed beam stuff, but it seems likely that
they were the vision channels of tele-
vision stations, probably Europeans.
Alexandra Palace in London has been
heard in many parts of the world on
seven metres, and there is always the
chance that transmissions from this lOkw.
television station may be heard and iden-
tified in Australia.
VK2NO.
Uses for Primary Cells.
From “N.A.F.” (Wau, N.G.): More
than 40 years ago, in my amateurish
way, I made my own primary cells for
as many farthings as I am now charged
shillings. Admittedly they were bulky,
not attractive in appearance and
“sloppy” ; but they did their job, and
could be made as good as new at small
cost for elements and electrolyte. They
were the only source of power Hor us
young amateurs when making motors,
telephones, shocking-coils, etc. I was an
ardent reader of the “Model Engineer
and Electrician,” the electrical articles irt
“Amateur Work” and of course the
“Boy’s Own Paper.”
I hesitate to state the great number of
different kinds of cells I did make, but
what I used most was the Daniel cell
“By the look of un, Mawther, I should think un WERE built in a day."
(copper, zinc and sulphate of copper) for
long periods, also the bichromate (car-
bon, zinc and bichro. of potash) for short
periods of heavy current. In later years,
when using many kinds of marine petrol
engines, I used the Edison wet primary
cells. These were used on make-and-
break circuits, but would give good ser-
vice from six to twelve months. They
could be rendered new again in a few
minutes by replacing zinc and copper
plates and adding one pound of caustic
soda mixed in water.
It would be a very simple matter to
make, say, Daniel cells to give the same
voltage as the Air Cell or even a six-
volt accumulator, but I suspect that the
trouble would be more resistance, and
in consequence delivery of less current.
This could be overcome by perhaps put-
ting cells in parallel or series-parallel.
Wet primary cells would be useful on
the market to-day, and would, be a god-
send to many in the Australian back-
blocks and the islands. I was very much
interested in “Pioneer Radio Relic” (B.
18/1 /’39), for I made one almost iden-
tical, and probably did so before the
one in that article was made.
I flatter myself, perhaps unduly, that
I was one of the first in Australia to make
a “wireless set,” although I am totally
ignorant of modern radio. In those days
the American steamers made their first
call at Brisbane, and I was always present
when the “magazine case” was opened
so that I could get my “Scientific Ameri-
can” immediately. It was in that publi-
cation that the public was first able to
get a description of Marconi’s first
patented wireless set. I feel sure that
“L.8.C.” is at fault in referring to his
relic as being pre-Marconi, because, with
only two very minor differences, it is
absolutely identical with Marconi’s cir-
cuit and description in the American
magazine quoted. I have cause to re-
member two points about coarse nickel
filings in the coherer and the round brass
knobs for the spark-gap. The only nickel
available was in the highly-polished, well-
cared-for stirrup “irons” of my elder
brother. He was irate, and my mother
was annoyed when I used the small brass
balls from the foot end of her massive
brass-and-iron bedstead. The gadget
worked instantly and very definitely at
the only distance I tried it, this being
around 120 ft.
[“N.A.F.’s” early radio experiences
run parallel with many in the school of
pre-war radio experimenters. The “Model
Engineer,” “Work” and the “8.0. P.”
started “D.8.K.” off also in radio in 1912.
First receiver made was an iron pyrites
detector outfit with single slide tuning-
coil wound on a rolling-pin “borrowed”
from the kitchen. It was described in
“8.0. P.” as the “Boy’s Own Wireless.”
The iron pyrites, filched from the school
lab,, were a failure, but an acquired piece
of galena subsequently did the trick.
Excellent primary cells known as “Car
boncells” have been on the market in
Australia for the last 12 years. Largest
of these delivers 500 a.h. at \\ volts.—
Radio Ed.]
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
1 have endeavored to build a crystal set, but
have not been successful in obtaining selectivity.
How can this be achieved? —768.
The crystal detector is inherently inselective
in action, but it is possible to improve upon
this by provision of preselection or trap-tuning.
Some loss in sensitivity may occur, hut this
can be restored by the use
of a good aerial system
and earth. In practice the
crystal receiver is only suit-
able for reception of a
limited number of near-by
stations. Try a loosely-
coupled aerial coil, wound
with about 30 turns of in-
sulated copper wire on a
former of dimensions small
enough to slide into the
end of the present tuned
coil. Varying the degree
of coupling should give an
adjustment ,where selectivity
is improved without much
loss of signal strength.
* * *
Which would be the
better receiver, T.R.F. or
superhet, for me to build?
I want a wave-coverage of
9 to 550 metres, single-dial
tuning and plug-in coils,
and the instrument must be
suitable as a “home” re-
ceiver, simple enough for
my wife to operate, and
have reasonable bandspread
by using small condensers,
with two sets of coils for
the broadcast band. —767.
Because of the necessity
for the handling by some-
one without experience in
tuning an experimental
T.R.F. receiver, the super-
het is more suitable. Single-
dial control is easier to
obtain in the superhet for
the reason that slight mis-
tracking of tuned circuits
can be compensated for
by the high gain of the
I.F. amplifier. Such a re-
ceiver will, however, be
somewhat complicated for
home construction, but
with a reasonable amount of experience in
short-wave receiver construction it can be done.
Single-dial control is, of course, fully work-
able in the T.R.F. receiver, but regeneration
v/ould be essential in the detector at the very
high frequencies, and the selectivity will not be
comparable with the superhet. If the latter
type is decided upon, the new Tasma 1600 kc.
I.F.T.s are suggested for the I.F. amplifier.
There will still be enough selectivity on the
broadcast band and easier tuning at the higher
frequencies than with 465 kc. Tracking will
be easier also.


r V.
a
MZi fet
faf--
U
HIGH GRADE
FIREARMS, AMMUNITION AND
FISHING TACKLE
71 King Street -Sydney
dsf
Winchester Boys’ and Girls
Extension Frame Skate with
double ball-bearing steel rolls.
Price per pair 18/S
d
WINCHESTER
.218 cal. BEE MODEL 65
Solid frame, lever action, 7-shot repeater, 24in. round barrel, Lyman gold bead ramp
front sight. Winchester 98a rear peep sight, an integral part to breech, fires a iti-
grain hollow point bullet at 28GOft. per second, over 200 f.s. faster than the famous
.22 Hornet. Price £l3/10/
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
fd
WINCHESTER MODEL 61.
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammerless
Repeating Rifle. 24in. round tapered
barrel, for short, long and long-rifle carti.dgos.
Weight, s}lb. Price «/V-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 67.
,22-cal. single-shot, holt-action. 275 n.
barrel, elevating rear sight. Adapted
for slio'rt. long and long-rifle regular and Super-speed
cartridges. Price 50/-
Carriage Paid in IS'.S.W.
WINCHESTER
No. 69121, Five-cell Standard Focussing
Searchlight. Full Chrome Finish. Range, 1500 ft.
Complete with Batteries. Price 25/-
f
WINCHESTER MODEL 62.
,22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-repeating
Rifle, 23in. round barrel, for short, long
and long-rifle. Price £5/7/0
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
m
WINCHESTER MODEL 63.
The “Speed King” ,22-cal. Automatic,
23in. round barrel; for long-rifle
Super-speed cartridges, only.- Price £9/15/-
. Carriage Paid in IS.S.W.
Telegraphic Address
“CODUN,”
SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388
df
WINCHESTER
MODEL 67 JUNIOR.
,22-cal. single-shot, bolt-action, identical
with the regular Model-. 67, Rifle, except
that it has 20in. barrel and shorter stock. Price, 50/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
yyl TWD-CEIJL^s.
TVCMfilnq
mmmsT£R=
m SPOTLIGHT tffll
MADE BY THE MAKER 3 OF ’WINCHESTER GUNS AND AMMUNITION
No. 681 1,- 2-cell, 10/6 each.
PYRA-SHELL CAST BOX.
3sin. x ifin. deep. Two felt pads.
3/6.
, ,
0
H
FOLDING LANDING NET.
Automatically locks when thrown out.
Best quality Black Net, 30in,' Black
Wood Handle, Nickel-plated Fittings,
Belt Clip, in Bag. Length extended.
3!»Ain. Length folded.- 27in.- I’rice. 47/0
Telescopic Handle. Price 65/-
m
m
oi.il> I
m
w
m
OAONa
Po
LINE S
L 35 —KINGFISHER DOUBLE
TAPERED TROUT LINE.
Made of pure silk. Plaited solid.
Thoroughly waterproofed under pres-
sure. Beautifully finished with a smooth
pliable surface. Tapered at both ends
so that it can be reversed when one
end has become worn or damaged.
30 yards.
Nos. 1 22/6, 2 25/-, 3 27/0, 4 :«>/-
WINCHESTER
Headlight
Lantern,
3-cell, 350 ft
range.
Price. . 22/6
THE “ALL CLEAR” ~ FLY BOX.
> V
v
: ■ '1 x-
sis x
SX.
fflfe■,& ’Vf f
sM i ?<v
X iK& .•- , j-.-sv -
X
5«8
y .
■■-,:
The “All Clear” Fly .Box,, made from -heavy gauge “Pyrashell, is
transparent,throughout, very-strong and extremely light, and-should
it be dropped In tiie' water .it will float,-thereby,, rendering the loss-of
favorite patterns almost .impossible.- "Sffce, 6in. ,x 3Jm. x with
.four, six or bight coin partments:a.-Price 1 . 'l/6 each^
> 1
GILLIES’ “WATER GIPSY” FLY ROD., .... .
Built of specially selected and hardened bamboo in three joints, with two tops, reinforce
suction ferrules, agate butt and end rings, “Tungsten ’ steel snake, iiftermediate.
selected cedar reel seat with nickel silver fittings, transparent intermediate bindings.
Inside and outside cloth cases, aluminium case to carry the whole rod. Length att.,
weight Price £W / "
WET
AND DRY
FLIES.
:: *
c
NYMPHS
AND
BEETLES.
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE POST FREE.
New Winchester Model 37, Steel Bilt Single Barrel Shot
Gun, 12 gauge, 30in. barrel, full choke, tor
2fin. cartridges.
Price .
Carriage
65/-
aid in N.S.W.
Winchester Telescopic Sights with high bases and mounts.
No. 3-2 J power 50/-. . Fitted to rifle 60/-
No. 5-5 power 65/-. Fitted to rifle 75/-
mWM
■
m
1
b
flv«w
£*»««3F
“ roawas
Willlffiliili
ALUMINIUM FLY BOX.
6 compartments 9/6
12 compartments ... . . . 13/6
16 compartments 18/6
32 compartments ...... 35/-
“ZIPP” FISHING BAG.
Made .of Khaki Cotton Duck, with
two large and two small compart-
ments. of the large compart-
ments has a detachable waterproof
lining; the other is closed by a
lightning fastener, whilst the two
smaller sizes are for fly boxes, etc.
Size 15in. x 12in. Price 35/-
C AND D “SPORTSMAN” FLY
REEL.
With rustless steel line guide. 3tm.
Weight (IJoz. In . Silver, Grey or
Black. Price 50/ '


I'he KicUarUsoii tnaiii liuto
I Jit
'i
m
n •
i v 5
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Kail way Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 I (10 lines).
CLJ
.
IJLM'
t*
(U D^ t
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN OF THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Away with Wrinkles.
“Peppin”: I had often wondered why
Mr. Mules, of South Australia, did not
confine his blowfly operations to his own
State.
Now I have met the S.A. merino—big,
bold-woolled sheep, just right for out-
back. They have no wrinkly tails —S.A.
studmasters have never tolerated them.
Mules seems to have found a sphere
of work in n.-w. N. S. Wales and “over
the Queensland border,” where wrinkles
abound.
The Riverina would have no use for
him, as the sheep down there have for
70 years been bred to a “plain-tailed
standard.”
About the northern N.S.W. border we
find a different type, owing to the fact
that studs there originally started on low-
grade Peppin ewes.
To measure up to the existing Peppin
studs they were forced to introduce
wrinkle to increase greasy weights—not
scoured, let me add. What flock-ram
buyer bothers his head with scoured
weights so long as he can get a sheep
with a good neck?
“Ghanam” (B. 23 / 3 / ’39) says “it would
be better to breed a type of sheep which
will have plain crutches and will not
need operation, but to do that needs
time.” To any experienced breeder of
plain-bodied sheep it seems incredible
that years have been spent in breeding
wrinkly tails. The original merinos were
plain as the proverbial pikestaff.
The wrinkle, to my mind, is the sign
of a bad sheep and bad doer.
While there are plain-tailed studs in
S.A. cutting up to 401 b. strong wool, and
studs in N.S.W. cutting up to 351 b. bright,
medium wool, it is hard to give a wrinkly
ram a place in the sun.
However, stud-breeders who inherit
wrinkles inherit fallacy with them, and
have been born to believe that wrinkles
are necessary to cut the weights.
As long as flockmen fail to think for
themselves, the Mules method and C.S.
and I.R. investigators will have plenty
of work.
Merino Embargo.
“Ghanam”: A new proposal put for-
ward is that studs should be compen-
sated for losses suffered through the ban
on merino ram exports, imposed in 1929.
Otherwise, it is demanded that the export
embargo be removed.
It is contended that quality merincs
were imported into S. Africa for years
before the embargo without affecting
Australia’s position. One advocate of
removal remarks that the majority of
growers who support the embargo “will
only have their parochialism to thank if
economic conditions force so many
breeders out of the business that flock
rams of quality become decidedly limited
with the years.” The chief support
adduced for this is the opinion of a
Bradford authority who says that “S.
Africa could import 10,000 stud merinos
from Australia and it would not affect
the woolgrowers of the latter country
one iota.”
There is nothing Bradford would like
better than to see a large sheep industry
built up in S. Africa as well as in Aus-
tralia. The wool-buyers of that busy
centre would be neither Yorkshiremen
nor human if they did not favor in-
creasing world production of high-class
wools. Overproduction and competition
between countries mean low prices,
which suits Bradford but not Australia.
Directly under a statement that “if the
Government did not either compensate
them or give them access to the world
market, many stud breeders would have
to close down,” the “S. M. Herald” pub-
lished a letter from a Mr. Mather, of
Sydney, pointing out that 50,000 of a
total of 80,000 graziers, in Australia own
less, than 500 sheep each, and that the
vast majority grow a grade of wool which'
costs more to produce than better grades
grown overseas more cheaply with colored
labor.” Were small men growing even
all-round fair to good merino wool we
might have had an average price of 13|d.
this year instead of 10|d.
There’s a lot in it. There is a market
for five times the gbod flock rams which
are available if they can be produced at
reasonable prices.' Unfortunately, many
“Betcher glad to relax, Auntie, after yr long trip up in the train?”
ram breeders spend a lot of time pining
for the good old days when high-class
stud rams were pushed up to prices at
which only millionaires could afford to
buy them, instead of tackling the problem
of mass production and marketing of
better type rams than the average in
use at present.
The remarkable feature of the advocacy
of resumption of export is that it is
openly intended to increase ram prices.
Not to the foreigner only, of course, but
to the whole Australian rank-and-file
sheep industry. Viewed with the facts
that the increases would benefit only a
handful of studmasters and that the re-
sult would be to put up Australian wool-
production costs without increasing world
prices of wool, it amounts to giving all
our competitors a price advantage over
us.
Dirty Sheep Penalty.
“Homebush”: An appeal has gone out
to consignors of stock to Flemington
(N.S.W.) saleyards not to forward dirty
and daggy sheep.
The N.S.W. Abattoirs authorities com-
plain that they have been put to great
inconvenience and expense in having such
sheep cleaned for slaughter. Buyers also
make a price allowance in their bids
for dirty sheep.
With the return to flush season the
authorities give warning that consignors
who neglect cleanliness will be liable to
have their stock sold under penalty.
I v r , —■
•
Alive and Dressed Cattle.
“Matsu”: Herefords scored in the fat-
steer classes at Sydney R.A.S.
Cattle were weighed alive on April 1
and slaughtered at Homebush abattoirs
on April 5.
Hereford Steers.
Liveweight. Dressed. Points.
Hayes Bros. .. 11091 b. 7161 b. 88
R. Binnie .. .. 11721 b. 7781 b. 85
F. Snow .. .. 10651 b. 6751 b. 81
(The same animals filled places in the cham-
pionship class—any breed or class.)
Shorthorn Steers.
Liveweight. Dressed. Points.
Peel River
L. and M. C 0... 11111 b. 6691 b. 81
Mrs. J. Whitney .. 10851 b. 6331 b. 78
A. R. Withers .. 10101 b. 6271 b. 72
C. T. Law (judge) described the entries
as “disappointing, because of the num-
ber of carcasses which showed deficiency
in the loin” —comment which should not
need to be heard at Australia’s largest
cattle show.
Tick Fever Treatment.
“Aerogenes”: Tick fever continues to
take toll of Queensland cattle, but science
has considerably reduced losses.
Inoculation is very effective, but it is
not practicable to give immunity against
all of the many strains of organism. The
four main types are grown at the Queens-
land Animal Health stations, and are
sent out to those needing blood; but occa-
sionally the treatment is ineffective owing
to the presence in force of organisms of
some other type. Some animals, too, are
lost through individual peculiarities or
weakness and excessive reaction.
To cope with reactions, the Agricul-
tural Department sends out with the blood
enough acaprin to treat 25 p.c. of the
animals injected. Acaprin is a drug like
aspirin which reduces fever, and it is
used in treating ordinary cases of tick
fever.
A rise in temperature occurs about
eight days after inoculation and again
after about 30 days. The first reaction
is the worst, and if the rise is danger-
ously high acaprin should be used.
The Best Pig Feeds.
“Pappamosca”: The value of all feed
stuffs is measured by starch, though it is
not the only necessity. A pig whose live
weight is 1001 b. needs 2flb. starch with
|lb. digestible protein, according to
Maoriland Agricultural Department cal-
culations.
From this, it is easy to calculate the
various quantities of particular fodders
needed to feed animals of various
weights. Grains are naturally the richest
sources of starch. Maize* runs about
461 b. per bushel, barley about 361 b. per
bushel, oats about 241 b., artichokes
4001 b. per ton, sugar beet and potatoes
about the same.
Pumpkins give about 1801 b. starch per
ton, swedes 1601 b.-odd, dry peas 4001 b.,
lucerne 2001 b. and green maize stalks
2001 b.
Where root crops are fed to wintering
pigs it is necessary to keep up protein
ratio with meat or pea meal or some
other sufficient supplement.
Sticking to Grain.
“Observer”: Despite slump and
obscure market prospects, a greater area
may be sown to wheat in N.S.W. this
season than has been anticipated. The
reduction may not be more than 10 p.c.
Orders for super, have been nearly up
to normal.
In the western fringe from the central
west to southern Riverina, where there
were most crop failures last harvest,
farmers plan for full acreage to in-
crease. Earliest sowings were made at
the end of March in the central plains
area. Field officers of the Agricultural
Department urged early-district farmers
to hold off until towards the end of
April.
It is many years since the wheatbelt
has had such a soaking in autumn to


'.t^L
u
42/-
972
If It's for Hard Work, It’s the il ‘Stockman
Made with a double sole and genuine Scotch Zug Upper.
Leather-lined throughout with best quality Calf Skin.
Reinforced Elastic-sides and ankle strap.
PRICE 42/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY ”
h
MODEL m
-JX. 1 I-I I !Uf'
rt- «*■
*•> ->
V_.
Vi
l '«r>
Sfii
IT • '
3&£k!53
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS... NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
dsf
NQBranch
stOkt si
TOWNSVILU
C.Q.Branch N°l East S t Rockhampton..
INCINEfPINfi StppiY c9Cf AUSTRALIA
L™
Position Vacant.
MARRIED MAN, general station hand. Must
have experience rabbiting, stockwork and
fencing. Wife do laundry and part duties in
house. Cottage close homestead. Wages £4 7s.
Apply with references, No. 293, Advt. Dept.,
Bulletin, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
J=ROM FACTORY
h • F
res
ragra
TOBACCO
AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers !
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
No
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Sunplv Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Hoes Not
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold—Shell Co., 00 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.HIS.
ds
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
fd
assure maximum sub-soil moisture. The
rains have, in fact, caused such a growth
of rubbish on fallows and stubbles as
to retard seasonal preparatory cultiva-
tion.
Indicating the part swing-over from
wheat to more diversified farming, much
increased areas have been sown to oats
for grazing and fodder for sheep in the
last two months.
The attitude of the average farmer is
that, having seed, land and plant avail-
able, he must risk growing wheat to
obtain cash to meet his commitments.
Champion Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Gular, a wheat variety
which is forging ahead, was the
outstanding success at Sydney R.A.S.
It won the Commonwealth champion
prize for W. G. Law, Gilgandra (N.S.W.),
and filled first and second places in the
open and novice medium-strong classes,
showing up well in both milling and
baking quality. The champion sample
weighed 67|lb. per bushel.
Bred at Cowra farm, Gular is a selec-
tion from Marshall’s No. 3 by Wagga 13,
the latter, which included a strain of
Farrer’s Jonathan, producing the high
flour quality. The grain is white and
hard, and is classed as a high premium
wheat. #
The great virtue of Gular is that its
very early maturity makes it suitable for
late sowing and adapted for the drier
districts. It is officially recommended
for the N.S.W. north-western and central-
western slopes and plains.
Last year 96,940 acres of Gular was
sown in N.S.W. compared with 30,890
in the previous season.
Hints for the Farm.
“Geedee”: If oats are being grown
on stubble for grazing off, plant thicker
than normally. Even if the season is so
favorable that grazing is unnecessary,
heavier seeding means no loss.
“Q.C.R.”: A new use has been found
for station equipment out at Stonehenge
Crossing on the Thompson (C.Q.). The
Warbreccan manager and overseer were
bringing their drought sheep back from
Emerald when they struck the Thompson
rising. A couple of wagons were quickly
pushed into the bed of the river. Hurdles
were put up round them, and they were
connected by jetting races. That plant
saw 5000 sheep across the water in 3|
hours.
“Hide”: This is reliable for tanning:
Equal parts of salt, alum and Glauber’s
salt and half a part of saltpetre ; pulverise
and mix. Rub mixture in thoroughly
three or four times a day. If the skins
are too dry to absorb, add a little water.
No insects will attack skins thus treated.
“Mullengah”: If small balls of partly-
chewed food are found in the manger,
watch the horse eating. His teeth need
attention if he gives two or three rapid
movements of the jaws and drops the
food from his mouth.
“Grease”: To soften driving belts use
the following: To lib. of glycerine add
four times its weight of beef-fat dissolved
in cod-oil, heated. Glycerine used by
itself sweats out in damp air. Whites
of eggs may be used instead of the cod-
oil, or dextrine if eggs are too dear.
“Pappamosca”: There is an ancient
belief that salt is poison to pigs. It is
poison to humans, too, if taken in suffi-
cient quantities. In moderate doses it is
just as necessary to a healthy pig as to
any other animal. A couple of ounces a
day will do Dennis no harm, provided
he has the plentiful supply of water
which he should have in any case.
“Ti Tree”: Now’s the time to poison
standing timber. Arsenic pentoxide and
sodium arsenite are about the best
medicines.
“Bluetongue”: Though Border Leices-
ter-merino cross weaners share many
characteristics with goats, they have not
acquired the most important one — i.e.,
power to exist on nothing. A purebred
merino will continue growing and keep
in fair condition on fodder that will not
serve to keep a crossbred alive. So
breeding fat lambs outside the 20in. rain-
fall belt involves risks to make a dare-
devil gambler shudder. Also, friend B.L.
is a confirmed paddock-breaker. In un-
netted country I have known the breed
to wander miles, going through as many
as six fences before finding feed to suit.
Crossbreds should be reserved for dis-
tricts where they have sound and small
paddocks.
“Mallee”: Light seedings of lucerne for
grazing in the N.S.W. south-west, to get
away from one-track wheatgrowing, are
giving remarkable results. Stands that
appeared to have died out in the drought
in the mallee country, north-west of
Barellan to the Lachlan, have made spec-
tacular recovery since the February rains.
Outstanding are the very light seedings
of lib. per acre, which are now providing
the greatest bulk of feed and the best
covered stands. This is an eye-opener to
those who -have regarded 21b. as the abso-
lute minimum. After all, lib. of seed of
good quality should contain enough
visible seeds to distribute about 60 to
the square yard. The planting season
extends to the end of May.
“J. Want”: A deputation has asked
the N.S.W. Agricultural Minister to
waive the law which compels shires to
prosecute owners with uncontrollable
noxious weeds on their properties.
Speakers instanced the swamp lands of
the Macquarie River, west of the Blue
Mountains, where it is impossible to
touch the Noogoora burr when the water
is high. The reclaiming of such lands
and the wiping out of pests would be
better work for a lot of the unemployed
than digging city railway tunnels and
remodelling Sydney’s Circular Quay.
“Mookau”: No votes of thanks to
the Railway Department were passed at
the meetings of pure-breed cattle societies
at Sydney R.A.S. Stud bulls and calving
or recently-calved cows are delicate
things to tote round the country without
damage. A fall caused by a jerk in
shunting may knock 50 p.c. off the value
of a champion show-ring sire, and a hot
night in a truck may take all the bloom
off a carefully-nursed matron. One
exhibitor told the United Beef Breeders
that the N.S.W. Railways had taken 20
hours to move his valuable team 360
miles to the Show. Another capped that
easily the department had moved his
lot from Flemington to Darling Harbor,
a few miles across Sydney, at an average
of under \\ m.p.h. A float would have
done the job in 15 minutes.
“Mulgo”: One should always know the
methods of a horsebreaker before trust-
ing him with young horses. Some rough-
riders make a horse buck by bad manage-
ment, then rough him to knock the buck-
ing out of him —and that may make him
inclined for a set-to whenever he is fresh-
mounted. A good breaker is steady and
patient. He handles the youngster gently,
and never allows him to buck if it can be
avoided. If it can’t, he lets him have a
go, but lifts his head at the first chance
and tries to induce him to walk quietly.
The flash or vicious rider digs his heels in
and otherwise urges his mount to buck
until he is tired. The colt is frightened,
and expects the roughing each time he is
saddled. Treated gently and kindly from
the start, he soon learns that he has no-
thing to fear.


THERE’S GOLD IN THE GRASS
WEIGHT WHEN PACKED 140 L bf 5
PHOSCO
I SILAGE CONCENTRATE I
MANUFACTURED BY
THORPES Ltd
= STOCK FEED MANUFACTURERS
SYDNEY
<s,<
THORPES’
PHOSCO
(SILAGE CONCENTRATE)
will enable every stock owner to
get a greater share of the gold
that is ever present in young green
grass and growing crops.
THE USE OF THORPES’ PHOSCO (Silage Concentrate) will revolutionise
fodder conservation methods as it enables silage to be made that conserves
almost intact all the virtues of young green grass and growing crops.
THERE IS NO BETTER FEED IN THE WORLD than young grass and
herbage; conserve the surplus of this fine fodder now available so that
when winter comes you can still keep your stock on the same class
of fodder.
The cost of using THORPES’ PHOSCO (Silage Concentrate) is only about
7/- per ton of Silage.
YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO IGNORE THIS EPOCH-MAKING
DEVELOPMENT.
Write for helpful pamphlet on Silage making “THORPES’ WAY."
THORPES LTD.,
STOCK FEED MANUFACTURERS,
313-317 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
This little fellow carries
a 5 years’ guarantee
and takes care of
25 miles of
fencing.
*@3
© © ©
(T 3
BATTERY
IT’S MARVELLOUS
How a
“BIG SIX”
Controlled Single Wire Will Stop
the Most Persistent Fence-breaker
ELECTRIC fences have proved a great aid to profitable farming, easily
erected, positively stockproof, harmless to animals or humans.
The “BIG SIX” Electric Fence Charger is not an experiment; over 40,000
in use in America, New Zealand and Australia. You 11 want one directly
you see a fence in operation. So why not now?
IT’S AN ABSOLUTE BOON TO PIG AND DAIRY FARMERS.
Complete Outfits (including Battery)—Special De Luxe Model . . . £9/9/-
Standard Model £7/7/-
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: MA1983.
SINGLE WIRE EENCE CO., DEPT. B,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Please send me Descriptive Literature and Full Details of the Big: Six
Electric Pence Charger.
NAME . .
ADDRESS
Tarzan’s Grip
The Universal Fixer Mends Anything
mends
Anything
THE UNIVERSAL FIXER.
—|
L* 1 7tr
METAL
CANVAS
CANVAS
- TO
CANVAS
A
dAKEUTc
n
METAL TO WOOD
WOOD TO WOOD
WOOO TO TILE
TILE TO TILE
LEATHER TO TILE
WOOD TO WOOD
(Butted)
LEATHER TO LEATHER
(Butted)
METAL TO METAL
METAL TO BRICK
BRICK TO BRICK
TARZAN’S GRIP. The practical demon-
stration of the remarkable adhesive strength
of this cement seems incredible, especially
as it displayed such a variety of different
natures of materials stuck together. Many
examples of various household articles that
had been broken and mended were avail-
able for inspection, such as broken
umbrellas, patches on shoes, broken
crockery, leaky buckets, leather goods,
cracked carburettors, electrical fittings, and
sporting goods. All the exhibits were
critically examined and tested by the
public, who were amazed at the usefulness
of this universal fixer.
The aluminium and colourless solution of
Tarzans Grip can now be purchased
everywhere.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing Co. Ltd.
451 Willoughby Road, Willoughby, Sydney. JA5440.
Amazing Display
Thousands of Show visitors were amazed at
the remarkable displays of Tarzan’s Grip.
A,
tim
■
> ,■
T i
mmm
Ami&mz
■
nxm
A PRODUCERS’ ORGANIZATION
v < -< '>* **
jf r M
m
I
n
m*
■
mm
X
8
m
PRIZEWINNING TURNOUTS AT THE R.A.S. SHOW.
The spick-and-span appearance of the Dairy Farmers’ business turnouts always
wins the plaudits of the crowd and catches the eyes of all good judges.
THE DAIRY FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE MILK CO. LTD
’PHONE M 2131. 700 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.


sf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Haying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Hankers: The Union
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
jfflces throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
unis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executive.'
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
s u r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, Dept.
14, 256 a Oeorge Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Widow, England, young daughter, seeks posi-
tion in Australia as housekeeper to bachelor on
station. Must settle in warmer climate for
child’s sake. —3142.
Young married man, Sydney, wants work
anywhere; experienced cleaner. —3120.
Young married man (N.S.W.) wants work
on country property anywhere, sheep or wheat;
exp. all classes of farm and station work,
N. S. Wales and Q. —3156.
To buy old Australian and M.L. army badges
and army lists. —3152.
Words of poem “Texas Jack.”—3l6l.
Information Sought.
A few details concerning Lanney, husband
of Trucanini, the last full-blooded Tasmanian
aboriginal ? —3190.
William Lanne or Lanney, also called King
Billy, was said to have been born in 1835,
and was the last male Tasmanian aboriginal. He
was the youngest child in the last family of
aboriginals to remain at large on the mainland
of Tasmania. In 1842, seven years after all
the others had been removed, this family of
six was brought in from Cape Grim in the
far north-west by a sealer. Lanney, too, was
removed to Oyster Cove in 1856, and attended
a Government House ball in 1864. He was a
quick, active young fellow, and became a
whaler; in February, 1869, he was paid off
from the whaler Runnymede, went on the spree,
fell ill, was taken to the Hobart Hospital in
a very low state, and died there on March 3,
1869.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Richard
Schomburgk, South Australian botanist? —
3177.
Brother of the more famous Sir Robert
Schomburgk, who in the thirties of last century
explored British Guiana, Richard was born at
Freiburg in Saxony in 1811 and educated at
Berlin and Potsdam. When the elder brother
went to British Guiana to settle boundaries,
Richard accompanied him as a botanist (1840-
42), and in 1847 published a monograph on the
botanical results of the expedition. In 1848
he was involved in political disturbances in
Europe and hastily emigrated to South Aus-
tralia, where he took up land on the Gawler
River, cultivated vines in partnership with his
brother Otto, and became curator of the Gawler
Museum. When Otto died in 1866, Richard
accepted the directorship of the Adelaide
Botanic Garden, and for 24 years developed
and improved it into an institution of great
economic value to the community. His work
earned him several decorations and the mem-
bership of many foreign societies. He died
at Adelaide on March 24, 1890.
* * * *
(1) How to break down overproof draught
whisky? (2) Is a hydrometer required, and, if
so, where procurable? —3oBo.
(1) The spirit is broken down to 30.5 under-
proof with filtered rainwater (borewater must
not be used), the proportion added depending
upon the original strength and temperature of
the spirit. The actual quantity of water to be
added will be found in the Spirit Traders’ and
Licensed Victuallers’ Reducing Tables, 9s. 6d.,
which is used in conjunction with Sykes Hydro-
meter Book (pocket edition), 3s. 6d., both
obtainable from Mauri Bros, and Thomson, 61
York-street, Sydney. (2) Yes, a Sykes hydro-
meter, obtainable from E. Esdaile and Sons,
42 Hunter-street, Sydney, £4 10s. and £6 10s.
A second-hand instrument may also be obtained
from Distillers Agency, Ltd., 80 Clarence-street,
Sydney, £3 10s.
* * * *
What was the Tardenoisian age? —32o3.
A transition period between the Palaeolithic
and Neolithic ages, the culture of which is
characterised by small flint implements of geo-
metric form. By some authorities it is regarded
as contemporaneous with the Azilian, by others
as immediately following that period. The
type station is Fere-en-Tardenois, France, but
such flint implements are found in western
Europe, northern Africa and the coast of Asia
as far east as India. The culture is probably
that of a fishing people.
* * * *
Origin and meaning of the word “Babbitt” as
applied Jo a businessman ? —3200.
Babbitt was the title and hero of a novel
(1922) by Sinclair Lewis. He is a prosperous,
vulgar, middle-class real-estate agent, who
under business and social pressure conforms to
the respectable materialism of his class. Hence
it is used, mostly derogatorily, of a business or
professional man who strictly adheres to the
social and ethical standards of his group.
* * * *
(1) Is there a market in Australia for stannic
chloride? (2) Approximate price per hundred-
weight? (3) What industries use stannic
chloride? (4) Names of likely Australian
buyers ? —2998.
(1) Yes, but a very small one. (2) ss. per
pound is paid under a Defence Department
contract. (3) Dyeing and manufacture of smoke
bombs. (4) You might try Robert Brice and
Co., Dyer and Phillips or the Hardy Trading
Co., Sydney.
Are the Australian native cats tree dwellers,
and what do they mostly feed on? —3187.
All are arboreal, but the spotted-tailed species
more completely so than D. viverrinus, which
is not a very expert climber. Birds and birds’
eggs, with an occasional small mammal, are
sought after as food; but insects and reptiles
are not alogether despised, and species living
near the seashore feed largely on dead fish or
other animals thrown up by the sea. In dis-
tricts where they are numerous they do great
damage in poultry runs.
* * * *
(1) Estimated population of principal M.L.
urban areas, including Maoris ? (2) Have such
urban areas any administrative functions ?
3196.
(1) Estimates for April 1, 1938: Auckland
217,300, Wellington 154,400, Christchurch
134.100, Dunedin 82,500, Hamilton 20,400,
Gisborne 16,200, Napier 19,100, Hastings 18,600,
New Plymouth 19,000, Wanganui 26,000, Palm-
erston North 24,800, Nelson- 13,800, Timaru
19.100, Invercargill 26,200. (2) No. They
were created in 1916 and 1921 for statistical
purposes. The boundaries include the central
town and its suburbs, the latter whether muni-
cipalised or not.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of valve timing for the 1927
15 -h.p. six-cylinder Armstrong-Siddeley car?
(2) Distributor’s address? —3063.
(1) Inlet opens 2deg. before top dead-centre
and closes 48deg. after bottom dead-centre. Ex-
haust opens 45deg. before bottom dead-centre
and closes 12deg. after top dead-centre. As a
guide, each tooth on the flywheel is equal to
about 3deg. (2) Buckle Motors, 119-129 Wil-
liam-street, Sydney.
* * *
(1) What is dry ice? (2) What form does it
take? (3) Cost of production? (4) Books deal-
ing with its manufacture? (5) Would its
manufacture on a small scale be profitable? —
3092.
(1) Trade name for solidified carbon di-
oxide. Weight for weight, it has 15 times the
cooling effect of ice. It has a further advan-
tage that its decomposition product is gaseous,
and thus the moisture attendant upon the use
of ordinary ice is eliminated. (2) Colorless ice-
like solid. (3) Cannot say; Mount Frome Lime
Co., Burrows-road, St. Peters, N.S.W., might
be willing to advise. (4) The subject is dis-
cussed in most books on chemistry. It may be
prepared in small quantities by opening the
stopcock of a cylinder containing liquid carbon
dioxide. Some of the liquid at once assumes
the gaseous state, but the heat absorbed by
this sudden transition from the liquid to the
gaseous form causes the remainder to solidify.
(5) Very doubtful. It is more costly than ordi-
nary ice, which is still extensively used in the
home.
* * * *
(1) Derivation of the nautical term “cable’s
length.” and what does it measure? (2) What
does the term “Maru”• in shipnames signify,
and what is its derivation ? —3005.
(1) Captain H. Paasch in From Keel to Truck
(1894) states that the term “cable length” is
a term applied for convenience in roughly
estimating short distances between two objects
apart. It originally meant the length of an
ordinary ship’s cable, 120 fathoms (720 ft.). In
present practice it represents the tenth part of a
nautical mile, 608 ft. In most large-scale Mer-
cator charts and plans of harbors, etc., the
scale of distances is given in cables and miles
(nautical). (2) The term is applied to all
Japanese merchant ships, and has been associ-
ated with Japanese navigation as far back as
history records, but its true meaning is lost in
the mists of antiquity. It has been declared
one of the oldest words of the Japanese lan-
guage. The Japanese dictionary gives “round,
or a circle, evolving into complete or perfect,”
as the earliest known meaning of the word.
During the Tokugawa era the Government
issued licenses to ship operators which carried
a red circle seal. The shipowner, to show
that he had the necessary license to operate his
craft, whether it was a lighter or larger ocean-
going vessel, reproduced the circle of his
license on some portion of his ship, and it is
suggested that this eventually led to the identi-
fication of merchant ships with the term Maru.
* * * *
(1) Have any new species of mosquitoes been
found in Queensland or adjacent islands in
recent years? (2) If so, description and any
details available ? —2542.
(1) No new species have been described since
1929 so far as can be traced. (2) A paper was
published in the Bulletin of Entomological Re-
search, London, October, 1929, by F. H.
Taylor, in which four species were described
as new. Although no new species have been
described from Queensland since 1929, there are
a few to be described in the collection of the
School of Public Health and Tropical Medi-
cine, University of Sydney.
* * * *
Book dealing with electrical wiring systems,
testing and interference, costing not more than
16s. ?— 3099.
The Electrical Wiring of Buildings, by F. C.
Raphael (Pitman, London), 165., or Electric
Wiring, Fittings, Switches and Lamps, by
W. P. Maycock (same publisher), 13s. If you
refer to interference in radio receivers caused
by electrical machinery, suggest Practical Wire-
less Service Manual, by F. J. Camm (Newnes,
London), 7s. 6d. All obtainable from Dymock’s,
424 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Names of Sydney firms selling small
house-lighting plants capable of supplying power
for a vacuum cleaner, wireless receiver, etc. ?
(2) Type of plant most suitable for this pur-
pose ? —3082.
(1) Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 307 Kent Street,
Sydney (Delco plants); Dangar, Gedye and
Malloch, Ltd., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney
(Lister). (2) Any plant delivering 32 volts D.C.
will be suitable for operating a small vacuum
cleaner. A genemotor will be required to
supply the receiver, which must be suitable for
the supply in question. Radio dealers will
advise.
* * * *
(1) What h.p. engine would I require to drive
a 12 -volt generator charging a bank of accumu-
lators at 30 amperes rate ? (2) What h.p. would
a 12 -volt 30-ampere motor develop? —3o9s.
(1) 1-h.p. or l|-h.p. engine. (2) A current of
30 amperes at 12 volts represents a power of
30 X 12 or 360 watts, which is equivalent
to 0.48 h.p. Assuming an efficiency of 75 p.c.
the motor will develop a b.h.p. of 0.36. But
a 12-volt generator will not charge a 12-volt
bank of accumulators. A charging voltage of
about 15 volts will be required.
* * * #
(1) When should hydrangeas be pruned?
(2) How can the color in the blooms be in-
tensified? (3) Best spray for rust and mil-
dew?—3o2l.
Hydrangeas should be pruned as early as
possible this month. Cut the limbs back to
the second set of buds; if the shrubs are
needed to brighten a dull corner the cutting
should not be so heavy. To propagate use
plump cuttings with a couple of buds and set
them in a sloping position. (2) Oxide of iron
will intensify shades of blue, while lime is
used to retain the pink or red shades. Add
the iron or lime during the winter. (3) Spray
the leaves with lime and sulphur or nicotine
and sulphur to get rid of rust and mildew.
V * *
How should clematis be propagated ? —3034.
Layering is the surest method of propagating
clematis. Bend low-growing limbs to the
ground (or use boxes of soil on stands), make
a slit in the limb where the elbow enters the
soil and fasten the limb down with bent wire
or a long iron staple; finally cover with at
least 4in. of soil pressed hard down. To
heavy soil add a helping of sand and keep the
elbow well watered.. In about three months
sever the limb from the parent plant; trans-
planting should be left until the young plants
are six months old.
* * * *
Method of ridding 'a house of silverfish and
moths ? —2981.
A thorough disturbance of all the furniture,
furnishing and books in the house is the first
line of attack. Use plenty of beeswax and tur-
pentine for cleaning shelves and woodwork,
spray skirtings and crevices with turpentine or
kerosene, and destroy or get rid of all unwanted
papers, clothing, etc. Pack and store clothing
with plenty of naphthaline balls or powder,
spray wardrobes and cupboards frequently with
a good insecticide, and let air and sunshine
freely into the house. A substance known as
paradichlorobenzene is a certain destroyer of
all house pests in clothing, etc., and is procur-
able from any chemist.
* * * *
How to mount paper maps on linen or
canvas? —2997.
The fabric should first be shrunk by being
placed in cold water for a few hours and then
laid over a line without being wrung. Let it
drip and nearly dry, then iron it smooth. Tack
it out on a board or table with drawing pins,
and with pencil and ruler make an outline
drawing of the exact size of the map on the
canvas. Paint this smoothly with a good white
office paste, lay the map clean and unwrinkled
on the pasted surface of the canvas and smooth
into position with a photographic roller
(squeegee) or soft piece of cloth. Place clean
sheets of paper on top after attending to edges
all round and wiping away surplus paste, add
some weights or large books and leave for
a few hours. Trim when dry.
* * * *
How to make dog biscuits containing meat
fibrine, wholemeal and cod-liver oil ? Could
such be reasonably made at home for pet dog ?
—2935.
Can be quite well made at home, but should
be made in small quantities as amateur methods
are usually not- suitable for producing an
article which keeps well. Collect all the lean
and fibrous meat from house joints when they
are discarded, and reject fatty parts. Cut or
mince finely, add a pinch or two of salt, and
moisten with sufficient cod-liver oil to damp
the meat: it must not be sticky. Mix together
in a basin two parts wholemeal to one part
flour (self-raising), add the oiled meat equal
in bulk to the meal and flour, and mix well
together. Add sufficient water to make a rather
dry dough, press or roll out on a board like
biscuits, mark into shapes and bake in a
moderate to hot oven until browned lightly.
Pack at once into tins and cover tightly before
they are quite cold. A little experimenting
may be tried with the proportions, but flour
is necessary to bind the other materials together.
* * * *
How to remove mildew stains from leather
upholstery ? —3OBB.
Wipe oyer with a dry cloth, then sponge
with a mixture of one teaspoon cloudy am-
monia and four teaspoons vinegar in one
quart of water. Then apply a little castor oil
by means of a rag and rub it in well.- When
this is dry, apply a white shoe cream lightly,
and polish thoroughly with a soft cloth. If
the mildew has been undisturbed for some time,
the spores may have penetrated the leather so
deeply that the stains may be difficult to re-
move. Polish once a month with the white
cream.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Jack Dempsey win the
world’s heavyweight championship? (2) How
long did he hold the title before Gene Tunney
defeated him? —3107.
(1) From Jess Willard. (2) Dempsey success-
fully defended the title against all comers from
his victory over Willard in July, 1919, until
Tunney outpointed him in 10 rounds on Sep-
tember 23, 1926.
Brief Answers.
W.T.: (1) No legal formalities are essential,
but it is advisable to have a deed poll drawn
by a solicitor and registered with the Registrar-
General. (2) Very roughly about £5. (3) If
the university is notified of the change of
name certificates would issue in the new name.
... .H. 8.: An lOU is merely a written acknow-
ledgment of a debt and has no legal effect ex-
cept as evidence A.W.: (1) Yes, but he would
still get compensation. (2) and (3) Depends on
terms of award. (4) Yes. (5) If employer now
pays tax he could probably recover from em-
ployee... .W.E.R.: No. The separation would
have no effect on the partnership or the signing of
cheques... .A.J.A.: He should apply to the
nearest Court of Petty Sessions for an eviction
order under the Landlord and Tenant Act....
A.N.: “Home Movies and Home Talkies”
(monthly, 6d.), 8 Southampton-street, London,
W.C.2... .T.C.: Permission must be obtained
from the Chief Secretary’s Department, Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney... .D.M.F.: If the teaset
was a gift to your brother’s daughter no
writing was necessary and you cannot demand
it back. If, on the other hand, you merely
told your brother that at some future time you
would give it to his daughter you may recover
it... .R.M.M.: (1) Yes, tantalum is sold by the
pound. In its crude form as ore the tantalum
content is always quoted at so much “per
unit.” (2) Limited market for tantalite: 45
p.c. Ta 2 05 grade might realise £5 per unit
overseas. Frank Hambridge, Sydney, is a pos-
sible buyer.... Kori Heke: Point is covered in
Rule 43 of five hundred: “In no-trump or
nullo holder of the joker cannot play it if
he can follow suit”... .G.M.S.: The artist is no
doubt Abraham Solomon, a painter of domes-
tic subjects. He was born in London, 1840,
died 1862, exhibited seven works at the Royal
Academy, and a number at the Society of
Artists. Francis Holl engraved the two works
mentioned, “Morning” and “Evening.” His
productions are well known, but their value
is small F.T.: (1) Bradman’s records are
listed in N.S.W. Cricket Association’s Year-
Book; 6d., from H. Heydon, secretary, 255 a
George-street, Sydney. When writing ask re
Sheffield Shield information. (2) Since Eighteen
Hundred and Seventy-seven, 2s. 6d., published
by the Reliance Printery, 46 Wakefield-street,
Adelaide, contains full Test-match results
L.W.: Write to Eng.-Commander S. F.
Coopper, R.N., secretary English Rugby Union,
Twickenham, England, and state your require-
ments... .S.N.: They should first be cleaned
with a stiff dry brush and rinsed with cold
water. When dry from this treatment, scrub
well with hot soapy water and rinse clean
with fresh water. Stone will endure rough
scouring, but marble must be treated more
gently, as it is softer. If marble is dull after
cleaning, apply a paste of chalk and water,
and allow it to dry on; then rub off with
a cloth and polish with another cloth. Use
a soft brush for difficult parts of carving or
lettering E.K.: Following is a standard
formula: Ammonia water 16 parts, yellow soap
64 parts, potassium nitrate 1 part, soft water
sufficient to make the whole to 200 parts.
Shave up the soap and dissolve it in the water
by heating, add the potassium nitrate and
dissolve. Cool, strain, skim off any suds or
bubbles, add the ammonia, mix and bottle at
once. For cleaning use one tablespoon of the
mixture to one gallon of water A.J.8.:
J. J. Hardie, Australian novelist, was born at
Troon, Scotland, on November 8, 1894, He
is author of the following books: Cattle Camp
(1932), Lantana (1933), The Bridle Track
(1936), Woolclassing and Shed Management
(1934) and Standard Wool Types (1934)
R. : You can find an article on Dumont
d’Urville in M.L. in the Transactions of the
N.Z. Institute, Vol. 42 (1909). He is also men-
tioned in the article on French exploration in
the Australian Encyclopedia... .C. 8.: Nomi-
nations for assisted passages from persons
resident in N. S. Wales in favor of relatives
in the U.K. are being considered by the State
migration authorities, A.P.A. Chambers, 53
Martin-place, Sydney, from whom the neces-
sary application forms and detailed information
in regard to passage money rates, etc., may
be obtained. Particulars of nursing awards may
be had on application to the manager, State
Labor Exchange, at the address given above....
A.C.G.: Tire Danish letter “o” (with a diagonal
stroke) is pronounced nearly like the English
“oe.” The pronunciation depends upon the con-
nection in which the letter is used. It is not pos-
sible to explain the pronunciation in print as
there are no corresponding sounds in the Eng-
lish language... .F. 8.: (1) £lOOO cash would be
sufficient to purchase a small newsagency. It is
difficult to state what profit could be expected
for this outlay as profits vary considerably in
accordance with the class of agency. (3) The
vendor is obliged to give three weeks’ service
free of charge in order that the purchaser may
learn what is required in connection with the
disposal of newspapers F.C.W.: Sports
mistresses in the N.S.W. Education Department
are selected from teachers already employed
and who possess the necessary qualifications
S. William Lane and the Australian Labor
Movement, by Lloyd Ross (Forward Press, Syd-
ney; 7s. 6d.) A.8.J.: “Lancet,” 7 Adam-
street, Adelphi, London, W.C.2 H.C.T.:
The S.P.C.K. is the Society for the Promotion
of Christian Knowledge C.V.: Yes, Mane
Tempest opened her Australian tour in 1917 at
the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, on April 7 in
“The Marriage of Kitty” A.L.: The play
“The Wind and the Rain” was written by
Merton Hodge. It was first produced at St.
Martin’s Theatre, London, on October 18, 1933.
. .F.M.: Authors’ League of America, Inc.,
9 East 38th-street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
H.A.: Write A.U.S.N. Co., Union House,
247 George-street, Sydney E.C.F.: Write
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney E.D.: Information, too long to
print on this page, is contained in Whitaker’s
Almanack, the Statesman’s Year-Book and the
World Almanac, available at most public
libraries H.C.: No A.H.M.D.: Write
Australian Air League, Sirius House, 23
Macquarie-place, Sydney.


Wonderful holiday tour to this
port of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports, with
additional calls at Saigon and
Madang. The m.v. “NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from
Melbourne and Sydney. Excel-
lent cuisine and service—sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Prudential Building, Wellington, N.Z.
V-' *
■
XT "
A ’' J
m
mrtp
mini"
>jy
JA
m
*v
\v^n
V®
¥7l
y>*
i
r
«
sS
GHEATEST
EXHIBITION
EVER HELD IN THE
■H SOUTHERN
HH HEMISPHERE
Come over to New Zealand—the Wonder-
land of the Pacific—and celebrate with us
our 100th Birthday! Here, situated in
nearly 60 acres, is the greatest Exhibition
ever held in the Southern Hemisphere!
Colossal . . . unprecedented . . . impressive
displays covering 14 acres of buildings . . .
gardens ... 10 acres of amusements, a feast
of fun and entertainment, representing the
very latest spectacular devices of the world.
A THOUSAND
THRILLS AWAIT YOU
Now is the time to arrange your trip ... days’
sail to Wellington, where the Exhibition is mag-
nificently staged. Modern transport by rail, road
and airways gives easy access to the scenic, sport
and health resorts of the Dominion, truly described
as “the Paradise of the Pacific.” Send to-day for the
beautifully illustrated folder outlining the holiday of
a lifetime. Address: New Zealand Government
Tourist Bureau, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, or
all travel agents.
AT WELLINGTON
NOV. 1939 to APRIL 1940
£
jLZ-i
SL%
St,)!
#» c
p
u’n h
o\|\l TO
\f\s\ T
the
ZtAIAW
\niß> T,oV
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
DJ.G.: The Bulletin had in mind the
Anglo-German naval agreement and the non-
aggression pact with Poland. You mention
,he Concordat: 1. has no, been denounced by
either party L.F.R.: Not a hope
J.R.H.: “Volcano” extinct J.H.H.: Will
never touch another drop R.E.A.: They
bump like a George-street tramcar... .G.W..
Verses like that will never pay your fare “way
out west” 8.D.: You don't handle it badly,
but it’s an outworn style A.K.: “Cupid”
misses J.A.P.: Not in the market for a
“Pup” J.D.H.: The very devil a.g.:
Well, don’t be too weary to use a capital
letter sometimes; there’s a flicker in it....
R.E.N.: Except for the penultimate line,
"Miracle” might be I.M.McC.: Close
H.J.C.W.: As spirited as a mountain goat
P.N.: “Hap me” is not the happiest of
phrases R.T.8.Z.: This is where we wept:
Th ?ecSiet h JSVST. SOM
Ten long years’ end did sad unfold
Beside iris bleached remains.
WJ.U.: It has its moments, but you might
change the line “Our horses as of old then
smelt” before trying anyone else 8.N.:
Poem ends, “Is the be-all and end-all of life
for him still.” That’ll be all.. ..R.M.: It
goes at a deuce of a bat without getting any-
where L.McL.: Thin... .A.McK.W.: Keep
at it... .K.V.S.: “The Attack” routed....
N.R.W.: Murder by filling a mosquito’s glands
with snake-venom is at least a novel idea
J.L.: A masterly stretch of word-spinning
about nothing... .H.T.C.: Exported “Home
Thoughts from Abroad”... .J.T.: “Bah to
You” returned.., .G.H.E.: A slight improve-
ment, but still a long way off... .T.N.S.: Con-
taminating other w.p.b. inhabitants L.T.S.:
Come again with something lighter L.8.R.:,
No use at that length... .C.R.D.: Suggest you
inflict it on your worst enemy... .J.C.P.:
Nothing there M.J.S.: “Lambswool Lennie”
needs shearing of about 3000 words... .0.L.:
Contains every obstacle to publication that we
can think 0f.... J.D.0.: Characters good, yarn
piffle... .8.R.P.: You’ve tried to stuff a novel
into 4000 words.... M.E.W.: Might make a
par N.D.L.: “Flotsam” went out on the
first available tide... .G.E.0.: Bury it, burn it
—anything... .J.R.8.: Five pages of covering
letter and four pages of yarn! OutTh
J.C.S.: “You’ll never hear from me again.”
Sad... .G. 8.5.: Too 10ca1... .N.R.P.: You’ve
cut the best parts of it... .8.E.5.: “Admittedly
it’s very subtle.” Too much so T.8.E.:
Your “brain-child” is out of harm’s way
T.T.E.: Did you really think we’d take any
of those?... .5.F.1.: As we saw it, the police-
man murdered the ghost who haunted the
woman who married the man who shot the
policeman... .8.R.E.: Might stand a chance
with a daily... .L.T.C.: Mystery vague, solu-
tion more 50... .K.E.N.: Must you inflict them
on us? ... .H.R.V.: Earned a second reading
and -™ght receive a third if you touch it up.
" ’ ’ ‘ u n for “The Lone Eagle.”
pitiaS’
N.Y., L.T.C., M.W. and F.H.T.: Missed.
TO ARTI^Tth I rani Pi t'martiqttt''
AU
CORRESPONDENTS.
7
S.V.: Jacky looks like a Senegambian.
. ...N.N.: You’re just blundering on T.W. •
You would be better employed designing
family crests... .E.L.: Looks as if it were
drawn the morning after the Artists’ Ball
J.W.S.: Shows promise; come again later
S.G.: Pictorial tribute to late P.M. arrived
to ° late, and wasn’t suitable anyway... .G.G.:
Tile maid can remain imprisoned in the castle
tbe ° ldb l° k f f ’ ’’ ’ H S ; : Skctch contains about
i 38 3 beg !? C ° uW make il ' ' •
Jb.E.: Should we ever decide to print ulus-
trated slogans we’ll send you an SOS L.R.:
The driver of the coach just passed, but the
nags hit the w.p.b. with a dull thud J.C.:
What are the rare and strange devices at the
bottom of the sketch?... .V.P.: There was a
time when such head studies were used, but
not n0w....L.F.: An old and infirm jest and
a sketch that would land an infant in the
dunce’s corner W.H.D.: If you want to
draw caricatures pick notabilities C.A.:
It failed to make a grey morning any brighter,
... .KJ.: Gent, with two heads now terrorising
the other inmates of the w.p.b C.R.P.:
Drawing will not even return you cost of the
paper and ink... .F.W.: The lad could do with
several terms at a first-class art school J.D.:
The sort of anonymous atrocities often seen on
the fly-leaves of library books... .G. 8.:
Sketch of cockroaches chasing each other
around a giant toadstool was quickly rejected.
. ...LJ.F.: It found its way to the tomb of
hopeless efforts... .C.D.A.: Neat piece of
work, but it lacks gaiety... .W.L.8.: More
like a weather-chart than a humorous drawing.
R.A.: Similar sketch appeared in a recent
overseas magazine... .5.8.: You have a lot
to learn.... J.J.: It’s a bit late in the day
to be turning in Easter Show jokes... .T.L.:
ere are 97 different varieties of that gag,
and you’ve used the second-oldest A.K.F.:
Fred Brown explored that region and with con-
siderably more skill... .J.A.S.: About as side-
cracking as the diagrams in an engineering
textbook P.T.: You’re coming on slowly;
pay more attention to anatomy H.E.8.:
You must have learned art in a combined
waxworks and freak-mirror show T.J.:
Better than the last batch... .M.F.: If we
get any more gags about that dead horse we’ll
hire an undertaker to bury the animal, also
the artist who next draws it.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Ysbrantsz”: English troops have
fought in Albania ; in fact, the battle of
Hastings was more or less fought over
again there. Englishmen exiled after
the Norman Conquest were in the
vanguard of the Byzantine army which
met the Normans under Robert Guis- t
card, Duke of Apulia, at Durazzo in
1081. Alexius Comnenus, the Greek
Emperor, put great faith in the English,
who had reinforced the Scandinavians of
the Varangian Guards. Guiscard was
anticipating Mussolini by making what
is now Albania the starting-point for the
conquest of the Balkans. With their
battle-axes the English hewed their way
deep into the Norman army, but the
knights, led by Guiscard, stood firm and
won the battle. In a later advance
through Thessaly the Normans surprised
300 English who were holding the city
of Castoria. But the Norman enter-
prise failed in the long run.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: For sheer, cool, adven-
turous courage and nerve, Belgium’s little
Prof. Piccard is in world-record class.
Having been the first to visit the strato-
sphere at heights never before even
approximated, in a balloon of his own
design, he is now working on a “cabin”
in which to explore the ocean floor,
31 miles below the surface. Greatest
depth, so far, is less than a mile, by Dr.
Beebe’s “bathysphere,” lowered from a
ship. The Piccard craft will be free of
any cable. Submergence is effected by
iron filings in an outside container, mag-
netised from within the vessel and giv-
ing a sinking speed of a metre a second.
When the current is cut off, the ballast
discharges slowly. New metal alloys
allow the whole craft and apparatus to
be lighter than water. All outside fittings,
ballast funnel and drag-rope included, are
attached by magnetic attraction only, per-
mitting instant detachment. Wireless
allows probable rising position in emer-
gency to be given to the attendant ship ;
lighting for photography and warming
are prcmded by batteries. First voyage,
probably about April, 1940.
* * * *
Robert Courtneidge, passed over in
England at the 80th milestone, was a
popular actor in Australia before he be-
came a successful manager in England.
He first came here in 1892 as a principal
in the third London Gaiety Co., and he
stayed on as a member of the Royal
Comics. In 1894 he scored as a Scotch
valet in the J.C.W. production “Round
the World in 80 Days,” and had also an
effective Scottish role in “On ’Change.”
j n 1903 he returned to Australia to pro-
duce various Shakspearean comedies for
George Musgrove. His third visit was
j n 1920 with his own co. in “The Man
from Toronto” and other pieces, in
which his daughter Rosalind appeared,
j n hj s published memoirs he gave great
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: It may come
as a surprise to many people that flog-
gjng j s on iy now a h ou t to be abolished
as a punishment in the British Navy. It
was abolished in the Army in 1881, but
tbe Naval Discipline Act of 1866 has re-
tained it, nominally at any rate, in the
sen i° r service for petty officers and men,
U P to 48 strokes of the lash for serious
breaches of discipline, including mutiny,
Commissioned officers could not be
flogged by court-martial for any offence.
In practice this part of the Act has for
lon g been in abeyance. Flogging has
never been a permissible punishment in
the Australian Navy for any rank or
offence.
* * * *
sir Harry Twyford, ex-Lord Mayor
T nnf i nn whn recentlv rlmmwi in ™
° f Londo ?’ 0 recently dropped in on
S y dne y> 1S ai } old employee of the
Eastern Extension Cable Co. He pushed
dots in various Australian stations, and
later was put in charge of the concern’s
training station at Cable Bay, Nelson,
M.L. When located in Adelaide he mar-
ried the daughter of Richard Honey, of
Woodville, who kept open house for the
young cable men who came from Corn-
wall to Adelaide to work the newly-laid
Adelarde-Cocos cable. Twyford resigned
to go into the textile trade, and is now
head of one of the biggest firms in Eng-
land.


OtfO
FOR ANY ROOM
IN THE HOUSE
OPEN
OR
CLOSED
FIRE AT
WILL.
THE LIVING
ROOM
Fire open all
day, closed all
night, and still
burning. Burns
coke, coal or
wood.
LOUNGE
A cheery open
fire without the
trouble or dir .
of old-fctshionec.
fires.
m
1/4:
m
i
**2
5*2
igiipwii
i
A: _
■ ,
DINING ROOM
An open fire at meal-
times and the room
always warm. Burns
coke, coal or wood.
HALL
An "Otto” in the hall
keeps the chill from the
entire house.
CALL AND INSPECT
We also stock the following slow-burning fires:
ESSE SUNRAY KOSI RAYO EXCELSEE
PHONE- M 6505 (16 LINE-S ) LATE SHOPPING. FRIDAY. 8-30 PM
JOHN DANKS »«» SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED i incobbobated m victobia i
324-440 Pitt Street SYDNEY. M 6505.
391-403 Bourke Street .... MELBOURNE. M 2381.
& sweasos
OF QUALITY
since\lBs7
ORB
can
?3Sa
SB*
1 l l
i SB
Away back in 1857 John Lysaght manufactured the first
"ORB” brand Galvanized Iron. To-day, this famous
brand is a world-wide symbol of quality. The yearly
output from the Newcastle and Port Kembla works is
over 12,000,000 sheets, and more than £500,000 per
annum are paid directly in wages to Australian workmen.
Hundreds of thousands of tons of Australian coal, steel
and zinc are also used in this great national industry.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Sydney Brisbane Melbourne Adelaide Fremantle^
EVERY SHEET
GUARANTEED
m
WEST AND EAST
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
JUST 100 years before Arthur Phillip
officially established British Austra-
lasia on the east side of the vague
and vast southern continent the
Dutch had named New Holland, a pirate
, c • u
from the Spanish Mam took a look at
the west coast. Back in England, he
wrote so well of what he had seen that
he became famous enough to induce the
Admiralty to commission him as a naval
captain, give him an apology for a ship,
and send him out to see whether New
Holland might be worth colonising.
So in the middle of 1699 William
Dampier landed a second time in what
has since become Western Australia. He
found the country waterless, its inhabi-
tants “the miserablest people in the
world,” and what he saw of the con-
tinent wholly disappointing. Dampier
made up his mind to sail right round the
big island, northabout, and set out to
do so. But his ship was rotten and his
crew semi-mutinous, and he realised the
impossibility of executing his design. So
he turned homeward, and it was 70 years
, . T . , T i, d xt
bef °i!r\A ieU i en .? nt J * vSXated the
in H.M.S. Endeavour, investigated th
country again, making his first landing,
far away from the coasts Will Dampier
saw, on the east side of the continent.
This time British interest in Australia
was to have results.
There is a curious relationship be-
tween the ex-pirate commanding officer
of H.M.S. Roebuck and the principal
people of H.M.S. Endeavour. Dampier,
like Cook, had been a farmer’s boy who
was to develop into a great geographer,
and in his U
sembled Joseph Banks, Cook s
notable passenger. As with both or
them, he kept careful and graphic
record of where he went and all he saw.
Dampier’s and Cook’s “Voyages’ are
very similar and equally valuable chap-
ters in the chronicle of the expansion
of European influence in the southern
hemisphere. And yet the personalites of
both men were as essentially different
as West is from East.
There is a striking similarity in two
incidents which occurred when Dampier
landed looking for water at Roebuck Bay
on the first day of September, 1699, and
when Cook first went ashore at Botany
Bay on the last day but one of Septem-
ber, 1770.
All the morning, in the West, Dampier
dug unavailingly for water, and in the
afternoon came ashore again with the
boatswain and a young seaman only, in
hopes that the sight of a small party
might induce the natives to approach,
and that by capturing one of them he
might persuade or force him to indicate
where his fellows obtained water for
their own use. But they had no luck.
The abos. showed fight, and at last
Dampier’s party had to shoot one of
them, after a member of it had been
wounded in the face by a spear. ‘ The
rest, seeing him fall, made a stand again ;
and my young Man took an opportunity
to disengage himself, and came off to
me, who had done nothing all this while,
having come out unarm’d; and I re-
turned back with my Men, designing to
attempt the Natives no further, being
very sorry for what had happened
already.”
When Cook and his men landed at
Kurnell all those years afterwards, also
looking for water, “as soon as we
approached the rocks, two of the men
came down, each armed with a lance
about ten feet long, and a short stick,
which he seemed to handle as if it was
a machine to throw the lance.” They
were “resolved to dispute our landing to
their utmost, though they were but two,
and we thirty or forty.” Negotiations
were useless, and at length hostilities
broke out. Muskets loaded with small
shot were fired, and the pair of brave
Australians protested against invasion by
throwing spears before they retreated.
Truly, both Dampier’s “Voyages” and
Cook’s “Journals” might have well con-
tained a sentence common to both —
“This is a Land of Valiant Men.”
A MIXED GRILL.
It is seldom that the retirement on
superannuation of a pedagogue starts a
controversy, but Nathan Spielvogel, the
well-loved headmaster of the Dana-street
State school at Ballarat, has done it. The
old Bulletin and “Lone Hand” con-
tributor never used the lash, and at every
school breakup he used to take down a
virgin strap hanging on the wall and,
cutting it into strips, present each de-
parting scholar with a piece as a memento
of their pleasant associations together.
Then he hung in its place another strap.
As a result of his departure school-
teachers and parents all over the State
are ventilating their views for and against
corporal punishment.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: Abortion is one of the
most difficult crimes in the calendar from
the standpoint of the police, chiefly be-
cause it is next to impossible to get
evidence from the “patients.” Sydney
recently had a case of this kind in which
the trial was protracted for 11 days. A
too-well-known “masseur” and three
women were jointly charged with con-
spiracy to procure abortion. A great
deal of the evidence was not published,
but the jury which heard it decided, after
an hour and three-quarters’ deliberation,
that the charges against all the accused
had been proved. The man got three
years’ “hard” ; the women 15, nine and
six months’ “light.’
* * * *
Tom Deacon, who had a store in Syd-
ney in the ’nineties, has just celebrated
his eightieth birthday, and he and his
wife have had a golden wedding. He
lives now in Woodstock, Oxfordshire,
and in his published Autobiography in
Rhyme he sings of his Sydney days:
At twenty-seven he found his heaven, for mar-
ried then was he;
For their honeymoon they travelled twelve
thousand miles by sea.
He once was on a ship on fire, and once was
wrecked at sea;
Another vessel rescued them and no harm
suffered he. ■
Eight years he spent in New South Wales, a
trader making good;
The bank crash of the ’nineties submerged
them like a flood.
Though 58, Tom did nine months’ active
service at Salonika in the Great War
before he was invalided home.
. “Lord Luvus”: In perfect good faith
the Commonwealth Bank bought an enor-
mous linoleum square for the main hall
of its Melbourne establishment. Down
the centre is a design of immense swas-
tikas. Until recently citizens trod these
emblems underfoot without thinking any-
thing more about it, or, if they thought
at all, they concluded the bank had put
them there as symbols for good fortune,
according to historical precedent. Ger-
mans imagined the bank was paying their
country a delicate compliment. With
the new turn events have taken in
Europe, however, the public attitude has
changed completely. Some patriots be-
come purple with indignation at the
sight of the swastikas, and accuse the
bank of anti-Australian prejudice, while
others pay special visits in the lunch-hour
for the sheer pleasure of walking over
them. And, to complete the circle, ultra-
patriotic Germans are asserting, con-
trariwise, that the bank put them there
for the express purpose of giving their
depositors the opportunity of insulting a
friendly foreign country.
* * * *
Winner of the Mollison Prize and the
Wyselaskie scholarship in modern lan-
guages at Melbourne University this year
is an infant prodigy in lingoes who
comes from that factory of musical
prodigies Warsaw. He is Julian Way-
den, who entered the University three
years ago, and in that time has scored
honors in English, French, German,
Japanese and Latin and landed £520 in
prizes for his linguistic feats. He also
won the Dwight Prize of £5O for French.
The Mollison Prize of £3OO entitles him
to reside at any foreign university, and
is awarded for French, German and
Japanese respectively in successive years.
* # * *
“Nakhoda”: So my old friend Krish-
namurti is back in Australia lecturing. In
Annie Besant’s vigorous lifetime he was
carried around the world and received
everywhere with acclamation. At Chicago
an egg famine was created by his admirers
cooking an immense omelet in his
honor. In Holland he spoke to huge
delegations from every nation around
great bonfires. On the death of his
protector he hastened to deny super-
natural attributes. A very intelligent,
attractive young Hindu with an interest
in politics and education and a very
reasonable way of discussing them that s
Krishnamurti nowadays.
* * =s= *
A British Herring Industry Board re-
port reveals that in 1938 Australia im-
ported 4079 hundredweight of kippered
herrings, three times as much as was
imported by any other country except
South Africa, and nearly double that.
Of tinned herrings the Commonwealth
import was 7460 hundredweight more
than the whole export of the article from
England to all other countries. We are
also among the best customers for
Canadian and Norwegian sardines,
American salmon and tuna and Japanese
crabs. Australian tinned- fish is barred
from mess contracts by the Defence
Department.


THE OTHER
FELLW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Hitherto no competitor has won more than one first prize. C. H. Shaw, of
Vaucluse, Sydney, a winner in November, has now earned another £3 3s. for a
striking contribution on a subject very much in the public mind.
The Cry for Leadership
At 4.30 on Easter Monday morning
I stood on a hill near Mittagong
(N.S.W.). The stars glowed and there
was a sense of vastness, and I heard an
echo of the voices that have been crying
for a leader.
I saw the great range of mountains
and hills that straggled down this east
coast from the tip of Queensland to the
outskirts of Adelaide, the plains beyond
them right to the Nullarbor and the mines
and jarrah forests of Westralia. • West
lay the Murray valley, where 5,000,000
people might grow fat; north were
Queensland and the untapped resources
of New Guinea; south the Monaro, the
Bogongs and McMillan’s “promised
land” ; still further west the wheat and
wool and fruit of the Gawler plains and
the unexploited riches of a land begin-
ning in the Gumbowie ranges and run-
ning north and west to the Territory and
the Timor Sea.
The vision was punctuated by factories
and mills, by cities and towns, by harbors
and railways. It’s a tremendous propo-
sition to call on any one man to lead
this country, with its complexity of in-
dustry, its vast area, its scattered popu-
lation, its political systems, its cheerful,
casual, intelligent people.
It struck me, suddenly very humble,
that leadership in Australia should be
by a group of men. One a master of
secondary industry with a wide know-
ledge of industrial and manufacturing
economy, of sources and possibilities of
raw materials and markets, of suitable
factory locations; one a master of com-
mercialism, an expert in profit, loss, de-
mand and necessities; one must have
an Australian, as distinct from a State,
outlook and knowledge of primary pro-
duction ; there must be an educationist;
there must be a military mind aware
of the stupendous problem of defending
a continent; there must be a national
economist; and there must be one
familiar with the country’s geography
from Port Essington to Hobart.
A single leader would need to combine
all these things. Could any nation pro-
duce such a man? Hitler leads the Ger-
mans, Stalin the Russians, Mussolini the
Italians —yes, but none of them could
lead Australians. Monash led them in
one particular field, Hughes (in his day)
in another, but while peace reigns, how-
ever shakily, there is no single rallying
cry by which men of that type could call
the nation round them.
At sunrise I gave it up, confident that,
if Australia could carry on so well under
the political leadership of the good,
honest, but not great or brilliant man
then lately dead, she would survive what-
ever the political juggling at Canberra
threw up.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
To “O.T.”—C. H. Shaw, of Vaucluse,
Sydney—goes the £3 35., together with
space rates.
“Hitler Plays False”
Heaven help us if the suggestion of
R. H. Gordon (B. 12/4/’39) is ever taken
seriously by The Bulletin. Surely we
have enough warmongering newspapers
in Australia already without asking The
Bulletin to lend its substantial weight
to the crusade. Must we hate Hitler
because he has had the guts to go after
what he wants? Must we hate him be-
cause he has given the German people
a better standard of living and a better
outlook for the future? After all he has
taken nothing from and it is
more than probable that history will
record Hitler’s European exploits of
to-day as among the best things that ever
happened that restless continent.
Hitler will at least keep the territories
he has taken over in a peaceful even
though subjective state, and that is some-
thing to be thankful for. Prior to the
coming of Hitler the half-baked king-
doms and republic of Bohemia with their
similarly half-baked armies were a hot-
bed of strife and always a potential
source of danger to the rest of Europe.
So far as our trade relations with
them were concerned, they were the
worst customers Britain ever had; and
yet R.H.G. has the nerve to lambast Mr.
Chamberlain and hold up his misinter-
pretation of a Bulletin leader as a thing
to be thankful for!
Hitler certainly played false after
Munich, and if anything British or Aus-
tralian had been involved in his falsity
we would have been justified in having
a crack at him. There wasn’t; and no
Bohemian squabble is worth the shed-
"Gel off an' use your own, you lazy cow!”
ding of one drop of British or Austra-
lian blood. As a kid in the old country
during the war I went through the air
raids and stood in a food queue with
money to spend but very little to buy
with it, and if it is un-British to pray fer-
vently for the avoidance of that sort of
heroism in the future, then let me be un-
British. Chamberlain’s policy and The
Bulletin’s journalism are both doing a
grand job, and if what they are striving
for is wrong, then I believe that two
wrongs do make a right.—J. B. Sweeney
(Q-).
Foreign Policy
Had Mr. Chamberlain not been in
power in September we should have had
war—and a war for what? For a country
that existed for only 20 years. For a
country so mixed in races that one won-
ders how they all fit in so small an area.
We should have slaughtered our manhood
to try to save a country which would
have been overrun before the first man
left England. But Chamberlain staved
off the evil day, and in the past seven
months Britain and France have built a
fighting combination that need be sub-
servient to no one.
Chamberlain has now taken the offen-
sive, called Hitler’s bluff, and to all ap-
pearances will succeed.
Does R. H. Gordon realise that the
Japanese warships were only 50 miles
. from New Guinea in September last?
Does he realise what Australia’s defence
was at that time? If he does know now
he may alter his ideas.
He hopes The Bulletin will change
its attitude on foreign affairs. I pray a
fervent prayer that The Bulletin will
continue as it has, and be at least one
paper in Australia in which truth is domi-
nant. — Alroon (N.S.W.).
We Can’t All Be Millionaires
Obviously. But in a country like Aus-
tralia there’s no earthly reason why we
shouldn’t all be reasonably happy. We’ve
got an abundance of everything the in-
dividual requires, and our facilities for
recreation and enjoyment are unsur-
passed. About the only thing we haven’t
got is peace of mind. Why?
Ever study a foreigner taking root
in Australia? He’s been transplanted—
often an invigorating process—he’s prac-
tically friendless, he’s got to learn to
like strange customs. Consequently he’s
too busy scratching a living to worry
about making a fortune or to be over-
fussy about what he does. And as he
makes a living (doesn’t everybody in
Australia, somehow?) and rears his
numerous brood he doesn’t catch on to
the advantages of birth-control —he’s
happy.
Don’t make the mistake of thinking
the man is easily pleased. He’s getting—
what he expects to work for —food,
clothing and shelter. His animal needs
are satisfied. For recreation he looks
mainly to his home circle. A happy chat
with some compatriots over a glass of
wine, evenings at home with his family,
Sunday afternoon games and strolls. A
cinema visit is an event. He’s privy to
the thousand-and-one joys to be had for
the asking. In. other words, he lives, and
when he dies his family genuinely grieves.
Contrast our methods. We fancy a
roaming life, with freedom to work as
we like, free from a boss. Yet we
wouldn’t consider bottle-ohing or hawk-
ing fish, and we are sceptical of a green-
grocery round. Selling cakes and pies
around city offices may be all right for
a certain type of bloke, but not for us.
We’d be too conspicuous. In other
words, we’re above that sort of thing.
And yet we’re not snobs. Rather we’re
oversensitive, too conservative. All our
friends work in steady jobs; so should
we. I’d like to go rabbit-trapping, but
a man can’t chuck a steady job for some-
thing unreliable. And yet I’d make a
good living trapping, and like the life.
No, we can’t all be millionaires, but
we can live our own life, and not waste
it waiting, or trying, to become rich. —
Salmon Gums (W.A.).
Slum Areas
The workingman in N. S. Wales is
becoming poorer every year. For every
shilling rise in his wages there is a corre-
sponding rise to thirteenpence in the cost
of living. In order to balance his budget
he is compelled to seek the cheapest pos-
sible lodgings, thus creating a steady
demand for slum dwellings.
The social conditions in Sydney due
to slum housing are so deplorable that
in many areas families are huddled to-
gether in dwellings unfit for habitation.
Despite the vigorous and well-meaning
protests of Church and other organisa-
tions, these conditions must continue
w'hile living costs ever outstrip the rise
in wages.
Slums and dear living in a world of
sunshine, space and plenty are great
chopping-blocks, but just what does all
the verbal axemanship amount to? Where
are the reforms? — Worker (N.S.W.).
Self-condemned
In his broadcast on the day of Mr.
Lyons’s funeral, “The Watchman’’
pointedly rebuked those who, by adverse
criticism, had added to the burden of
office. Almost immediately, and not for.
the first time, he proceeded to make
trenchant criticism of Britain’s Prime
Minister, whose cares are greater still.
What is deplorable in the private in-
dividual is surely not to be condoned
from the mouthpiece of a national
station, from where, if from anywhere,
we have a right to expect an example
of forbearance with and loyalty to our
Empire’s leaders in times of crisis.—
Stowaway (Vic.).
For a Great Commonwealth
Nothing truly great is ever achieved
unless it is clearly and concretely con-
ceived. As a people we have not been
especially occupied in formulating a well-
wrought conception of a truly great
Commonwealth. Russian agents hope
and strive to induce us to adopt the Rus-
sian model. There are also other vague
conceptions pleading for our earnest
attention.
But we have not yet drawn the broad
outlines distinguishing the difference of
the desirable future social structure from
the present. There are, however, some
social aims of universal value which
should appeal to us because we have
better opportunities to pursue them. If
the greater part of our citizens could
draw a visual picture of a social struc-
ture designed to evolve a community en-
dowed with the highest physical, moral,
intellectual and spiritual attributes, we
would be marching towards our goal.
In our situation we need to be more
forward-looking, more bent in exploring,
prospecting and projecting to-morrow.
Vision is necessary not only to save us
from perishing, but also to raise the
level of social life. Why not form an
organisation to assist the public in form-
ing the best conception of a truly great
Commonwealth? It would be a progres-
sive step, for a good conception only sur-
vives until it is superseded by a better
one. — Ernest Borzell (N.S.W.).
Culture
“Basil Boggabri” seems to have ideas
of culture (B. 29/3/’39) that are very
superficial and even suspect of snobbery
when he asserts that the “fundamentals
of culture” are “correct speech, an up-
right carriage, a worthy handshake,
pleasant dexterity with cutlery and,
through all, common courtesy.” He
should have added “and an old school
tie carefully but carelessly knotted.”
What he terms the “fundamentals” are
rather the outward signs of “social
polish” and much less important than
true culture, which is the achievement of
intellectual depth and refinement. Many
persons have social refinement but no
claims whatever to intellect or even in-
telligence. Others are genuinely cultured
but lack the pretty graces which “Basil
B” calls fundamental —though courtesy
and reasonably good diction come natur-
ally to most cultured people.
“Basil B.” appears to be too worried
about “first impressions.” He says,
“Clearly clipped words mean more than
all the academic attainments.” That may
be so in regard to crashing the gates of
sassiety, but to say it seriously in relation
to cultural standards is absurd. Equally


absurd is his contention that people’s cul-
ture can be measured by their dexterity
in wielding a knife and fork or by the
way they “look a man in the eyes when
they shake his hand.”
Many a confidence trickster lives on
no other assets than those social tricks.
Admittedly they make people appear
more pleasant than they usually are, and
hence have some superficial value. But
they are not fundamental. If “Basil B.”
can sift the cultured sheep from the un-
cultured goats merely by their hand-
shakes then he is indeed a “swift ob-
server.” —W. J. Hay (M.L.).
Wagering the Future
Although I agree with J. N. Rookledge
in most of his argument on borrowing
(B. 12/4/’39), I disagree with his asser-
tion that it is wrong to mortgage our
future productive power to build a home.
When people pay rent the landlord is
relying on their future productive powers
for a return on his investment. He is
to reap all the benefits from these powers.
Surely then it is a step in the right direc-
tion for a man to. buy his own home,
the repayments on the loan being very
little more than his rent.
When we marry we stake our future
earning powers to keep our wives and
the children that will follow. We en-
courage our children to study and stake
(I like “stake” better than “mortgage”)
our earning capacity on sending them to
secondary schoolsI—one 1 —one of the things
which, at a pinch, they could do without.
Most of the businesses in the world
stake their money on our future earn-
ings and are doing rather well. If we
stopped using a credit system for, say,
20 years, saved during that time and then
made all our purchases for cash, would
there be any difference between the state
of the community then and now?—
W. H. W. (N.S.W.).
“Lest We Forget”
Twenty years ago four years of blood-
shed came to an end, and Australia began
to count the cost. Sixty thousand killed was
merely one item on the expense account
of the Commonwealth, and year by year
the account grew with the deaths of more
men as a result of war injuries and the
accumulation of war debts. For a long
time the country consoled itself with the
thought that it had fought “a war to end
war” and “made the world safe for
democracy.” These dreams were long
ago shattered, and the warmongers and
the unintelligent people who seem to
think that Australia should be ever ready
to sally forth again and take part in Euro-
pean squabbles should find time to pause
and reflect on the futility and uselessness
of war. There is no victor in a,major
war. That has been amply demonstrated.
These people, therefore, should bend
their energies towards helping Australia
build up an efficient and sufficiently
strong defence force —a force that should
have as its sole object the defence of the
country and must never be sent to fight
10,000 miles away. “Lest we forget” has
become three words with no meaning—
because many people have forgotten.
Three words that should be brought be-
fore the notice of the people are “Do not
forget.” — Mike (W.A.).
Education
The main street of our town (popula-
tion 12,000) brings a setback to the
education theorist. It may be coincidence,
but, barring a few doctors, the most
successful men on both sides of the
street are the least educated.
No grammar-school education or pro-
fessorial background lies behind the
master butcher, the proprietor of a large
bus company, the owner of the most pre-
tentious garage, or the owner of a
grocery business with a Vanderbilt turn-
over. If success can be measured by
financial stability, all of these men are
well up the ladder.
A talk with them would pain the
language purist and give the professor
of science a headache. Their education
consisted of a few years at a State school,
and all of them boast that they left as
soon as possible.
That they have made the grade with-
out education evokes the thought,
“Would they have been any better or
any worse off with education?” One
of the best-educated men in our town
is a draper —a job that any of these
other uneducated men could make a
success of. —S. C. W. (Q.). . .
The Kelly Complex
Judging by the enthusiasm engendered
by any fresh reference to the infamous
Kellys, it seems to be a social handicap
not to have had an elderly uncle or aunt
who watered Ned’s horses or otherwise
succored him in time of peril. Even
a recent Bulletin (which ought to
know better) featured a brief 90-word
biography of some eminent South Aus-
tralian gentleman whose chief claim to
fame apparently was that “Ned Kelly
always gave him sixpence or a shilling.”
It’s about time that the Kellys and the
rest of the lawless race of bushrangers
were seen in their proper perspective, and
not held up to succeeding generations as
national heroes. Despite the false glamor
usually surrounding them, the fact re-
mains that they were outlawed thieves,
murderers, rebels against organised
society, and thoroughly deserving the
sticky end which came to most of them.
Bernard Shaw once pointed out that
Hollywood film directors evidently did
not realise that it was a punishable crime
to punch somebody on the nose (a trait
common to film heroes). Glorification
of strong-arm methods is a definite rever-
sion to type —a thing to be studiously
avoided in a civilised community.
The sooner the whole gruesome story
of the bushrangers is struck out of Aus-
tralia’s historical records the better for
our future as a cultured nation. —W. L.
(N.S.W.).
i . "■
“Highbrow” Happiness
While '■ I agree with E. Johns (B.
15/3/’39) in his views about appreciating
the small blessings of life, I think that
most people can do a lot towards ob-
taining “conscious happiness” by culti-
vating an appreciation of the less evident
forms of beauty.
In the last few years the controllers of
Australian theatres have been waking up,
and we have had a steady stream of
first-class singers, pianists, violinists and
suchlike touring our country. Although
all these entertainments have been well
supported, the- main bulk of the people
still seems to be content with the picture
theatre as its chief source of indoor en-
tertainment, and Hollywood and Eng-
lish studios of late have become so badly
off for good stories that the amount of
rubbish turned out (sprinkled with an
occasional really good film) is very great.
So why not use discrimination in our
choice of entertainment? Why not read
the criticisms and go to see only the best
of motion pictures? In the time saved
(that is, the time usually spent at second-
class stuff), one can learn to appreciate
what is popularly known as “highbrow”
entertainment —generally derisively so
called by those who have not bothered
to try to understand it, because the best
in it is not apparent at first glance. And
when one can sit and look at a beauti-
ful painting or listen to good music
with real, conscious pleasure, then one
has obtained one more source of happi-
ness—and happiness, after all, is what
makes life worth living.— Wagga (Vic.).
Stick Up a Map!
Stick a map of Australia where you’ll
see it the most possible number of wak-
ing hours. If one of those hours in-
cludes the last minutes before sleep
comes, so much the better.
Lacking proper perspective, too many
of us get all fretted and fussed up about
petty matters and waste on them atten-
tion we should give to the wider prob-
lems. Most Australians still are too
much inclined to minimise the impor-
tance of their own country. They need a
corrective.
Plain facts supply the need. Stick the
map up where you can’t miss it.
One that gives an adequate view of
the north and east. —Woodki (N.S.W.).
“No Uniforms”
In the opinion of many contributors
compulsory military training should be
introduced without delay. They claim
that youth is not willing to serve. The
recent recruiting drive disproves that.
The drive proves, in fact, that for the
moment compulsory military training is
impracticable. Australia has not the
machinery to cope with such a matter.
I myself have enlisted. I have not yet
been called up, and am not likely to be
for some time yet. I went down to the
drill hall the other night to see if it was
possible to get in yet. I soon saw why
it wasn’t. The brigade turned up to
parade in a startling variety of dress.
Reason: No uniforms available. In
short, the equipment was insufficient to
train the men already enlisted. Now,
it’s not much use having soldiers (volun-
tary or otherwise) if you haven’t the
means to train them. It is just another
proof that it isn’t the youth of the coun-
try that is at fault —it is the body that
governs them. But to press for universal
training at the moment is absurd. Such
a measure would result in chaos. — Sarg
(W.A.).
Hawkers and Canvassers
Vacuum-cleaners, sewing-machines and
insurance are innovations of modern civi-
lisation which people have been peddling
for so long that to-day one of the best
lines for a salesman to carry from door
to door is notices bearing the inscrip-
tion “Hawkers and Canvassers Need Not
Call.” A large percentage of Sydney’s
unemployed, however, are still trying to
sell luxuries to a market which is already
flooded with them or too poor to buy
them. Remuneration, commission only.
There should be a law to compel firms
to pay their canvassers a regular decent
salary whether they sell anything or not.
This would wipe many superfluous firms
off the market and prevent exploitation
of the unemployed as well as consider-
able inconvenience to householders.
R. Q. (N.S.W.).
It Might Work
They say you can’t bring in any reform
until the need is demonstrated to the
people where it hurts them most, so I
suggest this scheme to bring about uni-
fication and the abolition of State Parlia-
ments.
All cities and large towns to be marked
out in zones representing the different*
States. In Sydney six zones would be
placed between the Quay and Central, the
idea being for citizens to start home at
5 p.m. from the Quay and surmount the
various regulations they will meet on the
way.
At each “frontier” officials would in-
spect all food being carried home, every-
one being required to prove that all fruit,
vegetables, peanuts, etc., purchased were
free from fruit-fly, scaly-leg or other mal-
formation. No milk or butter to be trans-
ported not conforming to the various
“laws” and price fixations. An army of
officials and a taxation booth in each
zone would make sure a toll was levied
to represent the various taxation depart-
ments, any dispute being settled after a
long queue-up at the law courts.'
Motorists would each require to take
out a new registration at every zone-
crossing—and a new license, of course.
This would only mean a slight delay for
each car, and would help along the trans-
port-strangulation policy. All trade
lorries would be searched, weighed and
taxed —a proportion being confiscated —
and a few drivers put in gaol.
Trams and underground trains natu-
rally would have several breaks of gauge,
each new track preferably starting in the
next street, thus giving passengers a bit
of exercise.
At least one election or by-election
should be held each week, everybody
voting before starting home. To prevent
things getting monotonous or becoming
too easy each zone should at intervals
pass new legislation conflicting with each
other’s interests, even though it is uncon-
stitutional. In the unlikely event of riots
the Lord Mayor would call a conference
of all the zones to see what, if anything,
should be done, and then form a royal
commission to decide how. —J. N. RoOk-
LEDGE (N.S.W.). . \
Women in the World
An outstanding feature of the present
century has been the great advance made
by women. To-day almost every profes-
sion is open to them. In the,field of
education particularly, women have made
marked progress. There are few univer-
sities where women lecturers and tutors
are not on the staff. Yet it was only as
recently as 1900 that full degrees and
privileges could be obtained at Oxford.
We know the position of governesses
in the middle of last century by a remark
from Charlotte Bronte that “she would
gladly have exchanged her position as
governess for work in a mill!”
At the end of the eighteenth century
women formed the bulk of England’s
population but had no civil, social or legal
status apart from some man —father or
husband —no property or control of earn-
ings, no way of getting a divorce, no
voice in the control of children, unless
illegitimate. When one compares these
conditions with those enjoyed by women
to-day one wonders what future progress
they are destined to make. E. Johns
(S.A.).
Music!
We hear a lot about righting the
wrongs of Ireland, but I would like to
put in a plea on behalf of McTavish.
Why don’t all red-blooded Scotchmen
rise up in their wrath and protest against
the prostitution of their most cherished
and tuneful songs over the air?
The programmes are vile enough in
all conscience, but when it comes to
nasal-screeching Yankee females “swing-
ing” songs like “Annie Laurie,” “Loch
Lomond” and others that have charmed
thousands of listeners for years and will
continue to do so, it is about time some-
thing was done, either lawfully or by
physical force. I suggest it would be a
good idea if the broadcasting companies
converted half their records into material
for floor polish, as which the said records
might possibly be of some use. — Scotty
(N.S.W.).
To Safeguard Democracy
“D.J.G.” (B. 15/3/’39) would make
democracy effective by a course in citi-
zenship—“by providing continuous edu-
cation, at least until the voting age is
reached, in economics, politics and other
branches of sociology.” It sounds well,
but
Firstly, would education on the lines
he suggests be possible without keeping
potential breadwinners at school till 21?
Secondly, what brand of economics,
politics, etc., would he have them taught?
Thirdly, are not the very agencies whose
practical monopoly of after-15 educa-
tion he protests against—newspapers, the
cinema and radio —continuous providers
of lessons, good, bad and indifferent, in
all branches of sociology?.
It seems to me that we have a surfeit
of. lessons in citizenship, already ; dhat
less emphasis should be placed on the
obligation of the individual; towards
society and more on.that towards him-
self: Instead of.courses in citizenship let
there be : an enlightened policy of en-
couraging individual mental develop-
ment. ; ...
A good start could be made by letting
the Australian living in the country
know that there is literature besides True
Love Stories and Wild West Romances.
Every country-storekeeper’s counter is
cluttered with such stuff. Being a vora-
cious reader, the Australian bushman
reads what he can get. .
In addition, there should be a judi-
ciously aggressive policy of further com-
bating the influence, whenever pernicious,
of the three agencies just mentioned.
What, for instance, is wrong with film
censorship being made to grapple not
only with the smutty and the too hair-
raisingly blood-curdling, but also with
the obviously fatuous, the taint of
morosis with which Hollywood-headed
producers are infecting the whole world?
Or with some penalty being attached to
mischievous newspaper mendacity? Or
with compelling the radio-ranter on poli-
tics to make a dictaphone record of his
often slanderous outpourings? — Alma
(N.Q.).
They Can’t Take It
“Coil’s” suggestion (B. 12/4/’39) that
we adopt the simple means of divorce
as practised in West Africa would save
no lend-of- trouble and expense, but what
would be the use when dealing with
civilised women? We all know they lack
that appreciable quality humor.
Women love to draw attention to
themselves, flaunt their self-sacrifices and
generally have a good time when wallow-
ing in misery and sympathy. Deprive
them of open divorce courts with all the
trimmings. and what would we have?
Nagging 1 wives and. stop-out husbands
ad . infinitum, without the remotest pros-
pect of relief.
It . would be useless appealing to the
one virtue they do not possess. Hang it
all, what, emancipated woman can laugh
at a joke at her own expense? I should
know —I’m a woman myself.—A. M. Y.
(N.S.W.).
The Patriotic Carrot-bunch
“Give every man who enlists five acres
of land in perpetuity Tor him and his off-
spring,” says Henry Wade (B: 5/4/’39).
But why this incentive to patriotism? If
five acres of land covered with cab-
bages, pumpkins and other vegetables is
to be the Open Sesame to a man’s love
for his country, it will die with the first
drought, flood or bushfire that comes
along.
Patriotism is something greater than
that measured in acres of beans, beet-
root or bananas. It’s a conception of
the value of personal liberty, and a man
who wants to be paid a bribe to defend
that liberty is only half a man, and a
damn’ bad half at that.
The men to-day who are not patriotic
are those whom a rotten economic sys-
tem has denied what they are entitled to,
constant work and a family-rearing wage.
The biggest pest, outside politicians and
landlords, is the 10 p.c.-dividend-paying
concern that considers becoming 21
years of age a crime, punishable by in-
stant dismissal. Every real man wants
to buy his own home, riot have it given
to him for shouldering a rifle. Henry
Wade, your suggestion is a rotten one,
and Australians don’t want it.— Aussie
(N.S.W.).


Every Day a
Day of Opportunity
Kay Vaughan
Mr. Compton Mackenzie
tayss —
“Pelmanism definitely cultivates the im-
agination, and I do not hesitate to say that
fchdre is nobody who would not benefit by a
Course.”
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality training. Of these over 40,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
C.l, where it has been established for
30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. . Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is em-
phasised by every one of the many
opinions and letters published in “The
Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are
posted free. Write or call.
Pelmanism is an all-round train-
ing. It develops agreeably, smoothly
and without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the
following are outstanding:—
Observation Self-Confidence
Concentration Judgment
Decisiveness Initiative
Will-Power Social Ease
The Constructive Imagination
And a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Develop the Constructive
Imagination
Opportunities are made or they come by chance. It is literally
true that no one knows what each day will bring forth, and every
morning we all face a waking period of 16 or 17 hours in which
conjunctions of time and place will give us opportunities of making
our lives pleasanter and more fruitful, of showing courage and
resource.
A suitable combination of conditions is actually created by
those who have a strong purpose supported by initiative and power
of original thought. Chance opportunities result from circumstances
outside the control of the individual and are useful to those with
quickened perceptions, the faculty of prompt decision and the
ability to make those movements that bring them and the circum-
stances together.
If opportunity is round the corner and stays there We must go
round to meet it. If it comes round the corner to us We must
see it and seize it.
The qualities needed to make the most of opportunities are
not confined to any type or class; they are inherent in every man
and woman. That is why society is always in a state of flux, some
going up and others going down. The more important of these
qualities are observation and quick perception, initiative, concen-
tration, self-control, judgment, decision, self-confidence and a good
memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, places and useful
data of all kinds.
Pelmanism develops these qualities. Half an hour a day of
attention to Pelmanism for a few weeks creates in normal people
those habits of body, mind and will that attract opportunity and
make full use of it.
Write for a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post
free, and examine fully the claims and the evidence that
Pelmanism is a sound and speedy preparation for taking advantage
of the opportunities of each day as they come. Be amongst those
who enjoy work and effort, looking upon them not as a struggle for
existence but as a means to greater power and influence.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
mm
Sir Herbert Barker,
England’s Leading Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
‘lt is impossible to speak too highly of
Pelmanism.”
Extracts from letters written by a few
of hundreds who have recently prepared
to take advantage of opportunity: —
20th November, 1937.
“I have made definite progress. Have
been made Secretary of the Company with
a rise in salary.”
—Accountant (Queensland).
18th November, 1937.
“I have just turned 35 and feel with
confidence that I am in a strong position to
face the ever-existing struggle of life with
an eagerness and spirit for fight which 1
have never felt before.”
—Dentist (N. S. Wales).
Bth July, 1938.
“Pelmanism has completely changed my
mental outlook. I owe a debt of gratitude
to the Pelman Institute and to you
personally.”
—Electrician (N. S’. Wales).
4th July, 1938.
“I feel that this lesson (on Inferiority
Consciousness) has been of immense value
to me. I have completely changed my
whole outlook on life.”
—Engineer (Victoria).
20th December, 1937.
“I see and perceive things I never saw
or perceived before. My mental capacity is
greater than it was before my serious ill-
ness. My whole life and work is a pleasure.”
—Civil Servant (Tasmania).
3rd July, 1938.
“Self-confidence, a lively interest and an
‘I can’ state of mind have enabled me tt
produce tennis form that has surprised my-
self. The credit is due entirely to Pelmanism.”
—Public Servant (A.C.T.).
2nd December, 1937.
“This was the first public occasion on
which I had spoken. I went with the fixed
intention of making a success, and I am
(leased to say that I succeeded beyond ex-
pectation.”
—Police Officer (Victoria).
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
89
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SS
,(firs'
o*
<s»<S
o°
x&
; cfi &
** e
fpwy'
\\ & A
/
*m s ’
o*
VV' vsS
0
o*' \0
9Xp
AUSTRA-LiAkM
WOMANS MIRROR c
KNITTING BOOK FOR 1939
Over 20 exclusive and useful gar-
ments in this 36-page Knitting
Book—the cheapest and
best in Australia.
NOW
READY


- “LYSAGHTS” -
100% Australian Made From Australian Material 100%
Ou /' Name is a Guarantee that you get
only the Best Article
WIRE NETTING
RABBIT PROOF
MARSUPIAL
DOG )
SHEEP f
.
with Centre Strand
desired.
POULTRY
BIRD
i
ors
PROOF
MC.TftAOf
WIRE
(All Gauges 00 to 30)
FENCING WIRE
Black and Galvanised (all Gauges)
Ordinary, Soft and High Tensile
BALING WIRE
Black, Galvanised and Self-colored.
TINMAN’S WIRE
Soft and Hard.
NAIL WIRE
WIRE for MANUFACTUR-
ING PURPOSES
Soft and Hard of all descriptions.
ER
Look for our
m
..VMOIm
12, 13 and 14 Gauge.
Length per cwt.:
460 yards to 670 yards.
BAR
Length per cwt.s
620 yards to 930 yards.
"SPECIAL"
••SPECIAL" (Long Distance).
WIRE
NAILS
ALSO CLOUTS
STAPLES, BRADS,
PANEL PINS AND
SLATERS' NAILS.
m
Bp?
,** J#< t* V {#**%!. * XAai
~, j/ n-^ <<'«>'• X -^ft?
V
fern
«a«
w < : : im/m
' I' >; ■ *3NsI 4
•■sa.
E <eTOS&uS&B
'S, ”*>.J
•>■< *>■
aerial view of the works.
ZINC
OXIDE
ALL GRADES USED
FOR MANUFACTURE
OF RUBBER. PAINTS,
ETC.
Our Netting and other products are known throughout the Commonwealth as of the highest standard,
and are obtainable from all the leading Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. PTY. LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS
17-19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. WORKS: PARRAMATTA RIVER
