

The
Metropolitan Building,
Cor. Hunter & Bligh Sts.,
Sydney.
—
■
:
■
:
>*#&
*
,:m
3Sii:
■
wm
*s
ipm'r
II
m.
■* .a
Payments to
Policyholders
Exceed
£1,497,000.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian Metropolitan is one of the old-
established Life Offices. It has over 40 years of faithful service to the public
behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and sympathetic treatment of
policyholders.
Income in 1938 was £368,641/4/4
At the end of 1 938 the Assets were made up as follows:
ASSURANCE FUNDS at 31/12/’3B, £1,759,527.
DIRECTORS: DR. A. MURRAY WILL (Chairman), W. A. H. ALLWORTH, D. F. STEWART, COL. A. SPAIN, J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. ACTUARY: W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES—Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: 22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
The Bulletin
Hitler and Czechoslovakia — “Uncabled Additions (Page 28)
VoL 60.—N0. 3086.
Wednesday, April 5, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. ft PM OK
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
JLSO©
Intending competitors for the Fifth (1939)
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize have only nine
weeks to June 6, the closing date.
If the number of inquiries that are daily
being dealt with is any guide, this year’s prize
should see record entries. There is £3OO await-
ing the winner, and the prize is open to any
prose work —fiction, biography, autobiography,
history, etc.
Authors will assist if they will forward
entries as soon as they are ready and not wait
until the last few days. The earlier MSS. are
forwarded the earlier the judges will be able to
announce their decision.
sraii
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney JJUWEtik.
My Name
My Address
5.13. 239 ..
The Red Page
POWYS AND THE GIANTS.
The strange thing about Rabelais, Milton and
Mr. John Cowper Powys is that all three of them,
tuning-in to a tuft of grass waving on a ruined wall,
a piece of mud in a Dorset pigsty or a cow ecstati-
cally twitching its tail as it munched a Dorset turnip,
would receive exactly the same indescribable intima-
tions of immortality. The phenomenon, noted at
length by Powys in The Pleasures of Literature
(Cassell, per Angus and Robertson), a series of essays
on the great masters of prose and verse, becomes the
more remarkable when Homer and Saint Paul,
Dickens and Goethe are all discovered to be imbued
in varying degrees with the Powysian philosophy.
Powys says, truly enough, that the pleasure of
literature is what one “gets out” of it. But what he
has got out of it is simply what he put into it. In
effect, not satisfied with The Glastonbury Romance,
Wolf Solent and half a dozen other novels all about
himself, a book of philosophy all about himself,
and a further admitted autobiography, he has
now, under the pretence of writing about litera-
ture, written another autobiography. All critics do
much the same thing; Eliot, investigating Tourneur,
discovers to his amazement how very much in ac-
cordance with Eliot’s critical canons is the best of
Tourneur. All readers do much the same thing;
Hemingway is a good writer or a bad writer because
one brings to him a liking or a distaste for the atmo-
sphere of the public bar.
That is not the whole story, but Marianne Moore
was near enough to the truth when she suggested that
only a steam-roller was capable of “impersonal judg-
ment in matters of aesthetic sensibility.” If Eliot can
be credited with an impersonal appreciation of style,
and if the shockable reader can find under the mud
of Hemingway the metal of good narrative, Powys,
at any rate, is too deliberately and fantastically Powys
even to attempt impersonality. The giants upon
whom he foists his wild pantheistic metaphysics are
giants, however, and The Pleasures of Literature does
the very good service of recalling attention to the
writers in whose works the greatest pleasures can
be found.
There are essays on the Bible as literature, on
Saint Paul, Homer, Dostoievsky, Rabelais, Dickens,
the Greek tragedians, Dante, Shakspeare, Montaigne,
Milton, Matthew Arnold, Walt Whitman, Cervantes,
Nietzsche, Goethe, Wordsworth, Melville, Poe, Hardy
and Proust—a shining company. Vaguely linking
the essays is Powys’s search in each to prove that
“man’s redemption lies in the character of the indi-
vidual and not in mechanised efficiency.”
He might have connected them more interestingly
if he had analysed and built a theory from the bore-
doms he so engagingly confesses. Nobody bothers
to deny that a great deal of Wordsworth is as inter-
minably dull as a wet Sunday; Powys castigates
Montaigne for his innumerable quotations and anec-
dotes and says gallantly of Proust, “it entails, if the
style is to represent the dissolving horizons into which
the ripples of psychic-sensuous events vanish, a cer-
tain stretching out of sentences and paragraphs, yes!
and even of pages, to a length before which all but
inveterate Proustians are forced to cry, ‘Hold,
enough! ’ ” Even of some of Panurge’s doings—“ ‘We
are not amused,’ as Queen Victoria would say, by
'these saucy games.”
Powys could have discovered from his boredoms
that the people who tire him are the people who have
only one thing to say and only one way in which to
say it; their persistence in saying it, the very bulk
of their work, is part of their genius, but they make
the reader toil for his pleasure. When Wordsworth
has nothing to say but “I am Mr. Wordsworth out
for a walk again,” when Rabelais can only repeat
“Life is bellowing good fun,” when Proust and
Dorothy Richardson discover for the thousandth
time that life has moments of inexplicable gleaming
tranquillity, they become tedious beside the Shak-
speares and the Joyces who have a score of tunes to
play.
Shakspeare speaks with so many voices that
Powys has great difficulty in finding either a Shak-
spearean or a Powysian philosophy in the plays. First
by cocking an eye at “floating straws and bubbles,
foam-wisps and revolving eddies on the tide” he
makes him Powysian, with a tremendous belief in
nothing in particular and Something in general; then
he beats about the bush—“with an originality that
is the more startling the more you realise what it
means, he does catch the common tone, the universal
mingling of superstition with agnosticism, which is
the average man’s instinctive response to the mystery
of the universe” ; then he sums up in a neat but de-
spairing phrase—Shakspeare’s “abnormal normality.”
The Bible, considered as literature, shares with
Shakspeare’s plays and sonnets the distinction of un-
flagging interest. If it could be summarised to the
repetition of one profundity, the statement is made
in a hundred different ways. Powys writes excellently
on it and shows fine taste in quotation:
And Job spake and said, Let the day perish
wherein I was born, and the night in which it was
said, There is a man-child conceived. Let that day
be darkness; let God not regard it from above,
neither let the light shine upon it. Let darkness and
the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell upon
it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.... Lo, let
that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come there-
in....
The Pleasures of Reading, indeed, is a galaxy of
brilliant quotations. Here is something out of the
way from the American poet, Edgar Lee Masters:
Work is, but folded hands need work not;
Nothing to say is for dumb tongues.
The rolling earth rolls on and on
With trees and stones and winding streams —
My dream is what the hillside dreams.
Then from Homer:
Thrice I sprang towards her, and my heart bade
me clasp her, and thrice she flitted from my arms like
a shadow or a dream, and pain grew ever sharper at
my heart My mother, why dost thou not stay for
me, who am eager to clasp thee, that ever in the house
of Hades we two may cast our arms each about the
other, and take our fill of chill lamenting?
Euripides’ Medea, proclaiming the wrongs of women:
For the man, when the home-yoke galls his neck,
Goes forth, to ease a weary sickened heart
By turning to some friend, some kindred soul;
But we to one heart alone can look for comfort.
But we, say they, live an imperilled life
At home, while they do battle with the spear—
Unreasoning fools! Thrice would I under shield
Stand, rather than bear childbirth-peril once.
Quotations from Dante, from Montaigne ; Milton
like banners in the sky, and the fine precision of
Matthew Arnold ; mere snippets from the exuberant
Whitman, compensated for by the intense sympathy
and thorough knowledge with which Powys writes
of him; Poe on the “dank tarn of Auber” ; whole
pages of Nietzsche, capped with the wise remark,
“Thus spake Zarathustra —to himself! ” ; exactly the
right quotation from Proust, showing him making the
eating of a piece of cake an event of cosmic import-
ance :
And soon mechanically, weary after a dull day
with the prospect of a depressing to-morrow, I raised
to my lips a spoonful of the tea in which I had soaked
a morsel of the cake.
No sooner had the warm liquid, and the crumbs
with it, touched my palate than a shudder ran through
my whole body, and I stopped, intent on the extra-
ordinary changes that were taking place. An exquisite
pleasure had invaded my senses, but individual, de-
tached, with no suggestion of its origin.
It was acute perception on the part of Powys to
relate Proust’s evocations to the closing lines of
Keats’s “Ode to Autumn”; Proust isolates the trivial
moment in an enchanted calm, just as Keats isolated
his gnats, “Borne aloft or sinking as the light wind
lives or dies.” Powys writes with great understand-
ing of Hardy, too ; he knew him well, and they were
fairly close neighbors in the Dorset countryside. The
flashes of insight, the quotations, and the contacts
with the giants of prose and verse make The Pleasures
of Literature worth while, and if Powys does bound
about the pages looking for a hobgoblin in a hollow
stump a bit too often, at least he conveys the impres-
sion that there might be something there. Or even
Something.
Talking About Saroyan....
The typist, the policeman, the old geezer and
Alice-in-Wonderland composed themselves to listen
to a few opening remarks.
The subject of discussion, the reviewer said, is
The Trouble with Tigers, written by William Saroyan
in thirty-five spasms ranging from a dozen pages to
a page and a bit, and published by Faber as a volume
of short stories. The title seems to refer to difficulties
that ensue when once the feelings have escaped from
control, also to the generally untoward character of
fate.
This is most clearly exemplified in two rather
shopworn themes, one about the nice young boy
who falls idealistically in love with a woman old
enough to be his mother, and the other about the
young clerk caged in an office on the first day of
summer. For the rest the book seems to be a cryptic
comment on a world of which Mr. Saroyan dis-
approves. I confess I find remarkable the remarkable
way he seems so pointedly to conceal the point of so
many of his many stories, and the strange things he
has to do to do so —as he himself might say.
I thought the one about the young college
graduate whose father was divorcing his mother very
touching, the typist said. And I think I understand
how the friendship of those two unemployed boys
had to come to an end when one of them got a job.
Quite, the reviewer said. But what about “O K
Baby,” “This Is the World” and several others of like
kind? I couldn’t make out whether I was supposed
to be reading a story, watching an abstruse game of
charades or trying to decipher a message in code from
Bedlam.
I don’t think Philistinism will assist us in our
inquiry, the policeman said. I gathered from the
stories you refer to thatlMr. Saroyan found himself
bewildered by the riddle if life and passed his impres-
sion on to the reader by bewildering him in turn.
An experiment in the use of literature as a plastic art,
I should say.
Granted that you interpret his intention correctly,
the reviewer said, and also that passing the buck is
fair tactics as between writer and reader, what are
we to think of such slight efforts as “A Clear Warm
Day,” “The Way to Be Alive” or “The World”?
Mere glimpses, as you might say, without beginning
or end.
In these days any snippity bit seems to pass muster
as a story, the old geezer said. It almost seems as if
the new rules are to have as little story to tell as pos-
sible. I don’t call ’em stories at all!
That’s all very well, the policeman said, but what
is a story? Do they come by the yard or by the
pound? If Mr. Saroyan takes a walk round the block
and comes back and tells about it interestingly, is not
that a story? If he rises in the dead of night—as he
appears to have done on several occasions—and jots
down whatever rises from his subconscious, has he
not told a story? Is the material of art to be arbitrarily
delimited?
Just the same, the typist said, I think the reviewer
has something on his side. I must say I thought such
items as “On Malibu Bay,” where Saroyan gives an
account of a day’s fishing, and “The Dale Carnegie
Friend” were just comic skits, suitable for the silly
page of a newspaper but hardly for inclusion in a
book of short stories. I appreciate the force of his
social comment, of course, in “Scenario for Karl
Marx,” items like “Woof, Woof,” “The Legend-
Makers” and “Everything”— at least, to the extent that
I can make out what he is driving at —but I do think
that latterly he has come to place too much faith in
an idiosyncratic manner to the neglect of narrative
content and clarity of statement.
Nonsense, the policeman said. Your words merely
show that you have failed to keep abreast with cur-
rent trends. If an artist finds the modern babel unin-
telligible I see no reason why he shouldn’t print a
meaningless title above a page of gibberish; and, as
for brevity, I shouldn’t miss the point if a book of
modern short stories contained one that was simply
a title above a blank page ; I should merely conclude
that the writer had nothing to say on that subject.
No preconceived notions on the part of readers must
be allowed to impede the development of art.
Hush, the reviewer said. Here comes a bloke
you all should meet. He is the leader of a literary
movement that is pressing for a return to first prin-
ciples. They hold as a primary requisite that a story-
teller shall have a story to tell. Their slogan is, The
Yarn’s the Thing. I don’t know this bloke’s real
name, but his pen-name is Art. B. Blowed.
How interesting, the typist said.
Hip, hip hurrah! the old geezer said.
Shan’t allow the blighter on my beat, the police-
man said.
Dear me! Alice-in-Wonderland said.
So That Was England.
That Margaret Halsey’s With Malice Towards
Some (Haniish Hamilton) has become a best-seller in
England shows a native ability to ignore having the
“hand across the sea” sharply bitten. The malice
comes from America.
Margaret’s husband, Henry, belonged to the teach-
ing profession in New York, and effected an exchange
with Mr. Primrose of a small college in Exeter. He
took his bride on her first visit abroad, and for a
year they lived in Yoebridge, a suburb of Exeter,
taking tea with the faculty, observing the habits of
the local gentry and making occasional excursions
of refreshment into the great world of London, Stock-
holm and Paris. It wasn’t at all a pleasant experience,
and the diary now published probably saved the lady’s
life in its capacity as a safety valve.
It is a record mostly of trifles, and it is devastat-
ingly bright. Yoebridge is the sort of place “where
the conversation seldom gets above the vicar’s cough
and never gets below it.” Liverpool on Sunday has
“the air of a person suffering from acute biliousness,
complicated by multiple bereavements”; while listen-
ing to the conversation of Britons dining out “is like
watching people play first-class tennis with imaginary
balls.” The English idea of a well-turned-out woman
“is something resembling a Biblical character in a
charade.” Englishwomen’s shoes look “as if the}
had been made by someone who had often heard
o Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
7he Kim
“ADANA”
PRINTING MACHINE
MODEL NUMBER 2
■HMfi
ZESEZ'
mini.
m
A Complete Printing
Plant lor only £11:11:0
• 'BACK VIEW OF "THE ADANA
FOUR BED
ADJUSTING
SCREWS
v'-v---,
FIGURE 1,
REMOVABLE
TYPE BED
/
GRIPPER
FINGER
ASSEMBLY
STEEL MDftf.
ROLLER
REVOLVING
INK PLATE
FIGURE 2.
WSmaNLn
i
I platen' "“t;
WITH *
ADJUSTABLE
LAY GUAGE
• Stationery—Second Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
Do your own printing with this handy, compact, new "Adana print-
ing machine, type area Suits printing for Office, Factory,
School, Club, Church, Small Traders, etc. Ideal for beginners or
experienced users. Simple, easy to operate, fully automatic, produces
high class letterpress printing, and possesses endless money-making
possibilities.
Type and Accessories include two founts of type with spaces, approx-
imately 750 characters; two Type Cases; Chase with Locking-up
Screws; complete lay-out of Wood Spacing; two Padding Cards; set
of Brass Rules; Hand Roller; Galley; Steel Composing Stick; Tweez-
ers; Red and Black Ink; Gauge Pins; Padding Clips; illustrated
Instruction Book.
Write for full details and samples of work actually printed on the No.
2 ADANA.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' (Sole Agents in N.S.W.) £ll/11/-
EASY TERMS ARRANGED: Deposit 23/-. 12 Monthly Payments of 18/2
For those who require a larger machine we recommend MODEL
No. 3A, Quarto Size, Hand Operated Press. Inside Chase measure-
ment, 10x7£ins. Price Machine only.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' (Sole Agents in N.S.W.) £lB/10/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit 37/-. 12 Monthly Payments of 29/2.
FIGURE 1: You will notice the sturdy construction of all working
parts. The Ink Plate is rotated by means of a ratchet drive affixed to
the main frame. Part of the adjustable lay gauge is clearly visible,
together with one of the slots cut in the Platen by means of which
the gauge is raised or lowered. Note particularly the four Bed
Adjusting Screws which adjust impressions quickly and accurately.
FIGURE 2: The polished steel Rider Roller between the two Compo-
sition Inking Rollers can clearly be seen in this illustration. Note also
the sturdy construction of the heavily ribbed Platen and the Toggle
or knee-action joint which connects the handle to the Platen. In
operation the Toggle gives its maximum pressure on impression
with the least exertion on the part of the user.
Anthony Horderns’
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE M 2401,
DAY AND NIGHT.


THE
CAT
AND THE
MOON
By H. C. McKay
-Of trouble with time, the moon, daylight,
floods, earthquakes, Weights, volcanoes and
railways.
And Unk White’s Impression
ROWEN CARPELL, waiting in the little corner
pharmacy, grumbled impatiently. “You said
you’d have those crystals I ordered by five.
How much longer will I have to hang around
here?”
Bryan, the elderly chemist, answered apolo-
getically. “It’s On my afternoon order from the ware-
house. I don’t usually stock that type of material.
Hullo, here it is now.”
The delivery-truck drew up with a screech of
brakes. The driver stumped in with the usual open
wooden case crammed with packages and bottles. He
dumped it on the floor, wedged the invoice between
two winchester quarts and departed.
“Dammit, he might have left it in the dispensary,”
said Bryan. He seized the case angrily, but it was
heavy and beyond his strength to lift. With a smile
Carpell waved him aside, easily swung up the case
on his shoulder, and, following Bryan’s directions,
carried it through the swing door and laid it on the
dispensary bench.
“You’ve got strength, young fellow,” commented
the older man with a touch of regretful envy.
“Oh, not so dusty,” said Carpell with a grin.
“Did it ever occur to you,” went on Bryan, “that
if the earth’s gravity were a trifle less, say half, even
chaps like me would be strong men and able to heft
that case with one hand?”
“No, it didn’t,” replied Carpell impatiently. “And,
say, hand over that half-pound of lithium tartrate
crystals. I want to try out their effect in a new type
of loudspeaker.”
“You’re a radio experimenter?” cried the little
man eagerly.
“Yes. It’s my hobby. Wouldn’t be up in this
God-forsaken dump otherwise —want to be clear of
city interference. That packet —thanks. Just add it to
my account. Good night!”
But Bryan had rushed after him and grabbed
his arm. “Wait, wait!” he gasped. “You’re th,e very
man I’ve been looking for! ”
In that simple way started all the subsequent
trouble with time, the moon, daylight, floods, earth-
quakes, weights, volcanoes, wages, railways and Mrs.
Gadberry’s cat.
Hr HE Gadberrys lived in this extremely-outer suburb
* of Sydney for financial reasons. Gadberry, clerk
m a trade-coupon company, had married, bdught a
North Shore bungalow on terms, hung the usual mort-
gage on it, let it and moved to Chichestervale to save
money. There were no children ; the Gadberrys’ life-
dream was a liner-cruise on their savings before
arthritis and the old-age pension overtook them. They
lived in a little cottage, sole other inhabitant a large
cat, outwardly respectable, but suspected of chicken-
butchery by exasperated neighbors.
It was about three weeks after a fleet of motor-
trucks had landed a mixed lot of heavy gear at Rowen
Carpell’s place that Mrs. Gadberry called her husband
one night to see the queer light in the western sky.
“Bushfire somewhere,” muttered Gadberry, and went
back to his nightly job of constructing an Oriental
table from used safety-matches.
But next day the papers were full of the re-
markable aurora visible in the city and suburbs. It
was the first of a nightly series, and puzzled
astronomers because, instead of appearing in the south,
it was confined to a patch of western sky. The average
citizen did not worry about it; scientists were full of
big words and contradictory theories anyway.
But from the time these lights in the sky appeared
a growing exasperation and bewilderment spread
among observatory staffs throughout the world. Time
is checked by the apparent motion of the stars (due
to the earth’s rotation), but the stars seemed to have
gone crazy on their timekeeping job. “Confound it,”
muttered Nangett at the Sydney transit telescope,
“here’s Fomalhaut three seconds early; our clock
can’t have lost that —it hasn’t dropped a tenth of a
second in thirty years! ” Still, the evidence was there;
the master clock, in common with all timepieces over
the world, was running slower and slower each day.
Soon this lagging of clocks began to affect the
everyday life of the world. In Sydney, for instance, the
official clocks electrically checked by the Observatory
began to gallop away from ordinary clocks and
watches. Citizens would adjust their watches to G.P.O.
or railway time, only to find the watches slow by ten
minutes or so next day. This first confusion was
quickly supplanted by a far worse trouble. Trains,
trams and ferries could not keep to timetables. Even
if they speeded up, their journeys took longer. Time
seemed to be contracting, to be somehow cut short
or squeezed in.
The Gadberrys, like everybody else, were quickly
involved in this confusion. Gadberry got into trouble
with his boss for arriving late, and for being unable to
get through a normal day’s work in the shortening
time. This reacted on his temper ; he snapped at his
wife, who nagged back. Both were suffering from
lack of sleep owing to the abbreviating nights, but did
not know it. Then came the battle royal over Tibby
the cat.
Gadberry came home one evening (twenty
minutes late) to find the sun had set (an hour too
early), and he was forced to find his way through
Chichestervale’s primitive streets in the dark. Leav-
ing the station he was hailed by a man whom he
recognised as Rowen Carpell, the wealthy chap who
owned the big house and private dairy farm up on
the hill. The Gadberrys had tried to insinuate them-
selves into Carpell’s attention, but he ignored them
as he did the other locals; in fact, the only person
he took any notice of (to the bewilderment of local
gossip) was Bryan the chemist.
“Your name Gadberry?” demanded Carpell
abruptly.
“Yes, yes, Mr. Carpell; that is my
name! ” eagerly purred Gadberry, sidling up.
“Well, keep that damned cat of yours
out of my fowl-runs, or I’ll blow him to
pieces with a shotgun. G’night!”
The natural result of this was a wordy
battle between the Gadberrys ; Tibby got a
kick in the ribs from Gadberry, Gadberry
a plate broken over his skull, the marital
pair retired to rest at opposite ends of the
cottage, and Tibby, cast out, raided Car-
pell’s and was narrowly missed by Carpell’s
rouseabout, on guard with an ancient army
revolver.
But any resolve to maintain a muted
quarrel next day vanished when the Gad-
berrys, in common with the rest of the
world, read the amazing announcement in
the morning papers. Astronomers had
traced the true source of the time confu-
sion ; the earth was beginning to rotate
faster on its axis, shortening the length of
the day. Already the day had shrunk to
twenty hours. A consultation of astronomers
with Governments had resulted in a de-
cision to ignore the earth’s rotation as a
measure of time. The world’s work and
play were henceforth to be regulated by an
artificial twenty-four-hour day, based on
radio signals from the electric clock at
Greenwich Observatory, which was known
to have less than one-hundredth-of-a-second
error in a year.
The big civilised populations soon
adapted themselves to the new system. Day-
light ceased to be a measure of a day’s
work. Days were regulated by master
clocks scattered about the cities, towns and
country districts. Citizens went to bed at
sunrise, noon, sunset or midnight as the new
time ordered, and made the best of it.
There were dissenters ; obstinate people
who tried to live by the old day (measured
by daylight) and failed, and Reds, who


led an agitation for extra pay for “night work.” These
latter also spread the rumor that employers, in league
with Greenwich, were forcing unsuspecting employees
to work a thirty-hour day.
Nobody among the scientists could offer a
rational explanation of the earth’s increasing whirl;
but up at Rowen Carpell’s Chichestervale laboratory
there were two amateur experimenters who could have
enlightened them.
“\ I/HAT’S she doing now?” asked Bryan, stand-
'' * ing beside the giant transmitting apparatus.
“The earth’s revolving at double speed ; twelve
hours to a day,” replied Carpell. “We’ve whooped the
old girl up to 2000 miles an hour!”
“You see I was right,” said the little chemist.
“Shoot a radio beam due west at a low angle, impose
an atomic-power wave on this carrier-beam, and the
combined beam, rebounding (as all radio beams do)
from the ionised layers in the upper atmosphere, re-
turns to the earth with a kick that sets the planet
revolving on its west-to-east spin faster and faster
all the time.”
“Well, we’ve had great old fun with this hurry-
up stunt,” said Carpell. “See how we’ve boxed the
scientists! I’m having the time of my life.”
“Yes, yes,” replied Bryan impatiently. “It’s just
sport to you ; but for me it’s serious. How soon now
do you think the weight of everything will diminish
owing to increased centrifrugal force? I’m longing for
the time when I can become a strong man —lift loco-
motives, leap over houses, like they do in scientific
romances. It’s been the dream of my life!”
“Nothing like that’s evident so far. But why
worry? We’re having fun enough. Say, there’s the
full moon coming up east; you can see the darned
thing actually climbing the sky! ”
J UST down the hill at Gadberry’s cottage that same
moon was causing trouble. As it rose a prolonged
wail sounded over the landscape.
“Where’s that confounded cat?” shouted Gad-
berry angrily, pausing over inlaying his matches on
the Oriental table-top.
“ ’Tisn’t Tibby; it’s dogs howling,” replied his
wife from the back verandah. “And I don’t blame
them. The moon’s gone wrong somehow; it’s all
bloated, twice the size. I can see a sort of lacework
on it. Come out, Henry, and see.”
“Stuff and nonsense, it always looks big, rising.
Bah! There, you’ve made me muck up my design!
Keep your silly remarks to yourself!” fumed Gad-
berry.
Other people had noticed that monster full moon ;
and at half-past eight next morning an extraordinary
high tide swept up Sydney Harbor, disorganising the
rush-hour ferry trips. The water overlapped the
wharves. Loading on liners and cargo boats was
brought to a standstill till the tide ebbed. The
worried citizens now had a new marvel to talk about.
That, afternoon the second daily tide arrived, and this
time surged over the wharves on to the land. A shal-
low lake extended up to the Customs House on
Circular Quay. Low-lying beaches were flooded, and
the water seeped into houses on the banks of the
harbor, the Lane Cove and Parramatta rivers.
The moon rose, terrifying, enormous, that night;
a huge scarred hull just past the full, and on the
“bitten-out” edge a fretwork of crater and mountain
plainly visible to the naked eye.
“See here, Bryan, old sport,” said Rowen Carpell
to his fellow-conspirator, “our joke’s gone far enough.
We’ve started something we never expected, We’ll
have to stop.”
“I don’t see why,” stubbornly said the chemist.
“Just a bit more speeding-up, and we’ll get that loss
of weight in objects I’m waiting for.”
“We won’t. I’ve been getting the office from old
Shenstone, a pal of mine, formerly Physics Prof, at
the University. He says centrifugal force is a weak
thing compared with gravity, and to level them up the
earth’s spin would need to be increased 300 times.
Even to diminish gravity-effect by half —to halve the
weights of everything—the earth would have to spin
at 144,000 miles an hour, and the day be shortened
to ten minutes.”
“Let’s do it,” doggedly repeated Bryan.
“But, you idiot, there’s this moon business! Shen-
stone told me that the earth-moon system’s so fixed
that if you increase the earth’s momentum you
diminish the moon’s. In plain words, increase the
earth’s spin and the moon’s orbit shrinks.”
“Who cares?”
“You, I, everyone! Why, you crazy idiot, the
moon will come back to the earth —it’s on its way
now! That means tides 650 feet high at last, the
moon torn to pieces at 10,000 miles, the earth buried
miles deep under millions of tons of rocky moon-
fragments, and a belt of tiny satellites, like Saturn’s,
round our battered planet. All life would be wiped
out of existence. I’ve had enough of this joke. It’s
become a serious matter. I’m switching off the power
now.”
He turned to the transmitter. Bryan, a fanatic
gleam in his eye, picked up a spanner. A few minutes
later, stunned, gagged and trussed up. Rowen Carpell
lay in a locked storeroom. The power-ray kept on
flashing forward and back from the “wireless mirror”
in the western sky. The earth’s spin accelerated. The
vast bulk of the scarred and pitted moon swept
swiftly to the zenith, dragging behind it a trail of
tides.
ADBERRY sat fuming in his cottage. That day
everything had gone wrong. He’d been late for
work because the underground railway and Pitt-
street were flooded. There was a food crisis, because
railways and shipping were disorganised. A financial
panic, with a run on the banks, followed the steady
approach of the moon. A frantic trek to the moun-
tains was setting in, and the road to Katoomba was
blocked with motor-cars. The manager of the trade-
coupon company had decided to close the office,
and took the opportunity to sack all fairly-well-paid
employees (including Gadberry), using the crisis as
excuse. Gadberry had got home on a train forced
to crawl at snail’s pace because at any speed it be-
gan to skid and lift on the rails. Bryan’s long-awaited
weight-loss was beginning to set-in at last.
Gadberry found nothing to eat at home except
some tinned peaches. And Mrs. Gadberry was in
tears. Tibby was missing. “It’s my belief,” sobbed
Mrs. Gadberry, “poor Tib’s been made away with.
That brute Carpell up on the hill threatened to do
it. You d go up there and see about it if you were
anything of a man!”
Glad of any diversion the embittered Gadberry
set off. So numbed with misery was he that he
scarcely noticed the eerie change in the world about
him. Down in the valley a flood of advancing water
swirled ; on the horizon a volcanic cone had pushed
up, spouting flame-lit steam ; the ground beneath him
quivered ; and overhead, filling a third of the sky,
lay the sinister hulk of the moon riddled with range,
rill, crater and plain—the streaks of Tycho, the long
barrier of the Apennines, the glassy level of the Lake
of Dreams. Nor did he notice the ease with which he
climbed the hill to Carpell’s, going with long strides
that were practically leaps. When he arrived and
asked for Carpell, scared servants directed him to the
laboratory. “Bryan the chemist’s there ; he seems
to have gone crazy. He ran about shouting ‘The
power-ray’s been cut off!’ and fell over in a fit. We
can’t find Mr. Carpell anywhere.”
But Gadberry, joining in the search, eventually
found Carpell, trussed and moaning in the store-
room. He was released, and with Gadberry rushed
to the laboratory. Bryan lay unconscious beside the
transmitter ; there was a strong odor of burning hair
and flesh. Carpell switched off the current and in-
vestigated. At the transmitting terminal, wedged be-
tween a metal plate and the frame, he found the dead
body of Mrs. Gadberry’s cat. The unfortunate Tibby
had evidently squeezed a way in through a slightly-
opened window and, prowling round the trans-
mitter, fouled and short-circuited the current. He had
been killed instantly, and then slowly baked by high-
frequency radio waves afterwards,
Gadberry, still mentally numbed, removed the
corpse and gave Carpell a hand to swing round the
apparatus to face due east. The current was again
switched on. The power-ray, reflected to the earth,
now opposed its axial motion, acting as a brake.
From that moment the earth’s speed began to de-
crease,
'"F HE braking effect was soon evident. In a few days
I the earth’s axial speed was back to its normal
thousand miles per hour. The twenty-four-hour day
returned, the moon’s orbit expanded, the moon swung
out, the tides fell, the ’quakes ceased, the volcanoes
became cold and dead. The life and work of the world
resumed their normal rhythm.
Except at Chichestervale. Bryan, suffering
nervous breakdown and loss of memory, sold his
pharmacy and vanished. Carpell got rid of his radio
gear and house, and went big-game shooting in Africa,
Gadberry got his job back on reduced salary. He
had had an unpleasant half-hour when he returned
home and handed over to his wife the baked and
blackened corpse of her pet. Mrs. Gadberry never
forgave Carpell the tragedy, insisting that he had
maliciously killed the cat with a special electrical
death-ray. She buried Tibby in a corner of the garden
and erected a miniature tombstone over the spot, in-
scribed “Tibby. He Was a Marvel.”
And, in a sense never appreciated by Mrs. Gad-
berry or the world at large, he indeed was. In life a
marauder, in death he had checked volcanoes and
tides, and halted the approaching moon in the sky.
He was the Cat That Saved the World.
MATTRESSES
BY
LES ROBINSON
VOU may think, when you borrow, find, are
given, buy or in any other way have acquired
a mattress, that it is now yours. You are likely
to find, however, especially if it is a second-
hand one and stuffed with flock, that you, on the
contrary, belong to it—its industrious, indefatigable
and willing, or otherwise, servitor.
The supreme nuisance of flock is, as its name
suggests, an undefeatable tendency to flocking or
travelling in shoals. Once it escapes from those but-
toned areas or compartments into which, when the
mattress is made, it is neatly and evenly packed and
distributed—said liberation nearly always being caused
by the buttons coming off—the flock sets out on cease-
less longitudinal and lateral peregrinations that result
almost invariably, like drifting sand, in the forma-
tion now of undulations, now of isolated hummocks,
now of lumps, hunks, hillocks, plateaus and peaks.
Early in the evening your head is resting perhaps
on a hillock, your feet dangling over, or parked in,
an abyss. Long before morning you wake to find
that, owing to massed and, as it were, a kind of tidal
flocking, your head is well down at the bottom of
a valley and your feet resting, if it could truthfully
be termed so, on a ridge, plateau, escarpment or alp.
If you then oi at any other time become rough on,
or with, the mattress, if you get up, say, and give it
a savage and, in your opinion, richly-deserved pum-
melling, it will get even with you by becoming uneven,
if you know what I mean.
Once it decides that you are a person with whom
no self-respecting mattress could remain on friendly
terms and decides as well, since you have incurred
its displeasure, to vent same upon you to the utter-
most, you will be constantly and disagreeably sur-
prised by its clever methods of exacting revenge,
Waiting, for instance, until you are comfortably
settled (as you think) for the night the flock will
stealthily and silently move sideways from under you
until it has formed a series or chain of hillocks all
along one side of the bed. These, with your aid, if
you are a restless sleeper, or without it, if you lie
still, always, the bed now having a pronounced list
to port or starboard, end by tipping the bedclothes
off and you too with them, unless you happen to
wake in the nick of time.
If the night is wet as well as cold and you have
placed a basin or a tub beside the bed to catch the
drips from a leak in the roof, which, for a wonder,
are falling just there instead of on to you, the bed-
clothes, when the basin or tub is full or nearly so,
will fall, you may be quite sure, though it will seem
a pity you didn’t realise that before, into it.
When at last it has become as sick of you as you
are annoyed by it—when it has decided, perhaps
because of old age setting in, to be no longer useful
if it can help it to you or anybody else—the mat-
tress inaugurates or ushers in what might be termed
an ill-will campaign. It does this slowly at first, but
finally in an overwhelming and most ruthless manner.
The first indication of its spiteful intentions is the
appearance in or under the bed of small quantities
of flock, which you discover, after a minute examina-
tion, have got there per medium of a small hole. You
sew that up. A little later another and much larger
rent, though you probably have no idea at all what
caused it, and, of course, more flock appear. You
sew up or patch. Then one morning when you are
doing something to the mattress—lifting it, folded,
off the bed perhaps—there is a rending sound as, to
your consternation, it bursts. Through a great gaping
hole heaps of flock in a torrent pour,
It is astonishing, incidentally, the number of
things besides flock, feathers or horsehair—though
how they get inside them is an insoluble mystery, ex-
cept perhaps to the makers— sdme mattresses contain.
From mine, when it commenced to be a nuisance
and began spilling its contents about the room,
emerged a spanner, a cotton-reel, several pins, needles,
toothpicks and screws, a piece of rope, a ball of
twine, a mummified mouse, the bowl of a pipe, a
pak-a-pu ticket, a cartridge-case—the one which con-
tained the bullet, doubtless, that slew the flock animal
—a bolt and nut, odd buttons, a bodkin, a boot-pro-
tector, a belt-buckle, a piece of chalk, a tobacco tag,
a bone stud, a seashell, some pumpkin seeds and a
Yale key.
After your exasperation has died down a little,
and by a superhuman effort you have conquered
the inclination to kick the now disembowelled mat-
tress, you spend hours patching it, the rest of your
spare time being taken up in collecting flock by the
shovelful and conveying it to the dustbin. Many
week-ends having been expended in futile, because
the mattress keeps on splitting in fresh places, repairs,
you decide, at last, to get rid of it.
You think, perhaps, that the best way of doing
so would be to burn it in the backyard, and some
Saturday, Sunday or public holiday you set about
this project. One of the neighbors, overwhelmed by
the dense clouds of smoke and the stench, is bound
to ring up the fire-brigade, which, if it hasn’t any-
thing in particular to do just then, will be quickly on
the spot. You will be curtly informed by the super-
intendent, while the brigade is extinguishing the blaze,
that you had no right whatever to light a bonfire in
the backyard, or anywhere in or adjacent to a resi-
dential area, without notification and, subsequent to
it, permission.
Or, perhaps, like me, you try to get rid of the
confounded thing by dumping it, in the dead of
night, over the cliffs and into the sea, only to dis-
cover next morning, and on successive mornings, that
it has been washed up on the beach. Observing
through binoculars or a telescope your repeated en-
deavors to see the last of it by dragging it back into
the ocean, some vigilant and officious person a
beach-inspector, a lighthouse-keeper, or a baths
attendant perhaps—is likely to inform the Depart-
ment of Public Health, the Harbor Trust or the
Board of Trade. You will then receive, on pink
paper, in an O.H.M.S. envelope of the same color,
a typewritten rebuke, more or less (probably more)
as follows:
Dear Sir,
Re your deliberate, unauthorised, premedi-
tated and persistent attempts to pollute the
Tasman at So-and-so beach. We beg to remind
you that garbage of any description must in
no circumstances whatever be jettisoned at less
than a distance from the foreshores, in an
easterly direction, of ten miles, the penalty for
infringement of this regulation being £lOO.
Kindly favor us with an explanation of your
extraordinary and reprehensible conduct at
your earliest convenience, giving reasons, if any,
why legal proceedings should not be instituted
against you. *


A True-to-life Sketch
GENTS
Is.6d.,
LADIES
Is.
By A.C. Healley
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
IT was hot; she could feel the perspiration beneath
her thin frock, the moist, uncomfortable feel of
her face. The dim lights made her feel hotter than
ever. The orchestra swept into a fast number, the
players, with handkerchiefs tucked into their collars,
red faced, straining with the music. A trumpet took
it up suddenly, and they seemed to droop, hanging
on their seats, breathing as though all the air had
gone and had to be recalled from some far place.
At the back the girl crooner, her bottom lip ex-
tended, was blowing air back at her face. Around the
dance floor a hundred couples swayed. She could have
danced, but she was tired, and her feet were beginning
to ache.
The crooner came forward and took a chorus,
shaking stupidly. It was about “If you met some-
body, goodie, goodie.” Then she was through, and
the orchestra came in, jerking away ecstatically. There
was something in it that caught her up, made her
want to dance, to forget everything but setting her
feet to the rhythm. But the dance was almost over.
Quickstep—slow—quick. This was the final quickstep
of the bracket. “And I hope you’re satisfied, you
rascal, you.”
It was finished now, and the hall seemed fuller
than ever of people moving back to their places.
Handkerchiefs fluttered to bring relief from the moist
heat. Boys dabbed their faces and wiped at the back
of their heads.
The hall was filled with talk, sharp and excited.
She felt suddenly alone. At .the end of the hall the
boys, as usual, had clustered in a tremendous crowd.
She had never come to a dance with a boy, simply
because none had offered to take her. There was
something that powder and rouge could not change.
She was ugly. She knew it. Sometimes, though, she
went home with a boy. Usually it was Eileen’s doing.
She could see Eileen now, through the crowd,
talking to a couple of boys. Eileen was popular, there
was no doubt of it. “But I’m here with a girl friend,”
and they went off to fix it up, and the four of them
walked home together. They were always willing to
fix up someone for Eileen’s girl friend.
In corners couples were sitting detached from
the crowd. They were the strangers in a gathering
where everybody knew everybody. They did not come
often, and usually they were bad dancers. They sat
away from the rest, always looking nervous and self-
conscious. You could tell that they didn’t go dancing
very often without seeing them dance. The “look” of it
was missing. But the rest of them she knew pretty well.
They were stamped with an atmosphere of their
own, something that reminded her of cheap dancing
pumps. They were so sure of themselves. Boys of
sixteen who thought and acted as though they were
men. They wanted to paw you, and you didn’t seem
to care. The sound of the piano roused her. She
remembered that she had this dance booked.
The orchestra came in with the piano, and swung
into “Dinah.” A boy was coming across the floor
towards her. She had danced with him before ; he
was a bad dancer. She looked the other way and felt
glad that she had the dance booked. But he came
over, standing in front of her, his hand held out, his
lips murmuring a soundless invitation.
“Sorry, I’ve got this one booked.”
He moved away further down the hall, even
though there were plenty of girls near her. She knew
that he was afraid they would think he had had a
knockback. But presently she saw him dancing, stiff
and triumphant.
The boy with whom she had booked the dance
had not come. It was almost the end of the first
chorus. She started looking for him amongst the
little cluster of boys at the end of the hall, but he was
not there. She felt suddenly angry and self-conscious.
She was not surprised when she saw him dancing.
It had happened before. But she always felt the hurt
of it, the consciousness that she was so easily for-
gotten. She could feel the rush of heat in her face.
He had been standing
away from her, but now he
was close to her, his arm
around her.
“How ’bout a kiss?”
She got up suddenly, and, threading her
way through the bunch of stompers before
the orchestra, she left the hall. She did
not take a pass-out check. It was never
necessary. They knew her.
Outside it was cooler, but the air was
warm. She walked to the corner, a feeling
of loneliness taking possession of her. There was a
shoe shop, and she stood for a long while staring in
at the window without seeing anything. She could
hear the music from the dance hall. The dance was
almost over. She waited for the music to die out, and
then walked slowly back. It was almost eleven now,
and it would not be long before the last dance.
She liked to dance the last dance. It seemed to
round off the evening, to tie it up and seal it, and
you forgot things that happened through the night
like the heat and the booked dance.
rZ ILEEN was looking for her when she went in.
“Hester, there’s a boy wants to take me home. I
told him I was with you. He’s getting someone.”
Getting someone. They always seemed to find
someone for her, without even knowing who she was.
She knew the reason as soon as they got into the
shadows. It was never any different.
She wanted to tell Eileen that she could go home
on her own. There was no necessity for “getting
someone.” But she said nothing. They were standing
in the crowd near the end of the hall. Eileen was
talking rapidly, but she was not listening. She heard
something about Eileen’s new-found boy-friend being
a marvellous dancer, and marvellous in himself. But
she had heard it so often —Eileen always gushing about
some boy or other. In a peculiar tight way she felt
envious.
The orchestra was tuning now, and there was
movement in the hall as dancers began seeking
partners. She did not go back to her seat, because the
chances of finding a partner were always easier here in
the group near the door. Eileen had moved away
and was talking to a boy. It was the one who was
taking her home.
Then suddenly the orchestra blared out. Half
a dozen couples took the floor. In a moment every-
body was dancing. A touch on her arm and she
threaded through to the floor with her partner. She
was glad he could dance, and she let herself go to
the beat of the rhythm.
She was happy when she was dancing like this.
There was nothing to think of except the throb of
the music. It was easier dancing now, the hall was
not so crowded. She felt like closing her eyes until
it was over, forgetting the heat and the smell of sweat-
moistened clothes.
The stopped abruptly; the players turned
over pages and’went into a slow. The crooner drooled
out “Shoeshine Boy.” Another break and they were
back on to the quickstep, slapping it faster than they
had done all night. It was the last dance. They always
played the last dance like that, so fast that you could
hardly keep time, but somehow, just because it was
fast and frantic and wild, it seemed to make your
spirits seem the same way. It made you laugh when
you hadn’t felt like laughing all night.
It was over then and the orchestra was playing
“God Save the King.” Isolated couples stood still,
but the majority were plunging for the exits. She wa>
caught up with them, but fought her way out to find
Eileen.
HP HEY were waiting for her, Eileen and the two
*■ boys. The introductions were over quickly. She
was with Joe. He was thin, sharp-featured, his hair
parted sleekly at the centre of his forehead. He was
like a dozen of the boys Eileen had found for her.
They came out of the dance hall and had a
milk-shake. She felt awkward as they sat at the
table to drink it. She could think of nothing to say,
and she sat listening to Eileen, smiling automatically.
She felt glad when Joe offered a cigarette. It was
something to do.
There were a couple of blocks of the main street,
and then a couple down the back streets, and she was
home. She left Eileen at the corner, and, with Joe
tagging along, moved along the darkened back streets.
She felt nervous now, being with Joe. She tried to
think of something to say.
“Do you go dancing much?” Silly things like
that she had to say.
“A good bit. D’you?”
“Pretty often.”
There was nothing to talk about, but it was always
like this with the boys she came home with.
“I done a packet on the ’orses to-day.” He was
out of work and making the horses pay. It had hap-
pened so often with the boys who saw her home that
she was beginning to wonder if anyone ever did any
work. Joe was beginning to talk now, but she could
almost tell what he was talking about even if she
didn’t listen. They were near the house now. It ' vas


in the light part of the street, and she stopped befbre
they came to it, standing still in the darkness.
“That’s where I live. You better not come any
closer. My father.”
It came out so easily, “my father.” So easily that
sometimes she almost felt that she meant it, but not
to-night. She smiled as she thought of him, the fat,
red-faced fleshiness, always smelling of beer, his
tongue perpetually popping from his small mouth.
She could see him now, lying on his back, his mouth
open, wheezing out the seconds of the night. “My
father” —a fat lot he cared. She could stay out all
night and he would not notice.
They had backed into the shadow now. Joe was
still talking, telling her about himself. She would
have liked to get his thin face and clamp it together,
but all she did was nod and answer him occasionally.
He had been standing away from her, but now he was
close to her, and she could feel his arm around her.
“How ’bout a kiss?”
She lifted her face and for the first time noticed
the smell of cheap wine on his breath, but his mouth
was on hers, pressing hard, his arms drawing her in
close to his body. She pressed against him, pushing
him away.
There were more kisses. She didn’t want them,
but it was all part of going home with a boy. He
kissed her again, and his mouth moved down to her
throat, drawing the flesh. She suddenly wanted to
get away from him, to go home.
“It’s late. I’ll have to go. My father.” Her father
again. It was funny using him like that, funny the
effect that mention of her father had on boys from
the dance.
“Just a bit longer.”
“I’ve gotter go.”
But he was kissing her now passionately. She
struggled free, her breath coming quickly. “Please,
Joe, I’ve gotter. I’ll get into a row.”
.He was standing there quietly, watching her, his
hand touching her shoulder. “Listen, ’Ester. Come
over to the park for a few minutes. We could sit
down.”
“No.” She was used to this. “I’ve gotter go.”
It was funny to see him—not to see him rather,
but to feel him —suddenly resentful. There was
the abrupt stiffening, the matter-of-fact note in his
voice. He said nothing for a while, leaning back
against the wall, then: “When’ll I see you again?”
There it was, anything to round off the night.
“I’ll be at the dance to-morrow night.”
“I’ll see you.” He kissed her quickly and was'
gone, his heels making a sharp sound on the pavement.
CTHE moved towards the house. The key was in
the front door and she opened it silently. Her
face moved into the dry, soft heat of the house. It
was the bedroom. She could hear her father breath-
ing noisily. She moved through to the washhouse
and bathed her face. Then she came back and climbed
the narrow, bent staircase to her room, her feet noisy
on the uncovered wood of the stairs. She moved in
the darkness, unwilling to light the gas, and when
she reached the rooni lit the candle.
The light from the candle lit it up —the frayed
blanket, the bumpy bulge of the mattress, the chair
with its three sound legs, the ancient chest-of-drawers
with its chipped mirror. The roof just over her head
diminished suddenly, dropping away so that one wall
and the roof were the same. There was hardly room
to move. Of a sudden she felt all of her weariness.
She kicked off her shoes and pulled her dress
over her head. There was nothing else. Sometimes
she wore a brassiere, not often. Now she stood in
front of the mirror looking at herself. It was a good
body, strong, solid, shaped. There was no need
of the brassiere. Her eyes moved to her face, the
thick, heavy eyebrows that no plucking could change,
the flat nose, broad, the dark wisp of hair on her
lip, and her mouth wide, flat and ugly. She thought
of Joe —“When’ll I see you?”
There had been plenty of boys lijce Joe. Some-
times they wanted to take her to the pictures, but
they were never there when she turned up. To-morrow
night he would not see her. It was funny watching
them, the way they pretended not to see her, to be
always looking the other way with a kind of sheepish
unconcern.
She lay on the bed without bothering to get under
the covers, her eyes on the green painted wood of the
ceiling. She could feel the throb of exhaustion in her
limbs, but her brain was moving too rapidly for sleep.
There was to-morrow with its lolly factory and its
sickening smells, all day standing, fingering the soft,
clayey mess. To-morrow, the dance and Eileen. She
thought of Eileen, thought of the dance, of boys, like
Joe, wanting to paw her. She turned suddenly and
blew out the candle.
The darkness was comforting. The only sound
was the heavy clatter of a motor-bike in the street,
vanishing and leaving the sound of her father’s snor-
ing. She turned, lying on her stomach, and holding
the pillow tight.
The dance to-morrow night. Eileen: “Hester,
there’s a boy wants to take me home. I told him I
was with you. He’s getting someone.” Eileen, with
her golden hair, her small shapely features. Joe, and the
million other Joes. In the darkness she started to cry.
FAIR EXCHANGE
BY CON DREW.
AT the time of Togo’s Doncaster, me and
Banana Murphy was makin’ a book round the
country meetin’s in Southern Queensland.
Banana looked more like a pew-opener than a
bookmaker, but he was a slap-up odds merchant and
could do more with a brace of frogskins than another
man could do with ten.
We started off at Warwick and worked our way
along with fair success until we struck a three days’
meetin’ at a bit of a town near Goondiwindi. The
course was the usual egg-shaped affair three-quarters
of a mile round, and most of the races were six-
furlong scampers.
Me and Banana had a real good possie right in
front of the bark-roofed grandstand , and the betting
was fairly good.
Not so the results. The first day a local hoop
called Bryant rode four winners, all of them favorites.
It was amazin’ how he done it, for he was the
world’s worst jockey. He’d come up the straight with
his arms and legs flappin’ like the wings of a nankeen
crane.
“It’s got me beat,” says Banana to me. “That
feller Bryant can’t ride for nuts.”
“Still he punches them home,” says I.
“He punches nothin’ home,” says Banana. “The
horses carry him home.”
“Perhaps he’s got a battery,” says I.
“Even a battery couldn’t make a clown like him
win races,” says Banana.
\ly/E got a close view of Bryant that evenin’ when
he was puttin’ his saddle away in the harness
room at the back of the pub where he was stayin’. He
was tall for a jockey, but terrible thin. I figured him
to weigh about 7st. 51b. He must have carried a lot
of lead in his bag to make up the weight, for he
rode nine stone-odd in a couple of his races.
We expected to see him again at teatime, but
he didn’t turn up.
Next day he spreadeagled the field in the Novice,
won the Flyin’ Handicap and came home singin’
ragtime in the last race.
All they had for a weighing-room was a roped-in
place with a grocer’s scales dumped down in the
middle of it, and we went down to see him weigh in.
With his saddle on his arm he stood up on the
scales and waved to the 'crowd. He was so tall that
his stirrup irons cleared the lever-bar by a good
two inches. He was exactly the weight.
Banana was mighty silent on the way back to
the pub, and when we were havin’ our tea I couldn’t
get a word out of him. We’re sittin’ in my room after-
wards when he says: “Notice anythin’ particular out
at the course to-day?”
“I did not,” says I. “Except that we put in
most of the time paying out on Bryant’s mounts.”
“You should keep your eyes open,” says Banana.
“I don’t think Bryant will win many more races.”
“He’ll win the Publican’s Cup to-morrer,” says I.
“Think so?” says Banana.
“I’m sure of it,” says I.
The Publican’s Cup was the big race of the
meetin’. We’d made a big book on it and were
standin’ to lose a big wad if Bryant’s mount, Minto,
passed the post first.
Banana didn’t say anything for a bit, then he has
a look at the clock.
“I’ve got some business to do,” he says. “See
you later on.” And out he walks.
I didn’t see him agen that night, but I heard him
potterin’ about in his room long after I’d gone to
bed. Good luck to him, thinks I. If he’s found a
way to amuse hisself in this mosquito-haunted dump
he’s entitled to stay out late.
D RYANT had only the one ride on Minto the next
*—' day, and we were able to pick up a few frog-
skins on the races previous to the Cup. When that
came along Banana shoves on the bag.
“Bryant’s mount, Minto, will be favorite,” says
he, “and I’m goin’ to give him some curry.”
“He’ll give us some curry, you mean,” says I.
“He won’t give us nothin’,” says Banana. “Get
ready to stick them down.” With that he steps up
on his box. “It’s all about the Publican’s Cup,” he
yells. “Two to one the field.”
A crowd soon got round.
“Give it a name,” yells Banana. “Long odds
and civility’s our motto. Two to one the field.”
“What price Minto?” asks a bloke with whiskers
like he didn’t know what a razor was for.
“Deuces,” says Banana with outstretched hand.
“I’ll take your seven to two,” says the bloke.
Banana waved him aside. “Call around at
Christmastime,” he snaps. “Two to one the field.”
The price was fair enough considerin’ all things,
but the punters hung back.
“All right,” yells Banana. “I’ll present you with
the freedom of the bag. Five to two the field.”
Bing! In a flash the punters were in and
Banana was writing tickets for all he was worth.
“I suppose you know what you’re doin’,” I says
to him after a bit. “Minto’s taking out sixty quid.”
“Don’t let that worry you,” says Banana, and
he keeps on goin’ for the lick of his life.
When the column of figures under Minto’s name
had reached half-way down the book he leans across
and says: “What’s Minto taking out now?”
“A hundred quid,” I answers.
“Good,” says Banana. “We’ll make a book for
the second horse, Spitfire.”
He was a real good worker, but the betting was
wider than Sydney Heads, and we were going up on
Minto for a pony more than we had when the
horses lined up at the barrier.
“You’d better get a pony’s worth of Minto back,”
I says. “We're well in the soup.”
“Minto won’t take out the money, I tell you,”
says Banana.
“I hope you’re right,” says I.
C ROM where we were standin’ we got a good
* view of the race. Bryant was caught nappin’
when the starter said “Go,” and wasn’t in the first
six when half a furlong had been covered. A grey
horse called Frolic led the field. He was followed
by a horse in pink, who had the second favorite,
Spitfire, on his wheel. You couldn’t see nothin’
of Minto. He was boxed in somewhere in the middle
of the field.
They buzzed around the turn and along the back
of the course like a flock of carrier pigeons makin’
home for their evenin’ feed. Frolic was still in front,
but he was startin’ to wobble a bit. As they neared
the home turn Spitfire dashed to the front and his
backers unloosed a roar.
“I think Spitfire’ll stay there,” says Banana. “He
looks to be full of running.”
“I hope he does,” says I. “We ain’t laid a bob
agen him.”
Spitfire led them into the straight, and when the
field straightened out for home he was a good four
lengths in front.
“You can shut the gate,” says Banana. “Spit-
fire’ll win.”
I was beginnin’ to think we’d done somethin’
right for once when I seen a scarlet jacket flash
through the mob. It was Bryant on Minto, and he
came like a gale of wind. Almost before you could
wink he was clear of the mob and was closin’ up
with Spitfire with every stride. Twenty yards from
the judge he grabbed him and lobbed home a winner
by lengths.
I tell you I felt none too comfortable. There
were some pretty tough customers among the punters.
“What do we do now?” I says to Banana. “Do
we take it on the run or on the knuckle?”
“Neither,” says Banana. “Let’s go down and
watch them weigh in.”
There was a big crowd around the weighin’
enclosure when we got there, and most of the punters
were congratulating themselves.
After a bit Bryant arrived and got upon the
scales. The lever-bar didn’t even tremble.
Bryant stepped down, gave his saddle a hitch
and got on the scales again. Still the bar didn’t rise.
“I’m allowed a pound for me bridle,” he says to
the clerk of the scales.
The clerk slid the weight a notch back along
the bar but there was nothin’ doin’. Bryant was
declared short weight.
Banana gives me a nudge. “Let’s get out of
here,” he whispers. “If the mob starts somethin’
we don’t want to be in it.”
WE went back to our stand, packed up the gear
and strolled towards the gate. We’d got a
skinner on the second horse, Spitfire, and we were
content to call it a day.
“You were mighty certain that Bryant wouldn’t
take out the money,” I says to Banana. “Did you
do anythin’ to them scales?”
“I did not,” says Banana.
“Did you square the bloke in charge of them?”
says I.
“I didn’t square no one,” says Banana.
“Well, you must have done somethin’,” I says.
“I’m a wake-up now that Bryant’s been ridin’ about
two stone light all through the meetin’. What did
you do?”
“I changed his stirrup irons, that’s all,” says
Banana.
“Changed his stirrup-irons?”
“Yes,” nods Banana. “Each time he weighed
in I noticed that he took particular care to dangle
them over the lever-bar and I woke up that they
were magnetised. So last night I bought a pair
exactly like them and rung them in.”


s v-'TV
| •* lislAH
S»
/S
u
m
**2
• • •
Which would you buy?
If you were buying a leg of lamb at the current price per pound, you wouldn t
care to take it “on the hoof”—for a lot of what you’d pay for would be useless.
Nor is there any wisdom in paying for a gallon of oil that contains a ot o
impurities and non-lubricating elements.
New Texaco Motor Oil is triple-refined. All the harmful waste has been taken
out—which gives Texaco the clean, clear, golden colour not evident in other
oils. Actually, Texaco’s exclusive “furfural” treatment removes 25% of th ®
oil, including all sludge, tar and gum-forming elements. The resultant motor oil
is ALL PURE LUBRICANT. „ , T
Instead of three quarts of lubricant and one of waste, a gallon ot lexacp
Motor Oil gives you four full quarts of lubricant. That is what we mean when
we say you get . . .
A QUART EXTRA OF PURE LUBRICANT IN EVERY GALLON.
So, ask your garageman for . . .
NEW
MOTOR
OIL
shoes described, but had never seen any.” Even
British dentures stand alone: “They all look as if
they had been filched from the Etruscan room of a
museum.”
Moving on to wider matters has similar results.
Investigating the honesty of the English, she remarks:
“They don’t call it graft... .It’s all done with so much
old-world charm that it’s quite painless. The Rape
of the Sabine Women set to a minuet.” Only the
rudeness of the English to Americans brings her down
to plain prose:
Our English acquaintances would be utterly in-
credulous if it were pointed out to them that they are
consistently and unendurably insulting to Americans,
- but it happens to be true. As always, one must make
a distinction in favor of the so-called lower classes,
who, if they do not regard being an American as a
; pleasant and interesting attribute, at least succeed in
giving that impression. But the people we met as
equals have been trained from childhood to patronise
r- Americans as Americans are trained from childhood
■ to clean their teeth, and they do it just as automatically.
The author was able to admire a few things, the
“ungentry,” children’s manners, English-grown meat
and even, occasionally, “the placid smoothness of
English hospitality, which shows up somewhat pain-
fully those American dinners where the best foot is
so far forward there is hardly space for anything
else in the room.”
All this is wit of the schoolroom raised to the
nth degree, and the book is little more than a long
series of smart sayings. Henry is a great compensa-
tion. His conversation must have been delightful.
Once, referring to neighbors, he said: “The Wad-
hamses have heard of social justice, but they think it
means Winston Churchill handing out sixpence to a
beggar who has had the good taste not to ask for it.”
Describing his past, he remarked, “My wild oats
weren’t sown. They were raised in flowerpots.”
Before the tomb of the Unknown Warrior he opined
that after the next war they would have to erect one
to the “Unknowing Warrior.”
E. M. Delafield has done this sort of thing both
for England and America, but perhaps not quite so
dashingly. The illustrations are by Harold W. Hail-
stone in the vein of “Punch”—a very neat touch.
African Background.
R. Hernekin Baptist’s Cargo of Parrots was noted
on this page last year as an unusual and interesting
book, and now comes his second novel, Love at the
Mission (Macmillan), a more mature piece of work
with an African setting.
Pastor Oguey was a gentle innocent devoted to
his black flock and his lifework, which was the
translation of the Book of Job into native dialect.
He never left his mission. His wife died there beside
him ; his three daughters, Hortense, Madeleine and
Estelle, had grown up with no other world but the
mission and boardingsehool at the Cape.
His piety took no account of them, made no
provision for their future. He would not allow Hor-
tense, the elder by five years, to take up nursing or
any other work because he believed that marriage
and'motherhood were a woman’s proper work. But
there was no man for Hortense to marry. She yielded
to the silent and insolent courtship of Achmed, the
handsome Mohammedan servant at the neighboring
Catholic mission. In her shame and unhappiness she
determined to save Madeleine from the life that had
all but destroyed her. She entreated her father to
send the 19-year-old girl back to Switzerland. He
agreed absentmindedly and did nothing.
When his assistant, Pastor Verdin, fell in love
with Madeleine, Hortense did everything she could
to throw them into each other’s arms. Pastor
Oguey discovered that his daughter was meeting the
young man, and, although he suspected nothing more
than innocent carelessness, he stopped her.
Now the sinister Achmed was standing outside
Madeleine’s window. Hortense, unhinged, put jackal
poison in a mushroom tart on one of the rare occa-
sions when her father was entertaining the Native
Commissioner, the inspector of schools and the priest.
She warned her sisters and Pastor Verdin not to eat
any of the chief delicacy on the ground that there
was not enough to go round. Her father died in
agony ; his guests recovered. The law invaded the
wilderness. First Madeleine and Verdin —whose love
was dragged into the light—were arrested, then, on
Hortense’s evidence, Achmed, who had waited at
table. But Father Rudolph, knowing Achmed to be
innocent, forced a confession from Hortense, who
declared that she did not mean to kill her father,
only to humiliate him before his friends. She was
sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment. The younger
girls were sent home to Switzerland.
This sombre story is told with a subdued pas-
sion. The style is concrete in detail, though indirect
in its treatment of the main issues. Hortense’s affair
with Achmed, for instance, is told by inference only.
Behind the tormented lives of the characters is Africa,
old, black with magic. The witch-doctor in the
kraal, the white rock which appears on the moun-
tain to presage disaster, the jungle of paganism in
the native mind form the background of the story,
fill in the chinks of the action and make the story of
love, frustration and murder seem like part of the
indigenous flora of a dark soil.
Married to an Armchair.
Louise de Vilmorin’s The Last of the Villavicles
(Chatto and Windus ; translated by Captain J. H. F.
McEwen, M.P.) is a fairy tale for adults, an intricate
and sophisticated story on a fantastic base.
In his old age the Duke of Villavide began to
fret about his childnessness and decided to carve him-
self an heir out of an ancient oak-tree, called Csesar,
that had flourished on his estate for centuries. He
took lessons in carpentry, and eventually built an arm-
chair which he introduced to his wife as her son,
with the result that the old lady, already driven crazy
by playing diabolo, fell dead.
Soon the Duke wearied of the mere existence of
his son and decided to find him a bride.- There was no
dearth of applicants, but none satisfied him until he
saw Aurore, the granddaughter of his old friend
Chevalier Dune. She agreed to the marriage, “for
she was a girl in love with the impossible.” The
marriage was celebrated with great pomp, the arm-
chair loaded with the family jewels.
Aurore lived in the castle with her father-in-law
and her wooden husband, sunk in a not unhappy dream.
Between the man of 90 and the young girl there was a
bond of idyllic affection. One day, after long absence,
her grandfather came to visit them, and the two old
men died in the joy of meeting. Aurore is left alone
in the castle. She takes to talking to the armchair,
her husband, telling him stories of her childhood. She
is like the Sleeping Beauty, whose name she bears,
her life a brooding dream, until one day the prince, in
the shape of her childhood lover, comes to fetch her.
The armchair bursts into flames and the happy lovers
flee from the castle.
This farrago of nonsense is told in all seriousness.
The style has a delicate dignity. It is a silver filigree
set with precious stones. There is something heraldic
and allegorical in its fantasy. Aurore in her bizarre
setting has a curious reality. She is a girl under en-
chantment, one of the lost ones whose story is told in
an image. There is a touch of genuine magic in The
Last of the Villavides. A novel, apparently, can be
made out of any material whatsoever.
Depression in El Dorado.
When the Spaniards, with both eyes glued to the
main chance, came to New Mexico, they kept up their
spirits with the legend of a fabulously rich city called
Cibola which they proposed to find and loot to their
hearts’ content. Cibola has never come to hand, and
New Mexico, squeezed pitilessly by the depression
of a few years ago, was as far from the golden dream
as any place could be. This undeniable fact gives
Paul Hogan the title for his new novel of the lean
days, Far from Cibola (Constable).
It is a delicate piece of work, the story of one
day in the lives of a small group of farmers at the
end of their resources. It begins with a series of
pictures; Mrs. Rood, a widow, running her farm and
bringing up her two children, meeting the emergen-
cies of to-day’s dinner and the rattlesnake in the hen-
coop, frightened and brave ; the old Larks, whose deep
affection for each other is overlaid with a crust of
exasperation, alone on their farm now that the chil-
dren have all gone out into the world to better them-
selves, and faced with the half-comic crisis of oiling
the windmill, “the iron zinnia” ; Heart De Lancy, the
clerk at the cotton compress whose job has petered
out under her, leaving her desperate and bitter; Fat,
the restaurant-keeper, who is screwing himself up to
dismiss his last employee; a tramp on the road ; and
Mrs. Vosz, whose heart is so set on her three hand-
some sons that she preys on them continually.
These people all come together in the late after-
noon outside the courthouse. They know that the
Government relief officers are inside, and have gathered
in the hope of immediate help. The chief relief officer
comes out and tells them that he has made the prelimi-
nary survey, and that he is going to report to the
Government. Perhaps in a month’s time something
caii be done for them. A murmur of anger runs
through the crowd. Heart’s bitterness is touched off
by it, and she makes a passionate speech. The tramp
leads an attack on the courthouse. To quell the dis-
turbance the sheriff threatens them with his gun and
fires three shots into the treetops. The crowd hesi-
tates ; there is a silent pause, and then out of one of
the cottonwood-trees falls Mrs. Vosz’s son Franz,
mortally wounded.
After the moment of shared grief and horror
everyone retreats again into his or her own problem.
The Larks go on worrying about their windmill; Mrs.
Rood feels a wave of relief and happiness because her
children are safe ; Heart has won the admiration of
a stolid German farmer who, proposing to her, solves
her immediate difficulties —only, one surmises, to lay
up others for them both in the future ; the restaurant-
keeper refuses a meal to the tramp, who dies of
exposure that night in. the year’s last frost. Every-
thing is much the same in the community at large
as it was before this small whirlwind of hope, fear,
anger and grief caught it up and shook it.
Hogan throws overboard the artifices of the novel,
but beneath the loose and easy structure there is a
stratum of iron philosophy compacted by a bitter
wisdom.
Ballads from Westralia.
Jack Sorensen’s sheaf of ballads and songs, The
Lost Shanty (printed by R. S. Sampson Printing Co.,
Perth), if they lack the master-touch of a Banjo
Paterson, have an authentic Australian atmosphere
that should ensure them a welcome. To run down
his list of titles is just about as good as starting out
on the track: “Spinifex,” “How O’Leary Broke the
Drought,” “The Haunted Well,” “Jengee Willarra,”
“The Glenburgh Wool Goes Down”....
The scene is as accurate and as competently
presented as in:
Cool nights of rest while the camels swell,
As they munch the mulga near:
While the hobble-chain and the doleful bell
Will lull the puncher’s ear.
Two more long days from Rocky Pool
And then Carnarvon town,
So sixty bales of Glenburgh wool
From inland heights go down.
With such documentary pieces, and with humor-
ous ballads, are some poems that strike a deeper
note:
When night comes down on a long grey range
In the eldest land God made,
And the jutting peaks loom dark and strange
As the far-flung shadows fade;
When the stars peep out in the barren skies,
A white man sits alone.
Beside . a waterhole that lies
Below a ledge of stone.
Some of the poems have appeared on The
Bulletin’s “Abo.” pages. Gavin Casey, whose excel-
lent short stories of the goldfields are known to
Bulletin readers, contributes an appreciative intro-
duction —“Jack has travelled, and is still travelling,
all over Westralia, and he writes as he goes. Men
of the north, the goldfields and the Westralian sea-
board will recognise in his words understanding, as
distinct from the sympathy of a detached onlooker.”
Introducing the Urthman.
The feeling of incredulity and some alarm that
arises from seeing on the dust-jacket of Becoming
(Allen and Unwin) that it is the work of “the author
of Earth, Heaven, etc.,” passes very quickly; the
author of the universe in this case is merely the Mr.
Frank Townshend who used to write vers libre.
Somehow, he looked at once prettier and more
profound in verse than he does this time in short
paragraphs imitating Thus Spake Zarathustra. It is
not unbearably exciting to be informed:
Life began in the water, perhaps two thousand mil-
lion years ago.
There may have been hundreds or even thousands
of original life forms, all of the simplest kind.
Among them some who evolved into one-celled
organisms, having powers of growth and reproduction,
the forebears of the plant and animal kingdoms.
Mr. Townshend gives a picture of the universe,
a study of contemporary society, borrows from
Nietzsche the conception of man evolving into the
Superman, waters him down and introduces the
“Urthman,” who is “a man who has attained to
conscious unity with the universe, with that power
from which the universe proceeds.” The “Urthman,’
though he sounds like a caveman, is a gentleman, and
Mr. Townshend promises him a whale of a good
time. There’s some sense in the book, and it could
be read to the very young ; but even in short para-
graphs a platitude isn’t a duckbilled platypus.


m
\ mw
u
BOND ST. and
Fifth Avenue
Cf*..
c e
&< oi
Sydney’s Leading House for
i
msm
mtamue6msm/&
mmm.
SM&waSKSai&BcS
ssSsSgjsSsg
sm
I
■x’->x>-:x : ::-x
mtb&m* 4
r i
wmm.
V
(Hraftattmt ®ailorfl&
a
nafb’bSiiife
s 5
have now added
HYDE PARK
CLOTHES
-Stuled dddmfo
menccm
mm
m
mm
GRACE BROS.
Canadian productions that will prove exceptionally interesting to men
of discriminating taste in clothing.
It is many years since American Styled Suits were shown in Sydney,
and we have pleasure in presenting for your inspection this shipment
which has just arrived.
We would ask you to note that the prices for these suits are in
keeping with our reputation for giving the best clothing value
in Sydney.
(Location: First Floor, Broadway Building)
Pty.
Ltd,
Broadway, Sydney.
'Phone:
M-6506


ROYAL
PURPLE- PARA
jltfht ‘Mheof'uifie melleumdSmidMcuqud
“THE TIMES” OFFICE, PRINTING HOUSE SQUARE.
It is fit and proper the greatest city in
the world should possess the greatest
newspaper in the world, for that desig-
nation emphatically applies to “The
Times.” Every visitor to London, no
matter from what quarter of the globe
he or she may hail, has heard of the
journal which, in popular estimation, at
home and abroad, is regarded as sym-
bolising British character, no less than
the institutions that character has created.
Some unwisely declare “The Times” to-
day is “a tradition.” It is, on the con-
trary, a great living force but possessing
a great tradition. Passing from the Man-
sion House along the busy thoroughfare
of Queen Victoria Street about half a
mile till it joins Upper Thames Street —
thence crossing Bridge Street, under
Blackfriars Bridge railway arch, where
it enters the eastern end of the Thames
Embankment —is an open space usually
designated “Printing House Square,”
though more oblong in shape. On the
north side is “The Times” office, depicted
in the illustration. It is built on a site in
olden days occupied by a Monastery of
the Black Friars. John Walter in 1785
founded the paper known as the “Daily
Universal Register,” but three years later
the title was changed on January 1, 1788,
to “The Times.” In the Walter family
it remained until the late Lord Northcliffe
acquired an ownership of brief duration.
Then it passed into the hands of the
eminent New York Astor family, Major
Astor being at present “the man at the
helm.” It is “endowed” with a special
statute protecting it against foreign
distraint, and its shares may not be trans-
ferred without the consent of a com-
mittee which includes some of the
highest functionaries in the State. Separ-
ated from Fleet Street, that “maelstrom
of ultra-modern journalism,” by an
appreciable distance, “The Times” is in
every sense “of itself a thing apart.” Its
history as a newspaper is a history of
intellectual ability, industry and enter-
prise, unwearied activity and pre-eminent
success both in service to the British
Isles and the entire British Realm.


THE SPHINX WINKS.
"Signor Mussolini’s vitally important speech was interpreted in Berlin as strengthening the Axis; in France as conciliatory.”
“Now, just take down half a dozen more guesses and that will do for this week.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
GUARANTEE TO POLAND.
In 1939, as in 1914, the troubles in Europe are
attributed to the ambition of one man. Ambition
there is, and it is of a grimmer quality than the exile
of Doom ever knew, but it is associated with fear.
Fear of Bolshevism; fear of assassination —consider
the frantic measures taken after the shooting in the
Paris Consulate —fear of being beaten in the arma-
ments race, itself a consequence of fear; fear of
being encircled and blockaded and starved into sur-
render.
All the dictators and their peoples and all the
democracies —except, perhaps, the little neutral nations
which, in 1914-18, stood above the battle—are in the
grip of fear. Britain and France, no less than Russia
and Poland, are afraid of being beaten in the arma-
ments race, and of being overwhelmed by a sudden
and treacherous attack, in which death in horrible
forms will rain on their cities. Yet it is certain that
they and the parties to the Anti-Comintern Pact are
composed in the main of decent, kindly people who
hate the idea of mutual slaughter.
The world needs another Lincoln to remi*d it,
in sentences as moving as those of the Gettysburg
Speech and the Second Inaugural, of the essential
oneness of the human family. It needs another
Cervantes or another Dickens to smile its fears away,
or a humorist as universal as the creator of Falstaff
to make even dictators and radio commentators laugh.
Last week Mr. Daladier barked at Mr. Musso-
lini and Mr. Mussolini barked back. But little atten-
tion was paid to these gentlemen, the spotlight being
on Poland. From that quarter came reports of
German outrages, Polish outrages, movements of
German troops, arming of conscript Poles (estimates
ranged from 750,000 to 5,000,000) and a German
ultimatum. The ultimatum was denied by Germany,
and in the House of Commons on Friday Mr. Cham-
berlain said “This Government has no confirmation
of rumors of any projected attack on Poland.” Then
he went on to announce a momentous change in
British policy.
Reports of this announcement differed curiously
* —perhaps the old Prime Minister was not so precise
as usual—but the following seems to be the most
coherent account.
Certain consultations are now proceeding with other
Governments. In order to make clear the British Gov-
ernment’s position in the meantime —before these con-
sultations are concluded —I wish to inform the House
that, in the event of any action which clearly threatened
Polish independence, and which the Polish Govern-
ment considered it vital to resist, the British Govern-
ment would feel bound to lend the Polish Government
all the support in its power. The British Government
has given the Polish Government an assurance to this
effect. The French Government has authorised me to
make it plain that it stands in the same position in
this matter as the British Government.
He added, in reply to questions, “What I have
said is intended to cover the interim period until the
visit to London of the Polish Foreign Minister,
Colonel Beck.” Colonel Beck is now in Londpn, and
the guarantee will evidently operate until he is back
in Poland. How far it is intended to go and how
long it is intended to last remain to be revealed.
Mr. Lyons should have a good idea, for, according to
Mr. Chamberlain, “the Dominions are being kept
fully informed of the situation,” but in these matters
Mr. Lyons never lets the people know.
Mr. Hitler replied to Mr. Chamberlain in a
speech delivered after the launching of a battleship
at Wilhelmshaven. He did not mention Poland, but
he said “Germany does not contemplate attacking
foreign countries indiscriminately”:
We want to maintain international economic relations,
paying our neighbors honestly. We will not fight any-
one who leaves us alone, but we will not accept intimi-
dation. The Allies mistake the Germany of to-day
for the Germany of sixteen years ago if they believe
that we shall permit a new encirclement. The Axis
will persist in all circumstances and at all times.
Russia is one of the countries with which “cer-
tain consultations” are “proceeding,” although these
consultations are not so intimate as the consultations
with Poland. Said Mr. Hitler on this subject:
Those who see no ideological differences between
Britain and Russia deserve congratulation. The philo-
sophical community of Italian and German ideas differs
from that of Mr. Chamberlain’s England and Mr.
Stalin’s Russia, but should it turn out otherwise it
will prove that Bolshevism and Democracy are two
forms of the same thing.
Turning to Czechoslavakia, he said: —-
We would have had nothing against an independent
Czech State if it had not oppressed Germans and been
used as an instrument of Communism. We employed
the old German right to annex it, uniting in that
way what history and geography indicated. Bohemia
and Moravia belonged to the German Empire [or “a”
German empire] for a thousand years. We do not
intend to oppress the Czechs. I served peace by destroy-
ing an anti-German instrument; it is a propagandist
lie to conclude from this that we intend to attack the
world.
Mr. Hitler cannot realise that the democratic
world recognises no “old German right” of annexa-
tion and that it cannot take his word again until he
voluntarily restores “Czech independence.” But it
would be folly not to acknowledge that the man has
kept written agreements, notably one of the greatest
importance to Australia, the Anglo-German naval
agreement. On that subject he said:
The Anglo-German naval agreement can persist
only in the event of a mutual desire for peace. If
England no longer adheres to the agreement not to
fight Germany [presumably the undertaking which bears
his signature and that of Mr. Chamberlain] the basis
of the naval agreement vanishes If others rearm, we
shall do the same more rapidly than others. Any
Power that desires to rearm cannot tire out Germany.
Germany is prepared to exert its utmost power in a
test of strength, in which Germany’s friends will march
with Germany.
Altogether a queer speech, and it has been variously
interpreted. Those who have been all along for
Warning Germany see in it the beginnings of a retreat.
Others are not alarmed at the reference to the naval
agreement: “many British leaders would like to be
rid of it.” No Australian worthy of the name would.
Nor would any Australian worthy of the name feel
like fighting a holy war for Poland.
Poland is very far away, and it was never guaran-
teed by Britain before. It was thrice partitioned with-
out British interference. Sir lan Hamilton, in the
book in which he predicted the fate of Czechoslovakia,
describes Poland as “this wayward, restless, martial
nation placed exactly like a carefully-adjusted filbert
between the enormous Russia-Prussia nutcracker.”
To me Poland assumes the aspect of a number of
exceptionally-gifted and charming personalities who
coalesce into something impossible, ill-starred and fatal
—fatal to themselves and to their neighbors. Poland
is, I have always suspected, the real reason why the
U.S.A. repudiated Wilson To sign under terms of
the Treaty of Versailles might have meant a liability
to send large American armies over again to Europe;
to sign as member of the League of Nations might have
meant an obligation to put an economic boycott on
the best part of Europe. The adventure was politically
out of the picture.
The Poles have an anti-aggression pact with Germany,
which has another five years to run. Six months ago
they grabbed a piece of Czechoslovakia with less war-
rant than the Germans had. They talk expansively
about their colonial claims ; they are certain to de-
mand a huge subsidy from Britain, and “Colonel
Beck is expected to ask the British Empire to find a
home for 50,000 Polish Jews per year.” What allies!
Since “the Dominions are being kept fully in-
formed,” the Prime Minister of Canada must have
known all about the guarantee to Poland when he
spoke in his House of Commons on Thursday—a
day earlier than Mr. Chamberlain. He delivered an
utterance which will become historic:
As Prime Minister, I will not engage to lead Canada
into war If a European war breaks out Parliament
will decide whether Canada shall take part. I cannot
accept the view of some people that, regardless of
circumstances, this country must say, here and now,
that Canada is willing to support any action that may
be decided upon by the [or a] Government at West-
minster.
The idea that Canada should risk the lives of its
citizens every 20 years to protect small nations is a
nightmare. Canada has difficulty enough in keeping its
own house in order without risking bankruptcy to help
to run a continent which cannot run itself.
Were the Australian Parliament in session—and,
unquiet as the times are, it has been kept loafing for
four months —the Australian people, who, unlike
Canadians, have no assurance of, American protec-
tion; would have, heard a statement to the same effect
from Mr. Curtin. They wouldn’t have had one from
Mr. Lyons. That gentleman’s policy is still “Tune-in
to Britain,” which, in these matters, means leaving
everything to the Foreign Office, whether the Foreign
Office is run by Mr. Eden, Lord Halifax, Mr. Attlee,
Dr. Dalton or Mr. Duff Cooper.
A New Deal for Palestine.
In 1.919, when Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Clemenceau
had got everything they wanted for their own coun-
tries, they offered the U.S.A. the mandate for
Armenia. They found President Wilson rather “sym-
pathetic” at the beginning ; but when the offer was
put in white and black, in the form of a Note, it was
refused. If Palestine had been substituted for Armenia
it might have been provisionally accepted. No doubt
Senators would have refused to ratify it, as they
refused to ratify all the arrangements to which the
President was a party, but it would have commanded
powerful support in America; and powerful support
would be forthcoming if transfer of the Palestine
mandate to the U.S.A. were offered to-day. And
why not?
In his Truth About the Peace Treaties, Mr. Lloyd
George shows that the Balfour Declaration was a
stroke of war policy. The war was going badly ; in
Poland Jews had “helped the German army to conquer
the Tsarist oppressor” ; in America “some of their
most powerful leaders exerted a retarding influence
on President Wilson’s impulses in the direction of the
Allies.” And in England there was Dr. Chaim Weiz-
mann, who had “consecrated his life to the Zionist
cause,” and who was “successfully applying his scien-
tific skill and imagination to save Britain from a real
disaster over the failure of wood alcohol for the
manufacture of cordite.” And there were other things
to consider.
The Zionist movement was exceptionally strong in
Russia and America In September, 1917, the German
Government was making very serious efforts to capture
it Russian Jews had become the chief agents of
German pacifist propaganda in Russia. It was believed
that if Britain declared for the fulfilment of Zionist
aspirations in Palestine, one effect would be to bring
Russian Jewry to the cause of the Entente.
That effect was not witnessed ; but the belief that
“such a declaration would have a potent influence on
world Jewry outside Russia” was justified to some
extent, and still more so was the belief that it would
“secure for the Entente the aid of Jewish financial
interests.”
In the terms of the Balfour Declaration the
British Government committed itself to “the estab-
lishment in Palestine of a national home for the
Jewish people” and to the preservation of “the civil
and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communi-
ties.” Mr. Lloyd George notes that “all the repre-
sentatives of the Dominions pronounced themselves
wholeheartedly in favor of the policy.” Events have
shown —in the last twelvemonth, tragically —that its
twin aspirations, as interpreted by the races con-
cerned, strict constructionists both, are unrealisable.
The Jews contend that continuous immigration is
implicit in the words “national home for the
Jewish people”; the Arabs, that immigration has
already been carried to the point where it endangers
their civil rights, and may make an end of them.
Commissions and conferences have failed. So
long as the Balfour Declaration remains, they merely
amount to attempts to reconcile the irreconcilable.
And the British can’t support either side without
bringing trouble on themselves in large quantities—
without indeed offending important sections of their
own people.
If the Americans took over the mandate the
obstacle of the Balfour Declaration would be removed.
They could give Palestine a New Deal. They have
no material interests in the country, but they possess
the means of establishing material interests, salted with
philanthropy ; and their reputation for good works
in the Near East stands high. The Arabs would have
reason to hope that an American mandate would be
administered in the spirit in which American educa-
tionists and doctors have labored in their part of
the world. In any case, they share the respect which
all Mediterranean peoples feel for the republic beyond
the Atlantic in which representatives of all their
peoples live in peace.
That the Jews would accept the American man-
date goes without saying. There are 4,500,000 Jews
in the U.S.A. —far more than there are in any other
country. In towns and cities alone there are more
Jews than there are in all Poland or all the U.S.S.R.,
and ten times as many as there are in the United
Kingdom. Two million Jews live in New York State.
The Governor of that State, Mr. Lehman, is a Jew ;
the Mayor of New York, Mr. La Guardia, is a half-
Jew ; the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, Mr. Mor-
genthau, is Jewish on both sides of the house, and
so is Mr. Frankfurter, recently appointed to the
Supreme Court. The doyen of that Court till he
resigned a few weeks ago was Justice Brandeis, an
enthusiastic Zionist, and as such a critic of Dr.
Weizmann. Jews run Hollywood, compose, publish
and play much of America’s music, and control maga-
zines, newspapers and news agencies. Among them
they are rich enough to buy up all the Palestine Arabs
and settle them in some other part of the Arabian
world, if it were feasible.
An American mandate for Palestine would bring
hope to the Jews of Central Europe, particularly those
in the Czech territories whose independence has been
extinguished ; and it might restrain the Poles, who
show every sign of becoming nasty about their own
Jews. It would give millions of hyphenated Ameri-
cans an outlet for their crusading zeal. At present
this finds expression in futile counsels of perfec-
tion and demands that the British Empire should
go to war for causes which concern the people
of the Dominions no more than they concern
the people of Nevada or South Dakota. There
are only 300,000 Jews in the United Kingdom and
only 30,000 in Australia. Most of these Jews have
the same conception of citizenship as Mr. Montagu, Mr.
Lloyd George’s Secretary for India, who “regarded
himself as a Jewish Englishman and the Jews -as a
religious community.” In any case, why should the
Commonwealth to which they belong, and which has
never made any distinction between its Jewish citizens
and citizens of British descent, have to shoulder the
whole burden of championing foreign Jews when
there are ten times as many English-speaking Jews
in the United States?


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia First!
Mr. Menzies was on the air last week, giving one
of the now-fashionable Radio Uncle talks. He spoke
from a commercial station, national stations being
reserved for Mr. Mann, Mr. Offenburg, gloomy pro-
fessors and agitated Ministers, and his utterance in-
cluded more reason and sense to the mouthful than
had been heard from all those gentlemen. For
example:
Even at this stage, when so many people have
become fatalistic, the doctrine of the inevitability of
war between the democracies and the dictatorships is
horrible, dangerous and unnecessary.
A much-publicised doctrine at all times, it re-
ceived its strongest impetus to date from Germany’s
ruthless collaring of the remnants of Czechoslovakia
that were not flung to Hungary. Moral indignation
over the German grab was natural, and nobody can
complain that it has not had a good free rein. Nearly
everybody was furious, and all who were said so. It
will require something more than words to revive
former trust in German intentions. That accepted,
only a fireside fusilier could cavil at, or overlook the
wisdom in, Mr. Menzies’s sane plea for the
development of a peace psychology, accompanied
by a preparedness to submit to every kind of organisa-
tion, discipline and inconvenience, so that if war is
forced upon us our safety will be assured.
That boils down to national service, as Mr. Men-
zies must admit. National service is now necessary
to Australia as never before. Yet it is never mentioned
by the sort of critics who castigate Mr. Menzies
because he says peace and means it, and it is dodged
by the Government which has the responsibility for
Australia’s defence.
The night after Mr. Menzies was on the air, Mr.
Lyons was Radio Uncle, in his familiar lugubrious
style. “Unfortunately, I cannot tell you that there is
any sign of the lifting of that cloud.” What of it,
anyway? If the heavens burst, nobody is going to
give any better account of himself for having been
dosed to the ears with this dismal twaddle. The
Diggers were fatalists, but theirs was a different brand
of fatalism from this watery moaning. Their out-
look was that if a shell had your number on it you
would get it.
If there must be fatalism, let it be of the Digger
brand. Let it go out that Australians are not many,
but there are none tougher ; that the present crop of
Australians can be counted on to do all the Diggers
did and, in defence of their country, more; that
every available scrap of this man-power is now going
to be trained and equipped for that job ; that, in the
meantime, all here will best serve their country by
going steadily about its business, placing its interests
first in all things, getting it well and truly into their
heads that if it does come to war this country might
have to be fought for as no other in the Empire, but
ready for that eventuality if it should come.
Mr. Lyons has the colonial outlook. Canada,
speaking through the mouth of its Prime Minister,
places its own interests first. This Mr. Menzies does
for Australia.
While Australia has a general interest in the Euro-
pean situation, it has a particular interest in the Pacific,
where it may have to supplement the general British
activities by developing a more positive policy, and
achieving a fuller diplomatic contact with the two
Great Powers, the United States and Japan.
Heresy? It is the first voice of sanity heard
speaking for Australia for many a day.
Hungry Hungary.
For Hitler and Mussolini it is not going to be all
plain sailing in Central Europe. The Hungarians are
already seeing to that.
Before the war the Hungarians ruled 51.8 p.c.
of the Hapsburg territories. In the war they lost
more men in proportion to population than any other
belligerent, and when the end came they were stripped
of more than three-fifths of their landed possessions.
Transylvania went to Rumania, Croatia-Slavonia to
Yugoslavia and Slovakia to the republic that dis-
appeared last month.
Because Rumania was Public Enemy No. 1, the
loss of Transylvania was resented most. The
Rumanians had rubbed salt into Hungary’s wounds,
not so much by invading the stricken country while
Bela Kun and his Bolsheviks were rampaging there
as by looting it when they were leaving—and they did
not leave until commanded to do so by the Supreme
Council of the Allies. But the transfer of Slovakia
was a staggering blow, for the Hungarians had bossed
the Slovaks for a thousand years.
Last September the Germans allowed the Hun-
garians to get a bit back from the Czechs, and last
month they permitted them to regain their old
Ruthenian province. But into Slovakia they swarmed
themselves, and in a trice the Hungarians found them-
selves confronted with a new Slovakian State, “the
political independence and territorial integrity” of
which are guaranteed by a 25-year treaty which gives
Germany the right “to erect and occupy military bases
in specified zones.” Saying that the Slovak-Ruthenian
frontier had never been properly defined —it was
defined by Herr von Ribbentrop for Germany and
by Count Ciano for Italy—Hungary sent troops
there and they fought the Slovaks. According to
their own account, the Hungarians brought down 14
Slovak ’planes and captured between 500 and 600
Slovaks and Czechs, losing themselves 23 killed and
25 wounded.
Previously, according to Bucharest, they had con-
centrated on the Rumanian frontier far greater forces
than were necessary to subdue Ruthenia, and “sent
aggressive messages to Rumania over the air.” Evi-
dently they had convinced themselves that the time
for avenging the Rumanian invasion of 1919 had
arrived. If so, the Germans again forestalled them
by concluding the “comprehensive” trade agreement
with Rumania. The Hungarians professed gratitude
to the Germans for letting them annex Rutjienia—
which province, the Rumanian Premier says, was
offered to his country by the Ruthenian leader,
Volisin, while he was still nominally Premier of
“Carpatho-Ukraine”—but to a proud and unsatisfied
race like the Hungarians the German manoeuvres in
Slovakia and Rumania must be unspeakably galling.
Nor can Mussolini contemplate them with any
satisfaction. He had constituted himself a benevolent
patron of Hungary. Moreover, during the war and
for years afterwards the Rumanians and the Italians
were alleged to be close relations, with a common
descent from ancient Rome. Little is heard of this
relationship nowadays, and in the struggle for
Balkans trade Germany is very obviously beating Italy.
There is another possible source of friction.
Since March, 1920, Hungary has been ruled by a
regent, Admiral Horthy, who has been keeping the
seat of majesty warm for a Hapsburg. Hitler, the
Austrian, is anti-Hapsburg. So was Mussolini a while
ago, but recent events and royal-family influence may
cause him to weaken.
The New Aircraft Factories.
The Prime Minister has announced details of the plan
for manufacturing military aircraft in Australia.
Numbers are not stated, but the machine will be the
latest type of Bristol Beaufort. Delivery of airframes
is to begin in 1940 and the order is to be completed
in March, 1942. Manufacture of airframes alone will
give work directly to 4000 men.
Airframe manufacture will be carried out at
Mascot, Sydney, and Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne,
and machines will be assembled at the railway
workshops in N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland and S.A.
Meanwhile engines will be obtained from Britain.
The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is making
single-row Wasp engines for the Wirraways, a hun-
dred of which are to be manufactured at Fishermen’s
Bend. The first Wirraway is undergoing trial flights.
So far they have been very satisfactory,' and the
machine has been fairly described by Minister Street
as “a splendid example of Australian workmanship.”
But, in view of the manufacture of Bristol Beauforts,
the giving of an order for 100 Wirraways, described
by Sir Edward Ellington as merely an advanced train-
ing machine, was a blunder.
“Tooling-up” for the manufacture of twin-row
Wasp engines, with which Lockheed Hudsons are
fitted, is promised. But if there are to be power units
for Beauforts to be made in Australia by 1942, some-
body will have to get a move on. High-power aero-
plane engines are among the world’s most intricate
precision instruments, and are highly sensitive to local
air conditions.
Mr. Lyons pronounces the scheme “an epoch-
making event.” If it is to supply Australia’s needs and
fill orders from Britain’s Asiatic possessions (that is
suggested), the committee of three which is to “gener-
ally supervise” and the general manager to be
appointed must be given a free hand. Political pro-
crastination and meddling might spoil everything.
A New Air Route.
An Indian Ocean survey per flying-boat is to be
undertaken, and as a preliminary to opening up a link
in an (almost) all-Empire route from Australia to
England it will be important. The strange thing is
that the personnel, save for Capt'ain P. G. Taylor
and a newspaperman, will be all-U.S.A., and U.S.A.
is the homeland of the machine to be used.
An all-Australian expedition, it is said, was out
of the question because of the cost of a suitable flying-
boat. The answer is that Australia is a continental
nation with a population as large as that of Sweden.
It is part of a British Commonwealth which is spread
over more oceans than all the rest of the empires and
countries put together, and which possesses longer and
more numerous overseas air services than any other
group of nations. If Australia, collaborating with
Britain, cannot provide both a machine and a crew
for such a job, the aerial organisation of the Empire
needs drastic overhauling.
The route being considered presents no such
difficulties as the longer stages of the Pacific. For
years flying-boats have been travelling backwards
and forwards from Honolulu to the Golden Gate on
regular schedules; distance, over 2100 miles. On
the Indian Ocean route, the longest distance to be
traversed, Cocos reefs to Diego Garcia, is 1472 miles.
From the Australian coast to Mombasa is 4674 miles,
and the machine that will be used could almost fly it
in one hop. Some of the bigger machines of the R.A.F.
could come pretty close to flying it both ways in one
hop, though, of course, not with passengers and
equipment.
Stages proposed are Carnarvon (W.A.) to Cocos
(1230 miles), Diego Garcia (1472 miles), Seychelles
(1022 miles) and Mombasa (950 miles). Thence the
route crosses Africa to Bathurst, British West Africa,
and touches foreign countries only in the territories
of Britain’s ages-old ally, Portugal—in the Canaries
and at Lisbon.
Diego Garcia has little shelter and Cocos has
not a great deal more, but they have possibilities equal
to those of the bases which the Pan-American service
is using at Wake Island on the Golden Gate-Manila
route.
The new way to Europe would cross the London-
Cape Town route. It would give closer linkage
between Britain and the two southern Dominions in
time of trouble.
Over at Last.
In some quarters Norman Lindsay’s cartoon (B.
15/3/’39) showing Mars expelled from Spain, repre-
sented by a castle, was thought to be premature. But
Lindsay was right. There was no more fighting in
that war-scourged land. Madrid surrendered on
Wednesday, and Valencia and other districts imme-
diately followed. General Miaja, who had tried to
make terms for himself and his friends, did not
follow, the example of Robert E. Lee. He fled in a
’plane to Algeria, where, the report says, “he arrived
in tears.”
From the outset of the war Australia was in-
formed by newspapers that what was afoot in Spain
was a vile military revolt against “the forces of
Spanish democracy,” a revolt led by Franco the
Butcher, commanding bloodthirsty mercenaries, chiefly
hired foreigners, without whose support it would
have collapsed long ago. The Sydney morning papers
nevertheless predicted that “the forces of Spanish
democracy” would triumph, and so did the Sydney
evening paper, until expediency suggested that it was
time to hedge. Wholesale atrocities were alleged,
and many atrocities were committed, but until the
taking of Catalonia brought to light facts, such as
the murder of the Bishop of Teruel, too frightful for
suppression, they were all attributed to Francoists.
Now we read in quarters so recently hostile of
“the skill and lack of ostentation with which the
Francoists have taken over control of Republican
Spain” ; of “the efforts directed to the preservation
of calm and the restoration of order” ; of the arrival
in Madrid of “1500 lorries laden with foodstuffs” ;
of the “unostentatious methods of the Nationalists,”
whose administrators travelled to Madrid by tube
train, and of the enthusiasm of the people, who, as in
Barcelona, greeted Franco’s men as liberators. And
there was one very significant touch:
Two nuns appeared in a Madrid street. A crowd
standing outside Nationalist headquarters cheered
deafeningly.
For religion “the forces of Spanish democracy,” when
in the ascendant, had firesticks, bombs and bullets.
During the long agony of Spain British interven-
tion on the side of “the forces of Spanish democracy”
was demanded by British Labor and Liberal poli-
ticians and some dissident Conservatives, and by
British and Australian newspapers. It should now
be plain to plain people what madness it would have
been. The Empire has cause to be thankful to the
Governments with which Mr. Chamberlain has been
associated that they refused to intervene, even when
wild things were being done in Spanish waters and
the cry went up, in the U.S.A. as well as Britain, that
the ships of the Royal Navy in those waters were
H.M.S. Unriskables.
It would have been better, however, if non-inter-
vention had been practised as a purely British policy
instead of in association with France. Nationalist
Spain Communists recruited by the French
Popular Front for the prolongation of the war, and
the blood spilt and the havoc wrought by Reds,
foreign and Spanish, will not be forgotten in a day.
Ready, Aye, Ready ?
Town after town filled its recruiting quota towards
the end of January. Thousands of recruits are now
wondering whether their country really needs them,
or whether Messrs. Hughes and co. were herding
them to recruiting stations purely for fun.
In August, 1914, the Kennedy (N.Q.) Regiment,
part of the force for Rabaul, was deficient in uniforms,
boots, food supplies, tents, mosquito nets and ham-
mocks and other essentials apart from fighting equip-
ment. Judging by reports, practically the same
position would apply in parts of the North if war broke
out to-morrow. According to Queensland papers a
big percentage of the 51st (Cairns) Battalion is with-
out uniforms. In case of emergency the battalion
could fire three (3) rounds of ammunition per man.
It possesses two machine-guns, but is without gun
horses, gas masks, g.s. lorries, field ambulance, artil-
lery, tanks or anti-tank guns.
The Mayor of Moree (N.S.W.) points out that
200 men have enlisted in his district, but there is no
training centre. The recruiting committee is starting
a fund to provide equipment and give the men a
headquarters.
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) tells the same story —
70 volunteers and no headquarters or equipment.
When the 20th-45th Battalion is called to arms,
its volunteers will gather from a countryside which
extends from Parramatta to beyond Forbes (N.S.W.),
about 200 miles, and muster a strength about three
times normal peace strength—over 1500 men, of
whom 900 are beyond the Blue Mountains. The
battalion is naturally short of officers, and when
camps are held it is necessary for some centres to
borrow their commanders from other towns. This in
an area where the Mayor of Orange says “youths are
coming 50 miles to attend parades.”
A daily-paper correspondent says the 16th Light
Horse men who enlisted last November still parade
in their civilian clothes without rifle or equipment:
It is very difficult to maintain interest among men
whose uniforms range from navy blue suits and patent
leather boots to shorts and sandshoes
One of the most staggering examples of neglect,
however, has occurred in Mr. Lyons’s own State —
at Queenstown, centre of the Mt. Lyell copper-
field. The Minister informed the local council that,
although sufficient recruits could be expected, a
training centre could not be recommended “because
of training and administrative difficulties.” Local
councillors, discussing this missive, remarked acidly
that Queenstown is essentially “a young man’s town”
from which 200 recruits could be obtained. One
added:—
At Mt. Lyell there is a key industry. Surely it is
worth defending.
The answer from Canberra is that the Government
is doing its best. Yes, it is doing its feeble best—to
dodge universal training and universal service because
Mr. Lyons made some vote-catching pre-election
promise.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hawkshaw”: Our grandmothers, foes
to sloth, used to keep on hand for the
utilisation of odd moments some such
marathon job as a crocheted bedspread,
10 x 8, or a tapestry panel which could
be continued laterally for ever. The
N. S. Wales police, whenever they are
threatened with ennui, hark back to the
Pyjama Girl Case, any development in
which is always sure of headlines. Which
is perhaps why it is resurrected every few
weeks to the exclusion of the thirty or so
other unsolved murder mysteries that
have cropped up in the meantime. Just
recently, after five years’ cogitation, it
has struck the investigators that a lady
clad only in pyjamas may have had
other attire, and that the murderer may
have concealed this attire. A 120-mile
journey undertaken last Thursday to in-
terrogate a drover whom someone
remembered to have heard say he saw a
hat in a waterhole in September, 1934,
elicited that the hat and the hole were
nowhere near the scene of the crime.
But an “intensive” grubbing around
in all the lagoons, dams, water-
holes and drains in a wide locality has
brought to light (for publication) a
double-breasted silk jumper, a beige
blouse, a silk necktie, a pair of slippers,
a pair of sandals, a pair of rubber boots,
and a pair of shoe-trees. What other old
junk was retrieved is, of course, not
stated, nor is it very clear that it can be
proved that what has been produced has
any connection with the woman whose
body still reposes in a vat at Sydney Uni.
The trail is an old and cold one. Clues on
or near the scene of a crime are picked
up fresh and warm in all well-regulated
detective stories.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A. D. Hardy, vice-president
of the Victorian Forest League, detailed
to Judge Stretton the other day some
possible causes of bushfires, ranging from
smouldering wads from shotguns to the
activities of cranks. He discounted solar
heat concentrated on bottles, and did not
mention cigarette butts, but knew of so
many other likely causes that the im-
pression conveyed is that, given a day
like Black Friday and an enormous,
shambling, inadequately-supervised forest
State like Victoria, blazes on a gigantic
scale are inevitable. When they once
start it is just as impossible to stop them,
because the intense heat liberates gases
from the gumtrees that the cyclonic
wind hurls huge distances like a fireball,
and the slightest touch of naked flame
explodes them.
* * * *
“Selma”: Dad’s uncle from the
country accepted our invitation to stay
a few days. Our new bungalow pos-
sesses all mod. cons., and the girls took
great pride in showing Uncle the wonders
of modem house-planning. “And just
see our geyser, Uncle,” they said as the
bath-heater was demonstrated and poured
forth a fountain of hot water. “It’s boil-
ing, and you can have a hot bath in two
minutes.” Uncle looked at it doubtfully.
He removed himself to a city hotel next
day, but it was not until he got back
to Boonabilla that he told the reason
for his brief sojourn in our midst. “It
was the geyser that settled me,” said
Uncle. “I’ve heard of them things from
a bloke that once lived in Noo Zealand.
They sometimes start sudden and play
up fer hundreds of feet. The one at
Henry’s seemed safe enough, but you
can’t never tell. But what made them
dump a house down on one o’ them
volcanoes is more’n I know.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg f ”: The dailies’ thirst for
news at all costs hasn’t everybody’s sym-
pathy. The other morning I heard a
tremendous bang in a Melbourne street
and looked round just in time to see a
sedan fall over on its side, while a lorry
and two other cars rebounded from the
wreck. A few seconds later a door of
the stricken vehicle opened and the
driver climbed out unhurt, but there
were passengers still imprisoned in the
car, and soon there were an immense
crowd, policemen and ambulances on
the scene. While this was going on a
woman of a religious type was standing
beside me with her back turned to the
scene murmuring: “I can’t look! I
can’t look! What is the world coming
“Come on, George — it’s only a couple o’ jumps.”
to? Is anybody hurt?” I assured her
that if they were it was probably not
serious. “Oh, yes, they must be,” she
cried. “They must be terribly hurt.”
Then she turned round to see for her-
self, but the sight of a stretcher was
too much for her. “.You could get ten
shillings for this if you rang up the
‘Herald,’ ” she said abruptly, and rapidly
walked off.
Hs He *
“S.”: Though I was as reverent as
one should be in the ecclesiastic gloom
of Sydney Town Hall, there were two
things at a Lotte Lehmann concert that
brightened the atmosphere. One was the
programme suddenly crying out “Wolf,
Wolf, Wolf,. Wolf!” and the other was
the fact that Lotte’s book of words was
bound in a pale blue to match her even-
ing dress so that it looked more like a
verandah to the garment than anything
else. It’s a good idea ; a book in the
singer’s hand is ' always disillusioning ;
and how magnificent Tauber would have
looked reading from a white curved shirt-
front set with studs to match the amply-
curved shirtfront behind it.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A fine point of law has
come up in Adelaide courts. A dairy-
man was charged with having let his
cow stray, also with “rescuing” it when
impounded. The date named being ad-
mittedly wrong by one day, the Justices
dismissed both charges ; however, fresh
plaints were issued, and he was fined on
both. But the Supreme Court has up-
held his lawyer’s appeal. The J.Ps.
should have let the date be amended,
said Chief Justice Murray, and the cow-
owner might then have been convicted.
But there was only one offence, and, as
things went, he was acquitted of that —
technically; and when you have been
acquitted of an offence you can’t be
tried for it again.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Whether it was accidental or
malicious, the editor of the “Pelican”
anthology, The Century’s Poetry, made
an excellent comment on both the
gloomy T. S. Eliot and the sentimentally-
cheerful F. W. Harvey by placing them
in adjoining paddocks. On page 408
Mr. Eliot gets going:
This is the way the world ends
This is the way the world ends
This is the way the world ends
Not with a bang, but a whimper.
Facing him, on page 409, Mr. Harvey
retorts: —•
From troubles of the world
I turn to ducks,
Beautiful comical things
* * * *
“Perry”: My friend the social worker
took the morning off and went to
the pictures. She was early, and found
herself distracted by the behavior of a
youth of about 10, who was continually
changing his seat, moving away as soon
as anyone took a chair near him. As
he scrambled past her for the tenth Lime
she clutched him firmly, pushed him
into the vacant seat beside her, and
ordered him to remain there and stop
annoying other picture-patrons. “And
I’d like to know,” said the lady as an
afterthought, “why you’re not at school.
It isn’t holiday-time and you seem quite
well.” The small boy was silent for a
moment, and then said crossly, “Well,
if you must know, they won’t have me
at school. I’ve just had scarlet fever
and I’m infectious. Mum said it would
be all right f’ me to come to the pitchers
if I kept two seats away from the next
person. And now you won’t even let
me do that!”
* * * *
“Avon”: In these days when hardly
an issue of the daily newspapers, morn-
ing and afternoon, fails to produce an
international crisis charged to the muzzle
with. battle, murder and sudden death,
I often meditate on the sad fate of an
old Maoriland journalist of my acquain-
tance. This gentleman, after many vicis-
situdes, obtained, in the late ’eighties,
the editorship of a metropolitan evening
journal. The metropolis had a pop. of
about 50,000, and the journal a circ. of
aboht 700. It was steadily sliding down-
hill when my friend took charge, and
continued to slide to the stage where
even the manager and the editor couldn’t
find enough in the kitty to pay their own
screws. Then, one memorable noontide,
the doomed rag came out with huge
black headings all over its pages. It
recorded from Paris a Bourbon revolu-
tion that had abolished the French Re-
public. From Berlin came news of a
sudden Russian invasion, followed by
declarations of war by all the Great
Powers. A tidal wave in the Atlantic had
submerged Madagascar, according to a
high authority in Mozambique. And
there were other titbits. Circulation,
down to 200 the day before, soared to
7000, printed in 10 editions, each a little
more scary than the one before. Next
day the morning papers, which had spent
a small fortune in cables to their foreign
correspondents, squashed the whole glori-
ous collection of fiction; the few re-
maining advertisers said, “Take out me
ad.! ” ; the directors sacked the editor;
the manager sacked himself, and a letter
from “Geographicus” pointing out that
Madagascar isn’t in the Atlantic didn’t
get published because there was no paper
to publish it in. But in these days I
don’t suppose the same items of news
would create more than a mild ripple
of interest.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: M. J. MacNally, now in
Adelaide writing art and theatre notes
for the “Mail,” is handed a nasty one
in its issue of 18 /3 / ’39. Writing of
Sara Bernhardt as Hamlet, he used the
old tag, “the melancholy Dane.” The
linoman, however —and who shall blame
him? —thought it more appropriate as
“the melancholy dame.”
* * H= *
“F.S.”: Anybody passing the Victorian
National Gallery in Melbourne at
present cannot fail to notice that the
building looks shorter, dumpier and less
impressive than of yore. If he is of an
observant type he will easily find the
cause. Somebody bitten by the prevailing
bug for “beautification,” which is causing
more damage in Melbourne than the
measles, is building two fresh flights of
steps to join up with the central one.
These converge towards the centre of
the building, and any tyro in optics, can
prove to himself that the effect inevitably
must be to alter completely the pro-
portions of the gallery in the direction
of insignificance. It does not seem to
have occurred to the authorities respon-
sible for the thing that the architect who
designed the building intended the steps
to be an integral part of the design, and
they might just as well have permitted
the columns to be removed.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A friend was showing an
English relative round Melbourne and
they happened to drop in at one of the
largest hardware stores in the city to
buy a corkscrew. A courteous gentleman
approached and said: “What can I do
for you, gentlemen? Corkscrews! Yes,
the counter on your left, sir.” “You’ve
just been spoken to by an ex-Lord Mayor
of Melbourne,” whispered the Australian
to his companion. Half an hour later
they went into a large universal providers’
for a safety razor, and were standing
looking helplessly about them when a
gentleman as courteous as the other
approached and said, “Lift, sir? Yes, sir,
over there in the corner.” “You’ve just
spoken to the Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne,” whispered the Melburnian to
his relative.
* * * *
“Grog”: Beer was the original naval
liquor ration (B. 29 / 3 /’39), one gallon
being the daily issue; necessary because
the water on board was usually undrink-
able. Later, wine was issued instead of
beer in ships going to the Mediterranean.
Rum was first issued to ships on the
West Indian station in 1688. It was
regarded as a medicinal necessity because
naval diet then consisted almost entirely
of salt meat and biscuits.
A RESERVATION.
‘'Women as . well as men will be prosecuted for
‘jay-walking’ if the offence is flagrant.”
— N.S.W. Minister Bruxner.
The cops have so far had a lenient eye,
A pleasantly chivalrous pity,
For flappers who flout and for dames who
defy
The laws that obtain and the rules that apply
For crossing the streets of our city.
But she mustn’t continue to think that the
fact
Of her sex will invariably weigh
When she gets apprehended barefaced in the
act
With naught from the guilt of her lapse to
detract,
The woman who walks like a jay.
Our Bruxner at first was a bit disinclined
To rule that a skirt who meandered
Away from the line for pedestrians designed
Should be tapped on the shoulder and sum-
moned and fined,
In accord with the masculine standard.
But no longer she’ll feel it’s as safe as a
bank
To make the diagonal play;
She’ll risk being called to account for her
prank—•
That’s if her offence is sufficiently rank—
The woman who walks like a jay.
There are numerous Eves in whose gait you
may trace
The genuine poetry of motion,
The infinite glamor and exquisite grace
So often discerned in the avian race
When it lands from the air or the ocean.
But our street regulations are growing more
strict,
And she’ll now be expected to pay
Whatever deterrent the Beak may inflict —
Assuming she’s nailed in flagrante delict. —•
The woman who walks like a jay.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“E.E.”: Mrs. Short-and-Stout was full
of apologies for being late for the bridge-
party. “Such an awful thing, my dear,”
she gushed. “A drunken man on the
tram assaulted the conductor, and when
a policeman arrived to take him in charge
the language he used was appalling. The
names he called the policeman! Dread-
ful! In fact,” she lowered her voice half
a tone, “he used language that as a
rule one only hears in the sanctity of
one’s own home.”
* *
“Oxmead”: Some deserved ridicule
has been poked at a certain Albert
Wetjen, who writes wild and whirling
stories of the Australian bush for the
“Saturday Evening Post”; but in one
called “Baldy Bill Takes a Wife.” the
illustrator has outdone the story-teller.
He has depicted a lubra as plump and
comely and pleasant-featured and desir-
able-looking as one of those South Sea
belles who wear hibiscus in their hair
and make inroads on the hearts of
wandering Europeans. It is enough to
make Brunton Stephens, author of those
memorable lines
Most unaesthetical of things terrestrial,
Hast thou indeed an origin celestial?
Thy lineaments are positively bestial.
turn in his grave.
* * * *
“Uramao”: “J.D.’s” par. about a
Digger’s statue and an adjacent pub (B.
13/3/’39) reminds me of one of the few
jokes to be found in Scotchbyterian
Dunedin, Maoriland. The inevitable
statue of Robert Burns has its back to
a kirk and its face to a public bar.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: “Hawkshaw” fB. 22/3/’39)
will further appreciate the complexity of
character of the late Richard White, sus-
pected of two murders, now that his will
has temporarily torpedoed the inquest.
White appointed the Deputy Coroner
sole executor of hi,s estate, and the D.C.
son representative of the estate and bene-
ficiaries. He bequeathed
to ecclesiastical charities
the whole of the estate
that came to him from
his wife, thus disappoint-
ing the seasonable ex-
pectations of her numer-
ous relatives. Most
criminals are content to
cease their troubling
when life ends, but the
late Mr. White seems to
have carried his tortuous
tendencies beyond the
grave.
* *
“Jachris”: Thle Sydney
co. which is meshing for
sharks off metropolitan
beaches, under Govern-
ment contract, should cut
a notch for its thousandth
shark before its subsidy
cuts out in October. So
far 896 have been
dragged aboard ; one was
a 22-footer. The concern
has been operating for
two years; during that
time no bather has been
grabbed by a shark off
Sydney beaches, and the
lifesavers report a 75 p.c.
decrease in shark alarms,
attributing it to disturb-
ance of the sharks’ habits
and breeding - grounds.
The co. has been using
four boats, carrying 22
men; last week it
launched another. But
processing the catches for
oil and fishmeal has been
interdicted by municipal
authorities.
“Den.”: During the period that Boc-
caccio’s Decameron figured among the
books banned by the Australian Customs
Department (B. 22/3/’39) it could always
be read at the Sydney Public Library.
Not that the library ignored the ban. On
the contrary, it enforced it most vigor-
ously, refusing to make available to the
ordinary citizen even editions in Italian
which were not included in the prohibi-
tion. No objection was raised, however,
if a book called Painter’s Palace of
Pleasure was asked for. This book, a
translation made in Elizabeth’s reign by
William Painter of stories by Boccaccio
and other old Italian story-tellers, pro-
vided more than one plot for Shakspeare
and his fellow-dramatists.
* * * *
The Office Antiquary once more:
A car accident ended the useful life of May
Holman, Westralian Labor’s one Assembly-
woman, and another has closed the account of
Frank Baker, M.H.R. for Griffith, who knew
Miss Holman well. Poor Baker! There were
stormy passages in his political career, and he
brought a Supreme Court action against an-
other Labor member, but he seemed to have
got over his troubles when the fatal and per-
fidious car killed him. Once at Canberra he
had a go at J. E. Webb, M.L.A. for Hurst-
ville (N.S.W.). Somehow he got it into his
head that J. E. Webb was identical with a
Bulletin man of the same name, and he
figured the composite individual as taking his
ease in a city club surrounded by crusted Con-
servatives. The political Webb predeceased
'No use, Bill — We'll have to move 'em away from them Indians
“Gad, Prendergast, what an eye-opener! I'd no idea all that machinery
Was down here!"
Baker by a few weeks. The third party, an
older man than either, is left to muse on the
inscrutableness of Fate and the instability of
human affairs.
* * * *
“MacHoodz”: Mein Gott, I do not
see vy Der Bulledin should go ub in
der skies and blaster Sydney with ugly
great red bosters gomblaining that she
has in der Vaterland been banned. I
bick her ub und I see —vot golor? Red!
I oben her virst bage und vot do I see
—it is not to be gredited! I ged my
dictionary. Der Red Bage! I shoud
“Brobaganda vrom Moscow!”
* * * i*
“X.S.”: Justice Lowe, of Melbourne,
made a decision of far-reaching signifi-
cance to landlords and tenants recently.
Boardinghouse-keeper was in debt to
landlord, who got a judgment and an
order to distrain on furniture valued at
£lOO. But before he did so the tenant
had made a verbal present of the fur-
niture to her sister, handing a chair over
as a token of renunciation. A fortnight
later landlord carried off her goods and
chattels, but it turned out that the sym-
bolic act was as good as a written
document, under the Property Law Act
of 1928, which repealed the previous law
requiring deeds in writing passed under
the auspices of Queen Elizabeth. So
back came the chattels.
* * * *
“T.”: I am one of the few who have
never gone into raptures over the achieve-
ments of daredevil flying men and
women. Pioneering flights there had
to be, and all honor to the pioneers,
but it has always seemed to me that
long-distance flights which have no
utilitarian purpose are of no more service
to God or man than circus tricks. And the
praise lavished on these unnecessarily-
risky performances is absurdly appor-
tioned. The performer gets nearly all;
so little is reserved for the inventor that
inventors are almost unknown to news-
paper readers who could reel off the
names of 20 stunters; and, as for the
mechanics, they are never even men-
tioned. Yet the mechanics are a
thoroughly competent race and most
fliers would be lost without them. My
first and only flight was made in a frail
war-time machine, and the mechanic in-
spired much more confidence in me than
did the pilot, though he was capable
enough. When little ladies like (never
you mind!) and lounge lizards like Mol-
lison can become successful pilots, surely
any person of ordinary intelligence and
nerve can be trained to fly. I see Mol-
lison has been punished in France for
acting the sozzled fool up aloft to the
danger of peaceful trippers at a watering-
place. One menace to world peace in
difficult and delicate times is that ’planes
and bombs and machine-guns are in all
countries entrusted to youngsters who
may conceivably be even sillier and more
irresponsible than Mollison.
*****
Basil Newth throws light on a geo-
graphical tangle:
“Albina” (B. 22/3/’39) is astray. Strzelecki
made no mistake when in 1840 he named the
highest mountain in all Australia Kosciusko.
He named it for its resemblance to Kosciusko’s
bier, which fixes its identity. It was about
1880 that the more spectacular Mount Towns-
end, not Very obviously less high, acquired
Mount Kosciusko’s right and title. Geo-
graphical textbooks then gave Mount Towns-
end as the highest mountain in Australia;
Mount Kosciusko became renamed as Towns-
end. Then came Von Lendenfeld, who per-
ceived the erstwhile Mt. Kosciusko’s greater
altitude, rediscovered it, and called it Mueller’s
Peak. The N. S. Wales Lands Department,
never in the least doubt about the relative
heights of these summits, at this stage authori-
tatively settled the question in favor of Strze-
lecki’s original pronouncement and its own
surveyor’s observations. In the last act the
lesser summit, Townsend originally, became
Mueller’s Peak. I’m interested, because I lived
at Mt. Kosciusko proper, on the summit, from
December, 1897, to February, 1900, inclusive,
for the first nine months under Bernard Ingle-
by, and, after his resignation, in charge of
Wragge’s meteorological station.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT.
Joe Lyons acquires very little of praise
And of censure a lot,
While the brickbats outnumber by far the
bouquets
Which at Stevens are shot;
Yet each, it’s asserted, is using his nob
To serve an ungratefully critical mob
And neither would care if it cost him his
job—
Believe it or not.
Our cops and our ’tecs are beginning to look
As if they were not
Efficient enough for the thug and the crook;
But they’ll tell you it’s rot.
With their manifold duties it’s just a bit hard
Our lives to protect and our chattels to guard,
But no brainier sleuths will be found at “The
Yard” — •
Believe it or not.
At races the frequent “reversals of form”
May seem a bit hot,
Causing cynics to whistle and punters to storm,
But it can’t be forgot
That Nemesis waits for the schemer who tries
To screep his misdeeds from the vigilant eyes
Of the wideawake gents we refer to. as
“stis” —
Believe it or not.
Our poets no longer melodiously sing;
They care not a jot
For verse with the true Tennysonian ring
Or the music of Scott.
In harsh dithyrambics their souls they express,
With meanings at which you perplexedly guess,
And count it as readable nevertheless —
Believe it or not.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
CRAVENA
tmeb value*- they be,,
okays SModfetkedt!
10 for 9d 20 for I'6
atuMf
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SC
IHIH
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia, which already rejoices or is
supposed to rejoice in a Loan Council and
a Premiers’ Conference, is to have a
National Council. As the National
Council is to consist of “the Prime
Minister and the various Premiers,” it
will merely be the Premiers’ Conference
under another name. In Britain, Maori-
land and South Africa, the National
Government is the National Council,
“various Premiers” not being allowed on
the premises.
Premier Forgan Smith, commenting
unanswerably on “the chaotic state of
the defence preparations and the con-
tinued vacillation of the central Gov-
ernment,” added a sentence for the bene-
fit of crusaders and interventionists of
both sexes —some of the women are as
wild as some of the men:
The days of expeditionary forces, with
five per cent, war bonds for those who
stay at home,' are definitely at an end.
Very definitely at an end, but Hughes and
the editors of Great Dailies can’t see it.
Their minds haven’t moved since 1914.
Lyons kept Bruce longer in Australia
than he intended to stay, but he is off
at last, via the U.S.A. During his
sojourn he had to accommodate his
utterances to those of a P.M. with the
jitters, and for that reason they weren’t
so informative or so trenchant as he
could have made them. Still, he man-
aged to convey that Chamberlain did a
great service to the Empire in Septem-
ber and that, while obeying the instinct
which impels a gentleman in every walk
of life to take a man’s word till he shows
that his word is not worth taking, the
old man was not wholly deceived. Wit-
ness the speeding up of rearmament.
Before he left for England as High
Commissioner, Bruce said that he had
taken pressmen into his confidence hun-
dreds of times and had never been let
down. Before he departed on Friday he
characterised as “an arrant breach of
faith” a description of the Cliveden Set
attributed to him by the Sydney “D.T.”
and the “Daily News”: —-
They are a harmless lot of amiable
lunatics, headed by that lunatic Nancy
Astor, who has set herself up as a sort
of Nazi mouthpiece in England.
The words “arrant breach of faith”
occurred in a “Daily News” report of
another conversation:
I was only chatting with those fellows,
and they should have known that what I
said was not for publication. Actually I
have nothing against the Cliveden Set.
I think they are a very decent crowd of
politically intelligent people.
The “D.N.” asserts that “a conference
of the reporters present decided that Mr.
Bruce had put no restriction on his re-
marks.” Then “S. M. Herald” must have
imposed a restriction.
Lord Runciman had a breakdown
after his exertions for the Czechs in
September and is recuperating on a
voyage to Australia and Maoriland.
Police protected him on his arrival in
Sydney, a small Red mob having hooted
him when he reached Melbourne. These
louts, while perhaps Australian by
the accident of birth, represent a nasty
foreign element. If war comes they and
their Moscow masters may be Our
Allies.
It came out last week that the Stevens
Government had increased the salary and
allowances of its Police Commissioner,
the much-advertised Mac Kay, from £1771
to £2OOO p.a. This grant of public money
to the head ©f a department which sig-
nally fails to catch murderers was, it
seems, made “five or six months ago,”
when the State was heading for an enor-
mous deficit. It wasn’t referred to the
alleged Parliament in Macquarie-street,
Parliamentary control of the public purse
having become a bad joke, like the “Par-
liament” itself.
Scolding Menzies for saying, in a level-
headed broadcast speech, that he sees “no
cause for panic in the international situa-
tion,” and refuses to accept “the doctrine
of the inevitability of war between the
democracies and the dictatorships,”
“S. M. Herald” tartly reminded him that
“in mid-September he was ‘disposed to
discount the significance of German mili-
tary demonstrations against Czecho-
slovakia.’ ” On the next page Granny
announced the bloodless surrender of
Madrid to the Spanish Nationalists. How
many times did Granny assure its public
that Franco and his mercenaries were
sure to lose the war?
The widow of J. W. Waddell, M.L.A.,
is to try to hold the Waverley (N.S.W.)
Assembly seat for the U.A.P. Her hus-
band’s majority in a poll of 19,851 was
only 569. In Balmain, where John
Quirk’s widow has succeeded him as
“It’s no use, Mr. Lang—your Mr. Martin positively assures me you are dead.”
member, the sexes are almost equally
divided. There are 2000 more women
than men in Waverley, and the U.A.P.
hopes, rather than believes, that this will
be an advantage on polling-day.
French-Canadians are demanding non-
co-operation in the European war which
dazzles the minds of so many alleged
Australians. It is an immediate effect of
the Russian-alliance madness. A Russian
alliance would divide the Empire, and a
lost war in which Russia was an ally
might dismember it.
Victoria’s two Agrarian groups, “the
United Country party” and “the Liberal
Country party,” had their annual pala-
vers last week, and the burden of most
of the speeches was that the other “party”
was a cow. Premier Dunstan turned
from contemplation of the other crowd’s
rottenness to have a cut at the Loan
Council, saying that in six years it had
let “absolutely financially-bloated” N. S.
Wales borrow £67,000,000, mostly
through “semi-Government authorities,”
while “solvent” Victoria had been fobbed
off with £19,000,000. Certainly the L.C.,
under Casey’s flaccid leadership, has
allowed Stevens to get round the finan-
cial agreement.
Says J. B. Dwyer, the A.N.A.’s new
president: —•
We shall never get a proper scheme of
decentralised government in Australia until
complete legislative powers are* vested in
the Commonwealth Parliament.
True; and it is equally true, as Dwyer
says, that provincial control of ports,
harbors and railways (which doesn’t exist
in South Africa) handicaps the authority
entrusted with defence. But it is lament-
able to read that “the A.N.A. stands em-
phatically against compulsory military
training.” South Africa, Switzerland and
other democracies which are very effi-
ciently defended believe in national
training ; and so did the A.N.A. once.
March, 1939, will be remembered not
only for perfidious remaking of the map
of Central Europe but for the strange
and sad mortality among politicians. In
Britain six Commoners died in 12 days;
but there are 615 Commoners. Queens-
land Labor, with about a twelfth of
that number of members, lost by death
in 24 days Wellington, M.L.A., Speaker
Pollock, Minister Hynes and Baker,
M.H.R. During the same period West-
ralian Labor lost its Miss Holman,
M.L.A., for years the only lady politi-
cian in Australia.
On February 9 our Government of
shreds and patches decided on a volun-
tary national register, subsequently inti-
mating, through a press agent, that “sup-
port for the proposal was so strong that
it was adopted after a discussion lasting
only an hour.” On March 27 Defence
Minister Street, at whom his colleague
Hughes chips in public almost every day,
brokenly announced that nothing had
been done —“I can only frankly admit
that there has been delay, and I regret
it.” On March 29 the Government of
shreds and patches decided on a corn-
pulsory national register. This time
Lyons announced it himself, mentioning
that in the early days of the Great War
there were many square pegs in round
holes.” There were, and there are yet;
above all, at Canberra.
Does anyone ever read the Fourteen
Points nowadays? The first Point was:
Open covenants of peace, openly arrived
at, after which there shall be no private
international understanding of any kind,
but diplomacy shall proceed always
frankly and in the public view.
It came back to memory when an Aus-
tralian newspaper, which declares day
after day that Australia should “resist
aggression” by fighting for Slavs, printed
this from its “Own Correspondent” in
London: —
It is highly probable that, even if a
Four-Power Agreement could be achieved
against German aggression, the form that
the instrument would take would not be
revealed to the public.
Poor Wilson at least had his dream. The
paper that champions the new collective
insecurity and the new secret diplomacy
has only nightmares.
Heffron Labor’s nominee in Waverley
is C. E. Martin, who, as M.L.A. for
Young, was a member of the Lang
Caucus during Lang’s most hectic period,
1930-32. As such Martin was perfectly
tame when criticism would have been
useful; now he
says, with fine
scorn, “I’m not
going to worry
about Mr. Lang
during this elec-
tion—Mr. Lang is
dead.” Meantime
he became a
member of the
Junior Bar. Loud
shouts of “Lang
is right” were
heard from that
quarter when
Lang was wildly
wrong; but times
and opinions have
changed.
Of Norbert
Keenan, K.C., the
oldest man in the
Perth Assembly
(he is 73), it was
written before the
recent election
that he had at-
tended every sit-
ting last year;
and his Nedlands
constituents re-
elected him with
the greatest single
vote given to a
Westralian candi-
date. There are
no Keenans on
the Ministerial
benches in Mac-
quarie-street, Syd-
ney. Eighteen were missing last Wednes-
day when Premier Stevens struck trouble
and two divisions were carried against
his Government. His proposal was that
the Assembly, which has just fooled about
for four weeks, should loaf for another
four weeks. Like Mr. Lyons at Can-
berra, Mr. Stevens has drifted into the
way of thinking that he is,Parliament.
From Brisbane: —-
Forgan Smith has declared against any
period of compulsory military training for
youths. Simultaneously, he announced an ex-
tension of one year in the period of com-
pulsory school attendance, and his Minister
Hanlon announced plans to protect the people
against air raids and gas attacks. Isn’t com-
pulsory military training more justifiable than
an addition to the existing period of com-
pulsory schooling? A man or woman without
a country would not be happy even with a
university degree.


TREASON.
“Dr. Goebbels’s dog, Rolf, is said to have bitten the Fuehrer’s hand as he attempted to stroke it."


Do You Get 5 per cent, a
Year on Your Savings?
frnß SLCURfry
Hundreds of men and women throughout Australia enjoy
a better income since they bought FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES. Their savings, often as
low as £20~£25, are spread securely over the shares of
20 first-class companies, with the Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd., as Custodian Trustees. Income distri-
buted twice yearly, and Certificates realisable at any time.
Write for Booklet No. 2 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
SHARE PRICES—WHY THEY FLUCTUATE
N.Z. EXCHANGE
GOLD —TIN—COPPER
WHAT’S GOOD TO BUY AND SELL
April Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
PERSDNAL ITEM S
The somewhat serious visage here
attacked by Frith belongs to S. N.
Houston, who should be smiling. Born in
Melbourne about 38 years ago, he was
educated at All Saints’ Grammar School,
joined the staff of Dalgety’s when he
was 18 and is now head valuer for the
firm in Melbourne. To top off his com-
fortable record the Australian Wool
Board nominated him to represent Aus-
tralia in the wool section of the N’York
World Fair-—the biggest of its kind yet
—and he is already on the high seas
S. N. HOUSTON.
bound for N’York and intent on inves-
tigating the possibilities of furthering
sales of Australian wool to Uncle Sam —
in 1936-37 America took a quarter of a
million bales in the Australian market.
With T. T. F. Traill, of Cynthia station,
on the Upper Burnett (Q.), who died re-
cently at Gayndah, there passed a link
with The Bulletin of older days. His
father was W. H. Traill, the large, force-
ful and bearded editor and principal
proprietor during several of this jour-
nal’s most eventful youthful years. He
himself could recall many good stories
of the period, illuminated by recollec-
tions of paternal comment and criticism,
often given in excellent mimicry, for the
benefit of those who had known dad.
For a while T.T.F. contemplated the
Inky Way, but wisely abandoned it half a
century ago for the Globe coppermine,
near Mt. Perry (Q.), which he managed,
with other ventures, for a syndicate of
which he was the guiding spirit. Later
he became a successful pastoralist.
The usual laudatory flapdoodle was
emitted at a Parliamentary luncheon in
Melbourne over the departing form of
Lord Huntingfield, the most inoffensive
Governor Victoria has ever had. The
wildest sensation was caused when Gaud
Mayor Coles blamed him for introducing
the flocks of ring-necked doves that infest
the metropolis. The fact is that when in
India with the Hussars Lord Hunting-
field consigned 12 pairs to his uncle,
Willie Armstrong, Speaker of the Queens-
land Parliament. Unless they breed like
rabbits the Melbourne birds can'hardly
be descendants of the Brisbane immi-
grants. They are agreeable pests, any-
how, and such as only the most jaundiced
citizens would do without. Moreover,
they have created an important small-
boy industry.
Mining engineers are travelling men,
and Ellis Davies is no exception. As
chief engineer for Charles Ruwolt, Mel-
bourne, he is as well known in Fiji as
in W.A., and wherever there are payable
holes in Australasian soil Ruwolt’s Aus-
tralian-made machinery is usually to be
found. He travelled 70,000 miles by air
in a recent year. The Orion has just
taken him off to London as the start of
a world tour which will embrace the
Continent, Canada and U.S.A.
Joined the heavenly choir, at 82,
Frederick Bevan, for nearly 40 years
teacher of singing at Adelaide Uni. Con.
Before coming to Australia in 1898 he
had quite a career in London, from
choirboy to organist, “Gentleman of the
Chapel Royal” and “Vicar Choral” of
St. Paul’s. Also he wrote at least two
well-known songs, “The Flight of Ages”
and “The Admiral’s Broom”; and he
knew Sullivan and the other musicians
of the time intimately. But he settled
down happily in Adelaide, was immensely
popular as conductor, teacher and church
organist, and often acted as judge of
singing at Ballarat competitions.
L. T. Maclnnes, retired N. S. Wales
Director of Dairying, administered
that branch of the Agricultural De-
partment for 23 years. His first job
was in the Hunter Valley 47 years
ago, when he helped manage and milk a
herd of 2000 cows. Two years later he
was managing a factory, and in 1906,
after four years in the Argentine, he
joined the N.S.W. depart-
ment as a butter-grader.
He became dairy expert in
1919, the title later being
changed to Director of
Dairying.
The honest but not un-
usual name of John
Thomas Smith belongs to
the doyen of Melbourne’s
gardeners. J.T. started as
gardener to the late E. L.
Yencken, then became
curator of the Malvern
Gardens, and now, as
curator of the city’s parks
and gardens, controls 1700
acres and disposes of
£lOO,OOO a year. Smith
has twice let himself go,
once at the Exhibition
Building in the floral dis-
play which greeted the
Yorks, and again in the
vast design which con-
fronted the Duke of Glou-
cester at the Town Hall.
A good half of the organ-
isation of the present Gar-
den Week has been due
to him.
The Runcimans almost
equal the record of the
celebrated Soong family,
of China, for making poli-
tics a family affair. The
latest lord, now visiting Australia,
and his viscountess were the first
man and wife to sit simultaneously in
the House of Commons. Lord Runci-
man sponsored his own father to his seat
after the same election which brought in
his wife. Her father also sat in the
Father of Parliaments when her name
was Hilda Stevenson.
Alec H. Chisholm, ex-editor of Mel-
bourne “Argus,” has returned to Aus-
tralia after a seven months’ trip overseas
which followed his stepping out from the
editorial job. He has joined up with the
Melbourne “Herald,” doing book re-
views and other things and providing a
good sound naturalist, with a leaning to
birds, if someone is needed to stand be-
side Charles Barrett. Chisholm has writ-
ten half a dozen books on birds and
nature study.
G. H. Cowling, professor of English
literature at Melbourne Uni., has an im-
pressive array of academic honors. Eng-
lish-born, he was lecturer and reader at
Leeds University in 1914, and left to join
up with the West Riding Regiment and
Intelligence Corps in France in 1915. He
is the author of Preface to Shakspeare
and other works, and is 57.
A young Melbourne musician whose
career may be worth watching is N. J.
B. Nickson, who was awarded the Clarke
Scholarship at the University Conserva-
torium for a violin concerto of his own
composition and for his playing of the
Bach “Chaconne.” Scholarship entitles
the winner to three years’ tuition at the
Royal College of Music, London. Nick-
son is 19, and comes from Melbourne
Grammar. His father won the first award
under the scholarship.
Walter Jardine’s delightful decorations,
pictures and posters have been familiar
to more than one generation of Austra-
lians, and the United States also knew
them for five and a half years during
the amazingly progressive 1920’5. Jar-
dine began his career on the old Sydney
“Telegraph,” he designed full-page ads.
for the “Star” before it became the
“Sun,” and his work was a periodical
feature of The Bulletin before he left
for the States. Health reasons and a
touch of homesickness brought him back,
and for years now he has been design-
ing gorgeous posters for the Sydney
Show, colorful advertisements for ship-
ping and other cos., and since seeing
Frith’s plastic effort re himself he
WALTER JARDINE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
reckons he’ll take up modelling. For
recreation he helps his wife and two
daughters keep the cats and dogs off his
roses at Roseville, and wanders round in
the rough at Manly looking for a
“bramble” golf-ball. The Bobby Jones
Club has inscribed his name on the Burke
and Wills trophy for exploratory work.
It’s a cowbell.
The South Australian Government’s
chief advertising man is Alexander James
Baker, whose appointment as Director
of the Publicity, Tourist and Immigration
A. J. BAKER.
Bureau has just been gazetted. Baker,
who was born in Adelaide 47 years ago,
disclosed talents as a booster in connec-
tion with the centenary celebrations, and
particularly the Floral Pageant. He’s
now chairman of the annual Floral Day
executive. Has played cricket since he
was 20, and has been a S.A.C.A. com-
mitteeman for ten years.
Journalist Walter Alan Woods, passed
on in Hobart at the 77th milestone, wrote
a lot of prose and verse for The Bul-
letin as “John Drayman.” One of the
trade - union and Labor - movement
pioneers in Australia, he remained a
staunch Labor man all his life, and as
member for Denison was twice Speaker
of the Tasmanian Leg. Ass. Born in Vic-
toria, Woods went over to Tasmania as
a young man, and was concerned with
the publication of such Labor journals
as the Launceston “Democrat” and the
Hobart “Clipper” and “Daily Post.”
He was the first president of the Tas-
manian district of the A.J.A., and took
a part in founding the first State school
parents’ associations in Tasmania.
T. B. Swanson, recently appointed lec-
turer in chemistry at the University Col-
lege, Armidale, has collaborated with
Prof. Killen Macbeth, of Adelaide Uni.,
in research work on the chemistry of
terpenes and the constituents of eucalyp-
tus oil. For some time he has been
pharmaceutical chemistry lecturer at
Adelaide Uni., where he obtained his
B.Sc. in 1932 and his M.Sc. in 1936.
A varied pedagogic career was ended
by the death in Sydney at 66 of Alex-
ander Thompson. Born in Victoria of Scot-
tish parents, he entered the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Department’s service as a pupil-
teacher in 1886, graduated at Sydney
Uni. in 1895, and was appointed
chief schoolmaster of the training ship
Sobraon in 1896. Later he served as a
lecturer at Sydney Training College,
headmaster at Tumut, English master at
Fort-street (Sydney), and superintendent
of the Girls’ Industrial School at Parra-
matta. In 1923 he was appointed Assist-
ant Secretary of the N.S.W. Child Wel-
fare Department, becoming secretary six
years later. He retired in 1934. His
hobby was meteorology, and for a
quarter of a century he was a specia.
observer for the Commonwealth Meteor-
ology Bureau.


ss
for those r i n ks . •
variety » po ssibUi«.
1 (Uess p ossibUi tiesl
Horse offers toO** P
Hoi e >^p
IP
■W '■
■
v* v- •'
Pilipp l^^
m
■ ij'
5. ckV :
‘Sii^rr'w
a
tr
3yts*
■SI
-»' c UA**'. , v *»
*«**% vt^- ! «
£SS&:
n
mm
(M' 1 ' H'
S'jti ?*.
:
%S#
<rs' f
111
> m
mm
Whether it’s a long, cool thirst-quencher you need or short, tangy
appetiser, a stimulating refresher or a comforting nightcap, your
“White Horse” bottle provides the very thing. The variety of drinks
it offers is almost endless... .The“ Ascot” is one example (see recipe
below). Try it. . . . But be sure you use “White Horse” Whisky.
Long, patient maturing and careful, expert blending give “White
Horse” a distinctive character that is maintained in any
combination of ingredients—a flavour, fragrance and smoothness
no other whisky provides.
Try an “Ascot” *
TO-DAY, TRY AN "ASCOT” Half fill shaker with cracked ice. For each person add
half cocktail glass of "White Horse" Whisky, half cocktail glass of orange juice, and
white of an egg. Shake well.
W.H. 1-39.
r
N
r*
JlT’
“I ca// fe//
‘White Horse’
blindfold!
. . . There’s no mistaking that delight-
ful aroma, that smooth mellowness,
that warmth without a trace of ’fire’.
'White Horse’ is equal to a fine
liqueur.”
I


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Hungry” Wilson, who’d
been baching out on Prungle for some
months, lobbed in Euston (N.S.W.) on
the night of a concert for the Bush Nurs-
ing Association. Tickets were 25., and
there was supper after the show.
“Hungry” divided his time between the
pub and the concert, and when they lined
up for the feed those who didn’t know
discovered how he got his sobriquet. He
mowed down plate after plate of sand-
wiches, fruit tarts and cakes, and kept
coming back for more. Filled with dis-
may, the B.N.A. workers watched the
edibles vanish into that insatiable maw,
for they always depended on the sale
of uneaten foodstuffs for their profit. At
last, sighing and replete, “Hungry” leaned
back, to find almost every eye in the
hall on him. “Cripes, that was good,”
he grinned at them. “Best tucker I’ve
struck f’r munce. What makes it all the
better is that it’s all in a good cause,
too.” Slowly and solemnly the buxom
lady who led the toilers moved towards
“Hungry.” “I’m sorry,” she said, with
heavy sarcasm, “but all we have left is
a tin of biscuits.” “Aw, tha’s all right,
missus,” was the cheerful answer ; “I’ll
take ’em out to me camp. 01’ Speckles,
me dorg, loves biscuits.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I still doubt “Calypso’s”
(B. 22/3/’39) extraordinary feat of run-
ning down a bunny on a bike. There are
“immense plains, as firm almost as
asphalt,” in the Ma State’s western
Riverina and, provided the rabbit kept
a straight course, any cyclist could fol-
low it till it knocked up. But rabbits in
N.S.W. have an annoying habit of turn-
ing and doubling swiftly in all directions
when hunted, and that’s what I want to
see “Calypso” pedalling after. As I said
before, anybody who can keep a bike on
a healthy bunny’s tail, especially on an
open plain, should be a star turn in
vaudeville.
* * * *
“James W.”: Every city, town and
village has had claimed for it the police-
•man who.shifted the dead horse from
Nebuchadnezzar to High-street, told a
witness that his portmanteau was a box
and wrote accordingly,. and warned the
motorist that he must go round him on
the corner whether he was there or not;
but a limb of the law who once pounded
the pavements of Mackay (N.Q.) capped
the lot in actual fact. A motorist came
from a theatre, and in due course dis-
covered that his car had been stripped
of its spark-plugs. He invoked the assist-
ance of the said copper, who asked a
string of questions leading them precisely
nowhere. The cop was baffled, but with
a sudden flash of genius asked, “Are
ye sure now that ye had they plugs in
whin ye left home?”
f- * * *
“Orelob”: “Billy See’s” chemistry (B.
22/3/’39) is not up to his natural history.
He says that “sodium chloride secreted
by the leaves of the saltbush absorbs
moisture from the atmosphere.” Sodium
chloride is common salt, and in its pure
state is anhydrous. The moisture-
absorbing property of the salt in the
salt-cellar is caused by the presence of
impurities, mainly magnesium chloride.
When these impurities are removed the
pure sodium chloride is as dry as the
proverbial bone, and stays so, even in a
monsoon.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Since the rains softened the
surface soil, mole crickets have been play-
the dickens with the lawn. They drive
tunnels just below the surface, heaving
the earth behind them with their powerful
spade-shaped front legs, and cutting the
grass roots as they go. The king-
crickets, too, giants of the race and near
relatives of the M.L. weta, so disliked by
the Maori, are burrowing holes under
the trees and dragging leaves into the
“ 'Scuse fingers, Algy !”
entrances for some reason that I’ve never
been able to fathom. If you have the
curiosity to dig one of the. 3in.-long
brutes out—quite a spade job usually—
don’t pick him up with your fingers for
a closer look. His face, with its savage-
looking jaws, should be sufficient warn-
mg, but if you disregard it he is entirely
anxious and willing to deal out a bite
that draw blood and really hurts,
Then, if the children are within hearing,
you can call him Anostostoma austra-
lasice. But I wouldn’t risk it.
*** . *
“Pat”: Watching men working in a
N.Q. slaughteryard, I was amazed to see
them walking barefoot on a concrete
floor that was being sprayed with a
solution of caustic soda. I questioned a
stockman who was looking on as to why
they did not wear boots as a protection,
“They useter, but the caustic rotted the
leather,” he said,
* * * *
“Dingo”: Struck what I thought was
a good perch hole, and truthfully told an
inquiring passer-by that I had caught
18. “Can’t be biting to-day,” he re-
marked. “I landed the best part of 60
yesterday afternoon.” I said little, but
indulged in a fair amount of private
doubting. A few days later I ran into the
same fellow with his catch beside him
and wiped him right off the Ananias
list, for he had his 40-odd, with most of
the afternoon to go. Sunset brought the
revelation of his method. He picked up
the slack of a rope from the bank and
hauled in a perforated kerosene-tin from
beneath the spot where his float had
dangled. It was chock-a-block with
worm-bait. “What they call ground-bait
in the Old Dart!” he chuckled. “Aus-
tralians don’t seem to have heard of it.”
He was right about me and my fishing
friends, for a start. Any Aboliar ever
strike somebody at it?
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The dragonfly is noted for
more than its great speed (B. 15/3/’39).
It can fly backwards and sideways as
easily as forward. A conspicuous feature
of the long-bodied hunter is its wonderful
compound eyes, which almost cover its
head, and which are said to be formed
of thousands of separate facets which
enable it to see in all directions at once
without a movement of its slender neck.
It is commonly known as horse-stinger
because it is often seen on or about
horses. But the opal-winged aerial acro-
bat is incapable of hurting the tenderest
skin. It is really a protector of horses,
for it preys on the insects that annoy
them. It is mostly found hovering along
riversides and over pools and swamps,
dealing death to common flies, mos-
quitoes and other pests. In its larval
stage, under water, it feeds voraciously
on the larva; of mosquitoes. The two
breed practically together, and thus the
dragonfly is ever destroying the pestilent
stingers.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: When line-fishing on a
W.A. estuary we invariably throw the
trash, such as trumpeter, etc., back.
Hovering overhead, expectant of a feed,
will be the usual insatiable flock of gulls.
Almost before the trumpeter hits the
water one will be down. Then away,
fighting for dear life and desperately try-
ing to swallow, with the rest of the flock
in hot pursuit. Generally the pursued
one swallows the meal before it can be
snatched away. Astonishingly large fish
can be gorged, and in obviously un-
favorable circumstances. Little taste and
enjoyment for the eater, yet the gull
above all other seafowl is ever ready to
eat. But such desperate haste in swal-
lowing can hardly permit the throat
glands to savor anything of what is going
down. Which leads to the supposition
that taste must really wait for gratifi-
cation until the food is in the stomach.
* * * *
“Lex Legis”: I suspect that “S. Gum’s”
cowfly (B. 8/3/’39) is really the Euro-
pean stable-fly, probably a W.A. impor-
tation. And here’s a further indictment
against the creature. Does “S.G.” know
that most of the political disabilities
which he as a Groper is alleged to labor
under can be laid at its door? Invari-
ably a habitue of the open spaces, the
s.-fly will enter the human habitation only
when a thunderstorm is brewing. Such
a storm was brewing when long ago
American legislators assembled to sign the
inviolable U.S.A. Constitution. Most of
them wore knee-breeches and silk stock-
ings, and the s.-flies, incited by the ap-
proaching storm, were on the bite.
Several State-righters were reluctant to
sign, but with the flies getting in their
good work the cry went round, “For
God’s sake, sign and let us get away
from this torment.” And next day the
S.-righters were sorry —so sorry that half
a century later they had a civil war on
the matter. And, as everyone knows,
the Commonwealth Constitution was
modelled holus-bolus on that of U.S.A.
So there you are; all because of a few
stable-, or, as “S.G.” has it, cowflies,
W.A. wants to secede—and two promi-
nent secessionists once got a free trip
to London.
* * * *
“Western”: Yes, I agree with “Boga-
duck” (B. 8/ 3/ ’39) that life to some
creatures must be one long torment. But
more agonising than any living parasite
I class the grass-seeds that grow prac-
tically from one end of W.A. to the
other. Have dissected the heads of
slaughtered beasts, sheep, cows, etc.,
nearly all over the area mentioned, and
have found seeds up the nostrils, well in
among the cartilage structures, packed in
the mouth right deep into the root of
the tongue, and even into the under-
part of the tongue itself. One of Nature’s
methods of seed-distribution. Should the
tormented creature become dog-poor and
die, what an excellently fertilised start in
life the progeny of those grass-seeds
would get! Nature cares nothing for
individual suffering. I’ve seen a long-
eared spaniel driven mad by a grass-
seed in its ear. And nothing that any
accessible human could do would avail
to get that grass-seed out.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Striking bush nick-
names (B. 8/ 3 / ’39) were not limited to
mere males in the brave days when Croy-
don (N.Q.) was the roaring metropolis
of the Gulf country. Quite a few women
swaggies humped the drum, as hard in
the feet, face and tongue as any Billy
the Rager or Burnt-whiskers Grogan.
The Trotting Horse and the Speckled
Hen travelled in company, and woe-
betide the forthcoming cove who tried
any funny business on either, drunk or
sober. The Twicer was a tall, gaunt
Scotswoman who earned the name from
her meticulous care in turning out spot-
less washing jobs. Selvagee was queerest
of the lot —she had a wallet of O.S. and
A.B. discharges earned before the mast
in sail, and there was no job in hemp
or Europe rope that the old girl couldn’t
do as an artist. All travelled in female
rig. Bill Edwards can’t be counted,
for she kept the secret of her sex
right up to the Normanton Hospital
morgue. It was Gulf history that the
old doctor took a week to recover from
the shock.
* * * *
“Flight”: Not so long ago I chased a
young brolga to see how he could stretch
himself. When pressed at the finish it
took to the water, wading in and stand-
ing belly-deep ere he turned on me,
opened his gaping mouth, hissed and
offered stoush. Thinking things over, I
remembered ’roos making their last
stands up to the armpits in water. Going
further, I’d known dingoes, cattle, horses
and even sheep, goannas and snakes act-
ing likewise. Turning the picture to the
other side, I remembered having seen
various waterfowl sneaking out to dry
land and hiding in a hoof-track or under
a tussock when they were up against it.
If there is a general rule about those
actions, what is it? Why should land
creatures take to the water when pressed,
and why should the aquatic artists do
the reverse?
A TALE OF THE TUB.
“That times change, even in the outback, is a
fact which seems to escape many people. The Satur-
day night family bath, for instance, is still widely
believed to be a feature of rural life. That is just
a myth.”—C. W.A. speaker.
Heigho! for the pioneer, tough and tenacious,
Who long ago mastered the bush and the
soil;
Who restlessly revelled in realms that were
spacious
And all uncomplainingly tore into toil!
To him do we owe one old, grand institution
Which flourished for long as a positive
rite:
I proudly refer to the weekly ablution
In which he indulged on a Saturday night.
And not only he, for the practice extended
To Mum and the kids; though it must
be confessed
More threats than cajolements were often
expended
In getting the numerous offspring undressed.
The buckets of water were lugged from the
copper;
In front of the big, roaring fire was the
tub
(An ancient affair that was mostly a whopper—
It had to take Mum) in which all had a
scrub.
The rule was inviolate —summer and winter,
The eve of the Sabbath found each one in
soak,
Mum, Dad, Tom and Millie, right down to
young “Splinter”;
Some viewed it as serious, some as a joke.
When drought drained the tanks, forcing water
restriction.
They carted it up from the dam or “the
crick.”
One tub to them all, then; which led to some
friction,
For he who was last had it middling to
thick.
“Times change, we change with them.” That
hoary reflection
On life gains more force when we hear that
no more
The true outback cocky who works his
selection
“AblUtes” in the manner he did as of yore.
We’ve speeded up life, whether wrongly or
rightly,
But doesn’t this “myth” raise a horrible
doubt?
Are baths by bucolics now wallowed in nightly.
Or have they decided to cut ’em right out?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Come out and fight!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me an’ the big fellow
was trampin’ down the Wakool (N.S.W.)
one year an’ we comes to a little place
called Barham just on dark. It’s rainin’
and cold, so when we finds an empty
furnished house on the outskirts of the
place we sneaks in an’ makes camp.
About midnight Mat wakes me up.
There’s noises out in another room. I
slip out o’ bunk, soft-foot to the door,
an’ gets an eyeful of a coupla blokes
pinchin’ the furniture. “They’re bur-
glars,” I whispers when I get back to Mat.
He slips outa his bunk an’ starts for that
door. “Hey,” I gasps, “be careful. They
might have a gun! Whatcha goin’ to
do?” Mat whispers back, fierce and
tense, “Lock that blanky door!”
* * * *
“Cooralco”: “Edjudina’s” par. (B.
8/3/’39) bristles with misstatements.
The nardoo is not a fungus but a clover-
like plant that grows on the edge of
waterholes, flowers and forms a seed that
was only one of many that the abo.
collected for food. Grasses of many
species, acacias (including the mulga), all
added their quota of grist to the abo.
grindstone. Sturt, in his journal, men-
tions that he saw heaps of mulga pods
under the trees where the abos. had been
winnowing the seeds. The quandong,
moulie apple, wild orange and several
others supplied the abo. with fruits that
ensured his quantum of vitamins. Pro-
teins formed the greater part of his diet
as, except during the driest times, meat
was plentiful in the form of emus, kan-
garoos, small marsupials, young birds,
fish and reptiles. Burke and Wills died
on Nappa Merrie waterhole, which has
never been known to be dry. It is well
stocked with fish, and the adjacent
swamps are one of the largest breeding
grounds for waterfowl in Australia. They
died, while the nigs, lived, kept strong
and produced their kind, purely because
they lacked the experience and know-
ledge to cope with the environment.
V * * *
“Porosus”: Even the fiercest of
creatures have their timorous moments.
The late Bob Shadforth, of the Gulf, a
noted croc.-hunter, once narrowly escaped
death from a croc, which stalked him
while he lay asleep on the banks of the
Nicholson. Its tracks showed that not
only was it the father of all saurians, but
that it had dragged itself round the sleep-
ing man, within 18in. of him, before it
had turned and gone back to the river.
And the only thing that saved the man,
making an impassable barrier between
them, was a cheesecloth mosquito net
rigged on four frail stakes!
* * * *
“Colerne”: I saw something of water-
diviners when I was a boy in England,
and, without acquiescing in the extrava-
gant claims sometimes made for them,
I have known them indicate water in
none-too-likely places, contract to sink
for it and have results prove them right
to a few feet. “Tut-tut” (B. 15/3/’39),
who took a dowser over John Forrest’s
“river through the desert,” and gloated
when the forked twig failed to respond,
can’t know much about the operation.
The water, of course, must be in the
naked earth ; any metal surrounding it'
would be a fatal bar. So, for that matter,
is air. It would be as reasonable for
“Tut-tut” to blindfold a dowser and walk
him across a river bridge, and then jeer
at him if his twig wouldn’t work.
* * * *
“Christopher”: Crows are not classed
as soarers by birdmen, yet I have seen
them rise in circles without flapping, like
eagles. They will go up till they appear
only as specks, then suddenly they will
fold their wings and dive, performing
several turns and half-loops on the way
down, finishing up by dropping like a
plummet to the treetops. Shags some-
times behave similarly, but they rise by
flapping and leave out the evolutions,
setting up a “sweeeesh! ” like a coming
tornado.
* * * *
“Wang”; “That there sayin’ ’bout
necessity bein’ the mother of invention
is one of the truest there is,” said Dan.
“Queerest case of it I ever struck wus
one time I wus humpin’ Matilda ’way
back in the open plain country. It wus
a blazin’ hot day, an’ not a skerrick o’
shade anywhere. Then away in the dis-
tance I spots a house with a few trees
round it, an’ makes fer it; when I got
within a quarter of a mile of it I see a
creekbed, an’ hear voices cornin’ from
“Touch ’er up a bit — she's draggin."
what I guessed wus a waterhole in it.
I’m makin’ t’wards this when I spot a
bulgin’ bran-bag lyin’ on the ground.
When I get to it I see it’s got a rope tied
round the top of it, an’ the other end
of the rope tied to a peg driven inter
the ground. I’m standin’ gawpin’ at it,
wonderin’ what it is, when the bag moves.
Then I nearly dropped when a kid’s head
pokes out of a slit in the side of the bag.
The nipper, about a year old, gives a
look at me, an’ then lets out a howl.
Then the top half of a nood woman
comes up over the edge of the creek-
bank. She spots me, gives a yelp an’
disappears. Next instant a young chap,
mother-naked, comes tearin’ up. He
gives a sheepish sorta grin when he sees
me standin’ there. ‘Cripes!’ he ses, ‘I
thought it wus them damned goats!’ He
sees I don’t unnerstand, an’ explains.
‘The damn’ things et all our clobber once
before when we wus havin’ a swim,’ he
ses, ‘so we had t’ find a way t’ beat ’em.
We gotter leave me baby brother safe
up ’ere somewhere, so we thought of
this scheme. We shove our clothes inside
the bag an’ the kid on top of ’em, an’
if the goats come nosin’ around it sets
him yellin’ an’ gives us warnin’. Sorta
kills two cats with the one-gibber, see?’ ”
* * * *
“Stralia”: Shags flying high embody a
wild freedom that even the volplaning of
an eagle lacks. More speedy in the
heights than even the wild duck, they
circle and glide for hours until an un-
usually abrupt descent brings them to
the glistening horizontal.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “I was cookin’ once at
a station,” said Babbler Mick, “where
the missus of the house was patriotism-
mad. When any visitors came the old
girl used ter get me ter color ther jellies
an’ puddin’s red, white and blue ; but
she tore it ther day she come and told me
she wanted ther curry and rice done up
ther same way. ‘l’ll fix her,’ I says; and
though I got ther sack I’ll bet it knocked
ther patriotism fad out of her head. I
leaves ther rice white as it was, mashes
ther spuds and colors them with ther
blue bag, and makes ther curry a fair
dinkum red: it was that red-hot the o.ld
girl nearly sneezed out wot little brains
she ’ad as soon as she got a whiff of it.
I used up a big tin er cayenne pepper fer
me colorin’ effect.”
* * * #
“Karaweena”: It is doubtful if we
properly appreciate the gratitude of
those who express themselves badly. A
casual word of thanks falls easily from
the lips of the educated, without thought
and often without real meaning, but to
others it is a problem. Gave three blacks
a lift recently; when they alighted there
was a brief conference at the back of
the car and then one of them came re-
luctantly forward to thank me. It was
obviously an ordeal.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Only just in time did
Bill glimpse his neighbor Horace unex-
pectedly riding to town. He called,
“Bring me a pipe, Horace.” “A stove-
pipe?” shouted Horace. “Stone the crows,
man! No,” Bill yelled. “A pipe to
smoke!” Horace roared, “Your stove-
pipe smokes.” “Bring me a pipe!” thun-
dered Bill. “Righto,” said Horace.
THE PLAN THAT MISFIRED.
Yair, the rabbits ’ad Dad worried; they’d
been playin’ merry ’ell
With the paddicks and the barley and the
w’eat:
Poison-carts ’ad failed to shift ’em, patent
traps and snares as well—
Cripes! the little beggars ’ad our parent
beat!
’E’s downhearted—really stonkered —in the
Valley of Despair—
And ’e’s feelin’ ’e’s been treated like a
louse:
But once w’en we’re out trappin’, with a yell
that makes me ’air
Stand on end ’e rushes madly to’rds the
’ouse!
Seconds later, out ’e stumbles, and I ’ears a
funny drone:
“Cripes,” I wonder, “wot in thunder is the
lark?”
Then I tumbles —for the parent’s got me bran’-
new saxophone
And ’e’s blowin’ it like blazes, the old
nark!
Down the paddick ’e comes stridin’ with ’is
eyes closed like a Chink —
I’m erbout to tell the cow w’ere ’e alights,
And a few things else I’d stored away besides
w’en, strike me pink!
I perceives a thing that makes me screw me
sights.
From each warren, as ’e passes, cottontailsi
come pourin’ out;
They’re in thousands and they foller ’im
like sheep!
They’re attracted by the . music—just like
snakes yer read about,
I’m schemozzled! Then I sees ’is little
peep,
For I’d ’eard of Robert Brownin’ just the
very same as ’im,
And the story of the Piper ’oo was Pied —
All about ’ow ’e contrived to drown the rats
that couldn’t swim.
As I thinks of them a grin I tries to ’ide;
For as Dad melts o’er the skyline with ’is
rabbits all about,
Makin’ fast time for the Dingo—seven
miles —
I can see that ’e’s fergotten that the districk’s
’ad a drought
And the flamin’ Creek’s as dry as burnt-up
tiles!
W.A.
NABAWA.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. ■ • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
(. Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
ACTS AS
SYDNEY
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
P. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman^);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. .->mcia
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HE4II OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
L L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
f Dividends
Pref., Ord., To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c 7* p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 161,348 11,780 150,000 289,400
2i p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300,274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
1$ p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
2i p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3J p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 15,000 1-00,000 26,821 412,922
It is mainly a holding co.; the position,
therefore, cannot be judged entirely from
the figures in the table. At the end of
1938 all but £387,754 of the £3,475,918
of assets was represented by shares in
other cos. In addition to divs. from some
of these, H.S. rakes in something from
its own activities as agent and manager,
though neither income nor expenditure
is disclosed in the published accounts.
What is plain is that there is £2,250,000
of capital to feed in 250,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 2,000,000 ords. The latter
include £1,550,000 of bonus scrip, mostly
scattered after the co. passed its shipping
and coal interests to subsidiaries in 1914.
The pref. money was gathered in 1927
to help pay for scrip in iron-and-steel,
cement and blue-metal ventures. The
ords. averaged 11.5 p.c. for the 13 years
to the close of accounts in 1927 ; for the
11 years since the average has been 2.7
p.c. The slip was due to the sickness
in the coal trade, slump and failure of
some of the new investments to contri-
bute to the pool.
The co.’s principal holdings are as
follows:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships. £1,850,002 £1,849.990
, . „ ... . I 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
Caledonian Collieries.. j 1t0 . 22 ’ <599 o rd . 8 69,642 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,00-0 65,791
B.H.P. 6,950,776 217,509
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 155,704
q p f 210,004 pref. 138,299 pref.
Southern Port. Cem... j 639,885 ord. 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
The backbone of the business has been,
and still is, the interest in Australian
Steam (the old Howard Smith line), over
whose figures the curtain is kept drawn.
However, others in the coastal trade
showed improved earnings last year, de-
spite the coal strike in August. Still,
Australian Steam was short of a cargo
ship, the Saros, wrecked in 1937, now
replaced by the Cycle (5450 tons), which
took up the running at the end of last
month. B.H.P. continues to pay 12| p.c.,
and the sugar co., whose figures are
no longer published, used to be a
steady 12 percenter, with possibilities.
The cement co. paid its first ord. div.,
2\ p.c., last year, plus 6.2 p.c. to the
prefs. ; in ’37 the prefs. got 37.2 p.c.,
including all arrears. Coal, in which
face value of the co.’s interests totals
£1,260,367, remains in the doldrums, and
it is difficult to say when it is likely to
emerge.
The contraction of £4252 in H.S.’s de-
clared net earnings last year (they are
written after providing an unspecified
amount for contingencies) appears to
be due to the cement co. paying its
arrears of pref. divs. in the previous
term. Some of the holding co.’s other
interests seem to have turned in a bit
more. The £141,821 was enough to pay
the prefs. their £15,000 and then show
6.3 p.c. on ord. capital. Investment
interest in the scrip now centres largely
in what the future holds for the coal
trade; at the moment the outlook in this
respect is not particularly bright.
The market prices the pound ords.,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 245. Id., at 18s. as against
225. 3d. a year ago. At 18s. the return
is 5.5 p.c. on a 5 pc. div. basis. The
prefs. at 235. 9d. yield 5.4 p.c. Last
year’s net earnings over nine times
covered their annual requirements, and
the net tangible cover was £lO 13s. (book
value).
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1932. 1937. 1938.
Pref. capital .. £250,090 £250.000 £250.000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Deposits . . . . 61,000 11,770 10,502
Other liabilities .. 838,409 853,818 738,743
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 154,30-0 184,697 180,932
Shares other cos... 3,094,476 3,159,511 3,088,164
Plant . . .. 30,352 18,487 19,837
Stocks, etc. . . 22,604 25,213 24,578
Debtors . . . . 154,811 113,023 97,522
Public securities
and cash . . 3,277 64,508 64,885
To meet a reduction of £115,075 in
“other liabilities,” of which £680,581
(down £83,094) is held on behalf of
associated cos , mainly Australian Steam,
the item shares in other cos. was reduced
by £71,347 and debtors’ balances by
£15,501. Excluding shareholdings, the
excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids was £562,260, or £100,584 less
than at the previous balance.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1935. . 352 Nil " 352 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles, £6480 .. 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 8904 t lAfi „ 17 7a -
Written off intangibles, £560 \ ’
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 41,535
Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,285
Added intangibles, £2544 .. .. 52,741
Loss.
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23,513
Added intangibles, £342 .. .. 23,171
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
The position is a lot better than the
last line in the table would suggest. In
August last there were changes m the
control, following the report of the
shareholders’ investigation committee,
which found that the whole venture had
been more or less badly handled, and
that there was no justification for pay-
ment of an interim div. in the 1938 term,
or for the premium of ss. per share
charged in connection with the new issue
which followed in October, 1937, nor
for the directors receiving free shares in
the subsidiaries in addition to the acqui-
sition of shares by the parent. Con-
stitution of the old and new boards is
as follows:
OLD: NEW:
Chairman, Chairman,
E. C. B. Midlane. J. W. Austin.
Managing, Managing,
F. W. Harper and
A. W. Lambell.
Members, Members,
H. Phillips, g.m. H. Phillips, g.m.
V. J. Plumb. J. A. Carpenter.
W. G. Hull.
A. W. Lambell.
Among the legacies inherited by (he
new board, which took control in August,
1938, were depleted finances, owing
partly to investment in subsidiaries,
whose scrip carried substantial call liabi-
lities ; a commitment of £31,158 in
respect of new cash registers—the old
ones were reported to be operating quite
satisfactorily; excessive and, in some
respects, badly bought stocks; some
badly situated shop units taken on long
leases; a distraught staff ; and two sub-
sidiaries, one in Maoriland, reported in
“a desperately bad state,” and another
in Westralia, whose position is not very
much better either.
The latest accounts closed at the end
of January, so the new control hasn’t
yet had much of a chance to show what
it can do. Still, it appears to be going
the right way about things, and, given
continuance of sound and efficient man-
agement, the parent’s prospects of de-
veloping into a satisfactory dividend-
payer are not discouraging, though the
road may be neither short nor easy.
The next table shows the improve-
ment in trading figures during the first
and second halves of the term:
Gross p.c. Trading
Turnover. Turnover. Result.
First half .. £300,640 22.78 L £23,865
Second half .. 352,553 26.26 P 2,884
Year .. .. £653,193 24.88 L £20,981
L, loss. P, profit.
The improvement in the figures during
the second half is very encouraging con-
sidering that a lot of redundant stock,
not conducive to maximum turnover, was
sold during that period. The loss dur-
ing the first half included £4957 in re-
spect of old cash registers. The allow-
ance for depreciation was £10,568, or
£2534 more than the previous year’s.
The figures have not yet felt the benefit
of savings in overhead from reorganisa-
tion and co-ordination of many activities
connected with the business ; also, there
should be substantial gains from dis-
counts as well as from increased turn-
over, following more efficient buying,
which should help in other directions,
too, while introduction of a scheme of
staff-training should reduce friction in
routine work and assist sales. Some of
the shops, however, are badly situated,
and competition is keen and efficient.
Balance-sheet movements . are encour-
aging :
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £56,067 £178,340 £240.791 £284,397
Sundry ci editors 26,252 44,536 99,478 76,355
Freehold . . 18,801
Leaseholds . . 8.969 44,681 56,966 53,118
Plant, etc. .. 21.441 56,232 74,425 83,736
Stock.. .. 38.789 104.227 123,778 87,593
Debtors, etc... 5,724 10,549 12,589 7,949
Cash . . . . 708 1,799 2,290 2,424
Shares subsidiaries 32,077 93,734 109,320
Stocks, down £36,185, appear at or under
cost. The reduction, together with
£43,606 of fresh share capital, etc., en-
abled £23,123 to be snipped off the out-
side debt, £9311 to be added to plant,
mainly on account of cash-registers, and
£15,586 to be paid in calls on shares in
subsidiaries. On account of the trading
loss, the more or less liquid surplus
(£21,611) was £17,568 lighter than at the
previous balance. That leaves out of
the reckoning £10,123 to be paid to the
cash-register people during the current
term.
Although there is little prospect of
divs. from subsidiaries for some time, no
further calls on capital account are ex-
pected during the current term. The posi-
tion as disclosed in their published
accounts compares as follows:
W.A. Co. N.Z. Co.=—,
Capital— 1938. 1939. 1938. 1939.
Issued . . £125,000 £126.000 £189,626 £189,626
Paid up . . 72,142 84,693 116,035 15J,516
Liabilities .. 33,769 21,312 45,095 23,845
Leaseholds, etc. 29,829 29,863 39,411 40,822
Plant, etc. . . 17,963 14,785 18,101 19,549
Stocks . . 20,685 15,854 38,161 48,266
Shares . . 6,437 10,350
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 970 469 12,302 8.307
Intangibles . . 31,553 34,684 53,752 64,416
For the 12 months to the end of January
the Maoriland co. showed a loss of
£ll,OlO, and the Westralian one a loss of
£4591. In each case earning power is
impeded by a heavy load of intangibles,
the net tangible backing (book value)
being approximately 11s. lOd. per pound
of paid capital in each co. As for the
Dominion offshoot, the board says: “As
constituted at present.... there does not
appear to be any prospect of making a
profit commensurate with capital in-
vested.” The loss in the Westralian busi-
ness “should now be stopped.”
Listing of the parent’s shares has been
held in abeyance pending settlement of
claims for compensation by the two
former managing directors. Outside the
call-room the f.-p. pound shares, covered
by approximately 17s. in net tangibles,
recently sold at 10s. 6d., at which figure
the return would be 6.6 p.c. on a 3j p.c.
div. basis.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, n ■ ves.
£ £ £ £ i
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 . . 124,059
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
1930.. 62,242 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931.. 61,784 10 „ ~ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.. 46,736 6 „ ~ 30,000 7,500 \ 17 , A
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 J 1 6b d3,Bbb
1933.. 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 t „„ Rn „- 9R
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 5 3bbo 37, 26
1934.. 49,915 61 p.c. =32,500 7,500 i. Ql . , 9
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO ) 1910
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 .. 162,441
1935.. 52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 | nQA
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO 5 460 ° 167,096
1936.. 56,645 71 p.c.= 37,500 7,500 1 , 7 , 7il
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO J 6645 173,741
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
1938.. 74,417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205.282
1939.. 92,225 10 „ „ 60,616 20,000 11,609 216,891
This strongly - constituted Adelaide
brewery swallowed its most up-and-coming
competitor, the Walkerville Co-operative
Brewing Co., as from August 1 last, the
price of the meal being 122,189 f.-p.
pound shares. .At the same time, and
to still further expand and anchor turn-
over, it issued 100,000 new £1 shares at
par, one for five, to those on the register
at the end of July. Issued capital thus
becomes £722,080 (£3960 was still to come
when the books closed), on which 10 p.c.
would call for £20,017 less profit than
was claimed for the last term, when
£218,000-odd of capital was at work for
only about half the period.
On the basis of the market price of
each co.’s scrip just before announce-
ment of the deal, the purchase price was
£320,484, equal to £76,307 more than the
figure at which the market valued the
vendor’s undertaking, or £58,704 more
than its net tangible book value, which
was known to be conservative, owing to
severe writing-down a few years earlier.
The difference between the face value of
scrip issued in payment for the business
and its net tangible book value was
£149,691, to which extent the purchasing
co.’s shock-absorbers have been strength-
ened, no account being taken of the sur-
plus in visible reserves.
The position so far as balance-sheet
figures reflect it is seen in the next table:
1925. 1933. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £'500,000 £500,000 £718,120
Sundry creditors 212,081 154,763 126,345 144,357
Freeholds,
machinery
and plant.. 444,791 390,589 584,146 809,030
Stocks.. .. 24,173 17,683 25,525 34.680
Book debts*.. 47,369 38,597 36,805 75,629
Advances . . 195,035 2 59,52 8 152,536 163,453
Cash . . . . 10,017 15,892 72,617 90,953
* Includes shareholdings.
Most of the £lOO,OOO of new capital
seems to have gone into fixed assets,
which include hotel freeholds. Further,
the net growth in the book value of fixed
assets was only £224,884, whereas the
vendor’s freeholds (£174,595) and plant
(£123,574) alone totalled £298,169. Stocks
were up only £9155. The addition of
£38,824 to book debts and of £10,917 to
advances is chiefly on account of the busi-
ness taken over. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£220,398) was £59,260. All the figures
wear a very healthy look.
For the 12 months to the end of July,
1937, the Walkerville Co. netted £16,737,
and for the year to the end of February,
1938, S.A. Brewing netted £74,417, to-
gether £91,154. Although S.A. Brewing
got the benefit of returns for the Walker-
ville assets for only the last seven of the
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
net earnings were £17,808 better at
£92,225, or 15.2 p.c. on average capital
employed during the period, compared
with 14.9, 13.4, 11.3, 10.4, 9.9, 9.7, 9.3
and 12.3 p.c. back to 1931. That leaves
((Continued from page 24.)


fT\
m*:
m
m
ABOUT
think
SAFETY
BtfOOE YOU OOY w «L *
you,tm
COULD DEPEND ON THE ANSWERS
TO THESE TWO QUESTIONS
1 WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF YOUR FRONT TYRE
la AND TUDE DLEW OUT AT 60?
You’d be safer in a Hudson with exclusive Auto-Poise Control! Why?
Because this revolutionary mechanical invention (patent applied for)
automatically helps keep wheels on their course—on rough roads, in
heavy side winds, even when a tyre blows out. It is a built-in feature—
no other car has anything like it.
O WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF YOUR HYDRAULIC
' DRAKES SUDDENLY FAILED?
You’d be safer in a Hudson with exclusive Double-Safe Brakes! Why?
Thanks to Hudson’s exclusive Double-Safe Brakes— two braking systems
(finest Bendix Hydraulics and a separate reserve mechanical system)
working automatically from the same foot pedal. Double-Safe Brakes
are standard on all 1939 Hudsons.
f
WITH SENSATIONAL NEW
r
/
Brings a new driving ease —ensures
perfect control of your car .
$ For your 1939 car choose a new Hudson
and be master of the highways of the world!
Yet drive more safely than in any other car
built to-day!
For, while Hudson Sixes and Eights hold
more than eighty official performance records
. . . while they have won countless road races
and endurance trials . . . they are the only
cars which give you the extra protection of
Double-Safe Brakes and the built-in steadi-
ness, sureness and added safety of the Auto-
Poise Ride!
You’ll find these the most beautiful and
luxurious cars in Hudson history. You 11
discover ruggedness and strength not even
the roughest roads affect . . . value through-
out that no other cars can match! Drive a
new 1939 Hudson and see the extra value
and safety that only Hudsons provide.
THE LOWEST PRICED
HUDSONS IN HISTORY
o
Model depicted is the new
1939 Hudson “One-Eighteen.”
r *!
mp!
■
W.
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
Hudson Motor-car Company.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
-Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.,
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
2XN.58.


■M
Bit
is
m
m
Head Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly In the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
Al l CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
■ —Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free ' copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
# * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
Patents.
ELECTRO DEPOSITION OF ZINC.
Australian Letters Patent No. 9114/32.
Georg Von Giesche’s Erben direct attention
to their above Letters Patent and solicit
enquiries from Metallurgists, Manufacturers and
others likely to become interested in the inven-
tion either as Assignees or Licensees.
Particulars are obtainable from H. H. RAY-
WARD, Patent Attorney, 18 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne*
Are You About to Travel?
TP you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
1 absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limi e ,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make . t
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to makei an a PPaj n t
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge, lou nii 0 t
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
R. Knox,
DIRECTORS; „ _
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E.
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis WoM<ior
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p - Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office* Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
out of the reckoning £20,000 written off
in respect of obsolete plant.
The market prices the pound shares,
visibly covered by 265. in net tangibles,
at 495., as against 535. 9d. a year ago.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis the return at 495.
is 4.1 p.c., with possibilities.
Mt. Lyell
At Mt. Lyell (Tas.) the management
is now profitably treating ore assaying
1.15 p.c. copper, whereas it was difficult
to make anything assaying under 5 p.c.
copper pay a dozen years or so ago.
Necessity was the driving force. The end
of the high-grade material being in sight,
the co. had to find a way of treating its
big low-grade deposits, or go out of ihe
copper-mining business. The hardest nut
to crack was costs, which, however,
yielded to mechanised opencut mining
and to changes in methods of treatment
and to improvements in plant, etc. As
the grade of ore has come down more
of the stuff has had to be treated in
order to maintain the output of red
metal. To keep this at about 13,000 tons
p.a. the management has just installed
additional primary and tertiary crushers
to deal with oversize material from the
rolls, as well as an extra classifier (20ft.
diameter). Also, in the smelting section,
mechanical instead of manual carting of
charges to the furnace is under considera-
tion ; a preliminary survey for a new
ore-pass to serve the West Lyell open-
cut has been made, and the new sub-
station for stepping down power from
the State hydro-electric works should be
ready in about two months.
For the 12 months to the end of
September last the co. produced 12,407
tons of copper. All-in cost per ton was
£52 ss. 3d., or £4 13s. 3d. more than
for the previous term, owing mainly to
higher wages and shorter hours. In Lon-
don electrolytic averaged £S44 17s. sd.
(== £AS6 Is. 9d.). After setting aside
£73,556 for depreciation, the co.
netted £150,593, or Is. lid. per
share, of which more than half
came from dividends, mainly from
cos. in the fertiliser business. Last week-
end the London price of electrolytic was
£S49 (= £A6I 55.) per ton. The inter-
national quota was cut from 100 p.c. to
95 p.c. as from March 1, and hopes are
that the price will further strengthen.
For the eight months to the end of
February electrolytic averaged £S4B 10s.
3d. in London (= £A6O 12s. 9d.).
Decline in ore values at depth at
Golden Plateau (Q.) persists, and profits
for the six months to Dec. 31 are down
to £44,854, despite increased throughput.
That was £39,416 less than two shilling
divs. called for. Recoveries ran out at
approx. 6.4dwt. It compares with 9dwt.
for the previous twelve months, when
£135,936 was netted and 3s. a share went
out, and 10.6, 12.9 and 17.7dwt. for the
three years before that, A lot of money
has been spent below ground in the quest
for new enrichments, thus far without
anything worth blowing about being
dug up, though there is plenty of low-
grade stuff there. The latest return shows
treatment running at the rate of 90,000
tons p.a., but recoveries down to 4.4dwt-.,
a new “low,” are the other side of the
picture. The shares are again wavering
around 75.; they were taken from that
figure to 9s. 3d. when the last div. was
declared.
* * * *
A new gold find has been unearthed
near Fern Springs, about 24 miles from
Charters Towers (Q.), by P. Case and
A. Parry, who followed up a trail located
by a Government-assisted prospecting
party last year. A parcel of 19 tons
3cwt. treated at the Venus battery
yielded 21oz. 13dwt. of smelted gold,
worth £l3 14s. 6d. an ounce, assay value
of mill tailings not stated. Prospecting
in the area is rendered difficult by the
fact that overlaying the medium- to
coarse-grained granite in which the
gold-carrying quartz veins occur is a
laterite, or conglomerate. The ore is
similar to that of Lolworfh, and the pay-
veins are expected to occur as a pipe-
like structure. However, a lot more
work needs to be done before any
attempt can be made to assess the poten-
tial value of the find.
* * * *
In search of oil, A. Duncan put down
two bores on a site about l\ miles east-
south-east of Waverley homestead, and
about four miles south of St. Lawrence
railway station (Q.). The site, selected
by divining rod, was in a swampy plain,
and both holes have been abandoned
without any trace of oil. The objective
in each case was 400 ft. No. 1 stopped
at 150 ft., and No. 2 at 388 ft. Drilling
proved 52ft. of unconsolidated sediments
with brines, above dark-grey shales ex-
tending to 255 ft., from which depth to
388 ft. the rock penetrated was indurated
and silicified and of a nature to pro-
hibit the possibility of oil occurrence.
* * * *
Briseis Tin, sluicing under Burma-
Malay control at Derby (Tas.), has cleared
£18,320 on working account for the first
quarter of the current year. That is
almost twice the rate of profit-earning
displayed in the full ’3B term. Recoveries
near the 21b. mark are doing the trick.
Water, owing to an abnormally dry
summer and autumn, is giving the co. a
little concern at the moment, and, unless
early rains come, it may be necessary to
curtail production. As it is, the co. for
some months now has been avoiding
overburden removal as far as possible in
order to conserve supplies.
* * * *
“Minden”: Re an “observant share-
holder’s” remarks on Universal Gold (B.
29/3/’39). My experience as secretary
to a number of mining cos. has proved
that shareholders get exactly what they
pay for. Cheap directors produce shoddy
results. Cut out directors’ fees and then
watch the service rendered, number of
attendances at board meetings, etc. Watch
the harassed secretary trying to get a
quorum together to sign share transfers
and deal with pressing business. Share-
holders have no more right to ask direc-
tors to work without fees than they have
to ask the miners to carry on without
pay.
* * <r *
Four Gt. Boulder shareholders (W.
Grundt, W. A. Barton, K.C., G. E. Good-
hart and B. A. Charleson), who say
they have been appointed a London com-
mittee, have issued a circular criticising
the present control of the company,
and calling on shareholders to push C. de
Bernales, chairman and managing direc-
tor, and Edgar Protheroe Jones and
Alfred Henry Collier, directors, off
the board. The “committee” says
that it and other shareholders which it
claims to represent have lost confidence
in the board, and that such confidence
can be restored only by the removal of the
three directors named —the fourth director,
Sir William Campion, is not mentioned.
The board’s preliminary reply is that (1)
the “committee” is self-appointed, no share-
holders’ committee having been appointed
by members; (2) Grundt is the principal
member of a tribute party which the High
Court held had mined a lode outside the
limits of its ground, and which was re-
strained from further mining such lode
and ordered to pay the co. £5000; (3)
Barton and Charleson have only just be-
come shareholders, the former on Jan.
27 and the latter on March 8, one day
after the issue of the circular. The board
intends to reply fully to all the statements.
Meanwhile it urges shareholders not to
sign proxies in favor of the “committee,”
and if they have already done so. to
cancel them. Finally the board expresses
its fullest confidence in chairman and
managing director De Bernales, and says
it is satisfied that shareholders will be
upstanding and cheer him when the full
facts are made known.
* * * ■ #
Increased to its present 8000-tons-a-
-month capacity in Oct., 1937, mill
throughput of Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
one of the luckiest newcomers on the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, is to be further
lifted to 12,000 tons a month —this to
handle partly oxidised low-grade but
profitable stuff from one of the co.’s
string of properties. Twelve months ago
estimated proved and probable ore
(338,100 tons of 6.6dwt. grade) was three
years ahead of the mill. Developments
since have been impressive. On doubled
throughput recoveries for the first 10
months of the current term (595. 6d.)
have been only a shilling or so below the
previous term’s figure, and cost-savings
should have been considerable. There
are 1,220,000 10s. shares issued, mainly
held in London.
Paringa (W.A.) has bought the North
Kalgurli Central mine and plant,
after having declined to do business
some time ago. A dump of 40 tons,
estimated to average lOdwt., and another
of 1000 tons, said to bulk a few penny-
weight a ton, is being carted from North
Kalgurli Central to the Paringa mill. The
properties adjoin, and Paringa’s acquisi-
tion increases its holding to 99 acres.
* * * *
Seekers of capital to work the Nulla-
gine (W.A.) gold-bearing conglomerates
seem to never tire. A cable from Lon-
don says they are having another try.
Referring to these formations, geologist
K. J. Finucane said that sampling results
showed that the auriferous horizons in
the conglomerates were so low-grade
that profitable exploration of them
didn’t deserve consideration. More-
over, the erratic distribution of the gold
and the absence of continuous shoots of
payable ore on any one horizon, coupled
with the fact that no definite control of
ore-shoots appeared to exist, indicated
that exploration for new shoots would
be hazardous and costly, and that the
chances of success would be very slight.
* * * *
Ora Banda South, now operating the
Tassie Queen, Marble Bar goldfield
(W.A.), reports that it is doing well.
Recent returns from ore treated have
been satisfactory, and so have those
from cyanidation of current and accu-
mulated tailings. Additional plant is to
be installed in order to lower costs and
raise production. Before going to
Marble Bar the co. unsuccessfully
worked a show at Ora Banda (W.A.) and
another at Mundubbera (Q.).
*
Latest half-yearly report of Freney Oil
Co. (W.A.) reminds shareholders that the
Federal and State Governments have
each agreed to make pound-for-pound
advances on the £16,893 received
in calls. It also states (1) that
a bore site has been fixed at
Nerrima Ridge, on the co.’s Kimber-
ley area ; (2) that the transport of power
and boring plant from Sydney to Derby
and thence to the bore site is being
arranged, and (3) that when drilling
is started boring will be continuous. The
date of starting is not mentioned, but
will probably be towards the end of the
year.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.C.P.: The bonds or shares are a long-term
speculation. Divs. are not yet in sight, and
it is difficult to say when they are likely to be.
A.A.C.: Tait Publishing Co., 349 Collins-
street, Melbourne, C.l; price 215., including
postage M.8.C.: A speculative venture.
Dividends not yet in sight, and prospects not
very encouraging at the moment... .C.T.: A
well-handled investment trust offers reasonable
security for both capital and dividends, but
latter likely to be small until substantial reserves
are built up.


SMOKE-OH!
“Roulette in a Flat. Detectives Wore Even-
ing Dress.” — “Sun.”
The others were charged with being in
a sporting outfit.
•fa fa •fa •fa
“Several French crooners croon in English,”
states a radio magazine.
This news is expected to spur some
American crooners to attempt the same.
4* 4* fa '-fa
“The clinging type of girl is fast disappear-
ing.”—Social paper.
Mostly in a cloud of dust, with her
arms around her boy friend on his motor-
bike.
•fa <fa >fa -fa
“Do you keep anything from your hus-
band?”—Women’s paper.
Apart from his wages, of course.
•fa -fa fa fa
An optimist is a man who goes look-
ing for lodgings with bagpipes under his
arms.
fa fa fa fa
“A woman in love is a being transformed.”
— Women’s mag
And a man in love a being reformed.
•I* 4* fa fa
People who are always lying have little
social standing.
•fa fa fa fa
“Trust Your Dentist.” — Advt.
Even when he puts false things into
your head.
fa fa fa fa
“Most contented women have hobbies.”
— Women’s mag.
And apparently the discontented ones
have hubbies.
fa fa fa fa
“The Church frowns on all games of
chance.” — Parish paper.
Except marriage.
fa fa fa
“What is it that instantly labels a man as
a liar?” — Wireless talk.
A gold pass?
fa fa fa fa
“What are the thoughts of a bride as she
enters the church?” — Women’s mag.
Aisle, altar, hymn.
“Cat fleas, which have infested the Kal-
goorlie Central State school, caused the school
to be closed to-day, when 650 pupils have
been breeding underneath the school for
months, have been attacked by a plague of
fleas, which have been entering classrooms.”
• —“Barrier Daily Truth.”
No wonder they closed the school!
fa fa fa fa
“A doctor in North Queensland, a strict
teetotaller, weighs 18st. 91b.” — News item.
He must be one of the largest dry docs
in the world.
fa fa fa fa
“Kangaroos are slaughtered to make cow-
boy holiday.”— “Truth."
Putting the Hopalong before Cassidy.
“The average woman gets more satisfaction
over going to bargain sales than going for a
trip.”— Women’s paper.
“Stand in front of the mirror and study
your face for ten minutes each day.”
— Women’s paper.
In short, develop a glassy stare.
•b 'I* *1* *1*
“The missing servant stole £6 from the room
of one boarder, 30s. and a watch from another,
and some jewellery belonging to the landlady.”
— “Sun.”
And then she stole away.
“Put it in ’ere —I don't like the way y' wash them pots."
“Every married life is a drama.”
— Women’s paper.
Made up of scenes with the wife.
•I* *i* 4* *i*
Woman’s Ways.
“Some.women are sadistic and love to hurt
the object of their affections.” — Psychologist.
One like that went crazy over a pal
of mine. She followed him everywhere,
doted on him, even wanted to pay his
bills.
And yet she did him a most grievous
injury, blighting his whole life, turning
him into a moody and dejected frustrate.
I have never seen a man so changed. It
seems incredible that she should wrong
him so, but such is the love of women.
You see, she married him.
T. W. N.
fa fa *l* *i*
“When summer is over there are always so
many after-the-holiday beauty problems.”
— Women’s paper.
You can often get rid of ’em by admit-
ting you’re married.
fa fa fa ■fa
“Apart from his reluctance to find employ-
ment, Herbert was a model husband.”
— Women’s paper.
But not a working model.
•i • fa fa fa
“Sir Humphrey made a fortune as a flour-
miller when quite a young man.”
When knighthood was in flour.
•fa fa •fa •fa
Tribal Tribulations.
“Red Indians brought from America for
Sydney R.A.S. Show represent the Blackfoot,
Blood, Sarcee and Stony tribes.” — "Sun.”
We don’t know about the others, but
the Stony tribes are no strangers to Aus-
tralia.
There is a difference, because the rep-
resentatives of the American Stony tribe
are covered with eagle feathers; our
chaps haven’t a feather to fly with.
The Americans talk a lot about living
in tee-pees, but when it comes to living
on t.ps. some of our hardy old warriors
can show them how.
The local press became quite excited
about the beads on the Indian warriors.
Why, only yesterday I ran into our Big
Chief Bumblefoot covered with beads
beads of perspiration he had worked up
dodging creditors. ,
These imported Indians aie saic °
good at following a seen l :.
S*
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4<
“Modern girls have a thirst for knowledge.
... , iTthe
But some still prefer to be kept in tne
dark.
*** *** . c , ,
“A four hours’ railway journey from Sydney
to Melbourne in streamlined Diesel expresses
may soon be no idle dream ”
—Railway magazine.
At present it’s a nightmare.
4 4 4 4
Success broadens the minds of some
people and swells the heads of others.
4 4 4 4
“Most babies are good-tempered.”
— Women’s magazine.
Yet even the best-tempered of them
usually find something to kick about.
“Stated that in* Denmark* and Holland
women insure against being old maids.”
Here thev nay their money into beauty
parlors.
Close Fight.
“Authors should make more use of the
thrilling material supplied by the prize ring.”
Boxmg writer.
’Tis true that authors ought to write
Of ring encounters gory
"wllf m 2 a gripping srory
+&+ + '
“A good memory means money ."-Ain.
- “
6 ■
“Many people now purchase coffins by
small weekly payments.”— News item.
Lay-by and bye.
Query.
O’er many potent overflowing beakers
We two have yarned incessantly, and
sung
High praise of all the deeds we did
when young,
Like cranky politicians, public speakers
Who love to hear the sound of their own
tongue !
And, though the honors equally have
rested,
Ere we again the varied thread renew
Concerning tales of ancient derring-do,
Would I, old friend, presume if I
suggested
That we told some now that were really
true ?
DOUGAL.
The Worm Turns.
“Clara, I’ve stood enough. For years
you’ve ordered me about. ‘I can’t do
this,’ ‘I must do that.’ Who owns this
house? Who earns the money for our
keep? I do. Yet I had to plead to be
allowed to buy myself a tennis cap.
Smoking was a filthy habit, so I had to
give it up. Drinking was completely
bestial, so that went by the board.
'N°, don’t try to interrupt. You’ve
had your say, but now you’ll listen if I
have to break your neck. In future I’ll
go where I like in my own house, and
d you don’t like it you can get out. I’ll
handle the salary from now on. I’m
gomg to smoke again, and ask some
friends to cards. I’ll have a drink just
when I please. And if I find your mother
here, or your brother Joe, I’ll throw them
out. Out of my house, do you hear?
“Remember that I’m master of this
place in future”
“That’s what I’ll say when she comes
back from bridge to-night . . . well, at
least, that is, I might!”
Hoots AWA'.
A viewpoint strange but true prevails :
A woman seems to me
Far happier when she sees the sales
Than when she sails the sea.
HAMER.
The Art of Politics.
VII
Every politician has certain character-
istics which make it a simple matter for
even a stranger to pick his profession
after no more than a cursory glanc .
No politician is ever seen on his own
Sometimes he will be with one of Ins
crones, more often with several He
i X&rsis £ d h urin g a rs;Lch *
is making. Politicians don’t converse—
they always make speeches, even ,o their
stesSSFSsSH!
porters. I made no bones about It, and
the Whip started eating out of my hand
when I threatened to influence a few
more to cross the floor with me.”
“H’m! ”
“There is no doubt in my mind that
the whole bill was conceived in panic
and born in fear of a press campaign
against the party leader which, with an
election looming, might have had seri-
G us results for the country.”
“H’m!”
“Such a measure, I clearly saw, might,
passed; ra j se such a pro test that not
only would my own seat be in possible
jeopardy, but progress might have been
ruinously retarded by the Government’s
snap
H m!
It is obvious thus that the fellow at
wbom the speech is being made is not
a politician. The monosyllabic nature of
answers? de ij vere d in a bored, almost
trancelike, manner, make it patent that
he is merely a speech-absorber. The odds
h tw „ pn the answers he sub-
are that in between the answers ne suo
consciously shoots in when pauses occui
be wd i be looking despairingly at his
empty glass, wondering bitterly when the
damned windbag will stop his monoto-
nous drooling and shout him another,
Should the auditor be another politi-
cian, the look of hopeless boredom will
b e replaced by a look of extreme chagrin,
due tQ hjs i nab ili t y to dam the verbal
dow and get j n b j m self with a counter-
speech.
" Self-granted rises in Parliamentary
salaries always arouse biting criticism
from ill-informed quarters. After all, a
man sure ty entitled to some monetary
compensation when he self-sacrificingly
risks a stiff neck while sleeping at an un-
comfortable angle on the bony shoulder
of the member sleeping next to him dur-
ing a Budget debate.
Certain other duties, mostly social, are
self-imposed, and range from making
bellicose speeches to Girl Guides to open-
ing country shows. That there can be snags
even in so seemingly simple a matter is
illustrated by the case of Arbuthnot Fitz-
Dogsbody, member for one of Sydney’s
posh suburban constituencies.
When his pal and sleeping partner
while the House was in session, the mem-
ber for Porkpie Flat, fell ill just as he was
about to leave for Gumboil Creek to
open its show, he requested Arbuthnot
to substitute for him. Arby jumped at
the chance.
Flea-bitten but still undaunted, he tot-
tered from the “slow mixed” at Gumboil
Creek after the most wretched night he
had ever experienced, his one consola-
tion being that the ride had been a free
one. His tutoring in his subject had
necessarily been hasty, and what he
hadn’t entirely forgotten was all mixed
up. It might be urged on his behalf that
his sleepless condition was an extenua-
tion, but the local cockies weren’t to
know that when they were stunned to
hear him advise them to go in for more
intensive erosion, to stook their ensilage
to save hand-feeding in floodtime, and
to scrap their crossbred rams in favor
of the more efficient hydraulic type. But
the rafters didn’t shake properly till he
commended them on the condition of
their Berkshire steers, which he said were
the best he had ever seen.
Of course, the papers got hold of it,
and “Arbuthnot, the Berkshire Steer,” was
roared at him from one end of the coun-
try to the other.
S. W. K.


f
FOLDS AND PACKS
FROCKS FOR YOU
In a lightweight, neat-looking Globite Robe
Case you can pack 12 frocks in about 3
minutes. There's no folding to do. They
don't crease or crush. They need no press-
ing when taken out . . . they're fresh and
ready to wear. Available at all good stores.
GLOBIT6
ROBE CASE
FORD SHERINGTON LTD., MANUFACTURERS
(Wholesale only)
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Yellow-edged Offer
A yellow-edged booklet offering “gilt-
edged Stock Exchange group investments
controlled by The Retail Traders’ Credit
Corp., Ltd.,” was picked up from the
office of Harold W. Miller and Co.,
“stock and share brokers,” 14 Martin-
place, Sydney, during last month. The
“gilt-edged” stuff is “offered exclusively”
by Miller and Co. (this Miller and Co.
are not members of Sydney Stock Ex-
change), and is stated to be “equally
attractive for small or large investors.”
The information, together with state-
ments that the co.’s nominal capital is
£lOO,OOO and that there are a telegraphic
address and two telephone lines, appears
on the cover of the booklet, a large
yellow £ sign, rather off its balance, be-
ing prominently superimposed over all
(or most).
Page 2 goes on to tell “Why this Stock
Exchange Group Investment is Gilt-
edged.” The entire assets of the Retail
Traders’ Credit Corp., it is explained, are
invested in the shares of 20 “selected
Stock Exchange cos.,” which include the
“most stable and secure industries in
Australia.” A list of 20 stocks is given,
and they range in variety from 8.N.5.W.,
C.S.R., B.H.P. and Glass shares to
Yellow Cabs, cash-order and finance
scrip.
The proportion of the capital invested
in each class of share isn’t mentioned,
however, nor are the prices at which they
were acquired. Apparently acquisition is
a continuing process. The booklet “ex-
clusively offering” the “group invest-
ments” is undated. But it is mentioned
that “this Stock Exchange group of
selected cos. has been in business for
upwards of 100 years”—that pretty and
intriguing piece of English is given as
“why [No. 3] this Stock Exchange
Group Investment is Gilt-edged.”
Like some other statements in the
booklet, it makes you wonder what it
means. Does it tell you
(a) That the Gilt-edged, etc., Group,
controlled by the Retail Traders’ Credit
Corp., etc., has been in. business upwards
of 100 years?—or
( b ) That the cos. whose scrip is held
have all been in business for over 100
years?
The Bank of N. S. Wales has been in
business for over 100 years, the C.S.R.
has a history going back nearly a cen-
tury. With the exception of Goldsbrough,
Mort, however, the other holdings are
comparative youngsters.
A co. called the Retail Traders’ Credit
Corp. was registered under the old N. S.
Wales Companies Act in May, 1936. The
present booklet doesn’t mention direc-
tors, but H. W. Miller is named as
general manager. None of the personnel
of the Retail Traders’ Association
(N.S.W.) is featured, nor is there any
suggestion of a connection with the re-
tail trade except in the name adopted.
The booklet issued by the R.T.C.C.
does not ask the public to subscribe for
shares. A blank form of application
suggests that Harold W. Miller and Co.,
“stock and sharebrokers,” be advised to
buy, “on my behalf,” so many shares in
R.T.C.C. at a price to be filled in. It
is an unusual method of raising capital.
The scheme as outlined in the booklet
carrying the names of the Retail Traders’
Credit Corp. and Harold W. Miller and
Co. would suggest that the R.T.C.C. is
an investment co. holding scrip in 20
well-known listed stocks. A yield of 7
p.c. “to the investor” is mentioned.
Which investor? The one on ’Change
or the one in R.T.C.C.? What propor-
tion the holdings bear to the various
stocks, let it be repeated, isn’t stated.
Nor is the probable expense rate
incurred in administering the invest-
ments, nor how much funds the co.
had under its control at any past
balance day. This lack of information
raises uncertainties when the pQsition is
analysed, and in a “gilt-edged” proposi-
tion, of course, there should be none
of these uncertainties.
Where unusual or obscure methods of
obtaining finance for an enterprise are
evident, prospective investors should
make wide inquiries. In this case, if
answers are satisfactory .they may make
a passably good investment, provided
the thing is well managed. But there
have been instances in the past where
sufficient inquiries haven’t been made,
and investors have lost some or all of
their cash. Let us, for instance, take the
case of the Merron Estate and its off-
shoot.
The Merron Estate, Ltd., was formed
in 1927 to take over a 10-year-old money-
lending business. Harold William Miller,
managing director, received 11,500 fully-
paid ords. for goodwill. Altogether
35,048 shares were subscribed, and the
co. offered as much as 10 p.c. (with some
“extraordinary advantages” optional) in
order to attract deposits. Loans to avoid
bankruptcy and other risky business were
transacted. The co. went bung on March
6, 1931, and out of £23,784 owing on
advances at 31/12 / ’3O only £5098 was
expected to be realised in the liquidator’s
first report Miller’s drawings and ex-
cess salary were taken in at £11,976, less
£4OOO claimed as still due, and written
off as a bad debt.
About the middle of 1930 Harold W.
Miller had promoted the Merron Deposit
and Investment Trust. The Merron
Estate underwrote 25,000 of the 200,000
10s. shares offered, and “guaranteed”
7 p.c. on the whole issue for five years.
This Deposit and Investment Trust suf-
fered “heavy losses in speculation in
shares,” and went broke. It finished up
with 8000 shares in Associated News-
papers, over which a creditor held a
lien.
Though a leaflet put out by the Merron
Estate inviting 10 p.c. deposits stressed
the points that “You Never Lose Your
Money!” and “A one-pound bond for
each of your children may assure them
a safe start in life of £lOOO at any time
up to 1940,” unsecured creditors were
told by the liquidator that less than 10s.
in the £1 was left for them. All the capi-
tal went west.
The Harold W. Miller connected with
Retail Traders’ Credit Corporation may
be a much more experienced business-
man than the Harold W. Miller who
managed the affairs of Merron Estate
and its investment affiliate until eight
years ago. But he should know better,
being a “stock and share broker” and
all, than to put his name to the yellow-
edged proposition in the indefinite shape
it takes in the booklet just received.
The booklet does not state whether the
R.T.C.C. has any intangible assets; it
doesn’t mention the price at which the
shares are offered by Miller and Co.,
or whether this firm is entitled to any
brokerage or commission ; and until the
investor in R.T.C.C. knows what approxi-
mate proportion of each stock is being
bought he does not know “in what shares
his capital is invested” to an extent that
is of much real value to him.
The booklet says, “Shares to be listed
on Stock Exchange.” Until scrip is
actually listed there is absolutely no cer-
tainty about a co. being accepted for
listing by the Sydney Stock Exchange.
The cotton textile industry in Aus-
tralia has been given some space on
these pages during the past couple of
years. Following the introduction of
duties on British cotton tweeds, denims,
drills, etc., in May, 1936, the Victorian
concern of Davies, Coop and Co. came
out of the ruck among clothing manu-
facturers to a place of industrial and
investment importance ; in Sydney, Brad-
ford Cotton Mills had been doing well
for some years, though the tariff enabled
this co., too, to spread its activities con-
siderably. Since the , new duties were
announced in 1935 (they were deferred
for a year), Davies, Coop has made the
following new issues of capital:
June, 1935: 69,004 £1 6 p.c. prefs. at par.
Sept., 1938: 70,000 £1 bonus ords.
Oct., 1938: 50,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. at par.
Paid capital now stands at £523,875 in
366,000 fully-paid ords., 34,000 contribut-
ing ords, and 150,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
Quota restrictions on Japanese cotton
goods have also applied since July, 1936,
and Davies, Coop net earnings have ex-
panded as follows.—
Net Ord. | Net Ord.
Profit. Div. | Profit. Div.
1935.. £9,931 6 p.c. | 1937.. £35,898 6 p.c.
1936.. 21,443 5 „ | 1938.. 58,024 74 „
Last term’s £58,024 represented 21 p.c.
on ord. capital after allowing for pref.
div. requirements. For the year that
will end on June 30 next interim divs.
on old and new pref. capital have been
paid, and an unchanged rate on the old
ord. and bonus scrip has been main-
tained.
The Davies, Coop board reports that
its Victorian mills are being kept very
busy with , defence orders. The establish-
ment of branch mills, operated by sub-
sidiary cos., in Sydney, Adelaide and
Brisbane is now projected. Additional pref.
capital at 6 p.c. will be raised through
these new cos.; £lOO,OOO will be sought
for the Sydney enterprise, and £50,000
each for the Adelaide and Brisbane floats.
Operations in Queensland will depend,
however, on the granting of taxation
relief. Ord. capital will be supplied by
the parent concern, which will offer its
own shareholders some new scrip about
August. The pref. issues for the inter-
state ventures will be underwritten.
As an “adjunct” of Bradford Cotton
Mills, C.D. Mills Pty. has been formed
in Sydney, nominal capital £250,000. It
will make heavy ducks and canvases
suitable for military requirements. The
plant will start on a small scale in May.
Bradford Cotton pays 124 P-c. divs., has
been a very successful and shrewdly-
managed concern, and it has been on
the market twice lately for more capital
—53,750 £1 ords. were put out at par
in Feb., 1938, following the issue of
£21,500 of bonus scrip, and £20,000 of
pref. money has just been offered. It
makes issued capital £222,742 —still small
in relation to the size of the undertaking.
sf * # *
Sharemarkets were dull again last
week. Much of the recovery following
the Czechoslovakian incident disappeared
down the Polish Corridor. Activity on
’Changes both here and overseas has been
jittery, markets being most undecided,
with the drop in values general rather
than marked. Metals have been in a
similar mood, but slight appreciation
seems to have been the net result over
the past two weeks, tin strengthening fol-
lowing reduction of the quota —which
will not affect Australian output.
British Tobacco ords., after firming
slightly earlier, were timidly supported at
465. 6d. last Saturday. B.H.P. ords. were
slightly weaker, and banks, particularly the
’Wales (£2B 155.), were sold down heavily.
It was hard to decide whether the domes-
tic or international situation was most
to the fore here. Davies, Coop ords.
firmed 6d., to 255. 9d., in Melbourne,
while Bradford Cotton, in a similar line
of business, dropped 6d., to 375., in Syd-
ney. “Herald” shares kept above 60s.
in Melbourne, and Associated News in
Sydney, after showing marked weakness,
recovered slightly, to 19s. Gordon and
Gotch ords. were a bit lower at
555. Myer ords. were reasonably firm
at 295., but David Jones ords. were de-
pressed at 335. Mauri Bros, and Thom-
son was well supported, and so was North
Coast Steam (N.S.W.). General Indus-
tries didn’t respond to the higher profits,
and other concerns depending on the
building trade were sluggish. Buyers
offered 245. for the recently-issued prefs.
of Kelly and Lewis, which distributes,
through subsidiaries, Lanz Bulldog trac-
tors and National engines in Victoria.
Howard Smith ords. were very stale at
18s., and looked reasonable buying. Carl-
ton Brewery (645.) was one of the firmest
brewery stocks.
* * * *
All Broken Hill is interested in the
drilling at the B.H.P. mine (B. 15/3/ 39)
with a view to discovering whether the
top lode, mostly worked out on B.H.P.’s
block, is repeated at depth. If a second
lode is met with it is likely to extend
under the other Barrier areas also,
though at greater depth, the top lode in
North, South and Zinc Corp. being
deeper than in the case of 8.H.P., which
worked the cap of the lode.
* * * *
Following is a comparison of Ger-
many’s retained imports of industrial raw
materials for the last two years and in
1933 (which was during the depression):
In Metric Tons.
1933. 1937. 1938.
Crude oil .. 280,600 1,197,900 1,326,400
Refined oil . . 1,826,000 3,109,400 3,640,600
Rubber .. . . 54,000 122,900 108,200
Cotton .. .. 401,300 347,500 351,109
Wool .. .. 174,600 126,600 164,800
Iron ore ..4,527,500 20,414,900 21,922,200
Manganese ore 129,600 553,400 425,000
Copper ore .. 229,900 551,000 648,300
Lead ore . . 105,200 126,800 141,000
Zinc ore . . *22,400 101,300 137,100
Chrome ore . . 47,400 132,200 176,400
Nickel ore . . 34,500 20,000 34,200
Bauxite .. .. 239,100 1,313,200 1,184,600
Pyrites .. .. 811,100 1,437,000 1,405,800
Aluminium . . *4OO 5,600 15,900
Copper .. . . 164,200 252,800 356,200
Tin .... 11,500 10,200 11,800
Lead .. .. 21,700 72,900 74,800
Spelter .. . . 80,600 70,500 68,000
Nickel .. . . 2,000 3,200 3,900
* Net exports.
It will be noticed that only in cotton and
wool have there been signs of reduction,
these being due to the Reich’s efforts
to manufacture substitute fibres within
its own boundaries. The huge increases
in most other imports suggest two things,
namely j (1) that Germany is still very
dependent on external sources for most
of its raw products, and (2) that consump-
tion of many materials has grown by
leaps and bounds or that large war re-
serves have been established. Perhaps
(2) is a case of fifty-fifty. The figures
give food for thought from an economic
point of view as much as any other.
$ * * *
Sydney Ferries shares sank in the
market to ss. Id. last week, coming close
to par, and touching the lowest level for
several years. There are some aspects
of the business, revolving principally
around the item of depreciation, that
make the future outlook uncertain.
Although it may be unnecessary to pro-
vide for depreciation on a large scale at
the moment owing to the fact that the
fleet was heavily written down just before
the Milson’s Point service was wiped out
by the opening of the Harbor Bridge,
it is clear that present earnings will not
stand large depreciation charges and at
the same time maintain a 6 p.c. div.
(reduced from 7 p.c. last term). Although
earnings have shown little increase over
the past four years, more than £lOO,OOO
has been added to the book value of
ship property, to do which £79,387 has
been added to capital account. The
Bulletin pointed out the difficulty of the
position over a year ago, when the shares
were at 7s.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares are at an in-
teresting price—a few pence over 30s.
This stock was a money-spinner during
the last war, and, though it rather over-
did the melon-cutting during the 1920
boom (two new bonus shares were issued
to every holder of one old share), divi-
dends in post-war years have been reason-
able considering the security offered. A
process of building-up and extending in-
vestment outlets has been going on for
years, and, though the coal interests are
not money-spinners at the moment, they
are written down to a low figure in the
books, and may become valuable again
with the passage of time or during a
national emergency. In any case, the
coastal passenger trade continues very
brisk, and cargo traffic is remunerative.
There have been no labor holdups re-
cently, and on a 7 p.c. div. basis the yield
is a shade under £4 12s. per cent, at
30s. 6d.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Ruskin Motor Bodies Pty. announced its
intention of converting into a public co. and
offering £75,000 of 7 p.c. pref. money. The
co. is an offshoot of Allied Motor Interests,
to which most of. the proceeds will go tor
the purpose of buying from it the present
factory site. Some outside money will be
necessary to complete the deal. Ruskin makes
(or assembles) Morris, Wolseley, Hudson and
Terraplane bodies, among others.
Drug Houses of Australia paid an un-
changed interim of 3 p.c.
Following announcement of a loss of
£3375 by Normanby Tin (N.Q.) for the latte
half of 1938,„there was a fall in the price ot
the scrip to 9d., sellers.
The first of the new Wirraway ’planes took
the air. It was manufactured by the Common
wealth Aircraft Corp. at Fishermen s Beind i,
funds for this enterprise having been put up
late in 1936 by B P H.P. WJ!»>v, 1 < J“SSS
Motors-Holden’s (£60,000), 1.C.1. (£lO ’ ())
and B.H.P. Associated Smelters £200,000).
A hundred Wirraways are scheduled tor
delivery to the R.A.A.F. during 1939.


United' Provisions, 7s.
Many shares are depressed at the
moment because of war fears, and
this stock is one case. If war came
United Provisions, which controls
Foggitt, Jones and J. C. Hutton
Pty., mightn’t do badly, because
there should be an increased
demand for tinned foods, in which
Foggitt, Jones specialises. Bacon,
of course, is the backbone of the
business, and, though curing now
isn’t as profitable as it was, chances
are- that reasonable prosperity will
return when order is restored to the
industry—there is a lot of competi-
tion at present. So the shares, pay-
ing 3 p.c., look a reasonable propo-
sition at 7s. whichever way the
European wild-cat jumps.
The Mark of the World’s
most famous Hat
“Every great institution is the lengthened shadow of a
single man.” — Emerson.
John B. Stetson Company’s policies, rules and
dealings are based upon the original instructions
of the late John B. Stetson, who considered that
“nothing Was too good for a Stetson wearer
STETSON
HATS
They combine intriguing style with superlative
quality.
YOUR HATTER WILL BE PLEASED TO SHOW YOU
THE LATEST IMPORTATIONS
49/6
63/-
Stetson Special Quality .
Stetson Standard Quality
Sole Australian Representatives:
P. B. Sheather Sons Pty., Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney.
Incorporated in England
by Royal Charter
in 1835.
SCO
$5
2$
/835
The liability of the
Members is
limited.
THE BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank) 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the bank) 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 4,500,000
£13,475,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 10th OCTOBER, 1938.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, 30th MARCH, 1939.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 10th October last, with
the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current,
for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making a transfer to the credit
of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision for all bad and doubtful debts has
been made, the net profit for the year amounted to £310,049/10/9.
To this has to be added £205,829/18/10 brought forward from the previous year’s account,
making a total of £515,879/9/7. From this, £126,000 was paid as an Interim Dividend on
30th September last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £162,000 to pay
a Final Dividend of 4/6 per Share, less Income Tax at 4/- in the £, making in all £288,000,
equal to 8/- per Share, less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate
of 8 per cent., less Tax. There will remain £227,879/9/7 to be carried forward to the next
account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on 31st March.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: C. G. Hamilton, Esq.; A. Whitworth, Esq.; anu
J. F. G. Gilliat, Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves lor re-election.
By reason of the numerous alterations and modifications of the Original Charter effected by
the Supplemental Charters, and of the earlier Supplemental Charters effected by the later
Supplemental Charters, and the great number of such Charters, the Court of Directors have
come to the conclusion that it would be advisable to have a new Charter incorporating the
numerous alterations and modifications of the Original Charter, and, in addition, to_incmde
certain amendments to meet modern requirements, and an Extraordinary General Meeting has
been called, at which the Proprietors will be asked to authorise a petition to His Majesty s
Treasury with this object. . . ~
At the same Meeting a Resolution will be proposed, to effect certain alterations in the
Bye-laws of the Corporation, as referred to in the notice of the Extraordinary General Meeting.
Since the date of the last Report, a Branch has been opened at 154 Swanston Street,
Melbourne- the Branch at Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, has been reopened, and
the business of the two Branches at Fremantle, Western Australia, has been consolidated m new
premises at 93 High Street, Fremantle.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 20th March, 1939. D. F. ANDERSON, Chairman.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 12, 1937, TO OCTOBERIO, 1938
Balance brought forward from October, 1937 .. . . •• ''
-rofit for the year to October 10, 1938, after deducting Rebate
( £B3OB/13/11) on Bills current at Balance date, and after making
a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of , nq nqi 12 5
account provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has meen made . . £1,403,991 12
Less:
1. —Charges of Management—Anstralia and New
Zealand — . ,
Salaries and allowances at 249 Branches and „
AcrpTlpipS •• •• •• , . s<s / U,4()0 I*j •
General Expenses 124,922 12 5
L °" d Salaries and allowances . ■ ; 22,040 4 4
General Expenses, including Directors
remuneration
26,780 16
£744,207 6
II. —Rates and Taxes —
Australia, New Zealand and London
From which deduct—
Dividend paid September 30, 1938
Dividend payable March 31, 1939
Salance carried forward per Balance-sheet
349,734 15 0
1,093,942 1 8
310,049 10 9
£515,879 9 7
126,000 0 0
162,000 0 0
288,000 0 0
..£227,879 9 7
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 10, 1938
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit,
and other Liabilities, includ-
ing provision for eontin—
■ gencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
Capital:—
900,000 Shares
of £5 each,
fully paid .. i
(There is
under the
Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of
the Bank) ..
Currency Re-
serve (used
in the busi-
ness of the
Bank)
Dividend pay-
able March
31, 1939 ..
Profit and Loss
Account
Balance
~000,000 0 0
2,475,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
162,000 0 0
227,879 9 7
£2,745 0 0
24,574,636 12 3
14,989,103 3 9
5,568,657 8 7
301,201 12 0
45,436,343 16 7
9,364,879 9 .7
£54,801,223 6 2
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances ..
British Government Securities. .
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities, and other
Investments
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in transit ..
Advances on Securities, and
other Assets
Liability of Customers for
Acceptances as per contra
Bank Premises and S'ites in
Australia, New Zealand and
London, at Cost, less amounts
'written off
Note. —The Australian and
New Zealand assets and lia-
bilities are included at the
par rates of exchange, and the
net difference which would have
arisen had they been con-
verted at the rates ruling at
the date of the Balance-sheet is
covered by Currency Reserves.
£5,378,808 9 4
2,113,057 1 4
6,548,582 2 3
2,673,088 10 8
37,047,136 17 10
301,201 12 0
739,348 12 9
£54,801,223 6 2
I
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance-sheet with the books of the Bank in London and
with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia and New Zealand. We
- ha ve verified the Cash Balances, Bills of Exchange, Investments, and Securities held in London.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and, in our °P™on,
XL .hove Balfnce-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of. the
smte of the BaSk’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given
to us and as shown by the books in London and the Returns from the Branches.
London, 15th March, 1939. DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS and Co., Auditors.
Die Casters, Ltd., has had a popular
run on ’Change since listing took place
a couple of years ago. Paid capital at
October 1, 1936, was £lOO,OOO in ords.,
which opened around 40s. Earnings to
June 30, 1938, represented 21.4 p.c. on
average capital. The co. makes motor-
car fittings in both steel and brass. In
December, 1937, 50,000 new ords. were
put out at 255; each, the new capital
being used to open a branch die-casting
factory in Adelaide and a Melbourne
factory to make tooth-paste, etc., tubes.
The latter enterprise has been a suc-
cess, and, with the motor trade very
active up to the end of 1938, good profits
were inevitable, though the rate of earn-
ing is moderate, the board says, in com-
parison with sales. The moulding of
cellulose plastics on metal cores is a
comparatively recent development, and
lately a new subsidiary, Metalcraft Pty.,
has been formed to take over the hard-
ware-making business of McEwans, the
idea being to extend in the manufacture
of builders’ hardware. In February Die
Casters offered 50,000 6 p.c. first prefs.,
one for three ords., making paid capital
£200,000. Ex rights, the ords. are at
485., yielding 5.2 p.c. on a p.c. basis.
Establishment of a branch in England
is being considered, new styles of hard-
ware having been developed by the co.
* * * *
There is a bit of a rush on in Mel-
bourne to convert engineering and hard-
ware proprietaries into public cos. Die
Casters (Feb., ’37) and K.M. Steel Pro-
ducts (Mar., ’3B) were two of the first
to be listed over the last couple of years ;
then Kelly and Lewis issued some pref.
capital to the public recently, and now
W. G. Goetz and Sons Pty., makers
of dies, hydraulic presses, canning
machinery, etc., is being turned into a
public co. A £35,000 pref. issue at 7 p.c.
is being made to build a new factory
at Spotswood. The McEwans business,
of South Melbourne, is being taken over
by Metalcraft Pty., a new float controlled
by Die Casters and McEwans.
* * * *
The shares of Carlton haven’t fluctu-
ated much these last hectic couple of
weeks. In February they averaged
about 645. in Melbourne. Early in March
they lifted to a trifle over 665., ex Is. 6d.
div., and during the worst of last week’s
nervousness went no lower than 645.
They kept steady at that level later.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
The End of Czechoslovakia.
[Here condensed from various sources is the story
of the last days of Czechoslovakia —a narrative of one
crowded week, March 10 to 17.]
The Calm Before
Bursting optimism breaks through the clouds. It
comes direct from the British Foreign Office. News
from the diplomatic front enables the British Govern-
ment to moot the possibility of an arms pact later in
the year. People may rejoice as the evil events of
last year become no more than a bad memory and
the prospect widens into a lasting era of peace. —-
“Evening Standard,” March 10.
“There has been a notable change in public
opinion this year. Confidence has returned ; hope
has taken the place of fear, hysteria and hesitation.”
• —Sir Samuel Hoare, March 11.
Britain made the first move towards a new inter-
national peace yesterday [March 11]. Lord Halifax,
the Foreign Secretary, had long discussions with
Count Grandi, the Italian Ambassador, and then with
M. Corbin, the French Ambassador. In Government
circles last night it was felt that, with the international
situation clearer than it has been for a year, these
talks would be the first of many similar ones in the
next few weeks. — Paris “Daily Mail,” March 12.
In the shape of authoritative statements on behalf
of the Government, newspapers on Friday [March
10] published the most emphatic assurances in a cheer-
ful sense. It seems virtually impossible that these
views could be issued at this moment, and with so
much decision, unless Ministers were in possession
of private information. — “Observer,” March 12.
[Madame Tabouis, who has failed to bring off
prophecies of ultimatums and other calamities time out
of number, completely changed her tune in the “Sun-
day Referee” of March 12 —and was wrong again!]
The strength of the democracies and the firm
speeches of British Ministers have led to a change of
plans by the Dictators. It is expected now that they
will postpone any further action until the autumn.
On which the “Daily Express” next day com-
mented :
Even Madame Tabouis admitted yesterday that
the crisis has been “postponed” till the autumn. And
if Madame Tabouis cannot find a crisis this spring
no other seeker after bad news has much chance of
finding one.
The Brew
[However, on March 11 the “Daily Mail” had
already published this summary of the trouble brewing.]
Cause of the trouble between the Czechs and the
Slovaks is the amount of autonomy to which the
Slovaks claim to be entitled. For some time nego-
tiations have been proceeding in Prague. These
reached a deadlock.
The Czechs made three demands on the Slovaks:
(1) Complete loyalty to the Republic ; (2) suppression
of separatist propaganda; (3) removal of certain
prominent Separatists from office.
The Slovaks said “No,” and presented counter-
demands: (1) Right to have Slovak army; (2)
Slovakia to have its own foreign policy ; (3) non-
interference by the Czechs in Slovak internal affairs.
On Thursday night [March 9] the Czech
Cabinet met. It could not accept these proposals.
Slovakia had already threatened to secede. Dr.
Hacha decided to act.
(From the “Evening Standard.”)
In dismissing the Slovak Premier Tiso’s Cabinet,
the President of the Republic, M. Hacha, realised
that he might be signing the death-warrant of the
Federal State, but he regarded this risk as preferable
to the continuance of the obstruction and chaos
which the Slovakian attitude of non-co-operation was
creating throughout the Republic.
(From the “Daily Mail,” March 14.)
This local crisis in South-Eastern Europe is the
climax of months of discontent. Relations between
Prague and the two semi-independent Governments of
Slovakia and Ruthenia, set up last November, have
always been strained. There has never been any love
lost between the various races lumped together in
Czechoslovakia. Present developments are merely
another stage in the disintegration of a made-up State
which from the first held the seeds of its own destruc-
tion.
(From Manchester “Guardian,” March 14.)
The German campaign against Czechoslovakia
has taken the same forms as in the Sudeten crisis
last year. The German minority, which constitutes
only 3.5 p.c. of the population in Bohemia and 5.6 p.c.
in Slovakia, is again being sent into the front line of
the battle, and again the propaganda of Dr. Goebbels
is inventing brutalities by the Czechs against the
Germans.
(From the “Daily Express,” March 14.)
Hitler last night [March 13] sent a 48-hour ulti-
matum to Czechoslovakia. On Friday [March 10]
Father Tiso was arrested by the Czechs. Yesterday
Hitler summoned him to Berlin —and the Czechs had
to let him go. Hitler received Tiso in his Chancel-
lery with all the honors due to a distinguished visiting
statesman.
After a 40-minute conference the ultimatum was
dispatched. Its acceptance means the Nazification of
all three States and the reduction of their armies to
the size of a police force.
(From the “Daily Telegraph,” March 14.)
If Germany had been minded to let Czechs and
Slovaks settle their domestic disputes between them-
selves order would have been restored by now. In-
stead, she has openly espoused the cause of those ele-
ments in Slovakia who desire the secession of that
province from the Czechoslovak Federation and its
conversion into an independent State. By their con-
duct those same elements have made it clear that
they are the mere puppets of Germany in the further-
ance of her designs.
(From the “Times,” March 14.)
“The old familiar headlines,” as our Berlin cor-
respondent calls them, have all reappeared. It has
been “a bloody Czech terror” in Slovakia ; Slovakia
is “under Czech bayonets” and having “a fight for
freedom.” It is actually cast in the teeth of the
Prague Government that it has attempted to pursue
an independent policy of its own. It might naturally
have been supposed that the German Government
would have supported the forces of law and order in
the State, for whose new form and Constitution it is
so largely responsible. But, in fact, whatever the
attitude of the Reich Government itself, its friends
and agents and the Vienna broadcasts have steadily
aided and abetted the promoters of separatism in the
chief autonomous province of the Czechoslovak
Republic.
Order to the Soldiers
Herr Hitler’s message to the German soldiers:
“I expect of every German soldier that he regard
himself not as an enemy of the inhabitants of the
occupied territory, but as bearer of the will of the
German Government to establish order.
“Wherever the march-in meets with resistance it
shall be broken immediately with every possible
means.
“You are aware that you enter Czech soil as the
representatives of Greater Germany.”
Ambassadors Assured
[Manchester “Guardian” fixes the time of the
invasion and indicates some eleventh-hour lying. The
“Times,” however, says the invasion began very early
in the morning of the 15th.]
As late as Tuesday afternoon [March 14], when
some detachments had actually crossed the frontier
of Czechoslovakia, the British and French Ambas-
sadors were assured at the German Foreign Office
“on the highest authority” that Germany intended no
drastic move whatever. Worse still, while the world
was told that Dr. Hacha asked for and voluntarily
accepted the German “protectorate,” he had in fact
been told that if he refused Prague would be bombed
into dust.
(From the “Daily Telegraph,” March 15.)
Germany has made herself guilty of the most
flagrant and impudent act of unprovoked aggression
which has been witnessed in Europe in modern times.
There was no ultimatum, no declaration of war, in-
deed no warning of any kind. Czech territory was
invaded at the very moment when the Czech President
and Foreign Minister were still on their way to
Berlin to discuss the new situation.
The Invasion
(From the “Times,” March 16.)
Early-rising civilians heard over the wireless the
first official news that their country was under new
mastership after 20 years of freedom. In Prague little
groups collected silently at street corners to await the
incoming troops. It was snowing heavily and no
sound could be heard save when a party of Czechs
broke the silence to sing their National Anthem. At
9 a.m. the first motorised column entered Prague.
Workmen going to their jobs looked in astonish-
ment at the grey-uniformed soldiers, since many of
them had not heard of the occupation. The little
clumps of Czechs who had been waiting for the
troops greeted them with whistles and with clenched
fists raised. As the soldiers reached the Wenceslas
Square, the centre of Prague, at 9.30, they were met
by a large number of people, who, many of them in
tears, sang the National Anthem of the Republic.
The Germans, red in the face but maintaining excel-
lent discipline, ignored these demonstrations, con-
tenting themselves with raising their arms in the Nazi
salute when isolated Germans in the crowd shouted
a welcome.
As the day wore on and the appeals and an-
nouncements broadcast from street loudspeakers
became more frequent the first blank bewilderment
and dejection of the people gave way to a more
lively mood. Little flags of the Czechoslovak Republic
appeared in many buttonholes, the whistling and
jeering at the German troops became louder and more
prolonged, and a few volleys of snowballs greeted the
tanks and armored cars.
(From the “Evening Standard,” March 16.)
To-day German troops parade through the streets
of the Czech capital swaggering with all the intoxi-
cation of conquest. No indignity is spared the stricken
victims. The Czech President with a Nazi bayonet
stuck in his back was forced to sign his own people’s
death warrant.
And, of course, Herr Hitler himself must be
there to see his tanks and armored cars roll through
the streets of the conquered capital. He was not
content with the fruits of victory. He wanted, too, the
glamor and the glory. The march was not that of a
patriot army bringing deliverance to a people of its
own blood. It was the arrogant stamping of a body
of men drunk with the hallucination of power.
(From a “Times” correspondent’s report, March 17.)
In general the people are resigned to whatever
their new masters have in store for them. While the
Germans marched to the castle this morning [March
16] to cheer the Fiihrer and hear the protectorate pro-
claimed, large numbers of Czechs filed silently past
their national war memorial, some laying little bunches
of spring flowers between the two flames which were
to have burned for ever, and which may soon burn
no longer. Other silent and weeping groups gathered
round the memorial to Jan Huss, the Czech national
hero, or climbed to the National Hall of Honor, still
incomplete, which stands on the hill overlooking the
city.
About 200,000 men are engaged in the occupation.
The discipline of the German troops is excellent,
although that of the people appears to be even more
remarkable. It would, however, go hard with anyone
who tried to resist the forces of the occupation. Every-
where there are soldiers with rifles and bayonets,
and the larger hotels are guarded by sentries carrying
riot guns at the ready.
(From the “Daily Express,” March 17.)
Behind Hitler’s soldiers come the grim squads
of the Gestapo. Thousands of Czech citizens are
arrested. Spies abound. Terror stalks. The. Jews
shrink into the gathering shadows of an abominable
future.
Hitler Explains
[Herr Hitler’s explanation of the invasion, read m
a broadcast by Dr. Goebbels at 6 a.m. on Wednesday,
March 15.]
“To the German people,
“After Germany, only a few months was
compelled to protect against the unbearable regime
of terrorism in Czechoslovakia those of our co-
nationals living in areas inhabited chiefly by Ger-
mans, the same events again occurred to an ever-
increasing extent during the past week.
“In an area where so many nationalities are
living side by side this must lead to an unbearable
situation. As a reaction against these renewed attacks
on their freedom, national groups have separated
from Prague. Thereby Czechoslovakia ceased to
exist.
“Since Sunday riots have occurred in many com-
munities, with many Germans as victims. Hourly
they cried for help for the persecuted, who steadily
increased in number. From those German-language
areas which German magnanimity last autumn let
Czechoslovakia retain, a stream of fugitives who
had been deprived of their belongings and property
is beginning to flow into the Reich.
“Continuation of this condition must lead to the
destruction of the last vestige of order in a territory
in which Germany is vitally interested, nay, which
even over a thousand years belonged to the German
Reich. ,
“In order definitely to eliminate this menace to
peace and order, and to create the prerequisites for
the necessary new regulations in this area, I have de-
cided, as from to-day, to allow German troops to
march into Bohemia and Moravia. They will dis-
arm the terrorist gangs and military forces who pro-
tect the gangs, and will thus protect the lives ot all
who are menaced and will secure a basis for the in-
troduction of a new and fundamental settlement
which will do justice to a thousand years of history
and to the practical needs of the German and Czech
peoples.”
“Taken by Surprise”
[From the “Times,” March 15. . Two days later,
however, the “Times” spoke of the invasion as having
“revealed how carefully the German plans had been
laid in contravention of every recent pledge. ] #
There is evidence that the outbreak of the ciisis
between Czechs and Slovaks took Herr Hitler by sur-
prise. That he never intended the Czechoslovakia con-
stituted at Munich to settle down into a stable com-
posite State seems now to be well established ; tor
his agents were everywhere active in inflaming tne
malcontents and encouraging the separatists. But 1
seems probable that President Hacha’s bold attemp
last week to impose his own authority over Slovakia
was unexpected in Berlin.
r From the “Evening Standard,” March 14. How-
ever, the “Evening Standard” later said: None outsia
Germany, and surely few inside, believe the tale or
Czech ‘atrocities.’ ”] • . . ,
There is nothing to show that the disruption oi
Czechoslovakia was planned or fomented by the R eic
Hitler’s Pledge.
Speech at the Sports Palace, Berlin,
September 26, 1938:
“I am grateful to Mr. Chamberlain for all Ms
efforts. 1 have assured him that the Germans want
nothing more than peace. 1 have also declared to
him that I cannot retire behind the barriers of our
patience. I have likewise declared, and I repeat it
here, that when this problem has been solved there
is for Germany ho further territorial problem in
Europe!
“And 1 have further assured him that at the
moment the Czechoslovak problem is settled —that is,
when the Czechs have rectified the situation in regard
to their other minorities, and, furthermore, in peaceful
and not in forceful fashion —I then shall be no
longer interested in the Czechoslovak < State. And that
is guaranteed! We want no Czechs!” ,
* * * *
Proclamation at Prague, March 16, 1939: —
The territories of the former Czechoslovak State
occupied by the German troops in March, 1939,
belong henceforth to the territory of the Great German
Reich, and enter under its protection as the “Pro-
tectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.”
The Reich Protector has the task of seeing that
the lines of policy laid down by the Fiihrer and Reich
Chancellor are observed.
The members of the Government of the Pro-
tectorate are confirmed by the Reich Protector. This
confirmation can be withdrawn.
The Reich Protector can object to measures which
are calculated to injure the Reich, and when delay
seems dangerous can himself take measures necessary
in the common interest.
The Reich provides for the military defence of the
Protectorate. In carrying out this protection the
Reich keeps garrisons and military establishments in
the Protectorate.


drink
S'
fi
Jl ZE£***2
STA^
RED
3V
#follyqood idea
m
-a#
■f-'
■
vs
DANIEL
CRAWFORD
&SON.U?
A
GLASGOW':- ,
ESTAB“IBSp.'
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
VIA AMERICA
Travel across the Atlantic
by the Giant Vessels of the
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSLANTIQUE
(French Line)
From NEW YORK TO ENGLAND.
* “Normandie,” largest vessel in the world.
Travel from Australia to England via America
—book your reservations before leaving.
Accommodation and full particulars:
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
Travel Department 7 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 87901
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane, Auckland, N.Z., Wellington, N.Z.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
to the MANAGER, who will quote you
takes your fancy, write
price for the original
as part of a preconceived strategy of eastward ad-
vance. On the contrary, all the available evidence
suggests that the crisis caught Germany unawares.
The German Minister in Prague, through whom all
important German strokes of policy in Czechoslovakia
are invariably executed, was absent from his post.
Field-Marshal Goring was on holiday in Italy.
The explosion which has dismembered Czecho-
slovakia was touched oft from within. It was not
until Monday [March 13], after watching develop-
ments for several days, that the Reich decided to
back Slovakian independence.
{From the “Times” Rome correspondent’s report dated
March 16.)
The official Italian view on the annexation of
Bohemia and Moravia is not to be obtained, but there
is little doubt that it has come as a surprise, even
in the highest quarters. There is good reason to sup-
pose that up to last Monday [March 13] the Palazzo
Chigi had no suspicion whatever of the German
intentions.
Comment
[The comments here given from various acknow-
ledged sources appeared during the few days following
the invasion.]
First, let us be clear what has happened. There
has been a monstrous breach of faith. — “Daily
Express.”
Herr Hitler’s ambition has grown. His historic
aim of restoring German minorities to the Father-
land was understandable, though his methods may
have been deplored. But he has no sanction either
in law or morality for this subjugation of a free and
sovereign people. Is Herr Hitler indulging a
Napoleonic vision of Continental conquest with the
German Air Force as his strongest instrument? If
that is the course he has set hknself Europe knows
what the answer must be. — “Daily Mail.”
The Germans are gathering under their banners
forces that will be hostile to the Reich, that will wait
and watch for the moment to revolt. The crimes
that are now being committed will be paid for in
days to come, dearly, bitterly, in blood and tears. —
“Daily Express.”
We have watched this week the murder of a
nation. Every principle of justice and of decency by
which civilisation abides has been set aside. For
the invasion of Czechoslovakia no excuse can be
advanced by anybody. The nature of German
tyranny has been made brutally plain.— Francis Wil-
liams in the “Daily Herald.”
Every fresh detail that is brought to light about
the German annexation emphasises its dual character
pf brutality and duplicity.— Manchester “Guardian.”
“Whether it is of advantage to have a treaty of
any kind with Germany I am extremely doubtful.
Now that that thrice-perjured traitor and breaker of
oaths is at the head of the German State, I consider
that no agreement he signs is worth the paper it is
written on. (Hear, hear.) No member of this House
can hold any different opinion.
“All the money that is being asked for [for the
Navy] is not one penny more than is absolutely neces-
sary, because on naval security still depends the free
existence of this country, and if —even for the short-
est period—we lost that superiority, a fate more awful
than that of Czechoslovakia would befall Great
Britain.” (Cheers.) — Mr. Duff Cooper, in the House
of Commons, reported in the “Times.”
The feeling is now universal that it is no longer
possible to place confidence in the word of the Nazi
Government. — The “Times.”
There must now be such a demonstration of
national resolve to defend the things we cherish that
even the power-drunk, victory-besotted rulers of the
Third Reich will stir from their dreams of glory to
recognise a Power which, reckless as they are, they
dare not challenge. —“ Daily Express.”
The Czech submission to Hitler should come as
a severe lesson to the British Government for the
attempt it made after Munich to guarantee the
frontiers of the new Czech State. Fortunately for
us, that folly was never given substance. If it had,
we should have been in a pretty pickle now. Let
us give thanks then that we were saved from the
commitment to defend a State which had neither the
power nor, as we now see, the will to defend itself. —
‘‘Daily Express.”
One solitary gain from this miserable business has
been that the methods of Nazism have now been
more clearly than ever before revealed in all their
cunning and ruthlessness.
Agents within the State which is marked down
for subjugation are secured from among the German
minorities which are to be found in every European
country, and are used to exacerbate local grievances,
to stir up trouble for the Government, and above all
to make careful note among public men of those who
are deemed favorable or unfavorable to the German
cause. Every sort of promise is made to the former,
and every sort of intimidation held over the heads of
the latter. Assurances of a general, and sometimes
of a more precise, nature are given to the doomed
Government so long as it appears advisable to keep
it quiet, only to be put clean out of mind when the
propitious moment for action is considered to have
arrived.
Then comes the military swoop, carried out with
precision and restraint by the German Army, but
followed invariably by the nefarious Gestapo—who
were already busily at work in Prague on Wednesday
night [March 15] and made, it was estimated, 5000
arrests. The usual procedure of this all-powerful
secret police is to obtain an order for a curfew, keep-
ing all citizens within doors from an early hour in
the evening ; then search is made through the night
for the individuals who from patriotism or whatever
reason have opposed the coming of Germany, and
who are carried off without even the semblance of a
trial to prison or a concentration camp, sometimes
never to reappear, sometimes to emerge “converted”
and broken men.
It is a revolting system, unworthy of a civilised
State. — The “Times.”
The limit of humbug was reached when the
totalitarian States professed their moral indignation
at Britain’s increased rearmament programme. They
said our £580,000,000 defence expenditure was a
violation of the spirit of Munich. Well, Hitler has
killed Munich. Now perhaps Britain may be allowed
to defend herself without being called ferocious. —
“Daily Mail.”
“Is This the End?”
Is this the end of Bohemia? It had been in sub-
jection to the Germans for three centuries before it
won freedom for 20 years. Before that the Bohemians
had overthrown the yoke of the Holy Roman Empire.
Historians invented a special term —“defenestration”
—for the way they threw German councillors out of
windows.
You never know. It may happen again.— “ Daily
Express.”
Planning an Orderly World.
{Condensed from a London “Daily Herald” article by
George Lansbury .)
Europe is not overdeveloped, but underdeveloped.
Yet Germany, Italy, Poland and some smaller States
are urging the world to regard them as “have-not
States.
I do not deny that the stoppage of emigration
has created big economic problems for all South-
Eastern Europe including Italy ; but salvation for
this is not to be found in war or by fanciful schemes
based on a desire to monopolise the undeveloped terri-
tones of C entral and South-Eastern Europe,
Monsieur Van Zeeland, acting on a request from
the British and French Governments, investigated
world economic conditions and presented his report
to the world. It stresses the danger of the present
situation and demonstrates that economic and finan-
cial conditions are the main causes which may preci-
pitate the world into a devastating war. He urges
that old-fashioned formulas and restrictions should
be abandoned, and through discussion round a con-
ference table statesmen should make a supreme effort
There is not a leading statesman in the world
who dares to say such a conference should not be held,
All those I have met agree without exception.
After a war a peace conference must be held:
the demand of M. Van Zeeland, which I support, is:
“Let us have the conference now and thus prevent
war ” A leading American statesman has suggested
that the chairman should open proceedings with a
tTomething like "
to discuss the Dresent condition of
tbe wor i d - \y e know we are all preparing for mutual
destruction. Let us determine here and now that we will
not separate until we have agreed on the measures
necessary to be taken to save ourselves from universal
chaos and ruin; and, above all, let us be realists, under-
standing that unless we co-operate for life we shall
fight for the death of everything we hold dear,
j t j s certain that once a world conference was
„j ven sucb a i eacb the minds of statesmen would be
turned t 0 the question of armaments and the conse-
quent bankruptcy of all nations if this futile expendi-
ture con ti n ues, whether the armaments are used or not.
Any proposal concerning disarmament must be
coupled with a declaration by Britain, Russia and the
U.S.A. that they are prepared to consider how best
the world’s economic condition can be remedied, and
are willing to become co-operators in the task of
sharing territories, resources and markets for the good
of all.
No British citizen can be satisfied with conditions
prevailing in many parts of the Empire. I do not
mean the Dominions; I mean the dependent colonies.
* n H nnr HpWntpe whpn cneakinv for at this con-
And our delegates, wfien speaking ror us at tms con
ference, must not be too self-righteous. We must
, mind and outlook and pive a lead
j] d
' ■ t d rpfupppi have
The problems concerning Jews and refugees have
a big place in these discussions. It is a disgrace to us
all that any Jew or Gentile should be Stateless and
homeless in this underpopulated world. An Inter-
national Commission, speaking for all nations, could
rea dily dedde where room could be found for the
scattered millions now wandering, starving and home-
less in Europe and elsewhere.
AU ti in the House of Commons agree that
Passed leading us in a very hailing dtejoin.ed manner,
feIaSTSSb/tSS
competition. This is also true of international trade^
Already great monopolies and trusts combine m an
international sense in order to preserve profits and
dividends. The time has come to oow . an
Zeeland s advice and to start planning a world
economy.
The world is yearning for peace. The British
nat ion, together with Americans and Russians can
give a gl^at . lead P eac ® throwing own a -
ners and inviting the world m the old words to Come,
let us reason together.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
From the moment the weights were
published The Bulletin has fancied
Gold Rod for the Doncaster, and if the
big chestnut doesn’t win it won’t be that
the handicapper was too hard on him.
For a horse that won the Futurity
Stakes as a three-year-old with 9.4, re-
ceiving only 41b. from Pamelus, and the
Epsom as a four-year-old with 9.3, con-
ceding 221 b. to Mohican, Gold Rod is
very well treated with 9.2. There is a
prejudice against him because he has
run some bad races, but in every case
that happened after abortive attempts
to make a stayer of him. At five years
he looks better than ever, and he has run
two good races at Rosehill after getting
rough passages.
Still, Gold Rod has no mean
opponents. King’s Head (9.4) is getting
a bit old for big handicaps, but The
Trump (8.13), Hamurah (8.12), St.
Constant (8.11) and Amiable (8.9) have
recent form, as well as past per-
formances, to recommend them, and so,
among the lightweights, have Caesar
(7.11), Bobby (7.10) and Bramol (7.8).
And there is a strong contingent of three-
year-olds : Early Bird (8.9), Mosaic
(7.13), Creditor (the same) and Mildura
(7.7) Among the eight-stoners with
chances are Sedunum (8.8), Speardale
(8.7) Fakenham (8.5), Bradford (8.3) and
Micawber (8.0). Bobby (7.10), unlucky last
spring, has the weight with which
he ran second in the Epsom to King’s
Head, and his success in the Newcastle
Jockey Club Plate on March 27, in which
Bradford, the favorite, was beaten out
of a place, suggests that the Rossendale
horse is better than ever. If he gets
away well in the Doncaster, he will make
things very interesting for the others. But
Gold Rod is preferred. He is not at his
best at heavy going, and is apt to get
bothered in a big field, but these are
chances that have to be taken.
Warwick form said a good deal for
Caesar and Creditor. Csesar sports a
tube, but it doesn’t prevent him from
going like a flash at the end of six fur-
longs, at any rate.
Defaulter (8.12) is not overweighted
in the Sydney Cup if he is a true stayer
and is saddled up in good shape. Con-
dition may be the trouble rather than
lack of stamina. Randwick opinion is
that the Maoriland colt has not had much
of a preparation for a severe two-mile
race, though his trainer should know
best.
Back in the form which enabled him to
carry off the two Cups in 1937, The Trump
(9.1) would be dangerous, and age is
certainly not against him. He is better
handicapped than Bourbon (8.13) and
Marauder (the same), though Marauder
is a stayer, as also are L’Aiglon (8.7),
Ortelle’s Star (the same), Pageant (8.4)
and Maikai (8.2). If people were sure
that St. Constant (8.7) could go two
miles, he would be one of the favorites,
but the pound horse has been trained for
the Doncaster. Kelso has Bristol (8.3)
and Silenus (7.10) in the race, but they
have shown nothing recently.
Malagigi (7.11) has come into the
picture as a result of his easy Autumn
Cup success. He has no record as a two-
miler in Maoriland ; but it was the same
with Catalogue in the spring.
The list of three-year-olds includes
Mosaic (7.9) Adios (the same), Anpapejo
(7.4), Limulet (7.3) and Feminist (6.9) —■
all pretty good, though unknown
quantities over the distance. This applies
also to Sal Volatile (7.5), a game but
very unlucky little mare. Lightweights
with rough chances are Hedonic (7.5),
Will Rogers (6.10) and possibly Salazar
(6.7)
The Autumn Handicap at Rosehill
has occasionally been an accurate guide
to the Sydney Cup, Gwillian G won
the double in 1930 and Mestoravon in
1937. Feminist may follow in their foot-
steps. She had the Autumn Handicap
in her keeping at every stage of the
journey and finished better than any of
her opponents. By Pantheon-Loquacious,
she is bred to stay, and this Page can’t
pick anything to beat her, though
Malagigi might.
Respirator will be the St. Leger
favorite, but Adios will test him, and so
will Mosaic if that colt passes the Don-
caster. And the meeting of High Caste,
Reading and Wilson in the Sires’
Produce Stakes wifi add interest to the
round.
Ajax would, of course, be the great
attraction if there were any certainty
about his opposing Defaulter in the
Autumn Plate on the first day and
the All-Aged Plate on the third day.
He is also in the C. W. Cropper Plate
on the fourth day. At present it is not
certain that he won’t be kept in cotton-
wool. An absurd story that Ajax had
been doped before his Rosehill race was
started in Sydney last week. It was
ridiculed by the chairman of stipendiary
stewards, and there seemed nothing
wrong with the chestnut when he gal-
loped—as he did three times —last week.
If there is something wrong with him he
shouldn’t be started at Randwick. If
he is all right and is kept for races in
which Defaulter can’t start, it will be
the first time that the best horse in
Maoriland has been denied a meeting
with the best horse in Australia.
* * * *
There was no dearth of excitement at
Warwick Farm on Saturday. High Caste
was beaten for the first time in Aus-
tralia. Defaulter won his first race in
Australia, but had to withstand a protest.
Judging at Rosehill that the Maoriland
champion wouldn’t be ready in a week
for a fast-run 10 furlongs, this Page
picked Spear Chief to beat him, and
Spear Chief very nearly did, though the
pace was not on till the last half-mile.
Ajax was an absentee, but Badger was
there with bells on, riding the winners
of the two principal handicaps—an effec-
tive reply to Sydney critics of his horse-
manship.
• • • • • •
Still not quite ready, Defaulter made
his own running in the Chipping Norton
Plate. As it happened, this suited him,
and it didn’t suit at least one of his
opponents, Allunga, who requires a fast
pace. The jockey, Ellis, allowed De-
faulter to lob along for the first half-
mile at a little better than three-quarter
pace—s2siec. Approaching the home
turn Defaulter lugged out, but The
Trump —close to him all the way—kept
him on the track. When he had The
Trump beaten near the Leger, Defaulter
came away from the rails. McCarten
dashed Spear Chief through the opening,
but he was not quite nippy enough,
and Defaulter’s rider soon closed the
ga P*
The big Maoriland colt won fly half
a neck; The Trump, who battled on
gamely again, was half a head away.
Early Bird, who had been checked off
the little Melbourne horse’s heels, was
fourth, and fair races were run by
Marauder and Mosaic.
McCarten protested for interference ;
and the clear-headed fellow never does
that without cause. At the conclusion
of a fairly long inquiry the stewards took
the view that Spear Chief was not really
deprived of victory by what happened:
had he been good enough he would have
won; the opening was there for him
when McCarten tried to get him tl ough.
Jockey and part-owner Harris still differ.
Defaulter started at 10 to 9 on; it
was 7 to 1 bar one. The time was un-
usually slow — 2.1 Defaulter will meet
Spear Chief again in the Autumn Plate
at Randwick over a mile and a half;
and Ajax should be one of the party, but
probably won’t be.
In winning the Liverpool Handicap,
Creditor did the equine equivalent of
the hat trick. St. Constant was favorite,
but could not get going on the small
track, though he finished well in fifth
place. Petruchio essayed to lead through-
out, but Creditor dashed away at the
home turn and won by \\ lengths with-
out being troubled over the final fur-
long. Czesar would have troubled him
if the Silvius gelding had not been so far
back at the home turn. King’s Head, a
head behind Caesar, improved on Rose-
hill form.
The consistent John Buchan gelding
was well backed at 7 to 1 ; Caesar was at
sixes. This Page tipped them to run
first and second —the wrong way. Of
the beaten brigade, Korimako did best;
she ran fourth, finishing fast
Randwick trainer Dan Lewis, who
won the last Sydney Cup with L’Aiglon,
started three horses in the Warwick Farm
Cup: Malagigi (6 to 1), L’Aiglon (10
to 1), and Jan Baz (16 to 1), and they
filled the places in that order. Lewis
took over Malagigi about a month ago ;
a strong-looking five-year-old bay geld-
ing, he comes from Maoriland and is
by Paladin, who sired Chide. His time,
2.29£, equalled the course record for 12
furlongs held by Kidaides and Journal;
ridden out he could have made new
figures.
Bourbon and Sal Volatile, both heavily
backed, disappointed. The mare was
beaten at the three furlongs, while Bour-
bon, after making a dash at the home
turn, merely plodded along. Randwick’s
long stretches will suit him, but five
miles might suit him better than two
miles.
A number of Doncaster candidates
failed in the Cabramatta Handicap.
Little Diamond Wedding (12 to 1), carry-
ing the colors of her owner and breeder,
Reg Allen, the A.J.C. committeeman,
set up a big lead early and never looked
like being caught. Duke Caledon was
second, and Pageant ran on strongly to
cut Bradford out of third place. Lord
Bine, the favorite, finished tenth. Brad-
ford’s fourth was no mean effort, as he
was badly placed early and could have
done with another gallop or two.
Sedunum’s sixth was fairly impressive.
Sigh, 3 to 1 and 5 to 2 in the Farm
Novice, was the good thing of the day.
McMenamin made use of her pace, and
she was always going easily in front.
Baldmon and Baveon filled the places ;
Sign On, after chasing Sigh to the home
turn, was fourth. The winner, a nice
Sion mare, is raced by young Reg Moses
in the Poitrel colors, and she will not
lack support in a minor handicap at
Randwick.
The division for fillies went to a 14.2
pony, Dagmar, and she beat 10 oppo-
nents very easily. She is raced by E. J.
Mooney. Dagmar, who had won at New-
castle, ran past Merry Smile at the home
turn, and after that it was no race;
Electra was a poor third. The favorite,
Vampire, a daughter of Night Raid and
Valicare, commenced smartly, but was
quickly in the rear division, though she
wound up. She will improve with
racing.
“Too big” was the verdict of many a
punter when High Caste came out for
the Fairfield Handicap ; nevertheless, he
was always at odds on. He was troubled
by the turns and was obviously at sea
when making a run at the top of the
straight. No doubt he will do better
at Randwick, but fourth was his best at
the Farm. Victory went to The Kaiser
(33 to 1). An El Cacique colt raced by
Reg Allen and trained by Tom Murray,
The Kaiser won easily from Penthides
and Allunga’s stablemate Athboy. Read-
mg gave a poor display: he was promi-
nent early, but beat only four home.
Dashing Cavalier finished fast and is
worth keeping in mind at Randwick. He
was just behind High Caste at the finish.
* * * *
The last three Doncasters have gone
to mares. Hamurah scored last year
with 7st. 91b, Sarcherie in 1937 with Bst.
101 b. and Cuddle in 1936 with 9st. 41b.
$
On a day of short-priced winners,
bookmakers were saved from complete
disaster at the Mentone (Vic.) week-end
fixture by Gladiolious running away
with the Waverley Handicap. Starting at
33 to 1, he was a “skinner” for the
majority of fielders. The tote paid £27
12s. for ss.
Two provincial successes —at Paken-
ham, where the company never is very
select —did not say much for the pros-
pects of Gladiolious; but an apprentice
allowance claimed by Gilmore brought
his impost down to 6.7, Clearing out,
Gladiolious not only defied capture, but
put up a course record. He ran the H
miles in 2min. 4isec., which is half a
second faster than the time set by
Beedos in the Mentone Cup of 1926,
Beedos was trained by the late W. Ger-
rard for John Wren, who considered
him good enough to have ft crack at
Randwick handicaps.
King Gee, favorite at threes for the
race won by Gladiolious, had every
chance in running. Third right up to
the home bend, he faded to seventh.
Another Sydney horse, Sir Regent, lost
a furlong at the start and chased the
field hopelessly.
It is hard to identify Sir Regent as the
horse that won the Metrop. of 1937 and
was runner-up to The Trump in the
Caulfield Cup. When trained by J, H.
Abbs he was left at the post in the
Melbourne Cup and Sydney Cup, For
months past Sir Regent has been in the
Mentone stable of H. Freedman,
Bankshaw finished a creditable second
to Gladiolious, but Sindicada acquitted
himself more notably by coming from
near the tail of the field to earn third
money. Bred by C. Dawson and trained
by “Bert” Foulsham, he is by the same
sire as Pooley Bridge, with whom
Dawson and Foulsham won the G,N,
Hurdle of 1936.
Colors carried by Bankshaw are those
of W. R. Kemball, who has hopes of
landing the Doncaster with Amiable.
Later in the afternoon Kemball’s
National was served up a warm favorite
for the Berwick Handicap, He led into
the straight, but collapsed when chal-
lenged by Trendel and beat only two
rivals.
• • % *
Both Bankshaw and National were
bred in M.L. They are three-year-old
sons of Siegfried, who sired the 1936
Melbourne Cup winner, Wotan. It
might be risky to condemn National on
his Mentone failure. Possibly the pace
which he helped to set wa9 too fast.
Trendel, who won at 7 to 2, from
Gladstone (sevens) and the outsider
Balson, shaved a fourth of a second off
the course record for a mile, established
by Manetis at the beginning of March.
New figures are lmin, 38isec,
Victory of Trendel compensated “S. A.
Rawdon” for Girella having been
downed by Sir Romeo in the juvenile
event. This pair shared favoritism at
7 to 4. Chanson (Marconigram-La
Chanteuse) surprised her owner-trainer,
S. B. Ferguson, by finishing third, A
50-to-l chance, she paid £l2 Bs, (over
48 to 1) on the place tote,
Dornford, whose trainer, F, W, Hoy-
sted, is in Sydney with Pageant, never
gave Beach Hurdle rivals a look-in. Best
price about Dornford was twos. Easing
up, he scored by a couple of lengths from
Trentwood in the course record time of
3min. 38|sec. for two miles' and 20 yards.
Our Boy (threes) and Montaza (7 to 2),
winners of their respective divisions of
the Westminster Welter, each equalled
the course record of lmin. 25f sec. for
seven furlongs. Our Boy, trained by
Lou Robertson, “bolted in” from the
turn. Montaza was all out to beat
Rambler (14 to 1) and the 6-to-l pace-
maker, Docker’s Plains.
This Page selected Kanuri for the
Autumn Stakes. In game fashion he
beat the 2-to-l favorite, Red Morn, by a
head. Kanuri’s s.p. (9 ff) 2) jwas liberal,
seeing that he had run third in the New-
market. Soltoi, a neck behind Red
Morn, should win before long for John
Wren if he remains sound. The Irisn-
bred stallion is “as handsome as paint.
(Continued on page 32.)
\
FOR RANDWICK.
Doncaster: Gold Rod, 1; Caesar,
2; Bramol, 3.
Sydney Cup: Feminist, 1 ; Mala-
gigi, 2 ; Pageant, 3.
Autumn Plate: Ajax, if started.
Otherwise, Spear Chief, 1; De-
faulter, 2.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Wilson;
next, High Caste.
St. Leger: Respirator; next,
Adios.
Vaucluse Handicap: Sigh ; next,
Sidcup.
La Perouse Handicap: Caesar;
next, Delmestor.
Biraganbil Handicap: Mildura ;
next, Diamond Wedding.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Easter Stakes: Montaza or
Lautus; next, Plymouth Hoe.
Three-year-old Handicap: French
Gem; next, Bankshaw.
Federal Handicap: Soltoi; next,
Red Morn.
Easter Cup: Dark David; next,
Mutable.
Seaside Handicap: Kanuri; next.
Red Morn.


m
%
My
\
a
m
\>
\
V
■ i
m
44M \fm, inn m*
\
9
*l | ’in -yr
sln? h i f ? /
It II It H I I
fCTjft
K
j!Cv
-
«
!»
J&uxh HooM
'"■m.
I
. •?
>
t4m>,,
~<•*'
sr *
t
7i
?p*
A>
■
t »
' H “SKfev- ■ ■ ■; ; : ; ■-■ : ;" ’
p* .lASI
ScJUU*GjjX
m ii
.4".
: v
Aw
'
iM
■
«W ./ :
v
Where Performance is Paramount
Exides are Used
By reason of its undisputed leadership in battery construction
Exide has, for the past 5 0 years, been identified with practically
every kind of industrial, scientific and cultural development.
Because of Exide’s reputation for absolute dependability,
there are more Exide Batteries sold in the world to-day than
any other battery.
60% of Australia’s new cars are fitted with Exide Batteries.
Leading hospitals throughout the world use Exide Batteries
in their emergency lighting systems.
Fire Brigades depend on Exides for Fire Alarms and Fire
Engines, saving thousands of lives and millions of pounds’
worth of property annually.
Ambulances on their errands of mercy rely on Exide Batteries.
Exide has played an important part in the development of the
talking motion picture industry.
9 out of 10 British ships have Exide Batteries in their Wireless
Cabins, and the British Navy uses Exides for Wireless, Sub-
marines and gun-fire control.
Railway signals, guarding the safety of millions of people
annually, are operated with Exide Batteries, and famous trains
throughout the world, including the Australian "Spirit of
Progress” and the "Silver City Comet,” are Exide equipped.
Exide is the only battery to have reached both the North and
South Poles, and for many years past the world’s greatest
explorers have depended xxpon Exide in scientific and other
expeditions.
Exide Batteries are playing their part in making flying safer,
faster, more convenient and more comfortable.
Telephone exchanges specify Exide for safety and dependability.
The 8.8. C. and Broadcasting Stations throughout the Empire
are Exide equipped.
These are only a few instances of the preference given to Exide because
♦
t BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
OBTAINABl! FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALI


pp-
you can depend on
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
/^ACCELERATION
Strong hot sparks are necessary
for smooth and lively engine
performance. Is your car jerky
and sluggish? See how greatly
it improves with a set of
new Champions! They
save enough fuel to pay
for themselves.
An Empire Producl —
made in Windsor, Canada
RiJil!
pm® ■
mm
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
INVINCIBLE
since
1900.
dsf
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
? WS S&STKJ:
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock, riv
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in
tory daily use all over the world, many of ei d f o r
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a f or
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they„? F ’ „; nes on
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines o
the world’s market to-day. „ . mirpsti-
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat,
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD*,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, I •/
Established in 1906,
Under the Whip
The V.R.C. committee will be well
represented at Randwick. E. L. Baillieu
came across early and had the mortifi-
cation of seeing Ajax “tossed” at Rose-
hill. He will probably be joined by
chairman Alan Currie, T. C. Manifold,
Eugene Gorman, K.C., and Frank Smith.
Frank Smith was recently elected, beat-
ing W. J. T. Clarke by a narrow margin
in the biggest poll on record. When an-
other vacancy occurs Clarke is almost
sure of being returned. He is a cousin of
Ernest Clarke and of the late S’Rupert.
Frank, who had several years’ service
in the Great War, is a Melbourne malt-
ster. He has raced horses in conjunc-
tion with E. A. Underwood; one of
them was Ogwell, a really good miler.
* * * *
Sydney is not to see Aurie’s Star in
action this autumn. The Adelaide geld-
ing’s sprinting achievements on Mel-
bourne courses were crowned by his
splendid second (with 9.13) to El Golea
(8.12) in the Newmarket. Aurie’s Star
was withdrawn from the Doncaster soon
after weights appeared, but there had
been an idea of running him in minor
handicaps and starting French Gem in
the big mile. Present intention is to
send them back to S.A. for meetings
there in May and June. Aurie’s Star has
been nominated for the Goodwood and
French Gem for the Adelaide Cup.
* * * *
Stentor, who registered a runaway vic-
tory in the first division of the Maiden
Handicap at Ascot (Vic.) on Wednesday,
is by Windbag from Wollunqua, dam
of Rakwool. With the last-named horse
E. Y. Sheil, who races Stentor, won a
Grand National Steeple at Flemington.
He has a fondness for jumpers. His
daughter (now the wife of a Melbourne
turf writer) landed the Grand National
of 1932 with Precocious, whom she had
ridden to hounds and in point-to-point
contests. No doubt Stentor will be seen
over fences. His trainer, B. Price, piloted
Flash Jack to victory in a National.
Since his association with Fujisan’s
victory in the Doncaster of 1925 Charley
Hodson has not had the best of luck as
a trainer, but he has got hold of a dis-
tinctly smart horse in Maldevon (Devon-
shire-Bright Poppy). This young chest-
nut was backed to near-favoritism at 9
to 4 for the Sutherland Handicap at
Ascot (Vic.) and scored with a lot in
hand.
Jullundur won for Eli Phillips the
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle of 1916.
The Melbourne publican has invested
many thousands of pounds in racehorses
during the intervening period without any-
thing like commensurate success. On
Wednesday Phillips went for a spectacular
plunge on Ellison (Pantheon-Farfadet)
in the Chelmsford Novice at Ascot. This
colt is a half-brother to Carry On,
winner of the Australian Cup of 1931.
He showed trainer Steve Murphy a
splendid trial, but didn’t run up to it
and finished fifth only.
The race picked out for Ellison went
to Sir Ken, a Night Raid gelding that
H. (“Snowy”) Wolters trains for G. J.
Barton. Until four or five months ago
Sir Ken was in Jack Fryer’s stable.
Wolters was E. A. Connolly’s foreman
in the days when “Con” had a big team.
Frank Musgrave is the trainer mostly
patronised by John Wren, but Wren has
horses scattered round other Melbourne
stables. On Wednesday the maiden
juvenile event at Ascot was won for him
by Pat Kelly with Melas (Parenthesis-
Noirau). Ousting Academy from favorit-
ism and starting at fours, Melas
smothered his opponents in the straight.
Pat deserved his success. As a jockey
he was in the first flight of lightweights.
He won the A.J.C. Epsom in 1922 for
E. A. Connolly on Rostrum. Sydney
trainer Mick Poison is a brother-in-law
of Kelly.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bung Eye
Ossie Stewart (list. 10|lb.) v. Roscoe
Manning (12st. J4b.) at Sydney Stadium
was another win for Stewart by the now-
fashionable t.k.0., with bung eye once
“If it doesn't Wake him this time, men, we'll just have to leave him."
again the decider. Ossie outclassed Ros-
coe, anyway ; started fighting earlier than
in previous bouts, socked Roscoe from
time to time with punches that might
have outed an elephant, never looked in
any danger himself, and easily won
of the eight-and-a-half rounds it lasted.
By then Roscoe sported a stinker every
bit as splendid as the one that made
Sabatino turn it in a week or two earlier.
It was his left peeper, and it had shown
signs of damage as early as the third
round, one of Stewart’s right crosses
having landed high—or what would have
been described as high in days when the
point was held to be the Mecca of all
good punches making a pilgrimage aloft.
The succession of these bung-eye end-
ings has brought forth all sorts of
theories. Ref. Joe Wallis puts it down
to just an unfortunate run, such as
punters experience as a matter of course.
Some former scrappers hold that the
boys aren’t what they used to be; they
don’t train and make themselves tough ;
defence isn’t taught any more; they
don’t fight upright, with their heads
back, but crouched, with their heads out
asking for it.
Apart from Mr. Wallis’s theory—prob-
ably as good as any—all the foregoing
is somewhat discounted by the fact that
it’s among the top-line pugs that bung eye
has become epidemic, not among the
prelim, boys, who comparatively rarely
suffer from it. If it was a matter of
bad defence and other deterioration it
would at least be as common lower down
the fistic ladder. This would seem to
give weight, too, to a further theory that
the optic is now marked down for de-
liberate attack as never before. The
old-time fighter counters that in his day
they went for the eye, too. No doubt
they did, but their preoccupation was
with the k. 0.; while they gave due atten-
tion to the eye when damage showed up
there, it was not their major concern,
which was to put the other bloke on the
canvas with one to the jaw or the wind.
Having watched all these recent bung-
eye conclusions from close range, present
writer is satisfied that the peeper is now
being made as much the major pre-
occupation in attack as the point used
to be. Eye damage of yore was often a
matter of accident; now it looks a re-
sult of excellent aim. Once the slightest
damage has been effected on a peeper
the attacker concentrates all his attention
scientifically on that weak point. He
does not fight for a k. 0., but wholly for
a t.k.o. Certainly he delivers punches
elsewhere, but the purpose of these seems
to be to divert defence from the weak
spot, and as soon as this is uncovered
in goes another. These punches needn’t
be hard, as when a k.o. is the object;
the lightest of stuff in clinches or de-
livered in the form of straight leads
serves the purpose.
It’s not pleasant to watch and it isn’t
likely to do the game any good, but that
doesn’t detract from the boxing ability
involved. It’s no easier to hit a man on
the eye than on the point, though scien-
tifically done it’s easier to win that way,
since punches—or even just poking the
glove in at close range, or doing a little
gentle massaging with it —quite ineffec-
tual against the jaw, can soon shut an
eye up completely.
In the case of Roscoe it was either a
win that way or on points. Like the
Alabama Kid, he looked as if even an
axe would be wasted on him. Fighting
in fine style from the word go, Stewart,
as well as giving full attention to the
optic, pounded both sides of a granite
jaw and ditto belly with his most power-
ful punches—and he’s no mean hitter.
Roscoe took it all, and came back for
further helpings—made to look a chump,
but at any rate a game chump.
Kingfish a Clinker
It was another of these early endings
out at Leichhardt, where that dandy
scrapper Kingfish Dixon (lOst. 61b.) gave
Jimmy Purcell something over 41b. and
such a drubbing that James would have
taken a great deal worse if his corner
hadn’t called ref. Lacey over at the con-
clusion of the fourth and mentioned the
matter of a muscular disability in James’s
right arm. Thereupon Mr. Lacey pointed
an unerring finger in the direction of
Kingfish, and the Leichhardt Stadium
people, as is their way, rushed on un-
billed stoush so that patrons would have
no grouch on the score of value for the
money.
As it was, patrons had already seen
Gill Allen render Young Spargo hors de
combat in two rounds, Neville Hopwood
out Jack Green with a body delivery in
the third round, Keith Gee knock
Chicka Homer cold inside half a minute,
Eddie Delaney take a close points de-
cision over Tommy Bunch in a sterling
six-rounder, Billy Cook outpoint Johnny
Body in another enthusiastic bout, Bobby
Lee put Mick Wright out for a good
five minutes, and then, on top of all
that, more fight packed into the mam
encounter’s four rounds than is ordi-
narily seen in 12-round affray.
At first it looked as if the Australian
might at least give the Kingfish a good
go for it. He hit that dusky fistic
magician more often than any previous
Sydney opponent had done, as well as
trying to hit him more vimfully than all
the previous opponents put together. But
such of it as landed made no impression
on the Kingfish’s equanimity, and the
bulk of it got no further than his ad-
mirable defence.
By all account one of the most decent
of cullud gents ever to invade these parts,
this Kingfish is a master of the fistic
industry, ranging up with the very best
of ’em. He is both a beautiful boxer
and a dandy hitter, swift on his feet
without ever wasting an atom of energy
—an artist in this line worth seeing for
his own dependable performance irre-
spective of the quality he may happen
to be up against. His left hook is the
genuine article, not the swung counter-
feit now common ; his right’s like the
kick of a horse. He punches short, not
having any great reach, and carries the
fight persistently in to his man, with
the upright purposeful style of a warboat.
But above all it’s his defence that most
takes the eye. With forearms held up-
right close to the body, he has an armor
that’s just about impenetrable, except to


asmania
The Garden. State
\
Scene on the Derwent near New Norfolk.
Garbed in Gold and Russet
Lovely Tasmania extends a sunny
Autumn welcome to the visitors
taking advantage of the tours
arranged by the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment Tourist Department which
enable you to fully enjoy an
inexpensive holiday in a bracing
climate amid scenes of unrivalled
beauty and historic interest.
ALL-INCLUSIVE COST covers
return sea voyage, also trips and
accommodation while in the lovely
Island State. Full details and book-
lets on request—post free.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST DEPT.,
4 Martin Place, Sydney.
286 Collins Street Melbourne
12 Pirie Street Adelaide
A.M.P. Chambers, William St., Perth
196 Adelaide Street Brisbane
And Hobart and Launceston.
3AVHS HIOOWS
0009 00
s
J /
'£/ 'V
<0
I
I
ill
i Solo Agents: JQURp"
«S* JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
ds
By Appt. to the late
King George V.
Unlined .... 357-
Silk Lined . .... 37/6
The traditional craftsmanship of the
English hatmaker is maintained in
every Woodrow. In style, colouring
and finish they are outstanding as
the finest value obtainable.
I(^ood.ibt«r
vr Hats
AT ALL GOOD CLASS HATTERS
AND STORES.
A WHISKY WITH
MANY QUALITIES
Bv Appointment
7/y
**> Of th SS -Softness
°nly on thls Vfa- , °nc
ret °in ed * th °< h Qs J' d * «•#
*•11 ; n . ntern ot l 0 . Wor > and
d.sj antl Y on re P^e-
C ="ow ,ofe '° "’e
bo,„ e /'°" C/ Ut
-4 ;>« -
, o /d b : o 7
lth OUgh of
SeceTr oloAe StrGn 9tt
° ne qooii ed ,n * c <>ck.
J°hn ]xr
lOn °Ods $.
Whisky
(m
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd.,
WalkervHle, Ontario, Canada.
Since 1858.
extremely swift counter-punching. As for
his fighting manners, they’re the very pat-
tern of the Noble Art at its finest.
China Again
As must have been anticipated by
anyone who had seen him in action, Kui
Kong Young had no trouble in disposing
of Jack Minahan at Sydney Arena. It
ended in the third, with Minahan bat-
tered to a standstill. If the best can’t
be secured to meet the speedy little
Chinese scrapper he ought to be speeded
home, out of mercy to local second-
raters.
“Colonel B.” : Among other idiotic
details of “adventure” blurb-strips is a
complete misapprehension of the knock-
out punch to the jaw. The usual render-
ing is that of an uppercut landing under
the chin, supposed effects being indicated
by a formula of stars and the stoushed
villain turning a back somersault. Before
delivering it the hero leaves himself wide
to the world for the real thing, telegraphs
it a week ahead, and would certainly dis-
locate a thumb. Most real k.o. stuff
doesn’t travel more than a foot, if that,
to land on the point of the chin, a little
to one side, with the knuckles up and
thumb down. Comparatively little weight
is needed to produce the result, which is
to rap the joint of the lower jaw sharply
against its articulation with the base
of the skull. The shock swirls the near-
by fluid contents of the inner ear which
control balance and sense of external
relationship, and the recipient stays out
until the swirl subsides.
Ins and Outs
Another afternoon’s cricket of the most
dashing description has given Mosman
the Sydney premiership. Led by McCabe,
it put Glebe in, got all ten wickets for 84
(McCabe 6 for 35) and knocked up 181
for four (McCabe 38). McCabe, by the
way, is about to become a neighbor of
The Bulletin, having arranged to open
a sports goods shop in the N.S.W.C.A.’s
fine new' building in George-street,
Sydney.
“S.T.S.”: Bradman, with 58, heads
the averages in Adelaide district cricket;
the only others above 50 are Moyle,
Teisseire, K. Ridings and Waite. Cotton,
with 15, has the best bowling average.
District premiership goes to West Tor-
rens, a solid side with Hamence and the
Ridings brothers. Bradman lost, in the
last few minutes of the season, the “Mail”
cup for the fastest century. He had
earned it with 89 minutes, lost it to an
85, and regained it with 80 ; and then
young Christie, of Glenelg, cut the time
down to 58 minutes, which even in-
cluded a hunt for “lost ball.”
* * * *
“M.H.” : When J. Tringrove, of Kings-
borough (Tas.), took the whole 10 wickets
v. South Hobart, he equalled a record
made by fast-bowler Charlie Eady for
South Hobart in January, 1906. Trin-
grove’s ten cost 53 runs, Eady’s 42.
Nowadays Eady and Joe Darling are
members of the Leg. Council, and, though
a thought elderly, among the most vigor-
ous members there.
Footbrawt
“Bumpk”: The V.F.A. has gone
sissy, it having passed a cheer song
based on the martial notes of “Colonel
Bogey.” It will be broadcast over the
air whenever the sacred name of foot-
ball is mentioned. Bands have been in-
structed to play it at club dances, and
clubs are to have it amplified by loud-
speakers at other affairs; and it may
possibly be sung by the teams as the
heroes rush on to the fields. A few
lines:
Come, all you football fans, and shout away;
Shout for the stalwarts of the V.F.A.
Football —great streamline football!
Cleanest, fastest to-day.
The rest is equally well worthy of a
place in The Bulletin’s Answers to
Correspondents Column.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Football League (Aus-
tralian Rules), which used to have prac-
tically a monopoly of winter sport locally,
is worrying over the modern turning of
many schoolboys to other games, especi-
ally Soccer and baseball, each of which
does a lot of propaganda work in the
schools. “We have been putting money
away for a building-fund,” says one
League delegate ; “but if we do not look
out we shall be building a memorial
monument to the game.” So the good
work of catching them young is to be
brisked up.
* * * *
“Maori Mac”: English Rugby Union
officials were shocked at the proposal of
past-president W. T. Pearce that the
game should be played by teams of 13.
The change would brighten it by giving
the backs the extra yard of room which
Union converts to League have found
so advantageous, and it would increase
the scoring rate; but it is unlikely to
receive official support. M.L. Union
chairman S. S. Dean has long advocated
14-men teams: seven forwards (using
the M.L. scrum formation, 2-3-2) and
seven backs. The diamond-shaped scrum
devised by Maorilander Tom Ellison and
his contemporaries ensures clean, quick
heeling ; it is compact and does not col-
lapse. When properly hooked the ball
travels rapidly from the hookers through
a tunnel to the half-back. For efficiency
no three-fronted scrum can compare with
the 2-3-2. The Springboks, masters of
the 3-4-1 scrum, using their weight ad-
vantage, heeled the ball out sideways,
i.e., it emerged from behind the feet of
the hookers. It was a masterly exposition
of how to use a clumsy formation.
Miscellaneous
With an Australian, Turnbull, in the
crew, and a Maorilander, Lovelock, help-
ing with advice on how to get and keep
fit, Cambridge, in perfect shape, won the
boatrace by four lengths. Oxford is de-
scribed as “overtrained” and “exhausted”
at the finish.
* # * *
There is always remarkable heftiness
in some of the crews turned out by Syd-
ney G.P.S. for the Head-of-the-River
event. There is quality, too. This year s
heaviest, from St. Joseph’s—the average
is 12st. 41b.—tackled a couple of club
crews in the Senior Challenge Eights at
St. Ignatius’s Regatta. It headed them all,
having a three-quarter-length advantage
over Pittwater at the end of a mile.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The 80-year-old bowlers of
Adelaide turned out over 100 strong for
their annual match, with another 100,
just now qualified, waiting. In the top
rink, 85 to 90 years, were Dr. Torr,
former headmaster of Way College,
Vaughan, father of Crawford Vaughan,
ex-Premier, and Richards, founder of
the motor-body-building co. which is
giving Holden’s a good run. Prominent
elsewhere were Hodge, former University
registrar, and James Hall, who is still
chairman of Adelaide Racing Club.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Ballarat is preparing to
congratulate itself on the possession of
“the finest artificial motor-racing road in
Australia.” Laid down in bitumen on
an undulating common, it will have a
circuit of four miles. Eleven bends,
of all shapes and . sizes, will test
the skill of drivers, and grandstands,
pits and booths with safety provisions
for spectators will be provided. The
straight at the finish will be bendless and
level, and, being 1J miles in length, will
give all the elbow-room a speed hero
could wish for.


A ~tKey '.-•S'hucrijj' -uv ocl^k^
tni
f
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-3
THE EAUGH ROUND-UP,
featuring
WIDE MAHONEY.
And 10 Other Acts.
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY,’
featuring
BUSTER WEST and LUCILLE PAGE.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“A Waltz Dream.”
“Dream” is the word for this beauti-
fully-dressed display floating on Oscar
Straus waltz music at Sydney Royal.
Mr. Rolls and his confederates might
have taken a nap in the Castle of In-
dolence gardens on a sunny afternoon
and jointly dreamt themselves back to
the mid-1920’5, His Majesty’s (now
Woolworths’ headquarters), and all the
bright pretty-pretty of musicomedy in
its Custer’s Last stand. It even has
Field Fisher in the bill and Charles Zoli
and Marie Le Varre, and, less historical,
Syd Wheeler and Marie Bremner.
Mr. Fisher is Flunk-in-chief in a
Ruritanian castle somewhere near old
Vienna; Miss Le Varre thumps the big
drum in an adjoining beer garden ; Mr.
Wheeler is Grand Duke Lothar, full of
hops and ancient wisecracks; Miss
Bremner is Princess Helene, who has
married a Viennese lieutenant, ostensibly
to supply an heir, secretly because she
loves him. Mr. Zoli —this extraordinarily
lively museum piece cartie to Australia
with Harry Rickards!---is a Yiddish waiter
in the beer garden; and the First Act in
19 spasms is devoted to conveying to the
audience that the princess and her bride-
groom are going to sleep at opposite ends
of the palace.
Newcomers to Sydney include Jack
Arthur, as the Viennese lieut. who turns
stubborn on his wedding night; Melton
Moore, a Nelson-Eddyish young man
who must have a devastating effect
among the gallery girls; and Bernice
Claire, a young and fetching leading lady
who looks as if she could act. Like all
these, plus chorus and ballet, Don Nicol
as a gouty and bawdy Grand Duke
Joachim fits like an original into Mr.
Rolls’s anachronistic pattern.
No revolution having meantime oc-
curred in what first-nighters deck them-
selves out in—apart from an odd one or
two American-style white, or half-a-quart-
of-milk-please, male dinner-jackets—even
the audience fitted into the scheme,
scurrying out of rain-dripping taxis and
milling in slow motion in the foyer be-
forehand, the ladies —trim craft and well-
decked liners—a bit unsure between bare-
back summer and furry winter. Any-
one borrowing Mr Rolls’s license should
have been able to find Royal Egypt her-
self in the dress circle, with space all.
clear for the asp. A recrudescence of
feathers afloat about shoulders was more
historically accurate. It only wanted top-
hats and men’s evening cloaks to make
everything fit in perfectly with what was
going on on stage, where they were being
vocal about wine, women and song.
When Mr. Nicol was at last through
with stamping his gouty foot by mis-
take, and Mr. Wheeler had tossed off
his last noggin, and Messrs. Arthur and
Moore had baritoned their last duet, and
Miss Bremner and Miss Claire had bared
Ihe innermost torments of their tender
hearts, and all the company had waltzed
together so often and so charmingly, and
Mr. Zoli had for the last time taken his
hat off and put it on again, and so and
so and so and so, there they all were,
singing the lovely theme song en masse
beyond a barricade of flowers three feet
high and the stage wide, with the leading
man stepping out and making a speech
and then leading Mr. Rolls out to make
a speech.
All the foregoing hereby certified as
occurring a.d. 1939; the exact date,
April 1.
Lotte Lehmann.
There were ballads, drawing-room
trifles, Mozartian operatic excerpts and,
of course, German lieder, in Madame
Lehmann’s Sydney Town Hall recitals of
last week. She excelled in the lieder.
She appreciates the grace and gaiety
of Mozart, but she sings in German
music he wrote for the Italian, which
handicaps phrasing. That she has any-
thing but hatred of Mozart is a testimony
to the diva’s greatness of heart. As a
young student she had to sing “Dove
sono” over and over for months with a
stick in her mouth.
There is no stick in her mouth to-day.
Of all great singers Australia has heard
she has perhaps the easiest style, and
there is, throughout all her wide, even
range, a pleasant warmth that endears.
Nordica, Patti and Flagstad were much
more dynamic and startling ; Melba and
Galli-Curci possessed a more crystalline
purity of tone. But none of them could
sing Schumann’s “Nussbaum” so engag-
ingly ; none of them, in this critic’s
memory, even tackled the great Beethoven
songs Lehmann declaims so splendidly,
while her interpretations of Brahms,
Schubert and Hugo Wolf efface mem-
ories of all other exponents.
Busker Charles Laughton in “St. Martin’s Lane,” at Sydney Century.
Goluboff.
Grisha Goluboff continues to fiddle to
considerable audiences at Melbourne
Town Hall.
If he falls below Yehudi Menuhin in
popular estimation he is not much in-
jured by the fall. What he lacks in
strength and volume he makes up for
in sensitiveness of tone, and if he is
not overconcerned with impressing his
audience he is obviously deeply concerned
with pleasing himself.
An unpretentious lad without a trace
of self-consciousness, he made the Vitali
“Chaconne” live up to its author’s name,
and in the Beethoven sonata in F major,
op. 24, he was at once easy and con-
scientious. The longer, more elaborate
and flowery Max Bruch concerto in G
minor made three long opuses in a row,
and he polished them off with the
aplomb of an old campaigner and looked
as if he could have swallowed a couple
of dozen more.
The massive John Crown, who looks
like Grisha’s big brother, is an admirable
pianist, and his share of the “Kreutzer”
on Saturday nearly ran away with the
performance.
Melbourne Tiv.
At Melbourne Tivoli the row is majestic
even if the quality of the entertainment
is not superb.
Just how thin some of the ladies’
voices would appear if somebody was
ever strong enough to crowbar them
away from the microphone isn’t known,
but the way they and everybody else
cling to that contraption suggests that it
has become a necessity for them.
Nobody descends far below Tivoli
standards in the present bill, and nobody
towers far above. On second acquaint-
ance Will Mahoney as a comedian does
not appeal, though as a cure for sleeping
sickness he would be outstanding any-
where. Evie Hayes, the radio and re-
cording star, wails into the inevitable
mike, while Bob Geraghty beams over
the ivories. Johnny Kiado, the Prince
of the Accordion, makes that instrument
sound like a railway train, a bumble bee
and an aeroplane, while the Tivoli Ballet
provides Kicks and Kapers as an excuse
for a display of leg that needs no excuse
at all.
An avalanche of fresh attractions is
announced as being on the rhove, mainly
from the U.S.A.
Adelaide’s Strong Amateurs.
The friendly rivalry of Adelaide’s
many amateur dramatic societies is shown
by the busy Agnes Dobson moving across
to the Repertory for its latest production
—three evenings, to large houses.
The very serious “Meteor,” by S. M.
Behrman, is about a young American
with ideas so large as to be almost
amusing, and a firm belief that he has
powers denied to other men. And his
success is speedy and great till he tries
—most improbably—to see how near he
can allow ruin to come before side-
stepping it. The obvious climax is
suicide or wife-murder or insanity, per-
haps all three. But Behrman has shunned
the obvious. Ruined apparently, and
certainly alone in the world, he is seen
at curtain-fall planning a fresh campaign.
Robert Matthews gave a masterly per-
formance, making it all seem really
credible. Agnes Dobson’s finished art
dealt easily with the wife’s progress from
fascination, through puzzled watchful-
ness, to something like despair. The pro-
ducer was Muriel Marks, who in private
life is Mrs. Matthews. Noblet and Fos-
ter, Hancock and Beck gave neat
character-sketches.
The Little Theatre has had the pluck
to stage Bridie’s cheeky “Jonah and the
Whale,” satire, modern anachronisms
and all. Cecil Reed was the ineffectual
little prophet, Viola Marks the village
maiden who believes in him, Frank Wil-
loughby the commercial traveller who
bluffs him into going to Nineveh, and
Robert Porter the Whale—a large voice,
• r,.,
fopnotch Australian turn.
Cinesound’s “Mr. Chedworth Steps
Out,” to be reviewed more fully here
later, is easily the best Australian film
this commentator has witnessed and a
topnotch entertainer.
It has none of the self-consciousness
that once spoilt Australian films. Aus-
tralian people in Australian settings are
presented With a confidence that fore-
tells more films as typical of Australia
as other productions are of Hollywood
and England. It is directed, photo-
graphed and acted with quiet assurance,
and though built on conventional lines it
has a freshness and sincerity only
achieved when players and filmsmiths
are keen on their job and as much con-
cerned with quality as with £ s. d.
A lesson could be taken from the
Yanks in the use of the sub-editorial
snips. There is a tendency to play every
scene right out whether its bearing on
the story is important or otherwise. If
Mr. Kellaway takes the bit between his
teeth in a nice stretch of acting or if
some scene seems particularly good, the
filmsmiths are inclined to dwell on it
irrespective of its value and often to the
detriment of the narrative and the film
as a whole.
“St. Martin’s Lane.”
Charles Laughton, Vivien Leigh.
This London night piece might have
been written to provide Sydney Century
with an answer to the “Pygmalion”
show across the road. Miss Leigh
acts sharply and most accurately a part
practically identical with the Shavian
wench so stunningly done by Miss Wendy
Hiller at the Victory. The wench Miss
Leigh portrays also starts out from
London’s extreme low life ; is also chaste
to begin with; is also an independent
little spitfire; and is also destined to rise
to undreamt-of surrounding luxury.
Apart from that striking resemblance
of characterisation and theme, the plays
are as different as could be.
Mr. Shaw relies on sheer intellectual
brilliance to attract the audience up to
his level, and the catchline in the ads. for
“Pygmalion” “Fourth month of First
Year” —is some evidence that his con-
fidence isn’t misplaced. Having got the
audience up to the rarefied heights he
inhabits, Mr. Shaw entertains them with
a view such as they had never seen, nor
ever expected to see, nor ever would
have seen in any condition of normal life.
By his great dramatic genius he makes
all this seem normal and natural. There
was never yet a machine more an in-
vented mechanical contrivance than- the
dramatic body of “Pygmalion,” or, once
having been invented and constructed,
more a convincing reality.
Miss Dane, author of this other piece,
stands on the levels of common experi-
ence. Apart from one very lovely un-
leashing of poetic imagination, pretty
well everything is made to happen as
an outcome of the characters’ normal
humanity.
The poetic flight occurs in a cathedral
interior, with moonlight pouring through
a large window with smallish panes, to
make a chessboard pattern on the stone
floor. Miss Leigh, as the gutter wench,
has pinched an expensive cigarette-case
from a young dandy at a coffee-stall, and
has fled hither, hotly pursued by Mr.
Laughton, whose role is that of a Lon-
don street entertainer, his specialty
“The Green Eye of the Little Yellow
God,” most horribly recited. Taking
refuge in the cloistered building like a
frightened wild creature, Miss Leigh
sights the patch of moonlight squares,
and that appealing to what is still child-
like in her, she dances in the pattern,
what time the volume of a full orchestra
surprisingly arises to accompany her.
Apart from this flight of fancy nearly
all that happens is natural enough to be
common experience. Differing from Mr.
Shaw’s wench, licked into social shape
in his Shavian hothouse, the one por-
trayed by Miss Leigh moves on to better
things by way of natural occurrences and
character. Taken to his seedy room by
street-busker Laughton, she is presently
with him as one of a pavement quartet,
her rise from that to leading musicomedy
lady, while her confreres stay on the
pavement level, occurring through her
natural advantage of sex-appeal and in-
stinct to grasp opportunity when it offers,
the leg-up being provided by the young
chap whose cigarette-case she pinched.
As played by Miss Leigh, it is a most
natural piece of fine characterisation,
finely sustained right to the surprisingly
abrupt end. That Mr. Laughton s part
—as distinct from what Mr. Laughton
does in it —is comparatively hollow is
maybe a result of the play being by a
woman. Miss Dane understands her
wench to a degree never approached by
Mr. Shaw, and Miss Leigh shares the
understanding to the finest shade. Mr.
Laughton’s part is by no means a bad
conception, but it rings just a trifle
counterfeit. This, on second thought,
might be Mr. Laughton’s doing as much
as Miss Dane’s. The busker is supposed
to be 39 ; Mr. Laughton, knowing that
that is too young for the purposes of the
play, makes him seem a good 20 years
older. This notwithstanding, Mr. Laugh-
ton gives a sterling performance ol
traditional English acting. He draws on
the part to fit exactly his bodily bulk and
facial contours, and he makes of the
appropriation an all-embracing essay in
character portrayal.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
’4(Xi
. AND £2O TO SPEND
.4#
mrnm
-
§■&
* i
:
B
/ *
m
•m
y;.i
m
FIRST PRIZE
IN THE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
COMPETITION
T)ALM-FRINGED islands set in sapphire seas . . . dark-eyed
maidens swaying to the beat of primitive music . . . tropic
moons and color-flooded dawns . . . Isn’t that the South Sea
picture of your dreams? And do you know that you may
quite easily make it a reality—that you may actually win
a cruise per luxury liner to those enchanted regions?
The Agfa Photographic Competition offers you an unequalled
opportunity. Only amateurs can enter; and a happy choice
of subject in the photographs submitted may count for a
great deal more than technical experience ... So get out your
camera, and start “shooting” right away. Remember, in
addition to the magnificent first prize, which is valued at £5O,
there are many other prizes well worth winning.
2"“ PRIZE
HOME MOVIE OUTFIT, comprising ( I ) the marvellously efficient
“Agfa” Movex 8 CINE CAMERA fitted with the very latest devices for
quick loading, easy handling, etc.; (2) “Agfa” Movector 8 CINE
PROJECTOR, which permits the showing of moving pictures at home
with absolutely professional perfection.
Retail Value
3 n ° PRIZE
“AGFA” SPEEDEX COMPUR CAMERA, with F 4.5 Solinar Lens in
Compur Rapid Shutter (kindly donated by Herbert Small Pt'y., Ltd.).
This Shutter gives speeds from 1 /400th to one second and takes
exquisite pictures either by daylight or artificial light.
Retail Value
£lO/2/6
75 CONSOLATION PRIZES
25 “AGFA” ALL-METAL BOX CAMERAS—famous the world over—
absolutely the finest camera in its class ever manufactured—ideal for
beginners. 50 FREE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR ONE YEAR to the “Agfa”
Magazine, “Good Photography” each copy brimful of information and
advice of the most practical kind. Contains photos, and news from
all parts of the world.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST TO-DAY for a copy of the
“Agfa” Folder giving full particulars of the conditions
of the competition. If, by any chance, you are unable
to obtain the folder locallv, write to AGFA PHOTO-
COMPETITION, 62 CLARENCE STREET (BOX
3957 V, G.P.0.), SYDNEY, N.S'.W. Bear in mind,
THE COMPETITION CLOSES MAY 31, 1939
ds
FILMS (.CAMERAS
AGFA DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA —Herbert Small Pty., Ltd., 308-310 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, Cl.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Herbert Small Pty., Ltd., 243 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND —Herbert Small Pty., Ltd., 210 Queen Street, BRIS'BANE.
TASMANIA —Ash Bester & Co., 102 Elizabeth Street, HOBART.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —F. H. Faulding & Co., Ltd., James Place, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —W. E. Sainsbury & Co., 27 London Court, PERTH.
f
“Dawn Patrol.”
Errol Flynn, Basil Rathbone. David Niven,
Donald Crisp.
With Flynn at his best in the leading
role, formerly done by Richard Barthel-
mess, Rathbone giving a quality per-
formance as the nerve-racked 0.C.,
Niven making a good job of Scott, and
Crisp his usual solid self, this latest
version of one of the finest of war
dramas can be recommended out of hand.
It has queues four deep and a fur-
long in length outside the Plaza, wel-
coming the general breaking of one of
the worst and most sustained filmic
droughts Sydney has ever suffered.
Offerings have been so dreadful all
round that at any time over the past
few months the support that goes with
“Dawn Patrol” might have been a main
offering—and anyone who witnesses this
support won’t call that putting it politely.
Those who saw the earlier version of
“Dawn Patrol” can go along again in
perfect safety—this one won’t let their
recollections down. Those seeing it for
the first time will find it drama at its
most gripping and satisfying. Its sound
theme served up with an accompaniment
of thrilling excitements, it is both good
drama and striking spectacle.
Many scenes are obviously re-shots of
the original film ; ’planes used, as in the
former version, are fairly faithful re-
productions of the old Sopwith Camels
with rotary engines, and in setting and
most other respects it is an authentic
representation of a unit of the R.F.C.
in France. The R.F.C. never referred
to Fritz aviators as “Heinies,” which
American-magazine word Flynn uses ; it
was always “Jerry” or ‘ Huns.” Also,
height was never referred to in metres by
the R.F.C. ; always in feet, as is still the
practice.
Otherwise the depiction is arrestingly
accurate, and for once the film-makers
haven’t ruined a powerful statement with
a lapse into contradictory sentiment at
the finish.
A well-directed film, it roars along at
a great bat, vigorous in statement and
exciting in action all the way. It repre-
sents as faithfully as it could possibly be
done the general outlook of the men
who did the fighting in the 1914-18 war
and the way the fliers did their part of
the scrapping.
“There’s That Woman Again.”
Melvyn Douglas, Virginia Bruce.
Ever since Myrna Loy and William
Powell blended serio-comic sleuthery
with alcoholic matrimony in “The Thin
Man,” Hollywood has been trying with-
out success to equal that engaging film.
This latest effort at Sydney Mayfair is
at least lightly amusing.
Douglas is the ’tec presumably eking
out a precarious crust by handling a
solitary case of jool robbery ; Miss Bruce
as his wife is pleasantly insane, and
always managing to complicate his busi-
ness of detecting by poking her nose into
his affairs at the most inopportune
moments.
There are several suspects, a dozen or
so robberies and a couple of moiders
all wrapped up in the piece. Reason for
them all is rather vague, and Mr. Doug-
las’s solution more so, but there are one
or two exciting moments, and enough
light domestic comedy splashed through
to carry the film over its allotted running-
time.
“Paris Honeymoon.”
Franciska Gaal, Bing Crosby.
In the ads. “Persons in Hiding” figured
as the main attraction at Sydney Cameo
and Civic, and present film-taster, judging
to avoid Bing by dropping in at half-time,
was bowled by a change of programme
whereby Bing figures as the main item
on the bill.
It must be said, however, that Bing
seems to mellow on further acquaintance.
His acting has improved, and possibly the
wailings of more direful yawpers have
tempered his howl. Certainly his plain-
tive v/ailings, though they might inspire
chronic melancholia, do not rasp across
the eardrums like a crosscut saw.
Here he figures as a mining magnate
abiding in his castle somewhere in the
Calathumpian Alps and awaiting his
spouse-to-be to gain her divorce and
come from Paris. The Gaal lass is the
country maiden who invades his moun-
tain fastness to upset his prospective
matrimonial venture ; between them they
evolve the lightest of light comedy
romance.
Some moments of really boisterous
comedy are provided by Akim Tamiroff
as a Calathumpian publican with Chicago
ideas, and by a bottle of Calathumpian
hooch, the effects of which are slightly
more severe than those produced by a
swig of rnetho., boot polish and barbed
wire.
ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne
A show of pictures in fourteen differ-
ent styles is selling like munition shares
in Europe at Melbourne Athenaeum. The
artist is E. R. Jones, originally of Ballarat
and now of Melbourne.
Nos. 35, 36 and 39 could easily be
taken for Hilders, a panel of Tasmanian
marine views in oils belongs to the Aus-
tralian landscape school typified by
Streeton, and No. 4, “The Silent Pool,”
might be the work of a long-distance fol-
lower of the English Constable. Most of
the rest are in the Blamire Young manner,
but Young with a body. Jones shows
less concern about technical tricks and
more with what is seen.
Groups of people in rich dark interiors
are handled with an eye for the actual
effect, and as this is the latest stage in
his development it looks more promising
than his previous trying on of other
people’s hats. No. 20, a quick impres-
sion of the crowd at the opening of an
Athenaeum show, is possibly the most
individual.
* * * *
Bulletin artist Unk White’s unusual
show in Melbourne caught the eye of
the National Gallery selectors, and the
trustees have recommended the pur-
chase of eight of his colored drawings
for 54 guineas. The purchase has to be
agreed to by the Felton Bequest.
Sydney
H. Nevill-Smith’s water-colors at the
Rubery Bennett Galleries are interest-
ing on three counts: they are the work
of a painter whose main profession is
music ; they are, to a far greater extent
than the work of any other Australian
artist, made up of the few primary colors,
in preference to the legion of shades
and tints; and thirdly, though there are
a few Australian landscapes, eucalypts
are missing.
The painter finds his most congenial
subjects far afield—in Mexico, Arizona,
California, Hawaii, Samoa and New
Caledonia. His picture of Grand Can-
yon glows with all the tints of a red
opal. The same opalescent quality is
present in “Oponohu Bay, Moorea,” in
“The Inlet, George’s River,” and in
“Pago Pago, Samoa.” “Winter at
Tekapo,” “Mount Cook” and “Below
Zero” are Maoriland gleanings which
look incredibly bright and gay, just as
did Lamorna Birch’s pictures from the
same land. Reason probably is the
grand old Vandervelden tradition that
burnt sienna and white express every-
thing in Fernland’s alpine regions.
“The Three Sisters,” from the Blue
Mountains, is a fair sample of what
Percy Grainger calls Nevill-Smith’s
“pagan” instinct for color. It seems an
exaggeration, but perhaps, as in the case
of the M.L. sketches, that is because
forerunners in the field have been unable
to believe their eyes.
Ballet Photos.
Hugh P. Hall, a young Melbourne
photographer, has been shooting the
Russian Ballet on the wing, and his bag
of approximately 500 photographs is
attracting attention of balletomanes at
the Sedon Galleries.
Devotees of the cult are offered an
almost complete range of some of the
ballets, notably “Le Coq d’Or,” and in
the absence of movement and music the
conventions of ballet are seen, so to
speak, in frozen immobility.
Smart Commercial Photography
An English “Court photographer,”
John Lee, has a show of his work at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney.
Mostly presenting pretty girls in
pretty frocks (and a few without frocks),
it shows throughout a mastery of the
lighting problems and background selec-
tion necessary to the best showing-off
of fabrics and forms.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
J'
, —-?■
&
•A
oecially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S’pringwood ; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or Alters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by milltons of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
By the time this gets into print the
Show —Sydney’s most popular Easter
egg—will be almost hard boiled. It
started last Saturday, though really there
were some exhibits not ready then for
the public eye—the needlework, for in-
stance. An early stroll last week about the
grounds and pavilions resulted in an im-
pression of laden lorries and mountains
<j)f sheaves. Exhibitors were busy trying
out effects —men, and women, too, in-
tent on displaying the riches of their par-
ticular district. Seeing their absorbed
and happy faces, their deft hands busy
with prize cabbage and apple, it seemed
a much better plan to have the youth of
the world conscripted to learning the
lore of the farm than to becoming ex-
perts with bayonet and gas bomb.
Women are as keen as ever on the
ring events.- Well-knowns being seen
again are Mrs. Harry Meeks, Daisie
Osborne and Lorna Mac Smith. Indomit-
able Phyllis Bray, who met with an acci-
dent last year, is once again among the
riders. Mary Luxton has come from
Melbourne. Record entries are shown
in the needlework and cookery sections.
The ballroom of the Australia held a
company of the Empire-minded last
Friday —women wore their diamonds
and men their decorations. Frocking
was sometimes happy, and once or twice
glorious. Heads had mostly got rid of
the Edwardian birds’-nests, and looked
neater in consequence. In short, man
and woman alike were brushed and
garnished to greet the Governor-General
and his lady. The Overseas League, the
Royal Society of St. George, the British
Empire Union, the Victoria League and
the Royal Empire Society had joined
forces, and altogether there were about
700 guests, who bore no particular
brand but were all strongly flavored
with “hands-across-the-sea” sentiment.
The importants from Admiralty House
did not arrive till after nine o’clock,
and by that time the ballroom was a
seething mass of chiffons, silks, laces
and even velvets. Miss Macarthur
Onslow was there in sweeping black
chiffons ; Archbishop Mowll made im-
pressive entry with Mrs. Mowll ; flying-
girl Margaret Adams buzzed about,
very pretty in a backless white frock ;
Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre’s taffetas were
flower-patterned ; Mrs. Tom Rolin, who
was with daughter Mrs. Langer Owen,
wore cyclamen laces with handsome
effect. Tall knight Mark Sheldon came
with his lady, her frock with its sweep-
ing train delicately blue and silver. The
Bertie Kellys (her jade-green chiffons and
a necklace of pearls were admirable)
talked music and plays.
Mrs. Fred Aronson was handsome in
black lace, on which a diamond butter-
fly spread scintillating wing. Mrs. Fitz-
Searight’s jade feather cape was one of
the night’s handsomest. Miss N. Veitch’s
flowered taffetas were lit with diamond
ornaments. Mrs. Mark Foy’s diamond
dog-collar attracted the eye ; so did Mrs.
Dan Kelly’s Florentine blue chiffons.
Mrs. Florence Taylor, Mrs. A. E. Grace
and Mrs. E. Wunderlich were among
the night’s attractive. Mrs. Vernon
Cole’s ivory moires were flower-spat-
tered. Dr. Grace Boelke, Mrs. Mc-
Millan, Miss Jobson, Winifred Wilson,
Matron Kellett, Mrs. Stacpoole, Carlotta
and the Higgins family helped
make up the many bright groups which
almost cheered when the strains of
“Land of Hope and Glory” poured out.
In the vice-regal aura were the Hugh
Denisons, her purple crepes lightly beaded
in gold. Her quota to the feather indus-
try was a long plume of ostrich in violet
tones. The Kelso Kings, the Mayoral
Nocks and the J. D. Scott Fells were in
the group that, of course, included Miss
Macarthur Onslow and Miss Fairfax.
Diamonds and pearls gleamed in Lady
Gowrie’s tiara. Her frock shone silver
beneath amethyst tulle. High commands
of the navy and the army were sprinkled
about, and Captain Bracegirdle and Cap-
tain Llewellyn Palmer were in attendance
on the vice-regals. Mrs. Crawford
Robertson’s Arctic white satins banded
with white fur cannot be overlooked.
Rosalind Macarthur Onslow and Nuala
Browne were two nice-looking beginning
Empire-builders. Mrs. Aumuller, from
New Guinea, was with Mrs. Brissenden.
Last week the Teachers’ College in
Armidale received a further gift of 65
oil-paintings and water-colors from
Howard Hinton, a trustee of the National
Art Gallery. The artists represented
included Tom Roberts, H. S. Power,
Fred Leist, Lionel Lindsay, S. Ure Smith,
Lloyd Rees, Hans Heysen, Philip Con-
nard, Maud Sherwood and Daryl Lind-
say. The Society of Artists has also
presented oil-paintings by Douglas Dun-
das, Harold Abbot and Roy de Mestre
to the college.
The E.-S.U., like every other club
where women forgather, is busy with
first-aid classes. In addition throughout
April the union is to have three lectures.
Oswald Anderson’s “Standard of Speech
in Broadcasting” should make his audi-
ence clip their ears back. Oswald is just re-
turned from London, and as his job is
radio he should know the right shade of
intoning expected in the 8.8. C. cathedral.
Helen Fraser, also straight from London,
will tell of “Britain’s Preparedness.” A
touch of romantic color threatens to seep
through Edith Glanville’s “Through the
Caucasus Mountains.”
Gwen Taylor, now a teacher at North
Newtown Demonstration School (it’s on
the lines of the one at Blackfriars), is
giving up teaching to go abroad to study
singing. Gwen has a fine mezzo voice
with a dramatic quality which is often
heard over A.B.C. stations. She is a
Wagga girl, and that district is keenly
interested in her progress. So is the
Teachers’ Federation. The Minister for
Education, too, has given his patronage
to Gwen’s farewell recital, which will be
at the Conservatorium on April 12. May
Moore photograph.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly believes in plenty of
groundwork when she is working up a
money-maker for charity. Last Friday
at 11 o’clock in the morning she was at
St. Vincent’s public hospital marshalling
her forces for a children’s party to be
held on November 25. The Orient Line
is lending the Orcades, and the committee
is determined to put months of prelimi-
nary effort into making this affair out-
standing. An Easter-morn function that
Sydney will not sample this year is the
Bertie Kellys’ eggnog party. Mrs. Kelly,
who broke a rib some time ago, is trying
to lead, if not a quiet, at least a quieter,
life. Daughter-in-law Mrs. T.H., junior,
will, however, be staying at 39
Sutherland-crescent for the Show and
the races. This keen horsewoman is
hoping to win R.A.S. honors with a
thoroughbred, ex-racehorse Curtius, and
a chestnut mare, Alison.
The Frank Hambridges came back in
the Strathnaver, in which travelled
Phyllis Arnott, also of Wahroonga. Both
these North Shore-line girls have got a
thrill out of their studies. Marjorie
Hambridge flew to any old part of
the Continent when Szigeti sent her
word he could give her lessons be-
tween concerts. Phyllis had her notes
barbered by Grunebaum, Florence
Austral’s teacher. In the ship, too, came
Lord and Lady Runciman, who were
very interested in the young Australian
musicians. The Hambridge family is
back in its old home, The Chalet, and
here Mr. Hambridge, who had an attack
of ’flu on the way back, is drinking in
deep breaths of the gum-trees in his own
garden. Son Rhodes is still at St.
George’s Hospital, London. He’s so
busy he has had to give up his rowing.
Thinks he will have to take up squash.
For seven years Austin Byrnes, of
Rosebery, has labored on an expression
of admiration for the flying achievements
of Kingsford Smith and Charlie Ulm.
Now in the Southern Cross Memorial
Hall in the Showground is poised a
gleaming model of the Southern Cross, to
scale, and true in every detail. A brother
of the airman, examining it minutely one
afternoon last week, was delighted with
the detail. On the next table rises a great
and gleaming aluminium globe. On it
the countries of the world are super-
imposed, and burn gold against the silver
gleam of the aluminium. Mr. Byrnes
drew the maps on brass, and then cut
them out with a fretsaw. Then he riveted
them to the globe, which had been spun
in a top and bottom half. Rivers and
lakes he scribed, waxed and burned in
with acid. The pioneer flights are marked
in red, mail flights in white and Pacific
flights in blue. The whole stands on an
all-Australian marble pedestal.
Some of this marble comes from
Mudgee and some from Spring Hill.
Around the base of the pedestal are
medallions of people important in the
story of the flights. They are of every
nation, and a pleasing touch in each pic-
ture is the flag of that particular person’s
country. On still another table is the
Book of Remembrance on a bookstand
carved with waratah and laurel wreath,
on one end the name of Kingford Smith
and on the other that of Ulm. In this
book are pages bearing the names of
many splendid airmen. Around the walls
of the pavilion is the odyssey of the great
flights in photographs from all the coun-
tries of the world. In each corner stands
a chest of polished Australian wood-
silky oak, maple, blackwood, cedar.
These will hold the ’plane and the globe
when they journey to the World’s Fair.
Mr. Byrnes is a worker on the railways.
Lotte Lehmann looked much like this
(the photograph was taken last week)
when she opened Nevill-Smith’s show of
water-colors. This ceremony filled the
Rubery Bennett galleries to suffocation
last Friday, for not only is Nevill-Smith
an artist, he is also on the singing staff
of the Con. So musicians as well as
artists and friends climbed the winding
stair to the show. Lotte’s speech was apt,
and the artist’s sister presented a sheaf
of flame gladioli. The Baintons, Mrs.
John Holmes, the Erik Langkers, Mrs.
Charles Philp, Ruby Adams and Mrs.
Franz Degen were among the glimpsed.
“A Waltz Dream,” written when the
tinkle of laughter, the elegance of
romance threaded all stories written
around Vienna, came back to Sydney
last Saturday. To those who know any-
thing of the history of that once-brilliant
capital, the operetta is crowded with
ghosts from the Ring-Strasse. The music
almost persuades one that life is still
a crystal ballroom floor set in the midst
of scented and shady gardens. One man
in the audience re-lived one of the most
exciting nights of his life. He was in the
opera house in Vienna for the 300th per-
formance of “A Waltz Dream,” with
Oscar Straus himself conducting. The
place was packed from floor to ceiling.
After the performance the students took
the horses from Straus’s carriage and
amidst cheers and laughter drew him
through the streets. The Sydney man had
been one of those who pushed behind.
That was in 1909. Lehar immediately
wrote his “Merry Widow” as a kind of
counter-attack. What a world when
music was the ammunition of life!
Early arrivals were the A. C.
Godhards, just back from months of
travel. With her black romaine frock
she wore a long, long spray of tiny
pink lilies. The berry-red of Mrs. Sep
Levy’s cloak made bright passage up
the stalls aisle. Shoulder scarves of ivory
patterned in green and black were grace-
ful on Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s black velvets.
Violinist Jan Rubini was there. So was
Hollywood actress Terry Walker. A
pretty Salenger girl was cloaked and
hooded in midnight blues. Arctic fox
white as a snowdrift enwrapped
Mrs. J. K. Schartl’s shoulders. With
Mrs. F. E. Baume came a pretty niece
from Maoriland, Mildred Winter. One
of the night’s handsome was Mrs. Oliver
Osborne. The cyclamen and blue ribbon
border to Mrs. C. V. Walker’s black
frock was attractive. The E. J. Taits
were in a box.
Roland Foster came to the evening
reception to Lord and Lady Gowrie with
a dream of his own reception still in his
eyes. Roland has just had his silver
jubilee as a teacher of singing, and pupils
past and present gave him a great night
in the Carlton. All the decorations were
silver, and for each pupil there was a
silver kewpie. Some of his very first
students travelled miles to offer con-
gratulations in person. A pile of gifts,
all in silver, were thrust on him, A
clock of old French design was the most
beautiful.
Up at Wirth’s Circus they are busy
preparing for Good Friday morning’s
special performance. Every Good Fri-
day morning hot cross buns and ginger
pop, plus a free entertainment, are
handed out to the poor kiddies of the
city. The party is a tradition in the
Wirth family. The founder of the circus
started it, and it is still going strong.
It makes an early morning start though,
somewhere about six o’clock.
Everybody is a friend of the Sacred
Heart Hospice in Darlinghurst. The
Royal Packet Navigation Co. is no ex-
ception, and general manager Bakker
is allowing the use of one of the K.P.M.
ships for an afternoon entertainment in
aid of the hospice. Plans were made
at a committee meeting last week.
The show' of John Lee’s fashion photo-
graphs makes clear the pinnacle to which
the mannequin has been exalted. Each
of the girls now on the walls of David
Jones’s gallery, displaying sleek furs,
miraculously cut raiment, the saucy or
beguiling hat, has a sort of dossier, tell-
ing of her special appeal. For instance,
we are told that Cochrane considers one
the perfect showgirl. She certainly looks
a glamorous blonde. Next to her, bright-
faced and with a forehead that bespeaks
intelligence, is the girl said to have enor-
mous attraction for men. They even go
to the studio, after seeing her picture,
with proposals of marriage on their lips
and possibly the engagement-ring in their
pockets. There’s a girl whom Gordon
Selfridge discovered in a bargain base-
ment. Now she’s at the top of the manne-
quin tree —which should, of course, be a
boot-tree. The photography is excellent;
the silk, velvet or woollen of the material,
so clever are the light and shade, is at
once discernible. Australia’s Margaret
Vyner is in this gallery of fine feathers
and fine birds.
Before they swelled our harbor with the
tear of farewell, the officers of H.M.S.
Leith and H.M.S. Wellington gave another
of their popular late-afternoon parties.
Side by side in Farm Cove, knit to each
other by planks, the ships basked in the
setting sun of the first hundred-per-cent,
fine day this city has known for weeks.
The party was a bright happening in a
socially dull week, and even the bunting
managed to be an inspiriting sight. Cap-
tain H. C. Phillips came with daughter
Susan, who was very trig in navy-and-
white. Mrs. Sergei was a visitor from
Maoriland, whose coasts the Leith and
the Wellington help to guard. The party
was quite a parade of what the smart
woman will think fashionable this season
for cocktail consumption. Mrs. Pat Levy
and Marie Coen were among the smart.
If you have been on the water-wagon
April 15 will be the date to come off it
with a swing. There’s going to be a
party in Bligh-street at that old-estab-
lished address the New South Wales
Club. Five-to-seven is the time.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 464 of 1939.
BETWEEN IRENE AMY CROSS Petitioner
And RONALD CLARENCE CROSS
Respondent.
TO RONALD CLARENCE CROSS formerly
of Mudgee in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IRENE AMY
CROSS has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just causes or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Sixteenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of March,
A.D. 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN S. HEANEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT .OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 434 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALICE ANN LINEGAR Peti-
tioner
And VICTOR SYDNEY LINEGAR Re-
spondent.
TO VICTOR SYDNEY LINEGAR late of
Gardiner’s Road Rosebery in the State of
New South Wales but whose present address
is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
Petitioner ALICE ANN LINEGAR has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a decree for dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
Seventh day of June next AND in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of March,
1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LIONEL ALEXANDER, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 214 of 1939.
BETWEEN MORA CAMPBELL BUTLER
Petitioner
And WILLIAM LESLIE JAMES BUTLER
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM LESLIE JAMES BUTLER
formerly of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MORA CAMP-
BELL BUTLER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twentieth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney,
Melbourne
Chatter
Lord and Lady Huntingfield, who
sailed for England yesterday, are no
doubt feeling happy at the thought of
empty horizons and comfortable deck-
chairs, for they have been through a
vitality-draining round of farewells, with
much standing and speech-making. At
No. 9 the Royal Empire Society, the
Society of St. George and the Victoria
League combined with a farewell recep-
tion attended by 300 members, among
whom decorations upon lapels or cor-
sages were prevalent. Another evening
engagement was a dinner at the Windsor
given by the E.-S.U.
A morning date for Lady Huntingfield
was kept with cups of tea made by the
M.D.N.S. and the After-Care Home,
whose work Lady Huntingfield looks
upon with a particularly approving eye.
(Recently she handed to the D.N.S. a
sum of money which had been given to
her for distribution from the girls of
the Y.W.C.A.) Her last good-bye on
a large scale was an endurance test (at
her own special request, for she’s all
akin with their work) in the Melbourne
Town Hall, clasping hand with 1100
other members of the N.C.W.
Guests of honor and host and hostess,
Lord and Lady Huntingfield and Cr. and
Mrs. Coles, did their duty nobly at the
Lord Mayor’s farewell reception in
honor of the departing vice-regal couple,
for 3000 people were invited to the
function, which meant a long period of
standing, shaking hands, smiling politely
and speaking friendly words of wel-
come or good-bye as the guests filed
past the dais. Carpets strewn upon the
Town Hall floor, verandah box gardens
around the balconies, green lights twink-
ling in the bunches of ferns suspended
from the high ceiling and the citizen
forces in the scarlet of the Royal Mel-
bourne Regiment and the dark blue of
the City of Melbourne Air Force Squad-
ron were all part of the decorations.
It wasn’t a young folks’ but a parents’
night out, so that the rugs remained
upon the floor while soft music was
followed by short addresses from Coun-
cillor Coles and by Lord and Lady Hunt-
ingfield Both Lady Huntingfield and
Mrs. Coles wore gowns in which metal
threads glimmered. In silver also, and
looking a picture, was Mrs. Cecil Le Plas-
trier, who, instead of dipping into her
jewel-case, found all she needed for
adornment was a silver ribbon around
her throat. The very feminine tempo
of a bow here and a bow there was
touched upon also by Mrs. Max
Moffat, with black velvet ribbons
upon the corsage of her blue lace
crinoline gown; by Mrs. Jack Jour-
neaux, who clipped three bows of cycla-
men ribbon one above the other to the
back of her hair, and by Valerie Purves,
with two pink ribbons —one over her
brow, the other at the nape of her neck.
An unusual frock was Mrs. Cecil Mc-
Kay’s choice of midnight-blue chiffon
scattered with scarlet poppies and ears
of wheat. Mrs. M. Langslow’s gown and
trifle of coat were of black ninon, in har-
mony with pastel-pink. Vaire Wilkinson
stepped backwards into grandmother’s
day with her black crinoline and her
white feather boa.
At an afternoon party in her home
last week Mrs. Ernest Poolman invited
guests, all P.L.C. Old Collegians, to
imagine themselves back once more in
No. 7 Classroom ready for a lesson from
Miss J. Paterson. The gathering was
a preface to a campaign to interest
P.L.C. past students (there are about
7000 of them) in the building of what
it is hoped will be an Old Collegians’
unit at the new school Hethersett, at
Burwood. If the appeal is a success
the new section may take the form of
something as ambitious as, for instance,
a domestic science wing or a laboratory.
Miss Paterson was a good propagandist
for this movement; so was Mrs. Lex
Rentoul, particularly while she was
working with Mrs. Poolman on a Royal
Automobile Club Ball committee last
year—hence the meeting at Mrs. Pool-
man’s house.
Among those present were Mrs. I. H.
Moss and Mrs. Courtney Dix, both
loyal Old Collegians, Mrs. P. Wischer
and her niece, Mrs. Bob Menzies, and
a mother and daughter, Mrs. W. L.
Davidson and Mrs. K. H. Boykett. A
recent bride, all in blue, was Mrs. J. L.
Wyett, who before her marriage was
Alison Cook. Mrs. Donald Nairn wore
an orchid adjacent to her neckline, and
Mrs. R. S. Blair’s black frock had a
twinkle of diamente nailheads upon
shoulders and belt buckle. A traveller
who had arrived over rain-swept roads
from Canberra was Mrs. Alan Tregear
(better known to Melbourne as Doris
Moore), who also wore black and a small
veil-swathed hat.
Eve Ray made this portrait of Madame
Lucie Saronova, who is the president of
the Cecchetti Society in Melbourne and
of the committee which organised the
demonstration held yesterday afternoon
(Tuesday) of the Cecchetti method of
classical dancing. Madame is a well-
known teacher of dancing, and her hus-
band, Harry Jacobs, is equally well known
as a conductor. He has held the baton
for the Palais orchestra for the last 11
years. Daughter Wendy, who is 14 and is
learning dancing and the piano, has not
yet made up her mind what career she
will follow when she leaves school.
Starting bright and early, and pos-
sibly eight months before the grand
climax of their plans, the Victorian
Division of the Red Cross Society met
last week to discuss a ball at the end
of the year. This function will possibly
be the first social gathering of such
magnitude at which the Duke and
Duchess of Kent will appear in Mel-
bourne, for the Duchess on her arrival
in Australia will automatically become
president of the Red Cross Society. The
date of the ball will depend upon the
royal engagement book, and may not be
fixed for some time. The preliminary
meeting was at Kurneh, with the chair
occupied by Mrs. Norman Brookes, who
has convened so many meetings that
everything passed off with hardly a ripple
except upon the surface of the cham-
pagne cocktails handed around by the
hostess’s faithful retainers, whose white
caps have been well known at her house
for years.
Motions were proposed and seconded
and office-bearers elected all in the twink-
ling of an eye ; the only discussion that
arose was over the price of tickets,
Hands up for and against looked so
evenly balanced when counted that votes
were taken as everybody filed out of
the ballroom, with a result that two
guineas had a small majority over thirty
shillings. Men present, no longer
“brave,” for each is a veteran of Red
Cross ninety-per-cent.-feminine gather-
ings, included Dr. Newman Morris,
John McCahon and Stanley Addison.
Mrs. McCahon s little white hat was
noticed in the throng. Brisbane visitors
were Mrs. W. F. Gardiner and her
daughter Janet. Noticed in navy blue,
with white hat swathed in white veil,
was Mrs. Neville Payne. Mrs. Robin
Orr expected anything from the weather
and brought her silver foxes, but Mrs.
Dudley Brunton and Mrs. John Grim-
wade were all ready for a sudden last
fling of summer and were cool and com-
fortable in silk frocks. Mrs. Cyril Tori-
kin stepped out in autumnal brown, with
a ,°f tur£ l uo^se at h er thr° a t.
WeH-known amateur skater Edith
Adams (Athol Shmith photograph), w o
a i h£ dau f h 4 er of . M . r - f ad K( ! d t I n S ; °nn
Adams, ot Toorak, is to be m n
Apnl 22 to Loring Downey of Cali-
forma The couple leave m the Monterey
two days later for a honeymoon in
America, and expect to return -
bourne, where their *}?“ e b ’
about six months. Miss Adams re
skates for the first time when she was
about 12, and since then has won many
prizes. She hasn’t had much experience
Sf ski-ing, but found one brief holiday
on a snow slope an exhilarating ex-
perience. Away from zero contacts her
favorite sport is swimming. Another
hobby is the piano.
Another Commencement Week has
come and gone, and another batch of
graduates has been let loose upon the
world with diplomas in hand and a lot
of facts stored up in brains, some with
jobs and futures waiting for them ; others
who have drunk of philosophy with un-
rest in their souls. Attachments of the
week were inter-college cricket matches
and a Commencement Ball, which (in
(spite of being ’honored by the Lord
Mayor’s presence) was to anyone who
had passed out of the shop a few years
ago a very ingenue affair, with 19 years
as the average age of the Palais dancers.
A 1939 difference in the superstructure
of our seat of learning on the sunny
afternoon of the Commencement garden
party was the massive new chemistry
school nearing completion but still at
the stage of the glaziers’ blobs of white-
wash upon each window. Another
change, this time retrogressive, was the
lake, a haunt once cherished by the uni-
versity’s ducks and swans, by kooka-
burras (with a taste for carp) and by
students who enjoy an eyeful of the beau-
ties of nature between bouts of absorb-
ing knowledge out of books. What was
once a lake is now a boghole, its mutila-
tion brought about by some misguided
scheme of reclamation.
The conferring of degrees was a
lengthy ceremony of two hours’ duration-
in the Wilson Hall. For viewing pro-
ceedings the best stance was in the More-
ton Bay fig-tree, where a couple of girls
and lads were monarchs of all they sur-
veyed, including the dais in the hall in
line with their movie cameras. At the
end of the long list of honors came the
new physical education diplomas awarded
for the first time. It is two years since
Dr. Fritz Duras arrived here to inaugu-
rate the course. These diplomas were
handed to 13 students, four of them men.
Three students, all women, received
diplomas in dietetics, given for the first
time in 1938.
After the graduation guests made their
way towards the Union House for tea,
passing over a route lined with a variety
of students’ reminders, among them a quip
about a dramatic production of “Danger-
ous Corner,” April 28, and “Medical
Medleys,” a dance and the Xylophone
Blues, a “Doing My Bit” (illustrated) joke
about the militia, and a call for help from
Con. students with the price of petrol for
those who will drive them for a picnic
down to Prof. Heinze’s house at Morn-
ington. Last but not least came a note
to the Physics Club that Dr. Love will
tell members all he knows about Long
Range Forecasting.
Something should be done about get-
ting concert audiences to refrain from
applauding between the movements of
sonatas and concertos. Little Grisha
Goluboff leaves himself open to attack
in this vulnerable spot when at the
conclusion of each movement he lowers
his bow. Most other players take the
precaution, even at the cost of losing a
moment’s muscular relaxation, of holding
their position through the slight pauses.
Members of the Wesley Boy Scout troop
occupied a row of seats for the Goluboif
concert on Saturday.
Young Grisha spent a recent afternoon
swimming with Wesley boys, who were
generous in their admiration for the
muscles in his arms and back, developed
beyond the average. Scoutmasters
breathed more easily when that swim
was over, for they are not used to the
responsibility of fingers worth thousands
of pounds within diving range of their
charges’ hard brown bodies hitting the
water from all angles in all directions.
At the concert Pat Dolin and Otis
Pearce were seen in the front row, Pat
enjoying a night off from the Ballet,
where Lichine had taken over his role in
“The Prodigal Son.” A few rows dis-
tant Jean Love wore a gown that suited
her well, of burgundy satin, strewn with
traceries of gold thread. On April 26
she will again visit the Town Hall, this
time by the underground caverns that
lead to the artists’ entrance, to sing at
her benefit concert.
Such was the crowd clustered round
the connecting link to the Sedon Gal-
leries, Robertson and Mullens’s lift and
the stairs used by the mountain climbers,
on the first afternoon of Hugh Hall’s
show of ballet photographs that there
was some speculation as to who came
to the exhibition for the sake of the
pictures and who were there for a close-
up of Anton Dolin, who made the open-
ing speech. Dolin is much in favor of
the camera as the best medium for the
recording of ballet, and said so in no
hesitant manner.
Hugh Hall, a solicitor by profession,
first embarked upon a hobby that later
became an absorbing interest, like many
other young lads, with a box Brownie.
He, like his wife, is a ballet addict, and
has some interesting photographic im-
pressions of Pavlova’s season of 13
years ago. Those were the days when
large cameras and plates were sinister
pieces of- heavy baggage, looked at side-
ways with suspicion by the rest of the
audience in the dress circle.
Among members of the Ballet at Mr.
Hall’s show was blonde Lisa Serova,
beautifully suntanned from a week-end
riding on horseback down at Beaumaris.
Mrs. Hugh Hall was there; also her
mother, Mrs. J. Watkin, of Beaufort.
Before her marriage Mrs. Hall was Joyce
Watkin, a pianist and an Ormond
scholarship winner. As might be ex-
pected, her young son and daughter are
inheriting their parents’ talents and are
already interested in the arts.


&
MODERNISES A LIVING ROOM
"Here's another recent job of mine . . . carried out quickly, satisfactorily
and inexpensively, thanks to Cane-ite. I’ve reached the definite conclusion
that this easily-worked, strong and white-ant-proofed insulation is the most
versatile and practical interior board I've ever seen. With Cane-ite we
builders can insulate and decorate at one and the same time. We can
cut out noise, neutralise extremes in temperatures AND give you almost
any modern decorative effect you want . . . without big expenditure. To make
it modern . . . "make it Cane-ite". BUILDER BROWN
ft
K
"Look at these old weatherboard walls.
They're depressing, shabby; and they
magnify every sound around, the house."
In came Builder Brown's men with the
handy sized, durable Cane-ite boards—
sound deadening, temperature-res.isting.
The Cane-ite boards—in ivory finish—were applied over the old walls,
few items of furniture and—presto! a room as modern as any you see
society magazines! Builder Brown is now busy quoting for modernising the
the house. No doubt about Cane-ite.
Next —a
in the
rest of
For beautiful tile effects tn
kitchen and bathroom,
Masonite TEMPRTILE can be
easily and permanently applied
over existing walls. Temprtile
. . . made in sheets of handy
size . . . does not crack, warp
or buckle. Takes any finish
and is easily washable. Com-
pare the price of Temprtilel
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
LIMITED (Building Materials Division)*
Please send me sample and literature on
□ CANE-ITE □ MASONITE
NAME
ADDRESS
* Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney Melbourne, •
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. tj- 5-4 CAB-9 Z ■
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: The old Tewantin Hotel, on
Noosa River (Q.), has gone up in flames.
It was the jumping-off place for the
Cootharaba Lakes in pre-war days, when
the Taits kept it, and we used to frequent it
in winter—three or four ardent fishermen
bent on peace and quiet. And was the fish-
ing good? Pound-weight bream in Lake
Cootharaba were regarded as pests which
a man must tolerate while he was wait-
ing for a 601 b. jewfish to strike. But
our best night was the wet one on which
we caught nothing but huge black mud-
crab —big enough to crack a man’s hand.
Carefully decanting these —at 2 a.m. —
into a washtub scrounged from the laun-
dry, and covering them with a cornsack,
two fishermen decided to carry the booty
through an empty bedroom to the rear
of the hotel. Unfortunately the empty
bedroom had in our absence been ten-
anted by a bride and bridegroom, mar-
ried that afternoon in Cooroy. When
the bride gave tongue like a radio soprano
one of the flurried porters dropped
his end of the tub. The crabs did a
440 for cover; the bride yelled “Don’t
put a light on! ” ; the visitors obeyed her.
The rest of the night sounded like the
proceedings of a Japanese patrol clean-
ing up a Hankow alley. One of my
memories is of an ancient in a night-
gown holding up a large crustacean by
the back flippers and asking the bride-
groom, “Is this yours?” He was John
Stewart, the permanent boarder. John
Stewart was celebrating his fiftieth year
as a boarder when the old pub died.
* * *
“J.W.”: Fraser Island, the long,
detached piece of land off the coast near
Maryborough (Q.), which has given
shelter to many a shipwrecked mariner,
has something of a Marie Celeste mys-
tery to unravel. Four week-enders in a
30ft. launch began to fish off Moon
Point with heavy lines. At 9.30 p.m. a
passer-by spoke to them. Three were fish-
ing. A youth had gone to bed at 9 p.m.
He did not wake till 9 a.m. He found
that the launch’s boat rode at anchor
50 yards away. One man’s line was
pulled in, his cap, tobacco and matches
beside it; another man’s line was in the
whaleboat trailing round the anchor-rope,
to which it was snagged; the third line
was tangled round the second. The three
fishermen had disappeared. One theory
is that the man in the whaleboat hooked
a devil-fish, and that the others jumped
in to help him and were tossed out of
the boat. Another is that one of the men,
who suffered occasionally from fits, fell
overboard, and that the others went to
his rescue and were drowned or taken
by sharks. And, of course, there is the
usual story that large octopuses have
been seen in the bay. It would take a
very large octopus to get three men off
a 30ft. motor-launch.
* * * *
“Mildew”: Nature wastes a lot of
water in the North. In the March cyclone
the first record for Tully was 847 points
for 48 hours to 9 a.m. on March 20.
Next day the town managed 1174
points. In the following 24 hours only
528 points fell; the next 24 hours brought
662 points. Friday was a dry day that
week —only 136 points. Total for six
days, 33-47 inches. But, tush —they only
dribble at Tully. Babinda —where the
State pub is—began with a week-end
quota of 787 points and had 749 points
on Monday, 766 on Tuesday, 802 on
Wednesday and 930 on Thursday. It
finished with 56.38 inches in eight days.
Since January 1 the favored township
has been bathed by 140 inches of fluid.
But it can’t beat Deeral, a few miles away
—42.86 inches in six days, of which 29
fell in the last 72 hours and 12.13 inches
in the last 24 hours,
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland’s Tourist
Department has been spending money
overseas in efforts to attract wealthy
visitors for big-game fishing, but, judging
from a verbatim shorthand report of
statements by a lady deputationist to the
Premier, Brisbane should have a good
chance of collecting some of the millions
of dahlars which once used to flow from
America to gay Paree. “Last year we
visited every ball in this city,” it runs,
“and we had before us the spectacle of
our sons and daughters getting drunk
Sad to relate, not one but many
hundreds of our so-called respectable
citizens had their daughters taken home
to them in the early hours without a
stitch of clothing on them. Hundreds of
girls have been ruined simply because
they have attended civic and State
functions or balls held for charity
Evidently investigations into social
morality are not the dull, dreary affairs
that most of us imagined them to be.
* * * ' *
“Scat”: N.T. Administrator Abbott,
explaining that “the main purpose of the
“I ’ad t' boner this sulky—me own Wasn't safe enough t' ride in."
transfer of troops to Darwin is to guard
tanks containing fuel for the navy against
possible raids by an enemy”:
When the military authorities put the
tanks at Darwin they put them in the best
possible place. The only way the tanks
could be damaged would be from the air
or by a warship that managed to get into
Darwin harbor.
From where else is Darwin, or any other
part of Australia for that matter, likely
to be attacked?
* * * *
“X T.”: Among the new military units
to be formed under the Squires scheme
c.-western Queensland, where every
'second station man is a Digger, is to have
its own battalion, with a minimum
strength of 550, and a headquarters wing
with anti-aircraft light machine-guns,
transport, signals, intelligence, a support
company armed with heavy machine-guns
and mortars, and three rifle companies.
In the other States, S.A. will have a new
battalion made by subdividing the Hind-
marsh and Torrens Regiments; Victoria
a h.q. regimental headquarters unit and
three sabre-squadrons, each of 106 all
ranks, and completely mechanised. W.A.
•will have a new Light Horse regiment
based on Guildford, N. S. Wales a Uni-
versity F. A. battery—BB officers and men
—and Tasmania an 18-pounder battery to
be attached to the Sixth Field Artillery
Brigade. The Northern Territory seems
to have been forgotten. The Tennant,
Alice and Hatches Creek are all capable
of forming local units of some kind, and
a muster of the rifleshots of Darwin and
Centralia would produce one of the
world’s most formidable corps of snipers.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Isp’t it grand to have a pater-
nal Government to set us benighted New
Guinea people a good example in com-
mercial honesty? It is only ten years
since the New Guinea Administration
raised our gold royalty from 1 p.c. to
5 p.c. to pay for a road from the coast
to the goldfields, and only a bit more
than half a million has been collected.
And we are to get our road at last. Gov-
ernment is to guarantee a loan of
£150,000, and New Guinea will find an-
other £30,000. The Administration will
probably put on another bit of royalty
to pay for keeping up the highway.
* * * *
“New Guinea-ite”: God help Euro-
peans in the N.T. if the local natives
are going to be educated on N.G. lines!
“Uplift” in N.G. has rendered it essential
to wire-in white women’s bedrooms to
make them “boy”-proof. The plantations
are the last strongholds of discipline in
the Mandated Territory.
* * * *
Mackay (N.Q.) will open its new
harbor on July 10. At present, there is
only a few hundred feet of one of the
breakwaters to be completed. Forgan
Smith is asking the P.M. to issue a com-
memorative stamp.
* * * *
“Liu”: Kennedy Regiment, which
musters 800 men just now, goes into
camp at Kissing Point, near Townsville,
for its 12 days’ annual training. Wonder
if any will be there who were in another
famous picnic of the regiment in August-
September, 1914. The unit was then in
all the first bloom of youthful enthusiasm,
swollen with compulsory-training recruits,
who found themselves tumbled into the
commandeered Kanowna and rushed on
to Thursday Island to repel the German
invader (“We were more like a ’eap of
beche-de-mer than a regiment,” one said
afterwards). As there were no mosquito-
nets, no hammocks, no tents and plenty
of T.I. damp and mildew, conditions
were worse than those of a first-class
war. The lads were taken to Port
Moresby to join the Rabaul Force.
Holmes and Patey sent them back when
the firemen went on strike, and the outfit
limped miserably back to Townsville as
woebegone a lot of youngsters as it was
possible to see, persuaded that their fight-
ing days were oyer. But dozens of them
died on Gallipoli only eight months after-
wards. Quinn, of Quinn’s Post, was
among them.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Queensland Lands Depart-
ment is appointing rangers to keep an
eye on the beauty spots of the Barrier
Reef and make sure that no damage is
done to the flora and fauna. About time,
too. Every lady tourist seems to return
with a bit of the landscape, and tne
damage done in getting curios must
enormous. It isn’t uncommon for corai-
collectors to bring miners’ picks wim
them- *
“Sick Transit”: Cairns Ambulance
Brigade will remember one young au
tralian whom they helped to bring


Legal Notice.
TO PETER ANDERSON EADIE brother of
Annie Hutton Eadie late of Pukerau South-
land New Zealand Spinster Deceased who
died intestate at Waitati New Zealand on
the 22nd March 1934 and to his children
(if any) and to all persons claiming by
through or under him or them or any of
them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
31st July 1939 your claims to share in the
estate of the abovenamed Annie Hutton Eadie
failing which such estate will be distributed dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 22nd day of
March, 1939.
J. H. CARRAD, Solicitor to the Public
Trust Office, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEA-
LAND.
MEWSflecauAe tkefieS to
much mate tcr&eeJ
SO MANY &£ FEATURES FOR OREATER SAFETY,
COMFORT & ECONOMY THAN YOU YE EVER KNOWN!
You’ve never known so much that’s new . . . that really means
something ... as there is in the two new Oldsmobiles for 1939!
First, there are two Sixes . . . the ECONO-MASTER Series “60”
. . . a full-sized, full-powered money saver, that’s yet the most
satisfying performer you’ve ever handled on the road . . . the
Superlative Series “70” with longer, smoothly flowing lines, extra
power, a quickened response. In BOTH, QUADRICOIL SPRING-
ING, FOUR WAY STABILIZATION, combining to give you the
amazing RHYTHMIC RIDE, HANDISHIFT GEAR CONTROL,
making the new Oldsmobiles easier to handle than ever before, and
the safety and EXTRA vision of “Observation” Bodies by Holden.
In a flash you’ll appreciate the new HandiShift Gear Control . . .
for there’s nothing new to learn. Smoothly, surely, you’re changing
"AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO brings maximum
enjoyment to motoring. A special model for
Oidsmobile is priced from Eighteen Guineas.
Ask for a demonstration. You will be pleased
with "Air Chief’s" excellent reception.
up or down, finding a new response and flexibility . . . new smooth-
ness and steadiness because of Four-Way Stabilization! You’ll thrill
to the power that sends you skimming down the straight stretches,
swings you over the hills. Hit the rough stuff . . . hard! . . . and
feel nothing but the gentle, easy cradling of the four big, smoothly
flexing Coil Springs!
Look into the construction of the “Unisteel” Turret Top Body by
Holden . . . see the solid, sturdy, welded ste«l that surrounds and
protects you . . . the Armourplate Safety Glass in windscreen and
all side windows . . . the insulation that ensures your comfort. It’s
the safest, strongest, quietest body ever built on to a car!
Don’t miss the chance of driving the car . . . NOW . . . ! Take one
on the road today! Then, you’ll realise completely that “YOU OWE
YOURSELF AN OLDSMOBILE” . . . that you must have one now!
ASK ABOUT THE CONFIDENTIAL
G.M.A.C. CONVENIENT PAYMENT PLAN.
"YOUR MONEY GOES FURTHER IN A
G.M.H. CAR.”
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LIMITED.
«#**&#«***
* ms 60 m *******-
jtte CK 'csjo‘
Illustrated is the neu>
EconO'Master Series “6Q?
//
■ ■■■
mm
W&
m
r
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia. oca.fi/44.
the world during the March cyclone.
Through flooded country they carried his
mother from Double Island to Cairns
(N.Q.). Creeks running a banker made
frequent changes of vehicle necessary, so
that by the time they reached hospital
their transport score was one rowing-
boat, one railway pump car, two private
cars, five trucks and the ambulance
wagon. The bearers won by a nice
margin, too. Twenty minutes after they
reached the hospital a nurse said “It’s a
boy.”
* * * *
“Fong Tsz”: Exit into retirement Cap-
tain E. D. Pilcher, after 39 years’ sea
service with the E. and A. He is one
of the last marine relics on the run of
the happy days when little yacht-bowed
steamers which used to be popular—the
Eastern and Empire and Bartram
and “Lookee Lookee” Gordon, of
slightly later vintage, are bits of history
now. One of Pilcher’s commands was
the old St. Albans. Under 4000 tons, she
could not steam ten knots in a wind, but
she had mysterious qualities. Her decks
seemed to be ample for any number of
passengers, her table seemed to be opu-
lent, her chow a legend, her larn pidgin
boys a little more golden and beautiful
than other Hainan natives.. Even her
deck games had a special twist of their
own. Northcliffe travelled on her, and
talked about her as his “happy ship” for
the brief rest of his life. Pilcher took her
up through the cyclone in which the
Douglas Mawson was lost in March, ’23.
He finished his career in command in last
month’s March cyclone.
* * * *
“Zamia”: Bowen (N.Q.), which has a
coalmine, looks with jaundiced eye at
every modern vessel which comes into
its fine harbor. Oilburners are not popu-
lar. Somebody has now suggested that
concessions or rebates of dues should be
given to steamers burning coal. The in-
ducement would not be enough, of
course, but it is pretty tough to think
of local fuel industries languishing while
transport burns imported fuel. Especially
since pulverised coal is as clean a fuel
as oil, and can be piped and handled in
much the same way, though with greater
safety.
* * * *
“J.E.8.”: Events at Mackay (N.Q.)
show that there are still Queensland
Judges who believe that a good solid
sentence has a deterrent effect. When a
fellow, aged 24, pleaded guilty to
manslaughter, having stabbed at a picnic
a girl who had left him for another,
Justice Douglas remarked that he was
satisfied in his own mind that the ruffian
had committed wilful murder. Then he
passed sentence of 20 years’ hard, which
is as heavy as would have fallen on the
girl-slayer had he been capitally con-
victed. “Life” in Queensland usually
works out at 12 years ; 20 years, with
all good-conduct remissions, at about the
same. ’Sonah topped off the day’s work
by sending another young man of 24 to
quod for 14 years for a serious offence
against a girl.
* * * *
“Z2Y”: Harry Shadforth, a Gulf
cattleman of the old school, was
managing The Elsey, of We of the
Never-Never fame, when he was gored
by a bull.. Flown to Brisbane for treat-
ment, he never regained consciousness.
There were few smarter cattlemen. He
was broken-in by his father, F.H., then
owner of Lilydale, on the Gregory—now
known as Riversleigh. Harry could ride
anything in horsehide, toss the wildest
scrubber, and strike a line through any
country. He was specially famed for two
tricks in the cattle-yard: (1) He could
stand on the rail and rope any beast
pointed out to him in any part of the
yard; (2) in a crowded yard he could
drop off the rails this side, go under
their bellies and not reappear till he
came up on the other side of the yard.
He delighted in that sort of thing in
his younger days.
“Pit”: There is talk of C. T. Madigan,
S.A. Rhodes scholar, geologist and
explorer, leading an expedition across
the centre of the Simpson Desert about
the middle of this year. That will mean
a waterless stretch of 250 miles, much
of which is reputed to have never been
crossed by a white man. Madigan’s party
will necessarily be small, and proposed
equipment will include a pedal wireless
set and 17 camels to carry 224 gallons
of water. A. A. Simpson, one-time
M.L.C. (S.A.), who supported an aerial
survey in Centralia by Madigan in 1929
and after whom the desert is named, is
to finance this expedition.


Everyone likes listening when
there's something that pleases
the ear. If your radio is dull
and lacks sparkle, worn valves
may be the cause. Make listen-
ing the pleasure it should be ...
Revalve
with
m
'L
10
THE WORLD’S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
YOUR ♦
SELLING MARKETS
IN W.A.
lie through
6AM • Northam .. . 2000 watts
6PM • Perth 500 watts
6KG • Kalgoorlie: . 500 watts
88% of the total licenses in
W.A. are within 50 miles of
6AM • 6PM • 6KG
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Overseas U.H.F.
Developments.
The newcomer to 56mc. experimenting
very soon discovers that R.F. currents
require considerable taming at these
ultra-high frequencies. Receivers com-
parable in efficiency to those popular on
the lower frequencies are now in regular
use, and the undesirable super-regenera-
tor is in the discard, at least at 56mc.
Transmission is no longer frequency-
modulated, but crystal-controlled, as on
lower frequencies. More has been done
with aerials, and a very high-gain beam
array can now be constructed compactly
and with greatly improved results.
Current issue of “Radio” (U.S.A.) deals
with two interesting developments, the
first an advanced resistance-coupled a
superhet for 56mc. and 112mc. by Frank
Jones, and the second, a 56mc. beam
aerial with a gain of no less than 18db.
by John Kraus, WBJK. Necessary de-
tails are given here. The receiver, as
shown in the circuit diagram, is Jones’s
modern version of his original resistance-
coupled superhet of three years ago.
That receiver was the first real attempt
to get out of the super-regenerative rut,
and was eminently successful. Now, not
only is the new 1853 R.F. pentode used
as autodyne detector, but the I.F. char-
acteristics have been improved by choos-
ing resistances and capacities to give a
more selective I.F. channel.
The circuit shown has several other
modifications, so that the receiver may
be used in the two-and-a-half-, five- and
ten-metre bands. For two-and-a-half
metres the receiver can be broadened
when necessary by reducing the Q of
the 1.F.-tuned circuit by opening switch
SI. The tuned circuit contributes
negligible selectivity when the switch is
open because of the series resistance in-
serted in the tank. Only changes neces-
sary if the old-type R.C. super, is to be
used only in the five and ten-metre bands
are in the coupling circuits between the
autodyne first detector and first I.F. stage.
Selectivity of the modified receiver is
ample for five metres, but could be im-
proved somewhat for ten metres. The
Fig. I.—General wiring diagram of the improved R.C. superhet.
Cl —lOmmfd. midgeti C 13 —50mmfd. mid-
variable, ceramic get mica,
insulation. Cl4—.oo2mfd. mid-
C2 —25mmfd. midget get mica.
mica. Cls—O.lmfd. tubu-
C3 —.OOlmfd. midget lar.
mica. C 16 —1 omf d. 25v.
C4 —,005mfd. midget electrolytic.
mica. C 17 —.Olmfd. paper
C5 —lOOmmfd. mid- tubular.
get mica (accurate). ClB, Cl 9 —Bm f d.
C6—sommfd. midget 450 v. electrolytics
mica. in single can.
Cl —O.lmfd. tubular. C 20 —Bmfd. 600 v.
C8 —50mmfd. midget electrolytic.
mica. R1 —100,000 ohms, {
C9—O.lmfd. tubular. watt.
CIO —lmfd. paper, R2 —500-ohm carbon,
200 v. i watt (try higher
Cll —lOmfd. 25v. value if only 2.5-
electrolytic. metre operation is
C 12 —o.smfd. tubular. desired).
LC circuit added to the first detector-
plate circuit consists of an old 80 milli-
henry broadcast type of R.F. choke
shunted by a .000lmfd. mica condenser.
For the use on 2\ metres an 1853 pro-
vides greater gain as a first detector on
very short waves, and oscillates easily
at 24 metres. It tends to oscillate so
hard on five and ten metres with a
cathode R.F. choke for feedback that
Fig. 2.—Top view of the improved resist-
ance-coupled u.-h.-f. superhet. The can
in the lower left corner screens the tuned
R.F. choke for increase of I.F. selectivity.
super-regeneration takes place unless this
choke is shunted by a carbon resistor of
about 500 ohms.
Sensitivity of the receiver is very good,
especially on five metres. The aerial is
coupled to the first detector-tuned circuit
by a variable link controlled from the
front panel. This consists of two turns
of 16 insulated wire about lin. in
diameter, swinging through an arc near
the earthed end of the detector-tuned cir-
cuit. Variable aerial coupling is a great
aid in tuning for weak signals, and is
almost a necessity for multi-band opera-
tion, since aerial resonance might pull
the detector out of oscillation with coup-
ling tight enough for average reception
over a wide band of frequencies. The
first detector must oscillate weakly at all
times in order to heterodyne the incom-
ing u.-h.-f. signals into the I.F. amplifier.
Screen-grid voltage control by the usual
potentiometer provides an easy method
of oscillation control.
A type 85 duo-diode and triode valve
serves as second detector and audio,
coupled to a 42 pentode for speaker out-
Fig. 3.—The “square-corner” reflector.
put. Only one diode is needed for second
detector, and this linear rectifier is much
less responsive to car-ignition interfer-
ence than a grid-leak detector.
The triode section is diode-biased, and
should be connected to B plus plate-
R3 —50,000-ohm po- R 15—500 ohms, 2
tentiometer, re- watts,
generation control. R 16—25,000 ohms, 50
R 4—25,000 ohms, 1 watts.
watt earhon RFCl—U.h.f. choke,
R5 —o.smeg., \ watt.
R 6 - 50,000 - ohm J '™, , .
tapered potentio- on u cfl oKe,
meter, i.f. gain 80mh. (accurate),
control. Tl—lnterstage a.f.
R 7—100,000 ohms, 1 trans.
watt. T? —Sneaker output
R8 —o.smeg., \ watt. trans.
R 9—100,000 ohms, \ T3—3/sv. each side
watt. c.t. at 85ma., and
Rlo—loo,ooo ohms, hi. windings
1 watt. SI —Selectivity control.
Rll, lOO,OOO S2 —Standby switch.
ohms, \ watt. S3 —On-off line switch.
R 13—100,000 ohms, 1 CHI —15hy. 85ma.
watt. CH2—2OOO -ohm
R 14 —o.smeg. pot., speaker field,
a.f. gain control. Coils —See text.
supply through a resistor, as shown, in
order to prevent excessive plate current
to the 85 triode plate when no signal in-
put is present in the diode.
The second diode plate connects to
the primary of the audio transformer,
and acts as a low-impedance shunt for
strong signals, such as car-ignition volt-
age peaks. If desired, a ly- to 4i-volt C
battery can be connected in series with
this diode plate to provide a delay bias.
I.F. amplifier-gain control is in the cathode
circuit of the two 6D6 I.F. stages. This
acts as a sensitivity control for the re-
ceiver, and must be shunted by a lmfd.
paper condenser and a lOmfd. or 25mfd.
electrolytic condenser in order to prevent
I.F. oscillation. The I.F. amplifier should
not have more than 45 volts applied to
the screens for maximum gain. Second
detector audio signal is fed to the triode
grid through two 100,000-ohm resistors
with the mid-point connected to earth
through a ,002mfd. condenser. This
filter prevents I.F. signals from getting
into the audio portion of the receiver.
Power supply needed is 250 volts, 75
volts and 45 volts, through bleeder re-
Fig. 4. —Dimensions and wiring of the
“square-comer” reflector.
sistor taps as shown, and the receiver will
work well with 180 volts maximum for
portable work. The 10-metre coil has
14 turns of 14 enamelled copper wire,
fin. diameter and lfin. long. The coil
for five metres has seven turns of 14
enamelled copper wire, fin. in diameter
and If in. long. For 2\ metres the coil
has nearly two turns, fin. in diameter and
If in. long.
Two 1 in. jack-type stand-off insulators
are mounted lfin. apart near the tuning
condenser and ceramic valve socket. The
coils are fitted with small banana-type
plugs for quick band-changing. The 1853
valve socket is mounted above the chassis,
and all R.F. leads are very short. The
four small mica condensers are mounted
by their leads directly to the valve-socket
terminals. The cathode R.F. choke con-
sists of 75 turns of 34 DSC closely wound
on a fin. bakelite rode, and the 80-milli-
henry R.F. choke is mounted inside an
aluminium coil shield on top of the
chassis. Chassis measurements are 17in.
by 9in. by lfin., with a front panel 19in.
by 7in.
A resonant aerial system will natur-
ally improve the performance of the re-
ceiver considerably, the simplest being a
half-wave doublet or “J” fed by any of
the common two-wire line methods. A
72-ohm line can be used, but the losses
are rather high at 2\ metres, and a spaced
line is recommended for this band.
Square Corner 56mc. Beam Reflector.
The use of parabolic reflectors in direc-
tional aerial arrays is well known. The
aerial is placed at the focus —a distance
of about a quarter-wave to the vertex—
and a gain of approximately 9db. is ob-
tained with a perfectly-conducting para-
bolic sheet of one-half wave-length aper-
ture. John Kraus, Americal aerial expert,
has developed this version of the para-
bolic system for 56mc. work, and claims
a gain of over 18db. This high gain
makes the system well worth considera-
Fig. 5. —Methods of feeding the driven
radiator. That at C is a “pitchfork”
array with “square-corner” reflector.
tion. Fig. 3 shows the principle, with
dimensions and wiring in Fig. 4.
To test this type of aerial, construction
of a 56mc. square-corner reflector with
these dimensions was undertaken. Ideal
material for the reflector is a perfect
conductor, but copper sheet of the dimen-
sions shown would be expensive and
prone to trouble in high winds. A prac-
tical and economical substitute is a cur-
tain consisting of a large number of
parallel copper wires. Construction is
Fig. 6. —Measured radiation pattern of
the 56mc. “square-corner” reflector
(solid curve). The aerial to corner
spacing is 0.15 wave-length. The dashed
curve is computed for a “square-corner"
reflector with infinitely large sides.
then light, cost moderate, and there is
little wind resistance.
Dimensions used are shown in Figs. 4A
and 48. Corner length is 10ft. 6in. and
side width 6ft. The wires are supported
on a light framework of lin. by lin.
white pine. The reflector is made from
a continuous piece of copper wire woven
back and forth over the frame. The wire
is hooked over small nails on the top and
bottom side members. Wire jumpers
connect the parallel reflector wires to-
gether at top and bottom, and a jumper
is also used at the centre. Figure 4A
shows the “wiring” diagram of the reflec-
tor, and the aerial can be fed in various
ways as shown in Fig. 5. C in this
diagram indicates a pitchfork-type aerial
used with this reflector. The results of
a field test are shown in Fig. 6 with a cali-
brated field-meter about four wave-


COWLES <a DUNN
WINCHESTER MODEL 67-
,22-cal. single-shot, bolt-action. 27in. barrel, elevating rear
sight. Adapted for short, long and long-rifle regular and
Super-speed cartridges. Price 50/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 68.
Specifications similar to Model 67, except that this model
is fitted with new rear peep sight, instantly adjustable with
fingers for windage and elevation. Low front sight on non-
glare ramp base. Non-tarnishable alloy bead. Slip-on spring steel sight cover.
Carriage Paid in N.S.W. Price sl>/-
dsf
WINCHESTER MODEL 67 JUNIOR.
.22-cal. single-shot, bolt-action, identical with the
regular Model 67 Rifle, except that it has 20in.
barrel and shorter stock. Price 50/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
wmm
WINCHESTER MODEL 69.
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in. round tapered barrel;
two magazines, one for short, other for long and long-rifle,
with sporting rear sight. Price 87/6
With adjustable peep sight. Price 90/-
Carria™ Paid in N.S.W.
ggwrTiCT
sight. Price ...
As above fitted
WINCHESTER MODEL 69, ’SCOPE.
Model 69, ,22-cal., bolt-action, box magazine repeating
rifle; 25in. round barrel. Standard sporting rear sight or
rear peep sight. Fitted with Winchester 5-power telescope
£B
with Winchester 2f-Power sight £7.
Carriage Paid in N.S.W. I 1
Winchester Telescope Sights
No. 3-2} power .... 50/-
M°. 5-5 power 65/-
with high bases and mounts.
Fitted to rifle 60/-
Fitted to rifle 75/-
77
'Phone
M 3388.
Address:
KING STREET,
SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
dsf
WINCHESTER MODEL 65.
Lever-action 8-shot Repeating Rifle in calibres .25/20
and .32. 22in. round tapered barrel, Lyman gold bead
ramp base front sight, Rocky Mountain adjustable rear
sight, Pistol grip stock. Price £ll/57-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
353
WINCHESTER MODEL 62.
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer Repeating Rifle, 23in. round
barrel, for shcjrt, long and long-rifle. Price £5/7/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
<B
WINCHESTER MODEL 61.
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammerless Repeating Rifle, 24in.
round tapered barrel, for short, long and long-rifle
cartridges. Weight, Price £7/7/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
m
*
WINCHESTER MODEL 63.
The “Speed King” ,22-cal. Automatic, 23in. round
barrel; for long-rifle Super-speed cartridges only.
Price £9/15/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
A
beaver tail
take-down
Price with
WINCHESTER MODEL 72.
Bolt-action Tubular Magazine .22 Repeater. 25in. round
tapered barrel crowned at muzzle, ramp front sight with
f . detachable cover, one-piece pistol-grip stock with semi-
tore-end. Magazine holds 20 short, 16 long or 15 long-rifle. Quick
teature, secured by slotted screw in fore-end. Weight, about 51b.
Sporting Rear Sight .£5/5/-
, Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
No. 69121, Five-cell Standard Focussing Searchlight. Full
Chrome Finish. Range, 1500 ft. Complete with Batteries.
Price 25/-
lengths from the aerial. The beam has
a measured front-to-back power ratio of
about 60 to 1, or 18db. Dimensions for
56mc. to 60mc. are as follows: —
“S” in “S” Width
Wave-lengths. in Feet. of Sides.
0.15 2ft. 7in. 4ft. to 6ft.
0.20 3ft. 5in. 5ft. to 8ft.
0.25 4ft. 3in. 6ft. to 10ft.
0.30 5ft. lin. 7ft. to 12ft.
Corner or side length = 10ft. 6in.
Aperture = width of side X 1.41.
Reflector wire spacing = 6in.
For 112mc. (2-j- metres) divide the above
dimensions by two.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
With cyclonic weather raging over
eastern N.S.W. during the week ending
25/3/’39, ionosphere conditions seem to
have been favorable for ultra-short-wave
DX. Early on the morning of 26/3/’39
the 10-metre amateur band was wide
open, with Americans, Canadians,
Hawaiians, Maorilanders and locals in
full force, but no short skip was noticed
on VKs. Despite this, the 56mc. band
must have been open in some directions,
as u.-s.-w. listener Banbury, of Lidcombe,
N.S.W., reports hearing VK2AKI on this
band at 1 p.m. This station was appar-
ently in communication with VK2AEY,
both stations located in Taree, 160 miles
north of Sydney—and Lidcombe. They
have mobile equipment employing the
Reinartz square directional aerial system.
The 26th was chosen by VK2LZ for
an extended mobile test with Sydney. At
8 a.m. he checked up from his main
station at Wentworth Falls with VK2NO,
and started off by car for Orange, N.S.W.,
using the call VK2AKM from a trans-
mitter-receiver with vibrator power
supply from the car six-volt accumulator.
Aerial is a half-wave “J” type, extend-
ing vertically from the running board.
In order to give a constant signal, the
carrier was left running, with tone super-
imposed. This signal was held on the
writer’s seven-valve u.-h.-f. superhet un-
til 9 a.m., varying from R 7 to R 3, when
it disappeared, presumably on the other
side of the Mountains. In Bathurst,
N.S.W., VK2NS, using an 1851-6JBG
superhet converter ahead of his amateur
band superhet, picked up VK2AKM at
10.35 a.m., holding the signal until 10.50
a.m. at R 5. Receiving aerial at Bathurst
was a doublet only 6ft. above ground.
return trip from Orange
VK2AKM was heard at Bathurst from
4.10 p.m. until 5 p.m. A schedule was
arranged for a test from Mt. Victoria,
but unfortunately VK2NS was unable to
keep this. In Sydney the band was
combed through the day, but nothing
further was heard of the car station. An
interesting sidelight, however, is that at
3.55 p.m. the writer changed to the seven-
metre band to demonstrate reception of
VK2MA on 42mc. to VK2VU, who was
a visitor at VK2NO, and what was obvi-
ously an overseas seven-metre telephony
station was heard weakly at a frequency
slightly lower than VK2MA. This may
have been an American u.-s.-w. broad-
caster or the sound transmission from
a television station somewhere. The
signal reached an R 4 maximum and dis-
appeared before identification was pos-
sible at 4 p.m. From now on until the
end of July the ultra-short-wave regions
may be worth keeping an eye on.
In developing the 56mc. band in
Australia, experimenters are urged to
concentrate on the possibilities of C.W.
communication by means of suitable re-
ceivers. The combination of the 1851
and 6JBG in a superhet converter, used
ahead of almost any kind of receiver
having sufficient R.F. amplification, is
hard to beat. When using such a con-
verter, of course, provision must be made
in the receiver for beat oscillation in
order to receive C.W. This is done in
the regular manner with the 8.F.0. in
an amateur band superhet, and if the
receiver is a T.R.F. type the detector
is used just oscillating as normally. The
writer finds that a frequency around
6000 kc. gives good results with these
converters. In other words, the receiver
is tuned to about 46 metres for the I.F.
channel. VK2VU, of Singleton, N.S.W.,
has one of the converters. That station,
too, will be on the air with crystal-
controlled transmission very shortly.
While a few keen experimenters struggle
to get 56mc. populated in Australia,
America is turning to 112mc. as a way
out of the congestion on 56mc.
That the 7mc. band is as good a DX
medium as ever is evident in a SWL
report received by VK2NO from a
listener in Brooklyn, New York. He
reports VK2NO and VK3BM as being
full loudspeaker strength in eastern
U.S.A. when the two stations were dis-
cussing 56mc. work a few weeks ago on
7mc. telephony. South Africans can be
heard at good strength in the early morn-
ing on this band now, but the DX capa-
bilities won’t appeal much to the rabid
’phone and “new country” merchants
who “live” on 14mc. Ws don’t use mikes
on 7mc., and most of the 14mc. ’phone
men have a “Yankee” complex.
A point to observe about the WBJK
multi-section beam on 56mc.: The half-
wave sections should be on the short
side. A folded system using half-waves
in phase requires long sections, but with
close-spaced out-of-phase arrays the re-
verse is the case.
A correspondent in an English publi-
cation complains bitterly about harmonic
interference with television programmes
from commercial short-wave broadcasters
and amateurs. Of the latter he says:
“Amateur transmitters, with a radiation
of harmonics approaching the infinite, are
even more to blame.” Excessive har-
monic radiation is something the average
amateur station doesn’t care two hoots
about, but the experimenter with regard
for the feelings of other people takes
it seriously. Too many nondescript
transmissions are guilty of chronic har-
monic radiation. It can easily be avoided.
At a gathering of amateurs in Sydney
an R.I. stressed the need for more atten-
tion to experimentation, and less to the
aimless dabbling kind of transmission
now so popular. By the time the greater
number of amateurs realise that DX is
not everything in radio the u.-s.-w.
pioneers will be old men.
VK2NO.
“V.C.”: When valves are close to an
A.C. field, such as a power transformer,
filter choke or speaker field, hum may
sometimes be experienced. It may be
diagnosed by mounting the valve on a
flexible-cord adaptor, so that it may be
moved in or out of the magnetic field.
If it is found that the hum is affected
by the position of the valve, the cure is
obvious. Hum due to heater-to-cathode
leakage or similar effects within the valve
may be diagnosed by applying an addi-
tional large cathode by-pass condenser in
parallel with the existing condenser. All
hum of this nature is reduced as the
capacitance between cathode and earth
is increased. In order to obtain suffi-
ciently distinctive indication, it is advis-
able to apply a condenser of 25mfd.
(tubular electrolytic) or more. If the
existing condenser is of the order of this
value the effect on hum voltage may not
be readily detected by ear, and it is pre-
ferable to use some form of output meter
for indicating the hum voltage. This
method is particularly valuable, since it
should not have any effect on the signal.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Would a tuned R.F. receiver with the same
degree of selectivity as a superhet, be of any
value commercially ? —764.
So far it has not been found possible to
design a T.R.F. receiver comparable to the
superhet. in selectivity. If this were possible,
with all things equal, including flexibility and
sensitivity on short-waves, then the T.R.F.
type would be equally successful. There is
much to be said in favor of both types, and
this Page finds that there are certain districts
in Australia where a well-designed T.R.F.
receiver has advantages.
* * " * *
(1) A nine-valve amateur band superhet. is
planned. Is regeneration satisfactory on the
R.F. stage above 30 metres? (2) Which is
most suitable for driving an EL3 —the 6Q7 or
6B6G as diode detector with A.V.C. ? (3)
Would plate-bend detection using an EF6 with
a duo-diode triode first audio and A.V.C. driving
an EL3 be better as regards damping of I.F.
circuits as with diode detection ? —763.
(1) Yc (2) Boffi equally suitable. (3) Yes.
* * * *
(1) I have a fair knowledge of electricity,
but know nothing about wireless. Do you
think I could build a five-valve dual-wave
vibrator set if 1 obtained all necessary parts
and blueprint? (2) What is a blueprint?
(3) Is it more difficult to build a dual-wave
receiver than an ordinary receiver? (4) What
is the price of a vibrator? (5) Does the tone
of a set depend on the speaker alone? (6) Is
it difficult to tune a set that has been assembled
by an amateur? (7) What do you consider
the most difficult part of receiver construction ?
(8) What would the kit of parts cost, without
battery and cabinet? —762.
(1) Depends on the amount of detail infor-
mation supplied with the kit of parts. You
to (to the iob with a kit as
supplied by Radiokes, R.C.S. or Crown Co.
(2 ) A photographic reproduction of the circuit
and/Or receiver layout. (3) The building is
no more difficult, but more care is needed in
final adjustment. Some experience in short-
wave work is desirable. (4) Vibrators alone
about 35s., and complete units ready for use
about £4 10s. (5) No, there are several factors
in the receiver contributing to this. (6) Depends
upon the constructional skill of the builder.
(7) The assembly or laying-out of the parts.
Kit sets invariably show just how this must
be done in the blueprints. (8) About £17.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 213 of 1939.
BETWEEN EILEEN FLORENCE SMITH
Petitioner
And RADOLPHUS ROOME SMITH
Respondent.
TO RADOLPHUS ROOME SMITH
formerly of Port Stephens.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EILEEN
FLORENCE SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honourable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Sixth day of June one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by
his Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS &
CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2137 of 1938.
BETWEEN IRENE BLANCHE STEWART
Petitioner
And GEOFFREY WILLIAM HENRY
STEWART Respondent.
TO ' GEOFFREY WILLIAM HENRY
STEWART late of Cowper- Street
Gouiburn.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IRENE
BLANCHE STEWART has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a decree for restitution of conjugal rights
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twentieth day of June next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
REGINALD LANCE MANNING, Solicitor,
for the Petitioner, Maitland Street, Narrabri;
by his Agents, PRIDDLE, GOSLING, DAL-
RYMPLE & SILLAR, Solicitors, Wingello
House, Angel Place, Sydney. •
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 458 of 1939.
BETWEEN THELMA MARGARET MASON
Petitioner
And CLIVE MASON Respondent.
TO CLIVE MASON late of 23 Albion
Street Waverley. »
TAKE NOTICE that THELMA MAR-
GARET MASON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twentieth day of June
1939 and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the unier-
signed free of charge.
DATED the 22nd day of March, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
, SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 734 of 1938.
BETWEEN DOROTHY ANN GORTON
Petitioner
AND ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON
Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON
late of Woolgoolga in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitu-
tion of conjugal rights dated the Eighth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine has been made against you in a
suit wherein Dorothy Ann Gorton was the
Petitioner and you the said Alexander George
Gorton were Respondent requiring you within
twenty-one days from service of the said decree
to take back or return home to the Petitioner
and render to her conjugal rights and further
requiring you within four days after the expira-
tion of the said twenty-one days to file in the
Registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by an order
made on the Seventeenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine it-was
ordered that substituted . service of the. said
decree be made by twice publishing this notice
in a Sydney weekly newspaper circulating
throughout New South Wales the first inser-
tion to be within fourteen days and the second
insertion to be seven days thereafter and by
posting a copy of the said notice by ordinary
prepaid post to you in care of your father
Mr. J. Gorton at his last known . address
Macquarie Street Tamworth within seven days
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
consequence of your non-compliance with the
decree is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you for
judicial separation or for the dissolution of
your marriage AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that service is to be taken as complete
on the Third day of May next from which date
the twenty-one days within which you are to
take back or return to the Petitioner will com-
mence to run.
DATED this Twenty-third day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
- (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS & CO., Solicitors
for Petitioner, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
(Canterbury District.)
EDWARDS v. EDWARDS.
In Divorce.
No. 2755.
Abstract of Citation.
TO REES EDWARDS of Christchurch Butcher.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Christchurch citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of EDITH MARY
EDWARDS of Christchurch Married Woman
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the grounds that on or
about the first day of September 1932 you
deserted the said Edith Mary Edwards without
just cause and from that date down to the
present time have continued to desert the said
Edith Mary Edwards without just cause and
such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition and to pronounce sentence herein
notwithstanding your absence. . NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for thp purpose
aforesaid you are . within 28 - days after the
date of this publication to attend in person
or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at Christchurch New Zealand and there to
enter an appearance without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings.
A COPY of the said citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for.
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Christchurch aforesaid.
DATED this 27th day of March, 1939.. ,
(L.s.) P. D. LEAHY,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to (forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
MR. H. S. J. GOODMAN is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose . address for service
is at the office of the said H. S. J. Goodman,
92 Hereford Street, in the City of Christchurch
aforesaid.
This is the last advertisement.
Sell your wool in London
get higher prices
There are various
important reasons why
you should sell your wool in
London-the chief amongst
them being—that on average
a higher price is obtainable.
There is always ‘spot’
demand in London and
selling in London has a
stabilising effect on values.
Proceeds can be tele-
graphed within 24 hours of
sale.
You can consign
through your usual agent or
bank who will give you full
details.
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Let Your TRACTOR
mimm
Vj
■jjmTrhiiitf
■■■■■■■.
•i. -. v<
Hi
■
as
.: - ,
I
"
*“- .; ■ -v
is*
mm.
L„,,' *>.. <
BE BOSS
/Vof the Weather
Because of the "CATERPILLAR" track-type Tractor’s light tread you can
get on your paddocfts earlier after heavy rain and gain important
growing days. Crops yield better from being planted on time in
properly made seedbeds.
For rush jobs you can put "CATERPILLAR'S" power-enforcing traction
to work to pull extra-wide implements or hitch on tandem loads. And
you can work this tractor day and night throughout busy seasons,
because of the strength of its heat-treated steel construction and the
balance of its design.
Whichever way you work, you are equipped to beat time and the
weather, year after year, with a "CATERPILLAR track - type Tractor.
While your neighbours are waiting you are working and earning.
Ask your distributor for full information on the size that meets your
needs ... either Diesel or Kerosene.
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Queensland
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane. SJ.
P.O. Box 21, South
Brisbane.
Victoria & Tasmania
William Adams & Company,
Limited,
521-523 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St Peters. Sydney.
Showroom: 311 Castlereagh
Street.
South Australia
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231-239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia
Wigmores, Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.
See “Caterpillar” Tractors at the Royal
Easter Show, Commemoration Avenue, near
Manufacturers’ Pavilion
"Heodquorters" fo,^Good_Used_Troc*or>


hTs
LYS
&
PROOF
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
**»■* *<«
\**mn** . •
sfti*
&
HB
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Profitable Woolgrowing.
“Murrawong”: The commercial wool
classes at Yass (N.S.W.) show produced
results which could be copied by graziers
in any district. Admittedly the sheep
were picked animals, but the margin be-
tween the value of wool cut from them
and the average cut per head in the dis-
trict is a pointer to what can be done
by culling and good management.
They were sheep that had been shorn
at the previous year’s show, and thus
carried exactly 12 months’ wool. The
winning pen, three wethers belonging to
Peter Milson, cut fleeces of an aggregate
value of £3 12s. l|d. The average weight
of the fleeces cut was 17T1b., and the
yields ranged from 60 p.c. to 69 p.c. A
wether in Stewart Hay’s second pen cut
211 b. The average fleece value per head
of the first and second pens worked out
a f approximately 235., based on present
low market values.
Until the drought broke, practically
the whole of N.S.W. was in a bad way
for feed, and many graziers considered
it did not pay to buy feed at present
wool prices. Where sheep have been
culled to a high standard it is false
economy to spoil their prospect of grow-
ing a good fleece the next year by letting
them starve. Even if the season continues
good throughout the winter it will be too
late to remedy the damage done, and
there is certain to be a shortage of good,
shafty, well-nourished wool next year.
It pays to grow good sheep and to
feed them well; many graziers would
be better off with half the number of
sheep and more wool of better quality.
Merinos of Other Lands.
“Ghanam”: If those people who advo-
cate raising the merino export embargo
took a close look at some other coun-
tries, they would not be so ready with
their arguments.
Chile was about to go in for merinos
on a large scale when the embargo was
clamped down, and there is a good deal
of land there on which merinos should
do well —climate like that of Spain,
heavy-textured, rich, red soils and fairly
hilly country. As it is, growers there are
confined to long-woolled breeds; lat-
terly they have imported numbers of
Maoriland Corriedales.
The original Argentinian sheep were
brought from Spain nearly 400 years ago
—long-haired, straight-horned, hairy
animals from which two local breeds
were evolved. The first merinos were
imported in 1794, but it was not till 1818
that a stud was fairly established. The
local merino was started very much as
in Australia merino rams on haired
sheep, gradually bred up. A few Saxons
were introduced in the ’forties by the
Gibson family, who then began to ex-
periment with English breeds. At the
1930 census, there were 14,300,000
merinos in Argentina, of which 1,132,000
were of Australian origin, and there were
14,504,000 Lincolns, 3,400,000 Corrie-
dales and 7,550,000 Romney Marsh.
Numbers have not varied much. The
merino country of the Argentine •is
limited. But a regular supply of first-
class merino rams to keep up quality
and type would materially change that
situation. Still, beef seems more in keep-
ing with the type of country.
Uruguay is a sheep country —it has
20,000,000 head. About a third used to
be merino, and a good deal of fine wool
was turned off. Gradually, however, the
crossbred has won, but the reason seems
to lie as. much in ram supply and lack
of breeding skill as in unsuitability of
natural conditions.
Fertility of Sheep.
“Bungaree”: There is a generally-
accepted theory that merino ewes will
mate at any time of the year, but that
British breeds are limited to certain de-
fined periods. Recent C.S. and I.R.
experiments in Cumberland (N.S.W.) dis-
trict have settled the question there, and
similar experiments should be under-
taken in every district of the Common-
wealth.
Four groups of ewes were used. Three
lots were merinos of different types, and
the fourth were B.L. x merino first-cross
Dad takes Strawberry and her sister to the Show, 1969.
ewes. Ages were four to six years, and
all had previously reared lambs.
It was found that the coming on heat
of the ewes was limited to certain defi-
nite seasons. From July the period of
oestrus declined sharply until the follow-
ing January. October-December was
practically a dead season, and the per-
centage of ewes that would have bred
during those months was almost nil.
Towards the end of January, however,
90-100 p.c. of the ewes came on season.
This peak period lasted in 1938 from
February until August, when it declined
sharply again.
Apart from the effect on breeding ewes
of lack of feed due to bad seasons, m
nine cases out of ten rams are blamed
for poor lambings. District experiments
oh the lines of the one under discussion
should provide invaluable information as
to the ideal times for joining rams. The
matter of fertility in, rams should also
be examined. Tests have proved that
hot weather can adversely effect fertility,
The day of hit-or-miss methods is past,
and the grazier has everything to gain
from active co-operation with the
scientist.
Advice on Pulpy Kidney.
CIT D ta » ry- . ■; , , •
J.R.D. : To protect lamb against
entero-toxacmia the ewes should be inocu-
lated before lambing. This will carry
the lamb through to marking-time, when
it should be large and strong enough to
stand inoculation itself. This system
obviates possible mismothering while
mustering and inoculating lambs before
marking.
There is no need to manhandle ewes
in lamb and drag them about to inocu-
late under the arm or in the thigh. Fill
the race and inoculate the ewes just
behind the shoulder-blade by picking up
the slack skin and injecting the vaccine
there. Care should be taken to keep
clear of the shoulder-blade. If the needle
pierces the tissue an abscess may form.
With quiet sheep and an automatic
syringe one man can do the job, but to
be on the safe side it is better to work
m pairs, the second man holding the
sheep’s head to keep it quiet while the
other inoculates. This method takes no
longer than drenching, and is safe, no
matter how heavy in lamb sheep may be.
Give 3 c.c. of vaccine six weeks before
lambing and 7 c.c. to 10 c.c. a month
after the first.
Temporary immunity is imparted to
the lamb in the first milk (colostrum).
Sho.uld the ewes need drenching this may
'afely carried out at the same time
as' the first inoculation, thus saving an
additional handling, but as a rule ewes
in lamb should not be drenched much
later than at that stage.
After Rain.
“Bungaree”: The recent rains which
have broken the drought in most parts
of N.S.W. and Victoria should ensure a
good winter, but it is up to the grazier
to see that his sheep get full benefit of
the green feed and are in condition.
There is a general impression that
sheep are not wormy until they are poor
and anaemic. So long as there is plenty
of good, green feed, wormy sheep may
thrive, but they will be picking up more
larvae all the time, and sooner or later
the worminess will show up. If the feed
dries off quickly, sheep will lose condi-
tion quickly. .
Drenching by itself will not get rid of
worms. One ewe lightly infested with
large stomach worm will drop 10,000,000
eggs per week. The greater the number
of sheep per acre the more the trouble
wi|l multip , y . sheep must be ton
fresh pasture a f ter drenching, and old
paddocks spelled for sufficient length of
time to kill eggs.
The main species of worms are the
large stomach worm, commonly known
as the barber’s pole worm or red worm,
and the black scour worm. The control
of the former is comparatively easy.
Double-strength carbon tet. is effective,
easy to administer, cheap, and it also
cleans up adult liver fluke. Bluestone and
nicotine sulphate is also effective,
The black scour worm is not affected
by carbon tet., and so far no drench has
been discovered which is 100 p.c. efficient,
Best results have been obtained with
bluestone and nicotine sulph., but one
drenching is not enough and should be
followed up until the sheep are free,
Black scour worm chiefly affects young
sheep, and the drenching programme at
this time of the year should be bluestone
and nicotine for two-tooths and younger
sheep.
Sheep should be drenched now
whether they look wormy or not. Don’t
wait until they fall away, and don’t trust
too far on the anaemic appearance of
the skin or eye membranes as a guide.
This is a fairly reliable sign of large
stomach worm, but a sheep may be
heavily infested with black scour worm
and still have a healthy skin.
T.B. or Contagious Abortion.
“J. Rankine”: Sydney R.A.S. is mak-
ing a praiseworthy attempt to ensure
that all cattle exhibited at the 1940 Show
will have been tested for t.b. It is a
step in the right direction, but actually
t.b. is of slight importance to beefs. The
danger is contagious abortion.
In stud beef herds the proportion of
reactors to the t.b. test is very small.
It is an insidious disease and can be con-
trolled. Infected animals should be
culled, fattened and slaughtered for beef ;
only the actually infected region need be


MAKING BROAD FEET
COMFORTABLE
281 18.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 53 Castlereagh St.
224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.’
If you have broad feet and
have been unable to obtain
a comfortable shoe, try this
new Abbey shape. It is
made with a plain stitched
vamp and cap in high-
polishing Black Calf.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in wide fittings.
Price, 25/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCREASE YOUR PROPERTIES'
EARNING CAPACITY
f*
?
V." jK-'i - *>-•
USE CONCRETE
"ELIMINATE RECURRING MAINTENANCE COSTS 1
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE LEAKING TANKS CONQUERED
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS WITH CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS CONCRETE FOR FARMS
WRITE TO US OR ANY CEMENT CO. FOR THE ABOVE BOOKLETS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNES. 82471.
HEE
1
V N
ENI
m
r
'Mb
m
The time is now approaching when Entero Toxaemia takes its
deadly toll of sheep. Protect your flock from this dread disease.
Inoculate the ewes about one month before lambing and protect
the lamb at birth.
BioToxiculture
FOR THE PREVENTION OF
ENTERO TOXAEMIA
Inoculate NOW before the disease actually shows itself. Bio
Toxiculture is prepared in our own laboratory, based on scientific
research. The advice of our experts is at your disposal.
SEND FOR THE LATEST 810-MAG —IT’S FREE.
Tear out
and post
TO-DAY!
THE BIOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF A’SIA, LTD.,
Bushcutters Bay, Sydney. .
Please forward me by return a FREE copy of Bulletin
No. 228.
Name
Address
THE BIOLOGICAL INSTITUTE
OF AUSTRALASIA PTY. LTD.
THOME : F 2607. Telegrams: “BIO,” SYDNEY.
BUSHCUTTERS BAY & RAHDWICK • SYDNEY
condemned. Contagious abortion, on the
other hand, is highly infectious. It can
be passed on by contact with infected
animals, feed, water, pens or trucks, etc.
It would be practically impossible to
eradicate c.a. in Australia, because of the
conditions under which cattle are pas-
tured and the high cost of present
methods. However, it is possible to
control the disease.
Many herdmasters have had their cattle
tested and a clean herd built up by get-
ting rid of all suspects. They know that
they can keep their herd free only by
• , . c U .., :
iso at,on from all other cattle, and this
is the chief deterrent to sending cattle
to shows. In any case, these have to be
re-tested when they return to retain their
certificate. Any attempt to limit entrance
to shows to c.a.-free cattle would cer-
tainly meet with opposition; but the
R.A.S. and studmasters in general have
to decide whether they should encourage
the breeder who goes to the expense of
testing and keeping a clean herd.
There is no known cure for c.a.,
although overseas experiments with a
vaccine show some results. Testing blood
samples by the agglutination test is the
only satisfactory method of diagnosis, It
can be carried out only by experienced
vets. Even then the studmaster must be
prepared to cull infected animals, though
they be the tops of the stud,
Studs already free will naturally not
buy bulls unless given a certificate from
a veterinary surgeon or a guarantee that
the sale will be cancelled if the animal
reacts to the test,
so ? ner the disease is dealt with
on , a " allonal scalc , lhe b«tcr. Delays
° nl S', m f n mol : e m l ect . ed
greater losses when the inevitable testing
and culli , ake |ace
& j_
Hint* for th*» Farm,
„,. , t
Willeroo : Pumpkins thrive
where plenty of rubbish has been burnt
C° r u husks and cobs usually burn
t * ie J barn help considerably when dump
burnt on the land that is o
planted.
“G.G.2”: Many a fresh horse has its
back ruined by sweat boils after the nrst
day’s heavy ride. They in themselves
are nothing, but if the horse has to oe
saddled next day the boils will chafe,
develop into sores and in time become
set-fasts. Prevention is simple. When
letting the prad go in the afternoon
wash his back with water—just enough
to get the sweat out of the hair and
hide. Then rub over with a lump of
kerosene soap. After sliming with that,
rub it into a heavy lather.
“Tired Tim”: “Yeno Ham’s” formula
for burning out stumps (B. 22/ 3 / ’39) is
known to the initiated as “stoving, ’
and will be found effective only on
alluvial and black soils. It is best to
dig a shallow trench right round, fill with
fairly solid chunks, ignite and bank to
a depth of 6in. with turf turned upside
down. Each morning block up the chim-
neys as they form. This method comes
into its own in old paddocks where logs
are few. The catch is in keeping up
the supply of clods, and a few hours
occasionally with the swing plough may
be needed. To cope with growing trees
ring through the sapwood just below
ground level and proceed as before. The
fire will follow the green roots down.
Confine your experiments to blue gum
flats.
“Observer”: Upper Clarence (N.S.W.)
organisations urge the throwing open for
dairying settlement of 15,000 acres of
virgin scrub land in the forest reserve
on Yabbra Mountain, between Bonalbo
and Urbenville, the area of greatest
present-day development on the North
Coast. The official view is that the
natural timber is an infinitely greater
asset than grass. Reminds me that when
Peter Loughlin was Minister for Lands
he was asked by local landless to make
the Bulgar State forest available for selec-
tion at £1 per acre. A sawmiller pre-
sented the other side of the picture,
telling how he was cutting up to £6OO
an acre worth of furniture timber from
part of the reserve for a Sydney firm.
That settled the argument then and since
against the firestick in invaluable timber
forests.
“Byron”: Norco Co-op., Ltd. (N.S.W.),
is putting its weight behind the better-
bulls movement. The company an-
nounces a scheme to assist suppliers by
financing the purchase of pure-bred bulls
from tested stock, provided the breed
societies concerned give the necessary
certificates to safeguard the purchaser
and the company. The proposal is more
likely to “take on” than the Government
scheme of a few years ago. Norco for
1938 had an output of 35,071,1531 b.
butter and treated 59,598 baconers for a
total turnover of £2,554,419, the latter
the best since 1931.
“Bobs”: A large-scale farmer in the
Delungra-Inverell (N.S.W.) district de-
clared he could still grow wheat profit-
ably if the price came down to Is. a
bushel. What he meant was that one
shilling would cover the cost of putting
in and taking off the crop. His neighbors
doubt it. With big power machines he
took off 10-to-14-bag crops from a large
area last harvest. It was a record season
in the north-west, but even at Is. net
on the farm these yields only amount to
30s. to 425. an acre. These districts have
an advantage in that superphosphate and
winter fallowing can be dispensed with
and crops grown cheaply on the same
land every year. Still, the small farmers
could not compete at the same price.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Results obtained, by C.S. and I.R. by
biological control of nut grass ? (2) When are
insects likely to be distributed to fanners ?
2875.
(1) Two varieties of insects from Hawaii are
under test at Canberra. So many die on the
voyage that building up of insect stocks in
Australia is slow. The insects attack nut grass,
but it is too early to give an opinion as to
their value. (2) In a year or two at the earliest,
if at all.
* * * *
How to destroy small red lice in the fowl-
house and on the perches ? —2823.
Fowlhouses should be sprayed several times
at weekly intervals with kerosene emulsion or
Diesel fuel oil. Painting the perches with
creosote or wood-preserving oil each month
during the summer is an additional safeguard.
A leaflet is available from N.S.W. Agricultural
Department on control of “Red Mite.”


FRONT-WHEEL DRIVE
SIH
;y . ■ :
' : : :-
The Most Economical Car in the World!
UN ON
AUTO
• 40-50 MILES PER GALLON
• INDEPENDENT DOUBLE FRONT SPRINGS
• ONLY 5 MOVING ENGINE PARTS
• FLOATING REAR AXLE
• 103 INCH WHEELBASE
• 6/60 M. P. H. IN TOP GEAR
CARS,
PRICES FROM
£245 UTILITIES, £255
Plus Sales Tax
'HIS sounds like an extravagant claim —
* but it’s TRUE. Facts have proved it.
A way beyond all other cars can this car claim
to have big car qualities, with small car cost.
Its simplicity in construction and handling is
unique. The D.K.W. is just the type of car
for doctors and commercial travellers whose
daily rounds involve frequent stopping and
starting, whose circumstances demand that
their cars shall always be “on the job.”
And for family use, nothing could be simpler
to run, easier to drive, cheaper to maintain.
Only FIVE moving parts in the engine. No
valves to worry about. No tappets to adjust.
What could be simpler?
The D.K.W. has proved a phenomenal suc-
cess everywhere. Call and see it. Take a
trial run in it. And you’ll understand the
reason for its popularity.
SEDANS , TOURERS, ROADSTERS , PANEL
VANS , ROADSTER AND COUPE TYPE
UTILITIES
Made by the makers of the famous Auto Union Racing Cars
D.K.W. IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL CAR IN THE WORLD
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Inc. in England)
Sir John Young Crescent (Behind the Art Gallery)
WOOLLOOMOOLOO :: ’Phone BO 524


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a Cd. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep--
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'iLK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa -
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
mis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executive?
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
sure quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering anu
other problems . . . multiplication, division, P P
tions, square and cube roots. Gur snnple ..j
enables you to master the use of the slide rule q •
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE C jw,'
Write for details to Kvngsford Smith Colleges, V
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney,
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tp hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Q’land (24), single, secondary
education, desires position in grocery store,
town or country, to learn the trade. Licensed
driver. —2900.
Young man, specialty salesman, auditing and
secretarial experience, is desirous of opening
wholesale and retail agency for Australian
manufactures in South Africa. Commission,
consignment or reasonable terms. —2906.
Words of recitation “The Taxidermist.” —
2902.
Information Sought.
(1) How does graphite differ from diamond ?
(2) Origin of the word “graphite” ? (3) How
can it be dissolved? —2853.
(1) Chemically, it is identical with the
mineral diamond, but between the two there
are very wide differences in physical character.
Graphite is black, soft and opaque, while
diamond is hard, colorless and transparent.
(2) The name was given by A. G. Werner in
1789, and is taken from the Greek “to write”
as the mineral is used for making pencils. (3)
It dissolves in molten iron, which is then known
as “grey cast-iron.”
* * ' * *
(1) Is it not a disadvantage for an Australian
author to publish a first novel in Australia ?
If the book is published by an Australian pub-
lisher woidd it not be difficult to find an Eng-
lish publisher who would consider it ? Does
Australian publication entirely preclude book
publication in England ? (2) Will an Eng-
lish publisher regard the rights as divisible,
and be willing to exclude Australasian rights
in his contract ? (3) How would Australian
publication affect American book rights ? (4)
Is there co-operation between English and
Australian publishers ? (5) Could an Austra-
lian publisher offer as good terms as regards
advance and royalty as the average London
publisher ? Could he give the same advance
against royalties and the same percentage of
royalty as the average English publisher ? (6)
Is it likely that an Australian publisher, with
facilities for stimulating the sale of an Aus-
tralian novel locally, might possibly sell more
copies in Australia than a first novel would
be likely to sell in England with colonial rights
included ? —2803.
(1) No. In nine cases out of ten Australia
is the best market. If published first in Aus-
tralia, and the book is a good one, there
would be no difficulty in finding an English pub-
lisher, and perhaps American publisher as well.
(2) An English publisher would not like to
divide the rights, but if the book was a really
good one the author could state his own
terms and insist on separate Australian publi-
cation. (3) Best plan would be for the author
to try to secure publication in Sydney, London
and New York. (4) There is co-operation
between Angus and Robertson and some
English publishers. That firm has arranged for
many Australian authors’ books to be pub-
lished in England, where an Australian edition
would be hardly worth while. (5) Australian
publishers pay practically the same royalty as
English publishers. (6) There have been many
instances where Australian-published novels
have sold far more in Australia and M.L. than
the English publisher has sold in Great Britain
and the rest of the Empire.
# # * *
(1) Age, marital state and physical standards
required in the various corps or units of the
Australian military forces? (2) Medical fit-
ness, (3) dental fitness, (4) character, (5) edu-
cation, (6) period of enlistment ? —2627.
(1)
Unit. Age. Marital Height Chest,
State. (min.), exp.
Artillery—
Field .. 18 to 30 Single sft. sin. 34in.
Other
branches . 18 to 30 Single sft. 7in. 34|in.
Engineers .. 18 to 30 Single sft. 7in. 34j)in.
Army Service Corps—
Supply sec. 18 to 30 Single sft. 7in. 34^in.
Remount sec. 18 to 40 Married sft. 4in. 34in.
or single
Mechanical
Trans, sec. 18 to 40 Married sft. 4in. 34in.
or single
Med. Corps 18 to 30 single sft. 7in. 34^in.
Ord. Corps . 18 to 45 Married sft. 4in. 34in.
or single
Recruits must be British subjects and be sub-
stantially of European origin or descent. (2)
Applicants will be subject to strict medical
examination and are advised to have them-
selves thoroughly examined before presenting
themselves for enlistment at recruiting centres.
(3) There must be a sufficient number of
double teeth in opposition to allow for
efficient mastication. Well-fitting artificial
dentures may be accepted as equivalent to
natural teeth. (4) Only men of good character
are accepted for service and references must
be produced. (5) Recruits must have attained
a good educational standard. (6) Five years
(except for artisans and artificers in the Aus-
tralian Army Ordnance Corps, one year).
A soldier may be re-engaged, if he so elects,
for further periods of three years.
(1) Time of the year cherry-picking takes
place in N. S. Wales? (2) Rate of wages for
pickers? (3) Names and addresses of some
growers? (4) Any special qualfications ?
2684.
(1) In the Young district a few cherries are
picked at the end of October, but the main
picking starts in early November and extends
to mid-December. In the Orange district
cherries are picked from November to the end
of December. (2) and (3) Refer to the secre-
tary, Young District Producers’ Co-op. Assoc.,
Burrawa-street, Young, and Orange Producers’
Rural Co-op. Soc., Lords-place, Orange. (4)
A cherry-picker needs to be active so that he
can pick rapidly without injuring the fruit or
trees or gather leaves with the fruit. He
requires to be hardy to stand the heat of
the sun, as when picking it is often striking
on his back and neck.
* - * *
(1) Educational qualifications for the posi-
tion of shire secretary in Victoria ? (2) Any
special examination before appointment ? (3)
Are vacancies advertised, and is there any
by-law requiring such advertisement ? (4)
Range of salary ? —2833.
(1) and (2) Applicant must hold certificate
of Municipal Clerks’ Board showing he has
passed its examination in municipal and mer-
cantile bookkeeping and local government law
and practice in Victoria. (3) Yes. Law provides
that vacancies must be advertised in at least
one paper circulating in the district for at
least seven days before appointment. Usual
practice is to advertise in 1 metropolitan dailies.
(4) Award rates based on shire revenues—£323
up to £6OOO revenue, rising to £650 where
revenue is above £70,000; increases as revenue
rises.
* * * *
I propose taking a course of instruction with
the British Institute of Engineering Technology
with the ultimate object of becoming an asso-
ciate member of the Institute of Mechanical
Engineers. (1) Cost of tuition ? (2) At what
age can the examination be taken ? (3) Do the
letters A.M.I.Mech.E. carry any recognition ?
(4) What are the prospects ? (5) What position
would I qualify for? —2858.
(1) £24 cash, £26 terms. (2) On reaching the
age of 20, when the successful candidate be-
comes a graduate. At 25 he is elected an
associate member without having to undergo
any further examination. (3) It is recognised
as among the highest in mechanical engineering.
(4) There are good prospects for the right type
of man. (5) Depends upon your choice of op-
tional subjects in section B of the examination.
H* H*
Number and price of gramophone records
teaching French and German ? —2856.
“His Master’s Voice” French language
course: “Colloquial French,” comprising 15
12in. records (6s. each), text- and keybook
(275. 6d.), album (12s. 6d.). Complete set
£6 Bs. 6d. Records 'No. C 1353-67. Avail-
able Sydney. Hugophone foreign language
records (French): Three 12in. records
(6s. each). Complete with French and
English textbooks 225. Columbia records
No. D0X227-9. Available Sydney. Hugo-
phone foreign language records (German):
Three 12in. records (6s. each). Complete with
German and English textbooks 225. Columbia
records No. D0X309-11. Available Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice” German language course:
Based on Siepmann’s Primary German Course.
Twenty-four records (Bs. each), two albums (Bs.
each), grammar book 4s. 6d. Records No.
C2lOB-11, C 2120-1, C 2154-71. This course is
only available from England. Prices include
duty, exchange, landing charges, etc.
* * * *
(1) What municipalities in the Sydney metro-
politan area lost population for the year end-
ing December 31, 1937? (2) What six muni-
cipalities made the greatest gain in population
during the same period? —2727.
(1)
Municipality. Population <
Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Decrease,
1936. 1937. 1937.
Redfern .. 18,500 18,100 400
Newtown .. 25,000 24,750 250
Balmain .. 28,000 27,760 240
Glebe .. .. 19,600 19,450 150
Erskineville. .. 6,560 6,460 100
Paddington .. 24,530 24,450 80
Alexandria .. 8,870 8,800 70
Darlington .. 2,970 2,900 70
Annandale .. 12,140 12,110 30
(2)
Municipality -Population .
Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Increase,
1936. 1937. 1937.
Randwick .. 82,770 81,340 1430
Canterbury .. 81,350 82,420 1070
Waverley .. 58,900 59,790 890
Rockdale .. 40,530 41,280 750
Ku-ring-gai .. 30,560 31,260 700
Ryde .. .. 29,320 29,940 620
* * * *
(1) Number of patients in mental hospitals
in N.S.W. ? (2) Percentage of total recoveries ?
(3) Have mental hospitals authority to operate
on patients under their charge without con-
sulting or notifying the wife, husband or
parents of the inmate? —2B4s.
(1) As on June 30, 1938, 11,481. Of these,
872 were on leave of absence and 10,609 were
resident. (2) Average percentage of recoveries
for the past 10 years is 30.78, and in addition
12.08 p.c. of patients on the same figures were
discharged relieved. (3) No, except in case
of emergency when the patient’s life may be
in danger. In such cases the relatives of the
patient are communicated with as soon as pos-
sible.
* * * *
(1) Is a storeman-packer regarded as a skilled
tradesman? (2) Award wages in N.S.W. ? (3)
Any books dealing with the work and methods
employed ? —2839.
(1) No; semi-skilled. (2) There are 18
different awards operating, under which mini-
mum wage rates range from £4 9s. to £4 18s. 6d.
for storemen at Sydney, Newcastle, Port
Kembla-Wollongong, and 3s. per week less
elsewhere. Under all awards except three,
packers receive from Is. 6d. to ss. per week
higher minimum rates than storemen. Casual
rates range from 2s. 9|d. to 3s. per hour.
(3) Know of none.
* * * *
Value of gold, wool and wheat produced at
the present time in the various Australian
States? How does the total production com-
pare with other gold, wool and wheat
countries ? —2586.
Wool (a)
(in terms of Wheat,
Gold (a), Greasy), 1937-38.
1938. 1937-38. 1000
State. Fine 02. 10001 b. bushels.
N. S. Wales 88,698 495,027 55,104
Victoria .. 144,243 177,847 48,173
Queensland 149,671 160,626 3,749
S. Australia 5,659 86,606 43,428
Westralia .. 1,167,792 70,685 36,225
Tasmania .. 22,200 14,000 526
N. Territory 11,855 35
Aus. Capital
Territory .. 1,797 50
Total Aus... 1,590,118 1,006,623 187,255
Total World
(a) .. 36,700,000 3,827,000(6)3,810,000
Percentage of
Australian
on World
Production 4.3 p.c. 26.3 p.c. 4.9 p.c.
(a) Subject to revision, (b) Excluding U.S.S.R.
and China.
* * * *
What is a hydraulic ram ? —2925.
It is a self-acting pump which utilises the
momentum of a slight fall of water to force
part of that water to an elevation several times
greater than the fall used to operate the ram.
It is extremely simple, and its operation in-
volves no labor or expense. Once started it
will pump continually as long as the supply
is maintained. A fall of at least 2ft. is neces-
sary to operate it, but as the fall increases its
operation becomes more powerful. The
amount of water that reaches the delivery point,
as compared with the amount entering the ram,
depends, upon the height of the fall, as com-
pared with the height of the delivery point.
* * * *
Meaning of the following terms as applied
to windmill pumps: (1) Delivery elevation,
(2) suction elevation, (3) total elevation. (4)
What relation should the diameter of the
suction pipe bear to the diameter of the
pump ? —2932.
(1) The height from the pump to the point
of discharge, measured vertically. (2) The
height from water level to the pump, measured
vertically. This - height should never exceed
25ft. (3) The height from water level to the
point of discharge of the water, measured
vertically, or the sum of (1) and (2). (4)
The diameter of the suction pipe should never
be less than half the diameter of the pump.
* * * *
(1) At what age can a girl begin training as
a nurse at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
Sydney? (2) Could two sisters be admitted
simultaneously for training? (3) At what time
of the year are probationers admitted? (4)
What references are required? (5) Cost of
uniform outfit ? (6) Wages, if any ? (7) Any
other points ? —2799.
(1) From 18 to 30. (2) Yes, but one of the
sisters would need to hyphenate her surname
by joining to it her mother’s maiden name.
(3) Approximately every eight weeks, com-
mencing late in January. (4) Two personal
references. One must be from a woman who
has known the applicant intimately ; the other
must be from the applicant’s last employer, if
previously in employment. If not previously
employed, from any person well acquainted
with the applicant. (5) Approximately £1,5
for first year only. In subsequent years
uniforms are supplied by the hospital. In
addition, the applicant must lodge a premium
deposit of £5, which becomes forfeit if the
trainee leaves the service of the hospital of her
own volition and without just cause, in the
opinion of the board, before completing her
training (four years). (6) Governed by the
Nurses’ Award. Present rates: First year,
£1 17s. lid. per week; second year, £2 Is. lOd.
per week; third year, £2 6s. per week; fourth
year, £2 16s. per week. All these rates in-
clude board and residences at £1 3s. 3d. per
week, which is deducted therefrom. Adults
cannot be paid less than the adult living
wage for females, £2 3s. 6d. per week. (7)
All applicants must pass a dental and medical
examination, undertaken by the hospital’s
medical officers. Each successful applicant
must spend eight weeks in the Preliminary
Training School, during which period she
receives no salary, but is provided with board
and residence and instruction. At the end of
the period she is required to pass an
examination in the subjects taught before
being allowed to enter the wards for duty.
Further information, application forms, etc.,
are obtainable from the matron.
* * * #
(1) How long is it since a Pope was not
Italian; name and country? (2) A few details
concerning Nicholas Breakspeare, the English
Pope? (3) Was any other Englishman ever
made Pope? —2sl3.
(1) Hadrian VI. (1522) was the last Pope not
of Italian race; he was a Dutchman. (2)
Nicholas Breakspeare was born at Langley, near
St. Albans. At first a lay-brother in the
monastery of St. Rufus, near Avignon, he
became abbot there in 1137. His intense zeal
for discipline bred a plot to defame him, and
he was summoned to defend himself before
Pope Eugenius 111. at Rome. He not only
refuted the charges but won the esteem of the
A?P e ’ . 0 ma de him Cardinal-Bishop of
Albano in 1146. He became Pope in 1154, as
Hadrian IV., and died in 1159. (3) No.
Brief Answers.
W.S.: A resident of N.S.W. is required to fur-
a (1) his gross income exceeds
fc2sl), or (2) any part of his income is not subject
to wages tax deductions at the source and his
income is £156 or more. Returns are also re-
quired from all persons who were in business
during the year, irrespective of the amount of
income derived. If the taxpayer concerned does
not come under the above headings a return
need not be furnished unless specially called
lor by the Taxation Department....W.W.J.:
Suggest that you get in touch with someone in
the trade. Full particulars regarding copyright
can be obtained from Copyright Office, Brisbane.
E.G.W.: Write Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .8.G.: Words for the
marches mentioned are not obtainable in sheet
music. Some of these may be had on gramo-
phone records and player rolls, and you would
have to purchase the records or rolls and copy
the words from them J.A.S.: Quotation is
“A day in such serene enjoyment spent is
worth an age of splendid discontent,” and is
James Montgomery’s poem “Green-
land”... .M.J.C.: .Letter should be addressed
to the “Prasidialkanzlei aes Fuhrers und
Reichskanzlers, Berlin WB, Voss-Strasse 4.”
The mode of addressing and concluding a
letter to the Fiihrer und Reichskanzler is
“Your Excellency” and “Your Excellency’s,
etc.” U.S.: “Die Brucke,” 16 Bond-street,
Sydney, and “Queenslander Herald,” 126
Elizabeth-street, Brisbane. Neither periodical
is an official organ or an organ of any
political group organisation R.A.8.: (1)
Recruits for the Queensland police force are
accepted between the ages of and 26
years. (2) Sample application form, which
furnishes particulars as to physical qualifi-
cations, has been posted. (3) You could sit
for the next police entrance examination, which
will probably be held in September next, but
the exact date is not yet fixed. Make appli-
cation in June next, when application forms
for the examination will be available
M. : There is no recruiting in Australia of
ratings for the Royal Navy. Best plan is to
write to the Director of Naval Recruiting, 85
Whitehall, London, S.W.I J. 8.: Write
the Cement and Concrete Advisory Associ-
ation, Shell House, Carrington-street, Sydney.
. ...C.C.: Section 16 (1) (a) of the Invalid
and Old-age Pensions Act 1908-37 provides
that pensions shall not be paid to aliens. As
you were born in the U.S.A. and are not a
naturalised Britis : subject you are not eligible.
F.A.: Perm: ; on should be obtained and
it should be clearly stated on the picture ex-
hibited that it is a copy T.J.L.: From the
N. Government Printer, Phillip-street,
Sydney... .WH.: Rates of pay are: Gunner
£196 p.a., artificer £203 p.a., lance corporal
or lance bombardier £2lO p.a., corporal or
bombardier £216 p.a., sergeant £242 p.a., staff
sergeant £249 p.a., and warrant officer £262
to £4lB p.a H.W.G.: (1) The Master in
Equity, Supreme Court, Sydney. (2) Do not
recommend particular solicitors. (3) Society
of Australian Genealogists, Phillip-street,
Sydney... .R.M.K.: Where water is scarce
dry-blowing is usually the method em-
ployed in saving alluvial gold. Several
dry-blowers are described in Prospecting
for Gold, by lon L. Idriess, published
by Angus and Robertson; 5s N.E.G.:
Cannot recommend any particular firm of soli-
citors. .. .E.C.A.: Entries for the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize competition must be to hand
by June 6 next. If you will send your name
and address a copy of the conditions will be
posted to you F.W.M.W.: (1) Yes, from
Lopdon “Times” office, 255 a George-street, Syd-
ney. Price varies according to different bind-
ings. (2) Yes, from N.S.W. Government
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney M.S.L.: Every
week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to
A.J.A. rates —paid also to all competitors whose
paragraphs appear. There are no conditions
except those that ordinarily apply to contributed
matter, i.e., contributions must be original, and
the name and address of author must be
stated. Contributions must be addressed to
the page in question. Payment, except in the
case of prizewinners is made upon receipt of
claim stating column, page and date of appear-
ance of contribution.. . .J.M.L.: Write Regis-
trar-General’s Dept., Melbourne, give full name,
names of both parents and the place and date
of your birth; 2s. 6d. should cover cost
J.M.: Daniel O’Connor was a N. S. Wales
politician. He sat for West Sydney in the Leg.
Assembly from 1877 to 1891 and for Phillip
from 1900 to 1904. Between 1891 and 1900 he
was a member of the Leg. Council. He was
N.S.W. Postmaster-General from 1885 to 1886
and 1889 to 1901 K.A.S.: “Maloney’s
Cockatoo,” by “Riverina,” appeared in The
Bulletin of December 3, 1930, page 7. It
was illustrated by Leason... .M.J.F.: Else or
Elsie is German. The name means “substi-
tute” or “changeling” E. 8.8.: Cannot trace
recipe. State what fruit is being infested and
literature will be forwarded S.R.: Write
Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
....8.5.: Write Workers’ Educational Associ-
ation, 114 Flinders-street, Melbourne
P.J.H.: Very difficult to advise without know-
ing full facts. If by his conduct he intended
to put an end to the matrimonial home, wife
could refuse to return, and could get main-
tenance immediately. His behaviour must be
such as to make it reasonable to suppose that
it will be repeated if she returns G.J.:
Write Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .M.L.: (1) No. Local
designers occasionally sell designs to some or
the large shops, which have the work printed
in England. (2) Black Rock, Victoria; or
77 York-street, Sydney... .H.M.P.: Brush oft
as much as possible with a dry brush; then
wash and scrub lightly with hot, soapy water
and wipe as dry as possible F.H.: Write
D. D. Smith, Resident Engineer, Alice Springs,
Central Australia... .C.C.: Write Queensland
Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
We do not exhibit at the Show, so be
sure you visit Our Showrooms at
395 George Street.
H
twit
"Narvon"
Poley
Saddle
£l5/15/-
(MOUNTED)
The tree is
designed to al-
low for a full
free bar, the
seat is hogskin, and
the flaps and skirt of
kip.
N.S.W. rail freight on
saddles paid for ’cash
with order.
WALTHER * STEVENSON ETo:
39S CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
An Engagement
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE....
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
mm
• •
vm
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.)- 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(3
3
U,aJ
If you want to send money to
another city or town, do not post
notes, send a Bank of New South
Wales draft.
A draft can be issued for any
amount, payable to a specified per-
son or firm, and is a simple, safe
and inexpensive way of making
payments.
Call at the nearest branch of the
MMd
jy jy///<
%
Bank and the Manager or his staff will give you full details of the
draft service. It is available to the public generally.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Over 900 branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, the Pacific Islands
and London. 438 A • 1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
8.W.D.: Prosy V. McC.: Mixed meta-
phors L.G.K.: Too jaunty 0.P.: “Hast
ever heard the nightingale?” Nay G.8.G.:
Sniffed at “When I ’As a C01d”... .C.8.K.:
Compare D. H. Lawrence on a snake J.P.:
A lightweight... .8.P.8.: How old are you?
.. ..R.E.R.: Pretty, but pale... .E.R.M.: Both
need condensing; watch for sentimentality
C. : Couldn’t echo your “Blast!” when
the pen ran dry....J.H.L.: Even Wordsworth
never began a poem with “Rude gash!”
J.M.: The “dids” did for it, for a start
E.E.: When you do “better Omar’s witty
rhyme” call again A.E.H.; Famous girl
traveller joins the Foreign Legion disguised as
a man! You’re doing well, you’re doing well!
G.B.: “Blackmail” didn’t make us loosen
the pursestrings.... L.L.: N 0.... K.W.: Not
far away D.McL.: Nothing new in it....
D. Thin E.D.: Du 11... .T.R.: Don’t
want that “real life story, with all the appur-
tenances of drama —tropic setting, eternal
triangle”.... H.G.: Mechanical.... F. V.: Feb-
ruary. .. .R. 1.: Misses... .J.D.: Had something
like it before... .A.R.Q.: Leave that to A. C.
Headley J.McG.: Stodgy P.E.N.: It’s
lifeless E.W.: Not enough meat in it....
H.A.L.: Try a motoring magazine... .K.T.:
“Garbage” is H.W.H.: “It Had to Be”—
returned... .L.R.L.: Nothing to it....E.M.: A
daily might find a corner for it J.S.L.:
Much too long for what’s in it G.F.P.:
Don’t like “The Woodcutter’’... .M.R.W.: Un-
believable The Viking: You haven’t
learnt story-telling E.A.S.: Stodgy
W.A.: It’s lifeless... .D.J.C.: “The Buletine”
won’t “feature ‘Olou the Owl’ in its
next issue”... .M.T.L.: So he “stamped
madly out of the house, and went walk-
ing off in all directions”... .R.E.H.: It’s
been done before W.L.: Doesn’t get there.
—J.B.: Not a smile J.C.: Not that one,
but let us see some more... .C.8.M.: No.
• ...A.A.: “And the Verdict Was” —0ut!....
H.J.C.W.: Too many weak links S.W.:
Doesn’t get there H.M.: Have to be better
than that.. ..W.M.: “The Vista” a little de-
pressing D.F.: Nothing there R.A.M.:
Didn’t come off L.R.: That track is pretty
well worn out G.J.: About a dozen like
that every week A.8.K.: Why the gloom?
R.J.O.: You’ve done better L.T.8.:
If we dreamed things like that we’d be afraid
to go to sleep K.D.8.: No excuse for that.
. ...J.H.E.: Send it to someone you don’t
like... .H.R.8.: Try us with something
lighter... .8.T.5.: The friends who advised
you to submit that were no friends of ours.
L.T.F.: Might make a good election
speech 8.E.W.: Doesn’t make a yarn
H.R.S.: We thought that there could be
nothing worse than “Dingbats” until we read
“A Stitch in Time” 8.F.E.: Come again
when you have something worth saying....
8.R.N.: Needs better handling P.V.A.:
Send it overseas J.T.C.: Old stuff
J.T.E: You’ve cut the best parts out
H.T.8.: Pretty, but too slight G.R.8.:
Basketed with others of its kind H.F.N.:
Better samples than that have failed to tempt
u5....E.W.L.: What will you be doing next?
J.1.C.: Dreadful T.R.K.: Gangsters*
racketeers, etc., not for these pages 8.R.W.:
You have some funny ideas about the Police
Department F.L.1.: The aviatrix is still
seeking a landing place... .T.0.C.: Any more
like that and we’ll be annoyed F.C.T.:
You should see print if you keep at it
G.R.K.: Still doesn’t make the grade
8.R.8 : Have read worse... .R.E.: Stick to
subjects you know something about
F.A.W.: Have sent them to another Sydney
paper A.K.Q.: Too lengthy... .A.G.P.:
Tails off at the finish... .C.M.T.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.: The sort of sketch an infant might
scribble on a blackboard during teacher’s
absence W.H.M.: Drawing clean-cut,
vigorous, but entirely without humor
P.M.T.: We gather that one figure is the
P.M.G., but who are his cobbers? F.L. :
Outed the matron who wanted to cover her
floors with carpet snakes... .G.M.: Dismal.
D.A.: Too juvenile... .C. 0.8.: Try
using a broader nib and a paper with a
smoother surface... .A.G.D.: Didn’t our
w.p.b. receive that drawing’s twin brother a
few months back?....C.N.: Your cricketer
went out for a duck... .J.M.H.: Try a life
class for a while E.N.S.: Nine received,
nine went back. Send one next time nine
times better drawn H.H.: No space for
that collection of half-assembled skeletons....
F. : Admired the pigtail, but little else
G. : Poker-game gag doesn’t lend itself to
illustration J.R.: Iron out some ot the
creases, lop a few yards off the gent, in the
background and try again... .C.H.: Another
of the Easter chestnuts J.8.W.: Wrap it in
a red flag and send to the editor of the
“Moscow News” H.P.J.: Sorry, but it
won’t bring you the “price of a couple of tickets
for the Artists’ Ball” K.W.: A puny, home-
sick effort T.8.E.: Election cartoon was
belated, confused and badly drawn H.C.:
Brush up your knowledge of anatomy....
R.P.C.: Small boy with toothache gets our
sympathy, but earns no cheque... .P.A.:
Finished his hectic career on the junk-heap.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Sir lan Hamilton, in the book in which
he accurately predicted the fate of
Czechoslovakia, made a few remarks
about the Rumanians:
I know Bucharest and Sinaia; I have
been in Transylvania; I have inspected
Rumanian troops, who look what they are
—rather washed-out descendants of
Trajan’s Sixth Legion.
The Rumanians’ war record was bad
and their peace record, as rulers of
“absorbed” Translyvanians, Bessarabians
and Dobrutscha Bulgarians, is worse. But
the Stunt Press offered a hearty welcome
to them as Gallant Allies until they made
other arrangements.
* * * *
“Fleur”: The Qantas flying-boats have
created great interest among the abos. on
Groote Eylandt. At first they were
viewed with fear, which changed swiftly
to a curiosity that only the blacks can
possess. But Banana, the wise man of
the tribe cleared things up considerably:
“That one him all right,” he explained ;
“big pfeller bird, white man longa guts.”
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Amongst advantages
claimed for the new type of 16- to 18-
knot cargo ship is that the speed would
obviate need for detaching naval units
for convoy duty in war-time against sub-
marine risk. Naval war-history shows
many instances of vessels being hit with
torpedoes from subs, when at greater
speeds than this, even when zigzagging.
In August, 1916, the cruiser Falmouth
was sunk when zigzagging at 23 knots,
and on the same day Nottingham, whilst
under helm at 20 knots, was hit twice.
The destroyer Penelope was hit at 26
knots, and several others at well over
20, all by submarines. Speed would, of
course, lessen the risk and also diminish
the period of exposure to it in any given
sphere of sub. action, in addition to ex-
pediting transit of foods and other essen-
tials. But it will not remove the need
for convoy, particularly in view of later
improvements in torpedo tactics.
* * * *
“Handsacross”: There is a certain de-
lightful naivete in the American that
endears him to me far more than does
his hard-boiledness. Before me lies a
little bundle of propaganda from The
Friends of the Duke of Windsor in
America, 132 East 65th Street, New York.
These good people, “because it is clear
that the Duke is a man trained to leader-
ship and a lover of democracy” and has
“proved his ability as Prince-Salesman of
the British Empire,” advocate “the turn-
ing of his talents and experience into
channels that would lead to international
understanding and goodwill.” Exactly
how they are going to do this they have
not decided, but as a kick-off they offer
prizes of Ten Dollars for essays on “What
I Would Do if I Were Appointed Am-
bassador-at-Large for Democracy and
Peace,” and they’ve had a dinner at which
their president, the wife of a former
Governor of New York, was a speaker.
The chairman was Mirza Ahmad Sohrab,
and there were speeches also from Dr.
F. I. Shatira, president of the “Arab
National League,” and Dr. Har Dyal,
“of India, Philosopher and Author.” The
editress of a French weekly in N’York
and a couple of clergymen also gave
voice. There’s no evidence that the
erstwhile Eighth Edward has been con-
sulted about these goings-on. Indeed, at
the dinner a cablegram was composed
informing him of his destiny.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
r «
§9ml
L
=
,-s
<4
ESB
jW^SsSke*
%
%=
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
1
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance anti the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting yon.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
. .... . don to Edinburgh, 393
York Minster. m ii e s, in six hours.
TOUE BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
i» ,ta SSSS>!
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES h CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney-
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the °[
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax returr
to be compiled. £ .
All that is necessary is to enter the amount ° *? C ° m
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of e
Ringbarking —Wages ® ge jg
Rations ” £0
Sheep bought ” gj
Wire netting ”
and so on.
There is a page for every item. .
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stev e ns°m 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return W 1“ your
free of further charge by experts in such a way
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law. as
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax ret
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque fpr 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
BUSTARD BAY
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON a still Sunday evening in winter,
which is not wintry in these lati-
tudes, a large modern warship
with the writer aboard anchored
a few years ago in Bustard Bay, on the
coast of Queensland, and it was remem-
bered in that quiet dusk that a much
more famous vessel had once found
moorings there also. About the same time
of the year, in 1770, H.M.S. Endeavour,
Lieutenant James Cook commanding,
dropped her mudhook on the sandy
bottom, and almost opposite where we
lay a white obelisk marks the landing
place of that distinguished officer. “All,
or most of, the same sort of land- or
water-fowl as we saw at Botany Harbor
we saw here,” he says in his log ; “besides
these we saw some Bustards, such as we
have in England, one of which we kill’d
that weighed \l\ pounds, which
occasioned my giving this place the
Name of Bustard Bay (Lat. 24deg.
4min., Long. 208 deg. 22min. W.).”
Young Mr. Joseph Banks, Dr. Solan-
der and the other passengers went ashore
with the captain and didn’t find very
much in the scrubby hinterland to in-
terest them, but while she lay there
something happened in the ship that
gave the captain much concern.
“Last night,” he says, “some time in
the middle watch, a very extraordinary
thing happened to Mr. Orton, my clerk.
He having been drinking in the evening,
some mischievous person or persons
took advantage of his being drunk to
cut the clothes off his back ; not being
satisfied with this, they some time after
went into his cabin and cut off parts of
both ears as he lay asleep in his bed.
The person whom he suspected to have
done this was Mr. Magra, one of the
midshipmen.”
His messmates told Cook that once
or twice before Mr. Magra—in after life
he made the name Matra —had amused
himself at the clerk’s expense, and he
dropped heavily on the supposed offen-
der. He disrated the midshipman and
wrote of him angrily in his journal that
he was “one of those gentlemen fre-
quently found on board King’s ships
that can very well be spared —to speak
more plain, good for nothing.”
But the incident didn’t end there. In
little more than a fortnight the Endeav-
our had a dangerous misadventure with
the coral reef that almost brought the
historic voyage to an end. The crippled
ship was taken into the Endeavour River
for repairs, and Cook records his appre-
ciation of the good work of all hands
in assisting to save her. “I must say that
no men ever behaved better than they
did on this occasion ; animated by the
behavior of every gentleman on board,
every man seemed to have a just sense
of the danger we were in, and exerted
himself tq the utmost.”
That youth’s exertions and good work
induced the captain to change his views
as to Midshipman Magra. He wrote in
the margin of the log, as copied for the
Admiralty by his crop-eared clerk: “This
day I restored Mr. Magra to his duty,
as I did not find him guilty of the crimes
laid to his charge.” It is likely enough
that the penitent Magra had behaved so
well in the perilous emergency that Cook
decided to give him the benefit of any
doubt he had in his own mind. But that
didn’t do any good to the mutilated
auditory apparatus of the captain’s clerk
or to his lacerated feelings.
Magra was the son of a New York
loyalist of considerable means, and in
1783, after he had changed his name,
and in consultation with his old friend
Sir Joseph Banks, he wrote a proposal
to the British Government that a settle-
ment should be made in New South
Wales. This was read by Lord Sydney,
and he had it in mind five years after-
wards when he set about planting a
colony at Botany Bay. So the obelisk
in Bustard gay, dedicated to Cook’s
memory by the late Admiral Hyde, is
not only a memorial to Cook and the
Endeavour’s great voyage—it may also
be taken to commemorate the clipped
ears of the captain’s clerk. At any rate,
it recalls his misfortune, and points a
moral.
“L.E.8.”: H. J. Rumsey, president of
the Society of Australian Genealogists,
reports that the grave of the first
wife of Governor Phillip has been found
at Lake Bala, in Wales. At the time of
her death she was in Britain, and Phillip,
who had a separation from her, was in
Australia. The graves of Phillip and his
second wife had previously been located
at Bath.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Sambio”: Anybody able to nominate
an older inhabitant of Papua than Albert
English? He went there in the mid-
’eighties, and landed at Rigo as one of
William MacGregor’s first R.Ms. I recall
a typical conversation between Albert
and a tourist lady. “Wasn’t it terrible
among all those cannibals?” asked the
lady breathlessly. “None so bad,” says
Albert. “None so bad! You never
knew whether you’d have breakfast or be
breakfast. But the pay was regular.”
*****
Melbourne continues to absorb the art
prizes offered by country towns. The
Crouch Prize of £75, offered by Ballarat
Fine Art Gallery, goes to Will Rowell,
who has won it before, and whose
brother John has won it twice. Will is a
foundation member of the Australian
Academy and learnt his artistic pothooks
at the Melb National Gallery. He is a
scenic painter by profession.
* * •* *
“C.Q.”: What is the record price paid
for a piece of freelance writing? An
American pressman has the answer.
He sat down one wet afternoon and
wrote a scenario which he sent to
Walt Disney. Disney decided to make
it his next feature, and the estimated
percentage of royalties for the scribe
will be in the vicinity of £58,000. He
took 40 minutes to write it.
* * * *
“El V.”: I wouldn’t be Speaker of
the Queensland Leg. Assembly for all
the rice in China-. Of the last half-dozen,
John Leahy died in office in his fifties —
a man whose abilities would have taken
him to heights anywhere; J. J. Bell,
once president of the Cambridge
Union, was found dead in a hotel
room; McCormack, Speaker at 36,
had his career wrecked by ill-health;
Bertram, too, suffered in that way; and
now George Pollock has made a tragic
exit.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Australian ideas of civilisa-
tion get nearer to the Roman every day. No
other countrymen save the Romans and
the Greeks and those of Latin origin and
the British have ever had the urge to
congregate in sport-watching crowds in
arenas. In all other races the inclination
is a modern graft. And there isn’t a
modern building put up which has not
an original Greek or Roman ancestor.
In Victoria—popular name and word in
Imperial Roman days the “Argus”
(classical hundred-eyed bunyip) publishes
a picture of a new benevolent home and
hospital—good Latin words “benevolent”
and “hospital”—in a park called Royal
after the true Augustan habit. And the
building reveals itself as a Roman Legion
headquarters barrack, even to a catapult
platform, detached stable with covered
way to the central courtyard and gallery
for archers and spearmen facing the
main approach. All it needs is a moat
and a centurion’s guard to make it com-
plete. But the ancient Roman spirit is
to be insulted by filling it with “females”
—democratic word—who are to have
their tucker carried from the kitchen in
electrically-heated trolleys.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: If all the achievements of
George Coppin were carved on the plaque
presented to the Comedy Theatre, Mel-
bourne, by the Old Players and Play-
goers’ Association it would have to be
a large one. The G.O.M. of the theatre
in Victoria, it would be easier to name
what he didn’t do than what he did do,
from acting, producing, running for Par-
liament, buying and selling gold and
going in for real estate and pubkeeping.
In addition, he released the first thrush,
brought the first camel to the State,
opened the first skating rink, opened the
first Grand Lodge in Victoria and was
the first Grand Master of it, built six
theatres and managed most of them. He
lost £3OOO over a grand-opera season,
but whenever he recovered from a bout
of bankruptcy he shouted his creditors
to a banquet and handed them for dessert
every penny he owed them.


H THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
A Canberra man’s views on the arresting subject of national leadership earn him
this week’s prize.
The Cry for Leaders
The cry for leadership from men and
women of all sorts and conditions in
Australia is becoming almost monoton-
ous. People who agree on nothing else
agree on this —the need for leaders. But
this seemingly legitimate appeal hides
some very ominous facts. Australians
do not know what they want or where
they wish to go, and the plea for leaders
is a cry to cloak their ignorance. In a
democracy a leader fulfils two func-
tions: firstly, and primarily, he inter-
prets and puts into action the will of the
people; and, secondly, he adds a leaven
of ideas of his own, original, but not
sufficiently so as to be out of touch with
the community.
No great democratic leader will arise
until we have common national aspira-
tions, as the past history of Australia
shows. In the past, when the ideas were
there, the leaders were at hand to fulfil
them. We had common ideals once
—a White Australia, a Federal Australia
and many others, most of which have
been completely or partially realised, and
so have lost their glaijior as national rally-
ing-points. Out of the welter of conflict-
ing policies and ideologies that assail us
in Australia to-day, not one appeals to
the great mass of the Australian people.
Australian jingoists, internationalists and
socialists of all hues fail to strike a re-
sponse from the people at large. Until
there is that common mind and purpose
there will be no Australian democratic
leader.
There is, of course, the other type of
leader —who gives the people what he
thinks they want. It seems that soon we
will have to choose between the two types
of leader, and yet myself and the major-
ity of Australians would prefer almost
anything to the latter type.
Where is the way out? Where is the
prophet who will interpret our minds to
us and clarify our confusion?—H. H. S.
(Canberra).
“H.H.S.”—H. H. Speed, of Canberra
Grammar School, A.C.T.—gets the £3 35.,
plus space rates.
Freak Fruit Prices
Dr. Earle Page, after a visit to Queens-
land, wants to know why Australians
don’t drink more pineapple juice, and
suggests that we serve pineapple drinks
on the trains. With this Australians
will agree, as thousands of cases of un-
saleable fruit are dumped annually.
But, better still, why not offer the public
the fruit at an acceptable price? The
following figures are surprising but never-
theless facts. Toowoomba is only 100
miles from Stanthorpe, in the granite
belt, where a large proportion of Queens-
land’s fruit is grown. Yet apples in Too-
woomba are priced at 2s. 6d. a dozen,
and yesterday I paid 3d. for one lemon.
After visiting a cafe and being charged
ninepence for a glass of pineapple juice
I began to wonder how much I would
have to pay if it was brought to me on
a train ! — Argee (Q.).
Be Original
Unless the present vogue of slavishly
adopting overseas ideas, irrespective of
whether they are good or bad, is sensibly
checked, there is a real danger that Aus-
tralians will soon lose those virile
national characteristics that have been so
typical of them in the past.
Australian capital cities are daily be-
coming mere replicas of American towns,
with sleek, young, white-capped gentle-
men dispensing hamburgers. Garages
have changed overnight to gas stations,
the good old chemist’s shop has become
a drugstore, and for some unaccountable
reason the perfectly apt word “lift” has
been scrapped in favor of that tedious
Americanism “elevator.” Nor is that the
worst. Architects seem to be scared stiff
that one day they will evolve a home suit-
able for the Australian climate instead of
importing Spanish mission, spurious old
English type or some curious freak of
architecture that they have seen whilst
visiting Hollywood.
Scattered throughout the world there
are many Australians who are famous
figures simply because they had the cour-
age to be different from the crowd. In
the varied fields of surgery, aviation and
sport, Australia is second to none. When
the Australian soldier had his first taste
of warfare he rapidly evolved battle tac-
tics which, though not conforming to
Sandhurst traditions, were sufficiently
effective to gain him the honor of being
the best shock soldier in the world.
Most of the heart-breaking pioneering
work has been accomplished already in
this country, and it behoves the present
generation, who have all the added ad-
vantages of modem science to aid them,
to complete the job in a manner worthy
of those grand old battlers of the past.
Let the youth of Australia for a start
stick a pin in some of our alleged states-
“I shall report this outrage to the committee of the Butterfly Collectors' Association."
men and burst the bubble of their dreamy
complacency. Confront our politicians
with the slogan “Get on with the job or
get out! ” The future of this country may
be more safely entrusted to men who
make an occasional mistake than to those
dummies who merely echo their party
leaders’ voices.— Melton (Vic.).
A Teacher’s Lot
Does anyone ever think of the work
a teacher does in training Young Aus-
tralia? A few of her jobs:—
She teaches a wide variety of sub-
J>ne .eacnes a wme van y
jects, ranging from composition and
arithmetic to sewing singing, eurhyth-
mics and drill She looks B ’after Ae
health of her pupils and gives first-aid
when Tommy cuts his face She keeps
innumerable schoo records, including
an intricate personal card of every child.
She trains Young Hopeful in the man-
new his mother forgot to teach him
and improves the morals that Dad didn t
wallop into him.
She keeps in order a class of from 30
to 70 children (think of it, mother of
three!) and nearly breaks her heart over
the dunces. She gets no thanks for
teaching the children to play hockey,
and does the bulk of the work in
organising concerts, fairs, bazaars and
card parties. And after the day’s work
is over she has to face irate parents
who , simply can’t - understand why
Hopeful was kept in.
She’s public guardian of the morals,
manners, education, sports and health
of the young a work just as im-
portant as that of doctors, lawyers or
dentists. And what does she get? In
Tasmania, after from three to five years’
training, a whole £l7O a year, with yearly
increase of £lO till she reaches £l9O.
For any larger salary she has to do
extra work!— M. B. (Tas.).
:
Railway Washaways
For utter damfoolishness the branch
responsible for the maintenance of our
State-owned railways takes the bun. Year
after year services are interrupted and
extensive repairs made necessary by wash-
aways in spots in which they have pre-
viously occurred with monotonous
repetition.
Take the section between West Wya-
long and Barmedman as an example—
not a very important line, certainly, but
avoidable repairs are uneconomical
whether they be incurred on a goat track
or George-street. The events of the other
week are typical. A downpour scours
some miles of ballast from the usual
spots. Telegraph lines sizzle, sundry
lesser lights clap their caps on, swell
with importance and begin to enjoy the
thrill of being temporarily in the “news.”
No expense must be spared to get the
line working as soon as possible. A
small army works day and night at over-
time and double-overtime, etc. Ballast
trains rush from distant centres and
hundreds of tons are shovelled into the
gaps in what was shovelled there last
year and the year before that.
Non-resident engineers can’t be con-
vinced that an inch of rain means as much
water in these comparatively level areas
as it does in the hill lands, or that it
accumulates in the fewer natural drain-
age-ways. Again, the raised railway
track cuts across the natural drainage
and leads all the water to the lowest
depression, where two or three culverts,
perhaps 4ft. or 6fL wide, are provided
per mile. The millions of gallons from
a catchment of upwards of 30 square
miles dams up to the height of the line,
then scours its own outlets.
The rei ? 6dy simp ]. e enough. A
portion of the thousands spent on re-
pairs WOl^ d budd adequate outlets and
prevent the vast accumulation of water.
£ nrP « nt i v one of the nnwers will nass
. ut P rese h tly ° ae ot the powers will pass
the •, db si p o£
water __ one of them mirages must b have
d . „ M be some d * the threat .
d , ega , J ions for to be
b * farmers whose B rties have
unnecessarily inundated may wake
to the realisation that water is
actually wet out here.-Muc (N.S.W.).
_ ... m .
Not All Black
Why this habit of condemning all one
class of people just because one mem-
ber of that group has roused our dis-
approval?
So often one hears the saying, “All
parsons are hypocrites. Just look at
Rev. X how he refused to help that
widow.” Or “All schoolteachers are
grumblers. Miss E. is always complain-
ing about too much work.” Or, perhaps,
it may be “All relief-workers are loafers,
I offered a chap a job and he turned it
down.” 9
There may be more than isolated cases
where members of the fraternity are just
what has been described, but do the
majority suffer from the same faults?
I think not, and, even if they did, why
condemn the remainder as well? One
bad potato may give a whole bag a bad
smelly but it doesn’t make the rest reallv
bad. Coll (Q.).
•
„ ..
1 ram lvlore bailors
I sympathise with E. J. Barrett (B.
1/3/ 39) in his efforts to place a boy
at sea - On the Australian coast ships
up to 3000 tons gross are under no
legal obligation to carry boys ; over this
tonnage they carry one or more, but in
no case do they carry enough youngsters
to make much difference to the number
of boys anxious and willing to go to
sea.
Ships are run for profit, and the ship?
owner, to get a clearance for his ship,
must produce a crew to meet the re-
quirements of the Manning Committee,
Outside of this the average shipowner
has little or no interest in his crew or
its nationality.
In view of the virtual monopoly en-
joyed by Australian coastal ships, and
in the interests of national defence and
Australian unemployed youth, the Man-
ning Committee (which is controlled by
the Commonwealth Government) should
make it compulsory that all ships in the
Australian coastal trade carry boys, and
that those now carrying them carry a
larger number— Old Salt (N.S.W.).
.
;
Divorce and Open Court
j just disgustedly thrown away a
Sunday sensation-rag dealing fully with
a divorce case. Not one of the readers
j s better off for having read it and it
cou j(j no t concern any one of them in
an y wa y Yet, by parading the intimate
details of their private lives for the
amuse ment of morbid minds, three
p eo pi e have suffered terribly in this case
a i one- During the hearing no doubt the
crnlrt wa c crowded hv a number of these
l -Y .crowded by a number ot these
mor bid minds. What right has the pub-
'° ' hiS in£orma,ion?
I can quite understand that matters of
Public .Merestshould be heard in open
court and published, and that publication
of the facts.of a crime or offence might
be a deterren to others. But divorce is
n °‘ a , cr ™ e ,‘° be d f te ™ d ’ “d pubhc
lnterest s * ,ou “ be sa ," s fi ed »“b a brief
Paragraph setting out the names of he
parties. The information adduced at the
hearing should be used solely for en-
abhng the Court to make a decision,
I think that while the various Govern-
ments are making their divorce laws
reasonable and uniform (as they will
have to do some time) they should also
pass legislation to provide for the hear-
ing of all divorce cases in camera, and


for the releasing to the press of the
names of the parties only.
Legislation in this State provides for
the hearing of affiliation cases in camera.
Why a different law for divorce cases? —
Sid (Q.).
Theory or Practice
Too frequently we hear the theorist
derided and his proposals airily dismissed
as of no account while the suggestions
of the practical man are accepted with
an almost childlike credence amidst
popular applause.
This attitude overlooks the fact that
the practical man, too, must think, and
that the thought-processes involved in
making his decisions are identical with
those of the theorist.
Moreover, we must remember that the
practical man’s experience may have
been so narrow that he is the last man
capable of taking the wide view so often
demanded by circumstances.
In reality, practice and theory are the
complementary essentials necessary to
providing a sure basis for all judgments
and sound decisions. Theory should
probe practice for possible defects. Prac-
tice must rigidly test theory. Both are
indispensable.
It is easy to visualise the deadly re-
sults accruing from a lifetime of wrong
practice, a situation in which one’s prac-
tical experience is a positive menace.
The thought brings to mind the woman
in the Bulletin cartoon who, after years
of this kind of practical experience, ex-
claimed indignantly, “Fancy ’im tryin’
to tell me ’ow to rear kids! Me, wot ’as
buried seven of ’em!”
The story points the moral, doesn’t it?
—G.F.S. (N.S.W.).
A Stake in the Country
Here’s a suggestion to make recruiting
a success: Give to every man that enlists
five acres of land in perpetuity for him
and his offspring ; prohibit all trafficking
in such land. If he dies without off-
spring the land goes back to the Crown ;
if he survives, he’ll have a place to grow
food on. What more does any real man
want —a place where he’ll be free from
landlords and other pests? Henry
Wade (N.S.W.).
Red-tape and Metho. Addicts
Recently was asked to sign a self-
admittance questionnaire by a friend
who, realising (he was very well educated!
how bad he was getting, wished to be
committed into Dunwich Benevolent
Asylum. I signed. Next morning came
a man in blue to ask questions.
Following are the most pertinent, with
answers: “What does he drink usually?”
“Metho.” “How long has he been on
it?” “About five months.” “Where does
he sleep when drinking methylated
spirits?” “Parks, empty houses or any-
where.” “And what is his behavior when
under the influence?” I told him it
was bad.
The constable folded up his sheaf of
papers and then in a confidential tone
told me that my friend had no chance
of entering Dunwich “because he has
had only one conviction for being
drunk.” It appeared that unless a person
had been declared by a Court to be an
habitual drunkard, or was in receipt of
some sort of pension, he had as much
chance of committing himself for a
“drunk” cure as the proverbial camel
has of passing through the eye of the
proverbial needle. — Omar (Q.).
Australian Travel Films
There should be a good field in Aus-
tralia for some movie concern to make
color-films of our scenery and industries.
Imported travelogues are often featured
in talkie theatres, and they are very
popular with most people, but seldom is
seen a color-film of the varied Australian
scene.
Recently two amateurs made a color-
film of the Illawarra district of N.S.W.,
taking studs of Illawarra Shorthorn
cattle as the chief feature. The coloring
—green grass, blue-topped mountains in
the distance, magnificent trees and rich
reds and roans of the cattle —excelled
most of the imported features.
The film was shown to a few audiences
of dairy-farmers, and requests were re-
ceived from many N.S.W. and Queens-
land districts for a loan of it. Thousands
of people have seen the film screened
in agricultural halls, private homes and
even haysheds, and requests for re-
vivals prove the popularity of the
amateur effort.
If two amateur photographers, with
a cheap movie camera and a few rolls
of color-film, can make a film which
commands widespread attention, a con-
cern with up-to-date equipment and
trained technicians should be able to
produce outstanding successes. James
Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Objectionable Regulations
The objection was recently raised in
The Bulletin that in modern bill-
drafting little regard is given to sim-
plicity of words and clarity of meaning.
Another objectionable feature of Parlia-
mentary bills nowadays is the abuse of
the regulations clause.
In present-day bill-drafting the broad
principles only of the scheme are em-
bodied in the bill, and a clause giving
the Minister, with the consent of the
Governor-in-Council, the right to make
regulations is nearly always included.
These regulations are usually drafted by
officials while Parliament is in recess, and
promulgated by the Minister after only
scant consideration. Such regulations have
the force of law during the Parliamentary
recess, and in many instances we are
governed for half the year by regulations
that are disallowed within the first few
days of the commencement of the fol-
lowing session of Parliament. In effect,
Government officials are usurping the
only function of our Parliamentarians —
making laws for good government.
Regulations cannot be entirely dis-
pensed with, but if the member respon-
sible for the introduction of a bill had
complete knowledge of his subject the
regulations could be laid on the table
of the House at the same time as the
bill was introduced. Both bill and regu-
lations could then be dealt with and
approved or amended to meet the wishes
of the majority.
There is an alternative. Cabinet elec-
tions are such that persons without any
special qualifications are given control
of important Government departments.
Incompetent administration in such de-
partments should not be tolerated. A
sliding scale of penalties would act as
a deterrent to loose administration and
ill-considered regulations. For each
regulation disallowed the responsible
Minister’s salary should be reduced by,
say, one-fifth, and when his salary fell
below that of an ordinary member his
seat should be declared vacant. Regu-
lations would then receive careful con-
sideration by Ministers, and the research
made would result in a gradual raising
of the standard of intelligence in the
Cabinet.—R. H. M. (W.A.).
Bad Writing
“Excuse the bad writing.” Every hand-
written letter I get seems to end like that.
Why do most writers scribble as if they
were indulging in a race to the end of
the line? About half-way across the sheet
the words begin to sprint. The n’s and
m’s stretch their legs, the o’s and a’s
flatten into streamlined ovals, f’s and b’s
soar up off the line; complete words
elongate into neck-straining gallops to
the end of the page.
There are other forms of distortion.
The alpine method which decrees a regu-
lar rise and fall of the pen every quarter-
inch leaves me floundering. Words com-
posed entirely of loops, bundles of over-
lapping curves, pens driven through the
sheet by sheer vigor—these result in let-
ters that I can’t be bothered deciphering.
The remedy for this literary litter is
simple: Take time and pains. Clear
writing reflects a clear mind and is a
form of good manners. Those who tell
me they haven’t the time or desire to
write well openly insult me by imply-
ing that my troubles in untangling their
scribbles are unimportant.—A. Connell
(N.S.W.).
Guns and Gunners
Britain’s recall of commissioned naval
reservists to the colors emphasises a re-
discovery that citizens make only on the
verge of emergency. It takes three years
to build a battleship ; eight years to train
a seagoing naval lieutenant.
Australia is in the same boat in re-
gard to her heavy machine-gun personnel
in the militia. Emphasis is being placed
on the fact that Bren guns will be avail-
able next year, and the veriest tyro could
master such a weapon in a week. The
tactical defence of this country, how-
ever, will devolve mainly upon the
Vickers gun, a totally different and far
more effective weapon.
Under militia-training conditions it
takes the best part of five years for a
gun-number to learn his job, including
accurate ranging, aiming and traversing,
mechanical maintenance, weapon-drill,
limber-packing and elementary tactical
training in field duties. Rangetakers need
a higher .initial education, almost perfect
eyesight and unlimited practice to per-
form their estimations of distance within
5 p.c. of accuracy. Officers and senior
n.c.os., in addition to the foregoing
knowledge, have to acquire some ex-
tremely complicated facts on fire con-
trol, tactical handling, reconnaisance in
the field, ammunition-supply, use of pre-
cision optical instruments and a thorough
knowledge of the tactics of infantry and
supporting arms. This presupposes men
of sound mathematical education, up to
at least intermediate standard, available
in the ratio of at least 40 per thousand
among infantry. To handle a machine-
gun company or platoon efficiently in
the field requires at least eight to nine
years’ continuous militia training at a
standard higher than that hitherto set
in the volunteer regime.
Without these men the Vickers gun
is worse than useless. Replacements must
be available in at least a four-to-one
ratio. Where they are to come from the
writer does not know, nor, he suspects,
do the political organisers of our de-
fence schemes. —C. M. (N.S.W.).
Duties Under Democracy
It is hard to understand the view which
appears to prevail in some quarters that
obligatory military service in defence of
Australia is an interference with indi-
vidual liberty.
On the contrary, it is the only possible
guarantee of the maintenance of that
liberty which the citizen professes to
value.
In every organised community there
must be laws which, for the good of the
State, must be obeyed, and why a people
which accepts compulsory taxation, edu-
cation and other things refuses to obey
the first duty of citizenship, i.e., to pro-
tect the home and those things it holds
most dear, is beyond comprehension. As
Mr. Ogilvie, Prernier of Tasmania and a
Labor man, can see through the fog, it
is difficult to follow the havering sinuo-
sities of the Federal party now in power.
—MacNab (Vic.).
Wellington Wharfies
Maoriland’s Minister of Labor
“Paddy” Webb told the Wellington
watersiders that their taihoa rate of
handling cargo was making them the
laughing-stock of the world. Coming
from such a staunch Laborite, the state-
ment seemed rude. Offended, the Wel-
lington workers decided to go slower.
Then employers took a hand and dis-
charged 600 watersiders. As much of the
cargo awaiting shipment consisted of
chilled beef, liable to deteriorate, a hur-
ried search was instituted for laborers
willing to take the place of the experts
temporarily. Office workers were
organised in gangs. A party of bank
clerks worked from 7 p.m. to 2 a.m.,
earned £2 per man, and turned up smiling
at the bank at 9 a.m. During their
period of unaccustomed toil they loaded
twice as many carcasses as similar gangs
of wharfies had done in the same
length of time.
For years the Wellington union, the
limited membership of Which ensures
that each unionist has practically a per-
manent job at princely rates of pay, has
occupied the box-seat and set the pace
for the Dominion. That pace has been
a joke to visitors and a festering sore
to shippers. Now that the Government,
anxious to assist the creaking wheels of
industry in order that its policy of
“spend” may be maintained, has taken
a hand the dictators have been told
just where they step off. Hilarious
Stooge (M.L.).
Young Men and the Land
There would be better opportunities
for the young farmer (B. 4/1/’39) in
Queensland. The land on the northern
Darling Downs is not properly appre-
ciated by southerners.
For dairying the properties range
from 600 to 1200 acres, and average
in price from £3 to £8 per acre, which
is amazingly low in the circumstances
and varies according to improvements.
Established dairymen milk from 70 to
250 cows (no 20-cow dairies here), and
pigs are an important sideline.
Natural grasses supply the bulk of the
cow feed, but many farmers have trac-
tors and cultivations of perhaps a hun-
dred acres, principally for winter feed.
It would not be possible to say how
the farmers’ bank balances stand, but
they all seem prosperous enough, with
sedan cars, radios, nice homes, electri-
city and other comforts. —Jade (Q.).
Birth-control
One old excuse for war is surplus
population. The answer to war is birth-
control. Civilisation is controlled life,
so why baulk at births? As humans
advance in the knowledge of generation
it naturally follows that births decrease.
Future politicians will need to consider
a round number of people capable of
performing world duties and keeping
world politics to an upward course.
Quality, not . quantity, is the only
sensible aim. Large families are all right
for fish and octopuses—but consider how
they deal with the surplus. It is only
among higher creatures that numbers are
limited and cannibalism ceases. And
war, at best, is only a relic of can-
nibalism.—N. Blundell (N.S.W.).
A People’s Exhibition
After visiting the “modern home ex-
hibition’ held in Melbourne recently a
housewife said to me: “What on earth’s
the use of it all to average women?
We run the home; why don’t they
[meaning architects, builders and fur-
niture dealers] find out what we really
want?”
Her questions hit the nail on the head.
What is the use of collecting all sorts
of expensive furniture and household
appliances and charging people to see
them if only one person out of every
hundred can afford to buy the exhibited
goods? And why don’t exhibitors find
out what people really want and show
them samples?
It’s the same in every exhibition of
this kind that I have seen: the fault
lies with exhibitors. Firm A doesn’t
want to appear behind the times, so it
makes a feature of displaying only the
very latest, regardless of the cost of the
goods ; firm A’s chief concern is that
it shall be more up to date than firm B,
its competitor. In other words, the ex-
hibition is just an opportunity for com-
mercial organisations to “show off,” and
the elaborate and expensively-stocked
“stands” are all calculated to awe the
public and “put the breeze up” the com-
petitor.
The only exhibition that would be
of real value to the public would be
an exhibition that showed ordinary
homes, furniture and appliances, up to
date, of course, but within the reach
of the man who has five or six pounds
a week to cover the cost of feeding and
clothing himself, his wife and his family,
as well as housing them. But I don’t
expect to see such an exhibition, ever.
It would be too, too humiliating for the
exhibitors. Imagine a firm in this mod-
ern world foregoing a glorious oppor-
tunity of telling the public what it ought
to want! — Wusslean (Vic.).
Australians in the R.A.F.
A writer in the O.F.M. pages recently
protested against the British Imperial
Government calling for recruits for the
R.A.F. in Australia, and wished to know
what steps the Commonwealth was tak-
ing to prevent the loss of such valuable
personnel. Actually, he is looking a
gift-horse in the mouth. The Imperial
Government, in co-ordination with the
various Dominion Governments, is train-
ing these young men for five years. At
the conclusion of their service they are
to be returned home, with a first-class
license for flying any commercial craft.
Thus a supply of very efficient pilots will
be made available for civil aviation and
a reserve of fighting flying-men will be
built up. — Admiral (Q.).
A Neglected Industry
Between May and October off the
N. S. Wales coast for a length of over
35 miles pilchards are as plentiful as
rabbits out west, and schools of them
often visit Sydney Harbor, some lOin. to
llin. in length.
Why someone doesn’t start a pilchard-
canning industry is a mystery. We im-
port millions of tins from America and
the Continent every year.
Think of the employment such an
industry in N. S. Wales would give our
“dead-end” boys. — Sardine (N.S.W.).
“Relax!”
“Pip’s” gloomy essay (B. 15/3/’39)
would give anyone the pip. He must
have perused the wrong parts of the
paper, the wrong magazine and the
wrong book.
The stuff one reads is surely a matter
for personal choice. If the object is to
relax,' why dwell on war rumors, acci-
dents, murders, advertisements designed
to frighten, increased taxation and other
such horrors? A command of the day s
news in the right perspective, uninflu-
enced by sizes of headlines, can be ob-
tained from a shrewd glance through the
paper. There are plenty of magazines
full of bright stories and articles with
no mention in them of mutilated corpses.
As for books, the treasure-house or
literature abounds in cheerful entertain-
ment ; there is no need to depress one-
self with economic or any other treatises.
Neurosis is a modern complaint, rts
cure lies in discriminate mental and
physical recreation and the deliberate
shunning of superfluous excitements
peculiar to the age we live in.
Don’t bother your doctor any more,
“Pip.” Cheer up and forget tha.rub-
bish you’ve been reading. - Arthur
Falk (Vic.).


Mainly Mail-Order
■
The “THERMWEI.Li”
KEROSENE BATH
HEATER
"and SHOWER
Provides sufficient hot water
for a plunge bath for a little
more than Jd. Provides won-
derful comfort in any home.
Easy to instai. Copper, chrome-
plated, with shower attached.
Price, £B/15/6
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS:
Write for illustrated Leaflets.
OIL APPLIANCES Pty., Ltd.,
131 CAS ' r " >?E VOH ST.,
SYDNEY.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
7.
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W
’Phone: LM4794.
“BIG SIX”
e@>
Q o Q
7V
BATTERY
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLAKKNC 10 S'l\, SYDNEY.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
“SENATOR”
THE BEST ACCORDEON
fitted with special
hand-tuned reeds.
Single and double
row models from
£1
Post free for cash
with order. Terms
can be arranged
if so desired.
Write for illus-
trated catalogue.
HIM
NAYLOR, Musical Instruments,
137 and 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MUSHROOMS
Start Now and Use “Perfection”
100 per cent. Pure
Culture Spawn.
20 sq. ft. costs 4/6
(posted anywhere).
Sufficient to grow
lOlbs. of mushrooms.
It is made in Aus-
tralia and is developed
under skilled super-
vision.
Extracts from letters.
*»■
H. A. POPE, Dee Why: “Gathered over 50lb.
from 20 sq. ft. Please repeat order.”
V- S. HUGHES, Collinswood, S.A.: '‘Amazed at
success of Perfection spawn.”
Send 2d. for Instruction Booklet and Price List to
J. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
B4 Pitt Street, Sydney.
That Bald Patch
is slowly but surely spreading.
When visiting Sydney call for
Free Consultation.
MISS DICKISON,
Sydney’s Only Baldness
Specialist,
903 Com. Savings Bank Buildings,
14 Castlereagh Street.
Established 1912.
THE
“GENUINE
KEMP”
The old favourite. With
narrow grip and 3in
hand-sewn kneepads.
mounted, £6/1 57-
SUPER QUALITY, with
hogskin seat and brass
mounts, £ 7/7/-.
(Freight free in N.S.W.)
Write for fre'e illustrated
Narrow Grip.
A
U
catalogue.
Ride in Comfort.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18 -20 WILSON ST NEWTOWN
W H WILLIAMS FOR SAFER SADDI
rani
CREAM DOUBLE BED BLANKETS in a
very soft quality. Send a deposit to secure
yours for the cold winter months ahead.
SPECIAL PRICE 10/11 POST
XI pr. free.
Single Bed Size, 7/11 pair.
Mail Your Order at Once to Desk W,
SALVAGE STORES
36 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
DEAF I
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
anti T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
BATTERIES
NEW HEAVY DUTY.
Made by E. DOHERTY, Battery
Specialist, of 25 years’ practical experi-
ence, will give you 21 to 3 years’ good
honest service. SUNEITE BRAND,
written guarantee 2 years, 6-13 plate,
30/-; 6-15 plate, 36/-; 12-9, 40/-.
ARCO BRAND, guaranteed 18 months,
6-13 plate, 25/-; 6-15 plate, 27/6; 12-volt,
32/6.
Country and Suburban Orders delivered
C.O.D.
Batteries for Home Eigliting Plants,
Radio and Motor Cycles.
SUNLITE BATTERY CO., Est. 1917,
57 Liverpool Street (near Sussex
Street); MA2309. Night, Ryde 411.
dsf
NEW
Portable -— only £12/12/-
This British Portable Typewriter weighs only
81b. with case —standard keys,. accessories, etc.
Ideal for students, travellers, station use. 12
months’ guarantee. Terms. Write to
RONEO CO. of A/SIA PTY. LTJ.
19-21 Hunter Street, Sydney. B7468.
d
A Rea!
Comfort
to Smokers
The Genuine “Cavalier’
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “Bevy sown” Quality
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOI 1 FVY Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
V 1 » 713 George St., f '
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
TtitfaVrtotak
f
dsf
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting room'-,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Suite 60 1 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligli Sts., Sydney ;
and at IXS Collins Street, Melbourne.
k
Jack Crawford's
Special Restring
Offer
with
Orange, or orange and black
spiral gut made by the leading
gut manufacturer in Australia.
5/- Championship restring
for 20/-
20/- Tournament restring
for 15/-
15/- Match restring for .. 10/-
Fully Guaranteed.
N.S.W. Sports Store Pty., Ltd.
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
ALAN KIPP AX ) r ,. ,
J ACK CRAWFORD \ Directors.
’Phones: 87788-89.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
BANJO MANDOLINS. —This instrument is a new
departure in the musical world, and is very
fascinating and easy to play.
Model No. 2.- —Loud tone, suitable for playing at
dances. An excellent model, complete in case.
£2/10/- cash. Terms as below.
Model No. 3-—Figured Walnut or Ebony finished.
Chromium-plating and very loud and mellow tone.
£4/10/- cash. Terms as below.
GUITARS. —Another easy instrument to learn.
Excellent for camps and week-end parties.
Learners’ Model, £l/15/-. Complete with acces-
sories. Superior model and louder in tone than
above. No. 90, £2/10/-.
Complete course given. Seven days’ Money Back
guarantee.
CONDITIONS.-—All goods are sent to your
nearest P.O. ; freight paid by us. Terms: ONE-
THIRD DEPOSIT, balance over six monthly pay -
merits. Five per cent, extra is charged for this.
THE TALKER!ES. Q.V. BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
YOUR RAZOR-
IS IT GIVING YOU COMPLETE
SATISFACTION?
If not you may trade in your old one
for the celebrated
ROLLS RAZOR
A very liberal allowance will be made
on blade, all types of safety and electric
razors irrespective of condition. Write
or call to-day.
F. S. HODGE
(late Hotel Australia ).
Hairdresser, Tobacconist and Rolls
Razor Specialist,
221 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
Opposite Sydney Hospital. ’Phone: 8W5287.
BEAUTIFUL FLOORS
ds
Home life is
better cateVed
for with Hud-
son’s Ideal Par-
quetry Dance
Floor.
Can be installed
in any home' at
very modest
cost and is
p r a c t i c ally
everlasting.
We also Smooth and Polish Floors Any.
where in Australia.
GEORGE HUDSON PTY. LTD.,
Timber and Flooring Specialists,
7 Castlereagh St., Sydney. ’Phone, 8W1451.
680
7 ms
66
Postage 9d Extra.
ASTOUNDING VALUE CUPS.
Al. Quality Pure Silver Plated. 200 Designs
Trophies 3/9 to 25/-
CLUBS SAVE MONEY.
Wholesale Jewellers. Est. 70 Years.
P. KLEEMO PTY. LTD.,
217 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Diamond Rings.
TARPAULINS
GUARANTEED
WATERPROOF.
Made from
First-grade .
Materials.
Every Seam
sewn wit h
strong Waxed
El>
or.
GOID-O
oumnruq wm
e
s
Thread and all EYELETS firmly secured and
HE A ALI T Y 15oz. WATERPROOF DUCK.
:I0 x 8, 21/6, 14 x 12 44/-, 16 x 12 47/6,
18 x 14 64/-, 20 x 16 82/-, 20 x 18 91/6.
PREPARE FOR WINTER—SEND YOUR
ORDER NOW TO
GOLDMANS,
429 George St., cnr. Market St., Sydney.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
STOCK KNIFE
m
m
3-Blade Stag Handle
Stock Knife
Post Free for Cash.
W. JNO. BAKER Pty., Ltd.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
MANCHESTER BALE
21/- 21/- 21/-
2 Heavy Genuine “OSHKOSH” Hygienically
Wrapped Winter-weight SHEETS, guaranteed
5 years. Size, 54 x 90, and no seams.
2 English Colored Towels, absorbent and soft.
2 Full-sized Quality White Pillow Cases.
2 Single Bed BLANKETS.
1-Erin-art Guest Towel, traced, with 2 skeins
of cottons.
THE ABOVE BALE 21/- (Post Free)
FREE with this Bale—l Gorgeous Silk
Interwoven Eastern Design Brocade Bed
Spread, 50 x 70, in shades of Vieux Rose,
Cream, Gold, or Blue, to tone with your
color scheme.
STERNS
STERNS
200 Z GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
m
*
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
See Our Stand at the
Royal Easier Show.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Redfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Yic.
AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
NEW EVER-BEARING CLIMBING TOMATO!
Sensational importation! Grows 20ft. trellis
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR, yielding TWO BUSHELS large, red fruit
PER PLANT. Sow all seasons. 2/6 packet
PURE
WHITE
HEALTH
TOMATO!
“white
BEAUTY"
100 PER
CENT.
NON-
ACID.
VASTLY IMPROVED FLAVOUR. Large, PURE
WHITE srfiooth fruit, DISEASE AND
DROUGHT PROOF. 2/6 packet. SOW NOW
Exclusive Distributors: N.S.W. SEED CO.
17A PITT STREET. SYDNEY
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, m full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and
Zealand should send 30/-.)
New
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
t/fee /Tustralian WOMAN'S MI RROR
KNITTING BOOK FOR 1939
3d.
Over 20 exclusive and useful garments in this 36-page Knitting Book the
cheapest and best in Australia. READY APRIL 11.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.. 252 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
‘BULLETIN’ SERVICE COUPON 5/4/’39 (see Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with
your ‘‘Wants” to the Service
Department, “The Bulletin”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


END MINERAL STARVATION « thousands hare
and you end the Cause of
■
m
■■
m
M
m
$■
m
y'- :
NERVE
BRAIN-FAG
and that" DEPRESSED FEELING ”
Lack of Confidence, Headaches, Nervous Indigestion,
Sleeplessness, Listlessness, Anaemia, Nerve Pains
and other similar nervous constitutional disorders.
Nerves, lack of “pep”, poor appetite and run-down feeling are
due to insufficient vital mineral elements in the diet. Bidomak,
by providing these important mineral elements, replenishes starved
nerve cells and tissues, nourishes the blood, calms the nerves and
helps restore perfect health.
You’ll be amazed, as thousands are, at the difference made by the
iron, lime, sodium, potassium, phosphates, glycerophosphates and
sucrose which Bidomak provides. It is pleasant and safe for
even the youngest child to take—contains no dangerous drugs,
opiates or narcotics. Get Bidomak to-day. . V ,
rts
DEPRESSED FEELING ENDED
“I used to get very depressed and take bad turns,
so many that I had to give up my job. I wen!
to a doctor, but he couldn’t find out the trouble.
So I went to my brother’s place for a rest, and
laughed at him when he told me Bidomak would
fix me up. But I didn’t laugh the second time,
as 1 am only half through the bottle and am
feeling tip-top. No bad turns and I don’t feel
depressed in the morning, ‘thanks to Bidomak’.”
(Signed) T. SHANNON, Hordern Vale. 27/1/39
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN ENDED
“I was suffering from a severe nervous break-
down, so started taking Bidomak. I have found
such benefit and feel so much better that 1
thought I would let you know how pleased I am.
1 have only had two bottles, but the result is
wonderful. I had not slept at nights for months,
but now have a good refreshing sleep, which
helps such a lot during the next day.” (Signed)
Mrs. E.A., Mortlake, N.S.W.
PENSIONER’S NERVES RELIEVED
“I am 66 years old and an old-age pensioner,
and have suffered from nerves for years, and
could get no relief. I tried all sorts of tonics,
but felt no better. 1 have worked hard all my
life at all kinds of work, and before I got the
pension I was on relief work and run down. 1
did not want to see or talk to anyone, even my
own people, but after taking two bottles of
BIDOMAK I feel a new man in every way, thanks
to Bidomak.” (Signed) Mr. N.P.A., 12 North
wood St., Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W.
GET BIDOMAK TO-DAY!
BID OIIA K
PROVIDES ALL THESE MINERAL ELE-
MENTS IN AN EASILY ASSIMILABLE,
PRE-DISSOLVED LIQUID FORM:—
FERRUM, to build rich, red blood, and
so carry extra oxygen to the tissues, thus
cqmbating anaemia, and chasing poisons
and wastes from the system.
CALCIUM, to build up bone and nerve
tissues, as well as general bodily endurance.
SODIUM, to keep digestion keen, counter
acidity, clear away depression, and make
you feel well.
PHOSPHORUS, to prevent nervous break-
down and fatigue, and to help in creating
new nerve, brain and red blood cells.
POTASSIUM, to relieve nerve pains, pre
vent constipation, build up the grey matter
of the brain, and for muscular control.
GLYCEROPHOSPHATES, for nervous dis-
orders.
a
n
W&S
■
sm
Sftc :j |.
HUSBAND AND WIFE
BOTH “PACK OF NERVES”
“We feel wonderful after taking BIDOMAK. My
husband and myself were both ‘a pack of nerves'.
My husband used to come out in perspiration at
the least exertion. I could not sleep myself, or
stand the least noise, and was frightened of
everything. After taking a few doses of BIDO-
MAK, we noticed the improvement, and could
sleep without worrying. We have started on the
third bottle, and never felt better in our lives
(and we have been married IS years). ’’
'Signed) M.L., East Prahan , Victoria.
SCIENTIFIC CONTROL
Manufactured in one of the most up-to-
date, hygienic Laboratories in the Southern
Hemisphere, to which is attached a fully
qualified Doctor of Medicine, and under the
control of Chemists who were trained in
m
H
ws
the most modern and
largest English Lab-
oratories in the
world.
Bidoinak is equal to
the highest of the
high standards re-
quired by the British
Pharmacopoeia.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
LARGE BOTTLE
3/-
New Zealand,
3/6.
Product
The Tonic of the Century
Sole Wholesale Agents for Tasmania:
,f the Douglas Drug Co Sydney Adelaide Brisbane Laboratories Wellington .
L. Fairthorne & Son Pty. Ltd. Sole New Zealand Distributors. Q
