

T
,:« K
■
:
a
mm
a
1
c
■ 5
m
k
Lii
..
c
o
A
A
N
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
s
■ y :,
welcome GENUINE RELIEF to sufferers from
“ Great stuff, this
HUTUWAI”
Ardlethan, N.S.W.
tilth June, 1938.
Dear Sirs,—Please send me another bottle oi
Hutuwai Tonic . . . I think it is great stuff.
—Yours faithfully, (Signed) MRS. A.E.R.
“Between meals my digestion was so bad that
1 had to seek aid. I have no hesitation in
recommending Hutuwai to any person simi-
larly afflicted.”
—L. F. HUNT, Darlingliurst, N.S.W.
“After a few bottles of Hutuwai I CAN NOW
DRESS MYSELF, I OR THE FIRST TIME IN
FOURTEEN YEARS.”
—(MRS.) M. J. FIELD, Wentworthville, N.S.W.
“HUTUWAI IS WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN
GOLD ... I am recommending Hutuwai to
all my friends and sufferers of Neuritis.”
—ALICE C. McMULLBN, Bankstown, N.S.W.
“I am now relieved permanently of all my
Rheumatism, Neuritis and Kidney Trouble
sufferings.”
—(MRS.) S. B. WOODWARD.
“I am now 11 years of age, and want you to
know that Hutuwai lias given me entire relief
from pain, anil has given me new life.”
(SIRS.) ELLEN AMOS. Croydon, N.S.W.
“We are deeply grateful to Hutuwai. People
who saw mother when she came to me eighteen
months ago cannot get over how well she now
looks.”
—(MRS.) W. E. BAKER, Home Hill, N. Qld.
“I can eat and sleep well. I NEVER FELT
BETTER FOR YEARS THAN I DO TO-DAY,
due to your wonderful HUTUWAI TONIC.”
(MRS.) L. KENNEDY, Brunswick, N.lO, Vie.
LARGE
BOTTLE
4/6
VAEIVBRE
DIET CHART
The “Hospital" Bottle contains five times the quan-
tity of the 4/6 size, and costs only 18/-. SAVE 4/6.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to Hutuwai
Distributing Co., 210 George Street, Sydney; or
Hutuwai Tonic, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Postage 1/- extra per bottle,
ĵ
NERVES, ARTHRITIS,
RHEUMATISM
BLOOD PRESSURE 8 KIDNEY TROUBLE
HUTUWAI helps the system to expel the injurious
acids and poisons and to eradicate aches and pains.
Hutuwai can give you steady nerves and an excellent
appetite, and you will sleep well. Headaches soon dis-
appear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your friends
will tell you how well you look, and you will take a
renewed interest in life. Hutuwai is prepared under the
supervision of a skilled chemist, and under ideal hygienic
conditions. Hutuwai is different... it is genuine. Hutuwai
contains the JUICE of HERBAL PLANTS.
Get rid of your aches and pains...drink
HUTUWM
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
HUTUWAI IS OBTAINABLE FROM CHEMISTS
AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
NATURAL TONIC
The Bulletin
New Competition — Cash Prizes
Vol. 60.—N0. 3075.
Wednesday, January 18, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
"MOONLIGHT ACRE."
Angus and Robertson published Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald’s To Meet the Sun ten years ago ; later poems
have appeared at intervals in The Bulletin. His new
volume, Moonlight Acre, comes from the Melbourne
University Press.
This one, which saw the light in The Bulletin
about four years ago, is typical of the new collection:
Evening: it ripples cool to our held feet
like the bay’s blacker crests, which idly crawl
along the stone seawall;
and as these, multitudinous, repeat
a moonlight-counterfeit,
so the new darkness crumpled against this town
bears in its every fold that brave deceit
which lets the world seem playtime, and our scars
(won in low skirmish) badges of pure renown.
This is the moment there returns to us
late memory of old bargains with such stars
as made the night-skies of man’s infancy
fearful to walk in but miraculous.
Nor has that wonder gone: we square our debt
by sheer surrender to stark mystery,
staining its altars with spilt ecstasy
which in our fathers was a howl to the moon—
round lit doors, ransomed, we do not forget.
Its effect, of course, with the familiar but still
acceptable poetic properties of sea and moonlight and
the sudden drama of “a howl to the moon,” is imme-
diate. Its meaning, if as is usually necessary with
Fitz Gerald it takes a second reading to find it, is per-
fectly simple: as the moonlight paints the water with
beauty not the ocean’s, the night paints the town and
life with a beauty which for all its known falsehood
still seems true, still wakes all the ancient wonder and
terror of man confronted with the mystery of the
universe.
In analysis the poem says nothing new, any more
than Wordsworth revealed any new truth when he said
“The sounding cataract haunted me like a passion.”
All country-dwellers have experienced Wordsworth’s
pantheistic emotions, and Fitz Gerald himself admits
that wonder at the night-sky is as old as the howl to
the moon of primitive man. It has “oft been said
before” ; but it hasn’t often been so well expressed.
It strikes with the force of a new statement. And to
have raised an effective howl to the moon in these
days when it is a “sentimental friend” to Mr. Eliot
and an anatomical ornament to D. H. Lawrence is
very much a worth-while achievement, as pleasing as
a similar statement would have been in the centuries
when the orb was merely a perambulating virgin to
most of the poets.
With the night, the water, the stone wall, the
mystery and the sense of man as an animal has gone
no small amount of technical dexterity to give the
symbols their compulsion. As the poem as a whole is
Fitz Gerald’s powerful restatement of a universal emo-
tion, the versification is entirely his own —in this case
a loosening of the five-beat line to allow a rippling
motion that is an effective reproduction of the flow of
sea against the wall and night upon the land.
The two truncated lines, very justly used, are
probably a deliberate device, but there are concealed
effects in the poem which are less likely to be efforts
of virtuosity than the unconscious felicities of a man
whose natural speech is poetry, and whose verse has
assumed the polish of long practice. For instance,
there is the repetition of the “1” sound, recognised as
appropriate to water (“Lake water lapping with low
sounds upon the shore”). In Fitz Gerald’s 18 lines the
liquid consonant is used more than 20 times, without
any obvious attempt at alliteration. The sound as well
as the idea of flowing is carried from line to line in
the words “ripples,” “multitudinous,” “crumpled,”
“miraculous,” “spilt” and “lit.”
Not so noticeably in this poem, but markedly else-
where in Moonlight Acre, Fitz Gerald is a skilled and
delicate rhymer; his ear is attuned to the niceties of
false rhyme, “none” and “on” in the manner of Yeats,
“sentry” and “country,” “raps” and “drops” to give
the sharpness of rain, “flourish” and “perish,”
“finished” and “replenished” and a score more such
pairs, all used deliberately and with a sure touch.
His chief concern in verse is the exploration of
his own mind, but just as when he wrote “Essay on
Memory,” with its Dampier and Phillips used as
heroes in a new mythology, he accidentally turned out
a piece suitable to win a sesquicentenary prize, so
throughout the book he incidentally submits good
landscape or good documentary. “Conflict of shaggy
rams of stone” is a magnificent line to describe moun-
tainous country, ridge facing .ridge.. The years he
spent in Fiji gave him a fine night-piece, when “sum-
moned” by the “muttered anger of the reef”:
I turned harshly and strode back to the native town,
watched by the wooden faces, the stolid Fijian eyes,
sought my thatched doorway, entered, mechanically sat down,
wondering what fate was on me or what weakness took toll
that thus I must go scurrying ratwise to my hole
lest some true self should claim me with imperious cries.
From Fiji, too, came:
And though I have known these people near their true core
in further, untroubled villages hid among
remote, rain-shattering hills where their lives make
no count of the years passing, I think of them more
here, pressed against a new meaning, a strange mode
unparalleled in the old path they forsake.
For here their steel must sharpen qp harsh files
(race grinding race) to cleave now a fresh road;
else they shall tread the sunlight some few miles,
then, singing even with last bitter breath,
go decked in paper garlands down to death.
Fusion of bloods, submergence of past things,
eclipse, survival —it’s to-morrow’s care!
Dark Loma behind her lattice flicks the strings
and the tune steps out light-footed upon the air.
What is presumably the title poem of the "Moon-
light Acre” set {must a poem be known by a number
instead of a name?) is a little gem of landscape, with
a magic about it reminiscent of De la Mare:
Dark trees beset the moonlight acre,
spread like a cloth of silver strands
for the first comer, the first taker,
Tom Tiddler’s ground . . . and not one waker
in those white lands!
There was no outcry at their entry:
what was the wind doing? Gagged and dumb
they have trussed him up, unwatchful sentry,
and through the moon’s unguarded country
silent they come.
Whenever Fitz Gerald is dealing with his favorite
territory, the mystic lunar landscape, he uses his
natural vocabulary, a contemporary speech illumined
by poetic tradition. In To Meet the Sun he used two
other languages, a Yeats-like Irishry (“To thank you,
O my friends, for the folly of your good word”) and
a rough, ribald diction that might have come from
translations of Rabelais and Villon and was fashion-
able in Sydney writings some years ago. In the new
book the Irishry, except for one ballad where it is
necessary, is gone, but the other language has lin-
gered, sometimes giving too literary a flavor to the
verse. Is it legitimate to say one might have given up
one’s youth “to the capture of guineas,” when guineas
have been out of circulation so long? Legitimate or
not, however, the archaism makes fine ringing poetry
in this passage from “Essay on Memory”:
We’ll crash the trestles down
that barricade clear laughter, take the town
on a burst of shouting that through fissures rent
cascades its fervid glee, magnificent.
We’ll slit gloom’s gullet, oracling defeat,
and crack great barrels of song in open street,
free for the drinking.
“Essay on Memory,” with its scope as wide as
the tremendous leagues of summer-south,
thunder-oppressive with curbed energies,
is the most impressive poem in the book, but there
is poetry of rare quality in the other long poem, “The
Hidden Bole,” which might well have been called
“Essay on Beauty.” In the lines
Nature shall call you and that cry reflect
against your home, the cliffs of intellect,
and echo down gorges greenly sensual;
but if that shout stirs elsewhere in the wild
it finds no answer, wandering where it list,
he is back to his own speech and his own “moonlight
acres,” the deep thought and the deep music of the
shorter poems.
Daisy Bates Among the Blacks.
For sheer indestructibility it would be hard to
find anything equalling the character of Daisy Bates
as revealed in her book, The Passing of the Aborigines
(John Murray).
A gently-bred Irishwoman, rigidly correct in her
ideas, she emerges from a lifetime among the Aus-
tralian desert blacks exactly as she entered it. In
devoting long years to easing the passing of what she
believed to be a doomed race she felt that not only
was she performing a humane work, but also that she
was doing it for the King. Her proudest day was
when a remnant of the inland tribes exhibited speci-
mens of their handicrafts and did a corroboree at
Ooldea Siding for the Prince of Wales, who stood to
see the show on a stack of railway sleepers. In effect,
Daisy Bates, by this time an elderly woman, was ren-
dering an account of herself to her monarch.
Despite inland heat, and living for years in bough
and bag gunyahs among her dependants, she permitted
herself no laxity in personal habits. She made it a
rule to be “scrupulously neat” at all times. There are
references to “my corsets, my gloves, my high-heeled
footwear.” Not that considerations of neatness were
allowed to stand in the way of work. In her “sober
Edwardian costume” she cajoled the, unruly, nursed
the diseased, buried the dead with her own hands or
carried the injured pickaback to camp.
Very occasionally she made a concession to cir-
cumstance. During a railway strike she was unable
to get water from the siding, and had to carry it
from a waterhole in two kerosene-tins across a couple
of miles of sandhills. The wire handles cut into her
palms, so she tried to make a yoke such as she remem-
bered the milkmaids using in Ireland, but the stick
cut into her neck. At' length she made a suggestion
to the railway workshops. Response was prompt, and
she was soon enjoying the comparative luxury of a
hand cart with which to draw her water. She was
then almost 70 years of age. She remarks that the
empty cart on the outward journey always seemed
heavier than the full one homeward bound.
Her camps were places of refuge for the defeated,
who drifted in from the back country when their
natural means of subsistence was destroyed. Tuber-
culosis and venereal disease were the two scourges
that attacked them as soon as the healthy tribal life
was broken down.
The Passing of the Aborigines is a case book. It
doesn’t seek to be sensational, rather it seeks to clothe
the tragic with a rag of humor, but it is obvious that
the author was daily called upon to perform tasks
requiring a strong stomach and an even stronger
sense of duty. Her relief, aside from her affection for
her charges, was in her ethnological studies, friend-
ship with birds, who at each camp “soon learned to
know my habits,” and in love of the beautiful in
nature.
Mrs. Bates joins with others in attributing the
decay of the aboriginals to the destruction of the
moral foundation of their lives. They saw the white
man break their ancient taboos with impunity, not
realising that he observed taboos of his own. The
moral authority of their tribal lore was shattered, and
once the landslide commenced they were lost.
Mrs. Bates describes the tragic fate of diseased
aboriginals rounded up for curative treatment on
Dorre and Bernier Islands in Shark Bay. Even com-
panionship in their troubles was impossible for them,
for they were from tribes widely scattered through
the north-west. There were spiritual and totemic dif-
ferences.
Restlessly they roamed the islands in all weathers,
avoiding each other as strangers. Some of them cried
all day in a listless and terrible monotony of grief.
There were others who stood silently for hours on a
headland, straining hopeless eyes across the strait.
In death itself they could find no sanctuary, for they
believed that their souls would be orphaned in a strange
ground, among enemies more evil and vindictive than
those on earth.
The deathrate among the patients was so high
that the hospital settlement on the islands was aban-
doned. Writing years after the author says, “The
horrors of Dorre and Bernier unnerve me yet.”
Mrs. Bates found it impossible to convey the
white man’s religious beliefs to the aboriginal mind.
She experimented with the Lord’s Prayer, but most
of its ideas were incommunicable, temptation and for-
giveness equally with deliverance from evil- —“with evil
lurking in every shadow and death itself just magic.”
Only for “Give us this day our daily bread” could
she find a perfect equivalent. She had heard it so
often at her own tent-flap.
Typical of the unyielding spirit which the author
maintained in the face of hardship and difficulty is
the closing of her account of how she tried to imbue
her dependants with Christian principles: “I tried to
give them the only Christianity I knew they under-
stood, which was nothing but loving-kindness, and
unfailing trust, and example, example always.”
Aside from the interest of its main subject matter
The Passing of the Aborigines is valuable for its self-
portrait of a woman who has been to the blacks some-
thing of what Caroline Chisholm was to the early
white immigrants.
Ritz of the Ritz Hotels.
“Ritz ,” said Lily Langtry, telescoping little Cesar’s
past and present, “it’s easy to see how you learned
tact and patience. You learned those lessons herding
your father’s stupid cattle in the mountain pastures
of the, Niederwald.”
At the time Ritz, in one or other of his hotels
in the great cities, was host to the elite, to royalty
of all countries, to the very top crust of the upper-
crusters of a highly-crusted generation. The blurb
to his widow’s biography of him — Cesar Ritz, by Marie
Louise Ritz (Harrap) —declares the work to be “the
portrait of an era.” A cynical reader might conclude
that Mrs. Langtry accomplished as much in a couple
of words.
Thiere were royalties in shoals in those days ; and
for many years wherever Ritz pitched his camp —■
Monte Carlo, London, Rome, Lucerne, Frankfurt,
Paris —they stuck to him, singing the praises of the
perfect cooking and flawless service which he made
a tradition of the posh hotel business. As well as
high sassiety, which followed as a matter of course,
the bright lights of the stage and of literature became
little Cesar’s familiars, together with the aristocracy
of wealth —the Rothschilds, the Vanderbilts and
the rush of high-spending Americans. These, and
their lady friends. §
Apart from the apprenticeship appraised by Mrs.
Langtry, Ritz was fitted for his future role by a hard
and varied education. Of schooling he evidently had
little ; to the end he remained “wistful in the presence
of books.” At 17 he had said good-bye to his father’s
stupid cattle and to ringing the chapel bell. He had
put aside his mother’s lovely idea that he should be a
carver of altars, and had already tried his prentice
hand as a wine-waiter and been sacked. In 1867 he
took himself to Paris and found a job at the Hotel
de la Fidelite, in the Boulevard du Prince Eugene—
hotel, boulevard and prince all long since forgotten.
A restless soul burned in Cesar, and shortly he
was waiter in a near-by wine bar, where he broke all
records for swiftness and nearly all the crockery as
well. A lecture by his employers hurt him in his most
sensitive spot —his pride —-and so he left them, but
not until he had found another job. He transferred
to a restaurant run by a person of the name of Gott.
Gott was not a gentleman, and the staff despised
him. After furnishing a buffet supper for some clients
up the river, for instance, he would feed his employees
on what was left over for days on end.
Since this part of the biography is based on recol-
lections the later Cesar aired or set down briefly in
an exercise book, he apparently never forgave the
deplorable Gott. Still, he conquered his stomach suf-
ficiently to rise in this service to the post of manager.
Then his mind began turning over the attractions of
the Restaurant Voisin.
There, at Voisin’s, real food was served to real
peop l e _ an d the food and the clientele of Gott’s
became suddenly insufferable.
Also, he had heard how at Voisin’s statesmen and
generals discussed affairs over lunch, how poets some-
times read out new unpublished verses, princely
romances, too, and amazing supper parties. All of
which, transferring thither, young Cesar found to be
no exaggeration. The Prince of Wales—afterwards
Edward Vll.—was a regular, “almost always accom-
panied by Mile C , the celebrated actress from the
Palais Royal.” (There were other things the Prince
enioved, among them well-roasted chicken.) Sarah
Bernhardt—“such a gourmet”—would be there ; also
{Continued on page 8.)


• TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” - The Salt of Business.
X
cAx -I
UlTl
Vfc
&
*
W\^
19^
\v
#
&
1
f' v" : •• > ; < ;; v - >*;y ; V.:,..‘• .- :V .'•>
'
ii u< isl
m
m
m
>V
x****
23 Gns.
" Precision - Built "
5 Valve D. Wave
MODEL
IS Gns.
A super-valuel Precision-built,
5-valve dual-wave radio. Latest
type Radiotron valves. Large
matched 10-inch dynamic
speaker. Foolproof automatic
tuning. Large, clear Edge-lit
dial. Handsome Console cab-
inet. Crystal-clear tone.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular
Price, each ...: 23 Gns.
SALE PRICE, each 18 Gns.
EASY TERMS. 38/- DEPOSIT.
12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS 29/9
• Radio Dept. Ground Floor ■ —
Pitt Street. Free delivery only
within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
" THE SENIOR STORE
n
M
S'
j
ĵ
for better * Reception
• Tone and • Service
£l3/19/6
5 Valve Dual Wave
MODEL
12 Gm,
AT RIGHT:
Handsome Lowboy Cabinet in
selected woods encasing a 5-valve
dual-wave receiver. Featuring a
large edge-lit dial. Latest type
Radiotron valves, dynamic speaker;
interstate and overseas reception.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
£l3/19/6. SALE PRICE 12 Gns.
RASY TERMS. 26/- DEPOSIT.
12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS l»/0.
20 Gns.
"KEYBOARD”
MODEL
16 Gns.
AT LEFT:
Model 2, "Uni" Keyboard standard
radio. Quickest and simplest
method of tuning devised. Instantly
tuned to selected station upon
touching key. Well built cabinet
and chassis. Dual purpose valves.
Dynamic speaker. Overseas and
interstate reception. Limited num-
ber. This exceptionally handsome
model is noted for its deep tonal
qualities. Must be heard to be
appreciated. Anthony Horderns
Regular Price, each 20 Gns.
SALE PRICE, each 16 Gns.
EASY TERMS. 34/- DEPOSIT.
12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS 26/5.
m
★ NOTE . . .
All "Uni" Radios carry 12 months' guarantee,
12 months' free service . . . 90-day valves . . .
and free installation in the metropolitan area.
m
m
35 ONLY
TO CLEAR!
7 Valve
1938 Briton
RADIOS
30 GNS. . . NOW
10 dns.
7 Valve Dual-Wave A.C. Receiver with A.V.C. tone con-
trol. Special speaker. Hood dial. Magic Eye. Band
pass pre-selection. Short-Wave band 18 to 55 metres.
Beautiful console cabinet.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 30 Gns.
SALE PRICE, each 16 Gns.
EASY TERMS. 34/- DEPOSIT. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS 26/5


Roving the Ether with "Robbie”.
IN SEARCH OF
TRUTH
by J. B. Blair
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE .
[The Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer (Robbie
for short) is an invention of Eddie Rumpel-
mayer designed to bring back from remote
space the actual sounds of bygone years. Its
first public demonstration, an attempt to re-
capture the death of Nelson, was not an
unqualified success.]
AFTER the Kiss-Me-Hardy episode no one could
have blamed Longwave of 2AZ if he had gone
stone-cold on the Reacher-Outer, but far from
it. A few days after that lamentable effort to
make, or remake, history he stuck me up in the street
in a most hearty fashion.
“I’m going to give that gadget of yours another
fly,” he said.
“You mean the Sea-Dog Tobacco people were
impressed after all?” I asked.
“Impressed! Well, you might call it that. Bumper
left the studio in a rage, threatening to take all his
business to 2ZH. Next day he was inundated with
letters from retired admirals accusing him of traduc-
ing Nelson’s memory, and from history students
claiming that Nelson’s last words were actually ‘Kis-
met, Hardy.’ As far as he’s concerned your Reacher-
Outer can go on reaching out for the next hundred
years and he won’t ask it to come back. He’s through!
But I’ve got another client for you. Pettigrew’s the
name. An American. He makes pickles.”
I had heard of Pettigrew. Though but a newcomer
to Australian pickledom he was popularly credited with
having amassed a large fortune in America and with
ambitions of conquering the palates of Australia with
his Priceless Pickles.
“Did he hear our broadcast?”
“Yes, and he was much impressed. I explained
that the repetition was due to a technical hitch that
could easily be adjusted, but that didn’t seem to worry
him at all. Said something about not being able to
have too much of a good thing. Anyway, I’ll arrange
for him to have a chat with you and Rumpelmayer.”
NJ EXT day Eddie and I had lunch with Hiram
* Pettigrew. He got down to business at once.
“See here,” he said. “I reckon you boys’ve got
something there. That death of Nelson show, now —
that’s what I call hot salesmanship. ‘Kiss Me, Hardy.’
That was the line, wasn’t it?”
Eddie started to explain the mistake that had
caused the unfortunate repetition of Nelson’s last
words, but Pettigrew cut him short.
“That’s what I mean. That repetition. That’s the
secret of selling. You gotter get it under their skins.
You guys wanted your public to know that this guy
Nelson’s last words were ‘Kiss Me, Hardy,’ so you kept
throwing it at ’em till it
sank in. Why, you even
got a hard-boiled guy like
me interested. ‘Who’s this
gink Hardy?’ I asked my
daughter, and sure enough
she told me. Where these
girls get to know these
things beats me. Anyhow
the repetition did it. That’s
the point. If y’ can do it
with Nelson y’ can do it
with pickles, and that’s
why I’m here.”
After this long speech
he sat back and beamed
at us. Rumpy tried again
to explain the accident,
but I kicked his shin.
Business was coming our
way, and there was no
sense in scaring it off.
“I think I get the
idea,” I said. “You want
the Reacher - Outer to
listen-in to the pickle fac-
tories of the past. To
follow the pickle from the
cradle to the grave, as it
were.”
Pettigrew snorted.
“Like hell I do! You’ve
got me all wrong. That’s kindergarten stuff. I want
the real dope. Now, this is my idea. You guys can get
the Lord Mayor of London’s banquet with that thing,
can’t you?”
Rumpy replied that he could quote a range of
over seven hundred Lord Mayors’ banquets stretch-
ing out at more or less equal intervals through space.
“Good. Well, say. we pick on 1898. That’s forty
years ago. Now, it’s like this, see? We ve got this
banquet and the Lord Mayor is talking to the Dook
of What’sthis. They’ve had their turtle soup and the
roast turkey’s been brought in. The Dook doesn t like
turkey, so he slips the waiter a dollar and asks for
cold chicken instead. Well, that comes along pretty
pronto and he starts tucking in. Then the Lord Mayor
says to him, ‘Gosh, that looks hunky-dory, but where’s
the pickles? Hey, waiter, bring the Dook some
pickles! ’
“You fade out there and the announcer drops in
a few words. ‘Knowing that the Lord Mayors of
London insist on everything of the best at their ban-
quets,’ he says, ‘we can be sure that the waiter brought
the Dook a jar of Pettigrew’s Priceless Pickles.’ D’y’
get the idea?”
“I get it all right, but how can we be sure the
Lord Mayor mentioned pickles?”
“Course he mentioned ’em. If he didn’t mention
pickles in 1898, you’d have to try ’97 or ’96 until you
found a banquet when he did mention ’em. That’s
your part of the job. Every day in millions of homes
all over the world people are talking about pickles. If
what Rumpelmayer says is right the whole of space
must be just lousy with pickle ads. going to waste.
Millions of unsolicited testimonials just waiting to be
picked up. An’ you’ve got the gadget that’ll pick ’em
up.”
“By Jove. I see it now,” I said. “Scene —Sunday
night tea in the Jones household. ‘Try these pickles.
They’re delicious.’ Announcer breaks in: ‘No wonder
Mrs. Jones thought the pickles delicious. They were
Pettigrew’s Priceless Pickles.’ ”
“That’s it,” agreed Pettigrew. “Scene —Queen
Victoria and her family at dinner. Albert says,
‘Where’s the flaming pickles?’ Queen Victoria looks
around and says, ‘That darn boy’s got them again.
Edward, pass your pa the pickles! ’ Announcer breaks
in: ‘Can you blame his young Royal Highness? After
all, boys will be boys and you can bet your bottom
dollar that’ ”
Rumpy caught the fever and burst in with “Scene
—Officers’ mess at Poona. Major Farquhar speaking,
‘What! No pickles! Orderly, what’s the meaning
of this? Damme, what’s the army coming to? Pickles,
man! Hurry, or I’ll have you flogged to death!’
Announcer breaks in: ‘lt would indeed be a sorry day
for the British army if it was cut off from its supply
of Pettigrew’s Priceless’ ”
“You’ve got it, boys,” said the American. “This’ll
be the biggest advertising stunt ever put over in this
country. Night after night we’ll give it to them. All
the big guns of the past —Disraeli, an’ Gladstone, Well-
ington, Shakspeare, Abe Lincoln —we’ll have ’em all
putting over sales talk for us. They must’ve mentioned
pickles some time in their lives, and it’s up to you
guys to pin it on ’em.”
“It’ll be a pretty big job,” ventured Eddie, his
enthusiasm dwindling a bit at the prospect of hunting
pickle small talk through billions of miles of space.
“A big job and big money,” said Pettigrew.
“Hiram Pettigrew knows how to pay. You deliver
the goods and you won’t have to worry about your
percentage.”
T~\ ESPITE this promise Rumpy was rather despon-
dent when we left Pettigrew, and by the time we
reached his Aunt Lucy’s, where he kept his Reacher-
Outer, he was almost in revolt.
“It’s a hell of a job,” he moaned. “I’ve got to fish
around in space till I get Gladstone’s or Wellington’s
dinner table and then listen in meal after meal till I
hear pickles mentioned. I might have to wait for
weeks. Ten to one they never ate pickles.”
“It’s not so bad as that,” I said, trying to cheer
him up, “You’ve got thousands of people to choose
from. “It’s an Australian station, so why not try
some Australian dinner tables? Take Sir George Reid,
for instance, why not try him?”
“Did he eat pickles?”
“I suppose so. Anyway, why should we waste
time inquiring into the eating habits of our prospects
when we’ve got Robbie to do it for us? Put him on
the job and let him do his stuff.”
Rumpy agreed to give it a go.
We hunted up particulars of Sir George’s place
of residence, got the latitude and longitude, established
a date on which he had definitely been at home and
Rumpy put his calculating machine and Robbie’s dials
in action.
After a few minutes we contacted the Reid dining-
room somewhere in late December, 1904, but it was
an hour or more before dinner was served. We lis-
tened patiently throughout the meal, learnt quite a
lot about Sir George’s opinion of his colleagues in the
Cabinet, but nary a word did we hear about pickles.
. During the next few days we followed that house-
hold meal by meal, We heard them pass the sauce,
mustard, salt, pepper, bread, butter, marmalade, fruit,
nuts and cheese: even on one occasion watermelon
(or it may have been watercress, George apparently
had his mouth full at the time and wasn’t articulating
too clearly). Pickles, however, seemed right off the
menu.
Suddenly, on the fourth day of our vigil the long-
awaited word was uttered.
“Dammit,” shouted Sir George. “Who put those
pickles on the table? You know the sight of them
upsets my digestion for a month! Take them away.”
Rumpy wanted to chuck up the job altogether
then, but after a while he agreed to try again.
“But I’m not chasing any famous men,” he said.
“Pettigrew’ll just have to take ’em as they come.”
He proceeded to probe the ether at random, hoping
to pick up casual references to pickles here and there.
By the end of a week we had located several snippets
of table talk that we thought would be just the thing,
and Rumpy had carefully noted their whereabouts so
that the Reacher-Outer could bring them back again
whenever required.
<<L_l OW’S tricks, boys?” Hiram Pettigrew asked
1 * when he rang us up at the week-end.
I assured him that the job was well in hand and
that in a very short time we would have a series of
sessions ready for him.
“Good,” he said. “I’ll get that guy Longwave
to fix that up with you. Let me know when you’re
ready. But what I want to talk to you about is some-
thing different. Y’ listening?”
“Yes.” *
“Well, I want you boys to rig up a li’l .surprise
stunt for me, see? To-night I’m throwing a party
to some of the Amurricans of Sydney on account of
it’s George Washington’s birthday. Get the idea?”
“Yes.”
“And I’m getting our Consul to come along, see?
Well, where you ginks come in is here. Supposing


we could get George Washington’s voice to say a few
words, that’d sure be some party, wouldn’t it? Go
over big like.”
“It sure would,” I told him. Pettigrew was cer-
tainly a man of ideas.
“D'you reckon y’ kin do it?”
“Quite easily. What period of his life do you
want?”
“Well, I thought of his inauguration or his fare-
,well to his army, but then I reckoned those’d be too
formal. Something homely’d be better, I reckon.
That cherry-tree, f’r instance. That’d knock ’em.
Besides being a lesson —truth and honesty in business
and all that. Kin you manage it?”
I had agreed and Pettigrew had hung up before I
realised what I had let us in for. It was going to be
hard to trace Washington’s childhood home, and in
any case to my unAmerican mind the whole story
seemed more than a trifle legendary. Still, I had
promised, so we had to do our best.
“Come on,” I said to Eddie. “It’s us for a steady
afternoon in the Public Library.”
It took a considerable amount of research before
we found out the exact situation of Washington’s boy-
hood home in Virginia, and the task of finding out
the date of George’s tree-felling escapade proved even
harder. At last I said to Eddie :
You d better start working on an approximate
figure while I continue the hunt. Washington was
born in 1732. Ten years old seems to me a likely
cherry-tree-chopping age. Try 1742.”
“What time of the year?”
“What do you think?”
Eddie considered for a moment. “Well, I don’t
think even a boy ol ten would chop a cherry-tree
down while there were any cherries on it, green or
ripe. Even if it was only in blossom he’d feel like
waiting for the fruit.”
There s something in that. That cuts out spring
and summer.”
“Yes, and I reckon in the autumn he’d still have
pleasant memories of the cherries and he wouldn’t
want to cut it down then.”
“That leaves the winter.”
Yes. Winter. Last season’s cherries are a
memory. The tree is bare of leaves. He despairs of
ever seeing it blossom again. With the impatience of
youth he cuts it down. Probably in late winter. He’s
grown tired,-of his little sledge and snowshoes, and
he s looking for new sport. The cherry-tree! Out
comes his little hatchet. Bing! Down goes the tree.
October, 1742.”
I had never heard Rumpy in this mood before, but
his reasoning sounded good.
Righto! I said. That’s as near as logic can
get it. Go ahead. If I find anything more definite
I’ll ’phone you.”
Eddie set out for Aunt Lucy’s and I got down
another shelfful of books on The Father of His
Country. Two more hours of intensive reading left
me more sceptical than ever of the little hatchet story.
The authorities were very guarded in their references
to the subject. It is recorded....,” said one. “A story
is told...., said another. “Everyone is familiar with
the tale ,” observed a third. Not one of them
attempted to give the time or place of the historic
incident, or to state George’s age at the time.
‘‘While still a young boy” and “a child of tender
years” were as near as I could get.
I rang Rumpelmayer and told him of my fears.
He was already in touch with Old Virginia. “I’m
working back through October,” he told me. “Young
George doesn’t seem to spend much time in the garden,
but I’ve struck him once or twice talking to a nigger
called Sambo. Sounds a bit like Freddie Bar-
tholomew.”
“If he makes any patriotic or highfalutin
remarks that would appeal to the Yanks, hang on to
em, I said, because I don’t for one moment expect
you to get the cherry-tree confession.”
O.K.,” replied Eddie. “By the way, old Petti-
grew rang up. He wants us both at his party. Be
there by nine, he said. I told him I’d have to stay here
to look after Robbie, but you’d better go.”
I rang him again later in the evening just before
setting out for Pettigrew’s party.
I ve g°t it,” came quivering over the ’phone.
The real authentic thing.”
“Are you sure?”
Yes. He chopped the tree down all right. And
his old man s just found it out and sent for him. Gosh,
what a thrill 1 got when it came through.”
I could hardly believe it, despite the faith I had in
t e Brmger-Backer. Pettigrew’ll be tickled pink,” I
said. “Are you sure you’ll be able to get it again?”
Easy as pie. Merely an adjustment in the spatial
positioner. Shall we say 9.30? Longwave has fixed
up the land-line to Pettigrew’s place.”
“Good! 9.30 it is.”
jZ7 VERY American of note in Sydney must have
been at Pettigrew’s house that night. Just after 1
got there the Consul arrived, and pretty soon every-
one seemed to be feeling quite Fifth-avenue-and-
Madison-Squarish.
At 9.15 Pettigrew asked me to give a little pre-
liminary talk in preparation for the big surprise. I ex-
plained the principles of the Reacher-Outer-Bringer-
Backer as well as I could, but those hard-boiled busi-
nessmen didn’t seem to be taking it in as readily as
they should have.
It s on the level, boys,” Pettigrew assured them.
1 ve heard it working myself. No phony business
about it.”
“D’you mean to say,” said the Consul, “that
these boys reckon they can bring back voices from the
past?”
They sure can,” replied Pettgrew, looking at his
watch. “Howja like to hear George Washington?
Well, stand by. Here he is!”
He switched on an amplifier. Eddie was on time
to the tick, and all the Yanks were suddenly silent
as a stern voice came through.
“George, my son. A cherry-tree in the garden
has been chopped down. Do you know anything
about it?”
A pause, then a boy’s voice. “No, father.”
“Are you sure you didn’t touch the tree?”
“Yes, father.”
A shudder went round the room. The Consul
looked grim.
The stern tones rang out again. “Sambo! What
lies have you been telling me?”
“I done tell the truth, Marse Washington. Young
Marse George he done take his li’l hatchet and he
chop dat cherry-tree right down. Yes, sir, Marse
Washington. He done it all right.”
“I believe you, Sambo. George, you’re a damned
little liar!”
“I didn’t do it, father.”
The atmosphere in that room was very tense. I
didn’t feel at all comfortable.
“Sambo, cut me a stout switch from that cherry-
tree. Come here, George.”
“No! Ow! I didn’t do it, I tell you!”
“Hold him, Sambo.”
Swish! A shrill howl.
“This is not for chopping down the cherry-tree,
my son. ’ Swish! Ow! “This is for being such an
infernal little liar.” Swish! “This will”
Pettigrew, red in the face, switched off the ampli-
fier. The Consul rose.
“If this is your idea of % joke, Pettigrew, I fail
to see it.”
“M-m-my idea of a joke!” spluttered Pettigrew.
“My idea!” He turned on me.
“You darnation scoundrel!” he shouted. “You
can’t put this over on me. Framing me in my own
house! Y’ can’t get away with it.”
“Just a minute, Mr. Pettigrew,” I said. “You
can’t blame me for this.”
“Can’t I?” he roared. “What about that guy
Rumpelmayer then? I’ll tear him apart.”
“Nor Rumpelmayer either,” I said. “His inven-
tion merely brings back to us what has been said.”
At this Pettigrew almost had a fit.
The Consul spoke more calmly. “You mean you
persist that this hokum you’ve put over is genuine?”
“Why, of course” I began.
Fortunately I was near the door and I man-
aged to get outside before they could do all they
wanted to do to me. Even so I looked a pretty
sorry mess when I got back to Aunt Lucy’s.
“Gosh,” said Rumpy. “What’s hap-
pened to your face?”
“Eddie,” I replied. “I can’t tell a
lie. I did it with my little hatchet.”
And then it came—“the real, authentic
thing.”


A Feeling Story of a Kid with Guts
BY A. C. HEADLEY,
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
I REMEMBER when Joe Boadie first came to the
foundry. He was a kid then, and we all thought
that he would pass out in the first day. It was
tough work and you needed muscles that were
thick and hard for that job, and Joe was a thin, pasty
kind of a kid. We were even betting among ourselves
how long he would last, and none of the boys wanted
to take a chance on to-morrow.
You couldn’t, the way he was half-way through
that first morning, with the sweat rolling off him and
the sand-shovel lifting slower every time. I felt pretty
sorry for him, and told him not to push the shovel
with his arms and how to make it drive with his leg.
He wiped the sweat off his face, gave a feeble kind
of a grin and said “Thanks, mister.” Somehow or
other he lasted out the morning.
When the whistle blew he came out into the yard
with the rest of us, his dinner tied up in a small piece
of newspaper. He didn’t start eating right away, but
propped himself up against a bit of pig and closed his
eyes. There were a few of the boys who thought he’d
go to the office and get his money, and I was half-
inclined to agree with them. But presently he opened
up his eyes and started to eat.
“How’s it going, son?” I asked him.
He mustered that feeble grin again. “Orright,
mister.”
When we went back into the foundry he was
there with us, and he stuck it all the afternoon, and
all the time I felt sorrier and sorrier. You could see
he wasn’t used to it. Every time he used the shovel
you could see him using every bit of his strength. I
saw him looking at his hands once or twice, but when
I went over he was busy with the shovel, so that I
had to ask him to give me a look at them. He held
them out then, and I could see where the blisters had
been and broken, so that the joints of his fingers were
red with blood flesh.
“Listen,” I said, and I told him about a way to
harden his hands that sounds like a dirty kind of a
joke. “It’s right,” I told him. “I’ve done it myself.”
“Thanks, mister,” he said.
But I didn’t know if it would do any good seeing
how far his hands were gone already. I’d never tried
it when they were rotten raw like that. There was
one thing I was pretty certain of, and that was that
he would not come back next day. His hands were
pretty bad now, but they would be a thousand per
cent, worse when they had a chance to dry up.
He went home, pretty quiet, at five o’clock, and
when the rest of us went up to the corner pub they
started throwing off at him like it was funny seeing
the kid break his heart. It made me pretty wild.
“That kid’s got more guts than the lot of you put
together,” I said. “You saw his hands, didn’t you?
All right, I’m betting a quid that he turns up
to-morrow.”
It wasn’t much trouble to get taken up on that
bet, and after I left I started wondering whether I’d
gone mad and where the quid was coming from to
square off. I didn’t give myself an earthly of taking
it out. The kid’s hands would be starting to buckle
and grow hard already, and before long it would be
torture for him to move a finger. Another thing was
the muscle ache, and that’s tough enough itself. If I’d
had what he had, the foundry wouldn’t have seen me
the next morning.
OUT Joe Boadie was there at twenty-five past seven
with his newspaper-wrapped parcel tucked under
his arm. I was a quid richer, but somehow, watching
him and thinking of the open flesh, of his hands, I
didn’t feel happy about it. It must have hurt every
time he moved the shovel.
“How’re the hands, son?” I was waiting on the
patterns, and there wasn’t much to do till they came,
so I drifted over close to him.
He took his hand off the shovel for a second, and
I could see that it was clawed, and when he turned
it over to show me I saw the blood in the cracks.
“They’re a bit sore, mister, but they’ll harden.”
“Not if you don’t give ’em a chance,” I said.
“You oughtn’t to be workin’ them to-day. You’ll be
using the bones if you’re not careful.”
“It’s Friday,” he explained. “I got Saturday an’
Sunday to fix ’em up.”
“I’m Jim Francis,” I said.
“Me,” he said, “I’m Joe Boadie.”
“There’s better jobs than this,” I told him.
“I couldn’t find ’em,” he said.
J F the foundry does nothing else for you, it makes
* a man or at least a man’s body. He was seventeen
when he came to the foundry, and by the time he was
If the foundry does nothing else for you,
it makes a man or at least a mans body.
There were fights he got into. You
couldn’t help it in that game. I saw Joe
get plenty of lacings in the early days, but
he never gave in.
nineteen he was twice the size. There were fights
he got into. You couldn’t help it in that game. I saw
Joe get plenty of lacings in the early days, but he
never gave in. I’ve seen him with his face battered
and bleeding, but he was always ready to come back
for more. It was just like that first day of his in the
foundry, and it wasn’t long before he learnt to take
care of himself.
I liked Joe Boadie, and he seemed to know right
from the start that I was with him. He even learnt
about that quid bet. “You was mad,” he said. “You
dunno ’ow close I was to turnin’ it up.”
“I won a quid,” I said ; “I’m not grqwlin’.”
Once he told me about those early days, and
how he had had to keep his job because his sister and
her husband, who was out of work, had come to live
with them.
“There was no money cornin’ in,” he said, “and
you can’t live on the dole. Besides, it’s good money
shovellin’ sand.”
I could see what he meant the night I went home
with him. It was a small house. There couldn’t have
been more than four rooms in it, including the kitchen.
There were no coverings on the floor, and the paper
was beginning to fall from the walls. They were eating
when I got there, his mother, father, sister and her
husband. They had a newspaper for a tablecloth.
I could see jam and bread but no butter. It was funny,
but I felt ashamed of being there. Joe introduced
me, but I seemed to hold no interest for any of them.
I remembered his brother-in-law afterwards wanting to
talk horses. The baby kept getting tangled up with
my legs. I was glad to get out of it.
But Joe took to me all right, and I got on pretty
well with him. I wasn’t so much older either if it
came to that, even though I had been working in the
foundry for nine years. We went to the fights at the
local stadium a good bit. Joe was always keen on
the fights. I can remember the way he used to get,
hunching himself up in the chair and digging his arms
into my ribs. There were shilling dances, too. Joe
could dance pretty well, but most of the time I used
to sit down in the corner and watch, and see how well
he was doing with the girls. It was at one of those
dances he met Ruth. It wasn’t till he got meeting her
at a few more dances that I knew it was on.
THERE’S a way you can tell how a girl feels about
a feller in how she doesn’t look at him. I’ve
seen her staring at the other end of the dance hall,
but she was watching Joe all the time. She was nice
and cool and soft-looking, not pretty, but you felt
that you didn’t want her any different from what she
was. Then I started walking home on my own.
Joe was twenty then, and the three years in the
foundry had made him as tough as any of them. He
used to tell me lots of things after he started going
regular with Ruth.
“I dunno, Joe,” he said. “How in hell could I
git married? There’s the ol’ man an the ol woman.
‘Yeah,” I said, “an’ your sister’s husband. Why
doesn’t he get a job? What have you gotter do—go on
keepin’ them for the rest of your life? They’d have
to do something if you weren’t there. It’s your life,
isn’t it? You deserve a chance to live it the way you
want to.”
But you couldn’t help liking his loyalty to them.
They were rotten, the whole lot of them. They were
dead kind of people whom no standard of living
could have changed. They would havq gone on as
well without him, but there was no way of telling him.
He wouldn’t have wanted me to tell him.
Then when he was twenty-one he lost his job
shovelling sand. It was funny that afternoon the way
he joked about it, as though it didn’t make any dif-
ference, and talked about retiring to his country
residence.
“It’ll give me a chance to get rid of four
years’ filth,” he said. “No more sweat. I’ll think of
you, Jim.” But when we had a few drinks at the
corner pub, he started talking. “I was gonna git
married, Jim,” he said, “when I got full money. I
gotter git a job.”
“You’ll get one,” I said, but jobs were scarce
those days, and I wasn’t as confident as my voice sug-
gested.
“I gotter git a job, Jim,” he said.
There didn’t seem much I could say. “You’ll get
a job all right,” I said. “I’d better start saving up
for the wedding present.”
"THE next thing I knew was that he was married and
* fighting four-rounders round the suburbs. I saw
him fight a few times. He wasn’t a pretty fighter.
There were plenty of things that he didn’t know about
boxing, but when he was in the ring he fought in a
way that reminded me of his first day in the foundry.
He took everything they gave him and came back for
more. The foundry had made him hard, but it was
the wrong kind of hardness, the kind that bunched his
muscles and made his movements slow. But when Joe
hit any of them, they didn’t come back for more.
He won most of his fights like that, taking punishment
until he could get close enough to let his punch go.
I didn’t see much of him those days, but he
seemed to be getting plenty of fights, so I had an idea
he was doing all right. I met him the night his kid
was born. It was the first time I had seen him in
months.
“Jim,” he said, “I’m glad t’ see y’.” Then he told
me about Ruth and the kid. “We’re doin’ all right,
Jim. I’m gittin’ plenty of fights—six-rounders. I’m
makin’ better dough than I would’ve at the foundry.”
“How long will it last?” I asked. “You can’t go
on fighting all your life, Joe.”
“Something’ll turn up.”
There was something about him that had changed.
I didn’t notice it then, but I remember thinking it a
long time afterwards and I could put my finger on no
particular point.
I met Ruth in the street one night with the kid. If
I’d had any sense I’d have known she didn’t want to
see me. She pretended to be looking the other way,
and when I went up and spoke to her she turned
round as if she'was surprised. She looked bright, but
it was the kind of brightness as though she’d pumped
herself up ready for me.
“ ’Lo, Jim,” she said.


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than I 500 words:
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
It was funny the way she looked behind it, as
though she was all drawn up and tight. She d changed
too. She didn’t look cool and soft any more. I asked
her about Joe, and she said he was doing fine. I
couldn’t think of anything else to say and I stood
there, feeling uncomfortable. Then I noticed it. She
wasn’t crying, mind. It was just that her eyes were
filling up and starting a trickle down her cheeks. The
park was across the road.
“Listen,” I said, “let’s go over and sit down and
have a talk.”
She told me everything.
“He’s changed, Jim. It’s the fightin’. I can’t help
it, I’m frightened. He hasn’t been home sober for
weeks. I don’t mean anything to him now. There’s
other women. He talks about them.”
I didn’t know what to say, sitting there in the
darkness. The baby had woken up and was begin-
ning to cry, and the sound of the wind in the trees
seemed to make it worse.
“Jim,” she said after a while, “could you get him
a job back in the foundry? He can’t go on fightin’
the way he is. He’s half silly even when he’s sober.”
“I’ll do my best,” I promised her.
The way things were I didn’t expect anything to
come of it and I was surprised when the boss said:
“You can start him Thursday.” It was on account of
a new contract the foundry had taken up.
I didn’t know where Joe was living then, but I
saw in one of the papers where he was billed for a
fight, and I was down in one of the ringside seats
when he climbed into the ring. I yelled out his
name. He looked at me, and I could see him knot
up his forehead as though he was wondering who I
was. He didn’t look the same as the old Joe Boadie.
His face was flattened right back, his nose buckled,
and there was no hole in the ear nearest me. But he
fought like the old Joe Boadie. Taking punches and
boring in. You couldn’t fight like that and last.
I saw him in the dressing-room after the fight
and told him about the job. He remembered me after
a while and the foundry. It was funny seeing him
work things out in his mind.
“Job,” he said ; “ ’oo wants a bloody job? I make
money, don’ I, fightin’?”
You couldn’t talk to him. He was stupid with
the fighting. One thing was definite. He didn’t want
the job. I decided not to mention anything about it
to Ruth if I saw her again. Not that I was likely to.
DUT I did meet her after that —plenty of times.
Maybe I helped her a good bit just by being there.
I know one thing it did for me. It made me appre-
ciate her more than Joe Boadie had ever done. It was
funny the way I fell for her, me who hadn’t had any-
thing to do with girls all my life. I’d wake up in the
night thinking of her.
She didn’t say anything, but I knew she was begin-
ning to feel that way about me. I kissed her one
night and she didn’t try to stop me.
I’ve got to wait for Joe Boadie to die.
We see him every Sunday. He lives in a place
just out from the city. Sometimes he comes back
home for a spell, and some way or other manages to
get a few fights. But he always goes back and we see
him every Sunday. But I’ve got to wait for him to
die because there is a law that insanity is no ground
for divorce. Meanwhile I go on looking after Ruth
and the kid.
* * * sjc *
I REMEMBER Joe Boadie when he first came to
* the foundry. He was a kid then and we thought
he wouldn’t last the day. But he did, and when he
was twenty-one the foreman said: “Joe, you been
doin’ a man’s work and now you’re goin’ to get a
man’s pay. You’ve earned it.”
And Joe got the man’s pay and got married and
lived happily ever after.
That’s another story.
It’s a fairy story.
Meanwhile I’m waiting for Joe Boadie to die.
TUG O’ WAR
BY CON DREW.
IT was Handsome Harry who levered me into the
tug-o’-war business. We’re sittin’ in the gym. one
mornin’ when he says out of the blue: “You and
me should hop into this rope-pullin’ game.” Syd-
ney was tug-o’-war mad at the time. There was police
teams, tramway teams, fire-brigade teams and almost
every other brand. Tournaments were conducted at
the various sportin’ halls, and a first-class team could
pull down plenty of money.
“What do we know about pullin’ ropes?” says I.
“We don’t need to know nothin’,” says Hand-
some. “We do the managin’ and the team does the
pullin’. They’re gettin’ up an All Nations’ tournament
at Joe McKenzie’s, and it’ll be worth a couple of
hundred to the winner.”
“All Nations?”
“Yes. Swedes, Germans, Italians and the like—
represented by local men, of course.”
“Yes,” says I. “And where do we get a team of
foreigners from?”
“From the wharves,” says Handsome. “I’ve
arranged with a Dutchman called Axel to dig us up
a Dutch team.”
“You can count me out,” says I.
“Now listen to me,” says Handsome.
1 listened, and after he’d been spruikin’ for a
quarter of an hour I felt meself slippin’.
“This feller Axel,” says I. “Can he be depended
upon to dig us up a real good team?”
“He’s got about eight good men already,” says
Handsome. “He’ll bring them all up here when he
gets the rest. He knows the tug-o’-war game inside
out.”
“All right,” says I. “I suppose I’d better come
in.”
J ’LL hand it to Axel he didn’t let no grass grow
* under his feet. About three days later he bowled
into the gym. followed by fifteen chesty gents who
looked as if they could pull down the Sydney Post
Office. Axel hisself must have weighed half a ton.
“We ain’t got to feed these birds, I hope,” says I
to Handsome.
“We have not,” answers Handsome. “All we do
is to give them the use of the gym. and supervise their
trainin’. For that we get thirty-three and a third of
any prizes they win.”
They’d brought a length of rope which would
have tethered the whole British fleet in a gale an’ also
their trainin’ togs. When they had stripped down for
business we divided the team in half and one half
pulled the other. They nearly broke the rope.
The strong man of the lot was Axel. His side
won the first pull easy. We changed him with a man
in the losing team, and Axel’s side won again. Just
the same I didn’t go nap on him apart from the rope-
pullin’ ability. He was a bit too sure of hisself for
one thing, and I’ve always found that a man whose
lamps are close to his nose tryin’ to shake hands with
each other ain’t to be trusted. I thought he’d be well
worth watchin’.
Next day we put the men into regular trainin’,
and Handsome entered the team in the All Nations’
Tug-o’-war. Handsome thought the world of Axel.
They held a conference about twice a day. It was
Axel says this and Axel says that. I kept meself a
bit in the background, but I had an eye on our in-
terests just the same. <
The first round of the competition was due to
come off in about three weeks, and we kept the men
hard at it. When the draw was made we found we’d
been drawn to meet the Swedes. Handsome was as
pleased as a starvin’ ostrich in a frog farm.
“We’ll give them Swedes somethin’ for them-
selves,” he says to me.
“I hope we do,” says I.
“Axel says we will,” says Handsome.
| T turned out that Axel was right. The teams pulled
* sittin’ down on an elevated stagin’ which ran
almost across the hall. There was battens spaced
about four feet apart for the men to get a purchase
on with their feet, and it suited our blokes down to
the ground. We were about the fourth pull on the list,
and we pulled the Swedes up the gully in two minutes
forty-five seconds, which was real good goin’. There
was no prize for winnin’ a heat, but we went home
well pleased with ourselves.
The competition was to be continued for another
four nights, and on the followin’ night we beat the
Russians. Next time we pulled we beat a team which
called theirselves Italians, and wound up pullin’ over
a team of Irish-Americans. The Yanks gave us con-
siderable trouble, but we hauled them over the mark
in seven minutes.
There was only the Germans and us left in it,
and maybe Handsome wasn’t excited. “That couple
of hundred is as good as ours,” he said to me. “Axel
says we can’t get beat.”
“Axel says a lot of things,” says I.
“He’s always been right so far,” snajls Hand-
some.
“That’s why he’s gettin’ nearer the time when he
must eventually be wrong,” I come back.
“He won’t be wrong about to-morrer night, any-
way,” says Handsome.
I didn’t let on that I’d got the whisper that Axel
was seen in close confab with the German captain on
the previous night. I knew what I had to do and was
goin’ to do it.
The tournament had drawn big crowds, but we
never expected the crowd which was wedged into the
hall when we landed there that night. The people were
overflowin’ into the laneways, and if there hadn’t been
an entrance at the back of the hall we wouldn’t have
got our blokes into the buildin’. The German captain
marched his team on first, and they looked a mighty
solid lot as they lined up on their end of the platform.
Then in marched Axel with his gang. Our blokes
were a shade lighter than the others, but they looked
to be trained to the minute.
While the two teams were waitin’ for the word to
get ready for action a bloke came up and said to
Handsome: “There’s a chap in the hall backin’ the
Germans for all he can get at even money.”
“The right place for him,” says Handsome, “is
the rat-house. Thanks for tellin’ me just the same.”
Soon after that the referee came on to the stag-
in’ and ordered the men to get seated. The two teams
sat down and caught hold of the rope.
“Are you all ready?” says the ref. “Take the
strain. Pull!”
CTPARE me days, they gave such a heave that I
' thought the rope would snap. Handsome and me
kept our eyes on the indicator —a clock affair sus-
pended above the pullers which registered in feet and
inches the advantage gained by each team. It stood
direct at neutral. After a bit our blokes gave an
extra heave, and We seen the hand of the indicator
move two inches in our direction.
“We’Ve got them,” yelled Handsome. “We’ve
got them.”
We hadn’t, though, for just then the Germans
gave a heave and yanked the hand back to neutral.
There it stayed for a full half-minute, while both teams
struggled for all they were worth. The crowd was
roarin’ their heads off. Behind us we could hear the
Dutch supporters yellin’ fit to beat the band, and the
place was like a Bedlam.
All at once our team gave an extra heavy heave,
and Fritz came over the line about three inches. A
couple of seconds later we ripped in another. This
time the indicator showed we had gained a foot.
Handsome yelled hisself hoarse. I kept me eye on
Axel, who was pullin’ first man on the rope directly
opposite the German captain. He seemed to be puttin’
all his weight into it, and the sweat was runnin’ off
his face. “It would be funny,” says I to meself, “if
I’ve misjudged this bird.”
But I hadn’t. Just then, at a signal from their
captain, the Germans gave a tremendous heave at
the rope. Our blokes were all set to receive it except
Axel, whose foot slipped off the batten. He seemed
to be tryin’ all he knew to regain his foothold, but
the damage had been done. Without Axel’s strength
to support them our blokes were easy, and the Ger-
mans yanked them over the line a string of South
African beans.
After the tumult had subsided we took the team
back to the dressin’-room. “It was bad luck that Axel’s
foot slipped off the batten,” says Handsome to me,
“but it can’t be helped.”
“I was expectin’ somethin’ like that to happen,”
says I.
“Oh, you were expectin’ it, were you?” says Hand-
some sarcastic. “A bit of a thought-reader, eh?”
“I felt pretty certain of it,” says I.
“If you felt so flamin’ certain about it,” says
Handsome, “it’s a wonder you didn’t back the
Germans.”
“That’s just what I did,” says I, “and you’re half
shares in the fifty quid. It’ll go well with the second
prize.”
The White Rider.
The clash of banners clear as glass
Proclaims again that thought of snow
My lady from her hall of hills
Bade leap night’s crystal mare, and go
Trampling the sea with hooves of fire,
Churning the clouds to silver foam,
Till the dark buildings spark like bells,
And in my heart the hooves ring home.
From stars like yellow buttercups,
I bid that bell-cold mare at rest
Bear back this truth : l have no song,
No yellow wine for such a guest.
Tell her who sent your rider, raider,
Across the silver-trampled sea,
I can but give that white invader
My new, my deep humility.
N.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


TSflnia
holiday
. ,D E4I
Flowers, Fruit,
Scenery, History
Tasmania undoubtedly is the Garden
State, the Scenic Wonderland, the
ideal holiday Island. And the Tas-
manian Govt. Tourist Dept, provides
the utmost variety of tour itineraries
to ensure your enjoyment and
travel comfort.
Decide now to call or write for details and
literature and plan your next holiday in the
lovely ''air-conditioned' 1 State!
A glimpse of Mt. Ida and Lake St. Clair.
Take your Camera. Enter for
Tasmanian Photographic
Competition. CASH PRIZES.
NO ENTRANCE FEE!
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST DEPT.,
Hobart Macquarie and Murray Streets
Sydney Challis House, 4 Martin Place
Melbourne .... “The Block,” 286 Collins Street
Perth A.M.P. Building, William Street
Adelaide 12 Pirie Street
Brisbane 196 Adelaide Street
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHAT WILL 1939 BRING?
POSITION IN MAORILAND
SURVEY OF SHARE AND OTHER
MARKET PROSPECTS
January Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Gautier, the Goncourts, the younger Dumas, and, still
too young to be known at all, Clemenceau, whose
chief claim to glory at the time was that he shared
the favors of a certain young woman who was “almost
a princess”—for was she not the mistress of a royal
prince of France.
They ran in all shapes, from the most fastidious
eaters to the distinguished Englishman who, being
near-sighted, would always have the menu read to
him, and at the end of the recital would order a beef-
steak and fried potatoes, invariably. Young Cesar
studied them and stored the experience up in a memory
extraordinarily retentive of such things ; but his main
study in this his Alma Mater was at the feet of the
master Bellenger.
Bellenger was superb. He knew the technique of his
trade, and did not consider it beneath his dignity to
teach his staff by his own example how to baste a duck,
decant a Burgundy, carve a roast.
Years later Madame Ritz heard her husband and
another graduate of the same university discussing
Bellenger’s technique with the carving-knife “as artists
might discuss the brushwork of a master.”
Bellenger did not simply concentrate upon cutting
the beef expertly in thin slices, but pressed the roast
with the fork in such a way that the juices ran—and
saw to it that the client noticed how succulent it was.
Every inch a general “despite his bandy legs,”
Bellenger, when the siege of Paris threatened, filled his
cellars with a vast stock of provisions—sides of beef,
carcasses of mutton, rows of hams, of sausages, tanks
of trout, cages of rabbits and poultry. Nevertheless,
the shortage was soon as acute at Voisin’s as elsewhere
in the beleaguered city, and menus began to feature
such items as “saddle of spaniel.” Castor and Pollux,
the two elephants at the Zoo, paid the supreme sacri-
fice, already exacted of rats, cats and dogs. Bellenger
laid in a supply of elephant, and Voisin’s soon became
famous for its “elephant trunk, sauce chasseur,” and
“elephant blood pudding was pronounced by people
of cultivated taste to be most excellent.”
One interesting effect of this portion of his appren-
ticeship was that to his dying day Cesar could hardly
bear to hear the “Marseillaise.”
From Paris Cesar followed his star to Vienna,
where there was royalty in enormous quantity. Given
the job of managing a big hotel that was proving a
white elephant at Lucerne, he introduced his subse-
quently famous methods and made it a great success.
Now he was finding his feet, and he held down man-
aging jobs in the big hotels at the leading Continental
resorts, following the seasonal migrations of the upper
crust. He was discovering and displaying his singular
genius.
Ritz was a discriminating purchaser, as the Trou-
ville market-women soon found out. There was no
fooling him. His sense of taste was highly developed
in food as well as wine. He could tell at once if milk
or butter were adulterated, could detect immediately eggs
which came from grain-fed hens, and would have no
other. He could estimate at a glance the freshness of
any fish or vegetable.
Or a bed which even to Madame Ritz’s trained eye
betrayed nothing wrong would not suit him a bit.
“Something wrong there,” he would say. I would
look, astonished, at the smooth expanse of Venetian
lace. And, sure enough, when a maid turned back the
covers it would be found that the blankets had not
been tucked in sufficiently or the sheet not folded back
properly or the pillows not puffed up to the right
degree.
Ritz also cultivated calmness, an essential in some
of the situations that arose along his climb to the
giddy heights of the London Savoy and Carlton, the
Paris Ritz and other famous addresses. There was the
occasion at Monte Carlo when an earthquake brought
women in night attire and a state of hysteria rushing
from all rooms crying out “What is it? Oh, what is
it?”
Ritz informed them politely that it was apparently an
earthquake.
Just as important to his career as the cultivation
of his gifts was his association with Escoffier, the
prince of chefs, who “laid down the dictum that ‘food
should look like food.’ ” Previously it had been made
to look like Greek temples or specimens of taxidermy.
Like Ritz’s royal clientele, his chef stuck to him —an
unbeatable combination —and as for the staff at large,
Agostini, the young Italian cashier, “followed Ritz
like a faithful dog aping his way of talking, walking
and dressing.” So did Beahls, the manager. When
Ritz adopted side-whiskers they followed suit.
The end of the story is tragic ; the strain of it
all was too much for Ritz. He had climbed up from
nothing to giddy heights of affluence, with the strain
on all the way, and it broke his mind at the finish.
Even though there is a feeling that she scarcely
touches the possibilities, his biographer, doing a work
of the heart, depicts her leading character very well
in his setting, with interest in the story greatly height-
ened by the incidental characters and something of
their doings. Of Melba:
I saw her enter the restaurant one night, and could
understand why so many men were at her feet. She
was wearing a very sombre-colored costume, of black
lace and tulle, with a note of dark green somewhere
about it, and black roses sewed on to the flowing
skirt — an d she was radiant. Her jewels were very fine,
too, and she was displaying a huge diamond which
had been presented to her by, I believe, the Brussels
Opera. I saw the Due d’Orleans for the first time that
night, too, as he was one of those in her supper party.
To give one other of the many, Monsieur Zola,
“extraordinarily fond of pastries,” and in other respects
a somewhat different M. Zola than the one who lately
shone in a heroic film:
I remember how nervous he was during thunder-
storms. No matter at what time of day they would
occur, he would go to bed and not emerge from his
darkened room until the last roll of thunder had died
out in the distance.
Admirers of M. Zola—film version—may take
fresh heart from the curious fact that his behavior in
thunderstorms is also almost universally that of bull-
dogs.
American Short Stories.
Erskine Caldwell, in his book of short stories,
Southways (The Viking Press), capitalises curiosity.
The stories are informal. They haven’t any be-
ginning and often haven’t any end. They happen
with agreeable inconsequence, and then, before curi-
osity is quite satisfied, they are over. The characters
have strolled on out of range of vision.
Setting—the southern States of America —is the
only thing the stories have in common, but it is not
the South of big plantations, beautiful women and
chivalrous men. It is a world of negroes, men on the
road, mill-hands, small farmers, odds and ends of
people.
Most of the stories are light and amusing: The
negro boy who tried to have a charm put on his
girl but only got “nine dollars’ worth of mumble.” Or
a magnificent family row that ended on a note of
philosophy: “Sometimes,” my old man said, “it
appears like the good Lord ought never to have put
more than one woman in the world at a time.” Or
the tale of a performing bear that terrified a settle-
ment when all he wanted was a little affection and a
game of wrestling.
Sometimes a tragic note is struck, as in “Wild-
flowers,” when a girl evicted from her home dies on
the road ; or in “Runaway,” the story of a little negro
drudge ; or in “A Knife to Cut the Corn Bread With,”
which tells in mental shorthand of the trapped misery
of a disabled mill-hand watching his wife working
herself to death.
When the author has anything to say he is terse
about it. He leaves the stage to his characters and
keeps out of sight as much as possible. The charac-
ters ramble in their speech and thought. They have
something, beside their humanity, in common with
the Australian bushman. It is a matter of tempo ;
the slow, interminable argument and the convention of
inarticulateness have a flavor of home about them.
So has a certain gusto for life unfettered by precon-
ceived ideas.
Virginia Woolf on Women.
When Virginia Woolf takes up her silver trumpet
it is apt, almost of itself, to blow a blast in the cause
of women in the modern world. She is the most
tenacious feminist of the day. Her new book, Three
Guineas (Hogarth Press), purports to originate in a
letter from a friend, a barrister, asking her as a
woman, “How in your opinion are we to prevent
war?”
As the basis of her argument, the author uses
three requests for subscriptions she has received ; the
first from the secretary of a women’s college in one
of the universities, asking for a donation toward the
building fund, the second from a society founded to
find employment for professional women, the third
from a society to promote liberty, culture and peace.
The first two lead her to ask what can the cause
of peace expect from educated women and from
women who earn their own living. Are these two sec-
tions of the feminine community able to wield influ-
ence in the world? She answers herself. They are
not. The dice are still too heavily loaded against them
in a man-made world.
She instances the bitter battles fought by women
in the last half of last century and the first decade of
this for university education and for entry into the
professions. Nominally they have won these rights,
but in practice they can get but a grudging share.
While men’s colleges are richly endowed, those for
women are poor and struggling. In the civil service
all appointments are nominally open for women, but
the well-paid and more responsible ones are tacitly
reserved for men. In 1934 the average earnings of
professional women per annum were reckoned at less
than £250.
If women really had equal chances with men,
she asks, would they then be in a position to prevent
war? No. Men, with all their advantages, have not
been able to find a solution for the problem. Neither
education nor the capacity to earn money will auto-
matically supply it. It is money, she says, that stands
in the way: while men’s lives and abilities are
orientated toward its accumulation they have no time
to devote to the problems of the world ; they are too
busy to live.
It is worse than useless then for women to follow
in their steps and throw themselves upon the bonfire
of success. If they are to achieve what men have
failed to achieve they must submit to discipline ; they
must “refuse to be separated from poverty, chastity,
derision and freedom from unreal loyalties.”
By “poverty” the author means earning enough
to be independent of any other human being and to
buy that modicum of health, leisure and knowledge
that is needed for the full development of mind and
body, but not a penny more. By “chastity” is meant
refusing to sell the brain for money. By “derision”
is meant refusing all methods of advertisement, believ-
ing that ridicule, obscurity and censure are prefer-
able, for psychological reasons, to fame and praise.
This is the manifesto of a new feminism that seeks
to give rather than to seize. The author is an idealist
of a high order. She is also master of a lucid style
of writing. She manages her argument with skill and
quickens it with wit and flashes of satire.
"Man's Courage."
Adam Wolak, the hero of Man’s Courage, by
Joseph Vogel (Heinemann), was an immigrant from
Europe who wanted to be an American farmer. He
worked for 18 years and saved 80 dollars towards his
ambition when bad times caught him.
He was a giant of a man, inarticulate, full of
slow, deep peasant pride and strong, slow emotions.
Deep in his mind was stamped an image of what he
thought his life should be, and through a thousand
obstacles he pursued that image with mute obstinacy.
His only saleable qualities were his great physical
strength and his stolid honesty. These were enough
while times were good, but when a slump came society
found it had no use for him. Unemployment ab-
sorbed the 80 dollars. The family—Adam had a wife,
Marya, and a 10-year-old son, Stephen —took a
boarder, an old, half-demented woman, Mrs. Milewski,
with a son in an insane asylum. She paid 12 dollars
a month —and that was the family income.
Stephen fell ill and Adam was driven to apply
for Government relief. He was at once involved in
formalities, questionnaires, forms to fill in, intermin-
able waiting. All of which he couldn’t understand, and
which left him incensed and helpless like a penned and
baited animal. Even the brisk kindness and profes-
sional cheerfulness of the relief officers puzzled and
angered him. They wouldn’t let him explain in his
own way. At last he was granted relief. In exchange
for it he gave up his independence and his privacy.
His heart smouldered in impotent rage.
The whole fabric of the Wolaks’ daily life is laid
bare, the struggle to eat, the irritation between hus-
band and wife, blind and silent but very real, the
child’s illness, the misunderstandings that arose every-
where from Adam’s failure to conform, the hopeless
search for work. The society which helped the boarder
decided that she would be better in an institution, and
when she refused to go into one the monthly 12
dollars for board was stopped. The Wolaks could
not turn her out, and there she stayed.
Adam found casual work for a couple of days,
and a kindly relief investigator omitted to note it on
his case card so that he should not be docked the
amount earned from his relief money. Head office,
however, discovered that he had been working, and
he became a suspected character.
When relief was curtailed his was one of the
names dropped from the list. The family were penni-
less. The landlord took out an eviction order against
them. Adam resisted and knocked down the marshal
who came to enforce the order. The marshal sent for
the police. Adam picked up an old rusty gun and by
that act became a dangerous criminal —so the police-
man shot him dead. The tragedy, headlined in the


MOST PLANES DEPEND ON
■
m
mmmm
It '
■
mm
Mm
mmmmm
■immmmmrnmmmm
v,:s
: : :*: ; :-:-:v^^<s$xx>>$xxxxxxx$xxxx§
mm
Most Cars Depend
on Mobiloil, too .
The reliability and perfect protection of Mobiloil
has been a potent factor in developing the Air
Services of Australia. On the Roads more cars are
lubricated with Mobiloil than with any other brand.
mm®
m
MOBILOIL . . . THE WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
papers, stirred public sympathy. Marya was over-
whelmed with kindness and gifts —but she was past
caring.
This, the story of one man against a social
avalanche, is told with simplicity and force. There
is no cadging for pity, only a plain statement driven
home again and again. It runs behind bars of repeti-
tion, the fortnightly visits of the investigator with her
lists of questions ; the weekly visit of Mrs. Janis with
her flood of jargon, instructing the family in citizen-
ship for their naturalisation ; the crazy garrulity of
Mrs. Milewski; the futile repetitive complaining of
the men in the saloon. These things go on and on,
a half-farcical accompaniment to Adam’s tragedy.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Sister Sanity : Elliot Gray (Michael Joseph). A
daily newspaper’s love doctor has trouble at home
and tries out some of her own prescriptions. Ends
hopefully—if not happily—in divorce and remarriage.
Roots in the Sky : Sidney Meller (Macmillan). A
family of Jewish children becoming Americanised, to
the mingled dismay and delight of their orthodox old-
country parents. A well-written variation on a much-
used theme.
Mr. Penny: Maurice Moisewitsch (Frederick
Muller). Introducing to novel readers a comic charac-
ter popular with 8.8. C. listeners. He doesn’t stand
• up to cold print.
Bricks Without Straw: Charles G. Norris (Heine-
mann). American domestic setting. Rebellious Youth
and wise though sympathetic Age. Soothing.
Pm Getting Married: Jolanda Foldes (Nicholson
and Watson). A good light romantic yarn with a
dash of humor. Written earlier than The Street of the
Fishing Cat, with which the author won a £4OOO all-
nations novel competition. Set in Budapest.
Out of the Silent Planet: C. S. Lewis (Bodley
Head). A Wellsian space-and-time story. The author
seems to have acquired the knack —though he has
noticeably less faith in the ultimate beneficence of
science than has Wells.
Verse . . .
Sea Rime from Many Ships: Arthur Smith
(Bodley Head). The author’s a lieutenant-commander
in the Royal Naval Reserve. He’s no Masefield, but
salt-water addicts might find a verse or two to please
them.
Visitation : Alice Hunt Bartlett (Heath Cranton,
Ltd.). A tourist in Rome and love:
This world is full of make-believes and most
1 would decry those who Love but pretend,
They are a motley crew whom 1 would send
Straightway to Hades, and to surely roast
The Wood of Time: Charles Graves (Bodley
Head). He’s always a pleasant versifier, and this col-
lection praising fabulous ladies and the English coun-
tryside is particularly pleasant.
Youngsters’ Fare . . .
Nigh flight Tattoo: M. T. Cander (Bodley Head).
Alice-in-Wonderlandish adventures in the realms of
So Long and great battle among tin soldiers, Milkjug
and Private Button.
The Story of Pom-pom (Bodley Head), “who was
sent out to earn his living in a big house where all
the dogs had the most exclusive references... .how he
met Tinkle, a young lady dog and what befell them
on their midnight adventure.” By the son of Ernest
H. Shepard, who illustrated for A. A. Milne.
Appleby John: Sheila Hawkins (Hamish Hamil-
ton). Simple-Simon adventures with the jolly miller,
rats, mice, pigs, cows and other farmyard fauna.
Illustrations by the author.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
If
■sr
■
y®
a
m
■
.
m / M '
m
mmMk
m
m
5 :
ill
nw
I■! I i
o
PBff
*- i
■
‘ -
? .'} Y' ' A & Vt-rpf* wfaf,
, .‘Uar ,V.'- • S
’**■''**s£l
~s
■
Houses of Parliament, London.


“BAFFLED, TO FIGHT BETTER.”


The Bulletin
Th? National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
MR. WELLS IMPROVES.
If Mr. H. G. Wells goes on improving at his present
rate his visit should be a great advertisement for Aus-
tralia. Every speech he makes improves on the one
before it, and he has improved on other things as well.
Statements, he made in an early interview were
read with interest all over the country. Those who
approved arose and called him a genius ; even those
who did not approve were evidentjy stirred. Mr.
Wells is here on a lecturing tour, and when his state-
ments succeeded in luring the Prime Minister into a
day-by-day backchat the distinguished visitor had
improved on the showing of previous lecturers, prima
donnas, tumblers and public entertainers of all kinds.
He had got what he wanted —the limelight.
Nothing quite so successful had ever been accom-
plished before. Mr. Wells deserved success; he im-
proved on the technique of all predecessors. Where
their minds had been capable of nothing better than
comment on matters of purely local concern, he ex-
panded the field to the world at large, disparaging
one or two of its distant inhabitants and making them
seem to transcend such hitherto absorbing interests
as the application of blue lipstick, taste for infamous
ties and “Time, gentlemen, please! ”
To have thus improved on a countless number
of invading entertainers has been but a fraction of
Mr. Wells’s improving. In coming out with his blast-
ing broadside as soon as his lungs were filled with
the invigorating air of the country, Mr. Wells im-
proved on his great contemporary, Mr. G. B. Shaw,
who was in London some time before deciding that
the only course for one to whom publicity mattered
was to go about making shocking statements. Mr.
Shaw laid down the dictum that in order to get a
hearing from the dull-brained majority it was neces-
sary for a man of intellect to induge in mental gym-
nastics ; anything whatever to attract attention. Mr.
Wells has improved on the master in speed at least.
Mr. Wells would seem, too, to have improved on
Mr. Bertrand Russell. Mr. Russell’s latest book,
Power, was available in London in November last.
Mr. Wells left London pn December 3. If he has not
read Mr. Russell’s book, he may have read the “John
o’ London” review of it —quoting passages —in the
November 25 issue. Whether or not he read book or
review, he has improved on that writer in the two state-
ments that have won such wide and merited publicity.
Mr. Russell proffers the germ of a thought:
The reign of naked force in international relations
after the Great War might have ended by the adoption
of Communism throughout Europe.
Mr. Wells improves:
It would have cleaned things up a lot for Europe
if Germany had gone Communist.
In the other statement also Mr. Wells brings the
abstract into the realm of the concrete. Mr. Russell:
Certified lunatics are shut up because of their prone-
ness to violence when their pretensions are questioned;
the uncertified variety are given control of powerful
armies, and can inflict death and disaster on all sane
men within their reach.
Nobody who knows Mr. Russell’s line of thinking
could have any doubt as to what exactly he was there
driving at. Mr. Wells as an improver:
For instance, there is a little group of men in
Germany—particularly Hitler, whom I regard as a cer-
tifiable lunatic. Then there is Mussolini, who is a
fantastic renegade from the Socialist movement. These
men are freaks, judging by the fancies they take into
their heads, and they have a power over human affairs
which is more like the state of affairs under- the
criminal Caesars —the worst of them.
To see how fully this improves bn Mr. Russell it is
necessary to turn to Mr. Russell again:—•
Periods of naked power are usually brief. They
end, as a rule in the establishment of stable dictator-
ship ; of this the most notable instance is the empire
of Augustus, after the period of civil wars from
Marius to the defeat of Antony.
In describing Hitler specifically as a certifiable
lunatic Mr. Wells also improves on all those before
him who described the German leader as a megalo-
maniac, trusting to the second half of the epithet to
make up in potency what the first half lacked. That
form of lunacy has been debited against Hitler ever
since it became fashionable to go on slangwhanging
the leaders of foreign countries while not at war with
them. During war, of course, the more direct term of
lunatic applied to the leader of the enemy country is
something taken for granted, just as it is the “murder-
ous hordes” the lunatic commands who commit “vile
atrocities,” while our own side, under the personal
leadership of Providence, makes “effective reprisals.”
The application of such common epithets of war
to leaders of other countries in time of peace is a
notable improvement to Mr. Wells’s credit.
Mr. Wells also improves on past visiting enter-
tainers in the art of being appropriate. Making his
statements in Melbourne, he did not commit the awful
faux pas of a predecessor of the early 1920’s —a music-
hall artist —who announced in the Yarra City on
arrival that “of course, the fame of the Harbor was
known all over the world.”
Had Mr. Wells arrived 12 months or so earlier
he would have found it just as appropriate to refer
to Mussolini as a lunatic as to now apply “certifiable
lunatic” to Hitler. At that time the Italian leader
was being so described in leading daily newspapers.
To-day, it is still uncertain just how he should be
described. The Anglo-Italian agreement has been
signed ; events have demonstrated that the friendship
of Italy might be vital to Great Britain —no less so
to Australia and Maoriland —in a world upheaval.
Even so, all this is not yet completely settled. Mr.
Chamberlain was in Rome last week doing what he
could to make the position conclusive ; but, to the
general run of people—only so recently informed “on
the best authority” that Mussolini was a raving
lunatic, and a criminal one at that —the Italian leader is
in a chrysalis stage, neither ugly fat grub nor beautiful
thing fit for admiration.
With his fine sense of the appropriate, Mr. Wells,
while having Hitler a “certifiable lunatic,” has Musso-
lini no worse than a “fantastic renegade” and a
“freak.” Nobody before him ever displayed such a
nice sense of proportion.
A pity the same sense of proportion does not
reside in the always well-meaning person of the Prime
Minister, who has, so far, twice rebuked Mr. Wells
for all this. Mr. Lyons, if he proposes any further
rebukes to our illustrious visitor, would cut a better
figure assessing Mr. Wells’s performance at its true
worth —one of the most engaging mental strip-tease
acts ever seen here.
Why Should It Come?
[The writer of this article is the historian of the A.1.F.,
who is now engaged on the last volume of his monumental
work.]
If some earnest people had obtained their way in
September our boys, instead of enjoying the “igno-
minious and disastrous” peace of the Sydney Scout
Jamboree, would have been nobly disembowelling, or
being disembowelled by, other boys without either
having the dimmest notion of why they should be
fighting.
The world would now be in the chaos of an
upheaval from which no sane person expects any
outcome except the ruin of winners and losers; and,
by what we hear from London, the defenders of
democracy would have begun their task by getting
themselves and its chief defences blown off the earth.
What should be our line in this tangle?
It is hopeless to attempt dealing with the problem
apart from its causes. Twenty-two years ago, when
the German leaders, feeling the pinch in the Great
War, offered us a chance of ending it a year earlier
than it did end, most of us refused to think of this —and
rightly. We had to prove to the Germans that the
method of the Big Stick in international intercourse
does not pay. The one possibility that we could
not contemplate was that we should leave that job
unfinished and that our children would have to fight
out the whole matter again.
Our Governments, therefore, told the German
leaders that they would have no truck with them ; but
they added that if the German people deposed those
leaders and themselves gained control of their country
we would deal with them in a different spirit.
A year later the German people did so. We then
agreed to accept Wilson’s Fourteen Points as the basis
of peace ; and the Germans had to throw away their
Big Stick. But we kept ours ; and, although it had been
made for Ludendorff and the Kaiser, we now held it
over the Social Democrats who were at last attaining
the free system of government for which they had
striven for years, and which we had led them to believe
we would treat with sympathy.
There were two possible ways of making the peace
settlement. We might try to do what the Fourteen
Points implied, settle the affair so justly that each
former enemy would be at least moderately content
until the normal progress of the world made changes
necessary—when reform might be attempted by peace-
ful machinery. On the other hand, now that the Ger-
man nation had no stick, we might throw over our
promises, express or implied, seize whatever advantages
we could, and trust to our own stick—and to the dis-
armament and fines inflicted on the other fellow to
keep him permanently too weak to effectively object.
Naturally the French were frightened of Ger-
many, and they believed that this was the only safe
course; and though a few of the Allies’ leaders, chief
among them President Wilson, believed it to be an
impossible policy, Clemenceau and the popular pas-
sions inevitable at such a time were much too strong
for them. Clemenceau won, and Wilson acquiesced
because he believed that in the League of Nations he
had provided an instrument for remedying any gnev-
ances that might arise. And no doubt Americans would
have used their influence in the League that way it
Wilson had managed to persuade them to join it; but
he failed, and the French Government, with the assent
of the British, employed it as a means of maintaining
the terms imposed at Versailles.
In addition, the French Government resorted to
the opposite method, of ringing Germany around with
a structure of hostile alliances and agreements; and
when, in the Abyssinian crisis, the policies of clinging
to these agreements and clinging to the League came
into conflict, the French leaders pinned their faith to
their agreement with Italy and, though doubtless un-
willingly, smashed the power of the League.
Nevertheless the policy of keeping Germany weak,
which all our Governments had supported, broke down
quickly, totally and hopelessly. There never was or
will be any chance of keeping a proud and solid
people of 70,000,000 permanently suppressed. When
the German democratic leaders failed to get their
colleagues of France and Britain to carry out the
promise of disarmament implied in the Versailles
treaty, or even to erase from it the stupid untruth that
laid the whole blame for the Great War on Ger-
many and her Allies, the German people, after 15
years of sincere, indeed noble, democratic experiment,
swung back from their statesmen who ti usted in light
rather than might to those who said, You can only
get a fair deal by using the Big Stick! At that
moment our statesmen lost the war which oui soldiers
thought they had won.
The failure of the Versailles method was thus
complete, and at this stage the arguments of those
who had favored the other and only really possible
method of making peace began again to be listened
to. They pointed out, for example, that although the
French and British empires, swollen with territories
gained in the war, might insist that the method by
which they had been acquired was henceforth illegal,
they could hardly expect nations with'few or no colo-
nies to hold the same view or to accept the assurance
that these territories were only an expensive encum-
brance. The question was certain to be asked, “Well,
why do you hold on to them?
The issue for Britain and France then would be—
were they ready to fight another great war to retain
these acquisitions? If not, should they not considei
the offering of a fairer settlement straightway, and,
incidentally, secure from neutrals and opponents the
goodwill resulting from their fairness. The alternative
—to wait till the demand was backed by threats and
then give way to it —seemed too foolish to contem-
plate.
The suggestion was discussed in press and Cabinet
and referred to in Parliament, but heroic settlements
are only practicable in extreme crises. Nothing was
done. Two of the former Allies, Italy and Japan,
each having genuine problems in the shortage of their
territory and seeing no more hope than the Germans
of these being settled by the League, swung to the
German side and method. The French Government
tried to bolster up the weakening structure of its
alliances by the treaty with Russia, but that Power
was fatally hampered by the struggles of its own
dictator to retain his seat; and when the French
leaders were faced with the first test of their policy,
in the Czechoslovakian crisis, they themselves were
afraid to rely upon it, and the whole structure
collapsed. . ,
One would have thought that the failure of the
Versailles policy would by then have been sufficiently
obvious** to lead even its originators to bury it too
deep for resuscitation. But, by one of those twists of
fate that must surely be a joke of the gods, those of
us who had been the fiercest opponents of it, who
for years had vainly supported the German democracy
in its attempts to secure liberal treatment, were so
embittered by the methods of the dictator into whose
hands the Germans had been driven that some of us
have become . the foremost advocates of opposition
to all steps that may possibly lead to an increase of
Germany’s strength.
Such a policy, of course, can only lead to war,
and in the Czechoslovakian crisis Mr. Chamberlain
felt that he had sufficient support in the commonsense
of the British and French peoples to turn to the
method of seeking a settlement giving reasonable con-
tentment to all parties. He has been assailed with
intense bitterness, his motives impugned, and his way
obstructed by the suspicion which these attacks insti-
gate in England and arouse in Germany,
His task is more difficult than it would have been
a few years back. For example, whereas Hitler, whose
book says that colonial adventure was folly for Ger-
many, would then have been satisfied with a gesture
to salve German pride, Nazi propaganda has since
magnified the demand. Moreover, while we could
with advantage have returned territories to a German
Republic with such leaders as Dr. Solf, whose rule in
Samoa was an example of what such government
should be, we could not comfortably hand them over
to Nazi methods or to the ally of Japan. Again, we
possibly have to face a series of crises arising from
the dictators’ demands, and Hitler, having earned the
gratitude of the young Germans whom he raised from
desperation, may some day retain their support when
his demands are obviously over the odds.
That is the danger ; but we created it, and it is
hopeless to meet it with the very policy that brought
it about —that of blocking German expansion. If that
method was foolish before, it is lunacy now. How
can we, who, with Italy, Japan and America as our
allies, barely won the Great War, expect to succeed
with Italy and Japan against us, and ourselves fighting
in a cause whose selfishness would bar the sympathy
of neutrals? Our clear course is, though steadily arm-
ing, to continue to the utmost limit our effort to
remove the reasons for an unwanted, suicidal, indefen-
sible world war, and, if that effort fails, then to trust
to the only support that ever could pull us through —
the access of strength to our side and weakness to our
opponents through the plain rightness of our cause.
C.E.W.BEAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fire Over Victoria.
On February 14, 1926, a bushfire broke out in one of
the hilliest and most densely wooded districts of Gipps-
land. In this region there are many little townships
which depend on the cutting and milling of timber.
Houses are built on the sides of deep gullies which
in a bushfire are converted into roaring funnels. The
only way of escape is along narrow roadways. In a
high wind this way is closed, and the inhabitants have
to protect themselves by creeping into dams and
waterholes, which are liable to turn into boiling
cauldrons. On the day in question whole families
were trapped and wiped,out; the tale of death was
31. There were more fires in 1932 and nine people
perished.
After these two lessons a bushfire prevention ser-
vice was built up, with headquarters in Melbourne.
Severe penalties were threatened against farmers who
burnt-off in the dry season and picnickers who made
open fires to light billies. But, as every country-
man knows, irresponsible settlers continue to burn off
out of season, hoping for a providential drop of rain,
and city joyriders light fires as usual. A log or a
stump can burn for weeks almost invisibly, a strong
wind will wake it up, and in a season like the present
it needs only one such danger spot to start a fire
epidemic. Over a great part of Australia the spring
was abnormally dry, and summer came down fiercely
on the parched land.
Whatever the actual origin, tragedy has stalked
through Victoria again. There has been immense
destruction of property, appalling loss of life. Bush-
fires scourged Port Phillip watering places, the Dan-
denongs, Healesville ; forest fires raged in Gippsland.
They leaped over the Dividing Range, smote the
highlands of the north-east and crossed into N. S.
Wales. West of the Bay, Colac and the Otways suf-
fered.
Noojee was left desolate for the third time
in 13 years. In the track of destruction were mills,
homes, boarding-houses, fences, grass and stock
innumerable. As always on these occasions, many
scenes of heroism were witnessed, and hundreds of
lives were saved by men who didn’t trouble to rush
to the reporters with a portrait in one hand and the
other held out for a reward.
The loss of life was cruel —at least 66 in Victoria,
six in N. S. Wales and one in South Australia. And
the damage will have to be reckoned in millions.
Opinions differ as to the prime causes of the
Victorian fires. One school holds that they were
started by leaseholders burning off in State forests.
Another school points the finger of suspicion at the
casual picnicker and the casual householder who light
fires in the open against the regulations. From the
beginning of summer forest officers spend half their
time putting out all sorts of incipient blazes. Obvi-
ously these officers will have to be armed with far
greater powers. And the tragic experience of Noojee
shows that more will have to be done to make such
hamlets reasonably safe. Unless the Government
treats these timber townships as it treats or proposes
to treat the slums in the city, tragedies such as occurred
in 1926, 1932 and 1939 will always be in the offing.
A New Use for Bruce. .
“De Forain” : It is good to think that Mr. Bruce will
soon be here giving Federal Ministers the latest inside
stuff about things overseas. As they are kept posted all
the time, and as two are not long back from a spell
there, with all doors open and not too much work to
distract them, he should have an easy job of it.
What about letting him give the people of the
Commonwealth, who lack such chances, the benefit
of his knowledge and judgment? No one knows better
than Mr. Bruce how much he could say and how far
he could go. He can speak with real authority on
economic appeasement, since he has been working on
the subject for years, beginning before the idea became
fashionable. He knows what the Chamberlain Gov-
ernment is trying to do, and why, and he could give
to the public an idea of its policy and aims very dif-
ferent from that conveyed through the curious
channels on which so many people in Australia have
to rely.
As for a platform, there is the A.8.C., through
which a large part of the people of the Commonwealth
can be reached. A few talks from Mr. Bruce would
be a pleasant, as well as a useful, change from the
essays of defeated politicians, angry professors and
the like.
Perhaps there is no precedent for a High Com-
missioner telling his own people some of the things of
real interest to them that he has learned in the course
of his job. But Mr. Chamberlain, for instance, has
been doing quite a number of things which are, it
is said, without precedent. Perhaps Mr. Bruce could
tell us why he really did them, and make a precedent
himself at the same time.
In any case we will presumably get a good deal of
Mr. Bruce strained through the Cabinet. It would be
clearer taken straight.
The Fifteen Thousand Refugees.
Abounding prosperity of the sort that makes jobs by
the thousand is scarcely to be expected in a twelve-
month which began with low wool and wheat prices,
a Communist strike, great and prolonged heat over
almost the whole continent, very destructive
bush- and forest-fires and an ominous reduction
of water supplies, even in districts which have rarely
been short of water ; and thoughtful people are musing
uneasily on Canberra’s blithe promise to receive 15,000
refugees from Central Europe. More especially as the
Sydney “Morning Herald” has already protested that
15,000 is not nearly enough, and it has been suggested
in other quarters that the needs of the refugees are
so pressing that the Government should not insist on
regulating the influx to 5000 a year for the specified
period of three years.
Already Canberra is showing a dangerous willing-
ness to oblige. Mr. McEwen, the Minister, “has per-
mitted a number of Jews from Germany and Czecho-
slovakia who came to Australia on temporary per-
mits”—i.e., with return tickets —“to remain in the
Commonwealth.” “This,” he says, “does not mean
the practice will be encouraged” ; but it seems very
likely to encourage lots of others to attempt the same
game.
Aliens are not yet required to register. An Aliens’
Registration Bill was introduced last session, and the
Labor leaders intimated they would not oppose it;
but the few hours needed for its passage had not been
arranged for on December 7 when, with “war thun-
dering at the gates” (Mr. Hughes) and “peace hanging
on a slender thread” (Mr. Lyons), Parliament ad-
journed for four months.
Meanwhile, a Refugee Emergency Council, on
which League of Nations Union sanctionists and Labor
Council Reds are strongly represented, has shot up in
Sydney. At a recent meeting one of the Labor Council
comrades demanded a fifty-fifty share in the benefits
of refugee immigration for “trade-unionists without
funds”—Reds, no doubt, preferred. A Sydney Uni-
versity professor said that he had been told that “at
least 80 per cent, of the 15,000 would want to settle
in N.S.W.” Others will tell him that 90 per cent, will
make for and try to stay in Sydney.
There are more Jews in Rumania, and still more
in Poland, than there are in Germany, and already
there have been embarrassing suggestions in Europe
that Australia should open its gates to Jews from
those countries. A communication from Warsaw indi-
cated that the Poles were quite huffy about it. Be
that as it may, it is extremely improbable that the
German authorities will see that Australia gets only
the best German and Austrian and Sudetenland Jews.
Human nature and politics being what they are, they
are far more likely to try to cumber us with the worst.
Legislative and administrative safeguards are neces-
sary, and they can’t be introduced too soon. Two
classes that should be ruled out from the beginning
are (1) night-club Jews and (2) Communist Jews.
Wanted—a Special Service Battalion.
No greater crime could be committed against the Aus-
tralian nation than to involve it in a frightful Oriental
war which in no way concerns it. Such a struggle
has been raging in China for two years. What it is
all about no Australian really knows, though he may
suspect that it had its origins in (1) the Russo-Japanese
war of 1903-4 and (2) in the Bolshevisation of a great
part of the Asiatic mainland, a movement accompanied
(as was the first French revolution) by a revival of
imperialism. Indeed the war in China might be
described as a struggle between rival imperialisms for
the prize of a vast distracted country on which Com-
munists and bandits have preyed all too successfully,
albeit, except in one frontier combat, the U.S.S.R. has
managed to keep out of the fighting.
British, French and Russians have established
themselves in parts of China, taking the consent of the
inhabitants for granted. That the Japanese have gone
further, and waged war on a vaster scale, and with a
ruthlessness characteristic of all Oriental wars, gives us
no reason for intervention of the sort that might make
our own country the theatre of hostilities and horrors.
We have very properly continued to trade with both
China and Japan. Within the last month great
supplies of Australian flour have been bought for
delivery in North China, evidently with the sanction
of the Japanese. It is an open secret that our Govern-
ment is ready to promote a settlement if its good
offices are sought by the actual combatants.
Yet one small but noisy section has provocatively
championed the losing side, and has sought by various
means to drag the Commonwealth into the quarrel.
It started with a Sydney waterside boycott of
goods consigned to Japan—in one case goods con-
signed to Germany were added as an afterthought.
That manoeuvre failing, a boycott of pig-iron sold to
Japan was ordered at Port Kembla. It sprang from a
willingness to hurt Australian industry as well as to
help Chiang Kai-shek and Stalin. For the pig-iron is
from the Kembla works now controlled by Broken
Hill Prop., and although Broken Hill Prop, employs
thousands of Australians at good union wages, and
produces many commodities which Australia needs
for its defence, to hate Broken Hill Prop, has become
part of the Communist religion.
The Japanese can get pig-iron almost anywhere.
Their need of lead, zinc and wool is far greater than
their need of pig-iron, and if there were anything in
the cry that the pig-iron boycotters are “fighting
the battle of Australia” supplies of lead, zinc and
wool should be cut off 400. This has not even been
proposed, much less attempted.
The Port Kembla waterfront has been idle for
months, and the iron and steel works have put off
thousands of men. In an effort to persuade the boy-
cotting gentry that no Government could allow them to
wrest foreign policy out of its hands and risk dragging
the nation into a war for which it is not prepared, the
Attorney-General went to Wollongong on Wednesday.
He meant well, and showed courage, but he was
jeered at for his pains by mobs, and had to listen to
the too-familiar claptrap ofv a parcel of union
secretaries.
When things were going badly during the Great
War the very section that is now so bellicose wanted
to quit. At an earlier period it helped to stir up water-
front strikes which for a time threatened Australia’s
war effort. For the prevention of these repeated out-
rages words are useless. What is obviously needed is
the enlistment, as a permanent part of the army, of a
Special Service Battalion, ready, as soldiers of the
King, to go anywhere and do anything in enforcement,
of Australian law and Australian policy.
Down to the Bone.
“El V.”: We Australians who go about in mid-
summer in collars, coats, waistcoats and pants that
reach the heels have something to learn from the
Englishman in India.
When summer begins to grey the plains, the Eng-
lishman in India sends his wife to the hills and
arranges his working hours, clothing, food and hous-
ing to provide against the heat —no worse than that of
central N.S.W. and western Queensland.
All houses are screened with sac-sac palm-leaves,
on which a native throws water at intervals. Work
begins as soon after daylight as possible. The toiler
goes to it dressed in an open-necked khaki shirt, wide-
bottomed shorts, light stockings and shoes and a light-
weight topi. He carries, almost universally, a cooling
draught, well packed with ice, in his thermos, which
is enclosed in a leather case and fitted With a shoulder
strap. Special cooling arrangements have been made
in his office, which he leaves finally about one
o’clock or half past.
At four o’clock, having had a light lunch and a
doze, he is fit for the exertion of going to the club.
There—everybody belongs to the club in most stations
and towns —he sits on the verandah and drinks tea or
plays tennis or something else according to his girth
and inclination, so long as there is daylight. His
dinner comes at nine and, like everything else except
the morning’s work, is leisurely.
For those who have to work, native or otherwise,
there is every mitigation. Policemen wear shirt-and-
shorts and heat-repelling headgear, and a service
umbrella is carried either on a stand or in a waist-
socket.
In Australian cities buildings with thick walls,
plenty of water, beaches, shade trees and parks help to
moderate the effects of a clothes conservatism which
would shock sub-tropical Asia and America. But in
many country towns it is different; there, houses are
unsuitable, and there is a shortage of shade trees,
water, ice and, of course, baths. How much popula-
tion the big cities owe to country-town summer con-
ditions it is not easy to estimate, but the proportion
must be large.
It is a problem to which Governments will have
to give far more attention. Where money is available
to provide metropolitan comforts and facilities
country-town people stick to their towns and develop
a pride in them —Parkes and Forbes (N.S.W.) are good
examples.
Work ond Credit.
Queensland’s Medical School is to receive its first
students into its £70,000 building by March. As usual,
politicians are taking all the credit to themselves, but
the institution would not be in existence had it not
been for the energy and foresight of a handful of
private citizens. For many years they had to struggle
against political and public indifference, hostility from
the more conservative section of the local medical pro-
fession and claims by other University faculties for
any money that might be available.
By 1933, the pertinacity of these few champions
of an organised and effective faculty of medicine had
brought about the gift of the old Masonic Temple in
Alice-street as an anatomy school, primarily for the
teaching of dental students. It encouraged them to
press for the creation of a professorship of anatomy.
Progress continued to be slow, and as recently as 1935
the academic and political outlook only went as far
in its official expression as “some optimism regarding
the provision, perhaps by stages, of a Medical School.”
It was not until the following year that the daring
innovators succeeded in interesting the Government
sufficiently to inaugurate a faculty of medicine at the
University of Queensland. They achieved that by
working up public opinion to a degree sufficient to
convince the politicians that the move would be popu-
lar, and with no catch in it.
Then the pursestrings were loosed, and the party
trumpets blared in honor of the far-sighted Govern-
ment which alone had realised Queensland’s need for
a medical school of- its own, and was now bending its
collective intellect to the task of providing the best
one possible.
The men who did the work don’t particularly
care who gets the credit for it so long as its results
grow and prosper.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.Q.”: The epic of Toolangi a little
township of 150 people in the heart of
the Vic. bushfire area, is worth telling.
On Black Sunday the Toolangians were
wakened at sunrise by the roaring and
crackling of the fires, which were
approaching from two directions. The
'women and children were hurried off to
Healesville just before the ring of fire
closed about the township. It was im-
possible for the volunteer brigades in
other districts to help, and Toolangi had
to depend on its own resources. Fifty
men fought the fire back by inches, while
the wooden houses kept catching alight
in their rear and squads had to be de-
tached to save them. By nightfall they
were temporarily masters of the situation,
and reinforcements were able to arrive
with food, and Red Cross workers came
to doctor injuries. Most of the Toolangi
men had been fighting fires for a fort-
night.
* * * *
“X.S.”: While mourners at Healesville
(Vic.) were assembled round the grave
of Charles Temby, a forest officer who
was burned to death in a bushfire, embers
from a fire a mile away fell into the
cemetery. The men who had been fight-
ing the flames for ten days previously left
the graveside and put the blaze out.
When they returned the ceremony was
proceeded with to the sound of firebells
tolling from the township, where volun-
teers were wanted for another outbreak.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Those familiar with the
bushfire area in Victoria know perfectly
well that an army would be required to
police it. Scores of fires have been
smouldering in the ranges all the summer,
and it required only suitable conditions
to fan them into a vast conflagration.
But the protection of huge, thinly-peopled
districts with sawmills scattered every-
where about them is nobody’s business.
All that can be done when the thing gets
going is to attempt to save threatened
settlements. The menace should be
treated like the menace of aerial bomb-
ing in modern cities. If gas-proof shelters
are feasible, it ought to be equally feas-
ible to design bushfire shelters.
* * * *
“Devil Fish”: Prof. Ellsworth Hunt-
ington says that the human brain works
best at a temperature of 60deg. Fahr.,
and that its efficiency falls off sharply
above 80. It he is right, not overmuch
is to be expected from the Science Asso-
ciation corroboree at Canberra. It
opened at 108.2, which is a world’s record
for a Science Association meeting, beat-
ing Calcutta, hollow. Just as the record
was announced the council was deciding
to hold its next meeting in Adelaide,
where the temperature at the moment
stood at 116. However, it will go to
Adelaide in August, 1940. And after
Adelaide it will go to Hobart. It was
Westralia’s turn, but the West stood aside
to oblige the Speck, which celebrates in
1943 the centenary of its Royal Society,
the oldest in Australasia. Premier Ogilvie
is finding £lOOO for the science meeting
and giving other concessions.
“Enfe Marid”: The Science Confer-
ence in Canberra is the 24th since the
initial one in 1888, the only survivor of
which is Sydney University philosopher
Francis Anderson. • The president, his-
torian Ernest Scott, has written in the
War History a dramatic account of the
Science Congress held in Australia in
August, 1914, the 400 overseas visitors to
which included a contingent of Germans.
Orme Masson and David Rivett were
able to meet the Germans with assurances
from the Governor-General and the
Prime Minister that they would be
honored guests, war or no war. In Adel-
aide Dr. Albrecht Penck and Dr. Felix
von Luschan were given degrees by
the University, and Melbourne Uni.
conferred a D.Sc. degree on Dr. Johannes
Walther. Scott records that “it was obvi-
ous that more hearty applause was given
to the Germans than to any other gradu-
ates, simply to emphasise that they were
welcome, and that science knows no
national boundaries.” The Teutonic visi-
tors were feted everywhere. Most of
them accepted the hospitality with a
chivalrous regard for their hosts. But
Dr. Pringsheim, a physicist, and Dr. G raeb-
ner, an anthropologist, men of military
“The on'y thing I'm kickin' about is bein' identified by a man that kep' 'is ead under the bedclothes.
age, were asked for parole that they
would not become combatants if allowed
to leave Australia. They refused, were
detained, but allowed to move about the
country until Graebner attempted to send
a letter to Germany which consisted of
a tissue of lies about his treatment. He
and Pringsheim were then interned. The
rest of the party were given safe con-
ducts. At the present congress, Scott paid
a special tribute to a German woman,
Amalie Dietrich, who made the first con-
siderable collection of Australian spiders,
in a 10 years’ search, for the Cesar God-
frey Museum in Hamburg.
* * * *
“C.R.”: The law in Victoria allows
a domesticated dog one bite at a human
being, after which its owner becomes
liable to be regarded as harboring a
public menace. Lions, tigers and such-
like fauna, however, appear to be under
a special dispensation. A lion belonging
to a circus had two goes recently at its
trainer, inflicting considerable damage to
his appearance. It was subsequently sent
to the Zoo. It was no sooner introduced
into a cage with a couple of its untrained
brothers than it attacked one of them
and killed it. At a well-remembered
dinner-party a few years ago twenty or
so prominent Melbourne citizens sat with
the trainer in the cage, while the denizens
of the jungle stood solemnly looking on
at the heroes devouring their soup and
chicken. One of the lions was the above-
mentioned killer.
“Jarrahwood”: I have two sons of
f.a.q. intelligence and industry, and I am
going to make one a chiropodist and the
other an optician. With ordinary luck
, , , , . , •
each will be assured of a steady income.
No. 1 is to become a chiropodist because
half the girls have crippled themselves
wearing tight shoes, though, with a
squawlike stoicism, they conceal the fact
from the unobservant; and the demand
for fancy footwork far exceeds the
supply. No. 2 is to go into the spectacle
business because half the boys are half-
blinding themselves going without hats,
and, even if nothing worse happens to
them, will be lifelong buyers of glasses
that will need periodical renewal. The
no-hat fashion may be harmless in coun-
tries where the skies are generally grey,
but in Australia, when there is a terrific
glare, it is just damnphoolishness.
Apropos, what martyrdom the hatless
army has suffered during the heat that
has scorched half the continent for weeks
together! Those with bare crowns have
fared worst, but conceited knuts with
marcelled hair have been most uncom-
fortable-looking objects. This is one of
the matters in which you can’t deceive
people by “cracking hardy.”
* * =l= *
“De Facto”: No wonder Henry Parkes
was driven to poetry. Here’s an excerpt
r ~ , , e , .
lrom his first letter from Sydney to his
people in England, written just 100 years
ago: “I have been disappointed in all
my expectations of Australia except as
to its wickedness; for it is far more
wicked than I had conceived it possible
for any place to be or than it is possible
for me to describe to you in England.”
* * * *
“K.”: Among the more unexpected
occupational diseases is “conductor’s
elbow”—'not the tram variety, but
the musical kind of conductor. Watch-
ing a full orchestra, one would be
inclined to think that the maximum
physical output on the job is contributed
by the drummer or the man who saws
the bull-fiddle. But try holding up a right
arm and waving it conductor-fashion
for a measured five minutes, and you will
realise the strain involved in continuing
it for an hour or more, with the added
weight of a baton as well. Cause, effect
and treatment are much the same as in
tennis elbow. Added to the physical
effort is intense mental concentration
required for combining the units of a
full orchestra into one instrumental
whole. It is no wonder that Hamilton
Harty used to wring the perspiration out
of his collar after a performance, and
take an hour’s massage daily fot his con-
ducting arm.
* * *
“T.”: One feature of this Spanish war
is strange to a scribbler who in his read-
ing prefers history to fiction. In all pre-
vious foreign and civil wars in which
Spain was concerned subsequent to the
Treaty of Limerick, you found Irish
names, Sarsfields, Blakes, O’Donnells,
O’Ferralls. Devil a one have I spotted
among the Francos, Llanos, Miajas,
Negrins and Caballeros who have been
conducting the present convulsion. Dur-
ing the Napoleonic invasion all the de-
scendants of Irish exiles were on the
national side till the Emperor passed the
crown to his brother Joseph; then an
O’Ferrall attached himself to Joseph’s
court. The O’Donnells and Blakes had
the satisfaction of driving him out of the
country. The Wild Geese go flyting no
more. For the matter of that, the Irish
have ceased to emigrate to America and
to Australia. Nowadays Irish emigrants
all go to the United Kingdom—a quite
unpredicted consequence of the setting up
of a Parliament on College Green.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Curious is the way officialdom
defends its omniscience. I had to
’phone for information concerning the
hanging of a man nearly 40 years ago for
the murder of a girl in a country town.
I was put on to the man who had been
in charge of the records for half a century.
“Yes,’\he said, after looking up his grim
official bible, “we hanged that fellow
all right; what do you want to know
for?” I explained that one of our readers
had written asking for confirmation
of a story that there had been a mis-
carriage of justice, a hawker hav-
ing confessed to the crime many years
afterwards. “Oh,” said the gaol man,
offhandedly, “that’s a cock-and-bull
story.” “Why,” I queried, “have you a
record of the case?” “No,” he retorted.
“We don’t keep records of that sort
of thing. But you can rest assured, if
we hang a man, there’s a very good
reason for it.”
The Office Antiquary writes:
A newspaper report that a Bourke record
dating from January, 1896, of “24 consecutive
days with temperatures of more than lOOdeg.”
had been broken this January 10, when 119 deg.
was registered, set me looking up 43-year-old
numbers of The Bulletin. Bourke’s experi-
ence that January wasn’t specifically mentioned,
but “Hop” had a cartoon, “Heat-wave in
Sunny New South Wales,” and Clement Wragge
was quoted as predicting more warmth. Inigo
Jones, Inclement’s 1939 successor in Queens-
land, plumped for “cyclical rains, due about
January 10,” in a “long-range” forecast, issued
on January 6; and on January 11 Westralia,
for one, got them in large quantities. In fact,
North Westralia was visited by a willy-willy
with a deluge in its tail.
I . found in those old issues some curiously
modern touches. The New Year leader was
headed “The War Scare”—President Cleveland
had been twisting the Lion’s tail. A Poli-
tical Point said “Bellicose Australians should be
compelled to learn by heart the passage written
by Wentworth over 70 years ago”:
Yet ne’er, my country, roll thy battle car
With bloody axle through the ranks of war 1
Among original verses was “The Song of the
Sand-shifter”: —
With a shovel in our hand
Shifting sand, shifting sand,
And that’s the way the Government puts people on
the land.
In the unemployed-relief field, sandshifting is
still the Sydney Government’s staple and
standby. There were references in paragraphs
and pictures to a flight of Jews—from Johan-
nesburg—“some dressed up as women and
others disguised as negroes,” to cricketers
Harry Donnan and Tom Garrett, to Dr.
Maloney (M.L.A. then) and to Ethel Turner,
the novelist (Mrs. Curlewis), who had written
a rhapsody on the Hawkesbury and left out
the mosquitoes. All four are still with us, and,
as Mark Twain put it, long may they wave!
Mark was in Sydney that January.
THE EXPLANATION.
“Because funds were insufficient to provide for an
equestrian statue, the King George V. Memorial Com-
mittee, of Sydney, decided in favor of a statue
of the King in the uniform of an admiral instead
of that of a field-marshal.”
King Ned the Seventh, we daily see,
As large as life or larger,
Accoutred splendidly cap-a-pie
Astride of a champing charger.
But George the Fifth in such a guise
Survey we never shall;
He’s booked to break on our loyal eyes
As a Lord High Admiral.
He was meant to sit on a mettlesome prad
(To which sculptors e’er were partial)
Richly caparisoned, same as dad,
As a regular royal field-marshal.
But it’s wise to reckon the cost, you see,
Of whatever job you’re at,
And they found on counting the £ s. d.
That it wouldn’t run to that.
For, when his war-paint a war-lord dons,
He must needs a horse be topping,
And the cost of a prancing steed in bronze
Is, to put it mildly, whopping!
But the humblest artist-soul to limn
An admiral may hope,
With a quarter-deck to feature him,
And maybe a telescope.
So good King George will be handed down
Through many a yet unrolled year
As the Sailor King in Sydney town
And not as the Royal Soldier.
In memory he was to stay
Field-marshal, like his dad,
But lack of boodle blocked the way,
Grim N.S.F. forbade.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“C.Q.”: Persistent interviewers? A
Melbourne newshound rang up Wells
and asked him for an exclusive interview.
Wells asked him if he had read his three
latest books. “Sorry,” the Inky Way-
farer confessed —“I’m afraid I haven’t.”
“Then I’m afraid I can’t see you,” said
the author of World Mind. “That’s all
right, Mr. Wells,” said the reporter. “I’ll
be calling on you at 10 to-morrow.” Hav-
ing stuffed himself with the contents of
Wells’s three last volumes, heavy-eyed
but confident the newspaperman turned
up the next morning. He got his inter-
view.
* * * *
“ASQ”: The Bulletin’s eleventh
Limerick reminded me of a troopship
experience. I was sergeant-major in a
Queensland battalion. One morning I
took a platoon for physical training and
gave the order “Size dress” —meaning the
tallest on the right; shortest on the left.
After sorting out the sizes I returned-
to my position in front of the platoon,
to find that the second man from the
right was inches shorter than the third
man. “Who told you to take up second
place in the front line?” I asked. “You
did, Sergeant-Major,” he replied. “Non-
sense, man,” I said. “Why, you are
inches shorter than your left-hand man!”
“But I’ll grow, Sergeant-Major, I’ll
grow,” he said with a grin, and pro-
ceeded to shoot up until he was taller
than the right-hand man. This joker was
a contortionist in private life, I found
out; he was also a good soldier.
* * * *
“T.D.”: Canberra hopes for a social
boom as a result of the coming of the
Kents. It sees a hint in the report that
Keith Murdoch has bought the 15,000-
acre Bredbo property, formerly belong-
ing to L. T. Watson. Murdoch has long
been in the habit of dropping in on Can-
berra on paper and other business. Now
there is betting as to which Sydney news-
paper magnate will be the first to secure
s fooling in Canberra. If he is not a
knight when he goes there he might not
have to wait long.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Melbourne’s
first contribution to Australian duelling
was on May 30, 1839, George Arden and
Dr. Barry Cotter being the principals,
with W. G. G. Sams, pastoralist, and
William Meek, hon. sec. of the Mel-
bourne Club, as seconds. The meeting
was bloodle'ss —the principals seem to
have been extremely bad shots. The next
affair of any consequence was in
1846, when the Hon. G. Kennedy and
Ousely Cockburn took some simultane-
ous potshots at each other in the scrub
near Liardet’s Pier Hotel at Sandridge,
now Port Melbourne. Again honor was
satisfied without loss of blood. Two Port
Fairy squatters, Campbell and Sprott, in.
the same year, rode 200 miles into S.A.
to exchange shots. They also returned
unhurt and satisfied. Victorian duels seem
to have been harmless affairs compared
with the bloody meetings which occurred
at intervals during Sydney’s first 60 years,
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A dominant factor in
human make-up, mental and physical, is
the pituitary gland, the size of a largish
nut, lying under the base of the mid-
brain. Overstimulate one part of it, and
a giant grows from a normal-sized child ;
undernourish it, and he will be a dwarf.
If its front end is overdeveloped the
adult becomes a visionary, an egocentric
recluse, aloof from all ties of sex or
friendship. If the suprarenal glands are
also highly developed, the visionary will
have interludes of fanatical activity in
which dreams may be dramatically con-
verted into realities. If its hinder end is
overdeveloped, it produces a dominant
and dynamic personality, masterful,
aggressive and, provided the suprarenals
“If you Want to keep your man you goiter make yourself look alloorin'.”
co-operate fully, expressing itself in cour-
ageous and dramatic speech and action.
The European situation to-day may be
interpreted, if you like, as mainly a pro-
duct of pituitary overactivities.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The women are getting into
flying nowadays. A female telephonist
of Dimboola (Vic.), a girl of 23, recently
spent her vacation at Essendon, emerging
from her flying course with an “A”
pilot’s license. Returning to her native
town, she took a few hours off from her
switchboard to make a parachute descent
of 3200 ft. from a ’plane at Hamilton.
Then she hopped into a Gypsy Moth to
get back to Dimboola in time for her
evening duties.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Not a bristle of the
toothbrush of a great man is unim-
portant to a really devout worshipper.
According to Jonathan Curling, in
Janus Weathercock, a biography of
the poisoner Wainewright, who was
transported to Hobart, Wainewright
knew Lamb, and wrote in a maga-
zine about Elia chanting “Diddle, diddle,
dumpkins!” one night in a London street.
Curling continues to diddle with the
dumpkins in perfect seriousness for over
a page ; on another occasion, he says,
Lamb was reported as having sung
Diddle, diddle dumpling, my son John
Went to bed with his trousers on.
Which was it, Curling wonders, “dump-
kins” or “dumpling”? “It seems more
probable,” he says, “that actually Lamb
would have sung dumpkins; for in a
Latin letter to Bernard Barton, 14 years
later, he wrote: ‘Diddle-diddle-dump-
kins! me us unicus filius Johannes cubi-
tum ivit, integris braecis, Caiiga una
tantum, indutus.’ ” If a third commen-
tator appears and swears it was “pump-
kins” I suppose the argument will last
for centuries.
* * * *
“Nomen”: The history of the Adelaide
Law Courts shows that the Supreme Court
held its first sitting m
a Judge’s bedroom.
From there it moved,
first to a shop and
then to a private resi-
dence, and on to the
stage of the old
Queen’s. The Police
Court had the pit, and
the Resident Magis-
trate’s Court was held
in the saloon bar.
The R.M. had tried
a tent, a shop, a
private house and a
mud hut, while
the Police
Court had fol-
lowed a very
similar career.
“Immy”: To five
different medicoes
during the last ten
years a farmer at
present in an Adel
aide private hospital
answered the advice
to have his teeth out
by copying that M.L. patient (B.
28 /12/’3B) and laying his false molars on
the desk. But then one day recently, as
he was harnessing up, the mare swung
and struck him across the jaw with the
chain. Splitting the gums, the blow re-
vealed the fact that a wandering dentist,
requested to draw the farmer’s teeth some
20 years ago, had compromised by break-
ing them off just under the level of the
gums.
* * # *
“K.G.”: Anent the Tichborne dole
(B. 11/1/’39) it might be added that all
Knights of the Garter are obliged, in
furtherance of the pledge given at their
investiture, to practise the charity en-
joined by the rules of chivalry. The last
Garter Knight who publicly practised
this virtue was Lord North, who used
to distribute every .Sunday morning at
the door of his residence in Downing-
street a dole of broken victuals and the
sum of ss. 3d. to each of 20 poor persons.
* * * *
“C.H.”: “Cauboy's” reference to
Deeming (B. 28/12/’3B) sent me search-
ing amongst a collection of old theatrical
programmes. The body of a Deeming
victim was found on March 4, 1892, and
on March 19 of that year Alfred
Dampier presented “Wilful Murder,” by
Geo. Meredith, at Melbourne’s old Alex-
andra Theatre. The first act was entitled
“Murder on the Hearthstone.” At the
bottom of the playbill is a note: “The
management requests attention to the re-
markable resemblance between this plot
and the leading features of an appalling
atrocity now agitating the minds of the
Melbourne public.”
* * *
“King’s Inns”: “Pawang” (B. 4/1 /’39) is
all up in the air. The test of obscenity is
not so much in the eye or ear of any par-
ticular person, but in the eyes or ears of
those likely to be corrupted by it. In
Lord Campbell’s Obscene Publications
Act (1857) legal machinery was provided
for the destruction of
books “written for the
single purpose of cor-
rupting the morals of
youth”—but Chief Jus-
tice Cockburn, in 1868,
did supply a sort of
definition of obscenity
(which no English
statute does), and this,
known as the “Cock-
burn Rule,” has pre-
vailed ever since: “The
test of obscenity is
this, whether the ten-
dency of the matter
charged as obscenity is
,to deprave and corrupt
those whose minds are
open to such immoral
influences and into whose hands a pub-
lication of this sort may fall.” In
this view the motive of the publisher is
quite immaterial. The standard is the
prurient mind. Fashions may come and
go, but the prurient mind is a constant
factor.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Shaw would never have made
the mistake of calling Hitler a “certifi-
able lunatic”; he would have advanced
arguments to show him, from the Shavian
angle, as a comic figure. The more
emotional Wells has always been able
to slip easily into vituperation, and has
often got himself into a predicament in
consequence. On one occasion he made
an attack on Shaw in an article for a
London daily. The cautious editor sent
the manuscript to Shaw for inspection,
expecting Shaw to express resentment and
possibly objections to publication. Shaw
returned the MS. promptly with the ob-
servation : “I have read Mr. Wells’s
article carefully, and corrected some of
the punctuation.”
# * * *
“Pawang”: At Melbourne Zoo during
the heat-wave, when the thermometer
broke all previous records by climbing
to 112, the non-indigenous fauna,
whether from temperate, tropical or
semi-arctic zones, seemed to enjoy
the torrid conditions, but the Aus-
tralian fauna was knocked endways.
Kangaroos, wallabies and dingoes lay
about gasping, and had to be hosed
down by the attendants. Is their semi-
collapse a means of conservation of
energy which enables them to survive in
their natural habitat over long periods
of heat? If so, it is similar to the in-
stinctive submission to fatigue of the
professional athlete. The middle-aged
businessman who tries to get rid of that
tired feeling by knocking himself up
every week-end at some strenuous
pastime thinks he is adding to his physical
capital, but he usually kills himself off,
as did the late Sidney Myer. Myer spent
an exhausting hour in his private gym-
nasium every morning and then walked
briskly to his office. But he was done
for at an age when many men who take
life less strenuously are in their physical
and intellectual heyday.
“ Don't stand there gaping! Catch that caravan and tell my husband I've
fallen out!”
BARDS OF THE FOOTHILLS.
We're undistinguished members of the- clan _
That up the mountainside essays ? to climb,
Our rating is among the “also- ran
When there are bays to wreathe and bells to
For those whose harps make melody sublime.
In short, it’s obvious that you may mass us
With those who struggle in the dust and slime
That cling about the foothills of Parnassus.
None of the mail denominated “fan”
Arrives to cheer us through our grind and
grime; .
We’ve no more reason to expect it than
A nimble pantaloon in pantomime.
No faculty for working overtime
Out of our lowly rut will ever pass us;
We’ll never, it’s a dollar to a dime,
Clamber above the foothills of Parnassus.
And should ambition urge the gap to span
Between the mediocre and the prime,
Remember rhyme for reason often can
Fail you—and reason just as oft for rhyme.
We have —it’s our misfortune, not our crime—
No breath from heaven to inflate and gas us,
No twigs Vith stickfast fantasies to lime,
Who slosh around the foothills of Parnassus.
Still, at the worst, our verses mostly scan,
And with those oracles you cannot class us
Whose meaning beats the ordinary man,
We dwellers in the foothills of Parnassus.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Cf
10 for 9d. 20 /or 1^6.
E1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
verify‘
/
PREVENT
MADE
T 0
SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
Chamberlain Went to Rome, and out-
side the palace in which he talked with
Mussolini “thousands cheered and sang
‘Rule Britannia.’ ” He said he had come
“in pursuance of a policy of friendship
for all and enmity towards none,” and
Mussolini said, “I greet you as the most
welcome of guests, the representative of
a great and friendly nation.” Now, of
course, all the flapper papers and Geneva
papers and Moscow papers are furiously
denouncing the pair and prophesying
war.
A cool £1,550,000 of loan money is to
be spent in repairing Burrinjuck dam.
Mr. Stevens, the Sydney Premier, reports
that “disintegration of the concrete is in
progress and has been going on for a
long time” —a remark which recalls a
more celebrated sentence of Mr. Stevens:
“Mr. Weaver has enjoyed bad health
for a long time.” As befits a borrowing
Madame Two-Blues gets “ze dinkum oil ” about the impending War.
Premier Mr. Stevens blames nobody, the
“disintegration” being presumably the
act of God.
xr , , ~ , -
i he Kyeema crash and the reports of
two committees have driven the Govern-
ment to announce that it is about to re-
organise Civil Aviation. The board is
“sent for,” and there is to be a director-
general, probably Harold Clapp. He will
need a substantial salary, and salaries
have not been Civil Aviation’s strong
• + r. . , r,- . .
pent. One control officer at a metro-
pohtan aerodrome 15 paid £6 a week.
The bones of departed Fairfaxes, sub-
jected to shock after shock in 1938, must
famihf nanor § co ®^ s - The
Rrnkln SrL ii"#*!f » *£*
Broken Hill Prop, could settle the
wrangle which has rendered Port Kembla
idle by agreeing not to sell pig-iron to
people of whom Communists disapprove.
Acceptance of that “principle” would
make Reds the masters of Australian in-
dustry. It would enable them to stop the
internal transport and export, not only
of pig-iron but of lead, zinc, copper,
wool, wheat, tallow, butcher’s meat,
everything. Even newspapers if they dis-
liked the tone of the leading articles.
In reckless disregard of the Sydney
“Daily News’s” assurance that not one
of the 30,000,000 German Catholics is
“safe from violent assault or murder at
an hour’s .notice,” the Apostolic Nuncio
presented New Year greetings to Hitler
at a diplomatic reception, and escaped
with a whole skin. In fact, he bore away
a Hitler message: —•
The wise judgment of the Powers at
Munich justifies the hope that the common
friendship of European statesmen may pre-
serve a peace which gives full justice to
the legitimate interests of the nations.
Nothing more has been heard of the
flight of the Pope from Rome, but
“Reynolds’s News” is doubtless thinking
up a new one.
The official report on the Rome con-
versations says they were “characterised
by the greatest cordiality, and there again
emerged the firm determination to pursue
a policy aiming effectively at the main-
tenance of peace.” But Madame Tabouis
has discovered that Mussolini “delivered
two amazing diatribes against France
which left Chamberlain speechless.”
Moreover:
On January 30 Hitler will announce his
support for Italy’s territorial claims. On
February 4 Mussolini will send an ulti-
matum to France.
And if the double event doesn’t come olf
will our Great Dailies “send” Madame
back to her knitting?
*< The fo .. ow ; n „ fact has been esfah _
,• i I
lished by the Diplomatic Correspondent
0 f Associated Press: —
Britain has [orwarded long communica .
t? 0 ™ to the Dominions asking what part
gfy wot ifeconom.c sanctions were
Lyons says he has received no such com-
munication. Definition of a Diplomatic
Corresnondent • “One who collects fables
collects tables
Queensland’s new Transport Commis-
sion, yielding to public opinion, has
“abolished” the Logan Bridge toll; but
—go steady the same old £lB,OOO
p.a. will be collected at the same old
bridge on the same old bob-each-way
tariff. The administrative triumph was
brought about by merely altering the
ticket headings from “Logan Bridge” to
“Pacific Highway.” There is no more
“temporary” relief tax, either —it has
become a permanent “development” tax.
Heedless of or in retaliation for Ger-
man gibes, Roosevelt has appointed Felix
Frankfurter to the Supreme Court Bench.
Frankfurter is one of a band of Jews
with whom the President has surrounded
himself ; others mentioned by the “Satur-
day Evening Post” are Ben Cohen, Sam
Rosenman, Isador Lubin and Mordecai
Ezekiel. By all accounts they are very
clever, but it might be a sad mistake for
a distant and friendly nation to mistake
their counsels for the authentic voice
of America.
Before the coal strike broke out Broken
Hill Prop., which is hated so much be-
cause it is efficient, energetic and Aus-
tralian, said it “pleaded guilty” to having
given work to nearly a thousand more
men in the six coalmines in which it is
interested, rates of pay being “the highest
in the world and hours the shortest.”
These statements were repeated at the
Arbitration Court inquiry which is
alleged to be one of the fruits of the
“victory” gained by the miners’ Red
leaders, with home thrusts for additions.
Said a Broken Hill Prop, mine superin-
tendent :
Miners are paying between sd. and 6d.
a ton in union dues and levies. Some have
paid more than 60s. per pair per fortnight.
The strike levy is 5 p.c., the newspaper
levy—for propaganda—is Is. 3d. a fort-
night.
“But the miners still believe in us,” said
Orr, the union secretary. The witness
suggested that “they don’t want to change
their asses in midstream.” Then he cor-
rected himself: “Sorry, I meant horses.”
Sydney’s Transport Department, which
is notorious for overcrowding its buses,
had the gall to prosecute a private bus
owner and two of his conductors for
overcrowding, and* the magistrate said,
in effect, that it was an unspeakable
humbug. Perhaps by way of reply,
it was announced that the department
was ordering another fleet of double-
deckers. In the last Socialist Govern-
ment’s time there wasn’t a Government
bus on Sydney roads; now they are
everywhere. It is almost wholly a
bureaucratic venture, the Government
humbly accepting the subordinate part
assigned to it—that of finding the money
when officialdom orders more buses or
wants to go travelling abroad.
Sydney “D.T.” is still astonishing
students of astrology and of the adven-
tures of Mandrake the Magician with
revelations of secrets kept for it by its
implacable enemies the Berlin-Rome-
Tokio axis chaps. The latest example:
JAPAN BRUSQUE TO BRITAIN
AND U.S.
Tokio, Tuesday.
A blunt rejection of requests from Britain
and the United States to respect the “open
door” to China is expected soon.
Hitherto the Japanese have been almost
painfully polite, but to the “D.T.” alone
they confided that they are going to be
“brusque” and “blunt.” They fnust think
the world of young Mr. Packer.
Assistant-Minister Harrison wastes
time denying New Guinea “sensations”
invented in Sydney by the “Daily News.”
They are such clumsy concoctions that
they refute themselves. A recent one
was all about “the-Nazi development of
New Guinea as a German colony” by
“the immigration of thousands of Jap-
anese.” The information was alleged to
be on the “files” of “Senator MacLeay’s
department.” McLeay (not MacLeay)
has been leader of the Senate for a trifle
over two months, and he has no
department.
C. O. J. Monro, M.L.A., who seems
to run Cronulla (N.S.W.), to the “Sunday
Sun”: —
Since bringing about the construction of
the Sutherland-Cronulla railway I have had
the great satisfaction of seeing it grow
rapidly. The route is six miles long.
And the cost? Monro didn’t mention
it, but the first year’s loss on £297,000
(“estimated cost of construction, exclusive
of earthworks, resumptions and compen-
sation”) was officially estimated at
£22,100. The betting in Macquarie-
street is that annual loss will be a
great deal more, especially as the Trans-
port Department has since made a point
of running fleets of buses to beaches
much nearer Sydney than Cronulla. But
if it reached £50,000 Monro’s political
hide would remain unpierced.
With the recurrence of fighting in Spain
the simple formula that Great Dailies
apply to the civil war has been trotted
out again. When the Red side wins it
is because “the Italians” can’t fight;
when it loses it is because “the Italians”
were present in overwhelming numbers.
It has been losing the last fortnight, and
“S.M.H.” and “D.T.” are sure it is
because “the Italians” are ten to one, or
something like that.
“A decent respect to the opinions of
mankind.” —Jefferson in the Declaration
of Independence. “A decent respect for
the opinions of mankind.”—Roosevelt in
his January message to Congress. Some
American Presidents are fond of such
quotations. In one of his many notes
Woodrow Wilson quoted Luther: “God
helping me, I can do no other.” It was
thought to have had some effect on
Protestant German opinion.
The flop of the season in London is
the so-called Centre party. Churchill’s
son-in-law, Sandys, M.P., started it; son
Randolph attended the first meeting—
along with a few dissatisfied New Tories
and Old Liberals, Low and the Duchess
of Atholl —and Pa held himself in readi-
ness to give it leadership; but it splut-
tered out in a few weeks. One of the
disgruntled principals was Wickham
Steed, formerly of the “Times” and
nowadays of the English “Mush of
Time” films. Wickham Steed is a great
linguist—he can talk provoking nonsense
in 13 languages.


THE UNDERSTANDING COW.
“A rare degree of sympathetic understanding between master and beast is often to be observed among the farming community.


TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN OHIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors?
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of r the Trust:
BOX 4028 V,V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
A
Mm.
Wm
A
ota
SIZE 72x60'
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION offers
through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL COL-
LEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence: —
RURAL COURSES
Agriculture, Care of Animals, Wool Classing,
Station Bookkeeping, Diesel Engineering, Farm
Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL COURSES
Accountancy, Auditing, Bookkeeping, Busi-
ness Principles, Commercial Law, Commercial
Correspondence, Shorthand.
TRADE COURSES
Carpentry and Joinery, Building Construc-
tion, Electrical Trades, Composing, Sewer
Plumbing, Water Plumbing, Trades Drawing,
House Drainage.
CERTIFICATE COURSES
Health Inspection, Meat Inspection, Food
Inspection, Local Government Clerks.
MISECLLANEOUS COURSES
Ticket and Showcard Writing, Elementary
Art, Dressmaking, Millinery.
SECONDARY SUBJECTS (Intermediate and
leaving certificate standards).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT ATTEND
CENTRAL, BRANCH OR COUNTRY
TECHNICAL COLLEGES.
FEES:
Single subjects: 25/- per annum or 10/- per
term. Students under 21 years and receiv-
ing less than 30/- weekly pay half-fees.
SEND FOR SYLLABUS TO
Secretary,' Correspondence Teaching Division,
Sydney Technical College, Ultimo.
A. W. HICKS,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
PERTONAL ITEM S
Now that the almost State-wide confla-
gration in Victoria has died down, the
man who will be doing most of the
thinking about it will be Alfred Vernon
Galbraith, chairman of the Forests Com-
mission. The lessons learnt from the
1926 disaster produced a fire-fighting
organisation which, inadequate as it
still is, was far more efficient than
the shambling arrangements that pre-
ceded it. Observation towers, Air Force
reconnaissance, Red Cross and city
ambulance units, a voluntary fire brigade
with each section commanded by a forests
officer, gas masks and training courses
were all part of the equipment used last
week in dozens of widely separated
areas. The need for reconnaissance cars,
equipped with wireless in touch with
headquarters in the Treasury Building in
Melbourne, which will cruise in the
vicinity of all danger areas, has been
made glaringly obvious—wildly
erroneous reports flowed into Melbourne.
Galbraith wants a stiffer penalty for fire-
starters than the present £2OO fine or two
years. He was born in Geelong, and has
been a forests officer almost since boy-
hood.
C. I. Demby, the forestry officer who,
with Barling, was burned to death when
a change of wind caught a dozen fire-
fighters at Toolangi (Vic.), was a member
of Harry Rickards’s troupe when that
showman presented variety at the old
Opera House in Melbourne. Demby
appeared as a champion axeman and
crosscut - sawyer. He served in France
with the A.LF. for three years, and joined
the Vic. Forestry Department after the
Armistice.
David Myers, director of the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Standards, is on
his way to England
for 18 months’ re-
search work. His
wife, formerly
Beverley Delprat,
and his parents also
will make the trip
later. His father,
W. H. Myers, is
head of the electrical
branch of the
N.S.W. Railways
and will link busi-
ness with pleasure.
Nobody knew
better how to make
the desert flower
than botanist Albert
Morris, dead at 52
in Broken Hill. His
specialty was desert
cultivation. Born at
Bridgewater (S.A.),
he went to Broken
Hill in his child-
hood, and became
interested in the
problem of saving
that metropolis from
being buried in sand-
drift. He practised
his science in
Mexico, California
and South Africa,
and then returned to
apply what he had
learnt to the re-
generation of the
shifting environs of
the Silver City. Up to the time of
his death he continued to receive in-
quiries from parts of the world where
sand drift is a major problem.
Many philanthropies stand to the credit
of Andrew Reid, Scottish-born Sydney
businessman, passed over at 73. He
made money in tannery supplies and
rubber, with sidelines in coal and ship-
ping, and as a hobby bred Aberdeen
Angus cattle. Soon after the Great War
he endowed a home at Burnside Orphan-
age, and brought out and installed there
25 Irish boys, war orphans. He estab-
lished also the N. S. Wales Fairbridge
Farm School, erected and endowed the
Margaret Reid Home for Crippled Chil-
dren at St. Ives, and made many sub-
stantial gifts to Knox College.
A. R. Penfold, head of the Tech.
Museum, Sydney, and a scientist who has
done notable research work on Australian
essential oils, is to sail on January 28 on
a tour of 8j months. He will run over
Britain, Europe and the U.S.A. hunting
plans and ideas for the new museum —
for which a site has yet to be found.
H. G. Wells met at Canberra an old
schoolmate whom he had not seen for
over 50 years. As lads he and Frederick
Chapman, at one time palaeontologist at
the Melbourne Museum, sat side by side
at the Kensington Science College and
walked home together putting the world
right. Chapman stayed under Prof. Judd,
the geologist, but Wells found Judd too
strict in discipline and went over to
Huxley. One of Chapman’s recreations
is picking out old schoolmates as charac-
ters in Wells’s books.
Andree Hayward, whose verses have
been a feature of The Bulletin since
1922, is the son of an early South Aus-
tralian pastoralist who left his name on
the map. An Oxford graduate, Andree
practised law in South Africa, but, not
liking it, he emigrated to Westralia in
“I. THE R.”
(Modelled by Frith.)
1893. There he edited and wrote rhymes
for the Cue “Advocate,” the Geraldton
“Express,” the Kalgoorlie “Sun” and the
Perth “Sunday Times,” in the meantime
publishing a slim volume of verse, Along
the Road to Cue (1898). A tall veteran
with humorous eyes and a bushy mo.
which he has never sacrificed to the
claims of fashion, “T. the R.’s” powers
as a writer show no sign of dimming
with the years, and his joy in a literary
argument is as keen as ever.
A later generation of Queensland
politicians has almost forgotten John
Mann, than whom there was only one
person more Scotch in the Bananaland
Assembly 30 years ago his leader,
Wullie Kidston. John was a Mann of
Ross. He arrived in the North in ’B9
and tramped several hundred miles look-
ing for a job. He found one or two —
one helping build the Cairns-Mareeba
railway. “ ’Ninety-three” stopped that,
so he took to dairying. Ticks collared
most of his herd. He got another job
helping to build a tramway, saved a little
money and started canegrowing on the
wilderness of Homebush in ’97. Seven
years later he was in Parliament, and in
1909, with James Blair, Peter Airey,
“Kuropatkin” Murphy, and others, was
a seceder from the Kidston party at the
time of the Philp fusion. Big Bill Mc-
Cormack ousted Mann from his seat in
1912, but John continued to be a power
in the North, wielding a well-sharpened
pen and confounding forgetful enemies
with a memory which was like a com-
bination of museum, police record index
and photographic exhibition. He died
the other day at 69.
Dr. H. Petri, leader of the Frobenius
expedition to n.-w. Australia, after a stay
in Melbourne, has gone to Adelaide, and
will visit Perth before leaving
for Germany in February. He
is mainly interested in abo-
riginal rock paintings, but has
also been collecting objects of
material culture and various
ethnological treasures for the
Frankfort-on-the-Main Ethno-
logical Museum —which already
has extensive collections from
Australia. Dr. Petri found in
the Kimberleys numerous rock
paintings so old that the natives
knew nothing about them, and
he took about 400 photographs
of rock drawings.
Once a headliner in vaude-
ville and an acrobatic star in
the palmy days of the spangle-
and-sawdust business, Jules
Ajax has taken his last call at
63. Born at Avignon (France),
he climbed high in the enter-
tainment world. Among his
associates in the days of his
prime were Florenz Ziegfeld
and Eugene Sandow. Some
years before the war Ajax was
brought to Australia under
engagement to the Tivoli cir-
cuit. He liked the country, par-
ticularly Queensland, and finally
settled down to hotelkeeping. Prior to
retirement he was for many years
licensee of the Hotel Coolangatta (Q.).
After 34 years as headmaster of
Townsville Grammar School, one of the
five old and money-starved grammar
schools which provided most of the
secondary education in Queensland till
after the war, P. F. Rowland has retired.
He had become almost as much a
Townsville landmark as Castle Hill. A
couple of his boys won Rhodes scholar-
ships, and the school in the height of
his career there took more than its share
of university scholarships. Rowland’s
main civic enthusiasm was for a northern
art gallery and museum. He and an-
other citizen made a house-to-house
canvass of a great part of Townsville,
and raised enough money to buy a site,
but the scheme went no further.
Trying to dodge weed and worm for
a time in Sydney Harbor are a couple
of Dutchmen, Frank and Peter Dona,
three years out from Seattle (U.S.A.) in
the 35ft. yawl Marie. They built the
boat themselves after the plans of Harry
Pidgeon’s Islander (Pidgeon claimed to
be the first man to sail around the globe
in a boat of his own making), collecting
the cash from the sale, up and down
America, of the wooden clogs they made,
and from Frank’s lecturing on Holland
in U.S. schools. That, too, is the way
they’re working their way around the
globe, gathering just enough to provision
the ship for the next stretch. In N.S.W.
they’ve run into stormy times, the Edu-
cation Department holding that their
lecturing could not be considered educa-
tional, so they’ll need some other job.
Frank, the philosopher of the party, is
41, Peter some years younger. What-
ever he is, neither of them looks his age.
The coolest head in Melbourne during
the recent heat-wave was on the shoul-
ders of M. Carver, the fire-control officer
appointed by the Forests Commission to
direct fire-fighting operations after the
1926 disaster, when 31 men, women and
children were immolated. When he
began there were a bare 68 bushfire
brigades. Now there are well over 300.
Carver not only marshals and manoeuvres
his scattered army, but organises supply
and commissariat. He does it from a
room in the Public Offices overlooking
the cool shades of the Treasury Gardens.
The pending visit to Australia of that
massive liner the Dominion Monarch
brings into the spotlight the represen-
tative of her owners, Ernest Arthur Eva,
Australian g.m. of the Aberdeen, Com-
monwealth and Shaw, Savill and Albion
E. A. EVA.
lines. He’s a Maorilander, born in
Dunedin 66 years ago; started work
as a junior clerk in the office of the
Union S.S. Co., and climbed without
much delay to branch managerships in
various Australasian ports. In 1917 he
was manager of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s steamship line, and has been
head of Shaw, Savill and Albion’s Aus-
tralian interests since 1928. Has a grown-
up-and-married family, lives at Rose Bay,
and is just beginning to think tennis is
a wee bit strenuous when the mercury
taps its head against 100.
Lord Lamington, who at the age of 78
is paying Australia another visit, became
Governor of Queensland at 36, and spent
six years on the job ; he was in the saddle
when the Commonwealth was inaugu-
rated, on the first day of 1901. The six
ether vice-regal personages of that era,
among them Hopetoun, Beauchamp and
Tennyson, have all passed over. Queens-
land’s National Park bears Lamington’s
name. But his principal claim to fame
lies in the fact that an enterprising pastry-
cook named a confection in his honor,
and Lamingtons still form part of the
lunch-hour dietary of many Brisbane
working girls.
Mrs. Maria Plunkett, dead in Queens-
land at 90, arrived from Ireland with her
parents only two years behind the then
colony’s first Governor. With her hus-
band she helped pioneer the Albert
and Logan district. Her son, T. F.
Plunkett, is member for the Albert, and
a daughter married into the Beaudesert
storekeeping Enright family.


/
%
/4
A
/a
£
7a
\
/
A
Vi
Ardath Specials are super-
quality cigarettes of highest
grade Virginia leaf. Made for
modern-minded smokers who
demand the best.
Tins of 20 for 1/6.
Also Laube boxes of 10 for 9d.
Flat and Round 50’s and 100’s.
1
NfT
X
&***.-&
m
0327-12-8


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nevertire”: The boss was entertain-
ing the boys at the homestead. The
shearers’ cook, an old salt, was relat-
ing how once he and a companion had
been stranded on an uninhabited island
in the Southern Indian Ocean. “How did
you manage for grub?” someone asked.
“Oh, first-rate,” he replied. “Never ’ad
such feeds o’ roast goose in me life. Y’
see, great flocks of wild geese used to
roost at night on the mangrove-trees.
To knock ’em on the ’ead was dead
easy.” “But,” protested the boss’s young
son, “geese don’t roost; they’re web-
footed for swimming.” The bab. looked
contemptuously at the cause of the inter-
ruption. “That shows you’ve never
cruised in the Indian Ocean or you’d
know the wild geese in those parts are
built with one foot webbed for swim-
min’ and the other clawed for roostin’.”
* H= * *
“T.D.”: Ringbarking is not unknown
in Britain, though rarely practised. At
Tan-y-Bwlch (North Wales) I saw some
birches which the Forestry Commission
(headed by a South Australian, Sir Roy
Robinson) had had ringbarked to make
room for pines. Under the name of gird-
ling, ringbarking is an old custom in
North America, where it was practised
by the Indians of the Atlantic States
before the white man came. So it was,
by the way, by the Chatham Islanders.
Atkinson mentions ringbarking as used
in clearing land in N.S.W. in his book
published in 1826. Some settlers, he says,
used to cut down the trees and then ring-
bark the stumps.
* * * *
“A.F.”: In the heat-wave the top of
our Coolgardie safe became a watering-
place for bees. As many as a hundred
would be clustered at the one time, and
we were able to touch or lightly stroke
them with impunity. The kid of the
household was fascinated. One day, fish-
ing one out of the water a black, sodden,
seemingly lifeless bit of substance, she
thought of artificial respiration, the out-
come of gruelling training at school. For
the necessary warmth she set up a con-
stant huffing, and proceeded by squeez-
ing the insect lightly. A faint movement
was followed by a steady beating as
breath came again. It took half an hour’s
incessant puffing and blowing before the
bee, its wings and down quite dry, took
off from the youngster’s hand. “What’s
good for the goose” she grinned. She
had tried much the same method on half-
suffocated chickens, with equally good
results.
» * * *
“Hard Hat”: What is a left-handed
shoveller, anyway? Working at the coal-
face it is always necessary for one of the
team of two to be left-handed. I fill
from the right side of the skip ; my mate
from the left —both of us claim to be
the maulie.
* * * *
“Rook”: Have just read a “Geographi-
cal Magazine” account of station life a day
and a half from Sydney. There were 11
boundary-riders, each living 80 miles
apart, so you can imagine the size; they
reported every evening by ’phone. Can’t
make out if it was a stud station, but
there were 20,000 rams, so presumably it
was ; and many of the boundary-riders
“probably have drink to thank for their
isolation” —on a stud farm! Mustering
a 35,000-acre paddock is carried out by
the stockmen riding out from the centre
in radiating lines, keeping in touch by
shouting. Drafting is according to age,
sex and quality of wool —all at a run.
Presumably the ewes and rams are on
good terms. Tails are cut off to stop
the lambs’ fat all running into them.
Shearers are a coarse lot who drink
metho. when the beer runs out, but never-
theless they can put up a tally of 200.
And dipping is necessary after shearing
because the sheep get cuts and dipping
prevents blowing. There’s lot more like
this. Twelve of the illustrations are pro-
vided by the Australian National Travel
Association.
* * * *
“Spinner”: Brer Rabbit has a new
form of destruction to his debit in the
valley of the Cox River (N.S.W.). For
years local sportsmen have spent time and
money trying to establish brown trout
and perch in the stream, and until re-
cently it looked as if the Cox might de-
velop into one of the best angling streams
in the State. But the fishermen’s hopes
have been dashed. Rubble hillsides on
both banks of the stream have been so
denuded of binding vegetation by the
“Jackie him no come up. Mine tinkit him bin caught in undertow .”
grey pests that every sizable hole from
Duckmaloi to the Kanangara River has
silted up. In the recent dry spell hun-
dreds of young trout died in the mud of
the rabbit-ruined watercourse.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Old shearers seem to
be in the same category as old soldiers.
A South Australian, Locke, has com-
pleted his 62nd year of jumbuck-bar-
bering. Starting off at the Schank station,
S.A., in 76, the veteran hasn’t missed a
shearing there since. That must beat all
records by about a decade.
H* H*
“Heresone”: So “Hanko” thinks
Leason’s mopoke is a “frogmouth owl”
(B. 21/12/’38)? The bird depicted is cer-
tainly the mopoke, alias frogmouth, but
doesn’t in the least resemble an owl,
apart from its nocturnal habits. To “H.,”
I suppose, bats and mossies are species of
owl. A tame mopoke will certainly eat
dead mice, but it swallows them whole,
like its distant relative the kookaburra,
while owls tear up their prey. In its wild
state it lives mainly on moths caught on
the wing, a sport for which its wide mouth
and weak bill are well adapted. The con-
fusion of names is, however, pardon-
able. It is the boobook owl that utters
the “mopoke” call, though fairly reliable
observers claim that the frogmouth does,
on occasion, speak the same language.
Its usual call is a rapidly-repeated “oo-
oom, 00-oom,” in a bass key, suggesting
a low-pitched version of the call of the
domestic pigeon.
* * * *
“Beat”: Mr. Emu takes his paternal
duties so seriously that, not satisfied with
his own offspring, he usually goes out
of his way to rob other feathery fathers
of theirs. Have seen a proud pa strutting
through the bush with over twenty chicks
in tow. Ma? She’s only the female who
lays the eggs, in his opinion.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Hikers were giving one
Maoriland farmer a lot of trouble, break-
ing down fences and tramping over
newly-ploughed ground, etc., so one even-
ing he lay in wait in the tea-tree, armed
with a stout strap. In the dusk, as some
hikers were crossing the paddock, Dad
rushed out and gave chase. They all got
away except one, apparently an effemi-
nate youth, who stumbled and when
caught started to blubber. The strap that
was immediately wielded was having
little seeming effect through the thick
shorts. “I’ll soon alter that!” said Dad,
and, despite the yells and screams of the
hiker, the protective garment was lowered
and the strap applied vigorously. Later,
Dad picked up a handkerchief which the
hiker had dropped. He returned home
and informed Mum of the incident, who
warmly endorsed Dad’s action. But what
puzzled Mum was why a youth should
be carrying round a 4in. x 4in. hand-
kerchief with “Mabel” emblazoned there-
on!
ifc 5*C
“George W.”: The young louts of the
village bragging about the homing in-
stincts of pigeons was too much for Bill.
Knocking the ashes from his pipe on the
log he snorted: “Bah! Cockatoos can
beat all yer ’omin’ birds ; and, besides,
they’re more ’uman. We ’ad a bonzer
white cocky one time, an’ when ’is
wings grew ’e beat it for the bush. Fol-
lowin’ year we were out shootin’, and I
was just about to blaze at one bird which
didn’t go at the call of the sentry when
a voice came from the tree: ‘Don’t shoot,
Bill; I’ll go straight ’ome and be a good
boy!’ Blow me if it wasn’t our old
bird!”
* * * *
“T.D.”: There is a safety-first Pint for
snake collectors in Matthew Flinders’s
account of his voyage along the south
coast of Australia in 1802. Climbing a
hill on Thistle Island, he found a
speckled yellow snake asleep. Flinders,
by pressing the butt-end of a musket on
the snake’s neck, held him down while
his sailing-master, John Thistle, sewed up
its mouth with a sailmaker’s needle and
twine. Then they took the snake on
board.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The agent who was
scouring the district for pigs knew of
Duncan’s aversion to modern transport
methods, so, figuring out what it would
cost the old Scot in the way of hiring
trucks, he allowed the margin between
his prices at farm and at siding accord-
ingly. Duncan closed on the latter, and,
as no amount of reasoning could' shift
him, the agent accepted the position and
wondered what trick the other had up
his sleeve. On the day on which de-
livery was arranged Duncan opened all
his sties and, making queer noises such
as could be learnt only on his native
heath, headed off down the road. Over
three miles of cart tracks, then four
miles along the rabbit-proof fence and
another three miles down the road those
pigs followed Duncan to the siding,
where young Andy had the railway
trucks well stocked with food. A job
that would have taken a truck all day
occupied little more than half, and when
the agent saw the condition of the pigs
he offered Duncan good money as a
permanent Pied Piper. Duncan refused.
Reckoned the pigs had to be trained.
* * * *
“Dougal”: “Narrerest squeak I ever
’ad,” said old Sam, “wus the time me
life wus saved by white-ants. Me and
Pannikin Ned wus doin’ a bit o’ clearin’
in heavily-timbered country in West Oss.
We soon finds the place is absolutely
lousy with termites of every kind and
breed. Cripes, they wus tigers! An’
fast! They’d ’ave a tin o’ jam, includin’
the tin itself, et before y’ could get the
tin-opener "alf-way round it. Well, one
mornin’ Pannikin ’as ter go inter town,
an’ w’ile ’e’s away I sets about choppin’
down a big white-gum. I just about got
it cut through w’en I sees it’s goin’ ter
fall the wrong way, and I makes ter run ;
but me foot catches on a root and down
I goes face first right in the path of that
blarsted failin’ tree. I reckons I’ll be
crushed ter death sure,
but nothin’ ’appens
except that I’m covered
with white powder
and leaves. Then 1
looks up, an’, “’struth, I
realises wot’s ’appened!
That tree ’ad been per-
fectly sound w’en it
started failin’, but the
white-ants had started
on it in mid-air, and
chewed the damn’ thing
up before it c’d strike
the ground!”
* *
“T.P.H.”: Met an
old - timer humping
matilda on the Wil-
cannia-Cobar (N.S.W.)
road during a big dust-
storm. He was crack-
ing a stockwhip contin-
uously. When 1 in-
quired what the idea
was, he abruptly told
me that the whip kept
a space in front of him
free from dust and
flies. He could see
better where to walk.
* *
* “Pomegranate”: Give
Choom a chance,
“Simon Scrawler” (B.
4/1/’39). I had worked
horses in four Severn
Valley shires, but not till I reached Aus-
tralia had I seen or heard of a horse-
collar that was put on any other way
than by wriggling it over Dobbin’s head
upside down and then turning it round
the narrowest part of his gullet; for
collars were made that way, without an
opening along the crown. Note how the
inverted collar is horse-face shaped. The
easy, open collar was one of the first
Aussie improvements on the Old Dart
type to impress me for fixing the Eng-
lish collar on a young or frisky moke was
no picnic. The Aussie Choom getting a
job in Worcs, Staffs, Salop, Glos or
Somerset would, when given a horse-
collar to put on, appear just as ludicrous
as Bedford Choom in Riverina. The
closed collar had one good point: it did
not break where the Aussie collar is first
to break —at the pipe, through straining
by opening.
* * * *
“Huglow”: How much heat and fire
can a fox put up with and yet live?
I saw one that had fought its way out
of a burning log; with an ear burnt off,
the pads of its feet scorched through,
the flesh burnt from its tail and not a
vestige of hair left on its body, it sur-
vived. When I last saw it (I hadn’t the
heart to shoot it) Reynard was well on
the way to a new growth of hair.
OLD HOUSES.
Old houses, leaning, crumbling, semi-rotten,
With beards of mottled moss the years have
grown;
Ihe men who built them gone and now for-
gotten,
Their names, their graves alike, unmarked,
unknown —•
Old houses, roofs awry and rafters riven,
Like aged men doomed when death throws
down the gage:
They knew high praise and not in vain have
striven
To claim a place on history’s crowded page.
Old houses, sagging, leaking, slowly falling;
Their walls that rang with mirth and revelry,
The convicts once, mayhap with curses calling
Down maledictions, won for masters free
At mould or quarry; then to face and fashion
As brick or stone, and set them straight and
true:
Not now are they the slaves of men or passion;
Down to the dregs they drank life's bitter
rue.
Old houses slowly, surely, still returning
To dust—that dust whence man himself has
sprung;
Still, vagrant thoughts would quest with eager
yearning:
Who lived and loved in them when all was
young?
Though freemen’s toil and newer modes replace
them
With homes of concrete and cold steel de-
signed,
And old ways die as newer ways efface them,
Old houses, like old friends, are long in mind.
N.S.W.
Paul Cupid.


“Wang”: “It’s funny how an innercent
remark will cause trouble at times,” re-
marked Dan. “There wus a mob of us
work in’ on a big railway contract job,
includin’ a coup]a young chaps from the
same district a coupla hundred miles orf ;
their ole men were neighbors. One day
just after the mail had been delivered I’m
strollin’ around an’ come on the pair of
’em standin’ together. One of ’em’s
holdin’ a photer of a bonzer kid about
three munce old. I takes a look at it,
claps him on the back hearty, an’ says,
'Good on yer, lad. That’s a fine kid. No
need to tell me yer its father ; it’s the
livin’ image of yer,’ an’ I go on me way
feelin’ like a Boy Scout what’s done his
good deed fer the day. A coupla hours
later 1 meet a bloke who tells me I’ve
missed the best fight he’s seen fer years.
It turns out it’s between them two young
blokes from the same district. ‘An’ you
wus the cause of it,’ he ses. ‘Me!’ I ses,
astonished. ‘Whatcher mean?’ ‘That
photer of the kid yer praised up,’ he
ses. ‘lt belonged to the other bloke ; the
feller who wus lookin’ at it when you
eome along ain’t married!”’
=K * * *
“The 0.D.”: Talking of scavenging
birds (B. 4/1 /’39), it’s a pity the common
gulls along our coasts couldn’t be encour-
aged as have those that make a first-
class job of cleaning up all edible rub-
bish discarded by campers at Narooma
(N.S.W.). There, where hundreds of tents
mushroom on the sports oval and along
the inlet front during holidays, a couple
of hundred gulls spend all their time.
They squabble over titbits, investigate
garbage-tins, keep a hawklike watch on
every tent, and have become so bold that
they’ll filch food from the cooking pots
should the camper turn a back on them
“Now do I get me first-aid badge?”
"I jist fancied a bit of smoked fish, skipper .”
for a moment. Small children feed them
as they do pigeons in other places.
Narooma fears nothing from waste food-
stuffs.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Among the queerest
of all queer fish are the anglers, which
with rod and bait lure other fish within
reach of their capacious mouths. There
are several species in Australian waters,
sluggish creatures, mostly not more than
a few inches long and capable of alter-
ing their color to match the weedy or
muddy bottoms on which they lie. Rod
and bait really consist of a specially-
modified dorsal fin. The giant of the
race, the black deep-sea angler, lives hun-
dreds of fathoms down in the North
Atlantic, and instead of the usual flesh-
colored “bait” has a light attached to
its rod-tip. The females grow to more
than 3ft. long and to great bulk, but the
male remains a little parasitic fingerling
attached for all his life to his partner’s
underside, and nourished by her blood. It
would make an admirable crest for one
of the more ferocious kinds of Feminist
Movement.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Bray Rock’s”
statement (B. 21 /12/’3B) that the white
of turtle eggs does not coagulate on
boiling may be the explanation I’ve been
seeking. Hens and ducks turn their eggs
regularly during hatching, and the in-
cubator attendant is under the same
necessity. The turtle, whose eggs are
buried, obviously can’t turn them, even
if they weren’t packed so tightly that a
man equipped with only his bare hands
can't shift them without their breaking.
Maybe ihe same feature that makes turn-
ing unnecessary accounts for the unusual
behavior of its white. Do mallee-hen
eggs act similarly?
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Death springs on the
miner in strange and unforeseen ways,
but possibly the oddest and certainly the
mosi tern Die pounce was that which be-
fell a couple of men on a Kalgoorlie
show on which I once held a job.
Crosscutting at the bottom level, 700 ft.
down, a couple of contractors up on the
surface for crib bethought to take below
on their return a nearly-full case of dyna-
mite. This was open, several plugs lying
loose. As usual, both were finishing their
after-crib smoke, their pipes going full
blast, when they stepped into the cage.
Two hundred feet down, water came into
the shaft. Steadily the cage descended
to the 700, then stopped. All well, appa-
rently. Fifteen minutes later the watch-
ing engine-driver became interested in a
peculiar bluish haze slowly issuing from
the mouth of the shaft. Another 15
minutes and, anxious now at the absence
of all signals, he slowly brought the cage
to the surface. In it were two charred
corpses, clad only in boots and waistbelts.
At the 200, where the water came in, one
had evidently reversed his pipe, miner
fashion. The red-hot coal of tobacco had
fallen into the midst of the loose plugs.
Then the following 500 ft. with the mass
of dynamite burning in all its chemical
fury. No way to signal stop. No escape.
Locked in by the iron cage and the
closely boarded shaft. Anyone who has
seen dynamite burn can realise what
an inferno that cage had been.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: A botanical curiosity of
N.Q. is the knotwood tree, which attains
a diameter of about 30in. Its flowers and
fruit grow on
the trunk in-
stead of on the
branches and
twigs. Numer-
ous knots or lumps first
appear, warting the trunk
from near the ground
upwards. These assume
a pinkish color, then
burst into white blos-
soms, many of the boles
being profusely covered,
giving them a most strik-
ing appearance. The
flowers are followed by
clusters of white-colored
edible fruit resembling
small apples. They are
rather insipid, though
some northern women
make jelly with them.
There are at least three
kinds of these abnormal
trees on the Atherton
Tableland.
* * *
“R.W.V.”: Although
the nomadic abo. is gen-
erally supposed to have
led an existence of alter-
nately starving and gorg-
ing, Dusky Brother of the
N.Q. coast doesn’t ap-
pear to have been greatly
inconvenienced. Before
the white man came with
his dynamite every creek
and lagoon swarmed
with fish. Turkey, scrub
hen and wallaby were
everywhere, and the islands near the
coast were the breeding-ground for
myriads of pigeon. If all else failed
them, oysters and shellfish were in
abundance. As an example of the
plenitude of food, there was at one
time an enormous kitchen midden at
Mourilyan. Almost 20ft. high, and cover-
ing more than half an acre, it was com-
posed entirely of fish bones and oyster
shells, and must have been a favorite
camping-place for the local tribes for
generations. An enterprising white
fisherman who made his home near by
used it as a vegetable garden. His vege-
tables were the finest on the coast.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The largest pair of buffalo
horns in the Queensland Museum
measure sft. from tip to tip, and 6ft. Bin.
round the outer curve. They came from
an outcast bull shot some years ago in
the Burketown (N.Q.) district, whither it
had wandered from the N.T. Lately
another of the same kind established
itself there in scrubby country and be-
came such a menace to travellers that a
party was formed to go out and shoot
it. The hunt extended over two days,
and included some exciting incidents be-
fore a fatal shot could be got in. Carcass
weighed close on a ton ; horns were sft.
between tips and 6ft. on the outer curves.
What are the Australian record measure-
ments for buffalo horns? The biggest
known pair are in the British Museum
from a bull shot in India—l2ft. llin.
round the outer curves.
* * * *
“Wandi”: A snake-killer with special
claims to distinction is Boggai, the
shingleback lizard, found on N.S.W.
north-western plains. It is the slowest
Australian reptile ; it has only one young
at a time, which is brought forth alive.
Though toothless (it is a vegetarian) its
powerful jaws and armor of brown-and-
yellow scales (giving it the rough appear-
ance of a shingled surface), enable it to
vanquish any snake its gets into conflict
with. It grows to 14in. long, its tail-
end being broad and stumpy. I have
seen it in the open in midsummer when
the common goanna kept in the shade ;
and it is sometimes found so far from
water that it is believed to be a total
abstainer. No doubt in fair seasons suc-
culent herbage provides it with both food
and drink. Like the overlanding tortoise,
it makes no attempt to escape when
approached.
♦. & & s>
“Nosmo”: I was helping the boss put
up a rabbit-proof fence when, coming to
a small outcrop of granite, he decided
to blast a path through it. The boss
knew little enough about the game, but
I knew less. Wearing an old pair of
trousers as overalls, he started in with
a gad and hammer. After he’d finished
drilling he set the charge, looked around
to see if I was well clear, lit the fuse and
then bolted for safety. But he reckoned
without the overalls, which slipped their
moorings and fell around his ankles,
bringing him down as neatly as any
Rugby tackle. In spite of all his frantic
efforts to dislodge them they continued
to bring him down regularly every five
yards. His performance as a drunken
jumping-jack was the one bright spot
in an otherwise dismal existence.
GIRTH AND GRACE.
“It’s a fact, now,” said Barney the Barrel, and
stroked quite a number of chins,
“That your skinny cove’s awkward an’ clumsy,
an’ mostly dead slow on ’is pins.
But it’s just the reverse with the fat bloke.
’E’ll chuck ’imself round like a sprite
An’ trip about light as a feather; though,
mindja, I’m not out to skite.
“But I just want to give yer a ninstance. Some
scrubbers i’m pilotin’ once
From fhe Mitchell across to Kiipattha; I d
bin on the track for some munce.
Well, I just gits across the Georgina (there
isn’t much grass to be ’ad)
When a terrible duststorm approaches, an’ that
ravenous mob they goes mad.
“I was ridin’ in front o’ them cattle when,
wild-eyed, they broke with a rush,
An’ it’s on’y a matter of seconds an’ I must
be caught in the crush.
Now, me pony’s a wonderful speedster an’
might git away on ’is own,
But with me on ’is back ’e’s a goner, for me
ridin’ weight’s seventeen stone.
“It. was lucky for me that the country was
saltbush, an’ flat as a pan,
An’ them steers, jambed together, was Short-
horns. I suddenly thinks of a plan;
I just eases me moke for a ninstant, stands up
in the saddle, turns round,
Then on to the nut of the leader I leaps in
one nicely-judged bound.
“I dances two steps down ’is backbone, then
on to the next in the pack,
An’ so on right through till I comes to the
last of the mob at the back.
Just a turn an’ a ’alf an’ a sidescrew, an’ fair
on me trilbies I land,
An’ so light that, so ’elp me, me footprints
ain’t visible there in the sand 1”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


behind the
Never-ending horizon
Beyond the ocean’s rim are many
strange lands in which routine and customs are interest-
ingly different. Opportunity to see all there is to see
is governed by the length of your stay, and the facilities
for obtaining local currency. By the use of Travellers’
cheques and Letters of Credit issued by the National
Bank conversion of your funds into the required amount
of local money is quickly and easily secured. Also,
by using them, you are protected against pickpockets
and hotel thieves. For full information regarding
bookings, insurance of luggage, accommodation, and
all other travel problems, see the Officers of the Bank’s
Travel Bureau. They will be glad to give you every
assistance.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated* in Victoria)
62-T6-38
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
LUDOWICI PIONEER
j
LEATHER BELTING
In the Power Transmission Field, Pioneer Leather Belting
stands supreme with a standard of quality unrivalled
for 80 years. Many of the largest industrial under-
takings in Australia are equiped with this dependable
Belting that is made by the oldest established, and
by far the largest leather belting manufacturers in
the Southern Hemisphere.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 159,103 111 p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ „ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929.. 160,637 10 p.c. = 141,909 18,728 383,014
Share premiums, £5O .. .. 383,064
1930.. 118,347 7* p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
1931.. 91,554 6$ „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 8} ~ ~125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 6i „ „ 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 7* „ „ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8$ „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ ~143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
This holding co. keeps the curtain drawn
over the figures of its subsidiaries', and
its own accounts don’t tell more than
they have to, which isn’t much. Out-
siders, therefore, know little of the real
position. The market, however, is pre-
pared to back the management on the
strength of the co.’s history and its grip
upon the trade in Australia and else-
where.
At the end of October last the
£1,430,173 of capital, together with the
reserves and £52,014 (down £48,620) of
other money mostly advances from
associated cos. was represented by
shares and interests in a string of sub-
sidiaries which are in the jam-making,
fruit-canning and -preserving and general
merchandising businesses. These sub-
sidiaries are scattered all over the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland, and extend
to England and S. Africa as well.
It is 29 years since the co. stepped
in where there were overlapping and in-
efficiency in organisation. For the 20
years to the close of accounts in 1929,
divs. averaged a wink under 11 p.c.,
sweetened with £455,492 of bonus scrip
in 1927, though share premiums (£59,039)
take some of the gilt off the gingerbread.
Slump and other things brought the rate
of div. down to 6+ p.c. in 1931, since
when overproduction of canned fruits,
etc., and price-cutting by Government-
assisted factories have produced fluctu-
ating results.
During the last term income from
outside Australia remained unchanged at
£54,850 (28 p.c. of the total), but there
was a drop of £7517 net in returns from
Australian sources:
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Net income:—
Australian. . £55,674 £95,772 £145,264 £137.747
Other sources 35,886 53,850 54,850 54,850
Total .. £91,554 £149,622 £200,114 £192',597
The £192,597 of profit claimed was 13.4
p.c. on capital as against 14, 13.7, 10.4,
9.4, 7.7, 11.9, 6.4, 8.3, 11.3 and 11 p.c.
back to 1928. The div. was kept at 10
p.c., and there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that it is likely to be
interfered with for 'the current term.
The 10 p.c. was made up of an interim
6d. and final 9d. from Australian income
and a final 9d. from ex-Australian in-
come. Outside Australia the co. owns
seven factories and four merchandising
concerns, and another factory, “likely to
contribute to the co.’s strength,” was
recently erected at Jo’bure, S. Africa.
At the annual meeting chairman A. W.
Palfreyman said the co. had disposed of
its stocks, and that the Australian crops
of canning and jam fruits would be ample
for all requirements, though slightly
smaller than for the previous season.
Growers, however, might have to accept
lower prices, owing to the large carry-
over in California.
During 1938 the price of the fully-
paid pound shares fluctuated between
435. 9d, and 50s. on the market. Last
week-end the figure was 48s. 3d., at which
the return is 4.1 p.c. from 10 p.c. divs.
Taubmans, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1933.. 24,892 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,956
1934.. 53,162 15 „ „ 39,261 13,901 116,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. .. 116,861
1935.. 60,124 17$ p.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936.. 71,350 17$ p.c. = 53,05 S 18,292 185,901
Reserves capitalised, £56,981 .. 128.920
Unexplained additions, £17,984 . . 146,904
1937.. 84,214 171 p.c. = 69,802 14,412 161.316
1938.. 81,574 17$ „ 69,802 11,772 173,05 S
G. H. Taubman, who founded the busi-
ness with a capital of £6OO in 1902, held
the reins until he died last year. His
place at the head of the board table has
been taken by his son, H. G. Taubman,
who grew up in the business. Expansion
has been rapid, especially over the last
couple of decades, and the shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
totalled £571,955 at Sept. 30 last, when
there was no more than £41,907 of out-
side money in the business. Those on
the share-register have received a steady
17+ p.c. for each of the last four years,
sweetened with £56,981 of bonus scrip
(one for six) a couple of years ago.
The main factory at St. Peters, near
Sydney, covers about four acres, and
there is another at Wellington (M.L.),
while branches have been established at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth,
and a controlling interest in L. G. Abbott
and Co., Adelaide, was bought about two
years ago. Outstanding feature over the
last five years has been the quick expan-
sion of net earnings, which stepped up
from £24,892 in 1933 to a peak of £84,214
in 1937. As slump passed, turnover
picked up with the revival of building
and home- and flat-renovating and
expansion of the motor-body-building,
furniture, electrical, leather and other
trades that use the co.’s products.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was a contraction of
£2640 in declared net earnings (£81,574),
which were equal to 20.4 p.c. on capital
as against 21.1, 23.5, 22.9, 20.3 and 9.5
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept at
17+ p.c., and, provided nothing very un-
expected happens, looks like remaining
there for the current term, notwithstand-
ing that competition is getting more of
an edge on it and that costs are on the
up-grade.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1933. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £261,740 £261,748 £398,867 £398,867
Sundry creditors 44,336* 62,750* 40,177 41,907
Freeholds .. 98,463 102,739 111,490 123,515
Plant, etc. . . 44.882 39,821 42.819’ 51,422
Stocks .. 88,187 96,205 139.569 138,942
Debtors .. 123.415 78.345 103,724 71,811
Investments .. 04,874 169,061 225,921 265,916
(‘ash, etc. .. 3,608 2,225 16.723 2.143
* Including contingency reserves.
The year’s growth of £12,025 in free-
holds (in at cost) and of £8603 to plant
reflects additions, etc., to “provide better
facilities for more economical produc-
tion.” The subsidiaries asked for more
capital, and £39,995 was added to the in-
vestments item, all but £5OO of which is
shares in subsidiaries. Most of this in-
crease had already been invested with the
pups in the form of advances Cash was
drawn upon for £14,580, and debtors’
balances were reduced by £31,913. There
was little change in stocks, and only
£1730 was added to the outside debt. In-
cluding stocks but not investments, the
more or less liquid surplus (£170,989) was
£38,850 lighter than at the previous
balance.
An aggregate balance-sheet of the sub-
sidiaries shows paid capital at £313,736,
up £59,-751. Most of the increase was
used to reduce the debt, now £26,489
(down £49,716), of which £14,583 (down
£31,711) is coming to the parent. Free-
holds figured at £89,639 (up £5469), plant
£23,313 (up £1487) and more or less
liquids £265,968 (up £9576). After reduc-
ing intangibles (£17,733) by £2200, de-
clared net earnings were £3825 lighter at
£27,832, or 8.5 p.c. on the combined
capital of £313,736.
At 565. 6d. the parent’s pound ords.
return 6.1 p.c. on a 17+ p.c. div. basis,
or 5 p.c. should the distribution drop to
14 p.c. Visibly, the net tangible cover
is 28s. Bd.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. and Ord. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 71.600 10 p.c. 50,000 21,600 129 081
1929.. 67.806 10 „ „ 50,000 17.806 146’887
1930.. 51,980 8 ~ ~40,000 11,980 158 867
1931.. 31,003 5* ~ ~27.221 3,782 169 649
1932.. 27,138 5* .. ~27,750 162 037
July,
1933 t. 24,538 5*.„ „ 27,750 158.825
Profit on sale of shaves, £BBO3 .. 167,628
1934.. 59,445 7$ p.c. = 41,312 18,133 1851761
1935.. 39,894 7* „ ~ 38,550 1,344 187 105
1936.. 28,054 7* „ „ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £1708.. .. 184,284
1937.. 19,070 71* p.c.= 14,906 4,164 188,448
19’38. . 18,848 7s* „ ~14,906 3,942 192,390
*Prefs. 74 p.c. tThirteen months.
Too much notice need not be taken of
the earlier figures in that table. The co.
used to be part of the Yarra Falls-A.K.M.
group of interlocked spinning, weaving,
knitting and hosiery concerns. But in
1936 the board decided to extend the
co.’s activities, and its holdings in other
cos. were distributed among those on the
register, a policy of isolation being sub-
stituted for one of alliances. This ex-
plains the contraction in the volume of
net earnings in 1937 ; the amount of
capital returned was £343,750, or 12s. 6d.
per A.K.M. £1 share, being made up of
308,000 f.-p. pound ords. in Yarra Falls,
25,000 f.-p. pound shares in Austral Silk
and Cotton, and £10,750 cash. That re-
duced paid capital to £206,250 in 10,000
7+ p.c. cum. prefs. and 540,000 ords., all
paid to 7s. 6d. each. It also left the co.’s
earnings dependent on the output and
sale of its factory products—fine-knitted
woollen and artificial silk underwear,
etc., for men, women and children, to
which full-fashioned silk hosiery was
added last year.
Installation of the new hosiery
machines was completed in February last,
and approximately full production was
reached in June, a month or so before
the accounts closed. Earnings, therefore,
had to bear some non-recurrjng expen-
diture in connection with establishment
of the new department without getting
much benefit therefrom. After providing
for taxation and depreciation, the board
figured net earnings at £18,848 (down
£222), or enough to pay the pref. div.
(£281) and show 9.1 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 10.1, 6, 7.2, 10.8, 4.4, 4.9,
5.5, 10.3 and 13.5 p.c. back to 1929. The
div. was kept at 7+ p.c. The £3942 that
remained lifted the lay-by to within
• £13,866 of paid capital.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares as follows:
1935. 1936. 1937. , 1938.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities .. 22,525 29,672 45,313 67,133
Freeholds .. 109,511 109,611 112,602 112,840
Plant, etc. .. 72,005 70,643 101,699 102,042
Stocks.. . . 143.035 158,993' 183,335 215,491
Book debts . . 45,520 39,427 49,750 42,177
Cash. etc. . . 15,998 52,833 442 1,040
Shares in assoc.
cos. . . 394,936 2,999' 198 198
On freehold and plant respectively only
£238 and £343 more was spent than was
written off. Chief movement was a growth
of £32,156 in stocks, to help finance which
the board went outside for an extra
£21,820. The more or less liquid surplus
(£191,773) was £3361 stronger than at
the previous balance.
The current year’s accounts should get
the full benefit of the new department,
and the co.’s hosiery, “Golden Ray,” is
reported welL received by the trade and
the public, while the new machines ought
to mean much so far as costs are con-
cerned. Still, one can hear a knife being
sharpened in the trade, where plant
capacity continues to run ahead of de-
mand. Under less favorable trade con-
ditions this might lead to price-cutting.
The market prices the f.-p. 7s. 6d. ords.
at 95., as against 1 Is. 2d. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 6 p.c. The
prefs. seldom come on to the market.
The net tangible backing is £39 17s. 3d.
prefs. and 14s. 7d. ords.


m
■AftSte
m
m
i
m
Conscience
CLEAR
And with a
safe foothold
HERE we have a happy man, free
from financial anxiety. His
A.M.P. policies cover his risks of
Life and Death. He and his wife
can enjoy life with light hearts.
How do you stand, reader? It is
never too late to become a member
of the Society. The earlier you
join, the smaller the amount you
will need to invest to be “conscience
clear” and to have a safe, foothold
in the world.
A man in good health, 27 next
birthday, can enjoy the possession
of a £5OO A.M.P. policy, payable
plus bonuses at his death, for
£1 1/3/9 a year, less than 4/6 a
week. By his first payment he
creates an immediate estate of £5OO
that may double, with bonuses,
before death calls him.
Start the New Year by asking the
nearest A.M.P. office to send a
representative to discuss this matter
with you. If you prefer, we shall
gladly send you a copy of “Investing
in Happiness.” Write to-day for it.
A.M.P. Society
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, P.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker 1 , Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commbnwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
-—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent. Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street. Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
* * * #
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
Enquiries are invited for the purchase of
the following plant as and where now lying
near Redbank, Victoria: Garrett Portable
Steam Engine, 30 N.H.P., 1301 b. W.P.; Marshall
Portable Steam Engine, 25 N.H.P., 1301 b. W.P.;
lOin. Gravel Pump (Kelly and Lewis); 12in.
Nozzle Pump (Robinson Bros.); 2 Duplex Feed
Pumps, 4fin. x 2£in. x 4in.; 1 lOin. Nozzle;
also Belting, lOin. Steel-flanged and Telescope
Piping and Fittings and Second-hand Building
Material. Full particulars supplied on applica-
tion to J. G. STANFIELD & STEWART, 379
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e : M 1787 <3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Sketch: Proposed Business Premises.
ue & cc. ivt\
71
2%
FROM A
SAFE
INVESTMENT
Share in the Profits of a Progressive Reputable
Company operating a Sound and Proved Policy
of Time Payment Trading.
Buy shares out of your sav-
ings, or out of income—you
can pay cash for them or buy
them on easy terms —1/- per
share per month. And they
begin earning money for you
immediately they’re allotted.
Why let your savings lie idle?
Why not turn them into pro-
fit-earning shares in Simpson
Lee & Co. Ltd., and partici-
pate in the profits which are
* being made by this progres-
sive Company? The Simpson
Lee method of time payment
trading—repayments of 2d. in
the pound weekly, has proved
so successful that increased
facilities and new premises
are required to accommodate
the rapidly expanding busi-
ness. New capital is used for
this purpose. Hence this op-
portunity now offered to you.
Preference shares carry a
fixed cumulative dividend of
per cent., and in 1937 and
1938 10 per cent, dividend was
paid on Ordinary shares.
Full information is contained
in a Prospectus which is avail-
able for you on application.
Call at the Company’s head-
quarters, 414 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney, and get full particulars.
It’s an opportunity of which
you’ll be glad to have taken
advantage.
Remember —the history, repu-
tation, trading success, and
splendid prospects of this
company are such as to in-
spire you with absolute con-
fidence. Call and get the facts.
And then set your savings to
work.
SIMPSON LEE & CO. LTD.
414-418 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MA9051 MA9052 M 2374 M237S M 2376
This announcement does not comply fully with the requirements of Section 137 of the
Companies Act, 1936, but a copy of the filed Prospectus may be secured at the Ofl&ces
of the Company at any time during normal business hours. Application for Shares
will be received only on the Application Form accompanying and endorsed upon a
printed copy of the full Prospectus.
Western Australian Insurance^
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Reserved
1929.. Nil * 268 > 417
mo.. ™ nm «»;;
IS.:: “;!» sp.?L,o»o §$»?»
S ::85 S g*-
Profit on sale investments, £4260 .. 313,
1935.. 5?582 5 p.c.= 5,000 |° 2 ’ 888
1936.. 21,905 5 ~,,5,000
1937.. 34,849 Nil
fof unexpired risks, but not life
fund (£218,447 at June 30, 1938).
Divs. have averaged only 2.3 p.c. over
the last 11 years. Better might have been
expected, considering that, apart from
the life fund (£218,447), the £lOO,OOO of
share capital had the support and assist-
ance of £199,441 of reserves at June 30
last. The lot was invested in revenue-
producing assets which, for the 12
months to June 30, turned in 7.5 p.c. on
capital, yet the net result of the year’s
operations in all departments combined,
except life, was a loss of £41,671. This
was £6822 more than the previous year’s,
and made aggregate losses over the last
11 years £189,532. Over the same period
profits aggregated £55,766, while £25,000
was paid out in divs., and reserves bene-
fited by £4758 from sundry sources. At
the close of last accounts, shareholders
were thus £154,008 worse off than they
were 11 years earlier.
It was the co.’s plunge into the whirl-
pool of international war-time marine
risks that brought it into the limelight,
inside the first half-dozen years (the
co. was formed in 1912) premium in-
come had bounded from a few thousand
to over a million pounds, and reserves
approaching three-quarters of a million
had been accumulated.. But much of
what looked like profit turned out to
be losses, which, together with special
demands of the taxgatherer, etc., swal-
lowed over half a million of reserves
during the five years to the close of
accounts in 1925.
Since then premium income has been
largely on account of reinsurance busi-
ness in the marine and accident depart-
ments, where the underwriting experi-
ence has been far from satisfactory. Here
is a comparison of underwriting per-
formances in the three departments (fire,
accident and marine) combined:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penscs. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.e.
1918.. 1,142.001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,34 J 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 ~
1931.. 139,229 89,549 53,017 64.3 „ 38.0 „
1933.. 138,761 85,049 50,597 61.3 „ 36.4 „
1934.. 152,907 97,076 65,644 63.4 „ 36.3 „
1935.. 168,767 129,397 54,886 76.6 „ 32.5 „
1936.. 168,460 141,743 58,266 84.1 „ 34.5 „
1937.. 148,277 141,161 52,484 95.2 ~ 35.4 „
1938.. 134,538 134,010 51,331 99.6 ~ 38.1 „
Underwriting has yielded nothing worth
mentioning in the way of profit for the
last decade. Last year’s loss was £50,803,
to which all three departments contri-
buted, the worst of the trouble occurring
in the marine section, as the following
table shows: —-
Net
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss.
Fire .. £26,802 £11,219 £17,240 £1,663
Accident . . 50,578 31,204 25,709 0,335
Marine .. 57,158 91,587 8,376 42,805
Underwriting loss . . .. .. £50,803
Net interest, etc. .. .. .. 9,132
Net loss £41,671
The board blames the British rearma-
ment programme, which has brought
about a rise in the cost of marine repairs.
The management has severely curtailed
the co.’s marine business, and the cur-
rent year’s accounts are expected to
benefit.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows, London assets in sterling and Aus-
tralian assets in local currency being in-
extricably mixed:
1920. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Public securi-
ties. . .. £144,211 £159,582 £143,342 £137,020
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 204,043 324,224 294,612
Properties , . 68,584 13,616 13,616
Book debts, etc. 230,564 47,656 47,135 48'.814
Cash, etc. .. 295,808 34,556 57,210 62,175
Odds and ends 5,753 5,935 8,958 8,225
Total assets £1,026,936 £580,356 £594.485 £504,462
Liabilities* .. 141,715 72,594 50,552 46,574
Surplus .. £885,221 £507,762 £543,933 £517,888
* Including provision tor taxation (1929-38, £2000).
After deducting the life fund, surplus
assets at June 30 last amounted to
£299,441, equal to £2 19s. lid. per pound
of paid capital, as against £3 Bs. 3d. a
year earlier and £3 16s. sd. at the close
of accounts in 1930. Over the last eight
years shareholders have thus seen an
amount of their money equal to 16s. 6d.
per pound of paid capital evaporate.
Unless the board is able to arrest the
drift, obviously it would be better busi-
ness from the shareholders’ point of view
to wind up and distribute surplus assets.
Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd.
This co. is on the stocks in Sydney
with a nominal capital of £lOO,OOO in
£1 shares. Of these, 44,000 are offered,
the promoters take 12,000 credited as
paid to 10s. each, the other 10s. being
payable in cash, and the remaining
44,000 are in pickle. The idea is to set
up a cotton-weaving mill, with finishing,
sizing, beaming, winding and other de-
partments, on a two-acre freehold handy
to Sydenham railway station, and in the
centre of Sydney’s textile-manufacturing
area. The £50,000 of cash-paid capital
now asked for will provide a working
unit of 64 looms, and the money will
be used for land and buildings £12,000,
plant £27,000, preliminary exes. £3OOO,
leaving £BOOO for working capital. The
board may go to allotment on firm
application by the public for 24,000
shares. Together with payment to be
made by the promoters on scrip allotted
to them, the 24,000 shares would, when
all the money is in, provide £30,000 of
cash-paid capital, or sufficient to buy a 38-
loom unit, pay preliminary exes, and
leave £4BOO for working capital. By
keeping capital outlay within the limits
of the co.’s own resources, the promoters
seek to avoid one of the most fruitful
sources of failure in new ventures.
Working one shift, it is figured that
a 38-loom unit will turn out 437,000
yards of cloth per annum, worth
approximately £54,625, and that a 64-
loom unit will turn off 736,000 yards,
worth about £92,000. After allowing for
all charges, including depreciation but
not taxation, the profit from 38 looms is
put at £4085, or 11.3 p.c. on a paid
capital of £36,000, and from 64 looms at
£9OOO, or 16 p.c. on a capital of £56,000.
Actually the looms will be capable of
doing more than has been figured upon ;
everything, therefore, will depend upon
sales. In this respect all that can be said
definitely is that there is a ready and
expanding tariff-protected market for the
cloths the co. proposes to turn out, and,
if an application recently made by local
mill owners to the Tariff Board is
successful, the co.’s market will be
greatly expanded.
The looms will be up to date, and that
should mean much so far as costs are
concerned, while Parbury, Henty and
Co., with offices in Sydney, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth, will act
as sole distributor for the co. throughout
the Commonwealth.
The promoters are R. H. Treacy, a
director of Bradford Cotton Mills from
its inception till he recently resigned to
form the present co., and R. E. Edmond-
son, who used to be mill manager for
the Bradford co., and who has had a
lifelong experience in cotton manufac-
ture. They will be manager and techni-


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
SYDNEY COTTON MILLS
LIMITED
Incorporated, in the State of New South Wales on 27th September, 1938.
NOMINAL CAPITAL
100,000 Shares of £1 each . . £lOO,OOO
OF WHICH
44,000 Shares are now offered for Public Subscription £44,000
12,000 Shares are to be issued to the Vendors on
payment of 10/- per share £12,000
44,000 Shares to be held in reserve £44,000
100,000 £lOO,OOO
DIRECTORS
ROY HUGH TREACY,
8 Hopetoun Avenue, Vaucluse,
Company Director.
RENNIE EDGAR EDMONDSON,
46 Stanmore Road, Petersham,
Mill Manager.
THOMAS WATSON HAYNES,
175 Kooyong Road, Toorak,
Melbourne, Victoria, Company
Director.
[Two (2) more Directors to be
appointed.]
BANKERS :
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA, LTD,,
342-46 George Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
H. B. ALLARD, WAY &
HARDIE,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
Bank of New South Wales Build-
ing, George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
CLAYTON UTZ & COMPANY,
136 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Room 903, 9th Floor, The Grace
Building, 77 York Street, Sydney.
ACTING SECRETARY:
R. H. TREACY, 77 York Street,
Sydney.
BROKER:
F. E. HEADLAM, .
117 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
THE COTTON INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
There are greater possibilities for the development of the Cotton
Industry in Australia than, probably, any other of our Secondary
Industries.
Experts state that there are opportunities for another thirty
Cotton Mills, each with a capital of £lOO,OOO, to meet the demands
of the Australian market.
The annual imports of cotton ducks, calico, heavy shirtings, and
sheetings total, approximately, 80,000,000 square yards. Yet, these
are technically less difficult to produce than most cloths at present
being manufactured in this country.
Apart from purely economic consideration, the Defence require-
ments make the development of the Cotton Industry imperative. An
adequate supply of manufactured cotton goods MUST be available
in time of war.
OBJECTS OF SYDNEY COTTON MILLS LIMITED
It is intended to establish a Cotton Weaving Mill, with Finishing,
Sizing, Beaming, Winding, and other Departments, and to manu-
facture cotton cloths, etc., which are protected by tariffs and
capable of ready sale. A market for the Company’s products is
therefore immediately available. In addition the Company will
participate in other future developments of the industry.
MANAGEMENT
Messrs. Roy Hugh Treacy and Rennie Edgar Edmondson are
the promoters of the Company, and have entered into Service
Agreements for a.term of five years.
Both these gentlemen were connected with Bradford Cotton
Mills from its inception in 192 7 until they resigned to join the
Sydney Cotton Mills, Limited. (During the time they were actively
associated with the Bradford Cotton Mills, Limited, its issued capital
was increased from £20,000 to £202,742. It earned a profit each
year, and, since becoming a public company, three years ago, has
paid dividends of 10 per cent., 15 per cent., and 12| per cent, on
its ordinary shares.)
Mr. T. W. Haynes is a Chartered Accountant and Managing
Director of Parbury, Henty and Co. Pty., Ltd., and also President
of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce.
An option is held for an excellent site for the Mill, large enough
to accommodate 300 looms, if it becomes necesary to install such
a number.
It is anticipated that the Company should be in operation within
six months of the date of allotment.
PRODUCTION AND REVENUE
(a) If operations commence with 38 looms, on an issued capital
of £36,000, it is estimated that a profit of £4085 would be
earned, i.e., 1 1 \ per cent.
(b) With 64 looms, and an issued capital of £56,000, it is estimated
that a profit of £9OOO would be earned, representing a return
of 16 per cent. The above figures have been very con-
servatively prepared, and the Vendors anticipate that a profit
of £10,500, representing 18.7 per cent, on the issued capital
of £56,000, can be reasonably expected.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum subscription upon which the Company may
proceed to allotment is firm application for 24,000 ordinary shares
of £1 each, which, with the cash to be received from Vendors for
shares to be allotted to them, is ample for the Company to com-
mence business.
The requirements of the Companies Act, relating to Pros-
pectuses, have not been fully complied with in this Abridged Pros-
pectus. Applications will proceed upon one of the forms of
application annexed to a printed copy of the full Prospectus, dated
3rd January, 1939. Copies may be obtained from the Registered
Office of the Company or the Company’s Broker.
cal manager respectively of this new
Sydney co.
On the board are the two promoters
and T. W. Haynes, who is managing
director of Parbury, Henty and Co., and
president of the Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce. Two others are to be
appointed.
Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) Silver-lead
Lake George Mines expects to make
its first shipment of pyrite concentrate
from Port Kembla around the end of
the month, though the railway from
Bungendore to the mine will not be
through till about June, the directors
say. The co. is the working offshoot
of Lake George Mining Corp., the Lon-
don holding co. floated during the metal
boom early in 1937, when lead was
around £34 a ton, zinc £33 15s. and elec-
trolytic copper £7l 12s. Prospectus
figures, based on prices of £lB a ton
each for lead and zinc and £4O for elec-
trolytic, reckoned on annual mine profits
of £A202,000 on the initial 500-ton-a-day
throughput. When “teething” problems
have been overcome throughput is to be
doubled at an estimated cost of £A35,000,
mainly for additional flotation cells, with
a saving of 2s. (to 245.) a ton in treatment
costs and a lift to £A400,000 in profits.
Capital expenditure has run ahead of
estimates owing to the lift in steel prices,
housing outlay, etc., delayed deliveries
and other holdups. Still, at June 30 the
co. had in hand, £230,823 stg., expected
to bring the mine to the initial stage of
production with more than £A70,000 to
spare. Though prices for lead and zinc
are below prospectus estimates, the board
reckons “good profits” can still be made.
“Satisfactory contracts” have been
entered into for the sale of lead and zinc
concentrates for the first couple of years.
Previously worked for gold and copper,
the primary sulphides at Captain’s Flat
consist of an intimate mixture of iron
pyrites, galena and zinc-blende, with a
small admixture of copper pyrites. Over-
seas interests spent some £300,000 or
more on development in the early 1930’s ;
• then gave up because of low metal prices
and lack of a railway. Down to 800 ft.
ore reserves are reckoned by T. C. Baker
and general manager Tom Owen at
2,113,129 tons, assaying 7.67 p.c. lead,
13.06 p.c. zinc, 0.75 p.c. copper, 2.340 z.
silver and I.3dwt. gold ; and the drill has
indicated a lot more of the stuff at deeper
horizons. An 85-90 p.c. separation of
the lead content of the ore, which is
more or less friable, and 87-90 p.c.
recovery of the zinc are counted upon,
the concentrates assaying 55-60 p.c. pure
lead and 60-62 p.c. pure zinc respec-
tively.
Power is being drawn from the Burrin-
juck hydro-electric system, and the
Molonglo dam is expected to supply all
water requirements. Full production will
be 80,000 tons of pyrite concentrate p.a.
This concentrate is estimated to contain
48-50 p.c. sulphur, extensively used in
fertiliser and munition manufacture.
Attention is being given to recovery of
the element from surplus pyrite, indigen-
ous supplies not being obtainable in Aus-
tralia.
Tingha Alluvials and Tingha South,
two Tingha (N.S.W.) tin-sluicing shows
in the same stable, have performed well
enough to date. Despite several weeks’
holdup, owing to flooding and an aver-
age sterling price of £lB9 for tin, a work-
ing profit of £A3916 is indicated for the
Alluvials co. for the 12 months to Dec.
31:
Period, Treated, T. 0., Av., Costs, Net
Dec.. C.y. Tons. C.y. C.y. Profit.
1937*.. 78.460 62} 1.791 b. 1/6} £4OlB
1938 f. . 132,700 79 1.331 b. 1/3"
* 13} months. f Estimated.
Paid capital is only £12,500 in ss.
shares. Twelve months ago 4,000,000
c.y. of wash was estimated to be
available, 1,025,000 c.y. of it proved
to go 1.51 b. The South co. has won
these results on a paid capital of £50,000,
also in ss. shares:
Six Treated, Yield, T. 0., Costs. Net
Months, C.y. Tons. C.y. C.v. Profit.
June, ’3B 139,000 92 1.51 b. 1/2 £3608
Dec., ’3B* 133,000 78 1.311 b. 1/3}
* Estimated.
Compared with the initial operating
period, costs are up (heavy rains im-
peded working) for the first half of the
current term and recoveries down. Mine
prQfit for the period was put at
£A4664; better metal prices, however,
look like prevailing for the balance of
the term. Sluicing reserves were figured
at 4,700,000 c.y. a year back ; values of
2.11 b. were mentioned in 2,707,000 c.y.,
but to date results have not confirmed
the estimate.
* * * *
After an opening fizz, banquet and pay-
ment later of a 10 p.c. div. to the ords.,
Mt. Magnet (W.A.) has had to devote its
profits to financing capital expenditure on
development and opening up and equip-
ping its property. Prospects are consid-
ered favorable, but additional capital is
needed befo«e substantial improvement in
results can be expected. Owing to a
drop in the grade of ore, only £542,400
was recovered from 45,500 tons for the'
nine months to the end of March, 1938,
net profit being £4OO. Dividends on the
£1 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. (there are
50,000) have, of course, been postponed.
In addition, there are 800,000 2s. 6d. ords.
issued.
* * * *
Youanmi (W.A.) had the first section
of its treatment plant in full operation
two years ago, and the second section
(sulphide) started up in May last, in-
creasing total capacity to 120,000 tons
per annum. For practically the whole of
1938, however, treatment was at about
half present capacity, 61,200 tons (includ-
ing 8500 sulphides) being milled. Re-
covery was £lOO,lOO, and mine work-
ing profit was £21,400. Costs amounted
to 255. 9d. per ton. Ore reserves exceed
190,000 tons, averaging Bdwt. 9gr. The
bulk of the co.’s shares are held in
London.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. will in future issue
quarterly instead of monthly development
reports, but monthly returns of outputs
and costs will be continued. In announc-
ing the change, chairman J. A. Agnew ex-
plained that results from development
over a short period may be misleading,
whereas results taken over a longer period
provide better perspective. Most of
the world’s big mining cos. issue quar-
terly reports. One London financial
paper says that a likely effect of the move
will be a more sedate market for the
shares. Few issues have fluctuated more
widely than Wilunas, largely on account
of hasty opinions formed on the strength
of one month’s development.
* * * *
North Kalgurli Central (W.A.) is still
on the market. After doing some de-
velopment work there, Paringa ceased to
be interested in the property, then some
Londoners, after making inquiries, said
they were not interested, and now Aus-
tralian Mining and Industrial Finance,
Ltd., has pulled out, after investigation.
* * * *
De Bernales’s group has taken an option
over the Mulga King at Gullewa (W.A.).
The property is equipped with a small
power and treatment plant, and has been
producing consistently in a small way for
two years. The group still employs a
well-paid technical staff to examine any-
thing considered worth having. It got
Yellowdine and Comet, and is now test-
ing shows offered by prospectors.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department proudly
broadcasts that coal valued at nearly
£9,000,000 has been dug out of Collie,
the State’s one and only producing field.
Nearly all present production, worth
about £33,000 a month, comes from
Amalgamated Collieries. Collie has been
worked for over 40 years. Most of its
output is used by the State railways, etc.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1938 was
higher than expected. At 1,167,792 fine
ounces it was worth £10,364,023 in Aus-
tralian currency, or £1,593,304 more than
the total in the peak year of production
—1903. The metal, however, then
fetched only a shade under £4 ss. an
ounce. Again the bulk of the production
came from the few old-established mines,
although Big Bell and, to a lesser extent,
Paringa at Kalgoorlie, Yellowdine at Yil-
garn, Comet at Marble Bar and Blue
Bird at Norseman were useful contri-
butors.
# * * *
From London: Part of chairman J. A.
Agnew’s speech at the Consolidated Gold
Fields of South Africa meeting was
devoted to the co.’s Westralian gold-
mining interests. That in Lake View, he
said, gave the board much gratification ;
that in Wiluna, despite adverse develop-
ments in the lower levels of the main
workings, gave promise of becoming
more valuable by and by, while that in
the Moonlight group, adjoining Wiluna
and operated by Gold Fields Australian
Development, was very satisfactory, and
it was anticipated that a maiden dividend
would shortly be paid.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.A.C.: No record.. ..G.McF.: Sorry can-
not undertake to find backers for y0u....
G.M.: No open market for bonds, which are
a long-term speculation. Guesses as to what
return bondholders will receive aren’t worth
much at the moment F.W.M.: 50 p.c. ore
on the wharf Australian ports is worth about
£3 per ton. Write Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney, or O. T. Lempriere and Co.,
Collins House, Collins-street, Melbourne
F.L.L.: Write to secretary, 27 Hunter-
street, Sydney, or 41 Shortland-street, Auck-
land, N.Z D.E.: Emperor and Loloma,
secretary, Cook, Tomlins and Mirams, 360
Collins-street, Melbourne; Mt. Kasi, secre-
tary, R. Fraser, 115 Pitt-street, Sydney
A.W.: (1) and (2) The co. is an amalgamation
of General Motors and of Holden’s Motor
Body-building Co. It imports and assembles
chassis, etc., of General Motors Co. of U.S.A.
(3) Ordinary shares are held mostly by Ameri-
can parent, and the prefs., which were ex-
changed for Holden’s ords, are held in Aus-
tralia. (4) Big turnover.


SMOKE-OH!
“Liars’ Club will not admit women as mem-
bers.” — News item.
Apparently it’s a purely amateur or-
ganisation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jockey Fined for Assault.”
—Melbourne "Herald.”
And not battery.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do You Need Glasses?” asks advt.
Well, they’re nicer than drinking out
of the bottle.
*l* *l*
“I fell in love with a dream.”
—Extract from short story.
Unfortunately some men marry them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bandsman Fined for Drunkenness.”
—Melbourne "Sun.”
Strayed from bar to bar.
4' 4* 4* 4*
“N.S.W. Road Deaths. Improvement
Shown.” — "S.M.H.” headlines.
But the perfect road death has yet to
be achieved.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Liner Crashes Into Dock.”
—Newspaper headline.
Premature berth?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The fact that there are no uniforms avail-
able for militia recruits is evidence of the
success of the recruiting scheme.”
— W. M. Hughes.
Likewise, the absence of jobs for the
unemployed is evidence of prosperity.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“Suggested that native flora be included in
designs of postage stamps.”
A little more gum would be appre-
ciated.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Couple Gaoled as Vagrants. Found in
Hollow Log.” — "S.M H.”
Drawn straight from the wood and
run into the jug.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My wife often told me that she preferred
a man called Bill.” — Divorce evidence.
This age-old wrong, it seems to me,
Keeps wives and hubbies nettled,
And causes much disharmony —
The Bill that can’t be settled.
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My husband is ideal except for his temper.”
— Women’s paper.
The best matches always cause a flare-
up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“And he has a London taxi of the war
period, one of the old Unics, and a most noble
old pre-war French Renault landaulette, with a
simply colossal windscreen.” — "S.M.H.”
The thrill of riding in these divine
vehicles must be too, too terribly devas-
tating for words.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Money-making wrecks many a marriage.”
— Women’s paper.
But if there’s no money-making she
says she married a wreck.
Sold.
“Estate agent sued for breach of promise.”
—News item.
He was parked in a handy pos. opp.
stn. and about 2min. from the tram,
when the sight of an attractive young
lady gazing’in a semi-detached manner
at a vac. mod. h.w. villa made him go
h. and c. all over. Her interest rose
when she saw his commodious sedan car,
and the pair were soon on the easiest of
terms. He spent hours dwell, upon the
cosy well-furn. 4 rms. and k’ette which he
“Hey, you're not at 'ome now. Use the ash-tray!”
had bought suit, married couple. Eventu-
ally, however, he realised that she was
too perf. self-cont. and was making a rid.
fig. out of him. He denied that she had
any lien on his affections and left her
flat.
Melton.
•J*
“One foreign movie star is an expert on the
musical saw.” —Talkie blurb.
We thought that was her voice.
•I* »r *2* 4*
To achieve social recognition, some
climbers will get up to anything.
+
“Ship will take talkies to the Antarctic.”
—News item.
But not enough of them, unfortunately.
Observation.
“During an anti-feminist outburst, he
declared that modern women were enough to
drive a man insane.” —Biographical item.
While lounging on the beaches 1
Perceive the truth in what he said;
For how those surf-girls, tripping by,
Are apt to turn a fellow’s head!
T. W. N.
Golf.
With reverence 1 bow before a shrine
Of turf, ere yet l belt this pill of mine,
A bended knee, a sacrificial wag,
Head down, hip up, the game is in the
bag!
Alas! despite my lowly attitude,
My stroke I’ve not sufficiently subdued;
With fine abandon lustily I swing,
Head up, hip down. I’ve topped the
blasted thing!
F.S.B.
How It Happens in Evidence.
“He picked up the stick with the intention
of intimidating Medhurst, but no thought of
using it. Medhurst aimed a blow at him and
ran against the raised stick.”
—Police Court evidence.
Strangely, it always happens like that
in Police Court evidence.
According to my wife’s evidence in the
case Aitchem v. Aitchem she picked
the vases from the mantelpiece for fear,
in my drunken condition, I might knock
them off. She was trying to throw them
on to the sofa, where they would be safe,
when I got in the way and was caught
on the forehead and the chin.
Then I. had to explain how she had
got into the way of the golf stick. When
she rushed me the club hurtled to the
floor. I picked it up by the head with
the idea of throwing it into the corner,
but she got right in the way and the
falling stick caught her in the back. I
then tried to throw it into another
corner, but again she rushed in the path
of the descending stick. This went on
for some time until the stick broke.
Then, my wife having trodden on a
corn and started it aching, I sat on the
couch to change into my slippers. In a
temper she rushed at me, but tripped on
a rug and fell acrcrss my knee. The
boot I was in the act of taking off hap-
pened to fall upon the portion of her
anatomy across my knee. This occurred
several times before, hearing my wife’s
screams, several of her relatives rushed
in.
It is understandable, then, why a
magistrate I know had to get three
months’ sick leave to recover from the
shock occasioned by a defendant in an
assault case who, scorning excuses, said,
“’E annoyed me, y’ Worship, so 1
dominoed the swine!”
H.M.
Happy Ending.
Smith became very revealing after the
eighth.
“Yer know, the family coffers were
running low,” he told me, “so we had to
take in a boarder. I thought he was a
decent cove at first; he seemed quiet and
good-livin’. But after a while I finds him
looking at the missus in a way I don’t
like.
“Then I noticed that whenever she
passed him anything at the table he’d
touch her hand. And once I caught ’em
winking at each other behind me back.
“That was enough for me! I wasn’t
going to let a cow like that ruin my
home! There’s on’y one place for home-
wreckers —in the gutter! So I booted
him out quick and lively!”
Smith finished his glass with grace and
ease.
“And did that restore your domestic
peace?” I prompted.
“Well, not exactly,” he replied, “but
you should see the dinky little sort we
let his room to!”
DARLINGHEARSED.
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1939.
Jan.—An American tourist interviewed
in Melbourne will make no mention of
the iced-waterless condition of our hotels.
Following a succession of heat-waves
there will be an outcry by various men’s
organisations for saner clothes for men.
Madame Tabouis will reveal that in the
Rome conference, held behind locked
doors, Mussolini threatened to invade
India if Britain did not coerce France
into yielding Tunisia up to Italy.
Feb.—An unsigned article in “Gior-
nale d’ltalia” will not be attributed in
Australian cables to Mussolini. A recom-
mendation in the findings of a royal com-
mission will be acted upon. A Sydney
flapper daily will publish a photo, of a
girl who is not described as a “beach
beauty,” and who is wearing neither the
standardised fixed grin nor a brassiere-
type costume. Latest fashions in men’s
suitings, just released, will favor slightly
heavier-weight serges in dark browns and
navy blues.
Mar. —A drunken hit-run driver will
be fined £1 by a magistrate, who
will remind him that continuance in the
practice might even mean suspension of
his license. The Council of Churches
will protest to the N.S.W. Premier against
holding of Royal Show on Good Friday ;
Mr. Stevens will promise sympathetic
consideration by Cabinet. A speech by
Mussolini to art students on the need for
a deeper study of the methods of the old
Italian masters will be interpreted by
“Pertinax” as a veiled attack on French
culture, and a pointer to future totali-
tarian aggression. Barcelona will esti-
mate the strength of Italian troops on
the Ebro at 150,000.
April.—Madame Tabouis will acclaim
President Roosevelt’s latest verbal chal-
lenge to the dictators, likening it to
Clive’s magnificent speech at Bunker’s
Hill in 1520. An immigrant will arrive
in Melbourne who doesn’t need an inter-
preter. The R.A.S. will -report record
Good Friday crowds. Flour will drop
£5 a ton, and the Master Bakers’ Asso-
ciation will announce that a drop of one
farthing a loaf is a possibility when accu-
mulated stocks have been reduced. Mr.
Lang will be elected unopposed as the
N.S.W. leader of the A.L.P. An Ameri-
can correspondent in China will predict
that Japan will collapse economically and
financially within a month.
May.—A Foreign Office spokesman
will emphasise that Japan is not waging
war on China. “S. M. Herald” will pub-
lish a cable which doesn’t contain the
views of either Madame Tabouis or
“Pertinax.”
June. —Admiral Suetsago will obtain
in the Diet further credits of 1500 million
yen “to bring the war in China to a quick
conclusion.” A University professor will
absentmindedly send his lecture on the
Younger Pitt to the press and read out
his newspaper article on international
affairs to his history class.
July.—A press photographer will be
unable to get a clear snap of a Bondi
“iceberg” leaving the water owing to
the surfer’s violent shivering creating a
blur on the plate. At the Sydney Quarter
Sessions a witness will use the expression
“It was a fair cow!” and the presiding
Judge will ask the prosecuting sergeant
what it means. The Retail Traders’ Asso-
ciation will inaugurate “Aunty’s Day.”
Aug.—A Sydney businessman, on re-
turning from a trip to the Far East, will
express the opinion that the Chinese
Maginot line around Bungchow, Chiang
Kai-shek’s headquarters, is so strong that
it can hold out indefinitely. The Soviet
Commissar for Vodka Production will
announce that, owing to the shortage of
T.N.T. due to sabotage, the standard for
the national drink will have to be re-
duced from seven to five suicides per
bottle. “S. M. Herald” will introduce a
syndicated comic strip on its leader page.
Sep.—A Melbourne fisherman will
drop his false teeth overboard from his
dinghy and they will not be found inside
the next fish he pulls in. The fall of
Bungchow will be announced. • Exposed
as a Trotskyist wrecker the Commissar
for Vodka Production will be “liqui-
dated.” A famous Hollywood star on
obtaining a divorce from her eighth hus-
band on the ground of “fiendish cruelty”
will confide to the press that they intend
remaining the best of friends.
Oct. —In a speech at Moscow in com-
memoration of the first purge Stalin will
pay tributes to the splendid work of his
Commissars and the loyalty of the Red
generals. An Australian daily will quote
Signor Gayda without referring to him as
“Mussolini’s mouthpiece.” The British
War Office will announce that, except for
new-type gun-barrels, shells, range-finders
and other precision instruments, the anti-
aircraft defences of London are com-
plete.
Nov. —In a fresh purge eight Com-
missars and 47 generals will be shot in
Soviet Russia. A new Road Safety cam-
paign will be launched by the N.S.W.
Transport Minister “to educate motorists
and reduce the road toll at Christmas.”
“Pertinax” will declare that Germany’s
serious shortage of mutton-bird oil and
bananas will force Hitler to attempt a
westward thrust in the spring. The
“News-Chronicle” will assert that only
17 obsolete “archies” are available for
the defence of London.
Dec. —A professional Santa Claus in a
big store will hurl his whiskers to the
floor during a “sticky” day- and shriek
“Damn the kids! I’m off out to Bondi!”
An increase in road deaths in N.S.W.
over the previous Christmas vacation will
be announced by the Minister for Trans-
port. Madame Tabouis will reveal that
at a secret conference between Hitler and
the German High Command plans were
completed for a simultaneous air attack
on London. Paris and Broome in the
coming spring.
S.W.K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
N~w South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
For Sale.
CENTRAL ICEWORKS, 31 Caledonia Street,
Paddington, N.S.W. ■ Freehold, with dwelling;
capacity 20 tons per day, duplicate electric
ammonia plant, own deliveries. Owners retiring
from business. Clear-ice plant. Inspection in-
vited at any time.
Australasian Paper.
Still weak, A.P. and P. ords. were
selling at 28s. 3d. last week, yield-
ing £5 14s. p.c.
Law and Judicial.
IN THE WILL AND ESTATE OF JOHN
WILLIAM FREMAN late of 116 Madeline
Street Carlton in the State of Victoria
Engineer deceased and in the Matter of
the Complete Combustion Syndicates:
In the Supreme Court of Victoria 1925
Number 952 EDWARD WILKINSON and
ors v. CHARLES MANCY and ors.
PURSUANT to the provisions of the Trus-
tee Act 1928 and to the order of His Honour
Mr. Justice Gavan Duffy made in the above
action on the 17th day of October 1938
NOTICE is hereby given that it is the intention
of Charles Mancy Edward Wilkinson John Bird
Louis Patrick Prunty and James Gorrie the
Trustees of the Will of the abovenamed de-
ceased cm or after the 30th day of April 1939
to distribute such portion of the moneys and
interest thereon as is unexpended heretofore
held by the trustees on trust for the said
deceased and the members of the six several
syndicates (known as the Complete Combustion
Syndicates) on the trusts directed by the judg-
ment of his Honour Mr. Justice McArthur
made in the said action on the 28th day of
September 1926 among the persons holding
shares in or interested in the said six several
syndicates of whose claims the trustees shall
then have had notice And notice is further
given that notice and particulars of such claims
must be forwarded to the said trustees in care
of their solicitors MESSRS NEWMAN AND
WINGROVE The Trustees Chambers 401 Col-
lins Street Melbourne and that all persons
claiming to hold shares or be interested in any
of the said syndicates are required to prove
their claims by the said 30th day of April
1939 otherwise they will be excluded from any
such distribution.
DATED this 11th day of January 1939.
NEWMAN & WINGROVE, The Trustees
Chambers, 401 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the said trustees.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
“Satisfactory”— 1.2 p.c.
Thousands of people in Australia and
Maoriland have experienced the sensa-
tion of being fixed with a go-getter’s
glittering eye and told a tale about
things such as pine trees, flax plan-
tations, etc., that carried them in their
imagination away from the drab and
dreary, earth up into rosy clouds lined
with solid gold. Very impractical and
impracticable clouds they may appear
when you cool off and think a bit ; but
while the go-getter is on your doorstep
it’s ten to one that you listen, and when
you listen it’s only one step nearer to
the dotted line.
Go-getters have hawked many things
in their time. They have been at work
with forestry bonds, tobacco bonds,
flax bonds, banana bonds, sugar bonds
and coal-oil bonds, as well as conducting
a welter of share-swapping in latter
years. For a time, also, there was an
amazing rush on tung-oil bonds ; many
df these were hawked by go-getters,
others were sold by less “high-pressure”
methods, but in the main results have
been very much the same however the
capital was raised.
Maoriland’s Departments of Agricul-
ture and Scientific and Industrial Re-
search in 1938 decided, “as a result of
conflicting claims concerning the growth
of tung-oil trees” in its own country,
to look into the tung-oil “industry.”
Results of the inquiry are enough to make
even the most sceptical critic of any
new enterprise feel all the staggery sen-
sations of a poleaxed bullock.
The officers of the two departments
looked at 4548 acres planted with tung
trees by 10 different companies. They
found —well, what’s a fair guess? Twenty
per cent, failure? Fifty per cent, failure?
Seventy-five? No ; all wrong. Exactly
1.2 trees out of every 100 trees planted
were in an “apparently satisfactory” con-
dition. In the official figures, there were
55 acres of such rarities, 733 acres of
unsatisfactory trees, and 3760 acres of
worthless, dead and dying trees. So
83 p.c. of the plantations is known to
be a total failure, and another 16 p.c.
or thereabouts is “unsatisfactory.” That
is from the horticultural view only.
Whether the very primest of the 1.2 p.c.
“apparently satisfactory” trees will ever
return enough in money to pay for the
looking-after of them in the future has
yet to be demonstrated.
Some of the plantation cos. mentioned
in the departmental report are unknown
to The Bulletin, and may not have
asked the public for any capital. Several,
however, are known to have issued pros-
pectuses. The position \of individual
companies’ plantations, as revealed by
the report, may be summarised as fol-
ows:—•
3 arengarenga Tung Oil, Te Paki; Australian
Plantations, Ltd., Rangiputa; Northern
Tung Oil Co., Lake Ohia:
These plantations were a c’omplete failure,
and the controlling companies have ceased to
operate.
Parapara Development Co., Parapara:
There are about 10 acres of apparently satis-
factory trees, with an additional small area of
very unsatisfactory and worthless trees.
Tung Oil Securities, Matauri Bay:
_ Acres.
Irees apparently satisfactory 0
Trees unsatisfactory 26
Trees very unsatisfactory 0
Trees dead and dying 314
Empire Tung Oil, Waitangi:
No map has been made of this property,
but the whole of the area planted has been in-
spected, and the position is approximately 40
acres to 50 acres of unsatisfactory and very
unsatisfactory trees, with a similar area of
dead and dying trees.
N.Z. Tung Oil Corporation, associated with
N:Z. Tung Oil, Ltd., and Kaikohe Tung
Groves, Ltd.:
In Kaukakapa most of the trees are dead,
and the company has ceased operating here and
transferred activities to Awarua.
In Waipapa many trees are removed. The
remainder are practically all dead. The com-
"Will ’ee give this lazy young loafer a job , Ca'pn? ’E be good Worker .”
pany has ceased operating here, and has trans-
ferred operations to Awarua.
Awarua (the largest plantation in M.L.): —
Acres.
Apparently satisfactory trees 37
Unsatisfactory trees 585
Worthless, dead aqd dying trees .. 1551
Tung Oil Plantations, Ltd., Mamaranui:
Acres.
Trees apparently satisfactory 0
Trees unsatisfactory 52
Trees very unsatisfactory 14
Trees dead and dying 266
Tung Acres, Te Arai:
The whole, area has been inspected, but the
maps prepared are not at present available.
Approximately 500 acres have been planted,
over which 90 per cent, of the trees are in a
dead or dying condition, and the remainder
are quite unsatisfactory.
Tung Oil Debenture Trust, Pakapuka:
Acres.
Trees apparently satisfactory 7
Trees unsatisfactory 20
Trees very unsatisfactory 24
Trees dead and 'dying 201
Summary of All Plantations:
Acres.
Apparently satisfactory trees 55
Unsatisfactory trees 733
Worthless, dead and dying trees .. 3760
4548
Something like a quarter of a million
money seems to be represented by what
is left on those 4548 acres.
Six months’ overseas trading has given
us a credit of £6,549,000 sterling, against
£5,570,000 sterling for the half-year to
Dec. 31, 1937. Both imports and ex-
ports have fallen about 10 p.c., but the
slightly greater drop in imports has meant
a trading advantage to us of roughly
£1,000,000 sterling for the half-year.
Improvement at a greater rate will need
to be shown, however, if we are to meet
our overseas interest bill out of current
income during 1938-39. In 1937-38 we
were about £10,000,000 sterling short,
and at the end of that period we had
£64,000,000 left to our credit in London,
but it included nearly everything we pos-
sessed in the way of gold except the
fillings in our teeth.
An encouraging movement, now that
the conversion and defence loan operation
is over, .has been the strong demand
for Consolidated Loans on ’Change. Of
course, the new issue isn’t listed yet,
but nearly every line of old bonds has
been moving up since the Exchanges
opened for 1939. Perhaps a number of
investors of the casual type didn’t con-
vert when they intended to, were paid
off in cash, and are now buying other
existing issues. Likewise, a proportion
of those who meant to, and did, take
cash changed their minds about their
planned method of disposing of , it and
have eventually turned to Consols again.
In any case, the demand has been wide-
spread, and the supply hasn’t been
enough to keep prices down to their old
levels, even though the Commonwealth
Bank, as underwriter, was left with
£6,000,000 of the new loan, part of
which it may shift later on.
* * * *
The New York sharemarkets showing
a weaker tone, most Barrier stocks fell
back on Australian ’Changes last week,
and' industrials were a trifle quieter
towards the week-end, after several days
on an upward plane. But the wool
market was firmer, 10.9 d. being aver-
aged in Sydney.
* * * %
“Inquisitive”: New Occidental share-
holders are getting tired of statements,
estimates, reports and promises. In the
Sydney “Morning Herald” of 12/1 /’39
is published a statement to the effect that
the last monthly returns “yielded a profit
conservatively estimated at £21,000.”
Since the present company started pro-
duction in 1935 (it is now 1939), it has
treated 332,000 tons of ore and paid
about £lOO,OOO in dividends, which is
equivalent to less than 10s. per ton
of ore treated. The December return
mentioned in the “Herald” shows a
profit of 335. per ton of ore. How
much of this will be left towards divi-
dends after capital expenditure, depre-
ciation, taxation, overhead and other
charges are satisfied? Not half, it is safe
to say. No explanation has yet been
given to the shareholders for the nego-
tiations with outside interests for the
sale of the mine. The weather conditions
at Cobar are nothing to what the share-
holders of the New Occidental co. have
to put up with.
_. * * * *
Zinc Corp. turned out 64,033 tons of
lead (up 10.4 p.c.) and 39,666 tons of
zinc (up 16.9 p.c.) during its approximate
1938 year. Lead averaged £l5 ss. 4d.
a ton London during the year, down
£8 Is. 2d. ; spelter fetched £l3 19s. 9d.,
down £8 7s. 2d. Silver, of which Zinc
Corp.’s output was also up slightly, was
almost unchanged. This year and next
should see big additions to Zinc Corp.’s
milling; the new plant starts shortly,
and its throughput is to be stepped up to
over 700,000 tons, all going well, by
1941. Last year 414,500 tons was put
through, up 24,000 tons.
Activity on the
Adamsfield (T a s.)
osmiridium field is
reported to be bring-
ing results that indi-
cate divs. from the
operating co. later on.
* *
In Melbourne last
week:
Olympic Tyres in-
creased its interim div.
to 6f p.c., as against
6$ p.c. this time last
year. For 1937-38 13$
p.c. was paid, including
a final at the rate of
1\ p.c. A 15 p.c. dis-
tribution may be pos-
sible this year. On a
1“H P-c. basis (which
assumes an unchanged
final div.) the yield at
445. is £6 13s. 4d. per
cent....
Goliath Cement
ords. at 255. were weak
in an otherwise strong
market throughout the,
Commonwealth for
cement shares.
Howard Smith ords.
at 19s. yielded £5. ss.
per cent., with widely-
spread sources of
revenue behind the co.’s
comparatively low earn-
ing-power.
Broken Hill Prop, fully-paids slipped back
to 565. 6d., after nearing 58s. after the holidays.
North Kalgurli. maintained its reputation
of - being one of the steadiest stocks, mining
or otherwise, in Australia by selling at 255.
Shares in H. B. Dickie, the towel-makers,
kept to a steady price of 275. ' 3d. Though
a comparatively small concern, with a short
sharemarket history, H. B. Dickie has for more
than 12 months been steadily supported on
’Change.


Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board, Sydney.
£1,000,000 LOAN
Interest 4fl p.a. Price of Issue par (£100)
REPAYABLE Ist FEBRUARY, 1949.
LOAN NOW OPEN.
CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 6th FEBRUARY. 1939.
Guaranteed by the Government of New South Wales.
Loan underwritten by Messrs. J. B. Were & Son,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne,
375 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney, and London.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board from whatever
source arising.
Applications for subscriptions and instalments will be accepted free of
exchange at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Canberra, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, and through Members of
a recognised Australian Stock Exchange.
Interest will be payable and principal repayable at any of the above
Commonwealth Bank of Australia branches.
Prospectuses and application forms are obtainable at any of the Bank’s
branches and the Board’s Head Office, 45 Reservoir Street, Sydney, and
branches.
Stock or debentures will be issued at the option of the applicant, deben-
tures in denominations of £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO, and Stock in multiples
of £lOO.
The minimum amount that may be applied for in the Loan is £lOO, and
amounts in excess of £lOO must be for multiples of £lOO.
Applications may be paid in accordance with the following options;
Option I—ln1 —In full with application
Option 2—£10% with application
£30% by 31st March, 1939
£30% by Ist May, 1939
£30% by Ist June, 1939
or
Option 3—£10% with application
£90% by Ist June, 1939
The Loan is a trustee investment in New South Wales, Queensland and
Tasmania. Applications will be made for the listing of the Loan on the
principal Stock Exchanges in the Commonwealth.
The Board reserves the right to close the Loan at any earlier date
without notice and partially to allot subscription.
T. HAYNES UPTON, President.
W. O. C. DAY, Secretary.
Sydney.
CHOOSE THE
WJtfMOD
V//// * *~~** ••'•*•
<00
c
FOR EVERY
JOB
s,
k
Ml
n %•
MAKE TIME. .on the
TURNS..ON STEEP HILLS
..ON THE STRAIGHT AWAY
lit
Model “M” Crawlers for Sure-footed Traction . . .
goes where you cannot follow it .. . Ideal for
moderate-sized Farms, Tank Sinking, etc.
ONE Q’LAND OWNER OF 9 “M” TRACTORS STATES:
For sheer dependability, robust construction and lou) operating
and maintenance costs the ALLIS CHALMERS ‘M’
TRACTOR is unsurpassed. My Fleet average under one
gallon of fuel per hour on all operations .**
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- house -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
j
NQBranch
STURTR
TOWNSVILLE
; C.Q.Branch N°l East S t Rockhampton..
ENGINEERING Supply c*Cf AUSTRAUA P 0
Mick Simmons'
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL ML BY, /unions Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and admeu.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
ĵ
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in,
round barrel, pistol grip, bead
front and adjustable rear sight.
Weight, about /ml
Price £l/16/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/0.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 7in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front ._ » c
sight; weight, about 4//d
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/0.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 2 7in.
round blued steel barrel;
weight, ladder
rear sight H 4/ K)
Postage, 2/3 ; Other States, 4/-
No. 32 —BROWNING
“TROMBONE" H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22 in. round steel barrel;
handles 22 short, long
or long-rifle cartridges;
screw rear and open
front sights; length
overall 39in.;
weight, 4Jlb. *"D/ */®
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE’
D.B.B.L. Gun, 12G., top lever ba
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks,, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut Jf.
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 — F O X STERLINGWORTH
D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, I2G.,
30in. steel barrels, left full choke, right
modified, walnut stock, pistol grip, cham
bered for 2|in. cartridges. -- 1 /I e /
Weight, about 7^1b.
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, -- i /-i i /
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. 3-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, o /i o /
about 71b Xlo/lo/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
John Woolcott-Forbes
Last week-end it was announced that
a warrant for the arrest in Bombay and
extradition of a man well known as John
Woolcott-Forbes had been issued by the
N. S. Wales police. The charge was con-
spiracy to defraud. Woolcott-Forbes left
Australia for England—he said his wife
was ill there —about three weeks ago, and
the Strathnaver called at Bombay over
the week-end.
Woolcott-Forbes used to be engaged
in selling forestry bonds; later he be-
came associated with a concern called the
N.Z. Investment Trust, which afterwards
changed its name to Cranwells. As the
managing-director of Cranwells, Wool-
cott-Forbes was the guiding spirit in
a wide share-hawking organisation ; he
was also a punter in goldmining stocks,
including Resolute, Associated Northern
Ora Banda and Vees United. Cran-
wells having acquired what was left
of the assets of the Primary Pro-
ducers’ Bank, it changed its name to
Producers and General Finance, and
went into the discounting and cash-order
business; Woolcott-Forbes and some
other members of Cranwells’ board went
with P. and G., while part of Cranwells’
share-selling staff joined a new share-
hawking concern, Hamiltons (Austra-
lasia), Ltd. Hamiltons flourished for a
while and then wilted under the effects
of restrictive new company law.
Woolcott-Forbes built a palace at
Gordon (N.S.W.), and gave a party for
his wife which was reputed to have cost
£lOOO. He became prominent on race-
courses, being known as “The Bull-
fighter.” He also associated himself
later with another share-hawking organ-
isation known as David Provan and
Co., which afterwards became Scott,
Elder and Co., interested in selling the
shares of Scottish Loan and Finance.
Woolcott-Forbes resigned fro'm the
board of P. and G. Finance ; it was sug-
gested to him that his presence on the
board had a depressing effect on the
market for the shares.
The last annual meeting of P. and G.
Finance (Nov., 1938) started at 11 a.m.
and, apart from an adjournment for
lunch, went on to nearly 5 p.m. Wool-
cott-Forbes, who, it was stated, had been
advanced £36,000 by the co. in order
to pay calls on shares he held, said he
had raised £lO,OOO on his wife’s jewels
in order to meet further calls. He owned
100,000 shares, and meant to “honor his
obligations—every bob of them.” When
he added that he was in his present posi-
tion because of the fact that he was
“carrying other shareholders,” a member
of the meeting rose and said the only
thing Mr. Forbes carried on his behalf
was a wish that at some future date he
“would be carrying his bloody swag.”
P. and G., after showing a big profit in
its initial period, next term showed a
heavy loss, and 10s. per ord. share was
recommended to be written off.
United Provisions ords. (B. 11/1/ *39,
at 6s. lOd.) sold at 7s. 6d. in Sydney last
week, and interest also revived in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
F.R.S. Ideal Spring ’ shares (B.
21/12/’3B, at 245. 6d.) were taken up to
275. last week, a lift of ss. 6d. within a
month. The market is interested in the
co.’s earning power —24 p.c. p.a. on capi-
tal for the six months to June 30 last—
and the 10 p.c. div. gives a yield of
7.4 p.c. A quietening in the demand for
the scrip may become evident if profit-
taking starts. It is a newly-listed issue,
and may be subject to fluctuations before
it finds a stable position in the share-list.
It is a promising enterprise of its kind,
but subject to conditions in the motor-
car and furniture industries.
* * * *
Maoriland’s emergency measures
haven’t so far had the result of building
up London funds, though what they
have stopped in the way of a drain on
those funds it is hard to say. Last week
the Reserve Bank had £3,933,000 (M.L.
currency) to its credit, against £4,017,000
seven days earlier. ■ One thing, the bank’s
London funds aren’t kept a secret mat-
ter, and, although there have probably
been Cabinet arguments on this point,
the open method has much to be said
for it. It will be some time, perhaps,
before Maoriland’s overseas balances im-
prove. Although there is plenty of room
for criticism of the developments that
led up to the present state of emergency,
when the emergency arose there was
little else to be done except curb imports
and control the transfer of money.
* * * *
From the middle of December up to
last week eight full cargoes of Aus-
tralian flour had left for China, repre-
senting more than 3,000,000 bushels of
wheat. This is an extraordinary quantity
of flour for any overseas customer to
take in so short a period.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
America Holds the Key.
[ln a notable speech in the House of Commons
just before the Christmas adjournment, Mr. Chamber-
lain pointed out that the Opposition foreign policy
“would have involved us in war simultaneously with
Japan, with Germany, with Italy and with General
Franco, too.” Critics of the Munich Agreement and of
Mr. Chamberlain’s policy as a whole find that com-
pletely unanswerable. Its implications are frankly
examined in this condensed London “Observer” article
by J. L. Garvin, who pins his faith to an America
forced by circumstances to come in.]
The present background to world affairs and the
nature of its great forces are not a question of Ger-
many or Italy or Japan taken apart, but of their
world-wide combination, one of the most formidable
ever known. Universal in its effects, it is hard to cope
with in any one region without extreme hazard in some
other quarter of the globe.
This is the factor we have to reckon with, whether
we think in terms of peace, if possible, or of the
nation’s and the Empire’s fight for life should the
last emergency arise.
The understanding between Germany, Italy and
Japan has transformed all the former conditions of
international politics. The full effect has yet to be
seen. There can be little doubt that during the last
couple of months the combination has been solidified,
looking to the further aggrandisement of each partner.
In a word, the Anti-Comintern Alliance has become an
immense and ceaseless influence, whether for diplo-
matic action or strategical pressure in all quarters at
once.
It means that rash challenges on separate ques-
tions are impotent or insane. However it might begin,
any war whatever would be a world war. Britain
and France would be engaged not only in western
Europe and in their own atmosphere, but in the Medi-
terranean and North Africa, and in the Far East. If
Russia moved in concert with them for her own sake,
she would be attacked on both sides.
These are conditions of notable disadvantage by
comparison with the last World War, when both Italy
and Japan were our allies. We pointed this out again
and again when the craze for Abyssinian sanctions
was at its maddest.
In face of this gigantic problem what have the
Oppositions to offer? Rather than the peace of
Munich with its unavoidable drawbacks in the fearful
circumstances of the eleventh hour, would they have
acted on the old fatal theory that Germany was bluff-
ing? Would they have staked all on that gamble?
Would they have challenged war throughout the globe
without being able to help the Czechs? Could they
have carried France with them in that policy —not to
speak of the British people? On the stark choice of
evils as it then stood, the peace of Munich was im-
measurably the least. On that single issue the vast
majority in Britain has never changed its mind.
What is the alternative policy of the Oppositions
and their associates? As for defence, do Labor and
Liberalism go beyond the Government in any decisive
way whatever? How, then, could they pursue in prac-
tice that wondrous policy both stronger and safer
which is so easily proclaimed in words? They might
as well rely on magic and abracadabra.
In a mixture of hymns ancient and modern the
Oppositions speak of restoring the balance of power
by reviving the League of Nations. To suggest that
any solid or sufficient combination of armed Powers
and nations could be organised through Geneva to-day
for concerted resistance to other Powers and nations
is the very soap-bubble of fantasy blown out by de-
luded and delusive rhetoric.
The other proposition by the Government’s oppo-
nents is that Britain and France should enter into full
alliance with Soviet Russia. This never could be
enough for the purposes whether of peace or war. It
would not be an asset sure enough to compensate for
the incalculable liability. None of us knows whether
the Soviet system might not be brought by the
Ukrainian question or other causes to disruption and
a more stupendous collapse than that of the Tsardom.
No one knows for certain. But no one with certainty,
or anything like it, knows the contrary. The Russian
resort by itself is not enough.
Then is there no great hope? There is one, but
it must be looked for in a different direction. It
cannot come from Geneva or Moscow, but it can
come from America.
The United States will be compelled to redress
the balance —not for the sake of this country or the
British Empire, not merely for any abstract principle
or general principle, but by the compulsion of every
moral influence and substantial interest that can con-
cern the future of her own soul and life. Mighty
forces are developing which her isolated action never
can restrain —forces which are every day becoming
more confidently defiant of free institutions every-
where, and are tempted to aim at the economic as well
as political control of three-quarters pf the earth —of
Europe, Asia and Africa at least. But it could not
stop there.
The Atlantic is narrowing while the conditions
on the other side of the Pacific are changing. Both
processes are stimulated by their interaction under the
conditions established by the Triple Alliance of Totali-
tarian States. On the presumed dominance of that
combination Japan breaks up China; the Greater
Reich follows suit by preparing to break up Russia ;
speculation is as free upon the break-up of the British
Empire ; and upon the dismemberment of French pos-
sessions not gained under the Versailles Treaty, but
held from long befoYe. If these things could be
brought about, the colonial territories of Belgium, the
Netherlands and Portugal would pass likewise under
the direct or indirect control of the German and
Japanese partners in the Totalitarian Alliance.
Japan already, with no more consideration for
Washington than for London, repudiates the Nine-
Power Treaty, seizes the commercial mastery of China,
shuts the open door which America 40 years ago en-
gaged to maintain, and puts the key in her pocket.
That is one side of it, but not the most serious, because
not the nearest.
If the ownership of the Dark Continent is largely
to change hands like that of Far Asia, the air-bases of
West Africa will be easily within a few hours’ flight
of South America. There is another consideration
and not the least. Japan’s partnership in the Totali-
tarian Alliance has the most direct effect upon the
destinies of what we call Western civilisation. If so,
can the United States be indifferent to it? We are
sure not, whatever may be the divisions of opinion
and the fluctuations of feeling across the Atlantic
to-day.
Lancashire Cotton.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Mail” article by
Percy Cater.)
The Lancashire cotton trade is closing down.
Foreign competition is killing it. Lancashire has sent
out the SOS to the Government to come to its aid at
once. Its demands are quickly stated:
Stop Japan’s gallop in the Empire ; equalise the
conditions. Tell India that she cannot expect to go
on selling one-third of her goods in the British market
if she does not reduce her penal tariffs against Lan-
cashire of 20, 25 and 50 per cent. Use Britain’s great
bargaining power as the chief buyer of the world to
negotiate new trade agreements which will be much
more favorable to English cotton. Tell those who
take more money from us than they spend here: “We
shall cut our trade unless you do the fair thing.” Ask
the Dominions to lower their duties against cotton.
There should be countervailing duties—heavy ones —
here and in the Empire against the dumpers. And, if
all else fails, subsidise cotton as other trades have
been subsidised.
If the Government fails to rescue Lancashire the
last relics of the county’s glory and pride, of the day
when Lancashire spun and wove the cotton of the
world, clothed the African native, the plantation toiler,
the myriad throngs of India, of Egypt and the Near
East, did thriving commerce with the European mar-
kets, the countries of the West, and with China, will
have departed.
It is Lancashire’s export trade that has been shat-
tered. The Japanese who sells in world markets at half
the price (or less) that Lancashire can quote, the
Japanese who sends his cotton cloth to be finished in
Lancashire and gets it stamped British though it puts
Lancashire men out of jobs—he is the man who has
done it.
Japan, which competes disastrously all over the
Empire and has practically a monopoly of the trade
in the Congo Basin territories, helps, with its export or
300,000,000 or 400,000,000 yards, to knock Lancashire
out of the high-tariffed Indian market.
At many times of the year 100,000 unemployed,
who have to be kept by unemployment benefit or
public assistance, walk the dreary streets of the cotton
towns. The man- and woman-power of the industry
is only about 375,000, anyhow.
Think for a moment of those days of Lancashire’s
magnificence. Just before the war 700,000 operatives,
an export of 7,000,000,000 yards, an export to India
alone of 2,700,000,000 yards —that was the proud tale
that Lancashire could tell of a century of growth and
wealth and power..
Perhaps too much prosperity went to Lancashire’s
head. They are dour people here, but they had money
to burn. There came the post-war boom, in which
Lancashire went mad —the period of egregious over-
capitalisation. The hardest heads “got out” while the
going was good ; but some people had to carry on the
trade. Many of these have lost all their money, or
most of it. The operatives themselves lost the savings
which, with touching faith that Lancashire would go
on being world cotton-spinner, they put in the mill
where they worked.
Lancashire has got through the amazement and
bewilderment of a man who sees his fortune dissolve.
It is now among the hard-ups. Last year its exports
had shrunk to 2,000,000,000 yards. For this year
they will not exceed 1,500,000,000, less than a quarter
of the peak-year figure. It is estimated that to India
the industry will have sent 280,000,000 —only slightly
more than one-tenth of the pre-war trade.
While many newly arisen trades are prospering,
Lancashire cotton, once the most opulent of British
industries, still the greatest single exporting trade, is
becoming the impoverished old lady of our manufac-
tures. The exports of 1938 were the lowest for 90
years.
Britain’s Sea-power Strength.
[How importantly time counts in the necessary
strengthening of Empire defence-y-especially so from
the Australian and Maoriland point of view—is indi-
cated in this condensed article by London “Daily
Telegraph” naval correspondent Hector C. Bywater,
who also, in the panel item on this page, gives arrest-
ing figures of John Bull’s naval building programme
for this year.]
Amidst air-raid preoccupations and the obvious
need for safeguarding the heart of the British Com-
monwealth against a knockout blow, the authorities
responsible for the defence of the Empire have never
lost sight of the predominating factor of sea power.
Command of the sea, or such areas of it as are
traversed by the trade routes which form the vital
arteries of the Commonwealth, is as indispensable
to-day as it ever was. Any who may question this
• should survey the vast expanses of the Atlantic and
the Pacific, furrowed by the innumerable tracks of
shipping which link up the homeland with the
Dominions, colonies, protectorates and foreign coun-
tries whence we draw the foodstuffs and materials
essential to our daily life, and then consider how
these arteries- —the severance of which would infal-
libly lead to our destruction as a nation —could be
preserved by any means other than sea power.
In coastal wars and, to a limited extent, in the
Narrow Seas, air power may well prove a potent
auxiliary force in keeping the trade routes open. But
it is a demonstrable fact that the security of Great
Britain and the Empire as a whole still depends on
the possession of adequate sea power.
It has been officially stated that the current naval
building programme, by far the largest ever under-
taken in time of peace, is designed to produce a “two
hemisphere” fleet, a phrase which carries its own sig-
nificance.
The potential menace to Empire communications
implicit in the regrouping of World Powers has had
a salutary reaction in most of the Dominions.
Hitherto they had calculated on the prompt arrival of
a British battle fleet to counter the threat of foreign
aggression. Now, however, the possibility of co-ordi-
nated action by the “triangle” Powers in the Atlantic,
the Mediterranean and the Far East is envisaged,
with the disturbing corollary that the British battle
fleet might find itself too much engaged in European
waters to spare a squadron for service overseas. This
contingency is fully appreciated in Australia, where
the reaction has been swift and drastic.
The Australian Minister for Defence recently
made an important disclosure —that in an emergency
the Commonwealth looked to the United Kingdom
to station at Singapore a fleet strong enough to safe-
guard Imperial interests in the Eastern Hemisphere,
adding that his Government had sound grounds for
being reassured on this point.
The organisation of a battle fleet for service in the
Pacific has long been foreshadowed in naval circles,
but the date on which it will arrive at Singapore is
still speculative. When the present building pro-
gramme is completed in 1943 it should be possible to
spare vessels for service in the Pacific without jeopard-
ising the balance of strength in home waters and the
Mediterranean.
It is morally certain that the presence of a battle
squadron at Singapore, with the necessary complement
of cruisers and other ancillary vessels, would definitely
guarantee Australia against invasion from Asia, for
it would lie on the flank of the would-be invaders’
line of approach. Though the Singapore fleet would
be weaker than that of the aggressor, it would exer-
cise all the strategic power of a “fleet in being.” No
naval staff would countenance the dispatch of an
expedition to an objective nearly 3000 miles distant
A Record Launching.
In the accompanying article, “Britain’s Sea-
power Strength,” London “Daily Telegraph”
naval correspondent Hector C. Bywater deals
with the broad aspects of naval power in Empire
defence, with special reference to Australia’s
position, which, of course, applies similarly to
Maoriland.
The same well-informed writer recently gave
figures of John Bull’s prospective launchings:—
In 1939 Britain will launch 45 new warships;
tonnage, 355,705.
Such a figure has never before been approached
in time of peace by any country, and is little, if at
all, below the aggregate tonnage launched in Britain
in any single year of the Great War.
The first important vessels to go afloat will be
the battleship King George V., which the King is to
launch on Tyneside on Feb. 21. A sister ship, Prince
of Wales, will take the water at Birkenhead in March,
and during the summer and autumn three more vessels
of the same class—Anson, Jellicoe and Beatty—will
be launched at Clydebank, Wallsend-on-Tyne and
Govan respectively.
These five units, the largest and most strongly
armored battleships ever built in Britain, will rein-
force the gun-power of the Fleet by 50' Min. guns
of a new and most powerful type. With a designed
speed of 30 knots, they will be among the world’s
fastest battleships.
The three aircraft carriers to be launched are
the Illustrious, Victorious and Formidable, each of
23,000 tons. They are the largest carriers so far
built for the Royal Navy. The first is building at
Barrow-in-Furness, the second on the Tyne and the
third at Belfast.
The five large cruisers to be put afloat are the
Fiji, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria and Trinidad, repre-
senting a new type of 8000 tons and 33 knots speed,
armed with 12 6in. guns.
The seven smaller cruisers in the 1939 pro-
gramme are Dido, Euryalus, Naiad, Phoebe, Sirius,
Bonaventure and Hermione. They, too, form an
entirely new class, 5450 tons, with a speed of 33
knots. The armament is unique, consisting as it does
of 10 5.2 in. guns, a new model credited with a rate
of fire of 14 rounds a minute.
Of the 11 destroyers eight are of the Laforey
class, understood to be of a very large and powerful
type. All the new submarines are big ocean-going
craft, and most of the five sloops are escort vessels
heavily armed with anti-aircraft guns.
Even when the 45 ships enumerated are in the
water, many others will remain on the stocks. These
will include two 40,000-ton battleships, four heavy
and three light cruisers, and numerous smaller craft,
without counting the battleships, cruisers, destroyers
and submarines to be provided for in the 1939 Navy
Estimates.


Over 21,000 Catarrhal Sufferers
have obtained relief and immunity at a cost of sd. a day!
A menace to the health of Australians, Catarrh and allied' disorders have been so widespread
that the report that a well-known immunisation treatment has benefited over 21,000 sufferers
offers new hope to many. Developed by tihe technicians of leading laboratories, this
immunisation treatment, LANTIGEN “B,” has provided relief and immunity without the
need for painful vaccination or expensive operations.
C rUAL experiences reported by chronic sufferers, who have
tried almost every known treatment, show that LANTIGEN
is a distinct stop forward in the efforts of medical science to
conquer chronic bacterial disorders.
* l ™, t*^ a , t Lou,s Pasteur, renowned bacteriologist,
only ? orre ct way to combat disease is to
nt ■ - , causing it. scientific researches have been
thk nrit,v h here and overseas, to prove the effectiveness of
vt rti nnint in^, lhe resear ches of Pasteur were the
starting-point in the evolution of L4NTIGFN
ctes r which 0n ?li,, th nnt ShoUt *“ tralia P‘°'-e its - effectiveness in
J * ' cessf ' jlly res Pond to any other types of
CATARRH AND ALLIED COMPLAINTS CAUSED
BY GERMS.
Tn A e r ve [ y case these virulent organisms attack the body:—
B Pneumoniae; 3, Pneumococcus; 4. B.
Septus, B. Influenzae; 6, Streptococcus.
It is stated that, unless each one of these organisms is dealt
with separately, it is impossible to get a complete remedy for
Catarrh.
LANTIGEN has been evolved specifically to counteract the
effects of the germs actually causing , Catarrh. It contains
antigens, agents which incite the human system to create anti-
bodies. These antibodies attack the disease-causing germs,
gather them in masses, and finally destroy them by oxidation
or burning up in special parts of the body.
A SIMPLE TREATMENT.
Taken through the mouth —a few drops in water at bedtime —
LANTIGEN “B” provides similar benefits to those obtaining
hitherto by painful vaccination by injection.
It has been found that two bottles of LANTIGEN “B” treat-
ment are usually sufficient to clear up the average case and
provide immunity for varying periods up to two years (provided
the patient's constitution is average). In deep-seated or stub-
born cases, three to four bottles will almost invariably provide
this immunity. Each bottle of LANTIGEN is priced at £l/1/-
for several weeks’ treatment, and the bottles’ may be purchased
separately.
NO DRUGS—NO DANGER.
•LANTIGEX is not a patent medicine, and is devoid of drugs
altogether. It is a bacteriological product which contains the
detoxified antigens of the dissolved micro-organisms which are
peculiar to the particular disease requiring treatment. It is one
or the most pleasant and convenient forms of treatment ever
deyetoped, and is claimed to be most effective because it deals
with the deep, underlying cause.
If you are a sufferer from Catarrhal diseases, including
Bronchitis, Bronchial Asthma, Antrum, Sinus, or other respira-
tory tract disorders, see your chemist now, and ask him to
explain how LANTIOEN “B” is scientifically prepared to give
you prompt and lasting relief.
Tantigen ‘B’
Start on a Course Now!
Product of Edinburgh Laboratories, Sydney.
Branches or Distributors in all other States and N.Z.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS
Throughout Australia and New Zealand.
when the opposing fleet in being
lay at a base less than 2000
miles from that objective, e.g..
Singapore-Darwin.
But while for these reasons
Australia may count on achiev-
ing security a few years hence,
she must live through a period
during which adequate help may
not be forthcoming when it is
most needed, and she is, there-
fore, making a valiant effort to
strengthen her own defences.
Turning to the broader
aspects of naval defence, it
would be a mistake to assume
that concerted aggression at sea
by the totalitarian Powers would
find the French Navy unsup-
ported by allies or friends. The
French Navy provides an effec-
tive counterbalance to the Italian
fleet, and would, in all prob-
ability, be capable of frustrat-
ing single-handed an attempt
permanently to cut the military
and trade routes of the Medi-
terranean.
Nor can the potential influ-
ence of the gigantic naval
weapon which the United States
is forging be ignored. That
country’s interest in maintaining
the status quo in the Pacific is
equal to our own, and it is
This map of Empire merchant ships at sea is from London "Daily
Express, which commented: "On a prearranged day every British
Empire ship of 3000 tons gross or more was asked to radio its
position to the Admiralty. Those radios have made the most
romantic map in the world. It is more than a map. It is a poem
of the Empire’s mercantile greatness. Every dot represents a British
ship. They form Britain’s great lifelines for food and raw material
supplies; show at a glance where naval protection is most needed."
The protection aspect is dealt with in the article “ Britain’s Sea-power
Strength” and the panel item “A Record Launching.”
inconceivable that a violent disturbance of the equili-
brium by an Asiatic aggressor would be accepted with
equanimity by any American Government. Further-
more, American interest in the balance of power in
the Atlantic has recently been emphasised by the pro-
posal to create an entirely new fleet for service in that
ocean.
Yet another factor to be reckoned with by a pros-
pective Asiatic aggressor is the very powerful force
of aircraft and submarines which Russia is concentrat-
ing at Vladivostok, only 450 miles from Japan.
Finally, the British Navy, even as at present con-
stituted, is strong enough to hold its own in the Eastern
Atlantic, and at the same time to dispatch such forces
to the Mediterranean as would place the issue of a con-
flict there beyond doubt. Judging by the assurances
given to the Australian Government there is, or shortly
will be, a sufficient margin of strength to provide a
battle fleet for the Pacific as well.
Solving the Refugee Problem.
o Condensed from a London "Times” article by
Sir Arthur Salter, M.P.)
About 200,000 Jews by religion have already left
Germany and Austria. There are probably another
500,000, with 500,000 “non-Aryans,” who are subject
to serious persecution in Greater Germany. In addi-
tion, there are Aryan political and religious refugees,
and some thousands of Italian Jews now under notice
to leave. The total to be dealt with in the near future
may amount to almost a million—that is, five times
the number already out.
The prospect for the further future, of the next
few years, is still more serious. There are 3,000,000
Jews in Poland and nearly 2,000,000 in Hungary,
Rumania, Czechoslovakia and Lithuania. A large
proportion of these are likely to be forced out. For,
apart from the spread of Nazi doctrine and stimu-
lated anti-Semitism, longer-term forces are in opera-
tion. In the 10 years before the war the United States,
which has since reduced the inflow to a mere trickle’
received some 10,000,000 migrants. The European
economy became dependent upon this safety valve and
has suffered greatly ever since it ceased to be avail-
able. Therefore it may well be that in the next few
years the total of refugees will have amounted to
between 3,000,000 and 5,000,000.
The real question is what should be the principal
method of dealing with this exodus. Shall it be by
absorption through a process of infiltration? Or shall
it be by the establishment of new communities — i.e.,
by group settlement? For small numbers the first
method is the natural, whether the infiltration is into
industrialised countries or into colonies by the ordi-
nary form of colonial migration. The possibilities
ot absorption in this way are, however, very limited
indeed.
Clearly no solution lies this way. But when we
turn to the establishment of new communities the
whole problem becomes of manageable dimensions, if
several colonial Powers contribute and if the right
line of action is taken. The Greek experience is de-
cisive. After the fall of Smyrna well over a million
Greeks fled from Asia Minor into Greece, a number
equal to a quarter of the total population of the coun-
try. Most of them were settled on the land in new
homogeneous refugee settlements. Over 500,000 were
settled in the mere strip of Macedonia. The result
has been that this vast addition to a small population,
so far from being an impossible drain upon the
country, has actually added to its economic strength
and resources.
The method adopted was that the League of
Nations made a scheme of settlement, officially recom-
mended but not financially guaranteed by the Gov-
ernments of League States, established a Commission
to carry it out, and thus enabled a loan to be raised
for the capital expenditure required. The experience
remains valid as showing first that large numbers of
refugees can be quickly settled in new communities,
and secondly that the official authority of Govern-
ments is essential if this kind of settlement is to be
successfully arranged.
The plan for a particular area need not be inter-
national. League action was required for Greece
because the refugees were then coming to a weak
sovereign State. It is quite unnecessary where settle-
ment is to be in the colony of a great Power. Much
the best form of international action is that each of
several countries should contribute schemes of settle-
ment in its own territory and should itself see those
schemes through to success.
Along these lines the whole refugee problem is
quite manageable if several countries contribute. There
would be much advantage in Great Britain taking the
lead. She is the chief colonial Power. She has special
experience at her disposal. She has a very strong
interest in helping the world to find a solution of the
refugee problem. Success would also bring prestige
both in the United States and elsewhere ; and in a
few years the result might well be the addition of both
political and economic strength to the British Com-
monwealth of Nations by the accession of a new and
prosperous Dominion.
Japan s Trade Grip on China.
[The writer of the London “Daily Telegraph” article
liom which this item is condensed is Edwin Haward
former editor of “North China Daily Ncws.”|
The Japanese Are taking steps to consolidate their
economic position in the occupied territory. Two
development companies tor the north and central
® as China have been formed with civilian boards.
J hey are to undertake the operation of commercial
enterprises railways, waterworks, shipping, mining
telephones, telegraphs.
k While the army in occupied territory is engaged
in “mopping up” the Chinese guerrillas, these Japanese
charter films hope steadily to secure a grip over the
economic structure of the country. It is claimed that
Chinese co-operation is not lacking; but it has not
been possible to induce Chinese of good standing to
“join the board.”
Starting with the limited intention of creating an
economic bloc of North China and Manchukuo by
force of arms, the present large-scale invasion of China
has thrown upon Japan a grave financial strain. She
is being driven consequently to make light of her
treaty obligations in respecting the “Open Door.” Not
otherwise, she thinks, can she hope to recoup herself
for the continental adventure.
She has now to achieve a complete conquest which
will put her unquestionably in control of China’s
economic resources, albeit to the detriment of the
interests of third parties, who, as she sees it, will have
the choice of accepting the crumbs falling from the
table or getting out. Anything less would be tanta-
mount to stalemate or yirtual defeat.
So, as the struggle continues, the rights of British
and other foreign traders in China are likely to be
even more seriously threatened than they have been in
the last 18 months. By a system of monopoly trading
Japanese organisations are squeezing out third-party
business everywhere. A recent report from Hangchow
says that over 90 per cent, of the goods on sale in the
shops there are of Japanese manufacture.
On non-Japanese foreign goods a “special tax” is
enforced by the Japanese military occupation. Any
support of the financing of these monopoly companies,
whether from the United States of America or from
Great Britain, would directly contribute to the fur-
ther destruction of the trade of those countries with
China.
In Hangchow the Chinese are forced to accept
Japanese military notes. Currency manoeuvres in the
whole of the occupied territory are gravely prejudicing
the trade interests of other countries. So far, indomi-
table courage and tenacity have had their reward.
British commerce and its friendly rivals are holding
on, but the strain ever increases.


VICTORIA RACING CLUB
AUTUMN MEETING, 1939.
ENTRIES for the following races close at the
offices of the V.R.C., Melbourne, A.J.C., Syd-
ney, S.A.J.C., Adelaide, W.A.T.C., Perth,
Q.T.C., Brisbane, C.J.C., Christchurch, W.R.C.,
Wellington, A.R.C., Auckland, D.J.C., Dunedin,
T.R.C., Hobart, and T.T.C., Launceston, at
3 p.m. on Tuesday, 24th January, 1939:
NEWMARKET HANDICAP (Run Saturday,
4th March, 1939), £3ooo—Six furlongs.
AUSTRALIAN CUP (Run Saturday, 11th
March, 1939), £3OOO (and trophy valued
miles and a quarter.
All entries to be accompanied by £l.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY,
Secretary, V.R.C.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. had only 5000 or so
racegoers at Warwick Farm the
smallest crowd seen at the suburban
track since it was taken over. The heat
was too much for the other 5000 or so
expected. Many horses were affected by
it, and the form of some of the mares
can be overlooked.
Lord Bine would have been favorite
for the Sefton Handicap had he been
started. Moonray occupied that position
for a time, but eased in the betting from
6 to 4to fours. He started at threes.
Diamond Wedding, owned by Reg Allen,
the A.J.C. committeeman, was half a
point shorter after 4 to 1 had been laid.
Moonray had the thing won at the home
turn, where Senora, Lady Curia and
Stuart M. had raced themselves to a
standstill. Diamond Wedding, last early,
ran on strongly, but had no chance of
catching Moonray. Senora and Stuart M.
ran a dead-heat for third.
There was no money for Highborn in
the January Handicap, and, that being
the case, Braidwood Boy, who had run
well at Randwick, was the logical favor-
ite. Improvement, however, was backed
down to 5 to 2 ; there was good support
for Braidwood Boy at threes. Com-
mencing a long run at the half-mile pole,
Braidwood Boy outstayed Improvement
and Osculum, and won by a long head.
It looked a fair Anniversary Handicap
trial, but, for some reason or other,
Braidwood Boy wasn’t nominated for
that race.
Edible ran rather well, and looks an
early winner. Highborn must need more
racing, and Tapestry seems to have lost
form.
Allunga’s owner, Hunter Bowman,
produced a smart galloper, Joy Cullen,
in the Farm Encourage. He let her run
for the prize, and the price was 25 to 1.
All the same the mare led throughout
and won comfortably from High Divi-
dend and Proceed. She is a four-year-
old by Archcullen-Joy Queen. Radio
Queen and Fernave were well backed
but disappointed, particularly Radio
Queen. She ran second-last.
• • • • • •
Chickabiddy, raced by trainer Dan
Lewis and pastoralist P. R. Little, im-
pressed many as a comer by his perform-
ance in the colts and geldings’ division
of the Nursery. He is a bay colt by
Silverburn-Alabama, and his strong
finish suggests that he will be heard of
again at longer distances. Burfield and
Wimbledon filled the places. Chicka-
biddy, who was ridden by McCarten,
started at 7 to 2.
Melrose (9 to 4 on) is a smart filly.
She ran away with her division of the
Nursery. Veiled Witch and Mohave,
second and third respectively, were out-
classed. Melrose is raced on lease by
D. Ahern. Bred by Mrs. Harry Taylor,
of Wellington, she is a small and low-set
filly by Melfort from Emily Rose,
daughter of Rampion and Whitta, and
herself a slick galloper, as also was
Whitta. Melrose has won at her last two
starts, and at her first outing ran third at
Menangle.
Scarlet Circle won the Berala Handi-
cap rather easily from Miss Linbul and
Red Thespian. A chestnut mare by
Scarlet Square-Meg Yetman, she went
out at 4 to 1, the same as Beau Cheval,
Red Thespian and Palarang. Beau Cheval
bled badly, and was eased up in the
straight. Palarang’s fourth deserves to
be borne in mind. On the day he had
no chance with Scarlet Circle, who,
thanks to clever riding by Stan Davidson,
got a break round the home turn. Miss
Linbul (8 to 1) finished faster than Red
Thespian, but not fast enough.
Ripley, bred in Queensland, by Bonne-
ment or Rivoli out of Lero, took the
first division of the Maiden Handicap.
A four-year-old bay gelding, he carries
the colors of Sydney sportsman W. C.
Douglass (Mr. Douglass won an Epsom
with Claro), and started at 9 to 2. The
second division was won by Gold Pan,
owned by pastoralist, J. Campbell and
backed from 12 to 1 to sixes. Gold
Pan is a plain-looking son of Pantheon,
but he can stay.
* * * *
Conclusions of “Bob Punter”:
The N. S. Wales anti-s.p. law certainly has
the breeze well up ’em in some quarters. The
time for a race, as broadcast, sounding miracu-
lous, I rang up the broadcasting station and
then a Sydney newspaper office for confirmation.
Both informed me that they were not allowed
to give racing information over the telephone!
If the “aggressor nations” have their subjects
a tenth as downtrodden as that they must be
great places to be out of.
The law isn’t being taken so seriously by
everybody. Its leading barrackers are not now
heard bawling the evils of s.p. from the house-
tops: Sydney “Sun,” which formerly saw the
malignant s.p. influence in pretty well every-
thing, from the “empty playing fields” to the
falling demand for all-day suckers, hasn’t so
far blamed it for the lamentable showing of
the N. S. Wales cricketers or the struggle to
get recruits. That, however, doesn’t mean that
the Act has abolished s.p. Without exception
every s.p. merchant known to me before the
Act was passed still looks fairly well-fed, and
all punting acquaintances still have as many
good things and as many explanations after-
wards.
As far as stopping s.p. goes, the law is, in
fact, a washout. Anybody who wants to do
in his money that way in Sydney can do so
without trouble. A stranger mightn’t find it
so easy, but the s.p. agent with his personal
clientele is going as strong as ever.
Still, the law has probably lowered the
amount of s.p. betting. It is now done a lot
more furtively than the open go it used to be,
and that probably means less business. It isn’t
that you can’t get your money on, but there’s
now the air of it’s being a shady transaction
—something a bit shabby about it, like sneak-
ing into a pub after hours to get a drink.
Also, at least one former regular punter I
know has given it up for a reason imposed
by the Act. He used to put in his Saturday
afternoons listening-in to the running of mokes
he had his few bob on. With broadcasting of
starting prices after each race now prohibited
he reckons that most of the pleasure of the
gamble has gone out of it.
* * * *
“Jarrahwood”: Careless breeders have
been bothering the Keeper of the Stud-
book by being tardy with their contri-
butions to that volume, and they are to
be penalised in future. Repetition of
names must be another source of annoy-
ance ; and for that, I should judge, clubs
are responsible. There is a Strathroy
racing in Sydney among the novices.
Another Strathroy, trained by William
Kelso when he was young, won the Sum-
mer Cup in 1898. In the last couple of
seasons Kelso has won several races with
Silenus; a previous Silenus won the
Standish Handicap in 1904 for Norman
Leek. And there have been two Murillos
(one carried off the Maribyrnong Plate
in 1904 and the other the Metrop. in
1927), two Amiables (Newmarket, 1898,
and Standish, 1937) and two Chathams
(Tatt.’s Club Cup, 1893, Epsom, 1932
and 1933, and Doncaster, 1934). Man-
fred also had a predecessor of the same
name. He was a stable-companion of
Aurum, though not in the same class as
the greatest three-year-old W. R. Wilson
ever owned.
* * * *
Melbourne turf followers were too
enervated by a protracted heat-wave to
make the journey to Woodend on Wed-
nesday in any appreciable number, and
the attendance was the smallest at a
race meeting there for many years.
Frank Dummett, who had ridden Giant
Killer to victory over hurdles on the
previous Saturday, showed his versatility
by winning a double on the flat —the
Hillside Highweight on Poldean'and the
first division of the Maiden Handicap
on Manpet. Dummett is the Victorian
counterpart of E. McMenamin; but,
whereas McMenamin has abandoned the
role of jumping jockey for the time
being, Dummett has continued to “mix it.”
Poldean, a grey gelding by Chrysolaus,
shared favoritism with Maestro in the
Hillside Highweight. After leading prac-
tically throughout, he had a great tussle
with Strymon, another heavily-supported
candidate. Verdict went to Poldean by
half a neck. Some bumping near the
finish led to a protest, which was dis-
missed.
Dummett’s other winner, Manpet, beat
the even-money favorite, Personage, by
half a length. Bookmakers derived little
satisfaction from the result, as Manpet
was second choice at sto 2. Manpet,
by Manfred from Cool Pet, comes from
the same family as Dewey, Jolly Beggar,
and that great mare Solution, but she
is never likely to be more than a moder-
ate performer.
Ted Temby annexed the principal
event, the Summer Handicap, with Great
Legend, who started at odds-on and
scored at his ease. Great Legend at one
period was raced on lease by Harold
Cohen, M.L.A., who won a Caulfield Cup
with Northwind. Sent up for auction, he
was bought by Temby on behalf of a
prospective patron. The horse was left on
his hands, but has proved remunerative.
One of the leaders all the way, Silent
Night (The Night Patrol-Lady Cour-
teous) beat her stable-companion, Pat-
rulla, by a head in the Juvenile Handi-
cap. Mercator (6 to 4, favorite) never
flattered her backers; but here, again,
the bookies couldn’t afford to grin, as
Silent Night was second choice at fives.
Second div. of the Maiden Handicap
went to Bulka, favorite at 5 to 2. Mahog-
any landed the Trial Handicap at a still
shorter price (5 to 4). He is by Manfred
out of the 1924 Sydney Cup winner,
Scarlet, and is trained by Stan Reid, who
did so well with The Trump in the
spring of 1937.
• • • 8 • 3
Novice Handicap divisions were
annexed by Tourist (a solid second
fancy) and Docker’s Plains (hot favorite
at 5 to 4), so that punters ended up well
ahead of their hereditary enemy.
* * * *
Two 25-to-l chances rolled home and
another dead-heated at Ascot (Vic.) last
Saturday. A fourth winner was quoted
at twelves. These results followed vic-
tories of two short-priced candidates.
The afternoon had opened well for
punters, but McShortodds had it all his
own way from that stage.
Vin Ryan, who was associated with
the St. Albans stable at Geelong when a
boy, and whose brother Jack won a Caul-
field Grand National Steeple on Con-
federate, is meeting with much success
as a trainer. He landed the Trial Hurdle
with Flying Drake (Drake-Manchette),
backed to 7-to-2 favoritism.
When he led by six lengths at the half-
mile, Haikara looked a “moral,” but both
Flying Drake and Exmoor beat him
home. This was the first public effort of
Haikara over the battens. He will im-
prove with experience. Haikara is owned
and trained by F. H. (“Son”) Lewis, a
brother of the retired jockey, Bob Lewis.
Though slightly built, Harina is gritty.
She led all the way in the Tankerville
Handicap and gamely stalled off a deter-
mined challenge from Balkan Maid. The
favorite, Erato, did well to finish third
after beginning slowly from the outside
berth in a field of 16.
Fours were laid against Harina ; she
ended up at threes, only half a point
longer than Erato. Bill Burke bought
Harina cheap at the Sydney yearling
sales. She is by Hugh Denison’s Irish-
bred stallion, Harinero.
Balkan Maid, who put up such a good
fight against Harina, is a three-quarter
sister to Balkan Prince, trained by Alex.
Fullarton, the champion crosscountry
jockey. Frank Dummett, a contemporary
in the saddle over fences, rode Harina.
At the close of the day Dummett was
suspended for a month for causing inter-
ference to Conchita in the Grafton
Welter. Scarcely a week passes in Mel-
bourne without some jockey temporarily
losing his license. The current list of
“outs” is formidable and includes Elliot,
who may be deposed from the head of
the premiership list by Harold Badger
during his enforced absence.
Ted Webster, a jumping jockey of high
skill, was handicapped by difficulty in
keeping down weight, and has taken out a
trainer’s license. In the new role he
caused a sensation by capturing the Kil-
morey Trial with Bonuna (Manfred-
Martimah).
Two days previously Bonuna had fin-
ished sixth in a small event at Paken-
ham. He led all the way at Ascot, and
romped home by six lengths from Red
Morn. And he was quoted at 25 to 1,
and paid £l2 7s. 6d. for ss. on the tote.
Punters reeled under the effects of this
body blow.
Finish of the £5OO Eclipse Handicap
was fought out by Mahogany (25 to 1)
and Magic Circle (fives). Former led to
within a stride of the post; a dead-heat
was awarded. Mahogany belongs to his
breeder, John I. Winter-Irving, of the
V.R.C. committee, who won a Sydney
Cup with the dam, Scarlet.
Scarlet won the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes and Oaks before joining the Rose-
hill stable of Bill Booth. She has a colt
foal at foot by Gay Lothario, and has
been mated this season with A. G.
Hunter’s French-bred stallion Hellespont.
Poldean (twelves) was lucky to inflict
a head defeat on Hoo Tsai (equal favor-
ite with Sir Harold and Caeira) in the
Grafton Welter, as Hoo Tsai could not
go the early pace and had to make up a
lot of leeway. T. J. Hayes contemplates
running Hoo Tsai over a longer distance
than six furlongs.
Barametric’s success at 25 to 1 in the
Belhaven Handicap was as pronounced
and as bewildering as that of Bonuna in
the Trial Handicap. From barrier-rise
he never was in danger of losing. As a
juvenile Barametric beat Nightguard at
Caulfield. His sudden recovery ot loim
at four years was investigated by the
stewards, who were satisfied with the ex-
planations tendered.
* * * *
W B. Carr has been made a life mem-
ber of S.A. Jockey Club. Twenty years
back he was chairman of Adelaide
Racing Club, gave it up to go on the
committee of the senior body, and within
five years succeeded John Barker as
chairman of that. He had been sporting
editor of the old “Register.” Nowadays
he is a solid businessman, having been
for years chairman of Adelaide Stock
Exchange, and now a life-member of
that also.
The distinction of being the oldest
woman bowler in the. world is claimed
for Mrs. Lucy Cox, of Middle Park
(Vic.). A descendant of Capt. Mitchell,
who was a close friend of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, Mrs. Cox was born on the
diggings shortly before the Stockade riot,
and her husband played for Ballarat in
the first match against an English cricket
eleven in the ’sixties.
o Continued on page 32.)
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Park Stakes: Gimme; next, Leif.
Flying Handicap: Royal Prince ;
next, Moaveil.
Canterbury Handicap: Bramol;
next, Braidwood Boy.
Highweight Handicap: Trim-
mer ; next, Some Boy.
Campsie Handicap: Masterpiece ;
next, Sun Beau.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Anniversary Handicap: Beau-
stone ; next, Donaster.
Rowena Welter: Black Laugh-
ter ; next, Poldean.
Tooronga Handicap: Aurie’s
Star; next, Manolive.


I
M
r
WHITE
SIDEWALL G-100
Available in 15", 16" and 17"
Sizes
NEW PRINCIPLE OF
TYRE CONSTRUCTION
©
Conventional Tyre
When inflated all portions of the
tyre expand—the tread stretches,
which makes it easier to cut.
0
G-l 00—Uninflated
Note that this tyre when uninflated
is flat-sided, higher than it is wide.
V /
G-100—Inflated
Sidewalls expand—tread contracts.
“Compressed” rubber wears
longer, is tougher to cut or bruise.
Result—33 % longer life.
Named in honour of the 100th Anniver-
sary of Charles Goodyear's discovery of
the process of vulcanization of rubber.
The Most Beautiful
Tyre ever Built—
Longer Wearing! More Com-
pletely Silent! Safer! even
than former Goodyears
Here is the most beautiful tyre ever built.
A tyre whose “sculptured” grace and
streamlined sidewalls enhance the flowing
lines of to-day’s motor-cars.
The G-100 is engineered on a wholly
new principle of tyre construction. The
diagrams at left show how this principle
compresses the tread rubber makes it
tougher to cut more resistant to bruising
—makes it wear longer—giving 33 %
more mileage- even than former Good-
years.
But that’s not all! The All-Weather,
Centre-Traction tread has been improved
for still greater safety. It is flatter and
deeper, and a newly-developed com-
pound makes the tread rubber far tougher,
while the new cord ply construction pre-
vents bruises, blowouts and premature
tyre failure.
Finally, the diamond blocks are closer
nested and,, with the two riding ribs on
either side, make the G-100 roll more
silently, more smoothly.
Have your Goodyear Dealer fit a set of
G-100 tyres now.
BLACK
SIDEWALL G-100
Available in 15", 16" and
17" Sizes
5-Cl-39
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE.


VoucanUeKJon
CHAMPIONS
INfflNtnMOßNff
On good dayB °i ts best ability lf
will serve dependable
equipped with** plugs.
Champion, bp r i g .
Theseplngsinsu ca p B
-
~" w '”^ c ”“ d 0
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
tfiim
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
oyA
pijwiP
Prices:
Less Gauge,
65/-.
With Gauge
70/-.
William Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Vietori:i
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bear v. Pluvius
Benny Bear, who promotes scraps at
Sydney Sports Ground, must have a
heart like an ox to go on with it against
the opposition from aloft. Last week’s
experience was typical of pretty nearly
all fights billed for that address over the
past two or three years.
Up to the Thursday night selected there
had been fine clear evenings for weeks
past. Thursday itself was the most
pleasant day experienced for over a fort-
night ; right up to sundown it look as
if the gods were going to be decent for
once. But as the crowd gathered between
7.30 and 8 p.m. so did the threat above.
Five minutes before the first prelim, was
due the heavens looked as nasty as pos-
sible —a lowering black weight full of
lightning and rumble. Then drops as big
as a promoter’s tears started to come
down, and the crowd headed for shelter.
At that moment it looked like a return
of the Deluge.
Fight postponed per loudspeaker to the
following evening. And just to rub it in,
no rain, except the few drops ; half an
hour later a perfectly pleasant night.
A month or so back there was some
compensation in the shape of £5OO insur-
ance, but mostly it has rained just enough
to give the insurance people a win, while
putting the fight off.
On one notable night the downpour
set in too late for anything to be done
about it. That was the occasion of the
first Carroll-Klaveren scrap. A huge
crowd sat out in the open through teem-
ing rain watching one of the most re-
markable nights of fight ever witnessed.
The prelims, included a couple of cham-
pionship bouts, and the start of the deluge
coincided with the first of them. Heavy,
pelting rain, it ran in rivers down the
fighters’ bodies, cascading out from the
top of their trunks. The canvas was
awash ; every blow struck caused geysers
to shoot up; one of the big overhead
electric-light globes burst and showered
the ring with fragments of glass.
Present member of the crowd that sat
through it under sodden sheets of news-
paper would cheerfully go through it
again to see another night’s fighting as
good.
Lesnevich v. The Kid
Pluvius, having outed Benny Bear on
the Thursday night, retired in favor of
Cerebus, an even dirtier fighter, for the
fixture the night after. Friday had been
bad enough in the daytime; as dusk
approached it started to really warm up.
At sundown it was hotter than it had been
at noon. The police who perambulate
Sydney in a car giving loudspeaker advice
to pedestrians were telling the enervated
crowd not to bump into one another be-
cause it was hard to keep your temper
this weather. With the sun at last out of
the heavens, it just got hotter.
Nevertheless, a good crowd turned up
at the Sports Ground, took off its collec-
tive coat —in some cases its shirt as well
—and sat watching the ring in the middle
of the playing field, expecting fight. The
temperature steadily increasing through-
out the prelims., till round about ten
o’clock it topped 90 —the hottest night
Sydney had ever known —it was a great
evening for taking it nice and easy in a
waterhole. The very last thing anybody
should have been doing was fighting.
The heavy array of powerful overhead
lighting made the ring further like a
square patch of Hades, and beetles, grass-
hoppers, flying-ants and moths, fluttering
and whizzing about, added to the tropi-
cal effect. Once more this ring provided
the spectacle of scrappers fighting awash,
this time from the sweat of their bodies.
In each fight in that furnace their trunks
were wet through and dripping. Perspira-
tion literally flowed in streams down
their backs; down their thighs and
calves, to make their boots soaked and
soggy.
The crowd, of course, made no allow-
ance for any of this; no doubt it didn’t
realise just how hot it was in that ring.
Still, there were plain enough indications.
For instance, ref. Pearson, in one of the
prelims., held up one of the boys’ hands
as the winner a round before the fight
was over, so he had to perform the office
again a round later. Then a boy—and
“You just hold your end up and leave ME do all the sloggin'."
a good boy, too; Leo Jobson, full of
promise but brought on too fast, matched
against too tough a lad in too long a
bout too early in his career —collapsed in
the eighth round and had to be carted
out of the ring on a stretcher and taken
to hospital suffering from exhaustion.
But the crowd, with the temp, going up
and up all the time, just got more and
more bad-tempered, so that when the
main scrap came on both temp, and
tempers were at their sultriest. On top of
that came, instead of their anticipations,
the only sort of exhibition that properly
should have been expected in the circum-
stances. The Alabama Kid all but re-
fused to fight. A couple of times in the
course of the eight rounds it lasted he
let loose with haymakers, one of which
knocked out a passing grasshopper, while
another took a beetle beautifully in the
solar. One of the swings even hit Les-
nevich.
Otherwise it was a one-man fight, so
much so that Lesnevich got sick of it.
The Kid would stand with out-thrust jaw
for Lesnevich to punch, but apparently
nothing can knock him out. Lesnevich
won every round by a vast margin wholly
because the Kid wouldn’t fight back, and
the further it went the less interest the
Kid had in it. In the ninth he backed
against the ropes and stood there, gloves
clubbed in front of his brisket and jaw
poked forward. Gus hit the jaw with a
right, a left, two more rights; then, fed
up with such futile slogging, dropped his
hands and appealed to the ref., who called
it a night at the end of the round.
Lesnevich, tipping the beam at 12st.
101 b., had a full 101 b. advantage; but it
was the night that accounted for every-
thing.
.
Dixon Defeats McLaughlin
Freddy Dixon (lOst. 511 b.) had no
trouble disposing of Ron McLaughlin
(lOst. 61b.) at Leichhardt Stadium.
Freddy, a cullud gent, who also answers
to the name “Kingfish,” either boxes
flat-footed or decided he could trounce
Ron as well that way as any other.
Ron’s form of fighting, which is aggres-
sive rather than refined, suited Freddy
admirably. He took the local lad’s
desperate leads on his gloves, handed
back a boxing lesson, and made Ron
look no better than a fairly good pre-
liminary boy. Ron’s left eye was cut
in the fifth, and further damage to it in
the sixth led to the scrap being stopped
in Freddy’s favor on a technical k. 0.,
Freddy being then so far ahead on points
that Ron couldn’t have overtaken him
on Ajax.
Ins and Outs
Queensland’s 325 against the South
Australians at Brisbane (Cotton, five for
49) looked pretty good, but the side was
beaten by 10 wickets. Whitington and
Ken Ridings wiped off 197 of the runs
required before Don Tallon snapped up
Whitington (125) off brother Bill’s bowl-
ing. Ridings made 122, Bradman 186—
his fifth successive century in first-class
stuff, another Australian record. Total
was 557. W. Tallon took four for 80.
Brown (81) came off again, but K.
Ridings struck a patch with the ball and
rattled out four for 26. The total was
223 ; 13 to win. Ridings and Badcock
got them.
N.S.W. v. S. Aus. began on Sydney’s
hottest day on record. Bradman lost the
toss and had to take Walker’s place be-
hind the wickets. Grimmett (4 for 53)
and Cotton (3 for 44) simplified his task,
and the Ma State fell for 246 (Hynes
63 n. 0., James 45). Whitington (59) and
Ridings (28) had 76 on the board before
Bradman (22 n. 0.) was required ; it was
2 for 116 at stumps.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Yes, E. L. Waddy, whose
offer to take an Australian team to
Canada was turned down flat by the
B. of Control (B. 4/1/’39), got a very
raw deal. The Board’s decision was com-
municated to the newspapers 17 days
before Waddy was officially apprised of
it. Nor was he given any reason other
than that “the Board is not in favor of
private tours by Australian cricketers
outside Australia.” Canadians wanted
the team ; they’re anxious to counteract
the spread of baseball, and have made
such progress that cricket is now played
in schools. Last year the M.C.C. sent a
side to their Dominion, and the Canucks
had hoped to return the visit this year.
Failing in that, they were keen on get-
ting the Australians. Waddy’s tours of
North Queensland have had a great in-
fluence on the development of the game
in those parts —the Tallon brothers and
Christ are among the results; and the
Board’s no is a complete reversal of its
own attitude. It authorised Mailey to
take a team to Canada in 1932, and
Tarrant to send one to India in 1935.
Mailey’s men —Bradman and McCabe
were among them —are well remembered
by the Canadians.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: Barnes is being held
to his contract with the Board of Control
prohibiting him from becoming a pro-
fessional in England for two years.
Blackpool club offered him £l5 a week,
plus fares and “talent money.” The young
man talks of going to Africa.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: In spite of the agitation
for longer Tests, very few out of the 144
played have been marathon affairs, and
the very few have all been under Austra-
lian “to-a-finish” conditions. The 1929
series in Australia took the bun ; times
were five days, six days, seven days,
seven days and eight days. In England


SILENCE TOO!
o.rTs 0 .r T s all OVER MJSTRALIM
pEi - » --3
“ ms 110
Iteacf u/kaf- some. iAem scuj
“ COMPLETE ABSENCE OF ROAD NOISE . . . This tyre runs
true to its name of Silent ‘9o’,” says Mr. S. Owen of Newtown,
N.S.W.
“THE BEST TYRE EVER SEEN IN AUSTRALIA . . . because
it is silent running and gives more miles,” writes Mr. J. Markby
of Melbourne.
“HOWLING WHEN CORNERING ENTIRELY ELIMINATED ...
Satisfied with mileage and wonderful safety,” savs R.“H. Monekton,
Taxi Operator, Sydney.
“EVERYTHING THAT A TYRE SHOULD BE . . . Dunlop
Silent ‘9o’ does not throw stones and also it is SILENT,” says
Mr. O. M. Brown, Service Car Proprietor, Taree, N.S.W.
Get SAFETY and
BIG MILEAGE too!
FIT
Hr
r
-1
.1
I
\
I I , :;: ' : i
mm& ■hllll mM mJF mm
WORLD’S MASTER TYRE
BUILT WITH WEFTLESS CORD
Dunlop perdriau rubber co ltd. (incorporated in-victoria) f 90148
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
four days have been found ample, so it
is hard to see why extra time is wanted.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Some amiable soul has
been writing to the English papers ad-
vocating a Test series between England
and South Africa on village-green lines,
with “only friendly games.” Sounds well,
but who is going to pay for the picnics?
It costs money to take teams on tours,
and the gates which would result from
the v.-g. variety of cricket would not per-
mit of paying amateurs £6OO for their
services, let alone the fees on which pro-
fessionals have to live. There’s always a
string to these bright ideas, though you
can try anything once.
Miscellaneous.
There is not much between Nakama
and Biddulph. In the smooth water of
North Sydney pool, the Japanese-
American twice beat the Manly boy—in
the half-mile championship of N.S.W. by
ten yards in lOmin. 12 l-ssec., which cut
9 4-ssec. off Charlton’s Australian record.
But in Manly baths, struggling against a
swell and a ferryboat’s wash, Nakama
could not cope with Biddulph in the 220
being the loser by two yards. Bid-
dulph’s time was 2min. 16 3-ssec. —not
bad considering the conditions.
* * * *
“Spike”: In the middle horizon looms
Stawell (Vic.), the last surviving strong-
hold of professional pedestrianism in
Australia. The Easter Gift carries £750,
with £5OO for the winner, while the mile
and two-mile handicaps are worth £l3O
each. Entries close on March 1 at Stawell.
* * * *
‘Shabash”: The Australian hockey
heads have invited an Indian team to
tour this country later in the year. Maori-
land will not send a side, and, since some
of the States are unwilling to contribute
heavily and the Indians are not going to
the Olympiad, as was first hoped, the
proposition may call for careful man-
agement. However, N.S.W. and Queens-
land will guarantee costs, and as previous
Indian tours have paid dividends all
should be well. Furthermore, the Aus-
tralian hockey carnival is to be held in
Brisbane, and that also should turn in a
few pice.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Having decided that auto-
mobile racing can show them a point
far above revolutions, the Argentinos are
holding a Grand Prix over 12,000 miles,
beginning in N’York and ending at
Buenos Ayres. Thirteen (unlucky num-
ber) national capitals will be traversed
during the trip.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: American bowlers
—lawn bowls they call our game —are an
unknown quantity in Australia. An
attempt is to be made to bring a U.S.
team to this country for the Australian
bowling tourney in December, 1939. For
years the Yanks tried to gain member-
ship of the International Bowling Board,
and this year their prayer was granted.
The invitation is pretty sure to be ac-
cepted, since T. C. Reed, a prominent
head in U.S.A. bowls, who accompanied
the last British team to Australia, told us
that it would be jumped at.
“Bumpkin”: One of the finest units of
Port Phillip’s yachting fleet, the schooner
Mistral, will be missing from this year’s
sailing season. W. Wallis, a Melbourne
businessman, bought her in Sydney a year
ago ; the new owner is J. Curtis, the
Sydney deepsea fisherman, whose exploits
with the swordfish and the marlin are in
the Zane Grey class. Curtis intends to use
the schooner for cruising on the south-
east coast. Captain Leggett, of the
Speck, who established a record by sail-
ing the Lady Jean from Melbourne to
Townsville, 2000 miles, in nine days, is
to hand over Curtis’s purchase.
* * * *
“Net”: This country will see its first
international Badminton match in 1940,
when Australia and Maoriland will have
to sustain a team of shock troops from
Britain. The game is a very attractive
one, calling for a keen eye and plenty of
stamina. It is hoped that this tour will
be the beginnings of a competition on
Davis Cup lines.


j
Twice. Daily -230-Q
pwiW€i ii.il
SYDNEY
Twice Da Hi/ 230-Q
12 New Oversea Acts.
BIG FUN SHOW OF 1939.”
LAST DAYS
LARRY ADLER.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“ You Can’t Take It with
You.”
James Stewart, Lionel Barrymore, Edward
Arnold, Mischa Auer, Jean Arthur, etc.
Having witnessed this American
comedy at Sydney Regent, it seems pos-
sible to do a good deed for an advertiser
in Melbourne “Age” (10/1 /’39 ; clipping
forwarded by “W. 5.,” in whose favor
claim to prospective reward is hereby
waived):
Lost in Miller-street, N. Fitzroy, tele*
phone booth, on Wed. morning. Finder
please return to 283 Glenlyon-road, as it
was a keepsake. Reward.
Loser, it seems very likely, might find
same somewhere in the notable household
presided over by You-can’t-take-it-with-
you Barrymore. It’s the very sort of
keepsake they’d favor.
It is a household in which every mem-
ber does exactly as he or she likes,
youngest of them being a girl in her mid-
teens, next youngest her sister, only a
little older ; the rest fairly well advanced
adults, except for Stewart, who isn’t a
member, but a son of the wealthy bank-
ing Edward Arnold family Stewart
comes into the wonderful circle (or
circus) in pursuit of unattached daughter
(Miss Arthur).
The house is one of a block the whole
of which Arnold, as head of a big syn-
dicate, proposes to buy up. This has little
to do with the film, but needs to be
stated to explain things; for not only
does Miss Arthur type in the Arnold
stronghold, and there snare son James,
but Barrymore, who is Miss Arthur's
grandfather, refuses to sell.
A stray caller at the household, on
entering the drawing-room, would find
Mother pounding away at a typewriter
in an ecstasy of creative art, using a
live kitten with complete detachment as
a paperweight, and all this for no other
reason than that somebody in the dis-
tant past had left the typewriter there.
Then younger daughter would probably
be ballet dancing through the furniture,
while her husband provided the music
for her on one of those instruments you
belt with a couple of little drumsticks.
Presently Mischa Auer —a former Rus-
sian count or something of the kind —
would drop in to give the dancing daugh-
ter instructions and snavel whatever was
going in the way of food. Out of sight
for the time being, father of girls and
an offsider bitten by the same sort of
bug, would be down on a lower floor
experimenting with fireworks. Every now
and then there’d be an explosion down
there, or a rocket’d whiz up past the
chimney.
A black serving maid and her beau
would also be somewhere in evidence ;
also a pet crow, fluttering about from
shoulder to shoulder or settling on other
perches, giving a Disneyish touch of
comic macabre to the setting.
All do as they like, an innate decency
of character and the cheerful outlook
of grandfather Barrymore keeping be-
havior on a good-humored and mutually
considerate plane. The attraction about
it is that, though as wildly fantastic as
possible, it’s all feasible. Given the right
happy-go-lucky crew, it could happen.
The possibilities for uproarious comedy
should be obvious, and the makers of the
film have exploited this vein of their
mine for all its wealth. Moreover, the
situations are natural comedy, arising
out of the nature of plot and characters.
There are many situations on the way
that make an audience bellow with laugh-
ter, but the peak of it all naturally is
when the very strait-laced Arnolds are
brought by son James to inspect his
fiancee’s family in the native habitat.
This is particularly good because James,
having promised the girl friend to bring
his parents on a given night, deliberately
brings them along a night earlier, with
the praiseworthy, temporarily disastrous,
but in the long run successful, intent of
having them face the reality, instead of
a prepared evening, with everyone on
false behavior.
The Arnolds find them at their richest
and raciest. Mischa is present giving
dancing lessons, with his shirt out,
moujik-fashion. The others are all there,
behaving normally—according to their
own lights. The crow is hovering about.
As usual, there’s little food in the house,
and the rush to get in a dozen of beer
and suitable support gives the evening
a fair start. Then more remote forces
in the plot start to operate. Arnold, of
course, is unaware that he is in the house
of the man whose refusal to sell out is
holding up the big deal. The banking
head has commissioned an agent to buy
the place, and, higher and higher bids
having failed to shift Barrymore, has
suggested other methods.
These methods now begin to work with
the entry of plainclothes men, who, un-
aware of Arnold’s identity, order all
present to remain while the house is
being searched. While this is going on,
the fireworks on the lower floor start to
go off, shooting out through windows
and doors and giving the neighborhood
a glorious display. After that all hands,
including the Arnolds, are lumbered, and
there’s more comedy to be made out of
the community hatch in which they spend
the night with the down-and-out and a
batch of ladies of the pave. The corn-
“Now then , cut out that Anton Dolin stuff!”
ment of these ladies on the Arnold lady
and what she’s wearing would do credit
to G. B. Shaw.
Altogether, it is the richest of comedy,
with a notable change from last year’s
American comedy offerings in being all
removed from the former plane of sheer
nonsensical lunacy to one that allows a
body of human sentiment. It is in the
Mark Twain rather than the Edward
Lear or Lewis Carroll tradition, though
the crow and some of Mischa Auer’s
performance are concessions to pure
lunacy.
Casting is excellent. Barrymore—
nowadays himself doubled up with mus-
cular trouble draws on the part of
grandfather like his second-self. Arnold,
as always, does the banker splendidly.
Auer will delight his admirers by being
the same high-class comedian, but an
entirely different Auer —a difference that
could only be achieved by one who is
a topnotch character actor. Stewart does
his somewhat incredible part very well,
so does Jean Arthur hers, and supports
—including such certain hits as Donald
Meek complete a comedy ensemble
which sets standards—fresh, human and
lively standards —for 1939.
“Angels with Dirty Faces ”
James Cagney, Pat O’Brien, Humphrey Bogart.
If this main current item at Sydney
Plaza had been presented as f.a.q. melo-
drama there would have been nothing
much wrong with it. Unfortunately it
sets out to be a stretch of strong drama
claiming the same rating as, and thereby
inviting comparison with, “Dead End. ’
Although it had a slight weakness, that
earlier film managed to deliver a force-
ful statement on the matter of slums and
their effects on adolescents. This present
offering purports to do much the same
thing with a similar set-up—a gangster
returning to the slums that more or less
forced him into crime, and there becom-
ing the idol of half a dozen youngsters
with similar aspirations.
Films of this kind do not intend to
make any indictment of character but
rather of the circumstances and environ-
ment that formed a given character and
go on forming it. The characters, there-
fore, must be the product of the story,
In “Dead End” that was the case,
Although the main adult members were
introduced in the present, the explanation
of their lives and character was an in-
tegral part of the narrative as it de-
veloped, and was clearly illustrated by
the juveniles whose lives threatened to
go the same way. In this present film
the characters are not the product of the
story; they are built up separately and
then become the main factors in pro-
ducing the story.
On that point the film defeats its own
argument. It sets out to make a state-
ment against a social system that permits
the existence of slums by showing slums
as breeding grounds for criminals. But
when Cagney is depicted as a fairly like-
able chap who dies a hero; O’Brjen,
also a product of the slums, as a priest
and normal righteous human being ; and
the youngsters as only needing the lesson
of Cagney’s fate and O’Brien’s helping
hand to set them on the right road, the
force of the argument is lost, and criti-
cism becomes levelled, not at any social
system, but at character that cannot over-
come it.
In characterisation the film also fails.
Cagney’s gangster has more of the air
of a racing tout. He swaggers through
the part using a score of affected man-
nerisms to aid his portrayal and to attract
sympathy for the character he plays.
Bogart, who in “Dead End” built up a
cold ruthless character without any
single resort to emotion and, at the same
time, convinced as a tragic victim of the
slums, is here relegated to the part of a
shyster lawyer which anyone could have
played. He should obviously have been
in Cagney’s shoes.
O’Brien is, if anything, worse than
Cagney. His sketchy and unconvincing
performance as a priest attempting to
guide a crowd of slum children along
the right path is as poor as Spencer
Tracy’s showing in a similar role in
“Boys’ Town” is masterly.
The only members of the cast who
stand out clearly and well are half a
dozen youngsters who also figured in
“Dead End.” Their depiction of a bunch
of young larrikins is something beyond
the combined histrionic ability of all the
cheild “stars” in Hollywood.
“Stranded in Paris ”
Joan Bennett, Jack Benny.
Main offering at Sydney Prince
Edward, this is a lightweight comedy
which gains more from time and place
than it does from plot or acting.
The story of a bunch of Amurrican
actors on their beam ends in Paris and
joined by Miss Bennett, heiress to several
million dahlars, but posing as another
poverty-stricken castaway, is slightest of
the slight. The filmsmiths, however, ex-
tract from it anything and everything
that might raise a chuckle, and the film is
directed to show its humorous sidelights
at their best and in rapid succession.
Mr. Benny is manager of the troupe,
and, after roping Miss Bennett into the
fold, conducts them all through an up-
roarious orgy of landlady- and gendarme-
dodging until the whole bunch winds up
in one of the luxurious and spectacular
Paris Exposition buildings. Here occur
some hilarious scrapes with officialdom
and what is evidently the main purpose
of the film: the ladies of the troupe, find-
ing themselves in a fix, suddenly pose as
a bunch of models specially consigned
from Russia to figure in a fashion parade.
The parade occupies a pretty fair slice
of the film, and is worth it —from the
feminine viewpoint at least. The gowns
displayed are certainly corkers, and
attached to them are such names as
Schiaparelli, Alix, Paquin, Patou, Lanvin,
Maggy Rouff, LeLong and Worth —
names which evidently mean more to the
ladies than Phar Lap did to punters.
Add to that lot the general lavishness
of Paris at Exposition time, the Yacht
Club Boys, if you like ’em, and neatly
humorous performances from Mary
Boland and Charles Grapewin, and the
result is a bright and entertaining, if not
outstanding, stretch of frothiness.
“Arrest Bulldog Drummond.”
John Howard, Heather Angel.
As seen at Sydney Cameo and Civic
the unfortunate Mr. Drummond is still
trying to reach the altar with his bride.
It’s about the umpteenth time that in-
ternational spies and inventors of deadly
scientific thingummies have called him
away within 24 hours of his matrimonial
date. If Mr. Drummond isn’t tired of
these interruptions audiences soon will
be, and it would be advisable to get him
married off and allow him to continue
his intrepid adventuring as a respectable
married man. That’s the way “Sapper”
had it, anyway.
Present opus claims as its origin The
Final Count, but any similarity ends
there. It has to do with a death ray or
something of the sort, the moider of its
inventor and its near-disposal to a furrun
Power. Mr. Drummond hurls himself
here, there and everywhere with amazing
energy, and, of course, saves the bacon
and continues on his way to matrimony.
The stock cast —Reginald Denny, E. E.
Clive and H. B. Warner—is satisfactory,
and the film has sufficient action to save


I ,
■
m
00®*
m
lW a ,'. far.
rifitrr*
c ri
*
//
WBSmBm
:t.
IU
W
mm
m ■■
THE NEW FAST 27,155 TON LUXURY LINER
Q.S.M.V. DOMINION MONARCH
The most powerful Motor Vessel in the world.
CARRYING FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS ONLY
To DURBAN and CAPETOWN
Thence ENGLAND.
For full particulars as to Fares, etc., apply to
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, OR SHAW SAVILL & ALBION CO., LTD.
( Incorporated in England)
SHAW SAVILL
LINES
it from lagging, though it loses some-
what through figuring on the same bill
as a more meaty melodrama.
“The Return of Carol Dearie,” at
Sydney Embassy, concerns an artist’s
model who married a lud who got him-
self killed in the war. She was wrongly
convicted of moider, served a stretch in
clink, moved from Gt. Brit, to Gahd’s
Own, became a wealthy but crooked
gambler and returned to England to in-
spect her son. Lamentably acted.
“Comet Over Broadway,” at Sydney
Cameo and Civic, is melodrama of small-
town goil whose folly sent her husband
up for life on moider charge. She and
cheild go to big city, where she becomes
great actress before returning to rescue
husband. Lots of lurv-interest along the
way and, occasionally, opportunity for
Kay Francis to show that she really can
act.
“City Streets,” at Sydney Cameo and
Civic, is a sentimental opus about poor
little orphan Annie and kindly Italian
grocer who adopted her and had to fight
the crool Child Welfare people. Apart
from a patch or two of humor engen-
dered by Leo Carrillo’s mutilation of the
English language, it’s a poor effort.
“Pardon Our Nerve,” at Sydney Plaza,
concerns two ready-witted goils who
swindle anyone and everyone, manage
a boxer and frame his fights and gener-
ally perpetrate such outrageous breaches
of the law as would send any mere male
up for a five-year stretch. Mildly funny
in spots. No clinch.
“The Last Express at Sydney Capitol,
is a moider mystery into which enters a
few thousand dahlars’ worth of black-
mail evidence. With a couple of moiders,
and everyone being what he or she isn’t,
the outlook grows murkier and murkier
until the whole issue clouds over
altogether by fadeout. Detective Kent
Taylor’s sleuthing most mysterious aspect
of the lot.
“Ladies in Distress,” at Sydney Capi-
tol, has Alison Skipworth and Polly
Moran as mayoress and secretary re-
spectively. There’s doity doin’s goin’
on in town, so mayoress engages racketeer
and one-time pupil of her schoolteaching
days to clean up the mess with the help
of bewchus Virginia Grey. Dull.
Two Light Ballets.
“Carnaval” and “Scuola di Ballo” at
Sydney Royal demonstrated again the
brilliance of the Covent Garden com-
pany in. the realm of light comedy,
whether it is stylised as in the first or
more direct as in the second. “La Con-
currence” and “Les Femmes de Bonne
Humeur” stand out in the memory as
comedies of manners, and “Scuola di
Ballo” was equally attractive. Riabou-
chinska was as airy as usual, Irina Kos-
movska a delightful “Bad Pupil,” and
Dorati made a pleasant job of the Boc-
cherini.
“Carnaval,” a Pierrot, Harlequin and
Columbine affair without any plot to
speak of, was remarkable for the in-
credible vivacity of Riabouchinska’s
Columbine. Her dancing here was one
of the highlights of the whole season.
Pierrot was played by Borovansky very
smoothly, but rather too lightly ; he was
melancholy where he should have been
tragic. Lazovsky, since he made such a
dramatic Petrouchka some time ago,
might have been better in Borovansky’s
role. His Harlequin, however, if it just
missed somewhere, was a cheerful per-
formance, and, in view of his past suc-
cesses in the grotesqueries of waiter and
barman, it revealed a most versatile
talent.
The revival of “Symphonie Fantas-
tique,” without Baronova, was disappoint-
ing. Tamara Grigorieva, who danced
“the Beloved,” is invariably excellent in
the more exotic dances, and was
outstanding in “Scheherazade” and
“Choreartium,” but she was badly cast
in the “Symphonie.” Baronova, who
always has an air of aloofness (occasion-
ally to her disadvantage), can give to
“the Beloved” exactly the tragic remote-
ness that is required.
ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne
A show of Balinese art at George’s
has been attracting attention of con-
noisseurs.
When present critic was in Bali he
met the celebrated Ma Patimah. Accord-
ing to her own account, she was one of
the 21 widows of a rajah, and, as it was
the custom to burn the wives of a raiah
at his funeral, the death of a husband
in whom she had one-twenty-second of
an interest was received by all concerned
with the sincerest lamentations. Being
more unorthodox than the rest of the
marital syndicate she did not wait for
the burial ceremonies, but escaped over
the palace walls and made her way to
the nearest Dutch outpost, returning in
triumph when the Dutch entered the late
rajah’s kingdom and started to modernise
the Balinese marriage system.
Ma Patimah subsequently became a
rich entrepreneur with a village of 200
craftsmen, and possibly some of the
articles in the Melbourne exhibition come
from the enterprising lady’s factory at
Boeleleng.
If they do, it can’t be said that the
Dutch efforts to cultivate the Balinese
were an unmitigated blessing. Some of
the carvings belong to the old tradition.
The wooden frescoes of gods with eyes
like crabs and waving volcanoes in their
hands are of the primitive dispensation,
and the gold-thread sarongs are fine ex-
amples. But some of the heads
and figures in ebony wood might
have been done by a pupil of the Vic.
National Gallery, and Dutch ladies and
American tourists have obviously been
teaching the native artist to become as
arty-crafty as any white damsel from a
technical college.
Sydney
At the Macquarie Galleries Daryl
Lindsay shows water-color sketches made
in Venice, in London and rural England,
in Brittany, and (just a few) in Victoria.
The technique is excellent; the colors
are clean and transparent, and the choice
of subjects is admirably suited to the
medium. Particularly in open river or
beach scenes, such as “Thames from
'Cherry-Tree Wharf,” “Thames from
Blackfriars’ Bridge,” “Thames at Wap-
ping” and “The Beach, Frankston,” there
is a very charming ethereal treatment of
light. More vigorous in subject and treat-
ment are such well-designed pictures as
“Power House, Chelsea,” “A Hampshire
Wood” and “Barges at Wapping.”
There never was a Lindsay who
couldn’t draw, and Daryl’s draughtsman-
ship, well up to the family standard, re-
deems his least ambitious sketches from
commonplaceness. But his style is in-
dividual. If it recalls any memories they
are associated with Whistler.
Can Films Be Helped?
“Cine Ma” has doubts:
The Government may be able to help
the Australian film industry —it has
helped all sorts of other industries. But
it cannot help the Australian film. That
can only help itself.
If money is all that is needed, then
I would like to know why American
films are so bad. Shortage of cash isn’t
generally stated to be Hollywood’s chief
complaint. Are Australians more intel-
ligent than Americans? If you give an
Australian producer money, why won’t
he tend to make the same mistakes?
I went to “Robin Hood” in Mel-
bourne. The leading girl was lovely and
the leading man was a capable actor. The
minor parts were taken by a first-rate
cast. But the picture was preposterous.
The Robin Hood story is a gift to a
producer if he has any intelligence ; but
all they could make of it was something
ridiculous.
The only item on the programme that
was worth while was Daniel Mas, the new
conductor. He was full of vim. He
believed in what he was doing, and his
orchestra took fire from some of his
superfluous vitality. He was enjoying
himself, not trying to entertain the
audience. But the people who made
“Robin Hood” weren’t enjoying them-
selves, didn’t believe in what they
were doing and didn’t like doing it.
All they were doing was sawing oft'
another 5000 feet of conventional tripe
for the right to draw their salaries. Mr.
Mas would probably go on doing what
he was doing if you didn’t give him a
cent, but if you gave the producers of
“Robin Hood” 10 times the money they
get now you would not give them that
sort of desire.
It will be the same with the Australian
film when it is subsidised. The reasons
that will be given for wanting a sub-
sidy will be some high and mighty moral
notion of elevating the films or the coun-
try or making people happier, but none
of these things will be done. The final
proof that the Australian film is about
to expire will be when the Government
subsidises a Chair of Film Art at the
University.
Then somebody will come along, pos-
sibly, who likes making films and would
make them anyhow, subsidy or no sub-
sidy, and he will put the failing art on
its legs again.


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast.
from I I/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to: ,
The Bulletin, Sydney.
Engagement Notice.
JOHNSON-FOWLER—The engagement is an-
nounced of JOAN EVELYN, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Oswald Fowler, of Toowoomba,
to PETER FARNELL, fourth son of Mrs.
C. M- Johnson and the late Mr. Graham
Rhyd Johnson, of Llanrheidol Station, Winton,
Western Queensland.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last Saturday will go down in history
as not so much a day as an incinerator.
When the temperature reached the am-
bitious heights of 113.6, and a wind of
fiery heat slapped the city in the face,
even the harbor frontage began to seethe.
City toilers travelling by ferry described
the journey as blistering. Even the
Manlyite, who generally has a cool pas-
sage, suffered in the general discomfort.
Those who went shorted, sandalled and
hatless were not so lucky as the women
complete with glare-glasses, sunshade and
stockings—the heat was too burning. The
sands were too hot to lie on, so the
beaches, though crowded, were not ideal
as cooling-off spots. In short, the day
was a culmination of the terrific heat-
wave in which the whole State had swel-
tered for a week. Bushfires, the destruc-
tion of homes, the loss of lives, have all
been toll. Sadly New South Wales views
the havoc wrought within her borders,
but, at the same moment, does not fail
to reach out a hand in sympathy to her
southern sister, whose loss is so much
greater than her own.
Country tennis-players were hardy, and
the finals at' the White City on Saturday
afternoon were as crisp as a lettuce just
out of the refrigerator. Still, even the
torrid inland is not above human weak-
ness, and some of the players admitted
it was warm. But the southerly blew
hard and cool before the evening’s dance
at the Rushcutter Bay clubhouse.
Orange lasses who had won victory were
there, a group of them hostessed by
Mrs. H. White. Olwen Poole came from
Wollongong, and Joan Carr from Cess-
nock.
Some of the bookmakers gave it a
miss; some went out in tropic white,
but about five thousand punters went
to Warwick Farm. One of the book-
makers was named Peters, and a group
of the racegoers were the Bushells. And
you must admit both names suggest
coolth and refreshment to the Australian
mind.
“De Fino,” from Canberrra:
Science tempered by Wells and war, or the
fear of war, has been Canberra’s keynote
during the last few days, with the blue swim-
ming pool, pink ice-creams and bushfires sweep-
ing the mountains and the western horizon as
diversions. Intervening unexpectedly in a de-
bate on the relations of science and of society,
H. G. Wells, coatless in a dark-blue shirt and
a pair of white trousers, deprecated the idea
that scientists should try to secure direct con-
trol of politics. He harked back to his favorite
idea of teaching the young a better kind of
history, considered as a branch of human
biology. He suggested that scientists should
turn themselves into notes of interrogation,
trying to find out how to secure a scientific
spirit in education.
The scientists more or less took his advice.
They decided to appoint a “brain-trust” com-
mittee on the lines followed in August by the
British Association, in the hope that some way
of putting more science into politics might be
found.
There was a symbolic touch about the garden
party at Yarralumla, a hint for those who
throw firebrands and hot coals about inter-
nationally in a lighthearted way. Notices were
issued requesting the scientific visitors to be
careful ,what they did with their match-ends,
since it would be the easiest thing in the world
to set the grass on fire. Vice-regal confidence
in the scientists was not misplaced.
Ballet audiences on Friday enjoyed
temporary coolness in the Royal, and
just had to bite the bullet when they
faced the oven of the streets at curtain-
fall. The ballet was very likewise to
other first nights, except that Fokine
himself had put the last nth of spit an’
polish on his own “Carnaval.” Result,
a spirited performance, and a few niceties
of gesture and expression above the
ordinary.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, with Mrs. Walter,
junior, and daughter Barbara, told of
daughter Esmey’s Christmas spent in
the south of France with Uncle
Furneaux Mann (he’s on a non-inter-
vention job). Esmey went to midnight
Mass, and as she came from the church
it seemed as though the very atmosphere
of the starry night was composed of
joybells. Besides the bells in the church
towers, from open windows in every
home, large and small, the glad chimes
pealed and clashed and rang.
Mrs. Reg Bridge’s satins were blithe
with red and purple and blue blossoming.
Mrs. John McPhillamy’s white chiffons
and jade were the correct offset to her
red hair and fair skin. Another in white
was Mrs. Venour Nathan —her frock had
a hem-long matching cape of white chif-
fon. Mrs. Larry Adler’s black lace frock
was of the pictorial off-the-shoulder,
spreading-skirt type. Nan Garvan was
handsome in flowered chiffons. Mrs.
A. A. Rankin, of Newcastle, was there
with daughter Suzanne and Dr. Duval.
Faith Macarthur Onslow’s cape was of
geranium-red velvet. Dr. Patricia Kirton,
looking as pretty as usual, was noted ;
so was Stephanie Edye with a high
Spanish comb in her hair.
This is Joan, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Sterling Levis, of Vaucluse. With her
parents she will leave for England on
January 28. Continental journeys and
a jaunt to Ireland are among her expec-
tations. Joan, who is a talented pianist,
is looking forward to the concert season
in London. Dayne photograph.
Daryl Lindsay’s pictures now on show
at the Macquarie are red-tabbed with
pleasing frequency. Even this poor
mathematician counted up to over 100
guineas’ worth of “solds,” and that was
very, very early in the proceedings. The
opening was done by Sydney Ure
Smith in fine style, despite the tem-
perature. Saw Dorothea Mackellar
there looking with poetic vision at
Daryl’s lovely bits of Venice. The Maria
della Salute glimpse seems to have been
enjoyed in the reality by one-fourth of
the visitors to the opening. This one
of the Lindsay family has the dis-
tinction of being a member of the Royal
Watercolor Society of London. There
were three memberships vacant, and
something like 84 nominees, and the
Australian was one of the chosen three.
Mrs. Lindsay, now in London, got into
the spotlight with her book Darkest
Pondelayo. The Larry Adlers, who, when
they leave us, all too soon, will take a
look at India before making for U.S.A.,
Jeanie Ranken, Ada Newman and Mar-
garet Allen were a few of those browsing
at the Macquarie Galleries.
Clever young pianist Valma Sullivan
writes from London. She arrived there
on December 23 while the Hub was hav-
ing its coldest Christmas in 26 years'.
She proudly announces that at one stage
the temperature was 20deg. lower than
that enjoyed by the Icelanders. On
Christmas Day Mrs. Aickers and daugh-
ter Judy and Valma walked briskly, after
their real Dickens Christmas dinner, for
two hours. They went to Hyde Park,
and this is how Valma describes what
she saw: “The day was fast fading into
night, and a slight, misty veil was
descending upon the snow-clad gardens.
Through this curtain a marvellous light,
belonging neither to night nor day, over-
hung the scene. It was very ethereal and
mysterious—the trees were not actually
reflected in the frozen pond, but more
suggestive of reflection. The mystical
music of Cesar Franck, could express
better what I am trying to say in words.”
This Letter the other day upbraided
a man friend, saying, “I have not seen
you at the ballet.” “Oh, no,” he said;
“I don’t like the ballet much, particu-
larly in Australia. The only place I ever
liked it was on the Continent. There
it used to split up the opera, and, you
see, I don’t like the opera at all!”
The ideal job in a heat-wave has been
secured by Stephanie Thomas, who has
just left her studies at the P.L.C., Croy-
don, behind her. At the college she was
swimming captain, and she has a shoal
of Royal Life Saving Society awards.
Now she has the distinction of being the
R.L.S. Society’s first woman organising
instructor. Last week she started on her
work. An important part of this is the
organising of lifesaving classes in girls’
secondary schools, and she will gradually
train girls to take charge of the classes,
Photograph of this aquatics expert is by
Peter Pan.
Without prejudice to the pubs, H. G.
Wells should be advised to take out only
a bed-and-breakfast ticket in Sydney.
Of course, what he saves that way will
probably go in indigestion cures because
everybody is bent on giving him compli-
mentary meals. The writing societies
are having a great time arranging their
do’s. The Fellowship is giving a dinner
at ten bob a mouth. The Institute of
Journalists spreads a midday snack ; and
the P.E.N. is to be really swagger with
its dinner followed by a reception. To
the reception each member may invite
two guests, of whom it is laid down that
one must be literary. The other appar-
ently need only be platonic.
The call of the style was not to be
denied, so, although melting in last week’s
temperatures, this Letter trickled forth to
view winter fashions. The new shoes are
at once sensible and seductive. All im-
ported models, and only sample pairs at
that, bloomed on fashion’s boot-trees. At
once you noticed the wide sole and the
lowered heel, even in many evening
sandals. Shoemakers have at last gone to
the human model for their measurements
of the sole of the shoe, and the bunioned
pilgrim’s progress should be easier than
of yore. Old Tokay has been a source
of inspiration for the “platform” on
which the new shoes are built. Remem-
ber the thick high-soled black slippers
seen in Eastern pictures? Well, the new
sandals, even those from Hollywood and
from Italy, are perched on such thick-
nesses of felt or rubber. The layer of
sole that comes in contact with suburban
asphalt or city concrete is of leather.
Only the eye of the supervisor re-
strained a sudden kleptomaniac urge
towards a black satin sandal shoe from
Italy, built up on a three-inch platform.
This platform gave the effect of plump
piping at the edge, and each layer of the
piping was differently colored: pink, blue,
green, purple, buff. The heels flashed
red, pink and blue. Some of these black
satin shoes are embroidered in gay little
flower rings. Nice for a chess champion-
ship were the day shoes in yellow, red,
green and blue squares. This pair had
high heels, color red. From Hollywood
came a toe sandal, its straps of silver, its
platform all hand-worked with diamente.
While country girls were demonstrat-
ing how attractive the topee looked on
the tennis courts, a clutch of wide-eyed
women were being informed of the
attractiveness of the mask in a gas attack
The Assembly Hall in the State Shopping
Block was the rendezvous for all im
terested in the scheme known as
Women’s Voluntary Services. Ruby
Board, the president, set the afternoon's
discussion going in an efficient manner.
Dr. F. A. Maguire, of the State Joint
Council voluntary aid detachments, and
Dr. Lyle Buchanan were the afternoon’s
two vigorous speakers. “Be prepared,
not frightened,” was the pith of their
remarks.
Other women must be made of sterner
stuff than this writer if they could re-
press the shiver in the spine when the
necessity for being trained in the correct
way to receive an air raid or a fire bomb
was stressed. The idea of the scheme
is to organise areas where women can
be trained according to their qualifica-
tions. The N.C.W. started this move-
ment. The Amateur Women’s Sports
Council is enthusiastic ; and the C.W.A.
president, Mrs. Beveridge, has promised
to preach the gospel of preparedness
throughout her country travels.
The Navy was the service to which the
pleasant Elizabeth Bay home, Tresco,
threw wide its doors one late afternoon
last week. Captain and Mrs. H. C.
Phillips welcomed 100 or so guests, and
most of these seemed happy to linger in
the cool breeze that blew off the
harbor frontage. Pink was Mrs.
Phillips’s frock, and pink the flowers in
the reception-rooms. Daughter Susan
helped in the entertaining at the family’s
first big at-home in Tresco.
The Walder lady, writing from London,
sends word that Mr. and Mrs. John
Human (she was Mollie Walder), com-
plete with baby Jennifer, will return to
Sydney with herself and knight Sam. The
last-named got to England by way of
America in time to be with his family
for Christmas. During the Crisis the
Walder lady took daughter Mollie and
the baby into the country; the baby
was then only five weeks old. They all
went to the wedding of Lord Stamp’s
(he was Sir Josiah Stamp, you will re-
member) son. The wedding took place
in Henry the Seventh’s chapel at West-
minster, and was rounded off at the
Savoy. Another gaiety was a view of
the Lord Mayor’s Show. The Lord
Mayor’s carriage, the Guards, and the
police won approval, but the lifesavers
were reported not so bon.
“Ice Retreating” was a newspaper head-
ing on the Science Congress. But it needed
no degree in systematised knowledge for
the suburban housewife to know that.
Each time she looked into the ice-chest
she saw the shrinkage. She also knew
without recourse to debate that this sig-
nified that the sun was getting hotter.
If any one of the Congress who stewed
in Canberra last week should have re-
mained cool by force of suggestion it
should have been H. G. Wells. It’s to
be hoped he doesn’t go berserk with
prickly heat or any such before the lec-
ture with which Dan O’Connor, of
Maoriland, is hoping to crowd the Town
Hall. All the intelligentsia known to
this Letter are determined to be present,
and so are its trade-union friends.
Oswald Cheeke, taking in huge
draughts of ozone from the balconies of
the Pacific at Manly, had no fewer
than 300 Christmas greetings delivered
to him before December 25. With great
conscientiousness he had replied to every
one of them, and was sitting back with
all the complacency of .a task well done
when 17 more greetings were showered
down by last week’s English mail. In-
cidentally, he had just had news of the
illness of Lord Gifford.


FOR
T
T
DRINK
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Now, perhaps more than at any other time of the year,
Wolfe’s Schnapps plays an important part in maintain-
ing good health. Its mild tonic action and unique medi-
cinal properties provide that little help and correction so
necessary to keep the system functioning normally
through the trying summer months.
Cool and cooling, possessing all the distinctive flavour
and aroma of genuine Schiedam Schnapps, Wolfe’s is
undoubtedly the most beneficial and pleasing of summer
drinks. Yet, at the same time, it is more than this — for
in character and constituents Wolfe’s Schnapps is essen-
tially a Health Drink.
OLFE
PRODUCT OF
HOLLAND
ttSs&fa l
CT:!H«rifLOZ!
su
WOLFE'S
cz/hcmatlccSiktedam
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN
AS FOR MEN
W. 5.146.8


66
THE
(KEROSENE)
REFRIGERATOR
Works by Kerosene. Simple to Use.
We especially make the “Top Opening” Type
in preference to the upright models, as the
“Top Opening” ensures the COED BEING
KEPT IN during use. This ensures minimum
running cost and maximum efficiency.
Costs l|d. per day to run.
Five Cubic Feet Storage Capacity.
Price £29/10/-
f.o.b. Sydney.
This chest will do the same work as models
twice its i>riee.
ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
PTY., LTD.,
57 NORTH GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
m j
&PIHS
■
Personal and Missing Friends.
Re ALBERT JAMES STUDD BROWN,
Deceased.
INFORMATION is sought as to the next-of-
kin of the abovenamed, who died at Bechuana-
land, South Africa, on fifteenth September,
1938. Believed born Bathurst district, New
South Wales, about year 1868. —CHAMBERS,
McNAB & CO., Solicitors, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2010 of 1938.
BETWEEN AMELIA WAVES DOWNIE Peti-
tioner
And FRANCIS FREDERICK DOWNIE
Respondent.
TO FRANCIS FREDERICK DOWNIE for-
merly of Walcha in the State of New South
Wa j es *
TAKE NOTICE that the said AMELIA
WAVES DOWNIE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the fifth day of April One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed anu
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of January, a.d.
1939.
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar in Divorce.
JOHN S. HEANEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Victoria will long remember Black Fri-
day, January 13, when fire swept the
State from the Murray to the south coast,
leaving in its track grief and desolation.
The physical and mental sufferings
of the settlers and the timber-mill
people, the courage of the fire-fighters,
the ordeals of those who took refuge in
creeks and dugouts or were forced to
run for their lives, have appealed to
public sympathy, and relief in money,
clothing and household goods is coming
along in large quantities.
As more immediate needs are satisfied
the greater problems loom ahead —jobs
for the hundreds of men who will be out
of work for the next six months or
more; credit for those whose stock is
wiped out and whose properties are
charred and blackened wastes; roofs
to shelter hundreds of destitute families.
The subjects of soil erosion, the silting
up of creeks and the danger to
water supplies caused through fires of
such magnitude have also to be dealt
with, and last, but not least, come re-
afforestation and some closer study of
the problem of bushfire prevention.
A Relief Committee is handling the
central collection and most of the heavy
transport, including the moving of furni-
ture, bedding, food, etc., but various
bodies like the Red Cross and the House-
wives’ Association are helping consider-
ably by collecting and dispatching
clothes, all packed neatly in clean sugar-
bags. The railways have risen to the
occasion with free transport, carriers with
free carting, and numbers of people drive
their cars around the suburbs collecting
donations of clothing. The Housewives
have a large number of country branches
in the devastated timber areas, so that
local committeewomen do the distributing
in the districts where they know the
people and their needs. In each sugar-
bag are 100 to 200 garments, practically
all of which had been cleaned or washed
and pressed before they were donated.
The helpers who did the packing were
very pleased about the condition of all
clothing. Among the gifts were several
charming little sets of babies’ clothes,
some of which had never been worn.
Among the many far-reaching results
of the bushfires is the damage to the
Victorian tourist business, the pinch of
which will be felt for a long time. Beauti-
ful mountain highways have ceased to
exist; proud forests, a joy to the eye and
an inspiration for our poets, are dead
and gone, and terrible to look upon.
Some people are so worried about future
fires that they are avoiding all bush
resorts for their holidays, and, though
many of these places are still safe and
intact, they too are suffering from the
general scare.
Campers and caravanners are of two
minds about taking their proposed
holidays, having heard of the experiences
of their friends at Dromana and at
Lome, for on Friday the fires at Lome,
where much property was destroyed,
gave that township a very bad fright.
Those evacuated through necessity or
as a precaution slept on the beach
with their suitcases, and some watched
damage being done to their cars as the
tide turned. The closing of Ocean-
road through more fires was an addition
to their worries.
Melbourne men absorbed the heat-
wave with their coats on and their waist-
coats. On Tuesday, with the temperature
at 112, and on Friday, with the mercury
at 114, they walked around the streets
doing their jobs of work (or perhaps
going from pub to pub) fully clothed as
for a winter day. Even the sensible
example of Lord Gowrie and the savants
of the Science Congress at Canberra, who
as one man remove'd their coats on the
opening day, failed to impress Mel-
bourne.
In the Broothorn photograph is Jean
McNeil, elder daughter of Engineer-Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. P. E. McNeil, of
Orrong-road, upon whom a degree of
M.Sc. sits lightly. She achieved it last
year at Melbourne University, and is now
engaged in research work at the Waite
Institute, Adelaide. Miss McNeil came
over to Melbourne to spend Christmas
with her parents, and spent last week in
Canberra at the Science Congress.
One hundred and fifty young people,
for the most part those who with their
varied assortment of shirts, shorts and
sandals are well known at Frankston dur-
ing the summer, gathered at the Fernery
last week for a dance given by Nancy,
Briseis and Jim Grice. Dancing was in
the ballroom, and supper was served in
the old rockery among pot-plants, swing-
ing baskets, bouncing balloons and a
winking lighthouse. Nancy, whose pastel-
patterned organza frock was hoisted to
jewel-green shoulder straps, wore . a
family heritage upon her wrist in the
shape of a gold bracelet threaded with a
lock of hair.
Briseis, who was in sapphire organdie,
does not have to look further for
ancestral atmosphere than her own
name, an “invented” one compounded
by her mother to perpetuate her family
name of Bree. During the dance J. E.
Grice, father of the young party-givers,
made an announcement that another
dance would be held at the Fernery two
nights later for the bushfire relief. Most
of those present kept their promise made
on the spur of the moment to come and
bring their friends, so that, even though
there was neither committee nor organi-
sation, the effort was a great success.
Among the many young men at both
the Grice and the bushfire dances was
Gordon Austin, who gave a party him-
self to innumerable friends at Frankston
last Monday (Frankston has abounded
in such private festivities during the
summer). Gordon is a well-known
yachtsman and, like his friend Jim Grice,
is the owner of his own boat. Grice
senior is an encouraging parent regard-
ing sailing ; he’s president of the Frank-
ston Yacht Club.
An assortment of Dorotheas, some shy
and clinging to their mothers’ hands,
others quite at home in their party frocks,
arrived in batches or self-confident and
all alone to share in the party at the King’s
Theatre given by Irene Purcell for the
birthday of Dorothea Dunstan, child
actress in “The Women.” The party corn-
menced with an hour’s entertainment
from the stage, with Jessie the Cow as
a popular success. Jessie opened the
bill, for she had to make her call fit in
between her cues at His Majesty’s with
“Jack and the Beanstalk,” which panto,
is running a daily matinee.
For the cake-cutting, the hundreds-
and-thousands and the lemonade the
Dorotheas and their small brothers and
sisters were taken up on to the stage by
helpers from “The Women” co. and a
band of musical comedy girls. Among
the adults in the audience were Marjorie
Crossland, Katie Towers, Debbie Dare,
with her hair in a peasant hankie, useful
disguise for her “wet set,” still in pins
and created by Christine Maple. Jessie
Rogers was there in a large black halo
hat, under her arm a guinea-pig-sized
dog, Dinkum Aussie, which she hopes to
take back with her to the U.S.A.
Among letters of congratulation to
Mrs. /Eneas Gunn upon her recent deco-
ration of 0.8. E. came one very far out
of the past from an old-time bushman in
N.S.W., David Melville. He says he re-
members swimming in the Elsey lily
ponds round about 1871. Mr. Melville
was a member of the northern section of
the Adelaide-Port Darwin telegraph con-
struction party; the two groups meeting
at Union Camp near Warlock Ponds, on
the Elsey. Mrs. Gunn is interested to
know what grand old age David Melville
has attained, and if there is anyone else
alive to-day who worked in the Overland
Telegraph construction gangs.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs.
Wynell-Mayou, of Ceylon, who has timed
her visit to Melbourne to coincide with
the holidays from Geelong Grammar
School of her son Derek. At present the
pair are at the Sandringham Hotel, spend-
ing most of their time on the beach or in
the water. Mrs. Wynell-Mayou, who will
return home in the Orontes on February
14, stayed earlier in her visit with Colonel
and Mrs. C. E. Armstrong, of Malvern.
Mrs. Armstrong is her sister.
Ceylon too has been having a drought.
In a letter to one of his friends (he has
many scattered round Australia), Sydney
W. Game, of Colombo, mentions wild
animals that came out of the jungle in
search of water, bears dying of thirst for-
getting their fear of human beings on
their way to the village wells, leopards on
the roads causing collisions with cars,
and some roads temporarily closed to
traffic on account of elephants. But
tropical droughts are of short duration.
Heavy rain on Boxing Day was a relief
to everybody. Mr. Game has an urge
for a caravan holiday, which he won’t be
able to gratify while living in Colombo.
He says that caravans, because they sway
dangerously on the winding mountain
roads, are prohibited in Ceylon.
The young Larry Watkins couple had
a small family gathering last week in their
charming little home at Brighton. The
party coincided with the day, just a year
ago, that they became engaged to one
another and also with Larry’s twenty-
second birthday. The old mahogany
wine-cooler came in for as much admira-
tion regarding its service (it was the hot-
test night for years) as for its appearance.
Pride of the home (which, but for one
duck-egg-blue bedroom, is all cream and
burgundy, with burgundy cords on the
cream Venetian blinds) is McTaggart, a
brindle pup of Scottish forefathers.
Peggy’s parents, the Harry Johnson
couple, came for the party from Ravens-
wood, their home at Ranelagh.
The Oliphant family, when it meets en
masse, is a Science Congress on its own.
Every year the offshoots foregather at the
Alma-road, East St. Kilda, home of Mrs.
Harry Oliphant, daughter Dr. Marie Oli-
phant and son Tommy Oliphant, the only
dissentient among the meds. and near-
meds., he being in the Munitions Supply
Department. This year there came from
Tasmania the Bill Ellises (both dentists)
and the Harry Grounds couple (both
chemists). Mrs. Ellis and Mrs. Grounds
are also Mrs. Harry Oliphant’s daughters
Absentees were Dr. John Oliphant, in
Tasmania, and Dr. Frank Oliphant, doirw
post-graduate work in London. The
manians who arrived on Christmas morn-
ing departed on Friday, the 13th, an omen
which might or might not mean seasick-
ness in spite of their accumulated know-
ledge.
At present visiting Melbourne is a
Queenslander, Mrs. Andrew Dunn. Dur-
ing her four years’ residence in England
from 1934-1938 Mrs. Dunn became inter-
ested in the Air Raids Precautions,
attended the lectures and got her certifi-
cate, and continued attending more lec-
tures held regularly in country council
halls. She was in Australia last Sep-
tember, when the A.R.P. in England be-
came more active than it had ever been
before. She is interested in the move-
ment’s progress in Australia, and in Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Sydney has ap-
proached St. John’s Ambulance Associa-
tion, the Reef Cross, the V.A.D. and
several other organisations with the idea
of co-operation and public support. Mrs.
Dunn says that the recognised A.R.P.
course in England includes 90 hours of
lectures, the passing of an examination
and the acquisition of a first-aid certifi-
cate. The first aid is of particular use in
after-care for cases who have been gassed.
She believes that those whose who attend
even a few A.R.P. lectures can pick up a
lot of information that is invaluable in a
time of emergency.
A few weeks ago Pat Newbigin was
travelling across Canada over a snow-
covered landscape with frost thick on the
double glass windows. She returned to
Melbourne just in time for Christmas
and to say “Hullo-and-good-bye” to her
friends before leaving early in the New
Year with several suitcases of light-
weight clothes for Brisbane, where she
will undertake work pertaining to
feminine complexions, for which she
trained in London and Paris. She expects
to be away for at least a year. Miss
Newbigin loved America ; it was her first
visit there, and she had friends .scattered
through the U.S.A. and Canada, which
made her travelling more enjoyable. In
London she saw something of a couple
of successful young Australians —Vi
Temple Smith, whose job is in the sports-
wear at Harrod’s, and Wendy Outhwaite,
who designs a bow here, a bow there,
the swing of a skirt and the set of a
sleeve for Peter Russell’s.
The Sydney Osmond couple, who have
recently been living in Adelaide, are back
in Melbourne at 9 Trawalla-avenue in
the lovely house and garden belonging to
Mrs. Simon Fraser (who is at Portsea),
where they will doubtless be entertaining
many of their friends during the next six
weeks. Their packing and unpacking are
not all over, for towards the end of Feb-
ruary they will move into the flat they
have taken at Kilmarnock, Walsh-street.
For their daughter, Mrs. Ted Moran,
removals and removalists are also in the .
air. She and her husband recently sold
to Mrs. Clive Fairbairn their home at
the corner of Myrong-crescent and
Kooyong-road.


THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,.
252 George Street, Sydney.
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
nc to-
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
- Telephone: B 7901
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Right Physical Culture
“X.T.”: Queensland is the latest State
to succumb to the new craze for “fit-
ness,” and, Raphael Cilento leading, a
“co-ordinating Council of Physical Edu-
cation” decided to make an effort to have
a chair of physical education established
at the Queensland University, whose
Senate is now inquiring into the matter.
1 hope they won't follow N. S. Wales
and go to Canada for an exponent.
The Queensland Native Exercises have
produced some of the most splendid
specimens of manhood and womanhood
that humanity has known.
There is plenty of variety, too, and
these types of exertion all achieve some-
thing beside Greek-god figures, strained
knee tendons and surfers’ feet.
The ancient Exercise 1 begins: “Take
the Kelly firmly in both hands, and with
a long swing strike the tree evenly 2ft.
above the ground.” It has opened the
way for the pastoral industry. Exercise
2 is one in which the Sandow throws
his leg over a horse and stays on top all
day steering monkeys through Paroo
watercourse country.
Swinging the pick and pushing the
crosscut are also to be recommended for
keeping down central girth. Both have
done a great deal for Queensland
physique.
For ladies, I can strongly recommend
those old-fashioned exertions, now almost
forgotten in some circles, Washing the
Moleskin, Darning the Sock (excellent for
fingers and wrists) and Pulling the Teat,
which may be performed to the tune of
the “Lambeth Walk.”
There is also one suitable to the North
and the present season which, I feel,
would become universal if sufficiently
encouraged by the free- provision of
materials:
Take a 26-ounce receptacle of amber
liquid and, raising it slowly in the right
hand, gradually bend the elbow till the
forearm is at an angle of 45 degrees.
Bend neck backwards till there is a dis-
tinct strain on the spinal column, open
gullet slowly to limit, and gently pour
in contents of receptacle.
It develops the swallowing muscles,
induces perspiration, cleanses internal
canals and brews a sense of well-being
far beyond any produced by swinging the
arms round the -head and touching the
toes.
“Narine Cubby”: While Brisbane’s
morning paper was preoccupied with
next-to-naked Christmas bathing girls (B,
11/1 /’39), other Queenslanders had other
kinds of preoccupations. In Charleville
they had a three weeks’ heat-wave which
dried up the last remaining surface water
on district stock routes and left them
impassable. The Christmas Day tem-
perature was up to 119 in some private
homes, but 114 officially. But was
Charleville downhearted? Not even
when “stocks of ice ran out.” The
sweltering town mitigated the rigors of
the heat-wave by a Queen Competition
and a “Mad Hatters’ Skating Carnival.”
(The skating is on rollers ; it has captured
the Queensland West as the Lambeth
Walk has captured the cities.) Even at
Quilpie skating was the chief Christmas
exercise. And at Quilpie—beginning on
Christmas Eve —eight successive days’
maximum temperatures were 116, 121,
118, 117, 114, 113, 112 and 114. On two
nights it was 113 at nine, and on Boxing
Day it was 119 in the hospital with all
the fans going. And a northern press
correspondent reports: “Duststorms have
made their presence felt, and the House-
wives’ Association has decided that this
part of the country should be handed
back to the blacks.”
“Zedo”: Out Clermont way before the
war there was a legend that Billy Sing
could beat the record of William Tell by
shooting a marble off a man’s head with
a .32 Winchester. It was easy to believe.
There, perhaps, has never been a better
or a prompter shot in the world than
Billy, then a lithe, dark-moustached young-
ster with a flashing smile and a placid
eye. Gallipoli opinion rated him No. 1
sniper on the Peninsula, and credited him
with a personal record of 250 Turks.
Jacky had a special reward out for him.
Also —I heard years afterwards in Con-
stantinople—he had a legend that Sing
was a renegade Turk! Coming home
with a D.C.M. and a French Croix de
Guerre, Billy settled down quietly in his
“Have a heart, Sergeant, it's a hundred-and-ten to-day."
native district, where he is a miner. Much
older, but still bright-eyed, he turned up
in Brisbane the other day.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Fast flights by Dutch Lock-
heeds from Darwin to Sydney have been
followed by a revision of Guinea Air-
ways schedules from Darwin to Parafield
(S.A.). It will mean that overseas mails
will reach Adelaide 15 hours earlier than
hitherto, and go on to Melbourne by
night train instead of waiting for air
delivery next day. Mails will leave Dar-
win at 5.45 a.m. on Sundays, Mondays
and Fridays and reach Adelaide at 6.20
p.m., instead of making an overnight
stop en route and arriving at Adelaide at
10 a.m. On flights to the North, over-
night stops will be made at Alice Springs,
and there will be a pause for a meal at
Daly Waters. Down ’planes will call at
Daly Waters, Tennant, Alice Springs and
Oodnadatta. The time for the 2000-odd
miles, with four stops —12hr. 35min.—is
in strong contrast to the best flying-boat
performance, Darwin to Sydney with five
stops, 2404 miles, in 16hr. 20min. That
was the first flying-boat job done inside
24 hours, though the Dutch Lockheed
has flown the inland route of 2225 miles
in 12hr. 12min.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: An honored veteran
of Queensland’s Inky Way is W. J. Man-
ning, editor of the Mackay “Mercury”
these 30 years and more, and of the
Gladstone “Observer” for years before
that. He and Dave Green, of the Towns-
ville “Bulletin,” have done much to
render the North articulate, voice its
needs and stand up for its rights. Both
have had the rare good fortune to live
to see in their mellowed age the prin-
ciples for which they waged hot-blooded
battles long ago converted into the pros-
perous daily life of a beautiful land.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Qantas carries dogs,
parrots, bees, bandicoots, fowls, germs
or cats, but draws the line at goats. Two
were refused passages from Winton (Q.)
to Brunette Downs, ostensibly because
they were too large for the freight cabin
and unsuitable for a passenger ’plane,
If they were real Winton billies, “unsuit-
able” is too mild a word; but anyone
who really knows the western goat will
realise that the refusal was really due to
fear that they would eat the ’plane before
it reached its destination. They are nur-
tured from earliest youth on tincans, iron
bedsteads, worn-out shovels and other
customary ingredients of western rubbish
dumps, and the walls of a’plane’s freight
cabin wouldn’t provide even a light lunch
for two
*‘* * *
“Ek Dum”: Georgetown, way up on
the Flinders, had a queer experience
during the holidays. About 10 o’clock
one night at a dance the population
began to fall down like ninepins, appar-
ently suffering from something like
violent seasickness, though the sea is
hundreds of miles away. All cars were
marshalled, patients were loaded hastily
and soon the beds and floors of the tiny
hospital were overflowing. Next day
Georgetown looked like the morning
after from end to end as convalescents
wearily made their feeble ways home-
wards. The surmise was ptomaine
poisoning.
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: Those who predicted
years ago that when Charters Towers
mining died Townsville would wilt must
hang their heads at the progress of that
city. Building work during the year was
valued at £254,000. Sewerage and street
improvements are in progress at a cost
of £712,000. An aerodrome and an ex-
hibition hall on the showground . are
under construction. Two cinema theatres
rose in 1938, and one hotel has spent
£12,500 on remodelling. All the same,
Cairns is catching up in population and
trade as the rich scrub lands of the
very far north are developed,
* * * *
Mem rlt seems only the other
though in reality it was 1909—when
somebody walked into a meeting of the
Queensland University Equipment Com-
mittee with the news that the Govern-
ment would found the University. Gradu-
ates are now spread all over the world in
important positions, but from the point
of view of accommodation the institu-
tion has been a scratch affair. Now, the
first stones of the new University at St.
Lucia are in place, 400,000 bricks have
been laid and a vast amount of othei
preliminary work has been done in
preparation for the rise of the half-
million pounds’ worth of buildings which
form the first half of a £1,000,000 scheipe.
All the material used except steel will
be produced in Queensland. When the
job is completed there will be a quad-
rangle to hold 10,000. The first build-
ings to go up will be the administration
block, arts, law, commerce and mathe-
matical schools and the library. The
University will stand jn 248 acres of land.


<OR Tllf
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM- is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
•"•ys^sssf/
aged;
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well jmu will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure, remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
oi m
ax?
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Pioneer Radio Relic.
While searching in a seldom-disturbed
cupboard I unearthed one of the earliest
wireless transmitters and receivers ever
made. The two are illustrated and dia-
grams given.
The transmitter is a Hertz oscillator,
made before the days of tuned circuits.
Resonance is obtained, more or less, by
making the aerial rods the same size,
about 4ft. in length. The receiver is of
the Branly coherer type, and depends
for its action on the fact that loosely-
packed iron filings cohere when traversed
by a train of R.F. impulses, and become
conductors of direct current.
In the circuit diagram the transmitter
is on the left. C -is a spark coil, K the
sending key, and SG the spark-gap, con-
Fig. 1. —Circuit arrangement of the Hertz oscillator and
Branly coherer brought to light in Bundaberg, Q’land, by
Mr. L. B. Carter.
sisting of two brass knobs shaped as
drawn, with an insulated ball between.
One of the h.t. leads connects to the
aerial rod and to one ball of the spark-
gap, the other connecting to the second
ball and earth. An impulse leaving the
transmitting aerial causes R.F. currents
to pass through the coherer (CO in the
receiver on the right) and closes the cir-
cuit, including the relay R. This in turn
closes the circuit, including the electric
bell, which therefore rings when the
transmitter key is depressed.
However, a de-coherer is necessary, for
unless the iron filings are disturbed they
remain as a permanent conductor after
the train of impulses ceases. A small
knob, D, is therefore attached to the
bell movement, and this disturbs the
filings each time the bell rings. The
sequence continues so long as the trans-
mitter is working.
After unearthing these relics it took
about an hour to work out the wiring
system and to adjust coherer and relay.
Fig. 2. —Showing the ancient wireless
apparatus itself.
They were not expected to work, but
they do, and they send perfectly intel-
ligible Morse over a distance of 20ft.
With finer adjustments no doubt this pre-
Marconi outfit would work over longer
distances.
L.B.C.
Giant Airliner's Radio
Equipment.
The huge Douglas DC4 airliner now
undergoing tests at Santa Monica, Cali-
fornia, will carry the most compre-
hensive radio-telephone system yet
developed for commercial air transport
service. The 250-watt transmitter is five
times more powerful than the con-
ventional aviation radio equipment, and
includes many unique features. For
the first time the flight crew is equipped
to make simultaneous observation of
beacon, weather and marker signals
whilst holding two-way communication
with the aerodromes. The pilot may
speak over any one of ten different
frequency bands, and a special D.F. loop
enables him instantly to check position
with respect to ground stations.
All major com-
ponents are as-
sembled to form a
panel installed on
the “bridge” im-
mediately behind
the co-pilot’s posi-
tion. This unit,
operated remotely
from a master con-
trol column which
rises between the
pilots, is entirely
self-contained and
comprises the
transmitter, com-
munications,
beacon, auxiliary
and marker receivers, and the intercom-
municating system amplifier. As the air-
craft passes from one radio zone to
another, the transmitter and communica-
tions receiver to which it is geared are
shifted progressively through five pairs
of day and night frequencies by means
of a rotary dial on the transmitter panel.
Instantaneous shift from day to night
frequency is effected by a push-pull lever
on the master control column. Quartz
oscillators of new and improved design
hold the several frequencies within the
required limits, and a forced draught
ventilation system cools the transmitter
with filtered air.
The communications receiver is crystal-
controlled and of the superhet type. It
is adjusted to maximum sensitivity from
the master control column and from
there is regulated automatically by a
special vacuum tube circuit. The beacon
receiver is basically similar to the com-
munications receiver. Provision is made
for reception on either a conventional
single wire aerial located under the
fuselage, or a shielded direction finding
loop enclosed within the nose.
The receiver can be tuned to any
frequency between the limits of 195 and
415 kilocycles by means of an illuminated
dial on the control column, on which
is mounted the sensitivity control knob
and an indexed dial showing the position
of the loop. An auxiliary receiver, which
may be operated from battery supply in
the event of power failure, covers all of
the frequencies normally covered by the
pilot. This is tuned remotely from the
control column by flexible shafting.
Marker zones are indicated by colored
lights which appear in the cockpit and
which may be augmented by an audio
signal to the headphones. The crystal-
controlled superhet receiver operating
these devices needs no attention during
flight.
The system was designed by Bell Tele-
phone Laboratories to specifications
formulated by United Airlines Transport
Corporation, Transcontinental and
Western Airlines Inc., and Eastern Air-
lines Inc. More than two years were
needed to perfect and complete the
initial model. This is the first commercial
aviation radio system ever built for
operation from 800-cycle power supply.
It is a far cry from the aviation radio
equipment of a few years ago.
RADGEST.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver,
described B. 28/4/’37.
Morning reception is still good, and
from 6 a.m. the 31-metre band holds
Ankara, Moscow, Paris, Rome, GSB,
with the Turkish station outstanding. The
German station DJX on 31.01 metres is
not in the same class, yet better than
DJD on 25.49 metres. In the latter
band TPA3 has a very fine signal with
RNE almost as strong. These two are
a long way ahead of the others on 25
metres. At 6.30 a.m. VLR3 opens very
strongly, and is consistent throughout the
day and evening.
The higher frequencies cannot now
be compared with 25 or 31 metres, the
best stations around 19 metres being
DJL, W3XAL, and W2XAD. From 1.30
p.m. YDC, Delhi, 'DJR and GSB can
be heard very weakly. At 6 p.m. TPA3,
DJA, DJN and GSD are all very good.
Conditions from 13 to 31 metres are
now very good at night. Moscow is
heard on 31.5 metres just above ZBW,
with a clear but not overstrong signal,
and DJR and DJA (Berlin), KZRM
(Manila), OLR4A —heard at 9 p.m. one
evening on 25.34 metres with a news ses-
sion in French—are all there. 2RO,
announcing the call-letters in English on
31 metres, has been asking for signal-
strength reports: reference was made
to the Italian experimental station on
30.9 metres, with tuning directions in
relation to the position of 2RO.
Static has not been so bad here lately,
and on the broadcast band 2CR, 3WV
and SCK can be heard all day. Sydney
“B” stations are not audible in this
location so well as 2KO, 2HD, 2NC and
other N.S.W. and Vic. country stations.
At night 2CA, 2GZ and two Tasmanians
are heard very strongly.
K.B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
An interesting variation in aerials re-
cently tested at the writer’s station is the
double Jones s.-w.-f. type outlined in
B. 16/11 /’3B, as suggested by W9ZPG.
Since the masts are only about 40ft. in
height, the lower section is necessarily no
more than sft. above ground, and run-
ning close to a wooden fence. DX results
were marked from the first test, and, de-
There is time for
radio as a hobby
in Czechoslovakia.
This short-wave
receiving station
in Prague is
operated by Theo-
dor Cerny, and
has the official
number—
OK-RP 779.
spite extremely poor 14mc. conditions, R 9
’phone reports were at once obtained
from Honolulu and the west coast of
U.S.A. Apparently the effect of doub-
ling up thus in the radiators is to lower
the radiation angle, and the difference in
signal strength when using the aerial on
the receiver is evident. For any amateur
with two masts, 40ft. or more in height
and 70ft. apart, this aerial system can be
recommended. With a similar system at
a 45deg. or more angle, complete world
coverage should be obtainable. As with
the single Jones aerial, the system is effi-
cient on 10, 20 and 40 metres. The 80-
metre winter men could make good use
of a similar arrangement 134 ft. long with
feeders tapped 22ft. off centre.
Amateurs needing a South American
for a “new” country on ’phone should
go after TG9BA in Guatemala City. The
14mc. signal from this station from 4 p.m.
E.S.T. is remarkable for strength and
consistency. The operator makes a point
of netting VKs, and starts at the low-
frequency end of the band, working in
rotation all VKs heard calling him. Most
C.W. stations seem to be congregated at
the H.F. end of 14mc.; in contrast to
the conditions of two years back the
C.W. DX seeker will call at the L.F. end
with little success. The position seems
to have resulted from the mid-band
barrier of the American ’phone channel.
Skip on 14mc. is short in Sydney at
night-time, and VK2UC, of Lismore,
North Coast of N.S.W., can be heard
with a strong ’phone signal as late as
8 p.m. Such conditions may augur well
for u.-h.-f. DX somewhere, but lack of
stations keeps 56mc. DX still unaccom-
plished. Strong 14mc. ’phone signals are
reaching the east from Westralia from
as early as 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. or later.
Outstanding is VK6FL, Frank Lambert,
of Geraldton, who, with 35 watts input
and a Jones M.I. aerial, is doing a re-
markably good job.
It is the careless practice of many
operators using ’phone to omit the prefix
from the callsign. The VK is just as im-
portant as the remaining letters. To an
overseas observer stations with no prefix
can be very mystifying. In any case, it
is a regulation that the prefix shall always
be used.
Occasionally there are complaints
about the regulations governing the
granting of experimental licenses, par-
ticularly that clause which makes a know-
ledge of Morse code necessary. The sug-
gestion is sometimes made that there
should be a special radio-telephony per-
mit. Morse code practice requires very
little time once the operator has become
proficient, and it is certain that the man
qualified both in telephony and tele-
graphy is more likely to be of use to the
community in case of national emer-
gency, whatever form it may take.
Sydney VKs are taking an interest in
flying. Alan Furze, VK2HF, and Morry
Myers, VK2VN, are the latest to begin
learning the job. Bob Burstall, VK2QR.
has long been handling a joystick, and
most week-ends find him aloft in a Ryan
sports ’plane.
Of interest and use to those requiring
frequency checks on 14mc. is the Maxim
Memorial Station, WIAW. On 7/l/’39
this station was heard at 9 a.m. Sydney
time with a powerful signal trans-
mitting a frequency standard broadcast
to all amateurs —on C.W., not ’phone.
Inter-State amateurs to visit the writer
recently have been VK4SG, of Too-
woomba, Q’land, and VK3CX, of Canter-
bury, Vic. Ex-VK2JX, Peter Adams,
wasted no time in getting QSO Australia
after leaving for Maoriland, for only an
hour or two after the Awatea berthed at
Wellington he was heard at the key at
ZL2VM.
Latest British 56mc. DX work is
recorded in the “Short-wave Magazine.”
GSBY, Croydon, Surrey, and G6FO,
Newport, Mon., have been keeping up
consistent two-way working over a 126-
mile stretch. GSBY is testing a multi-
plicity of aerial systems, including a WBJK
beam, rotatable in both horizontal and


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are IS/8 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
£5O Sentence Competition
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 25.
There Is No Entrance Charge.
Entries for the £5O Sentence Competition announced in last week s Bulletin
(January 11) close on January 25, so that there is still a week for competitors to enter.
The sentence has to be made up from words on the Aboriginalities pages in the
January 11 issue, and rules and conditions will be found on the Radio page ot that
issue, with an explanation on the Sundry Shows page.
The sentence (in BLOCK letters) may be filled in either on the coupon provided
last week or on the one below. Entries should be posted to reach
“Sentence Competition No. 1,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 25.
FIRST SENTENCE COMPETITION
» NAME '
-
• ADDRESS
! s I
RESULTS AND NEW COMPETITIONS.
Results of the 11th Limerick Competition, which closes to-day, will be published
in next week’s Bulletin (January 25). Also in the January 25 issue a second
Sentence Competition will be announced; the prize-money will again be £5O.
Results of the first Sentence Competition will be published in The Bulletin of
February 1.
vertical planes, and a six-element Yagi
type with reflectors and directors. The
systems are used also for reception, and
G6FO attributes the success of the link
to the equipment at the Croydon end.
Power at GSBY is 160 watts and 24 watts
at G6FO.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Tasma Touch-button Car Radio.
During a recent visit to Queensland the
writer had the opportunity of putting
Tasma’s latest radio receiver for use in
cars —model 620, a six-valve type with a
The Tasma Phantom aerial fitted inconspicuously to the centre of
the windshield.
remarkable performance—through its
paces. Valves used in the design are one
type 78, one 6KB mixer-oscillator, one
6V7S, one 6D6, 6V6G beam output valve
to speaker, and a 6X5 rectifier. Inter-
mediate frequency is 458 kc., with sensi-
tivity at this channel of 250. Band-width
is 80kc. Broadcast sensitivity at 550 kc.
is .75 microvolts with a band-width of
35kc. Power-supply unit is by vibrator
from the six-volt car accumulator, using
a Delco four-pin vibrator.
As with all receivers from the Tasma
factory in recent months, specially-
designed low-loss coils with trolitul foun-
dation are used. This material is also
used in the valve sockets, its superiority
Dashboard view of the Tasma 620 car radio installation, showing the
push-button noise fader panel below the tuning controls in the centre.
as R.F. insulation material over bakelite
and other materials being well estab-
lished.
Using the receiver with a special tele-
scopic aerial, the absence of vibrator
noise is particularly marked. Highlight
of the design, however, is the four-dimen-
sion push-button noise fader, which can
be seen in the illustration below the re-
ceiver tuning controls. This device con-
trols circuit functions in such a manner
as to ensure that reception will be noise-
free even in the most difficult areas. By
simply pushing a button any degree of
tone or noise modification can be had in-
stantaneously, and one can transfer at will
from one extreme of modification to an-
other without the necessity for going
through intermediate stages. This unit
gives car-radio welcome freedom from
interference by overhead tramway and
other electrical power sources which
hitherto made good reception extremely
difficult in the city.
The telescopic Phantom aerial is fitted
in the centre of the car wind shield, and
is unnoticeable from the driving or front
passenger seat of the car. It overcomes
the disabilities of the under-car and
“topper” types of aerials, and with the
620 receiver provides ample pick-up for
local and distant reception even in the
folded position. Its position also makes
for greater freedom from ignition inter-
ference. Installation is simple and the
appearance far more pleasing to the eye
than most of the recent roof-type aerials,
Receiver screening is so complete that
clear noise-free reception is obtained
without the necessity for spark-plug sup-
pressors or condensers,
Some idea of the receiver’s perform-
ance may be had from a test in Central
Australia, where three stations were re-
ceived in broad daylight. In a demonstra-
tion through the crowded traffic of
Queen-street and other Brisbane thor-
oughfares, with trams at close intervals,
reception of city and outlying stations
was obtained even better than with many
home radios.
The four push-button controls are
marked Bass, Music, Voice and Noise
Fader. Three different installations are
provided for, each being in two units,
from 23 to 25 guineas. Differences are
in speaker size and type of controls.
Price of the Phantom aerial is Ij guineas.
Further particulars can be obtained from
the makers, Tasma Radio, 29 Botany-
road, Mascot, N.S.W.
D.B. KNOCK.
Short-wave Interference
Cure.
Considerable trouble has been ex-
perienced in Adelaide suburban areas
with a peculiar “blanketing” effect
of various broadcasting stations being
audible on the short-wave range of dual-
wave receivers. The degree of inter-
ference varies according to the field
strength of the particular station. The
interference is not in the form of har-
monics from the broadcast transmitters,
as the strength of the interfering signal is
constant, and spreads for two-thirds of
the short-wave tuning range.
This unwanted broadcast signal is not
tunable and forms an annoying back-
ground for all short-wave reception. It
was thought at first to be due to some
peculiarity of receivers, and as wave-
traps were found to be useless I was
for some time at a loss to find a cure.
Eventually a scheme was found whereby
short-wave performance is not affected
and the interference is eliminated.
The remedy is to place a small choke
consisting of 50 turns of 40-gauge D.S.C.
copper wire (herringbone weave using
40/35 48/36 gears) in series with the
lead from the wave-change switch to the
aerial connection at the short-wave aerial
coil. Thus the choke is switched out of
circuit when on broadcast. The number
of turns can be varied to suit particularly
bad interference cases and where dead-
spots due to absorption may occur on the
short-wave range.
Inquiries of dealers and servicemen
showed that mine was not the only in-
stance. So far the cure has proved effec-
tive with every make of receiver tried,
and may be useful to others in the same
fix.
VKSUL.
December, 1938, Issue of
"Radio" (U.S.A.).
Latest copy of “Radio” to hand con-
tains a varied series of technical and
descriptive articles. Of chief interest to
the low-power experimenter is the 4-25
exciter unit by W. W. Smith, W6BCX.
This is a four-band 25-watt exciter giv-
ing instantaneous band change, and as
a low-power outfit it can be plate modu-
lated for telephony or crystal-keyed for
C.W. Construction is simple, and in-
cludes a 42 straight pentode crystal os-
cillator, a 42 buffer doubler and an 807
in the output. Quadrupling is employed
to give 25 watts output at 10 metres and
30 watts at Jower frequencies from an
80-metre crystal.
The 56mc. enthusiast has excellent
material in the description of a five-
and 10-metre converter using an 1851
R.F. amplifier with 6JBG mixer-oscil-
lator. This unit is suitable for use with
almost any kind of receiver having
reasonable R.F. gain at lower frequen-
cies. O. W. Hungerford tells the story
of the Terry-Holden Expedition station
VP3THE, active in British Guiana last
year for the New York Museum of
Natural History. “High Wind and Water
in the East” is an account of good work
done by amateur stations during the
disastrous New England (U.S.A.) floods
last September. Ultra-short waves assisted
in providing valuable emergency links,
and this account emphasises the practical
utility of emergency equipment.
Other articles include: “A Bandswitch-
ing Kilowatt,” “Low Cost Medium-power
Transmitter,” “New U.S.A. Amateur
Regulations,” “Voice-operated Break-
in,” “How to Construct a Simple Tubular
Antenna,” “Radio Aids to Air Naviga-
tion” and “Neon Bulb Voltage Regu-
lators.”
Annual subscription to “Radio” is 18s.
6d., payable at The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney. No individual
copies are available at this address, sub-
scription copies being posted direct from
the publisher in U.S.A.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I constructed the Ashbox Midget set
(15/6/’3B), but it will not work. As I have
only got half the article on the set and I
think that there may be something of import-
ance in the remaining half that I may have
missed, I would appreciate any information.—
745.
This receiver was described fully in the one
issue, and there was no second article. II
the trouble cannot be located, write to the
originator, G. Birks, Reco Radio, Royal Arcade,
Sydney. This is a particularly simple circuit
arrangement, and provided the circuit has been
followed correctly there should be no trouble.
* * * *
Enclosed is the circuit diagram of an old-
type reflex receiver using an /4415 detector with
£406 audio stage. (1) Could this be fitted with
a reaction coil, as shown in the first sketch?
(2) Any advantages over the original? (3)
Would the use of a grid leak have any advan-
tages? (4) Would the alternative reaction cir-
cuit, as in the second sketch, be better ?—744.
(1) Yes. (2) By introducing reaction and
controllable oscillation the circuit will be much
more sensitive. (3) This is a matter for trial,
as rectification is already provided by the
0 OOlmfd. .condenser and transformer winding
in the grid return. (4) Difference here is simply
that of “throttle” against “series capacity” re-
action control, and both are equally effective.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc. '
, 4, 1 ■<
> >' 1 *"•
Xcrv
r^l
The Kichardson Chain Hotel
if
-•if IP
a SSS ■
mu
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS. "
Production and Erosion.
“J. Want”: In a N.S.W. Bank circular
a specially prepared map shows the
gradual falling-off of carrying capacity
towards the interior and north. A small
stretch along the coast not more than
70 miles deep anywhere continuously,
though there are a few small islands
further inwards, marks the dairying dis-
trict which reaches at its most northerly
point, except for Atherton and a small
industry on the Tully, to a few miles
short of Capricorn. Usually less than a
beast to five acres is carried.
Next comes a strip, fairly narrow,
carrying either mixed dairying and other
farming, wheat- or lamb-raising ; inside
that, the narrow February rainfall in-
trusion on which in the North Mitchell
grass grows. Its north-western point is
level with the eastern extremity of the
Gulf of Carpentaria, and reaches to
about lat. 20. It carries a sheep to less
than lj acres, and extends all the way
from S. Australia.
Further inland is another narrower and
shorter layer which calls for from five
to 12 acres to a sheep, and a still smaller
one, mostly in S.A., in which it takes
more than 12 acres to keep a sheep. Be-
yond, above and around these belts is the
cattle area, the bulk of which carries
less than 15 head per square mile.
In the centre, and forming various
islands, there is an immense expanse of
desert, unoccupied land and land used
only in exceptional seasons. Only, half
of W.A. is stocked, and a comparatively
small area of it has lands which will carry
a sheep on less than lj acres or a dairy
beast on less than five acres.
Another map shows erosion. A long
narrow belt along the Dividing Range’s
watersheds, covering thousands of square
miles, has been mapped as subject to wate:
erosion in N.S.W; There is plenty of
evidence of it to be seen ' between the
Blue Mountains and Forbes. A fat
island reaching from the Queensland to
the Victorian border and from not far
west of Mungindi to some distance west
of Spencer’s Gulf is shown as subject to
much serious wind erosion.
There is a great island covering the
whole of the western pastoral sheep areas
and part of the cattle areas of Queens-
land, reaching from lat. 20 north to the
N.S.W. border and from the Paroo-
Warrego region into Central Australia.
Another embraces all the Tighter carry-
ing land of W.A. These two districts are
marked down as having little erosion but
suffering widespread depreciation of
fodder plants. In the three types, if the
bank figures be right, at least half of
the occupied pastoral areas of all the
States is subject to erosion or natural
pasture depreciation.
In the Mallee alone maintenance of
water channels and the cost of clearing
drift sand from roads and railways has
piled £120,000 a year on the taxpayers’
shoulders, but this loss, says the bank,
is far less than the incalculable amount
represented by the deterioration of tens
of thousands of farming acres.
Western N. S. Wales and adjacent
portions of S. Australia are nominated
as the most seriously-eroded pastoral
area — The Bulletin has several times
quoted its fallen stock figures since the
nineties of last century:
Nearly all the area is owned by the
States, and hitherto lessees have been
practically uncontrolled in their stocking
policy. Their errors of judgment have
been reflected in the deterioration of State
property. At the same tin;e the Admini-
stration in some States ha? failed to en-
courage conservative stocking by insisting
on a high estimate of carrying capacity
when fixing rents and when allotting addi-
tional areas to make up that unfortunate
fiction “a home-maintenance area.”
In the Darling district pastoralists
themselves have suggested legislative
action to control lessees with too high
an estimate of their land’s carrying
capacity.
A S. Australian committee has recom-
mended to the Government that all new
pastoral leases should be issued on the
basis that they can be cancelled if the
land is abused, particularly by overstock-
ing. The insertion of maximum grazable
numbers in the lease is suggested. The
bank, however, points out that there are
perennial drought seasons when conser-
“Nothin’ like a smoke tin, Ma , to keep skeeters away.”
vative stocking may be overstocking ;
but, irrespective of whether the country
has been heavily or very conservatively
stocked in good seasons, drought results
are usually uniform in destruction of
stock and in causing erosion and pasture
deterioration.
After the drought, native plants which
are a distinct natural protection to the
soil are eaten out before they can grow
again, and not only are the plants them-
selves destroyed but roots exposed and
the seedbed disturbed. The occupier can
scarcely be blamed.
The bank concludes that the damage
done by soil erosion has reached serious
proportions and is progressing at a rate
not' recognised even by those most
directly concerned. While scientific obser-
vation is needed to find a basis for
tackling the problem, a changed attitude
of mind is needed among farmers—some
still stand by while inches of soil are
washed off fallowed paddocks and
heavily-stocked treeless farm hillsides
are cut into gullies by every storm.
S. Africa spends heavily in controlling
erosion. Australia must do the same if it
is not to have a dust bowl in a few years.
Turnips for Sheep.
“Hortus”: Now’s the time for the .crop
in N.S.W. Almost all soils are turnip
soils. Moisture-retention is more impor-
tant than richness. It’s best to find a
soil with a fair percentage of sand. Land
that sets readily after rain prevents proper
root development.
The turnip is a shallow rooter, so
plough deeply—if possible, six weeks be-
fore sowing. Leave in the comb as long
as you can. Replough lightly just before
sowing.
Bring soil to a very fine tilth by har-
rows and cultivator. Don’t have it too
loose at sowing time. You may have to
compact the seedbed with a roller. On
the tablelands it’s best to sow in January.
In other parts sowings may be made in
February and March.
Broadcasting is best, using one to two
pounds per acre. Some drill with drills
about 2ft. 6in. apart, and two pounds
of seed.
Use super, and push the young plants
on. It is a great aid to root growth—
lcwt. per acre at least.
If drilled in, thin out plants when about
lin. to 2in. in height. Keep soil between
rows well tilled to retain moisture and
to check weeds.
On light granite soils second crops do
better than the first ones. The grazing
sheep keep Up fertility.
In New England in 1936 578 sheep
placed on eight acres of turnips in early
July and kept there with no other feed
for two months increased in weight. Last
season 5000 sheep were grazed on 250
acres i from mid-June to September 20
without supplementary feeding.
Champion Purple Top is a satisfactory
cropper.
Drought Results.
“Ghanam”: Continued episodic
droughts are causing concern. Within the
past week. I have met two graziers from
the Cunnamulla area (s.-w. Q.) who are
searching.for fresh fields where there is
regular rainfall. One is off to Maoriland
looking for country.
Victorian wheat yields and output have
been:more than cut in halves. Melbourne
vegetable and fruit prices have soared
-where drought has not struck storms
have. Fruit districts except Gippsland
and the irrigation areas have suffered
seriously. Around Swan Hill oranges
have set patchily, the grapefruit crop will
be about halved, and nut Crops also are
affected.
From the general look of things, cost
in wool alone will at present prices be
£3,000,000 next season for all States,
without stock and other losses.
In the Adelaide Abattoir market
farthest-north N.T. cattle took the place
of the normal run of Queensland lines
last year because the northerners have
fattened on a good rainfall, while the
Queenslanders arrived as gaunt, travel-
stained stores. Far North and’Central
Australia supplied 31,000 head against
only 19,000 last year. The Queensland
supply fell off from 11,815 to 9510, and
N.S.W. from 5555 to 1100.
A Cattle Judge for England.
“Zedo”: Raymond Reynolds, of
Hobartville (N.S.W.), goes to England to
judge the Herefords at the English Royal
Show, the first Australian to land such
a job.
Raymond is a
young man, son of
Percy Reynolds and
nephew of two other
grand old cattlemen.
Frank Reynolds, of
Tocal, and Sidney
Reynolds. The three
of the older genera-
tion were squires of
the Paterson country,
supreme breeders of
Herefords. Raymond
first appeared in
judging rings just
after the war, as the
manager of his
father’s stud at
Hobartville.
Hobartville is an
ancient Cox home-
stead, 600 acres or
so, 40-odd miles
from Sydney, and
next door to
Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College.
Many a good horse
has been bred there,
for once it was the
Belmont Stud —“The
Breaker” worked
there for a time—
and Percy Reynolds
has continued the old tradition. The
Herefords, however, have made it
world-famous. Its succession of Corn-
crake, Eaton Conqueror, Eyton Meddler
and other bulls on a superb series of
cows was without parallel in quality in
Australia until a very few years ago. No
other modern Hereford stud has had such
successes over 20 years at Sydney and
other Australian Royal Shows.
In its heyday its young ringers were
found in almost every stud in the Com-
monwealth. There was certainly not a
better contemporary stud in Britain than
Hobartville at its best, and this was
mainly due to the instinct for breeding
of Raymond Reynolds.
Westralia’s South-west.
“Bill Ding”: The W.A. Agricultural
Department says 450 new settlers came
to its south-western lands during 1938,
o Continued on page 44.)


TYPICAL OF MANY NEWSPAPER REPORTS
Surprisingly Good Crops in Dry Season
Attributed to CORRECT FALLOWING
“Thanks to the Sundercut, ,, say most successful farmers!
They know how well it works the soil, conserves moisture
and kills weeds, how it handles stumpy paddocks and virgin
lands. They know, too, the light draught and long life that
make it such a practical proposition for every farmer.
s/ *t
4?**
The NEW No. 8
SUNDERCUT
The Sundercut Stump-jump Disc Cultivating Plough is
made in 10, 12 and 14 disc sizes. Discs are 18in. and
20in.; or 20in. and 22in. Alemite lubrication for disc
bearings if desired. Levers are adjustable for either
team or tractor working without extra cost. Wide range
of wheels to suit any conditions.
%
has EIGHT NEW FEATURES
that make it better than ever
1— Extended frame to rear wheels.
2 Improved design of steering.
3 Rigid draught.
4 Draught adjustable for height as
well as laterally.
5 Front wheel independently adjust-
able.
6 Lifting lever on each upright,
giving easier and finer depth regu-
lation.
Get full details from your local
agent NOW; there’s still time to
demonstrate the benefits of the
new Sundercut in your SUMMER
FALLOWING.
7 Easy lever con-
trol—all lifting
levers are fitted
with balancing
helper springs.
B—Lengthened teeth
on jump mechan-
ism for longer
service.
STUBBLE
IS NO
TROUBLE
TO
THE
m
m
m
' •' . *s&&.
>XWv:yA^>>vX , 'yXv/WvXv>X'v!;iv!>ffiv>>.Wsw.v:;>.;.v.vAvv.
: :
| ' ; iM Uspli
pc ~V *£l£%o , 4-,
m
:Smm
. ■»
; ■::;,
Mm&M
m
mm
H
m m I
•••* :..
m
iH
m.
m*.<
i mm
SUNDUKE
STUMP-JUMP
SCARIFIER
The Sunduke is the only scarifier with all the draught gear above the frame—a patented
feature! 18 inches clearance from ground to frame. Exceptional space in every direction
between the tynes. Tynes set so as to cut all the ground. Cuts uniformly and leaves a
level bottom. Built with great strength for tractor haulage and difficult conditions. Runs
straight when pulled by either horses or tractor. Points shaped to penetrate hard ground
and cut weeds.
B feted
Sunduke equipped for team haulage;
also available for tractor haulage.
Screw lift, as illustrated in top picture,
can be supplied for tractor working.
1 4-tyne, 7ft. cut. 1 6-tyne, Bft. cut.
1 8-tyne, 9ft. cut. 20-tyne, 10ft. cut.
MANY NEW IMPROVEMENTS
Ask your local agent for full details; or Write direct to nearest branch.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria.)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE. CONCORD WEST (near Sydney). 95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE. Corner MURRAY
and KING STREETS, PERTH. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd. (Sunshine Section), Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


r
1328.
He’s the heaviest and strongest of the Abbey Family. Good strong double
sole, willow calf upper, full leather lining, make him fitted for all types of
country work.
Stocked in full sizes in wide fittings. Prices: Black, 39/6; Brown, 45/-.
“If it’s cm Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’’
FARM
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
We specialise in dependable
seeds for Farmers and Graziers.
Italian Kye Grass «/- Bushel
N.Z. Supertine White Clover, 1/10 Pound
N.Z. Perennial Red Clover ... 1/3 Pound
YViimnera Rye Grass 7/0 Bushel
Subterranean Clover 1/4 Pound
N.Z. Certified Peren. Rye Grass, 20/- Bus.
PRICES ARE NETT CASH ON RAID OR BOAT SYDNEY.
We stock all classes of Agricultural Grass and Grain Seeds. Quotations for quantities.
Write us about your problems.
A.J.HATCHMAN PTY.LTD.
'PHONE: MA5094.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish fo succeed
—THINK OF
HHUIEBEUBADGER)
lIMBYb
y.m.
m
m
IF
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
aM BRASS WORK
DANKS
«s>B
rv
<jBS
* *
600’
«8*
st»
cCt®
\o^ s
■• . *
£nS' n . ef s
*°* d V»' ulV '
At right a series of nine-inch “Reliance” Vertical Double-
faced Patent Gas Valves made at our Sydney Works.
A special feature covers a grease-packed crosshead in
which the spindle is encased when the valve is open,
thereby eliminating corrosion or the accumulation of
foreign matter preventing the valve being closed and
necessitating bagging off the main for repairs.
PHONE- M 6505 (18 LINES ) LATE SHOPPING. F-RIDAY 8)0 PAA
JOHN DANKS *«■> SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED iincobpoaatedin victobiai
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
7Jie'^'alleS^L
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St„ Sydney
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
j
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying’. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., X>td M
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
the largest number recorded for many
years.
The tale has already been told in The
Bulletin of the transformation of this
w'ell-watered area through the introduc-
tion of sub. clover, Kikuyu and other
grasses, the great increase in dairy herds,
sheep and cattle, and the establishment
and prosperity of butter and cheese fac-
tories.
Not more than 20 years ago the
farmers looked to neighboring sawmills
for substantial markets, and were satis-
fied with moderate production and
cheques.
When over 5000 men, with their wives
and families, lived and work on the mills
dairy products, stores and a hundred
necessities of one kind and another
assured loading for the mill trains.
The old farmers and new now have a
different outlook. New features come
with the changes. Paddock grass hay
was new to these districts till recently.
Now many large ricks tell a convincing
tale of the new life in the south-west.
Wheat Varieties in N.S.W.
“Yarrunga”: While the list of recom-
mended varieties of bread wheats has
been reduced to ten by the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture, farmers should
know that 35 others are specifically
named in the “not-recommended”
schedule.
Even among the hall-marked exclusives
Bobin, one of the most popular varieties
in the State a few years ago, is now
recommended “only for Mallee soils, for
which it is difficult to obtain suitable
wheats.”
The others are:
Aussie, Baringa, Bena, Burrill, Bruce,
Cadia, Caliph, Canimbla, Clarendon,
Cleveland, Canberra, Comeback, Currawa,
Duchess, Duri, Federation, Firbank,
Florence, Free Gallipoli, Gresley, Gullen,
Hard Federation, Minister, Marshall’s
No. 3, Nabawa, Penny, Queen Fan, Rajah,
Riverina, Sepoy, Sultan, Turvey, Union,
Wandilla, Yandilla King.
On the other hand, wherever non-listed
wheats of good quality yield well, and
a premium for them can be expected
from local millers, the department
recommends them.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: When half the blade
of a spade or shovel has worn away, cut
the edge straight with a cold chisel and
bend the handle socket forward after
heating. It makes a good hoe.
“Dimon”: When putting on galvanised
iron, paint the sides and ends where they
lap. These parts corrode most quickly.
To repair rusty lapped ends of sheets
which leak, put strips of iron under the
bottom of the top sheet.
“Jayem”: To make a charcoal cooler,
cut one end from a kerosene-drum and
replace it with an end made from inch
boards, into which a small door is let.
Fit a shelf. Make a hessian cover of
sufficient size to allow a space of 3in.
between drum and cover, leaving the end
with the door uncovered. Fill the space
between hessian and drum with small
pieces of charcoal, packed tightly with a
narrow board. After filling, bind a piece
of wire tightly around the hessian at the
open end to keep the charcoal in place.
Two pieces of wire around the drum will
make straps for hanging. Pour water on
the hessian-covered charcoal every
morning.
“Mullengah”: When feeding horses,
don’t pitchfork hay or silage into a yard
where manure is thick. It wastes the
feed and spreads worm infestation.
Trough feeding is best.
“Werrimee”: For tanning light leathers
on the farm there is nothing to beat
bloodwood bark. The leather comes out
much softer than with wattle.
“Hortus”: Breeding is the chief factor
in producing thickness and depth of flesh-
ing in beef cattle. But careful feeding is
important. Don’t waste time feeding un-
profitable animals. The day a calf is
born run your finger down the spinal
column and along the top of the ribs
and each side of the backbone. Some
calves have a good covering when only
an hour old. In most cases these are the
thick-fleshed ones. Don’t force calves
too quickly or they may become gaudy
and rough. Thick fleshing which doesn’t
extend down the ribs is no good.
“F.A.Q.”: The general president of
the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Asso-
ciation, H. S. Henley, is a grow-less-
wheat advocate. He cannot see any pros-
pect of a return to payable prices for
next harvest, and considers the outlook
for share farmers especially difficult. His
own policy will be to cut out the major
part of his usual wheat acreage and turn
it over to lucerne, oats and other grazing
crops to increase export-lamb raising.
The time is opportune, he considers, to
clean up wheat lands of weeds and so
restore soil fertility for the days when
wheat swings back to a profit-giving level.
“Cumnock”: The world’s Ayrshire
“cumulative record” has been broken by
a New York animal, H. J. Chisholm’s
Barclay’s Betty, with a yield of 177,2071 b.
milk and 60021 b. fat. Nineteen years old
last August, she has produced 15 living
calves, and has 916 descendants to the
third generation. Anybody ever work
out Melba XV.’s “cumulative record”?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
How to poison fig-trees? —S2ol2.
Frill-ring the trees, making downward cuts
with the axe so as to completely sever the
bark, and pour in a small quantity of a 20
p.c. solution of arsenic pentoxide. A few trees
may throw out suckers after the tops have died,
but a second dose of poison, either by swab-
bing the butts of suckers or by spraying the
entire growth, will wipe out persistent trees.
All arsenical preparations should be handled
with extreme care.
v * * *
Some of my six-weeks-old ducklings appear
to be blind. Reason? —52015.
It may be contagious “white eye,” which
could be caused by damp and unclean quarters.
If so, cure is difficult. The main thing is to
remove the cause and rear further lots on new
ground. If, however, they have not had enough
greens, they may be suffering from avitaminosis,
which can be cured by adding two pints of
cod liver oil to each 1001 b. of mash daily.
Discontinue when enough succulent green feed
is available.


f /ft/tut //' i 4
MAGNIFIED
V /
V
Ws
■SOB
0
%
%
k\V/
% S A X
i
w
#
Ip
■Wf.
✓
H
\V ,v
&
ffl
V/
TOOHEYS^
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Lann<
ceston.
HERE'S TO'EE


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
mis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
j
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Educated man (60), Sydney, overseas pen-
sioner, sober, wants employment, light duties
about house or station, country preferred, in
return for home and small wage.—2oBl.
Hardware-timber salesman, Sydney, mana-
gerial ability, Australia-wide experience, wants
position anywhere. Trustworthy.—2lo6.
Young man (21), Sydney, educated, country
exp., can kill, milk, etc., wants job as jackeroo
on sheep station anywhere. Refs. —2101.
Adaptable man, Sydney, middle-aged, non-
drinker, would like light occupation in hotel
or elsewhere, good at accounts, but would assist
generally in return for home and small re-
muneration. —2094.
By energetic young man, N.S.W., position
looking after cows; can milk 20 cows and do
all dairy work. Will go anywhere, hilly country
preferred.—2os6.
Words of poem “Exile,” by a poet named
Dalton, of Ceylon, dealing with the thoughts
of an Australian exile. —2089.
To buy etching plates by Livingston Hopkins
(“H0p”).—2053.
To buy, cheap and in good order, Wither’s
History of Ballarat, H. G. Turner’s Our Own
Little Revolution, Ross’s Eureka, and other
literature about the Eureka Stockade.—2oB4.
Philatelist, beginner, would like to correspond
with other stamp collectors. —2113.
Whereabouts of Fanny Ward, old-time
actress. —2099.
Information Sought.
In ball-by-ball description of English Test
matches am l listening to the voice of an an-
nouncer in England? —l976.
Before the 1938 tour the ball-by-ball descrip-
tions of Test matches in England were given
in Australia, but the recent series was part
synthetic and part direct from the ground
through the 8.8. C. short-wave transmitter at
Daventry. The synthetic commentary was built
up in the Sydney studios of the A.B.C. by a
team of cricket experts from a series of cables
transmitted from the scene of play through re-
served cable and telephone channels. The
cables covered every aspect of the game, the
details of each over, the state of the weather
and the wicket, field placings and so on, and
were sped on their way at the end of each
over and at the fall of each wicket. The time
of transmission, in most cases, was less than a
minute. Prominent cricketers, such as V. Y.
Richardson and A. McGilvray, with experience
of broadcasting at local grounds, and aided by
photographs, scoreboard, statistician and sound
effects, were responsible for the ball-by-ball
commentaries when conditions were unsatis-
factory for the direct descriptions.
.** * *
Particulars of the various members of the
artistic Lindsay family and of their achieve-
ments? —2110.
Percy, eldest of the four Lindsay brothers,
sons of Dr. Lindsay, of Creswick, Victoria, was
born September 17, 1870. Is a landscape
painter and black-and-white artist, and lives in
Sydney. Lionel, born October 18, 1874, is a
black-and-white artist, and has also produced
excellent etchings, water-colors, aquatints,
mezzotints and woodcuts. Is also an able art
critic, and wrote The Life and Art of Conrad
Martens, as well as a work on the art of Arthur
Streeton. Norman, born February 23, 1879,
early achieved distinction as a black-and-white
artist. Well knowjn by reason of his pen-
drawings and etchings, he has also worked ex-
tensively in water-colors and oil. Has pub-
lished several novels, also Creative Effort, and
some volumes of reproductions of his pen-draw-
ings. Lives in Sydney. Daryl, born January
1, 1890, also an artist of merit, was commis-
sioned to paint war sketches by the Common-
wealth Government during the World War. A
sister, Ruby, very gifted in the medium of pen-
drawings, died young. She married the late
Will Dyson, the artist. The second generation,
sons of Norman Lindsay, are Jack, born 1900,
who is a poet and novelist; Philip, born 1906,
author of several successful novels; and Ray-
mond, born 1904, a colorful painter in oils.
The two first-named are now residing in Eng-
land, while the latter lives in Sydney.
* * * *
A. few particulars concerning Lieut. Lynd,
living in Australia over 70 years ago ? He
wrote a verse on one of the Leichhardt ex-
peditions.—2ol7.
Lieut. Robert Lynd was appointed to N. S.
Wales on November 20, 1840, as barrack-
master. He was at that time at military head-
quarters at Hobart, with the 51st Regiment, as
barrack-master, and he left for N. S. Wales in
February, 1841. He and Leichhardt met in Sydney
in 1842. Lynd was a bachelor, about 15 years
older than Leichhardt, and lived in his own
house near Sydney Cove. They studied botany
together, and Leichhardt was his guest for some
time. The friendship continued, and the verses
“Leichhard’t Grave” were written by Lynd when
it was rumored that the explorer had been
killed by blacks. These verses were published
in a supplement to the Port Phillip “Herald”
on June 2, 1846, but had been set to music
by Isaac Nathan and published in Sydney by
W. Baker in 1845. Lynd was still barrack-
master at Sydney in 1851.
* * ■* *
(1) During which war did the defence of
Rorke’s Drift occur? (2) Date of the attack?
(3) Brief particulars of same? —2oB6.
(1) During the Zulu War of 1879. (2) January
22 and 23, 1879. (3) After the disaster of
Isandhlwana, 3000 Zulus attacked an outpost
comprising 139 men, chiefly of the 24th Regi-
ment, under JLieuts. Bromhead and Chard. Be-
hind their barricade of mealie bags they held
the savages at bay until they were relieved by
Lord Chelmsford the next morning. The Zulus
left 400 dead on the field, and the garrison lost
25 killed and wounded and earned eight Vic-
toria Crosses and nine Distinguished Conduct
Medals. Both officers were promoted to the
rank of major.
* * * #
(1) Which were the first 19 counties in
N.S.W.? (2) What area did they comprise?
(3) Which Governor named and arranged them ?
(4) How many counties are there in N.S.W.
to-day? —2o4B.
(1) and (2) They were as follows. Figures
given are acres: Argyle, 1,248,600; Bathurst,
1,190,400; Bligh, 1,077,120; Brisbane, 1,500,160;
Camden, 1,400,320; Cook, 1,065,600; Cum-
berland, 914,800; Durham, 1,354,880;
Georgiana, 1,231,360; Gloucester, 1,375,200;
Hunter, 1,315,840; King, 1,159,840; Murray,
1,458,080; Northumberland 1,498,880; Phillip,
1,035,520; Roxburgh, 972,160; St. Vincent,
1,704,884; Wellington, 1,059,840; and West-
moreland, 1,018,880. (3) Governor Darling on
October 14, 1829. (4) 141.
* * * *
How long after a penal settlement was made
in Australia did immigrants or free settlers
start to arrive in the colony? —l9Bs.
Free settlers began to arrive in the colony
very soon after its foundation. In a dispatch
written on November 5, 1791, Governor Phillip
gave the number of free settlers as 43, made
up of 31 marines, 11 seamen and one superin-
tendent. These were not settlers, perhaps, in
the sense meant in the query, as they had come
to the colony in other capacities. But in 1792
the ship Bellona arrived with eight free settlers
and five children.
* * * *
Any information about immigration from
Caithness to Australia and M.L. in the ship
Red Jacket in 1850 ? —1989.
There is no record that the Red Jacket ever
sailed from Caithness. She was chartered by
the White Star line for the passage from Liver-
pool to Melbourne in 1854, her first year, and
was later bought by the White Star line and
continued in the England-Australia trade,
making exceptionally fast passages in 1855 and
again in 1859.
* * * *
Information regarding the life cycle of the
dog tick, and treatment for same? —1991.
The dog tick ( Ixodes holocyclus) is a three-
host tick. Its natural host seems to be the
bandicoot, and this species often harbors these
ticks in very large numbers without, apparently,
suffering any ill-effects. The engorged female
tick drops from the host and lays its eggs
on the ground in clusters. From the eggs
there are hatched out “seed” ticks. These
attach themselves to a passing host, be it a
bandicoot, dog, cat, man or other similar warm-
blooded animal. After feeding for a few days
on the host’s blood, they drop off on to the
ground and “moult” to the next stage in their
development—namely, the “nymph” stage. The
nymphs go through a similar process to the
seed ticks, attach themselves to a suitable host,
feed for a few days and then drop off on to the
ground again. Here they “moult,” and as a
consequence the adult sexually mature ticks
are formed. The adult ticks attach themselves
to passing hosts, but the behavior of the sexes
differs considerably. The male does not feed,
but wanders about on the host in search of the
female. The female attaches herself and en-
gorges on the blood of the host. It is the
adult female which is responsible for so-called
tick paralysis. On about the fourth day of
feeding her salivary glands, which have enlarged
considerably at this stage, secrete a poisonous
fluid which, on passing into the system of the
animal through the tick’s bite, affects the
nervous system so as to cause the well-known
paralytic symptoms. It should be noted that,
while only one female tick is sufficient to cause
a fatal case of paralysis, the tick does no
harm until it has been on the dog or other
susceptible animal for four days or more. As
far as treatment is concerned, affected animals
should be taken as quickly as possible to a
vet., who will, if supplies are available, inject it
with tick antiserum. This treatment is highly
successful, but the supply of serum is some-
what limited.
* * * *
Particulars of the old Egyptian calendar?—
2128.
The Egyptian year, from an extremely remote
date, consisted of 12 months of 30 days each,
followed by five days, making 365 days in all.
The 30-day period was obviously based on the
lunation, so the calendar must at some period
have been governed by the moon, while its
primitive connection with the solar year is
proved by its division into three seasons, flood
time, seed time and harvest time—each of four
months. The Egyptians used to check the
calendar year to the natural year by the heliacal
rising of Sirius, which returned in the latitude
of Memphis at the mean interval of 365.2507
days. The Egyptians did not use a continuous
era, but numbered the years of each reign sepa-
rately, so there was some difficulty in identifying
a particular year. The astronomers of the
Ptolemaic age rectified this by the introduc-
tion of eras.
* * * *
Is it possible to have tattoo markings re-
moved from the arms? —2062.
Various caustic fluids and blistering agents
have been used for ,the purpose in the past;
later still, the substance known as glycerole of
papain and a paste made of salicylic acid and
glycerine have been employed. Certain electri-
cal methods have also had a vogue. If the
tattooed area is small, the skin may be excised
surgically. All these methods are bound to
result in the production of a scar, and it is
nearly always advisable to leave the tattoo
marks alone. Do not on any account apply
any strong caustics or acids.
* * =? *
(1) Year of establishment of University of
Westralia ? (2) Present number of faculties and
number of students attending lectures? (3) Are
its degrees of equal status with those of any
other university of the Empire? (4) Approxi-
mate cost in fees of a science course? (5)
Amount of annual grant from State Govern-
ment? (6) Are the public examinations in
Westralia controlled by the University or by
the Education Department ? —2025.
(1) 1912. (2) The faculties and numbers of
students are as follows: Faculty of arts 638
(B.A. course 441, diploma in education course
48, diploma in commerce course 51, diploma
in journalism course 17 and Teachers’ College
students taking special arts courses 81),
law 33, science 143, agriculture 17 and engineer-
ing 95; total students 926. (3) Yes. (4) No
lecture fees are charged, but there are certain
deposits, laboratory fees of 10s. per term per
subject, and subscriptions to students’ clubs, etc.
For the first year in science a student would
probably have to pay about £ll, and for second
and third years about £8 to £lO. In addition,
there would be the cost of textbooks required
each year. (5) £34,500. (6) They are controlled
by the University, through a Public Examina-
tions Board consisting of representatives of the
University, the Education Department and the
secondary schools.
* * * *
Details concerning Sigmund Romberg, his
life and works? —2027.
Born in Hungary, 1887, now a naturalised
American, Romberg has successfully combined
the features of light and attractive Viennese
music with the idioms of Tin Pan Alley. Since
Victor Herbert’s death, he has been the out-
standing composer of light operas and oper-
ettas. Chief works, “Blossom Time,” “Desert
Song,” “New Moon,” “Maytime,” “My Mary-
land” and “Student Prince.”
* * * *
(1) Are gastric and duodenal ulcers curable?
(2) Are they painful? (3) Treatment ? (4) How
can they be distinguished? (5) Which is worse
of the tw0? —1955.
(1) Both gastric and duodenal ulcers are
frequently curable by rigid attention to medical
and dietetic treatment. (2) Both are attended
by pain and by vomiting, sometimes of blood.
(3) In both cases the treatment is mainly a
matter of rigid diet, consisting at the outset of
small measured quantities of milk and milky
foods, with later additions of eggs, fish and
minced meat. (4) The symptoms of both are
much the same so far as the patient’s sub-
jective sensations are concerned. In both there
is pain in the “pit of the stomach” or there-
abouts, particularly before meals, and there
may also be vomiting of blood or loss of blood
by the bowel. The patient cannot diagnose his
own complaint with any certainty. (5) There
are certain reasons why gastric ulcer is gener-
ally considered the graver disease of the two.
You should have your case cleared up by a
competent X-ray specialist.
* * * *
(1) What is pellagra? (2) What are the symp-
toms? (3) Is it true that an ounce of yeast
a day will cure it? —1959.
(1) Pellagra is a disease due to the absence
from the diet of the water-soluble vitamin 82.
The victims of pellagra are almost entirely
negroes in the southern States of the U.S.A.,
subsisting upon a diet known as “the three
M’s”—maizemeal, molasses and meat (salt pork).
This regimen contains insufficient of the anti-
pellagra vitamin. (2) The main features of the
disease are “the three D’s”—dermatitis (or
inflammation of the skin), dementia and
diarrhoea. The dermatitis, once seen, is never
forgotten, as it appears in curiously symmetri-
cal forms—“pellagra gloves” on both hands,
“pellagra shoes” on both feet, “butterfly
wings” on both sides of the face. The mental
troubles are the last stage of the affliction.
(3) Most patients recover dramatically when
fed upon small amounts of certain food-
extracts, usually from liver, lean meat, yeast
or fish.
* * * *
(1) From whom can I obtain official racing
calendars in (a) N.S.W., (b) Vic., (c) Q’land,
(d) South Aust. and (e) West Aust.; price per
copy and how often issued? (2) Is there an
annual publication covering all racing in the
Commonwealth ? —1675.
(1) ( a ) The “Australian Jockey Club Racing
Calendar” is issued by the A.J.C., Sydney,
monthly, 2s. per copy; ( b ) the “Victorian
Racing Calendar” is issued by the V.R.C.,
Melbourne, monthly, 2s. per copy; (c) the
“Q.T.C. Racing Calendar” is issued by the
Queensland Turf Club, Brisbane, monthly, Is.
3d. per copy; ( d) the “South Australian Racing
Calendar” is issued by the S.A.J.C., Adelaide,
monthly, 2s. 6d. per copy; (e) the “Western
Australian Racing Calendar” is issued by the
W.A.T.C., Perth, monthly, Is. per copy. (2)
The Australasian Turf Register is issued by the
“Australasian,” Melbourne, annually, £3 3s.
per copy.
Does Anybody Know?
Ultimate fate of scow Whangaroa (132 tons),
which was abandoned and believed to have
foundered near Lord Howe Island on June
23, 1911, while bound from M.L. to Sydney?
Brief Answers.
H.M.0.R.: (1) Cooksey, Newman and Co.,
analysts and consulting chemists, 17 Bond-street,
Sydney. (2) £6 6s. for the two samples. When
forwarding enclose an unused sample of each
oil, making four samples in all. Label so that
there can be no confusion E.R.: A polish
is essentially an effect gained by rubbing;
sprays are a form of lacquer, and require fre-
quent renewing. Place 4oz. orange shellac in
a tin, and cover with one pint methylated
spirit. Allow to stand a day or two until
dissolved, then use as a spray. If it clogs the
nozzle too frequently add a little more spirit.
Should be left for two or three days before
being walked on M.J.: None that could be
recommended K.A.: No legal or social dis-
advantages. .. .Victorian : Question not clear
B. : Without reading the will and know-
ing all the circumstances it is not possible to
give advice. Until the whole of the bequest,
assuming it to be money, has been paid the
executor is not entitled to a release and you
should refuse to give it. The services of a solicitor
informed of all the facts would be advisable
C. Multiplication can be performed only
with numbers. You can’t multiply a sum of
money by a sum of money H.S.: If you
desire to make application for a pension, call
at the Registrar of Pensions Office, Camooweai,
which is also the Clerk of Petty Sessions Office.
You could make application for a warrant to
enable some suitable person to disburse your
pension according to your wishes and to collect
it on your behalf. Applications for warrant
form are available to pensioners at all post
offices and Registrars of Pensions Offices
W.0.C.: The Writers and Artists’ Year-Book
(A. and C. Black, London), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; price ss. 3d
G. : Only chance is by canvassing shipping
cos., but prospects are not bright unless you
possess experience... .E.M.C.: In N.S.W. in
1935 hours of work and wages per fortnight
for unemployed men on relief work ranged
from 14 hours at £1 3s. lid. for a single man
to 56 hours at £4 ss. Bd. for a married man
with eight children L.G.: No; you may
appoint them “executors and trustees of this
my will.” The fact that they act as such
will not exclude them from any benefit coming
to them under the will J.T.: Sherry and
Sons, 231 Sussex-street, Sydney, could send a
price-list of entomological apparatus upon de-
mand. H. B. Selby and Co., 254 a George-
street, Sydney, also stock some of the essen-
tials, and N. H. Seward, Ltd., Optical House,
457 Bourke-street, Melbourne, stocks not only
instruments but books on every branch of
natural science R.T.: Write Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney... .L.V.N.: Get
in touch with John Young, Room 3, First
Floor, Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney J.S.: From Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
George-street, Haymarket H.S.: The drawer
of a cheque by drawing it “engages that on
due presentment it shall be accepted and paid
according to its tenor, and if dishonored he
will compensate the holder or any endorser who
is compelled to pay it, provided that the
requisite proceedings on dishonor be duly
taken.” He should seek recovery from the
person who drew the cheque... .T.H.C.: It was
profitable for Mrs. Duncan, of Mooraberrie (Q.),
to send cattle into S.A. markets. The Q’land
Government seized her cattle, and, in a law
case the Supreme Court found in her favor
for £2900. The Q’land Government took the
case to the Full Court, and the decision was
reversed. Mrs. Duncan then appealed to the
High Court, and got a decision in her favor.
The Q’land Government appealed to the Privy
Council, which gave judgment in its favor.
... .J.T.: The word “infantry” is derived
from the Latin infans, meaning infant;
it is not clear how the word came to be
used to mean foot-soldiers. It has been sug-
gested that a foot-soldier, being in feudal
and early modern times the varlet or follower
of a mounted noble, was called a b0y....
T.D.: Write District Naval Officer, Naval Staff
Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff (N.S.W.)
H. : Write Commonwealth Meteorological
Office, Melbourne... .E.P.: The lines are from
Coleridge’s “Rime of the Ancient Mariner.”
. ...R.S.K.: (1) The equinox occurred on De-
cember 22 in 1938, but may vary for different
years. (2) Yes E.C.O’D.: The Henry
Lawson Society of Footscray meets on the
third Wednesday of each month at the Foots-
cray Mechanics’ Institute; secretary, S. Ford,
63 Windsor-street, Footscray, Melbourne, Vic.
A.B.C.: The Jewish Welfare Society,
Maccabean Hall, Darlinghurst-road, Darling-
hurst, Sydney M.J.: Edmund Barton was
the first Prime Minister of Australia....
L.N.T.: The chairman of the Australian Broad-
casting Commission receives £5OO p.a
0.K.0.: Yes, it was Alice Brady. She took the
part of the mother of Binnie Barnes in “Three
Smart Girls” J.G.D.: Yes J.J.: The
aboriginal name for a colt or horse is “yarra-
man”... .F.C.5.8.: Understand that the techni-
cal department, N.R.M.A., Sydney, tested the
metal. Information regarding tests is avail-
able from N.R.M.A A.D.: Deanna Durbin
may be addressed care of Universal Picture
Company, Inc., Pacific Coast Studios, Universal
City, Los Angeles, U.S.A C.C.: Try De-
partment of Agriculture, Melbourne... .H.T.:
There is no such disease as “catarrh of the
stomach.” The catarrh, or outpouring of
mucus from certain gastric glands, is the sign
of a simple gastritis, generally curable by
simple dietetic measures; the foods generally
employed are eggs and milk in small quantities
at frequent intervals, and the avoidance of
tobacco and alcohol. The disease is not pain-
ful, but may be accompanied by nausea....
C.D.M.: (1) Candidates for tuition in dietetics
are usually trained nurses who have completed
the usual course at one of the metropolitan
hospitals and have later taken up the subject
as a specialty. Information as to pros-
pects, etc., can be obtained on application to
the hospital authorities. (2) Training in bio-
chemistry requires a pass in the leaving certifi-
cate examination (or matriculation) of such
standard as to admit the student to the
faculties of medicine or science.


3 MONTHS ON
BISCUITS AND MILK
Woman’s Remarkable
Recovery.
Everyone who is subject to any form of
indigestion should know of this woman’s ex-
periences. Advice from one who has had such
severe attacks is advice worth having. She
writes: —
“I suffered from indigestion, gastritis and
constipation, and was so very ill 1 had (on
medical advice) to live on soda biscuits and
milk for three months. Well, a friend advised
me to take Kruschen, and now 1 am pleased
tp say my troubles are ended. 1 can eat and
enjoy a good meal without any painful after-
effects, and there is no sign of constipation.
I would advise anyone suffering the same to
take Kruschen.” —(Mrs.) M.R.L.
The immediate effect of the six salts in
Kruschen is to promote a natural flow of the
digestive and other vital juices of the body.
You will find to your satisfaction that you are
able to enjoy your food without any distressing
after-effects. And as you persevere with the
“little daily dose” you will sec that the relief
which Kruschen brings is lasting relief.
“AWATEfI”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
I
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
ĵ
S,
w
%
\ t
rtr»
rx
i
1
m
-v:
* '
fcYSAGHT
OR£
AUSTRALIA
• • •
AVSTRALISH
-ewesty. wtc&. i£~
Australian raw material, Australian workmanship,
Australian capital, all go towards making the ideal
roofing for Australian conditions. Lysaght's "Red Orb
Galvanized Iron is the strongest, cheapest and most
durable roofing made.
LYSAGHT'S GALVANIZED IRON
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane - Adelaide - Fremantle
Works: Newcastle - Port Kembla
LYSAGHT’S
Specify the correct brand
Blue Orb — Roofing.
Red Orb * — Roofing and walling.
Queen's Head — Flat sheets for general purpose
Special tank-making — Sheets for tanks.
THE CHEAPEST,MO$T
.-.■jV e tj •
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently ta”ip ed -
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members oj the staff personally.
L.C.R. and W.F.R.: Not up... .C.J.R.:
Rocky R.J.0.: Overmuch sentiment....
N.L.: Polished, perhaps... .M.R.W.L.: De-
pressing... .H.R.: The long, long arm again.
G.M.: Not for us; try it elsewhere
E. 51ight....G.8.: Flat... .Z.V.W.: Nearly.
L.D.McK.: Too thin... .E.A.K.: But
birds don’t moult from choice... .E.M.:
The faintest flicker... .G.P.: You caught
the wobble all right... .P.H.: They sound
very young... .C.W.: Dust in the ink, t 00....
D.E.: “The Old Red Coach” is rumbling
along home... .L.L.: Too “literary”... .A.M.:
No bid F. 5.8.: Still wants patching
W.H.G.: “I am always trying to write poetry.”
Well, it’s a harmless pastime... .E.E.: Can’t
resist George:
She said, “Oh, George, will you be true?”
Said he, “To my little wife, not you!”
The poor cook did not faint or shout,
She just up with a broomstick and laid him out.
And now he’s dead, she will try to forget:
You lose your figure if you fret.
F.R.T.: Too slight, but come again
K.R.: Barely a chuckle... .C.D.P.: “Orphan”
still seeking a home.... V.C.C.: “I don’t want
my name associated with this.” Nor we ours.
S.E.B.: “Outsider” showing a fine turn of
speed on the homeward stretch... .C.F.T.: (1)
Stick to lighter material, (2) loosen your style
and (3) study the yarns we publish... .G.D.W.:
You’re still a long way olf 8.L.C.: Doubt
if lhat detective can even find his way home.
P.H.P.: For the umpteenth time, no thirsty,
murdering prospectors... .T.H.S.: Try them
overseas J.J.J.: Sorry, but it left us speech-
less W.T.C.: You’ll need better powder than
that to blast your way into these pages
F. : Is that all you can say in 6000 words?
N.B., L.D.S., F.H.I. and C.L.: Missed.
C.P.: “Roamin’ Home” is goin’ for the
lick of its life W.D.: Admire the optimism
of “While there’s life there’s hope for mug
writers like me,” and hope you’re a Methuse-
lah.... M. 8.: Absolutely “bunkered”....
R.F.: Not that one... .L.J.T.: Impossible....
T.E.McC.: Delighted to have met “Good Old
Maggie Murphy”... .C.M.: Labored... .8.W.:
Make a par. of it... .S.D.W.: The ending’s all
right, but you can’t rhyme “leash” and
“reach”... .W.J.: A long night that was....
G. : Couldn’t get on with the dance....
R.C.: It’s not funny... .A.R.8.: Not far off.
. ...P.C.W.: Harrowing... .A. van der V.:
Not up E.L.R.: It makes heavy going....
D.R.8.: Send that crooked lawyer to Holly-
wood... .C.D.: Long-winded P.R.: It
doesn’t get over... .M.M.: N 0... .H.G.D.:
“The Fallow” is unproductive... .J.M.C.:
Thin....J.H.: The “dark eclipse” came about
the third page... .V.C.D.: Another “perfect
crime” gone wrong... .M.E.H.: Hopeless....
A.M.P.: Charming... .L.H.: Childish....
M.E.MacK.: Just didn’t get there D.P.:
Keep trying.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.N.: Consigned League of Nations cartoon
to the melting-pot... .F.F.: Your ambitions
greatly exceed your talents... .T.R.: A few
scratchy lines and an insignificant joke
R.8.J.: The dart-thrower missed the bull’s-eye.
W.M.R.: Your threat to send five or six
every week filled us with dread E.J.: Can’t
something be done about the shape of that
crooked charlady? ... .P.Q.: Wash drawings
too faint and murky for successful reproduc-
tion 8.W.: No spare corner for picture of
bishop falling from an aeroplane B.B.: Jest
about the porpoise still has us puzzled....
J. 8.: Billy Hughes caricature might be a tracing
of a famous David Low drawing A.L.:
Looks like a picture of wax models that have
been left out in the sun G.M.: Over-
crowded drawing and undernourished joke
J.L.G.: Strive for a more sweeping line and
better-balanced drawings H.S.: Leave inter-
national politics to someone who knows some-
thing about them P.R.8.: Jest saw the light
a few years after the running of the first train.
C.N.: Not one has any resemblance to an
Australian abo M.F.: Impossible to tell
whether sundowner is carrying a swag or a
dead mate E.H.: The lad is still in the
copying stage. Tell him to send us something
original A.F.W.: Why is one gent, buried
to his waist and the other floating in mid-air?
A.B.M.: Let us hear from you later;
you show promise... .D.C.: Sketch of “distin-
guished visitor” is by no means distinguished.
. ...G.E.: A boomerang... .8.W.: Now a
prize exhibit in our Museum of Horrible
Examples.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“S. M. Herald” is at its old game of
contradicting itself about the Spanish war.
On its leader page it allowed a contri-
butor, “Manuel Chaves Nogales, former
editor of ‘Ahora,’ Madrid,” to assert that
“Franco, now that he has decimated the
Moroccan reserves and the Navarre
requites, does not know where to turn
for Spanish recruits.” On the cable page,
same issue, it was written that “20,000
mountain-bred Navarrese troops stormed
Juncosa,” and were trying to effect a
junction with “veteran Moroccans ten
miles to the west.”
* * * *
Leslie Hore-Belisha (he calls it
Beleesha) probably enjoys being the
centre of the latest storm in a teacup
in British politics, his motto being “Say
what you like about me, but don’t ignore
me.” Though his Who’s Who notice
gives him only one parent, Lady Hore,
he is the son of Jack Belisha, who be-
longed to a well-known Jewish family in
Manchester, and whose widow married
Sir Adair Hore. The paternal Belisha
was an amateur actor of some talent.
H.B. studied at the Sorbonne and Heidel-
berg as well as at Oxford, and speaks
French and German with a fluency which
only Sir Sam Hoare and Leslie Burgin
among his Ministerial colleagues can
rival. No interpreter is wanted when he
talks to the French war chiefs, and he
can rub along in Italian, as he showed
when he dropped in on Italy during his
flight to and from Malta last Easter.
He took to the War Office the publicity
methods that he used at the Transport
Ministry, and his colleagues, including
Inskip, seemed to consider the results
satisfactory.
* * * *
“Norowa”: Tell “Apella” (B. 4/l/’39)
he is less just to Dickens than Dickens
was to the Jews. The master novelist
made honorable amends for the loath-
some Fagin by creating the saintly char-
acter of Riah in Our Mutual Friend.
And he did so with intent— vide the pre-
face to the book.
* * * *
After his busman’s holiday of review-
ing education systems of Europe, Eng-
land and America, “Shore” headmaster
L. C. Robson is in harness again. Two
things in the last-named country impressed
him. First the enthusiasm with which
the boys whose parents are hard up
work their way through college. Very
often they act as waiters at meal times.
The second was an unforgettable picture
of New York under snow. One morn-
ing he got up and walked along Fifth-
avenue before the snow was soiled, and
towering in the air were the skyscrapers,
burning white and rimed with frost —a
sort of fairy-tale legend.
* * * *
■ “Portumna”: Though I never heard of
the second Marquess of Clanricarde
sleeping out at night in Hyde Park (B.
21/12/’3B), he was undoubtedly the most
derelict-looking man-about-town of his
generation. Clanricarde ignored all his
relatives. His most obvious heir was
his nephew (Lord Harewood’s father),
and no one could understand why Clan-
ricarde should have left his wealth to
the son. Incidentally, the will which
bequeathed £2,000,000 to Lord Lascelles
was witnessed by a servant who had been
with Clanricarde for 23 years and a
charwoman who had scrubbed for him
for 30 years. Neither got a remembrance.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: At the annual competition
in fortune-telling amongst French clair-
voyants in Paris the soothsayers were
almost unanimous in predicting that 1939
would be a year of peace. But there was
sad disagreement between a lady and a
gentleman .over the future of Signor
Mussolini, M. Leon Latfron reading his
death in the crystal during the New Year
and Mme. Vidi discovering a contrary
opinion. They almost came to blows.
What neither of them predicted was that
they would be thrown out of the meet-
ing.
* * * *
“El V.”: I wonder if any other British
house, outside royalty and the Wellesleys,
can equal the single-generation record
of the Philipps family, in which there
has been a baronetcy since the days of
James I. Three. Philipps brothers have
been raised to the peerage within 30
years—John (St. Davids), Owen (Kylsant),
and now Lawrence. Another brother, Ivor,
a distinguished Indian soldier, was created
a K.C.B. in 1917. The new peer’s heir
is a painter married to an authoress.
* * * *
Adelaide has news of the death in
London of E. B. Grundy, at 89. He was
an Englishman who, after studying at
Oxford under Barry, afterwards Bishop
of Sydney, came to S.A. in 1874, married
a daughter of Chief Justice Hanson, and
settlecf down to half a century of un-
eventful law which brought him a Q.C.
(K.C. later). A prominent Anglican
churchman and Freemason, he was in
his time Chancellor of the Diocese, and
Grandmaster in succession to Chief Jus-
tice Way. He retired to England some
15 years back.
* * * *
“Scotty”: “Ardrigh” (B. 28/12/’3B)
gives the Camerons credit for only one
British regiment. He forgot the Cameron
Highlanders, still commanded by one of
the family. They were recruited in Loch-
aber and wear the kilt, which the Camer-
onians do not.
* * * *
“Lockyer”: The revival of archery in
England is full of interest. Like croquet
and other fine games, it took the knock
when tennis invaded the lawns of Old
England. In the 1850’s archery was
highly organised in the United Kingdom,
and there were championship matches
for clubs, counties, North and South of
England and an All-England go. Women
played in these, as well as in women’s
matches, but the fact that they used
much lighter bows —measurement by a
peculiar system of “poundage”—made
handicapping hard. The sport was a
wonderful training for the figure, and
for this reason has never been really
abandoned by girls’ schools in England.


Lloyd George the peace Treaties
IN two large volumes published by
Gollancz, Lloyd George has spread
out what appears to him to be The
Truth About the Peace Treaties.
There is a great deal of it—something
more than half —that can be accepted
without any question as truth: docu-
ments of the conferences; letters—re-
markably fresh and lively; often acri-
monious—passing between the leading
figures; reports drawn up by experts;
manifestos issued by President Wilson,
Czech leaders and others; and verbatim
reports of conference discussions. As
far as they go these are truth ; but what
is omitted when a document or a discus-
sion stops short could be equally truth,
and might possibly be a different truth.
One of the most engaging things about
the work from a reading point of view
is Lloyd George’s mostly devastating por-
traits of his colleagues. He is especially
severe on Woodrow Wilson, whom he
pursues with a relentless debunking pen
and with what seems to be a dual pur-
pose: (a) the legitimate one of showing
the man Wilson as he appeared to one
of his colleagues, revealing exactly the
part the peacemaker Wilson played in the
peacemaking, and thus substituting the
reality for the romantic legend of the
saint; and ( b ) the more dubious one of
constructing—in this instance, by impli-
cation of comparison—a beautiful Lloyd
George legend for the admiration of pos-
terity.
Though Woodrow Wilson may be de-
scribed as his main quarry, there are
equally drastic, if less drawn-out, por-
traits of the others; and the kindliest
depictions appear to have been reserved
for subsidiary figures or nonentities.
There are also crushing depictions of the
U.S.A., Italy and France, regarded as
national units, the first two especially.
On these grounds mainly it seems quite
conclusive that had the representative of
any of those countries done the presenting
it would be a somewhat different truth.
The impression that this is Lloyd
George creating a Lloyd George legend
is hard to shake off owing to yet other
characteristics of the work. It is remark-
able to find, through all the difficult con-
ferences and discussions, to say nothing
of the intrigues going on on the side,
one man always on the side of the angels;
always right; always a soother of ruffled
tempers —of the conferences and yet, as it
were, not of them ; one above the petti-
ness to which they at times descended ;
a detached, benign but unbending figure
right out of the Old Testament, looking
down on the tormented leaders of the
rabbles, and doing what he might in the
way of a little manna.
In legend-building it is a striking per-
formance, but—with all due regard for
one of the greatest figures of his day, as
well as for such splendid vigor in one 76
years old on the 17th of this month —it
might be doubted if this will be the whole
truth as posterity will see it. Lloyd
George takes a rest from his vast labor
at the end of his second volume to in-
dulge in communion with the shades of
his former colleagues. It might interest
an imaginative cartoonist to depict their
expressions caught in the act of examin-
ing the Lloyd George legend of Lloyd
George by whatever light it is their
reward to enjoy.
One result of all this is an effect often
noted in fiction in the autobiographical
manner, in which the least substantial
character is the one most insistently
forced upon the reader, while the super-
numerary rest may come clearly alive.
Here Lloyd George, for all the legend-
building, or perhaps because of it, is a
vague figure hovering about. The real
living men of the story are Woodrow
Wilson, Clemenceau, Orlando (more
clearly still his colleague Sonnino), W. M.
Hughes and the score or more others.
They are so clearly pictured that the story
it was their lot to enact comes alive with
them, moving on to its climax with the
strength, ihe breadth and the sweep of a
great novel.
In this impression Lloyd George is the
creative writer more interested in his
characters than in the event that drew
them together. The impact of each of
them left its indelible impression, and it
might be fair to read into the pursuing
hostility towards Woodrow Wilson the
greatest possible tribute to the personal
strength of Wilson’s character, and that
despite a general depiction of Wilson as
having been cold to the point of being
inhuman, and peevish and irritable to
the point of being childish. To a lesser
extent Clemenceau left his mark. Here
the picture is of a ruthless creature of
the jungle; but the impression is that
Lloyd George could have netted him if
put to it, whereas Wilson remains on his
pinnacle, petty but impregnable. Others
are correspondingly smaller figures, but
pretty well all of them live and come with
wonderful freshness from his recollection.
On other matters his memory is not
so reliable, and it is not exactly reassur-
ing that his versions in these cases are,
like his work as a whole, very much in
his favor Despite his insistence and
reiteration at great length, it is not a
fact that no opposition was voiced in
Great Britain at the time to the terms
°f the Peace Treaty. There was strong
criticism on behalf of the Labor party.
Again, one of the most powerfully
written portions of the first volume
amounts to repeating over and over that
he, Lloyd George, never promised that
Germany should pay the whole cost of
the war. The most charitable construc-
tion that can be placed on this is that
one of the Welsh Wizard’s most famous
—or notorious—speeches has completely
slipped his memory. Not only that, but
he has lost all recollection of its having
been parroted up and down the country
by his supporters on the 1918 we-won-
the-war-election platforms. The Lloyd
George of the legend built up in these
volumes never at any time so lost his
head or descended to such shifts of poli-
tical expediency as to have undertaken
to make “Germany pay to the uttermost
farthing” and to “search her pockets for
it.” These are Lloyd George phrases as
authentic and unmistakable as his flow-
ing mane and noble brow, but they
would not be to his credit in the legend,
however they may have served him as
a politician. At the best, his careful dress-
ing up of himself on this ground is an
extraordinary example of the curious
pranks of memory ; at the worst, it gives
the legend a bad, because a doubtful,
launching.
It might be wondered, too, what some
of the figures he so trenchantly attacks
would make of his statements if they
were here to reply. It often happens in
the course of these two big volumes
that somebody or other does something
not much to his own crSdit —Woodrow
Wilson, in such things as his blundering
manifesto that made the Italians ramping
mad just when they were ready to listen
to argument; the French representatives
sometimes; the Italians almost habitu-
ally ; Lloyd George never. One still
present to reply has taken the oppor-
tunity to do so. This is the economist
J. M. Keynes, who would be hit a
knockout blow by the accusation, if
it were true, that a report prepared by
Professor Ashley and himself gave a
special impetus to the piling up of
Reparations.
In making this accusation Lloyd
George is shifting the blame for one of
the most criticised features of the Peace
Treaty. He goes to considerable length
to do so, dealing banteringly or caus-
tically with a string of economists and
financial authorities who held—what the
man in the street was led to believe at
the time—that Germany could foot the
bill presented. Lloyd George himself was
always for moderating the demands!
Mr. Keynes has flatly contradicted the
accusation ; the report made by Profes-
sor Ashley and himself “made no recom-
mendations of any kind for a German
indemnity, and was, moreover, based on
the assumption that Britain would make
no claim for reparation.”
The relative portion of Lloyd George’s
first volume needs to be read for the
flatness, and maybe the importance, of
that contradiction to be fully appreciated.
But if such things make it apparent that
the truth of these volumes is very much
to be accepted as the truth according to
Lloyd George, there is more than com-
pensation in the work as a literary per-
formance. Taken as a case for the de-
fence, it is one of the most vigorous,
comprehensive and engaging ever argued,
notwithstanding that the evidence often
turns against the argument.
Lloyd George’s grounds are (a) the
Peace Treaty was an altogether better
treaty than detractors and critics-after-
the-event have tried to make out; ( b ) it
was the best that could possibly be
achieved in the circumstances. On the
first ground, sagaciously enough, counsel
is satisfied with treating the jury to just
a few generalities. On the second ground
he argues with every resource of his
great forensic gifts, tabling document
after document, calling for affidavit after
affidavit for upwards of fourteen hundred
pages of type.
It is an address that will be most
admired for its variety ; at times for its
thunder, as when Lloyd George is driven
to a defence of what he might well fear
the jury must regard as indefensible, such
as his backing of the Greeks against the
Turks; his call for another war after the
war —the worst blunder of his career, on
which he was politically ruined, and
snubbed nowhere more emphatically
than in the Dominions. Here, being with-
out a scapegoat, he stands impenitent.
To a suggestion made in a Life of the
late Turkish dictator that the English may
have been bluffing:
It was not a bluff. I certainly meant
to fight, and I was certain we should
win.... But the average Briton had had
enough of fighting, and he was not pre-
pared to fire another shot for any cause.
There was a resurgence in the Conserva-
tive breast of the old admiration for the
Turk and his masterful ways with the sub-
ject races Indignation against atroci-
ties perpetrated against Greeks and
Armenians did not weigh in the estimation
of a hair against the darker outrage of
the 1918 election. So the Government fell,
and with it went first the liberation of
Armenia and Asiatic Greece, and in the
sequel the League of Nations and all the
projects for substituting conciliation for
armaments.
The whole of this section is notable,
because it is one of the few occasions
when Lloyd George the man comes as
clearly alive as Wilson and the other
characters of his great romance. It
would carry more conviction if Lloyd
George himself had not earlier supplied
all the answers to it in his crushing attack
on Winston Churchill over the White
Russia campaign. There he has a scape-
goat, and he pelts Churchill —deservedly
—with every scrap of damning evidence
available. But in the Turkish affair—as
much a meddling crusade as the other—
he is in one of the few awkward situations
where he has to stand alone. It was
wholly his stunt; there is no handy
economist, or Frenchman, or Italian on
whom to pass the blame —at least, not
until the election had given others the
job of cleaning up the mess, or as he
sees it:
The negotiators of the Lausanne Treaty
and their successors share with King Alex-
ander’s monkey the calamity thus wrought
by the policy which gradually disintegrated
and rotted the structure that had been
built up by the heroism of millions.
This too, would carry more conviction
if it had not served his purpose earlier
to show the beginnings of disintegration
in prior and entirely different forces.
Like a good many others in these days,
he wants to have it both ways ; this pro-
vides variety in his work, but it is disas-
trous to his logic.
Long before Lausanne and the fall of
his Government over the Turkish mad-
ness he had recorded the beginnings of
the fall of the League of Nations, dis-
tributing the blame in descending propor-
tions among Wilson and America, the
arch-destroyers; France, which never
thought much of the League, and wanted
it merely as part of its defence scheme,
an instrument for keeping boundaries in
place; and Italy, whose insistence on
rewards promised in the secret London
Pact brought about violations of the
League spirit before its earthly body had
taken shape.
The arraignment of Wilson and the
U.S.A. as the arch-destroyers of the
League is a striking example of how one
part of his argument will turn on another.
Earlier he had been at such pains to
show the League not as a Wilsonian
dream but as originally a European con-
ception that the likely reaction of the
American reader to-day would be:
“Waal, so we didn’t leave Wilson’s
foundling on their doorstep at all. It
was as we might have suspected a
largely British dodge to try to get us
entangled in Yurrup.” The charge of
desertion or betrayal seems to be non-
suited in advance.
Further violence is done to his argu-
ment in defence of the Peace Treaty by
such necessary parts as his description of
the distant beginnings of the Czecho-
slovakian mess. Those who felt last Sep-
tember that here was a first-rate excuse
for a return season of the 1914-18 night-
mare, or who regard the treatment of the
Czechs as a betrayal, should read Lloyd
George on the creation of the polyglot
State, study the contemporary documents
he parades, peruse the promises lavishly
made in them on behalf of the Czechs,
and consider to what extent any of these
solemn promises were ever honored. It
is sometimes said that the trouble with
most of the noisy mischief-makers of
the present is that their knowledge of
history dates from the Great War. It
would seem that it really dates from even
more recent times.
Lloyd George mostly allows documents
to tell the story of Czechoslovakia —a
State that was an inexcusable structure
in the first place, blunderingly created
in the face of the strongest opposition
from the prospective victims and on the
never-honored promises and false statis-
tics put forward by Benes. In this view
the recent hero of flapper-minded news-
papers and fireside fusiliers was a nar-
row and shortsighted politician, bent, as
is the way with politicians who lack
statesmanship, on a flashy success of the
moment without wise regard for the
future.
Lloyd George holds it one of the
greatest of misfortunes that the Czechs
were represented by Benes, instead of
by their wise leader Masaryk. That all
this is poor argument for a defence of
the Peace Treaty is no more than charac-
teristic of a case in which the evidence
which has to be paraded to prove one
thing is always weakening to the argu-
ment at another point. Indeed, the huge
work turns out to be not nearly so
much a defence of the Peace Treaty as
a defence of Lloyd George. Taken either
way, it is unsuccessful, but that does not
lessen its absorbing interest as a great
literary romance numerously peopled
with diverse and arresting characters.
It is a striking exposure of the part
played by mere individuals, with com-
mon human failings, in deciding the
destinies of nations and the lives and
deaths of millions of their fellows.
Woodrow Wilson’s consuming egotism
and hot and childish temper; Benes’s
narrow-minded cunning ; Churchill’s pas-
sion to express his ducal blood in re-
enactments of Marlborough’s Continental
campaigns ; W. M. Hughes’s gamecock
defiance, ready there to stand for Aus-
tralia against them all; the pathetically
insistent Italians, doing their voluble best
for their country against the very evident
undefined conspiracy to shut them out
from the spoils ; the savage Clemenceau
and the plodding Foch; the hovering
departmental men, steadying brains of
the gatherings; the legendary Lloyd
George, with rare glimpses of the man
as well.
A quality of liveliness which is a
freshening characteristic of the work will
be apparent from such passages across
the conference table as a famous one
in which Mr. Hughes figured:
President Wilson asked him slowly and
solemnly: “Mr. Hughes, am I to under-
stand that if the whole civilised world asks
Australia to agree to a mandate in respect
of these islands, Australia is prepared still
to defy the appeal of the whole civilised
world?” Mr. Hughes answered: “That’s
about the size of it, President Wilson.”
Another passage characteristic both of
the vigor of the work and of Mr.
Hughes:—-
Mr. Hughes said it was intolerable for
President Wilson to dictate to us how the
world was to be governed. If the saving
of civilisation had depended on the United
States, it would have been in tears and
chains to-day. President Wilson had no
practical scheme at all, and no proposals
that would bear the test of experience. The
League of Nations was to him what a toy
was to a child —he would not happy till he
got it.
That he never got it Lloyd George
attributes to the Wilsonian mixture of
egotism and petty temper, through which
he built up implacable personal opposi-
tion in the United States and so brought
about that country’s fatal jettisoning of
the League.
Inlaid in the general story are such
items as the negotiating and the disas-
trous subsequent effects of the secret
London Pact by which the Italians were
brought in on the Allied side at a time
so critical that the Allied cause would
probably have gone under without them,
but on terms that were no more credit-
able to Britain than to Italy; and the
shameless bargaining for the support
of world Jewry, with the Germans bid-
ding high, but the Allies naming a higher
figure. The canvas is the whole of
Europe, with distant glimpses of America,
and of Australia seen though Mr.
Hughes’s determination to secure New
Guinea for his country, not as anything
so artificial or altruistically arranged as
a mandate, but outright as a possession,
for defence and as direct compensation
for sacrifice of blood and treasure. So
he has always regarded it.
There is one other aspect of Lloyd
George’s notable work that gives it
especial importance at the present time.
The fact that Germany was well beaten
at the end seems to have made manv
believe that it was easily beaten. This
work shows with arresting starkness how
narrowly more than once the Allies were
saved from terrible defeat. It should be
read by all the would-be crusaders, by
the blatant critics of the Munich Pact,
the hate-fosterers and the fools who are
willing to see enacted over again not only
the sacrifices and almost-realised catas-
trophe which Lloyd George describes in
general terms, but all the horrible slaugh-
ter and filth and mangling and rotting of
bodies.


THE OTHER
FELLOWS
MIND.
This week’s first prize of £3 3s. (plus space rates, 2£d. per line) has been
awarded to a Melbourne writer for a few sane remarks on suicide.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Why Suicide?
Suicide, so far as we know, is not a
cure for anything ; and, quite possibly,
it may not be an escape from anything.
Yet it seems to be in fashion somewhat,
especially among the lovelorn.
These folk that put their heads in gas-
ovens because something has miscued in
their love life must think they have in-
vented courtship, and that nobody ever
fell in love before to the same degree.
They think that the (possibly temporary)
disaster which has come upon them is
irremediable and their only hope lies in
a precipitate abandonment of life!
How much of it, I wonder, is a desire,
even a posthumous desire, for headlines
in the papers? How many of these love-
lorn suicides got their first promptings
on the way to the gas-oven from an eye-
ful of the sort of sentimental slush about
lurv in which the flapper press indulges?
Could not these folk be made to realise
that to fall in and out of love is
part of an all-but-universal experience
provided for the preservation of life on
this planet? It is, of course, painful to
have one’s young affections blighted—
but it can be a profitable education. Why
don’t they teach these things in schools?
Surely such information is as valuable as
any other in the ordinary course of in-
struction?
The proper treatment for blighted affec-
tions is to go on living, quite apart
from the fact that it is very rude to show
contempt for life. Personal suicide, as
distinct from hara-kiri, is always a revolt
against the tribe. — Sang Froid (Vic.).
“Sang Froid” is Gerald Dillon, of the
People’s Palace, King-street, Melbourne.
He earns £3 35., plus space rates.
Brutal Press Pronouncements
Freedom of the press may be all right,
but its brutal frankness is at times un-
necessarily cruel, and constitutes a dan-
gerous practice when making statements
regarding the progress of certain diseases
from which notable people have died.
In the report of the death of Mile
Suzanne Lenglen, it was stated that she
died from pernicious anaemia, and the
report went on to say that the disease
from which she died proves fatal with-
out exception. There have been similar
reports of the deaths of other notable
persons from other maladies.
In disregarding the mental anguish such
reports must inflict on the thousands of
people suffering from similar complaints,
the press shows a lack of imagination or
a callous disregard for the welfare of its
readers, as, with the advance of medical
science, who can definitely say with any
degree of certainty that any complaint is
incurable? — Burr (Q.).
On Art Galleries
Above the facade of every Australian
art gallery should be inscribed the words
“In this vault is entombed our love of
beauty.” Our art galleries are mau-
soleums of true art.
The decline of our sense of the beauti-
ful set in when kings and princes col-
lected pictures to decorate the walls of
their homes. From that greedy desire
to gather beauty into one place arose the
diabolical conception of an art gallery,
where pictures might be ranged in rows
for self-styled connoisseurs to study.
Art is for the multitude. The reason
why Sydney and other cities are so ugly
architecturally is because nobody recog-
nises that fact. In the old days beauty
decorated a world which all men en-
joyed. Raphael, Michelangelo, Rem-
brandt —all the masters who knew what
they wanted to express, and expressed it
so joyously and grandly—painted for
all men and taught all men the funda-
mental truths of their calling.
That is only part of the rape of reality
going on in our midst. One is tempted
to regard churches as the graveyards
of religion, and museums as the grave-
yards of knowledge, as art galleries are
the graveyards of art. Let us take these
living things back into the streets again
and the hearts of men where they
belong.—N. B. (N.S.W.).
Take Good Years with Bad
This is a criticism not of the farmer
but of the Governments. Any man about
to enter business weighs the chances of
success against failure before deciding.
I presume the men on the land did like-
wise. Yet when a bad season happens
“Come on, you, turn it. You're not on the surf-reel now!"
along, such as this, the Government im-
mediately sets about helping the farmer.
Farming being as much a business as
anything else, why the preference? This
is the first drought for years, and the
worker is expected to pay for it through
the flour tax. Doesn’t the worker suffer
enough from price rises in ordinarily bad
seasons without being expected to foot
the drought bill? The Government
should tax the farmer during good years
to pay for the bad, or let him box along
like the rest of us.— All or None (Vic.).
Scallywag Employers
A great deal of the enmity existing
between Capital and Labor, I believe,
might be eliminated were employers to
take in hand the control of their own
class and let their workers know that
they have some sense of justice. It
appears that only legislative measures or
the crude method of the strike can induce
many bosses to learn the other fellow’s
mind.
Most employees know the injustices in-
flicted on their fellows by the livery
master whose morning chop disagreed
with him or whose domestic affairs led
to an altercation across the breakfast
table. There are, too, those inexplicable
antagonisms towards certain individuals
—too often on account of religion—that
have crashed many an employee’s hopes
or debarred him from preferment.
Why should employers not form a
court among themselves unto which an
employee might carry his complaint
against harsh treatment? The disciplining
rod held over the ignorant and tyran-
nical boss by a body of his own peers
would be more effective than any other
measure.
It would also go a long way to shatter
the belief held by the workers that they
are regarded by the bosses as enemies of
the establishment they derive their living
from. — Bernard Magee (M.L.).
“Recruits and Greek Gods”
Allow me to give you the point of
view of the “Greek gods” (B. 4/l/’39).
The young men are just as keenly inter-
ested in the safety of Australia as their
critics. But most of the newspapers have
shown such scanty regard for truth and
have cried “wolf” so long that there is
reason for thinking that they are less
concerned with patriotism than with de-
liberate and interested sensationalism.
Australia will have no shortage of
soldiers if a professional army is decided
upon and the pay is right. Great military
leaders from the American Civil War
(General Grant, for instance) down to
the present time have all said that every
nation without a professional army pays
dearly when war comes. Soldiering to-
day calls for a long and close apprentice-
ship—it has always been a dangerous
occupation. Those who engage in skilled
and dangerous work should be well paid.
The unemployed problem would be
solved, but no doubt there would be com-
plaints that the high pay of soldiers was
creating a shortage of workmen for fac-
tories and farm. The professional soldier
should be given every incentive and
facility to become a good citizen and be
encouraged to marry young. — Surfer
(N.S.W.).
A Pensions Lottery
It is a strange fact that the men who
receive the biggest pensions in Australia
are the men who have received the big-
gest wages during their working life. I
contend that if the retired £lOOO-a-year
public servant gets £6 a week the re-
tired basic-wage-earner should get at
least £lO. The man with the big salary
should be able to save more during his
lifetime than the man with the bare
pittance. Besides, often the man with
the big salary is childless, while the basic-
wage earner has four or five offspring to
feed, clothe and educate. Moreover,
when it comes to a time like the present,
when “war is thundering at our gates,”
it’s the basic-wage man whose kids are
expected to go and do the dirty work.
Therefore, instead of giving the highly-
paid man a substantial pension and the
lowly-paid man a miserable pittance, I
suggest the Government inaugurate a
Pensions Lottery. How would it work?
Let the present old-age pension stand as
it is, applying to all men, both high
and low ; but let the high pensions—those
in the £4-, £5- and £6-a-week category—
be drawn for periodically, lottery style.
Every elector over the age of 65 for
males and 60 for females could be
awarded a ticket free in each of these
lotteries. Thus everyone would have an
equal chance of obtaining a substantial
'pension instead of, as at present, only
the favored few. — Dougal (W.A.).
Aspects of Education
Free, compulsory and secular educa-
tion has slipped badly. Most parents
think that knowledge is wasted if it is of
no practical use. How often have we
heard parents complaining that Johnny
wasted his time learning Latin, and now
he’s a salesman and doesn’t need to
know any Latin. The same applies to
mathematics, modern languages or his-
tory, They forget that Johnny’s job only
takes a portion of his life, and he is sup-
posed to have a mind with something
in it.
Education helps think. An active
mind needs food the same as an active
body does. It is the uneducated man, the
mentally lazy man, who reads the comic
strips, racing supplements and scare
headlines in the daily papers. The men-
tally active man is an asset to the coun-
try, be he bricklayer, laborer or farmer.
He may not have time for intensive read-
ing, but at least he keeps an open mind
and can examine both sides of a question.
Until we become a nation of broad-
minded, active thinkers we must regard
our vast education expenditure as a total
loss. —C. Leonard (N.S.W.).
Stalin Can Do No Wrong
During the last few months the news-
papers have been full of accounts of
German misdoings, such as the persecu-
tion of the Jews and the throttling of
religious denominations. All this may or
may not be true,
but the part that
puzzles me is this:
While the press
weeps with com-
passion for the
pitiable plight of
the Jews, it remajns
strangely indiffer-
ent to the death
and starvation of
over 2,000,000
peasants in the
Ukraine because
they dared to resist
the commands of
Comrade Stalin and
his Red Army.
The press is
stirred to passion-
ate anger when a
priest or pastor is
arrested or im-
prisoned in Ger-
many; but it
doesn’t even men-
tion the slaughter
of priests and the
outrages against
nuns in Spain. We
see plenty about
the suppression of
religion in Ger-
many, but very
seldom are we told
about the fierce
anti - God cam-
paigns launched in
Russia.
Is there not in
this extreme Left
criticism of Germany a ghastly hypocrisy,
because a blind eye is turned to the mul-
titudinous crimes committed by those
with whom they are in political sym-
pathy? —B. E. Edghill (N.S.W.).
Rigid Age Limits
I hasten to support “Age"’ (B. 4/1 /’39)
re the stupidity of rigid age restrictions.
My own case I consider a startling
example. Left at 14 and began
knockabout life on farms, stations, etc.
At 27 had no trade, no profession and
no hope of becoming anything more than
what is known as a laborer. Then a
miracle, aided by the perception and
practical help of a stranger, gave me an
opening in a profession I’d often dreamed
about. Ordinarily it takes four years
for the aspirant to reach junior qualifi-
cations in it, and anybody over 20 who
tries to get in must have special quali-
fications or “pull.” For a comfortable
position, an ambition achieved, and an
ever-expanding future, here’s one who
thanks the fates he was able to break
through a rigid age restriction. — Good
Decade (N.S.W.).
The Only Way Out
If the Government is really keen on
safeguarding the health of the people
per medium of a contributory health
scheme why not drop the unpopular


“national” insurance and instead make
it compulsory for every adult, as well as
all young people, in work to become a
member of a friendly society? Choice
of societies (and the range is large here)
would, of course, be left to the fancy
of the individual. Such a scheme would
be welcomed by the lodges, and would'
prove that the Government is interested
only in the weil-being of the people, not
in financing the old-age pensions, as its
present plan suggests. —J. J. M. (Vic.).
A Monument to Insects
In the Chinchilla district, about 200
miles from Brisbane, is a small township
named Boonarga.
Travelling by car through Boonarga
I was amazed at the marvellous change
eight years had brought. In 1930 we
travelled for miles along a road that had
been cleared through acres upon acres
of prickly-pear. Cactoblastis has since
altered all that, and it is little wonder that
residents in the district have seen fit to
show their appreciation of the little in-
sects’ efforts in the form of an amuse-
ment hall which proudly acclaims itself
in large letters “Cactoblastis Memorial
Hall.”
When travelling towards Boonarga, on
the. Brisbane side, we gave a lift to a lad
making his way along the road towards
the township. 1 remarked on the wonder-
ful work the Cactoblastis had done for
the district. “Yair,” he replied. “If it
’adn’t been for the Cactoblastis we
wouldn’t ’a’ had the ’all.”—E. T. J riplett
(N.Q.).
“Certifiable”
It is certain that these following things
are “certifiable”: Hitler is a genius of
the emotionally spoken word, just as
Mr. H. G. Wells is a genius of the im-
aginatively written word. The dividing
line between genius and insanity is so
fine that it ill behoves the one to be in-
tolerant of the other. —H. G. T. (N.S.W.).
Films Without Substance
It’s a pity that the film industry no
longer makes an honest attempt to cater-
for the public demand. Instead, it
tries to control the public taste. The
method is to secure a market and then
use all the resources of Yankee publicity
to make the people believe that the
picture coming is what they are longing
to see. By this means a public demand
is created, and through all the dope
of illustrated weeklies and film magazines
patrons are lured to the shows.
There is a considerable body of people
who dislike the sensational exploitation
of every great theme of life. They are
not prudes but intelligent folk, and the
steady stream of mediocre feature-films
with their false sentiment and banal
humor bores them to abstention. Not
being nitwits they aren’t hypnotised by
the star-system with its worship of sex
and the idealised life of the rich. They
are not highbrow, but they have been
to school and they find the much-boosted
Hollywood best-seller thin diet.
I read recently of a Hollywood feature
film recipe. It’s worth repeating: Take
lib. sob-sentiment; lib. thrills; l|lb.
legs and backs (bare); |lb. night-club
and cabaret mixed ; 31b. of star (million
dollars per pound if possible); lib. of
humor or crooning; 31b. settings and
loz. of story.
The trade may keep its present patrons
on that recipe, reinforced by advertising
and mannequin parades; but it will
never win the intelligent patronage of
the people until it genuinely consults
their wishes. This would mean the de-
liverance of the cinema from the dic-
tatorship of combine, and would also
mean freedom of public criticism of
programmes, instead of the inspired
ballyhoo of press notices. This would
mean the subordination of the financier
to the intelligence of the artist. When
that takes place the public will begetting
the films it wants; but I am afraid
Hollywood will then be in liquidation.—-
Shamus O’Leary (S.A.).
All This War Talk
The Bulletin’s policy on war and
appeasement so perfectly fits in with my
own that I might have written it myself,
though not so clearly and convincingly.
As one who gave almost everything
except life itself in the shambles of the
last war, it robs me of faith in human
nature to see politicians and newspapers
yelling at the world that war is inevit-
able, and suggesting that the sooner we
get into it the sooner we will get it over.
The whole thing appears to me to be a
case of a few of our alleged leaders of
mankind having entirely forgotten that
might alone is not, and never can be,
right.
What they refuse to see is that in grab-
bing territory in the past most of the
successful nations have depended on
might to take and to hold. Now some
of those who got left have learned their
lesson and increased their might to a
degree where they can demand a share
of the spoils, which they are doing, with
only the might to hold what they have
taken by might backing the holding
nations in their refusal to share up. If
these European nations believe still in
might, let them, say I; but why ask me
to fight for their grab-all, and to give
them my sons and kid myself that it is
for the good of the British race?
As a family man I see no reason why
we should not believe ourselves strong
enough and decent enough to take the
ballyhoo of certain newspapers for what
it is worth and encourage Chamberlain
and the brains behind him to make avail-
able the Empire’s oils and fats and other
foodstuffs, and anything else for which
the dictators are starving, on a reason-
able basis, and keep our nose out of
things that don’t concern us, while main-
taining our trust in Providence and dry
powder.
The new diplomacy realises that the
old has failed badly, and we who have
to do the fighting, lousy and hungry and
shell-swept and wet to the hocks, with
a wooden cross for reward if our luck
is out by half an inch, look to the
changed times of to-day to support the
give-and-take men of diplomatic circles
like Chamberlain—23ls (N.S.W.).
Solving All Our Difficulties
Here is my plan for solving the unem-
ployment, population and defence prob-
lems at the same time. It is very simple.
The population should be employed
in digging out the centre of Australia
until water is reached, thus creating a
great inland sea and turning the country
into a vast doughnut-shaped kind of
place. The work involved in this would,
of course, solve the unemployment prob-
lem, while, after all the middle of Aus-
tralia was dug away there would be just
enough land left to support the present
number of people, thus effecting a solu-
tion of the population question. The
defence problem would solve itself, be-
cause what country would want to con-
quer a place shaped like a doughnut?
The tremendous quantities of earth
obtained from the centre of Australia
could be got rid of by selling at cheap'
rates to those nations which are demand-
ing colonies. They could select a nice
handy spot in the ocean where they
think a colony would look nice, and
dump several million shiploads of earth
there.— Joe (Vic.).
Male Domestics
I think the domestic servant problem
could be solved if men were employed
as domestics instead of women. Through-
out the ages men* have been recognised
as the better cooks, and during the de-
pression men learned to cook and do
general housework while their women-
folk could go out and obtain employ-
ment. Many of these men are still only
on part-time jobs or not working at all,
and would gladly accept domestic work
and give satisfaction to their employers.
It’s an idea worthy of a trial, anyway. —-
D. M. J. (W.A.).
Jokes About Lunacy
No drawing that illustrates the sup-
posedly humorous antics of patients in
mental hospitals ever appears in the pages
of The Bulletin, but some other papers
are not so particular. The attitude of one
editor whom I know should be copied.
Whenever an artist submitted a sketch
portraying lunatics as characters, he
would reply, “I’ll buy this on one condi-
tion —that you allow me to get a permit
for you to visit the State Mental Hospital,
and that you go and see things for your-
self. If on your return you can truthfully
say that you found the experience an
amusing one, I’ll take your cartoon.” He
obtained a few permits—but no artist, no
matter how hard up he was, ever pressed
him to accept the sketch.
I have been shown over several mental
hospitals. One-third of the inmates were
subnormal or idiots who had been hope-
less from birth, an equal proportion were
those whose minds had become enfeebled
through senile decay, excesses and the
like, while the rest were the most pitiful
of all human tragedies, clever, fiighly-
strung people whose minds have broken
down through shock, overwork, worry, a
stroke or during the menopause period of
life.
Nobody laughs when they visit the.
wards of an ordinary public hospital;
there is even less cause for mirth in a
mental home. Cartoons which portray
the inmates as playing childish pranks give
the public an entirely incorrect impres-
sion of mental trouble and the treatment
given by institutions, and they arouse the
just ire of every doctor and nurse who
has to deal with mental cases. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
The 2KY Episode
After all the fuss and pother, Mr.
Cameron’s action has been fully justi-
fied, and 2KY has apologised for circu-
lating statements “which were untrue,
and which the person making same
should have known to be untrue.”
Many will question the value of an
apology for such a blatant offence in
the circumstances (penalty, the inability
to rake in the rich proceeds of wireless
advertising).
Still, it is an admission of irrespon-
sibility that might well have to be
made by various “news”-papers and
other media influencing public opinion
if tackled so effectively as was 2KY. It
reveals clearly that we have passed from
the days of “news” to those of undis-
guised and unashamed propaganda. And
propaganda knows no ethics. The influ-
ence of this unhappy development on
democracy must be gravely considered.
More than one observer qualified to ex-
press an opinion has said that he would
rather trust the sound commonsense of a
British jury than the opinion of any board
of “experts,” and there have been days
when the reiteration of the old tag “The
voice of the people is the voice of God”
has almost nauseated us. But a British
jury has always, in theory at least, had
the advantage of a painstaking effort to
arrive at the facts from the point of
view of each side, and the voice of the
people based its claim to divinity on some
knowledge of the truth.
Nowadays, however, the voice of the
people too often gives expression to ideas
and purposes which are the outcome of
ignorance (the result of suppressed
truth), of prejudice (the result of the dis-
semination of plain lies) and of uncon-
trolled sentimentality (because of the
lack of discipline in thought that a know-
ledge of the truth brings).— Upagum
(N.S.W.).
Drought Elimination
Periodically we are faced with
droughty conditions. Sheep and cattle
are lost, vegetables reach exorbitant
prices, wheat returns few bushels
per acre —to mention a few of the ugly
features. Thus the primary producers’
troubles are reflected back on to the
purses of the cities.
The following year the purses are
again raided to give extra relief for the
farmer. No one would mind that if
he could be assured that the farmer was
doing something to help himself elimi-
nate the circumstances.
Extra-large dams need extra-large
sums of money, he says. Quite correct.
So why not pool his relief money and
build smaller local reserves by damming
up the many small waterways that run
to waste in every district? Most of
these could be built to work turbines to
supply him with that extra asset electri-
city.
As well as lessening the strain on the
larger reserves —which could be kept for
that droughty day—he would be doing
away with the empty-tank menace and
eliminating that very vivid obstacle which
prevents many a young man from begin-
ning on the land. The scheme would also
raise the value of all properties con-
cerned.
Water to the man on the land means
prosperity; so why let prosperity run
away and eventually evaporate in the
ocean? —T. A. M. (Vic.).
“Bulletin” Policy
T. Palmer’s views on Bulletin policy
(28/12/’3B) have at last given me an ex-
cuse for saying what has long been in
my mind, without being accused of speak-
ing out of turn.
It has long been accepted that the Nazi
party came to power on a policy of oppo-
sition to Communism—we even have
Hitler’s word for it, which our “demo-
crats” are prepared to accept, though
every other utterance he makes is con-
demned as a pack of lies.
My opinion, for what it is worth, is
that it gained power through a direct
and logical revolt against Anglo-French
treatment, imposed by the Versailles
Treaty, which was maintained during 15
years, with a mixture of force and bluff,
by the League. I don’t believe that Hitler
is worried about Marxism one bit, but it
has had a wonderful diplomatic value
in gaining him freedom from British and
French intervention during the very criti-
cal period of his first few years while
breaking free from the Treaty —he
learned the lesson well, and put up his
own stalking-horse.
Germany is now strongly armed, and
has eliminated all the danger-spots round
her. She has allies in Italy and Japan,
and with them is rapidly ousting British
and United States influence in South
America.
She has many times expressed a desire
for our friendship and co-operation on
a basis of equality, but the daily press
in the British Empire and the United
States returns the compliment with a
tirade of abuse. If we know our onions,
we shall grasp that offer of friendship!
and cease worrying about its effect on
“small” nations who are none of our
business. If we don’t, one bright morn-
ing we will wake up to find that Ger-
many and Russia have discovered they
are brothers under the skin. After all,
Chamberlain is no fool, and very likely
a little bird whispered in his ear at
Munich; so perhaps, in appearing to
“take its time by the Right,” The Bulle-
tin is, after all, serving the best interests
of Australia and the Empire, even if it
does have its ear to the ground.
My grudge against The Bulletin is
that it isn’t a daily paper. —J. N. Rook-
ledge (N.S.W.).
Fingerprint Everybody
In a recent drowning at Brisbane only
the hand of the person was recovered,
making identification impossible. The
N.S.W. “Pyjama Girl” remains a mys-
tery because no one can or will identify
her. If there was a national fingerprint
register the difficulty in both cases would
be obviated.
It should not be difficult to take the
fingerprints of a nation. Since prints do
not vary during life, local Cs.P.S. could
be taught to fingerprint children being
registered. Prints are divided into vari-
ous types, and when a person cannot be
identified a description of the print could
be forwarded to all likely places.—L. W.
Muir (Q.),
Debunking Youth
The popular press notwithstanding, l
see no hope for the world in this alleged
upsurge of youth. Most of the race riots
and other upheavals that make Europe
So jittery these days are caused by youth,
which ,was ever intolerant, ever cruel,
ever ready to destroy.
In our own country youth isn’t worth
a cracker until it is organised, and the
organisers are never youths. Youth can't
even organise its own entertainment.
Cricket, football, tennis and athletic
clubs are governed by men no longer
young. Left to itself youth, all classes,
can find nothing better to do than lounge
in the streets, in billiard saloons or pubs ;
race about aimlessly on bikes or in
motor-cars ; dance, sing and indulge in
noisy and often harmful escapades. It
isn’t to make mature people keep the
peace, respect property and morals that
we have a police force. ,
Youth is opposed to individualism—
any lad or lass who does things differently
from the rest of the mob is regarded
with suspicion, if not definitely ostracised
from youthful society—is fickle in , its
loyalties, and hasn’t the courage to tackle
its temporary object of hate unless it can
hunt in packs ; it professes to be scorn-
ful of certain conventions when the real
truth is that it does not understand them
and is fearful of something which gives
maturer people a sheet-anchor in life.
Youth cannot think for itself —witness
the popularity of such absurdities as
Tarzan and Mandrake —and rushes pell-
mell after the god of the moment. Talk
of educating youth! It can’t be done.
All you can do is teach it to read and
write and hope that life will knock some
sense into it eventually. By that time,
of course, another generation of youth
is disturbing the peace.
It’s just a cycle, of course, but the
world had less to fear in the days before
youth achieved this so-called freedom,
and God knows what its lot will be if
ever youth, as urged by the flapper press,
“takes the helm.”
Hitler and his ilk know their youth.
They don’t ask it to volunteer for
national service. They conscript it. —
Not Forty (N.S.W.)
Australian-made
A 40 years’ residence in Australia has
made me tolerant of Australian manu-
factures and rather dimmed my memory
of British ; but I occasionally get a bit
festy when I am called upon to “fork
out” to replenish my wardrobe.
Less than a year ago I bought three
woollen undershirts at rather a substan-'
tial price. To-day they are unwearable
Shrunken is hardly the word for it; lam
only 38 round the chest; they wouldn’t
fit a chest of 30. When buying these
undershirts I bought a hat for 355. It
looked smart, a good deep-seated grey ;
to-day it has a hue unknown to me, some-
thing between a miserable drab and an
icy Pole. On the other hand, I picked
up a pair of shoes in Sydney for a modest
pound, of a shape and quality compar-
able with the best Yankee, that promise
me years of life.—W. C. T. (W.A.).


masterpiece is (Perfection
/ the spirit he always serves
i) i
rc
r^JPt:
i
X?
H
m
%1L
ffijlgff*
y
I s
Afcz/ne
JS
€t
OwlWMnuiaax— rom>«m»mw«mjLintwt«w*<»>« ciH>ritti<>t{nw~m»»>«ni»m>iMiniM*»Bnnrov^^»uu^
(D c Gxlliuw's
CUA/sAyys-
/7I„A
-I*"
(D c CdUums
Scots (Übisky
z.Zmt**—
( rovattl '••Ij *%«•*•••
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
A BOOK BARGAIN!
t h£ WOBLO
LANCASTER
i
yCURS
The
World
Is Yours
Thrilling
.-w* r
Tale
of
The
Yuko
novel
6
Post
Free
€
■P.S qO
C tfi)
cP
*«v
,1 S® <s ee
tvs' \\© \%
vS S
ts '
..••’ .-** s o^
.*• 9 e Vt
.•• , 0^S e '


S:
JVk^
TO
mm
walks away with it!
Only the very finest whiskies from Scotland’s most famous
distilleries are good enough for Johnnie Walker. Mellowed
and matured by years in the wood, they are blended with
traditional skill. No wonder Johnnie Walker is the favourite,
and walks away with it!
Born 1820 Still Going' Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
