

Old rm&m
cm
vVW^Oi
H,-
■s»l.
**
«'i . > >ra
A, ,3> .
,-« v '
£&>
>v.
ft
/Ic*,.'
H
<r •
tm.
,‘-y y
O?Mi
*>^r
s£^;
f/V •#>’• r:
tfflZA 'W „ sA* <T ‘~ 7 .
, \W&'*
-:
5%
gkSbj
/z
V>.
/ '
<!M
uA
&A
V'
I*®
o?
HP
■si,
',==r
I
4. y
v&
*=sas
P/A
/V;
tfXyV
\/ r :
4C
n*'.
,m
nl«
5^
*
v
=rpp
K
I
**T
vjtS/jCT? '-*
55wf
•jgfi
J.vxe^ 014
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Dorset Arms, Hartfield, Sussex, is a simple
village inn on the main road which skirts glorious
Ashdown Forest. Its 16th century carved beams, open
hearths, and air of cheerful hospitality attract lovers of
the enduring art of bygone days.
My Worcestershire Sauce has also stood the test of
time. It is brewed and blended from an old recipe and
matured in vats of English oak. It is truly a delightful
brew piquant and appetising.”
'orfaz
°/i\
p/iser
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
0.37.
/
MntS.OMNAfe
WmoSxT^^.
SiW I~{ UMTtO
g£m ■
The Bulletin
The Gap in Empire Defence
Vol. 60.—N0. 3102.
Wednesday, July 26, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
*J
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
obligation, yowr New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how *to* Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name . • • ■
My Address .:
S.R. 339
The Red Page
DRAMA IN SOUTH AFRICA.
A frontispiece of the author in the costume of
1902 with a hat that looks as if it were designed for
an ascent into the stratosphere, the emphasis on her
Royal Red Cross decoration and the old-fashioned
announcement on the title-page— “ Melina Rorke: her
amazing experiences in the stormy ’nineties of South
Africa’s story: told by herself” —are a poor intro-
duction to Melina Rorke’s autobiography. Harrap and
Co. make it look dull and dated —perhaps a spinster-
ish record of good works —but in reality it is vigor-
ously alive, an outstanding book with the added appeal
for Australians that it evokes interesting comparisons
between life here and in South Africa.
The “colonial” atmosphere is almost identical:
the strangers in a new land, clinging to English tradi-
tions, building a new society and a new snobbery in
the close communities where penniless immigrants and
wealthy aristocrats, adventurers and riffraff were
huddled together; the pioneering spirit and the long
wanderings, the heat and thirst; the wild days of the
goldrushes. But to quicken the pace of the South
African drama there was the dangerous native problem
and the smouldering quarrel with the Dutch that flared
out into the Boer War.
Threading the historical narrative, Melina Rorke’s
personal story is strange and tragic, well worth telling
in itself. And a writer with less material could have
expanded to book length her first-hand descriptions
of notabilities such as Rhodes, Kruger, Olive Schreiner
and Dr. Jameson, of the Jameson Raid.
At the age of 14, the daughter of a rigidly Vic-
torian father and a mother who always addressed him
as “Mr. da Fonseca,” she scaled over a convent wall
and eloped with Frederick Rorke, the star of a visiting
English football team whom she had met only a few
days previously. He had thought she was about 19
years old, and she told the registrar she was 16. She
tells the story of an extraordinary marriage with extra-
ordinary frankness. Her father, furious with her for
eloping and with her husband for marrying a girl so
young, refused to have anything to do with them.
She travelled with Frederick from football match to
football match until, finding that she was with child,
he decided to give up football and settle down. In the
game that was to be his last, he was killed before her
eyes.
Her father still refused to allow her to come home,
but a sister came to the rescue. The birth of her child,
with a drunken doctor and a Kaffir hag in attendance,
was a nightmare. Sick and broken in spirit,
she was grudgingly allowed to return to her
parents —on the condition that the child was never
allowed into Mr. da Fonseca’s sight. “I had suf-
fered from my wrongdoing, and he was willing to
give me another chance, but he would never forgive
my dead husband nor look upon his child.”
When she was in her twenties, a suitor who had
threatened suicide if she did not marry him, and whom
she had impatiently told, “Well, for heaven’s sake do
it then, and stop talking about it,” went away and
blew his brains out.
Tragedy still stalked her. After the Boer War she
went to London to receive a decoration for nursing
the troops and arranged to marry on her return a
man with whom she had been friendly for some years.
She was given a tremendous reception at Bulawayo —
speeches, flags and flowers. When the festivities were
over she was informed that the man she was to marry
had died the day previously. At that point—she was
still in her twenties —the autobiography ends.
Her acquaintance with South African celebrities
began when her father allowed her to come home after
the birth of her child. Rhodes and Jameson were
frequent visitors. Jameson was “thin and insignificant
in appearance, with just a fringe of dark hair below
his shining bald dome ; but no one ever thought about
his looks, so big was his heart, so inspiring his enthu-
siasm, so great his charm.” She disliked but admired
Rhodes, whom she describes as a humorless fanatic,
“big and blond with his grey, heavy-lidded eyes
fixed on space as though he were not seeing mother's
artistic walls, but thousands of miles of veld and
mountain.” , , , .
Olive Schreiner, because she had written The
Story of an African Farm, was shunned by local
society, an embarrassing guest at a dinner party. Her
pursuit of Rhodes and subsequent attack on him in
Trooper Halkett of Mashonaland, depicting him as a
monster who took a delight in torturing the natives,
increased her unpopularity. Melina Rorke paints her
as slim, dark, restless, mischievous. Kruger, with his
simple tastes, his “ignorant, plump hausfrau,” and his
railings at the diamond and gold scandals and the wild-
ness of Jo’burg, puzzled her. She tells the story:
When Oom Paul was.finally driven from Pretoria
during the Boer War he took with him the gold hands
of the town clock —and left behind his cherished Bible.
I might have doubted the authenticity of the story
had not the very Bible itself come into my hands.
After the Jameson Raid and before the war broke
out, there was a rising of the Matabele and Mashona
natives, and Melina Rorke, who had gone to Bulawayo
to live with a pioneering brother, was in the thick of
it. While her brother stayed to defend the house
against the servants, who were plotting to burn it and
murder the inhabitants, she and her infant son and
her brother’s wife escaped into the darkness and made
through the fields and forests for the town. At day-
break, still miles from safety, they came to a neigh-
bor’s house, to find blackened timbers and the muti-
lated bodies of their friends. And that night:
Florence suddenly screamed. Turning, I saw a huge
Matabele pressing his assegai against her breast. The
moonlight through the leafless trees illuminated him in
all his hideousness —the oiled body, the bone necklace
and bracelets, the oval shield and bundle of weapons.
I was so outraged that I forgot to be afraid. While
he was still gloating down at her shrinking helplessness
I fired. The Matabele fell sideways, and so did I from
the recoil of the heavy ten-bore shotgun.
She continued to live among alarms and dangers
when the war broke out. After successfully running a
hospital in Bulawayo she was asked to organise a base
hospital at Mochudi, where Plumer’s troops were quar-
tered before marching to - the relief of Mafeking.
Handicapped by shortage of water and medical sup-
plies she battled against wounds and malaria until
orders came to move on to Mafeking. The hospital
car was involved in an ambush on the way and ten
of the wounded were killed. Five hours after the
British troops marched into Mafeking, Baden-Poweil
put her in charge of the hospital.
If this book were fiction, the criticism would be
that it is overloaded with incident. It is hard to be-
lieve that one person could have experienced so much
tragedy and adventure. As it is autobiography, all one
can do is to echo the publishers’ “Amazing!”
Newshounds in Full Cry.
Another book has been made out of the per-
sonal adventures of foreign correspondents on the
hunt for news exciting enough to flavor the breakfast
egg ; this one —called Foreign Correspondent (Harrap)
—by a dozen assorted British representatives of the
breed.
There are bombings and barrages in China and
Spain, fighting in Poland and Germany, machine-guns
popping out of bushes in Czechoslovakia, terrorists in
Palestine and assassins in Bengal. None of this
puts the newshounds off the scent.
Vernon Bartlett tells how at least one of those
stories which are promptly denied came to be pub-
lished. At Brussels “a well-known German journal-
ist” happened to say to him that Ribbentrop, then
Ambassador in London, was to be transferred to
Rome. Telephoning other news through to London,
Bartlett mentioned the impending transfer, and was
surprised that his editor there hadn’t already had it
from Berlin. “ ‘lt will certainly be through in a few
minutes from Berlin,’ I assured him confidently.”
When, later, the editor rang Bartlett and instructed
him to write “a frank comment on Ribbentrop’s
departure,” it “never occurred” to Bartlett to ask
whether the news had been confirmed from Germany ;
he sat down and “wrote the best part of a virulent
column.” He personally believed the Ambassador had
been “an unqualified disaster” in London, and he “said
so very frankly indeed.”
There was absolutely nothing in the story, which
was at once denied from Berlin. Ribbentrop stayed
at the Embassy for another four months or so, and
when he left he went as Foreign Minister to Berlin,
not as Ambassador to Rome. There may have been a
time when this would have been considered a serious
journalistic blunder ; not to-day apparently. Bartlett
can dismiss it with the comment, “unfortunately it
was not a scoop,” and mention airily that Ribbentrop
“left, I believe, still angry and bitter about my per-
fectly innocent piece of intrigue to get rid of him.”
The journalistic outlook and method there dis-
closed might possibly provide as good a key as any
to cable columns. Another of Bartlett’s stories ex-
plains the remarkable revival of American interest in
Geneva, after the U.S.A. had declined to have any-
thing to do with the Wilsonian League of Nations and
had left John Bull nursing the unwanted brat. Bart-
lett’s story is that a correspondent of a big American
news service happened to go to Geneva for some con-
ference or other, fell in love with a girl in a dance-
hall, and found excuse after excuse to return. The
rival agency, noting the frequency of his stories with
the Geneva date line, was not going to be out of the
hunt now that Geneva had apparently become real
news, and appointed a resident correspondent. League
propagandists and officials —of whom Bartlett was
one —patted themselves on the back in the belief that
it was they who had brought about “this remarkable
development of American interest in the League.”
Australia, of course, was told nothing of the journal-
ist’s love affair —may they live happily ever after!
but there was plenty about America’s revived interest
in the Geneva talkshop.
Another of Bartlett’s stories makes extraordinary
reading just now. He tells how, for the first and only
time in his life, he obtained, and used, information
from a spy. He did so “because Mr. Winston
Churchill in London was still urging Mr. Lloyd George
in Paris to send out more British soldiers to interfere
in Northern Russia.” The “spy” didn’t want a cent
for the information, which he brought to Bartlett
wholly out of disgust at the idea of the war being pro-
longed as Mr. Churchill’s proposals would have pro-
longed it. The book, with this story, was out well
before the recent attempts—mostly interested news-
paper attempts- —to lever Mr. Churchill back into the
Cabinet; but no doubt few needed Bartlett’s story to
remind them of that politician’s past.
Another of Bartlett’s personal additions to what
is now old history also has topical interest and sig-
nificance. A photograph of Bartlett himself appeared
in a London daily showing him holding on to the
railings of the enclosure in which the German dele-
gates to Versailles were allowed to take exercise in
the park. It carried the caption, “Hun delegate tries
prison bars.” Bartlett comments that “a treaty drawn
up in such circumstances is obviously not going to
give us perfect peace throughout eternity.
O. D. Gallagher runs his foxes to earth in nearer
fields, among the quarry Madame Chiang Kai-shek,
“the best man in China.” Before the war Madame,
along with her Generalissimo, had organised the New
Life "Movement, which, being tied up with a certain
amount of missionary ideals, discouraged alcohol,
tobacco, make-up and the like. Gallagher found
Madame “carefully but thoroughly made up. Crossed
legs showed she wore brown silk stockings. In an ash-
tray beside her was a cigarette-butt smudged with lip-
stick. The war had done something to this New
Lifer.”
Apart from shells, bombs, fighting in the streets
and other inconveniences, Gallagher found the jour-
nalist’s lot in China a not unhappy one. The Chinese
side at Shanghai turned on a big “do” for jour-
nalists in the evenings, with sandwiches, fancy cakes,
tea and cocktails, “all of which, we supposed, were
to make it easier to swallow the detailed statements
of China’s activities in the day’s fighting.” Hearing
about the Chinese parties, the Japanese side “told the
waiters to supply reporters with whatever drinks they
wanted. Whisky helped some of us to bear up when
they put over some particularly audacious claim.”
His finding on the “China incident”: “It’s safe to say
that the side that will ultimately triumph in China will
be the side that can propagate faster. It’s also safe
to say that this will be China.”
lon S. Munro contributes a solid chapter on
Italy, with convincing close-up depictions of Musso-
lini, including one of the Duce unable to address a
gathering because, owing to his personal worry over
the illness of his daughter, he dared not trust him-
self to speak. H. D. Harrison tells how his story of
the banning of the Mickey Mouse comic strip in Yugo-
slavia led to his being ordered out of that country.
The strip depiction of Mickey taking the place oJ; his
double, the ruling prince of a mythical country, and
finding that, though his people groaned under heavy
taxation and his Ministers were rolling in wealth, the
State treasury was absolutely empty, was evidently a
cap which the censor or somebody else in authority
thought fitted a bit too close. The least funny part
of it, from Harrison’s point of view, was that it wasn’t
his story at all over which he was ordered out, but
another that had appeared in an opposition paper, in
which Mickey’s adventures were linked up with the
position of Yugoslavia’s boy king.
Wasn’t the banning of Mickey debited against
not Yugoslavia but Italy in cables? Anyway, the
story as Harrison tells it gives a revealing i isight into
a part of Europe which apparently remains incurably
Ruritanian. Darsie Gillie gives a somewhat similar
impression of Poland, recalling from the occasion of
Pilsudski’s coup d’etat how the ineffective shells landing
in Warsaw were “said by malicious Poles to be of
French manufacture.” The fighting maintained a
fantastic character of being “a sort of grim sporting
event,” with “the ragged, impudent little boys who sell
newspapers in Warsaw” jumping across the front line
to sell rival papers.
The best of the narrow-escape stories is Sir Alfred
Watson’s account of the two attempts on his life at
Calcutta a few years back. He personally sympathised
with legitimate Indian political aims, but, objecting
strongly to the terrorist tactics, said so plainly in the
Calcutta “Statesman,” which he was editing. The
first attacker poked a revolver into Sir Alfred’s car
and fired at point-blank range, but missed. Chicago
methods were employed in the next attempt, a lorry,
with a bunch of armed gangsters standing up in it,
bringing Sir Alfred’s carriage to a halt and the party
then opening fire on him. He stopped a number of
bullets —one, with the gun pushed right against his
body, passing through his shoulder—but he lived to
make an exciting real-life story of it, and to wonder
at the “elaborate inefficiency of all these arrangements
for the disposal of one man, who could have been
shot at point-blank range a dozen times in a week as
he moved about Calcutta.”
Five Lives.
Introducing a taxi-driver, a cook-general, a
famous K.C., a journalist and one of Byron’s mis-
tresses, with the comment that if there’s the demand
for biographies and autobiographies that the presence
of these English globe-trotters indicates, it’s a pity
that Australians aren’t turning out more books about
real people and about contemporary life. Miles
Franklin and Dymphna Cusack mentioned some of
their friends —very politely—in Pioneers on Parade,
but Dr. Moran’s Viewless Winds is the only recent
book by an Australian that comes to mind as having
sufficient local interest, as well as its other qualities,
to compel attention.
Possibly the opening of the Prior Memorial Prize
to biographies will start the ball rolling. One of the
entries for the competition that is now being judged
was called Wanting a Cab, Sir ? and if, as the title sug-
gests, it’s the adventures of an Australian taximan
present commentator hasn’t seen it and doesn’t know
how it is faring—it has every chance of being more
interesting than Herbert Hodge’s Cab, Sir? (Michael
Joseph). Hodge, like John Worby, whose Spiv’s Pro-
gress was recently reviewed on this page, is one of
those tame wild-men English publishers keep in their
cupboards, and, like Worby, he rings a little false. At
times there’s a deliberately “proletarian” note in his
prose and he cultivates a spurious simple-mindedness.
Like Worby, he wrote a successful autobiography—
(“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
AS NEW AS TOMORROW
The Esse Minor Heat Storage Cooker provides delicious cooking and has
larger ovens, boiling and simmering space than supplied in any other
Cooker designed for kitchens of modest proportions. Burning ordinary gas
coke continuously, the "Esse" Minor provides an efficient and economical
method of cooking which reduces expenditure on fuel by several pounds
annually. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £lOO/10/-
Smaller models also available. Prices from £75
ESSE MAJOR
COOKERS
HEAT STORAGE
FOR MODERN KITCHENS
Anyone can be an expert with the "Esse" Heat
Storage Cooker. It will produce excellent baking
results, because it is one of the most dependable
Cookers made. The "Esse" gives you new com-
pactness to save floor space, new economy to
reduce fuel bills, new labour saving features and
extra strength. The "Esse" Premier with auxil-
iary oven is designed for larger residences
and it burns ordinary gas coke continuously,
thus daily re - lighting is eliminated. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £175/-/-
lUE N022L1
BOILING PLATE ft HEAT ACCUMULATOR
fOP PIAT g INSPECTION PLUG
■-
9mm
TOASTING
LI: ■
ROASTING
OVEN
• Domestic models fitted
with Thermostat heat control.
• These cookers are also
available with hot water unit.
The COMPLETE COOKER
The illustration at the left points out the principal technical features of
the ESSE PREMIER Heat Storage Cooker. The fire never comes into
direct contact with the oven sides or with the food. The right amount
of heat is distributed to each part of the Cooker by controlled radiation
and conduction, and i$ retained by heavy insulation. The indestruct-
ible Heat Accumulator is of immense thickness. Only the best materials
are used, and the design of the Cooker contributes to its hard-wearing
qualities. The insulating material is enduring and the "ESSE" Cooker
throughout is built to give permanent, efficient service.
DEMONSTRATION DAILY IN THE KITCHENWARE DEPT
GROUND FLOOR—PITT STREET. Rookie! Sent on Request.
• "Esse” Cookers—Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our
delivery area. Installation extra, according to locality.
HORDERNS'
■Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.0., Sydney


Women ? They Can Never Go Straight
GRABBING
A BLOKE
by Freeman Sandom
DRA WINGS BY SUCH.
DIANA the Huntress! Any girl at all will go
to any lengths to snaffle the man she
wants. The crookeder the way is the better
they like it. Young Gretchen Kaufman,
for instance. When she wanted you to do something
for her butter wouldn’t melt on her tongue. At other
times you’d back her to start a cane fire just by look-
ing into the trash.
She was a typewriteress in Cairns, but on her
holidays she ran her dad’s farm, from old man Kauf-
man himself to Bill O’Rooke, both of us old enough
to know better. She could’ve run Mike O’Shea’s farm
across the road, too, if she liked, judging by the way
he eyed her when he thought she wasn’t looking.
She was always in a tearing hurry, as if her short-
hand foolery had got into her legs. She came back
from Babinda one Sunday like a cyclone, took the
corner in two squeaks and a half of the old Ford, can-
noned into the garage, shot out as if Henry had
kicked her and flew across the square to where I sat
smoking on the barrack steps.
“Bill,” she said, breathless, “you do look nice sit-
ting there in the sun, just like Napoleon the Third
with that nice, pointed beard.”
“Spit it out!” 1 said. “Is it a white wallaby you
want this time, or d’ye want the nose pulled off the
Mayor of Cairns?”
“Don’t be rude, Bill,” said Gretchen, twisting the
lobes of me ears in turn. “But I do want you to do
something for me. You see, I passed such a nice man
along the road a bit. I offered him a lift, but he
didn’t”
“If you wiped the warpaint off you’d stand a
better chance with a peaceful man,” I said. “D’ye
want me to rope ’im as he goes past?”
“I want him to stop for tea,” said Gretchen. “He’s
a hiker—that’s why he refused a ride. Fancy walking
all the way from Sydney, Bill! Isn’t it wonderful?”
“Sure!” I said, meaning to be sarcastic, having
walked from here to the moon behind the swing-
plough without a mother’s soul patting me on the
back for it. “But what’ll Mrs. Kaufman say to this
here shanghai-ing stunt?”
“Oh, I’ll fix mum. Do be a sweetheart, Bill!”
BILL O’Rooke, of course, was a sweetheart, and
in two shakes of a goat’s tail the goat took his pipe
to the gate, commissioned to buccaneer the hiker by
fair means or foul. After a bit he came, swinging
along, rucksack, shorts, stick, everything. A fine
enough young feller, smooth-faced and handsome. Ten'
years behind the plough might’ve made a man of ’im
—if the guts were there.
“Fine day! ” he said as if he meant it.
“Sure!” I agreed. “If it doesn’t rain before night,
that is.”
He squinted to the four corners of the sky.
“It doesn’t look like rain,” he said at last.
“In these parts it never rains when it threatens
rain, mister. The wet plonks down sudden like the
squirt from a kid’s water-gun.”
“That so? I’d better get a move on then. How
far is it to Gordonvale?”
“Eighteen miles or thereabouts,” I told him,
“thereabouts” being a kind of sop to me conscience.
“Eighteen?” he said surprised. “A man ’way back
on the road told me eight. Then I won’t make it
to-night.” He seemed annoyed about it.
“Not walking. But we might have a car going
your way d’rectly. Come in and spell while I find
out for sure.”
He murmured something about a walking trip,
but he came in the end, peacefully. Within earshot of
the verandah I cleared me throat, and Gretchen came
out, her sky-blue eyes wide in surprise. Behind her
was Mrs. Kaufman, broad and solid and quiet and
smiling. They took over.
An hour later Gretchen emerged, kissed her hand
to me —which might’ve done me more good had I
been thirty years younger —and crossed to the garage.
She was laughing to herself when she came out five
minutes later, but when she reached me her face was
straight enough.
“You did good work, Bill,”
she said approvingly, “though
there was no need to stretch that
eight miles to Gordonvale so hard.
Where’s Mike?”
“What!” I said. “Another
one? He was hiking canetops
into the stable ten minutes ago.
I reckon he’s chopping ’em up by
now.”
“Pop over and fetch him
along for tea, Bill. Mum wants
him.”
“Mum?” I asked.
She picked up a caneknife
leaning against the wall, but I’d
started already.
nrUCKER at Kaufmans’ is
* always a dinkum treat, but
this time—-I eat with the family—
Mrs. Kaufman had set up a top-
notcher. I ain’t likely to be out
of a job—the cockies fight to have Bill O’Rooke
ploughing for ’em —but if I was I’d be satisfied to
work for bare tucker at Kaufmans’. There was a fat
duck which melted in your mouth, and no trouble to
get the green peas on your knife, they were that
tender. Young Harry Dale, the hiker, apologised for
his appetite between helpings, that apparently being
the only time he could waste on words.
He did tell us of the wonders of Sydney, but that
came after the strawberries (grown in casks) and
cream when he was loaded to the Plimsoll. He was an
office Johnny of some kind ; an architect, I think.
Old Kaufman must’ve thought it was a kind of
detective, for he pricked up his ears and presently
trotted out his Black Hand yarn.
A month or two before the papers had been full of
Black Hand. A feller’s ears’d been cut off, then a big
Eyetalian cane-cocky had got letters ordering him to
bring a coupla hundred quid to a quiet spot if he
wanted to save his cane being burnt and his home
blown up. Hardly had the hullabaloo died down when
Kaufman found a similar letter under his front door.
Everybody but Kaufman reckoned it was a practical
joke. He stuck to it being dinkum like glue, and got
a lot of fun out of it jawing about it to all-comers.
It got young Dale going, too. You’d think he
was Sherlock Holmes the way he slumped back in his
chair, half-closed his eyes, put his fingertips together
and asked silly questions.
“And you saw absolutely nobody when you kept
the appointment, Mr. Kaufman?”
I happened to look at Mike O’Shea, and saw the
ghost of a smile lurk in his steady grey eyes. Mike’s
got little to say for himself, but he’s nobody’s fool.
“I vent der necks off der whole gang to schcrew,”
growled Kaufman, grabbing a spiral of pipe smoke in
his huge bear’s paw and showing how he would do
it, “bud dere vas noddings to schcrew.”
“Evidently they were frightened off,” remarked
Dale. “And nothing has happened since then?”
“Id iss yoost von liddle yoke, I dink,” put in
Mrs. Kaufman quietly.
“I’m afraid the matter must be taken seriously,”
said Dale. “Have you a magnifying glass by any
chance?”
Mike O’Shea got up with a sudden jerk and
walked to the window. He blew his nose with the
help of a large, red handkerchief which covered his
face. I winked at Gretchen, but she looked daggers
back, also at Mike’s broad back.
“I’ll get one,” she offered. On her way out she
whispered something to Mike, who presently returned
to his chair.
In possession of the glass Mr. Holmes bent over
the Black Hand letter.
“The handwriting, of course, is disguised,” he
said after a while, importantly, “but it’s obviously a
man’s heavy, clumsy strokes, a man who is accus-
tomed to handle, say, a caneknife rather than a pen.
“How clever of you!” cried Gretchen, shooting a
threatening glance at Mike. “I do wish you d time
to stay and solve the mystery. I’m sure you could!
As it is I’m quite worried about dad.”
Kaufman, who was sure he
could handle all the Black Hand
gangs in the North, snorted. Then
he showed a spot of surprise, re-
membering, apparently, that
Gretchen till then had led the
school of thought, which cham-
pioned the joke theory.
Then Mike said good night,
explaining he had to get up early
in the morning. I was fed up,
too, and went with him.
“Bill,” he said outside, “what
does Gretchen see in that
donkey?”
“A young pup,” I agreed—
“a pretty-pretty poodle pup with
sawdust for brains.”
Mike considered. He always
takes time off for thinking things
over. “He’s a good-looker,” he admitted. And after
a while: “And young.”
“Look here, Mike,” I growled. “If you want
the girl why don’t you chase her? Give her a lot of
blarney, pop the question, anything!”
He sighed. “I’m thirty-eight. She’s twenty. Can’t
be done, Bill!” And off he went.
Funny how two Irishmen can be so different!
Meself, I’d have talked her head off to prove I was
twenty-one if I felt the way he was feeling about
Gretchen—and to hell with the rights and wrongs
of it!
A little later the party crossed to the garage. 1
put my pipe away and trailed after ’em. Dale and
Gretchen climbed into the car, and she pressed the self-
starter. She pressed it as if she expected something
to happen.
The self-starter made a noise like a cat waiting out-
side a mouse-hole, and kept on doing it while she held
the lever down. Kaufman went to the crank-handle
and began to swing the engine over. He knows no-
thing of a car’s innards, but he’s a polar bear in
strength, and he almost lifted Henry off his feet, but
it was no good. Gretchen got out, lifted the bonnet
and tinkered. She gave it up, and Dale said he knew
nothing about Fords. He said it as if he knew all
about Rolls-Royces. Kaufman asked me to have a
go. The only result I got was a kick in the shin from
Gretchen when I bent down for a look-see under the
bonnet.
In the light of the torch I saw Mrs. Kauf-
man quietly smiling. She’s like Mike O’Shea, savvies
plenty and says little.
In the end Dale accepted the hospitality of the
Kaufmans for the night. He didn’t seem to worry so
much about his hiking as before; I reckon Gretchen
was beginning to tell on him. I stayed behind and
replaced the distributor brush. Then I went to bed.
| DREAMED that an enormous black hand ran on
*■ spider-legged fingers after the plough. I shouted to
the team and whacked into each rump with a whip like
a young sapling, but the plough rolled sluggishly
through red molasses, and the hand, straddling the
furrow and running easily, gained hour by hour. After
a million years of this it came close enough to knock
on my shoulderblades and shout “Bill! Bill!” in the
cracked voice of Constable O’Leary persuading a
drunk.
I woke in a sweat. The knocking still went on,
but now it came from the direction of the open door.
Against the moonlit background I saw a figure out-
lined in the doorway. From it spat a penetrating
whisper, “Bill! Bill!” It wasn’t O’Leary’s voice, but
I knew it. “Hold your horses,” I yelled, “for cripe s
sake!” I reached for me pants on the bunk chair
and put ’em on. Then I lit the hurricane-lantern, and
Gretchen came in and shut the door behind her. She
was togged up in pink pyjamas with ribbons and fol-
derols and crimson slippers with fat pompoms as it
she was going to a fancy-dress ball.
“Hush!” she said, putting a finger to her lips.
“Hang a blanket before the window!”
“Now, look here, Gretchen, you can’t come into
a man’s room in the dead of night dressed like”


“Can’t I? Hang the blanket up, Bill!”
“Besides, I want to sleep. I’ve got work to do
to-morrer if you”
She stamped her foot. “Hang the blanket!”
So I hung it.
“Bill,” said Gretchen then, wheedlingly, “you
were always like a second father to me.”
“I was not. I’d have spanked you three times a
day if I were. You should be spanked now for
smoking.”
She had plonked down on me bunk and, taking
the makings from the chair, rolled and lit a cigarette.
“When knighthood was in flower,” said Gretchen,
dreamily puffing a smoke-ring, “ a true knight would
do brave deeds to rescue a damsel in distress.”
What is it now?” I asked wearily. “Sure, and
you can’t want me to catch another boy for you this
time of night.”
How clever of you!” cried Gretchen. “Fancy
guessing I did want something! Thank you very
much, Bill.”
I snorted.
It s only a little letter I want you to write, Bill.”
A letter! I shouted. “You’re a typewriteress,
ain’t you?”
In a man’s handwriting,” she continued. “A
strong, masculine hand, Bill, like yours.”
“I’m hanged if I do, this time of night,” I said
crossly. Get back to bed. What’ll your mother
think if you’re seen here?”
“I’ve thought of that,” she said coolly. “You
could put a finger down your throat and be sick. I
heard you and came to give first-aid.”
“Get out!” I shouted.
“Bill! ”
“No!”
“Bill!”
I can’t think why I never learn to cave in at the
first shot. She was quite capable of sitting there Bill-
ing me till daylight. I trooped across to the table
without another word, rooted out pen, ink and a
writing-pad.
You re a darling, Bill! ” said Gretchen, flicking
cigarette-ash on me spotless floor. “Did you notice
how interested Harry Dale was in that Black Hand
talk? Well, I want the Hand to give him notice to
clear out at once.”
“But he’s leaving in the morning,” I said sur-
prised. “You don’t want to chase him off in the
middle of the night, surely?”
“Silly! ” said Gretchen. “I want him to stay for
a few days and solve the mystery.”
“There ain’t no mystery,” I said. “Anyway, how
can he solve it if you chase him?”
“The notice to quit’ll get his back up, Bill, and
wild horses won’t drag him away—l know men!”
I chewed over this for a while. “Don’t know
what you see in young Honeyface,” I said at last.
“Mike O’Shea’s worth a hundred of him.”
“Is he?” said Gretchen sweetly. “Well, write
something like this, Bill: ‘This is to warn you to clear
out at once. We know you have come to help Kauf-
man, and we brook no interference. This is the first
and last warning.’ ”
I was getting interested in spite of meself. “Not
Eyetalian enough, I reckon.” I chewed me pen for
a while, wrote, chewed and wrote again. “How’s this?”
I said at last, and passed the finished article.
“You one maladetto pimpo da polico we
savvy that. You clear out pronto or we cutta
da ears, slitta da troat.”
“Horrible!” said Gretchen. “But it’s good. Now,
mind you don’t hit him in the head with the stiletto.”
“The stiletto! What stiletto?”
“Silly! You tie the note to a stiletto and shy it
into his room, of course.”
“Ho!” I said. “So I’m to be postman, too, hey?
I thought there was another string to it.”
“On second thought,” said Gretchen, “I’ll attend
to that part of it myself.”
“And be caught snooping round the young feller’s
bedroom,” I objected.
“I must run that risk, Bill.”
“Have sense, girl, you can’t do that.”
“I must, Bill.”
“You won’t!”
“Oh, very well, then, since you insist I’ll let you
do it for me.”
“I—oh, all right,” I growled. “But I ain’t got
no stiletto.”
Her eyes roved about the room. “This’ll do
nicely.” She picked up a caneknife against the foot
of the bed which I kept handy against prowling snakes.
“Well, good night, Bill, and thank'you. You’re a
dear.”
I grunted.
When she’d gone I folded the note and tied it
to the knife handle. Then I put the lamp out and
became the Black Hand.
Hr HE following Monday I finished “striking-out” the
twenty-six-acre block, and the day after we began
to plant. Mike O’Shea gave us a hand, he on the
planting machine, me walking behind driving the
team. Kaufman was carting the bags of plants from
the cutting paddock.
I like this part of the year’s work best. It’s good
to see the big field lying smooth as a billiard-table
before your eyes, except for the parallel furrows,
straight as a die, from headland to headland. You
feel that you’ve done something useful when you see
that.
Done something? I’ve ploughed it five times ten
inches deep, disk-harrowed and rolled it, “struck-out”
the furrows —three solid months of yakka! As I
walked with the reins wound round me hands, steady-
ing on the planter handles, keeping the team to a
slow, even pace, I watched the bent back and methodi-
cally moving hands of Mike on the seat. I saw hand-
fuls of plants come out of the box and heard the
rhythmic click-click as they dropped into the iron
shoot, and saw ’em again for a moment as they slid
out between the double shears to be immediately
covered by the loose soil falling into the furrow. In
twelve months this field will cut forty tons to the acre
—a thousand tons of cane, one hundred and fifty tons
of sugar! Most farmhands don’t think that way at
all —they just wait for five o’clock to come —but I’m
Eill O’Rooke, I’ve done this work for thirty years,
and I’ve had plenty of time to think.
.Sharp on nine smoke-oh arrived, Gretchen in the
lead, setting a sharp pace empty-handed, Dale behind
with the billy and tuckerbag.
Wee-ah! The team stopped. “Get an eyeful
of Mr. Holmes, the great skirt-hanging dick,” I said.
If I d hoped to hear Mike use the words proper
to the occasion I’d have been disappointed. He just
took a quick look, said “Get on with the job!” and
bent over the box.
At the end of the row I parked the team on the
headland, and we squatted down for the welcome
snack which puts heart into a man.
As Gretchen poured the tea into the pannikins
Hans Kurtz, who’s got the farm over the river, popped
round the corner of the standing cane, leading young
Willie by the arm, a pliable length of lawyer cane in
his other hand.
Kurtz was a little red-faced man with the biggest
voice in the North. “Vere’s Kaufman?” he boomed
a long way off.
“You’ll find him up at the house, Mr. Kurtz,”
said Kretchen when the foghorn was near enough.
“He stopped for smoke-oh on his way here. Will you
have a cup of tea?”
“Dank you, Gretchen, mine schmoke-oh I alretty
haf, said Kurtz. I vill to der house go oont schpeak
to your vater.”
“What’s Willie been up to now?” asked Mike.
“Ach,” replied Kurtz, “vat haf he nod been up
to? He iss der bushranger ven he pig enough iss—
dot I dink.”
“But what has he done?” asked Gretchen.
Kurtz shook his offspring. “Vat haf he nod
done?” he repeated boomingly. “He it vos send der
Plack Hand letter to your vater. Ach, you leedle
Spitzbub! You vill egsguse make to Mr. Kaufman
ya! Oont” —he shook the cane before his son’s nose
to make his meaning quite clear—“if your bagside plue
oont plack dis day iss I vill gry ‘goot, ver’ goot!’ Gome
on, mine boor poy.” He passed a hand across his
eyes and looked fiercely at us as he moved away.
“Boys will be boys!” laughed Mike after him.
Ach, so, came back the booming complaint,
“bud dis poy iss nod von poy, he iss von devil.”
“I knew that Black Hand stuff was only a joke,”
I said, taking another meatpie from the dish.
Young Dale cleared his throat and rose as if he
was about to address a meeting of silvertails.
The first part of the Black Hand mystery
might’ve been a joke,” he began, looking hard at me.
‘Now it’s cleared up I’ve something to say about
the second. For reasons best known to yourself,
Mr. O’Rooke, you wrote that letter! ”
He paused as if giving the handclapping time to
die down.
“Most criminals make some mistake or other,”
he continued, “and yours was a particularly stupid
one: your fingerprints were all over the notepaper,
also on the caneknife —which, by the way, quite un-
necessarily, broke my shaving mirror.” He turned to
Gretchen, smiling kindly. “I’m afraid you’ve been
nursing a viper, so to speak, at your bosom, Miss
Kaufman. Fortunately, I knew something about the
fingerprint business, and”
Gretchen interrupted him here. I reckon Sherlock
Holmes got the surprise of his life when her words
sank in.
"Mike!” she said icily, "kindly kick this person off the farm."
"How dare you
speak like that to old
Bill?” she said.
“But, Miss Kauf-
man,” stammered Dale
when he had collected
his wits, “you told me
—you asked me your-
self”—
“Mike,” said Gret-
chen icily, “kindly kick
this person off the
farm.”
Mike looked
pleased, but made no
move to obey her. I
reckon he was debating
with himself the rights
and wrongs of the
matter.
“M ike!” said
Gretchen dangerously.
Dale had stepped
back, eyeing the mus-
cular five-foot-ten of
Mike with apprehen-
sion.
“There’q no need
for violence,” he said
with great dignity when
he saw no immediate
danger ahead. “You
surprise and pain me,
Miss Kaufman, but if
you wish me to leave I
o Continued on page 7.)


Mrs. Parsley and "a Dominoing Personality”
THE MAN WHO BECAME
HITLER
BY Harold Mercer
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
IN troublous times it is natural that Mrs. Parsley’s
thoughts should dwell, pretty often, upon the
world’s tribulations. The morning paper lying
open on my table displayed a large heading about
the Polish Corridor.
“Them corridors!” exclaimed my landlady. “Only
this morning I had an argument with Number Nine
about her sweeping her dust into the corridor when
it had only just been done. A regular Mrs. Hitler
she is ; and she’s going on Monday.
“Great places for trouble them corridors are!
Especially if there are Hitlers about. Why any man
should make so much trouble for other people with
his Nasty ideas, as he calls them himself, is a con-
thunder-’em to me.” Mrs. Parsley suffered a thought-
ful pause. “I’ve been thinking that, perhaps, when he
was much younger, somebody called this Mr. Herr
Hitler a Hitler, and that’s what made him make up
his mind to be one.”
Certainly an arresting thought! Mrs. Parsley,
noticing its effect, parked her carpet-sweeper against
the wall.
“There was a case like that in these flats: for
a time I thought there might be a bloody revelation,
as Mr. Slompack calls it, though I don’t like the word,
on these very stairs, with the millinery called in to
express it, and dead corpses lying everywhere. Not
to mention them consecration camps that would be
likely if the Fashions had their way.
“They’d only been a few days in Number 10 when
Mrs. Catwalloper told me that her husband was a
dominoing personality.
“ ‘lf he tries to domino anyone in these flats, out
he goes!’ I said, firm-like.
“But it seemed that it wasn’t that sort of domino-
ing she meant. She wanted to show me she was proud
of the way that Mr. Catwalloper bossed her about,
which the other women in the flats used to hold in-
digent meetings about the way he used to do it. Them
women thought that if there was any treading upon
to be done it was the wives should do it, which in my
experience they do, usually.
“Mrs. Catwalloper was a big, amiable woman,
twice his size, and them women didn’t like her stand-
ing it. That was why, when Mr. Wassail had two
ladies’ tickets for the races, Mrs. Wassail wanted Mrs.
Catwalloper to go with her, to defile her husband. She
asked Mr. Wassail to speak to him about it.
“‘Mr. Wassail,’ says Mr. Catwalloper in that
dominoing way of his, ‘my wife, I think, has already
told Mrs. Wassail she cannot go. I do not improve
of races, especially for women.”
“‘Bah! Hitler!’ says Wassail.
“Them words were like words of fate. Mr. Cat-
walloper started talking about the law forbidding the
bans for consulting terms. But we never know what
far-reaching defects our simplest acts may have.
Mr. Catwalloper began to be proud of being told
he was like Hitler. I heard him talking to Mr. Slom-
pack about it, as if he was boasting; he said, too,
that people had taken him for Napoleon. And there
he was posing, with his hat on sideways, his hand in
his waistcoat as if he had a pain in the abominable
regions, trying to get a look at
himself in that big mirror in the
lounge over the stairs.
“From what Mr. Slompack
said he didn’t think much of that
Mr. Herr Hitler. Mr. Catwalloper be-
came quite oppressive saying that he was
a man of deflexible determination. All the
highfalutin things he said I can’t remember, but
there was quite a hot argument.
“ ‘You’d better mind your p’s and q’s with Cat-
walloper, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘He’s a
Fashion. He’ll be sending you to one of those conse-
cration camps.’
“He wasn’t dissatisfied any more with bossing his
wife ; he wanted to boss everybody and everything.
It seemed to start when Doodems, Mrs. Fidgett’s little
pom., rushed out to snap at his heels. Mr. Cat-
walloper desecrated a look on the dog and said ‘Go! ’
with an imperial gesture. Doodems pulled up short,
as if he had got the shock of his life ; then he turned
tail and didn’t even bark until he was safe in the flat.
“ ‘Will-power, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Cat-
walloper, pleased as Punch and Judy., After that he
started ordering about all the cats and dogs, and the
children that played on the pavement; and soon he
was telling everybody in the place what they ought
to do.
“But the strangest of all was when Miss Tulip
says one morning: ‘Mrs. Parsley, what’s the idea of
Mr. Catwalloper getting himself up like Charlie
Chaplin?’
“Which I had noticed that moustache he had
grown; it did make me think Mr. Catwalloper re-
minded me of someone I had seen in the sweet by-and-
bye, as the song says.
u|T seemed as if, before anyone could say ‘Jack
* Robinson,’ if anybody wanted to say anything so
silly, the whole place was full of Fashions, wearing
green shirts and holding their hands in the air and
saying that ‘Hell!’ when they met one another.
“There was a lot used to come from outside and
meet in Mr. Catwalloper’s flat. Sometimes they had
some sort of drill in there, and you could hear the
Major giving orders.
“When there was them meetings in the flat, Mrs.
Catwalloper used to come out and sit in the lounge
over the stairs. She only smiled when the women
asked her questions, saying she wasn’t allowed to
speak ; although she did say proudly that her hus-
band was a dominoing personality and a born leader,
and soon there’d be a new Reg Jimmy. When the new
Reg Jimmy came, every man would have to get mar-
ried, especially if he had money. The women, even
if they didn’t like Fashions, and thought the color of
green they had for shirts wasn’t a nice one, thought
that a good idea. All those women wanted to see
Mr. Slompack married.
“They had me scared, all them Fashions being
about the place, especially when Mr. Slompack and
Mr. Wassail spoke about what they had done in
Europe, sending people who offended them to conse-
cration camps, and even killing them if they desisted
or tried to escape.
“Mr. Slompack didn’t like them ; one day, very
angry, he said if another of those nincompoops gave
him a Nasty salute he’d turn him round and kick him
down the stairs. But, scared as I was, I made up my
mind that that new Reg Jimmy they talked about,
when he came, would only enter my flats over my
dead corpse.
“The strange thing was I had been going to tell
that Mr. Catwalloper to go, because of the way he
went about consulting the tenants as if he was the land-
lady, not me, telling them what to do. But procras-
triation is the thief that hides his light under a
bushel. I couldn’t very well tell Mr. Catwalloper to
go as I had meant to that day, when his dominoing
proved so useful with the Tangletrots, who were
Number 20.
“This day they had been going on terrible for
hours, taking no notice of me when I gave them
notice through the door if they didn’t stop and making
a noise as if they were throwing my furniture at one
another. I was so extracted that at last T opened
their door with my key. Even then I couldn t get
them to stop ; and I don’t know what I would have
done if Mr. Catwalloper hadn’t come in through the
open door.
“‘This disturbance must cease! At once! he
says in that dominoing way of his. Which it seemed
to me he was like one of them fools who rush in
where angels fearful tread.
“ ‘And who the hell’
“Mr. Tangletrot only got as far as the word 1
wouldn’t demean myself to deploy —only he said it
when he stopped, staring like a catfish out of crates.
“ ‘Mr. Catwalloper! ’ he cried, ‘l’m sorry, sir.
But you see my wife goes on as if it’s fun for me to
be out of a job!’
“‘Huh!’ says Mrs. Tangletrot like one of those
Figure-O’s ; ‘you’re out of a job, but you can go to
the races like a selfish hound and lose’
“ ‘Silence!’ orders Mr. Catwalloper. And blunders
will never cease, but there was silence! Mrs. Tangle-
trot suddenly saw how her husband looked, and
became spelling bound, as they call it, herself.
“You could see how pleased Mr. Catwalloper was
with himself, reckoning it was all his dominoing per-
sonality. As it turned out, Mr. Tangletrot had applied
for a position at Pokey and Sons, and he recognised
Mr. Catwalloper was the staff superattender, which
it means he disengaged all the hands.
“Of course, I couldn’t tell Mr. Catwalloper to go
after he had done that; and I was pleased that Mr.
Tangletrot had got a job which seemed to settle their
rows, so that I didn’t have to tell them to go either.
But that was before there were all them green shirts
about, and Mr. Tangletrot had become Mr. Catwai-
loper’s left-tenant, as they called him, and my place
seemed to belong more to them Fashions than it did
to me.
“< C ASHIONS!’ said Mr. Wassail. ‘You should
1 heave them all out. We want none of them
Dictators here; it’s bad enough for a man to be
married.’
“Which I felt inclined to tell Mr. Wassail that
it was all very well for him to talk, but if he hadn t
called Mr. Catwalloper a Hitler he might never have
thought of filling the place with so many Fashions
that they frightened me.
“ ‘I wouldn’t live for a moment under the same
roof as any Fashion, only I’m not going to give way to
the vermin. You ought to bundle the whole lot out.
As for that Catwalloper, he ought to be shot,’ said
Mr. Wassail.
“Mr. Slompack didn’t agree with him. ‘ln my
opinion,’ he said,'‘they’re only making silly asses of
themselves. I feel inclined to kick some of them in
the pants myself; but you can t expect Mrs. Parsley
to empty several of her flats because of that. I find
the worst annoyance is their fistical jerks; but they
may strengthen their abominable muscles.
“ ‘They’re plotting,’ says Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘Plotting what?’
“ ‘Why, they want to establish a Dictator’s ship,’
says Mr. Wassail.
‘“I won’t allow them to build anything like that
in these flats,’ I says.
“The way some of the tenants felt, like Mr.
Wassail, it looked as if there would be uncivil war in
the flats, and them Fashions certainly had me inti-
mated, the way they looked and what they said would
happen when that new Reg Jimmy who was coming
arrived; and with all them coming backwards and
forwards it looked as if there was an army of them all
calling Mr. Catwalloper the chief.
“The day they were all standing in a line outside
my door when I opened it scared me almost to debt,
which is a thing I hate.
“That rose out of theni fistical jerks which Mr.
Slompack spoke about. Mr. Catwalloper said that the
Fashions had to do reg’lar fistical cultures, because
every true Fashion had to be fistical fit. Them in he
flats who had become green shirts used to shake the
building doing their exercises every morning:; the worst
of them was that Mr. Tumpat, who looked like an
elephant which had got fat, and when he did his he


WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month The Bulletin is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short —1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates—
£2 2s. for each 1 I 00 words.
Closing date for the second monthly com-
petition is August 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.
A South Australian—David Goodhart,
7 Harrow-road, St. Peters, S.A.—won the first
competition with a story titled “The Trespasser.”
It will appear next week.
shall do so at once. I wish you good-bye.” He turned
stiffly and left us.
Gretchen threw herself face forward on the grass,
head resting on outflung arms. Her shoulders shook
convulsively. If I hadn’t known what I know —and
Gretchen being Gretchen —I could have sworn she
was crying. Mike thought she was. He moved up and
patted her shyly on the shoulder. “There, there,” he
said awkwardly.
If I’d thought ahead a bit me elbow wouldn’t have
been quite so close to her left heel. As it was, when
she lashed out sideways the pannikin of hot tea spilt
in me lap, and I swallowed a yell because the three-
inch heel had *got me on the funny-bone. Anyway,
the kick was unnecessary. I knew what to do. I got
away a bit quicker, mebbe, that was all. When i
reached the team I saw Gretchen’s arm snake up and
curl round Mike’s neck. I tied the reins to the planter
handles, climbed on the seat and sang out to the
horses.
Provided he has a good, steady team a good man
can drop the plants and drive at the same time. I
did so for six rounds. Old Kaufman might’ve had a
better strike if I’d finished the day on me own, for
Mike, when he returned at last, sat on the planter
like a man in a dream. He seemed stunned by the
change in his fortunes and went off his rocker now
and then, staring straight ahead as if the swishing
tails of the horses had hypnotised him, the plants in
his fists sticking up like drumsticks. If I stopped to
plant up the misses once I did it a dozen times, swear-
ing under me breath the while. I could’ve used a
megaphone cursing him down to hell and up again
without ’im knowing what it was all about.
Towards knock-off time he seemed to corne-to
for a bit.
“Bill,” he said, grinning foolishly, “she had—she
had —well, liked me a long time. She had strung that
poor feller Dale along just to make me jealous enough
to speak.”
“Yeah!” I sneered. “She’s just like the rest of
’em: they can never go straight. Couldn’t she’ve told
you right out to come and get her without giving
everybody a hell of a lot of trouble and”
I stopped suddenly. Mike’s face looked like the
sky over the Tableland when a thunderstorm’s com-
ing up. But that’s how it is: a bloke swaps kisses
with a sheilah and straightway she sprouts wings,
and if his best friend tries to talk commonsense about
her there’s trouble brewing.
sounded like a herd of elephants. When the tenant
in the next flat said that Mr. Tumpat’s exercises shook
him out of bed in the morning I told Mr. Tumpat he
would have to go.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Catwalloper, ‘we are
here to demand that the notice you have given to Mr.
Tumpat should be withdrawn.’
‘Seeing them standing there, all together, gave me
plantations of the heart; and all I could say was that
Mr. Tumpat could stay if he promised to do his
exercises more quietly. Then they all shot their arms
up into the air and said ‘Hell!’ Which it was like
their impudence ; but I was too upset to tell them I
wouldn’t have that there swearing in my establishment.
“W HAT with them dominoing the place like that,
and me fearing that there might be bloodshed
and not knowing what to do if they brought that Reg
Jimmy along, you might think I felt glad when we
didn t see so much of them green shirts, and Mr.
Tangletrot and Mr. Catwalloper were never seen to-
gether any more. But Mr. Wassail said they had gone
on the underground and that they had some big plot
hatching.
“ ‘They’re going to bring off a coo,’ he says. ‘l’m
more afraid of what they are doing now we don’t see
them than when they were a defence to the eye. I’m
goin’ to see the police about it.’
Even Mr. Slompack seemed depressed that there
was something strange about the new envelopement,
especially as Mr. Catwalloper had taken to going in
and out at all hours of the day looking very mys-
terious ; and I had heard Mrs. Catwalloper arguing
with him, which she didn’t do usually, and crying. T
hope, says Mr. Slompack, ‘that goat Catwalloper
doesn t start anything, for the sake of his wife. They
won t stand any Fashion jokes in this country.’
“Mr. Wassail 1 must have told the police, for they
came and saw Mr. Catwalloper, which Mr. Wassail said
it was easy to fool the police on really important
matters ; but they went away without saying anything.
And there we were all on the horns of a tenterhook,
as the saying is, which was worse with me because
Mr. Catwalloper didn’t pay his rent.
“Hitler or no Hitler he wasn’t going to owe rent
in my flats.
“ ‘l’ve got to meet a lot of expenses for the
Caws,’ he says when I spoke to him about it. ‘But
you shall be paid. Now no more about it.’
“I was nearly telling him off ; but I thought about
them consecration camps, and I was so nervy about
what them Fashions might be doing that I let it pass.
“Every day I felt plantations in my heart. We
were all waiting for something to happen ; which what
they say about expectoration deferred making the
heart sick is very true. We wondered what carbolical
schemes them Fashions were concubating, and whether
the bloody revelation Mr. Wassail spoke about would
come right on my doormat. And then something did
happen.
“That Mrs. Bragglethwaite arrived.
4 4 CT HE was having an argument with Mr. Slompack
when I first saw her.
“ ‘But, my good woman,’ says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Don’t you dare call me your good woman,’
she says.
“ ‘All right; you’re not a good woman,’ says Mr.
Slompack, cool as a concubine ; which made her look
like them daggers drawn at him. ‘What I’m trying to
tell you is that I’m not a friend of Mr. Catwalloper,
but his flat is Number 10—just along the corridor
there.’
“ ‘l’ll give him Hitler!' she says.
It wasn’t only once she did it. Every
time he picked himself up and fol-
lowed them back to the flat she
came back again, holding him by
the ear, and threw him down the
stairs.
“ That’s Hitler’s mother-in-law, Mrs. Parsley,’
says Mr. Slompack to me. ‘There must be some
trouble in the window that brings her. Aperiently she
doesn’t like our friend Catwalloper.’
Comparisons, as everybody knows, are odorous ;
but I must say that Mrs. Bragglethwaite was a dif-
ferent sort of woman to Mrs. Catwalloper ; and that
depression she was so fond of using of knocking the
stuffing out of people was hardly ladylike, to my way
of thinking. A reg’lar rough diadem she was.
“But she certainly knew how to deal with that
Mr. Catwalloper. He had hardly come home that
evening before there was a disturbance ; and there
she„was dragging Mr. Catwalloper along by the ear,
with Mrs. Catwalloper following pleading with her to
remember that he was a dominoing character and
couldn’t help being that.
“When she got to the top of the stairs, Mrs.
Bragglethwaite just gave a swing, and down the stairs
went Mr. Hitler Catwalloper.
It wasn’t only once she did it. Every time he
picked himself up and followed them back to the flat
she came back again, holding him by the ear, and
threw him down them stairs. Quite a lot of the tenants
came along to have a look at it.
“ ‘ How dare you, ma’am! ’ Mr. Catwalloper gasps
at last, clinging to the bannisters half-way down. ‘How
dare you come to my flat and behave like this?’
“ ‘That’ll do for you, little Hitler!’ she says. ‘lt’s
not your flat. You didn’t pay the rent, and / paid it
to keep a roof over my daughter’s head.’
“Which was true, her having asked me soon
after she came how much rent they owed and paid
me. Which was when I heard her talk about knock-
ing stuffing out of people.
And you’ll stay out, little Hitler,’ she says, ‘until
you come to my terms, or I’ll throw you downstairs
by your ear every time. Look at that worm!’ she
says to the tenants who were looking on. ‘He’s lost
his job, trying to be a Hitler. His firm sacked him
when they found he was using his position as staff
superattender to force men to wear green shirts
and hold up their hands like kids asking to be excused.
It was his own left-tenant, directly he felt the job he
had given him was sure, put him away to the firm.
I ve got a country store ; for my daughter’s sake I’ve
offered him a job there. But he’s got to drop this
Hitler nonsense—and shave off that silly mo.’
“ ‘You could have knocked me down with the
last straw which shows the way the wind is blowing ;
that being all his Fashions amounted to —the men
under him in his firm who wanted to please him as
staff superabundance, and just one or two people in
these flats.
“Mr. Catwalloper didn’t wait to hear all that;
but from what Scotty told me next day he was thrown
downstairs by the ear again late that night. But he
wouldn’t give way. He must have slept in the kennel
which Mr. Slompack put in the yard for Toby when
he was here. I’m not saying Scotty saw him there
when he was hosing the yard in the morning. But
it's the only time I’d known him to hose that kennel.
“I saw Mr. Catwalloper going up the stairs, all
dripping wet. That water must have taken the last
of that dominoing personality from him, for he seemed
mild as a lamb when he went away that afternoon
with Mrs. Bragglethwaite and his wife. And that
little moustache was shaved off, too.
It was as if them Fashions that had frightened
everybody had been an idol’s dream, except that
sometimes, when the Major got very drunk, I heard
him drilling menagerie Fashions in his room and say-
ing that ‘Hell!’ to himself.
What I say is,” concluded Mrs. Parsley, “that
them people in Europe would save a lot of trouble if,
by the unscrewable ways of improvidence, they could
find a mother-in-law for this Mr. Herr Hitler. Them's
the ones to stop these Hitlers.”


It’s Draughty in Front —and is now trying to repeat
the triumph with odds and ends of left-over material.
It can’t be done. Cab, Sir ? is no doubt an accu-
rate description of the life of a London taxi-driver,
but the trouble is, as he says himself, that, as soon
as he gets interested in a passenger, the passenger gets
out of the cab. It’s a book of glimpses: drunks and
duchesses, nice girls and bad ’uns, nice people and
nasty people—all getting out of the cab before he
really learns enough about them to make it worth
repeating. There are mild adventures, but they don’t
shoot taxi-drivers in England. His chief worry, dis-
cussed for pages and pages, is the Tip. And there is
the mumbled address, and the drunk who doesn’t
know where he wants to go, and the passengers who
are convinced his short cuts are the longest way round.
On the credit side the book has humor and some
genuinely odd stories:
There’s an old gent, who walks about Kensington in
the middle of the night, stops a cab, gets in, and tells
the driver to' “Drive on.” At first the driver, if he
doesn’t know his passenger, drives on happily for
perhaps a mile. Then he usually asks for more detailed
directions. But all the old gent, will say is “Drive on.”
And if the driver quibbles about it there’s a tremendous
row. But he’s all right if you know him. And most
of the local drivers do. You just keep on driving,
round and round the district, until he falls asleep.
Then you drive him to his house and deposit him on the
doorstep His nurse always pays.
Monica Dickens, the cook-general, is another
from Michael Joseph’s pantry. One Pair of Hands,
her first book, has a freshness which Cab, Sir ? lacks,
and she saw more life at the stove than Hodge at the
wheel. She is billed as the great-granddaughter of
Charles Dickens, and Compton Mackenzie in a fore-
word says that Charles would have delighted in her
“warm humanity.” It’s more likely that the attitude
of mind which regards servants as a different race,
possibly subhuman, and a legitimate field for explora-
tion and exploitation by a wealthy deb. would have
given great-grandpapa a pain in the neck, but Miss
Dickens can’t be blamed for a gulf which neither ser-
vants nor employers desire to bridge. She has a sense
of humor that lights her path very pleasantly through
the Darkest Africa of domestic service.
From freelancing as a cook to be called in when
London housewives were in a fluster about a dinner-
party, she graduated to a house in the West End where
they gave her 30s. a week (live out) for battling with
duster and broom, stove and sink from 8.30 a.m. to
11.30 p.m. The grocer made love to her at the back
door and her employer’s fancyman chased her round
the kitchen. So she got the sack. Then she “did” for a
dress-designer and gave a vengeful cocktail party in
his kitchen when he went on holiday. He was peevish,
and so, when she parted company with him, she left
her wages and “a very rude limerick indeed” pinned
to his pillow. Her most amusing experiences were
at a country house, complete with butler (who even-
tually tried to blackmail her), starchy housekeeper,
parlormaid and pantrymaid, chauffeur and half-wit
kitchen-maid. There was bright comedy all the time,
culminating in the Servants’ Ball, when she was recog
nised by one of the guests from Upstairs.
The Reminiscences and Reflections of Heber L.
Hart, K.C. (Bodley Head), are in a different class from
the light journalism of the Michael Joseph publica-
tions. But, instead of being crowded with the legal
battles, the sidelights on famous crimes and criminals
that usually make legal reminiscences fascinating read-
ing, it’s as dry and dusty a homily as ever the courts
produced. He was the British member of the tribunals
which tried to straighten out commercial matters
between Britain and the Central Powers after the
Great War, but offers few details of cases that must
have been exceptionally interesting. Speeches he made
on occasions such as the showing of a party of Ameri-
cans round the Temple might well have been allowed
to perish with the day ; essays on Swinburne and
Cowper add nothing to criticism, and his chapter on
“Interesting Documents” is no more exciting than this
example of a postcard, in his possession, written by
Gladstone: — , T ,
Sir, —I have to thank you for your letter. I dare
say your friendly criticism may be just, and 1 will
endeavour to give the point raised in it my attention.
I am, sir, your faithful [illegible]
W.E.G., Jan. 25, ’75.
His essays on subjects such as women’s suffrage
and capital punishment are the best of the book. He
approves of votes for women, but says the granting or
the suffrage may have “lowered the prestige of the
franchise”: “It seems, indeed, that a reaction against
the spirit of feminism was a contributing cause of the
Nazi and Fascist dominations.” He wants capital
punishment to be dropped experimentally, holding that
“no one can be certain that if capital punishment weie
abolished or suspended the numbers of murders would
increase.” He doesn’t face the fact that too many mur-
derers, released after years of confinement, kill again.
Reminiscences and Reflections is for the legal
fraternity, and chiefly for those who happen to be
interested in the author. Similarly, Audrey Lucas s
portrait of her father, E. V. Lucas (Methuen), is for
Lucas fans. There are pictures by the way of A. A.
Milne Harry Grahame ( Ruthless Rhymes), John
Drinkwater and others; some lightly-amusing anec-
dotes and gossip; and an understandably generous
study of Lucas as he worked in Fleet-street, travelled
about Europe, played at Squire in Sussex and at last
isolated himself in London.
Last and best of the bunch is another literary
biography, Claire Clairmont, by R. Glynn Grylls
(John Murray). Byron and Shelley and their tangle of
love affairs have been written about so often that a
new book needs to be as good as Lord David Cecil s
The Young Melbourne, applauded here a few weeks
ago * this one isn’t. But it is a thorough and competent
story of the mother of Byron’s Allegra, and it’s not
the Welshman’s fault that Claire, more cruelly treated
by Byron than Caroline Lamb ever was, sought refuge
with the Shelleys and relief in travel instead of in-
dulging in Caroline’s fireworks. . , . , a ~
Glynn Grylls has familiar material in the tragedy
of the death of Claire’s and Byron’s daughter in the
convent at Bagnacavallo, in Shelley’s drowning and
the fall of the curtain on the wild drama of Byron, but
his studies of Mary Shelley and of Trelawny are
worth reading, as are Claire’s letters and descriptions
of Russian families who wept and quarrelled all day
in the best Dostoievsky tradition. Grylls objects, inci-
dentally, to the “ineffectual angel” view of Shelley and
has a report of the poet, annoyed by someone in Ger-
many, landing him one on the jaw.
A Naomi Royde-Smith Mystery.
Naomi Royde-Smith’s The Altar-Piece: An
Edwardian Mystery (Macmillan) is very nearly a de-
tective novel, but not quite. For one thing there is
no detective in it. But it is near enough to give the
reader the feeling that he must read gingerly all the
time lest he miss a cleverly-concealed clue. Also, ,all
the details show up in that exorbitantly important
light that goes with the best detective fiction. This
is apt to spoil the pleasure that the reader would natu-
rally take in a very well-planned and well-executed
story.
The author takes a prosperous sleepy English pro-
vincial town ; an amiable and thoroughly benevolent
vicar, Leonard Farebrother ; his pleasant wife Ellen,
with whom he is perfectly happy; and their circle of
well-to-do and impeccable parishioners and friends.
On this background of serenity she pins out, tentacle
by tentacle, like an octopus in an Edwardian drawing-
room, a grim story of crime and tragedy nine years
old.
The entry of a mysterious widow, Mrs. Mayhew,
wearing egret plumes, strikes the first dissonance in
the harmony. A glimpse of Mrs. Mayhew’s hands is
enough to convince any seasoned reader that she is
a villainess:
The lace fell back from her hands and Ellen saw
them yellow and bony, the thumb far below the wrist,
almost springing from the knuckle of the first finger.
With a hurried gesture Mrs. Mayhew drew the lace over
her' hands again. But Ellen had seen that the flesh
■ of her finger-tips grew straight into the nails, which
curved over them like claws.
That she has a passion for church embroidery and
is constantly reproducing the martyrdom of St.
Stephen, who was stoned to death, in banners and
altar cloths only adds to the sinister impression.
To balance Mrs. Mayhew is the character of
Carol Amber, a beautiful girl of 16 with a mysterious
flaw in her mind, who is a pupil at a fashionable fin-
ishing school in the neighborhood. The link between
the two is the curate, Theodore Watson, an extremely
handsome young man, rather hardened in his mental
development. He is entangled with Mrs. Mayhew
and in love with Carol. He intends, of course, to do
the honorable thing and marry Mrs. Mayhew, although
she now repels and even frightens him.
The situation is worked up with considerable vir-
tuosity, and a number of small cross plots and sub-
sidiary characters are introduced. The reader is kept
advised, on the one hand, of the course of parish
business and, on the other, of the progress of Mrs.
Mayhew’s more than usually sinister altar-piece,
which she intends to give as an offering to the church
at Christmas. The vicar is horrified at the prospect,
for he smells evil, and does not, in any case, like
dwelling on the details of martyrdoms. The atmo-
sphere thickens and thickens, mysterious accidents,
rumors, visitations occur. The solution comes with
dramatic suddenness.
The gap in Carol’s memory is illuminated by her
love for Theodore and her wish to help him. In that
flash Mrs. Mayhew’s crime is revealed. Haying pushed
her husband over a precipice and stoned him to death
while he lay stunned she has a complex about St.
Stephen. In the altar-piece St. Stephen has her hus-
band’s face. The obsession reaches mania just as the
police come to fetch her.
This is fiction, not life. It has its grotesque
moments. The author has done everything in her
power to make it credible by setting it in 1906, when
everyone feels that sort of thing was more likely to
happen than it is to-day because Edwardian writers
allowed themselves a large ration of melodrama, and
packed it round with homely scenes and natural de-
tails. She fails because, relying on contrast for her
dramatic effect, that same contrast pitilessly under-
lines the unnaturalness of the plot, and no amount of
persuasive writing and domestic asides can alter it.
The Corpse and the Criminal.
The Coroner Doubts (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s) is a further addition'to R. A. J. Walling’s
Tolefree series, and a very good one, too. Tolefree
is called in when a jury’s verdict that the death of
Mr. William Limpenny was a case of suicide whilst
of unsound mind dissatisfies the coroner. The action
is brisk and the solution of the mystery well hidden
until its satisfactory resolution in the last chapter. „
Valentine Williams, of the popular “Clubfoot
series comes to light with The Fox Prowls (Hodder
and Stoushton ; Angus and Robertson), travelling into
the Balkans. The scene is Bessarabia, that little-known
portion of Rumania which faces the Soviet Republic
across the Dniester, and which has for centuries been
the scene of battle, murder and sudden death between
the various claimants to its ownership.
No “Clubfoot” activities form the subject of the
story but “Clubfoot’s” place is very well filled by
the Baron de Bahl with his sinister activities in lnter-
Balkan gun-running and espionage. The hero is Don
Boulton, an adventurous young man who has become
a member of the British Secret Service. He is given
the job of trailing the baron —usually referred to in
official circles as “The Fox”—and after a senes of
adventures emerges triumphant. The usuaj girl of
brains and beauty is involved, and is married in the
Last\ear a serial play entitled Paul Temple and
the Front Page Man, written by Francis Durbridge,
was presented by the 8.8. C. with considerable success.
The play has been made into a novel by the au j^ l
in conjunction with Charles Hatton and published by
John Long (Dymock’s). It makes quite a good thriller,
brightly written and sensational, but rather extra-
vagant.
Nearly every character assumes more than one
personality, and in each of his personalities he is either
the instigator or the object of happenings as mysteri-
ous as himself. Everybody, in fact, seems to be some-
body else and to be carrying on some extraordinary
activity, so that the plot is almost impossible to follow.
How anybody could possibly have followed the story
as a dramatised serial is a mystery almost as great
as any of those to be found in the yarn itself. But
if the reader is prepared to give it close concentration
he will find the story, though incredible in many
respects, exciting to the last degree, and giving proot
on every page of vivid imagination. Its deathrate is
high.
Victor Bridges usually sets his mysteries in some
coastal village in the British Isles, because he likes
to bring in adventure with the waves and winds. The
Seven Stars (Hodder and Stoughton; Angus and
Robertson) relates the adventures of two friends who
go for a caravaning holiday to a Cornish coastal
village. Bridges writes good, fluent English, and tells
a readable tale of murder, with buried treasure and
haunted caves, strange poisons and even stranger
people. Through it all there runs a pleasant love story.
Havelock Ellis in Australia.
Like Darwin, D. H. Lawrence, Tom Mann and
many other celebrities, Havelock Ellis, whose death
was reported recently, was one of the great and the
near-great who visited and lived in Australia in com-
parative obscurity. He was just 17 when he arrived
at Sydney in 1875.
An accident of health brought him to visit Aus-
tralia and to remain here four years. Always delicate,
he had made a trip under the captaincy of his father,
Captain Edward Pippen Ellis. The ship was the
Surrey, and as only emigrants were allowed to sail
upon it, the young Ellis was compelled to sign on as
captain’s clerk. (Incidentally the arrival of Captain
Ellis at any Australian port was always a social event
and the signal for dances and dinners galore.) The
ship’s doctor advised that the boy be left at Sydney as
the climate of the next port, Calcutta, would be un-
suitable. A friend of his father found a post for
Havelock as assistant schoolmaster at “a place called
Burwood, near Sydney.” He remained here for
several months. „
He was tall and blond —“half man, half faun,
Olive Schreiner described him afterwards. No one
could prophesy that a major career in science, art and
letters awaited him, nor that he would be one of the
chief wreckers in the china-shop of the Victorian pro-
prieties.
From Burwood he proceeded shortly to Carcoar,
where he took up private tutoring. Two years later
he went to a private school at Grafton, which became
his own on the sudden death of the headmaster, who
had engaged him as assistant. He matriculated, but
did not go on to graduate. The following year he
went to Sparke’s Creek, in the Liverpool Ranges,
under the Board of Education.
Sparke’s Creek was the Kanga Creek of his first
and last excursion into fiction. This book, published
35 years after it was written, is an idyll of young love,
but parts of it are photographic reflections of the im-
pact of Australia—its great mysterious loneliness and
beauty as well as the raw crudity of the immediate
social context —upon the mind of a poetic and intel-
lectual youth of the ’seventies. There is ugliness in
daily life, perceived and registered with almost pain-
ful sensitivity. But there is beauty to heal the in-
jured spirit:
No other human habitation could be seen. There
were few signs of life; nothing but a distant curlew s
melancholy, long-drawn cry. The strong, bright moon
sailed across the clear sky and sank behind the western
range, leaving a last kiss upon the summit of the
tallest gum-trees. After that the valley was left to stars.
Ellis was passionately fond of poetry and used
to wander the near-by hills declaiming the verses of
Swinburne and Heine.
The living alone are living
And the dead are for ever dead.
Because of this period Australia can claim something
of him. As Goldberg suggests in his biography of
Ellis, “In the dark continent of Australia he was to
discover that other vast, dark continent which is
oneself.” .
At this time, too, a book fell into his hands which
altered his whole outlook on life. It was Life in
Nature, by James Hinton. Like many other youths
of his time Havelock Ellis had read widely in the
enormous radical literature which flowed from the
printing-presses in an uninterrupted spate during the
latter half of the nineteenth century. As with many
others he had lost his religious beliefs. This had left
him unsatisfied and hungry for some substitute. He
writes of that time: “The world became a factory
filled by an inextricable web of wheels and looms and
flying shuttles, in a deafening din. The outlook of
Darwin and Huxley commended itself to him as‘pre-
senting a sound view of the world, but on the emotional
side he was bewildered. During his sojourn in the
bush he had suffered much in an honest attempt to
adjust himself to an outlook on life which was alien
to his instincts. „ , . r , . . . , .
Hinton’s book changed all this for him, giving him
a less mechanical and more dynamic perception of
things. It gave him, as he said himself something
that the intellect might accept and the heart cou d
cling to ” Before he left Australia he had already
sketched the scheme for the working-out of the sex
problem. It was here, too, that he decided to become
a doctor, for before he returned to England in 1879
he had already discovered in himself the need of a
biological foundation” for the work that he had chosen
as one of his major interests.
LEO KELLY.


Costs less to
cure
that
COUGH
with
kj
the famous money-saving
3 in ONE family remedy for
INFLUENZA
COUGHS-
CATARRH
COLDS
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS
//
O:
\
// / I O X
IS
aU
you pay for
ONE PINT
of this world’s best
remedy for
CHEST-NOSE
TWINS THRIVED
thanks to
HEENZO
ALL PARENTS SHOULD READ THIS
LETTER FROM THE MOTHER OF THESE
BEAUTIFUL TWINS
22 James Crescent,
Gladesville, N.S.W.
The Manager, “Heenzo
Dear Sir, —
Enclosed please find a photograph of my twin son and daughter.
Since earliest infancy, whenever they showed signs of a cold, I
have used your “Heenzo” with extraordinary beneficial results.
They are now two years old, and are bonnie babies, thanks to
the help of freedom from colds, etc., due to the use of “ Heenzo ”
regularly.—Yours in all sincerity,
(Mrs.) Geo. Winch.
Save lots of money by simply, in your own home, adding
a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO to
sweetened water, thus making ONE PINT of the world’s
best family remedy, equally good and safe for children
and adults, as a speedy and pleasant cure for chest, nose
and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally you quickly
soothe and banish COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS and INFLUENZA. Experiments
have proved that the most effective and economical treat-
ment for CATARRH and COLDS IN THE HEAD
is placing a few drops of made-up HEENZO up each
nostril, night and morning. To gain instant relief from
SORE and SMOKERS’ THROATS, gargle with
made-up HEENZO whenever the irritation is felt.
HEENZO, being pure and free from poisons or harsh
drugs, cannot upset the digestion of even the youngest
baby. You can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by taking a dose
before venturing out into crowds, or cold, wet and windy
weather.
and THROAT
AILMENTS
i
HEENZO
the best costs less


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
yfCfyrf mellcume&xmdJKiuquet;
WESTMINSTER BRIDGE, 1839-1939.
While not equalling in historic signifi-
cance London Bridge, that bearing the
name of the ancient city of Westminster
may be regarded, politically at least, as
the most important spanning the Thames.
Visitors and Londoners alike find in
Westminster Bridge to-day an interest
which the more venerable structure does
not possess. Where it leaves the Surrey
shore it is flanked on the right and left by
the superb building in which the London
County Council carries out its administra-
tive work, and by St. Thomas’s Hospital,
a truly noble foundation. It joins the
Middlesex shore on the left hand, and
here the imposing structure of the
Houses of Parliament dominates the
scene, while on the right the Thames
Embankment stretches away eastward,
backed by imposing structures, not the
least noticeable being New Scotland
Yard. The view presented to the spec-
tator a century ago standing on the old
bridge was vastly different from that of
to-day. Westminster Hall and the Abbey
were the only familiar objects in the
landscape, though now the “noblest hall
in England” is hidden by “the new
Palace of Westminster,” as the legislative
buildings were once called. To the left
of Big Ben is noted the heavy dome sur-
mounting the headquarters of British
Methodism. From the old bridge Words-
worth composed his immortal Ode to
London on September 3, 1802. The
present bridge, when opened in July,
1862, was the largest and finest of its kind
in Europe. The old bridge, built 1739-50,
from the designs of a Swiss architect,
Labeyle, reached the end of its period of
usefulness in 1855, when the present
graceful and massive work was begun
from drawings by Thomas Page, C.E., in
collaboration with Sir C. Barry, architect
of the Houses of Parliament. The bridge
is 1160 feet long and 85 feet wide. The
double-decker tramways, certainly no aid
to the beauty of the bridge and its sur-
roundings, provide a loop for the trams
serving the immense residential districts
of south and south-east London, and
passing over Blackfriars Bridge run along
the Embankment and “home’ across
Westminster Bridge. Thus the confusion
of terminal points is obviated, but as to
the aesthetic effect ort the Embankment
and bridge, the less said the better, save
that zestheticism has had to make way for
public convenience.


THE OUTSIDER.
There is nothing in this world for me—no work, no home, no Wends.’ Such was the note found beside the bod, of an 18-year-old boy, dead of a bullet wound in the
head on the old Randwick rifle range....Never has night life in Sydney been gayer.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.’
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street , Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings l opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas <British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE GAP IN EMPIRE DEFENCE.
At last J. Bull is starting to look something like the
man he used to be. He is now spending the giddy
total of £2,000,000 a day dressing'himself up in the
all-weather rigout he shed in the midsummer mad-
ness that affected him 10 years back. This is more
than his fighting clobber was costing him in 1915,
after a year of war.
In 1913 the Big Fellow had found that 39 p.c.
of the total State expenditure was necessary for the
protection of his expansive person. Then, debilitating
war ; after which all the pacifist bugs and League of
Nations buzzers at large got at him. When these had
brought him to his lowest ebb —1928 —he reckoned
14 p.c. an ample defence allocation. To-day he finds
the staggering figure of 47 p.c. of the total State ex-
penditure necessary towards recovering his public
decency and self-respect.
The recovery since last September —when the
same pestiferous crew that had brought about his
decline was urging him to fight all-comers —has been
well-nigh incredible. Then—as was immediately
proved beyond any question—he was in no state to
defend himself, let alone defend his extensive posses-
sions. As for crusading wars, they were the counsel
of lunatics. When the crisis had passed, London was
proved to be so ill-defended as to be practically de-
fenceless. Anti-aircraft guns were few, some of them
were survivors from the last war, some had the wrong
parts, some even the wrong-sized ammunition. Air-
craft building was just plodding along, without aim
or direction. The personnel of all forces ranged down
to as low as half-strength.
The crisis over, J.B. began to pull himself together
with a vengeance. The closing months of the year saw
defence expenditure rise to £130,000,000, the highest
quarterly expenditure for many years. The first
quarter of this present year saw defence expenditure
soar to just on double that of the first quarter of
1938. It is still soaring. To-day, J.B.’s spokesman,
Lord Halifax, is able to state as the sum of the
recovery:
We have an unchallengeable Navy. Our Air Force
has now nothing to fear from any other. In our
Army we are creating a powerful weapon for the
defence of liberty.
J.B.’s immense effort has thus been successful
beyond expectations. During this year it has been an
effort without parallel in peace time alone sufficient
comment on J.B.’s state last September, and also on
the lunatics who were then urging him to fight. Re-
covery to date has been greatest in ’plane building and
in personnel of the forces where effort can have
quickest results. Figures for ’plane building are not
these days given out, but nobody has any doubt about
the enormous increase. A remarkable aspect of the
Air Force strength is that it comprises 60 bombers to
every 25 fighters.
The Territorial Field Army—by virtue of compul-
sory national service—has more than doubled since
April 1 this year: it is now 300,000 men, and the
same rate of increase is occurring in all forces. Also,
some 2,000,000 men and women are now organised
for A.R.P. and other home defence work. Next
month over half a million men —150,000 of them Air
Force and 90,000 Navy—will be exercising in full
battle order. By the end of this year there will be
1,000,000 men trained and in training.
As far as J.B. personally is concerned there is
nothing more to be said: he is immensely strong, and
only suicidal folly can lead any neighboring nation
to attack him. But wider out on the estate the picture
is not so rosy. Here there is a gap in the splendid
arrangements —a gap of such direct consequence for
Australia and Maoriland that the prevalent signs of
crusading belligerence hereabouts must be-diagnosed
as signs of criminal madness. ... .
Singapore has become a blessed word, in the class
of Mesopotamia. People who ought to know better—
the loudest war-urgers among them —are under the
delusion that because there is a naval base there these
southern parts of J.B.’s estate are protected. Even on
this naval base work was deliberately discontinued
by JB’s Labor Government of 1929-31, as part of
the general debilitating process. Subsequently the work
was°taken up again, and the base is now there, is a
good one, and is itself powerfully defended. But it»
still lacks anything in the remotest degree resembling
a naval force protective to Australia and M.L.
It has been given out that the force will be there
if needed, and Australian and M.L. defence policies
have been shaped accordingly ; but high naval experts
doubt whether that promise has any hope of fulfilment
this side of 1941 at the earliest. Returned from a recent
visit to the Western Pacific, Earl Beatty has been re-
minding the inhabitants of J.B.’s home estate —some
inhabitants of these parts also badly need reminding
—that, while British and French naval superiority m
the Mediterranean is one of the chief causes of the
maintenance of peace in Europe, the situation in the
Pacific affecting Australia and M.L. is not so reassuring.
The whole basis of the defence of Australia and New
Zealand rests upon the fortified base of Singapore. Let
us, however, face the fact, unpleasant as it is, that
that base is of little value unless there is a strong battle-
squadron based upon it. Such a squadron would form
the only real safeguard against invasion; but that
battle-fleet is lacking at present, and if a squadron of
battleships was sent to Singapore in the present circum-
stances it would leave us with a very narrow margin of
superiority in home and Mediterranean waters.
Earl Beatty adds up the respective naval forces in
this part of the world. Based on Hong Kong, J.B. has
his China Squadron—six cruisers, 13 destroyers, one
aircraft carrier and 15 submarines, “the majority of
which would, in the event of hostilities, most prob-
ably fall back upon Singapore.” He includes Aus-
tralia’s six cruisers and one flotilla of destroyers and
M.L.’s two cruisers, and against this total puts Japan’s
nine capital ships, eight aircraft carriers, 32 cruisers,
83 large and 38 small destroyers and 58 submarines.
He concludes —as anyone in his senses who considers
the array must do —that “the forces we would have
would be incapable of dealing with any major opera-
tion carried out by Japan.”
Showing more true interest in the welfare of these
parts than war-urging newspapers which claim to
speak for them, Earl Beatty reminds J.B. of his doubt-
ful promise and the dependence placed on it in Aus-
tralia and M.L.
It is, perhaps, hard for us in England, living on the
opposite side of the world, to feel that there is serious
danger of the invasion of, say, Australia. But for
Australians it is a very real fear should the British
Empire ever lose command of the sea in the Pacific. In
spite of Australia’s recent magnificent effort to rehabili-
tate her defence forces, one cannot imagine that her
six or seven cruisers, her 70,000 militia and her small
Air Force could resist an onslaught of a first-class
Power.
Nor is Earl Beatty so trustful of United States
willingness to assist as papers that “give Australia
leadership” evidently are. He points out that, “though
the U.S.A. possesses a strongly-fortified base at Pearl
Harbor, in Honolulu, this harbor is 3300 miles from
Japan.”
Furthermore, it is hardly likely that the U.S.A.
would be anxious to send a large proportion of her
navy to Singapore, the only fortified base capable of
housing capital ships in that area, when it is realised
that the distance between Singapore and San Francisco is
7350 miles and that Japan and her outer defences lie
between.
Insisting that Australia and M.L. must depend ulti-
mately on the Royal Navy for their defence, he holds
that J.B.’s promise to these parts
will be much easier to fulfil by the beginning of 1941,
when the five new King George V.-class battleships
will be in commission. The danger period lies between
now and then.
Altogether, J. Bull has made a great recovery this
year. He has been able to do so only because the
yelping pack was denied its war last September. If
he values his estate, he will continue to hold the
yelping pack off till this very serious gap on the outer
fringes has been filled in. Meanwhile, belligerence in
places depending on Singapore should be treated as
criminal stupidity.
Mr. Stevens and Mr. Spooner.
In the immortal words of Mr. Stevens, dismissing Mr.
Weaver, the U.A.P. in New South Wales, though
still, with its C.P. allies, in control of the N.S.W.
Parliament, has “enjoyed bad health for a long time.
It is suffering from a complication of disorders and
embarrassments, and its condition is growing worse
instead of better. . „ . , ~ .
The worst embarrassment being financial (though
Sydney U.A.P. members differ, and spell it “Bruxner”),
Mr Stevens decided to place works expenditure under
the control of Mr. Mair. Mr. Mair is the gentleman
who was named Treasurer last October, when Mr.
Stevens became Premier without portfolio, like Mr.
Chamberlain and Mr. Dwyer-Gray, of Tasmania. Pre-
viously Mr. Spooner, “Secretary for Public Works
and Minister for Local Government,” and sometime
Assistant Treasurer, had control of works expenditure.
Mr Spooner was authorised in particular to lavish
money, chiefly borrowed, on “Spooner schemes,” by
virtue of which municipal and shire councils received
subsidies for the construction of national works like
Olympic swimming pools, scenic roads and concrete
footpaths leading from anywhere to nowhere. The
object was “to relieve unemployment, and unemploy-
ment was relieved for a time, though when Spooner
schemes gave out there was a tendency for it to become
greater than ever. Other results have been sharp rises
in rates and indignation meetings of ratepayers, at
which the mayor or shire president plaintively pleads
that Spooner schemes don’t pay, and that if the
burgesses didn’t raise the rates the council would go
broke
Mr. Spooner had his sympathisers in the party.
They allowed that a remarkable amount of Govern-
ment money has somehow found its way into his own
electorate of Ryde, but this was n °t objected to so
lone as other electorates got their cuts, bo when it
was B "iven out that Mr. Mair would be empowered
to vfto expenditure on local-government subsidised
works in excess of £2000,” Mr. Spooner was assured of
strong backing for the protest he was expected to
make 8 at a party meeting. Indeed, members went t
the party meeting expecting Mr. Spooner to lead a
sort of palace revolution, and prepared to follow nim
to the extent of accepting posts in a Spooner Ministiy.
The party meeting was rowdy, but palace revolu-
tion there was none. It transpired that Mr. Stevens
and Mr. Spooner, after “long consultations, nau
arrived at a “formula,” providing for the transfer oi
the proposed Mair veto to a Cabinet sub-committee.
With this honor and Spooner were satisfied ; but i J
members were not.
One of the 13 was Mr. Robson, from Vaucluse. A
very sarcastic young man, Mr. Robson “congratulated
the Premier on his ability to discipline members ot
his Cabinet,” but professed himself “astounded to
find that Mr. Spooner had fallen in behind his chief .
Mr. Tonkin, from Orange, who had previously ob-
jected to the spending of £9OOO on a Canoblas road,
interposed to defend Mr. Spooner. Then, according
to an early edition of “S. M. Herald”:
Mr. Murray Robson said that Mr. Spooner had
informed him that the last Budget had been faked
and that the finances of the State had been manipu-
lated. This statement caused a sensation, especially
when Mr. Robson added that he could not understand
how Mr. Spooner could continue in a Government
which he had charged with maladministration, and with
manipulation of the State’s finances.
In a later edition of the “Herald,” after the fashion
of the late Rev. Bowdler, this was reduced to the fol-
lowing :
A statement by Mr. Robson that Mr. Spooner had
expressed a critical opinion regarding the misleading
nature of the last Budget caused a sensation.
The “Daily Telegraph,” which 14 months ago was
shouting “Spooner Must Go,” also applied the office
censorship to the Vaucluse outburst (“Mr. Robson
added that after certain strong criticism of State
finances which Mr. Spooner had made to him”), but the
“Daily News” came out with this:
His finger pointed accusingly at Mr. Spooner and
his face white with anger, Mr. Robson declared, I hat
man has told me and other members of the U.A.I .
that the recent Budget was faked and that the finances
of the State had been manipulated.”
When the Legislative Assembly met, Mr. Baddeley,
Deputy Leader of the Opposition, embodied the “Daily
News” report in a motion that the thing should be
inquired into by the Public Accounts Committee, as
a matter of urgent necessity.” The motion was de-
feated by three votes, 32 to 29. Mr. Robson was present
but did not vote. N.S.W. Assembly rebels are like
that.
Pressed for an explanation, Mr. Spooner admitted
having discussed “the variations in the budgetary
items” in “a confidential talk,” but pleaded .that the
meeting at which the Robson version was given was
“in the nature of a family gathering.” He added ‘1
don’t think the newspaper reports were a correct in-
terpretation of the conversation I had.” Mr. Spooner s
“explanation” was greeted with boisterous laughter
from the Labor benches and nasty looks from his own.
Asked whether he had prior knowledge of the
assertion that the Budget was “faked” (the questionei
was Mr. Shand, who was a U.A.P. Minister without
portfolio), Mr. Stevens replied that the Budget was
not “faked,” and that he was not responsible for the
publication of the assertion that it was. He did not
go into the question of the responsibility for the altera-
tion of the “Herald” report. Adverting to the Badde-
ley motion, although that had been disposed of, the
Premier declared that there was no need for a “special
investigation,” since “it is part of the function of the
Public Accounts Committee to bring under review all
the major variations in receipts and expenditure dis-
closed by comparing the Budget and accounts.” That,
he added, “would take place as soon as the Auditor-
General has certified the accounts, probably in the
next few weeks.” The morning was drawing on and
he had other engagements, and he promised to make a
statement “in greater detail” in the afternoon.
When afternoon came Mr. Stevens had to admit
that his statement about the Public Accounts Com-
mittee was “not quite correct.”
I find that the main function of the committee is to
review all expenditure—not revenue—made without
Parliamentary sanction or appropriation.
Which shows how little this seven-years Premier and
Treasurer knows about checks devised in the past to
secure Parliamentary control of the public purse, and
how little he cares for that principle. There is a
Public Accounts Committee, but for all the powers it
possesses and all the good it is allowed to do it might
as well be called the Public Ping-pong Committee. It
meets now and then, and draws up leports, and the
reports are sometimes copious, for especially since
the Government took to guaranteeing overdrafts for
building societies, farmers and film companies—a
lot of expenditure without Parliamentary sanction oi
appropriation goes on. But evidently Mr. Stevens
doesn’t bother to read them.
Denying again that the Budget was faked, Mi.
Stevens declared that “the anticipated surplus was not
realised, mainly because revenue fell consideraoly
short of estimates.” The “estimates, of course, weie
his own, and compared with 1937-38 railway receipts
were down only £59,200, thumping increases in rail-
way charges not provided for in the Budget having
been introduced in March.
Having another shot, the Premier said that pri-
marily, the basic reason for the relatively larger diver-
gence of actual results from estimated results was that
we experienced one of the severest pastoral droughts
on record.” The drought was certainly bad but it is
not to be compared with the drought of 1902. In any
case, it was on when the Budget was delivered and
over when, according to Mr Menzies, Mr. Steven*
reported that a “serious position” of recent develop-
ment had converted his surplus into a deficit ot
£2,800,000 which Canberra would have o finance.
The facts about the Budget were stated in the last
issue of The Bulletin and in previous issues. It was
presented on September 27 by Mr Stevens himself,
with comforting assurances such as that the estimates
will be realised” ; “our economy is stronger than ever
before” ; “though we may have to face a continuation


oJ low prices” for some exports, “we have de-
veloped a technique for dealing with problems aris-
ing irom low export prices,” and so on. For the year
to June 30, he predicted a surplus of £7785, antici-
pating “a further improvement of £170,500 in Govern-
ment railway figures”—without the increased charges,
designed to swell receipts by 10 per cent, per annum,
with which customers were smitten during the last
four months of the financial year.
By the end of October Mr. Stevens was out of
the Treasury and Mr. Mair in it. But Mr. Stevens
stayed long enough to give notice of the bill increasing
the pay of Ministers and members and officers of
both Houses by £14,000 p.a., and, in accordance with
a promise “I personally made to my colleagues,”
dated back to July 1. In the meantime, the Stunt
Press discovered that Mr. Stevens was the very man
tor Canberra, as Treasurer at least, if not Prime
Minister. One of the stunters certified that he was
a great Parliamentarian, a consummate judge of public
opinion and a master at framing a popular policy.”
Handsomely admitting it, Mr. Stevens sped to a broad-
casting station, where he demanded a Drive for
National Efficiency, an Advance on All Fronts. His
willingness to lead the Drive was taken for granted,
and he forthwith led an advance on the Melbourne
front to see the then Prime Minister or somebody.
The Stevens stunt failed, and there was no sign
of the Stevens surplus. In fact, three months after it
was promised the accounts were about £5,000,000 to
the bad. In March, Mr. Mair was imploring Can-
berra to make provision for a deficit of £1,700,000,
increased to £2,800,000 when Mr. Stevens went to the
Loan Council meetings late in June. At one of those
meetings it was stated by the Prime Minister, on the
authority of Mr. Stevens, that “the serious position 5 '
had developed during the last two or three months.”
The actual deficit has since been announced at
£2,804,800, and then at £2,748,000, and it may be
“revised” again. Mr. Sanders, of the U.A.P., mor-
dantly suggests that a real revision would add a mil-
lion to it.
So if the Budget was not “faked” it was an
appalling fiasco. And because of the false picture ot
the finances presented by Mr. Stevens in the innocence
ot his heart it is marvellous that a seven-years
Treasurer should be so exceedingly green—taxpayers
have been called upon to make a grossly unjust sacri-
fice in the interests of Ministers, Assemblymen and
officers of both Houses, already overpaid considering
the results of their exertions.
At the close of an eventful day, Mr. Spooner
resigned from the Ministry on “the major issue of
the Government’s policy, financial and otherwise, on
provision of unemployed-relief.” The resignation was
accepted by Mr. Stevens with flowery compliments.
Thereupon the “S. M. Herald” and the “Daily Tele-
graph” abandoned their “hush-hush” tactics, and pub-
Mr. Robson’s assertion that the Budget had
been “faked” and the finances “manipulated,” and the 1
Herald” explained that “Mr. Spooner’s hostility to
the Premier has existed for some time.”
It is a sorry business altogether ; but then the
New South Wales Parliament itself is a sorry business.
It seems to be past praying for. After 18. months of
Mr. Lang, the Government was without money or
credit, and the State in grave danger of civil disturb-
ances. And seven years of Mr. Stevens have brought
prodigious debts and deficits, with serious unemploy-
ment and the certain prospect of sky-high taxation. The
sentiments of an increasing number of people con-
cerning their Sydney tribulation could be expressed m
the language of the bibulous reporter who stood up
in the gallery and shouted “I move that this House
do now adjourn for twenty million blanky years.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Week's News.
The Tokio talks began in a bad atmosphere ; they
began in a better atmosphere. They were “heated at
two sessions”; they were amicable at all sessions.
They reached a “complete deadlock” on July 19, and
“the negotiators parted in an angry mood” —that was
“authoritatively stated” by an American reporter. On
July 20, there was “still a wide divergence between
the British and Japanese viewpoints,” although “the
tone of the talks between the British Ambassador and
the Japanese Foreign Minister has been friendly.”
On July 21, the two gentlemen “agreed on a formula
for negotiations on the Tientsin issue.”
On July 23 “Japan claims success in Tokio talks” ;
a “high Japanese Government official” interpreted
“the agreement” as “the beginning of Britain’s orderly
retreat from the Far East” ; also, “a mass meeting of
Chinese at Tientsin decided to boycott British cur-
rency and to refuse to sell Chinese and Japanese goods
to Britain” ; but Mr. Chamberlain’s declaration that
Britain will not reverse her Far East policy at the
behest of another Power” still held good.
Thus far the press. The palladium of our liberties
reported also that the Japanese and the Russians were
quarrelling over something or other in Sakhalin, and
it had a “section of the Japanese fleet” assembling in
northern waters and a Japanese spokesman (quoted
by an American reporter) describing the situation as
“extremely grave.” There was yet another “air battle,”
with “200 ’planes engaged,” “over Mongolian terri-
tory”—-Moscow version. According to Moscow,
casualties were “14 Japanese and three Mongol-Soviet”
'planes. Japanese version expected later.
As for the situation in Danzig, “hopes of a speedy
return to normality” were “dashed by the sight of
artillerymen wearing German uniforms” and by an
obscure frontier shooting. It was expected that Hitler
would be named president of the Danzig Senate, and
Marshal Smigly-Rydz announced that “Poland 5 has
decided to fight for Danzig, even if she fights alone.”
The German Foreign Office spokesman emphatically
contradicted the impression that there had been a
relaxation of the tension over Danzig.” “The official
German Government spokesman at Berlin” said “We
reject a warlike solution of the Danzig problem by
100 per cent. Herr Hitler is convinced that the uncon-
ditional return of Danzig to the Reich can be achieved
peacefully.”
Demands for and offers of credits were made in
various quarters. The British, while conceding
modified Maoriland claims, were raising diffi-
culties about Polish credits, Poland’s idea being
that J. Bull should back its bills for purchases
to any amount in any market. Professor Roberts
pointed out that “in such matters the totalitarian
States easily come off best; they act quickly and
make available huge credits”—this, although, according
to the same authority and others, they are broke to
the wide. Germany was even offering “huge credits”
to Russia. The Franco-British negotiations with that
country had become a “dispiriting subject,” though
“the two Governments” were sending “identical fresh
instructions to Moscow.” All of this capped by
“reports of a new plan to appease Germany by Britain
providing a huge loan,” estimated at “various totals
between £100,000,000 and £1,000,000,000.”
In Australia, the “boycott” of the national register
was proceeding in a desultory way. But the almighty
(or alarmed) A.C.T.U. was discussing the position
Mr. Menzies and Mr. Curtin, and might call off
the “boycott” before it became too embarrassing. Mr.
Blackburn, M.P., intimated that he would not sign
the register cards. Mr. Menzies tartly reminded him
that members of Parliament who take an oath of
allegiance to the Crown are expected to set an example
of obedience to . laws which have received the royal
assent.
So another week passed without war. In quarters
where the worst is expected or hoped for, the war has
been postponed until “the year grows warm for har-
vesting,” as the poet expresses .it. Further postpone-
ments can be arranged and explained.
Another Gong to Watch.
The latest paperchase started by the flapper press is
a hunt after wild Nazis. These invaders, led by a
mysterious local Fiihrer (“No. 1”), with an offsider
(‘No. 2”), are supposed to be engaged in the nefarious
work of blackmailing other Germans and planning for
the day when the swastika will fly from Sydney G.P.O.
and newspapermen and radio blah-merchants will be
seen in Martin-place and Little Lon. with buckets and
scrubbing-brushes.
Canberra is “reticent” about the dreadful doings,
but suggests that it may be necessary “to increase the
strength of the Commonwealth Investigation Branch
to keep a watch on Nazi activities in this country.”
What good that will achieve only Canberra knows.
For years the Investigation Branch has been supposedly
keeping a close watch on Communist activities, which
are far more dangerous and insidious than anything
the handful of Nazis are likely to do. (Australia can
easily take care of them) The only result has been
the increasing growth of Communist organisations.
These now have 16 newspapers and journals in
Australia—weeklies in all States, bi-weeklies in some,
illustrated journals for women, children and Pink
bishops. They maintain their own presses, bookshops
and libraries. They honeycomb the unions. And while
keeping their true programme in the background and
circulating the propaganda of the Comintern to select
brethren, they are luring hundreds of young fellows
into their ranks with a “local” programme which calls
for higher wages, a 40-hour-week, abolition of wages
tax, repeal of the Crimes Act and the Transport
Workers Act, and, of course, boycott of the national
register. Their tactics have been explained in party
resolutions:
We develop agitation and propaganda in a new
broad way, adapting our revolutionary theory to Aus-
tralian conditions and language, tying it up with the
best traditions of the people. But we declare that the
conception of the people’s movement in no way implies
the setting aside of our revolutionary principles.
They are, moreover, doing everything possible to stir
up hatred against neighbors, particularly Japan:
Not only must we boycott Japanese goods, and
refuse to work Japanese ships, we must force the
Federal Government to break off relations and impose
a complete embargo on trade with Japan.
And they preach hatred of “the capitalist gang whose
foreign policy brings the Fascist aggressors right to
Australia’s door.”
The vile clique which to-day demands the control of
the defence expenditure and the organisation of Aus-
tralian defence; the vulturous gang which represents
less than 10 per cent, of the people and yet which
demands national unity, national service and compulsory
military training.
These are the people, “affiliated to the Communist
International,” who need to be watched.
Perils of the City.
On July 21 a Sydney youngster gave himself and the
flapper press a thrill. He is 18, and two days before he
had been granted a license to fly. His whole experi-
ence in the air totalled 16 hours, seven of which had
been flown in company with an experienced pilot.
At the busiest hour of the busiest day of the
week the lad set out to demonstrate his ability to be
a bird over the busiest part of the biggest city in
Australia.
In this he was doing nothing legally wrong. The
Civil Aviation Department permits such performances
so long as the legal height, 2000 feet, is maintained.
The youth was flying at 2300 feet above Central
Station when, according to his own story, the engine
cut out. This has been denied, as also has been his
story that he glided four miles ; anyway, he descended
on the Rose Bay links, where golfers were playing. He
missed them by yards and came down pancake fashion.
The machine was damaged and the pilot stunned.
He recovered in time to glance at the afternoon paper’s
poster: “Flier’s Peril Over City Roofs!”
The young man and the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment should say a long prayer of thanksgiving that
things were no worse. In such a machine, with a
novice pilot, anything might have happened. The
machine might have hit a factory full of girls. It
might have ploughed into a Pitt-street full of shoppers.
It might have hit a petrol storage tank and sent millions
of gallons of fuel up in a record explosion.
Flying over cities should not be permitted, except
by pilots working at height, with more than one engine
to fly with and enough flying experience to get them
out of any difficulty. And even then it should be
allowed only as a matter of necessity.
Indiscipline in New Guinea.
Australians are not allowed to read the report of
the New Guinea Administration, though the Terri-
tory is governed wholly by Australians and under
Commonwealth supervision, till it has been pawed
over by the delegates of the moribund League in
Geneva. Thus in July, 1939, only the facts regarding
1937-38 are made available.
It is obvious, however, that the Mandated Terri-
tory is growing rapidly in stature. In 1921-22, the
year after the establishment of civil government, there
were 251,000 natives under census, and the non-native
population was under 3000. Last year 581,000 natives
were listed, and whites numbered 6283.
The commercial position looks healthy—exports
were £2,980,000 against imports of £1,610,000, and
the national debt admitted to is only £31,500. The
Administration collects half a million in ordinary
revenue and a few thousands in native education tax.
It spends an average of about £lOO,OOO a year on
public works—against £15,000 when the civil govern-
ment took over from the expeditionary force —and
£90,000 on public health. But, despite the doubling
of accessible native population and the constant harp-
ing on what is being done to civilise the native, less
is being spent on native education than a dozen years
ago, and the morale of the native does not seem to
be improving.
The Courts deal with many indisciplined Brown
Brothers. Though the number of natives around
towns and plantations is comparatively small —about
20,000 on plantations and an equal number employed
in mining, commerce and by the Administration—
there were, in the year under review, 2753 convictions
of natives in native courts and 1524 in the district
courts, plus 93 in the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court convictions included 16 cases
in which charges of entering a dwelling with intent
indecently to insult a female were sheeted home.
Twelve of these had reference to white women and
girls. There were, in addition, 14 convictions for
indecent assault, seven for defilement of children and
five for rape.
The district-court offences and those tried in
native courts show native indiscipline from another
angle. Sixteen natives were convicted of illegally
owning or using dynamite, 340 of deserting
from employment, 265 of being absent from
work without leave, 132 of failing to show diligence
in their work, 100 of behaving in a threatening
manner, 66 of failing to perform work, 68 of dis-
obeying a reasonable order, 34 of riotous and offen-
sive behavior, 76 of having property reasonably sus-
pected of having been stolen and 17 of being unlaw-
fully on premises. There were 11 common assaults
on Europeans and six on Asiatics ; also 225 convic-
tions for stealing and receiving.
In the native courts there were 311 proved cases
of assault, 120 of behaving in a threatening manner,
149 of stealing, 85 of being in possession of intoxi-
cants, 59 of indecent practices, 147 of disobeying
lawful orders and 24 instances in which natives
deported from a district cheekily returned.
In 1935-36, when the number of employed and
indentured natives was about the same as last year,
there were 64 convictions of natives in the Supreme
Court, 1169 in the district courts and 1939 in the
native courts ; so 1937-38 figures were a great deal
worse.
The Administrator prefaces his report by quoting
a message from Governor-General Gowrie:
I left New Guinea with the knowledge that the sacred
trust imposed by the Mandate is being faithfully ful-
filled, and that every effort is being made to improve the
lot of the natives while safeguarding the interests of the
non-indigenous population.
Apparently his Excellency had no opportunity
of considering the native criminal statistics.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“I ’ad to 'ave a bit o' bush atmosphere while I'm down 'ere!"
“S.T.S.”: Rudall, an old Rhodes
scholar who is acting-Attorney-General
of S.A., made an epigram which deserves
to live when moving in Parliament for
leave of absence for Jeffries, his chief,
Several members took the opportunity
to ask who is paying for the trip, but
were satisfied when told that it is being
made at the traveller’s own expense,
One, however, still stuck out against ex-
tended leave. “We should do the work
desires'to EvTJtb
pleasure trip abroad he should at least
say that he does not want his salary.”
Rudall. however, pointed out that such
a visit is of “tremendous educational
value, giving greater knowledge to fit a
man for his job on the return. If the
hon. member who objects himself took
such a trip, every member would be satis-
fied that he could not return a worse
* * *
“Fi. fa.”: Mr. Dovey, K.C., of Syd-
ney, suggested to the Law Council of
Australia convention at Brisbane that an
effort should be made to jazz up pro-
fessional utterances in the more tech-
nical class of case. What about giving
it a fly on a spot of torts, Jumbuck v.
Poodlesnatcher (1939), 3 K. 8.173?
“Stone the flamin’ crows, mates, wot’s
it matter even if the bloke’s rnong did
dong a couple of flamin’ sheep? Old
Woolbale's got oodles more. Take a
screw at my bloke’s dial. Reckon ’e’s
the sort ter let ’is dog go that ’ungry?
Not on yer flamin’ lives ’e ain’t, take
it from me. ’Sides, yer gotter get it
inter yer beans that the dorg’s got ’is
rights too. Strike, I ain’t kiddin’ yer!
We’ve got a Dago moniker for it in
the trade, mansuetce natures it is, meanin’
natural custom. ’Struth, why they can’t
put it in plain blanky Australian ’as me
fair stonkered....” (Case proceeding.)
* * *
“C.Q.”: A fashion has been created in
Carlton, the industrial suburb which is
graced by the presence of Melbourne’s
Alma Mater. It arose during the depres-
sion, when ordinary notions of meum and
tuum went the way of a lot of other
ancient customs. When tenants move
into a new dwelling they bring their own
doors and windows with them.
jJ: $
“M.G.S.”: Dr. Malcolm Sargent is
back in Australia with a programme of
28 concerts to be conducted for the
A.B.C. On a previous visit the dapper,
dynamic Irishman directed a performance
of the “Leonora” overture at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall, and special precau-
tions were taken against accident, the
Town Hall having had unfortunate asso-
ciations with that particular Beethoven
work. When Florestan enters the prison
a distant trumpet call is heard, and in
order to make it a dramatic effect a local
conductor sent the trumpet-player to
sound the phrase in the corridor at t e
back of the stage. Bending down, e-
applied an eye to the keyhole of the door
to be certain of catching his cue. Then
he straightened himself, put his instru-
ment to his lips and was about to sound
the call when an usher came round the
corner, clapped his hand on his shoulder
and said: “Oh, no, you dont. Not
here!”
, :CoutLl advanced a desperate
P* ea ! n a Fitzroy (Melb.) c
day in defence of a man charged with
J e, ”f* dle f and dlso /; derl ly,
had been found with cocaine on his per-
son. The Gent. One argued th
drug was not on accused s person,, since
he was holding it in his hand, having no-
where else to put it, having not IJ \S
a pair of socks on. Sonah retorted tha
if a man could not be said to have
cocaine on his person when he was hold-
ing it in his hand because he was naked,
a fully-dressed individual cpuld not be
said to have a revolver or anything else
on his person if he took the precaution
of carrying it in his hand. Without the
option.
*- r 44rx * ;!
“Beaufort St. : D.E. s mention (b.
28/6/’39) of W.A.’s one-time Police
Commissioner Hare, ‘ very handsome but
very Johnnyfied, recalls that Hare was
probably the only person in Australian
history preserved from an intended assas-
sin’s bullet by the stiffness of his shirt-
front. It was back in the days when the
industrious Chinaman attended to most
of Perth’s laundry and “boiled” fronts
were the fashion. But never one of all
the “starchers” that paraded up and
down Hay-street could compare with
that worn, by the military-looking “Hand-
some Fred.” Then one day a discharged
constable with a grievance walked into
Hare’s office and opened fire with a re-
volver. Being partly demented, the
aggrieved one meant business. His aim,
however, wasn’t the best, but one bullet
would certainly have penetrated the
police chief’s thorax had not the armor
of linen and starch been there. Hare
was just rising when the lead struck his
shirt-front on a slight angle and glanced
off. A moment later and he was grap-
pling with his assailant, who was soon
overpowered and disarmed.
* * * *
“Halbert”: The opera figures painted
on the walls of the old Liedertafel
Hall attached to what was once
Glen’s music warehouse, now part of
the dining hall of the new Hotel
Australia (B. 5/7/’39), weren’t the work
of an Italian importee. They were
painted by Hugh Patterson, father ot
Esther, the Melbourne artist, in 1886.
The murals include Mephistopheles and
Marguerite, Faust, Romeo and Juliet.
Other opera figures are “off stage,” en-
tombed in the building materials of new
construction work.
* * * *
“Nomen”: Talking about names (B.
19/7/’39), it’s a wonder royal offspring
are not more appropriately dubbed.
George V., who was not originally des-
tined for the throne, had by chance the
right moniker; but his son who was
destined to be Edward VIII. answered to
“David” in family circles; while the latter’s
brother, who became George VI., is
known as “Bertie” to his wife. The ques-
tion is: Will Elizabeth, the heiress pre-
sumptive, become Elizabeth 11. or Vic-
toria II.? Whatever way it is, I’m sure
she won’t be Mary 111. or Anne 11.,
though she might, for variety’s sake,
become Britannia I. Queen Britannia
would sound sort of comprehensive.
* * * *
“A. Major”: Musical criticism has
more than its usual array of pitfalls when
the music comes to the listener by radio.
Switching on 2FG Sydney the other night
to listen to Schnabel playing with Szell’s
orchestra, found it was a little too early.
But a mezzo-soprano was on the air,
singing German lieder. It was a beautiful,
clear, fresh voice, enunciation was good,
breathing natural, phrasing graceful.
“Dunno who it is,” says I, “but that’s
equal to any voice the A.B.C. has im-
ported from foreign parts.” Followed a
negro spiritual rather drearily crooned.
“Don’t like that young man much” was
my candid verdict. Then another female
voice. Good timbre, but delivery was a
bit gauche, and there was more than a
suggestion of * plum in the throat.
"Promise there,” says I, “whep she s had
two or three years’ grilling with a good
teacher.” Then the announcer threw a
bombshell: “You have been listening to
a song recital by Miss Marion Anderson,
mezzo-soprano.”
* * *
“Ultramarine”: Not since the towing
to her last moorings of the “Fighting
Temeraire,” immortalised by Turner, has
there been such a pathetic incident in
naval annals as the passing to her doom
of the destroyer Stalwart outside Sydney
Heads last week. Stalwart, which started
out with high hopes as a member of the
old “S” class of destroyers, was pre-
sented by Britain to the Commonwealth
Navy just after the Great War, together
with sisters Success, Swordsman, Tattoo
and Tasmania. Fashions in destroyers
change even more rapidly than in the
case of bigger craft, but the quintet
were reckoned good enough to guard
Australia’s shores till two years ago, when
they were stripped of their armaments
and sold to a firm of shipbreakers,
Stalwart fetching £2474. Even ship-
breakers don’t seem to be able to find
a use for destroyer hulls —there was a
fleet of them in Sydney’s Kerosene Bay
when last I looked into it years ago,
and now (the mooring space, I suppose,
having been all used up) they have to be
towed out and sunk. This was done to
Stalwart, but in circumstances of peculiar
ignominy. She was filled with cargo,
and the cargo was 400 tons of rotten
onions from Egypt. Don’t ask me why
Australia needs to import onions from
Egypt.
* * *
“Hamer”: Victor Daley, who had an
arrangement to supply “in memoriam
verses and suchlike to a firm of Sydney
undertakers, probably wrote the stufi
with his tongue in his cheek. It’s the only
way to get them accepted, as I found
when commissioned to provide an appro-
priate verse about a dead daughter for
a family I knew. I took great trouble to
produce something neat but not trite, but
at last grew irritated with the polite dis-
satisfaction that greeted all the efforts,
and with angry irony perpetrated:
She was a lovely little flower,
And she was beautiful in soul;
Her Maker took her in His power
To wear her as a buttonhole.
All the relations agreed that this was the
most beautiful tribute they had ever seen,
and a cheque for a guinea rewarded my
attempt at sarcasm.
* * * *
“Nikko”: 1 was standing in a city
street listening idly to an elderly man
singing, in a well-trained voice, airs from
“The Bohemian Girl,” when a plump,
middle-aged woman came and stood be-
side me. She was sniffing audibly and
furtively mopping her eyes ; then she fos-
sicked in her bag, produced a handful
of silver coins, and dropped them into the
singer’s hat. “I suppose I’m an old fool,”
said the plump lady to me apologetically,
“but I can’t resist ‘The Bohemian Girl.’
The first thing me husband took me to
after we were married was that, and I’ve
never forgotten it. And he’s been gone
30 years,” she added. I murmured sym-
pathetically. “Yes,” she said, “he
ran away with another woman and 1
never saw him again, but it doesn’t make
a scrap of difference. Those old tunes
always knock me over.
“D.F.”: Sydney’s Cockatoo Island
has just had its centenary. On July 8,
1839, Governor Gipps told Lord Glenelg
that he was forming an establishment on
the island for prisoners withdrawn from
Norfolk Island, where the accommoda-
tion was overcrowded. Gipps pointed
out that Cockatoo furnished excellent
building stone, and suggested that it might
supply Sydney, as Sing Sing supplied
building stone to New York. Some noted
bushrangers later served sentences on
Cockatoo, including Thunderbolt (Fred-
erick Ward), who escaped by swimming
ashore; Frank Christine, alias Gardiner,
and William Day, or Derricourt.
* * * *
“Melton”: The pomp and ceremony
attendant on the handing over to the
Defence Department of the first batch
of Australian-made Wirraways must have
stirred some cynical ghostly memories in
the line of deserted hangars on Coode
Island, just across the Yarra from the pala-
tial premises of Commonwealth Aircraft.
There, just on ten years ago, an order
for 32 Moth trainers for the R.A.A.F.
was completed. The complete air-frames
were built locally, the engines being im-
ported. Without any flourish of trum-
pets the ’planes came off the assembly
line and were certified as airworthy. But
the Defence authorities held up accept-
ance of the order because the contractor
had embellished the fuselage of each
machine with the maker’s trade-mark,
and furthermore had committed the hein-
ous crime of marking them “made in
Australia.” When the offending legend
and trade-mark were removed the Gov-
ernment deigned to accept the order.
EYEBROWS EXPERTLY ARCHED.
(Notice in a beauty-parlor window.)
Your hair may be waved to perfection
And every professional wile
Exerted to make your complexion
A thing to bewitch and beguile.
But you never will rank with the smartest
In beauty parades who have marched
Until, by the hand of an artist,
Your eyebrows are arched.
There were poets of old—you can cite 'em —
Who sang of the charm and the grace
Of this really essential item
In a beautiful feminine face.
The shade or the color thereon was
A matter of taste, but observe
That ever the sine qua non was
An exquisite curve.
There are manifold desiderata
For the damsel or dame who'd be It,
But the eyebrows in arcuin curvata
Are a feature she cannot omit.
So, if Nature’s been backward or niggard
The coveted touch to impart,
lake notice it still may be figured
Expertly by Art.
Will it bother your Bob or your Basil
If the elegant roofing you've got
Over orbs that delectably dazzle
Are definite dinkum or not?
Oh, welcome as cooling ablutions
To folk who are panting and parched
Are those often maligned institutions
Where tresses are given volutions
And eyebrows are arched.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Dick Tafone”: A strange sight in-
trigued Brisbane for several days—a
motor-lorry bearing a huge case labelled
as containing steel glass-enamelled storage
tanks for beer stuck fast in the Bishops-
court gateway. Despite a wide variety
of slanderous and untruthful explana-
tions, the reason for its presence was
one of neighborly courtesy only. It was
intended for the Castlemaine-Perkins
Brewery next door, and, the load being
too bulky to pass through the main en-
trance of that anti-drought institution,
permission was obtained to take a short
cut through the archiepiscopal territory.
There it tactlessly broke down.
* * % sg.
“Dhas”: Just over a year ago I was
in a London pub with six young Maori-
landers. We had all come from the same
district, and were celebrating a reunion.
One, who had worked his way over as
a steward—as most of us had—got a ship
a week later and went home. The other
five had made the trip to tackle the
R.A.F. One, an earlier immigrant, was
already out of the force with a plate in
his head and a permanent-disability pen-
sion. One, because of his eyesight, wasn’t
accepted, and is working in an aircraft
factory. One crashed and was killed a
few months ago, and last week a cable
about a bomber crashing into a wood
told that another of the group had gone
west. That leaves one —-now a flying in-
structor. My generation hasn’t seen a
world war, but it hasn’t been altogether
without adventure and disaster.
* # * *
“Schnorrer”: “Liberal Judaism,” which
has now acquired in Sydney an erudite
rabbi from America, got its Australian
start in Melbourne six years ago. It is
not an entirely American movement, for
there were synagogues on the liberal lines
in France and Germany before their prin-
ciples got a wider spread in the U.S.A.;
one in each of those countries actually
adopted Sunday as the Sabbath instead
of Saturday. It is comparatively recently
that London acquired a Liberal congre-
gation, recruited very largely from
wealthy Jews who were annoyed at the
stand of the orthodox synagogues against
“Shall I Wrap it up in a bit of brown paper , sir, or will you slip it in your pocket?"
marriages with Gentiles. On this subject
a contributor recently erred: there is a
strong objection to extramarriage
amongst orthodox Jews ; but when it does
happen it is easier for the children of
a Jewess who has “married out” to be
admitted to a congregation than those of
a Jew who has married a non-Jewess. The
mother’s influence is recognised. But
non-Jews, even if not linked by marriage,
if they can prove (for Judaism does not
proselytise) that they desire to become
adherents, without thought of gain but
because of sincere conviction, can be
admitted. A man who, up to the time of
his death three years ago, was one of the
most prominent “Jewish” leaders in
France was not a Jew by birth, but had
adopted the religion. Liberal Judaism
relaxes in many things the strict letter of
the law, but it is its services and sermons
in the language of the country to which
orthodox Jews most strongly object. And
rightly, from their point of view. The
maintenance of the Hebrew language for
religious purposes has helped to maintain
the solidity of Jewry in the face of per-
secution.
* * * «
“Pittosporum”: An Australian book
rare as the first edition of Fergus Hume’s
Mystery of a Hansom Cab is Charles
Harpur’s paper-covered series of sonnets
Thoughts, published in 1845. The only
known copy is in the Mitchell Library.
Another rare Australian book is A Jour-
nal of Discovery to Port Phillip, by the
explorers Hume and Hovell, printed
about 1831. The Mitchell Library has
no copy ; the Melbourne Public Library
has one —obtained recently by a bit of
good luck. There are two copies in the
Colonial Office, London.
* * *
“El V.”: I don’t like to butt into this
Danzig business, which seems to be too
complicated for comfort already, but has
anybody thought of asking my old friend
T. J. Ley to take a hand? T.J., once
the spearhead of the N. S. Wales Pro-
gressive party, a Minister of N. S. Wales
and the winner in Barton at the 1925
Federal elections, when he beat a Mac-
donald to the seat by a whisker, left Aus-
tralia a few years ago and went to the
northern Free City because it seemed to
be the only place free enough to allow
him to start a lottery on a Grand Baby-
lonian scale. Unfortunately, Dublin
proved itself to be an even freer city than
Danzig, and its pageantry of colleens
and shamrocks won the day for the Irish
sweeps. But if anybody could find
Ley and get him to raffle the Free City
itself, it might please everybody and save
a bit of bloodshed. Perhaps, however,
as Danzig was until recently governed by
an Irish Commissioner, the Ould Sod
might beat him at the post again.
* * * *
“Koura”: Because the “nationalisation
of the means of production, distribution
and exchange” is still the fundamental
tenet of the Labor party, M.L. farmers,
despite assurances from Mr. Savage to
the contrary, have always been afraid
that the Government would collar their
farms. A proclamation over some Maori
and European lands at Kuku, near Wel-
lington, leading the settlers to suppose
that they were to be shunted off in favor
of market gardeners (who were to be
shifted from Hutt Valley areas required
for housing), aroused really furious pro-
tests, culminating in one gentleman’s
statement, cabled to Australia, that “The
farmers weren’t going to take it lying
down—the only place they’d lie down
would be behind sandbags.” It was the
wildest talk heard in M.L. since the un-
employed rioted against the Coates-
Forbes Administration during the slump.
I haven’t seen any cables reporting the.
very tame sequel to it all —Mr. Savage’s
personal assurance to a deputation that,
despite the proclamation, the farms
would not be touched.
"What'll you have, sir? There's corny-crunchies an' weety-eaties an toasty- bixies!”
“Mac Hoots”; “Writing to the ‘Times’
about it” is almost as familiar a joke in
England as the plumber in “Punch,”
but the “Thunderer’s” correspondence
columns are a feature any newspaper
might envy. Four of the ten articles on
the two pages dealing mainly with en-
circlement in Uncabled Additions (B.
19/7/’39) were digests of letters to the
“Times,” and the writers were men as
distinguished as Norman Angell, Lord
Rennell, W. R. Bisschop (counsel to the
Dutch Legation) and Arnold Wilson,
M.P. Somewhat sadly I turn to my
Sydney “D.T.”—which is giving Aus-
tralia “leadership” - and read the
opinions of “Realist”:
A woman should have....a complete
lack of false modesty and foolish pride.
She should drink a little and so become
gay. Smoke if she pleases, talk wittily,
forget readily, dress smartly, cherish clean-
liness and use elusive perfume.
Tut!
•:< * *
“Jachris”: Forget the ballet-dancer,
the seagull, the eagle ; to-day I saw the
one thing more graceful than anything
else I ever expect to see again—a sail-
plane. Bright blue with golden wingtips,
it hovered 500 ft. above the earth with the
sun behind it. It swooped and dived and
turned, came sliding in on its side to-
wards the ground, swept along at a speed
of about 30 miles per hour with one wing
only sft. above the grass, straightened out
and landed on its skid. Brought from
England, it cost something like £3OO to
land here. It’s made of light plywood,
the wings hollowed, half wood, half
“doped” fabric which looks like vellum,
constructed exactly on the lines of a gull
with the wings set into the body in the
same manner. It has an instrument-
board —altimeter, land-speed indicator,
instruments for blind flying—everything
a ’plane has except an engine. Towed
behind a ’plane to a distance of five
miles from the ’drome and there set loose,
it came gliding into that small field every
time. It does everything a bird does
gliding on a wind, but it can’t flap its
wings every few minutes. It can be seen
in the air over Camden (N.S.W.) any
week-end. Shortly, when summer brings
warm upward currents of air, it is pro-
posed to fly it the 30 miles from Camden
to Mascot.
*
“Ente Marid”: No doubt we are a
prosperous people. You see the marks
of it on every hand. In London, for
instance, they have adopted a traffic-
direction system under which a constable
with a hand microphone plods the streets
and admonishes and advises jay-walkers.
In Sydney the same duty is done by a
couple of coppers who look as if they
owned the Stock Exchange, and who
make their parade in a limousine grand
enough to have been borrowed from
Government House. Then again, take
Parliament. I have scanned the whole
900 ft. frontage of the British Parliament
House and it seems to be all buildings.
Not so Sydney’s Parliament. Part of its
most valuable grounds facing on Mac-
quarie-street—a block about 140 ft. by
120 ft. deep—has been laid out in tennis
courts. A land agent assures me that the
market value of them is about £160,000.
And the day I see anybody playing on
them I am going to shout myseltf a
drink in the Parliamentary bar.
DISRAELI AND ZOE.
™. bloociliouncl Disraeli and the Alsatian
Zoe followed the scent of the escaped prisoner to a
point where he was picked up by a motor.”
—Sydney paper.
lney keep alive, ever alert and busy
In the performance of their canine trade,
Ihe memory of the illustrious Dizzy
And Byron s lovable Athenian maid,
A curious pair of partners, you’ll allow,
lhe Earl of Beaconsiield and Zoe Mou!
One s forebears guarded flocks in far Alsace’s
Pastures and kept marauding wolves at bay;
1 °l, r s t?ll9 wec * h ai 'd upon the traces
Ot New World planters’ slaves who’d run
away,
And nosed them out, in caves or trees or rocks,
Like ardent hounds accounting for a fox.
And now the twain, professionally mated —
But not in any other sense, of course—
Have risen to be regularly rated
t-l s mem bers of our law-and-order force.
They do their bit and draw their rations daily,
The knowing Zoe and the grim Disraeli.
They trail the lost through bushland’s dim
recesses
And guide the rescue party where to look;
And scarce a week but one or other presses
Hot on the heels of some elusive crook,
Namesakes of him who helped our Empire build
And her of whose allurements Byron trilled.
Dumb cops they might be styled, seeing their
vocal
Powers are restricted to a bark or bay,
Yet more articulate than all the local
Gadgets for pointing motorists the way.
Here’s luck and A 1 hunting, anyhow,
Dizzy the menacing and Zoe Mou!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


WBg%
ink'
V"
a
;
10 for M.
20 lor 1/S
Ml
h\
J»I|JOOIUS *|>ll HI OlSi J 4«!
Y.N3AVH3
■
m
mmmw
&
I SPECIALLY T 0 PR E VENT SORE THROATS ?«i«
POLITICAL POINTS
A Youth Unemployment conference
of Australian ministers has been held at
Melbourne. On the day it met an un-
employed lad of 18 destroyed himself in
Sydney, and beside the body was found a
note on which he had written ‘"No work,
no home, no friends” ; but the confer-
ence, though composed of very worthy
persons, was not inspired to passion or
energy. It concluded its labors on the
second day, having adopted a series of
conventional recommendations, the chief
of which was —of course —an inquiry by
a royal commission—a special royal com-
mission. If the “special” royal commis-
sion is appointed and N.S.W. precedents
are followed, a very long and utterly
useless report may be expected about the
end of 1941.
Nowadays nearly all the crimes of
violence, murders excepted, are com-
mitted by workless youngsters—most of
the murders seem to be the work of
brooding half-wits with a family history
of insanity. A case which should make
N.S.W. politicians ponder was that of a
young fellow who walked into a ham-
burger shop and demanded money, pre-
tending to have a pistol in his pocket.
Refused the money, he walked out and
was followed and arrested. He explained
that he was half-crazed and half-dead
with hunger, and the arresting constable
testified that at the lockup he “ate
ravenously.” At Quarter Sessions he
pleaded guilty and was bound over. He
was an unemployed clerk aged 24. The
chances are that some mincing imitation
of Joan Crawford has his job and doesn’t
need it.
Blackburn, the Victorian lawyer-poli-
tician, has been reproved by Menzies for
saying he is not going to fill in his
national-register cards. As a Common-
wealth member he has sworn that he
“will be faithful and bear true allegiance
to his Majesty the King, his heirs and sue
cessors, according to law.” If that oath
and the oaths taken by State members
are not sufficient to compel obedience to
the laws of Australia on the part of
persons who have a hand in making the
laws of Australia, the oaths ought to be
strengthened, and the penalty should be
expressly stated. That, of course, should
be expulsion.
Reds are uneasily wondering whether
the “boycott” of the national register can
advantage them after all. Since Mos-
cow’s tail went down, they have been,
active for collective security, which im-
plies the sending of Australian soldiers
wherever Moscow would like them to
go. But many boys of the boycott breed
have got it into their muddled heads that
the register is a device for sending them
abroad, and they don’t want to go. Others
have been stirred by vague memories of
and misinformation about the anti-con-
scription campaigns. Others again have
no coherent ideas, save a desire to nark
the blanky Government, all non-Labor
Governments being blanky.
Sydney “D.T.,” robbed of its Russian
alliance —which was to have been ex-
tended to the Far East if it had its way —
demands the admission of Churchill,
Eden and Duff Cooper to the British
Ministry. How about giving them the
0.8. F. (Order of British Fire-eaters)
instead?
If Chamberlain’s policy ever gets a
good word at “national” stations, it must
be by accident. People would like to
hear Menzies and Curtin on foreign
affairs, especially as they are much more
interesting speakers than “The Watch-
man,” Kurt Offenburg, Roberts and the
herd of Russian-alliance dons and domi-
nees, but Mr. Moses —no relation to
Moses of the Bulrushes —“explains”
that he can't find time to put Men-
zies or Curtin on. He finds plenty
for “The Watchman” and Roberts.
One night last week the public had
Roberts droning that Italy, as well
as Germany, is broke, and “The Watch-
man” bellowing that Hitler is driving
towards the East. A few weeks ago he
had Hitler driving towards the West.
Stevens has had two stormy meetings
with the dissatisfied rump of his party,
and after the second meeting Spooner
resigned. The dissatisfied rump has hazy
ideas about financial reform and wants
more funds for unemployed-relief or
CENTENARY FOREBODINGS.
“At a sparsely-attended centenary commemorative ceremony in Centennial Park, members
of the Federal and State Parliaments deplored the apathy of the public towards the memory
of Parkes. When the ceremony started, about 20 people were grouped round the dais.
“Hey, what did ’e do, mister?”
something ; and .Stevens is trying to ex-
plain that the Budget wasn’t faked and
that he can’t find any more easy money,
since the Commonwealth Bank refuses to
make it. Study of the reports leaves it
doubtful whether the head of the party
or the dissatisfied rump is the greater
calamity.
Heavily as Stevens has fallen in the
estimation of the public and his own
party, he still has an adoring press. It
adores him so much that it toned down
young Robson’s assertion, made at the
party meeting, that Spooner had told him
the Budget was “faked.” In the same issue
the principal U.A.P. organ remarked
indignantly that Stevens had “offered the
Federal Government the organisation of
the State Works and Main Roads Depart-
ments to speed the defence-works pro-
gramme,” and that acceptance has been
delayed “because of jealousy in Federal
departments or resentment at being dis-
turbed out of their measured routine.”
Perhaps there are other reasons. It may
have been discovered that Stevens’s de-
partments have been concentrating on
things like the railway to Cronulla,
Olympic swimming pools and scenic
roads. Surfers’ railways, Olympic swim-
ming pools and scenic roads won’t stop
an enemy, and financially they are a total
loss.
Fed up with strikes against industrial
awards, Maoriland Labor put through a
measure empowering Minister Webb to
deregister unions thus defying the law.
He said he would start with the Fertiliser
workers, who have been running a beau-
tiful strike in Auckland. At the same
time a handful of gangers and fettlers at
Ivanhoe (N.S.W.) and other points had
come out for another 15s. a week for
four hours’ less work, plus another
week’s annual leave, and stopped the
running of Sydney-Broken Hill trains.
They too have an award, but the Stevens
Government has taken no action. In
everything except taxing, borrowing and
spending, action and the Stevens Govern-
ment are not even distant acquaintances.
Roberts, the Sydney professor, “argu-
ing” in the newspapers which syndicate
his stuff that Germany is reduced to a
choice between war and inflation, ob-
served that “a commentator is always
tempted to make any problem unduly
logical.” If so, the average commen-
tator resists the temptation with masterly
skill. Perhaps Roberts was “unduly
logical” when he assured his public that
Czechoslovakia was “enormously wealthy
and strong” and could whip the Fritzes
without any foreign help—“hold the
ridges from Eger to the Oder.”
Monday’s reports on the “formula”
agreed to by Britain and Japan suggested
that J. Bull had had to recognise the
realities of the situation in China. Two
points of the formula given out by the
“Times” were “a recognition of the Japa-
nese Army’s right to protect interests in
occupied areas,” and “no encouragement
to be given to activities embarrassing the
army’s action.” However, the Foreign
Office’s latest word was that the nego-
tiations were not yet over.
There was an impression in Victoria
that Dr. Shields, M.L.A. for Castlemaine
and Kyneton, and locally famous for his
pointed remarks on the ways of consti-
tuents with members, might stand for a
Federal seat. The doctor has dispelled
the impression by holding forth again on
the “continual form of polite blackmail
to which members are subjected.” He
said he couldn’t remember all the foot-
ball and cricket clubs of which he was
patron, not because he was eminent in
football or cricket or renowned for his.
love of either, but because he was ex-
pected to give trophies.
All the average elector thinks about is
what he can get out of his member, and
I don’t think he cares twopenn’orth of
gin who his member is.
The doctor closed with the supereroga-
tory announcement that he won’t stand
again.
In full revolt against Roosevelt, the
Senate has refused even to discuss his
proposals for Neutrality Act alterations
permitting the sale of arms and muni-
tions to Britain and France in the event
of war —that is what they amounted to,
although expressed differently. The Presi-
dent has had to content himself with a
verbal protest (“the Senate’s failure to
act now will weaken the leadership of
the United States in exercising its potent
influence in the cause of preserving
peace”), and hoping that Congress will
have changed its mind when it meets
again in January. The noisy friends of
Russia have a lot to answer for.
The De Bernales affair is sure to have
political repercussions in Westralia. Even
when De Bernales was in all his glory
he had critics in both Houses who pro-
tested that he seemed to be running the
Mines Department, and T. J. Hughes,
for one, is not likely to lose such an
opportunity of returning to the attack.
It’s an unwritten law in the U.S.A. that
Presidents (and Chief Justices) retired
from business should keep out of poli-
tical controversies. As the first Aus-
tralian-born Governor-General, Isaac
Isaacs could, and should, have set a
corresponding precedent. He has chosen
not to do so. This will be quoted by ill-
disposed people next time the appoint-
ment of an Australian-born G.-G. is pro-
posed.
Isaac Isaacs wants official Australian
support for an alliance with that “great
and powerful nation” Russia, and Isaac
Isaacs likened the Communist-inspired
Port Kembla effort to embroil this coun-
try with Japan to the struggle at Eureka.
Pity he wasn’t in the gallery at “the
opening of the N.S.W. conference of the
Communist party,” but he can read about
it in the “Workers’ Weekly.” There he
will find that one of the principal
speakers was “Jim Healy, general secre-
tary of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion” and a ringleader at Port Kembla.
Comrade Healy was fresh from the
A.CXU.’s national-register-boycott con-
ference, and full of it. Comrade Sharkey,
“chairman of the Central Executive of
the Communist party,” contrasted “the
mighty Soviets, confident of protecting
themselves,” with “the ramshackle Brit-
ish Empire,” which the Sharkeys and
Healys, though it protects their precious
skins, hold in contempt.
Evidently Kipling is no longer read
by British politicians. It was Kipling
who warned a Government of which the
elder Chamberlain was a member against
a European entanglement that might end
in Britain being “wrecked on a Baltic
bar.” He also warned it against a Rus-
sian alliance—“ Take ye no truce with
Adam-zad, the Bear that walks like a
man.”


KID GLOVES.
"The job of making soldiers of militiamen must be done ‘with kid gloves,’ for the instructions forbid bullying, rudeness and sarcasm.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. • • £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. •. •• •• 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE; 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
BRITAIN, JAPAN AND CHINA
THE LOAN COUNCIL
AND
SECURITY PRICES
MINES AND METALS
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2 /- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The musical authority of Adelaide is
Prof. Edward Harold Davies, for 21
years Elder Professor of Music at Adel-
aide Uni. and Director of the Elder Con.
English-born, a brother of composer Sir
Walford Davies, E.H. came to Australia
in 1887. He got his musical degrees at
DR. E. H. DAVIES.
Adelaide Uni. —Mus. Bac. 1896, Mus.
Doc. 1902. His doctorate was the first
in music conferred by an Australian Uni.
Prof. Davies was the founder and first
conductor of the S.A. Orchestra and also
of the Adelaide Bach Society. He has
been organist at many churches. One
of his hobbies is research into aboriginal
music, and he has made many gramo-
phone records of the chants of Centralian
natives.
John Brownlee, returning next month
for another concert tour, was one of
Melba’s numerous army of proteges.
He was a clerk at Geelong studying ac-
countancy when his winning of a Bal-
larat competition turned his thoughts to
singing as a profession; but it was the
diva who gave him the confidence to go
to Europe for further tuition. He re-
mained ever after in tremendous awe of
the outspoken lady, and on one occasion
when he was rehearsing grand opera in
Melbourne he showed how much her
opinion meant to him. She suddenly
snapped out: “You sang that note flat,
John!” Although he was then one of
the world’s leading baritones, Melba’s
remark boned him so completely that for
years afterwards he could not sing cer-
tain-songs in which the note played an
important part.
“Auck”: “The local brewer” who has
been tipped by the press to succeed Lord
Galway as Governor-General of M.L., is
knight Ernest Davis, Mayor of Auckland
since 1935. He was born at Nelson
in 1872. His father, H. Moss Davis,
came to M.L. from London at 14, en-
tered commercial life, and became boss
of Hancock and Co., brewers and wine
and spirit merchants, of which firm his
son is now managing director. Ernest
Davis’s mother was a Miss Leah Jacobs,
of Melbourne.
“S.T.S.”: The kindly notes about Will
Ashton (B. 28/6/’39), though all well
deserved, have one odd omission—the
lack of any reference to his father. James
Ashton (affectionately known as “Jimmy”
to all Adelaide for half a century) was a
fine painter, mainly of seascapes; he
turned out too much work, but at his
best —as may be seen in various galleries
—was really good. And he was an even
better teacher. His son and pupil, before
he went to the war, was recognised as
one of the four young painters of genius
in Adelaide, the others being Heysen,
Power and Hayley Lever. Having learned
all that his father could teach him, Will
wisely went abroad to learn more. The
rest is a matter of history ; but I am sure
he would be the first to admit the lasting
value of that early training in his own
home.
James Lamb, dead in Adelaide at 97,
and active till the end, was best known
for wide prospecting during the West-
ralian gold boom, including a sporting
trip with camels overland from Port
Augusta in S.A. Among other experi-
ences, he claimed to have been bushed
in the scrub within the boundaries of
the city of Adelaide. He was at the Vic-
torian diggings as early as 1852, when
his father took out gold by the pound
weight, and was one of the originals on
Ophir and Lewis Ponds (N.S.W.). Also
he was one of the first dozen inhabitants
of Broken Hill.
Australia’s old friend Captain Avern,
of the Moreton Bay, has command of
the motor-ship Wai-
marama, 11,000
tons, just arrived in
our waters on her
maiden voyage.
The Shaw, Savill
and Albion line is
to follow her up
almost at once with
a sister ship, the
Waiotara.
From London:
Robert Helpman,
of Adelaide, stead-
ily going ahead in
ballet, has danced
the big part of
Satan in a “Job”
masque at Sadler’s
Wells, based on
Blake’s famous de-
signs. On the other
hand, Cyril Ritch-
ard, even better
known in Austra-
lia, is burlesquing
the whole idea of
ballet in a revue at
the Little Theatre,
where he throws
about an “Allova”
who is in reality
Hermione Badde-
ley; and he pleas-
antly calls himself
“Helpmeet” for
the purpose.
Yesterday was
the centenary of an
event of special im-
portance to N. S.
Wales—the arrival in Sydney of a penni-
less “bounty emigrant,” Henry Parkes,
with his wife and infant son. Parkes’s
capital was a stock of unflinching
Chartist and nonconformist principles,
some skill as an ivory turner, and some
experience on the humbler rungs of the
journalistic ladder. Despite his trouble
with aspirates and the utter lack of
humor demonstrated in his poetic
effusions, he was a reader and a thinker,
and, given the opportunity, soon dis-
played no small degree of political talent.
In his first years in the colony he was
successively a farm laborer, ironmonger's
assistant, foundry laborer, tide-waiter,
shopkeeper and newspaper editor. He
was Premier of N. S. Wales 1872-75 ;
six months in 1877 ; 1878-83 ; 1887-1889,
and 1889-91. The cause of Australian
federation was with him a ruling passion.
“Hop,” of The Bulletin, who car-
tooned Parkes’s political career with
utter disrespect, showed occasionally that
he really admired the old battler, and his
tribute on Parkes’s death in 1896 —the
little boy at Manly dropping a tear
while closing a big volume —exactly re-
flected general Australian sentiment.
Archdeacon George Nickells Bishop,
Australia’s oldest Anglican cleric, died
last week in Melbourne when almost 90
years of age. English-born, he soon culti-
vated an Australian outlook. He went
out of his way to help the underdog, and
did many a good deed that has never
been recorded.
“Scotty” (G. U.) Allan is the Admirable
Crichton of Australian flying. He began
his aerial life as a cadet in the R.F.C.
and became a second-lieutenant the fol-
lowing year. After the war, when there
were not enough commissions to go
round, he rejoined the R.F.C. in 1925
as a pilot sergeant, and was a member
of the team which won the Lloyd Cup
for an endurance flight in Egypt in 1928.
Then he came to Australia to join Kings-
ford Smith’s A.N.A., and flew the first
commercial airmail flights Sydney to
Brisbane, Sydney to Melbourne, Mel-
bourne to Hobart and Australia-England-
Australia, Australia-Maoriland and Aus-
tralia-New Guinea. In 1934 he went to
Qantas, and now has over 10,000 flying
hours to his credit. “Scotty” can do
anything on an aerodrome or in an aero-
“ SCOTTY ” ALLAN, PILOT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
plane. He has enough certificates to
paper a landing-ground, and he knows
enough about weather, wireless, ground
engineering and other phases of the game
to go off to another planet and start an
aerial industry of his own. Kingsford
Smith placed him among the world’s first
half-dozen pilots.
J. Darvall Hunt, president of the N. S.
Wales Dental Association, was a noted
athlete before he took up gum-digging,
being at one time half-mile running
champion of N. S. Wales. He was a
member of the I. Zingari cricket club
in its palmy days, and since has always
maintained a cricket team of his own
which he takes on tour in all directions.
He is a life member of the Rugby Union,
J. DARVALL HUNT.
and on the sedater side of life is on the
board of the Royal North Shore Hos-
pital. He was born at Ryde 54 years ago.
Judge Fitzhardinge, who died at his
home at Pennant Hills, near Sydney, on
Sunday at the age of 94, was Sydney-
born. He was a graduate of Sydney Uni.,
practised at the Bar from 1868 to 1890,
and then sat for 28 years on the District
Court Bench. His jurisdiction covered
a wide circuit, and in the course of his
judicial duties he travelled much on
horseback or driving a sulky. At times
he acted as a Judge of the Supreme
Court. He retired in 1918.
Charles MacMahon Shaw, a cousin of
Bernard Shaw and author of Bernard’s
Brethren, is a retired Melbourne bank
manager. His book is all about “Cousin
Bernard” and Charles’s recollections of
him as a lean, red-headed boy in the
Dublin of 1871. The Australian Shaw is
a descendant of knight Charles Mac-
Mahon, who was Speaker of the Vic. Leg.
Ass., and further back in his ancestry
is the MacMahon who was President of
France.
One of the plums of the English musi-
cal world, a post as assistant director of
the Royal College of Music, carrying
with it a Fellowship, a seat on the council
of directors and membership of the pro-
fessorial board, has come the way of a
Maorilander, Hugo V. Hansen, son of
Dr. G. E. Hansen, of Lower Hutt. Hugo
Hansen, who received his musical train-
ing in England, has been established there
for many years as a teacher.
In Sydney last week was the much-
travelled J. H. Curie, writer of various
entertaining books about his wanderings
in pursuit of his profession as a mining
engineer. He has been on the wing for
53 years, during which period he has
ransacked both Americas, Africa, the
whole of Central Europe, Russia, China,
Japan, Malaya and Maoriland. His Aus-
tralian travels so far have included calls
at Fremantle, Adelaide, Alice Springs,
Darwin and Cloncurry.


KIDNEY TROUBLE
Can you pass this
vittt-W
list
Ask yourself these questions NO W!
Decide which question in each group is most applicable to you, and score the number of points indicated.
» X.
"
1
(a) Are you subject to
severe backache?
(5 points )
(b) Does your back ache
now and again?
(10 points )
(c) Are you completely
free from backache?
(25 points)
2
(a) Are your joints
swollen or painful?
(5 points)
(b) Does damp weather
cause stiffness in
your joints?
{lO points)
(c) Are you free from
joint pains?
(25 points )
IT,
m
\
j
3
(a) Is Rheumatism caus-
ing you severe pain?
(5 points )
(b) Do you experience
mild attacks of
Rheumatism?
(10 points)
(c) Are you entirely free
from Rheumatism?
(25 points)
4
(a) Have you experi-
enced definite signs
of Kidney trouble?
(5 points)
(b) Do you suspect that
your Kidneys are
weak? (io points)
(c) Are your Kidneys
strong and healthy?
(25 points)
m
m
YOUR HEALTH
Question 1.
Question 2
Question 3
Question 4
TOTAL
TEST SCORE:
If your score is 70 or
under you have failed in
this health test —your
Kidneys are apparently
out of order and need
immediate attention. We
strongly recommend that
you take a course of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
is the leading Kidney
Tonic sold in Australia.
If you wish to try Gin Pills before purchasing
them from your Chemist, fill in the coupon below
and we will be glad to forward you a trial package
free of charge. Gin Pills are a natural Kidney
Tonic which do not contain any harsh or injurious
substances and are specially made to correct any
weakness or inflammation of the Kidneys. Don’t
experiment with substitutes —get the genuine
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which have proved
successful for all Kidney Troubles for over 30
years. There is no better Kidney Remedy obtain-
able than Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
0*
Mm,
-c
JVS
°ou
r 27 Pills 1/9
60 Pills 2/9
GIN PILLS
FOR BACKACHE, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, JOINT
PAINS, and all KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLES.
B J l5.
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 201 D, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
/ have failed in the health test, my score
being Please send me,
absolutely free of charge, a trial package of
Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills.
| Mr. 1
NAME i Mrs. f
: Miss |
STREET
TOWN
STATE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pepper!”
“Old-timer”: The Wimmera cocky was
paying us well and we thought little
about him until there came among us
one of those blokes —you know ’em —
who’re always skiting about the way they
told their last boss off and what they’re
going to tell this one if he doesn’t look
out. Inside a week this bloke had us
eyeing the boss truculently, and it only
needed him to say something out of his
turn and I believe any one of us would
have flown into him. We were building
a big haystack and the boss had brought
us down some crib. He gathered up the
things, looked over the stack, and said,
“I want that corner squared off ; and
bring them sheaves out on the eaves. I
want a straight face this side. And I
want less waste on the ground.” He
passed round the corner of the stack,
and our man grimaced after him, growl-
ing threateningly, “I know what you
want —an’ what you’ll get!” “What!”
said the cocky, reappearing. Growler
gasped. “You want that corner squared
off, them sheaves brought out, less waste,
and —you’ll get it,” he got out, heaving
himself into that stack as though he
loved it.
$ $ * *
“Tom Willie”: The snake that lay
submerged in water for two hours (B.
5/7/’39) was pulling “Ophir’s” leg. A
post-mortem will reveal one single lung,
half the length of the wriggler’s body.
This is actually a reptilian air-bladder,
on the same principle as the alligator’s
or frog’s. Froggie carries his in his
throat, and from this arose the legend
that he could blow himself out to many
times his own size. Joe cannot increase
his dimensions by the intake of air, but
while air remains in his lung he can live
under water, the limit being about 20
minutes. Coming up close to the surface,
he watches his enemy, and if the coast
is not clear he pokes his nose just out
of the water and fills the air-bag again.
He may keep on repeating the perform-
ance until the watcher agrees to a peace
pact or goes to war with another foe.
If the snake happens to be in a river
he’ll make along the bank and get out
at a safe place. The reptile in the ship’s
tank ran out of self-contained air and
so joined his ancestors.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Dad Slocum had
got a farm hand from the Labor Bureau.
He sent him down the paddock the
second morning to catch a horse. “The
one with the bald face,” he instructed.
There were a dozen horses in the pad-
dock, and the new hand went from one
to another, inspecting each from a close-
up frontal position. He was away an
hour, and eventually returned with empty
bridle. “The bald-face horse must ’ave
got out,” he reported. “All them that’s
in the paddock’s got ’air on their faces.”
» * * *
“Myzomela”: Anyone who takes a
torch at night and investigates the roost-
ing place of birds will see some peculiar
attitudes. Some birds tuck the head
under the wing ; others bury the head in
the fluffy feathers above the tail, the bent
neck passing on the outside of the wing.
Probably the queerest are adopted by
some species of finches. They perch in
line along a twig, and if there are three
birds or more the middle one keeps both
feet on the twig, the birds on either side
leaning on him and keeping only the
outside foot on the twig ; if there are only
two they lean against each other. These
sleep with the head straight and not
tucked away at all. One can generally
tell from the plumage how birds will
roost: fluffy, long-feathered birds like fly-
catchers puff themselves up into a ball
and bury the head over the tail; birds
with soft but short feathers tuck the head
under the wing; those with short stiff
feathers generally sleep with the head
straight.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: It was a dead calm day,
slack tide and the sea like a sheet of glass.
In the shallows of King Sound (W.A.)
fish, mullet, whiting, garfish, pike and
parrotfish lazed along by the literal ton.
But never a one would take a bait, and
we were not only fish-hungry, but very
hungry, anyhow. It looked like plain
damper until Charcoal and his two gins
happened along. Infinitely amused at
our footling white-pfeller methods, Char-
coal unlimbered a fishing kylie—a boom-
erang with a difference. Instead of the
usual easy curve of the flight boomerang,
this kylie curved sharply, almost making
a right angle. Grasping the longer arm,
and With the curved back upwards, Char-
coal launched the weapon at the water.
Whirling like a wheel it chopped into a
lazy shoal, stunning, breaking backs and
altogether collecting half a dozen before
its velocity was expended. Gleefully the
gins retrieved the catch and the kylie,
which floated. A few seconds, and again
a school swam lazily by. Again the kylie
whirled and ploughed deep. Fifteen
minutes of this, and the gins had their
dillybags full, and there was a couple
of dozen that Charcoal was willing to
exchange for (to him) the very handsome
price of a stub of plug tobacco no bigger
than his thumbnail.
$ $ ' sfe $
“Beat”: I, too, like “Y. the L.” (B.
21/6/’39), used to drive around plovers’
nests when ploughing in the W.A. wheat-
belt, until an ignorant cocky-boss in-
formed me that he didn’t want “half
his damned land missed because of a
few so-and-so plovers.” Determined not
to smash the feathered heroines’ hap-
piness, I tried transferring the few green
speckled eggs, along with the few sticks
proudly looked upon as nests, to the
ploughed ground. Results were in every
case satisfactory—next rouncj mother was
carrying on business as usual.
* * * *
“Induna”: Either “Red Jacket” (B.
7/6/’39) has forgotten his “electrics and
magnetism” or else someone was pulling
his leg about having a wide brass band
to insulate marine compasses. The
ordinary magnetic compass is subject to
deflections by all the various steel or iron
portions of the ship. In addition, the
power of terrestrial magnetism varies
greatly according to the latitude of the
ship, being practically useless in very
high latitudes. All the permanent iron,
masts, funnels, hull, etc., is compensated
for by magnets in the compass standard.
Vessels carrying iron in their cargo have
to be particularly careful of deviation
caused this way, and the Marine Board
would be in order in accepting the
presence of such a cargo as a reason (not
an excuse) for faulty navigation, but only
if the master could show that it had been
impossible to ascertain the new deviation
caused by cargo. Many places have
local attraction caused by large iron de-
posits near the sea bed. The Derwent
mouth (Tas.) throws compasses seven to
ten degrees out near the Iron Pot Light.
The only sure way to navigate with
magnetic compasses is to check at least
once each watch by sun, moon or stars,
and in most ships this is a matter of
routine.
“J.W.T.”: On the last voyage of
H.M.A.S. Encounter to Westralia in 1920
a wire rope erected to carry seamen’s
washing was sufficient to disturb the
recognised deviation. Near Iron Knob
in S.A. and Magnetic Island, near Towns-
ville, the compass is seriously affected.
Were it not for such deviations there
would have been no necessity for the in-
vention of the gyro compass.
* * * *
“Flat-foot Floogey”: That Martin-
place Aboliar who recently asserted that
a ’roo’s tail hits the ground while jump-
ing should see a newsreel in slow motion
now going the rounds. It shows one of
the marsupials in full flight; its body
held well forward, its rudder kept straight
out to maintain balance. Now if the tail
did hit the ground at every stride the
underpart would be worn away like the
seat of a politician’s trousers. Have a
look at it; it’s as well covered as Rey-
nard’s.
* * *
“Yarra Ben”: The search for petrol
in Australia has led to the finding of
large quantities of lubricating oil; there
is petrol with it, but separating would not
be commercially attractive. One of the
most valuable deposits, according to en-
thusiasts, is at Lakes Entrance (Vic.).
The oil flows up thickly from several
wells, practically ready for use for motor-
car engines and other heavy machinery.
So far all is satisfactory, but issue is
joined the moment you mention the
origin of the oil. There are the whale
advocates, the shark and small-fish ad-
herents. What light can any Abo.
Diogenes throw on the subject? Mineral
oil and vegetable oil are beside the point.
But what caused animal oil to be de-
posited in huge cavities in a land that
apparently is otherwise oil-less? And
why is it sweet-smelling and consistent
throughout in texture and quality?
* $ #
“Cam Cove”: Another institution
which has gone out with the march of
progress is the old bush nurse. The craft
now skims over the bitumen roads in fast
cars, answering in a moment the urgent
telephone call. One of the best-known
identities in the Buchan (Vic.) district
was old Mrs. Whelan. More than 1000
times in her life she left her bed to gallop
through the mountain forests, and she
never lost a case. She rode side-saddle
with her bundle strapped on the pommel,
and the anxious young fathers-to-be
could not leave her behind in a hard,
dark ride over the rough country. “lie
a white handkerchief around your neck, ’
she would say, “and I’ll follow you any-
where.” She would, too, and she’d pull
up in a dead-heat when the sliprails were
reached and a well-meaning light showed
in the window of the cottage. After that
her guide might as well have been an
old rag for all the use she had for him.
He’d be bundled out and told to get off.
When at last she’d call him in from the
stable or barn they’d sit down and be
human over a cup of tea and plate of
toast.
* * * *
“Colebrook”: I’ll back the frog to
emit the greatest volume of sound from
within the smallest compass against any-
thing that breathes. Was roused by what
in my sleeping moments I thought to be
the blast of a policeman’s whistle. In-
vestigating, I found the kitten playing
with an inch-long garden croaker which
made the rafters echo each time puss gave
it a gentle pat.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”: As “Tom Willie” sug-
gests (B. 5/7/’39), there are few things
more fascinating to watch than the shap-
ing of a horseshoe under the hammer of
a skilful smith. In almost every smithy
you will find an audience of idlers, adult
and juvenile, to watch the smith at his
black art. What a chance the Royal
Show people are missing! A horseshoe-
ing contest run on similar lines to those
conducted by English and Scottish show
committees would surely draw the
crowds. After all, there must be thou-
sands of people in the city who have
never seen a horse shod, and the farriers
might even rival the woodchoppers in
popularity. And such contests would tend
to raise the standards of the trade.
CASEY’S BEER.
It happened many years ago in Dan Magee’s
hotel.
A crowd was gathered round the bar —I knew
the fellows well.
Magee had something up his sleeve (he had
the sergeant’s ear—
The sergeant liked a pot himself and swore by
Danny’s beer).
Tim Casey dropped along one night—a thirsty
soul was Tim —
And Dan Magee took down a pot and filled it
to the brim:
A pot of lovely bitter ale, foam-capped and
amber-clear —
Tim placed it gently on the bar, for Casey loved
his beer.
His cherrywood was in his hand —its bowl was
like a jug.
He had a look around the bar, and borrowed
someone’s plug.
It was a habit Casey had, the weed was far
too dear:
He couldn’t waste his cash on that—he wanted
it for beer.
What happened next I can’t explain, I really
hate to tell:
The lik-** was never seen before in Dan Magee’s
hotel.
It might have been an accident; a stranger
standing near—
A chimpanzee in human form —knocked over
Casey’s beer.
The pot plonked down upon the floor, it
sounded like a knell,
And on the crowd around the bar an awful
silence fell.
A swagman in the corner swooned; the
stranger shook with fear,
But never stayed to pay the price for spilling
Casey’s beer.
The ale went trickling down the bar, and Casey
stood like stone,
Till somewhere from his chest there came a
dreadful muffled moan.
The sound that came from Casey’s throat I
never hope to hear —
It shook the bottles on the shelf: “’E spilt
me pint o’ beer!”
The look of pain on Casey’s face it pierced
us to the core,
As with a last despairing moan he sank upon
the floor.
We stooped to hear his last faint words —we
knew the end was near.
He closed one eye and gave a sigh: “’E spilt
me pot o’ beer!”
The graveyard lies across the road, a stone-
throw from the pub,
And poor Tim Casey lies asleep beneath a big
green shrub;
And on the stone above his head you’ll read
in letters clear:
“Here lies Tim Casey; R.I.P. A stranger
spilt his beer.”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


"ThistlethWaite, I refuse to argue. That represents MY views."
“Gravelsnatcher”: The population of
Woggerup could be roughly divided into
two groups: the Cassidyites and the
Hooleyites. So when Hooley clumsily
jostled the Cassidy elbow (bent) he
started something that the bar-room
couldn’t hold. There was hardly a man
in town who didn’t swing a fist or a belt,
and the following morning the J.P. had
an imposing list of damages to fasten
on to somebody. He singled out the
two leaders first. “Now, Cassidy,” he
said, “let’s have your version.” Cassidy
was no scholar. “Me phwhat?” he asked,
apprehensively. “We want you to tell
us what it was you fought over,” the
Bench explained. “Oh! ’Twas over” —
he grinned at the recollection—“ ’twas
over half a moile av railway loine,
t’irty-foive heaps av road metal, an’ ”
refreshing a vivid memory with a glance
at his numerous bandages—“about twinty
t’ousand broken bottles.”
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare had a couple
of barrel hoops fixed up below his
mantelpiece for resting his feet in when
sitting before the fire. The other day I
found him removing the rings. “I’m
going to put up horseshoes instead,” he
beamed. “If I sit with my feet up in
t'em, surely I get te good news when te
big art-union winners broadcast to-night.”
* * * *
“Bufo”: “Koura” (B. 5/7/’39) over-
looks one kind of malignant and blood-
thirsty insect pest in which Maoriland
has it all over the rest of the world—-
sandflies. Years of experience of the
poisonous little fiends in Q., the N.T.,
New Guinea, the Dutch Indies and
Malaya inoculated me against their
venom except for momentary irritation
when they were actually on the job. At
least it did until I visited the North
Island in summer and really met sand-
flies. They were three times as big as
any I’d ever seen before, attacked in
ciouds, raised bumps as big as a pigeon’s
egg, and made a four-day cot-case of
me at our first meeting. The sores and
irritation lasted for a fortnight afterwards,
and the quack, himself a Maorilander,
told me that he had seen quite a few
cases of actual danger to life from sand-
fly bites in children and weakly persons.
The odoriferous addiction of qoastal
Maoris to rancid shark-oil as a cosmetic
is mainly a protective measure against
sandflies.
S-. *
“David”: The next capping-rail
squatter who tells me “they don’t breed
’em like they useter” when speaking of
the young Aussie is inviting a dumper.
In the Hunter Valley (N.S.W.) is a cow-
cocky who is badly crippled through a
hit-and-run maniac. At a recent sale a
4|-year unbroken gelding became his'
property; to-day it is broken to saddle,
harness and plough, thanks to his “boss”
—a kid who has just celebrated his thir-
teenth birthday.
* * % *
“Reef Dodger”: South Sea Island
natives can teach us a lot about fish
poisons. On certain islands they eat the
“toadie” any and every time; on other
islands only at certain seasons. Some
places they boil it two or three times and
pour the water off ; in others they re-
move the gall-bladder and liver as men-
tioned by “Chelaka” (B. 14/6/’39). Very
seldom does a native get fish-poisoning in
his own district, but it is not unusual for
him to do so when away from home.
Within native memory —less than 150
years—several canoe-loads of natives
were blown away from the island of Uea
(or Wallis Island), which is about 400 miles
n.-e. of Fiji, and after a perilous voyage of
some 2000 miles made a landing on the
north end of Uvea Island, an atoll of the
Loyalty Group near New Caledonia. In
recent times there has been, per medium
of the regular cargo steamers, some inter-
change of visits between distant relatives
living in these two places. Last year three
Wallis-Islanders were on Uvea, and while
fishing speared and ate a toadie. All
were dead within eight hours. On their
own island, which is also an atoll and
very similar to Uvea, the toadie was con-
sidered safe eating and something of a
delicacy.
# $ * *
“Satror”: For audibility range my bet
is the “boo” shell used by the N.Q. abos.
This is a species of conch with two holes
drilled in it; to one aperture Binghi
places his lips, using the other as an
alternately released and closed vent. The
noise which he produces by breathing
easily into the shell can be softly sooth-
ing or a devilish din as the sounder
desires. On a still night when the sea is
like glass I’ve heard the “boo” notes from
another island 12 miles away. On Torres
Strait islands the native councils of
tribal elders have instituted a curfew
sounded on it which no one can deny
hearing. Strangely enough, few Euro-
peans can make the shell articulate at
all.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: When I showed “En-
mac’s” par. (B. 28/6/’39) to old Fred,
the drover, he
snorted. “I see swag-
gies by the score,”
he informed me,
“but I’ve yet to see
one who carts round
a bottle of petrol to
start a fire in wet
weather. They use
the same dodge as I
do. At one time we
drovers used to cart
a bag of bull’s wool
—that’s dry, teased-
up stringybark, y’
know —with us in the
van or on a pack-
horse ; now we use
this stuff.” From
the back of the van
he produced a
biscuit-tin filled with
old motor tube
which had been
chopped into small
strips. “It stands on
its own,” he added ;
“see for yourself.”
Fred picked up some
soaking - wet gum
sticks, built them
into a criss-cross
heap and then dipped
a . strip of rubber
into a puddle.
“You couldn’t want a more severe test
than that, could you?” he inquired as
he cupped his hands around the wet
rubber and held a lighted match to one
comer of it. The rubber began to burn
within a few seconds ; when it was flaring
Fred poked it under the sodden sticks.
Within a minute the ends of the sticks
were oozing water and steam; within
another two minutes they were blazing
merrily; and there was still some rubber
unburned.
* ❖ sjc }’.{
“P.0.M.C.”: Recent enlistment of
bloodhounds by the N.S.W. police
prompts me to correct the commonly
mistaken idea that these dogs are born
with an extraordinary sense of smell.
This is false; their remarkable ability
to follow for miles the faintest scent is
acquired purely of necessity. Blood-
hounds inherit an optic weakness and
suffer partial or total loss of sight at
three or four years of age, Nature
compensating the defective sense by
abnormally strengthening the other. Nor,
contrary to the general belief, are blood-
hounds essentially savage; they never
attack a cornered quarry unless the
hunted one attempts to escape. Even
pampered house pets of doubtful breed
display this trait, and it is explained by
the fact that dogs acquire a fictitious
courage from the slightest exhibition of
fear. Moral: Don’t show timidity or
retreat from a snarling hound.
“Gindalbi”: That the migration of
birds may be influenced by radio waves
(B. 28/6/’39) is certainly a newy to me,
though 1 have often thought that some
birds —wild ducks, for instance—must
have some kind of a wireless system of
their own. Camped on Lake Lapage,
Kurnalpi (W.A.), we were laboriously
distilling the local brine in the effort to
obtain sufficient drinking water, rain
being something not even to be dreamt
of. Then for a couple of days we were
mystified by the considerable flights of
wild duck passing to the north. To the
south, whence these migrants had come,
there was certainly no surface water of
any size within 100 miles. Nor was there
any, so far as we knew, to the north.
Yet those ducks were going somewhere.
A week later we learned that there had
been a good downpour up around Lake
Carey. That, being 100 miles to the
north, gave a positive 200 miles of abso-
lutely dry territory across which the
ducks had scented water. That’s if they
did scent it, though it would be difficult
to comprehend how otherwise they knew
it was there. Later on, in half a dozen
different localities, I noticed the same
long-distance flying—though never quite
so far, for it was just possible that those
Kurnalpi ducks flew right from the Bight,
which would make the distance to Lake
Carey well over 300 miles.
* * * l'fi
“Mandurah”: Well, I dunno. Ever
since I was a kid paddling in the water
catching gobble-gutsers I’ve heard that
yarn about the cormorant eating seven
pounds of fish per day. And now that
I’m old enough to begin doubting these
things I want to know the authority for
the statement. My opinion is that the shag
doesn’t work hard enough to catch seven
pounds of finny provender per diem.
Mostly I see him and her sitting on a
post or a sandbank, though I’ve seen
them fly for miles to a mile-long school
of smelt or silver-eyes. But it would
take a lot of those tiny fellows to make
up seven pounds. And even at that the
smelt doesn’t stand still waiting to be
eaten. Possibly the big black cormorant,
which is the species trained by the
Chinese and Japs to work as fishers,
might go the seven pounds daily—but
fhen Blackie is a genuine worker ; those
other rail-sitters aren’t.
* ❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: At different times I’ve
owned three mongs that polished off
snakes, and always the procedure was
the same. The dog would sniff his way
up to the bush or tuft of grass, pause,
then, if possible, approach from the
opposite direction ; a few more sniffs and
the din would start. Yapping at one
place, moving away and coming in at
another point, the hound would keep
up the row until I was within a yard of
the bush. Not until then would he dart
in and give Joe the works. I’ve tried
walking away to see if the dog would
attempt a kill on his own, but, though
reluctant to leave the place, the canine
would not try the coup de grace alone.
Other chaps have told me their dogs are
the same.
“Where d’yer want it?"
OUT OF THE DEPTHS.
“•••••A bleak outlook faces Australia... .at the
present rate of consumption the artesian water supply
cannot possibly last long-. .. .one can readily visualise
a dry barren land....”— Extract from- a recent
tiloomy radio lecture.
Our country is bound for the dogs, that’s
admitted;
From superabundance it patently drifts.
We’re self-confessed boneheads, much less than
half-witted,
We dissipate Nature’s most bounteous gifts.
We live for the day— that’s our weakness
appalling;
Posterity ? Let it go hang! Here it’s proved :
Supplies of artesian water keep falling
And yet we regard the disaster unmoved!
Our softwoods we’ve slaughtered with reckless
abandon
And made little effort to have them re-
placed ;
While ringbarking's caused the encroachment
of sand on
What once was rich pasture and now is a
waste.
However the prodigal throwing about of
Such largesse may worry us nary a scrap,
There’s something that will, and admits not a
doubt of —
A well that contains not a skerrick to tap.
And so in our nonchalance onward we’re
going;
Perdition’s our end, as Blind Freddie could
see.
Calamity-howlers anticipate crowing
Their “Didn’t we tell you’s” with obvious
„ glee-
But, hst’ning to radio bosh, blah and blather
A thought comes (an insult I’d drown if I
could):
A boon and a blessing it would be if, rather,
The worst of our bores were to dry up for
good!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


TRUSTEESHIP
. I -
WITH an uncertain present and a still more
uncertain future, you are assuming a grave re-
sponsibility in accepting appointment as
Executor or Trustee of a friend s estate.
Therefore, despite any ties of affection or re-
lationship, you will be wise to counsel the
appointment of The Trustees Executors &
Agency Company Ltd. as Executor or Co-
Executor of the Will.
The Company has bad over 61 years ex-
perience in the administration of estates,
and its services are available at a fixed and
moderate fee. It also offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties.
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
ton
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,810
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Mai.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W.Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for h amilies.
five public dining rooms
lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 530 p.m (Sunday, 5.45 pja.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by * hone -.l.wi-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £>£>£,
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 ( 97 00 7 S9l n , Q
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J
1930.. 204,956 9 p.c. = 157,500 i .... Q . Q ... „
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ) d7 ’ 45b SoB,oi.>
1931.. 142,291 6* p.c.= 113,750 * 577
Written off premises, £lO,OOO 1 18 ’° 41 877,056
1932.-. 74,088 4 p.C.= 70,000 1 878 644
Written off premises, £2,500 5 I>oBB B ' B ’° 44
1933.. 75,540 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) o nm ssi r.aj
Written off premises, £2,500 i 3 ’ U4U 881 ’ 084
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) _ R7O re-
written off premises, £2,500 f "
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 _ R7 o 7fi7
Written off premises, £2500 J
1938 •• 73 ’ 848 4 p .- c - = 70 ’? 99 1 1, 448 879,935
Written off premises, £2500 ) *
1937.. 77,320 4| p.c. = 74,375 ) 446 880 ,380
Written off premises, £2500 (
193881 ’ 871 4 i?- c -= 78,750 7 421 880 B oi
Written off premises, £2500 \ ;
1939 84 ’ 892 4 SP-c. = 80,937 1 755 881,556
Written off premises, £3OOO )
Economic developments have left no
doubt as to the wisdom of the trading
banks’ action in opposing the idea of
compulsory deposits with the central
bank. Statutory obligations in this re-
spect would have narrowed the credit
base of the trading banks, thus limiting
their usefulness as lenders, which is their
chief use to the community, and that at
a time when a policy of all-round credit
expansion is being widely advocated. The
least the trading banks are interfered
with the better service will they con-
tinue to render the community ; and their
soundness and the service they have ren-
dered have been one of the pillars of
our strength.
The Q.N. does about nine-tenths of its
business in its home State, where it
gathers most of its deposits and makes
more advances than any other of the
associated banks. Last term the demand
for accommodation, largely from wool-
growers, continued to strengthen, and the
bank met it; advances moved up
£696,679:
1930. 1933. 1938. 1939.
Pjiid £
capital .. 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,015,095 2,727,584 2,690.133
Bills, etc. 348,219 302,531 370,616 384,204
Deposits . . 8,657,228 7,872,214 8.992,762 9,237,965
Liquid
assets . . 3,790,277 4,612,512 4,638,779 4,151,337
Advances. .10,423,181 8,694,760 9,563,812 10,260,491
Premises . . 527.173 549,253 558,549 573,593
The growth of £245,203 in deposits
mainly reflects the increased returns from
beef, sugar and dairy produce, which in
the aggregate more than offset the con-
traction in the State’s wool cheque.
Liquids were drawn upon for £487,442,
reducing them to 43.1 p.c. of the liabili-
ties to the public (excluding the intermin-
able stock) as against 49.5 p.c. at the
previous balance, whereas 40 p.c., or
thereabouts, is usually considered
adequate. The ratio of advances to
deposits was 111 p.c., compared with
106 p.c. at the previous balance and
120 p.c. at the close of accounts in
1930. Including the old deposit stock
with shareholders’ funds, the bank was
holding only 365. 2d. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own at
June 30. It is a very strong position,
but it all means low earning power.
During the year the interminable de-
posit stock was reduced by £37,451 on
account of open-market purchases by the
bank. This stock, an echo of the nineties
of last century, is costing 3 \ p.c. Since
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) are earning only 3.2 p.c., the
stock is more of a hindrance than a help
at the moment.
Despite the upward trend of costs and
unfavorable seasonal conditions over
most of the pastoral areas of the State
for about three-quarters of the term —it
was not until March and April that
general rains relieved the position—the
board was able to write net earnings
£3021 better than the previous year’s,
thanks largely to the better returns from
beef, sugar and dairy produce already
referred to, and to the increased activity
of urban traders. The £84,692 of profit
claimed (it was less than half the 1929
figure) was equal to 4.8 p.c. on capital
as against 4.6, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 4, 4.3, 4.2, 8.1,
11.7 and 12.1 p.c. back to 1929. The div.
was lifted from 4\ p.c. to 4f p.c., the final
being at the rate of 4f p.c. p.a. After
striking £3OOO off the book value of
premises, £755 was ploughed in, lifting
visible reserves to £881,556.
As for the current term, costs continue
on the up-grade and the tax bill will be
heavier. Also, isolated areas in the central
west of the State are still suffering from
dry conditions. Elsewhere seasonal pros-
pects promise a good volume of pro-
duction ; much, of course, will depend
upon the course of prices.
On the market the £5-paid shares fetch
945. as against 106 s. early in 1938. At
the lower figure the return is 5 p.c. on a
4\ p.c. div. basis. The cover is £7 10s. 4d.
in net tangibles ; a forceful market com-
mentary on the low earning power of
bank assets these days. At 15s. 6d. the
interminable stock returns 4.5 p.c.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd, (Sydney)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profit. Bonuses. serves, serves.
Jan., ’29 .. 15,375 20 p.c. = 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 . . 15,527 20 „ „ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O .. 15,074 20 „ ~13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O .. 17,448 20 „ ~13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l .. 3,281 14 „ „ 9,625 174,358
July, ’3l .. 1,141 Nil 1,141 175,499
Jan., ’32 .. 6,747 8 p.c. = 5,500 1,247 176,746
July, ’32 . . 8,242 8 „ „ 5,500 2,742 179,488
Jan., ’33 .. 9,679 10 „ „ 6,875 2,804 182,292
July, ’33 .. 14,346 10 „ „ 6,875 7,471 189,763
Transfer to inner reserves, £7471 .. 182,292
Jan., ’34 .. 13,258 12 p.c. = 8,250 5,008 187,300
Transfer to inner reserves, £5OOB .. 182,292
July, ’34 .. 11,921 12 p.c. = 8,250 3,671 185,963
Transfer to inner reserves, £3671.. 182,292
Jan., ’35 .. 14,313 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,063 188,355
Transfer to inner reserves, £6063 .. 182,292
July, ’35 . . 14,510 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,260 188,552
Transfer to inner reserves, £6260.. 182,292
Jan., ’36 .. 12,926 12 p.c. = 8,250 4,670 186,968
Transfer to inner reserves, £4676. . 182,292
July, ’36 . . 13,468 12 p.c. = 8,250 5,218 187,510
Transfer to inner reserves, £5218.. 182,292
Written off from inner reserves, ■
£2804 ; reserve disclosed, £12,926. . 195,218
Jan., ’37 .. 15,145 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,895 202,113
July, ’37 . . 11,887 12 „ „ 8,250 3,637 205,750
Jan., ’3B . . 17,255 13 „ „ 8,937 8,318 214,068
July, ’3B . . 14,939 14 „ „ 9,625 5,314 219,382
Building improvements, £1755 . . 217,627
Jan., ’39 . . 15,020 14 p.c. = 9,625 5,395 223,022
This stoutly-ribbed co. is in the produce,
agency and carrying business throughout
the back-country in N. S. Wales, and has
been for the last 59 years. Lately trading
conditions for the co. have been very
mixed. During most of the 1937 calender
year a dry spell greatly increased the
demand for stock food, while low prices
for wool and wheat delayed settlement
of accounts, and debtors’ balances con-
tinued to pile up. Toward the middle of
1938 good rains changed the seasonal
outlook, which has been brightened by
further falls since.
Still, the business kept on expanding,
gross earnings for the 12 months to the
end of January last being £4602 better
at £127,350. Including £7OOO (same as
for the previous term) reserved for tax-
ation, exes. (£97,391) took £3785 of the
increase, mainly on account of a higher
wages bill (£56,748, up £3029). The net
result was thus only £Bl7 better at
£29,959, or 21.7 p.c. on capital as against
21.2, 20.8, 19.9, 19, 20, 13.8 and 5.7 p.c.
back to 1932, which was the lowest point
this co.’s earnings touched during the
slump. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £1755 charged direct to reserves on
account of improvements to premises.
The div. was lifted from p.c. to 14
p.c. When the books closed reserves were
piled £85,522 higher than paid capital,
and the two combined need net only
5.3 p.c. to show 14 p.c. on capital alone.
Over the 20 years to the end of July,
1930, divs., which climbed from 10 p.c.
to 20 p.c., were sweetened with £45,000
of bonus scrip, a cash bonus of £25,000
was paid, £55,195 was brought from
hiding and put in the window, and an-
other £20,000 of inner reserves was used
to write down the book value of
premises. Then, for the first time since
1895, shareholders were passed by for
the half-year ended July, 1931. But 8
p.c. was paid for the next six months,
and the rate had climbed to 12 p.c. at the
beginning of 1934, remaining steady until
the beginning of 1938, when it was lifted
to 13 p.c. and then to 14 p.c. for the
last 12 months.
The already snug financial position
further improved, and assets can be taken
as well worth their book value:
r January
1930. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities .. 131,331 87,988 123,612 114,973
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 51,236 56,205 56,085 55,916
Stocks .. 129,410 115,266 121,299 119,476
Book debts .. 217,913 151,761 183,366 179,314
McCulloch Co. 68,022 45,393 48,466 50,504
Cash & invest- ’’ -
ments .. 7,943 61,731 87,912 94,630
Improvement in the seasonal outlook is
reflected in a reduction of £4052 in
debtors’ balances and of £1823 in stocks.
Including stocks and an advance of
£25,504 to McCulloch and Co., surplus
liquids (£303,951, up £11,520) amounted
to more than twice paid capital when the
books closed. As for book debts, the
board says: “A large amount is still
owing to the co. by primary producers,
but, by exercising a little patience, the
directors expect to collect the greater
portion, if not all, of the amount owing.
The reduction in accounts under super-
vision of the Farmers’ Relief Board has
again been negligible, but ample pro-
vision has been made to cover any loss
in connection with such accounts.”
At £7 15s. the f.-p. £2 10s. shares re-
turn 4.5 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities. Visibly the cover is £6 11s.
Id. in net tangibles.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 10,016 10 p.c. = 11,000 33,121
1930.. 10,005 8 „ „ 8,800 1,205 34,326
Written off, £25,000 .. .. 9,326
1931.. 5,017 5 p.c. = 5,500 8,843
1932.. 615 Nil 615 9,458
1933.. 961 Nil 961 10,419
Capital returned, £44,000.
1934.. 6,202 7 p.c. = 4,620 1,582 12,001
1935.. 5,233 7i „ „ 4,950 283 12,284
Assets written up, £71,000 .. 83,284
1936.. 11,560 10 p.c. = 6,600 4,960 88,244
Reserves capitalised, £66,000 . . 22,244
1937.. 5,388 15 p.c. = 3,300 2,088 24,332
1938.. 5,543 171 „ „ 3,850 1,693 26,025
1939.. 5,613 171 „ „ 3,850 1,763 27, <BB
Apart from a small holding in Kandos
(1000 16s. shares), earnings now depend
mainly upon the output of terra-cotta
roofing tiles and synthetic stone, etc.,
from the co.’s own works at Granville,
near Sydney, and have done so for the
last three years. The value of building
permits issued in Sydney and its suburbs
for the two years to June 30 last com-
pares as follows:
June 30, City. Suburbs. Total.
1938.. £2,388,125 £8,260,431 £10,648,556
1939. . 2,669,053 9,922,997 12,592,050
Activity in the trade has kept the plant,
which appears to be highly efficient and
conservatively valued in the books, fully
employed. After allowing £2OOO for
taxation and depreciation, last term’s net
result was 25.5 p.c. on capital as against
25.2 p.c. and 24.5 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms.
Finances are comfortable:
] 936. 1938. 1939.
Plant, etc. .. .. £35,025 £31,213 £32,748
Stocks .. ' .. •• 1,124 862 804
Book debts, shares in
other cos., cash, etc. 126,763 19,371 23,421
£162,912* £51,446, £56,973
Sundry creditors .. 4.709 406 2,127
Net assets . . . . £158,203 £51,040 £54,840
* 100,000 Ivandos shares were written up to 225.
each; surplus, £71,000.
The year’s growth in net assets was £3806.
When the books closed surplus liquids
amounted to £22,098, equal to a shade
over 20s. per pound share.
For the last 20-odd years shareholders
have been in clover. Since 1918, when
paid capital was £165,000, they have re-
ceived £176,000 of bonus scrip and have
had £319,000 of capital returned, re-
ducing the total on the register to £22,000.
Although the past cannot be accepted as
a guide to the future, the co. obviously
remains in a very comfortable position,
financially and otherwise.
Buyers offer 435. for the scrip without
attracting sellers. The return at 435.
would be 8.1 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
Prospects of the 174 p.c. being maintained
during the current term are encouraging
at the moment, notwithstanding the lift
in costs and prospective increase in taxa-
tion. The backing is 455. 3d. in net
tangibles.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 49,457 10 p.e. = 44,370 5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ „ 44,370 9,155 162.338
1931.. 38,222 10 „ „ 44,370 156,190
1932.. 36,051 8 „ „ 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35.496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 ~ „ 35,496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8„ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 „ „ 35,496 415 168,649
1938.. 42,915 81 „,, 37,714 5,201 l<3,Bt>o
1939.. 40,191 9 „ „ 39,933 258 174,108
The business has grown with the steady
expansion of settlement and production
on the fertile N. S. Wales North Coast,
where the co. has enjoyed a monopoly of
shipping from Newcastle north to the
Queensland border for over half a cen-
tury. While the development of rail-
way, motor and air transport has inter-
fered with passenger earnings, the ship-
ment of dairy and farm produce and the
backloading of goods for storekeepers
and others have enabled the management
to pay an unbroken run of divs. for the
last 40-odd years. The rate rose from
8 p.c. at the beginning of this century


ĵ
INVEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you secure a ' spread” for your
money over 20 leading Companies known through-
out Australia. You also obtain a yield of over
5 % p.a., potential capital appreciation and trustee
safeguards through the Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Henr y Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; .Tames Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sincluir.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET A
H
a
9f
KING the ROAD
s
rE!
si
gq9?
ov
inf!
m
~jt jcw€ s
SERVICE
Practical assistance in many ways is afforded to
travellers by the National Bank, including :
Hook''*?
4#***
lo*
Authentic information with regard
to fares, time tables, plans of ships,
alternate routes and services, hotel
and other accommodation.
The Bank will make all necessary
arrangements and complete reser-
vations for travel by air, sea, and
land.
Advice and assistance are afforded
on this necessary preliminary to
foreign travel.
The Bank makes a variety of
financial facilities available to its
Clients. They include Letters of
Credit and Travellers’ Cheques.
Information with regard to passport
requirements is freely given, and
endorsements and renewals will be
arranged if desired.
For more complete information, ask
at any of the Bank’s Offices and
Branches.
THE NATIONAL BANK
Of A.UStTCiIcLSICL Limited ( Incorporated in Victoria)
68-16-38
to 9 p.c. in 1913, and to 10 p.c. in 1920 ;
it remained steady until 1932, when it
dropped to 8 p.c., and stayed at that level
till 1937. In the following year 8£ p.c.
was paid, and then 9 p.c. for the last
term.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, earnings were affected by
a dry spell, which broke early in the
l ec °nd half of the term, by a strike on
the Newcastle coalfields, and by steadily
mounting costs, owing to lifts in the wage
and tax bills. After allowing £5946 less
for depreciation (£27,443), declared net
earnings (£40,191) were £224 lighter. In-
cluding an unexplained addition of £2500
to reserves in 1938, the contraction last
term was £2724, the £40,191 of profit
claimed being a wink over 9 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 9.6, 8, 9.2, 9.2, 8.1,
8, 8.1, 8.6 and 12 p.c. back to 1930.
Although the increased div. took all
but £258 of the declared profit, prospects
of the 9 p.c. being maintained during the
current term are encouraging, notwith-
standing the continued rise in costs, in-
cluding taxation.
At 445. (40s. a year ago) the pound
shares return 4.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 275. 10d.,
of which 13s. lOd. is surplus liquids.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
„ „ 19 31. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* .. 30,859 40,171 57,161 50.57 S
FwLia ;* 238 ’ 238 212,352 261,591 314,401
lieeholds, etc. 05,859 16,920 16,393 16,383
Liquids .. 318,837 440,581 416,693 357,568
* Including’ tax provision.
The year’s net addition of £52,810 to ship
property reflects final payments on the
Wyangerie (a new motor vessel which
took up the running in August last, and
has since given every satisfaction), pur-
chase of the Bangalow (it replaced the
Una, lost in 1937), which reached Sydney
in May, and of the Coolebar, a small
craft for trading to rivers with shallow
entrances. Capacity of the fleet is now
“equal to all requirements of the trade,
a pd makes provision also for contingen-
cies.” The year’s contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£306,990) was
£52,542. When the books closed debtors’
balances and cash more than covered out-
side liabilities. Consols (£287,171) and
shares in other cos. (£1350) were together
equal to 13s. per share.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
' Added Capital
t t To Re- and Re-
oune, Pi'ofit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
T 32 3- i 7,335 10 P-c. = 40,000 7,935 621,479
1930.. 39,758 10 ~ „ 40,000 621,237
Loss.
1931.. 4.053 3 „ „ 12,000 605,184
Profit.
1932.. 12,795 3 „ „ 12,000 795 605,979
193 d.. 19,315 4 „ „ 16,000 3,315 609,294
1904.. 31,738 6 „ ~24,000 1 r „ ofl fil r
Provident fund, £2OOO S ° S 610,03^
1935.. 47.372 7 p.c. = 28,000 j
Provident fund, £2OOO i- 13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500..
1936.. 51,514 8 p.c. = 32,0001
Provident fund, £2OOO 114,514 643,418
Staff bonus, £3000..
1937.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,0001 9n *, r rr .
Provident fund, £2OOO 120,(40 664,16 u
Provision contingencies written
back. £5OOO 669,163
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000 1
Provident fund, £5OOO j- 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO .. J
1939.. 56,121 9'p.c. = 36,000 ]
Provident fund, £2OOO \ 13,121 695,970
Written off premises, £5OOO j
* Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
The drop of £6564 in net earnings for the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
is due to a heavier crop of claims, which
were above the average experience owing
to disastrous bushfires which occurred
during the more-than-usually-dry summer
months in N. S. Wales and other States.
The growth of net premium income
(£6345) was less marked than for some
years, which suggests that business activity
generally has about reached its peak—
the co.’s contracts cover risks throughout
all the Australian States, and it has
marine agencies all over the world. Here
is a comparison of underwriting per-
formances since the beginning of this
century: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. , Rate.
1900.. £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52 9 „
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 „
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 „ 39.8 ~
19.30.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 , 43.5 ,
1931.. 297,000 191,393 138,560 64.4 „ 46. C „
1932.. 243,280 130,130 122,558 53.5 „ 50.3 „
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1934.. 230,060 87,192 123,211 37.9 „ 53.5 „
1935. . 237,374 85,963 125,437 36.2 „ 52. S „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 , 51 3 ~
1937.. 275,763 113,760 130,825 41.2 ,! 47.4 „
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 „
1939. . 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.0 „ 45.1 „
Losses (up £15,502) made off with an
extra £4 6s. p.c. of the year’s net
premiums. One of the most pleasing
features of the table is the steady reduc-
tion (£8 Bs.) in the expense rate since
1934, the improvement last term being
£1 10s. The underwriting surplus was
£7697 lighter at £30,814, which was 7.7
p.c. on capital. Interest and rents turned
in £25,307 (up £1133), or 6.3 p.c. on
capital, making the profit from all sources
£56,121, equal to 14 p.c. on capital as
against 15.6, 13.6, 12.8, 11.8, 7.9, 4.8 and
3.8 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was lifted
a point, making it 9 p.c. (a 2 p.c. bonus
was sent out at the close of the previous
accounts to celebrate the co.’s diamond
jubilee), £2OOO was sent to the provident
fund, and £5OOO was written off premises,
leaving £13,121, which lifted the support
and protection for capital, etc., to
£295,970. '
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1928. 1931. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £333,750 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 237,262 202,668 187,075 215,000
Freeholds, etc. 227,181 412,968 436,702 486,384
Mortgages .. 17,822 19,256 17,094 14,745
Public securities,
etc 459,474 319,963 358,649 364*149
Book debts .. 80,865 67,614 67,257 68,212
Cash, etc. .. 35,153 6,051 41,222 23,479
To add £48,682 to the book value of
premises and £5500 to the holding of
public securities, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £17,743 and the amount coming
to outsiders was increased by £27,925.
The reduction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£255,585) was £41,562. When the
books closed, policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 231 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
At 295. 3d. the pound shares, paid to
16s. and covered by 345. 9d. in net tan-
gibles, return 4.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. It is a very satisfactory yield from
a sound insurance stock.
Mikonui Gold Dredging (N.Z.), Ltd.
This co. has been registered in Maori-
land with a nominal capital of £324,800
in 320,000 £1 ords. and 96,000 Is. de-
ferreds. All the ords. are offered simul-
taneously in Maoriland and Australia,
payable 2s. 6d. application and the
balance as required in 2s. 6d. calls at
not less than two-monthly intervals.
There is no promoter’s consideration.
The vendor, British Developments (N.Z.),
Ltd., which is sponsoring the float, is
taking all the deferreds for cash. They
rank equally with the ords. on a share
basis for divs., voting power and partici-
pation in surplus aSsets, being deferred
only in respect of return of subscribed
capital.
The idea is to take over and work 412
acres of auriferous river gravels extend-
ing for about a mile and a half upstream
from the mouth of the Mikonui, which is
in a recognised gold-bearing zone and
about 60 miles south of Greymouth, on
Maoriland’s West Coast. The ground
has been test-bored by N.Z. Prospecting
and Mining, Ltd., an offshoot of the
vendor—under supervision of F. L. Watts
and J. H. Williamson. Altogether 115
bores were put down —holes five chains
apart with ten chains between lines. Of
these it is figured that 63 (average depth
118 ft.) disclosed 70,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 2.5 gr. of coarse gold 950 parts fine.
(Continued on next page.)


Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
I absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limite ,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to mate regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an a PP°“ x *. h .
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and chaige. lou might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS; , . . ~ T „ „ „
T. H Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis. _
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p - Cureton - Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND . . . . • • • 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
afe sfc 4*
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
# * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and rdller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1939 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Mm? (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
DM
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
assurance company, ltd.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Oueensla:d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South A'is Branch: Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St Melbourne.
V D N oRMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Included in this estimate is an inner rich
area of some 41,000,000 c.y. of 3.5 gr.
ground. Most of the gold was found in
the last 2.5 ft., the bottom being decom-
posed sandstone and clay. The propor-
tion of boulders is said to be low, and
the all-steel, electric spud dredge, with
which it is proposed to equip the prop-
erty, is not expected to encounter much,
if any, trouble from this source.
This machine, which will have 18-c.f.
buckets and be capable of turning over
4,500,000 c.y. annually, will cost £230,000
erected on the spot. The cost of the
property is £40,000, the digging of the
dredge pit, etc., is expected to run away
with £lO,OOO, and brokerage and preli-
minary exes, with £22,200, leaving
£22,600 for working capital, etc., on the
basis of the entire issue being fully sub-
scribed and paid.
With gold worth £8 an ounce net to the
co. the 2.5 gr. ground is worth lOd. a
yard. On a throughput of 4,500,000 yards
annually, all-in costs are not expected to
exceed 2.66 d, per yard. On this basis
the life of the selected area is about 16
years, with the possibility of another
couple of years’ profitable work in mar-
ginal ground. The annual profit, subject
to taxation, would be approximately
£137,500, equal to 6s. 7d. per share.
The estimated total profit from the
selected area is put at £2,138,889, also
subject to taxation. This would be
enough to cover return of capital and
show an average annual return of ss. sd.
per share over 16 years. Each variation
of one grain in the recovery would affect
the gross return by 4d. per yard
(= £75,000 p.a. on turnover already
stated), with gold realising £8 net to
the co.
Taxable income of goldmining cos. in
the Dominion is deemed to be half the
amount distributed as divs. in any year.
When total divs. paid amount to twice
paid capital, the income is deemed to be
the total amount paid in divs. during any
year. Mining cos. are exempt from pay-
ment of the social-security tax of Is. in
the pound.
Dredge drawings are expected to - be
completed in nine months, and, since con-
struction will proceed as each section of
the plans is delivered, the dredge should
be at work in, say, about a year or so.
The directors state that they have re-
ceived an assurance that dividends de-
clared will be payable irrespective of
domicile. The board may go to allot-
ment when £194,880 has been subscribed.
Given absence of mechanical troubles,
and provided unexpected difficulties are
not met in connection with boulders and
clay, the proposition appears to have
every chance of success.
On the board are E. G. Banks, R. B.
Bannerman, C. G. McKellar, R. W.
Stringer and W. J. Watkins (managing).
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging, N.L.
Including ground in course of acquisi-
tion, this Siam producer has some 19
years’ work in sight at last term’s rate
of dredge turnover. Main details at Dec.
31:
Takuapa . . .. 3,796,000 c.y. averaging 12oz.
11,313,000 c.y. „ • 6-Boz.
6,000,000 c.y. ~ 4-6 oz.
Ban Pru .. .. 9,962,000 c.y. ~ 13oz.
Northern Area .. 35,000,000 c.y. ~ 8.40 z.
S.-e. Extension . . 4,300,000 c.y. ~ 7oz.
With two additional small areas aggre-
gating 412,000 c.y., the estimated avail-
able yardage was thus 70,783,000 c.y.
Some difficulties have arisen in connec-
tion with the issue of the recently-
acquired Northern leases, on which the
future largely depends, the area having
been declared a Government reserve, but
“it is anticipated that, at no distant
date, your directors will be able to an-
nounce that the leases have been secured.”
The old Takuapa and Ban Pru (Haad
Yai district) properties are at present
being worked, the former by two Diesel-
powered bucket-dredges, the latter by an
American spud-type plant, to which a
clay extractor was added last term to
help deal with the hard and clayey wash.
Nominal assessment is 1258 tons t. 0.,
annually—lol2 tons at Takuapa and 246
tons at Ban Pru.
Dredging commenced in 1925, but a
policy of expansion, involving issue of
£lOO,OOO 12{ p.c. debentures (since re-
deemed), rendered divs. intermittent until
1932. Last term reduced quotas —includ-
ing bonus allotments, 62.5 p.c. of assess-
ment, compared with 90.3 p.c. in 1937 —
and the fall in the price of metallic tin
from £242 6s. 6d. to £lB9 12s. London a
ton produced a fall of £25,281 in net
earnings:—
Ex- , —Profit—y—Dividends—^
Deo., Revenue, penses.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
IQq - t 84,475 68,672 15,803 1/3 3/- 41,056
xuda.. j Written off concessions, £lO,OOO.
1936.. 114,754 79,957 34,797 2/9 2/- 27,401
1937.. 140.185 88,436 51,749 4/1 3/9' 50,795
1938.. 114,842 88,374 26,468 2/1 1/9 23,780
* Including depreciation: 1935, £16,747; 1936,
£20,128 ; 1937, £20,302; 1938, £20,611.
That was after allowing £20,611 for de-
preciation, etc., making a total of £87,788
over the last four- years. In the aggre-
gate divs. were reduced from 3s. 9d. to
Is. 9d. stg. ( = 2s. 2£d. Aus.) per share,
and a further Is. 6d. stg. has been paid
or announced since the books were ruled
off.
Dredging performances at Takuapa and
Ban Pru are here dissected:
, Takuapa v Ban Pru— ——^
1937. 1938. 1937. 1938.
C.y dug . . 3,464,000 2,870,000 780,000 953,000
T. 0., tons. . 837 798 156 175
Yield, c.y.. 0.541 b. 0.621 b. 0.451 b. 0,411 b.
Costs, c.y.. 2.96 d. 3.45 d. 5.38 d. 5.17 d.
Oxide val’n,
ton- .. £137/2/6 £ll3/9/7 £143/3/11 £l2O/9/8
The three plants worked little more than
three-quarter time, No. 1 (Takuapa) unit,
which is being equipped with new jigs,
working in tailings ; overall average re-
covery was 0.571 b. To the buffer pool
115 tons t.o. has been contributed since
the close of accounts. Advances are
made by the pool against these ship-
ments up to £9B stg. a ton, the balance
to be available on realisation of the
stock.
A 49 p.c. quota release for the current
year gives the co. a permissible produc-
tion of 616 tons t. 0., apart from whatever
bonuses may be allotted —last term’s was
approx. 5 p.c. of assessment. At the end
of June 444\ tons had been won for a
working surplus of £25,570. Recoveries
have been on a par with last term’s over-
all experience, despite average yields of
only 0.341 b. from Ban Pru.
At Dec. 31 the accounts, presented in
a hotchpotch of sterling and Australian
currency, showed more or less liquids of
£73,109, after taking metal stocks in at
prices since realised. Liabilities aggre-
gated £14,693. Paid capital is £250,000
in £1 shares, last sale of which locally
was around 21s. 3d.
Trekelano copper-mine (Cloncurry,
N.Q.) is the mainstay of the field, and
also of the Chillagoe Smelters; the ore
is transported nearly 1000 miles for treat-
ment. Recent monthly output has ranged
from 400 to 600 tons, averaging 10 p.c.
to 15 p.c. copper and nearly 2dwt. gold,
an outstanding gold value for the Clon-
curry copper ores. It appears to be the
only mine in the district that has worked
sulphides, the yellow copper body giving
promise of considerable extension.
Realisation of the fact that with lower
treatment costs it was capable of de-
veloping additional large bodies of lower-
grade sulphides made it the pivot of the
recent agitation for central smelters at
Cloncurry, a movement that has been
shelved many times since the mines de-
flated after the war boom.
* * *
A rather promising little show is being
opened up by Case and Perry at Fern
Springs in the Charters Towers (N.Q.)
district. Crushings have been regular,
and the last 50 tons treated at the State
Empire mill yielded nearly 2oz. per ton.
This came from above a depth of 70ft.,
and the last crushing indicates that values
have improved 50 p.c. as sinking con-
tinues.
* * * *
Mt. Carbine (N.Q.) was one of the
chief tungsten fields during the war
years. It is now picking up under
stimulus of current high prices, and some
half-dozen shows are making good
money. It is a'good field for the reef
miner, with its veins of clean quartz and
wolfram. McNamara and Birch and
party are among those who have located
rich ore.
* # * *
Queensland gold returns for June
touched 12,435 fine ounces, but would
cut a very modest figure if Mt. Morgan
had not thrown in its quota of 66340 z.
Cracow was down slightly with 19980 z.,
and the old fields contributed the usual
dribs and drabs. The only new fields of
any note during the last decade are
Cracow and Lolworth, while Charters
Towers has picked up most among the
fields that a quarter of a century ago
made Queensland famous.
* * * *
Yodda Goldfields, working an alluvial-
gold proposition in New Guinea by box-
ing and sluicing, cleared £2llB for the
12 months to April 30, of which divs. of
sd. per share absorb £1823. Production
was gold—-IOOOoz. is looked for
in the current term —from 34,766 c.y., a
recovery of 3s. 9d. per c.y., compared with
2s. lOd. and Is. 9d. for the two preceding
terms. All-in costs averaged 2s.
Blocked-out estimated yardage, on a
“very conservative” basis, is put at
364,100 c.y., values at the existing price
of gold ranging from 2s. to 45., the
average being 3s. 2d. The board figures
there is about 1\ years’ work ahead. That
excludes some large bodies of low-grade
wash which the board hopes may also
prove payable. Formed March, 1934, the
co. has an 87,500 f.-p. 2s. share-issue. At
balance date more or less liquids, subject
to final div. of £1094, amounted to £1674
and the outside debt to £382.
Market support for Tingha South’s
ss. shares —200,000 are issued —has
flopped badly on the strength of recent
poor showings and the uncertainty of
the outlook. Earlier this year 3s. 9d. was
paid; recent sellers a't Is. have been un-
able to attract a bid. The co. is tin-
sluicing with two plants at Tingha
(N.S.W.). For the year ended June 30
production was 105 tons tin oxide from
204,000 c.y. The estimated working sur-
plus of approx. £4660 was all earned
during the first half of the year. For
the last six months the co. has just about
managed to break even, sluicing having
been carried out on some high ground
which turned out harder than anticipated,
while a series of granitic bars —extent
not indicated —not disclosed on the bore
plan was encountered. The co. is now
getting back on to the main lead, where
results were previously successful, and
better figures are officially expected.
* * * *
Morning Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.), in
which Mt. Coolon has an interest, netted
£22,785 (up £5777), or Is. Id. per share,
for the 12 months to March 31, and paid
6d. (£10,000), for which provision was
made from the previous year’s earnings.
For the 9\ months to January 13, when
most of the surface plant was destroyed
by bushfires, the battery treated 9770
tons of ore, averaging 14.4 dwt. The
ball mill and flotation section, which
closed down on October 24, owing to
shortage of power, following increased
demand for underground work, handled
8610 tons of tailings. Total gold pro-
duction was 6926 fine oz., including
3890 z. won from concentrates, the lot
realising £61,127. Operating costs were
mining 41s. 4d. and treatment 17s. lid. ;
total, 595. 3d. per ton. When the books
closed, current assets exceeded outside
liabilities by £29,401. The fire damage
was covered by insurance, and £lB,OOO
had been paid in this respect at July 14,
when only a few minor claims were out-
standing. The new plant is expected to
be ready and production to begin next
month.
Hi
In April the Wiluna outlook was not
promising. Diamond-drilling at depth in
the main workings failed to disclose any-
thing worth having, and developments in
the northward Bulletin section had been
disappointing. Now, as a result of recent
developments at the 1200 ft. level, the
Flappy Jack area, which adjoins the
Bulletin, is being acclaimed by some
people as the saviour of the property. The
Bulletin south drive recently reached the
Happy Jack workings, and has since
been extended a further 200 ft., or there-
abouts, in ore above the average for the
mine. This drive will ultimately connect
with the Happv Jack shaft.
$ $ % *
The market for Lancefields (W.A.) has
livened a little on a report that the winze
between the No. 13 and No. 14 levels
struck something that had hitherto been
missed.


HAMPTON
COURT
N. S. W.
KING’S
CROSS,
S Y DNEY,
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
E
818
iBIFI
HI
lUi
uLi
ILU
O
m
mm
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
, The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites ft'om
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“Modern world events bring new words and
Se'-SaSf me ” °‘ ,r *“•
For instance, now we say, “Not for
all the T.N.T in China.
“Politicians Get Aboui *-News heading.
Twice as much, as they’re worth.
4 4 4 4
“How can I stop my husband from laugh-
ing at my new hat?” asks a correspondent.
Show him the bill.
That's the way to Fremantle , sir. Didn't you Want to go to Colombo?"
“Of course, the modern girl cannot afford
to bathe in milk.”— “S.M.H.”
But the average girl can cream her face.
4* fir fir ’ fir
“Song-writing can’t be taught.”
—Musical magazine.
That’s a blessing.
fir 4" 4* 4*
“Egged on by some of his college friends,
Arthur went on the stage.”
—Extract from short story.
Where, of course, he was egged off.
4* fir 4- 4*
“How can 1 prevent the feathers coming
through a pillow-case?” asks a correspondent.
Make the twins sleep in separate bed-
rooms.
4* fir fir 4*
“Dance-band leader is accompanied by a
lion when he goes shopping.”
—Melbourne “Argus.’
Obviously he is scared that he’ll come
across some of his listeners.
“A singer must not think of the audience.”
—Prima donna, in interview.
Maybe that’s why some of them keep
on singing.
*!•
“Dictatorships based on law of jungle.”
Tooth and heil?
“Europe Divided.” — News heading.
Fas-schism?
*i* "f* "i* *3*
“Australian women don’t know how to use
make-up.”— Visitor.
Inferior decorators.
fir 4* fir 4*
“Hares Missing.”— Melbourne "Herald,.”
» No doubt they’ll be found in the soup.
fir fir fir fir
“When using a pineapple, wash well before
peeling.”— ‘‘S.M.H.”
When eating a mango have your wash
after.
fir fir fir &
“Nearly every woman looks several times at
an envelope, inspecting it closely before opening
it ”—“D.T.”
But not at a pay envelope.
fir fir fi’ fir
“Do women realise, as some men do, that
speech is silver,'but silence is golden?”
— Women’s paper.
No. With women speech may be silver,
but silence is impossible.
fir fir fir fir
“Dentistry is an unhealthy occupation.”
—Dental journal.
So that’s why dentists are always look-
ing down in the mouth.
fir fir fir fir
“ ‘Strip-tease’ Act Cancelled. Police Inter-
vention.” — “S.M.H.”
There’s nothing, though, to prevent the
performer becoming a ’plane pilot. Then
she can take off as often as she likes.
“Can Life Exist on Mars?”
Scientific magazine.
Why not, seeing that some men live on
the basic wage?
4* 4* 4» 4*
“When a Modern Baby Cries.”
—Diary of a doctor.
It’s a sure sign the sugar daddy will
have to buy her a new set of silver foxes.
Materia Medica.
. “He said he had been taking the prescribed
iron tonic and now felt that his nerves were
in perfect condition.” — Medical report.
What curious things these doctors do!
What contradictions they reveal!
They give an iron tonic to
Provide a man with nerves of steel /
T. W. N.
Another Russian Resurrection.
As this is the stuff that sells nowadays,
i propose to reveal the secret that the
dead Grand Duke Popoffski isn’t dead.
The Grand Duke, it was thought, had
been secretly done to death by the Bol-
shies, but a faithful servitor undertook
to take his place. The substitution was
helped by the fact that resemblance was
striking, except that the G.D. was 6ft.’
14st. and wore a beard, and the servitor
was sawn-off, 7st. and clean-shaven.
Popoffski escaped to the East disguised
as a fruit machine, but the Bolsheviki
woke up to the imposture when they
ratted the body and failed to find the
ducal bone-handled penknife. Pursued,
the Duke escaped in a Yankee whaler
under the name of Smith.
His subsequent adventures include a
brief sojourn in Sydney, where he was
immediately snapped up by the A.B.C.
as a foreign commentator. But, restless,
he moved on again, taking passage to
England as a steward on the Bullswool
under the name of Jones. There this
proud relative of the Romanoffs married
a vodka agent’s daughter.
Support for this remarkable story is
given by the discovery in Vladivostok of
a discarded fruit machine and the revela-
tion that a Yankee whaler about 1922
had a man named Smith amongst the
crew. Add to this the fact that a man
named Jones once travelled to England
on the s.s. Bullswool, and the chain of
evidence is complete.
Anyway, my informant, who told me
the facts in exchange for the drinks he
cadged in a Quay pub, says that when he
met the pseudo Smith or Jones in an East
End (London) pub, and hailed him as
“Popoff,” the man gave a guilty start.
H. M.
The Thrower-out.
“What is more powerful than the man who
can throw his voice?” — Ventriloquist’s advt.
I know a man who throws his voice,
But still his woes abound.
His missus cannot throw her voice,
But throws her weight around.
E. L. M.
Bar to Beauty.
“To remove wrinkles you can try any one
of several milk treatments.”
— “S.M.H.” women’s supplement.
Although his brow was wrinkled up,
That’s all been overcome ;
He smoothed the wrinkles out with milk,
But pepped it up with rum.
ELM.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPLETE GUIDE.
XV.
There are many articles which, dis-
carded by the housewife, may still be
capable of rendering good service if
transmogrified by the skill of the handy-
man. Of these none has more potential
value than the mattress that has been
tossed out because it has become all
lumpy owing to the continued poundings
to get the hip-holes out of it.
To make some use of it is, in any
case, the only thing you can do, as any
man will testify who has tried to get
rid of one. You can’t ram it down into
the dirtbox ; to burn it under the copper
you’d have to take a week off and per-
haps make bitter enemies of the people
next door ; you risk prosecution if you
were to leave it in the gutter, sling it
over into somebody’s back yard or lug
it for half a mile one moonless night
and abandon it in the park. You can
therefore kill two cats with the one
brick, as it were, by making up cushions
out of it.
Pick a windy day when the wife is
at her mother’s and hit her in the eye
with a first-class surprise by presenting
her with anything up to a dozen or two
when she gets home.
Here is the modus operandi.
Drag the old mattress into the laundry
and shut the door. Using a pillow as
a template, mark out as many shapes
of it as will cover both sides of the
ticking. Cut these out with a razor blade.
Take two of these (being of a uniform
size they will fit flush) and sew them
together around the bottom and two
sides only, leaving the top open to take
the kapok. Old fishing line and a bag
needle will do the job nicely.
To tease out the long-compressed
kapok lash half a dozen 3/0 fishing
hooks to the end of a stick; then, hold-
ing a piece of kapok firmly with a pair
of tweezers, pull at it with the hooks
until it is fluffed out.
Kapok when thus disturbed has a
tendency to disintegrate and waft about,
with distressing results to the respiratory
system of the operator. An old fallacy
was that if you kept your mouth shut
tight the fine pieces of floating kapok
would be caught in the hairs in the nose,
the tickling set up by which caused
sneezing which blew it all out again.
That sounded well enough in theory,
but how did it work out in practice?
What if your nose happened to be in-
sufficiently hirsute? No. You cannot
take the risk.
A better plan is to clamp a clothes
peg over your nose and breathe through
your mouth. But take care to keep your
teeth clenched. If they are capable of
straining the leaves near the bottom of
your cup of tea and stopping small fish
bones from disappearing down your
gullet surely they will serve equally well
for trapping bits of kapok.
It naturally follows that the kapok,
after it has been teased out, will be of
far greater bulk than it was when con-
fined in the mattress, and finding places
to put it may well become a problem.
If, after you have filled up the tubs,
copper, dirty clothes-basket, baby’s bath,
etc., you still have more than half re-
maining, knock off and start filling the
cases you have made.
Plunging the hands into the re-fluffed
kapok and stuffing it into the cases is
so much, more violently disturbing to
it than the mere teasing of it that even
clenching the teeth will fail to stop the
flying kapok from clogging up the
tonsils.
Make a long cylinder by bending over
a sheet of light-gauge galvanised iron
and soldering it. Next taper one end.
This is done by slitting it up about a
foot and overlapping it so that it forms
a funnel shape. This end should be
exactly the same size as the mouth of
the case that is to take the kapok. Rest
the base of the contraption on a wide
board and gently fill it with the teased-
out kapok. Fit the tapered end into the
mouth of one of the cases and take
the whole lot up the side passage of your
house. This will ensure a good draught.
Now face the wide end to the wind.
Obviously, as soon as you remove the
board the wind will whisk the kapok
out through the funnel-shaped end into
the case cleanly and without loss of any
kapok.
It depends on how many cushions you
want, and the purpose for which they
will be used, whether you leave the
cases filled just as the wind has blown
the kapok into them, or whether you
submit them to pressure to get more into
them. Cushions which are intended only
for show purposes, to be parked on top
of the lounge settee or on the arms of
cosy chairs to impress visitors, don’t need
to be too fat. But if they are for your
own comfort when you are sitting on
the back of your neck with your bootless
feet parked on the mantelpiece, stuff
them to the limit.
To do this cut a piece of three-ply
shaped so that it will just fit inside one
of the cases. Nail this to the sole of
one of your boots. When the case is
full of kapok take a good grip on each
side, insert the boot (which you will be
wearing) and pull the case just as if
you were pulling on a Wellington boot.
Keep doing this until the case will hold
no more.
When they are all filled to your satis-
faction sew up the remaining ends.
S. W. K.


mi
m
m.
‘Ms
By Appointment
■o.
o. Q
•s,
W* 1 *
y EARS OLtf
CC6/38
The Perfect Whisky
The mellowness, softness and
quality of this Whisky the
only one distilled outside the
British Isles that has won and
retained international repute
will instantly appeal to the
discerning palate.
Agents
John Woods & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distiilod by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville,
Ontario, Canada. Since 1858.
j
PRE - WAR
STRENGTH
j
ĵ
In about 3 minutes you can pack
12 frocks in a Globite Robe Case .. .
and they won't crush. At all stores.
j
aSa
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Industrial Life Assurance
Throughout Australia there are over
2,500,000 Industrial assurance policies in
force, assuring a total sum in excess of
£100,000,000. Holders of such policies
usually represent a section of the com-
munity not sufficiently well-off to buy
O.D. assurance, and as a mass or as in-
dividuals they are not generally articu-
late. Some standardisation in respect of
surrender values, etc., appertaining to
Industrial policies issued by the various
life offices has for a long time been
necessary. Without standardisation a
policy’s value at various stages of its life
might depend entirely upon the terms set
out in it; and, unfortunately, particularly
among industrial classes, terms and con-
ditions are rarely read, and still more
rarely understood.
The Victorian Industrial Life Assur-
ance Act, assented to in December last
year, is now law in its State of origin,
and in all other States of the Common-
wealth (except Queensland) and in
Maoriland members of the Life Offices
Association are agreeing to conform with
its regulations voluntarily. The Act is
largely concerned with non-forfeiture pro-
visions as regards Industrial life assur-
ance —a type of assurance generally
taken out in small-sized policies, the
premiums being paid to a collector
weekly or monthly. Queensland has its
own legislation on the matter, and life
offices operating there have no choice but
to carry out the provisions of the Queens-
land law.
The Victorian Act, which has such
wide application now, defines an Indus-
trial policy as one in respect of which
premiums are payable, to collectors, at
intervals of less than two months.
Such a policy will not be allowed to
lapse—that is, a policy-holder will not
lose his right to keep it going—unless
premiums have been in arrears for more
than four weeks in the case of a policy
less than a year in force, eight weeks in
the case of a policy between one and two
years in force, and twelve weeks in the
case of a policy two years old or more.
In other words, a policy-holder of less
than a year’s standing may miss three
weeks’ premiums and catch up on the
fourth week without losing his policy,
and he may miss paying 11 weeks’
premiums if the policy has been current
for over two years.
When a policy has been in force three
years and payment of premiums is not
continued by the policy-holder, the office
must issue a paid-up policy of reduced
amount. The amount (in the case of an
endowment policy) is roughly the pro-
portion of the sum assured which the
total premiums paid bear to the total
premiums payable, less 30 p.c. in the
case of policies three-four years in force,
and 10 p.c. in the instance of policies in
force upwards of five years.
In the case of whole-life policies
(sometimes called “death” policies) the
calculation of paid-up values is more
complicated, but the method of calcula-
tion is laid down by statute, and it has
an equitable basis.
The onus is on the life office to issue
a paid-up policy within 12 weeks after
the policy-holder allows his premiums
to cease. It has to forward details of
the paid-up policy to his last-known
“Dear me, I must have given you the Wrong prescription."
address. Thus, by this provision, after
three years’ premiums have been paid no
Industrial policy will be allowed to lapse
because of its surrender value being
exhausted in paying premiums.
When a paid-up policy is granted, all
bonuses declared five years and more
after the issue of the policy must be
added to its paid-up value.
After an Industrial policy has been six
years in force, under the Victorian law it
possesses a surrender value. The sur-
render value will be the “present value”
of the policy—that is, an actuarial valua-
tion of the policy-holder’s interest in the
policy, having regard to the premiums
paid, the sum assured, the risk the office
has already run, the expenses incurred
and the incidence of compound interest.
On a six-year-old policy the surrender
value wouldn’t be very substantial,
though quite equitable.
In a period of financial emergency the
obligation to pay surrender values may
be suspended by proclamation.
The provisions of the Act apply to
all Industrial policies in force in Vic-
toria, and to all policies issued in future,
except that where policies already issued
embody terms more favorable to the
policy-holder than those laid down by
the Act, the terms of the Act do not
operate.
The Victorian law is brief and wel-
come. What the life offices have agreed
to do in other States is the best that can
be expected until the Federal Parliament
shakes off its preoccupation with futili-
ties and brings in one nation-wide Life
Assurance Act.
The trend of interest rates in Aus-
tralia is upward at the moment, the yield
offering on the general run of long-dated
Consols being very close to 4 p.c. An
issue in February this year of £8,500,000
made at par, carrying interest at £3
17s. 6d. per cent., is now at 20s. dis-
count, returning 4 p.c. or near enough
to it. Investors aren’t taking kindly to
new issues at or near current rates of in-
terest, and as a result some stalwart State
members of the Loan Council are yowl-
ing for credit expansion. Not one of
them knows what credit expansion really
means in its effect, and that goes particu-
larly for Lang’s successor in N. S. Wales
—Premier B. S. B. Stevens, to wit.
Australia is a great country, with great
industries and possibilities of greater
ones. It isn’t a suburban market garden,
nor yet are its economics similar to those
of a sewing-bee, croquet club, weekly
afternoon-tea party, two-up or Sunday
school. The sins of one State, as was
demonstrated in Lang’s time, become the
burden of the whole Commonwealth;
the avoidance of responsibilities by one
member of the Loan Council increases
the responsibilities of the other members.
Those members bleating for “credit
expansion by the central bank now are
avoiding their responsibilities. They are
ignoring the fundamental cause of our
present economic difficulties—the rise in
costs of production. Inflating costs are
even more chargeable with the crime of
tightening credit conditions than are the
prevailing low export prices. A healthy
man can stand up to rigorous conditions ;
an unhealthy man can’t. Australia’s
economy has become flabby over the past
two or three years because politicians
and their kindred have too often taken
the easy course without full regard for
consequences,
* * * *
The cost of food and groceries through-
out Australia, as computed by the Com-
monwealth Statistician, was 2 p.c. lower
in May than in April, but was still con-
siderably higher than in May, 1938. It
is high time pressure was brought to
bear on all costs. Undoubtedly it is
difficult to check a rising spiral of costs
until they collapse under their own
weight, but if a check can be imposed
beforehand the collapse is ever so much
less disconcerting, and employment and'
trade don’t suffer sd greatly. In Britain -
costs are already on a downward trend,
which is in keeping with trade condi-
tions in the U.K. British industries
generally are therefore more favorably
situated at the moment than Australian;
here costs have shown no definite sign
of falling yet, though trade has been
declining for more than a year.
* * * *
A Melbourne' paper has revived the
old yarn of the citizen (this time called
a commercial traveller) who dropped into
a country hotel and left £5 as a deposit,
saying he might stay the night. Publican
pays storekeeper £5 owing with the same
note, storekeeper pays doctor old account
of £5, doctor pays house agent, who
pays builder, who liquidates debt at
hotel, “and so the £5 note comes back
to publican.” Commercial traveller de-
cides not to stay at pub., and publican
hands back £5 note, describing how it
has done the rounds. “That’s fine!” says
the commy-trav. “It wasn’t any good,
anyway!”
A moral (economic) is supposed to be
drawn from the story. The only water-
tight one is that the note didn’t do any-
thing that the parties concerned couldn’t
have done by simple “offset” 1 agreements
among themselves, and that not. one jot
of new employment or service was
created or rendered.


X’V:
&»■
w
*
mat
difference
akei
o!
in
Beni
mm
4
et plus E ' h Je S*
EV££
P° wel »oi®
a \b. eT * . etll o\ c ° n t units)
s must
P ett ° I l Q^GAl‘ Lo^*
C175.275P
cO*
pgß
c 0«
SU
flg
THERE’S A GRADE TO SUIT YOUR GAR
-THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.; Incorporated in Victoria
Wheat touched a shockingly low price
in Australia last week. In Sydney the
quote on Friday was around 2s. 2d. a
bushel, equal to Is. on the average,
at country railway sidings. The U.S.A.
is dumping its surplus stocks of the grain.
* * * *
Adelaide Cement, which has been mak-
ing a good thing out of South Aus. for
years, continues to better itself. Net
profit for the term to May 31 was
£33,668, up £2477, and equalled 19.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 18.1 p.c.
in 1937-38. The ord. div. was better
than the profit; as in 1937-38, 25 p.c.
was handed out, compared with 12} p.c.
and 10 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The co. has a very fat investment port-
folio, which, with cash, etc., is greater
than paid capital; whenever turnover in
cement falls off, as it did in the slump,
returns from these investments help to
eke out trading results, so that ord. share-
holders have to accept nothing less than
10 p.c. The board at present is very
pleased with these investments ; they can
be readily realised, if necessary, and
during the past term large returns there-
from helped to offset the increasing costs
of cement production. It is a pity that
some of those people interested in wheat
production, barley production, wool pro-
duction, beef production, etc., haven’t a
few such investments to fall back on
when costs rise (and prices drop). They
really need them.
* * * *
In the opinion of Browne, J., the com-
missioner who inquired into the N. S.
Wales operations of chain stores, the
variety chains “succeed because they
deserve success.”
The trading methods of these stores, their
treatment _of their employees, and their busi-
ness practices generally are honest and fair, and
are of at least as high a standard as those
of retailers conducting general, department or
other stores.
That they render a very real service to the
public—particularly to that portion of the public
whose need for such service is very real indeed
—I think there can be no doubt.
. The success of those of the variety chains
in New South Wales which have been a success
is due not to any improper practices, nor to
scurvy treatment of employees, but to brains,
organisation, competence and fair dealing, all
of which have won the confidence of a very
large section of the purchasing public.
The Judge was not so effusive about
chain grocery storekeepers. He found
that the dismissal of junior employees
on becoming entitled to a senior em-
ployee’s scale of wages was prevalent in
this class of store. He recommended
that a store licensing system be intro-
duced in order to protect the small man.
* * *
Victorian Parliament has had courage
enough to face the necessity for gradu-
ally lifting the Moratorium granted dur-
ing the slump which began about 10 years
ago. A bill was introduced on Tuesday
of last week, and if it becomes law the
Moratorium protecting mortgagors from
foreclosure and sale will expire on March
1, 1940. After that date a distressed
mortgagor will have to apply to the Court
for protection if he feels he is being
hardly treated by the mortgagee ; and this
right of appeal will vanish, too, after
Sept. 30, 1941. That is assuming that
Victoria doesn’t have a new depression
and new Moratorium by that time.
* * * *
The sharemarket in New York went
suddenly optimistic early last week. There
was a rise of five points in the Dow-Jones
index on one day (Monday), and on
Tuesday another point was added to the
industrial index. Reasons were hard to
define for the sudden upward movement.
London firmed slightly, but didn’t follow
New York so enthusiastically as it has
done on some other occasions. The Aus-
tralian sharemarket, which had been par-
ticularly firm towards the end of the
preceding week, and which had then
weakened, did little more than keep
steady. All things considered, however,
that wasn’t too bad ; B.H.P. fully-paids
kept above 635., and A.C.I. ords. were
firm at 355. and better. Henry Jones,
one of the foremost stocks in the preced-
ing week’s recovery, dropped back 6d.
or so, but was still on the high side of 50s.
Doubts started to creep into investors’
minds on Thursday following a setback
on Wall-street, and on Friday Australian
’Changes were very dull. But it was as
hard to buy good stocks at bargain prices
as it was to sell them at firm quotations.
* * * *
A new Patents Bill, with the object of
simplifying and making more equitable
the existing. law, will be introduced by
the Federal Government next session.
* * * #
The Tariff Board last week concluded
its inquiry into Associated Pulp’s request
for a duty of Id. a pound British and 2d.
a pound general on printing, typing and
writing papers other than newsprint.
Present rates on British papers range
from free to 40 p.c.; On foreign papers,
from £4 a ton to 60 p.c. On behalf of
British paper manufacturers it was-asked -
that additional tariff protection, if
granted, should be limited to a carefully
selected range of papers that could be
satisfactorily made from eucalyptus pulp.
* * * *
Seven of the De Bernales group of
cos. have asked the British Board of
Trade for the appointment of inspectors
under the Companies Act. The appli-
cations have followed delisting of the
cos. by London Stock Exchange. The
Grundt committee’s request for an inves-
tigation into Great Boulder Prop, is not
being opposed.
* * * *
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co., which
manufactures in Victoria and distributes
there and in other States, netted £98,220
during the year to June 30. That repre-
sented 25.2 p.c. on average capital, and a
14| p.c. div. was paid, which compares
with earnings of 26.3 p.c. and a 13J p.c.
div. in the preceding year. Earnings were
actually £15,874 higher in the latest term,
the small drop in the profit ratio being
due to the greater capital at work over
the period. Olympic has built up a very
solid business, specialising in the more
profitable lines of tyres, and as a result
its capital outlay on plant is kept down
to a minimum in relation to profits. The
£1 shares are at 505., and carry a final
div. of Is. 6d., giving a net yield of just
under 5.9 p.c.
* * * #
.Newcastle Steam (N.S.W.) put its pro-
fits for 1938-39 at a figure £l3 lower than
in the preceding term, after providing a
substantially greater sum for deprecia-
tion, and maintained its div. at 10 p.c.
A point of interest in the accounts is that
the co. got out of most of its large hold-
ing of Consolidated Loans last year and
held the proceeds on fixed-deposit at June
30. Apparently the board anticipated the
rise in interest rates that is taking place
at present.
*** . * ■
Ords. in P. and G. Finance, Sydney,
the show in which escapologist Woolcott-
Forbes used to be the big noise, sold at
2s. last week. The prefs. were on offer
at 10s. The pref. div. is in arrears. A
preliminary statement was expected from
the co. early this week. Accounts to June
30 should not be so long delayed in
presentation as they were in 1938. In
fact, provided constitutional matters and
bad debts, etc., have been adjusted by
the new board, ordinary trading figures
should be available next month. At least,
Cash Orders (Amalgamated) is able to
present its accounts in August each year.
In P. and G.’s case, of course, it will all
depend on whether the chaos of the
Woolcott-Forbes period has been
straightened out. The new board has a
very hard job ahead of it. The Scottish
Loan fiasco hasn’t helped.
* * * sjr
Steamship shares generally were in
demand last week, Adelaide keeping
above 325., while Melbourne Steam
ords., following sales at 305., were
inquired after at 295. 3d. The Mel-
bourne stock has received a good deal
of favorable mention in these pages.
Huddart, Parker ords. keep above 515.,
though they are not as high as they have
been. The N. S. Wales coastal shipping
stocks were sought after keenly follow-
ing publication of the Newcastle co.’s
report. Sydney Ferries ss. shares remain
depressed at 4s. 9d., and Port Jackson
10s. scrip returns over 5 p.c. at 15s. 6d.
* * * *
A rise of a couple of pounds a ton in
the forward price of tin last week brought
the three-months price that much nearer
spot—which remained stable at near £230.
The firming of the forward price in
relation to spot was welcomed particu-
larly in some quarters where a fear had
been expressed that the Buffer Pool may
have been selling forward heavily in
order to liquidate its stocks, at the same
time holding the spot price at a high level
by starving the market of immediate
supplies. The difference between the spot
and forward quotes towards the end of
last week was reduced to £4 155., as
against £6 some few days earlier. It is
still a fairly wide market, but the hopeful
thing about it is that it seems to be im-
proving.
All base metals became dull in London
as last week went on. Lead finished at
£l4 155., with spelter near £l4. Electro-
lytic copper, Mt. Lyell’s bread and butter
(and which is useful to Mt. Morgan
also), was quoted at £49. Gold was
steady.
* * * *
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Fiji, put
through about 178,000 tons during the
year to June 15 for 52,3500 z. fine of gold
—an average of just under s.9dwt. per
ton. In the corresponding period cover-
ing 1937-38 operations 91,600 tons was
treated for 29,1740 z. fine, an average of
something over 6.4dwt. The 1937-38
term was the first in which the new
plant operated, and costs were naturally
high. Net profit ran out at £63,592 (Fiji
currency)—with costs at 365. (Fiji) per
ton of ore. In the mining co.’s last term,
assuming that all-in costs were reduced
to no less than 30s. in Fiji currency, then
a profit of £150,000 would be about the
figure. If costs were actually reduced
further, and averaged 275. 6d. a ton, then
the net result may have been nearer
£172,000. In these assumptions realisa-
tion exes., royalty, taxes, etc., are in-
cluded in costs per ton, gold being taken
in. at its full gross value, calculated in
Fiji currency.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Statistics issued showed that Melbourne
building activity during the year to June 30
was the greatest for 10 years. Value for greater
Melbourne was £8,027,196.
Davies, Coop ords. returned 6.5 p.c. at 235.
Austral Silk shares, in anticipation of a
marriage with Bradford Cotton, kept steady
at 145., and still possessed buying attractions
at that figure. H. B. Dickie ords. were un-
obtainable at under 28s. 6d. Hosiery and lin-
gerie stocks were stale, but Yarra Falls, the
greatest textile organisation in the Common-
wealth, firmed to 365. on Thursday, which was
generally a day of reaction, following a setback
to the New York market.


UNCdALED ADDITIONS
ISSUES IN CHINA.
[July 7 marked the second anniversary of the out-
break of the conflict between Japan and China. The
war moves into its third year with fresh complications
produced by the Japanese blockade action at Tientsin,
which has brought Britain into the dispute; these pages
go to the printer with the talks between Britain and
Japan proceeding in Tokio. The articles here con-
densed from various acknowledged sources describe the
present position in the conflict and explain the issues
at stake.]
(From an article in the U.S.A. quarterly “Foreign
Affairs” by Walter H. Mallory, author of “China: Land
of Famine.”)
Japan has had a major military success in China.
Judged by the usual standards of conquest, she has
subjugated a huge area and an enormous population.
Presuming that her troops move in sufficient numbers,
she can proceed wherever she likes in China’s great
coastal plains ; and there are tens of millions of un-
armed Chinese in the area which she nominally con-
trols who are subject to her power. But her leaders
constantly remind the Japanese people that the war is
not yet won —that they must gird up their loins for
further fighting for a long time to come.
The outcome of the war depends upon the ability
of the Chinese to continue their resistance, not only
in the military sense that they oblige Japan to main-
tain a large army in the country, but also in the poli-
tical sense of denying her any opportunity to profit
from her occupation of Chinese territory. It is not
a question of months ; the people are asked to pre-
pare for long years of patient, resolute, self-sacrificing
effort.
The Chinese people are notable for their realism.
They are accustomed to compromise. While they
seldom change their direction, they are willing to make
progress by easy stages. These characteristics may be
their undoing, for in order to return to a “busi-
ness as usual” policy they may make what they
would regard as a temporary arrangement with
the Japanese. They might, led by their mer-
chant class, begin to trade again with the
enemy, hoping in the future to edge the Japan-
ese out little by little instead of attempting
by a major counter-offensive to throw them
out now. Whether the new Chinese national-
ism is sufficiently strong to overcome these
traditional Chinese traits, time alone will show.
The situation to-day is that after two years
of war, in which she has won all the battles,
Japan still has to maintain in China proper
(that is, south of the Great Wall) an army of
at least 900,000 men (the Japanese Admiralty
spokesman on May 11 said there were more
than 1,000,000 men in Central China). These
are divided roughly as follows: Canton area,
60,000; Hankow area, 300,000; Shansi,
120,000 ; Honan, Hopei and Western Shantung,
200,000. The remaining 220,000 are in garri-
sons and on lines of communications. In addi-
tion, there are probably over 300,000 troops
in Manchuria and 40,000 in Korea.
The Chinese forces, if guerrillas and
bandits are included, probably number over
-2,000,000 men. Of these about a third are at
the points of Japanese penetration; a third have
been split up into small units and sent back into the
occupied area for guerrilla warfare ; and a third are
in the far west, for reorganisation and training. Of
those at the “front,” probably 350,000 are in the
Hankow area south of the Yangtze, 150,000 are in the
south in Kwangtung and 100,000 in the northern
province of Shansi.
One would be rash indeed to make any prophecies
as to when the conflict may end, or to pick the
winner. It is perhaps possible to say that the struggle
is of such a fundamental nature that it will go on in
some form for many years to come. And for this
same reason it seems unlikely that either side will win
a clear-cut and decisive victory.
For China to win, without outside military aid,
she must be able to reorganise and on the material
side greatly strengthen her armies and carry out a
counter-offensive of surprising skill and force. Alterna-
tively, Japan must collapse at home. Neither of these
possibilities seems imminent. For Japan to win, she
must not only crush all active military resistance and
restore order in the country, she must also succeed in
getting the Chinese themselves to co-operate with her.
This possibility, too, appears remote.
Thus the likely outcome would seem to be some
sort of compromise which would afford temporary
peace, and later the renewal of the struggle, perhaps
in a different form. This leaves out of account the
chance that China will get the active military aid of
some other Power or Powers, Chiang Kai-shek has
counted on this from the beginning, and still counts
on it.
Britain’s China Policy
(From a "Times” leading article .)
There is ample room in the Far East for all
Powers to conduct their trade with the Chinese for
the benefit of the Chinese and of themselves. British
policy has been to open up a country of illimitable
resources to help in their development, and gradu-
ally, as at Hankow, to abandon to the Chinese privi-
leged positions which had become unnecessary, irk-
some to the Chinese or otherwise out of date.
Britain has also supported at Geneva and else-
where the constructive effort of the Chinese administra-
tion at Nanking. No doubt this resurgence of China
has been viewed with ill-favor by the militarised Japan
of the last decade, which has been animated by a
dominating, acquisitive and monopolistic spirit, and
has been seeking to bend Chinese economic growth to
her own will and to exploit Chinese resources in her
own interest.
Japan does not want to see an industrially inde-
pendent China. But even the most arrogant of the
army leaders have realised by this time that a vast
realm of about 500,000,000 inhabitants cannot be con-
quered and reorganised on a Japanese pattern all in a
moment; and their tactics have therefore been to try
to establish themselves constructively in the north,
while being almost exclusively destructive in the south
and centre.
Up the Yangtze Valley, once so flourishing, there
is now a trail of ruin, misery and devastation, to which
the Chinese have themselves contributed rather than
allow the Japanese to enter into the results of their
labors of the last few years. Roads, river embank-
ments, railways and communications have been
destroyed by retreating Chinese as much as by invad-
ing Japanese.
British policy in China has always been, and is
still, favorable to reconstruction, through the Chinese
people and with the co-operation of all foreign nations
that have interests in the Far East. Japan has chosen
to challenge the British attitude and to destroy British
interests. The challenge, if it persists, will be taken up.
Japan is more vulnerable than most nations to
economic pressure. There would be no need to with-
hold foodstuffs from her population, which in any
case subsists mainly on rice; but the newly-built in-
dustries of Japan depend almost entirely on imports
from abroad—very largely from different parts of the
British Empire, and almost wholly from countries
which, having important interests in China, might well
be willing to join in a policy of long-range embargo on
exports to Japan. Already in the United States there
is a kind of popular and unofficial refusal to buy
goods produced in Japan. Japanese industry is feeling
the strain, and might soon be crippled. Her army is
embarrassed on the mainland and faced by prepon-
“Le Canard Enchaine,” Paris.
TOKIO COMMUNIQUE.
Our troops have brought down 350 Russian planes and 255
British trousers.
derantly hostile inhabitants in the occupied regions,
and by a patriotic people farther west busily prepar-
ing for prolonged hostilities. In all the circumstances
Japan is not well placed to sustain a long economic
struggle.
Lest the consideration should be too confidently
entertained in Tokio that the British Government feels
unable at this time to become overmuch entangled in
the Far East, it may be well to point out that, if it did
come to war, the long trade routes of Japan would be
open to attack without the employment of very much
larger naval and aerial forces than are already avail-
able in the East, and that the Japanese communications
with China are also peculiarly vulnerable. There is an
earnest hope that a settlement will be reached. But
the patience of the British public is not inexhaustible.
Purpose of the Blockade
(From a London “Evening Standard” article by R. T.
Barrett , former editor of Hong Kong Daily Pfess . )
Blockade of the British concession at Tientsin
and the indignities inflicted on British people are all
part of the Japanese effort to break down the stubborn,
evasive resistance of the Chinese.
Slowly, the Japanese realised that the Concessions
were gateways between China and the outside world.
As long as the Chinese could keep contact with Euro-
peans at these gateways they could maintain China’s
foreign trade. The Chinese dollar, well backed by
silver shipped abroad and stored in foreign Conces-
sions, was accepted by foreign banks. The Republic
of China continued both importing and exporting
through hundreds of little ports up and down the coast.
Not surprising then that, when they found Chinese
resisting power was standing the strain of military cap-
ture of the big towns and railways, the Japanese
started to attack the economic nerve centre from which
the finance of this trade was conducted. They began
•at Tientsin because foreign interest there is predomi-
nantly British, and, owing to Messrs. Hitler and Mus-
solini, Britain is handicapped in resisting Japanese
demands.
The Japanese demand that their police shall co-
operate in suppressing Chinese terrorists, that suvei
deposited by the Chiang Kai-shek Government be
handed over to the Peking puppet Government, and
that British banks shall co-operate in establishing a
Japanese currency and at the same time refuse o
accept the Chinese dollar.
It is an axiom in the Japanese military mind that,
if the Chinese dollar collapses, the peasants will clamor
for sound Japanese money, and their resistance will
be weakened once economic contact is made with the
invaders. But more than any question of foreign ex-
change value of their money Chinese morale would be
shaken by the realisation that Great Britain, neutral
so far in the struggle, had thrown in her weight with
Japan. British and American support is a factor in
Chinese resistance. Who can blame the Japanese
(from their own standpoint) for putting pressure on
Britain to cease economic help to China?
Japan’s meaning is clear: “In this struggle neu-
trality is impossible. We thought at first that your
British Concessions and your trade with China wouid
make no difference. Now we see in them a grave hin-
drance to our plans. You can still come in on our
side. If you do not we shall make it so unpleasant
that you will have to evacuate first Tientsin and then
the other Concessions and special areas. As to the
four terrorists, we have got to stop the assassination of
our officials ; in these times we cannot accept British
peace-time judicial procedure. There must be a
promise with the demands of our military authorities.”
(These four men over whom the trouble started are
“patriots” in Chinese eyes. In Japanese eyes, mere
murderers.” Quite likely they did the deed they are
accused of.)
If the British trader accepts Japanese terms he will
alienate the Chinese, and if the Chinese (vin this war
such “treachery,” as they would consider it, would not
be forgotten. With Chinese hostility added to Japan-
ese competitive methods, Britain would have no chance
in a war-impoverished China, where Japanese low-
priced goods would be all that the Chinsee could
afford. . , •j* ~
A line of resistance can only be taken it the
British Government can put such counter pressure on
the Japanese that to leave the Concessions alone will
be the lesser of two evils. If this is not forth-
coming the blockade at Tientsin and Kulangsu
will be continued elsewhere.
There is no sign of China weakening, and
the Japanese may overestimate the effect on
the peasant soldiers, who hold the countryside
in their grip, either of currency collapse or
Britain’s change of policy. If we hold on, the
day must come when the Japanese will realise
their blunder in attempting to conquer China,
and offer terms that a Chinese Government
will accept.
Trade Interests
(From “Great Britain and the East.’’)
For the enforcement of any measures
against Japan the weakness of Britain’s posi-
tion is the divided mind of the London
Chamber of Commerce, where one section
trades with Japan and another with China, and
yet others have interests in both countries, and
all are equally importunate at the Foreign
Office with their rival points of view.
The strength of Britain’s position is Japan s
shortage of gold and foreign exchange, and
her adverse trade balance with countries which
yield her foreign exchange. She has now cut
down the amount of money which may be
exported, and is making a house-to-house inquisition
of gold privately owned in Japan. Only the gold tips
of fountain-pen nibs and the gold in stopped teeth
need not be declared.
Some people urge that we could do nothing with-
out America’s help. It is true that without her co-
operation our economic blockade would be only
partly effective. But anything to suggest that we want
America to pull the nuts out of the lire for us (as oui
enemies kindly reiterate) helps to deter them from
action. Sixty-six per cent, of Americans, as against
only 37 in 1937, are now in favor of boycotting Japan.
The surest way of getting their help is by convincing
proof that we can first help ourselves.
The Job for Diplomacy
(From cm article by O. M. Green in “Great Britain and
the East.”)
It is to be remembered that Japan has real
grounds of complaint against the West. The rejection
of the principle of racial equality at Paris in 1919 ; the
dissolution of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance; the
American Immigration Act of 1923 these weie harsh
blows to Japanese pride. Sir George Paish, the eco-
nomic authority lately returned from Japan, has em-
phasised that, while Japan must assuredly get out of
China, she must be given space in the world in general
“which will enable her to sell her products and sup-
port her vast population in reasonable health.
These are considerations which must be borne in
mind in taking the long view of the Anglo-Japanese
crisis at Tientsin, which the British Government is
bound to take. The misfortune is that it did not set
about taking the long view much earlier. The case of
Swatow —where the Japanese ultimatum to foreign
shipping to clear out of the port was merely answered
by the sending of another man-of-war and instructions
to British ships to continue their sailings to Swatow,
whereupon the Japanese ultimatum was hurriedly
abandoned —is a vivid illustration of the power of the
‘might-have-been.”
But such crises will occur again and again so long
as the war lasts. The only permanent solution is that
British diplomacy should address itself seriously to the
task of restoring peace. Two essential points stand
out. The blockade must be lifted and the rights ol
the cruelly wronged Chinese must be upheld. If Japan
remains intractable, it would be better to come out
wholeheartedly on China’s side than to continue to
try to dance on two tubs at once, as we have been
doing. .
The future of the whole Far East is at stake.


Balts Distrust the Soviet.
i™„L Furthe j- llght on the .genuine fears the Baltic States
nave regarding any “assistance” from Soviet Russia is
given in this Paris “La Republique” article by Pierre
Dominique, here condensed from “World Review.”]
It should not be forgotten that the Balts, with
whom German influence was always very great, won
their independence not from Germany, but from
Russia. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia used to be
Russian provinces, and they constituted, together with
♦r! n a u ’ Russ l a s balcony on the Baltic. Ido not say
that the Russia of the Soviets has not in good faith
renounced all ideas of a return to Finland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania, but I do say that a certain
number of Finns, Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians
remember Russian domination and do not want any
more of it at any price ; they would willingly throw
themselves into anybody’s arms, even into Germany’s,
to avoid it.
t• u .* s that Finland, Latvia, Estonia and
Lithuania are in the same position as Poland and
Rumania. They are a chain of nations which are un-
fortunately placed between Germany and Russia, and
which have always suffered for their situation. For
Germany marches towards the East, and Russia-
even under Lenin in 1920—has always marched
towards the West. That is to say, these six Powers,
of which four have once been entirely conquered by
the Russians, Poland to the extent of three-quarters
of her territory, and Rumania in Bessarabia, will en-
deavor right up to the last minute to avoid delivering
themselves completely into the power either of Berlin
or of Moscow. When things become impossible and
it is necessary to make a choice, they will make their
choice, for the worst that could happen to them would
be a German-Russian alliance ; but they will make
that choice without enthusiasm and will not lose their
natural distrust for their temporary ally.
Poland and Rumania are special cases ; one might
say that these two States appear to be too important
to have much to fear from the U.S.S.R. Logically, at
the present time their fear of Germany ought to carry
the day. As for Finland, she is situated very much
to one side, and Russia has no great interest in ever
laying hands upon her. Besides, Finland is part of
the Scandinavian group. But the three unhappy little
Baltic States, which together can muster six million in-
habitants, and which together could not stand up
against three German Army corps, or three Russian
Army corps either —their anguish can be imagined.
They realise very clearly that they (and Finland also
for that matter) have every chance of becoming a
Russo-German battlefield. Whatever the result of
Russo-German conflict, they know that in the end they
could not fail to become either three German protec-
torates or three Soviet republics dependent on the
U.S.S.R.
Let us remember when we speak of the Baltic
States that it is best to argue as if we were living at
Kaunas, Riga or Tallinn, rubbing shoulders with
pan-Germanism on the one side and pan-Slav Bol-
shevism on the other, two monsters before whom they
have every right to tremble.
And the Swiss Object
(From a report by Manchester “Guardian’s” Geneva
correspondent .)
During the Anglo-Russian negotiations there has
been much discussion in the Swiss press, particularly
with regard to the proposed guarantee of Switzerland’s
integrity. After a meeting of the Federal Council in
Berne, a communique was issued emphasising the
necessity for maintaining Swiss neutrality in all
eventualities.
Commenting on this declaration, “Tribune de
Geneve” states that it shows concisely that Switzer-
land asks no one for special guarantees and refuses to
join one group of Powers against another.
“La Suisse” expresses the fear that pressure will
be brought on the Swiss Government by the French
and British Governments for the purpose of forcing
Switzerland into recognising Russia in exchange for a
guarantee not solicited by the Swiss. The paper adds :
It would be inadmissible if, in order to further the
game of the Anglo-French entente, diplomatic pressure
were exercised on our country to renew diplomatic rela-
tions with Russia, even though a guarantee which we
did not solicit would be accorded us. Like Holland
and the Baltic States, Switzerland is neutral, not
because of its egoism, but simply because there is
no reason to enter into quarrels where its interests
are not at stake.
Danzig Essential to Poland.
[Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph” article
by Hugh Carleton Greene, till recently that paper’s
chief correspondent at Berlin.]
When the Peace Conference at Paris had to
deal with the future of Danzig in the light of
President Wilson’s 13th Point, which declared that
Poland should be assured a free and secure access to
the sea, it was able to take into account the facts
that the city’s association with Poland went much
farther back than its subjection to Prussia, and that
for most of its historical existence it had enjoyed a
semi-independent status. The emergence of Danzig
after the world war as a Free City in which Poland
enjoyed certain rights and privileges was justified on
historical grounds. The tragedy of the situation lies
in the fact that any other arrangement would quite
certainly have been worse.
While Poland asks for no more than the main-
tenance of the present situation in Danzig and would
even have been willing until
recently to agree to certain
modifications in Germany’s
favor, Herr Hitler wishes to
use the incorporation of the
Free City in the Reich as a
preliminary step towards the
recovery of the Polish pro-
vince of Pomorze (the “Corri-
dor”) and to the subsequent ex-
tension of German dominion
over the rest of Poland.
This assertion is not made
lightly. Responsible Nazi
leaders in Danzig have told
me that the return of Danzig
to the Reich must be accom-
panied, or at least immedi-
ately followed, by the acqui-
sition of the “Corridor.”
Once Poland’s access to the
sea was barred in this way it
would not be long before she
was a “Protectorate” on the
Czech model.
While to Germany Dan-
zig is merely a “stepping-
stone to higher things,” it is
life itself to Poland. A
glance at the map will show that if Germany were in
control of Danzig she could at any moment cut off
Poland’s access to the sea at Gdynia. At its narrow-
est point the “Corridor” is barely 25 miles wide, and
all the railway connections with Gdynia except one,
which for much of its length is still a single-track line,
run through Danzig territory.
Perhaps, it may be suggested, Germany would be
willing to give a guarantee not to remilitarise Danzig?
Poland has seen the annexation of Bohemia and
Moravia and knows that any such guarantee would
not be worth the paper on which it was written.
On strategic and economic grounds Poland’s
claims are unassailable. What of the “racial” aspect ?
It should be stated at once that there is no analogy
whatever between the situation in Danzig to-day and
that in the Sudetenland last year.
In Danzig Germans are in control of their own
destiny. A National Socialist Government is in power,
having gained an overwhelming majority in the Diet.
All other parties have been eliminated, and the in-
habitants must be presumed to have obtained the Gov-
ernment that they desire.
I have worked for many years in Germany, for
a short time in Poland, and I have paid half a dozen
visits to Danzig in the last five years. My conclusion
is that the peace-makers at Versailles found the only
possible solution of the Danzig question. In a rational
world it would no longer be a problem.
A Peace Plan Vital to Europe.
[Sir Edward Grigg, M.P., writer of the thoughtful
article here condensed from London “Daily Telegraph ”
is the author of Britain Looks at Germany, one of the
very few books on Anglo-German relations published in
recent years that can be described as unbiased.]
Fundamental causes are at work which must be
dealt with if tension is ever to make way for peace.
Hitler’s demands for lebensraum are representative,
“Daily Express,” London.
A JUGGLING ACT IN THE FAR EAST THEATRE.
and arise from conditions in which all Europe is in-
volved. The main cause lies in three simultaneous
movements:
First, the increase of population in Europe gener-
ally since 1918 ; second, the equalitarian desire for a
better distribution of wealth springing from the spread
of education, the awakening of social conscience and
the rise of the working class throughout the world;
and third, the restriction of outlets overseas.
About 25,000,000 people left Europe for new
countries in the latter half of the nineteenth century,
thereby relieving the tension in Europe and at the
same time enlarging the demand for European pro-
ducts overseas. But now, while two of the crucial
movements —the increase of population and the
demand for better living conditions for the people as
a whole—have taken fresh momentum since the end
of the war, the third, migration and overseas develop-
ment, has virtually come to an end.
The pressure of these facts will end by producing
war if no relief can be devised.
Dictatorships are not necessarily enemies of
peace ; but they exist on tension, and they usually
create a situation for themselves from which war,
however hazardous, appears to be the only escape.
That is happening before our eyes at the present
moment.
Every thinking German dreads the consequences
of any course of action which would open the present
artificial economy of his country to the free play
of economic forces in the outside world. More es-
pecially does he dread the possibility that the German
people might have to suffer once again all that they
suffered from the meteoric collapse of the mark 15
years ago.
No regime, moreover, could abandon the inten-
sive manufacture of armaments unless it were assured
of support in preventing unemployment on a spec-
tacular scale. None could hope to revive the normal
processes of industry unless it could look with confi-
dence for an adequate supply of raw material—for
which it must, in some way, be enabled to pay. It is
to fundamental difficulties such as these that the
democratic Powers must devote their minds if peace
is to be preserved.
Let us not forget, moreover, that the majority of
the neutral or hesitant minor States are anxious for
some definite hope and guidance. So long as our only
definite programme is to defend our liberties by en-
circling Germany, they will remain exceedingly neutral
and detached ; but to a definite plan of reconstruction
plainly designed in the interest of all States, large and
small, they would give whole-hearted moral support.
Conference, however, is not the first step. Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s proposal of an economic conference
was rejected by Germany ; and, even if it be still open,
preliminary work is essential before any conference
can produce results. The initiative rests with the
Powers which wield the main economic strength. The
measures of economic reconstruction required for
Europe as a whole must necessarily include the points
on which Germany’s anxieties now concentrate, and
all of them depend upon collaboration between the
Governments which command the necessary means —
that is, Britain, France and the United States.
There is every reason why those three Powers
should endeavor, in their own interest, to determine
how ruinous inflation is to be avoided; how unem-
ployment is to be dealt with when a halt is called to
the present intensive manufacture of armaments; how
competition is to be regulated in the export markets ;
how the Colonial Powers are to show that they are
ready for genuine political and economic collabora-
tion in the colonial field, and how overseas settlement
Dean’s Homily.
Dean Inge, in the “Church of England
Newspaper”:—
Without in any way minimising the un-
friendliness of Von Ribbentrop, Goebbels and
the German press, we ought to admit that there
has been a great deal of provocative language
on our side, that we have been too ready to
attribute to German intrigue every rebellious-
ness in our Empire, from India to Palestine,
and even to the Irish criminals.
■We are not free from blame. We are cen-
sorious and slow to enter into alien points of
view. V ersailles had to be revised, with or
without war. Hitler is trying to do it without
war. He cannot be allowed to have everything
Ids own way ; but are we going to fight about
Danzig, a thoroughly German town, which
never ought to have been separated from the
Reich?
The things which we hate in Germany are
largely the creation of the Allies, especially
France, after the peace. If we had made things
easier for the Weimar Republic there might
have been no Nazism.
Let us cease from the childish habit of
personifying other nations as monsters.
In Re Krivitsky!
“X-ray” writes from Bowen Terrace, New
Farm (Q.), directing the attention of these
pages to the alleged “exposure” of Krivitsky
by the Communist paper “New Masses.”
"X -ray” is directed to the "Saturday Evening
Post” exposure of the so-called “exposure”
which appeared in last week’s “Uncabled Addi-
tions.” Among other remarks to the point, the
“Post” crushingly retorted:—
Counting upon American ignorance of internal
Russian affairs, Moscow seems to have made up its
mind eventually to deny Krivitsky’s existence
rather than to attempt to refute his charges. To
deny the existence of a man who was the director
of the Soviet’s War Industries Institute in 1933-34,
chief of its military intelligence in Western Europe
from 1935 to 1937, might embarrass any but the
Russian Government.
But “X-ray” makes a statement on his own
account which calls for some comment. The
Communist publication’s word on such a matter
should have been suspect at once, and there
would seem to have been fair reason for wait-
ing for the “Post’s” reply; but, anyway, “X-ray”
wants an assurance that those whose views
“Uncabled Additions” repeat “are authorities
whose bona-fides cannot be questioned as openly
and as definitely as have those of ‘Krivitsky.’ ”
As for that questioning, it has, as it happens,
been shown up for the impudent falsity it was.
But, of course, these pages cannot undertake to
guarantee the writers of articles here condensed
or the views expressed in them. Very often
these views conflict with “The Bulletin’s” own
views on specific matters; very often, too, the
writers are anonymous in the first place.
If, in the Krivitsky case, the “Post” had, in
fact, been misled, could anybody have suggested
that these “Uncabled Additions” were in any
way at fault in having given digests of those
articles fully acknowledged to the “Post”? In
the remote chance of the “Post” having been
misled—which it wasn’t, of course—how on
earth could these pages have foretold it?
“X-ray,” however, can be assured that he
will read nothing in “Uncabled Additions” from
notoriously untrustworthy sources. The aim is
to provide digests of articles that are informative
or that contain interesting views, and other items
which, for one reason or another, fail to appear
in cables or are there given only in part. The
sources are always acknowledged, with the
names of the writers where these have been
used—and on their heads be it!


is to be restarted on the scale which the refugee prob-
lem alone, to say nothing of Europe’s other needs,
imperatively requires.
All these things will be impossible without close
collaboration between Britain, France and the United
States ; and no progress will ever be made towards
dissolving warlike tension in Europe if these three
Powers cannot first agree upon certain principles of
action as the basis of peace.
There can be no question of “offers” to Ger-
many. All such advances are taken as signs of weak-
ness by the German Government and encourage the
belief that Germany stands to gain less from negotia-
tion than from continuing to play upon our nerves.
But we can at least proclaim our aims in a positive
declaration and how we believe those aims can be
attained. That will have a far better chance of pene-
trating the German mind than negative or anodyne
declarations to the effect that we mean Germany no
harm by encirclement.
Defence is negative, and we are asking to be fur-
nished with some constructive vision of the better
Europe which must be created if European civilisation
is not to founder and disappear.
So far the thinkers have offered nothing but
machinery—a stronger League of Nations, universal
acceptance of third-party arbitration, guarantee of
strength sufficient to suppress all resort to lawless force.
But Europe’s fundamental trouble is economic, and it
will have no peace through machinery until its peoples
have come together to make a new economic start.
The difficulties are enormous, the cost is bound
to be great. But the alternative is war; difficulties and
cost will be greater still if war must first take its toil.
The very effort of determining our peace aims in dis
cussion with our friends would hearten our resolve by
raising us from a mood of blind though steady forti-
tude to one of constructive hope ; and it might well
transform the atmosphere of fatalism which is grow-
ing every day.
It might also, where everything else has failed,
persuade the German people of our sincerity in desir-
ing their co-operation rather than their collapse. And
if that last hope were belied we should fight the better
for knowing not only what we mean to defend but
also what we mean to build upon the victory which
will assuredly be ours in the end.
The Soviet Hand in Spain.
[The writer of the article here condensed is no pro-
Franco partisan or convert, but a prominent member
of the defeated side —Luis Araquistain, who was the
Spanish Republican Government’s Ambassador in Paris,
and is described by Francoists as “the Red ex-
Ambassador and Left extremist.” He is writing his
views on the Spanish civil war for “Diario de la
Marina,” the oldest and one of the leading papers in
Cuba. The truth about Moscow’s direct intervention
on the defeated side had to come out eventually,
though while the war lasted cables kept up the pretence
that that side was pure Spanish democracy which J. Bull
and his Empire should have rushed in to uphold.
Even now there are leading Australian dailies which
still keep up that silly pretence.]
Soon after the beginning of the military insurrec-
tion against the Spanish Republic in July, 1936, Fran-
cisco Largo Caballero, the most popular Socialist
leader in Spain, was being acclaimed in workers’ meet-
ings and at the front as “the Spanish Lenin.” The
initiative in the use of this title came from Moscow.
The Communists needed a figurehead having some
prestige in Spain. The mental and moral level of theii
own best-known men and women —Diaz, Hernandez,
Uribe, “La Pasionaria,” Margarita Nelken —was too
low. The Communists aimed at being the directors
of the Spanish tragedy on the Republican side, whilst
other men, of other parties, would appear as the
actors. The chief role was assigned to Caballero.
A few months later, by the beginning of 1937, the
Communists had already started to overthrow the
man they themselves had raised to the clouds. The
idol they had chosen for his adamantine character,
for his energy as a ruler and his popularity as a
leader of the masses, was now exactly the opposite ;
he was “a weak old man, vacillating and estranged
from the working classes.” . n
Why this sudden change? “The Spanish Lenin
had turned out to be a Spaniard who wanted to govern
his country according to the spirit and interests ol
Spain and not according to the dictates of politicians
in the service of a foreign State.
That and no other was the meaning of the crisis in
May, 1937, when Dr. Negrin replaced Caballero in
the Premiership. It meant the triumph of the Com-
munist policy in Spain, but the day of that crisis was
the day on which the war was lost for the Republic.
The first clash between Caballero and the Com-
munists occurred over the appointment of hundreds
of political commissars in the Republican army. The
very idea of appointing political commissars had also
been imported from Soviet Russia.
Caballero cancelled those appointments, which
had been made behind his back and in favor almost
exclusively of the Communist party, that is to say, ol
Soviet policy in Spain. On that day the Socialist leader
signed his death warrant as a head of the Government.
All of us who have had any contact with the
Communists know their tactics of flattering the ambi-
tions and vanity of those they want to seduce. When
I was Ambassador in Paris, an agent of the Comin-
terin used to come to me every day and offer me I
don’t know how many political and Labor kingdoms
in Spain, until one day, tired of so much adulation, I
finally said to him: “Don’t wear yourself out. I don’t
believe in witches nor am I a Macbeth.”
Alvarez del Vayo, however, lent an ear to the
Communist witches and offered himself as the Mac-
beth of the Spanish proletariat. He was prepared to
sacrifice his own party and the Spanish people, if
necessary, to serve Soviet Russia.
Daily visits were paid to the home of Alvarez dei
Vayo by prominent young Socialists, for the purpose
of interviewing the Comintern agent then operating in
Spain, a certain Codovila, who used the false name of
Medina. There the young Socialists were given their
first lessons in the Communist catechism; there a
pilgrimage to the Muscovite Mecca was organised for
them ; and there it was arranged to deliver over the
Socialist youth, the new working generation in Spain,
to Soviet Communism. That was in the first months
of 1936. As Communism is the chief reason for the
disaster that has overtaken Republican Spain, the
responsibility of Alvarez del Vayo, as an instrument
of the Communist party, is of the very gravest.
The Russian Government began to take an interest
in Spain when Caballero was appointed Prime
Minister in September, 1936. The Spanish Lenin had
to have a Soviet counsellor by his side, and Stalin 1
sent him, as his Ambassador, Rosenberg, a man who
had won the reputation of being clever in the lobbies
of the League of Nations. Rather than as an Ambas-
sador, he acted like a Russian viceroy in Spain. His
counsels, which were practically orders, turned mainly
on the high commands in the army. Such-and-such
generals and colonels ought to be dismissed and re-
placed by others chosen, not because they were com-
petent, but for their greater or lesser acceptance of
Communism.
The main battle was fought around General
Aoono'r. of the most efficient* officers of the
Asensio, one of the most efficient officers ot ne
Republic, but who was looked upon askance by the
Communists. They accused him of disloyalty to the
Republic, and, when Caballero asked for some proof
or at least a sign of his treason and they could not
furnish any, he refused to dismiss him. Finally, they
succeeded in having him thrown into prison over the
loss of Malaga. He was kept in prison for over six
months, and finally set free without having been tried.
In this way the war was bound to be lost. It seemed
as if the Communists did not mind losing the war
“It Travaso delle [?]lee,” Rome.
IN THE BRITISH ARMY—ITALIAN IDEA OF IT.
if they and their accomplices were not to be alone in
winniL
Stalin'was not content with having an Ambassa-
j cjt-iH d ipoinn mnrp or less official and known
. • o On several occasions he wrote directly
ly Odhallern Tn one of these letters he was given
political advice about the war and was urged to hasten
the desired unification of the’proletariat, which meant
lha i the the" Communists*
wards he was replaced by Gaikis.
I understand that Rosenberg was thrown into
prison in Russia. If the reason was the lack of success
of his mission in Spain it is only fair to admit that
he certainly did not fail for want of zeal. 1 believe,
however, that he was punished tor not having perse-
cuted the so-called Trotskyists and Spanish anarchists
with sufficient severity.
Gaikis disappeared from Spain a few months after
having been appointed Ambassador ; he never returned
to his post nor has anything been heard of him since.
After him there were no more Soviet Ambassadors
in Spain. As to Antonof Oschenko, who was Soviet
Consul-General at Barcelona for a time, it was learnt
that he had been arrested in Russia. He had com-
mitted the unpardonable crime of attending a dinner
at which one of the guests was Andres Nin, an old
friend of Trotsky. Later in 1937, Nin was murdered
in one of the Communist prisons in Spain. We
Spaniards regarded Soviet diplomacy as too brutal and
unbearable on the part of an independent State. In
Moscow, however, they condemned their represen-
tatives for being too lenient. Those examples made
us shudder at the thought of what would happen to
Spain if, at the end of a victorious war, we were to
fall under an open Communist dictatorship.
From my post of observation as Ambassador in
Paris, I noticed with surprise that as early as the first
months of 1937 some Liberal newspapers in London
which allowed themselves to be more or less con-
sciously inspired by Communists or sympathisers with
Communism were beginning to publish, without any
apparent reason, photographs and articles in praise of
Dr Negrin, who was then Minister of Finance. The
hidden reason was that Moscow had chosen him to
succeed Caballero Negrin was not known, either in
political or scientific circles, outside Spain, and in
Spain only to*a slight extent in a small university
circle. International opinion, therefore, had to be
prepared and a name as a statesman had to be rapidly
created for him. The Communists are past masters
in the art of setting up figureheads,
When it was found that Caballero would not lend
himself to become the docile instrument of Moscow’s
policy in Spain, he had to be got rid of quickly. He
had prepared for a military operation in Estremadura,
but at the last hour General Miaja, on being ordered
to send part of the troops stationed at Madrid to the
Estremaduran sector, refused. His disobedience was
prompted by the Communists, who were then Miaja’s
real chiefs and had made him, an officer of no great
capacity, into a great international figure. In the end
Miaja had to abandon his insubordinate attitude in
face of Caballero’s energy, and the required troops
were sent. But the Communists were now determined
to get rid of Caballero. This was achieved by a poli-
tical manoeuvre; enough Ministers of a Centre ten-
dency joined hands with the Communists to oust him,
and he was replaced by Negrin.
_
A Yank at Lord s.
[The English and England's future, as revealed to
American journalist Walter Davenport at Lord’s,
Rosie > s and J other celebrated national institutions and
inscribed by him in London “Daily Express,” with some
learned dissertation on Gahd’s Own Country as well.]
Having spent 10 days in London I quite naturally
know precisely what England is going to do in the
next six months or so.
it all became apparent to me after a week, which
is nimble. It usually takes us American journalists
a ff of a fortnight to discover all the secrets of the
Empire. We always depart astonished at the ignorance
of your Prime Minister, Foreign Office, Air Ministry
and War Office.
A day at Lord’s watching a lot of husky
white guys from Lancashire and other parts
trying to subdue a lot of coal-black fellows
from the West Indies gave me the funda-
mental low-down. Nothing like that crowd
at Lord’s would be tolerated in America, 1
was apologised to by a gentleman in the queue
who merely brushed my arm. In America
there wouldn’t be a queue ; there’d be a riot.
There, the gentleman would have asked me to
get the hell off his foot, and I’d have asked him
who the hell he was shoving ; and four cops
would have answered us.
Inside the grounds or park there would
have been no pale young men who needed hair-
cuts lugging signs about telling us who was
going to play for England and who for the
boys from the West Indies. There’d have been
a leather-lunged guy from Hell’s Kitchen tell-
ing us through a megaphone. And the lads
who were going to play would have been out
there tossing the ball around, indulging in
batting practice and warning each other to lay
off their blondes, who would have been sitting
in the stands eating hot dogs and looking
blondely vague.
If, in the States, a pitcher or bowler were
to hand his sweater to the umpire, the umpire
would probably eat it—and the bowler, too. If
this same pitcher were to let any one or series
of ones make as many as ten runs off him in
an innings he’d be sold to the nearest glue fac-
tory. And when I envision the St. Louis Car-
dinals, who, as far as I can see, approximate
those West Indies boys in this cricket league,
quitting in the middle of a batting rally for tea at four
o’clock, everything becomes clear to me.
And there’d have been no spectator asleep in
America as was a ruddy gentleman just behind me.
And no baseball fan would have been doing cross-
word puzzles, nor reading a Life of Douglas Haig, nor
fooling around with a pocket chessboard, stymied for
two hours by his imaginary opponent’s Queen's gambit
All these things 1 saw at Lord’s. J also saw what
1 was informed was an appeal to the umpire about
being hit by the ball. If you’re beaned by the pitcher
in the States, even on the leg, you get a free ride to
first base. In cricket you’re out.
But it was the argument that revealed the fate of
England to me.
The hitter spoke gently, almost deferentially, to
the umpire who made a ruling. And that was that.
In the States both teams would have been pushing
the umpire around, stepping on his feet (with spikes)
and talking in loud voices about his personal affairs
—to say nothing of certain peculiarities in his imme-
diate ancestry. And the crowd would have joined in.
This is, of course, merely a sketch of what 1 have
learned of England’s future. There are certain things
I found out in Rosie’s Bar that I’m bound not to
reveal. But it’s a swell place. The whole attitude ol
that crowd at Rosie’s was something like that of the
gentleman who, at the newsreel of the home-coming
of their Majesties, sat in utter and apparently incur-
able silence until—just as they arrived inside the court-
yard of Buckingham Palace —the hat of one of the
princesses blew off. He stroked his moustache twice,
and, turning to his lady, said: “See that, m deal ,
rather good, what?”
Another revealing thing was the comment ot the
crowd in Piccadilly Circus the morning after the latest
bombings. Offhand I recall most readily the elderly,
retired brigadier - looking man who said: Rotten
bomb-makers, whoever they are.” That’s all he said.
And there was the day I saw the King and Queen
riding down Fleet-street being welcomed by the City.
Out of the door of the Lord Mayor’s coach, at a
nice rakish angle, was the great golden mace. I asked
what it was. A gentleman, noting probably that 1 was
not an Englishman, helped me out. “Aow, just some-
thing to hang ’is ’at on when it gets ’ot.”
After all, there’s not a great deal of important an-
ference between you English and us Yankees. There
is some difference, of course. Like Tony Galento, who
is about to be murdered —and like it —we holler : ' t
can lick them lugs.” You lugs say it to yourselves
A little more noise at Lord’s and a few more beets
at Rosie’s and I’d feel right at home—God bless it.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Last End, winner of the V.R.C. Grand
National Steeple two years ago, regis-
tered a comfortable victory over Moonee
Valley fences on Saturday, but he had
a lot of luck. Five furlongs from home,
when leading, Brightello fell and brought
down Tornasuk. , Both had seemed cer-
tain to finish in advance of Last End,
who was further advantaged by Stick On
parting company with his rider at the
penultimate obstacle. Wakerife ran third
after losing a whole lot of ground
through All Blarney crashing in front
of him early.
Opening favorite, Wakerife drifted
from 5 to 2 to fours, Brightello going to
the head of the quotes by half a point.
Last End weakened from fives to sevens.
He is now in the stable of B. Crocker,
who prepared Laniroi for an Australian
Hurdle victory in 1934. Having romped
home in the Port Adelaide Steeple at the
week-end, National Debt probably will be
sent over to Melbourne for the Austra-
lian Steeple on August 12. He beat Last
End pointless at the beginning of June
and ought to be the chief S.A. hope.
Horses bred by “S. A. Rawdon” are
very much in the limelight as jumpers.
Last End was sired by Drake, while
Deckard and Mustella are sons of
Lanius. Last-named was one of three im-
ported placegetters in the Sydney Cup of
1918. Rebus won from Shadowland, a
stablemate of Lanius.
Trial Hurdle at the Valley was an-
nexed by the Gippsland gelding Star
Lover, who is engaged in the Australian
Hurdle at the minimum weight. Com-
paratively new to the game, he jumped
much better than usual and fully justi-
fied 7-to-2 favoritism.
Mrs. E. A. Widdis, owner and breeder
of Star Lover (Great Star-Beppinsan),
belongs to a noted sporting family. Her
late husband raced Patrobas, winner of
the Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup
of 1915, besides having a half interest in
Shepherd King (Caulfield Cup, 1916).
Divisions of the St. Monga Two-year-
old were annexed by two clinking good
juveniles. Nifty (11 to 2) carried top
weight and smothered Lou Robertson’s
filly, Prairie Weed, by Seascape Boy (son
of Gainsborough), in the first division,
after Prairie Weed looked to have the
race in her keeping. Stalden, sire of
Nifty, is bred in the purple, being by
Valais from Scarlet, winner of the Syd-
ney Cup of 1924. C. T. Godby trained
Stalden for J. L. Winter-Irving. His best
effort was third in the V.R.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes of 1928, won by Mollison.
Baryta (The Night Patrol-Bareena)
proved such a useful performer that T. J.
Hayes attended the Randwick sales last
year and gave 625gns. for a filly by Con-
stant Son from Bareena, now known as
Felicity. She was acquired on behalf of
“Vernon Winn,” and in his colors
romped home in the second division of
the St. Monga Handicap. Harold Badger
took no risks with Felicity, and she
reached the judge lengths in advance of
Cairnsmore, the Melfort colt which P. B.
Quinlan races in conjunction with
“F. N. F. Lansdown,” of Sydney. Felicity
is stoutly built and beautifully modelled..
Never longer in price, Felicity started a
5-to-2 favorite.
Star Lover and Felicity were the only
first favorites to score. Diaphane landed
the Ardmillan Handicap at sevens, Con
Naru the Kinross Handicap at 14 to 1
and Plymouth Hoe the last of seven
events at tens. Diaphane’s was an all-
the-way victory. L. J. McCann and his
followers obtained as much as 20 to 1
about the Caledon gelding.
* * * *
The track that bears the famous name
of Ascot in Sydney is safe enough, but
its appointments are out of date. The
r acing there on Saturday drew an attend-
ance of about 10,000 —one of the biggest
crowds ever seen there. Congestion in
the paddock was so bad that punters
mostly took any old price. It’s a track
for Wednesday meetings, but as well-
backed horses won five of the eight races,
and most of the events were over a bit
of distance, the crowd had compensation
for any inconvenience
Rusden —sire of the Flying Welter
winner Denita —was a moderate race-
horse, but his stock can gallop. Well
ridden by W. Cook, Denita, carrying
the colors of Miss H. Wilson, of Barraba,
and starting at 7 to 2, chased Reception
to the home turn, and the result was not
in doubt over the last furlong. Denita
beat Dungala by a length and three-
quarters, with Reception a head away.
The winner does most of his racing in
the Newcastle district, but had shown
good form in Sydney, running third at
each of his two previous outings. A
number of winners sired by Rusden are
racing round about Newcastle. He is by
Heroic-Gaelic Maid.
After Reception won at Canterbury
tidy offers for him were turned down —
£lOOO and an even higher bid were men-
tioned. Though in his previous Sydney
run he had beaten only a poor field at
Canterbury, he was heavily backed at
cramped odds, going out at 7 to 4.
Judged on Saturday’s running, he is a
speedy squib.
•'•• • • •
Kurrawid has always shown a fond-
ness for the Ascot track, and he made
an exhibition of his opponents in the
Ascot Handicap. His victory was ex-
pected by many backers; he went out at
fours after being at sixes. Dashing away
at the home turn, Kurrawid—raced by
F. E. Andrews and trained by F.E.’s
father, Ike —was followed home by Alan
Verde and Bianconi. Tickle—only a
pony—was favorite, but was anchored by
her 8.10.
Castalia, by Royal Sun (imp.)-
Misinform, was never extended to
win the Juvenile. She drew the
rails. McCarten saw to it that she
got the required break early, and
she won with her head on her chest.
Miss Heroic attempted to race her early,
but tired, Magic Ring and Widden filling
the places. Castalia —backed from twos
to 5 to 4 —has now won four races, and
looks like continuing with the good work.
She was bred by G. Yeo, who races her
in partnership with trainer Mead.
Different tactics were tried with Oatley
and Fagan’s gelding Exactor in the first
division of the Encourage Handicap, in
which he started at tens. Ridden patiently
early, his pace secured him a nice run
at the half-mile, and he turned for home
with the race in his keeping. Lucky
Omen and Bulga Boy filled the places.
The favorite, Sigh, went well while her
condition lasted. She looks an early
winner.
A poor lot lined up for the second
division. After Mahmal had attempted
to lead all the way, he was outstayed by
Prince Cacique, favorite at threes. Ti
Trol was third. Exactor ran his mile in
1.41 f, not a bad, gallop for Ascot. It
took Prince Cacique, ridden out, half a
second longer.
The pony race proved the best betting
medium of the day. The winner, Mag,
a daughter of Magpie, lasted long enough
to beat Edie’s Choice by a long neck,
with Ben Riz a poor third. The favorite,
Miss Armidale, beat only two home. Mag
started at 7 to 1. She is raced by N. R.
and R. Dewsbury and young Bill Kelso,
and trained at Warwick Farm by Nor-
man Dewsbury.
Coutts, on Mag, again got in the way
of apprentice Lappin’s chance of topping
the winning-jockeys’ list. On the same
mount a few days before he had just
pipped Lappin’s mount—on that occa-
sion Kentucky. Though out of action
through a fall, McMenamin still headed
the list after the Ascot meeting, with a
dead-heat win to spare over McCarten,
whose win on Castalia brought him up
level on outright wins—B2 each.
Silver Joan, favorite at “twos” for the
first division of the Welter Mile, won by
a neck it could have been lengths—
from Laurel G. and the disappointing
Kooba. The last-named was ridden in
front, but tired. Fox Foote, at 6 to 4,
ended the day well for backers when he
struggled home by a neck in the second
division. Twelve-year-old Nord would
have won in another stride. As it was,
some thought the old chap had just got
up. and, though he started at an outside
price, there was a “demonstration” in his
favor.
* * # #
Who will train for the Duke of Kent
when he comes to Australia as Governor-
General? Jack Holt denies that he has
been chosen. If priority were given to
N. S. Wales the ducal choice might fall
on Randwick veteran Ike Foulsham.
James Scobie did exceptionally well
with The Night Patrol for the Earl of
Stradbroke, who, together with Lord
Somers, may have spoken to H.R.H. in
Jim’s behalf. Scobie won for Lord
Somers with Fourth Hand, who, like The
Night Patrol, was imported from Eng-
land. But Scobie’s career as trainer is
drawing to a close. Last week he reached
the age of 79. “Gentleman Jim,” as
he was known when rivalling Tom Cor-
rigan as a crosscountry horseman, talks
of selling up a year hence and joining his
younger son Norman, who trains in Eng-
land for Sir Charles Hyde.
* * * *
Cheery Jack is delighting Caulfield
touts with his jumping displays. The
Sydney hurdler excelled himself in a
“school” the other day, giving an exhibi-
tion which was favorably compared with
Belar’s trial before he won the Grand
National Hurdle of 1933.
Cheery Jack has come into strong
demand for the Australian Hurdle on
August 5. Sydney horses have been far
more fortunate in this race than the G.N.
Hurdle. Les Paddington scored in 1923,
and Neil McKenna was successful with
Sixteen Annas in 1935.
* * * *
Support for Ajax, straightout and in
doubles, restored Heroic’s best son to
Caulfield Cup favoritism last week in
Melbourne. He had been temporarily
supplanted by Reading. No announce-
ment of stable intentions regarding Ajax
has been made yet, but a belief is preva-
lent that he will have a crack at the big
mile-and-a-half handicap.
* * # $
First of the progeny of Les Aldridge’s
new stallion Law Maker will be seen in
action at the spring meetings. Perhaps
the nicest youngster at Flemington is a
filly by Law Maker from the dam of
Pibroch, a recent winner. Law Maker,
son of Phalaris, is out of an English
Leger winner, tracing back to Chelandry,
the granddam of Heroic.
* * * *
Redan course at Ballarat was the haunt
of Melbourne racing men last Wednes-
day, there being no metropolitan fixture.
The Ballarat Miners’ Turf Club staged
a seven-event programme, which at-
tracted fields of good size but poor
quality.
In recent years considerable improve-
ments have been effected at the Redan
racecourse, which is on the outskirts of
the city. Removal of a huge tailings
dump, which hid horses from view while
galloping along the back, has materially
helped to purify the sport.
Principal event at Ballarat, the July
Handicap, went to Ballandallock (Pan-
theon-Humility), who started at fives and
easily accounted for King’s Square, the
5-to-2 favorite. Ballandallock hails from
the Warrnambool district, and is a stable-
mate of Burrabil, who won at Caulfield
on the previous Saturday.
* * * *
The Newcastle horse Hybol, by
Hebrus-Linglestone, is a useful customer.
Carrying topweight, 9.4, in the Ramornie
Handicap at Grafton (N.S.W.), and
favorite at twos, he won nicely from
Graceful Mover and Glorious, and his
time, 1.11 4-sth, equalled the course
record for six furlongs. Brought out
again in the Grafton Cup, though it
meant mixing distances, he was beaten
a neck by Fearless, a consistent
horse and a pretty good one, after mak-
ing a. great finish of it. Buzalong won
the Grafton Cup last year, and went on
to run second in the Metropolitan and
first in the Caulfield Cup. Fearless’s time,
2.9 3-sth, was four-fifths of a second
better than Buzalong’s ; Own Folk—like
Fearless, trained in Sydney—was third,
three lengths behind Hybol. Hilarious,
favorite on the score of her second to
Cooranga in the Doomben Cup, broke
down.
* * * *
There has been a revolution or some-
thing in the government of the racing
world. For years in Melbourne and Syd-
ney casual vacancies on committees were
soft things for nominees of clubs with
great social pull, and elections at annual
meetings were walkovers for retiring com-
mitteemen. Those days are over. In
Melbourne keen competition has set in
for the seats on the V.R.C. and Williams-
town R.C. committees. From the latter
E. A. Underwood has resigned, and his
hat will be in the ring at the V.R.C. elec-
tion. Other candidates, besides the five
retiring V.R.C. committeemen (E. A.
flaillieu’s death has left a seat vacant),
will be Peter Tyson, Archie Crofts and
L. O. Menck.
For the late surgeon John McKelvey’s
seat on the A.J.C. committee there are
three candidates: Dr. Utz, H. S. Thomp-
son and W. J. Smith, who breeds and
races horses in a pretty big way, besides
being managing director of A.C.I.—
Australian Glass that was. The candi-
dature of a man alleged to have strong
Labor sympathies was announced. When
the news reached the Union Club it
rocked that venerable institution to its
foundations. The gentleman decided to
stand down.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In his “S.M.H.” serial,
“Golden Wattle Time,” dealing with the
life of Adam Lindsay Gordon, Crawford
Vaughan shows himself a bit careless
about chronology. For instance, there is
introduced as a spectator of one of the
poet’s equestrian feats, soon after he had
left the Mounted Police:
A wiry little chap—Fred Archer, they
called him, because of his jockey propor-
tions.
But in the late ’fifties or early ’sixties, the
period indicated, it may be reasonably
doubted if anyone in Australia had ever
heard of Archer. Not until the early
’seventies had the famous jockey won his
way into the very front rank, and it was
1874 before he headed the list of winning
riders, a position he was to occupy every
succeeding year until his death in 1886.
As for “jockey proportions,” Archer was
far the tallest of his time, and most
other times. He stood sft. Bi-in.
* * * *
Ten N.S.W. Assemblymen have been
put on a select committee “to inquire
into and report on the conduct and ad-
ministration of trotting.” The idea is to
legalise night trots in N.S.W., and the
terms of the motion —very long—would
admit of their extending their inquiries
to S.A. and Westralia, and returning by
way of Kalgoorlie, where there are some
most enjoyable early-spring meetings.
Not all the ten gentlemen may be able
to tear themselves away from their
arduous legislative duties, but there ought
to be a grand free trip in it for such as
may be spared. They are on £B7O a year
and passes, anyhow.
Quist and Crawford had a shot at the
Longwood Bowl tournament at Boston,
U.S., while Hopman and Bromwich went
north for some Canadian tourney—and
Quist collected the gaud. Mako was the
only American of any note to turn out,
and it was he accounted for Crawford.
Quist then put him through without diffi-
culty, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4. There was more
interest in the doubles, in which Mako
and Parker, suggested as a possible
Davis Cup combination, got through to
the point of meeting the Australians in
the final. Then Mako contracted a chill
or a sore throat or something, and it was
all off: Crawford and Quist a walkover.
(“Sporting Notions” continued on
page 32.)
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Aberfeldie Hurdle: Methuen;
next, Country Party.
A. V. Hisken’s Steeplechase:
Mustella; next, Brightello.
Glen Orla Handicap: Diaphane ;
next, Cheery Jack.
Derrimut Handicap: Hilton;
next, Old Serpent.
Sunset Welter: Gay Invader;
next, Trowsdale.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Rockdale Mile: Blinky Bill; next,
Sigh.
Moorefield Handicap: Sidcup ;
next, Fox Foote.
Flying Welter: Reception ; next,
Vergure.


■INVINCIBLE
since
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1, 2, 4,
6, 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: '3OO Engines always in stock. Five Years'
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability atid Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established in 1906,
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
K/J
VN.I
CHAMPION^
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
and power. And much more
economy. Champions save
you money!
An Empire, product
—made in Windsor, Can.
“ Don't you agree with the rest of the boys that the Water Was too Warm
yesterday morning ?”
M. and Rafferty
“D.E.”: Fred Henneberry’s brisk style
of fighting and his power of punch have
made a great impression on the English,
and he is getting plenty of offers of
matches. And in England nowadays
there is plenty of money in the game
for men like Farr, Boon, Harvey and
McAvoy —if Henneberry can wade
through the “area champions” he and Mc-
Avoy are to meet. When he was young
in the game American boxers and man-
agers told him he would make his mark
in America, one manager styling him
“the answer to a promoter’s prayer.”
Perhaps unwisely, he elected to stay in
Sydney, where for some mysterious
reason he became unpopular with
Stadium crowds. The promoting gentry
he annoyed by objecting to boxing coons.
He feared none of them, but he dis-
liked their propensity for butting on
the forehead and brushing the wound
with gloves until the referee penalises,
not the offender but the victim, by stop-
ping the fight. The modern Stadium
will have its coons, so it has lost, per-
haps permanently, a lad who, shrewdly
matched and boomed, might have been
the biggest “draw” since Darcy.
* * * *
Boxers known in Australia were copi-
ously mentioned in the publicity for the
Louis-Galento fight. It was recalled
that when Louis was an amateur Johnnie
Miler knocked him down half a dozen
times in four rounds; and why, it was
asked, shouldn’t Galento do as much or
more? As showing what a terror Galento
was, it was said that he had gone into
the ring in poor shape and knocked
Frankie Wine kicking in two minutes.
Wine was brought to Sydney as second
string to the ill-fated Stribling when
Mclntosh tried to come back as a pro-
moter. He was tough, and that was all.
He was so slow as to seem in constant
danger of falling over his own hooves.
Miler proved no match for Ambrose
Palmer, and cheerfully admitted the
Footscray man’s superiority. Being an
extremely nice fellow, he made firm
friends in Sydney, and left with the in-
tention of settling in Australia, as Claude
Varner proposes to do ; but he hasn’t
come back.
* * * *
“Bop”: Boxing is booming again in
N. and Queensland country districts.
Jack Haines, the former middleweight
champion, is promoting in Cessnock. Bert
Weston is putting on shows at Wollon-
gong—his drawcards are Taney Lee,
Hockey Bennell and Ron McLaughlin—
and “Snowy” Sands is running them at
Taree. Joe Wallis recently refereed a
match there, Tullipan v. Delaney. And
the sport is thriving at Grafton, Coff’s
Harbor, Macksville, Bowraville, Gosford,
Cobar, Richmond, Broken Hill and
Wagga. Nyngan seems to have unearthed
a good welterweight in Dick Simmonds,
who has issued a challenge to fight any
ten-stoner in N.S.W. for a side wager of
£lOOO. In Bananaland there are regular
scraps at Ayr, Rockhampton, Bundaberg,
Monto (“Rusty” Cook’s birthplace), Ips-
wich, Toowoomba, Mackay and Kinga-
roy.
In Tasmania, too, one George Gardiner
has been running contests in Hobart and
Launceston. He has Starr, Nicholl and
the Alabama Kid under engagement, and
got a packed house at the Albert Hall,
Launceston, when Starr and the Kid
went 11 hot two-minute rounds. The
negro floored Starr three times for long
counts, and on the last occasion the
referee pointed to the black. But the
black himself was down and nearly out
in the fourth. Starr, bleeding from the
inevitable “cut above the eye,” showed
great gameness, but he wasn’t quite
rugged enough for the negro, nor did
he know as much about the tricks of
the trade.
* * * *
“Joanne”: Eugene Criqui, the French
boxer, has been awarded the Legion of
Honor. Criqui is 46. At 30 —rather later
than usual —he became a champion,
knocking out Johnny Kilbane in U.S.A.
for the world’s featherweight title. Be-
fore that he had made a successful tour
of Australia. Criqui was in the ring
before the war, winning the French fly-
weight title in 1912 ; but he joined up to
fight for La Belle and was badly
wounded ; only his exceptional courage
enabled him to return to the ring.
* * * *
“Col. Bungstarter”: A new stunt in
the gorilla buffoonery sold to Australian
audiences as wrestling was put over at
Brisbane’s Bohemia Stadium. After six
rounds of puff-and-blow antics without a
fall in the lot, the alleged contestants
were scuffling on the ropes with the
referee trying to pull them back to centre.
As the trio lurched clumsily about, the
top rope sagged suddenly, and a quarter
of a ton of wrestler and referee crashed
on to the press table, thence rebounding
to the floor. The referee climbed groggily
back into the ring to declare a draw,
while the pair of portly grapplers regis-
tered sleeping-babe stuff on the floor for
, ten seconds. What is really needed for
refereeing that sort of show is a 10-stone
second-class jiu-jitsu performer. He
would have the pair in hospital-form
inside of half a minute from the time they
disobeyed his first order.
Footbrawl
A crowd of lady barrackers disagreed
with the umpire’s last-quarter decisions in
the V.F.L. game
between Carlton
and North at North
Melbourne, and
sought to argue it
out with him after
the match. A
police inspector, a
mounted trooper
and a dozen ordi-
nary flatfoots got
him away from the
Amazon “aggres-
sors.” It was a
hard game, and
close. Carlton won
11.13 to 10.13 (79
points to 73), but
North is appealing.
The decision means
a lot to Carlton. It
has been hanging
on doggedly one
win behind “the
four,” and has
hopes of ousting one of them before
the semi-finals.
Melbourne accounted for St. Kilda
15.12 to 10.18, and tops the list. Colling-
wood is third, the three of them separated
only by percentages. Richmond, with
one win less to its account than the
others, makes up “the four.”
’Wood beat Footscray 13.7 to 9.14, and
Richmond outclassed Essendon —122
(18.14), the best tally of the day, to the
Dons’ 10.8.
The others are out of it. Fitzroy found
South easy, 15.19 to 9.9, and Geelong
wasn’t troubled by the lads from Haw-
thorn, 15.22 to 13.12.
“Earle”: At the Adelaide football
match I attended barrackers were giving
the umpire a warm time. Suddenly over
the air came an announcement, “A boy,
aged three [name and description given],
has been lost. Anyone knowing his
whereabouts, etc.” A voice piped up:
“Don’t worry, he’s not lost. He’s out
in the middle of the Oval, dressed in
white.”
H: * * *
“X.L.”: Well was it said by some con-
tributor that “one man doesn’t make a
team.” Subiaco, the Perth Australian-
rules club, got the spectacular Bunton
from Melbourne by giving him a fat
contract. With Bunton playing regularly
“Suby” is seventh on the premiership
list this reason ; and there are only eight
clubs. Brown, of Eastern Suburbs, was
bought on the hoof by Warrington for
the greatest amount ever given to an
Australian Rugby Leaguer. He returned
to Sydney at his own expense, having
first paid Warrington £230. He was a
very good back, and no doubt is still,
but while he was with Warrington the
side had little success on the playing
field and no success at all in the domain
of finance. On the contrary it lost just
on £lOOO last season and £4OOO in three
years.
* * * *
Gordon, its forwards again playing
good football, is back at the top of the
Sydney Rugby Union table, sharing that
position with North. Drummoyne, Rand-
wick and Parramatta follow, a point
lower down. But Gordon couldn’t cross
the Drummoyne line. The Reds —or
rather half-back Vincent —notched two
tries, and only solid defence kept them
out later on, but Gordon forced matters
most of the time, and four penalty goals
gave them the win, 12-9.
Parramatta also won without scoring
a try, 10-8 against East, after a dull dis-
play in which the Easterners’ two tries
had kept them in the lead till a few
minutes before “time.” The ’Mattans
are up with the leaders for the first time
this season, but they’ve been an unim-
pressive bunch, and it’s unlikely they’ll
stay there long.
Randwick was trounced again, by ’Var-
sity—the Students’ finest effort for a long
time. They lost their captain early, then
their full-back, and at lemons were trail-
ing the Greens 10-8. Afterwards they
came repeatedly, and with ’Wick tiring
they began piling up the tries. At the
final bell the board said seven tries to
four, 27-18.
North went through a torrid few
minutes towards the finish of its match
against West. It had begun well, and was
leading 11-n/7 with ten minutes or so to
go. Then the Westerners found their feet.
McLaughlin went through the centre for
one try, and Wogan made another down
the wing, but time was too short, and
North ran off 10-8 ahead. Manly and
St. George now share the wooden spoon.
The Villagers had looked like a team
against North the previous week, but
Saints beat them easily—2 B-18, seven
tries to four.
H: $ * *
“Jachris”: Vay Wilson will find abroad
that his job as captain of the Rugby
Union team now on the water calls for
oratory as well as football. He came
through his first trial with flying colors.
At the N.S.W. Union’s valedictory to
the team at the Wentworth Hotel, Syd-
ney, he had to reply to a host of rhetori-
cal well-wishers, from Billy Hughes to
the Union president. He spoke as well
as any of them, and better than most.
Wilson had an appreciative word for
the gentleman who wrote to the papers
congratulating the selectors on having
“entrusted the welfare of the game to
a band of virulent young men.”
Only the Victorian members of the
team were absent they were being
junketed by- their own folk. All the
N.S.W. and Queensland lads looked dog-
tired of the handshaking business, and
they must have been glad to get aboard
the boat.
* * * *
For the third Soccer Test against
Palestine at the S.C.G. the Australian
selectors picked the weakest team of the
series. Palestine, adopting more robust
methods, found the defence only a
shadow of that which it faced in the first
two Tests, and won 2-1. It keeps interest
going for the remaining Tests, which
might mean a healthier financial outlook
—a fortuitous circumstance under which


FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT,
made of Fine Leather. Size when
folded, 81 x 5| x 2-J inches. Con-
taining W. .Tno. Baker brand Razor
Shaving Brash, Shaving Soap and
Container. Tooth Brush and Con-
tainer, Hair Brush, Comb and
Mirror, 50/- complete.
QUALITY CUTLERY
ALL-ROUND CAMP KNIFE. Good
Finish, 4in. Metal Haft. Contains Spear
Blade, Pen Blade. Screwdriver and
Bottle Opener combined, Tin Opener,
Corkscrew, Leather Spike, with Shackle.
14/6 each.
BABY OK SMAI/L MODEL, PINKING
SCISSORS. Size overall, oin., 22/6.
POST FREE FOR CASH
W.Jno. BAKER
Pty.,
Ltd.,
3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
THREE-PAIR SCISSOR CASE.
Case Handmade of Best Calf Grained
Leather. Size, about 7}in. x 2|ii;,
when folded. Pitted with three best-
quality Sheffield-made Scissors—l
Gin. Cuttins-out, 1 Household
and 1 Embroidery. 25/- complete.
the Soccer nabobs are expected to bear
up bravely. Saturday’s “house” was the
poorest in international Soccer in Aus-
tralia.
The home attacks lacked the dash of
the earlier Sydney and Brisbane games.
When the forwards did get within shoot-
ing distance of the goal mouth they
backed and filled like aldermen at a civic
blowout. In the second half most of Aus-
tralia’s sorties were shattered on the
rocklike defence of Sidi; the goalie came
to light with thd least theatrical and most
efficient display he has yet given here.
Fooks, in the centre of the defending
halves, was also a pillar of strength.
* * * *
Another reversal of form was Queens-
land’s 29-13 win over N.S.W. in the
Rugby League match at Brisbane. In the
Sydney games earlier in the season the
Blues put up astronomical scores against
Queensland, which then didn’t look a
team’s bootlace. Ridgewell, the new man
behind the Bananalanders’ pack, gave a
particularly bright display. Fed gener-
ously by Little, the hooker, he passed the
feast on to his three-quarter line with
speed and precision; on top of that he
scored three grand tries out of the seven.
But Queensland can mostly thank Herb
Steinohrt’s coaching and the sluggishness
of the visiting forwards. For N.S.W.
Denton, on the wing, sailed over with
fine bursts for a brace of tries.
The N.S.W. party had improved some-
what by the time it got to Gympie, where,
in a Sunday match, it ran over the Wide
Bay team —51-13, after leading only
15-10 at the end of the first half.
While the State team was biting the
sward in Brisbane the Sydney Rugby
League pursued its special minor com-
petition. The farcical nature of this
anaemic 20 minutes-each-way by-blow of
the premiership competition—it is the
best scheme yet devised to drive patrons
to other codes—is exemplified by the fact
that St. George, which is leading in the
major competition, is so far pointless in
the minor one, sharing the wooden spoon
with Newtown. It doesn’t make sense.
Eastern Suburbs maintained its slender
lead in this competition with a 6-3 win
over Canterbury-Bankstown. This was
achieved despite the presence in the win-
ning back division of Dave Brown, just
off the boat and without a bit of inflated
leather in his hands for three months. It
naturally followed that the former Aus-
tralian skipper, after galloping about for
a few minutes, started puffing like an
asthmatic bulldog; leaden-limbed, he
could neither shake off opponents nor
kick. He’ll do better. Western Suburbs
beat North Sydney 6-3 in a spirited
match ; Balmain piled up 30 to New-
town’s 7 and South Sydney downed St.
George 5-0.
Nineteenth Hole
Though Von Nida had to share the
cash for The Lakes open with Bill Bolger
he has sole right to the title. In the
play-off the Queenslander toured the
course in 74 strokes to Bolger’s 75. While
it was going on somebody in the crowd
got away with Bolger’s wallet and 50 bob.
* * * *
Bruen, the young Irishman, is the
champion one-round golfer. Playing in
the Irish open, he began with a round
of 66 ; but, as at St. Andrews, he fell
away in the other rounds, finishing sixth
with a score of 296. The Yorkshireman
Lees was first with 287, R. A. Whit-
combe was second with 289 and Bobby
Locke third with 291. The Australians
Shankland and Baillieu were competitors,
but finished “down the course.”
* * * *
“Colbun”: Much unnecessary specu-
lation has arisen concerning the motive
of a man who broke into a M.L. golf
clubhouse, smashed up the furniture and
hurled it through the windows, broke up
the tee-boxes, and even made a valiant
effort to uproot and destroy the club’s
big signboard. The obvious explanation
is that he was the husband of an asso-
ciate member tactfully endeavoring to
make her understand how completely fed
up he was of looking after the baby and
cooking the dinner.
* * * % *
“Marija”: Ferrier, of course, Waterson,
Davies and Tanner are all in the N. S.
Wales team for the inter-State games to
be sandwiched between the national titles
at Royal Melbourne next month. Esplin,
L. T. Stuart and Barkel are the others,
with F. E. Headlam as non-playing
leader. Stuart is the country champion,
and gets his first look at the big stuff;
Esplin is making a comeback. It’s a
solid combination, and should give a
good account of itself, but room might
easily have been found for P. F. Hughes
and the Kogarah youngster Peter Heard.
Miscellaneous
Goulburn has taken the Countess of
Dudley Polo Cup for the fifth time —the
third with the four Ashton brothers play-
“If you miss him this time, it's my shot !”
ing as a team. Wirragulla gave the four
a hard game in the final at Kyeemagh,
Sydney, leading 5-3 half-way through,
but the Goulburnians notched four goals
in the fourth period and finished 11-7.
The captain, J. H. Ashton, who says
it’s the last time he’ll turn out in first-class
polo, first had a shot in the Dudley Cup
matches something over 17 years ago,
since when the Ashtons have won every-
thing about the place, including the Aus-
tralasian Gold Cup. Last year in Eng-
land, with Bob Skene in the place of
P.S.K., they won the Champion Cup.
* * * *
“Veteran”: Tom Hayward, dead in
England at 68, was in his prime when
Jackson, Fry, Ranji and MacLaren were
great names. Hayward began repre-
sentative cricket as an all-rounder
in 1896. He failed to get a wicket, and
scored only 12 not out, 13, 0 and 13 in
his opening efforts ; nevertheless, he came
out to Australia the next year, and started
off with 72. Hayward’s best effort v.
Australia was 137 at the Oval in August,
1899. He had 49 Test innings, averaging
35.65. ’Ayward, ’Obbs and ’ltch were for
years a wonderful Surrey combination,
and ’Ayward was a very interesting bats-
man till he grew stout and stodgy.
* * * *
“Mat”: Unless N. S. Wales turns nark,
a Second Eleven series of inter-State
cricket matches will begin next season:
Westralia, Tasmania and second teams
from S.A., Vic., N.S.W. and Queensland.
W.A., S.A. and Victoria will play in Mel-
bourne and the others in Sydney ; winners
of the sections to play off in Sydney or
Melbourne. An excellent idea for
cricketers in the States now out of the
Sheffield ring and for neglected young-
sters in those within it.
“H.”: Tom Garrett, sole survivor of
the first Australian XI, is 81 to-day (July
26). Tom played in 19 Test matches for
340 runs, averaging 12.59, and 36 wickets
at 26.90. He still practises his profession
of solicitor in Sydney, and retains his
interest in sport —not cricket only. A
member of Tatt.’s Club, he punts in a
mild way.
“Bumpkin”: The first electric-light
“Test” cricket match in Melbourne will
be played in the vast main hall of the
Exhibition building on Wednesday night,
August 9. Three matches will be played
simultaneously, and amongst notabilities
who will don flannels will be Woodfull,
Ryder, McCormick, Fleetwood-Smith,
Ironmonger, Ross Gregory and Nagel.
Electric-light cricket has been played in
Adelaide for seven years. Four hundred
teams registered for the last season, with
a total of 7208 players, and spectators
rolled up in droves. Teams are 18 in-
stead of 11, and runs are piled up at a
rate that makes Bradman’s fastest scor-
ing look like slow motion. Proceeds of
the Melbourne event go to war veterans.
* * * *
“M.C.C.”: If precedent is any guide
there is not much possibility of Bradman,
junior, distinguishing himself at cricket
round about 1960. Past Test records
disclose no instance of a son following
in his father’s cricketing steps and playing
for Australia. There are two examples
on the English side: the Tates (Fred
and Maurice), father and son, played
for England, as also did Joe Hardstaff
and his son.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: H. G. Vivian, at present
with Julien Cahn’s team in England, is
settling down nicely. The Maoriland
man at latest advices was nearing the
1000 runs for the season, his best effort to
date 157 in 90 minutes—five sixes and
21 boundaries.
* * * *
There was the devil of an uproar at
the Harold Park, Sydney, “dogs” when
one of the hounds achieved their patient
ambition of catching the “hare.” The
bunny-on-a-wire was got going again, the
hounds trailed it past the post, the place-
fillers were put up in the judge’s box,
and some of the books paid out. There
shouldn’t be a pay-out until a green light
shows, on the judge’s box, but it’s so
much a matter of first-past-the-post at
the “dogs”—no protests there—that books
always start to pay immediately. The
officials, however, decided to run the
event over. As it happened, it all ended
happily, the same hound winning on both
occasions, which speaks well for form
at the “dogs,” but what sort of a yelp
there’d have been if a roughie then came
home is perhaps best not even imagined.
Taken all through, form does work
out pretty well at the “dogs.” Unless
something had happened to them in the
running, hounds that run a miserable
race one night don’t often come to light
with a brilliant run next up, as the larger
four-footed brethren have a painful way
of doing. In Maiden events the starters
are decided by trials held a few nights
earlier, and it’s very rarely a dog that
runs a tiptop trial doesn’t repeat it on
the race night. One or two things stand
by the books. Usually—speaking of the
Sydney track—the hounds are so well
graded that about half the field has a
fair chance of winning. Then, again,
there are nights when, for no explicable
reason, all sorts of roughies romp home,
and the punters get it well and truly in
the neck.


CruJ^y^
ĵ
wiwim*
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230~Q
The Empire’s Most Famous Jester,
GEORGE ROBEY,
and His Biff New Company ot Variety.
“HIC.HEIGHTS FROM HOILV’AVOOD. '
ANNA MAY WONG,
the Famous Stage and Screen Star,
and Big New Company Stars.
Tobacco Stains
easily removed with
C -IN-ONE
U DENTAL SHEA,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Hollywood Takes a Plunge.
Most reviewers of “Confessions of a
Nazi Spy” have mentioned that hitherto
.Hollywood had been careful not to offend
any national susceptibilities. Whether
careful or not, it has certainly not been
successful. Long before “Confessions,
many foreign markets had been closed to
Hollywood products by political action.
Hollywood, as a correspondent from that
address lately pointed out in London
“Times,” has lost an enormous part of its
revenue because the markets in Germany,
Italy and Russia have been virtually
closed to American pictures for “ideo-
logical” reasons.
“Confessions” is an admission of that
blockade. It and other things of the sort
now coming along indicate that Holly-
wood, shut out of various countries, has
decided that it might just as well take the
plunge completely and cash in on the
prevailing dislike for those places —es-
pecially, of course, Germany.
It takes the plunge in the name of
democracy, and the interests of the box-
office. The “Times” writer points oui
that, on top of the enormous revenue loss
caused by the closing of the markets in
Germany, Italy and Russia and the pro-
tective restrictions now imposed in
Britain and France —the export market
at one time provided Hollywood with
half its income—there is also the revenue-
eating problem of rising costs of pro-
duction.
Stars, profiting by their “box-office”
appeal, are paid from $lOO,OOO to
$200,000 for each picture ; a few years
ago they were paid from $35,000 to
$75,000. Writers and directors, too, have
been persuaded that they have special
talents commanding excessive wages,
while the pay of the rank and file is pro-
tected by the various guilds and unions.
In nearly every other division of picture-
making costs have increased in the same
proportion. To-day films costing $250,000
(£50,000), once considered a normal figure
for a first-class picture, are regarded by
the industry as unworthy of showing in
the best theatres. Nearly all first-class
features cost more than $500,000, and the
average is more like $750,000 (£150,000).
It is difficult to make a profit out of the
United States alone under such a burden
of cost.
In Britain and France films are made
very much more cheaply. Producers there
simply do not have the money to spend,
and so must make up for this lack with
intellectual ingenuity. A case in point is
’‘Algiers.” The original French version,
known as “Pepe Le Moko,” cost $68,000.
Wanger's picture, following the original
scene for scene, cost $BOO,OOO.
Yet some returned traveller lately
told Australia that henceforth Hollywood
proposed to make fewer pictures, but
would spend more on them!
As for the quality of the output, the
“Times” correspondent states that Holly-
wood itself admits that it is not what it
should be. The town has tried to com-
pensate for the lack of intellectual con-
tent in its product by spending fabulous
sums on its so-called epics. The public
has not approved the substitution. In
spite of a national campaign to stimulate
cinema attendance box-office receipts
have dropped.
According to the “Times” writer, “the
most optimistic men in the industry
recognise that 1939 will be a critical year
for the liveliest of the arts.”
“Stagecoach”
Claire Trevor, John Wayne, Thomas Mitchell.
Though the entertainment level in Syd-
ney film-houses has been at low ebb for
a while, there’s no question that the
general standard of flicks has gone up
ntremendously over the past few l-
How S
d j recdon has contributed to the lift can
be gathered from this Sydney Regent
offering, in which careful handling of
somewhat old material makes it pretty
fair entertainment. . „
John Ford, who directed Hurricane,
approac|]ed (his film in much the
same way p or near i y three-quarters of
d he sticks to a very leisurely pace, re-
framing from vigorous action as much as
possible while characters and atmosphere
are enriched and established until they
seem near enough to perfect for the pur-
Qf the fi , m Thenj with the story
carr j ed f or Ward until it seems at breaking
p o j n t, the director suddenly retreats to
add another line to a character or touch
Wesley Cartwright and Russell Fillimore watch Charlotte Greenwood carrying the
baby in “Leaning on Letty,” at Sydney Royal.
to a scene, and gives, instead of action,
merely a promise of it. Possibly it’s a
form of anti-climax, but, expertly man-
aged, it’s an uncommonly effective way
of working up an air of tension.
The narrative deals with eight people
thrown together for a two-day journey in
a stagecoach. There are an outlaw
travelling under the eye of a sheriff but
planning to dispose of sundry enemies at
the end of the trip ; a lady of uncertain,
if any, virtue, making the journey
under compulsion ; a permanently-sozzled
medico travelling for the same reason
and keeping p.s. on the contents of the
case of a mild-mannered whisky-sales-
man.
On the other side of the pale are a
bank-manager holding forth on financial
stability and lighting out with the con-
tents of his safe at the same time ; a
blue-blooded Virginian trying to reach
her husband before she gives birth to a
child ; and a gambler, also savoring of
the Virginian best.
A considerable portion of the film is
taken up with introducing these charac-
ters and bringing them to life. The only
action to speak of is that of the horses
and the coach. Inside, the uppah-stratah
wench is holding strictly aloof while the
gambler tends her wants with what rem-
nants of gentility he can muster; the
salesman is dodging the embraces of the
doctor ; the bank manager is attempting
to exercise authority over the rest of the
passengers ; while the outlaw squats on
the floor casting a speculative eye over the
wayward lass.
The characters, being well acted, do
come to life before the journey is
through, though what they have to go
through at times calls for an elastic
imagination. A bout with Injuns is a
fair enough stretch of excitement when
it arrives, and the introduction to it
should sprout bristles on a bald man’s
pate ; the birth of the aristocrat’s child
with assistance of the doc. and the other
wench is another well-managed and
neatly acted bit, though it’s a rather too-
obvious injection into the narrative.
Of the players, Thomas Mitchell as the
sozzled doc. rules the film. A genuine
actor, this chap, who can say more with
his eyes than most could say in a talking
marathon. John Wayne assumes some
of Gary Cooper’s casualness without his
histrionic ability, and Claire Trevor turns
in a sincere stretch of acting as the lass
on the rocks —though it’s time she had a
break from that sort of role.
Supporting cast includes Louise Platt,
George Bancroft, Donald Meek, Berton
Churchill and Andy Devine —all at their
best —while John Carradine as the
gambler stalks through his part with
accustomed ease.
“Dark Victory.”
Bette Davis, George Brent.
George Brent is dark, and Geraldine
Fitzgerald (a dark horse) is dark, and
Humphrey Bogart is dark, Sydney Cen-
tury is dark, and a dark fate awaits Bette
Davis ; George-street is dark outside, and
when you get home to the dark flat and
the dead fire poor Missy Davis is lying
in the dark, dark ground.
The “Dark Victory” is Bette Davis’s
victory over death, but she doesn’t win
by living, but by dying, as Brent has told
her to, “nobly and peacefully.” She’s a
rich girl, going gayer than she really
wants to, because she’s afraid she is going
blind. Parties all night and horses all
day, and no doctors allowed because
she doesn’t want to hear the truth. Be-
cause of her near-blindness she has a
fall from her horse, and brain-specialist
George Brent is able to operate and dis-
cover that she will make a temporary
recovery, but that nothing can save her
from dying suddenly of a growth in the
brain within a few months.
This is early in the film, and all the
rest of it is a study of Bette Davis under
the shadow. At first she is kept in ignor-
ance and, in love with Brent, is going to
marry him. When she accidentally learns
the truth, she goes gay again becomes
frightened and disgusted with herself,
marries Brent and dies heroically and
peacefully. There is very little reliel
from the gloom, and if it weren’t for the
coherence and psychological accuracy ol
the story and the splendid acting of Bette
Davis and Geraldine Fitzgerald, with a
good contribution from Bogart —the
horse-trainer who plucks up courage to
make love to his employer when she is
going wild, a piece of drama that is real-
istic without being offensive —the film
would be one to avoid with a shudder.
But there isn’t a false move in the Davis s
reactions, and Geraldine Fitzgerald, her
companion, though she’s a little too eager
to show she is an actress capable of great
emotional intensity, genuinely is capable
of it. Brent, no more than competent, is
too inclined to hang his head and let
Bette Davis’s large, sad eyes win the vic-
tory.
“The Sun Never Sets.”
Douglas Fairbanks, Jun., Basil Rathbone.
This Sydney State offering cashes in
on the prevailing mood. It isn't a spy
opus, but it has all the right ingredients.
It appeals to the sort of patriotic feeling
that at the moment is running high. Its
heroes are members of the British
Colonial Office Service; its heroines,
their wives ; its villains, foreigners —their
country isn’t mentioned, but anyone can
have two guesses as to which country is
implied.
Setting is the Gold Coast, from which
a British colonial commissioner is just
returning home after good service when
the film opens. He and his wife hope
for a cushy job in England, but it isn’t
to be. As a result of radio broadcasts
from an unknown source, strikes and
sabotage are fast increasing all over the
Empire. There are mysterious explosions
and fires on liners, ’planes, and so forth.
The Colonial Office suspects that a
foreign scientist ostensibly studying the
ways of ants in the Gold Coast may
have something to do with it. So Basil
Rathbone has to return, along with his
young brother Douglas, who had kicked
against joining such a thankless concern
as the Service, but had been won over
by his grandfather. Belonging to the
Service, in fact, is as much an institution
to the family as is the Service itself.
So out they go ; Douglas really serving
as a blind for the work to which Basil
has been assigned. It works up to a
strong-action melodrama, with Douglas,
of course, at first hampering Basil’s
work, but eventually coming good-
changing from a dull blockhead to dis-
play the acumen of a Sherlock Holmes,
making his way by a ruse into the
broadcasting station of the unpleasant
foreign gents, and from there getting
word through to London in a truly re-
markable manner. Then bombing planes
and a lively bit of bombing to round
off the excitements; after which, back
home, their duty nobly done.
Not at all a bad effort as action melo-
drama goes, it is thin in view of what
the title and some of the presentation
implies. It therein purports to be an
epic story of the British Empire, but after
some sequences which lead to the expec-
tation of a vastly imagined film con-
structed on that broad basis, it comes
down to a narrow plot on well-worn
lines.
Rathbone has been seen in many parts
that better suited him, but Fairbanks
does pretty well and is fast improving.
There is good support, and altogether
it passes muster as a brisk entertainer.
George Robey in Melbourne.
Black hat, crepe eyebrows, collarless
cassock, yellow stick, strawberry marks
on nose and mouth, husky voice and
all, George Robey made his first Aus-
tralian appearance at Melbourne Tivoli
last week, and immediately the stout old
man with the heavy jowl and the furtive
smile shuffled on to the stage a number
of individuals in the audience became
convulsed with merriment. Present com-
mentator counted these to be early wor-
shippers at the shrine of the comedian ;
but his skill as an entertainer showed in
the way he played his audience, for,
though it warmed up to him but slowly,
he got it completely in the end.
The old joker knows how to make the
fullest use of his fruity material. He
ought to —he has been doing it for 50


marriage
PROBLEMS
EXPLAINED IN THIS MODERN,
PRACTICAL GUIDE BOOK
EVERYONE SHOULD STUDY.
manual
, x l n< ' < iKAI book To
sex & Marriage
ab *AHAM STOKE
The Eugenics R ei)ieu ,
-~,zr
"A Marriage Manual”
by Drs. Hannah and Abraham Stone.
r T"'HE “great adventure” of marriage too
often becomes a great mistake through
lack of proper knowledge. Don’t find out
too late get the information now! “A
Marriage Manual” contains all the facts
about sex and marriage, written as a
dialogue between three people—a young
man, a woman and a physician.
YOU and your fiance will want the
answers to the very same questions that
these young people asked. These answers
are vital in making YOUR marriage a
success.
“An encyclopaedia of sexual knowledge.”
Thus “Modern Woman” (London) de-
scribes this invaluable book, which
brings you complete enlightenment or
such things as fitness for marriage, sexual
anatomy and physiology, the mechanism
and problems of reproduction, the “art”
of marriage, sexual disharmonies,,hygiene
of sexual Relationship, and many other
important subjects.
It is imperative that you know these facts
BEFORE you marry! In “A Marriage
Manual” the exposition is lucid, interest-
ing and precise, and the authors (man and
wife) have achieved the difficult feat of
combining extreme simplicity with scien-
tific accuracy.
To quote the “Eugenics Review”: “‘A
Marriage Manual’ is the product of two
highly civilised minds, and can be recom-
mended without reservation to the public
for which it is intended.”
Reviews of "A Marriage
Manual."
“ ‘A Marriage Manual’ provides sound
and authentic information for married
people without pruriency. It is the kind
of book many doctors have wanted to
use in informing their patients.” —Morris
Fishbein, M.D., Editor, Journal of the
American Medical Association.
• “The most practical, the most scientific,
the clearest and most sensible presenta-
tion of the subject in the English
language.”—Margaret Sanger, National
Chairman, National Committee on Federal
Legislation for Birth Control, U.S.A.
• “It is impossible to find the least fault
with this book ... It is, in the opinion
of this reviewer, the most useful book of
its kind which has thus far appeared . . .
To the physician, it should prove a verit-
able godsend.”—“Saturday Review of
Literature” (New York).
MAIL TO-DAY
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ORDER FORM.
Please send me a copy of “Marriage
Manual,’’ for which I enclose 12/-,
plus 6d. postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
years. The difference between Robey
and other entertainers is that he is not
an English music-hall comedian—he is
the English music hall. If he had been
more individual he would have been long
ago as out of fashion as Al Zimmey will
be in a year or two. Al Zimmey is a
smooth gent, from U.S.A. who is billed
as a master of melody and the com-
poser of those world-shaking song hits
“I’m Just a Vagabond Lover” and “Love
Made a Gipsy Out of Me ” The only
comfort we of the present generation
can have in contemplating Al’s immortal
song hits is that it is highly unlikely that
our children will be listening to them
50 years from now
The Tiv.’s present bill doesn’t need
much besides Robey, but it has two
darkies who fling tfcmselves about in
an amazing way and a couple of apache
dancers who leave nothing to be desired.
_______
c_t jl / j c
ocnnaoei ana Szell.
Artur Schnabel increased his mana as
an authoritative interpreter of Beethoven
by.a,^ a^ ab *y fine performance in the
ihnd (C Minor) Pianoforte Concerto at
"H’m, been playing with the Boy Scouts again, eh ?”
Sydney Town Hall last week. Conductor
Georg Szell and the pianist appeared to
be in close sympathy, the band was at its
excellent best, and a great work was
worthily presented.
Schnabel, whose pianissimos are just
barely audible and whose treble fortes
aren’t in the least gymnastic when he is
playing solo, unleashes a noble volume
of sound when collaborating with orches-
tra, and makes the pianoforte what it
should be—the leading voice. In the
Third Concerto he demonstrated quite
clearly the logic behind the peculiar key
relationship of the three movements —C
Minor, E Major, C Minor —and made the
contrast wonderfully effective. An illu-
minating exposition.
Purely orchestral contributions were
the overture to “The Magic Flute,” very
gracefully and daintily done, and the
“Flying Dutchman” overture. The
Wagnerian excerpt sounded like an
attempt to prove that Richard is as proper
and polite as Wolfgang.
* * * *
On Saturday night Georg Szell con-
ducted and Schnabel was soloist in per-
formances of the No. 1 (D minor) piano-
forte concerto of Brahms, a C major
pianoforte concerto of Mozart (K 467)
and the Weber Konzertstiick.
Of these three works, differing greatly
in character, but all admirably presented
by the orchestra, the Mozart seemed best
to the liking of the Sydney Town Hall
audience, possibly because of the easy
grace with which Schnabel turns off the
Mozartian ornaments. The Brahms,'
though full of melodic and harmonic
beauties, allots the pianist a not very
pianistic role. The Konzertstiick is
1 rankly a pianist’s show piece.
Schnabel played them all with the same
air of earnest devotion to the composer’s
intention. Even when the temptation
must be well-nigh irresistible, as in
Weber’s bravura passages and the elabo-
rate cadenzas of the Mozart, he shows
no particular relish in achievement.
‘Thus it is written,” he seems to be
saying, “and, whether it be good, bad or
indifferent, that’s the way you’re going
to hear it.”
It never is bad or indifferent when
Schnabel plays, but at least one listener
is beginning to wish ardently that the
man would show some sign of human
frailty.
“Viktoria and Her Hussar”
The lady, her soldier and their troubles
were pleasantly represented by the Mos-
man Musical Society at the Cremorne
Orpheum. Kenneth Neate stretched an
easy tenor to wherever it was needed, and
Joan Wentworth ditto with a soprano.
They fitted the main roles both suitably
and capably, though Mr. Neate is in-
clined to suffer too much —like Herbert
Marshall.
Louis de Groen displayed a nifty pair
of pins. She and Eric Wright, also well
up in the damnfoolery business, made
an invaluable contribution to the show
by laughing so long and loud that the
audience took up with them and lifted
the roof an inch or two.
Harry Nott took Shirley Donald to his
High Temple of mirth; Don Mac-
Gregor offered some clean-cut acting, and
Peter Carne was quite effective behind a
couple of disguises. Chorus and ballet
were good, as was the music under the
able direction of Sam White.
Altogether a tophole exhibition of
amateur theatrics—to be repeated at
Sydney Con. on August 9 in aid of the
Sydney Industrial Blind Institute.
Marjorie Lawrence.
Melbourne Princess was overflowing
lor Marjorie Lawrence’s farewell recital
last week. A momentary amnesia on the
part of accompanist Wolfes dislocated
Brunnhilde’s “Battle Cry,” but Miss Law-
rence neatly rescued both herself and
the pianist from an awkward predica-
ment.
The bill included the fine singing and
the sustained emotion of her greatest
role, Salome, from the Strauss opera of
that name. In the way of re-creating the
atmosphere of the Biblical melodrama
she did everything but roll the gory head
of John the Baptist on the boards.
Alfredo Luizzi presented another
mixed bag which included “Simon the
Cellarer” and “Short’nin’ Bread.”
Miss L., who returns to sing with
orchestra at Melbourne Town Hall in
September or thereabouts, was due to
open her Sydney Town Hall season on
Monday night, just after these pages had
to go to the printer.
Vienna Boys’ Choir, etc.
Nearly 200 years ago a statue of the
Virgin in an obscure village in Germany
was associated with miracles. At the
heighs of its fame a certain rich man
presented a golden crown to the statue,
and one Mozart was invited to compose
a Coronation Mass.
It was sufficient excuse for Mozart to
think some musical thoughts, which the
Vienna Mozart Boys’ Choir sang in the
course of the musical marathon at Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week. They were
assisted by the A.B.C. orchestra, con-
ducted by the smiling Dr. Gruber, and
there were other works of Mozart, in-
cluding a vesper written for Salzburg
Cathedral and two of the composer’s
symphonic works. The blue-coated
choristers sang beautifully.
The Town Hall organ has been booked
for a series of recitals by the famous
Marcel Dupre, organist of St. Sulpice,
Paris. After that, the marathon will be
given a few days oif, but will make an-
other start with the revival of symphony
concerts, the advent of the Comedy Har-
monists and the arrival of John Brown-
lee. Then the musical side of the Spring
Carnival will begin.
The Theatre in Adelaide.
Adelaide Repertory staged for three
nights Priestley’s familiar “I Have Been
Here Before.” Jack Ham, as producer,
brought out well the slightly uncanny
atmosphere, and the small cast was excep-
tionally good: Downey, Thelma Baulder-
stone and Don Jordon (a new find) as
the triangle, Robert Matthews the old
prof, who sets the tone, Whittle and
Beryl Kook the innkeepers.
Over “The Women,” at the Royal,
Adelaide prepared to be shocked, and
three Government officials watched the
first performance. However, they made
no unfavorable report; the management
certified that the dialogue Sydney heard
had been cut by four lines only ; and (he
public welcomed the whole thing.
The Little Theatre is showing a
modern version of Greek deities and
mortals in one of the strongest items from
the old-time mythology.
ARTBURSTS.
Sydney
H. Septimus Power, whose show is at
David Jones’s Market-street store, might
be called the “Australian Landseer” if it
were not that nowadays it is an insult to
suggest that any painter paints as well as
the early Victorians.
Anyway, Power is miles and away the
best limner of horses, dogs, deer and
other fauna practising in Australia to-
day. He’s equally at home in oils or
water-color, and in addition to his animal
paintings has a pleasant touch with land-
scape, and shows a high level of com-
petence in whatever other genre he at-
tempts. Best things in the current show
are “Two Spaniels,” “Toilers” and the
sketches of equestrian Red Indians in
warpaint.
* =l= * *
John R. Eldershaw, whose water-color
painting advances from strength to
strength, has a show of his latest work at
the Grosvenor Galleries.
The two dozen water-colors are so even
in quality that it is hard to grade them.
It may be said, however, that nothing
better has been done in this medium in
Australia than the two Pontville pictures.
Tasmania’s bridges and hop kilns, as
usual, provide Mr. Eldershaw with his
most effective subjects.
Of his oils, all that can be said is that
most of them seem strangely flat and un-
satisfying, but there are elements of a
robust method in “Blue Lagoon.”
* * * *
Roland Wakelin, leading Australian
exponent of what its friends call the
brave new art,” and what its enemies
describe less euphemistically, has, on occa-
sion, shown that his particular formula
of impressionism can be made a power-
ful means of expression. There is little
such evidence in his current show at the
Macquarie Galleries. Some of the land-
scapes, seen at a distance of 40 yards or
so, present quite nice Patterns. A couple
of interior studies, with figures, are
prettily lit. But there seems no excuse
for a view of the tops of two electric
power posts, peeping over a dull brick
wall on which reposes a matchbox.
* * * *
Melbourne
Harley C. Griffiths’s current show at
Melbourne Athenaeum comprises an im-
pressive array of portraits, landscapes
and still-life, most of them with such a
suggestion of old Flemish, old Dutch
and other masters that at first glance they
could easily be taken for anything but
a modern exhibition. Griffiths is an in-
dustrious young painter, but attempts sub-
jects that would daunt even the heart of
a Rembrandt. Echoes of Constable in
some of his landscapes and of Raeburn
or some other acknowledged great one
in his portraits suggests that he tries to
say more than he knows and uncon-
sciously falls under the influence of some
bygone painter.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
P£t
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Saturday saw the last of this year s
polo, and who do you think won the
Dudley Cup? Right. It was the Ash-
tons. Lady Gowrie and Lord Wakehurst
came out to see the afternoon’s fun.
A picnic lunch out at Kyeemagh, and
then a long afternoon basking in sun-
snine and uttering the right sounds at the
right moments in the play, was Wednes-
day’s programme for the polo enthusiast.
It was a brilliant day, and some people
brought their children and some their
dogs to enjoy the fine weather. Mrs.
Elink Schuurman was one who brought
her children. Noted were Mrs. Edgar
Downes, of Camden, and Mrs. Knox
Ross, who was with Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre.
Kathleen Cobcroft was smartly topcoated
in beige. Dr. Max Soiling left his bed
of pain and brought his convalescing
ankle to the scene of its disaster. Alison
Campbell shaped well as linesman. All
the well-knowns watched from bench or
car. The cost of polo (at least, the look-
ing-on part) is one of the few things that
have come down. Entrance now is only
two shillings.
There were over 60 hostesses for the
polo tea, so you can imagine the number
of guests. Hopewood House was very
gala for the occasion, and everything,
apart from the flowers, was polo-ish. A
sort of polo-ish corridor was the lounge
with its long table arranged like a play-
ing-field. The goalposts were parsnips.
Turnips for bodies, bottle-brush for tails
and cropped parsley for manes went to
the ponies’ make-up. Turnips made the
riders. They had red chillies for arms
and green for legs ; in some cases red
for legs, green for arms. In short, the
whole field was set out. The drinks
would have launched a thousand ships,
and the eats fed a navy (or so it seemed).
Mrs. Geoffrey Ashton and Bea Meeks
received the guests, smiling with equal
benignity on the late- and the early-
comer.
From the wide verandahs could be
seen the smoky haze, the silver sliver of
new moon of the winter evening. In the
lounge a fire leaped, and among the
flowers on the mantel were red and cream
roses. Very strokable was the border
of grebe on Mr. Alexis Albert’s black
velvet toque. Distinguished was Mrs.
Malcolm Mackellar. With her black
suit she wore a smoky-blue satin blouse.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was there with daugh-
ter-in-law Mrs. Carleton Kelly. Mrs.
Bertie had changed the cyclamen en-
semble which she had worn to open John
Eldersnaw’s show in the Grosvenor Gal-
leries and now wore black velvet. Mrs.
A. W. Whitney, of Woodstock, was there
with Mrs. Eric Luscombe-Newman. Mrs.
Tom Vincent’s pale golden Breton sailor
and soft tweeds were harmonics.
This was a really well-manned party.
Tweeds and polo kit were virile assets to
the dressing, and there was an absolute
babel of chat. Quite an entry was made
by Joan Ritchie’s white lamb coat. A
millionaire posy of lily-of-the-valley was
worn by Mrs. James Ashton, senior, in
her cruiser-grey suit. Mrs. H. C. Mcln-
tyre, her first day out after ’flu, had cosy
touches of Persian lamb on her black
outfit. Lorraine See was a vision in
blue hung about with red foxes. Mrs.
Prevost’s frock was blue; so was the tiny
doll hat above her smiling eyes. Mrs.
Roy Buckland, Mrs. Lennox Bode, Mrs.
Alfred Varcoe and Mrs. Reg Stafford
were among the afternoon’s smooth of
plumage.
A visit to the Grosvenor Galleries is
as good as a visit to Tasmania. Artist
John Eldershaw has brought the beauties
and the atmosphere of the Apple Isle,
and lined the pleasant room with them.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly opened the show, which
features the oldest bridge south of the
Line (this is embodied in a landscape of
melting loveliness). Her black hat was
one of the new shallow of crown and
wide of brim, and her ensemble was of
a tone that hovered between cyclamen
and raspberry. Mrs. Buckle, Mrs. Dar-
ling, Mrs.’ Crawford Robertson were
among the admirers. So was Bunty
Hogg, who came with mother. Sir Hugh
Poynter, Lloyd Rees, Douglas Pratt, John
Brackenregg, Noreen Dangar, who after-
wards went off to the polo tea at Hope-
wood House, and Evelyn and Beatrice
Tildesley were notable among many.
Thirty Australian country women gave
a dinner at the Regent Palace to Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, who retired from the
vice-presidency of the Associated Coun-
try Women of the World after ten years
of international service. She was pre-
sented with a signed photograph of the
late Lady Aberdeen and two vellum-
bound volumes, The Musings of a
Granny, by Marchioness Aberdeen, and
The Life of Madame Curie. The party
was organised by Mrs. Leslie Craig, of
Bunbury, Westralia.
To have emerged from a shy country
girl to one of the dazzling stars of the
Paris Opera House and the Metropolitan,
New York, is an achievement. To have
done it in less than ten years is almost
a miracle. And yet there are still people
who say that Australians do not know
the meaning of work. Marjorie Law-
rence, who began her Sydney season at
the Town Hall last Monday, is a living
refutation of the non-worker libel.
In ten years she has perfected a natur-
ally glorious singing voice. She has
learned to speak and think in French,
German and Italian. She has acquired
a repertoire staggering in size and variety
—her programmes tell that —she is
acknowledged one of the leading Wagner
singers of the day. She both sings and
dances in the part of Salome. She has
captured Monte Carlo, perhaps the most
critical audience in Europe, and when
this writer was in Paris four years ago
the Australian girl’s fame was firm as
Gibraltar in the city which knows all
the best in art.
Marjorie Lawrence is the most vital
woman singer this Letter has met.
After six hours of interviews (with an
hour off for lunch) the young soprano
last Friday was still a compelling force.
Marjorie is even better-looking than the
photograph on this page. She has a mass
of fair curling hair, and her eyes are blue
and magnetic. Clever, that’s what Mar-
jorie is. If she hadn’t been a great singer
she’d have been a great something else—
possibly an actress. She spoke with deep
affection of the three or four years she
spent as a pensionnaire of the Paris
Opera. This means that a student is being
taught languages, roles, acting.
A coat of Parma violet collared in
grey fox showed that the Australian girl
had developed the Paris accent in clothes
as well as in speech. She said, how-
ever, that for the concert platform her
favorite color is white. She shares that
taste, by the way, with Lily Pons. For
the street Marjorie prefers black and
white. Jewels leave her cold. She adores
furs, and antique pieces showing the art
of the' goldsmith and silversmith of other
days make swift appeal to her. She
would like to have Australian songs on
her programmes. She spent her first free
hour in Sydney walking oyer the Bridge
with her brother. She didn’t find the
Melbourne express cold. In short, Mar-
jorie is happy. And happiness has no
complaints.
To-morrow night at about a quarter
to eight the fashionable place to be head-
ing for will be the Rawson Institute.
There the fifty-eighth annual meeting will
start sharp at eight o’clock. Lord Wake-
hurst will be there ; so will his Grace
the Archbishop of Sydney. The adop-
tion of the report and balance sheet will
be proposed and seconded by Halse
Rogers, K.8.E., and Rear-Admiral
Feakes. The Church, the State, the Uni-
versity, the Navy! What better company
could you be in?
Cranbrook had a gaudy week to cele-
brate its 21st birthday. Jubilations with
a service in St. Mark’s, for which the
lovely red, white and blue flower decora-
tions had been done by the clever hands
of Mrs. Athol Chard, and the flowers
brought by Mrs. Wynn and Mrs. Holmes
a Court who did their bit, too. Mrs. Wynn
arranged the school crest on the pulpit
and the various school emblems about the
church. Archbishop Mowll and Canon
Barder officiated, and the congregation
held old masters and old boys, as well as
current ones. A football match between
Barker College and Cranbrook drew
crowds of parents and friends to the
oval last Saturday, and later to the court-
yard and terrace, where tea was served.
Headmaster I. G. Mackay and his wife
did the honors.
On Saturday night the White City was
blithe with young ex-Cranbrookians and
their girl friends. The dance was a
youthful affair arranged by a group of
girls who are a junior committee of the
Parents and Friends’ Association. As
many beasts as are in the Apocalypse
were represented on the befurred young-
sters, who under their coats and capes
rustled in taffetas, chiffons and velvets.
President Fairlie Cunningham wore old-
world taffetas, while Eileen Longworth s
pale-pink chiffons were a pretty contrast
to her grey squirrel coat. The sleeves
of Norma Robinson’s cherry-red velvets
were closely tucked. Pale-blue nets
spangled with sequins billowed around
Pamela Darling. Dark-haired Jessica
Chard got a great effect out of rust velvet
and white hyacinths. Marcelle Poate’s
gay stripes were on parchment taffeta.
School’s head, Major-General Mackay,
and Mrs. Mackay were at the party.
This is Mrs. F. G. Barber, president
of the committee which organised the
successful card party and musicale at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries last Mon-
day to aid St. Gabriel’s School for Deaf
and Dumb Boys, Castle Hill. The boys
gave a display of physical-culture exer-
cises, and specimens of their handicraft
were on sale. Mrs. Barber is also presi-
dent of the Cumberland Country
Women’s Association. Freeman photo-
graph.
The Nieuw Zeeland, lying at Dalgety s
wharf, looked like tulip time in Holland
when the guests got aboard. Hundreds
of tulips of every hue sprouted gaily
about the decks, and there were wind-
mills made of tulips and other flowers.
But the most prideful windmill was one
made of sugar by the ship’s chef. This
was worked by a motor, and was as ad-
mired as the twelve girls dressed in Dutch
costume who surrounded the arrival of
Mayoress Norman Nock. Mayor Nock
was away in the country, so his wife was
escorted by her brother. The president
of the ball was Mrs. G. J. C. Tosi, a
great worker for the Kenny clinic hostel
within the grounds of Royal North Shore
Hospital. Mrs. Tosi’s frock was pic-
torial in style, and sapphire blue in tone.
Mrs. Max Hamilton was the secretary,
and Mrs. R. D. Hunter the treasurer.
The Royal Packet Navigation Company
lent the ship.
Gentle Margaret Cox-Taylor, known
for some years to readers of this Letter
as “Vandorian,” died last week at a
private hospital in Waverley. Before
coming to The Bulletin she had been
with the “Evening News” and the “Sun.”
In addition to her journalistic work she
wrote many short stories, and had an
overseas as well as a local market for
them. One of her proudest possessions
was the book containing paintings by Aus-
tralian artists, many of whom were per-
sonal friends. Miss Cox-Taylor was a
Fellow of the Royal Empire Society and
a valued member of the Lyceum Club.
Her father was Dr. Charles Taylor. She
is sorrowed for by sister Miss Alice Cox-
Taylor and by innumerable friends. Tas-
mania and Maoriland as well as Sydney
knew her kindly ways and pen.
All the people who feel they are really
getting somewhere went to the Polo Ball.
This was at Prince’s and smacked of the
good earth, inasmuch as most of the
dancers, though they did not look meek,
will inherit it. Polo players of renown
and their wives were there, polo songs
were roared out, and everybody knew
everybody else so intimately that bank
overdrafts were probably an open secret.
Polo sticks and the colors of contesting
teams were seasonal, and the frocks were
the stuff that dreams are made on. Every-
thing was very, very feminine. Layers
and layers of white net, a sherbet with
pink rosebuds floating on it, foamed
about one dancer. And, incidentally,
how sylphlike Sydney women are becom-
ing. Chiffons and nets and lace swirl
gracefully only about the restricted of
hips, and chiffons, nets and lace were
the popular wear.
Mrs. Leslie Willsallen and Mrs. James
Ashton were presidents of the committee.
White lace embroidered in pearls was
worn by Mrs. Ashton, and spreading
black taffetas by Mrs. Willsallen. Mrs.
Geoffrey Ashton, too, wore lace. Hers
sparkled like hoar frost. The chiffons in
Mrs. Tom Street’s frock suggested daffo-
dil time. Mrs. Jimmie Burns brought her
grey chiffons from Bowral. Mrs. Frank
Bragg, of Scone, Bea Meeks, Mrs. John
Brunton and Mrs. Pat Levy were among
the night’s gazed-upon. Mrs. Max Soil-
ing brought her doctor husband, who
brought his injured ankle, and probably
that was well dressed, too.
One of the largest parties of last week
was the reception held by the Consul-
General for Japan, Mr. Akiyama, and
his wife. This drew over 300 represen-
tative citizens to the Consul-General’s
home in Wolseley-road, Point Piper. The
Akiyamas are a smiling young couple.
Mrs. Akiyama hostessed in her national
dress, the coloring in tones of lilac.
David Smyth gave his farewell party
at No. 8 March-street, Bellevue Hill, last
week. The Massey couple, who have
bought the house, were among the guests.
Mr. Massey confessed that he had always
longed to own No. 8. The house with its
parquet floors, on which David’s jade-
green Chinese rugs shone richly, looks
just the right setting for parties. Sweet-
peas and stocks were massed in the
vases, and many of Lord Beauchamp’s
old friends were among the guests. Here
were Mrs. Holman, Mrs. Aronson, Mrs.
Marie Irvine. Here were Miss Mc-
Arthur and David’s men of law, the
McFadden brothers. Mrs. Pao brought
handsome black frocking. Oswald
Cheeke, Patrick Bellew, John Preece, the
Norman Fitz Hills, Eric Ramsden and his
pretty wife were just a few who wished
David “happy journey, speedy return.”
The Australian silkies, all ready for ship-
ment, were in their big wicker basket.
David flies to Singapore this week.
Schnabel playing Beethoven with ex-
quisite perfection while the Symphony
Orchestra wove in a background under
the leadership of Szell, the night crisp
and bright with stars, the Town Hall
benign with the glow of radiators, was
one of last week’s experiences not soon
forgotten. Sydney had responded to the
invitation to the feast, and had rolled
up in the wedding garment. This, for
the women’s part, was cloaked and coated
in fur. No one puts too much trust in
the radiators. The Governor was in the
audience. He was attended by Captain
K. O’B. Harding and A.D.C. Loder. In
the vice-regal group were A.B.C. chair-
man W. J. Cleary and Mrs. Cleary and
the High Commissioner for the United
Kingdom, Sir Geoffrey Whiskard.
Later on pianist Artur joined the com-
pany, of which his tall wife, green-
frocked and black-velvet-coated, was a
striking figure. Mrs. Szell was in grace-
ful white crepes. Chief Justice Jordan
and his wife were listeners. Her frock
mingled cyclamen and blue tones; her
cape was of dyed squirrel. Angel Katrin
Rosselle dressed her blondness in black
sheer, and was caped in fur. The Walter
Swinsons and knight Harry Sheehan and
his lady were among the enthusiastic.
Organiser Cooper-Vines’s welcome to
Popular Science Clubites at their last
meeting was warm, but apparently the
freezing atmosphere without prevailed,
for not more than 150 congregated.
Absentees missed the most varied and
interesting programme that the director
has yet arranged. Films of Arsop’s Fables
and travelogues were supplemented by
two lecturettes. F. O. French illustrated
in color the activities of the Egg Board,
and W. G. Wright’s “Story of Nicke.
revealed Canada’s wealth in this metal
as well as the great number of ways in
which it can be utilised.


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
healthy 16 * 15 *° the hlood and keep you
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
Kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
anKies, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pain 3 and dizziness.
_J f % dne ys don ’t empty 3 pints a day and
£,o»* rld of more tllan 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
wv for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
" 1 v 1 • • used successfully the world
owi" 1 ‘n^i S , of people - They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
* Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
iKiD-NEx PILLS at your chemist,.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1338 of 1939.
BETWEEN IRENE ELLEN MARY NEWTON
Petitioner
And RALPH RONALD NEWTON Re-
spondent.
TO RALPH RONALD NEWTON late of
Young in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IRENE ELLEN
MARY NEWTON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance in the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Thirteenth day of October next and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the said suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of July, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar
E. ALLAN UTHER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 970 of 1939.
BETWEEN GEORGE BEER Petitioner
GRACE EILEEN BEER (formerly McAviney)
Respondent
And PHILLIP SINCLAIR Co-respondent.
TO PHILLIP SINCLAIR (also known as
PHILLIP MARSDEN) late of Bathurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GEORGE
BEER has commenced a suit against the above-
named Respondent GRACE EILEEN BEER
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of her adultery
with you the abovenamed co-respondent AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thirteenth
day of October One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of July, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
K. B. SPONG & TAPERELL, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 247 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Those people who are laying plans for
the Spring Carnival hope that it will lure
as many people here as possible and will
be an all-over boost-up for the city of
Melbourne. .Already the carnival, which
commences in three months’ time, has
had some publicity in London as a result
of T. C. Fairbairn’s proposed journey
to the Antipodes. Mr. Fairbairn,
who produces “Hiawatha” for its
annual fortnight’s season in the Albert
Hall, will also be in charge of
the ambitious production to be done in
Melbourne, and is bringing with him
packing case after packing case of rushing-
river scenery, feathers and birch-bark
canoes. The cost of producing “Hia-
watha” in its entirety, with choruses and
ballets numbering several hundreds of
people, has hitherto been too large an
undertaking for Australia. Mohawk
Chief Os-ke-mon-to is coming out to play
the part of the medicine man.
Subsidiaries of the Spring Carnival in-
clude, as well as the procession of floats
and beauteous maidens, various sports
fixtures, a garden city and a fancy dress
ball of large dimensions. Garden City
will be evolved in the Treasury Gardens,
and should be an attraction for those
laymen who admire a mass of color as
well as for the other experts and amateurs
who know the honest satisfaction of
digging, planting and gloating over the
fruits of their labors. The fancy dress
ball is to be held in the Exhibition Build-
ing, which mammoth structure won’t
recognise itself in such a comeback of
silk and satins and powdered hair. Its
giddiest activities for many years have
been shining streamlined bodies of the
newest in cars, furniture, washing-
machines, etc. Melbourne hospitals will
benefit from this ball.
Earl’s Court, which on a winter’s night
is a place in which an Eskimo would feel
at home sinking his molars into his
frozen seal meat, lived up to its reputa-
tion on the night of the Newman College
Ball. A number of fair young dancers
present appeared with bare arms and
shoulders, gooseflesh or not, but most
owners of short capes and little jackets
wore them right through the evening, on
the floor and off. In between times more
substantial wraps were very popular, but
Betty Triado went one better for com-
fort, accepting the offer of a man’s tweed
coat as something that couldn’t be re-
fused.
Representatives from various colleges
were present, and the Newman football
team came along with spirits undampened
after its defeat during the afternoon by
Ormond in the finals of the inter-
collegiate championship. The team’s
coach, Stuart King, was at the dance
with his attractive wife, who had coaxed
her dark hair aloft into Edwardian curls.
Lurline Urwin was noticed in a black
gown a-twinkle with silver pin-spots.
Miss Egan, the college matron, was
present again as one of the hostesses.
She has pleasant memories of many
college dances since the first one attended
officially in 1923.
Representatives from large public
hospitals took tea with the Lady Mayoress
last week to listen to preliminary plans
and to arrange that two delegates from
each hospital will be nominated to form
a general committee. Among those
present were Mrs. B. T. Zwar, Mrs. H.
S. K. Ward, the Stawell lady, Mrs. A. R.
Stewart, Miss J. Bage, Mrs. Mortimer
Robb (who bespoke the hoop-la at the
ball on behalf of the M.D.N.S. and the
After-care Home), and Mrs. J. J. Daly,
who, with the tea interlude, dropped a
word or two of news of her sister, Dr.
Lucy McMahon, to some of this young
medico’s Melbourne friends.
Dr. McMahon, who studied medicine
in her home town of Sydney, is now in
London, where she has collected a
Diploma of Anaesthetics. She is yet an-
other example of an Australian doing
well abroad, for Harley-street medicoes
are giving her so many jobs of work that
she never mentions coming home. A
few months ago another sister, Kathleen
McMahon, married Dr. Bristow John-
ston, thus bringing into the family its
sixth doctor. All the McMahons (at
least those already grown up) have either
become doctors or married them.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Guy Barrenger, who is one of the
ticket secretaries for the R.A.C. Ball to
be held on August 10 at the Palais. The
committee hopes to make this dance an
even greater success than its 1938 effort.
Beneficiaries will be the M.D.N.S. and
the After-care Home.
To supplement the Automobile Club
appeal for the above-mentioned causes a
band of good scouts, motorists and other-
wise, have got together, and are organis-
ing an old-timers’ football match on the
Fitzroy Ground on July 29. The date
fell into their hands as naturally as a
toffee-apple does into the mouth of a
schoolboy, for there are no League games
on this particular Saturday, the only at-
traction for fans being the inter-State
match at the M.C.G. The kick-off for
the afternoon at Fitzroy will be a preli-
minary match between the Railways and
Tramways.
Several well-known League men are
in the teams, and Ron Cooper, a
star of Carlton, is captaining the Rail-
ways team. At half-time, when the bar-
rackers are stretching their legs and rest-
ing their voices, there will be exhibitions
of running and kicking by several experts,
followed by an old-timers’ Fitzroy v. St.
Kilda match. The players haven’t
reached the age of white heads and gout,
but have all been out of football for at
least six years. They are all hale and
hearty, though their ages range from the
thirties to high in the forties. Among
their stars will be Dave McNamara and
Harold McLennan. Jack McMurray will
take the risk of being umpire.
Ripest plum in the lucky-number com
petition run in connection with the dance
at the Embassy for the Deaf and Dumb
Appeal was present “in the flesh” at the
dance when it took place on Friday night.
The gadget was duly appreciated when,
as an ornamental arrangement of gilded
pipes, it became a heater when hooked
on to a power-plug adjoining the trestle
tables reserved for liquid refreshment.
Among those who helped to make the
dance a success was Mrs. Max Moffalt,
who wore a crinoline gown of misty-blue
lace with accessories of velvet bows and
a pendant of hand-beaten silver. Mrs.
Moffatt was unable to dance (she is re-
cuperating after the loss of her appendix),
so her crinoline had all the space neces-
sary for its frills and hoops to make an
effective picture. Posy-sellers were Mrs.
John Smyth, in white gown and little fur
cape, Heather Moran, whose trayful of
“gentlemen's carnations” bloomed a vivid
red against her black velvet frock, and
Mrs. Desmond Barrington, who wore
with an air her guardsman’s cloak of
heavy white boucle.
Cigarettes were on the market from
Mrs. G. Arnaude, whose black talfeta
gown ran to bon-bon sleeves and
infinitesimal jade-green bindings, and
Mrs. Bowen Allen, whose gown and ac-
companiment of little jacket were of
waterlily-green and silver brocade. Joan
Anderson was a young lass with a long
page-boy coiffure and a chiffon gown
printed with a generous design of flowers
and foliage. Jane Lormer (whose mother,
Mrs. George Lormer, is treasurer of the
women’s appeal committee for the Deaf
and Dumb Society) wore a little gold
coat which she collected overseas while
away on her recent travels.
When the University Women’s College
was a year old it produced its first official
at-home in the college dining-room. Last
year the party expanded to a merry dance
in the Union House, and this year so
lusty has been the growth of the institu-
tion that 250 guests were invited by the
students to a dance at Tudor Court. Dr.
Greta Hort, the senior student, Merle
Levinson, and the English tutor, Miss G.
Tennant, did the honors, and a highly-
efficient pair, Amy Wood and Noel
Rome, who are both doing Science,
looked after the tickets. Amy, a blonde,
wore a gown of platinum taffeta frilled
at neck and hem, and Noel, a brunette,
looked well in vivid geranium chiffon and
long black velvet wrap for arrival and
departure. (Incidentally Noel, as well as
being a particularly bright student who
sails through exams, on the crest of the
wave, is a crack hockey-player, and has
scored more goals ' this year than any
other member of the University team.)
On August 14 at the Assembly Hall
there will be a recital of Linda Phillips’s
music. Miss Phillips (Eve Ray photo-
graph) will be accompanist for the artists
who are interpreting her compositions.
Her programme is a varied one, includ-
ing Australian songs (her words as well
as music) and a second group of songs
composed around James Joyce’s poems
(herein Joyce is the soul of simplicity
rather than the author of Ulysses ). In-
cluded also will be a quartet for oboe,
violin, ’cello and piano, some unaccom-
panied choir music and a trio for flute,
’cello and piano. This trio was composed
on the theme of an old Hebrew chant,
the melody for which was handed down
for hundreds of years before it was com-
mitted to manuscript. Artists assisting at
the concert are Sylvia Fisher, C. Richard
Chugg, Hyman Lenzer, Fred Collier,
David Sisserman, R. Richmond and a
choir of feminine voices.
For the book she is writing on abori-
gines, their folklore and legends, which
is to be published by the Perth Univer-
sity, Dr. Deborah Buller Murphy has
been searching among old documents and
surveyors’ reports, some of which were
written by her late father, F. S. Drake-
Brockman, who was Surveyor-General in
W.A. Dr. Deborah doesn’t do all her
penwork in library or at office desk, but
has filled many pages of copy paper while
aloft on long air journeys. The air
bumps don’t seem to worry her, for if
she isn’t writing she’s either reading or
sewing, with fine stitches to boot.
Her son, Captain John Hackett (of the
Bth Hussars, stationed in the Transjordan
area), is now on leave in London. In
letters to his mother he never mentions
international affairs; his only worry at
the moment is how. to manage time for
enough study for his interpreter’s exams.
in French and Arabic without taking too
many bites out of his well-earned holi-
day. His sister, Joan Hackett, who has
lived in London for several years, is also
a linguist of ability. She is now in Ger-
many ; haying wakened up one morning
with a desire to travel she packed a suit-
case forthwith. Dr. Deborah will miss
her three little Wallis Kendall grand-
children, who are leaving shortly for
England, home and parents in the safe
care of their nurse. Mrs. Wallis Kendall
returned to London some months ago
after a visit to Melbourne.
Nancy Brett arrived home recently
after 14 months spent abroad, mostly in
England, but with recent Mediterranean
deviations. After visiting friends in
Malta Nancy boarded a cargo steamer
lor Cyprus. After motoring across this
interesting island she caught an Italian
ship to Haifa to accept an invitation to
stay with more English friends. They,
like the rest of the English in that city’
live in a modern flat in the German
colony, which is distinct from the Arab
and Jewish colonies.
The young Australian visitor speaks
of the beautiful beach at Haifa and
of the cafes and biergartens which
come to life after sundown. When
her friends wished her a “safe trip”
for her 14-hours railway journey to
Port Said, which includes a ferry crossing
of the Suez Canal, their hopes were justi-
fied, for that day no desert marauders
focused their attention upon the train.
There was also no dust to make travel-
ling unpleasant. Nan says that Port Said,
where she stayed overnight waiting for
the Largs Bay, provided accommodation
at a British hostel which was the best
value of her whole holiday. Everything
was spotlessly clean, and the inclusive
charge for room, hot shower, morning
tea and breakfast was only 3s. 6d.
Roma Matheson (ex-O.C. of the
original “Spotted Dog”) is finding her
past experience useful and has opened a
cafe in London. Roma, who is well
known in Penshurst and the Western Dis-
trict, arrived in London last year to find
her brother Murray getting on well
theatrically. He has had parts in several
of Noel Coward’s musical meringues.
Len Watt, another “ex” of The Dog,” has
also gone in for caf6 craft in London,
and Chiqua Edgeworth and Margaret
Cochran have opened a guest-house in
Kensington. Not many details are yet
to hand except that Lois Smith, Louden
Sainthill and Harry Miller have arrived
there as boarders, and that the two chate-
laines have “help” and are not chancing
the cooking themselves.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production —~
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Mataranka”: Well, it’s sad, but the
good old pioneer days of the North seem
to be over. Up on the Barkly we’ve
watched one amenity after another creep
in. First, a rubber-tyred sulky. It was
sighted by a sundowner, who came
into Brunette with the news that he had
seen a bloke trotting round with snakes
round his wheels in place of hoops.
Then came the bike, and after it hard-
bitten motor overlanders, all whiskers
and profanity. Then the flapper motorists
arrived —and went back full of tales of
native wars and savage tribes. Barbarism
was sent into its death throes a week
or so ago when a gin magnate on his
way to Darwin stopped at the Rankine
in a flash caravan, with bathroom, bar
and ice chest complete, and a tent with-
out poles or ropes. It is inflated by
engine power and stays up like a balloon.
“Course we ’adn't much of a ’ouse w’en We first come ’ere."
Next thing we expect is to have some
duke arrive here with a power-driven
windlass on his car to haul his pants
on with.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The latest census shows that
North Queensland is about the most air-
minded part of the Commonwealth.
Within 100 miles of Cairns 53 aerodromes
have been or are being completed. And
only one—at Cooktown —has been built
entirely with Government money ; 48 owe
their existence to local effort.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Details which have come
through of the death of Pompey Elliott’s
only son in New Guinea show that he
was attacked by a tul-tul (village superin-
tendent), whom he had rebuked for the
dirtiness of his village. The tul-tul
slashed at Elliott with a knife, and an-
other native speared him in the stomach.
Elliott from the ground shot the tul-tul
with his revolver. The attack occurred
in a resthouse, and at the same time a
native constable, who was about 75
yards away, was speared in three places.
He crawled back to his dying officer, who,
in spite of his own wounds, extracted a
spearhead from the policeman’s body.
Elliott died within an hour of being
wounded and afterwards natives visited
the resthouse in which he lay and speared
his corpse in several places. A force
of 30 native police was at once sent to
the district by ’plane, and District Officer
Townsend is in Wanali clearing up the
affair. It is the first time that there has
been trouble at Wanali.
* * * *
“Gain”: Sydney motorists rose in
wrath when it was suggested that a 20-
mile speed limit should be introduced in
some areas of the Great Wen. I wonder
how they would like Papuan motor law.
In Moresby it is necessary to “give suf-
ficient warning of approach” to an in-
tersection, to drive at 15 m.p.h. and to
take cross roads at not more than six
m.p.h. But in Papua drivers are largely
native. And there is only one thing
more dangerous than a native driving a
car and that is two natives driving cars.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Labor does better with its
press in Darwin than it does in Sydney.
The N.A.W.U.’s “Northern Standard” is
the only journal the town has. It has
a monopoly of advertising. It also in-
cludes in its pages the official Gazette of
the Administration, which it bitterly
criticises at times. Till 1932 there was
another paper, the “N.T. Times,” but
this was taken over by the union for
£looo—deposit £2OO, and the rest pay-
able in instalments. The money has been
paid out of the “Standard’s” trading pro-
fits, and a few days ago the whole con-
cern, free of debt, became the property
of the North Australian Workers’ Union.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The polyglot nature of the
New Guinea population adds another
reason why the New Guinea mandated
territory should become an integral part
of Australia. It is becoming more cos-
mopolitan every year, and there is no
way to prevent it. Out of 6283 Euro-
peans and Asiatics, only 3472 are of
British blood. There are 1737 Chinese,
473 Germans, 149 Americans, 154 Dutch,
48 Italians and 38 Japanese, together with
Austrians, Belgians, Czechs, Danes,
Finns, French, Greeks, Hungarians, Nor-
wegians, Poles, Portuguese, Russians,
Spaniards, Swedes, Swiss and others. The
Chinese show an increase o,f 200 in
1937-38. Most of the missionaries are
foreign—of 682 only 96 are British and
412 are German. As they serve over
300,000 natives, the missions have a closer
contact with Brown Brother than the
Administration, which has a classified
public service of only 350, police ex-
cepted. Last year alone there were over
20,000 baptisms, and there are over 2000
village schools.
“MacFlinders”: With the death of
Joseph Lyons the palm for the most
prolific politician in office goes to little
Johnny Mullan, who is the non-legal
Attorney-General in Forgan Smith’s
Government. Johnny hails from
Charters Towers, where he was a post-
man, and there are 11 little Mullans.
The other day Johnny mentioned to a
Carpentaria audience, while speaking of
the services which his had
provided for mothers, that they mad
all been born in maternity homes.”
* * -f ?
“P.O.W”: Binghi has one Torres
Strait record this year —J. W. Bleakley,
Chief Protector of Aborigines, has re-
ceived from one of his wards up that
way the largest pearl found in the
locality in the last decade about 23
carats.
sp * * *
“Clayfield”: The Health Department
and the Lord Mayor are planning out-
size in recreation reserves for youngsters
in Brisbane. The scheme is to take 300
acres of what is virtually swamp land
in South and North Brisbane and turn
it into playing areas for 20,000. It en-
visages the laying down in South Bris-
bane of five full-size cricket and foot-
ball grounds, six hockey grounds with
tennis courts and basketball grounds. An
area on the north side of the river near
Kelvin Grove will be drained and con-
verted ; a third swamp at East Brisbane
is earmarked for an 18-hole golf course.
This at least should pay for itself in
green fees. What used to be a barren
paddock in Victoria Park, a penny sec-
tion from the centre of the city, became
a course a few months ago, and 19,000
players passed over its greens in the
first six months.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Museum-going Brisbane’s
blood has been all curdled by Waiet, a
gent, from near Murray Island, Torres
Strait, alleged in his day to have been
a powerful god amongst all the local
lads. With a turtleshell face, decorations
of human rib-, jaw-, arm- and thigh-
bones, a sacred shell to catch the sac-
rificial gore, and a stone club carried
jauntily under the arm, he certainly does
look plenty saucy. The blurb has it
that hundreds of men and women were
tortured and sacrificed before him in
order to ensure good seasons and plenty
piccaninnies. In cold historical fact, the
Murray Islanders never practised human
sacrifices, but, despite a certain fierceness
of exterior deliberately produced for
effect, were always a cheerful lot of
gardening, pilfering folk, much domi-
nated by their womenkind, just as they
now are. For at least 60 years they have
been good Christians, too pious to even
take fish out of the stone traps on a
Sunday. Or, maybe, too lazy.
*** ' *
“Dick Tafone”: Business dealings by
a Government authority with private en-
terprise are seldom satisfactory, but the
Queensland State Electricity Commission
has achieved admirable success in its ar-
rangements for extending electrical facili-
ties over 9000 south-eastern square miles
of the State. Existing authorities were
the City Electric Light Co. (valuation
£1,582,425) and the Ipswich Electric
Supply Co. (£415,673). The Ipswich con-
cern amalgamates with the city one on
a share-for-share basis, supply rates will
not exceed 10 p.c. over present Brisbane
rates anywhere in the new area, and the
Government acquires power to take over
the whole undertaking from February 1,
1954, or any subsequent February 1. The
Commission will co-ordinate all develop-
ments, shareholders will receive full value
and assured dividends meanwhile, the
public benefits by regulated tariffs and
limitation of profits, and much of the
new capital for extensions will be raised
on debentures of the well-secured com-
pany.
* * * *
“X.T.”: If the Forgan Smith Govern-
ment is remembered for nothing else, its
roads will be its monument. Last year
the Queensland Main Roads Board com-
pleted 1250 miles of highway, of which
900 miles was entirely new, together with
16 miles of bridges. Expenditure was
£2,584,000. -There are now just on 15,000
miles of gazetted Queensland State high-
ways and roads, and almost every dis-
trict north and south has shared in the
development.
* * * *
“Sideshow Sam”: The annual con-
ference of the Outdoor Showmen’s Guild
of Australia will be held in Brisbane dur-
ing Show week in August. Preliminaries
are being arranged by president Morrie
Darling, secretary Short and treasurer
Greenhalg, with genial assistance by
brother Bob Sculthorpe. Most of the
regular Australian show folks belong,
ranging from such big guns as Philip
Wirth, Barton Bros, and George Sorlie
down to the most modest tattooed lady
and performing dog outfits. Its purpose
is one of mutual support and protection
against profiteering by municipal councils
and show committees, of eliminating un-
desirable features and persons from the
side- and outdoor-show business, and of
giving the public better and more up-
to-date attractions for its money. Bris-
bane Show is the best pitch of the year
for sideshows, and attracts a wider variety
of them than any other in Australia.
* =l= * *
“Caroo”: Water-beetles are proving a
menace to stock in n.-w. Q. The inch-
long, black-and-yellow pests are drying
up dams. Unless someone is at hand
to remove weakened sheep immediately
from the bog the woollies are attacked
by shoals of bettles. I have pulled sheep
out to discover beetles in clusters clinging
to the skin that is unprotected by wool —
the lips, beneath the flanks and forearms.
One unfortunate animal had been so
severely attacked beneath the flank that
a portion of the paunch had been ex-
posed and a hole eaten through the
flank large enough to take a man’s hand.
* * * *
“Anemone”: Of all weird things, alive
or inanimate, commend me to the suc-
tion plant of the Barrier Reef. This sprawl-
ing submarine vegetable, with rainbow
colors playing round its edges and with
glutinous hairs covering it, looks as
dead as mutton. But let some live thing
blunder into it, be it a scuttling crab, a
fish or a wandering shell, and immedi-
ately it wakes to hideous life. Tentacles
wind about the captive, which is para-
lysed, either by some toxic action or the
sticky substance on the hairs. Then the
plant folds over and over, all the time
drawing in on itself, convoluting with the
action of a constricting snake until the
victim is swallowed. Three creatures
only to my knowledge can beat it: the
black cotton - spinner beche-de-mer,
which it can’t assimilate; the toad fish,
which is poisonous ; and the reef octo-
pus, of which there are hundreds ot
varieties. This slimy bloke just treats
the plant with the contempt born of its
superior strength.
.' -! raft


ISHVO^
*
i
v Vi Catarrh Catarrh,
. Engh» h * eir from C^ N se .b\ovrmg>
SgSsasrs--**
j
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO RE GIVEN
■
Mr. David Burton will send you
a free trial of his effective
Catarrh Treatment with offer
of guaranteed freedom from
Catarrh or no cost.
To prove that this new English
Discovery banishes chronic Catarrh,
Catarrhal Deafness, Head Noises,
Nose-blowing, Catarrhal Headaches,
Coughing, Choking, Sneezing, Con-
stant Colds and other associated
ailments, one thousand Trial Treat-
ments have been set aside for Free
Distribution to “Bulletin” readers.
To avail yourself of this generous
offer, sign, detach and post the
coupon below. Your Trial Treat-
ment will come to you at once, free
of charge and obligation.
Every reader who suffers from Catarrh will be
interested in the new English discovery announced
to-day, which makes it entirely unnecessary to
tolerate Catarrhal Deafness, Head Noises, Cough-
ing, Choking, Sore Throats, Headaches, or other
Catarrhal manifestations. Mr. David Burton, a
former Catarrh sufferer, has formulated a com-
plete method which removes the basic cause so
that the trouble is completely overcome. Thus,
no matter where Catarrh germs lodge—in the
passages of the head, throat, chest, stomach or
intestines the complete attack clears these germs
right out of the system. Not a single “centre
of infection” remains from which they can
spread back again by the nose and throat. The
head and nose clear as if by magic; mucus comes
away; throat dryness disappears; inflamed mem-
branes are healed; germs are destroyed; dis-
charges stop, and soothing, substantial relief is
quickly felt. The skin clears; the eyes resume
their former brightness, the breath its one-time
sweetness; dullness, both physical and mental,
gives place to keen alertness of body and brain;
respiratory difficulties vanish; the cheeks assume
a healthy color; catarrhal headaches become a
thing of the past; every objectionable catarrhal
symptom disappears, and the former Catarrh suf-
ferer once more enjoys vibrant exhilarating
health, with freedom from Catarrh and other
abnormal conditions.
Catarrhal headaches need no longer be
tolerated now that the cause is known
and the correct treatment is available.
Mr. David Burton, in association with Anglo-
Australian Laboratories, of London and Sydney, I
desires to place his wonderful discovery at the
service of Catarrh sufferers in every part of Australia.
Although numerous unsolicited letters of appreciation
from former sufferers have been received, conveying
the glad news that this new scientific combination has
permanently banished their Catarrh, Mr. Burton insists
that each sufferer must convince himself by actual
test that this new discovery is unique and really effec-
tive. Mr. Burton will, therefore, send to every reader
of this journal who applies on the form at the foot of
this announcement:
(1) A Generous trial supply of his new Anti-
septic Vaporising Oil in Capsule form, which
will give INSTANT RELIEF. This powerful,
bland, and pleasant antiseptic oil instantly
clears stopped-up nostrils and destroys
catarrhal germs breeding in the post-nasal
cavities and respiratory tract. By virtue of
its healing action it greatly aids in the
restoration of the inflamed membranes to a
healthy condition.
(2) Sufficient MUCUS-SOLVENT TABLETS to
purify the blood stream, eliminate catarrhal
germs from the stomach, right digestive
wrongs, and help every organ of the body I
to function properly.
(3) An offer to completely banish your Catarrh
under a genuine guarantee of satisfactory
results, or it will not cost you one penny.
Tf you have Catarrh, either slight or severe, whether
merely a stopped-up nose, or whether you have been
a sufferer for many years, there is no reason whatever
why you should not now take advantage of this offer
and see for yourself, without financial risk, what this
important therapeutic discovery will do for you. You
will soon experience the joy of easy breathing. Those
constant headaches, choking, coughing and sneezing
attacks will end. You will cease catching colds. The
troublesome mucus in the throat will disappear. Your
digestion and your general health will improve beyond
belief. Head noises will cease. Your senses of hearing,
taste, and smell will all benefit.
Send the form now. That is the first step to glorious
new health and permanent freedom from an annoying
complaint, which steadily gets worse if neglected, and
which leads to dangerous and even deadly consequences.
vx
m
U
*»
m
y ~
■
L_
COUPON
BRINGS YOU
FREE
TRIAL
POST
NOW
%
m
mm
ĵ
Catarrhal Deafness due to
pressure on and blockage of
the Kustachian Tube may
now be permanently corrected.
j
No more stopped-up
nostrils. The David
Burton Catarrh
Treatment not only
enables you to
breathe through both
nostrils, but definitely
ends the trouble by
removing the cause.
FREE TRIAL COUPON
Mr. David Burton,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories.
62 Margaret Street,
Box 4242 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, free of charge and obligation, the trial
supply of Antiseptic Vaporising Oil Capsules and Mucus-
Solvent Tablets promised to give me INSTANT RELIEF from
Catarrh and offer to banish the ailment. I enclose 2d. stamp
for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 26/7/’39.


EEt
■Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands anti
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
,virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
lONIC
B2J
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
E6c
INCREASE TO
YOUR SALES
IS THROUGH
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Tuned R.F. Short-wave
Receiver Problems.
Many amateurs and short-wave lis-
teners have plenty of use for smaller
receivers than the normal superhet type.
Most popular for general purposes is the
three-valve arrangement which employs a
stage of tuned R.F., a regenerative de-
tector and one audio amplifier stage.
Such a receiver, properly built, is quite
efficient, quiet in operation and relatively
inexpensive. Most important in the lay-
out and wiring of a receiver of this kind is
provision for complete isolation between
the R.F. stage and the regenerative de-
tector. Even a very small amount of
interaction is undesirable, as a regenera-
Fig. 1.—Circuit diagram of a suggested three-valve T.R.F.
short-wave receiver.
tive detector is in itself none too stable.
Add to this an R.F. stage which affects
both the regeneration and the tuning ad-
justment of the detector, and tuning is
almost impossible. Calibration of the
receiver is out of the question.
Interaction between the two tuned
stages must be reduced to a minimum.
With a little care, this is not difficult.
Interaction is caused by coupling be-
tween exposed parts of the detector and
R.F. circuits. This coupling usually takes
place between coils, variable condenser
stators and grid or plate leads. It can
also occur in the wiring of valve heaters
and power supply, or even in incorrectly
used shielding. The ideal receiver would
have coupling in the one-way action of
the R.F. amplifier to the detector with-
out reverse coupling of any kind.
In the normal operation of the T.R.F.
regenerative receiver, the detector, be-
cause of its regeneration, is the control-
ling circuit. The wave-length to which
the detector is tuned is the wave-length
that will be received. The closer the R.F.
Fig. 2. —Chassis layout, showing proper
spacing and placement of essential parts.
stage can be brought into resonance with
the detector, the louder will be the signal,
and the more sensitive will be the receiver.
Effect of Interaction.
In Fig. 1 is shown the circuit diagram
of a three-valve receiver. This circuit
can be taken as a good basic arrange-
ment. Any of the appropriate indirectly-
heated valve types can be applied.
It is assumed that a two-gang con-
denser is used to tune R.F. and detector
stages, with the addition of an R.F. stage
trimmer for manual operation. If inter-
action is present, operation of the re-
ceiver will be affected in the following
manner: A station is tuned in, say, on
31 metres ; to get maximum sensitivity
and best signal, the R.F. trimmer is ad-
justed ; this trimmer adjustment, because
of interaction between the tuned circuits,
detunes the detector ; then, as the detector
circuit controls the wave-length, detuning
in this way cuts out the signal. The
main tuning control must be readjusted
to get the signal back again, and the R.F.
trimmer readjusted, going over the pro-
cess a number of times until the loudest
signal is obtained. If there is little or no
interaction, movement of the R.F.
trimmer will have practically no effect on
the detector adjustment. Thus, as the
detector is the controlling circuit in the
tuning, a single adjustment of the
tuning will suffice, after which the R.F.
trimmer may be ad-
justed for maximum
volume without affect-
ing the wave-length
setting.
This is the ideal
condition of opera-
tion, and it is by no
means difficult to
secure. Adequate care
must be taken in de-
coupling power supply
circuits, and there
must be good mechani-
cal screening. Most
of the interaction in a
tuned R.F. short-wave
receiver is from un-
wanted coupling
through the power
supply. Large isolation resistors must be
used in all screen and plate supplies to
R.F. and detector valves. They must
then be by-passed by a fairly large con-
denser to a single-point earth for each
set of circuits.
One-point Earthing.
Technical writers invariably stress the
need for attention to this section of re-
ceiver wiring. Many constructors make
earth returns on a metal chassis to the
nearest point from an individual com-
ponent. Though this was once thought
best opinions have been revised. Earth-
ing to the nearest point sets up oscillatory
R.F. “circuits” in places where they are
not wanted. The result is interaction
between tuned circuits. Radio-frequency
current does not take the most direct
path, but has a tendency to follow the
outside, whether it is flowing through a
wire or over a flat metal surface. If the
wiring of the detector circuit has been
careless, R.F. and detector circuit cur-
rents will be spread over the entire re-
ceiver. There is even more resistance
drop in a chassis than in a length of wire.
Three-valve Circuit Example.
It is obvious, for a given set of cir-
cuits, that in designing a three-valve re-
ceiver all earthing should be done at a
single point. The front section of the
two-gang condenser should be used for
the detector and the rear for the R.F.
stage. Most practical method is to run
all earth connections in the R.F. stage to
a lug where the panel joins the chassis,
immediately under the condenser gang.
Detector leads can go to a lug in the
front section of the tuning condenser.
Circuits belonging to the R.F. stage
should also include the plate of the valve
and its return by-pass. The example illus-
trated here is from an old “Radio,”
U.S.A., design, and, for the type of re-
ceiver dealt with, serves equally well in
these days. It has a unique bandspread
feature, described later.
Fig. 2 shows the layout of the chassis
for a receiver built according to the cir-
cuit of Fig. 1, and Fig. 3 is a rear view
of the receiver. Plug-in coils are used.
For the beginning constructor plug-in
coils are sure and easy. It is only re-
cently that what is known as “plug-in
coil efficiency” has appeared in band-
switching receivers. The plug-in coils for
the receiver illustrated are screened. Note
that the screens are large enough to
reduce coil losses to a point where they
are not serious. They are well spaced
to avoid inter-coupling from the currents
induced by the coils in the coil screens.
The ganged condenser unit should be
around .00014mfd. each section, but it is
not necessary that this be the exact value
of maximum capacity. From .00014mfd.
to .00016mfd. is suitable.
Mechanical Bandspread Idea.
There are various ways of obtaining
the necessary bandspreading for ease of
short-wave tuning. The one suggested for
the original receiver calls for a certain
mechanical ability, and is, unfortunately,
not an easy job for the average con-
structor. If it can be done, it is well
worth while.
The rear view, also the layout of Fig. 2,
shows the way this bandspreader works.
The tuning condenser gang, instead of
being rigidly mounted by bolting the
frame to chassis, is held securely in a
cradle or swivel mounting. The mount-
ing is extended upwards, and at the top
a coupling arm is attached. The other
end of the coupling arm connects to a
small cam which is operated by the dial
used for bandspread, on the right in Fig.
2. Rotating this dial will turn the cam
and give a small amount of back-and-
forth motion to the coupling arm. This
transfers the motion to the cradle mount-
ing and swivels, the condenser stators
over a small angle.
The other dial tunes the condenser
rotor. If the coupling arm is made ad-
justable, it may be set to give any desired
degree of bandspread on any band or
wherever the receiver is tuned. With
this system it is just as easy to band-
spread a four-gang as a single condenser.
Regeneration.
The detector portion of the receiver
circuit shown is unusual, but particularly
effective as a stable regenerator. Feed-
back is confined to the screen grid and
the plate is left free of R.F. component.
Control is very smooth, and there is com-
plete freedom from squawking and spill-
ing-over. The audio system shows a
single 2A5 with plate choke to protect
’phones or magnetic speaker.
Any of the similar valve types can be
used ; in the six-volt series the 6K7, 617
and 6F6 are suitable. 6D6, 6C6 and 42
can also be applied.
A receiver of such design is quite cap-
able of operating a speaker on the more
Fig. 3.—Showing the mechanical band-
spreader and large-size coil screens.
consistent short-wave stations, such as
Daventry and Berlin.
Secondaries of R.F. and detector coils
should be identical. On the detector coil
the primary should be interwound with
the secondary (grid coil) for two-thirds of
the grid winding, and at the low poten-
tial (earth) end of that winding. Feed-
back coil should be about away
from the earth end of the grid winding.
Turns ratio between secondary and feed-
back coil is best determined by experi-
ment, and should be about 6 to 1 for 40
metres and up, 4 to 1 for 25 to 40
metres, and about \\ to 1 below 40
metres. Below 20 metres closer coupling
may be needed between secondary and
feedback coil, in order to secure oscilla-
tion.
A receiver of this kind makes a first-
rate short-wave receiver for listening on
any of the DX channels, and it has the
advantage of being immune from
spurious signals, from which the average
home-made superhet suffers.
D.B.K.
Wireless Institute of
Australia.
N.S.W. Division.
Members of the division now get the
A. Go.’s “Radiotronics” free.
In connection with W.B.E. and
B. certificates, as issued by
R.5.G.8., division H.Q. has a limited
number of lists of Dominion Districts and
Colonial Areas available. Members in-
terested are asked to apply for them,
and those with the requisite number of
cards to qualify for W.B.E. or B.E.R.T.A.
should send them to R.S.G.B. H.Q., 53
Victoria-street, London, S.W.I, England,
with 2s. 6d. remittance.
The division notes with interest the
inauguration of vigilance committees in
ZL on the lines of those long established
in VK. ZL2OV, president of N.Z.A.R.T.,
probably picked up the idea at the 1938
W.I.A. Convention.
A ballot held among N.Z.A.R.T. mem-
bers was successful in increasing mem-
bership fees, and the league will be able
to enjoy the services of a permanent paid
secretary. Something of the kind will
need serious consideration in the N.S.W.
division in the near future.
At the June meeting of the division
letters were received from country mem-
bers in both northern and southern
N.S.W. suggesting the possibilities of
northern and southern conventions in
order that country members may meet
city men. A meeting in the Newcastle
and coalfields areas is suggested for the
week ending either 25/8/’39 or 6/9/’39.
The secretary would welcome suggestions
from members regarding date, location,
and form the convention should take.
The zone system has been reorganised,
with zone officers now known as district
registrars. VK2IG is appointed for
Albury and VK2KZ for Kurd. A
vacancy exists for a district registrar for
Broken Hill, and any member resident
there and willing to handle the job should
write the secretary for particulars of
duties.
A generous concession for W.I.A.
members, and an encouragement for non-
members among DX men to join, is the
handling of all QSL cards for U.S.A.
free of charge.
On Sunday, 16 /7 / ’39, official trans-
missions under the callsign VK2WI com-
menced at 11 a.m., frequency being
7200 kc. This W.I.A. broadcast will be
a regular feature, and at the conclusion
the station will be available for contacts
with any other amateur stations. Country
members especially should watch for the
VK2WI transmissions. The transmission
on 16/7/’39 was on behalf of the in-
stitute from VK2NO, and simultaneous
transmission took place on 56,134 kc. by
the co-operation of Ross Treharne,
VK2IQ, of Burwood. In future the
transmission will take place from VK2TI,
which station will be used for VK2WI.
All QSOs and reports will be acknow-
ledged by the station QSL card, and all
communications concerning VK2WI
should be addressed to the station at 21
Tunstall-avenue, Kingsford, N.S.W. Main
broadcasts from VK2WI will take place
on the Sunday preceding the general and
u.-h.-f. meetings.
The W.I.A. “Amateur Radio,” the
society’s official organ, is being re-
organised, and the August issue will be
in new form. F. Goyen resigned from
the vice-presidency of the division, and
W. G. Ryan, VK2TI, has been appointed
to the position. Any further information
regarding W.I.A. activities in N.S.W. may
be obtained from the publicity officer,
Box 1734JJ, G.P.0., Sydney.
Westralian Division.
At the meeting held in Perth on
11/7/’39 officers for the year were
announced. VK6MW is again president,
with VKs 6GM and 688 vice-presidents.
Secretary is VK6CX, and treasurer
VK6KS.
A new development in this division
has been the formation of a u.-h.-f. sec-
tion. The committee elected includes
VKs 688, 6FR, 6GB, 6KW and 6LH.
August fixtures include a “Home QSO
Day” for the 6th, and a 7mc. portable
day on the 20th. T.D.S. and field day
committees are responsible for the
organisation of these events. Postal
address of the Westralian division of
W.I.A. is now Box NlOO2, G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.
Considerations for
Constructors.
“R.H.A.”: Where it is necessary to
mechanically insulate condenser gangs or
complete chassis plain rubber mounts
allow the shank of the mounting bolt to
transmit vibrations. Small ruboer grum-
mets of the size used for passing single
leads through metal allow insulation of
component (or chassis) and mounting


SUPER
DX9
SKY- RAIDER
COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVER
8-125 METRES
Broadcast Range
Available.
- .
$
EASY
TERMS !
• ELECTRIC
BAND SPREAD
•IRON CORE
I.P.’s
• AIRTIGHT
PERMEABILITY
TUNED COILS
• A.V.C. WITH
SWITCH
• 8.P.0. (Variable)
• BEAM POWER
AUDIO.
Reliance, builders of Aus-
tralia’s largest receiver, the
20-valve York-Royal, now supplies
a long-felt need in I)X reception.
Call and see this new Sky-Raider at
Reliance House, or write for full details
of its features and amazing performance.
It’s a set of which Australia can be justly
proud!
RELIANCE RADIO
PTY.
LTD.
RELIANCE HOUSE,
14 BARRACK ST., SYDNEY
*9
X 1
w.
oen out
#ifch
laijind
Like the
old musician, valves become
worn after constant playing.
Enjoy pleasurable radio . • .
Revalve with
n
7a
Sealed for your protection
bolt and nut, thus giving protection from
unwanted vibrations.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: The rack-and-panel prin-
ciple of transmitter (and even receiver)
construction has an appeal for the
present-day amateur transmitter, but
there is the kind of experimenter who
likes to be able to “get at” things. Diffi-
culty is to arrange apparatus for easy
accessibility. Illustrated is a scheme from
G6FO’s “Short-wave Magazine.” It is a
simple wooden assembly for transmitter
construction. The backboard is /fin.
whitewood, and the shelves are made of
plywood, 12in. square. Brackets are
largest where the load is heaviest, and
the whole outfit can be screwed to bat-
tens secured to a wall. From the bottom
up, such shelves can be used for bias
batteries, power pack, modulator, CO-PA
transmitter and aerial tuning network, all
quite neat and compact. Various units
can be individually removed for altera-
tion or adjustment merely by removing
the appropriate pair of brackets, with
interconnection made by plugs and
sockets.
* - * * *
“F.A.8.”: Regarding that query (B.
28/6/’39) re electro-guitar. Recently I
strapped a single-button microphone to
the back of a violin, a piece of thick felt
with a hole cut in the middle being placed
between the microphone and the wooden
back of the fiddle. The quality was
amazingly good, and the method is
very efficient when the problem of ex-
traneous noise must be contended with.
Amateur Chatter.
The chief objection to the installation
of coaxial aerials appears to be the cost
of concentric-feeder cable. As outlined
in, B. 19/7/’39, the construction of this
type of aerial is simple enough, and the
constructor can make up the concentric
cable himself. The method of threading
14 V.I.R. cable through copper tubing is
well known, but gives no flexibility. The
idea illustrated comes from an English
amateur. No. 18-gauge solid copper wire
is used as the inner conductor, with
three-sixteenth-inch-diameter glass beads
threaded along the required length. This
assembly is slipped inside a length of
rubber tubing. Copper braid is pulled
over the outside of the tubing, with the
ends taped to prevent fraying. The beads
permit considerable bending of the com-
pleted cable.
“Skipper” Schofield, VK6WS, of Pep-
permint Grove (W.A.), has been awarded
a silver trophy by “Radio and Televi-
sion,” U.S.A., for the best photograph of
an amateur station. His station is one
of the most comprehensive in W.A. At
week-ends VK6WS often experiments
with portable five-, 20- and 40-metre
equipment aboard his 34ft. motor launch.
J. H. Wilmott, one-time VK6JW, of
Como (W.A.), is radio operator on the
flying-boat Cambria, which does the trip
between Singapore and Sydney for
Qantas Empire Airways. There is no
more interesting or progressive phase of
radio communication for the aspiring
young amateur than that of radio in the
air.
KLRR is the callsign of the U.S. yacht
Contender during a race from the Pacific
coast to Honolulu. The yacht was once
the property of the German Kaiser, and
was then named Armgard. The present
owner has spared no expense in installing
the finest possible radio equipment.
A general view of the main transmitter hall at Daventry, showing two
of the transmitters now in use for the B.B.C.’s short-wave service .
Bands used are 28, 14, 7, 4 and 2 me.
Don Wallace, W6AM, is operator, and
carries as a standby his original “Travel-
ling Man’s Portable,” described in “QST”
for October, 1931. There is Iskw. of
primary power available for the main
transmitter from 55 300-ampere accumu-
lators.
“QST - ’ is conducting a ballot on the
question whether or not telephony should
be used in U.S.A. between 7200 and
7300 kc. The idea is that, as this fre-
quency range must be shared with broad-
casters after September 1 next, amateur
stations should keep the channel well
occupied. It is pointed out at the same
time that “ ’phone on 40” would clash
with the tradition that this band, in
U.S.A., is at times the best and only DX
band. No doubt a few “California Kilo-
watts” on C.W. could interfere even with
8.8. C. transmissions, and they have every
right to do so. Main thing is to keep
the channel fully populated at all times.
VKs using ’phone on 40 could help the
Americans by using 7200-7300 kc. for
’phone exclusively, leaving 7200 to
7000 kc. to the C.W. men. Only time the
new 8.8. C. transmitters are likely to be
of listener use in eastern Australia on
“40” is in the late afternoon, and from
what the writer knows of most VK
’phones around that time, especially at
week-ends, heaven help the 8.8. C.!
G6CW remarks in the 56mc. notes in
the “Short-wave Magazine” (Eng.) that
it is evident that many stations do not
use the same aerial for both transmission
and reception, though experience indi-
cates that it is essential to do so when
working outside local distances. That
applies to local distances also, especially
around Sydney. Many stations put out
a good signal by means of an external
doublet or other form of half-wave radia-
tor, and go fishing for the return signal
on a few feet of wire strung up to the
ceiling. All that is needed is a D.P.D.T.
switch in the feeders to TX and RX.
Some raise the plea that it is easier to
duplex thus, but duplexing for general
communication is a selfish practice at
56mc. If duplex must be used, it would
be better with two external aerials spaced
a few feet apart.
An interesting test was undertaken on
16/7/’39, when VK2IQ, operating on
56,134 kc., was relayed through VK2NO
on 7134 kc. to VK3MJ, Carlton (VicA
The QSO was three-way, with duplex
between the Sydney stations, and recep-
tion was perfect throughout. It is pro-
posed to hold a conference between Syd-
ney and Melbourne 56mc. stations, using
7mc. as the DX medium.
A VKS in a distant location is Frank
Brandon, VKSBF, now at the Q.E.A.
flying-boat base at Karumba (N.Q.). He
is using an 89 tritet and 807 final at
present on the DX bands, but considers
the location poor for DX.
In the W.I.A. publication “Amateur
Radio,” VK3KP points out some dangers
in the introduction of these “mystery
controls” for tuning broadcast receivers
remotely. These gadgets are simply
miniature transmitters, and if they are
to be made by cut-price manufacturers
a new form of radio interference will
become known. Amateur radio will prob-
ably suffer from interference in amateur
bands from harmonics from these outfits.
Manufacture should be restricted to those
who show proof of ability to design prop-
erly ; their use should be restricted to
suitable frequency channels, and regu-
lations now applying to amateurs regard-
ing interference to broadcast listeners
should apply inversely. If the B.C.L.
owner of such gear causes radio-induc-
tive interference, then the onus must be
placed on him.
An early-morning session in search of
C.W. DX on 7mc. showed something
wrong at the other end. At present in
eastern Australia Gs can be heard up to
R 6 on C.W., and on the morning of
18/7/’39 a medley of G6’s, 3’s and 4’s
was heard calling T-E-S-T. After more
than an hour’s calling many of these
stations with the 150 watts extra-power
permit afforded by the P.M.G., VK2NO
gave up the unequal 7mc. battle. Be-
cause of unfavorable conditions Euro-
peans seem to have dropped into a groove
of local and inter-Continental working
only, with the result that signals from the
other side of the world are not looked
for. One of these fine summer evenings
in England some G will suddenly realise
that that C.W. signal so persistently seek-
ing contact originates from Australia, and
the rush will be on.
VK2NO.
“D.8.K.”: The recent introduction of
the 1.4-volt dry-cell valves is of outstand-
ing benefit to country listeners who must
i-ely entirely on dry batteries. “Radio
Craft,” U.S.A., announces i.n its July
issue that 4 For the first time in any radio
magazine will be described in the next
issue a B batteryless dry-cell radio set.
A standard doorbell battery is
the only source of power for this three-
valve midget loudspeaker receiver, for
which a plate voltage of 100 is developed
from the single dry-cell.” One way ol
obtaining the necessary plate voltage
from such a low initial voltage would be
by way of what is known as a “micro-
phone-hummer.” This in effect consti-
tutes a small vibratory rectifier unit.
Whatever the scheme, it will be passed
on as an item of experimental interest.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Is it possible to employ the \HSG l .4-volt
valve as a regenerative detector by making use
of the diode plate? —797.
The valve can be used as a normal regenera-
tive detector, with the diode plate not used.
* * * *
/ intend buying a radio-gramophone, and
am undecided between a battery set or one of
A.C./D.C. design. Tone appears to be better
in the battery receiver. Is there any great
disadvantage in a battery set? —The one 1 am
considering runs front a six-volt accumulator.
—796.
There is no particular disadvantage in a
battery set, but there is no point in using
a battery-operated receiver of any kind if you
are in a position to use A.C. mains. Excel-
lent tonal reproduction can be obtained from
all types of receivers, and if there is a very
noticeable difference in the receivers you have
heard something is at fault somewhere.
* * * #
An argument regarding long-wave broad-
casting in Australia resolved into the question
whether long waves had ever been used for this
purpose in this country. If so, by what stations
and when? Is long-wave broadcasting likely
to be used in the future? —795.
The original wave-length of 2FC Sydney was
1100 metres, 3LO Melbourne 1720 metres and
6WF Perth 1250 metres. 3LO changed to the
medium or broadcast band as now established
in July, 1925, followed by 2FC in October,
1926, and 6WF in September, 1929. In 1931
a plan was submitted for long-wave Australian
broadcasting by P. P. Eckersley, but nothing
eventuated. At present it seems very unlikely
that long-wave broadcasting will be used
again, although there are some good argu-
ments in its favor.


ĵ
1328
ie’s the heaviest and strongest of the Abbey Family. Good strong double
sole, willow calf upper, full leather lining, make him fitted for all types of
country work. ,
Stocked in full sizes in wide fittings. Prices: Black, 39/6; Brown, .45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.” ■
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WHEN EVERY
-In these .hard,times ship your wool to
London- where you are sure of the best
. . «. ... ’ v _ ' •. *
" possible price.
y . .v. ' - .■ f ■■ t '
SELL YOUR
WOOL IN LONDON
CONSIGN THROUGH YOUR USUAL BANK OR AGENT
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCPS."
More Wool Improvement.
“Ghanam”: The wool situation con-
tinues promising. July London sales,
though there was not much Australian
wool on offer, showed increases of from
5 p.c. to 20 p.c.,-and there has been a
steady rise in tops. - '*
Tops prices this year had been lower
than in any season since 1932, when
super 70’s fell as low as 23d. The May
figure this year was 26d., and there the
market remained until June 8, when,
though finer sorts were steady in price,
64’s warp and all coarser counts im-
proved 4d. On June 15, fine wools re-
sponded to the rise, and lower counts
went up another Last week there was
another sharp rise—7o’s super to 28d.,
64’s warp to 26id. —so that all lines are
now 2d. above early June price. Coming
at this time of year, movements of tops
prices are an invariable indication of the
likely changes in the raw-wool market.
Last, season Germany bought only
£1,826,200 worth of wool in Australia
against £3,727,000 worth the year before,
and Italy’s purchases fell from £1,804,000
to £1,168,000. The Germans have en-.
deavored to organise a barter agreement
with Australia similar to that in opera-
tion with S. Africa. The suggestion has
been discussed again, but is being rejected,
since it is not thought that it would result
in an increase in actual sales of wool, but
would merely transfer the buying venue
from London,to Australia. Again, “it is
possible that some increase in German
imports might occur and would increase
competition with British goods.”
The prime factor should be the pros-
perity of Australians. There would be
advantage even in the transfer of the
venue of sales. For the rest, British
manufacturers can look after themselves,
as they always have done. Already Aus-
tralian woolgrowers have lost huge sums
from the Japanese trade through the
Governments making the interests of
graziers subservient to those of Lanca-
shire cotton-spinners. An examination of
S’Africa’s case will soon show anybody
who doubts the benefits of a barter agree-
ment with Germany that it means better
prices, more extensive buying and no
noticeable change in the level of im-
ports from Britain.
In S’Africa the added competition sent
up prices. Any arrangement likely to
increase wool prices should have the seri-
ous .consideration both of the Govern-
ment and of the graziers’ associations.
Barter agreements are an excellent de-
fensive measure, and they are better than
bonus and State-aid systems for the wool
industry.
Wrinkles and Flies.
“Damra m”: “Warramulla” (B.
21/6/’39) must know that Queensland’s
average cut of l\\b. per head includes
lambs, the exclusion of which would raise
the average to near 91b. —even this is
unduly low, because there are far too
many “plain-bodied,” loose-woolled
sheep cutting several pounds per head
less than they should. With costs of pro-
duction rising, the need for greater fleece
density grows. Nor is density synony-
mous with wrinkles.
No one would recommend the breed-
ing of wrinkly sheep, but I did advise the
retention of wrinkles or development “in
moderation.” A small percentage of
wrinkly lambs might be dropped, but the
"They tell me things are not too good in Europe, Dave.
“ What's Wrong? Drought ?”
loss of these is more than offset by the
increased net value of the clip from the
flock as a whole. •
It is hard fact that for years we have
jetted large mobs of ewes within a few
days of lambing with - excellent , result!
The jetting protects'the ewes from fly
during lambing. Even in bad fly seasons
lambing percentages, from ewes so jetted
have frequently exceededloo p.c.
In most districts one crutching would
be useless. Those who .don’t jet find it
necessary to be constantly mustering and
dressing’blown sheep, even after a thor-
ough crutching.
“Sheepo”: Though “Damram” (Bi
5/7/’39) may have jetted his; stud sheep
within a fortnight of crutching without
loss or damage, I prefer to play on the.
safe side, as advised by the C.S. and I.R.
I have known of many instances of-jetted
sheep dying from arsenical poisoning,. the
opening of puts and old wounds by the.
force of the fluid allowing the arsenic
to be absorbed. Anyway, where’s the
benefit of jetting .until there has been a
sufficient regrOwth of wool' to retain
plenty of the mixture? It won’t come
in two weeks, but there’ll be enough six,
weeks after * shearing or crutching, .and
all cuts will have healed.
Shower; Dipping of Sheep.
“B-gar”: The recently-introduced^
method of, shower-dipping sheep has
made the business easier, and prevents
the knocking about of sheep, as so often
happens in the plunge bath.
Build a yard with sides and roof of
corrugated iron, and with a concrete
floor. The roof should have sides to
form it into a shallow tank, and the iron
should be perforated. With the sheep
penned the. tank overhead is rapidly filled
with dipping fluid by means of an engine-
operated pump. • In a few minutes the
sheep;are thoroughly saturated, and then
let out into;an adjoining concrete-floored
draining-pen.' \' ■ i .” - >
i ' The dipping fluidfis fin constant circula-
tion between the shower, ithe ;draining-
pen and the pump, and :in the .process is
strained of impurities. .’Periodical; sweep-
ing-of- the roof keeps the holes - from be-
coming blocked’ by sediment. - 'lt’s more
and quick’ than the older
method. ■' '- ' ■ ' . ‘
Artificial Piglet Feeding.
“Pappamosca”: If a sow is lost after
farrowing there is no reason why the
litter should not be reared in healthy
condition. .
The first need is cleanliness and
warmth. The next is to provide the best
substitute for sow’s milk rich cow’s
milk. Feed the milk whole and warm
six times a day for three weeks and
then gradually taper off to three feeds of
separated milk. When the piglets are
receiving a fairly large proportion of
skim, give them a trough ratiorn —avail-
able all the time—of nine parts maize
or pollard with one part meat meal.
There should also be a constant supply
of clean drinking water.
The orphans at first may show some
reluctance to drink their milk! ration,
and many breeders resort to a teat bottle.
It makes for unnecessary labor and un-
cleanliness. A shallow pan is the best
feeder. Put the warm milk into it and
dip young Grunter’s nose into the milk.
He will soon see what is wanted of him.
It is better to feed one animal at a time
till all are properly trained. And be
careful to wash the dish or trough out
with hot water every day.
Pig Meat and'the Empire.
“Dennis”: In a letter to the Australian
Meat Board, G. A. M.. Pope, head of the
S.' Australian Government Produce De-
partment, remarks on the curious fact
that, although the average - consumption
of pig meat in Britain is 441 b. against
(Continued on page 44.)


GET ALL THE HAY,
AT LOWEST COST
SUNSHINE MASSEY HARRIS HAY MACHINERY
The new
OIL-BATH, BALL and ROLLER BEARING
Massey Harris MOWER
Cuts CLEAN
in the heaviest
crops!
Perfectly matched gears work in a bath of oil.
Powerful anti-friction drive; reaches a new
pinnacle for light draught, smooth running and
wear resistance. The precision-lined cutter bar,
faster knife speed, perfect balance, power-
giving weight and big swath-straddling driving
wheels are just a few of the features that make
it the finest mower for Australian conditions.
No.l-S
Five sizes, 4ft. t 6
6ft. cut.
Attachments avail-
able for many
purposes.
m
m
:
Oft. and Bft. sizes.
Team or tractor
haulage.
The new
SUNSHINE MASSEY HARRIS
No. 6B REAPER and BINDER with
OIL-BATH AND FULL PRESSURE LUBRICATION
The Stinshine Massey Harris Reaper and Binder, designed and built in Australia
has long been proved to meet Australian requirements with unrivalled success’
To this outstanding machine have now been added many imnortant nev
to eSncy ”d value!® estabUslles an ert ' n center margin of leadership
" “«n o prS tU ° S ' ' ’ «*» • • • W* *****
Equally outstanding is the Massey Harris No. 10A Power-take-off Binder
Bft. and 10ft. sizes.
Australia’s
leading hay -
cutting binder.
5 5 ft. and 6ft.
sizes.
The new MASSEY HARRIS
TRACTOR TRAILER
MOWER
This is a one-man outfit, and, as the operator is carried
on the tractor, sufficient weight has been added to
the mower frame, and also by fitting heavier, wider and
better lugged wheels, to compensate for the absence of
a man on the machine itself. This ensures maximum
grip on the ground, and a smooth, uniform flow of
power is consequently conveyed to the cutter bar under
all conditions. *
Automotive type oil-bath transmission; precision-lined
cutter bar for clean mowing in any.crop. Safety release
hitch. Works with any tractor.
Specially
built for
tractor
work .
It pays to keep tools sharp! So easy, too, with the
j
ĵ
MASSEY HARRIS
KNIFE GRINDER
Worm gear drive. Com-
plete with bevel- . and
square-faced wheels,
knife holder and tool rest.
Attachable to any bench
or mower wheel.
Price,
£2115'-
nett cash.
Delivery Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
j
MASSEY HARRIS
No. 2
RAKE BAR
HAY LOADER
Eight bars, 6ft. raking width.
Drawn behind a truck, it' loads from either
swath or windrow, pushing the hay well
forward on to the vehicle and requiring
only one man to operate. Fully adjust-
able. A pull on the triprope by the man
on the load disconnects the loader from
the truck.
MASSEY HARRIS No. 7 SIDE RAKE
<i
W /
1 n
and TEDDER
9ft. 6in. raking width. Leaves a
continuous windrow ideal for hay-
loader or sweep. Handy clutch
reverses the action from raking to
tedding.
ĵ
MASSEY HARRIS HAY RAKE
A strong, light-running rake. Has half-inch teeth of
high carbon spring steel. Spring back coil. Points
are rounded and do not dig into the ground.
Bft. x 30 teeth, for Hay.
9ft. x 34 teeth, for Hay.
Bft. x 20 teeth, for Trash.
With shafts for one horse. Readily convertible for
two-horse haulage.
Illustrated catalogues and leaflets give full details. Ask the local agent for your free copies ;
or write to nearest branch.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD. (incorporated
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS SUNSHINE. CONCORD WEST ("-. Sydney), 95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE. Conner
GREETS, PERTH. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., South Brisbane.
Victoria .)
MURRAY and


A PENNY, a pound or a thousand pounds—
they may be lightly spent or wisely in-
vested. For most people, wealth does not come
in a day. It can often be traced to early invest-
ments made with an eye to sound security and
reasonable returns.
As such an investment, an interest-bearing
deposit with the Rural Bank carries the unquali-
fied approval of experienced business men.
Not only does such an investment earn interest
at current bank rates, but it can be commenced
with only £5 deposited for periods of 3,6, 12
or 24 months.
The services of the Rural Bank are for investors,
both large and small, and for city and country
people alike. A Rural Bank Fixed Deposit
made to-day is a first step towards security
and independence.
Ru)ial Bank
OF nE LU SOUTH MALES!
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank —Serving you—Serving
the State.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
• folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FROM FACTORY*
■TO YOU
m
Fresfi • Fragrant
TOBACCO
k AT new low prices/
Smokers!
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all tne
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
We Make It Good —Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you. .
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . .
All British, mild . »
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong . .
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium . .
Winning Post, medium . .
Three Bells, strong . .
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only . .
White Lodge, medium . .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium . .
Tender Leaf, medium . .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only
. 6/9
. 6/9
6/9
6/9
. 6/9
. 7/3
■ 7/3
• 7/3
. 7/9
. 8/-
. 8/-
. 8/-
. 10/3
. 10/-
. 11/-
. 8/6
. 10/9
. 11/-
. 11/-
. 8/-
. 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
Clinker,” mild . . • - 7/6
Skipper,” medium .. •• 7/t»
Big Hit,” strong . . . . 7/6
Three Sailors • • * • *' J
Royal Navy Nuggets . . • • 7/6
-ish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/b
Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/b
P M.” Dark Plug . - 7 /"
:ig Zags • • •• 5 fo ' y-
Pnstaee Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS ‘
12 COMMERCIAL RD.. VALLEY, BRISBANE.
301 b. of mutton and lamb, the British Em-
pire contains only 5 p.c. of the world’s
total pig population of 300,000,000. Aus-
tralia ships only 233,000 cwt. of pig meat
to Britain yearly against nearly eight
times as much mutton.
He says that there seems to be a need
for some driving force m the industry.
What « needed ,s a realisauon that ,1 is
worth while developing the pig business
as a primary industry rather than as a
subsidiary to dairying. There is no reason
why, with land cheap and plentiful and
grain production easily expanded, pigs
should not be established on the same
scale as fat lambs. In the Argentine
there are pigbreeders who run herds
of up to 50,000 on lucerne and grain,
droving them and marketing them like
other stock. Until our farmers throw
over old-fashioned ideas there is no great
hope of expansion.
Another essential to full development
ot the business is the establishment of
ll standard breed. Australian mutton
suffers badly enough through variations
in carcass type; but in bacon the posi-
tion is far worse. White skins and the
Hammond scale of scientific grading are
essentials for success of pork and bacon
export
Linseed, at Last!
“A.A.D.”: Following the Californian
example, as was done in establishing the
rice industry on the Murrumbidgee, it
has been proved that linseed is profitable
at Leeton (N.S.W.).
Seed of late-maturing varieties brought
from America has been under trial at
the M.I.A. Rice Research Station. Last
season’s field plots gave convincing proof
of the suitability of the crop to the local
conditions. From the present sowing
enough seed is expected for a few hun-
dred acres.
The irrigated crops yield about 20
bushels of seed, or half a ton per acre,
The price of imported linseed is £25 per
ton landed in Sydney. It is estimated
that there is sufficient irrigable land avail-
able on the Murrumbidgee areas to pro-
duce Australia’s present linseed needs—
-35,000 tons a year, all of which is im-
ported.
Erosion at Work.
“Atrax”: The U.S.A. has been taking
stock of the damage done by erosion.
Every day the equivalent of 200 40-acre
farms is being lost. About 100,000,000
acres of crop land, some of it not long
ago among the best in the U.S.A., is now
completely useless —most of it perma-
nently and incurably.
Nearly 360,000,000 acres are being
actively imperilled by wind action alone.
In two minutes, half a pound of sand
was collected in an envelope held one
inch above ground level while a light
wind was blowing. From an area 100
miles long and 50 miles wide a single
severe duststorm will carry off from
five to seven million tons of surface soil.
The direct annual cost of erosion to
U.S.A. farmers is about £80,000,000.
Damage during the last 50 years is con-
servatively estimated at £4,000,000,000,
with a larger sum to follow during the
next 50 if things continue as at present.
Wind erosion is the most injurious be-
cause it sorts out the blown soil, carry-
ing the fine particles containing the rich-
est plant-food elements to great distances
and over vast areas, and leaving the
poorer, coarser particles behind. Resul-
tant lost fertility constantly increases the
difficulty of getting soil-holding vegeta-
tion established, and the coarse particles
often drift to cover more productive soil.
Prevention methods subsidised and
enforced by the Soil Conservation Act of
1936 include replacement of such soil-
depleting crops as wheat, cotton and
maize by erosion-resisters and soil-
builders such as millet, grasses, soya
bean and alfalfa. Certain types of tillage,
such as grass strips between row crops to
prevent washing, and planting round hills
to form terraces instead of up and down,
which leads to guttering, are substantially
subsidised. A shelter-belt tree-planting
scheme involving over a million acres of
farm lands on a 100-mile-wide stretch
from Texas to the Canadian border is
being actively carried out. Nearly
35,000,000 trees, mainly hardwoods and
including many bluegums and other euca-
lypts, have already been planted as a
part of the National Relief Scheme.
Such is the position in the country most
resembling our own. When shall we make
an effective beginning at the job?
Converting Scrub to Pasture.
“H.A.L.”: In clearing scrub land
every job must be considered on its
merits. Some types of sandy soils may
receive a distinct setback if ploughed
deeply, but most land benefits by deep
ploughing. On some soils sub. clover
does well, but lucerne fails ; on others
sub. clover persistently refuses to make
headway, even when inoculated seed is
used. Sometimes the soil is too rich in
lime for the clover, which does best in
neutral or acid soils. In such cases barrel
clover (Medicago tribuloides ) has given
promising results in S.A.
It pays to give the soil just as careful
preparation before sowing pasture as it
does when putting in a crop. Both clear-
ing of scrub and soil-preparation are best
done in the one series of operations. Fol-
lowing logging and burning, olough the
land as deeply as possible wii.i a special
heavy disk scrub plough. Use the tractor
in second gear ; fast or shallow plough-
ing makes the disks ride over roots in-
stead of cutting them to pieces. Leave
the land for a few weeks, then cross-
plough in the same way, and leave it for
the rest of the summer as a rough fallow.
Cultivate and roll it before sowing in
the autumn.
Contractors do all this work in S.A.
at a cost of 10s. per acre for rolling
down scrub, £1 p.a. for the two plough-
ings and 2s. 6d. p.a. for seeding. Seed,
super, and other expenses bring the
cost to £2 per acre, but it is worth
it. In the following season you get a
pasture stand which will carry stock. By
economising in ploughings, you get years
of cutting regenerating suckers and a
stand of pasture which takes a long time
to thicken up.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: To make oil,
scald the feet and lower leg bones of
well-grown cattle —dead, of course —and
thoroughly clean by scraping them free
from hair and dirt. Cover the bones with
water, bring to the boil, and simmer for
about two hours. Skim the oil off when
it rises to the surface, boil the mixture
again, and make a second skimming.
Strain the oil through cheesecloth to re-
move pieces of flesh, and boil the strained
product, but watch that it does not catch
fire. Strain again, cool and bottle. Pure
neatsfoot oil is light lemon in color.
“Mt. Boppy”: For a nourishing wean-
ing diet give young pigs skim-milk and
pollard. Feed them four times a day,
but give only as much each time as will
satisfy their hunger. Later, steadily in-
crease the quantity and cut down to three
feeds a day. As the pigs grow, cracked
grain (maize or oats) can replace the
pollard. Make all changes gradually, as
a sudden jump from one diet to another
is liable to derange digestion. Provide
a good supply of clean water. Wood
ashes help to build up the bone struc-
ture and maintain digestion.
“Valerin”: The agitation to scrap the
embargo on the export of merino sheep
does not fit in with the policy of im-
proving the quality and weight of wool
of our flocks. Keen overseas buyers
could soon pick the eyes out of our
leading sheds, leaving Australian sheep-
men the choice of lower grades. It takes
years of patient work to build a flock
up to a high standard, but it can be
quickly destroyed. Studbreeders have
no reason to complain of prices realised
at recent N. S. Wales sales —averages for
good sheep have been excellent —and the
Government will be advised to ascertain
the views of flockowners generally be-
fore being stampeded into abandoning
the embargo.
“Ek Dum”: Sheep nasal fly will
shortly be at work in many districts.
Signs of the pest’s presence are sheep
suddenly bolting or standing together in
a huddle, noses buried in each other’s
wool. The fly is a stout, greyish insect
which lays its eggs round the rims of the
sheep’s nostrils. The maggots crawl up
the nostrils and into the head cavities.
The only way of dealing with the trouble
is to keep a close watch and daub the
woollies’ noses repeatedly with Stockholm
tar.
“Ryecorn”: For green feed and grazing
in N.S.W.’s cooler tableland districts, rye
is proving very suitable. It makes con-
siderably more growth than oats, especi-
ally on poor land. The old standard
Black winter variety has been improved
upon by two later-maturing types intro-
duced by the State Department of
Agriculture—Hjan from Sweden and
Balbo from U.S.A. These prolong the
grazing period, without the head be-
coming unpalatable to stock.
“Murphy”: Tasmanian potato crops
have been widely afflicted with glassy end,
and it is expected that not more than
another 150,000 bags will be exported to
Sydney this season. W.A. will be about
ou t G f S p U ds by September and will have
to re |y Qn yj ctor j a anc j Tasmania. Vic-
torjan pi an ti n g S have been less than the
anc j drought will help to make a
crop. N. S. Wales will report a
s b orta g e as usua i. Meanwhile, the posi-
tion to be made worse by
growers hold i n g on to their stocks in
eX p ec t a tj o n of a rise in prices,
.
“Yarrunga”: The 1200-cow dairy farm
of Camden Park Estate (N.S.W.) can
claim the largest reserves of silage on
any property in Australia. The estate is
worked as seven self-contained dairy
farms, and produces a variety of fodder
crops, including 500 acres of lucerne,
Generous hand-feeding almost all the
year round is the policy, and during the
last four years the cows were fed for
40 months, Twenty-four tower silos have
a capacity of 2400 tons, and 6000 tons
of maize and sorghum silage is stored
in 40 pits. No. 6 farm, which won the
recent R.A.S. fodder championship ot
the South Coast division, had 1600 tons
silage and 410 tons lucerne and cereal
hay on hand for the 175 cows in the bails.
In 1891 Camden Park won the national
prize f° r silage on the farm. The fodder
conserved on the stack principle, and
1903 the estate changed over to stave
tu b s jios, following the Hawkesbury Col-
jeoe j ead
“ , . xhe NS w Railways
Cobar * Abe f reie h t
» . o£ £o P dder purchased by stock-
on can mg . , antirinntinn of
be stored rn anttc,pat,on ot
drought.” T here ,» ' che . a Pj‘°>
bought in east rn . p ,
hay that .5.
dock last summ r . n
a ™ speculators stack at rad
.siding.


FRONT-WHEEL DRIVE
11111111 l llllllll!
'rnsmmmmmm
»oAvw»jm, A ,
11111
i £§«
W®
«i
The Most Economical Car in the World!
AUTO
UNION
• 40-50 MILES PER GALLON
• INDEPENDENT DOUBLE FRONT SPRINGS
0 ONLY 5 MOVING ENGINE PARTS
0 FLOATING REAR AXLE
0 103 INCH WHEELBASE
0 6/60 M.P.H. IN TOP GEAR
PRICES FROM
CARS £239/ 10. UTILITIES £255
Plus Sales Tax
T'HIS sounds like an extravagant claim—
but it’s TRUE. Facts have proved it.
Away beyond all other cars can this car claim
to have big car qualities, with small car cost.
Its simplicity in construction and handling is
unique. The D.K.W. is just the type of car
for doctors and commercial travellers whose
daily rounds involve frequent stopping and
starting, whose circumstances demand that
their cars shall always be “on the job.”
And for family use, nothing could be simpler
to run, easier to drive, cheaper to maintain.
Only FIVE moving parts in the engine. No
valves to worry about. No tappets to adjust.
What could be simpler?
The D.K.W. has proved a phenomenal suc-
cess everywhere. Call and see it. Take a
trial run in it. And you’ll understand the
reason for its popularity.
SEDANS, TOURERS, ROADSTERS, PANEL
VANS, ROADSTER AND COUPE TYPE
UTILITIES
Made by the makers of the famous Auto Union Racing Cars
D.K.W. IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL CAR IN THE WORLD
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Inc. in England)
Sir John Young Crescent (Behind the Art Gallery) /
WOOLLOOMOOLOO :: ’Phone BO 524


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel alter A CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d- packet will do this for you without pain or
i Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'JLK at Cd. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Halt, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORMES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
.iffices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers. New South Wales, also represents •
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tats Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - - - - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the, service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Ihe right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, journalist, long exp. editing trade
papers, good knowledge make-up, wants em-
ployment in Sydney. —4148.
Gentleman, Sydney, seeks quiet accommoda-
tion for three weeks with small private family
on farm not too far from town. —4150.
To buy second-hand copy of Occupied, by
F. Touhy.—4llo.
To buy copies of recent novels by John
Cowper Powys.—4l49.
To buy set of Dickens or R. L. Stevenson,
in good order. —4117.
To buy copy of first edition c«f Jonah, by
Louis Stone. —4169.
Information Sought.
What was the Nine Power Treaty and by
whom and when was it signed? —4lB3.
A treaty concerning the status of China signed
at the Washington Conference on February 6,
1922, by the United States, Belgium, the
British Empire, China, France, Italy, Japan,
the Netherlands and Portugal. It pledges re-
spect for the sovereignty and territorial integ-
rity of China, provision for self-government and
equality for all nations in commercial oppor-
tunities. A treaty was signed by the same
Powers on the same date allowing China to
increase her Customs tariff.
* * * *
Whom did Capt. James Cook marry, and
how many children did he have? Are any of
his descendants alive to-day? —4162.
Cook’s family has become extinct in the
direct line. On December 21, 1762, just before
he sailed for Newfoundland, he married a
Miss Batts, of Barking, in Essex. By her
he had six children; three died in infancy, the
others before the end of the century. James,
the eldes#, rose to command H.M. Sloop Spit-
fire, and was drowned off the Isle of Wight
in 1794. Nathaniel, the second, was in 1780,
at the age of 16, lost in H.M.S. Thunderer,
which foundered at sea. Hugh, the youngest
of all, died in 1793, when only 17, at Cam-
bridge, where he was studying for the church.
Mrs. Cook, to whom (as well as to the three
boys) George 111. had granted a pension, lived
to be 93, and died at Clapham on May 13,
1835.
:j: s * H=
How is an election for a member of the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly decided if, after
the preference votes have been distributed, the
votes recorded for the two final candidates are
equal? —4o42.
Where there are only two continuing candi-
dates and the votes for those candidates are
equal the returning officer would be required
to give a casting vote under Section 126 (2) of
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Electorates and
Elections Act.
* * * *
List of Archibald Prize winners, the years
they won the prize and the titles of their paint-
ings?—4lsl.
1921, W. B. Mclnnes, “Desbrow Annear”;
1922, Mclnnes, “Prof. Harrison Moore”; 1923,
Mclnnes, “Portrait of a Lady”; 1924, Mc-
lnnes, “Miss Collins”; 1925, John Longstaff,
"Maurice Moscovitch”; 1926, Mclnnes, “Silk
and Lace”; 1927, Geo. Lambert, “Mrs. Mur-
doch” ; 1928, Longstaff, “Dr. Alexander
Leeper”; 1929, Longstaff, “W. A. Holman”;
1930, Mclnnes, “Drum-Major Harry McClel-
land”; 1931, Longstaff, “John Sulman”; 1932,
Ernest Buckmaster, “Wm. Irvine”; 1933, Chas.
Wheeler, “Ambrose Pratt”; 1934, Henry Hanke,
"Self Portrait”; 1935, Longstaff, “A. B.
(‘Banjo’) Paterson”; 1936, Mclnnes, “Dr.
Julian Smith”; 1937, Normand Baker, “Self
Portrait”; 1938, Nora Heysen, “Mme. Elink
Schuurmann.”
* * t- *
What were the circumstances of the “Bac-
carat Case” with which the Prince of Wales
(afterwards Edward VII.) was connected?
What was the name of the person who was
accused of cheating, and what was the result
of the trial? —4164.
The Tranby Croft Baccarat Case was heard
in London, in the Queen’s Bench Division, be-
fore Lord Coleridge, June 1-9, 1891. Sir Wil-
liam Gordon-Cumming sued Mr. and Mrs.
Lycett Green and others for slander, he having
been charged with cheating in a game of bac-
carat in the house of Arthur Wilson, Tranby
Croft, near Doncaster, in September, 1890.
Counsel for the plaintiff was Sir Edward Clarke.
The Solicitor-General appeared for the de-
fendants, Sir Charles Russell and others. Evi-
dence was given by the Prince of Wales, and
a verdict was returned for the defendants.
* * *
Briefly, what is the Statute of Westminster?
—4200.'
A British Act of Parliament (December 11,
1931) conferring equality of status upon the
self-governing Dominions. Its chief provisions
are: No Act of Parliament shall extend to a
Dominion unless that Dominion has requested
and consented to its enactment; the law voiding
legislation by a Dominion Parliament in con-
flict to an Act of the British Parliament is
repealed; Dominion Parliaments may enact
laws with extra-territorial effect; and any law
touching the succession to the throne shall re-
quire ratification by Dominion Parliaments.
* * * *
How did Seven hills (S.A.) derive its name ?
—3843.
Sevenhills (S.A.) is the township in which
stands the Roman Catholic Church and College
of St. Aloysius, which is set among vineyards
and wooded hills. It was named by one of the
first priests to go there, in connection with the
fact that Rome is built on seven hills.
* * * *
How did mustard gas get its name, and from
what is it made ? —4189.
So named by the British troops because of
its odor. Called also dichloroethyl sulphide,
yperite, and, from the German shell marking,
yellow-cross liquid. It is made by the reaction
of ethylene with sulphur monochloride.
* * * *
Where and when was early discovery of gold
made in Tasmnaia ? —4177.
Small discoveries, by convicts and others,
were made as far back as 1824, but ‘the first
important discovery seems to have been made
about February 5, 1852, when Kieling Rich-
ardson, a shepherd, found gold in an alluvial
deposit four miles from Fingal. Shortly after
this Governor Denison prohibited the un-
authorised taking of any gold, metal or ore
containing gold, and the digging and disturbing
of the soil in search of gold. Small finds were
also made at Tower Hill Creek and Nine Mile
Springs, and in 1859 James Smith found gold
at the Forth, and Peter Leete at the Calder.
The quartz reefs of Fingal and Waterhouse
came into prominent notice in 1869.
% ifc *
How to determine a true east-west without
a compass with a reasonable degree of accu-
racy ?— 4140.
Set up a vertical rod on a flat level floor.
Describe a circle round the base about twice
the height of the rod (this will vary with the
latitude). Some time in, the forenoon mark
the point where the shadow of the rod just
touches the circle, and repeat this in the after-
noon on the other side of the circle; mark this
point also. A line through these points will be
true east and west. The accuracy of the
result will depend upon the rod being perfectly
vertical and the floor flat and level.
* * * *
What is a treadmill, and how does it
operate? —4l34.
It is a mill consisting of a large wooden
cylinder with steps on the outside. It is
worked by persons treading on the steps, their
weight causing the cylinder to revolve. This
form of mill was introduced into England at
the beginning of the nineteenth century, and
was used in prisons for disciplinary purposes,
but fell into disuse towards the end of the
century. The principle of the machine is old,
and it is still employed in various parts of
the world for the raising of water from wells
and similar purposes.
* * * *
Forty years ago when 1 attended Petersham
( Sydney ) school the big steel bridge on the
Summer Hill side of Lewisham station was
always known as the “seven arches.’’ The steel
bridge did not have arches. Did the term refer
to the first bridge, of the brick-viaduct type,
using seven arches in the span? —4o6l.
The original viaduct at Lewisham was an
eight-arch masonry structure of a design similar
to those constructed at Picton, Lapstone and
Ziz Zag. In 1885 contracts were let for the
piers and abutments for the first of the exist-
ing steel structures, which work was com-
pleted in 1886. Photographs and drawings of
the original structure may be seen in room
513 a, fifth floor; of the offices of the Secretary
for Railways, 19 York-street, Sydney.
H* H* H* H*
I have perfected a time switch to work
in conjunction with a clock, which would be
suitable for operating shop window lights or
any electrical appliances which have to run
for a given period without attention. (1) What
is the procedure and where should I apply to
register a patent? (2) Probable cost? (3)
Names of any firms manufacturing electric
clocks which might be interested?-— 4098.
(1) A Commonwealth patent application can
be lodged with a provisional or a complete
specification. The provisional gives protection
for nine months, during which time it may be
completed. A patent issues directly on the
complete application. In order to obtain a
patent of any value, it is desirable to place
the matter in the hands of registered patent
attorneys. Full information regarding the con-
struction, including sketches and explanation,
and statement of objects and advantages should
be forwarded to the attorneys. (2) The cost
through attorneys is £5 ss. for a provisional
application and £24 10s. for a complete appli-
cation in a normal case, inclusive of attorneys’
fees, normal Government fees to issue and cost
of drawings. (3) British General Electric Co.
and Australian General Electric, Ltd. —both
Sydney.
❖
List of private schools in the Australian
Capital Terr it or y ? —4196.
There are at present four private schools in
the Territory: the Canberra Grammar School
for Boys, Canberra Church of England
Grammar School for Girls, St. Christopher’s
Convent School —all of which provide for
primary and secondary education —and a new
primary and sub-primary school, St. Patrick’s,
with accommodation for 90 scholars, which
was recently erected by the Catholic Church.
* * * *
(1) Number of silver and bronze coins issued
by the Australian Treasury during the last
two years? (2) Average life of silver coins?
—4lBO.
(1) 1936-37: ss„ £200,000; 25., £208,600; Is.,
£13,000; 6d„ £47,000; 3d., £39,200; total silver
coins, £507,800; Id., £17,180; id., £6190: total
bronze coins, £23,370. 1937-38: 55., £50,000;
25., £365,000; Is., £93,600; 6d„ £59,700; 3d.,
£65,200; total silver coins, £633,500; Id.,
£26,770; id., £7130; total bronze coins, £33,900.
(2) An examination of the wear on silver coins
made by the London Mint authorities in 1909
revealed that the average life of silver coins
(then .925 fine) was: 2s. pieces 45 years, Is.
41 years, 6d. 28 years and 3d. 32 years.
* * * *
Has a man living on fruit alone as much
stamina as a meat-eater? In hard work or in
sport, how M’ould a fruit-eater compare with
a vegetarian and a meat-eater? —4049.
The vegetarian question is really one of pro-
tein intake, proteins being responsible for
bodily repair; vegetable foods (including fruits),
unless eaten in relatively huge quantities, will
not provide the stamina necessary for hard
work or strenuous sport, since their protein
content is low. A mixed diet, containing both
vegetable and animal foods, makes for intel-
lectual capacity and bodily energy; and meat-
eaters are always mixed feeders. The meat-
eater is usually more capable of sustained
effort than the man who lives exclusively on
fruit or vegetables.
* * * *
Is there any definite historical authority of
recent date disproving the school history state-
ments of some years back that the ancient
Britons wore clothing of skins, painted their
bodies, worshipped the sun and moon, and
offered human sacrifice in connection with their
religious observances ? I have been informed
that eminent authorities now describe these
statements as quite, inaccurate, and that they
claim that the British people at the period of
Julius Ccesar, and in the early part of the
first century, were highly cultured, possessing
schools of learning which ranked high in
Europe. Where can such evidence be found ?
4055.
The Britons of Caesar’s day seem to have
been stock-raisers, hunters and fishermen, as
well as agriculturists. They mined tin, which
they exported to Gaul, and had a gold coinage.
They were splendid warriors and charioteers.
Though these people bleached their hair and
painted their bodies, they wore clothes other
than skins. A strong liking for colors, emblems
and blazonry was innate in them; Celtic
weapons were beautifully ornamented and the
jewels and pottery were of better design than
the Roman. Education seems to have been the
prerogative of the priestly class, and through
their work European literature seems to have
acquired dramatic conception and a sense of
mystery. Books on early English civilisation
■are numberless, but The Cambridge Modern
History and History of British Civilisation, by
E. Wingfield-Stratford, may help.
* * * *
List of authors (British end , foreign ) in
general literature (fiction, biography, travel,
etc.) who are or have been medical practitioners
or students of medicine at some period of their
lives? Also, where could I obtain biographical
and critical notes on these authors and then-
works ? —4090.
A complete list would occupy too much
space. Well over 100 medicoes living or dead
have made notable contributions to all branches
of literature. - Two books on the subject are
The Physician as Man of Science, Letters and
Action, by T. K. Monro (Jackson, Wylie and
Co., Glasgow), and Truants, by Lord Moyni-
han (Cambridge University Press). Try Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, or write to publishers.
There is a fine article by Francis Brett Young
(himself a medico) on this subject in “John
o’ London’s Weekly” for Saturday, December
28, 1935.
* * * *
What happened to Peter Dillon, early Pacific
Island trader and native recruiter, after he left
Australia in 1828 with his La Perouse relics
for Calcutta ? —4158.
After leaving Calcutta, he took his La
Perouse relics to France, and presented them
to Charles X., then King; his reward was the
title of Chevalier of the Legion of Honor
and a pension of 4000 francs a year. In 1829
he published a Narrative of his voyages,
mainly taken up with personal matters. His
subsequent history is obscure; in 1831 he was
in Paris, hoping to visit Sydney soon; in 1835
Roger Therry met him in Sydney—“a large
man, weighing 18st.” —and found him amusing.
In 1836-38 he owned the schooner Jess and
traded in her among the Pacific Islands. In
1838 he returned to Europe, settled in Ireland,
and died there on February 9, 1847.
* * *
(1) What is a sure cure for chronic catarrh,
not merely relief? Have tried various remedies
without success. (2) Cure for worms in
children aged four and six years respectively?
—3920.
(1) Chronic catarrh is not of itself a dis-
ease, but merely the sign of trouble in the nose,
throat, sinuses or elsewhere in the respiratory
tract. Every case must be considered as a
separate problem before treatment can be under-
taken with any hope of success. “Hit-or-miss”
remedies are a waste of money. (2) You do
not mention the type of infestation, but for
the threadworm powders containing santonin,
compound scammony powder and calomel (given
in doses according to age) are taken at night,
followed by a saline purge in the morning. A
second treatment is given two nights later.
Meanwhile, thrice daily, small doses of syrup
of senna with bicarbonate of soda are given
regularly. Drinking water should be boiled and
raw vegetables washed before being served.
Starchy and sugary foods should be cut down.
Reinfection can be prevented by providing
night-clothes which prevent access of fingers
to itchy parts. Drugs recommended are power-
ful and should be given to young children only
after prescription by a medical practitioner.
Brief Answers.
M.M.: (1) Not clear how you wish to
use it; as a paint, mix with boiled linseed oil;
as a stain, with raw linseed oil or spirit; for
some simple wood finishes it may be mixed with
hot water. (2) With a paintbrush. (3) Place
4oz. shellac in one pint methylated spirit and
allow to stand for several days until dissolved.
(4) With a brush. (5) Clear brushing lacquer
for a very bright finish; beeswax dissolved
to a paste in turpentine for a good rubbed
polish. For home renovations all these things
are better bought ready to use in small quan-
tities... .F. 8.5.: Grimmett’s batting figures in
Test matches v. England are 22 matches, 34
innings, 50 highest score, six not-outs;
total runs 366, average 13.07 Rak V.:
Holmskioldia sanguinea is a shrub carrying
brick-red flowers of unique form. Grows to
Bft., but not suitable for frosty areas....
G.W.S.: Copy of work, together with appli-
cation form and a registration fee of 55.,
should be lodged at the Copyright Office, Bris-
bane. ... J.A.R.: Get in touch with Gordon and
Gotch, Barrack-street, Sydney... .P.C.8.: Dry-
cleaning cannot be undertaken by the home
worker. Shake and brush the garments well,
lay them out on a table and sponge with petrol.
The work should preferably be done in the
open as friction may cause ignition of the
fabrics... .L.M.A.: During the week ended
June 17, 1939, the daily average number
of trains arriving at Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
was 33 D.N.M.: The w does not belong to
the second syllable K.R.: See article “State
and Federal Constitutions” in the Australian
Encyclopcedia, vol. I, pages 291-297....
E.M.N.: See article “Electric Fence for
Farms,” printed in The Bulletin of July 27,
1938, page 40... .A.D.: The firm is reliable.. ..
J.8.A.: Write Surf Life Saving Association of
Australia, 119 Phillip-street, Sydney J.D.:
Write W. C. Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .J.P.P.; Write Dep*rtment of Agri-
culture, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic,
South America; information is not available
in Sydney A.E.W.: Of the 343,250 men
who enlisted in the A.I.F. 66,321 were born in
the United Kingdom... .8.A.C.: (1) Amalga-
mated Dental Co., 124 Exhibition-street, Mel-
bourne. (2) Flavelles, Glanfield, Ltd., 89 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne. (3) Yes. (4) Depends
on type of tooth J.L.K.: There are several
squash courts in Sydney, the only public
courts being three at the Langridge School of
Physical Culture. The Royal Sydney Golf
Club, Rose Bay, has one; also, the Killara
Golf Club, while courts are being erected at
the Bourke-street Police Barracks and the
R.A.A. at North Head. These, however, are
private courts... .A.L.N.: While the Valuer-
General’s valuation papers furnished to the
owner would give an approximate idea as to
the value of the land in question, it may be
advisable to instruct a firm of city valuers to
make a valuation V. 8.: The author states
that the place is purely fictitious. .
A.L.; Children are under the control of their
parents until the age of 18. If uncontrollable
they may be dealt with in the Children’s Court.
A.D.D.: (1) Write to the auctioneer saying
that unless the deposit and rents are paid
forthwith you will place the matter in the hands
of your solicitor, and do so if he fails to
account. (2) Write to the solicitor and say
that unless he accounts to you for the pur-
chase money in question you will call the
attention of the Incorporated Law Institute
of N. S. Wales (address, 3 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney) to the long delay in this matter. There
is no statutory limit of time —all depends on
the circumstances —but the delay must not be
unreasonable... .C.M.C.: (1) Westralian divorce
law provides that “it shall be lawful for any
married person to present a petition to the
Court praying that his or her marriage may
be dissolved on the ground that since the
celebration thereof his wife or her husband (as
the case may be) has without just cause or
excuse left him or her continuously deserted
for five years and upwards.” (2) In a clear case
approximately five guineas, but all depends on
circumstances. (3) Not after the divorce has
been obtained... .J.E.W.: (1), (2) and (3) Write
to the Perpetual Trustee Co., Hunter-street,
Sydney, by whom the estate is being adminis-
tered, for the particulars you require. (4)
An advertisement in the U.S.A. papers might
assist; otherwise you could put the matter in
the hands of an inquiry agency, but this would
probably incur considerable expense J.D.L.:
Pykes’, 67 Circular Quay West; Eades’, 275
Miller-street, North Sydney; King’s, Castle
Palais Building, Rockdale; Manly Drive Your-
self, 30 Whistler-street, Manly; Lessey’s, 55
Riley-street; Gibson Drive Yourself Service,
790 Parramatta-road, Lewisham; All British
Drive Yourself, Ltd., 68 Forbes-street —all
Sydney J.S.F.: The lines were written by
Adam Lindsay Gordon W.R.: (1) S. N.
Rodda, Ltd., Port Melbourne, Vic. (2) Minerals,
Ltd., Ingles-street, Port Melbourne, Vic
J.A.K.: You lose your bet N.S.M.C.: Air-
craft operating companies usually employ
mechanics who are in possession of a ground
engineer’s license issued by the Civil Aviation
Department, in preference to unlicensed per-
sonnel, as the man with a license in divisions
C and D is considered to be duly qualified to
maintain the aircraft and engines for which
he is licensed. The demand for licensed ground
engineers, although not acute, is enough to
warrant the employment of every licensed
ground engineer either in Australia or New
Guinea F.H.: (1) A Nazi denotes a member
of the Nationalsozialistische partei (National
Socialistic party of Germany). (2) A Fascist
is a member of the Italian Fascisti. The name
is derived from fasces, a bundle of rods
having among them an axe with the blade pro-
jecting borne before ancient Roman magistrates
as a badge of authority. The name was adopted
because the Fascisti are supposed to typify
obedience to the law as did the lictors in
ancient Rome... .T.M.: Frank S. Williamson,
the Victorian poet, died at Melbourne on
February 6, 1936 W.A.: Norman Lindsay
wrote Redheap H.R.H.: Fitzgerald’s poem
“Essay on Memory,” which won the sesqui-
centenary prize poem competition, will be found
in his recently-published book Moonlight Acre.
It was also published in the “S. M. Herald” of
April 9, 1938 A.8.L.: Write Secretary,
Lands Administration Board, Brisbane.


THE
'Mcmeroo 1
Poley
Saddle
£l2/5/-
(MOUNTED)
It is made of
Quality Ki p
leather. Flaps
and skirts are
long.
The stirrup
bars are free
VALTHER fc STEVEMSOM
335 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
“AWATE r
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
/
THE BANK’S
“STRONG SECURE CHEST”
OF 1817
In July, 1817, the Bank of New South Wales procured a “strong
secure chest,” to hold its cash and valuables. It is recorded that
the President placed therein the Bank’s assets, then totalling
£8,751/8/8. Cash consisted of 3,008 Spanish Dollars, 725 Dumps,
6 Bank of England Tokens, 3 English Shillings, 1 Quarter Dollar,
and 13 Coppers.
In its last balance sheet the Bank’s assets stood at £127,000,000.
This record of expansion is symbolic of the remarkable progress
which the Australian nation has made during its short history.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
482A.1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
G.H.F.: “It behoves” a poet to use fewer
pa* . v tt A • One
Keep at it.... J.L.A.. One
beholdeth, doth one?... .KS.: Tor a stait, keep
off sunsets, storms, “hills of home” and the
“Woodman, Spare That Tree!” theme... .H.S.:
We’re resigned to the swagman’s poor old
mo, her, but no. ,o »,e„ thousand such as she .”
Ha\e a look at what we publish it you
want to know about articles G.D.: Leave
“humble laying” to the hen 1.H.H.: Har-
rowing.... J. 8.: “Unminds” isn’t a word, and
“thm. < N/ r r, .
thou unminds is not grammatical. M. 0..
Confused... .D.M.1.: Elsewhere, perhaps....
V.N.T.: Rings true, but it’s rough going
1.A.: Not a bad lament, but it’s an old theme.
P.E.J.: Rambling....E.C.: “Where will it
end?” Not in these pages R.N.S.: An-
other, flaming dawn! A.D.8.: Shelley was
tougher than you think F.M.H.: “Ode to a
Beer Bottle is flat... .L.R.H.: Liked the
whale... .W.E.M.: Poem composed in a
barber’s chair is strangely bald... .F.K.: It
may be sound philosophy, but it’s dull verse.
wr • xw„ j, J T u .
W nn/ p • You should
”\ p f, he , blon Human Traffic
2 j’ Melodiamatic. ._. .F.P.: Slight... .V.J.:
Baras who have died in the desert are always
sending us verses about it R.E.R.: Im-
proved, but it won’t quite do H.G.T.:
xneres too much of it, and it’s too compli-
cated.. . .G.T. (England): Sorry, but “the
W 1C x* TT Was Y 1 guess F.McC.: Thin,
•• J r y . something fresh.. . .G.8.D.:
We re familiar with the chap who suicides not
knowing hes won the lottery L.P.T.:
" txtc 11 ”, Dry” touched us deeply,
.... 1.N.E, : Merely nice writing 8.H.P.:
Leave that to Gavin Casey... .L.R.D.: It
lacks plot ...D.H.8.: Why make a tragedy
°f it ’ •.. .F.C.R.: “Mary Came to Town” and
we sent her home again... .J.T.D.: If you
must use that subject, please find a new angle
'• Stick to your gardening
N.R.C.: The liny Tots’ Page is its mark....
SP* to a fhfrd an( f try Smoke-oh
N.R.S.: There’s only a par. in it... .R.8.D.:
Warning to Mothers - ’ put us on our guard,
. ...N.R.W.: If that only took you six months
wed hate to see what you’d do in 12....
C.T.P.: “Puss in the Moonlight” illuminating,
... .R.L.D. '.Twaddle.. .H.S.L.: Shed a tear over
‘Jeanette’s Betrayal”... .N.R.L.: Some good
stuff there, but it’s wasted on that plot.. .L.T.8.:
Try yourself on something less g100my....
N.R.C.: Just a snigger... .B.’T.S.: Even your
typewriter seems to have jibbed at “Ten-to-
one”... .C.F.P.: Clever, but not for u 5....
8.R.8.: Not well enough written to compen-
sate for its purely local interest... .H.D.: The
same horse has run the same race so often that
he should be pensioned off... .V.T.L.: That
swagman’s a museum piece., . .D.D.: There
seems to be a. vast difference between your
opinion and ours... .8.F.W.D.: You’d do
better if you tried to find your own style in-
stead of copying that of others.. . .J.N.S.:
“I have had 10 yarns published and this is
easj]y r written » WeU ,
j Ps some consolation that others have suf-
fered more than us K.N.R.: No parking
space for “Her Limousine” S.T.D.: That
sleuth won’t run down a cheque....G.L.R.:
J°°
was b y oversight that you left one of the
nine characters alive at the finish H.Y.:
“You published something like this a couple of
years ago.” Yes, very like it ...N.M.J.:
Flapper fodder 8.R.0 N.: Send your gang-
sterfto America... .J.N.: It’s original all right,
and, we hope, unique... .N.R.A., 8.T.,
P.5.8.R., F.G.T.: Try them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.T.: The ui/shaven Digger is now doing
time in the office clink... .C.W. : A large and
frenzied drawing that doesn’t illustrate the
pointless gag attached M.B. : The lad shows
5l c /* n . l ' tc r f u ni ,' se ; needs tuition... .E.L.R..
We bury that chestnut at least once a month.
....H.T.: Pictorial plea for later drinking hours
a]moSt scored... .E.G.8.: The girls have
shapely legs, but are very lopsided from the
waist upwards... .N.C.: You can call and re-
move the body J.H.R.: No pick-me-up here
for your man in the moon with a hangover.
... ,E.T.: Faint: pencil sketches and anaemic jests.
M.S.: When did you last see a buck-
jumper in action? F.R.: Nice and tidy, but
entirely without humor N.J.: That motor-
car has been balancing on the edge of that
cliff for many years now 8.W.: The care
with which it had been packed led us to believe
that you were presenting us with a Rem-
brandt A.L. : You’ve been looking at too
many Speed Gordon strips N.P.T.: We
deduce that the fly in your inkpot has been
on a walkabout... .L.G.P.: Sorry to disagree
with your friends, but your work is not
“good enough for The Bulletin”. .. .S.D.:
An immature batch... .C.A.: The lady appears
to be wearing a costume beaten out of corru-
gated-iron S.N.: If you find the winter
evenings long, why not take up solitaire?....
P.J.S.: We hear that quip almost every time
we turn on the radio... .G.M.C.: You are
better at writing covering letters than in draw-
ing humorous sketches A.W.8.: A muddled
and scratchy attempt... .R.T.: The point of
a political cartoon should be immediately
observable C.C.: Save the gag up till
summertime, when you may be able to draw
better... .G.N.: Wrong kind of paper for that
class of work... .C.J.F.: Looks like two re-
tired fence-posts in conversation A.N.: Your
ideas are bright, but your pictures are lament-
able K.T.: Yes, we’ll be pleased to hear
from you when you’ve completed your studies,
....8.M.G.: Cannot see you displacing any of
the regulars R.M.J.: Let us have caricatures
of notabilities, not of your friends... .H.S.
Not this week’s worst, but very close to it.
JOHN THOMSON
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
FOR nearly two centuries all sorts
of people have written and spoken
in praise of that remarkable York-
shireman who spent some months
on the coast of New South Wales in
1770, and the general opinion of them is
that it wouldn’t be possible to praise
James Cook too highly. But there was an-
other good man on board the Endeavour,
with just as homely a name as that of
the little ship’s commander, who has
never until a few years ago had any
praise at all since he was buried at sea
after leaving Batavia on the homeward
voyage. Yet he had done more than
anyone else aboard to comfort and assist
James Cook, Joseph Banks, Dr. Solander
and Mr. Astronomer Green. I refer to
John Thomson, the ship’s cook.
Thomson’s name was rescued from
oblivion by the late Professor Arnold
Wood when he published his delightful
Voyage of the Endeavour in 1926. In
this fascinating little book Captain Cook’s
cook at last comes into his own, and
the tribute paid to him is such as has
seldom been made to any of the minor
characters who have vitally assisted in
great adventures of discovery.
“The first man the Lords of the Ad-
miralty sent on board as cook was found
by the Captain to be a lame infirm man,
incapable of doing his duty! The Captain
managed to get him removed, and recom-
mended a man named Pritchard. But
the Lords of the Admiralty replied that
a job must be found for John Thomson,
and the only job open was that of cook
of the Endeavour. So we’ll have to eat
John Thomson’s dishes for the next
three years!
“John Thomson proved a thoroughly
good cook. No complaints about his
dishes are made in the journals, and I’m
sure complaints would have been made
had his cookery been bad. ‘The Captain,’
says one who travelled with him in his
last voyage, ‘always kept a good table.’
He expected a cook, as well as other
men, to do his duty, and he would have
said something strong had John Thomson
failed to do his.
“Banks, who had eaten the best dinners
in London, and thoroughly enjoyed
Thomson’s porridge at breakfast, says
that a shark cooked by Thomson
was so good that everyone, ‘from
the Captain to the swabber, dined
heartily upon it,’ and describes a
soup made by Thomson out of a
cuttlefish as ‘one of the best soups I
ever ate.’ Who would not be delighted
to get a cook who could show such a
testimonial from Mr. Joseph Banks? I’m
sure that John Thomson’s cookery had
a great deal to do with the success of
the voyage. And it is with regret that
I read in the Captain’s journal that
among four men who died in one day
in the dreadful voyage from Batavia to
the Cape was ‘John Thomson, ship’s
cook.’ I think the Captain might have
found time, even on that sad day, to
write one sentence in praise of the thou-
sand good dinners John Thomson had
cooked on the Endeavour.”
Thomson’s galley was situated in the
’tween decks, with its stovepipe protrud-
ing through the upper deck just abaft the
foremast, and in connection with what
he did in it it is interesting to consider
the daily bill-of-fare provided for lower-
deck ratings. Each mess of four had on
Monday half a pound of butter, 10
ounces of cheese and as much boiled oat-
meal or wheat as they could eat; Tues-
day, two four-pound pieces of beef or
one four-pound piece of pork, three
pounds of flour and one pound of raisins,
or half a pound of suet; Wednesday,
butter and cheese as on Monday, and as
much boiled pease as could be con-
sumed ; Thursday, two two-pound pieces
of pork, with pease; Friday, the same as
Wednesday ; Saturday, the same as Tues-
day ; Sunday, the same as Thursday.
Every man also was allowed daily one
pound of biscuits, as much beer as he
could drink, or a pint of wine. Some-
times this last item would have half a
pint of brandy, rum or arrack substituted
for it.
“Dick Tafone”: Australian accents
(B. 14/6/’39)? J. J. Simon, founder of
the Young Australia League, has had
unique opportunities for observation in
that line among the 20,000 Australian
boys he has met. He believes that the
So-ith Australian lad has the nearest to
a distinct type of accent and phraseoloogy
aacriuca it to me targe proportion of
Cornish folk in their immediate ancestry
—an opinion which should please The
Bulletin’s Oswald Pryor. He considers
Victorians as closest to the average Eng-
lish public-school boy type ; N.S.W. lads,
particularly those from Sydney, as the
most materialistic and least susceptible to
artistic or sentimental appeal; Queens-
landers the quickest to break down
barriers of strangeness ; Westralians show
a combination of the characteristics of
other States, and Tassies are the most
reserved and placid.


FIFTY YEARS AGO
AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN JULY
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
IN the ’eighties lecturers on all manner
of subjects abounded in these parts:
lecturers on Freethought, Freetrade,
Protection, the Single Tax, Imperial
Federation, Australian Federation, Theo-
sophy, Spiritualism, Socialism, Mormon-
ism, Orangeism and, of course, Rome.
In 1889 the Escaped Nun had come
and gone, leaving behind the memory
of a hundred fights. Tommy Walker,
most eloquent of spouters on Free-
thought, was temporarily abandoning the
lecture platform for the Parliamentary
career which, after a dreadful check and
years of sad obscurity and not-so-sad
exile, was to lead him to the Speaker’s
wig and chair in Westralia. Tommy had
become M.L.A. for Northumberland
(N.S.W.).
When Freethought failed to “draw,”
Tommy used to turn to another topic
suited to his eloquence. It was of the
florid type, and he had, in addition to a
resounding voice, a walrus moustache and
a grave, almost mournful bearing. Told
that his public would appreciate a bit of
music as well as monologues, he en-
gaged a young woman to open the pro-
ceedings with drawing-room ballads. He
was his own announcer, and he was wont
to introduce the lady with the informa-
tion that she was about to warble “that
affecting composition ‘When Other-r-r
Lips,’ after-r-r which” (very slowly) “I will
deliver-r-r a lectur-re on the Fr-r-r-rench
R. r -r-r-revolution.” Whether the subject
under discussion was whales or tiddlers,
Tommy was addicted to rolling his r’s
in a fine frenzy.
A Bulletin man (James Edmond, no
doubt) attended “the annual Orange ser-
vice” at the old Exhibition Building, Syd-
ney. He had not been “inside that edifice
since its memorable baptism of loyalty
one night in July, 1887, when an organ-
ised minority, backed up by soldiers and
pugilists, held possession of it and an-
nounced their unshaken fealty to the
Queen’s throne and person. That night,
wedged in among a seething mass of yell-
ing irreverence, we were borne hither
and thither like a straw on the surface
of a whirlpool.” Combatants “were
PARKES, PREMIER AND POET.
Evidently by way of celebrating the
fiftieth anniversary of his arrival in
Sydney, he had dropped into poetry
again. Also into a prose-poem on him-
self, delivered at a public meeting, the
choicest passage, as reported by an
enemy, being “No one ’as done more for
your liberty than Hi ’ave; in fact, you
howe your liberties to me."
trampled under foot or borne, frothing at
the mouth, helplessly far apart.
“In one of these rushes, when the pres-
sure of thousands had pinned down our
arms and squeezed the breath out of our
bruised body, we came against one John
Norton, who had his arms disengaged,
and, using the top of a diminutive royal-
ist’s hat as a desk, was writing a disloyal
amendment on some motion which was
supposed to have been put. The human
maelstrom bore us together to a corner,
where a tangled mass of footballers had
a man on the floor who had refused to
take off his hat and were threatening, as
they put it, to ‘kick his forehead in,
while excited ladies leant from the bal-
conies waving handkerchiefs and cheer-
ing.
“Norton got his amendment written
somehow, and handed it up to the chair-
man, but nothing came of it. Nothing
came of anything that night. Motions
were carried unanimously that no one
heard one word of, and Windsor Castle
DAVID GAUNSON.
A witty Melbourne lawyer-politician of
the period. He had brightened a debate
on Sunday trading in pubs by calling
attention to “the dim religious light” in
Pintpot’s bar.
rejoiced next day over a national display
of loyalty which was all on a guarded
platform.”
“One John Norton” was then on the
fringe of politics and on more than the
fringe of journalism. Ten years later he
had succeeded Walker as M.L.A. for
Northumberland and was founding
“Truth,” still flourishing under the direc-
tion of his son Ezra.
On July 12, 1889, the Exhibition build-
ing presented a comparatively peaceful
scene. “The statue of the Queen bore
a garland of orange leaves. Albert
Edward also bore one, but had an expres-
sion of levity on his countenance, not to
say rakishness, as though he knew all
about that sort of thing and didn’t care
a hang. The statue of New South Wales
—not a bit like her, by the way—was
similarly decked.
“The room was hung with festoons of
orange leaves, and on the walls were any
number of execrable daubs representing
William the Third, on an unnaturally
short white horse with preposterous legs,
pointing with a sword at the skyline.
Banners with the names of Enniskillen,
Derry, Aughrim and Boyne were hung
out in case anyone should forget about
them.
“Pastor Daniel Allen was already
there. Daniel, we notice, is developing
a perfectly circular bald patch—most sus-
piciously like a tonsure —at the back of
his head. Probably his right hand knows
not what his left hand does, and while
in the throes of writing those ghastly
poems which set the teeth of an outraged
country on edge he has pulled the hair
off his poetic nob.
“By-and-bye the others came in, and
there was much ostentatious hand-shak-
ing. The same old crowd —the Revs.
Barnier, Caldwell, Madgwick and the
rest. The handshaking thickened, and a
thrill ran through the audience or con-
gregation, who recognised in it an avowal
among their brave champions to go to
the stake rather than let William the
Third suffer defeat. After the assembled
reverends had all shaken hands, they
would at intervals, as a kind of happy
afterthought, do it again here and there,
in a manner which was visibly comfort-
ing.
“Then the usual thing, but largely
diluted with water this time. Pastor Allen
prayed long and loud in a chest voice,
and made a special supplication for the
welfare of the Queen and Lord Caring-
ton .... The Reverend Madgwick may be
regarded as a revolutionary Protestant,
inasmuch as he revolves on his axis about
once in every sentence. Like a coast light
broken loose, he went round and round,
sometimes addressing the chair, some-
times the galleries and occasionally those
in the body of the hall.... The crowd
began to go. All the time there had been
a confusion of talk and a comparing of
notes among the audience, and the re-
marks of the speakers were inaudible,
save to those at close quarters.”
In Melbourne, Dean Macartney, who
had turned 90, “attended the July 12
celebration and expressed his deep sym-
pathy with the Irish landlords in their
distress.” In Queensland, the father of
Samuel Griffith, sometime Premier and
afterwards first Chief Justice of the Aus-
tralian High Court, had become Grand
Master of the Orange Lodge.
Dean Macartney had associated him-
self with “a bold proposal to sell the
cathedral site, corner of Swanston and
Flinders streets, for £BOO,OOO and put up
a cathedral elsewhere which would knock
spots off Norwich, Salisbury and Canter-
bury. Bishop Goe resisted this, and,
being a rich man, dabbed down £5OO to
drive on the cathedral where it stands.
Others followed suit, and £lO,OOO was
raised. With this the cathedral is going
ahead fizzing.”
The Melbourne “War Cry” was ask-
ing for contributions —“short spicy bits.
Not Church style, which is calculated to
put you to sleep while you read it, but
some of the Go-ahead, Salvation Army,
Blood-and-Fire, Holy Ghost, Hell, Dam-
nation and Judgment kind, which will
make every man shake as he reads it, and
set all the devils in Hell trembling.”
Melbourne had a Rationalist militant
in Symes, of the “Liberator.” Symes had
been permitted to hold forth at the Col-
lingwood Town Hall, much to the indig-
nation of one of the Collingwood coun-
cillors. Dr. Grattan Guinness, the evan-
gelist, had addressed a series of meetings
in Melbourne. An orthodox correspon-
dent wrote to the “Liberator” pointing
out that Dr. Guinness looked the picture
of happiness whereas the editor of the
“Liberator” looked the picture of misery.
“Dr. Guinness,” Symes replied neatly, “is
going to marry a young lady with
£20,000. Now, if I were going to marry
a young lady with £20,000 I would look
simply radiant.”
The centenary of the Fall of the Bas-
tille was celebrated in Melbourne and
Sydney. The Melbourne affair, though
there was “a thronged attendance,” was
“almost a fizzle through mismanage-
ment.” In Sydney “one of the features
of the celebration was the smashing
down by the chairman of a miniature
prison of gilded gingerbread which stood
on the dinner table.”
“Feng-Shui” reads a piece in the paper:
So Wang Ching-wei is to be puppet President
of the Japanese New Order in the Flowery Land.
He is a Cantonese, and was born Wang Chao-
ming, but necessity has produced frequent
changes in his name. He also has an astute
legal brain —he graduated from the law school
in Tokio.
Wang was once such an enthusiastic revolu-
tionary that he got a life term of imprison-
ment for attempting to blow up the Prince
Regent. After two years he was released,
the revolution having broken out at Wuchang.
He was then sent to the foreign settlement
in Shanghai, where he did yeoman ser-
vice for the revolutionary cause in the train
of Sun Yat-sen. When the Republic attained
to respectability he left Shanghai for Nanking,
where he got the job of Minister of Finance
and Director of the Salt Gabelle, both
notorious instruments of'squeeze. He was also
sent on a tour of the South Sea islands to
win overseas Chinese to the Republican ideal.
As Minister of Finance he astounded all right-
thinking Chinese by announcing his intention of
bringing out a Budget founded on the absurd
Western principle that two and two make four.
It failed.
He once more found himself in the under-
world of Celestial intrigue, and became associ-
ated with Sun Yat-sen in upsetting the Peking
Government. But that steadfast idealist was
not an easy man to follow, and Wang dis-
appeared again. He reappeared in the retinue
of Chiang Kai-shek after Chiang had re-
established the Government at Nanking. As
head of the Supreme Defence Council Wang
threw himself wholeheartedly into the resist-
ance to the Japanese invasion of recent times.
But when Chiang retreated north Wang found
reasons for not following him, and once more
disappeared from the seat of government.
Now he has reappeared as a fervent advocate
of the Japanese point of view.
As a Cantonese Wang hates not only the
Japanese but a good half of his fellow-country-
men and all foreigners. He differs from his
new employers in believing that there is no
need to upset the foreign administration of the
treaty ports, especially Shanghai.
THE SAME OLD MESS OF POTTAGE.
The man with the dish was William McMillan, Parked Treasurer Mr. Stevens
or Mr. Mair could be substituted with stern fidelity to fact, for the same Hung
is happening to-day.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Many will not agree with the Queenslander who maintains that Australians are
easily disturbed because they lack convictions, but for his challenging study of the
average Australian mind he gets the three guineas.
No Steady Convictions
The main trouble with the average
Australian, as I see things, is that his
opinions vary from day to day. He has
no steady convictions.
The Aussie is to-day a super-optimist,
to-morrow a super-pessimist. And this
topsy-turvy attitude can be attributed to
his reverence for the views (good or bad)
expressed by his newspapers or state-
ments issued by members of the Gov-
ernment.
If there is pessimism in political or
newspaper circles, as sure as little green
apples are hard there will be pessimism
in the majority of Australia’s homes, and
vice versa. And so is it any wonder that
most of us are unsettled and nervous
during these troublesome “crisis” days?
But a little thinking should clarify the
position a bit, and will perhaps put us
on the primrose path to optimism again.
We need just ask ourselves one simple
question: Have our leaders steady con-
victions? Or are they like the smaller
fry (you and me) and possessed of
opinions only, and opinions that vary
from day to day?
A little reflection should convince even
the most dyed-in-the-wool pessimist that
nine out of ten Australian politicians hold
different views from those of their fellows.
And for proof of that read any morning
newspaper. Consequently, why should
we take any notice of a politician’s
opinions, or, for that matter, a news-
paper’s opinions?
What we Australians must do is
to acquire knowledge and convictions of
our own. And then, by putting ineradi-
cable trust in our own convictions, what
odds if politicians do rant and “sensa-
tional” newspapers roar? We can ignore
them.
Perhaps the only Australian at the
present time with a steady conviction is
Mr. Menzies. And his conviction (to
quote what I once read on a book-jacket)
“is as satisfying as the light of a home-
stead when we are lost at night in diffi-
cult country.”
He refuses to be flustered—he refuses
to be alarmed. And so we must make
it our business to see that his imper-
turbability becomes infectious. God
knows, it’s about time we gave an opti-
mist a chance! —R. Conquest (Q.).
That is the winner’s name; his address
is Wride-street, Woolowin, Brisbane,
Queensland.
“Payments to Non-resident Aliens”
Here’s an idea for our perpetually
hard-up Australian Governments. Re-
ceiving a cheque for a story placed with
an American magazine I learned with
surprise—“This amount is net after de-
ducting 10 per cent., which we are
obliged to withhold from payments to
non-resident aliens in accordance with
United States tax laws.”
What about an Australian 10 per cent,
tax on all payments to non-resident aliens
made in respect to Hollywood films and
canned radio blah? Surely what is good
for the goose is good also for the gander!
—Slugged (W.A.).
Fuelling the Fleet
With so much money available for
defence the authorities would do well
to investigate the facilities for oiling our
fleet in places other than Sydney. Dur-
ing a visit of the fleet to Melbourne it
was announced proudly (but erroneously)
that H.M.A.S. Sydney and Hobart
would oil simultaneously at Williams-
town. Actually there aren’t enough
fittings at Williamstown for more than
one ship to take in oil at the same time.
The Hobart could not commence until
the Sydney had finished, and each ship
occupied 12 hours. Definitely not good
enough for urgent occasions, considering
that this type of ship is capable of
taking a full load of fuel aboard in from
three to four hours. —Hook (N.S.W.).
Barometer of Bets
The almost impossible chance —or, it
would be even truer to say, the sheer
idiocy—of members of the public trying
to pick winners is manifested by the
weekly barometer of the daily tips in the
“big” newspapers. These papers spend
hundreds of pounds every week, and em-
ploy all sorts of experts to collect news
and information, and the result is usually
a steady loss of money.
It was put to me by a leading light of
the racing world like this: “Reckoning
at advertising rates, the four leading Mel-
bourne dailies devote anything up to
£5OO worth of space to racing every
week. Yet on the Saturday of the Big
Hurdle they were only equal to one
winner Green Cape, in the Hurdle
itself.” Punters, and even owners, would
reckon that betting was not the game it
is cracked up to be if it were necessary
to spend £5OO in failing to pick a single
winner. I was shown the following sum-
mary of newspaper tips, which is the
“barometer” of £1 on every tip (Satur-
days only) since May 27:
“Herald”: Losing £6 7s.
“Sun”: Losing £l3 12s.
“Age” (“Eclipse”): Losing £2B 7s.
“Age” (“Tasman”): Losing £lB 17s.
“Argus”: Winning £ll 13s.
It’s a great pastime, all right. Tosh
(Vic.).
An Appreciation
I read the editorial “Touching a Thorny
Problem” (B. 5/7/’39) and subsequently
“Semitic’s” observations (B. 12/7/’39),
and both rather left me cold. But I feel
compelled to present an outsize in plums
to a journal with the guts to print what
the other fellow thinks, even when he’s
dealing out brickbats instead of bouquets.
On the point of newspaper policy it is
a most unusual proceeding, according to
accepted standards, but at the same time
it’s a damn’ good thing, and we could do
with a bit more of it.
Newspapers so seldom constitute a true
reflex of the public voice that it is a wel-
come relief to run across a publicity
medium for the rank and file. I present
The Bulletin with an open order for
the biggest plum at the Municipal
Markets, even if they’re out of season. —
Er (N.S.W.).
Queensland Country Doctors
Queensland’s Minister for Health
Hanlon has added to his numerous mis-
takes on medical matters a statement
that competent doctors are starved out
of the country into the cities because all
the patients who can afford it rush off to
specialists in Melbourne or Sydney.
What really drives good men out of
country practice is the lack of reasonable
facilities for carrying out a highly-
responsible and difficult job. If, instead
of building huge city hospitals far beyond
practically manageable limits —Brisbane
General has over 1100 beds —Mr. Hanlon
were to provide properly-equipped coun-
try ones at strategic points, efficient nurs-
ing assistance and such elementary essen-
tials as X-ray equipment, pathological
assistance and consultation facilities, the
problem of country doctoring would be
three parts solved.
The odd quarter would be overcome by
a 25 p.c. supplementation of hospital
salaries, increasing with length of satis-
factory service.— Quakprak (Q.).
Weights and Measures
To obtain correct weight for its money,
the public relies to a great extent on
the honesty of vendors, who are com-
pelled to have their weighing and measur-
ing equipment tested and stamped every
two years. The Weights and Measures
regulations, however, determine whether
the equipment is capable of giving accu-
rate weight.
In Australia we have the spectacle of
each of our unnecessary State Govern-
ments having a different Weights and
Measures Act. From personal experience
I know that, whereas the regulations in
N.S.W. and Queensland are reasonably
strict, those of Victoria are far too lax.
To ensure uniformity and avoid confu-
sion this department should be placed
under Commonwealth control. — Peter-
mac (N.S.W.).
Laughing It Off
Both “The Grin” (B. 21/6/’39) and
Arthur Falk (B. 5/7/’39) have missed one
very important point with reference lo
“laughing things off” in the political
arena.
Laughing at the efforts of political
agitators or adversaries is sometimes
disastrous. Wasn’t it because people
laughed at Hitler and refused to take him
seriously that he is where he is to-day?
—Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Training
In the “Fifty Years Ago” column of
the Adelaide “Advertiser” recently
appeared the following:
That proposed change in the system of
our military forces from the voluntary to
the compulsory is being much discussed.
The opinion on the whole —especially of
the laboring class —is decidedly favorable
to compulsory service, if substitution is
not allowed. One of a group of working
men, with whom his companions seemed
to agree, said yesterday: “If it’s the same
for everybody I don’t mind taking my
chance, but them there chaps in the car-
riages and walking about with sticks and
gloves ought not to have the chance of
giving a poor fellow a few pounds to take
their place! If they are drawn, make
them serve as well as any other man who
can’t afford to pay to get out of it.”
In effect, doesn’t that contention apply
with equal force to-day? Carriages,
sticks and gloves apart, the existing
system of naval and military training
does permit the great majority to sit
back and merely contribute towards the
payment of the willing few. Granted
the small amount at stake could hardly
supply all the incentive to those who
serve, but to the young married worker
it is, and always has been, a factor.
Those few extra pounds coming in
periodically are not regarded lightly;
they provide things he would otherwise
have to do without. It’s a positive fact.
I speak from experience of many years
ago.
To the more affluent this factor may
not count. His urge is possibly patriot-
ism, possibly ambition —perhaps both.
But how many of this class fail to serve
because a few extra bob has no per-
suasive power!
Therefore, does it not virtually boil
down to the point stressed by that old-
time worker? His present-day duplicate
in being paid a small sum perforce takes
upon himself the certainty of bearing the
first brunt of any possible attack lodged
against us all. Is that democratic?
Surely the latter-day leaders of Labor
who prate about united fronts yet rail
against universal training in which all
must serve irrespective of wealth or
position have another and deeper think
to come! — Jae (S.A.).
Menzies’s Opportunity
Menzies can lay claim to birth under
a lucky star. Never yet has a Prime
Minister assumed control in such ex-
traordinary circumstances. When his
position was not secure in the party
Page rendered him yeoman service by a
bitter attack on the floor of the House.
Result —solidification of the rank and file
of the U.A.P.
Now the A.C.T.U. has offered him his
biggest chance. This is an open defiance
of the law, and the political consequences
for Labor will be disastrous. Years ago
Charlie Kingston referred to the workers
as the “unthinking mob,” and truly does
this fit the workers to-day as represented
by the A.C.T.U. The Federal Labor
party has been placed in an invidious
position, and, as a very large number of
workers will follow Curtin’s lead, the
result of the national register boycott
will be Gilbertian.— Argus (S.A.).
Schools of Arts
Recently the Municipal Council of a
N.S.W. country town (population 5000)
was asked by the School of. Arts
committee for a grant of £5O. The com-
mittee pleaded that their institute was in
dire straits and sorely needed the money ;
but council replied that no funds could
be set aside for the purpose. Last year
a similar request was met by a like reply.
In many country towns the councils
take the same attitude, and such Schools
of Arts as have not closed down alto-
gether have become merely lending
libraries of cheap fiction.
They order such things better in the
older countries. In Scotland the Town
Council of Arbroath (population 17,000)
voted £1076 for the town’s library last
year, and this year, in spite of harder
times and the demands of an extensive
housing scheme, the vote has been in-
creased by £lOO. And those figures are
sterling.— lchabod Crane (N.S.W.).
Making Jobs
Our land-tax assessment —just over five
bob —came the other day, and I began
wondering just how much of such small
amounts reaches the Treasury. Printing,
postage, bookkeeping, depreciation, light
and telephone charges and, of course,
salaries must all be met from gross tax.
Suburbanites (like the people with whom
I live) exceed in numbers those large
property-owners whose contributions
really “keep the taxes going,” yet the
average cost of collection must be about
the same.
Why not abolish taxes below a certain
figure fixed as the lowest found economic
to collect, sack the surplus staff and stop
taxing merely to provide non-productive
employment? If further examples are
needed, the Westralian Agricultural De-
partment’s “orchard registration fee”
provides one. Whether your “orchard”
comprises hundreds of acres or simply a
grapevine near the woodshed you pay
up a shilling a year—for what? Personal
experience, conversation and letters to
the local press confirm the opinion that
inspectors’ visits have not increased —
indeed, many “orchardists” have never
seen an inspector—and it’s hard to see
what the charge is for, other than a
thinly-disguised tax. Taxation to pro-
vide money to run the country is reason-
able ; taxation to pay the wages of the
collectors, with nothing left over for the
Treasury, is just a racket. —R. H. A.
(W.A.).
Let ’Em Fight
It is noticeable that since we were
rattled to our boots by the war scare
of last year there has been very little
clamor from our women for equality of
the sexes. Hence, I wonder if the femi-
nists have deemed discretion the better
part of valor.
We who remember the Great War
recall the fervor with which our girl
friends bade us grab rifles and hop into
the fray. We recollect the contempt
which was hurled at those young men
of doubtful courage who refused to line
up —under an absurd voluntary system —
as cannon-fodder. The girls did their bit
in characteristic fashion by remaining
behind to lift pay allotments and knit
socks in the security of town halls.
But more will be expected of them in
the coming splurge. Hasn’t Mick Brux-
ner made provision for the recruitment
of women in his Gilbertian save-the-
Empire Emergency Services?
I suggest equality of the sexes in any
future campaign.
Imagine the improvement in the con-
duct of war by doing the day’s cooking or
week’s washing right up in the front line.
And What-ho for the King’s Navee!
Literary Employment
The poor we have always with us,
and during the depression their hard lot
has been relieved by such palliatives as
doles and relief works. Manual laborers
have been employed on schemes more
or less productive.
Until now practically nothing has been
done for brain workers such as poets,
journalists, scientists and writers gener-
ally who have lost their footing in the
economic landslide. With the exception
of The Bulletin, the Australian press
is becoming more and more syndicated
and trustified, rendering the position of
freelances more than ever precarious.
At last the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has decided to start “relief works”
for those “producers” whose market has
slumped even further than that of the
more solid “primaries.” A fund has been
set aside to subsidise the publication of
approved works, and also to provide a
living allowance for a few writers of
proved ability to engage in research on
specified subjects.
A similar scheme, applied to authors,
artists and musicians, was started in the
U.S.A. some years ago and has been
successful in preserving and creating a
great deal of beauty and culture that
would otherwise have been lost to the
world.
By the very nature of their calling
our writers are unable to voice their
troubles through the press which is their
taskmaster, or to unite against the
“chain-store” methods of newspapers
and publishers, so our embryo Lawsons
and Dennises have been allowed to
languish in obscurity without benefit of
“bounty” or “protection.”
The “Other Fellow’s Mind” is per-
haps the only column left where their
case may be stated, or their appreciation
of the Government scheme made public,
as The Bulletin, which has always
been the nursery of genius, is the one
paper which has no glass houses to
protect while allocating praise or blame
on the question of literary employment
in Australia.
WILLIAM CANN (S.A.).


Ships would be domesticated from keel
to kelson, and there’d be an end to the
abominable charge that Jack has a wife
in every port.
By all means, let us have another war,
but organise it so that women will find
a field for their undoubted talents. They
deserve it. — Spankhurst (N.S.W.).
Office Jobs
What is to be the fate of the aspiring
businessgii'l? Every college in the land
is overcrowded with young and eager
students who are ambitious to fill a niche
in some office.
There is something radically wrong m
a country where a mistress cannot get
domestic help, and yet a newspaper ad-
vertisement for a typist brings over 100
applicants. And this at a time when the
Federal Government is importing domes-
tic servants.
The truth is, we are growing up a
nation of snobs!
The indictment against Miss 1939 ap-
plies equally to her brother. He, too,
hankers after a “white-collar” job. The
average boy to-day regards manual labor
with derision. The question resolves itself
into this: Who is going to do the spade-
work?
The farmer, like the city housewife,
seeks in vain for workers. Unfortunately,
the young Australian is “work-shy,” a
fact that does not augur well for the
country’s progress. It is top-heavy with
youth in quest of “cushy” jobs. A.
Daly (S.A.).
Immigration
They say that the average Australian is
a casual sort of bloke. He must be.
Thousands of him are out of work, and
are submitting without violent protest to
semi-starvation, while the jobs he should
have are handed out to men who don t
know a kangaroo from a dog-leg fence.
There are suggestions that immigration
should be revived, and that larger num-
bers of refugees should' be admitted to
Australia, but little thought appears to
be given to the fact that an influx of
people from European, countries is likely
to lower our living standards. Forgotten,
too, are the thousands of . able-bodied
Australians for whom no work can be
found. ■
Although the Australian should have
strongest claim on available jobs in his
native land, first choice is often given, to
people from overseas who have left their
own countries in a hurry. There must
be a reason for the unpopularity which
hastened their departure, and the out-of-
work Australian should demand to know
why they are given preference here when
jobs are available.
Now it is proposed to bring Dutch
farmers to Australia. They will prob-
ably make good settlers, but where are
their farms coming from when sons of
Australian farmers cannot get iand them-
selves?
The Commonwealth may need more
people, but let the first step be the ab-
sorption of our own folk. ' Then there
will be more marriages, more births,
more markets, more scope for and more
chances of assimilating foreigners. —*
Jayem (N.S.W.).
Deferred Pay
In the Navy deferred pay looms
largely and beneficially in the minds of
those who sign on for so many years.
The principle is good.
Can that principle be applied to the
basic wage? To-day that wage is based
on a family of four. The single man has
more spending money than the married,
hence often “social troubles” and con-
tinuance of single blessedness. Now for
the application of the d.-p. principle. The
single man might be paid a basic wage,
plus a variable amount for skill —average,
say, £5 10s. He could receive £2 10s. to
£3 per week, and the deferred pay be
“treasuried” for him till his marriage.
Thus would our birthrate improve
and our “social evil” troubles diminish.
—Querioso (N.S.W.).
Class Snobbishness
Australians boast of their democracy,
yet their own class snobbishness is both
well developed and amusing.
We learn that bank clerks decline to
associate with mercantile ones, and
teachers scoff at both. Lawyers laugh
at businessmen, typists consider them-
selves superior to shop assistants, and
these in turn look down upon domestics.
So contagious is this class-consciousness
that even lorry-drivers regard them-
selves as socially above municipal
carters! And so throughout most grades
of Australian workers this farce goes on.
Surely the enlightenment of our free
and compulsory educational system
should give all men and women sufficient
commonsense to enable them to take a
pride and joy in their own particular job
and, at the same time, see the worth and
importance of the other fellow’s.
In a world where gravediggers are as
necessary as editors, and farmhands as
essential as doctors, broader and more
tolerant views are desirable. Everybody's
job, no matter how big or trifling it is,
is an important link in the scheme of
life, and no one can exist without the
other.
Snobbery is the hallmark of ignorance,
and if Australians don’t look out they
will lose their reputation for being good
sports and gain one for childish snob-
bery.—P. R. (Vic.).
Depression Boys
Any day you may see them at the
change-of-shift at any of the shaftheads
on the Golden Mile; winter or summer,
sweltering hot or bitterly cold, the “legion
of the lost” are represented. The great
percentage of them are Australian youths
between 20 and 25 years of age. Depres-
sion boys. The majority have the mak-
ings of a good stamp of citizen, and most
are trying desperately for work.
What a job, if they are lucky enough
to get one! Shovelling ore thousands
of feet down in the smelly deeps.
What does the future hold for them?
Where is it all going to end? No wonder
they get that hunted, forlorn, unwanted
look. Some manage to hang on longer
than others, and an occasional one will
be picked up; but the majority are either
ordered out of town (“no visible means
of support”) or haven’t the means to
hang on, and have to get on the move
again and hope for the best.
I have seen them by the dozen when
the rumor has gone round that a few
casual shifts may be going—-usually a
non-stop concrete job, putting in founda-
tions for some mill plant. They. abso-
lutely haunt the place and the bosses in
the hope of a shift or two until the job
has started with the pickups selected. This
goes on while only 100 miles away
farmers are trying to grow wheat at
Is. Bd. per bushel, and are petitioning
the Government for a wool subsidy.
Shortly the Duke and Duchess of Kent
are paying us a visit. Thousands of
pounds are going to be spent. It may
be all right in its way. I don’t really
know ; but to me it seems all wrong with
all this poverty and want around us.
. Perhaps one of these days some of
those 600-odd men drawing about a thou-
sand a year and up who are responsible
for the running of the country may do
something for these ill-fed, undernour-
ished youths, instead of just talking about
“youth unemployment.” S. Gibbs
(W.A.).
Landmen and “Substitutes”
A visit to the Sydney Sheep Show con-
vinced me that although graziers are ex-
pressing alarm at the “menace of sub-
stitutes for wool” they have not con-
vinced their womenfolk that wool is best.
An inspection of the dresses worn by
women at the Show revealed that substi-
tutes were used largely in the material
from which they were made, and I did
not see one pair of woollen stockings
there. Even some of the graziers them-
selves wore materials made from substi-
tutes, although wool would have served
the purpose better.
It is because of such things that pri-
mary producers do not get a better hear-
ing when they complain about substitutes.
Let them and their wives and daughters
give up the use of substitutes, and their
case will be much more convincing.
The same thing applies to the dairy-
farmer. He wants the sale of substitutes
for butter prohibited, but he uses sub-
stitutes for things that other producers
sell. Artificial fibres in clothing—-“silk”
stockings and underwear particularly—
mean that money is taken from the wool-
grower.
It seems that all sections of primary
producers want a “united front” to
eliminate the use of substitutes among
themselves. When they do so, they will
get more support in asking that substi-
tutes be banned or controlled. — Sam
Square (N.S.W.).
Poker Machines
Concerning these gambling con-
trivances, versifier “T. the R.” (B.
12/7/’39) rang the bell.
Since they were manufactured in and
brought here from America, where they
have been declared illegal and banned,
why did the Federal Government ever
allow their entry into Australia? It
must have been known that these
machines would be illegal under State
laws, yet it was only too ready to accept
its 10 p.c. That appears to be the easiest
money anyone has been known to make
out of these fruit and poker machines,
because even proprietors of the gadgets
have always run the risk of confiscation.
—J.F.H. (S.A.).
Exporting the Best
“These are not just ordinary oranges
but oranges that are usually exported,”
stated a radio announcer when adver-
tising cases of oranges for sale. No doubt
he was telling the truth, and it merely
indicates that with oranges, as with so
many other products, we have to be con-
tent with second-grade stuff, while the
best is exported.
There have been many campaigns for
better health, and all sorts of theories are
suggested, but nothing is ever said about
giving Australians the best foods pro-
duced in this country. It would not be
so bad if overseas consumers paid more
for quality than we do, but the best is
sold overseas for less than we pay here
for second-grade.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Nurses’ Keep
“If men were nurses things would be
different,” quoth May. E. Woolley (B.
5/7/’39), referring to working conditions
of hospital nurses. As a mere man I
add that I, and many of my sex, would
tilt nostrils skywards even at the mention
of having to take on some of the un-
pleasant tasks that the lasses of that
noble profession perform. Besides long
hours, small pay and other discomforts
mentioned by May Woolley, it’s tough
to think that a nurse must also face
undernourishment.
Nurses I have questioned guardedly
reply that meals merely lack variety and
attractiveness. “They just aren’t like those
that Mother cooked,” one girl aptly put it.
As:an excuse it is pleaded that it is diffi-
cult to cater for such large numbers and
serve all'well; yet we find upward of a
thousand at a time being catered for
luxuriously at balls and iother social
, functions. —G. H. A. (Q.).
May E. Woolley’s par. on nurses’ keep
has much to recommend it. The law says
that nurses- get quite a good wage ; but,
then, allowable deductions are taken off.
Thirty shillings a week for keep, £6 a
year for uniform allowance and sundry
other deductions reduce the wage con-
siderably. For thirty shillings one can
get quite good board with washing done,
but nurses wash their own clothes (ex-
cept uniforms and bed linen), make their
own beds, dust and tidy their own rooms.
They get paid while on holidays. That
is, they receive the amount usually paid
out to them, but no mention is made
of the thirty shillings a week deducted
for board. Yet a nurse on holidays is
not allowed to stay at the hospital, her
room immediately being allotted to some-
one else.
These are the conditions existing in
“the most modern and well-equipped
hospital in Australia” (the authorities
words, not mine), and a hospital run by
the Government. One wonders then what
happens in hospitals that do not claim
to be “the most modern.” — Coll (Q.).
Gullibility
The human race has many weaknesses,
but the most glaring these days must
surely be that of gullibility. People the
world over seem, with few exceptions, to
believe everything they read and hear.
The invincibility of the Russian
military machine, the [spectacular
victories of the Chinese and the crush-
ing defeats of the Japs, the imminent
economic collapse of the totalitarian
States and the gloomy prognostications
of Madame Tabouis—all these items
served up daily by the partisan press are *
accepted without analysis by a credent
world.
Is there anything we can do about
this excessive credulity which makes, us
the victims of propaganda and mislead-
ing advertisements?
As the creation of an analytic habit
of mind is called for, there can surely be
no better place to tackle the problem
than in our schools. Much of the time
now devoted to the inculcation of facts
could be more profitably utilised in train-
ing pupils to think for themselves. There
should be less emphasis on the. blind, ac-
ceptance of statements and more em-
phasis on the weighing of them. To .this
end debates would assist materially* as
debating teaches children to analyse a
question and to see both sides of , it be-
fore pronouncing judgment.—P. K. P.
(N.S.W.).
Fossicking
In advocating fossicking as an alterna-
tive to the dole (B. 7/6/’39) “Telluride”
omits one important factor —the effect
which a taste of it can have upon char-
acter. Some men can take it up when
nothing better is offering and drop it
: again without effort, but others, when
once bitten by the gold bug, never
recover. You can see them on every old
field, scratching and fossicking for year
after year, always hoping for a big strike
but averaging little better than tucker
money, with nothing ahead of them in
the end save the pension or the old
folks’ home.
Some of these old battlers have mates
and friends, a few even have families
which support themselves as best they
can, but many are sour, suspicious
and uncommunicative old hatters. Be-
fore starting fossicking on old fields, I’d
advise every youngster to look at a few
of those old-timers and reflect that they
were once young and not so very different
from himself, and if he still wants to go
on with it—well, he’s had good warning.
Seeking new fields is in a different cate-
gory, and it is a job for the young and
fit—running even the smallest of mining
shows calls for brains and ability. Gold
isn’t the only mineral worth hunting,
either ; a good deposit of china or fire
clay or of good building sand handy to
rail and close to a city might pay better
than 99 p.c. of gold claims.
I know, a case where three young men
are making a good living by supplying
concrete • in a district where
timber is scarce and dear. The man who
thinks only of gold would have passed
by without seeing the possibilities of that
deposit of sand and gravel right along-
side water.
Train the youngsters to hunt for
minerals by all means, but at the same
time warn them to leave the scratching
over of old goldfields to the old fellows
now on the job.—Tl. A. Lindsay (S.A).
Knighthoods
“Eureka” against the . silly business of
presenting knighthoods to those who
already have more than their share of
this world’s goods (B. 5/ 7 / ’39) touched
a responsive chord in many who, like
myself, feel a trifle disappointed in an
Australian citizen when his name graces
the Birthday, New Year or some other
“honor list.”
Perhaps the best way to end the farce
would be to wage an open- campaign of
ridicule . against the whole business. It
was a. great pity that the public indigna-
tion aroused in England when a news-
paper dubbed London “The City of
Dreadful Knights” was allowed to die
down. Matters were brought to a head
by a certain Colonel Parkinson, who in
1925 sued the College of Ambulance,
Ltd., for the return of a large donation
which he had made on the understanding
that he was to receive a knighthood in
exchange, the “honor” not having been
bestowed.
The action failed because the Court
held that the contract was against public
policy and illegal, and shortly afterwards
the Honors (Prevention of Abuses) Act
was passed, making it a criminal offence
either to give or receive money to pro-
cure a title of honor.
As things stand, it is exceedingly diffi-
cult to prove that knighthoods are bought
by contributions to party funds, but it is
equally difficult to allay the average man’s
suspicion that this is often the case. It
might be better for Australia to stand
down altogether from the honor lists, and
let her people live together as a democ-
racy of men and women instead of a
pseudo - aristocracy besprinkled with
knights, dames and obes. — Wusslean
(Vic.).
Dogs or Children
. A very old saying about taking the
children’s meat and giving it to the dogs
applies in Australia to-day even more
than it did in Palestine 2000 years ago,
according to the latest evidence from
Dubbo (N.S.W.) and elsewhere. After
the headmaster of the High School there
had stated that a large number of High
School children were suffering shockingly
from malnutrition, some to such an
extent that they made hardly any pro-
gress with their studies, the Government
Medical Officer remarked that some
people who fed their greyhounds on the
best didn’t give their children a fair
chance in the race of life. Presumably
these parents see more money for them-
selves in the tin-hare race.
Not long ago a complaint about the
greyhounds getting the best cuts and the
kids'the scraps came from Lismore. Of
course, as Alderman Meldrum pointed
out when the Kuringai Council declared
greyhounds noxious animals in its muni-
cipality, it is not the fault of the dogs.
His objection was to the kind of people
who try to live on the dogs. Australia
is following Britain in having two grow-
ing handicaps to national progress and
soundness —the idle rich at the top and
the idle poor at the bottom. The idle
rich class is small but is growing, if one
may judge by the increasing attention
given to it by even the once-intelligent
dailies. And the worst feature of the
idle poor is not the unemployed, who
mostly can’t help it and will be provided
with P.W. jobs by Mr. Stevens on loan
money—perhaps —but those who make
themselves parasitic on horses and dogs.
—Perro (N.S.W.).


Order
BLANKET BALE
See what Salvage Stores now offer:
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blanket s .
2 Heavy-quality Linen-finished
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONLY 35/-
l
SaittAGE STORES
SYDNEY
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT,
SALVAGE STORES, 36 S ™“ Y S 1
fhy
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
Parmak Electric Eeneer
cuts fencing: costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD
188 GEORGE STREET..SYDNEY. N.S.W.
The King
Stockwhip
Hand-plaited with
Best Eangaro o
Thong. plait, with
plaited handle to
match ........ 19/6
Others from ~ . 10/6
Write for free illus-
trated catalogue.
j
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
, 18 -20 WILSON S f X E WTOVVN
W. H. WILLIAMS FOR SAFER SADDLES
Don't Let the BIG
FELLOW BULLY YOU
JU JITSU
YOU
The greatest art of self-defence known.
Instructions covering the best -25
tricks explained in full, 1/3.
Also book available at 2/9.
CAN BE TALLER and
stronger in 14 Days. Instructions
covering 12 lessons show you how. Good
™ men and for men. Price only 1/3.
WRESTEING. All in and catch as
catch can, secret holds and infallible
throws. Complete instructions fully
illustrated. Price, 2/9. BOXING. Fully
explained, specially poised illustrations.
„ Price, only 2/9.
H. DOWER, Box 3384 R, G.F.0., Sydney.
“BIG SIX”
© © ©
TV
BATTERY
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
ALLEGRO SHARPENER
GILLETTE
TYPE
BLADE
FOR
POST FREE
FOR CASH.
STROPS
AND
HONES.
W.JNO. BAKERS
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
>' 1..
9m
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabest Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
TeMfafi 1 Month
■ -
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe bear-
ing aid. Non-electrica)
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—No bead-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms;
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at IXS Collins Street, Melbourne.
WJNCHKTW
SKATES
12/6-18/6
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
STOP-A-LEAK STICK
Permanently repairs Roofs of
Iron, Slate, Tile, Shingle or
Composition. Stops leajts
around chimneys, - skylights,
windows; mends flashings, gut*
EXinlh ter * an< * eaves l fills cracks in
Roughs, baths, tanks, .tubs,
ll®l==S“ssinks, metal and earthenware
■The
o7"~ . , pipes,; caulks boats, &c. The
ru° P ifi i “ is a tou §h rubbery" material
hl<e black putty .that sticks, firmly wherever it is
placed. -It is unaffected by heat, cold or'moisture.
' never crumbles or dries out. Better than cement
or solder for most mends. No skill needed in
applying. Price 1/6 per stick, carriage, paid.
Obtainable only from
UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth. Street, Melb.. CI. (
NEW INVENTIONS.
No. I—Re-Nu1 —Re-Nu Wonder Farmers’ Garden Tool. Only
weig-hs 31bs. Does over 10 different jobs. One
man can do 5 men’s work daily. Hoes, rakes,
shovels, furrows, scarifies, slashes, drills, levels,
cultivates, pulverises, cuts, trims lawns, hedges,
picks weeds, nettles, clears undergrowth; from trees,
posts, shrubs, malice roots, suckers, fences, black-
berries, bushes, corners, rows, prunes trees. Per-
forms hundreds other jobs; easier, faster, better.
Retail price, 15/-. No. 2—Re-Xu Liquid Electro-
Plater. Just rub or brush on. Replates like new
nickel, silver, copper, gold, zinc, tin, every class
metal, 2031 other articles without dismantling.
25/- outfit. Xo. 3—Re-Xu Battery Welder, brazes,
solders all metals to metals, 43/6. No. 4—-Nu-Metal.
Pour in plug holes, reconditions while-U-drive.
Saves rcbore, ends piston slap, oil, petrol, waste,
etc., 6/6 tube. No. s—Re-Xu5 —Re-Xu Plastic Leather
Rubber. Does 1001 repairs, 2/6. Free trials offer.
RB-NU CO., 12 Swan Street, Richmond.
A Real
Comfort
to Smokers
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “Lcvysown” Quality
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOL LEVY. Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
’ 713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
CHARCOAL GAS
SAVES 90 p.c. ON COSTS!
Any handy man can make his own
efficient gas plant—from the crude oil
drum type to the latest design—to
operate tractors, cars, trucks, or any
type of spark plug engine.
No alterations to the engine are neces-
sary, and you can run on petrol or
charcoal gas at will. My simple plans
and instructions, which can be pur-
chased for £l, show you how to do
the job.
F, MAHER, 268 O’Connell St., Sydney.
TARZAN'S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
ĵ
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd..
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTEEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
deaf:
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW!
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
VIOLINS
and ACCESSORIES
Violin Outfits, complete with Violin, Bow,
Case and Book showing how to teach
yourself, £2/10/-, £3/10/- and £5. Violin
Cases. 12/6, 17/6, £1 and 30/-. Violin
Bows, 3/6, 5/-, 7/6. 10/- and £l. ALL.
SUPPLIED IN ANY SIZE. Strings, 2/8
4/6, 5/- and 10/- a Set. FREIGHT FREE
if you mention “The Bulletin” when
ordering.
D. J. MACARTNEY & CO.
14 Basement, Kembla Building,
58 Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
STOPvouaßupture
Worries/
Oue leading Doctor on 3/11/’3S
says:—
“1 order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Koussel Appli-
ance you get greater security ami
comfort. To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
- ..... ■ .... —.■ - ■ '—■— : : •_ ■
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
A PERFECT TIMEKEEPER
DUSTPROOI
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
•
[deal for Outdoors,
Sport, etc. Essen-
tially a man’s
watcli. Not affected
by tropical climes. Guaranteed 10 Years.
Usually 75/-. Special to £* *7 If*
“Bulletin” Readers, Post Free.fj 4
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring catalogue.
DIAM'OND y% * g. ||2 MARKET SI
* WATCH SYDNEY,
SPECIALISTS in iZmZm? OPP DAVIDJONES
The
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
Challenger
j
Ui
AIR-COOIiED
4-CYCEE
SINGIE-CIXINDEH
PETROL MOTORS.
4 to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £l7/10/-
Agents all States.
Price Elst gladly
forwarded.
/
aMPIIOh (A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
66 CLARENCE ST. SYDNEY.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
It I
Jr*
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty„ Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St.. 355 William St
liedfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vie.
TOMATOES
V>/ UP TO THE ROOF!
ĵ
OVER ICAVT. EROM
ONE PLANT!
NOTHING EVER LIKE IT
BEFORE! In a growing period
of A YEAR it climbs to 20
feet on trellis or fence, etc
Produces TWO BUSHELS
choice large red Tomatoes
PER PLANT. Being- an “ALL-
SEASONS” Variety, it can be
sown NOW. 2/6 packet, posted.
NEW 100 PER GENT. “NON-
;^ Gr . r ' PHRE WHITE HEALTH TOMATO!
white Beauty.’ Disease and Drought-proof!
2/6 packet, posted. TIMBER KILLER! Kills
largest trees, ROOTS TO TOP, IN 15 DAYS.
5/6 tin, posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. 17a Pit t Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
P 1 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
forgone** C th Py , ~T hh Bulletin every week
T enclosed/ V^ at 1 1° not m,ss a sin § le issue,
sunhsrrfni in ~ PUS exchan g e ). the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia
Zealand should send 30/-.)
and New
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
26171’39 (See Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Gut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


Stick to a
... for preference, stick to Gilbey’s
—smooth, safe and dependable. It
bucks you up, but never lets you
down . . . GILBEY’S now costs no
more than ordinary gins.
A
//j
>7i
f;SQT%
(i0 AR \N,
ffiAGllg
It
C *Btl
"
h* . c
4s.r*/
G «*
0r _/ f J>«*®
9**
■
E GIN OF GENERATIONS
