

G
N
L
/ v
m
E
D
E
H
/
<*J)
T
T
\>
: v-'l:
=/i
***
A**
v\OV
Y>°
cP
\\Js'
T
siw
:»*
<\^
»? v wf
SsS
v,\e
S'*
V'°
A*
<J'V>
cO>
«,e^
\V
oN'
\*
ss*?
£
Ht 2
X<#;
WOLFE'S
czJbrumdtic^Sckmlam
SCHNAPPS
“As Good for Women
as for Men ”
KNOWN TO
GENERATIONS
OF
AUSTRALIANS
FOR ITS UNIQUE
MEDICINAL
PROPERTIES
W.S. 75.8.
The Bulletin
Sentence Competition No. I: The Prizewinners
Vol. 60.—N0. 3077.
Wednesday, February 1, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
ANCESTORS OF THE MAORIS.
“Long before Columbus made his great voyage,”
writes Dr. Peter Buck, introducing his Vikings of the
Sunrise (Stokes ; per Angus and Robertson), “a Stone-
Age people had crossed the Pacific from continent to
continent across its widest part, and had colonised
every habitable island within its vast interior.” The
quotation indicates at once the sweep of his story and
the pride with which he tells it.
Now Director of the Bernice P. Bishop Museum,
Honolulu, Dr. Buck’s own career has been a most
noteworthy voyage. Half-Maori, half-Irish, he was
born in the Maoriland township of Urenui, which is
celebrated for a beach and the last pub before the
“dry” King Country, but has little that outwardly
marks it as conducive to scholarship. He says that
after he had graduated in medicine at Otago Univer-
sity and had been appointed a Government Health
Officer to the Maoris, he realised that to win the
support of chiefs older than himself he would have
to impress them by a display of Maori scholarship.
He had gained the foundation for his career at
Te Aute College, and had proved his interest in the
Maori people during vacations by sleeping—“in spite
of the protests of my relatives with houses of sawn
timber” —beside his grandmother on the earthen floor
of her whare. During the war he served as medical
officer with the Maori contingent in Egypt and Gal-
lipoli, and later with other units. Back in M.L., he
became Director of Maori Hygiene, and in 1927 joined
the Bishop Museum to assist in a survey of Poly-
nesian history.
Dr. Buck’s pride in his Polynesian blood contri-
butes very greatly to the charm of Vikings of the
Sunrise. His Maori name —Te Rangi Hiroa —appears
on the title-page, and among the very few remarks
he makes about his own career is: “I am binomial,
bilingual, and inherit a mixture of two bloods that I
would not change for a total of either.” His concern
for the future of the Maoris is revealed throughout
the book, which closes with a moving epilogue based
on the Maori saying “The old net is cast aside ; a
new net goes fishing”:
The stone temples have been destroyed and the
temple drums and shell trumpets have long been silent.
Tane, Tu, Rongo, Tangaroa and the other members of
the divine family of the Sky-father and the Earth-
mother have left us. The great voyaging canoes have
crumbled to dust... .the regalia and symbols of spiritual
and temporal power have been scattered among the
museums of other peoples.
The old net is full of holes, its meshes have rotted,
and it has been laid aside.
What new net goes a-fishing?
With that spirit behind everything he writes, he
is able to describe the Polynesians with rare sympathy
and kindly humor. Visiting Rarotonga, for instance,
he was offered the customary feasts, and on one occa-
sion forgot to end his preliminary speech with the
exhortation “Divide up the food that we of the same
blood may eat together.” A dignitary whispered to
him, “Will we load all the cooked pigs and the food
into your conveyance?” Unless the guest invited the
hosts to share the meal, the food that they had provided
was his private property.
In Rarotonga, too, was the sick woman he was
asked to doctor, and the husband who argued violently
with her about the locality of the pain. Finding
nothing wrong with the woman, Dr. Buck gave her
some pills, and “to reward the husband for sharing
so vehemently in his wife’s symptoms” gave him some
pills also.
Plays telling the stories of mythological or .his-
torical characters, which are acted in many of the
Pacific islands, are interestingly described, with the
information that no Polynesian, for reasons of
courtesy, would dream of acting a drama about
another man’s ancestor. Leaving the Polynesians for
a paragraph, he has a kind word for the Australian
aboriginal, mentioning that he must have reached Aus-
tralia by sea, and that he “deserves all honor for his
achievement early in the Stone Age.” He quotes
Wood .Tones on the aboriginals’ ancestry: “They are
not Negroids; their next of kin are among the races
of the north and west of the Mediterranean area.”
Raiatea, near Tahiti, the ancient Havai’i, known
as “mother of lands,” is the hub of the Polynesian
world with which Vikings of the Sunrise is concerned.
Dr. Buck, who knew from Maori tradition that some
of his own ancestors had come from that island, was
pilgrim as well as investigator when he landed there,
and writes:
I felt I should reverently pick up some of the sacred
soil from the first footprint that I made on stepping
ashore. But it could not be done, for we landed on a
modem wharf, with wooden buildings forming the back-
ground. It was all wrong We took pictures of
speechless stone and inanimate rock. I had made my
pilgrimage to Taputapu-atea, but the dead could not
speak to me. It was sad to the verge of tears.
From Havai’i, says Dr. Buck, the Polynesians radi-
ated through the Pacific. They had probably worked
east in remote ages from somewhere in India, and
had sojourned in Indonesia before reaching the Pacific.
In their travels, they got to some extraordinary places.
Rarotongan mythology has a tale of a gentleman
called ’Ui-te-rangiora who in the seventh century
sailed to the sea named Tai-rua-koko, and saw the
rocks that grew out of it, the long hair that floated on
the surface, the sea covered with foam like arrowroot,
the animal that dived down under the sea, a dark place
where the sun was not seen, and the high white rocks
without vegetation on them. All of which means “the
sea south of Rapa, bull kelp, the frozen sea, sea-lions,
the Antarctic night and icebergs.” Dr. Buck also
inclines to the belief that an unknown Polynesian
voyager travelled 4000 miles from the Marquesas or
Mangareva to the coast of Peru and brought back
the sweet potato.
He is sceptical concerning many theories of the
original home of the Polynesians, and sceptical, too, of
all romantic mystery-making about the Easter Island
images. The image-makers, he believes, were Poly-
nesians ; the stone came from a quarry on the island ;
the monoliths were probably no heavier than the great
tree-trunks the Maoris dragged from the forest for
their war canoes, and they weren’t erected by “thou-
sands of slaves” but by the islanders themselves ; the
bird-cult was a local development inspired by the sooty
tern and the domestic fowl. There was (alas!) no
vanished continent, no lost civilisation.
Pitcairn Island, however, remains a mystery to
him. When the Bounty mutineers found refuge
the island was uninhabited, but a temple on the cliff
above Bounty Bay proved that Polynesians had once
lived there. When the temple was destroyed, a human
skeleton was found with its head pillowed on a pearl-
shell. There are legends that give a clue to the people
who lived there, but there is no explanation of how
ihey were exterminated or why (if such was the case)
they left the island.
Of Maoriland itself Dr. Buck has not a great deal
to say that is not fairly well known ; but the layman
may learn with surprise how widely distributed
through the Pacific are the legends which are gener-
allv accepted purely as Maori. Maui, who fished the
country out of the sea, is credited with similar feats
all over the Pacific. Vikings of the Sunrise, of course,
is an authoritative work, and as such has a great deal
of matter that is of interest mainly to the student; but
so much is of general interest that Dr. Buck has very
well accomplished his object of “making known to
the public some of the romance associated with the
settlement of Polynesia by a Stone-Age people who
deserve to rank among the world’s great navigators.”
African Adventurer.
Some, perhaps, will find it easier to admire
Marius Fortie’s autobiography, Black and Beautiful
(Hale, Ltd.), than to admire its leading character. He
does not admire himself. He stretches himself out on
the rack to undergo the emotional tortures imposed
by a guilty conscience. In his youth in German East
Africa, about the beginning of the century, he was
guilty of injustice to a noble native, whose conduct in
the affair and before and after was exemplary. Fortie
might have written his book largely to make amends
by putting on record his high estimate of the African
native character, and working in some propaganda for
better treatment of the natives under the mandate
Britain now holds over the greater part of that
territory.
On matters about which some might have, or
pretend to have, a conscience—the half-caste descen-
dants left in his tracks —he has no conscience at all.
He is proud of the achievement; he introduced fresh
blood, which makes for change, preventing a people’s
stock from being too much of a sameness, like ter-
mites.
Fortie was little more than a boy when he first
arrived in East Africa. An Italian, son of a Christian
father and a Jewish mother, he was left an orphan,
and was inspired by the story of Stanley’s search for
Livingstone to head for Africa in search of a fortune.
Working his way out in a ship’s galley, he was bullied
by a huge German, but befriended by Omar Sayid,
an Abyssinian native. Landed in East Africa he was
soon well on the road to ruin on lines picturesquely
described in the play “White Cargo.” I. hen one day,
instead of a Tondelayo, there came to him a beauti-
ful girl of about fls or 16 named Mirembe.
By a custom of the country, he was able to buy
this young person on the terms that at the end of a
year with him he would give her a paper freeing her.
He has expressed his gratitude to her in every line of
his idealistic and convincing depiction of her character
and their life together. • Soon he was engaged in trad-
ing, and she went inland with him. When the time
came for her to have a son he left her, but not in any
way disgracefully. By his account, the parting did not
trouble her natural serenity an iota. She was free,
not that she valued that at all; she was to have a
white man’s son, and that she valued very highly, as,
indeed, the father does also. As the former chosen
tent-mate of a white man, she had her own high value
in the eyes of possible mates, and had no trouble
securing one. On all counts, perfectly clear conscience
to Fortie.
He had a succession of such tent-mates, each story
following much the same pleasant lines and mostly
ending similarly. The ending to one of them was not
so satisfactory. Zahabu the regal, and, as were all of
them in his eyes, the supremely beautiful, was down
at the side of a stream with a girl companion doing
the washing one day when he happened along and
overheard their conversation. The lady of his heart
was holding forth in terms that struck him as highly
unflattering. She was comparing him with the big
strong bucks of her own race, a comparison that
threw him into a towering rage. Forthwith he gave
her the order to depart, and when his old friend Omar
came to plead on her behalf ordered Omar out of
his life also. It is this act for which he cannot for-
give himself, and as he sets it forth there will be few
of his readers to forgive him for it, either.
He had other tent-mates after that, before leaving
Africa for a long stretch of years. Not long since he
went back there with the idea of finding his former
friend and making amends, and to see how his off-
spring were faring. The offspring he found faring
fairly well; there were grandchildren for him to
admire ; and he has a chapter which touches authentic
pathos descriptive of his reunion with Mirembe, now
blind and led about by her son, but still Mirembe,
treasuring her freedom-paper as their marriage cer-
tificate.
Though most of the guides and carriers had been
killed off, he got together a team and once more set
out on safari over hundreds of miles as he had done
in the old days. When at last he reached Omar it
was too late. The old man’s mind had become clouded
over, and after some pathetic efforts to make amends
Fortie left Africa again, and now writes his book —
an autobiography of unusual quality, which takes on
in an extraordinary measure the nobility of character
which the author saw all about him, shaming his
own, and takes on also the brooding, dark emotional-
ism of the jungles which are largely its setting.
Reproofs in Rhyme.
With the Ballet prancing about Australia and
the dreadful temptation to acquire knowledgeable con-
versation on the subject through ninepence worth of
Arnold Haskell in Penguin form, Herbert Farjeon’s
Nine Sharp and Earlier (Dent) comes as a very useful
corrective. The first of the light, bright satires has
the sonorous title “When Bolonsky Danced Belushka.”
Mr. Farjeon is on the track of the true-blue
balletomane:
Though to-day’s “Boutique Fantasque” ’ll do for Haskell and
his lot,
It is not good enough for us! it is rather too rough for us!
We miss the old precision on the beat and on the dot
When Bolonsky attacked a scene in “Giselle” or in “JLac des
Cygnes.”
In “Igor,” too,
He used to do
Cataclysmic, cosmic things!
While in “Sylphides”
We’re all agreed
One night we really saw his wings I
The chorus—this piece was sung in Farjeon’s
revue “Nine Sharp”—gushes on, aided by the ingenious
rhyme “lyrical” and “miracle”:
When Bolonsky danced “Belushka” in September, 1910,
How poetic! how lyrical! what a feat! what a miracle!
Oh, the sighing of the women! and the swooning of the men!
How we screamed and shrieked and hooted, how we whooped
and how we howled!
We were ravished and uprooted! we were frankly disem-
bowelled !
You will never know the throb, the glow, the bliss that we
knew then,
When Bolonsky danced “Belushka” in September, 1910!
Nine Sharp and Earlier is written mainly for an
English audience. Few Australians, when Sydney’s
Circular Quay has yet to be built up, will worry about
“Pulling Down London” ; few Australians will want
to croon “Thank God for the B.B.C.any more than
they’d want to thank Mr. Cameron for 2KY. But
there are plenty of the pieces that can easily be trans-
ferred to this side of the world; “Cruise Baby” and
“Miss Siberia” are familiar enough monstrosities.
“Brainy beards” and intellectuals swooning with joy
about Mickey Mouse can be observed in suitable
localities, and every theatregoer has suffered from (or
probably participated in) “The Charge of the Late
Brigade”:
Bark the shin and bruise the toe!
Knock the knee as in you go!
Jab the elbow in the eye!
Shout a loud apology!
Seek the sixpence! crush the feet!
Block the view and bang the seat!
None shall stop the nightly raid
Of the Always Late Brigade!
If that is a trifle exclamatory, there is in the same
poem the quieter wit of
Nothing shall effectively
Speed the coming guest,
and a little further on there is the truly touching
thought “Even Hitler Had a Mother”:
Even Hitler had a mother,
Even Mussolini had a ma,
When they were babies they said Goo, goo, goo,
And sucked their thumbs and got wet through.
Of similarly general interest are Mr. Farjeon’s
literary excursions—“ Theme Songs for Shakspeare,”
“Bronte Blues,” and the glorious “Paean to Nature”
in the eighteenth-century manner:
I walked upon the pleasing hills
And gazed at the agreeable view;
My bosom with engaging thrills
Was fluttered through and through ;
After the “grateful” fields, the “welcome” woods, the
“well-arranged and steady sea,” he contemplates
The timely hen, the agile dog,
The lowly yet the cheerful sow,
Her kind, if common, mate, the hog,
The meditative cow;
Then note how the persuasive trees
In interesting buds abound,
And scatter them with genteei ease
On the delightful ground.
After that it was surely a tactical error to include
a solitary serious poem about a mushroom, a very
accurate imitation of Edmund Blunden but neither
good parody nor good verse. However, Mr. Farjeon
is so delightfully savage on the subject of “Rock-
bottom Blondes” that a momentary infatuation with
an aged mushroom is more than pardonable.
Victorian Knight-errant.
Wilfred Scawen Blunt, subject of a biography
by Edith Finch (Cape), pursued self-expression from
his birth in 1840 to his death in 1922 with such deter-
mination and success as would leave most of its
modern exponents breathless; nor, apparently, was
he ever disconcerted by the fact that the character
he sought to impress upon the world was a curious
study in contrasts.
He conceived his true role as that of squire on
his Sussex estates, yet he was a great traveller and
expended much energy fighting for the liberty and
autonomy of Arabia, Egypt, India and Ireland. H*
was also a poet and a pamphleteer. At home he
was a Tory of the old feudal school; abroad he was
a liberal and, what is more, a logical democrat.
“Forms of government did not concern Blunt except
in so far as they were acceptable to the people
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Business Integrity.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
"THE SENIOR STORE”
Zlcdfl c ljsicOih}
'Jor Ifcur Working atuf failure Hour*
V-V
m
? a
Mm
m
: :/,
• •
m
V
m
■
■:■ XX.
5Sg
; as x^asiS
'S.Sgt
isss®
-X. X
A A
'
&
35'- SPORTS COATS
All wool Australian Donegal
Tweeds. Unlined for summer
comfort. Plain or action backs.
Fawn, Grey and Blue Grey
shades. A coat that is popu-
lar 12 months in the year. All
sizes for men from 9 to 16
stone. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each
SALE PRICE, each
t6yuy
35/-
26/6
17'6 Sports TROUSERS
Light Grey, Mid Grey, Blue
Grey smooth-faced Woollen
Worsteds; tailored by Anthony
Horderns' with full sports cut
and make. 30 to 46 in. waists.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, pair 17/6
SALE PRICE, pair
49
14/9
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor—George St.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.IV.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
if
WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW
abee
9/6 ENGLISH DRILL OVERALLS AT
Reliable in every way. Khaki or Navy.
Absolutely the best make . . we give a guar-
antee with every pair. Size *4 to 104 inches
for men from 9 to 18 stone. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price, pair : 9/6
SALE PRICE, pair 8/6
86
★ Send in for FREE Copy of
OUR NEW SALE CATALOGUE
Therein you will find everything in modern-to-the-minute
merchandise at genuine generous Sale Price-reductions 1
Do not delay ordering your copy—remember. Sale periods
are always limited. We will mail yours immediately—free
of charge.
45'-
2-PIECE
SUMMER
SUITS
42'-
English fawn silk finished Pop-
lin. Unlined coat and trousers.
Can be laundered. Look smart,
fresh, and are no doubt sen-
sible. Sizes 4 to 9|. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 45/-
SALE PRICE, suit 42/-
W
'X'
\
4.
; -
■i
:X.:&
84i
COTTON
Tweed Work
TROUSERS
For Work. Well made . . .
strong and durable. In Aus-
tralian Cotton Tweeds. Neat
designs. Sizes, inches, waists,
30 to 46. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 8/11
SALE PRICE, pair 7/11
10/6 "UNITY"
Tweed TROUSERS
96
Tailored in Australian Woollen
Tweeds in serviceable Greys
and Fawns. Well cut and
strongly made. 30 to 46 inch
waists. Larger at a little extra
cost. Regular Price, pair 10/6
SALE PRICE, pair 9/6


Brief Sketch of a M an in Defeat
alan OF action
BY DON EDWARDS
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS
SHE was still tired from yesterday’s washing, and
Freddie had been howling most of the morning,
and now Sid was late for lunch. She knew how
he would be when he got home —unless he had
had any luck with Cousens, and that wasn’t likely.
He would start on her as if he were talking to
Cousens and let her have it all over again. God
knows, it had been going on for long enough now. If
only he would consent to leave the place and try
somewhere else. There must be other jobs about.
She saw him coming down the long street, and
she knew at once from his slow walk that things had
gone badly. “June,” she said, “you take Freddie out-
side till I call you.” There was no sense in letting
the children hear it all again.
He entered the kitchen slowly, without noticing
her, and walked across to the stove.
“Are you ready for lunch, Sid?” she asked.
“Yes,” he said, but did not move or look up.
She put the food on the table. Soon he would
start again, and his useless denunciations and frenzied
arguments would sweep about her till she felt like
shouting back at him. Carefully, she watched him,
anxious to avoid exciting him. “Come on ; your lunch
is getting cold,” she said.
“Do you know what Cousens said? Do you
know?” he shouted, his voice rising to a crescendo
that seemed to split her ears and confuse her.
“No, Sid. What did he say?” she asked in an
attempt to humor him.
Before she had finished speaking he was shout-
ing again. “He said it was no good. He said the
company’s rules were fixed. The company ; who is
the company? By God, I’d like to know that. He
said my carelessness had cost the company a lot of
money. Well, they owe me something, too. Didn’t
I work for them for fifteen years, and didn't I work
well? And now they treat me this way. Well, they
aren’t going to get away with it, 1 tell you.”
She knew he wasn’t half through yet, and she
felt like screaming at him, “Shut up, Sid. Don’t you
know when you’re beaten? Let’s leave the place and
try somewhere else,” but she kept her lips shut against
the words that threatened to burst out, and walked
over to the window, feigning interest in the bare slope
of the hill, with the big buildings of the mine scat-
tered along its top.
His voice followed her, enfolded her and set her
tapping nervously against the window-sill. “Surely
a person is entitled to one slip in fifteen years. But
no, money is sacred. That’s what it is—sacred. It’s
more valuable than life, and I told him so. I said,
‘What about Lynch? He made a mistake that cost
a man’s life, but you didn’t sack him. Hell, no. What
about him?’ And he bloody well couldn’t answer.”
Her tapping became a quick beat in time to his
vehemence, and she swung round on him suddenly to
say, “Don’t swear, Sid. It won’t do you any good.
The children will hear you.”
“And then he bloody well threatened to have me
put out,” he shouted. Then he stopped suddenly as
if the memory was too much for him, and the silence
in the room was almost as trying as his shouting had
been.
The food was cold now, but that didn’t seem to
matter. There were so many other things to be con-
sidered : Freddie’s cough, a dress for June, shoes with
holes in them, the bill for the milk. And yet he could
stand there and rave and shout as if she was to blame,
as if he was the only person who had suffered. Why
didn’t he give up fighting Cousens and the company
and get out of the place?
She thought of her mother’s letter again and its
offer. Goodness knows, her mother couldn’t help
much, but she could give them shelter till Sid found
something else. She told him softly and slowly, fearful
that she would start the torrent of his anger again,
and with a pleading in her voice, because she realised
how serious the position had become. “Mother says
we can go and live with her till you find some other
job.” She paused. He was looking down at the floor.
“That would be best, especially for the children.
Freddie hasn’t been too well lately. I am worried
about him.”
He interrupted her. “They can’t put me off like
that. Not after all these years. I’ll show them. I’ve
got a plan. You wait till to-night. You just wait.”
She turned towards the door and called the
children in to lunch.
AFTER the meal she sent the children out to play,
and she kept away from her husband as much as
possible. All the afternoon he stayed about the house,
wandering from room to room, or sitting on the
verandah staring up at the mine and the bis officer
of the company.
“Just wait till to-night. Just you wait,” he
repeated several times ominously when she came near
him. She felt like telling him to stop moping and do
something about the house. There was plenty to be
done, and a bit of exercise would take his mind off
things.
During tea he hardly spoke at all, and when the
children were in bed he sat in the corner of the kitchen
from where he could see the blazing lights about the
pithead on the top of the hill. This was the first
night for weeks that he hadn’t railed at the company
and Cousens. She was thankful for the silence as she
sat at the table patching and altering the children's
clothes. At about eleven o’clock he glanced at the
clock, rose suddenly, pulled on his cap and went out.
“Where are you going, Sid?” she called after him.
“To get my job back,” he said. “I’ll show them
they can't treat me like this. I’ll show them.”
SHE woke to a realisation that Sid was still out.
Her outflung arm fell across the empty bed.
Quickly she reached for the clock and carried it to
the window, where the dim light showed her the time
was after two o’clock. Sid should have been home by
this. Something must have happened to him.
Hurriedly she dressed, shivering slightly, despite
the warmth of the morning air. Freddie stirred slightly
and coughed. She didn’t like leaving the children
alone. What if Freddie woke? Perhaps she should
waken June and tell her that she was going, but that
would only alarm her. The child was too young to
accept such responsibility.
Carefully she crept out of the room. Outside,
she hurried into the street, but stood in the warm dark-
ness wondering what to do. Sid’s plan must have had
something to do with the mine. She must go up there.
She ran through the dark streets, her feet clipping
sharply on the hard pavements.
By the time she reached the foot of the hill she
was walking. Far above her the lights of the mine
shone, the only lights in the sleeping town. Sounds
drifted down to her through the night air, the rever-
berant clash of trucks, the metallic note of machinery.
The road curved past the big dumps and slanted up
the hillside. It would take her twenty minutes to
reach the mine. She began to worry about the
children. What if Freddie woke up and called her?
Suppose he got out of bed to look for her?
Outside John Kerr’s house she stopped. He
might have been at the mine and know something
about Sid. If he did it would save her the walk to
the mine and she could get back to the children
quickly. It was some time before her timid knocking
was answered by a sleepy woman.
“Is that you, Mrs. Kerr? I was wondering if
your husband knows anything about Sid.”
“Come inside and I’ll wake him,” the woman
answered. “He finished his shift at midnight, but
didn’t get home till late.”
Presently John Kerr entered the room.
“Hullo, Mrs. Melville,” he said. “It’s about Sid,
is it?”
“Yes, yes. He went out before midnight and
hasn’t come back yet. Did you happen to see him?”
“Too right, I saw him,” the man said, “but he
should be home before this. When I came out at
midnight there were the chaps of the next shift
crowded round the powerhouse and trying to squeeze
inside. I pushed my way up to one of the windows
with some of the men, and saw Sid perched on a
platform up near the roof. You should have seen
him. He was shouting out a speech, something about
getting his job back and money being sacred.”
“Yes,” she said. “I know. Go on, go on.”
“Well, he reckoned that if Cousens didn’t take
him back he’d heave a couple of iron bars down into
the works and bust them up. And he had two big
iron bars with him. Cousens was standing below in
his pyjamas with the mob. Sid got so excited he
didn’t watch the ladder behind him, and Ted Dixon
sneaked up it and grabbed, him. Then they took him
to the gates of the mine and pitched him out. No, he
wasn’t hurt at all. The men only laughed at him.”
“Thank you,” she muttered. “I must go now.”
His voice followed her to the gate. “He should
have been home long ago.”
SHE hoped he wouldn’t take it too hard, and she
wondered where he was now ; but in a way it
might be a good thing. It might make him realise
that there was no hope of getting back at the mine.
She could stand the hardship caused by his unemploy-
ment, but she couldn’t endure the sense of hopeless-
ness that his futile efforts and arguments gave her.
If only he would face the facts, forget his obsession
about Cousens and the job with the company, and
try to get something else. Well, to-night’s affair must
have cured him.
She could see a light in the kitchen window. When
she entered he stood up in surprise.
“I thought you were in bed. Where have you
been?” he said.
She noticed that one leg of his trousers was torn
at the knee. He looked tired and helpless. Unless he
{Continued on next page.)


mentioned the night’s happenings she wouldn’t let
him see that she knew anything, so she replied: “I
wondered where you were and went out to find you.
Then I saw the light in the kitchen.”
He was looking from the window at the lights
along the hilltop.
She spoke quietly. “Suppose we accept mother’s
offer, Sid?”
He did not hear her ; his eyes were fixed on the
distant lights.
“Sid,” she said more loudly, “suppose we leave
here and live with mother till you find another job?”
He turned quickly, his hands clenched, his eyes
staring, and shouted at her: “If they think I’m beaten
they’re mistaken. The only thing they value is money,
but I’ll bloody well make them take me back.” Then
louder than ever: “I’ve got a plan. You just wait.”
The only answer she could find was “Don’t wake
the children,” but in the dark bedroom she cried
softly.
by C. A. BAGGE
THE fat man had done most of the talking,
Mackey reflected. “Sugar is done,” he’d said,
“but tobacco” He’d gone off in a long rig-
marole about tobacco, about the price they were
gettin’ for different classes of leaf, about the best soil
to plant tobacco in, an’ how careful you had to be
with the seedbeds, or you’d get disease in the plants.
He’d rattled on like a gramophone, Mackey thought
with a grin: how to grade the leaf so as to get the
best price for it, how to build a bulkshed, and God
knows what, while Mackey had just kept looking out
of the window of the train.
Then they had climbed the coastal range and
come into the forest country. It was mostly mangy
scrub and outcrops of stone and twisted tea-trees grow-
ing in the claypans, and he’d said to himself, “Gawd
Almighty, how’re you going to grow anything in
country like this?”
But the fat man, as if he’d guessed what he was
thin king, had waved his arm towards the window an’
said, “Now, look at this country! You wouldn’t
think it would feed a bandicoot, would you? But
this is just what you want for growin’ tobacco, thirty
to forty inches of rain a year, not a drop more. An’
you wait till it starts to rain in December, an’ you
won’t know the place. Wonderful.”
R / ACKEY shoved a log into the fireplace and went
1 into the kiln to examine the leaf. It was yellow-
ing nicely. Again his thoughts reverted to the fat man
of a year ago, but in a drowsy sort of way. This sit-
ting up night after night looking after the kiln an’
picking leaf most of the day didn’t give you much
time to sleep.
The fat man had asked him was he married, and
he'd said, “Yes, but I’m not bringin’ the missus and
the kids up until I get a crop in and get settled down.”
As he thought of the family down south, the
drowsiness fell off him somewhat. They’d be finished
the separating by this time. “Gawd,” he thought,
“fancy slaving at dairying.”
He looked idly, sleepily, towards the clearing,
bordered on all sides by the stumps and trunks of
ironbarks and box-trees and the dried-up tufts of
pandanus palms. Row upon row of tobacco plants,
bare save for a fringe of top leaves, stretched into the
darkness.
With sleepy satisfaction he let his eyes rest on
the stack of leaf under the lean-to beside the kiln and
set to calculating as he had done so many nights
before. Six hundred pounds of leaf to the acre. That
makes three thousand six hundred pound. At three bob
a pound for the graded leaf, that’ll be ten thousand
eight hundred shillings. Ten thousand eight hundred
shillings makes five hundred and
He was awakened by the pungent smell of burning
cloth and a prickling sensation on his back. His
flannel was smouldering. He pulled it off and looked
up at the shower of sparks shooting from the chimney.
“Shouldn’t have put that pine-log on the fire,” he
thought, irritated, and, throwing the smoking flannel
aside, went round the corner of the kiln to the tent to
put on a coat.
He decided to boil the billy, and sat down on his
haunches in front of the kerosene-tin that served for
a stove. Waving his battered straw hat slowly to and
fro he got the fire going and put the billy on.
The glare of the little fire played uncertainly over
his sunken cheeks and puckered-up forehead. He
looked broodingly at the red flames licking the sides
of the hissing billy. Yes, he’d build a decent house as
soon as the crop was sold and send for the wife and
kids. They’d come in handy, too, picking and string-
ing leaf when the season was on. He’d grub a couple
more acres ; perhaps put up another kiln. He might
get hold of a utility cheap. Be able to run the missus
and kids into the pictures.
He shook himself, twitching his shoulders. He
felt stiff, muscle-bound. “A man isn’t getting any
younger,” he reflected. Suddenly he swung round, his
nostrils quivering. With a roar of mingled despair and
rage he leapt towards the other side of the kiln.
stack of brushwood used for lighting the fire
* was burning with a steadily-mounting flame, lick-
ing the heap of logs stacked against the lean-to beside
the kiln. He suddenly remembered the smouldering
flannel he’d thrown aside. With frantic energy he
began heaving the outside logs away. The bark was
charred and shrivelling with the heat. The fire burnt
almost without smoke, silently eating up the brush-
wood, crackling and roaring through the pipes of the
hollow, bone-dry ironbarks.
He worked madly to get the big logs away from
the shed. The chaffbag in his hand began to smoulder,
caught fire. He threw it aside. The coat was hinder-
ing his movements ; he pulled it off, wrapping it round
the ends of the burning logs. A heap of coals fell on
his foot. With a roar of pain, he sent the sandshoe
flying into the flames.
The fire rose higher in a red pillar of light, sway-
ing this way and that with the slight puffs of wind.
It veered towards the kiln. With a sizzling sound it
began to eat into the wall of pine logs.
Mackey ran to the tank. He remembered before
he reached it that it was nearly empty. In a sudden
fit of rage he sent the little tank rattling hollowly to
the ground. “It’s no good,” he said aloud ; “I can’t
do nothing.”
He stepped back a few yards and leaned his
sweaty, grime-blackened shoulders against a sapling,
looking dully at the fire. The burning pine gave off
an acrid smell. Fragments of smouldering bark were
sent whirling into the air. The gum was boiling at
the ends of the logs, dissolving into puffs of black
smoke as it ignited. The leaves and stalks of the plants
growing near the kiln shrivelled and bent with the
heat.
Remembering the billy of tea, he limped in a
wide circle to the camp. He wrapped a piece of cloth
round his blistered foot and sat down on an upturned
kerosene-case in front of the stove, his back turned
towards the kiln. His blistered hands, palms turned
upwards, rested on his knees. A drop of sweat hung,
glittering, on the tip of his nose. The fire behind was
belching forth a thick yellow smoke. The acrid,
nauseating fumes swept towards him, made him cough
and wipe his eyes.
“That’s the tobacco,” he thought. He rose suddenly
and went towards the tent. Without once looking
back he threw the flap aside and slumped down on his
bunk. In a few seconds he was asleep.
'"P HE sun was already getting warm, and Mackey’s
singed eyebrows were puckered up with the sweat
running into his eyes. His face looked like a raw
steak and shone greasily with the vaseline smeared
over it. The axe rose and fell rhythmically, stopping
only to wrench loose the slivers jambed in the yellow,
resinous* cypress-pine. His blistered lips kept moving
as he worked. “I’ll put up a bigger kiln and grub a
couple more acres. The storekeeper”
Heat.
“Well, this is where / go down to the river,”
The traveller with me said, and turned aside
Out of the burnt road, through the black trees
Spiking the slope, and went down, and never
Came back into the heat from water’s ease
hi which he sank in cool joy, and died..
Often since then, in brutal days of summer,
I have remembered him, with envy too;
Thought of him sliding down above his knees
In a cool torrent, senseless of the rumor
Of death gone down behind him through the trees,
Through the dead grass and bushes he shoved through.
He must have tasted, water after walking
Miles and miles along the stream of road,
Gulping and drooling it out of his mouth
That had for some days been too dry for talking,
As we went on through drought into the south,
Shouldering the leaden heat for double load.
Plainly he couldn’t bear it any longer.
Like the perverse hand of a man placed
Mercilessly upon a child’s head.
It maddened him. I was a little stronger
And knew the river, rich with several dead,
Lustrous and very cold, but two-faced
Like some cold, vigorous, enticing woman
Quite at the mercy of her remote source
And past springs. I could not warn him now —
Not if he were here now. I could warn no man
While these red winds and fire-white lightnings blow
Frantic with heat across my plodded course
Into the south, beside the narrow river
Which has that traveller’s flesh and bones, and more.
Often I see him making down that slope
Thirsty and mad, never to return, never
Quenched quite of his thirst, or of his hope
That heat would be arrested on that shore.
n.s.w.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
BOTTLES
BY LES ROBINSON
ONLY if he is in the habit of frequenting the
seashore does the ordinary man begin to
perceive the enormous part bottles play in
everyday life. I say ordinary man, or the
man in the street, because chemists, brewers, bottle
manufacturers, collectors and washers not only per-
ceive but have been elated by it for years.
Assortments are, of course, to be found some-
times, unless a dealer happens to have been there
before you, on rubbish heaps, but never such large,
varied and curious ones as you are likely to find on an
ocean beach. A few of those bottles have, perhaps,
been left there by picnickers or fishermen, but the
majority are brought in by the tide. The conclusion to
which you can’t help coming, as medicine bottles are
far more numerous than any other kind, is that sea-
farers suffer as much as landsmen do from colic,
indigestion, sluggish liver, “that tired feeling,” anaemia,
neurasthenia, sciatica, coughs and colds, weak and in-
flamed eyes, earache, toothache, backache, baldness,
biliousness, eczema, asthma, sleeplessness, general
debility and other ailments, which would seem to indi-
cate that the much vaunted salubrity of ocean voyag-
ing is a myth.
In olden times the search for the “philosopher’s
stone” almost amounted to an obsession. That quest,
however, appears to have slackened off a little, and
you begin to suspect, as you glean between tides what
the contents of a considerable number of the bottles
washed up on the beach have been, that rejuvenation
nowadays, in liquid or tabloid form, is, more than
anything else, what most people (voyagers in par-
ticular apparently) require, or, at all events, seek.
The vast quantity of tomato sauce that is con-
sumed at sea must hearten the man on the land greatly,
especially if he happens to be a tomato sauce manu-
facturer. Various other sauces, Worcestershire in
particular, you cannot fail to observe, have obtained a
tenacious grip on the seafaring palate too. Pickled
onions and chutney are served both fore and aft, you
begin to surmise, with every meal, and there is also
an abundance of evidence that the consumption of
vinegar is enormous, which, doubtless, is very gratify-
ing indeed not only to manufacturers but to vege-
tarians and market-gardeners, since it enables them to
aver —and to shout defiance at carnivorous persons
who from force of habit or sheer cussedness deny
it—that we are rapidly becoming, if indeed we have
not already become, a nation of salad-eaters.
The extent to which aerated water, cordial, fruit
juice and other soft-drink bottles outnumber those
that, before being cast into the sea, contained more
potent liquid strengthens the belief that temperance
is not, as pessimists seem to think, decreasing in our
midst.
Sailors are often to be seen taking bottles to sea
with them. This, as their lives are hazardous, is a
most necessary precaution, for, if the ship they embark
upon should happen to sink, messages to indicate her
whereabouts are put into the bottles, some of which,
if the corks have been replaced, drift, sooner or later,
currents being favorable, ashore.
What tales, if they could only speak, some of
these roving bottles might unfold! The more ex-
pensive, magnums for instance, may have stood in
front of portly shipboard dignitaries, and would doubt-
less relate amusing happenings that never, when the
pleasure cruise was over, found their way into print.
It is not improbable either that some of the more
rakish looking lent a quart or so of pace to the “fast
set,” and, if not too bashful, which, from their
appearance is unlikely, might regale you with a few
choice anecdotes.
I shall not easily forget the ornate and glittering,
fanciful, if somewhat bizarre, abode, built entirely of
bottles by a diligent, patient and ingenious collector,
I came across in a sheltered cove whilst tramping
along the coastline. The assortment garnered—which
must have taken years—for its construction was of
every procurable size, shape and hue. The owner had
a weakness evidently for freakish or uncommon-
looking bottles, for there was no doubt whatever that
he had used, wherever possible, as many as he found
and could.


"Spiritool Man-infestations”: Mrs. Parsley
DISEMBOWELLED SPIRITS
BY HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
1 Hi IRECTLY that young lady told me she was a
J singer of negro spiritools I told her that I
*— was full,” said Mrs. Parsley with all the
satisfaction of one who has saved herself
much trouble. “I’ve had enough trouble with them
spiritoolists, and I won’t have any more, not for all the
tea in China.”
“But, Mrs. Parsley,” I protested, with a picture in
my mind of the astonishment the rather pleasant-look-
ing young woman must have felt at my landlady’s
refusal, “a person who sings negro spirituals is not
necessarily a spiritualist.”
“I don’t know about that,” retorted Mrs. Parsley,
“but I do know that them Pontines, who was Number
Four, used to open their see-aunts (they called them
that, though it wasn’t only aunts) with singing. And if
1 had known what was going to happen I wouldn’t have
allowed them and their see-aunts on the premises.
Filling the place with their disembowelled spirits, as
Mr. Slompack calls them. And nigger spirits, I expect,
would be worse.
“When they came there didn’t seem anything
wrong with them Pontines, except her calling herself
Madame, which sounds French, though her voice
sounded Irish to me. I told them they might have
their see-auntses in their flat as long as they didn’t
annoy the other tenants. Their spirits seemed to be
very respectable spirits who paid their rent regularly
and kept themselves to themselves, so to speak. If
only they had continued like that everything would
have been all right, but when they got out of hand
and started wandering all over the residential terri-
fying tenants and even getting into bathrooms it was
too much. Even Mr. Slompack said it wasn’t very
comfortable to think that a disembowelled spirit
might walk through the wall at any moment.
“That was after Miss Harvey had screamed in the
bathroom and then told us that one of them spirits
had put its cold hand on her back; which what I say
is that even a ghost, if there are such, should know
that it isn’t the right thing to behave like that. ‘But,
Mrs. Parsley,’ says Madame, ‘these man-infestations
in your establishment are nothing to do with us. I
admit they are queer; but Mr. Pontine and I think
they must be bogeys. The spirits with which we are
flavored with intercourse don’t do all these silly things.
They’
“‘I don’t care what you say,’ I says; ‘there were
never any disembowelled spirits in these flats until
you came. Although I don’t believe in them myself,
other people have seen them.
“But Madame kept on saying that them wander-
ing disembowelled spirits didn’t belong to her, and
she couldn’t go without notice. And what with tenants
who didn’t like meeting them spirits in the corridors
it looked to me as if I would have the place empty
before I could get rid of her.
“IT was when Miss Turner
* came down from the top
floor one night screaming all the
way and fainted in Mr. Slom-
pack’s arms that them other dis-
embowelled spirits started. She
said that the light was out, and
a white figure came running all
the way along the corridor with-
out any feet to run on. It passed
right through her, she said, with-
out her feeling it. It was when
she realised it had done that
that she let out that scream that
sounded like Gable’s horn and
ran down.
“ ‘Those see-aunts have
been too much for the young
lady,’ is what Mr. Slompack
said. ‘There’s been too much
talk about the spirits for her.
Naturally she saw ghosts.’
“That’s what we all thought
it must be ; but that Mrs. Killan,
whose flat was right at the end
of that corridor on the top floor,
and who was a man-hater, said
that if Miss Turner hadn't
wasted her time staying out so
late with her young man she
wouldn’t get into that state.
Which she was annoyed at being wakened to know if
she had seen or heard anything.
“But it was different when Mrs. Wassail screamed
out next night and we found her trembling like one
of them aspics. Mrs. Wassail said she had thought
she heard her husband and had switched on the light,
ready, I daresay, to say a few things to him for stay-
ing out so late. And there, there was no one there!
It gave her such a shock that she screamed.
“ ‘l’m sure there was someone in the room,’ she
says, ‘or something.’
“ ‘lt was something says Mrs. Humphries, which
had the next flat. ‘Several times last night there were
taps at our window. Jack got up at least three times ;
but directly he reached the window there was no
one there.’
“The way they was talking about it being ‘some-
thing’ made everyone creepy.
“Then, ‘Good heavens! What is that?’ cried
the Major.
“It sounded as if an earthquake had started
up above and was coming down stairs. We found Mr.
Tumpat sitting half-way down the stairs as if he had
fallen down them, and all the flat tenants up above
and below had come out and was asking what had
happened.
“That Mr. Tumpat was trembling like a leaf in
the storm.
“ ‘What Miss Turner said must have been right,’
he says. ‘Something rushed at me and threw me down
the stairs. I tried to grapple with it, but my arms
closed on nothing.’
“ ‘But it wasq’t you falling downstairs made all
that noise,’ said the Major, which it couldn’t have
been unless Mr. Tumpat, who was a little man, had
been the size of two elephants.
“ ‘There was a terrible noise up here. I think
it was in the empty flat,’ says one of the tenants up-
stairs.
“I could scarcely believe my eyes, seeing I had
left it locked, when I found the door of that vacant
flat wide open ; and the way things were inside, with
the furniture hoisted about and the chairs upset on the
floor and the couch overturned, was terrible.
“Everybody seemed talking at once, like a regular
Bethlehem let loose, and most of them was talking
about ghosts.
“ ‘l’m afraid I will have to leave you, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mr. Humphries. ‘The place is haunted.
My nerves wouldn’t stand living in a place where
such things happen.’
“‘Haunted —nonsense!’ says Mr. Slompack, who
had come in and come up the stairs. ‘The only ghosts
that exist are goats ; someone playing a practical joke.
A very foolish practical joke. I would send for the
police if I was you, Mrs. Parsley.’
“ ‘Perhaps you could explain my being pushed
down the stairs by someone I couldn’t see, only as a
vague shadow, and couldn’t grasp?’ says Mr. Tumpat,
who seemed to have got over being shaky.
“ ‘lt’s that Madame Pontine and her husband.
They’ve brought spirits to the place and some of them
have got loose,’ says Mrs. Humphries.
“ ‘Those Pontines are very respectable people,’ I
says. ‘l’m sure they wouldn’t do anything to incon-
venience anybody. The spirits they have anything to
do with are very quiet and respectable.’
“There was never such an upset in my residential
in all my born days. It was the which-end hour
before all the excitement and talk was over ; and well
might they call it the which-end hour when you don’t
know whether you are going to bed in the morning
or at night. That Sergeant Carmody came along and
said they would look for footprints on the furniture
in the morning to see who had touched it.
“ALTHOUGH I wasn’t going to admit to nobody
v that there were ghosts in my establishment, that
opened flat door and the upset furniture worried me,
because Scotty, the handyman, had the key, me having
given it to him to clean oufc the place first thing in
the morning ; and he had gone out.
“What happened in the place after that was ter-
rible. Nobody else was thrown downstairs ; but now
and again all the furniture in an empty flat would be
turned upside down and the door left wide open.
There were howls suddenly at night which made your
flesh creep like the fruitful porcupine, as Shakspeare
says ; doors would slam without anyone being able to
find which doors they were. Even Mr. Slompack
heard a tapping at the window, but couldn’t find any-
one there. The tenants used to gather in the corridors
when one of them things happened ; most of them
blamed the Pontines for having brought ghosts into
the place.
“ ‘lt is most unfair, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Pon-
tine, almost crying. ‘We are sign-terrific investures of
spirituous phlegmonina, and we have nothing to do
with such phlegmonina as this —which, of course, is
mystrous, but seems bogeys to me. Our spirits don’t
do all these absurd things. Madame is very upset.’
“Well, I was upset myself, with nervous tenants
giving notice and some gone already. There never
was no disembowelled spirits in this place until you
brought them,’ I says.
“It was the way that Mr. Tumpat, him that had
been thrown down the stairs, went on that annoyed
me. He was as mean as any man I ever met, but when
the landlord, Mr. Dyer, had died he had been going
to buy the property. That was why he had come to
live here. But, although they said he was as rich as a
Crisis, only the smallest flat in the place would do him,
Number 20, right up on the top floor ; and even then
he had to beat me down for the rent. But Mrs. Dyer,
poor soul, had decided not to sell the property.
“ ‘l’m glad I didn’t buy the place after all,’ says
Mr. Tumpat, gloating about having saved his money.
“ ‘I wouldn’t have the place now at a gift horse
that can’t look you in the mouth. I’ll be leaving
myself, I think, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says. ‘I don’t like
the idea of being afraid to go upstairs for fear some-
thing will try to throw me down them. People won’t
stay where that happens ; and the property won’t be
worth the paper it’s written on.’
“ ‘You can please yourself about goin’, Mr.
Tumpat,’ I says, sharp-like. But he didn’t go, which
I wished he had, for the nervy way he had of moving
about the place waiting for other people to go upstairs
with him, and looking about as if he expected them
ghosts to spring on him, made me nervous, and other
people, too.
“Somehow them newspapers had got inflamma-
tion about how those poultry gists, as the Major called
the spirits, was behaving. People came and stared at
the place from outside as if we’d had a murder. And
there was them upsets, one way or another, every
night. Scotty, the odd-jobs man, I must say, was very
useful. He never said anything about having to put
them flats straight again when them poultry gists had
upset them, and he was about at all hours trying to
catch them.
“Even Mr. Slompack, who had been so sure that
ghosts was only goats, was puzzled.
“ ‘There are more things in heaven and earth
than our foolish Sophies dream about, Mrs. Parsley,’


he says. ‘lt’s not very comfortable to think that a
disembowelled spirit might walk through the wall into
your room at any moment. I’m afraid the Wassails
will be leaving us.’
“‘Not the Wassails!’ I cried.
“ ‘He wants to stay ; but she says her nerves won’t
stand what is going on here,’ says Mr. Slompack.
4i K/jY heart went down in my boots, for when
permanents like the Wassails were leaving it
looked as if I was going to be paying rent for a place
that soon would have no tenants in it. I was never
more worried in my life. Only the Major, which no-
body had ever known before that his favorite object
was ghosts, seemed to be enjoying himself; and the
way he talked about poultry gists and where-wolfs
and all them other supper-natural phlegmonina, as
he called it, only made them tenants that remained
more nervous.
“ ‘lf I was you,’ says that Mr. Tumpat, ‘l’d tell
Mrs. Dyer that you can’t go on with the place. You’ll
he losing money paying rent when it’s nearly empty.
I had a lucky escape myself. Mrs. Dyer—she knows
how things are going— wants me to buy the property
at what I offered. But I wouldn’t have it on my mind
now,’ he says.
“1 didn’t want no advice from that little miser;
it was insulting an injury the way he boasted about
having saved his money. I wished he had bought the
place and lost it, which there didn’t seem to be any
chance of him doing now.
“Matters were going so bad that it was a shock
to me to find some people at my door looking as if
they wanted flats ; but I’ve noticed that the silver lining
is always before the dawn.
“ ‘Have you any flats vacant?’ asked one of them,
which I found afterwards was Mr. Furphy.
“It wasn’t like I was going to tell them how many
there was vacant. But it seems they was people who
like ghosts. They was members of the Fistical Re-
search Society, they told me, and they took four of
them flats right away!
“ But 1 won’t allow no fists being used in my es-
tablishment, which has always been a respectable one,
and never had any fighting in it but married couples,
which can’t be helped,’ 1 told them. They seemed sur-
prised at that.
“ ‘I didn’t like to leave, in any case, because of
a few absurd stories about ghosts,’ said Mr. Slompack,
‘but I shall certainly stay on to see the fun now.’ And
so did Mr. Wassail. Mrs. Wassail wasn’t so nervous
when those Fistical people was in the place, perhaps.
“They was more upsetting than the ghosts, them
Fistical people, the way they carried out their inves-
tures. They turned the lights out and sat on the stairs
at all hours to see what they could hear and see. They
wandered about them corridors, and sometimes there
would be a hullabaloo with all the lights turned on ;
but usually it was only a couple of them Fistical people
who had caught one another in the darkness. They
even wanted to investure them Pontines.
“It was hard to sort out the ghosts we had had
from the false alarms them Fistical people made,
what with the tenants who remained getting scared to
death when they bumped into them. But there was
no more of them where-wolfs
and poultry gists. I thought
myself that probably they didn’t
like them Fisticals being there.
They • made Confucius worse,
confound it, as the saying goes ;
but it was better having them
there than the flats empty. But
they seemed disappointed after
a time.
“Mrs. Dyer came up to see
me one day.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ she said,
‘Mr. Tumpat has been telling me
that you intend to leave.’
“It took me aback.
“ ‘Mr. Tumpat,’ I says, ‘is
an Ananias and a Sapphire. He
is a man I don’t give my diffi-
dences to, although it is a fact
that if I have my flats empty I
can’t pay the rent I’m paying.’
“ ‘But you’ve got some Fis-
tical Research people staying
here now,’ she says.
“ ‘They’re going soon,’ I
says. It seemed to cast her down
in the glumps.
“‘I wish I had sold the
property when my husband
died,’ she says. ‘Mr. Tumpat
wanted to buy it, but he offered
such a poor price. Now he
won’t pay even that. He says
the place will have a bad name; and I’m afraid that’s
right.’
“I was sorry for the way she looked worried ;
but I was worried myself.
“ A nd then suddenly them ghosts started again.
There was noises all over the house, and women
screaming out and men shouting; and doors banged
and them where-wolf howls was heard. It all hap-
pened sudden, beginning before one could say Jack
Robinson, if anybody wanted to say anything so fool-
ish, just as if one of them spittoons which do such
havoc on them islands had hit the place.
“Them Fistical Research people, who had lost
interest and started going to sleep like ordinary Chris-
tians, peered out into the passages. We found two
empty flats with the doors wide open and the furni-
ture all upset; and people in several flats, all trembling,
was talking about something having been in them
flats but had vanished when they called out and put
the light on.
“Them Fistical people were so pleased that they
all said they were going to stay on. I had never
thought 1 would like to have ghosts in the house ; but I
feel that 1 had them ghosts to thank for the place not
becoming empty. Mrs. Dyer, in spite of her looking
very anxious, was pleased, too. ‘1 had been thinking
of making Mr. Tumpat another offer, ’ she says, ‘but
1 won’t now. Perhaps matters will come all right.’
‘There didn’t seem much to be cheerful about
because them Fistical people wasn’t likely to stay for
ever, and even the Pontines had said they might be
going ; but somehow I felt more cheerful ; and when
that Mr. Tumpat came to me to say that Scotty had
been insolent and I ought to sack him I told him
straight that 1 would do no such thing. As a matter
of fact 1 had heard them quarrelling, and I was glad
the way Scotty told him off.
“Them Fistical people was all busy again at night,
but there was no more poultry gists, though there was
that there where-wolf howling somewhere, and mys-
terious tapping at windows. Matters seemed to be
going on in the even tendon of their ways, as the Bible
says, and 1 was just going to seek the arms of Morphy,
as Mr. Slompack calls going to sleep, when a reg’lar
pander-pneumonia broke out upstairs. 1 went up as
soon as 1 could get a wrap on. The corridor at the top
of the house was full of people.
“ ‘We’ve caught your ghosts, Mrs. Parsley,’ some-
one said. “Look who we’ve got here!’
“Several of them Fistical men were around Scotty,
the odd-jobs man. Of all the blunders that never
cease!
“ ‘We found this young man in the roof, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says one of the Fistical men. ‘He was letting
down weights at the end of cords to tap against win-
dows. He admits’
“ ‘Oh, I’m making a clean break ; I’ll sign a state-
ment if you like,’ says Scotty. ‘1 was the ghosts. I’d
got dooplicate keys for all the flats, and I could get in
and upset the furniture and then make a noise like
an earthquake, which was all them poultry gists of
the Major’s amounted to. I could step into people’s
flats in the dark and give them a scare, and then get
out before the lights were on ; and I made those howls
when people were not looking.’
“ ‘But, Scotty,’ I says, ‘why’
Mrs. Parsley, he says, ‘I didn’t want to do you
no harm. It was that Tumpat. ’E offered me fifty
quid. It was after them Pontines ’ad come ’ere and
Mrs. Turner had given ’erself the fright when she
saw someone sprinting along the corridor in ’is
pyjamas. Mr. Tumpat was sore about not being able
to buy this property at the price ’e wanted to pay,
and 'e thought ’e could put it over Mrs. Dyer. ’E
reckoned if the place got a reputation for being
aunted it d lose its value, and ’e’d get it even cheaper.’
The door of Number 28 opened, and there was
Mr. Tumpat. ‘He lies! He lies!’ he screamed. But
someone says ‘Come back here!’ and he went back
with a jerk and the door closed. It was the most sur-
prising thing ever ; but 1 ’ad to listen to Scotty talking.
E doesn’t like me giving the show away. ’E
offered me fifty quid to ’elp, and—well, I wanted that
fifty quid. Of course, Tumpat started the ball by
faking that being thrown down the stairs. But when
these Fistical Research people came ’ere, Mrs. Dyer
got a bit of ’eart just when ’e thought ’e’d got ’er
down to a lower price. Tumpat was disappointed ;
and ’e did the dirty on me over the money. So I got
even by letting them ghosts go again to keep these
people on just when they were going to leave. We
’ad a row about it. ’E came up to-night to get me
to stop, saying ’e’d give me the money, when these
blokes copped us.’
That Mr. rumpat!’ I cries. ‘l’ll ghost him!
What’s he doing in Number 28? I’ll’.
“But there was Mr. Slompack, and he took me by
the elbow.
“ ‘Mr. Tumpat is being looked after, Mrs. Parsley ;
he’s not enjoying himself,’ he says in a whisper. ‘lt
seems that the ghost Miss Turner saw that night was
Mr. Tumpat getting back in his pyjamas to his own
room. When Miss Turner stumbled on the stairs they
thought it was Mrs. Killan’s husband’
“‘Mrs. Killan! But she’s a man-hater!’ I cried.
“ ‘So she says,’ says Mr. Slompack drily. ‘Any-
way it seems that Mr. Furphy isn’t only a Fistical
Researcher ; he’s a private detective, and he was here
on behalf of that poor chap Killan. They’re all in
the flat there now, Killan included, and they’re get-
ting confessions from Tumpat and Mrs. Killan.
“‘You don’t need to worry, Mrs. Parsley. The
mean swine tried to steal a couple of thousand from
Mrs. Dyer by getting her property Cheaply ; but it’s
going to cost him a pretty penny.’
“And so it did,’’ said Mrs. Parsley, remembering
suddenly that she had my room to do.
In the act of wielding her duster with an energy
intended to atone for lost time, Mrs. Parsley had an
afterthought. “It was queer the excuse that Mr. Pon-
tine made for them leaving,” she said. “He said that
they thought them man-infestations were not really
explained, and Madame Pontine had always been very
nervous of ghosts.”
Something rushed at me and threw me down the stairs. I tried to grapple with it, but my arms closed on nothing.”


£lO WORTH OF BOOKS FOR 50/-
To booklovers Readers’
Union offers a wonderful
opportunity.
Write To-day for Full Particulars to
ROBERTSON
& MULLENS
LIMITED
(Australian and New Zealand agents )
107-113 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
That is what you would have got during the last 14
months if you had been a member of
READERS ’ UNION "UN
Readers’ Union is a new development in publishing, a co-operative book-buying
scheme designed to provide the intelligent reading public with good books at low
prices.
By joining Readers’ Union you can build up a library of your own of the
best recent books—fiction, history, biography, travel—at a trifling cost.
It costs you nothing to join the Readers’ Union and your liability is limited to
3/9 per month.
governed. If the people were content with their
government it might take any form whatsoever.”
He was a romantic in the Byronic style, handsome
and distinguished of person, a loyal friend, a great
lover of women. Proud, even vain, he had a gift for
being ever in the public eye, of exciting exaggerated
enthusiasm and, occasionally, exaggerated odium. He
was an autocrat and a leader with a streak of way-
wardness. He lived heroically, as a latter-day knight-
errant, but in all his adventures never let go of that
solid feudal English life that he had inherited from
his Sussex forebears.
Blunt was educated for the diplomatic corps, but
after 10 years as attache in the capitals of Europe—
writing poetry with the young Lord Lytton, bowling
hoops along the streets of Frankfort, making extrava-
gant love in Paris, playing the matador in Madrid—
he resigned and married an heiress, Lady Anne King-
Noel, Byron s granddaughter. The young couple
began their travels in Arabia when Blunt, after
pneumonia, was told by his doctor that he had
galloping consumption and only six weeks to live.
The desert air cured him, and the nomadic life of the
Bedouins laid a spell on his imagination.
Three chiefs became his blood-brothers, and he
adopted the life and dress of the country, making
journeys, accompanied by Lady Anne, that no Euro-
pean had ever attempted. From the Bedouins, he
claimed, he learned the meaning of liberty and the
good life. He became an ardent advocate of Arab
independence, urging his Government to action on their
behalf.
He became, in turn, the advocate —and almost the
patron —of nationalism in Egypt and India, and of
Home Rule in Ireland. He acted as an unofficial
diplomat, importuning, and often embarrassing, the
British Government. In Egypt, then under the tyranny
of the Sultan, he urged British intervention on behalf
of Arabi Pasha and the nationalists who were fighting
for a Constitution ; but after a visit to India he became
an anti-imperialist.
When Arabi was arrested after the Egyptian war,
Blunt financed his defence out of his own pocket and,
by ventilating the affair in the press, secured for him
a fair trial. Later, after an abortive attempt to enter
the Commons —he was too much of an individualist
for any party —he espoused the cause of Ireland, took
an active part in the disturbances and went to prison
for three months under Balfour’s Crimes Act.
It was his last cause. He returned to his Sussex
estates, and his old age was saddened by family
quarrels. His only child, a daughter, on whom he had
settled some of his estates, wounded him bitterly by
selling property that had been in the family for 300
years. His wife, who had long hidden the pain his
infidelities caused her, became involved in the quarrel,
and they were estranged for years. They were recon-
ciled before her death, but she took revenge on him
in her will.
Blunt was an invalid for the last 10 years of his
life. The war destroyed the world he knew and filled
him with sorrow. He was immune to war fever and
stood aside in a gloomy foreboding from all the hating.
His only happiness w3s in the fidelity of his friends,
his estates and his famous stud of Arab horses.
Shortly before his death the poet Alfred Austin
visited him and they talked about heaven. “Austin’s
idea was to sit in a garden, and while he sat to receive
telegrams announcing alternately a British victory by
sea and a British victory by land.” Blunt’s wishes in
the matter were very strange for a man who had been
a stormy petrel all his days, and who, in addition, had
loved many women. They were: “to be laid out in a
garden, with running water near, and to go to sleep
for a hundred thousand years, then to be woke by a.
bird singing and to call out to the person one loved
best, ‘Are you there?’ and for her to answer, ‘Yes, are
you?’ and so turn round and go to sleep again for
another hundred thousand years.”
As a biography, Wilfred Scawen Blunt is a com-
petent piece of work, particularly in regard to the
outline of events.
An Australian Abroad.
In Men and Cities (Angus and Robertson)
S. Elliott Napier covers two routes of travel, the first
to the Atlantic seaboard of the U.S.A., via Panama,
the second to Singapore, via the islands of the East
Indies.
In this, as in his earlier books, Napier proves
himself the ideal tourist’s tourist, delighting in romance
and color, shipboard anecdote, picturesque scraps of
history, occasionally pausing to be seriously in-
formative, but preferring a good joke at any time to
solemn inquiry into social or political whys and
wherefores.
Chief among the spoils of a call at Tahiti is the
story of his adventure with a tarantula in a bath-
tub and a recipe for coconut sauce —the latter being
served to the reader garnished with a really good jest.
In Java he tried his hand at winnowing tea, but suc-
ceeded only in providing entertainment for the tea
girls.
He found the famed temple of Boro-Budur
impressive, and offers an excellent description of it.
Singapore, aside from its romantic history, was re-
markable chiefly for the dilapidation of its buildings,
in that climate even such solid structures as the Scots
Cathedral being afflicted with “premature senescence.”
Curiously at variance with the general tone of
the book are a few pages describing the condition of
the near-white population of one of the southern
States of U.S.A. He saw a small pure-white minority
dominating a near-white majority, many of whom
were men and women of means and culture. He
talked with some of these “children of stigma,” learn-
ing of their deep resentment at the increasingly
extravagant distinctions drawn by the ruling race and
the penalties imposed for any attempt at their evasion.
He asks what can be the final outcome of such ,a
state of things, and believes that it would take little
to make the smouldering heap burst into flames.
A Wildwood Tale.
Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings has written in
The Yearling (Scribners), still one more saga of the
pioneers. This is set in the backwoods of Florida
60 years ago.
It is not so much a novel as a succession of inter-
weaving episodes laid down upon a natural back-
ground that is lovingly, painstakingly and exhaustively
described. The reader gets the impression that every
tree, bush and stone in the neighborhood has been
enumerated and carefully described to him.
The characters are idealised in the tradition of the
pioneer novel. Penny Baxter, the little wiry pioneer
of unflinching courage and honesty, Ma, his big wife,
and Judy, their only child, are just the sort of ancestors
any 100 per cent, democratic American would like
to have. Even the Forresters, a family of big lawless
men, have hearts of gold. No one is drawn in very
much detail except Penny and Judy, and they are
practically faultless.
The main interest is in the background, and the
main theme is the Baxters’ struggle to live off the land.
Upon it are clustered a number of episodes only
loosely related —the hunting of Slewfoot, the old
bear ; the feud between the Forresters and another
family over a girl; Penny’s snakebite and the rally-
ing of the countryside to his assistance ; the story of
Judy’s fawn.
This last is the best thing in the book and could,
with advantage, stand alone ; the little creature frisky
through the pages with more life and character than
any of the people portrayed. The fawn grew up into
a large deer with a voracious appetite, and so great
were his depredations that there was nothing to do
but destroy him. The anguish of that parting made
a man of Judy, and is very affectingly described.
An Experiment in Story-telling.
G. E. Trevelyan’s Theme with .Variation (Gol-
lancz) contains not one story but three, running
parallel. It is an experiment in story-telling that not
all the author’s virtuosity in detail and knowledge of
human nature can save from partial failure.
Each is interesting in itself, and as three separate
long short stories they would have had more cogency
than in their present dismembered state. The point
they have in common is that each is a story of human
failure, of people who might have been valuable and
happy, scrapped by external circumstance.
Exhibit “A” is Sam Smith, employed by a firm
of furniture removalists. He was doing well and mar-
ried to the girl of his choice until he ruptured himself
carrying an antique table. That blighted his career.
The years dragged on. His wife became incurably ilk
life closed in on them. Sam relieved his feelings
grumbling at the pub, and found himself, unintention-
ally, involved in a revolutionary club.
He was chosen by lot to throw a bomb at the
royal carriage in the jubilee procession. When last
seen by the reader he is waiting in helpless misery with
his unthrown bomb to be either arrested by the police
or liquidated by his fellow-conspirators. As a picture
of helplessness this has a certain impressiveness.
Exhibit B is Frances Jones, a victim of acute
boredom. At 19 she married a dashing dentist of 40.
She thought life was going to be a rosy dream, and
was prepared to enjoy every sugared moment of it,
but her husband tired of her and she was left to her
own devices. She spent her time reading sheik
romances, posturing to herself and laying up griev-
ances. As her character degenerated she developed
an insatiable hunger for sensation. This story of a
woman’s disintegration in a vacuum is told slowly
and intimately, detail piled on detail. Frances doesn’t
matter very much, but as an essay in pocket realism
the picture could hardly be bettered.
Exhibit “C” is Evie Robinson ; she was a bright
little girl with a strong will to survive, but the claims of
her family were stronger. She had an invalid younger
sister, and it was the tyranny of the weak that brought
her down. The career she had made for herself by
her own enterprise had to be sacrificed for her neurotic
mother and ailing sister. This is the most natural of
the stories.
As a recorder of life’s surface Miss Trevelyan is
good, but the stories of Smith, Jones and Robinson
lack the inevitability on which their cogency should
depend.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ...
Six of One: Peter Traill (Arthur Barker). Short
stories. English and Continental setting. Mechanical
—but clever in their way.
A Winter Chronicle: E. G. Kolbenheyer (Bodley
Head). A tale of Germany in the Thirty Years’ War
purporting to be told by a prosy and ruminative old
cobbler. The character is too well drawn.
See a Fine Lady: Arnold Edmondson (Arthur
Barker). A comedy of touts, pub snuggeries and petty
shopkeepers in an English North Cpuntry town. The
humor is hard-driven.
Pictures on the Pavement: G. S. Marlowe
(Collins). Tragi-comedy of a London lower middle-
class group. The people aren’t made to matter and
the style is painfully slapdash.
Love at the Mission : R. Hernekin Baptist (Mac-
millan). Africa. A good study of the difficulties of
two marriageable young women at a remote mission.
Verse . . .
The Century’s Poetry (two vols.): Pelicans, edited
by Denys Kilham Roberts. Mostly familiar stuff, but
a good selection all the same. The .youngest of the
moderns get a hearing at the end of vol. 11.
General . . .
Cardboard Crucifix: Oloff De Wet (Blackwood).
British volunteer in Spanish Government ,air force.
Wine, women, bombs ; told melodramatically.
“E.M.M.”: Galbraith Welch, author of The Unveil-
ing of Timbuctoo, which has recently been favorably
reviewed, is the wife of James Francis Dwyer, an
Australian writer well known to Bulletin readers
before the war. the Unveiling of Timbuctoo has
had a splendid reception in the United States, where
J. F. Dwyer himself has also scored many successes.
Mrs. Dwyer (formerly Galbraith Welch) dedicated the
book to her husband, who was her companion on eight
journeys across the Sahara. The Dwyers are about
to make a ninth voyage to the Sahara. They will go
to the curious Mzab community, then to In Salah, the
wild Arak Gorges, the Hoggar (Land of the Veiled
Tuareg) and to the Tuat. The Dwyers live at Pau in
South-west France near the Spanish border, and the
romanticism of Southern France has influenced much
of Dwyer’s recent writing.


TT "PTTTT'P
HfflrHJ U B I J
CRAFTSMAN TAILORED-131 FITTINGS
.
•«*./
1
H
1
m
! I
7
Ready
for
Instant
Wear
Largest
Size range
in
Australia
GRACE BROS/ SALE
Commences Thursday, February 2nd
“THE MODERN TAILORING”: How uncommonly sensible
this modern way of choosing clothes by putting clothes on.
By looking at yourself in a suit of clothes you see the final
effect at once.
Don’t hesitate if you are “Tall and Slim,” “Short and Thick
Set,” “Portly,” “Corpulent,” “Stout,” or the “Athletic Type,”
or if you weigh EIGHTEEN STONE or NINE STONE, your
fitting is in stock; and, remember, a thousand words couldn’t
speak as eloquently as one try-on.
PRICE RANGE:
£B/8/- to £l2/12-
LESS SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER OF
10% DURING THE SALE
TELEPHONE OUR ORDER OFFICE, M 6506
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD. BROADWAY SYDNEY


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
i ■
■ m
,6
-:r '■
:■&
V:-: S
asg
'
■ V'- ■
«■*
m
4k
:
/'V
'
>:'•
as
..
i:f
1
’
5:1
■
mm
feist®*
H®
m
■ r
Cmmmm
■
Ann Hathaway’s Cottage.
[The Shakespeare Horn Book.]
tfjtfcfii c Mne'cf / iafie jmllcnuncdSxmdlmiq/uet


STONING THE PROPHET.
“The achievement of Munich was a negotiated settlement. The alternative was war, and we would have been drawn in....I do not despair of the possibility of finding a
way out of the ghastly tangle in which the world has become involved. With improvement in the economic position the solution of political difficulties will become possible.
— S. M. Bruce.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ams.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
BURRS ON THE FOURTH ESTATE.
Once upon a time a pun led to the breaking off of
diplomatic relations between the fair lands of France
and Iran. There had been a cat exhibition in Paris,
and flippant press play with the somewhat similar
words “ chat” and “shah” was regarded in high Iranian
circles as intentionally insulting. A violent anti-French
campaign was launched by the Iranian press, after a
fortnight of which the Iranian representative in Paris
called on the French Foreign Minister with a Note.
Explanations tendered by the French representative
in Teheran failing to soothe the fury in the Iranian
breast, diplomatic relations were forthwith broken off ;
French investors in Iranian undertakings were left
quaking, and it was intimated that Persian students,
who study in Paris in large numbers, would be with-
drawn, and—hateful thought—sent to Germany.
This is not a story out of The Arabian Nights—
it happened barely a month ago. Perhaps they take
themselves, or the dignity of their Shah, or the hulla-
baloo of their press, overseriously in Iran. Or it may
be the last sign needed to establish that the world at
large has been anaesthetised and had its sense of humor
removed. After all, there is no great difference be-
tween the Iranians bristling at a pun and the people
who have been taking Mr. Wells’s comic invective
seriously, or between that and Mr. Wells taking him-
self seriously.
Perhaps there would be none of these international
difficulties if the world’s sounding-board—the press —
had not also been included in the operation which
left the world without its sense of humor. This recent
regrettable Franco-Iranian happening is not the first
to have been brought about between the respective
countries by the machinations of the press. And not
two months ago the Turkish Chamber deferred ratifi-
cation of the Turco-French Treaty of Friendship
because of what the Turks deemed offensive articles in
French newspapers.
These items, it should perhaps be again empha-
sised, are not fairy stories, but contemporary history.
Moreover, they can be matched with closely-resembling
examples from most countries of the world, showing
how seriously the press is being taken and how seri-
ously it takes itself. The complete muffling of it in
Germany, Italy and Russia —where it is no longer the
world’s but only the State’s sounding-board—has re-
ceived so much publicity that what is going on else-
where seldom gets into the spotlight.
Anyone who had moved in Parisian “official
circles” a few months back could not have missed
hearing something of the “whispering campaign”
against British journalists recorded in Manchester
“Guardian.” The “Guardian’s” Paris correspondent
reported a “black list” of British journalists who might
“before long” be expelled from France; also that
newspapers had attacked a British journalist personally.
A cable to Australian newspapers last year re-
corded that “resentment at foreign newspaper com-
ment is now becoming increasingly fashionable in
Europe.” Poland had just then sent a Note to France
complaining of the attitude of the French press to
Poland over Lithuania. In December the Swiss
Federal Government published a decree providing for
three months’ imprisonment and a maximum fine of
£lOO “for those who issue or propagate inaccurate
news or news so altered that it might endanger the
Confederation internally or externally.” The same
penalties were provided for “those who propagate
hatred.”
In Palestine in September the Arabic press found
itself hoisted on the horns of a dilemma. The Gov-
ernment censorship would not allow any local news
except official bulletins, forbidding any comment on
the local political or security situations. On the other
hand, Arab terrorists threatened the editors unless
they printed the terrorist versions of rebel activities.
With the innate wisdom of their race and their calling
the editors went on a 15-days’ sit-down strike.
From Mexico a fortnight ago came news that a
New York “Times” correspondent had been given 24
hours to get out of the country, the Mexican Govern-
ment being “displeased with dispatches he had sent.”
From Scotland it was reported that the Senatus
Academicus of St. Andrews University had forbidden
the publication of the University magazine unless it
was censored “to prevent the inclusion of political
material” ; from Maoriland, that Mr. Savage had put
a radio commentator off the air. He gave as his reason
that “there is always danger of harm coming from
statements on international affairs.” Australia has seen
much the same thing happen to another spruiker in
what might be called this out-paddock of the Fourth
Estate, and in the United States “restriction of broad-
casting in time of war is being studied by officials.
Meanwhile, in Britain the seriousness with which
the press is taken and takes itself has come more and
more into the spotlight over the past 12 months. The
press fight against the close application to it of the
Official Secrets Act has, on the whole, resulted in a
victory for the shock troops of the Fourth Estate.
That it might be only a temporary victory would seem
to be indicated by sundry signs.
For one thing, Authority is resorting to other
measures. It has given out, for example, that less
information about the Royal Air Force will in future
be made available to the public” — i.e., to the press.
The total of articles appearing in British newspapers in
1938 on the liberty of the press literally runs into
hundreds, the volume of this smoke clearly indicating
the amount of fire about.
Feeling that fire, journalists and others who con-
sider that democracy without an unshackled press
would be a mockery have been jumping about like
scorched cats warning their fellows of the dangers
about them. From the advertising paddock of the
Estate, Mr. C. J. Rose, the head of one of the biggest
agencies, has openly accused the press of “so grossly
exaggerating recent news that they must take fully 50
per cent, of responsibility for the war scares.” The
authors of a recent book on Spain have put on record
the comment of the head reader of a leading London
newspaper that he had “never known so much lying ;
it has been an insult to our profession and a tragedy
to journalism that such stuff has been allowed print.
In his presidential address at the annual confer-
ence of the Institute of Journalists in London, Mr.
H. A. Taylor warned his brother-scribes that “the
prospect of control of the press is strengthened by
the absence, on the proprietorial side, of any pro-
posal for checking the evils which are making a
plausible case for State interference.” He referred to
the present “phase of piecemeal peace-making, more
difficult and delicate than any that the world had
known,” and insisted that “the interests of peace de-
mand of a free press the highest sense of responsi-
bility.” If the present trend continued unchecked, he
declared, the divergence between Authority and the
press would grow, and he expressed the fear that, if
the time should come when the press had to secure
the support of the public in the fight to retain its
liberty, the public would leave it to its fate. To the
press at large he issued the final warning: “In the
absence of some voluntary measure of internal disci-
pline, external control may not be long delayed.”
Perhaps none of these doings on the Fourth
Estate would need to have attention directed to it
if the world —and the Fourth Estate along with it—
had not had its sense of humor removed. As it is,
the press is everywhere apparently taken as seriously
as it takes itself. Not the freedom of the press to say
what it likes —to go on trafficking in wild sensational-
ism and crude lies and hatreds if it so prefers—but
the taking of all this seriously might well constitute
the greatest of all dangers to peace, to civilisation, to
humanity and, in the certain revulsion, to the press
itself.
No one did more to win the freedom which the
New Journalism is now abusing than John Wilkes.
For many years a statue to him stood in Ludgate
Circus, near Fleet-street. Not long back—and this,
too, it should be emphasised, is not a fairy story —
they took John down off his pedestal and set him up
again—in Bedlam! ,
Less Tension—Better Prices.
A glance at export figures shows how much Australia
depends on the pastoral industries to meet its obliga-
tions overseas. In 1937-38 they earned £65,232,000
Australian abroad, as against £48,873,000 realised by
dairy produce, wheat, sugar and fruit.
But wool has fallen into a position that is unique
and alarming. With other commodities, it is generally
possible to estimate what prices will be. When general
conditions in wheat-buying countries are fairly pros-
perous and the world crop, particularly of varieties
which compete with Australian wheat, is not large,
good returns may be expected. When there is a big
world crop and purchasing power is low, the Common-
wealth Government thinks of flour taxes and State
Governments reach for stay-order forms.
A few years ago the statistical position was a
guide to what wool would bring. Given general em-
ployment figures, wool stocks, production data* and
some other knowledge about general buying power, it
was possible to reckon within reasonable limits the
value of the clip and average price per pound. Now
prophets are safe only in being pessimists, like writers
on goldmining.
Net production of Australian wool in 1935-36 was
3,127,000 bales. At the beginning of that season the
air rang with the warnings of speculators: with
Germany out of the market, producers should sell at
any cost, since Ruin lay in wait. Not only did specu-
lators —and newspapers —preach this doctrine from
city offices, but buyers stumped the stations advising
growers to sell direct while there was yet time to avoid
bankruptcy.
When speculators’ stores were full and the market
could no longer be held down, it was suddenly dis-
covered that Germany was buying unobtrusively and
that there had somehow developed a world demand
which justified a sharp rise. Some wool bought early
in the season was resold at a profit of over 2d. per
pound. The price went up from 12.8 d. in October to
15.5 d. in January and 15.7 d. in February. The season’s
average was 14.2 d. Then buyers and sages began
groaning again about the terrible year 1936-37 was
going to be, what with a likely increase in production
and the murderous competition of artificials.
The increase in production materialised. So did
the stupid Gullett embargo, which drove Japan out
of the market for half a season and cost Australians
the sale of upwards of 300,000 bales to one of their
best customers. At that, 130,000 more bales were sold
Prices, which started badly—l2.4d. in September,
1936, and still only 14d. in October —rose as high as
19.5 d. by January, 1937, and the return from auctions
held in Australia jumped by £ll,ooo,ooo—from
£49,600,000 to £60,500,000. This in spite of the fact
that growers of the types of wool that Japan needed
received lower prices than did Maoriland and S. Africa.
Wool available for the 1937-38 season again in-
creased by 92,000 bales. Although there was a greater
proportion of poor stuff in the supply, normal-
type price-levels should not have been affected, even
though Japan’s purchases fell off another 100,000
bales, and those of Belgium and . Holland 150,000
bales. Germany made nonsense of the cry that arti-
ficials were becoming an increasing danger by taking
77,000 more bales than in the previous year. A demand
had sprung up in Europe and Asia for millions of
additional uniforms.
Dalgetys held that “nothing appeared to have
happened to cause a serious setback.” The previous
clip had “gone readily into consumption.” The trend
of comment in the English trade press “conveyed the
impression that users were reconciled to a moderate
further increase, believing such a movement justified
by the strong statistical position.” Instead of the ex-
pected improvement, 235,000 bales—admittedly much
of it poor stuff —were left over at June 30, 1938, and
there was a decline in prices of 4d. per pound. That
cost the Australian woolgrower £16,000,000.
There were other features calculated to make any
grazier tear his hair. Germany renewed its trade agree-
ment with S. Africa and increased its expenditure on
South African wool from £2,750,000 South African to
£3,250,000. This enabled the Germans to dominate the
S. African market. Howls from Bradford were loud
but interesting to Australians. The “Wool Record”
threatened S. African growers with transfer of British
buying to Australia. So did the Yorkshire “Observer”:
Germany is buying more [in S. Africa] than any other
country. It is enabled to do this by what may be termed
a barter agreement. Trade of this kind has forced the
price of Cape wool up to a point where Bradford buyers
can only afford to follow when they have special
requirements to fill. Firms which formerly used these
fine S. African wools have been compelled to turn to
Australia for supplies of similar, if not identical, material
obtainable pence per pound cheaper. Importers of
Cape wool in Bradford have naturally felt the effect ol
this, and some have gone into the Australian trade.
Obviously without this additional “competition’
affecting Australian prices except to give them a
downward trend. Britain pays for its Australian wool
largely in goods—often with goods made I rom Aus-
tralian wool, manufactured and returned to us at a
substantial profit. Why couldn’t Bradford buyers
afford to follow the German competition in S. Africa
to a price-level equivalent to an Australian 13yd. per
pound under the manufacturing and general condi-
tions enumerated by Dalgetys and other wool firms?
Only a few months previously they had been paying
an average of 16.4 d. for all wools in Australia.
In the present season, conditions have gone from
bad to worse and from mystery to mystery. It was
preceded by a campaign to which newspapers and
some pastoralists lent themselves. Buyers returning
from Europe added a little flame to the idea that arti-
ficials competition had reached such a stage that wool
could be sold only at the buyers’ own price, since
Germany, Italy and Japan would not want it. This
the World Wool Federation refused to believe. Con-
sistent German buying, too, has belied it.
The clip is smaller by at least 200,000 bales than
in 1937-38. Good types are scarcer. The market is
keener to get wool. Though, compared with 1937,
183,000 fewer bales were received up to December 31,
200,000 more bales were sold. There were at most
then not more than 1,300,000 bales remaining, and
one-fourth of the 1,300,000 bales changed hands in
January. By Easter, the market will be cleaned out,
except for lines which nobody wants.
January sales in every centre—Sydney, Brisbane,
Geelong, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth —have uniformly
been “very firm at opening rates,” the Continent “buy-
ing heavily, particularly Germany.” Market and press
have noticed a 5 p.c. rise in some centres over pre-
vious levels. London sales, after a hopeful advent and
a cool opening, have been showing “an active demand.”
But the average for the last half of 1938 was
10.59 d. Sydney levels in January were round 10.8 d —in
southern markets lower. They had been higher in
December, all types considered. The market is in
poorer shape than it was in November, considering
supplies and political conditions. Germany, which
bought 80,000,0001 b. of South African wool last year,
doubling its 1936-37 purchases, at values Id. per pound
higher than Australian, is again operating there on a
large scale. In December alone it imported 21,000,000
pounds of South African wool. Of Australian wool it
imported 72,000,0001 b. less in the half-year than in
the corresponding period of the previous twelvemonth.
But it is now buying here steadily.
The Australian return from 1,395,000 bales sold
in the first half of 1938-39 was £18,595,000, compared
with £21,028,000 from 1,196,000 bales in the first half
of the previous season. Prices for the half-year were
3yd. per pound less than the 1936-37 half-year. Sales
may not gross more than £36,000,000.
Dalgetys’ summary is that the last year’s decline
was due “more to political than fundamental economic
factors.” They say that anything tending to remove
political unrest by lessening international tension will
help to restore confidence in the market, but “events
tended to accentuate rather than alleviate the position.”
All newspaper proprietaries have bodies of share-
holders interested in the wool market. All newspapers
are, in a large measure, dependent on wool prosperity
for their own prosperity. But newspaper contributions
to “lessening international tension” have not been
conspicuous. In some quarters sensationalism and
scaremongering and mud-throwing seem to be con-
sidered more important to Australia than sixpence a
pound on the price of wool.
BARCOO.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Who Believes the Prime Minister ?
At intervals for two months past Mr. Lyons has been
uttering the most alarming statements —coming from
one with his position and responsibility —that Aus-
tralia has ever heard. Yet Australia is not believing
its Prime Minister.
This is without precedent. It is most deplorable,
and almost incredible ; but it is no mystery.
On December 4, from his room at Parliament
House, Canberra, the P.M. told the nation through
116 radio stations:
The bitter truth is that at any time in the next
few years we Australians may have to resist an attack on
our country. Would that you knew while there is yet
time on what a slender thread peace in Australia depends!
Four days later Parliament adjourned “for Christmas.”
During the recess Mr. Lyons has been several
times on the air—or on what people have come to
regard, with good reason, as a hobbyhorse. Support-
ing the voluntary recruitinjg campaign in Adelaide, he
was heard in a more restrained vein. He was still fore-
boding, but he inlaid his speech with considerable
reservations.
Since then —plainly because Australians are dis-
believing their P.M. —the voluntary recruiting cam-
paign has been only floundering along, and last week
Mr. Lyons was again up on his charger, more fore-
boding than ever. The Bulletin had asked the Prime
Minister to state plainly, unequivocally and exactly
if what he said on December 4 represented the abso-
lute truth of the situation. It can now be taken that
Mr. Lyons has answered as directly as anyone could
require, and in the affirmative.
Referring to his December 4 speech, Mr. Lyons
declared:
In words as plain as I could make them, I tried to
indicate that in the last few years, even in the last few
' months, there have been vast changes in the situation.
These changes mean that the peace which Australia
has enjoyed for 150 years is threatened.
That has only one possible meaning—invasion. There
can be no other inference drawn from it. It means'
either invasion, or it is hot air.
This conclusion was promptly reached by Mr.
Curtin.
I take it that the Prime Minister means exactly what
he said. The only construction commonscnsc can place
on his words is that, for the first time in our history, we
have to confront the hazard of actual aggression against
our soil and the lives of our people. The reassembling
of Parliament at once is essential for any quick national
realisation of the grave import of what the Prime
Minister means.
Just as promptly Mr. Lyons denied the need to
disturb Parliament’s rest. And yet he naively admits
that he is “forced to believe that some of our people
have not grasped the significance of the position”!
Parliament started its vacation on December 8,
and on present arrangements will reassemble “some
time after Easter.” In Britain —where nothing
approaching such alarming statements have been
uttered by Mr. Chamberlain or any of his responsible
Ministers —Parliament did not rise until December 22,
with reassembling date fixed for January 31. It closed
with a full-dress foreign-affairs debate ; it opens with
another.
It is freely admitted by Mr. Chamberlain that the
future is difficult, and the British public is made
further aware of that by the businesslike performance
of its Parliament. With the sort of example its Com-
monwealth Government is giving it, the Australian
public must go on failing to grasp the “significance of
the position.”
A direct natural outcome of Mr. Lyons’s alarm-
ing statements, the clumsy voluntary recruiting cam-
paign and Parliament’s extended holiday is the public
meeting called for Melbourne Town Hall, February
1, to urge the reintroduction of universal training for
home defence. This move has been condemned on
behalf of the Government, but Mr. Lyons and his
Government have asked for it. Mr. Lyons should be
the last to criticise it; it plainly means that some
Australians have most fully “grasped the significance
of the position” as represented to them by the P.M.
They are, as yet, a minority. The great bulk of
Australians —hearing Mr. Lyons’s alarming pronounce-
ments, seeing Parliament away on vacation till “some
time after Easter” and beholding the cheapjack recruit-
ing stunts —remain quite understandably unconvinced.
Being disbelieved, though bad enough, is not the
worst that can happen to Mr. Lyons if he does not
soon square his frightful warnings with Parliamentary
performance. He runs a grave risk of being dubbed a
humbug.
"Public Opinion."
A recent English analysis, based on interviews with
nearly 100,000 average adult readers of Great Dailies,
shows that the births, marriages and deaths column,
drapery ads., bridge articles, Hollywood blurbs and
crossword puzzles have many more women readers
than men. Stock Exchange prices, sporting and rac-
ing news, horoscope mullock, foreign news and wire-
less programmes are more read by men. The largest
percentages of adult readers of both sexes are attracted
by local news, weather forecasts, picture pages, comic
strips, oddities cartoons and comic cartoons. The
smallest percentages of both sexes prefer the leader
columns, special articles on national or international
subjects and Parliamentary reports.
The investigator suggested that, from the circula-
tion standpoint, these latter items might advantageously
be cut by at least a third in favor of more comics,
astrology, Flash Gordon colored stuff and talkie blurb.
And (God forgive us!), from developments of the last
few years in our own Great Dailies, it looks as if he
is right.
Vital Turn in Spain.
“With colors flying and bands playing,” General
Franco’s troops entered Barcelona last Thursday, and
took over the surrendered city. The offensive was
begun little more than a month earlier, with such in-
stant success, despite the winter conditions, that to
anyone of military nous it was evident that the end
was close and inevitable.
Yet right to the last the pretence was kept up in
cables that Barcelona could hold out. From its out-
break over two and a half years ago, the civil war in
Spain has been just as misleadingly reported. Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders, in particular, have been
wildly misled. In Britain and elsewhere the same one-
sided rubbish has been served up, but there has been
some leavening of information from the other side.
Most of the rubbish has been Barcelona Govern-
ment propaganda. As recently as three days before
the surrender of the city the hope was maintained in
cables that “the defenders could make Barcelona a
second Madrid.” Less than a week before that Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph’s” Barcelona correspondent
“stressed the excellent discipline of the Government’s
rearguard.” It was given out that “the Government”
would never leave Barcelona: it was well out of the
way before Franco’s troops entered. The defenders
were to fight to the last breath: Barcelona was taken
at the end without bloodshed ; “the city surrendered
without fighting”; “thousands of citizens emerged
from refuges and cheered the soldiers.”
That would surprise nobody if newspapers had
been publishing news instead of highly-colored views.
These are merely typical examples printed since the
Barcelona offensive started:
Franco’s Road and Rail Communications in Peril.
Republicans’ Three-day Attack Succeeding.
Spectacular advances, threatening Franco’s communi-
cations between north and south, are claimed to have
been made by Spanish Government troops.
—“ News-Chronicle” (Jan. 9).
Although the Government troops arc now falling
back they do so as part of a considered strategy.
—"Daily Herald" (Jan. 7).
Franco’s Failure.
The pressure on the Spanish Loyalist armed forces
and civilians has been relieved by their counter-attack
on the southern front. —" Time and Tide” (Jan. 14).
General Franco’s offensive, intended as a crushing
blow against Catalonia, it was announc9d had been held
up by floods. It now appears that “floods” is a
euphemism for unrest, treachery and even mutiny in
Franco Spain.— “ Spectator.”
It may be even that the Republicans arc congratu-
lating themselves on being attacked in Catalonia and
not in the southern provinces .—"Economist.”
This brand of rubbish has dominated cables for
two and a half years. Along with it goes the nonsense
about French intervention —open, that is; French
have been largely assisting throughout—and the pre-
posterous idea that, after it is all over, the Spaniards
—the proudest race on the face of the earth—will
meekly submit to their country and themselves being
bossed by Italians and Germans. There has been
enough of this ass-fodder.
In Barcelona.
“Estranjero” recalls summer days in Catalonia:
In the days before the “Government” moved to Bar-
celona—it has moved out again—there was a Spanish jest
in my time in Spain that Catalonia was one of the very few
countries in Europe that had not intervened in Spain. It
was not true, but there was enough in it to give it bite.
Moreover, it pointed the fact that the Catalans are not
Spaniards. Amongst themselves they speak and write Catalan,
which is' used on both sides of the frontier, extending into
France as far as Perpignan, and is much closer to Provencal
than to Castilian.
Barcelona is the sort of place that should delight H. G.
Wells. It is, or was, modernistic, futuristic, full of life, of
growth—often taking strange forms —and of vigor. Its build-
ings looked like the shape of things to come, except that they
fiow'ered into fantastic forms and ornaments that outdid
any imagining. Its amazing growth recalls the New World
rather than the Old.
Though it is a very old city its advance to the greatest
city in Spain dates back little more than half a century. In
1877 it had only 272,481 people. In the 20 years to 1897 this
nearly doubled, jumping to 509,589. Since 1897 the population
has far more than doubled, and even before it was swollen
by refugees it was nearly as large as Sydney. • The number
of Murcians and Valencians attracted to it has, in fact, made
Barcelona much less purely Catalan than it was. Some say
that this influx accounts largely for the strength of the anar-
chist movement, but anarchism in Catalonia is not confined
to Barcelona.
The Catalans are individualists who do not take over-
kindly to centralised socialism. Their Redness usually has a
tinge of anarchism in it. This does not prevent them from
being good workers, intelligent as well as active. The Victoria
Hotel was run by the employees on syndicalist lines, the owners
having disappeared or been “liquidated.” It was very well
run. There was a punctuality about the meals and a certainty
about the beds not to be found in similar hotels in Madrid
or in Valencia.
Business is business in Barcelona, even in civil-war times.
The British Consul used to spend much of his time giving
export certificates of origin for shipments of plaster saints
and of religious ornaments intended for South America,
Cuba, the Philippines and other Spanish-speaking places over-
seas. The makers were often militantly atheistic anarchists.
While I was in Barcelona there were two air raids. The
first came during dinner. Everything was blacked out and
dinner was suspended for half an hour. Most of the diners
went out and looked at the searchlights. The other warning
came at 4 a.m. Most citizens thought of the cellar, rolled
over and went to sleep.
Except that they work harder and eat less, Catalans are
rather like Australians. They have bullfights as well as foot-
ball, of which they are extremely fond. An extra dose of
lotteries in normal times enables them to dispense with horse-
racing. And they do a lot of surfing all up and down the
coast about Barcelona.
Chapters of History.
Mr. Wells notwithstanding, there is a case for “the
present division of historical teaching into the chiefly
political history of localities, of countries, of selected
peoples, of periods. ’ For one thing, a clear and un-
biased account of the first 40 years of the eighteenth
century, so far as they concerned the British Empire,
would be extremely useful just now. The people of
the Dominions, in particular, could draw valuable
lessons from it, for in important respects that age was
startlingly like our own.
In the first place, there was a Great War. It
dragged on longer than our own Great War, and in
blood and treasure was, it may be, as costly in pro-
portion to population and wealth, though exact statis-
tics were not kept. And there was a Grand Alliance,
such as our Mr. Churchill visualises ; indeed, there
was a Churchill, engaged in what the contemporary
Churchill dreams of—“ Continental enterprises” and
the Encirclement of the Enemy. The Enemy was the
France of Louis the Fourteenth ; in 1920 it was Lenin's
Russia ; in 1939 it is Hitler’s Germany. But Churchills
can always dig up an Enemy.
That old war was immensely profitable to the
most illustrious of the Churchills. It brought him a
dukedom; a castle with vast grounds ; gold plate,
paintings and the like, the gifts of grateful allies, and
an immense bank account or the contemporary equiva-
lent, the fruits, in part, of a private levy of p.c.
on the pay of foreign soldiers in England’s service.
Unlike the Great War that we remember too well,
it extended to Spain. By an astonishing piece of luck
which can never happen again, the era of conquest hav-
ing vanished for ever, the English captured Gibraltar.
Under the command of the flashy Peterborough they
and their allies had other successes, which did not
last. One of their generals, like a present British
Cabinet Minister, was a Stanhope ; the Austrian troops
of the archduke they were backing were led by a
Starhemberg—another Starhemberg was a circum-
stance in the late Austrian republic. Most of the
natives were hostile, and Stanhope and Starhemberg
were beaten, Stanhope being taken prisoner. The
descendants of those Spaniards would have hated us
as fiercely had we intervened in their civil war, as
fools and knaves demanded.
In England there was an anti-war party which
saw in the campaigns of Marlborough, Peterborough
and Stanhope a repetition of the useless. Continental
conquests of the Edwards and Henrys, which cost
England its best blood and, after centuries of profit-
less slaughter, left it poor and ill-populated. Thanks
largely to very able writers, the anti-war party
triumphed; Marlborough fell and peace was made.
Once the ablest of the writers turned from his pam-
phleteering to strike at the craze for astrology and
laughed it out of existence, till it was revived, for the
instruction of a generation brought up on Hollywood
films, by our legs-and-lipstick press.
Those to whose reason .Swift and Pope appealed
had comparatively recent memories of rule by (1)
a dictator, (2) a king in the pay of France, (3)
another king who claimed the power to dispense with
Acts of Parliament and (4) a revolution. They had
narrowly escaped a military despotism and a Jacobite
coup d’etat. Reflecting on these events, Pope wrote:
For forms of government let fools contest:
Whate'er is best administered is best.
It is not the whole truth —in matters of government
it is given to no one to see that. But there is truth
enough in it to make thoughtful Australians ponder
uneasily on the slackness revealed by those custodians
of democracy who have had the ordering of defence,
civil aviation and bushfire prevention. Truth enough
in it also to point Mr. Bruce’s warning to interven-
tionists, crusaders and avengers that “every country is
entitled to determine for itself its own form of gov-
ernment,” and that the peoples of the English-speaking
democracies, of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Com-
munist Russia have to live in the same world.
Not Like Other Tropics.
The report of Sir John Russell, head of Britain’s lead-
ing agricultural experimental farm, should dispose of
the last bones of the delusion that North Australia
is not a white man’s country.
Russell, of Rothamsted, has vetted almost every
continent. North Australia, he says, differs from other
tropical countries where it is “impossible for white
men to settle and bring up families.”
In North Queensland they could easily do so. The
children look very well. They haven’t the pasty faces
one sees in other hot countries. It is clearly possible for
men of British and North European stock to run the
country.
“White Australia,” the visitor thinks, has brought
special problems which give a special character to the
North. Results from other countries cannot be trans-
ferred direct to the Australian North. Problems must
be worked out on the spot.
A feature which has impressed Sir John Russell
is the waste of rich scrub land, often cleared and left
to become a wilderness of lantana or other under-
growth and a starting point for erosion. He favors
a survey to show what parts of coastal country are
suitable for pasture and what land it is best worth
clearing for immediate small-farm settlement.
Also, he thinks a study aimed at applying normal
pasture improvement and fertiliser technique to
northern conditions is needed. Investigations into
the possibilities of new crops such as ramie seem to
him worth while.
To do the job he suggests something on the lines
of South Australia’s Waite Institute.
As earnest of his belief in the North, he adds
that he intends to send one of his sons to Gatton
Agricultural College and settle him on the land in
Queensland.
In view of the importance of security and more
population in the tropics to Australian welfare in
general, the Commonwealth Government might reason-
ably help to pay the cost of establishing the proposed
institute, even if Canberra itsjelf should have to go
without a few new trees and buildings for a little while.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“T.D.”: Francis Anderson, Sydney’s
professor emeritus and prop of the
League of Nations, wants to abolish
terms such as “pommy,” “Dago,” “wop”
and “sheeny.” In one of his walks abroad
Anderson fell into talk with a road-
mender who was very fierce about
Dagoes. “Am I right in thinking that
you are Irish?” asked the knight politely.
“I am, and proud of it,” said the road-
man. “And a Catholic?” asked Ander-
son. He was right again. “When I was
abroad,” remarked Francis genltly, “I
had the honor of being received by the
eminent Dago who is the head of your
church.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Calamity-howlers have
been resurrecting the silly old yarn about
the use of disease organisms in warfare.
Meningococci are to be dropped from
’planes in thermos globes attached to
parachutes, with a gadget to spray the
contents on nearing the ground, thus in-
fecting the foe with cerebro-spinal men-
ingitis. Pneumonia, diphtheria, anthrax,
tetanus and plague-infected fleas will
provide pleasant variants to suit all types
of susceptibility. The list does not in-
clude tennis elbow, hay-fever or house-
maid’s knee, all of which would have
serious disabling effects on troops, and
would be just as easy to handle in prac-
tice ; but it is probably an oversight. Most
disease organisms are far too delicate
and chancy things to be used in that or
any other effective way, and the few
hardy ones, such as tetanus, are already
on the scene of hostilities in large amount
all the time.
0 * ■* *
“Mac Hoots”: Some time ago The
Bulletin was kind enough to publish a
par. of mine reproving the man in the
flat upstairs for walking on my head all
night as he practised the ridiculous game
of darts. Evidently the shaft went home ;
he has given it up. But now he has
bought a rowing machine, and sits
squeaking and bumping and rowing like
the devil nowhere at all until the dawn
sneaks into King’s Cross. He reminds
me of a strange fellow I once saw on
the Awatea, going to Maoriland ; he spent
the voyage sitting in the gymnasium on
a bicycle-business, pedalling so furiously
that it looked as if he was trying to race
the ship to port. He never got anywhere,
either.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Most Australian cities now
have a branch of the Red Cross
Volunteer Transfusion Service. A rule is
that no Red Cross donor may be used
unless a relative of the patient is not avail-
able or is not of suitable blood-type. To
the ordinary decent Australian such a ruie
may seem unnecessary. Actually, it is
not at all infrequent to find close rela-
tives, in every way suitable for giving
the necessary blood, who try to shift
the obvious duty on to volunteer, unpaid
strangers and get quite nasty about it,
too. Craven selfishness surely cannot go
much further than that!
* # * *
“Shay M’ Gain”: Bloke at Canbar-
rash bin shkitin’ ’bout nine millionsh
more gallonsh goorole beer drunk lasht
year. Makesh yer thirsty thinkin’ of it,
but when the shtathictishtic blokesh
“Apart from the sheilahs, Dave , I reckon Venice ain't got nothin' on us.”
getsh addin’ up wot the blokesh mushter
got through puttin’ out all those bush-
firesh they won’t have enough figuresh to
go round. But worrlwannershayis why
don’t Joe Lyonsh an’ Cashey do some-
thing to make them flamin’ teetotallersh
pay their proper whacksh in keepin’ the
country goin’? Puttin’ whole blanky
burden on ush poor cowsh, millionsh an’
millionsh every year, an’ lettin’ lotter
loushy wowshersh get off without payin’
a shingle flamin’ bean cosh they’re too
flamin’ mean ter have a blanky drink
like white mensh. Reghicster the cowsh,
thash wot I’d do ; make ’em pay up for
the drinksh an’ shmokesh they get out
of, and then yer’d shee the flamin’
revenue go up by leapsh an’ boundsh.
* * * *
“T.D.”: Spain is literally swinging to-
wards the Axis, according to a Sydney
“Herald” cable. Germans have modern-
ised a submarine base “on the Mediter-
ranean coast at Seville.” The Guadal-
quivir, on which Seville stands, used to
run into the Atlantic over 50 miles out-
side the Strait of Gibraltar.
* * * *
“Mugg”: Adelaide’s record hot spell
had its lighter side. Someone fried an
egg on the pavement of Hindley-street.
An elderly man held a thermometer in
the sun in Grenfell-street for 10 minutes.
On the first day the record was broken
two men had Turkish baths at that time
of the day when the thermometer was
well over the 116 mark. Welded rails
on the Brighton line proved railway
theorists all wrong by buckling, just as
the man in the street had always ex-
pected them to do. Wax models in shop
windows bent to grotesque shapes, and
one in a tailor’s window dropped its
head. An ingenious young unemployed
chap each morning made a round of
the suburbs. “Good morning, madam,”
he would exclaim to each distressed
housewife, “and how many dead fowls
have you' to be buried this morning at
threepence a head?”
* * * *
“S.”: H. G. Wells talked some very
sound Freud in his last broadcast; the
psychological causes of war are too much
neglected in the daily blare of surface
manifestations. But I wouldn’t, as he
did, confine my investigations to the
surplus energy and consequent belliger-
ence of the young men ; after all, we
have recently seen an extremely active
and belligerent septuagenarian indulging
in the warlike pastime of insulting Hitler
and Mussolini. As a stripling rather
interested in being told, in effect, to go
and get blown to bits for Mr. Wells’s
benefit, I should rather like to psycho-
analyse this professional paterfamilias.
* * * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: A story in a recent
publication (Not Worth Reading, by Sir
George Arthur) recalls that no English
sovereign has, in more or less recent
years at any’ rate, been much of a
horseman The present King, like his
father is obviously a sailor on horse-
back, and, though Edward VII. was never
a sailor, he was certainly no horseman,
Sir George’s story is anent a review at
Windsor just after Queen Victoria’s
eldest son had been appointed Colonel-
in-Chief of the Household Cavalry, and
the Prince turned out to be reviewed with
the troops in full dress, with horse
attached. The uniform fitted H.R.H.
like a glove, but its rigidity forbade the
novice any grip on his horse’s flanks.
The Prince did, however, manage the
“march past” at the head of his troops,
but, feeling that the “trot past” was
beyond his powers, he ranged himself
alongside the royal barouche, to be re-
warded with the remark, in slightly acid
tones, from his royal mother: “Bertie,
you look very nice . . .”
* * * *
“C.R.”: Firefighters had to face ex-
traordinary perils during the recent Vic.
bushfires. A gang was trying to save
the home of a leading Melbourne citizen
on the outskirts of the city. They were
badly in need of water, and one of the
men was delighted when he discovered a
row of tanks towards which the fire was
approaching. He was rushing off to get
assistance to tap this providential supply
when one of the tanks exploded. They
were 40-gallon drums of petrol.
r. * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The yarn about the boy
who wrote his name and address on a
sheet of paper, put it in a bottle, set it
adrift on the Avon River in England,
and had it returned a year later by a
fisherman who had picked it up in
Wellington (M.L.) Harbor is getting a
fresh spin from par.-hounds in England.
Launching and picking up were quite
correctly reported, but the intervening
voyage was done under steam power,
with some assistance from a relative of
mine. An apprentice on a cargo-wallah,
he was on home leave, and picked up the
bottle while taking a girl out for a pull.
Deciding to give the lad something to
interest him, he took it to sea a week
later, and dropped it overboard as the
ship was coming up to the wharf at
Wellington. Even after allowing for six
months of a very varied outward voyage,
and time for reply, it would be the
world’s record for bottle-drifting.
* * * *
“Hard Hat”: When the temperature
reached 114 degrees before the open
hearths at the Newcastle steelworks,
buckets of iced water and saline tablets
were sent down for the men. The value
of salt added to the drinking water of
men losing sweat at too fast a rate was
proved when repeated cases of cramp
led to investigation in one of England's
deepest and hottest mines,
* * .
X.S. : A solution of a difficult
problem suggested itself to Judge Rich-
ardson in a case of car-stealing in
Melbourne. Accused, 18, was convicted
of stealing two cars, purloining tools
from another and accepting a bribe
to steal yet another. He had seven prior
convictions for similar offences, and his
mania prevailed even when he was out
on bail op. one of the charges. A fore-
gone example of criminal proclivities?
’Sonah, however, had noted from the
evidence that when he worked as a car
mechanic he behaved like a normal m-
dividual and that he had applied to be
admitted as a driver in the tank section
of the military forces. He was sent to
a reformatory pending the result of his
application.
41 v *t»
“Napier” lets himself go:
Franco is in Barcelona and I have just
pledged him in a Jimmy Woodser. I know
nothing about him, but the “Daily Mirror,”
one of those warlike rags which publish so
many portraits of nearly-naked tarts that they
get softening of the brain, describes him as
“an unscrupulous little uprisen adventurer,”
so I judge that he must be rather a decent
sort. ‘Anyway, I wish him all the best be-
cause, as Norman Lindsay once wrote of the
pugilist, “he is the enemy of all my enemies.”
Franco’s triumph has brought rage and con-
fusion to Labor Council Reds, Attlee, Cripps,
Churchill, Eden, Laski, Gollancz, Left Book
Club professors, Dreiser, Sinclair, Hemingway,
American magazine writers, American reporters
(in both categories there are some of the big-
gest liars unhung), “Pertinax,” Madame Tabouis,
the Duchess of Athol, Miss Ellen Wilkinson,
Australian Feminist Leaders, Stalin, Dimitroff,
the Comintern, Parlor Pinks, red-shirted uni-
versity yobs, editors of flapper-papers, Special
Representatives, Diplomatic Correspondents,
radio boys of the bellicose blah breed and re-
viewers of the kind that extols untrained Com-
munist mobs and proclaims the Red Inter-
national militia “the greatest fighting force the
world has ever seen.”
A member of this last band of blitherers airs
his ignorance and cheek in “Reynolds’s News,”
the paper that exiled the Vatican to Australia.
He writes that “the battle honors that Wel-
lington’s soldiers won, Albuera, Badajoz, Sala-
manca, have been overshadowed by the battle
honors the immortal 2000 British volunteers
have won on Spanish soil”; also that “the
Charge of the Light Brigade’s six hundred pales
when compared with the stand of the 600 at
Jarama, who fought as badly-armed volunteers,
most of them facing their baptism of fire."
The answer to that fustian is that the warriors
of Wellington and Raglan were successful, and
that the Diggers who wrested Villers-Bret. and
Mont St. Quentin from real soldiers, con-
querors of half Europe, would rather have
been up against 10 times the number of Red
volunteers “badly armed” and “facing their
baptism of fire.”
If Franco sets up a dictatorship it wont
last; none of them will: dictatorships never do.
But for his share in exposing the bluff, brag
and cant of my aversions I drink to him
again.
GARGOYLES.
(After Kipling.)
Time was when an artist, tiring of the brush-
and-pen routine,
Turned his fancy to shaping gargoyles in plasti-
cine,
Visages grimly fashioned till they looked like
Caliban’s kith,
And let them loose on the public with the
caption “Modelled by Frith.”
There were some he was pleased to feature
with a bulldog’s pendulous jowls,
With the jutting beaks of parrots, or the hard-
boiled eyes of owls;
And now and again a dial that might have
been well mistook
For that of a Piute Indian or a battered Bashi-
Bazouk.
There were some recalling the Satyrs who glee-
fully came along
To trot at the heels of Bacchus, in Keats’s
echoing song;
But whoever they may’ve resembled, in history
or myth,
They were all of ’em first-class gargoyles when
they’d passed through the hands of Frith!
And some of the sitters grumbled, as sitters
often do:
“Why should he vision in us what nobody else
can view?
We may not run in the Gable or the Robert
Taylor class,
But at least we haven’t the faces to fracture
a looking-glass.”
Their words came back to the studio and
touched the creator’s pride,
For never was yet an artist likes having his
wares decried;
So he made his way to the sanctum and
phrased it plain and pat:
“I modelled them as / saw them. Am 1 to
be blamed for that?”
And the Editor heard and answered, as (“old
and wise in his craft”
As the father of Ung in the ballad) he mangled
a proof and laughed.
“ ‘lf they could see as thou seest,’ and fastened
on at a glance,
It’s a % pretty fair presumption you’d never have
had the chance.
“If they could see what you saw —but stick
to the job, my man,
In the full and assured conviction there’s no-
body else who can
Else Brown and Kelly and Johnson, Robinson,
Jones and Smith
Might each get busy at gargoyles—and what
would be left for Frith?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ex-Mister”: A religiously-minded
skipper used to warn us denizens of the
half-deck about the dangers of drink
while doling out a few bob shore ad-
vance. “No use thinkin’ you can leave
it off when you want,” he’d say. “Keep
on long enough and you’ll find you want
to leave it off and can’t.” We often
used to speculate as to how long was
long enough to let the habit really get
you. An ex-seaman who recently found
his last anchorage at Lismore (N.S.W.)
has provided an answer which would
not have pleased our Old Man. He
drank beer in his youth, and through all
later years was a heavy consumer of
rum. At the age of 100 he realised that
drink was doing his health no good, and
gave it up entirely. It was too late, how-
ever. He lasted only another three years.
But, clearly, drink wasn’t his life-habit.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Forbearance is ordinarily re-
garded as a Christian virtue, but it was
the subject of a prosecution recently in
Melbourne. A man’s kelpie was run over
by a car, a leg and the jaw being broken.
He bandaged up the fractured limb, and
the animal was beginning to recover when
his son let it off the chain and it engaged
in a fight with another canine. The owner
then tried to kill it by shooting, but only
succeeded in wounding it. According to
his statement, he then lost heart, and was
waiting for a humane killer to put it out
of its misery. He was charged with hav-
ing “observed forbearance to a dog, such
forbearance involving cruelty.” The
charge was dismissed. About all that
can be charged against the man is
ignorance. There are half a dozen
organisations in Melbourne which will
lethalise a dog in the most merciful way
possible.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The only painting which
has ever interpreted the full fearsome
majesty of a great bushfire is John
Longstaff’s “Gippsland,” in the Mel-
bourne National Gallery. He saw the
dreadful February Sunday in 1898, and
put his Australian soul into the render-
ing of it. That genial and theatrical
soul the late H. D. Annear decided to
make Longstaff’s fortune, engaged a
room at the Town Hall, hung the picture
with a rail well out in front, and put in
a footlight system of gasburners with an
attachment for baking gum twigs in a
sort of stove, all cleverly concealed. Thus,
hundreds of visitors actually saw the fire
glare flickering up into the pictured sky,
and even smelt the burning of the
doomed forest. The publicity value was
terrific until a short-sighted elderly
visitor managed to duck under the rail
for a closer view of the brushwork, and
his whiskers caught fire.
Longstaff’s sense of humor
closed the show, and the Nat.
Gall, bought the picture for
£250 —a bargain.
“S.T.S.”: There was a fine
artistic flavor about a prose-
cution in Adelaide for “per-
mitting liquor to be con-
sumed” at about 8 p.m. Long-
staff is staying at the Botanic
Hotel while painting portraits
of distinguished S.A. citi-
zens. McCubbin, Director of
the National Gallery, called
to see him, and the lounge-
steward served one drink each for three
people. Charge dismissed, on the ground
that the licensee, Mrs. Jane Killicoat,
knew nothing about it, and so did not
“permit” it. “No better conducted prem-
ises in the city,” said a police witness.
“I've been invited to Camden to do a spot of riding with one of the jolly
old squattahs."
Mrs. Killicoat was well-known, once
upon a time, as Jennie Opie, contralto
singer with Rickards and other managers.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A leading Melbourne painter,
a somewhat testy fellow, was surveying
the examples of child art hung at a
recent exhibition, when he was accosted
by a wild-eyed follower of Cezanne,
Gauguin, Van Gogh and other old gods
of the impressionistic dispensation.
“There you are, my academic friend,”
he said triumphantly. “The children are
moderns!” “True,” said the pillar of
orthodoxy solemnly, “but consider the
corollary—the moderns must be chil-
dren.”
* * * *
“Heretaunga”: Friend of mine, motor-
ing from Napier (M.L.) to Wellington,
recently gave a lift to a couple of young
Mormons who, penniless, were setting
out to walk the 200 miles. It seems it is
a common practice for Latter-day Saints
to go into the world and do a year or
two of buckshee missionary work. These
young men were convinced that the Lord
would look after them, and provide food
and shelter during their wanderings.
They were pleasant and interesting com-
panions, but their loud, confident in-
sistence on the fact that the Lord always
provided rather irritated my friend, who
made no secret of his scepticism. They
reached Wellington at the five o’clock
rush hour. The Mormons didn’t know
where they would get a meal or spend
the night. They knew only one man in
the city, but had no idea where to find
him. Anyway, “The Lord would pro-
vide.” My friend confesses to a secret
fear that he would be called on, in the
Lord’s guise, to provide food and lodg-
ing for them. He stopped the car in a
busy street. The Mormons got out.
Practically the first person they saw was
the only man they knew in Wellington!
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: As a result of the shock
of the bushfire tragedies Premier Dunstan
said the other day that concentration of
mill workers in model townships with
provision for safety and social amenities
was being seriously considered. The sug-
gestion was made in The Bulletin after
the 1926 disaster, but the old timber
shacks went up again, to be rcincincrated.
Why not try pisd, or rammed-carth con-
struction? It was used by the Romans,
and some of their buildings are still in
existence, as are 600-year-old pisd houses
in Prance and England. Sir Edward
Lutyens has revived the method for large
country houses, and it has been used in
S. Africa, the Riverina, Queensland and
even in the environs of Melbourne where
councils will permit it. Almost any inland
suburban allotment has the material for
pisd construction. The excavation for
a cellar or foundations supplies all the
material and more for the building, the
earth is emptied from buckets into formes
and rammed down in successive courses.
The exterior can be waterproofed, and
if the wavy surface is preserved and
not made monotonous with plaster, it
has a beautiful appearance. With a tin
or tiled roof, it is fireproof except for
the architraves of doors and windows,
which can be kept damped down in a
fire when a wooden house has become
a deathtrap. Pise is cool in summer and
warm in winter, unlike brick or con-
crete, which warms up and stays warm
in a heat-wave.
* * * *
“T.”: Cabled that August von Mac-
kensen headed a party of old war-lords
that visited Doom bearing birthday gifts
for the ex-Kaiser. Wilhelm has turned
80 ; Mackensep is rising 90. Though the
“It must be lost, caddie —THANK God!”
Germans didn’t make so much of him
as they made of Hindenburg and Luden-
dorff—he was supposed to belong to the
Crown Prince’s party, and Little Willie
fell into some disfavor, partly be-
cause his own performances as a
general were not glorious—Macken-
sen was a dourer fighter than either.
He led the army groups that (1)
broke the Russian line at Gorlice,
an operation which led to the tre-
mendous defeats of the Tsar’s armies
in 1915 ; (2) drove the Serbs out of
their country after they had held up
the Austrians for 12 months, and
(3) smashed Rumania. After the
Armistice the French grabbed the
old fighting man and interned him
for 13 months. His name suggests
that he is of Scotch descent ; no
doubt Mackenzies were among the
soldiers of fortune who, from the
Middle Ages onward, migrated from
Scotland in unnumbered thousands
to serve in the wars of Europe. In that
enchanting novel A Legend of Montrose
Scott has painted a deathless picture
of the type. The most famous of these
exiles were the two Keiths, sons of the
Earl Marischal of Scotland, who had to
leave Caledonia after the ’Fifteen and
took service in Prussia. Francis, the
younger brother, was about the best
of Frederick the Great’s generals. He
fell, a field-marshal, at the battle of
Hochkirch.
* * * *
S. Talbot Smith is another Bulletin
writer who remembers things:
I really must butt in on Mr. McDuffie’s
reminiscences of this paper (B. 11/1 /’39), when
he claims his 33 years’ association as “fairly
ancient,’’ and even credits “Hamer” with being
the only par.-writer remaining of the 1906 lot.
Without looking further, I myself have been
going for well over 10 years more than that, as
its dramatic and art critic in Adelaide and par.-
writer under my own initials and (at various
times) quite a number of pen-names. Except
for one absence in Europe in 1927, I doubt
if there has been one issue per annum for 45
years that has not contained something of
mine: and this although working at a distance
of about 1000 miles from headquarters.
* * *
“Cauboy”: Thanks to the forbearance
of Chief Sec. Gollan, Sydney is having
the unexpurgated version of “The
Women,” same as Melbourne. If Mr.
Gollan could sit through the screening
of “Pygmalion” without hearing the
great Australian adjective, he can safely
go to see “The Women.” The audience
which packed the King’s for the 100 per-
formances of “The Women” in Mel-
bourne heard everything, which accounts
for the intense hysterical tension in the
house during each performance. But, after
all, there is nothing in Clare Boothe's
opus which is not common gossip in club
smokerooms and around the police
courts. The reason for the popular ex-
citement aroused by this play is purely a
matter of environment. A word or an
expression which is in most people’s
mouths on ordinary occasions will startle
the soulcase out of the same individuals
when they are sitting in a theatre with
their girl friends or their spouses. Shaw
knew what he was doing when he worked
in that “bloody.” I was at a stage per-
formance of “Pygmalion” with a bronzed
and bearded bushman. When he heard the
word uttered by the nice-looking young
lady who played Eliza Doolittle he turned
pale and nearly fainted. I had previ-
ously nearly fainted myself when I heard
the way that bushman talked to bullocks.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The nearest real approach
to the mythical stork’s arrival with a
pink atom of humanity was enacted at
Auckland Karitane Home the other day.
A married couple were spending a holi-
day on the Great Barrier Island, about
40 miles from Auckland, M.L. A SOS
call from the island at 3.30 a.m. sum-
moned an Auckland medico. He took
the wings of morning and arrived in time
to assist the prematurely-born child into
the world. In its interest he wrapped the
little bundle of pink humanity in cotton-
wool, placed it in a mailbag and flew by
’plane back to Auckland. By 8.30 the
child was snug in a temperature-
controlled cot i.n the Karitane institution
in Auckland.
* * * *
“Pardon Me”: There is no “revival”
of archery in England (B. 18/1 /’39), for
the reason that interest has never waned.
The annual meeting for the Antient
Scorton Arrow has been held since 1673,
with only two short breaks (during the
Peninsular War and Great War). The
Ripon Archers, the Lincolnshire Archers
and at least five other northern clubs
are all women, and have been so for
many years. John o’ Gaunt’s Society
at Lancaster was re-formed about 150
years ago, and has been going strong ever
since. In the time of Edward 111. there
was a slight lack of interest in archery,
but the King gingered the populace up.
Perhaps this is what “Lockyer” is think-
ing of.
FINE FEATHERS.
“The Mayor of Mosman (Sydney), reviving a
disused local custom, took his seat in robes trimmed
\ V *ith ermine and white fur, which he regarded as
being in keeping with the dignity of his office and
the Importance of the municipality.”
Admittedly the man would be a goat
Who with supreme assurance undertook
To judge a sausage by its overcoat
Or from its binding estimate a book.
Yet even a suburban Mayor should look
The part he’s cast to play and posture in,
And some distinction, not to be forsook
Lightly, resides, it seems, in rabbitskin.
Your talents and your time you may devote
The civic wagon to a star to hook,
All public enterprises to promote
And no encroachment on your job to brook.
But when you’re throned in your accustomed
nook,
You'll find, for inculcating discipline
And keeping aldermen from going crook,
There’s virtue in a bit of rabbitskin.
The Judge or pleader by his wig we note;
His headgear tall and white proclaims the
cook;
Worn back-to-front around the cleric’s throat
The telltale collar’s hard to overlook;
A bulging bag betrays the Tommy Rook;
The label on the bottle and the tin
Betokens what therefrom is poured or shook.
And what’s a Mayor without his rabbitskin?
He gives his sturdy ratepayers the hump,
He does his bailiwick a grievous sin,
Who grasps the handle of the parish pump
Without his quantum stiff, of rabbitskin.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


yu
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
m
10 for 9d...20 for V 6
E 1866
SPECIALLY
lE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
older and wiser and sadder Bruce. One
day in Sydney sufficed to make him wiser
in the ways of the New Journalism.
Sydney “D.T.,” thundering against
Bruce, on the text that “he spoke more
as a representative of Mr. Chamberlain
than as an Australian”:
No one w nes more than we do
the right of Germany or any other country
to govern itself as it so desires.
It appeared that way in the paper. Even
the type rebelled.
Back from selling Big Dippers in
Maoriland, Lord Strabolgi heaved rocks
at Bruce because Bruce intimated that
he had no use for Czecho.’s mad foreign
policy or his rotten treatment of minori-
ties. His lordship strongly recommended
a Russian alliance. The first of a hun-
“S. M. Herald,” with blood in her eye
again:
It is impossible to mistake the tighten-
ing of the tension in Europe or its char-
acter as a renewal of the crisis of last
September.
And all because Granny put her money
on a bobtailed nag in a place where nuts
come from. The nag is running yet.
Did anyone tell Sir Samuel Hoare
about the way windy old politicians and
papers have been performing in Aus-
tralia? Hear him on “those who go
about the world with white faces and
trembling lips, asking each other on which
day of the week and in which week of
the month the world war is going to
begin.”
These timid panic-mongers are doing very
great harm. They are creating a fatal
feeling of the inevitability of war when
there is no such inevitability at all.
And, as reported in Monday’s issue of
“S. M. Herald,” Chamberlain said at Bir-
mingham : “There are no differences that
cannot be solved without recourse to
war.” Yet in that very issue the “Herald”
revived The Crisis on its cable page!
A party of Ontario politicians, headed
by Mitchell Hepburn, the Premier, has
come to Australia in search of financial
guidance. Hepburn says he is “tremen-
dously interested in your Commonwealth
Bank,” and that’s all right; he can
scarcely go wrong if he confines his
studies to that institution. But well-
wishers of Ontario should see that he
doesn’t stay too long in the company of
State Premiers.
Hepburn, the Premier of Ontario,
known as “Mitch,” describes his native
Canada as “a country without national
leadership.” And he has come to this
Dominion to tell us that!
Canada “without national leadership”?
Well, Dandurand, who leads for the
Government in the Senate, said last week
that, if “any conflict” threatens, his
Dominion “is not going to be placed in
the position of having to dance to the
tune of any British Government, Con-
servative, Liberal, Labor or Socialist,
without having an opportunity of saying
yea or nay.” If that isn’t leadership,
what term should be applied to “Tune-in
with Britain,” the repeated phrase of
our parrot —no, Our Joe?
Just when the Spanish Nationalists were
swooping down on Barcelona, and it
became crystal-clear that Spain is to have
a Franco Government with which it will
be necessary for Britain, and thrice neces-
sary for France, to be on good terms,
Eden was heard panting after the bus
he always misses:, —
Mr. Eden urged a policy of unshaken
firmness. A victory for Franco would be
a foreign victory.
The scene of this blither was Coventry.
Anthony’s party —if he has a party-
should keep him there.
Back in his native country with an
honest account of what Chamberlain did
in September, and why—an account
greeted by those who heard it from his
own lips with “ringing cheers” —Bruce
was informed by Sydney “D.T.” that he
didn’t know what he was talking about,
by “S. M. Herald” that the policy he
“was at such gratuitous pains to defend”
was rotten, and by the “Moscow”—no,
the “Daily News” that he had “revealed
the iron heel beneath his spats,” and had
been guilty of “cowardly audacity” when
he blamed the Czechs. Though still
young as public men go, he looks an
dred objections is that a Russian alliance
would transform Japan, whose relations
with Australia have always been correct
and often cordial, into an enemy. And
events have shown that Russia is incap-
able of helping old pals in east and west,
much less strangers in the south, whereas
the China war has left the Japanese
navy intact. The Labor peer should be
aware of all this unless he has addled
his brains by too much riding in Big
Dippers.
To show how anti-socialist they were,
Stevens and co. sold the Government
brickworks and pipeworks, which at the
worst were checks on building costs.
Then in the noble cause of State socialism
they put fleets of Government buses on
the streets where none had grown before.
The next step was to guarantee overdrafts
of co-operative building societies to the
extent of 90 p.c. of valuations ; and the
price of bricks, which had been 50s. per
1000 in 1932, went bounding up to 68s.
Now an Industrial Court Judge appointed
to go into building costs has been told
that concerns which used to make bricks
have been receiving a steady annual in-
come from their old pals for not making
br i cks -
Bonnet, the Foreign Minister, in the
Chamber of Deputies:—
In the event of war all the forces of
France will be placed at the disposal of
Britain and all the forces of Britain will be
placed at the disposal of France.
A lot depends on what this French poli-
tician, who disposes of “the forces of
Britain” with such assurance, means by
“Britain.” If his definition covers the
Dominions, e wi renc b dnmininn
80 t0 K i 5 t ?a£>r,in a nv nan
over buck niggers in any part of Africa
“Our motto is neither defiance nor deference; it is defence.”
— Mr. Chamberlain at Birmingham.
“Gentlemen, you have only to say the word and I’ll beat this into a ploughshare
—I don’t mean the umbrella.”
or in the cant word of the day, to
“implement” French “engagements with
the Soviet and with Poland.” “These
engagements continue, the French
gentleman said. The Dominions are not
interested.
-Many people do not. appreciate the
grayuy of the position in which Aus
tralia stands to-day. War may break
out anywhere at any moment.” — Minister
WiioW in n recruiting hrnaHcast “The
Hughes in a recruiting broadcast. me
Government adopted voluntary military
training, at least until it is satisfied that
it is an unsafe system, or until the in-
, .. , ♦ , .• t
ternational situation compels it to adopt
some drastic methods. We consider there
is no necessity for compulsory training
in the present stage of our defensive
circumstances. Assistant Minister
Thompson at a recruiting rally, same
night. Poor old Billy! Reduced to
stumping the country for the volun-
tarism that he stumped the country
against in 1916 and 1917, and contra-
dicted by some colleague or another
almost every night.
Light, the Assembly seat that ex-
Premier Butler resigned to stand for
Federal Wakefield, with unhappy results,
was held for the L.C.P. (Liberal and
Country party) by H. D. Michael, a
Digger farmer, who has a Croix de
Guerre. Cameron, the P.M.G., spoke
for him—evidently to some effect. In
these matters Diggers preserve the old
association, but South Australians are
still wondering why neither Cameron
nor any other Commonwealth Minister
did any campaigning for Butler.
Power-alcohol production in Queens-
land, which in five years has grown from
100,000 gallons p.a. to 600,000 gallons
p.a., will get another lift from a regula-
tion requiring oil companies to buy two
gallons instead of \\ for every 100 gal-
lons of motor spirit they sell. Perhaps
Forgan Smith has been looking up Jap-
anese precedents. A “Contemporary
Japan” chronicle of 1938 events has this
September item: “Alcohol in petrol for
civilian automobiles is increased to 10
p.c. from the 5 p.c. ordered in July.”
The Germans have taken to publishing
official denials of Stunt Press fables and
fairytales. In one week they denied
that “extensive troop manoeuvres have
been arranged for February,” that they
have grabbed the Skoda works from the
Czechs, and that Goebbels and Goring
are to be disgraced. If they are going
to do this as a regular thing, “Pertinax,”
Madame Two-Blues, the “Cronk-News”
and sundry Special Representatives and
Diplomatic Correspondents will keep
them busy.
A Sydney architect, B. J. Waterhouse,
has slated the Big City Government for
letting the Transport Department and
the Water Board —now under Govern-
ment financial control raise costly
structures on “inappropriate sites.”
Surely he ought to know that every
Sydney Government clerk carries in the
equivalent of the Napoleonic soldier’s
knapsack plans for (1) a Grand Tour
(salary and expenses paid); (2) a de-
partment of which he is to be the boss,
and (3) a lordly building which will
be a monument to his glory.
Dunstan’s gloomy study of Victorian
Government railway accounts, which may
show a loss of a million this year, though
£30,000,000 of capital was “written off”
in 1936, was interrupted by a blithe
message in Sydney. It was to the effect
that Mr. Stevens would be charmed to let
Victoria construct another Riverina
railway, Oaklands-Rand, provided it bore
the whole cost. Rand is already the
terminus of one of Stevens’s railways,
but Stevens’s buzzum is bursting with
philanthropy. Besides, N.S.W. out-of-
works are becoming importunate again.
From Molongloside:
The Government that, with “war thunder-
ing at our gates” and “peace hanging by a
slender thread,” closed Parliament on Decem-
ber 8 “for Christmas” may not reopen it
until after Easter. What a cushy job Lyons has
compared with Chamberlain!
The last month of a year as exacting as
Prime Minister ever experienced found that
old man stoutly defending his foreign policy
in the Commons a fortnight after Lyons and his
associates had scattered “for Christmas.” Part
of the recess he spent at Rome in conference
with Mussolini, and on his return to London
he had to wrestle, with, and recommend to
the nation in a broadcast, plans for voluntary
national service in all its forms. In the mean-
time he was badgered by Attlee and other
nuisances, whose idea is that the Empire should
always be ready to spring to the rescue of per-
fect strangers who are getting a doing in some
foreign country. Attlee demanded an immediate
meeting of Parliament so that legislative sanc-
tion might be given to intervention in the
Spanish dogfight—on the doomed side, of
course. One of the grounds of refusal was
that, in the ordinary course of events, Parlia-
ment would meet again at the end of January.


\N \ / "7
Ow A&OUT ME,SUVNOR . <VE COTTA
WATCH 'EM , "
THE MORE DESERVING CASE.
Lord Nuffield, on giving £10,500 to the South African Cricket Association, explained that many promising young fellows lost wages while playing in important matches.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,000,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
yui
Don’t Sbeculate —
INVEST!
in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
Annual YIELD over 5 p.c.
CUSTODIAN TRUSTEES:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. I (it's free) to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
Telephone: 85294. 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Canon George Gordon (“Pat”)
O'Keeffe is well known in North Queens-
land for having picked a big double
twelve months ago. But he is better
known as the headmaster of All Souls'
School, Charters Towers, and as a padre
who enlisted in the ranks in 1916 and
won his commission (lieutenant) in the
field—at Passchendaele. Sent home
badly knocked about and gassed in 1918,
in 1921 he defied friends’ and medical
advice by settling down in the old N.Q.
mining town ; he found the climate all
he wished, and became headmaster of
the school in 1925. It has had a wonder-
ful record since. There are now 250
boys, all boarders (from Darwin, Ten-
CANON O'KEEFFE.
nant Creek and Papua as well as Queens-
land), fees £7O a year, and in 13 years,
without any Government aid, O’Keeffe
has built up a £30,000 fund towards
erecting a new school, plans for which
are being drawn. The canon belongs to
the Bush Brotherhood ; he names N. S.
Wales as his birth-State, and he’ll be
50 next June.
A man of many parts is Herbert Wil-
liam Moffitt, appointed a Judge of the
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Com-
mission. Son of a pioneer in the Shoal-
haven (N. S. Wales) district, Moffit
worked on the land till he was 20, then
became teacher in a bush school. Trans-
ferred to Redfern (Sydney) he went to
Sydney Uni., graduating 8.A., M.A. and
LL.B. During the earlier part of this
period he was a contributor of excellent
black-and-white drawings to The Bulle-
tin, specialising in bush scenes featur-
ing abos., rouseabouts and horses, the sub-
jects he knew best. His career as a peda-
gogue culminated with his appointment
as English master at Sydney High, where
he interested the boys in the staging of
Shakspearean plays, and himself dis-
played a talent for acting and stage man-
agement. He was called to the Bar in
1923, and has had wide legal experience
in the intervening years.
A fellow-Queenslander’s farewell:
The Bulletin’s J. B. Higginson, dead at
Springwood (N.S.W.), packed a lot of experi-
ence into his' 65 years. Born at Dalby (Q.),
son of a station manager who had charge of
Noondoo, on the N.S.W. border, for the A.P.
Co. for many years, he went to school at
Brisbane Grammar. He abandoned study for
the Bar to go to the Boer War with the Second
Queenslanders, transferring to the sth Queens-
landers (Imperial Bushmen), with whom he
served as a lieutenant.
The highlight of Higginson’s South African
career was the fight at Onverwacht on January
4, 1902. An English major in command mis-
judged the strength of a Boer force and
suddenly found himself in a hot situation. He
ordered a retirement and the abandonment of
a pom-pom. Capt. Bert Carter (he died
recently), Higginson and a small force rode in
between the gun and the enemy, dismounted and
“held with great gallantry the position taken
up, though absolutely without cover. The ad-
vance was temporarily checked, though the
Boers outnumbered them six to one.” Both
officers were wounded. General Plumer after-
wards viewed the battleground, and there was
talk of V.Cs., but the commanding officer of
the sth and most of his officers, outside Carter
and Higginson, were killed, wounded or cap-
tured, and nothing came of it.
Afterwards Higginson went to New Guinea,
where he served as A.R.M. under Moncton
and later as R.M. In the Great War he fought
in Sinai and Palestine as a major in the
Ist Light Horse. From 1906 onwards he was
a journalist on staffs from Charters Towers to
Melbourne until he joined The Bulletin in
1927.
F. E. Williams, who has been Govern-
ment Anthropologist of Papua for 15
years, seems marked out for the new
Commonwealth job of Director of
Aboriginal Affairs. A war-time (1915)
5. Rhodes scholar, he was an A.I.F.
man, saw service in Persia as well as
France, and ended as a captain. Then
he took an anthropology diploma at Ox-
ford and did special work before going
to Papua. He had been elected president
of the anthropology section of the Can-
berra Science Congress, but urgent work
in the Papuan interior kept him away.
His study of the Vailala “madness,” or
religious mania, is a fine bit of work,
and he has done a num-
ber of other studies of
Papuan native life.
Prof. Arthur Sewell,
who holds the chair of
English at Auckland
College (M.L.), and
who has been visiting
Sydney and Brisbane in
furtherance of a study
of Australian literature,
is one of the youngest
and liveliest of Maori-
land’s academicians.
Yorkshire by birth, he
took degrees at Leeds
University and at Ox-
ford, and was lecturer
at Cape Town Univer-
sity before his M.L.
appointment. Last year
he visited Oxford again
to collect material for
a work on Milton, just
published in England.
“Porter”: If Vic.
Railway Chief Com-
missioner Clapp gets
the air job his most
likely successor is his
colleague Commissioner
Mick Canny, scion of
an old railway family,
who has been running
trains since boyhood.
He first came under
CAPTAIN PATRICK.
(Modelled by Frith.)
notice as personal clerk to Commissioner
Tait. When Tait and then Fitzpatrick
passed on, one to America and the other
into retirement, Canny became personal
clerk to C. E. Norman, and pleased that
phlegmatic administrator so well that his
last official act was to create the new
position of Outdoor Superintendent of
Transportation, and hand it to his able
clerk as a farewell gift. When Tom
Molomby was raised to a Commissioner-
ship Canny followed him as General
Superintendent of Transportation. In his
middle age he is an able and suave Com-
missioner. Failing Canny, Norman
Harris, former Chief Mechanical
Engineer and now also a Commissioner,
is the service’s second pick as the new
Chief.
An American educational expert of
high tonnage, who is to visit Australia
under the aegis of the Carnegie Cor-
poration, is Dr. Tyler Dennett, of New
York. He is to arrive in Sydney from
Hong Kong on Saturday, will visit
various university centres, and may
lecture on Pacific problems. He’s 55, a
Congregationalist, numbers Johns Hop-
kins, Harvard, Columbia and Princeton
among his universities, holds doctorates in
Law and Philosophy, and was Professor
of International Relations at Princeton
from 1931 to 1934. Has written several
books, mostly in connection with Asia.
During the Great War he was associate
editor of “World Outlook.”
S.A. has lost two good pressmen.
F. W. Birrell had many years on the old
“Register” before leaving it for the Labor
“Herald” (both papers are now dead);
was president of the Printers’ Union
and of the Trades and Labor Council ;
then, in Parliament, secretary of the
Labor party, chairman of the Law Re-
form Commission, and finally Speaker.
J. W. Elliott had half a century as both
proprietor and editor of the “Southern
Argus” at Strathalbyn, where he was
mayor for 20 years.
Captain James Ronald Patrick, the
most picturesque figure in the Australian
shipping world, is as independent in his
speech as in his business methods,
and he incurred some criticism lately
by his views on the universal character
of defence responsibilities. Born in Scot-
land 58 years ago he went to sea in 1893
and got his first command in 1908 in
one of the ships of the Currie Line. He
had a lieutenant’s commission in the
R.A.N.R. when the Great War broke
out, and served for the duration in five
seas. He’s governing director of the
Patrick Line, with headquarters at
Scottish House, Sydney; is married,
plays tennis, swims 100yds. every morn-
ing and looks braw in a kilt. Pet hobby
is big-game hunting, and he’ll be off
again early this year to South Atrica.
James Fielding bought out a Sydney
cardboard-box co. in 1905 for £1650
He put another £550 in, but until public
capital was raised five years later the
problem of finance was a nightmare.
The first year of the Great War manu-
JAMES FIELDING.
facture of corrugated-cardboard con-
tainers was started, and for another two
years the trade called this part of the
enterprise “Fielding’s white elephant.”
Then shortage of tinplate turned food-
packers to cardboard containers ; their
merits, including their cheapness, demon-
strated, the outlook for the Fielding busi-
ness changed overnight. It is one of the
best-managed and most successful in Aus-
tralia. James Fielding is still at .the helm,
and lately he showed his confidence in
Australian workmen and industry by
joining the board of Carpet Manufac-
turers, a brand-new venture. His chief
hobby is avoiding publicity.
A friendly and familiar figure will be
missed from the Senate Chamber this
year, for George Henry Monahan, Clerk
of the Senate, has retired. “G.H.” was
a junior clerk in the N.S.W. Leg. Ass.
in 1890, when ’Enery Parkes was Premier
for his last time, and the anticipated
glories of a “Federated Haustralia, One
People, One Destiny,” furnished endless
material for his oratorical fireworks.
Appointed a clerk in the new Senate,
Monahan saw King George V., then
Duke of York, open its first session.
He succeeded Charles Gavan Duffy as
Clerk.
Some February birthdays:
W. F. Dunn (ex-Min. for Agric., N.S.W.),
62, and Archbishop Mowll (Sydney), 49, on
2nd; W. A. Deacon (ex-Min. for Lands,
Q’land), 67, on 4th; David Maughan, K.C.
(Syd.), 66, on sth; N.S.W. Min. for Mines R. S.
Vincent, 47, and Monsignor Nevin (president,
St. Patrick’s Coll., Manly), 53, on 6th ; Dr. A. B.
Walkom (gen. sec. A’sian Science Assoc.), 59,
on Bth; Q’land ex-Premier A. E. Moore, 63, on
9th; knight Robert Garran, 72, on 10th; N.S.W.
Min. for Educ. D. H. Drummond, 49, musician
Fritz Hart (Melb.), 65, Q’land Senator Gordon
Brown, 54, and Ida Leeson (Mitchell Librarian,
Sydney), on 11th; Major-Gen. Charles Rosen-
thal (Administrator of Norfolk Island), 64, on
12th; Archbishop Kelly (Sydney), 89, on 13th;
J. L. Price, M.H.R. (Boothby, S.A.), 57, on
14th; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Jess (Melb.), 55, Justice
McTiernan, (Federal High Court), 47, and
N.S.W. Collector of Customs G. F. A. Mitchell,
60, on 16th; “Banjo” Paterson, 75, H. T. Armi-
tage (dep.-gov. Commonwealth Bank), 58, on
17th; Prof. O. U. Vonwiller (Syd.), 57, on
18th; Justice Macrossan (Q’land), 58, and
novelist Dorothy Langsford, on 20th; Judge
Drake-Brockman (Federal Arbitration Court),
55, Henry Cohen, K.C. (Vic.), 67, and Anthony
Hordern (Syd.), 50, on 21st; Justice Starke
(High Court), 68, Dr. lan Clunies-Ross
(Director, McMaster Laboratory), 40, and Dr.
M. J. Holmes (C’wealth Health Dept.), 55,
on 22nd; Norman Lindsay, 60, and novelist
J. M. Walsh, 42, on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Regis-
trar of Syd. Uni.), 56, on 24th; artist Percy
Leason, 50, and Justice J. A. Browne (N.S.W.
Industrial Commissioner), 63, on 25th;
knight Mungo MacCallum (Syd.), 85, on 26th;
l.. j. Bram (Qantas), 37, on 27th.


m
..
f v r 3 T ft t< :
7mi
s.
■
wm&
■ V;! ; ' ':■ '
WWSSSHS!”
?;'' i|M ; -'AcsV {'
' -*.> '/. £ss £%>»s "<»/<..' •'’“'■Vs//.'
• • £<%&s /T/« ,VfV *<. y?£ < .Vl
ft* Vs •X-is ’ y'vx
I I
Irani
gs-sas
| 1 |
, ' ,C, S"j' T ',.
. . v',
, .. lfr Min“rr , i | n | r" ~ "• ;/
'- --.-.'.'.-.-.;>.''v.-.:-:.:..;.-.-.vX:.-.-, ■ ’S/. 'y/.-'..
f||
• ;*• v:i
>ZI
min
, ' '' - -»
' ; V:H
11
>'\*C' • *,*s;
CAPSTAN MILD
better known as
CAPSTANS
MEDIUM in the BLUE PACKS
FULL m the BROWN PACKS.
10 for 6d.
20 for 1/-
Also Flat and Round 50’s & 100’s
'They’re Cotttf because they’re absolutely Pu/ic f”
9350-1.9 *


ABORIGINALITIES
“Simon Scrawler”: Bushmen’s humor
will persist, even during disastrous bush-
fires. A Victorian, preparing to abandon
his doomed home, found that the wire-
less had to be left behind. Switching it
on, he dialled a station from which an
announcer he particularly detested was
speaking. “There, y’ cow,’’ he remarked
as he left, “I’ve choked you off pretty
often, but this ought to finish you.”
“M. La Court”: When appeals for
firefighters were pouring into our
western N.S.W. town, “Squeezer” used
his ’phone to such effect that lorry-
loads of volunteers came, post-haste, to
his place. Everything was saved except
a bit of fencing and a couple of pad-
docks of grass. Squeezer could well
stand that, particularly as the fire cleaned
up acres of dead timber that would
otherwise have cost a fair bit to burn-
off. Drinks and eats were provided for
the volunteers—but not by Squeezer.
Empty stomachs and parched throats
stayed that way till the Red Cross sent
supplies out a distance of 20 miles. But
when one of the volunteers left a gate
open Squeezer bellowed at him, “Why
the hell can’t yer shut that gate after
yer? Don’t yer know me blasted sheep'll
get boxed?”
“Def”: How far can the wind carry a
smouldering piece of bark or of sap-
wood which can start up a fire if it
comes to earth in the right place? At
Twofold Bay (N.S.W.) in 1927 the scrub
along the cliff of the point at the
northern entrance to the bay caught
alight when the nearest fire was almost a
mile away across the water, dead to wind-
ward. Colonel Jones, head of the Can-
berra police, thinks the limit must have
been reached on January 14 of this year,
when fire was carried by the wind nearly
1| miles out on the Murrumbidgee. And
he has seen a good deal of bushfires in
various places.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: So “the Australian fauna
was knocked endways at Melbourne Zoo”
during the heat-wave, which reached 112
(B. 18/1/’39). They breed ’em tougher
in Sydney. Was at Taronga Park on
the red Saturday when the temp, was
near 114; kookas showed it, but the
other natives were not unduly distressed.
Out at Sydney’s Koala Park, Billy Blue-
gum and his marsupial mates took it
like men, and next day were as frisky
as ever when the usual visitors blew in.
* * * *
“Slim Jim”: The newly-appointed
constable in our little N.Q. town took
a commendable interest in the problems
besetting one vegetable grower. The
latter remarked that he’d have to do
something to scotch the depredations of
the ladybirds. “Well, it’s right with me,”
said the constable. “You can blaze away
at ’em as much as you like; I don’t
think they’re protected, anyway.”
* * * *
“Long-Bow”: I’d like “Broad-axe-
man” (B. 11/1/ ’39) to visit my next-
door neighbor with that marvellous axe
of his. No, no! Don’t misunderstand
me. It is simply that, when my friend
shaves, the sound of the razor working
is like a sandpapering machine flat-out,
and he reckons the blade only snaps the
hair off short, it is so tough. Even at
that he has to ringbark each hair first
with a special chilled-steel razor. His
kids pick the long hairs out of his mug
(shaving) and use them for gramophone
needles.
* * * *
“C.J.R.”: Even to-day there is evi-
dence on every hand in the Turon River
(N.S.W.) district of the Chinese “in-
vasion as diggers in the early goldrush.
They have at least one grand achieve-
ment to their credit: the race cut from
the hills beyond Sofala on to Poor
Man’s Point, eight miles below the town.
Thousands of “Pats” were on that job,
which was put through speedily. The
stonework—bridges and culverts across
deep gullies and creeks—is standing to-
day, with not one stone displaced. And,
despite rabbits, floods and Nature striv-
ing to regain her own, if that old Chinese
gang could again put a few hours’ work
on it that race would again carry
* * * *
“Atrax”: Weight for weight, tiger-
snake venom is the most lethal of any
in the world, cobras and rattlesnakes
included. It is 2\ times more potent than
death-adder venom. The tiger is widely
distributed, and bites on small provo-
cation ; the death-adder is relatively
limited, sluggish and the smallest of our
“ 'E's all right—they broke 'is fall.”
venomous snakes. Yet the majority of
Australian fatalities from snakebite,
which average about eight yearly, are
caused by death-adders. The reason lies
in the fangs, in death-adders long and
hollow, in tigers short and grooved. The
death-adder also has larger poison
glands, and is thus able to plant a bigger
dose of venom much deeper in the
tissues. Black snakes have as good
fangs, and discharge as much venom as
tigers, but the tiger venom is 75 times
the stronger. It is very doubtful whether
black-snake bites are ever fatal to adult
humans. Copperhead and brown snakes
are much more lethal,
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Why doesn’t some enter-
prising Australian capture the fancy of
the world’s fashionable femininity by
extracting the perfume of the baobab
flower— boab, or bottle-tree, as it is
known in the far nor’-west? Each
spring the squat, ungainly trees
clothe themselves in graceful yellow
blossoms rather like those of a cactus,
and for a while become almost things of
beauty. But the scent of those blossoms
is the most beautiful imaginable, a soft,
enveloping fragrance, never cloying or
overpowering, yet carrying for hundreds
of yards down a breeze. Unlike
boronia, it continues as sweet and re-
freshing as at the very first sniff. One
may camp overnight by a boab in full
flower, go to sleep lulled by its entranc-
ing odor and wake to as sweet a scented
dawn.
* * * *
“Towser”: T’other day I watched
Bluey killing a snake. There was method
about it. right enough, and, as it was
the pup’s first effort, the method must
have been instinctive. Dogs that kill
snakes don’t learn by trial and error.
Bluey grabbed the wriggler about half-
way along his back. As soon as his
teeth closed the action began. That pup
must have known something about
centrifugal force ; he swung in a manner
to utilise that force to keep Joe’s head
from coiling for a strike. In the middle
of one swing Bluey let go suddenly. The
snake did a flip through the air and
landed with a dull thud. Before he had
time to gather himself together the pup
had him again. A few more of those
swings, with a few more bumps, took all
the fight out of his enemy. Though he
was twitching a bit he was so flaccid at
the finish that the dog killed him at his
ease.
* * * *
“L.A.S.”: The shearer “guns” may
get all the haloes, purr and prestige
while they swank in the far-out towns ;
it is the cooks who drag out the biggest
cheques. Mostly quiet, shrewd men who
keep well away from the shed two-up
and hazard schools, they usually have
better accommodation, though less pre-
tentious, perhaps, than the shearers. A
good “babbler’s” efforts, too, are not
to be despised. With a couple of off-
siders to fry chops, wait, wash up, sweep
and carry up “smoke-ohs,” he may “do"’
for over one hundred men, and there
won’t be a complaint. The shearers will
stick to a good bread baker and pastry
artist like a porous plaster.
* * * *
“Bungil”: Where did “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 11/1/ ’39) see a gumleaf
virtuoso “strip the flesh off his instru-
ment and blow through the film”? The
procedure is to leave the leaf as Nature
made it, cover the whole of the mouth
with it, with three fingers pressing on
the bottom lip, and blow across the
top portion, which, vibrating, makes the
musical sound. Any leaf can be used,
but they vary in tone, pitch and melli-
fluous quality. The best of all is a
round box-tree leaf, pliable but not too
soft.
* * * «
“Gryllus”: Australian nutrition
authorities seem to overlook the numer-
ous dietetically valuable plants native to
Australia. The abos. knew them, and
passed the knowledge on to early settlers,
but it now seems forgotten. New Zea-
land spinach or Warrigal cabbage grows
freely through the dry western country,
and is as good as any bought spinach.
Saltbush is regarded only as a stock
fodder, but the leaves and soft shoots,
boiled, as a salad, or in sandwiches, are
both tasty and nutritious. Fat-hen,
nowadays, is a useless weed, but to older
generations it was a valued vegetable.
Scurvy-grass has a bush reputation as a
remedy against Barcoo rot and scurvy.
Boiled, it tastes like cabbage, and its
succulent stems and leaves are full of
vitamins. Parakeelya, another far-back
stock fodder, is also good when cooked,
and grows in the driest areas. There
are lots of others. Can't our Health
people pass the information along in the
interests of far-back kids?
* * * *
“J.D.”: There was an argument
among the Council a while back as to
whether or not the koala had ever
figured on a menu. Tn “The Story of
the World in Pictures,” above a photo,
of seven little bears huddled together
on a limb, appears this: “These little
grey koala bears live in the lofty eucalyp-
tus trees of Australia, and feed on the
buds and tender shoots of these trees.
Their flesh is used as food and their
coats for making cheap fur articles."
Underneath is an acknowledgment of
the courtesy of Australian National
Travel Bureau. So now you all know.
* # # *
“Salmon Gums”: Roadmaking in the
Westralian wheatbelt, we struck a sec-
tion of well-used bush track that 12
horses pulling a dam-sinking plough
could make little impression on. in the
end we used crackerjack. That stretch
was just ordinary first-class country, of
which there were thousands of acres
under cultivation in the district, but
the traffic had hardened it practically
to the strength of cement. Later, when
the job petered out and I was plough-
ing for a cocky, I struck pads leading
across the paddock that turned the sharp-
est ploughshare. In the absence of sheep
I couldn’t fathom the cause. “Rabbits,"
the cocky explained. “Travelling to
water during summer.” The nearest dam
was over a mile away.
* * * *
“A.C.”: Happened to mention to old
Bill how coming down the steep hills
played up with a prospector’s knees.
“You don’t want to walk down no hills,”
he roared ; “it’s bad enough to have to
walk up ’em. I never walked down a hill
when / was prospecting. Jest used to sit
in me dish, hook me heels on its edge and
let her go. If it got too steep, jest useter
drag me pick behind. Went over a cliff
one day and got smashed up so much I
was brung home in two bags. But, Lord,
after three or four weeks 1 was back at
it agen. We was tough in them days.”
* * * *
“Mandurah”: Having hearkened to
Aboliar gourmets expatiating on the
savoriness of fried shark I decided,
when Long Hughie hauled a 3ft. blue-
pointer in, that the time had arrived
to do a little gustatory adventuring. So,
ignoring the ribald remarks of the rest
of the crew, I commandeered its hinder
portion. Arrived home I introduced the
alleged provender to Mum, who feelingly
remarked that she had “smelt it as soon
as it came in the door.” Feast deferred
till the morrow in hope that smell would
go off. Hung out under the grapevine, the
smell certainly did begin to “go off.”
Evidently there were reservoirs of it hid-
den in that section of carcass. By mid-
night it had reached right around to
the front of the house and was pervading
the sleepouts, competing as a slumber-
destroyer with the mosquitoes. Not the
odor of corruption, mind you, but an
indescribable smell somewhat akin to
that associated with an elderly billy-
goat. Al breakfast even my appetite
faltered. Shark cutlets might have proved
delicious, but it was impossible to get
past that barrage of smell. Finally, when
Black Dick, who sometimes earns a
bob hawking clothesprops, refused it.
I started with the shovel. Distilled by
Nature's alchemy into grapes, that shark
will undoubtedly be delicious; but as
first-hand provender—no.
BUSH LAMENT.
Remember the small things,
The birds of the bush;
Remember the forests . . .
The blackness, the hush,
That covers their glory—
A tale that is told
Where Death in his dreadful
Red chariot rolled.
Up the blue mountain,
And down the green dell,
Slashing his steeds
With the wind-whips of hell;
Growth of green centuries,
Steepling the sky;
Wreck and stark ruin
Where he had passed by:
A crime beyond crying,
A wrong beyond words,
Alas for the wild things!
Alas for the birds!
VICTORIA.
KAIHLEEN DAIZIEL.


“Wang”: “The best hand at lyin’ a
rope I ever -struck wus ole Joe Muggs,”
said Dan. “It ain’t often a man gets
blamed fer doin’ a good job, but ole
Joe did once. One of them big circuses
wus shiftin’ from Melbin t’ Sydney, but
couldn’t get transport fer their herd of
20 elephants; neither the railways nor
the boats would take ’em on. So they
advertise fer someone t’ take them over
per foot, and Joe got the job. The boss
arsks ’im how many men he’ll want t’
help ’im, but Joe sez he don’t want none,
on’y some strong lengths of rope. They
got it fer ’im, an’ he stood the elephants
in a row, one behind the other, an’
lashed the trunk of each elephant t’ the
tail of the one in front —they’d all have
t’ stick together that way ; no chance
oi any of ’em strayin’ orf an’
orf ’e set. Ev’rything went all right
till ’e wus near Albury. ’E wus goin’
over a level-crossin’ when ’e sights the
Sydney express tearin’ along. He hui. ies
his team, but not fast enough. The
engine hit the last elephant, a great brute
weighin’ about ten ton, an’ knocked it
rotten. An’ all the other elephants just
lays down an’ kicks. The driver comes
runnin’ up, sayin’ it wusn’t his fault.
‘Yes, it wus,’ said Joe ; ‘yorter pulled up.
Them elephants is worth a thousand quid
each, an’ this bizness will cost yer twenty
thousand quid!’ ‘But there’s on’y one
dead,’ argued the driver ; ‘there’s some-
thing wrong with yer ’rithmetic!’ ‘No,
there ain’t,’ said Joe. ‘Yer might’ve on’y
run inter one an’ killed him; but the
bang yer gave him has broke the back-
bones of the other nineteen! ’ ”
* * * *
“Paton”: I pulled up at an outback
Vic. store to get some cigarettes. “How’s
business?” I. asked as I waited for my
change. The man behind the counter
sniffed. “H’m, there’s nothin’ at all doin’
in the mornin’, and in the afternoon
it slackens right off.”
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Many kinds of ants are use-
ful to Binghi. The green and the little
red ones, crushed and mixed with water,
provide him with invigorating tonics.
Ants that collect grain help to tide over
“Looks like directors be cornin' up 'gen, boay?"
lean times in the inland; when the
grasses have done seeding, and Binghi’s
store of grain is gone, he burgles the
ants’ larder. From the “honeypots” he
obtains one of his best sweets. The
ants store honey in the bodies of
selected members. These become so dis-
tended that they cannot move about,
and hang in pairs and clusters in the
galleries. Digging down very carefully,
so as not to damage the “womma,” he
picks them up with gentle fingers, and
either squeezes the honey out or bites
off the bag. The globule is about the
size of a grape.
“Belcher I put it through the handle of the cup.”
“J.M.C.”: The Bully has launched a
jehad. Our n.-w. Q. township boasts an
elderly Scot of argumentative disposition
who overwhelms all opposition with
“Mon, I saw it in The Bulletin." On
a recent morning sounds of combat dis-
turbed the calm. Investigation revealed
the Scot, armed with a pick-handle,
standing over a hefty youth who has
a considerable reputation “on the grass.”
“Ye ken ma mither was a MacPhail,”
he informed me. “Yon cockerel doesna’
credit the abeelity o’ the clan tae bring
peace tae mankind. But Ah hae ma
hopes’ o’ a convairsion.”
* * * *
“Nomen”: Thistle Island, on which
John Thistle, sailing-master of the In-
vestigator, sewed up the snake’s mouth
for Flinders (B. 18/1 /’39), took its name
from that same John Thistle, who, with
Taylor, the midshipman, and six A.Bs.,
lost his life that same evening when
the cutter sank returning from searching
for an anchorage. Thistle Island, Tay-
lor’s Island, and six neighboring islands,
each bearing the name of one of the
seamen, commemorate the incident, as
also do Cape Catastrophe and Memory
Cove. Remains of the copper plate
Flinders erected to the memory of the
lost men is in Adelaide Museum. One
of the riddles of Thistle Island is the
remains of dry-stone buildings that were
found there when whalers visited the
island in 1838. Some think that the
buildings were erected by the survivors
of the La Perouse expedition, who are
believed to have left Mannicolo in a
small vessel constructed from the wrecks
of their ships, and, presumably, to have
made for Port Jackson. But the south
coast of S.A. is a long way off the
route from Mannicolo to Sydney.
“Cooralco”: The wily crow may
scorn the usual trap, poisoned bait, and
a host of other subterfuges for his de-
struction, but the insatiable curiosity he
evinces at the squeal of a trapped rabbit
will always bring him within range of
the gun. And as Kelly hasn’t yet learned
to differentiate between the dinkum
thing and a “foxwhistle” made from the
top of a tobacco tin with a hole in it,
the pest in our Victorian district isn’t
as numerous as he was.
* * * +
“Records”: We Bundabergians pride
ourselves on the champions we have
produced, and we cannot let the alleged
bag-sewing record (B. 4/1/’39) go by
without a challenge. At Bingera sugar-
mill, Q., one man can and does stitch
70 tons of bagged sugar in eight hours.
At 14 bags to the ton, that means his
day’s tally is 980 bags. And each bag
has to be folded in, have six stitches
along the bag, two around each lug and
two through the bag (12 stitches in all).
Now beat that!
* * * *
“Argon”: The crowd around Keenan’s
pub was the largest I had ever seen in
Dingowaller. Then, when
Bull Otto’s new spring-cart
arrived to do duty as a
hearse, I could restrain my-
self no longer, so I asked the
chap who appeared to be the
chief mourner if one of the
leading citizens had passed
on. “Well,” he said, “you
wouldn’t call ‘Snake’ Hen-
nessy a leadin’ citizen, but ’e
was pretty popular around
the town ’ere.” “Accident?”
I asked. “No,” he replied,
“The Bulletin killed ’im.”
“How so?” I asked. “I
always thought that The
Bulletin was looked upon
as the bushman’s Bible.” “So
it was,” he said, “until this
"happened.” Just then six
pallbearers came out of the
parlor in correct formation,
but carrying nothing on their
shoulders; they walked very
carefully down the steps
and placed their imaginary
burden on the spring-cart.
Then the crowd fell in be-
hind, and the cortege moved
off. This was too much, so I
dashed into the pub, ordered
a double brandy, and de-
ni a n d e d enlightenment.
“Well,” said Keenan, “it all
started over them Abo. pars.
in The Bully lately about catching hares
with your bare hands. Last Saturday
the boys got arguin’ about it here in the
bar; some said that it was possible and
some said no, an’ it finishes up with
‘Snake’ bettin’ ’e can do it. They all go
out to Thompson’s paddock an’ watch
’im give it a fly. ’E sights a ’are, an’
starts circlin’ round it. Round and round
’e goes, the circles getting smaller all
the time, and the ’are sits there watching
’im. Well, ‘Snake’ keeps this up until ’e
is almost on top of the ’are, the circles
gettin’ smaller all the time, when all of
a sudden ‘Snake’ walks slap-bang into
’imself and disappears. They can’t find
the body, but they decides to give ’im
a decent burial just the same!”
* * * *
“Mayo”: Not only are frogs expert
at finding their way home, but as
boarders they are super-permanents.
Nothing, short of killing ’em, will dis-
lodge them from favored quarters. Our
local greengrocer discovered he had an
unsought window tenant some months
ago, and promptly removed the intruder.
He did it next day, and every day for a
week, hesitating to end croaker’s pos-
sibly useful life, as the creature was
guaranteed by interested customers as a
fine insect-remover. Leading an appar-
ently foodless and waterless existence, the
frog has been the star attraction of the
shop ever since his arrival, and as dozens
of people call in to report his presence
in the window, and most of them feel
it their duty to make a small purchase
at the same time, he has become a
valuable asset to the proprietor.
*-* * *
“Quartz”: No doubt the dog, belong-
ing to an old prospector friend of mine
intended to polish off his goanna in the
modus operandi of “Pac’s” hound
(B. 11/1/’39). The old 6ft. 4in. prospector
being the nearest “tree” handy at the
attack, the go. made for him post-
haste with adversary in full pursuit; just
as the go.’s claws gained the “tree’s”
bald cranium the dog found a hold on
his tail and yanked with vigor. They
did a grand piece of ploughing between
them!
* * * *
“M. 1.8.”: “Speaking of quick think-
ing,” old Jack said, “I was firing on a
cane train up north a few year ago. We
were coming into the mill with a good
load up and were nearing a siding when
we saw a bad thunderstorm rising quick.
Lightning zigzagged everywhere, and just
as we hit the little siding a jagged flash
blinded us. When we could use our
eyes again we saw a red-hot fireball tear-
ing towards us straight as a die along the
rails. We hadn’t a moment to spare ;
me mate jammed the brakes on hard
and I jumped out, dashed to the switch
points, pulled the lever and turned the
fireball on to the shunting line. It was
a near thing, all right.”
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: In our Queensland
coastal rivers the trumpeter, so called be-
cause it emits sonorous grunts when
landed, attains Gargantuan proportions.
This peculiarity was exploited by two
citizens who had lifted a sucking-pig
from a cocky whose property adjoined
the river. The aggrieved one just missed
catching them in the act, but arrived as
they were about to push off in the dinghy,
with the pilfered porker tied in a bag
in the thwarts. A healthy grunt broke
in on their innocent denial of any
knowledge of the missing pig. But old
George was equal to the occasion. “Put
yer foot on that trumpeter, will ye,
Tom?” he sang out as they pushed off
into midstream.
AT THE SHEEP-DOG TRIAL.
What ancestors unite
Here in this red and white
Kelpie to define
Its symmetry of line?
In this wire-netted ring
I see the collie spring:
The memory that stores
The Scottish tartan moors;
Where, schooling finer stock,
Austerity of rock
Lends to the mind and bone
The toughness of its stone.
The collie and the fox,
Who for the ancient flocks
Contested without noise,
Have joined to breed this poise.
These ears acutely set
That down the centuries yet
Hear the concordant sound
Of coupled horn and hound.
And as the moon the tides,
The hidden vixen guides
With craft the blood that strains
And surges in its veins.
Those who gape and stare
At cripples in the Fair
Have not the eyes to see
Its classic purity
Of action as it swerves
To brace dynamic curves
Close to the burning ground,
Swinging the sheep around.
VICTORIA.
DAVID A. CASIPBELL.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL 11. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
m
LUDOWICI "PIONEER" LEATHER
BELTING
LUDOWICI PIVOT DRIVE
BELTINGS V DRIVES GEARS
PULLEYS SHAFTING BEARINGS ETC.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON
LTD.,
Power Transmission Engineers.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, Dividends ■■
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 17} p.c. 17} p.c. serves.Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1»28.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930.. 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
11} p.c. 11} p.c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.035
1933.. 234,540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
12} p.c. 12} p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
This big Melbourne brewery, which en-
joys a lion’s share of the trade in Vic.
and helps to quench part of the thirst in
N. Queensland and the N. S. Wales
Riverina and elsewhere as well, is in a
very snug position, financially and other-
wise. The div. advanced from 7 p.c.
in 1919 to \l\ p.c. eight years later, and
remained at the higher level until 1930,
when the rate dropped to 15 p.c., fol-
lowed by 11| p.c. in ’3l and then 10 p.c.
for the next three years. Then, at the
end of 1934, the board considered the
co.’s position good enough to capitalise
£975,000 of reserves in a one-for-two
gift scrip issue, which, of course, made
divs. actually worth half as much again
as the declared rates —8 p.c., followed by
10 p.c. and then two lots of \2\ p.c.
to the close of last accounts.
The next table, showing sales and con-
sumption of beer in Victoria, helps to
explain the growth of earnings since the
difficult days of 1932:
, Consumption ,
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,409,853 19,538,800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 20,750,800 11.2
1938.. 27,647,194 23,700,300 12.7
The steady increase in consumption per
head reflects lengthening payrolls, wage-
lifts and the improvement in conditions
generally. Last year’s figure was slightly
better than the one for 1928, which was
the peak of the co.’s pre-slump earn-
ings. Meanwhile, population continued
to increase, the Richmond brewery set
up in August, 1929, and the excise on
beer, which had been bumped up from
Is. 3d. to 2s. per gallon, was lowered to
Is. 9d. in October, 1933, and has
remained steady since.
The effects of all this and of the
board’s policy of widening and anchor-
ing turnover by the purchase of hotel
freeholds upon earnings, etc., are seen
in the next table:
Year to , Gross Earnings , Exes. p.c.
June 30, Trade. Rents, Etc. Exes. Gross.
1928.. £459,114 £80,736 £91.430 16.9
1932.. 244,237 67,578 85,388 27.3
1933.. 263,231 56,854 85,545 26.7
1934.. 266,446 72,866 89,699 26.4
1935.. 272,002 95,562 96,896 26.3
1936.. 372,249 110,294 100,890 20.9
1937.. 433,797 128,813 108,612 19.3
1938.. 474,027 142,499 122,858 19.9
The slip in gross earnings from the trade
for the four years to the close of ac-
counts in 1932 was £214,877 ; recovery
since amounts to £229,790. An even
more heartening feature has been the
growth of 150 p.c. in rents, etc., since
1933. The spring last year amounted
to £40,230 in gross earnings from
the trade, £13,686 rents, etc., and
£14,246 exes., leaving the declared net
result £39,671 better at a record £493,668,
or 16.9 p.c. on capital as against 15.5,
13 and 9.2 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 124 p.c.,
which is equal to 18| p.c. on capital as
it stood before the gift already referred
to.
The solid nature of the financial
structure and continued expansion of the
business are seen in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Sundry creditors. . 271,725 438,337 496,478
Brewery freeholds 260,925 244.656 234,789
Hotel freeholds . . 664,186 867,383 903,304
Leaseholds .. <5.724 5.966 5,586
Plant, etc. . . 339,967 343,188 335,891
Stocks and excise
stamps . . . . 229,130 282,777 313.923
Book debts, etc. . . 845,185 1,212,346 1,252,159
Cash, investments,
etc 672,464 472,214 569,062
Last year £35,921 was added to the book
value of hotel freeholds, £31,146 to
stocks, £39,813 to debtors’ balances,
£96,848 to cash, etc., and £58,141 to the
outside debt. Including stocks, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£ 1,638,666) was £109,666.
Here is a summary of the position of
the half-dozen holding cos. through
which the public is interested in
C.U.8.:
Shares Last Div. Market
Paid in Div., Cover, Yield,
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carlton . . £816.992 928,295 15 19.1 4.6
Melb. Co-op.. . 431,981 986,901 26j 38.5 4.7
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 10 13.2 5.1
Foster .. 115,200 124.574 13 18.2 5
Shamrock .. 141,345 124,574 11 14.8 4.8
McCracken’s.. 62,438 62,438 124 16.9 5.1
The dividend cover is the proportion
of C.U.B. ’s total net profit (only 83 p.c.
of it was distributed last year) belong-
ing to each holding co. expressed as a
percentage of that co.’s own capital. In
addition some of the holding cos. gather
something in rents, etc.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 46,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBlO .. 476,908
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 7J „ „ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 86,000 2,569 460,450
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
1937.. 51,067 8 „ „ 36,000 15,067 487,971
1938.. 67,609 81 „ „ 38,260 1, , „, Q
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j 14,359 002,330
1 he lift in the div. fitted in pretty well
with the anticipations of the market,
which prices the £lO shares paid to £5
at £lO Bs. as against £lO 6s. a year ago,
the lowest point touched meanwhile being
£9 10s. in July last. The final div. was
at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a., making 8| p.c.
for the year. The return at £lO Bs. is
4.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis, with pros-
pects. The £450,000 of share capital
(£325,000 of it is bonus scrip, handed out
in the co.’s palmy underwriting days be-
tween 1912 and 1927) has the support and
assistance of £502,330 of reserves ; so the
underwriting section of the business
hasn’t to turn in much these days to
enable a 9 p.c. div. to be paid.
Here is a comparison of underwriting
performances over a long period:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate Rate.
1900.. £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1920.. 287.193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1930.. *498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5 t „ 33.7 t „
1931. .*509,981 290,748 167,101 57.0 f „ 32.7 t „
1932.. *357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6 t „ 31.7 t „
1933.. *344,654 198,341 119,390 57.5 f „ 34.0 f „
1934.. *325,693 144,417 132,208 44.3 f „ 40.6 t „
1935.. *330,737 165,887 126,281 50.1 f „ 38.1 t „
1936. .*366,755 191,806 126,620 52.3 f „ 34.5 f „
1937.. 360,520 211,899 132,352 58.8 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 385,782 217.975 142,764 56.5 „ 37.0 „
♦lncludes interest, etc.
fßatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
The spring in the year’s net premium in-
come was £25,262. Though the expense
rate increased by about 6s. p.c., there
was a heartening drop of approximately
£2 6s. p.c. in the loss rate —the co. has
lately drawn in its horns in connection
with London marine business, while some
of its Australian competitors have with-
drawn from that market. The under-
writing surplus was £25,043 (up £8774),
equal to 5.5 p.c. on capital. Interest and
rents turned in £34,140 (down £641), or
7.5 p.c. on capital. After allowing for
an unexplained reduction of £1573 in
reserves, the net result from all sources
combined was £6542 better at 12.8 p.c.
on capital as against 11.3, 10.7, 8.5, 10.9,
6, a loss, 9.3, 15.1 and 14.8 p.c. back to
1929.
The immediate outlook favors steady
expansion of business, and, subject to
the loss experience, of net earnings, too.
Assets, which are in this form, can be
taken as well worth their book value:
1933. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Sundry creditors 103,466 124,273 132,584 152,647
Government
securities .. 444,970 450,893 460,730 463,723
Cash. book
debts, etc. 284,755 323,812 342,205 393,315
Debentures .. 39,875 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages . . 123.444 131,713 126.860 109,494
Premises .. 118,759 118,759 118,759 123,696
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(up £20,063) includes provision for un-
adjusted claims, which aren’t likely to be
underestimated. Most of the money that
became available last year went into cash,
etc. (up £51,110). Obviously there is no
need for policy-holders to stay awake o’
nights. After allowing for the final div.,
they could see net tangibles equal to 246
p.c. of last year’s net premiums, whereas
150 p.c. is usually considered adequate.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. Ord. To Nominal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 85,002 12,000 37,500 35,502 381,465
1929.. 50,804 12,000 37,600 1,304 373,394
Unexplained reduction, £73,589 .. 299,805
Loss. 24 p.c.
1930.. 18,604 12,000 9,376 259,926
Debt recoveries and capital profits,
£8172 268,098
1931.. 32,930 Nil Nil 235,168
1932.. 4,759 Nil Nil 230,409
Unexplained reduction, £3177 .. 227,232
Profit.
1933.. 3,580 Nil Nil 3,580 230,812
1934.. 9.378 Nil Nil 9,378 240,190
Reserves capitalised, £20,000 .. 220,190
Profit on sale of shares, £5549.. 225,739
Unexplained addition, £6652 .. 232,391
6 p.c.
1935.. 20,248 4,500* Nil 15,748 248,139
Profit on sale of shares, £4022 . . 252,161
1936.. 26,299 15,300 t Nil 10,999 263,160
Cont. res. written back, £34,565 .. 297,725
Unexplained reduction, £2479 ~ 295,246
Deferred surplus Theatre Royal Pty.,
£4022 299,208
2 J p.c.
1937.. 27,461 10,200 9,375 7,886 307,154
Theatre Royal share res., £4022.. 311.176
Specific reserves taken in, £5195.. 310,37 L
Unexplained addition, £485 . . 318,856
Goodwill, etc., written off, £187,069 129,187
Copyrights disclosed, £30,000 . . 99.187
6 p.c.
1938.. 26,471 10,200 22,500 92,958
*For half-year to 31/12/’34 on 150,000 prefs.
t Eighteen months to 30/6/’36.
There were big changes in the business
last year, and the outlook for share-
holders, especially the ords., seems to
have strengthened a little. It is difficult
to say when the participating rights of
the prefs. (there are 170,000 of them
in a paid capital of £545,000) are likely
to be worth much. No harm will be done
if any surplus there may be, for some time
at any rate, is used to reduce the outside
debt. The prefs. carry a cumulative 6
p.c., with the right to advance with
the ords. up to 8 p.c., after the latter
have had 6 p.c. At 20s. 9d. the prefs.
return 5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The ords. are not listed.
Early in the last term 200,000 of the
375,000 issued ord. shares were sold by
George Tallis and A. W. Allen to
undisclosed interests, and there was a
reshuffle of the board:
1937. 1938.
Chairman: Chairman:
F. J. Smith. J. R. McKenzie.
Managing: Managing:
E. J. Tait. E. J.‘ Tait.
F. S. Tait F. S. Tait.
J. H. Tait. J. H. Tait.
Members: Members:
Sir G. Tallis. Sir R. Best.
Sir R. Best. K. C. Campbell.
Sir R. McC. Anderson. A. W. Duncan.
A. W. Allen, W. H. Edwards.
Following transfer of shares just referred
to, the co. sold its theatrical props.
(scenery wardrobes, etc.), leased its
theatres for 21 years, and granted licenses
for use of its copyrights to Australian and
, f r ,«i" d , Theilrts , . L,d - (issued capi-
tal £75,000), foi a consideration expected
to turn in about £56,000 p.a. Appearances
are that the net return from other sources
isn’t likely to amount to much for the
present at any rate. There ’will, of
course, be a big saving in exes., and
provided the purchaser stands up to its
obligations, the board reckons on an
annual cash surplus more than sufficient
to pay an all-round 6 p.c. to shareholders
This would call for £32,700 on capital
as it now stands, and at no time since
1929 has more profit than that been
claimed.
The £26,471 (down £990) netted last
term was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 4.3 p.c. on ord. capital. That
leaves out of the reckoning an annual
capital profit from sale of Theatre Royal
shares of £4022, which will continue until
1971, and an unexplained addition of
£485 to reserves. After £5195 previously
set aside for workers’ compensation was
tossed into the heap, £187,669 was taken
out of it, mainly to write down the book
value of goodwill, etc. The only in-
tangible now remaining in the sheet is
copyrights, etc., £30,000, leaving the
tangible support for capital at £92,958.
The existence or otherwise of reserves,
however, depends upon the value placed
upon the assets. The board says it is
“contemplating a complete revaluation of
the co.’s assets on a conservative basis,
with a view to a reconstruction of the
balance sheet.’’
There has been marked improvement
in the financial position:
1929. 1932. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. £526,000 £525,000 £545,000 £545,000
Deferred ] I
surplus | I 136,756 132,734
Mortgages f 629,119 604,234 ] 504,232 487,974
Sundry
creditors ) [ 79,151 67,020
Freeholds 1 [ 823,765 820,913
Leasehold, |
wardrobe, i- 733,039 663,144 ]
goodwill, |
etc. J ( 274,130 0,841 t
Shares other
cos. .. 385,456 279.966 147,021 141,751
Book debts. . 406,838 409,586 320,464 372,115
Cash, etc. .. 11,561 0,997 6,915 18,261
f Theatre equipment only.
The year’s transactions enabled £28,389
to be chipped off the amount coming to
outsiders, £51,651 to be added to debtors’
balances, and cash, etc., to be
strengthened by £11,346. The reduction
in leasehold, wardrobes, goodwill, etc.,
was £267,289, of which £187,669 was
written off as lost. When the books
closed, outside liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids, including shares in other
cos., by £22,867, an improvement of
£86,116 over the twelvemonth, thanks
mainly to the sale of theatre props.
If, except for reconstruction or amal-
gamation, Australian and New Zealand
Theatres goes into liquidation within the
next 12 years, J.C.W. can prove as a
creditor for £25,000 as agreed liquidated
damages.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 94,603 10 p.c. = 75,001 19,602 54.307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ „ 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 .. .. 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 „ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 54 „ „ 41,821 1,590 293,146
1935.. 80,286 10 ~ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear. £11,150.. .. 304,408
1938.. 99,109 12i p.c. = 95,054 4,055 308,463
It was a good year for the cement cos.
Fear of competition from British cement,
following abolition of the Australian
duty thereon at the end of 1936, hasn’t
('Continued on page 24.)


THE SURE WAY TO BIG PAY
Learn Draftsmanship at Home
MEN WANTED
with a Knowledge of
DRAWING & DESIGN
in EVERY Industry
JTnl
IN FACTORIES.
In addition to full-time positions in the drawing
offices of factories everywhere, countless other execu-
tive jobs become open every year for practical men
with a knowledge of drawing and design.
\A
'A
lA*
IN ENGINEERING.
before anything can be made, plans must bo drawn!
If you have ideas for machinery design or im-
provement, you must be able to put them on paper
to reap the benefit. The Kingsford Smith Course
shows how.
JOHN SMIT
DRAFTSM
IN PRIVATE PRACTICE
The services of qualified draftsmen are continuously
being needed in every part of Australia. Opportuni-
ties for trained men to commence practice as drafts-
men on their own account exist in hundreds of
districts. Quite likely your own district offers
such an opening at this moment.
Never before was there such activity in Australian industry. As a result, the
demand for men trained in mechanical drawing and design is rapidly
outgrowing the supply. Here, then, is YOUR opportunity to get into an
uncrowded profession with a wonderful future. Draftsmanship is a dignified
calling with good hours and pleasant working conditions. Men with a
knowledge of mechanical drawing and design are wanted in every field
NOW. Send the coupon below to-day for free booklet explaining how
YOU can learn mechanical drawing and design in your spare time at home
by this new simplified home-study method.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGE COURSE IN
MECHANICAL DRAWING
AND DESIGN
A SHORT CUT TO PROMOTION
FOR EVERY MAN IN INDUSTRY
To every man in industry who wants to progress to a
foreman’s or works manager’s job, a knowledge of
mechanical drawing and design provides a short cut. If
YOU want to get out of the rut you MUST have this
knowledge. For no matter how high a mechanic may go
in his particular job, he must first master paper work
before he can reach the top. Though promotion for
the manual worker is usually slow and arduous, the work
of draftsmen and others with a knowledge of drawing
and design is continually under the notice of those who
control the pay envelope. The Kingsford Smith College
Course has been specially prepared so that men without
any previous training in drawing can acquire this
necessary knowledge of mechanical drawing and design.
No special educational qualifications are necessary.
Individual Tuition to All Students
The Kingsford Smith College courses in mechanical
drawing and design have been prepared by highly
qualified draftsmen with years of experience in all branches
of Australian practice. The course is essentially
practical. Every student is individually coached and
his personal problems are studied by the college staff.
Send the coupon below and the free booklet describing
the course in detail will be sent you by return.
THE K.S. COURSE IS COMPLETE—NO EXTRAS
Subjects covered by Course No. 1 include: The Use of
Instruments —Drawing Plates Simplified Mathematics—
Practical Projection Production of Blue Prints Repre-
sentation of Objects—Materials Gearing-,—Drawing
Exercises Properties of Materials, etc., etc. No. 2
Course includes, in addition to the foregoing, lessons in
drawing steam stop valves, electric wincKes, shaft hangers,
etc., element's of algebra, logarithms, trigonometry,
development of surfaces, the use of Slide Rule, elements
of mechanics, strength of materials, machine design,
etc., etc.
ENROL NOW AND GET THIS COMPLETE
MECHANICAL DRAWING OUTFIT
FREE/
Immediately upon enrolment you receive, free and post free, a full outfit of drawing instruments (valued at
over £2) specially selected by practical draftsmen on the college staff. This set includes complete set of
mathematical instruments, including compasses, drawing-board, T-square, set squares, French curve and all
materials necessary for the course. Students of Course No. 2 also receive free a full-size Slide Rule when they
commence the lesson dealing with this subject. These instruments are of the highest grade, suitable for use
both during the course and in your work as a draftsman on its completion. Decide to enrol to-day, and
outfit will be forwarded you Free and Post Free!
your
\
A
• i | 'V#*
x%3#:y:l*x ••,'■. ih+%HW* : x : x
/
for
FREE BOOKLET
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES
DEPT. 14, 255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Please send me the free booklet with particulars of your courses in
Mechanical Drawing and Design.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
E. l/2/’3S.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES PTY. LTD,


■
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Ep worth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST"
Write jot full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
OTHER<
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e: 311787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
elmh
frilif v
i m.
USSi
HOW HIS
INVESTMENTS
TURNED OUT
THE man who owns his own home is
a wise man, but he always has the
need to watch the amount investeid in it.
A member of the A.M.P. Society said
lately that he had made only two kinds
of investment in his-life: (1) he had
bought a house and (2) he had invested
in some A.M.P. policies.
He said that in 1910 he had paid £llOO
for a house but, owing to changes in
styles of architecture and other influences,
it was now worth only £950 at the
most.
On the other hand, in the same year,
he had begun to invest less than 10/- a
week in his first A.M.P. policy, for
£lOOO. To date he had invested a total
of £B2O in that policy, but with bonuses
it would now be worth £l7BO to his
estate; this, apart from the other policies
he had added from time to time.
A.M.P. policies never depreciate. They
enable men to build up reserves that
make for peace of mind and security.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send
a man to talk over YOUR risks with
you. He will discuss them with you in
confidence. If you prefer, a copy of
“Investing in Happiness” will be posted
to you on request. Write to-day.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A ; E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
amounted to anything worth mention-
ing—British plants have been taxed
almost to capacity to meet demand in
their home market. Locally, continued
expansion of building activity, extension
of water-supply and irrigation schemes,
reconstruction of tram tracks, erection
of new silos, construction of defence
works, and the growing use of cement
for domestic purposes have given sales
a further lift. Also, Australian Portland
Cement (paid capital £2,000,000), the
operating concern in which this co. (paid
capital £760,433) and Kandos (paid capi-
tal £673,863) are equal partners, has
lately spent a lot of money on additions
and improvements to plant, and that
means a lot so far as costs, and therefore
net earnings, are concerned.
The Kandos works (capacity 200,000
tons p.a.) share the N. S. Wales
market with four other producers,
plant capacity for the State being
720,000 tons p.a., and another co.
is preparing to come on to the market.
The only serious competitor of the
Fyansford plant (capacity was lifted to
over 300,000 tons p.a. by installation of
a new 100,000-ton unit early in the last
term), which is the only producer in
Vic., is Goliath, of Railton, Tas.
(capacity 100,000 tons p.a.). Plant
capacity of Australian Portland is thus
nearly one-half the total capacity of all
plants in N. S. Wales, Vic. and Tas.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
operating co.’s figures, which are made
up to the end of May ; such information
as is available suggests that substantial
allowances are made for depreciation and
other contingencies before anything is
sent along to the holding cos.
For the 12 months to the end of
November last this holding co. re-
ceived an extra £15,529 in divs., etc.,
or £104,475 in all. After paying
its own exes. (£3366, up £65) and
setting aside £2OOO (up £200) for the
taxgatherer, the £99,109 (up £15,264) of
profit that remained was 13 p.c. on
capital, the best showing since the busi-
ness was merged with that of Kandos
and Australian Portland formed in 1929.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and a 2\
p.c. bonus was added, making 12? p.c-
for the year. The declared aim is to
keep the div. at 10 p.c., and sweeten
it with a bit extra when circumstances
permit.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £760,178 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Sundry creditors 6,163 8,545 2,262 2,265
Shares in other „ „ „„„
cos. . . 1,023,750 1,021,443 1,013,753 1,003,700
Hook debts . . 57,667 5,843 1,485 1,222
Consols & cash 63,803 84,706 101,036 123,221
The odd £3750 of shares in other cos.
is represented by scrip in Bates (A’sia)
Pty., which makes the paperbags the
cement is packed in. Consols total
£36,505 and cash £86,716.
The market price and yield, etc., from
the two holding cos.’ shares compare as
follows:
Face Mar- Net
Value ket Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Aust. Cement 20/- 35/- 12* p.c. 7.1 p.c. 28 1
Ivandos . . 16/- 27/7 12* ~ 7.2 „ 32/11
* Per pound of paid capital.
As for the current term, the chairman
says: “An extensive programme of city
buildings, coupled with projects to be
carried out by the Government and
municipal authorities, indicates substan-
tial employment for the building trades
for several months, if not for the whole,
of 1939.’’ Much will depend upon what
happens in connection with costs.
Tin Dredging Link-up
Asam Kumbang, Puchong and Ulu
Yam, all offshoots of Austral Malay Tin,
which holds 18 p.c. of their aggregate
issued capitals, are merging their in-
terests in a new co., Austral Amalgamated
Tin, Ltd., by deed of gift.
The immediate aim is to minimise
effects of restriction by grouping quotas.
It is pointed out that with tin at £2lO in
London and with quotas as at present the
three companies operating independently
would earn little or nothing for share-
holders, whereas under the amalgamation
“an appreciable profit would result, prob-
ably sufficient for a small dividend.” In
addition, with pooled financial re-
sources at its disposal, the new co. should
be more favorably placed to prospect
and/or develop new areas. It is conceiv-
able that it might pay better to equip and
work a promising new area and hold one
or more of the existing properties idle.
The basis on which the deal is to go
through, with details of dredging reserves
of the vendors as at Sept. 30, is, as
follows:
t New Co. N
Present New Dredging T.o.
Paid Shares Reserves. C.y.,
Capital.* Holding.t 100 Old. ’OOO C.y. Lb.
Asam ..£lOO,OOO £115,000 580 9,556 0.79
( 91 3 0 37
Puchong 180,000 171,000 380 f -{o.’ooo 0.21
Ulu Yarn 100,000 70,000 280 19,000 0.60
* £1 shares, t ss. shares.
Paid capital of the new co. will thus be
£386,000 in ss. shares, as against an aggre-
gate £380,000 in the old cos. Dredging
reserves, which cover 1274 acres, exclude
145 acres of ground of undetermined
value but low-grade. The new co. will
control three dredges, combined capacity
over 575,000 c.y. monthly, giving it a
nominal life of 15 years. Nominal
assessment will be 1455 tons t.o. p.a.,
made up of 552 tons Asam, 615 Puchong
and 288 tons Ulu Yam.
Of the three cos., Asam (formed in
1916) has produced best results for share-
holders. Divs. over the last decade have
averaged 13 p.c. Puchong, a float of
1925, has not yet declared a div., profits
having been applied to liquidating a de-
benture debt and reducing development
account. Since restriction, its small quota
has been against Ulu Yam, which has
paid only two 6d. dividends since 1929.
Under the favorable conditions existing
in 1937, latest year for which figures are
available, Asam netted £41.338, Puchong
£36,705 and Ulu Yam £18.870; total
before providing for depreciation, etc.,
£96,913. At Dec. 31, 1937, aggregate
liquid resources amounted to £146,390 ,
there was then £2540 coming to outsiders.
The Sydney Metropolitan Water,
Sewerage and Drainage Board is offering
£1,000,000 of 4i p.c. stock or debentures,
at the option of the applicant, with a
ten-year currency, at par. The issue,
which has been underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son, Melbourne, will close
on or before Feb. 6, and the money will
be spent on essential extensions to
Sydney’s water and sewerage works. The
loan is guaranteed by the Government
of N. S. Wales, and is a trustee security
in that State and in Queensland and
Tasmania, and therefore has a special
appeal to residents of the three Eastern
States. The interest, which is in accord
with market conditions for comparable
securities, is subject to Commonwealth
income tax and to State income and un-
employment relief taxes, and will be
paid half-yearly. The loan will be listed
on the principal Stock Exchanges
throughout the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Commonwealth Mining and Finance,
Ltd., the biggest of De Bernales’s
Westralian cos., is about to sole-and-heel
its finances. It proposes halving present
issued capital of £1,212,500 by reducing
the paid-up value of its shares from ss.
to 2s. 6d. The board recommends that
the co.’s holdings in Sand Queen, Aladdin
and Atlas, and the amounts advanced to
these cos. for development, be written
off, since they have not fulfilled ex-
pectations. Nothing, however, is to be
written off investments in the other two
subsidiaries, Phoenix and Hercules. This
Commonwealth co. was tormed in
London in 1934 to acquire from Aus-
tralian Machinery and Investment Co.,
another of the De Bernales group, the
whole of the shares of Sand Queen at
Comet Vale and Phoenix- at Coolgardie,
and options on the shares in Aladdin at
Nannine, Atlas at Yalgoo and Hercules
in the Northern Territory. Consideration
was £197,500, payable £47,500 in cash
and £150,000 in 600,000 ss. shares. The
options were later exercised in con-
sideration of £45'000 cash and 350,000
shares. Later still the co. acquired an
interest, directly and indirectly, of about
50 p.c. in Yellowdine Gold Develop-
ment, Ltd., and still later it secured a
two-ninths interest in Comet Gold Mines.
* * * *
After further inspection of the mine,
directors of Lady Shenton (W.A.) re-
solved to take out all ore now in sight
and then discontinue milling until enough
stuff was developed to crush continuously.
Meantime operations underground have
been restricted to a minimum, which
probably means searching for the pos-
sible southerly continuation of the Alpha
shoot below No. 5 level, and determining
the extent of payable values of the Central
shoot below No. 7 level. Geologist K. J.
Finucane will presently make an ex-
amination of the mine to determine the
possibility of ore extensions at depth.
* * * *
North Enterprise (W.A.) has had an-
other dip into the option bucket. This
time it has got a Norseman block, which
the management believes to be the mak-
ings of a goldmine. Since the co.’s
formation in 1934*' it has tried and
abandoned auriferous areas at New
North Callion, Bardoc and elsewhere. At
February 28, 1938, it had few financial
feathers left to fly with.
* * * *
Towards the end of 1934 Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., was formed in
London by Collins House speculators
and others to acquire two groups of old
and mostly derelict concerns on the
eastern side of the Kalgoorlie Golden
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings
For all wooden, steel or iron structures Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—-Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
’ —Advt.
* * * *
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
Mile. It has paid two divs. absorbing
over £50,000, and is about to pay another
which will amount to £22,875. the three
distributions aggregate Is. 3d. per 10s.-
paid share. Twelve months ago developed
ore reserves were at 338,000
tons averaging 6.6dwt.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. has taken
another Westralian gold option, this time
at Malloch’s Well, 30 miles south of
Laverton. The wealth-carrier there is
said to be in new country, to be very big,
and to be of good grade down to the
deepest point exposed (50ft.).
* * * *
Three months ago Freney Oil Co.’s
shares were hard to sell at a few pence,
prospects of raising more funds appeared
slender, and the end seemed likely. Then
a Perth-Adelaide syndicate of brokers
agreed, for a fairly substantial con-
sideration, to guarantee three monthly
calls aggregating Is. 3d. a share. To-
gether with assured Federal and State
pound-for-pound subsidies the board
thus has £50,000 in sight. Further boring
is to be done at a new site some miles
away from the old one, and preliminary
arrangements for the erection of plant
are now being made. Only the bore
can determine whether oil is present in
payable quantities. The scrip, therefore,
is a gamble, and thus far the odds have
been against the investor.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Bradford: Not much; for the most part it
will turn out dilferent weight material....
F.J.R.: (1) and (2) Better wait a while and
see what kind of a showing the new board
makes. Its task is not an easy one. (3) The
co. has entered the race with a heavy handicap
in the shape of intangibles. (4) N0....W.G.:
Wait a few months E. 8.8.: Write American
High Commissioner, Manila, Philippine Islands.


SMOKE-OH!
Judging from recent events in Central
Europe, it’s a wise child there that knows
its own fatherland.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fire at Biscuit Factory.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Now the burnt biscuits can be adver-
tised: “Just like home-made,”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The suggestion is made that the British
Parliament may be reduced in size.”
Getting on short Commons.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do women dress to attract men?”
— lVomen’s paper.
Well, in a cocktail bar they like to be
spotted.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Coffee cools one’s toes.”— ‘‘World’s News."
The feet feel at home on anything
that’s ground.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Missionary says Korea is clean and has
little crime.”
What about Korea sending missionaries
to us?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A daily reader asks why May is said to
be an unlucky month for marriage.”
For the same reason as the other
eleven.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man works fifty years for the one boss.”
—News item.
Another golden wedding anniversary?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“History is poison.”— H. G. Wells.
That accounts for it being so hard to
swallow.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“American peaches now have ‘fuzzless’
skins.” — Scientific journal.
It’s marvellous what cosmetics will do.
4* 4* 4* 4*
.“As a blonde of long standing, I freely admit
I like men.”— Mush article in women’s paper.
It’s a fair kind of judgment to pass, and
it’s true;
For a blonde to like men isn’t rare.
But if long-standing blondes are left
standing for long
Then the men are not treating them
fair.
Some men go into Parliament for the
rest of their lives.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Scientist claims that onions emit ultra-
violet rays.”
But not an ultra-violet smell.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Our Glorious Press.
Verbatim report of a speech by Mr.
Chamberlain: “I believe the international
situation has deteriorated but little. Does
Germany realise how mighty we have
become? I think the answer lies with
Herr Hitler. I believe we can overcome
any outstanding grievances between our
two countries. By force of arms nothing
is gained. By peaceful co-operation all
questions may be resolved. If we rush
into battle we gain nothing. By pausing
and thinking in this way, therefore, we
can do the Empire service.”
The same speech as recorded in the
“Daily Yell”: I believe the international
situation has deteriorated. But little does
Germany realise how mighty we have
become. 1 think the answer lies with
Herr Hitler. I believe we can overcome
any outstanding grievances between our
two countries by force of arms. Nothing
is gained by peaceful co-operation. All
questions may be resolved by rushing
into battle. We gain nothing by pausing
and thinking. In this way, therefore, we
can do the Empire a service.”
Dougal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One magazine still in circulation is far
worse than anything proscribed by the Customs
Department.”— Sydney paper.
Evidently it beats the banned.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Theatre manager declares he can gauge
the success of a play on the first night by
the amount of applause from the gallery.”
In the hands of the gods?
On the Face of It.
“A man may be downright ugly, but if he
has plenty of money he finds no trouble in
xr ,
No moneybags need vainly yearn
To get a wife to share his pelf,
tor if a man s got cash to burn
He needn t be so hot himself.
Leon.
* * * *
“Hosiery Trade Conference.”
. . , Melb. “Sun" headline.
A jaw on the sock.
* * * *
“The thief, who was seen carrying a parcel
up the street, was an
Orpheus and his loot.
4. 4. ’
. .. , . ,
Then there was the girl who refused
to be superstitious because she thought
such an attitude might bring good luck.
“ We always get this bother in the mating season .”
A Vanished Method.
“The police were looking for a man with a
miniature Pomeranian dog.”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.
In days when our beards were much
tougher and blacker,
And cops could be classified truly as
men,
Would they stoop to using a Pom. as a
tracker ?
No! Bloodhounds were deemed more
reliable then.
BO.
Fable.
Once there were two mighty hunters,
O’Haggis and McGoldbaum. Which was
the mightier was often debated in and
about M’Bungi M’Bongi, but no satis-
factory decision could be reached. As
the two rarely met, except in saloon bars,
it seemed that the question of superior-
ity would never be solved.
One evening, when pitching camp,
McGoldbaum noticed a tent in the
jungle, and discovered that it sheltered
O’Haggis.
They swapped yarns, and of course
broached the subject of their personal
prowess. At last, goaded to anger,
O’Haggis said: “Why, I could strangle
a lion with my bare hands,” to which
McGoldbaum replied: “I bet you two
bob you couldn’t.” O’Haggis yelled:
“I’ll take you and I’ll do it now,” and
so saying O’Haggis rushed out into the
jungle.
After waiting some little time for his
rival to return, McGoldbaum concluded
that he had squibbed it, and accordingly
retired to bed in high glee.
Partaking of a snifter before put-
ting out the light, McGoldbaum was
astonished to notice a lion’s head poked
under the tent flap. About to shoo him
away in the peremptory manner
he reserved for lions, McGoldbaum was
struck by the benign and contented ex-
pression on the animal’s countenance ;
so, instead, he said kindly: “What the
hell do you want?”
The lion replied: “Excuse me, are
you Mr. McGoldbaum?” and McGold-
baum answered “Yes,” so the lion con-
tinued: “Do you know a man named
O’Haggis?” and McGoldbaum said
“Yes,” and the lion grinned very happily
and said: “Well, he owes you two bob,”
and then withdrew his head and de-
parted.
LEON.
Sporting Instinct.
“Many criminals really’ have well-developed
sporting instincts.” — ‘‘Sun.’’
That reminds me of the finish of the
Tartar gang.
Our record was getting rather thick,
and, as one of the mob was up on a
“capital,” Dandy Deadener, our chief, got
the idea of secretly inviting all the pos-
sible witness against him to a picnic,
then sail in upon them, put them to flight
and shoot them as they ran.
A suggestion to each one that he was
to be entertained as an estimable citizen
brought a good crowd. Everything
worked well up to the point when we
sailed in upon them.
“The Dandy Deadener and the Tartar
gang!” the cry went up.
But that’s where the hitch occurred.
Instead of running away and giving us a
chance of shooting them, the whole crowd
plumped down on the ground and sat
there.
In vain we insulted them, and in other
ways tried to stir them into activity.
They refused to budge, for they had heard
of the Dandy’s sturdy sporting prin-
ciples. He refused to shoot sitting game
or to allow us to do so. So there we were
kept, powerless, until the police came in
force and nabbed the lot of us.
We were all hanged. That darned old
Judge wasn’t a bit of a sport.
H. M.
This Espionage Business.
II.
Whereas the freelance spy is his own
boss and needn’t work if he feels more
like a round of golf than spending a
dull afternoon ratting the secret archives
of a War Office or two, the Government
spy is a paid civil servant who is answer-
able to any one, or all, of his 17 or
so bosses, from the Acting Temporary
Assistant Chief Clerk, Zone B, to the
Deputy Assistant Comptroller of Spy
Operations.
It may be supposed that, when a secret-
service agent who is caught red-handed
rummaging through an enemy field-
marshal’s dispatch case while disguised
as a Mexican peon becomes a collector
of lead pellets, applications are invited
through the morning press from citizens
desiring the vacant post. Not so. Actu-
ally, spies go through a rigid apprentice-
ship from their earliest youth.
Competitive examinations are held to
select them, the subjects ranging from
knowledge of William le Queux’s plots
to the practical methods of climbing
down drainpipes of 12-storey buildings
while carrying a gun-mounting.
Tradition is important. A candidate
who demonstrates that he is not imbued
with the true spirit of the Public Service
will not be considered. Should he, how-
ever, manifest that he intends to work
strictly to the 35-hour week (9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Mondays to Fridays, with an hour
for lunch, no work Saturdays or public
holidays); to refuse, if he is, say, a
seventh-grade spy, to do an assignment
which under the award should be per-
formed by a sixth-grade man, and to
adhere strictly to the seniority-before-
merit principle, then his chances of selec-
tion will be enhanced.
The period of apprenticeship is long
and the work exacting. When he first
starts an apprentice might have to spend
up to four hours a day practising sleep-
ing with one eye open. After attaining
proficiency, this rigorous training is
slackened down to two hours daily.
Then he has to master such sciences as
lock- and pocket-picking, breaking-and-
entering, shadowing, and disguises and
make-up. For the first three subjects
apprentices are given probationary
periods with professional burglars and
pickpockets, though they are not allowed
to take any of the proceeds of their
work.
Owing to the importance of a spy’s
ability to swallow at a moment’s notice
any plans that he is caught with, no
youth can join the Government espion-
age service unless he passes the test of
swallowing a pill dry, and this is the
rock on which most of their hopes are
shattered. Many of our business colleges
have opened special Classes for Dry Pill
Swallowing for intending candidates for
. prv :„ p
In learning plan-swallowing the future
S py j s not rus hed. He first starts on old
de-gummed postage stamps, gradually
working up to full-sized blueprints.
Moreover, he must learn to differentiate
between the taste of, say, Russian and
Bulgarian inks. This latter phase is im-
portant, and may mean the difference
between a country’s diplomatic success
and failure.
As a case in point: M 7, a ffiird-grade
spy was assigned to Cheliabinsk to in-
tercept ap im * or|an , messaJ , e on p ersian
troop movements which was coming from
ffi e envoy of a mysterious Central Euro-
pean Power. He succeeded, but before
cou j d decode jj he was compelled to
swa n ow the paper when the secret police
started t 0 se £ r( f h him
The peculiarly-flavored ink common
to a certain country gave him the clue,
and a brilliant diplomatic victory resulted
from his efforts, official appreciation for
which took the gratefu , form G f a
promise to t him up t 0 thc second
g ra d e when a vacancy occurred and his
pos jtj on on the seniority list warranted it.
Thc apprentice S py is taught to swal-
,ow plans properly Regulations forbid
Government spies to swallow plans
whole—they must be chewed thoroughly
first. This is the reason why one rarely
sees a spy over 45 years of age—he must
have his own teeth.
The reason for thoroughly masticating
a stolen plan or message is obvious,
though regulations were not framed for
making it compulsory until one of the
War Office’s best spies failed to return.
Subsequent investigation revealed that,
suspected, he swallowed whole the
dispatch he had “lifted.” The military
authorities of the country concerned im-
mediately took an X-ray photo, of his
stomach. The negative showed positive
results.
Writing with invisible ink is another
art which the apprentice spy must also
acquire. A special clothing allowance is
granted to spies on this work. This is be-
cause, the ink being invisible, they can use
their coats and pants as penwipers with
impunity; in making out reports of their
work, however, they use ordinary ink,
with disastrous results to their clothes.
Every War Office has a special Invisible
Ink Reading Squad, composed of spies
who have had long experience in reading
messages in invisible ink. A very severe
eyesight test has to be passed before this
branch of the service can be aspired to.
Having served his apprenticeship and
passed all his departmental exams., the
tyro blossoms into a full-blown journey-
man spy, and is allotted a number, say,
Zl7. Thereafter he ceases to have a
name. His wife is known as Mrs. Zl7,
and even the children, for purposes of
official secrecy, are given numbers in-
stead of names.
There is no “Do this, Alfie! ” or “Come
here at once, Jimmy!” shouted at the
kids in a Government spy’s household.
If Mrs. Zl7 wants the youngest nipper
to go down to the corner shop to get
a few groceries she surreptitiously slips
a note written in code into L32’s hand
as he is playing leapfrog in the back-
yard.
S. W. K.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “ The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
>
Wl
M 1 '■
ii!
A
I fK—
uini
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is "No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 'Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building. 270 Queen. Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:.Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States. ■
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Another Bad Week
Dictators are reputed to manufacture
international “diversions” to take their
peoples’ minds off affairs at home. Con-
tinental and other “diversions” have got
to the stage now where the whole world
is distracted from minding its own
business. While “war is thundering at
our gates,” and the scare-drum is being
beaten, people’s eyes are drawn away
from the danger of rising living costs in
Australia, growing taxation and Budgets
that politicians can’t balance.
Last week represented the worst stretch
in the sharemarket’s march of time since
the end of September. Confidence was
shot to bits, or seemed to be, among the
day-to-day dealers, and some who live
too close to the game were tumbling
over themselves in. their dismay. Per-,
haps the elderly maiden aunts and
widows who have been bequeathed
British Tobaccos and Colonial Sugars by
some departed benefactor are the most
successful investors after all. They know
nothing about stocks and shares except
that dividends from their particular hold-
ings have been good in the past and I
nobody doubts that their scrip is intrin-,
sically of a high class. So, whatever the
month-by-month sharemarket fluctuations'
are, they aren’t worried. Everything
seems to come right in the end.
Since the depression of 1930-33 there
has developed in Australia (and else-
where) a large body of sharemarket fol-
lowers who are essentially speculators,
having been encouraged to punt by the
“easy” profits to be made on ’Change
during the recovery years. They started
on gold scrip, usually lost money in the
finish, and began chasing their losses in
the industrial and base-metal share boom
(and slump) that followed. These latter
stocks are more or less permanent insti-
tutions, so that if those who dabbled in
them can afford to hold they may yet see
a full turn in the trade and investment
wheel —from despondency to overconfi-
dence again. Such a development, how-
ever, might take years to happen, and a
speculator who is being “carried”— that
is, one who has borrowed money in order
to acquire holdings—may be in no position
to wait for an agreeable change in the
trend of affairs, even if it may only be
a matter of weeks or months off. He
doesn’t know for certain when things
will “look up” again, and the bogey of
a European war figures in his mind as the
worst possible ultimate in any manner
of disaster.
The fall of Barcelona sharply
knocked confidence in the New York
sharemarkets, and London was also ner-
vous. Australian ’Changes became very
apprehensive, though not to the extent
of last September. Again sharemarket
followers were forced into putting them-
selves in the distressing position of
having to deliver judgment on the inter-
national situation, and worried them-
selves into hysterics in the process,
New York and London this time
appeared to be well ahead of Australia
with the jitters The situation seemed to
be forced on Australian investors, so to
speak. They woke up on Tuesday of last
week and found the market collapse an
accomplisned thing, more or less,
There is no living person in this world
who can foretell what is going to hap-
pen, or what isn t going to happen, m
the international sphere. And it wai
s l ° u rea out ’ 1S * ere an > one w 0
“Why doan't ’ee go over an' have game of dominoes with Cap 'n,
grandpa?"
“ I'm still feelin' stiff all over from yest’d'y's game!"
can say with authority that shares in the
long run or the short run will be less
valuable in terms of paper currency?
No world war, or war in which Britain
has been involved, has in the last two
centuries broken out while the Empire
was, off the gold standard. If war were
to happen now, it would be an occur-
rence under financial conditions that
are without precedent. Monetary gold
throughout the world is mainly locked up
in bank vaults, and to the investor who
sells his shares, property or commodities
there only remains the option of paper
currency or its equivalent. He would
be a game prophet who said that paper
currency would turn out the best invest-
ment under war-time conditions.
In all the noise and excitement of
war rumors, investors are apt to lose sight
of other factors, closer to home and over
which they themselves have some power
to control, tending to white-ant their
holdings. It will not pay them or any-
one else to be distracted to too great
an extent.
The Dow-Jones star in New York
having come under the influence of the
thirteenth sign of the Zodiac (Bruin the
Bear) early last week, on Tuesday the
Australian sharemarkets went into an
eclipse, and for a time there seemed
to be fears of a collision with Mars, or
perhaps it was the moon. Mt. Lyells
fell to 23s. 9d. temporarily in Melbourne,
Broken Hill Souths touched the same
low figure, and Norths slumped to
42s. 3d. Zinc Corp., with a suspicion
of Taurus the Bull about it, rose 6d., then
seemed to regret the move and flopped
2s. In Sydney Ormonoid Roofing defied
the lightning and rose 9d., lifting another
6d. on Wednesday ; but otherwise share-
market tone up to this stage was
decidedly “crook.” Australian Glass,
still subject to hopes on the point of a
promised bonus issue—“it should please
and satisfy all shareholders,” chairman
E. Norton Grimwade said on Wednesday
—pitched down to below £5 (after seeing
£5 135.) for a short period, then re-
covered to £5 6s. British Tobacco
weakened on four successive days,
looking pale at 455. 6d. on Friday. With
a few exceptions the whole share list
showed signs of a bad attack of the
rattles. The “international situation”
was blamed, New York summing the
situation up for the benefit of the rest
of the world. Actually, the rising cost
of living in Australia is of more import-
ance to Commonwealth investors than
are these overseas “situations.”
Thursday and Friday saw a further
relapse among prominent industrials.
B.H.P. slipped to 535. 6d. (compared with
a September “low” of 505.). Meggitt ords
slumped Is. 6d. (to 28s. 6d.), while Peters
(Sydney) fully-paids dropped back Is. (to
51s.)—this stock held its position well,
on the whole. Brewery and cement
issues were among the steadiest stocks
in this oddly depressed market.
By Saturday the “shakes” seemed to
be wearing olf ; on Monday the 'Changes
were closed.
* * * *
Kameri Gold Dredging, which started
ooerations at its 500-acre property near
Hokitika (west coast of Maoriland’s
South Island) on Dec. 9, saw three years
elapse between flotation and production.
It paid £47,901 in cash to Alluvial Tin
for the property, which had been tested
to show 478 acres containing 55,000,000
c.y. going 9.3 and. a yard (gold at £6 an
ounce, M.L. currency), and issued
100,000 deferred Is. shares and 200,000
£1 ords. Construction of the dredge took
longer and cost more than was antici-
pated ; an extra £30,000, however, was
found without raising more capital. Mal-
colm Newman joined the Prattens and
G. H. Watson on the board in the co.’s
last term, and the management was satis-
fied with the dredge as completed. From
Dec. 9 to Dec. 31 it dug 45,000 c.y. for
3900 z. smelted gold ; for the first half of
January 48,000 c.y. gave 300 oz. The
average of those yields is 3.55 grains per
yard, worth 10.65 and. per ounce with gold
at £6 Maoriland. Dredging 300,000 c.y.
a month, the prospectus estimated re-
coveries at 9.3 and., costs at 3d. and profits
at £90,000 p.a. for 15 years. Though
volume of throughput hasn’t yet been
achieved, preliminary recoveries have
been above the average bore results, and
gold is above £8 10s. an ounce in Maori-
land, as against the prospectus figure of
£6. Kanieri’s ord. scrip was listed in
Sydney last week, and business wqs done
at 325. The shilling deferreds par-
ticipate equally with the ords. in profits.
Officially listed on Sydney ’Change last
week the same day as Kanieri, Arahura
Gold Dredging, another Pratten show,
has a property slightly further away from
Hokitika. There are 855 acres altogether,
371 of which were tested by Alluvial Tin
and showed 48,500,000 c.y. averaging
9|d. (gold at £6, M.L. currency), exclud-
ing lower levels. A 300,000-c.y.-per-
month dredge was recommended ; costs
were put at 3d., and, with recoveries of
9fd., profits of £85,000 p.a. for 13 years
were spoken of. Vendors received
£50,828 (cash), of which Alluvial Tin’s
share was £40,928. Since then the story
of Arahura has been practically that of
Kanieri, except that it hasn’t yet com-
menced production; it was floated a
month or two later. The dredge in Ara-
hura’s case also cost more than estimated.
Arahura’s £1 ords. are at 275. 6d. There
are 200,000 ords. and 100,000 shilling de-
ferreds, which have equal rights of profit-
participation. Malcolm Newman has
joined the board here, too. He is an ex-
pert on dredging —he was with the
Prattens in Malaya.


The Time to Buy.
Depressed front-line stocks like
British Tobacco, Mt. Lyell,
Australasian Paper and Electrolytic
Zinc are the pick of the market.
„ /*
i
■
mmmm
,
■
.
<&&>
wwmm
l&e&sgsgwSsgifci
':■* #
-•••••
ALLURING LAND OF
BEAUTY-
CONTRAST INTEREST
AH
mu
See South Africa—Land of colour,
adventure and romance—of vivid
contrasts, enthralling beauty, and
golden sunshine. From the abs
sorbing interest in the wild-animal
life and the native kraals, to the
grandeur of the scenery, South
Africa will hold you in her spell.
She offers, too, all the comforts
of modern civilization with a
modern transport system, to give
you the holiday of a lifetimel
Call in en route to England.
m
mmm
m
.......
m
: y
W'mwrWiiiift
mb
m.
•« *
jHT
WATER CARRIER
THE
Obtain full particulars to-day from all offices of
DALGEtY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
OF
fST
1837.
established practice
of the
\lnion (Bank
is to apply its facilities
to the
specific needs of each customer,
however large, or however small,
the transaction.
The Union Bank
of Australia Limited
( Incorporated, in England)
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
The Barrier Mines
From “Rhoda-Knight”:
Mark me against your final summing up
concerning the relative merits of the three lead-
ing Barrier mines (B. 11/1/ ’39).
The statement of Colin Fraser at the last
annual meeting of B.H. South confirms that
this mine is slowly on the down-grade, hence
the issue of preference is confined to the North
and the Zinc Corp. Blocked-out ore reserves
awaiting extraction favor North, and known
ore reserves ensure both mines enough dirt to
produce to capacity for the next decade. The
geologists have a lot to say theoretically for
both after that, and each co. has several
\irgin 40-acre blocks attached to the present
working leases for posterity to worry about.
The grade of ore mined as set down in the
last reports of the cos. simply reflects policy.
North’s crude ore (approx. 14J p.c. lead) is
obtained from the North and the British leases
—the latter’s lower-grhde 11 p.c. ore contribut-
ing approx, one-fifth of the tonnage. The pro-
posal also to mine later on from the Junction
(another low-grade proposition) confirms the
policy to clean up all poorer-grade sections
sidestepped in previous years. There is no
doubt that if required North could get its
required tonnage from the North lease alone.
Zinc Corp.’s grade of over 16 p.c. lead comes
from selection, but it is no better than the
overall production grade from the North mine
proper, which enables the latter show to work
the other leases under present conditions. The
silver values greatly favor North, and its 9oz.
per ton crudes compared with Zinc Corp.’s
4foz. ore will always have the latter concern
chasing costs to break even.
Present mining costs slightly favor Zinc Corp.,
mainly owing to heavy ground, deeper-level
mining and all-timbered stopes in the other
mine. But Zinc has to face up to the same
problem, and all-timbered stopes with pillars
and increased costs will follow as ore is
worked to lower depths. Both mines will
operate with modern methods (skip-haulage,
mechanical trucking, etc.) this year, and their
respective mining costs will be comparative.
Milling costs greatly favor Zinc Corp. under
the present plants, owing mainly to the over-
loaded and inefficient plant at the North.
However, both cos. will start up their new
modern mills early this year—North with a
gravity-p/iM-flotation plant and Zinc Corp. with
an all-flotation mill. Metallurgical circles have
been arguing for months re the merits of the
respective types of plants, but all agree that
they represent the last word in modern ore-
dressing equipment. Both will run normally
under 600,000 tons a year, and both are elastic
enough to put through 700,000 tons later on.
Recoveries and costs from each plant will be
close by comparison. However, smelting
charges will not see daylight, but it’s a safe
bet that the present g.m. of North (formerly
in charge of B.H.A.S. at Pt. Pirie) knows too
much about the Pt. Pirie end of the business
to put up the more expensive plant on the
North unless the coarser-grained concentrates
produced will be advantageous.
Both mines have completely reconstructed
their surface buildings, both are progressive and
efficient, and costs will be closely parallel;
but Zinc Corp. will badly miss that additional
4oz. to soz. of silver per ton apparent in the
North ore.
Maoriland’s London funds improved
slightly last week. In 1938 they were
drawn on for £8,000,000 sterling in order
to meet overseas interest and the outflow
of capital. It is the Government’s in-
tention to rebuild London funds as
quickly as possible, and though, in the
circumstances, that is the obvious thing
to do, importers are kicking against the
means chosen to gain the end. They
are submitting other plans of import
regulation to the Government.
* * * *
F.R.S. Ideal Spring shares lost weight
quickly on ’Change during last week’s
period of agitation. They had been up
to 275., but on Thursday sales were
registered at 255. 3d., which may prove
to be a fair level for this newly-listed
issue.. It has been subject to a lot of
spec, buying in recent weeks.
* * * *
Castlemaine Perkins (Brisbane) shares
are one of the few depressed Australian
brewery stocks. The 12s. 6d. shares
may be bought at 225., returning £4 11s.
per cent, on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
co. has had no strikes on its hands so
far this term, and the year to July
31 should be a good one.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton (Sydney) ords., down
to 375. 6d., carry an interim div. of
Is. 3d. Out of earnings represent-
ing 16.5 p.c. on ord. capital, in 1937-38
a distribution of 12.5 p.c. was made on
new capital and old. The co. represents
a sound and prosperous enterprise,
capably managed, with a capital of only
£202,742, of which £40,000 is in 6 p.c.
cum. prefs. (now priced at 235.). The
ords. at 375. 6d. return £6 13s. 4d. p.c.,
a highly-attractive yield, with future pos-
sibilities promising. The cotton-weaving
business isn’t by any means overdone in
the Commonwealth.
-r* * * *
Melbourne Steam’s interim ord. div.
stays at the same rate as for the 1937-38
term —7 p.c. p.a. During last week’s
market slump buyers offered 275. 3d.,
with no sellers offering. Last sale was
at 275. 6d. Adelaide Steam shares were
offered at 325. in Sydney, after sales at
that figure in their own city. A couple
of good stocks these, are, whatever hap-
pens in Europe—-or Yurrup, as it’s being
called now, after Wall-street.
#;# # *
The sharemarket pays a full price for
Sydney Ferries ss. shares at 6s. lid.
(yield 5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis). The
1937 div. took more than the claimed
earnings, and no depreciation or pro-
vision for taxation was charged to p.
and 1. account. Accounts for 1938 are
due shortly; it will be interesting to see
if they show improvement.
*>><**
Beard, Watson ords. are down to 13s.
in Sydney, and holders of this once
much-boosted furniture stock are
scratching their heads. This page’s
opinion all along has been that, if the
co. didn’t earn good money during the
past three or four years, the chances
of its ever becoming a moneyspinner
were quite dull. Actually, only moderate
results have been exhibited from time
to time, the ord. div. has not recovered to
above 6 p.c., and competition in the
furniture trade hasn’t shown any signs
of letting-up. On the other hand, de-
mand for new furnishings seems to be
slowing down. Beard, Watson is in
a difficult trade, and one that is likely
to become more so while our export
prices are down. At 13s. the shares
return 7.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. basis. Earn-
ings will need to improve before the
ords. are worth much more under present
sharemarket conditions.
In Melbourne last week:
After a jittery week the sharemarket steadied
somewhat on Saturday morning.
Carlton Brewery maintained its div. at 15
p.c. Carlton and United, the operating co.,
paid 12J p.c. p.a., as usual. Carlton shares
showed comparatively slight recession in the
wild market at 645.
Myer ords., already dull, receded another 6d.
Davies, Coop ords.'were particularly steady
at 245. 3d.; Holeproof ords. fell back 9d., to
235., while Yarra Falls shares dropped a few
pence, to 365. 6d.
Emperor’s div. of 6d. a share disappointed,
and support for the shares dropped to below
9s. Golden Plateau shares drifted to the very
low figure of 6s. 9d. Development has-been
disappointing.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Vital Issue in France and Britain.
[This article, condensed from New York “Herald
Tribune,” is by the outstanding American writer on
foreign affairs, Walter Lippmann, who sweeps away the
crowd of artificial surface issues and lays bare the one
vital issue of the moment in both Britain and France.]
The real issue in France, and also in Britain, is
whether these two great empires can conduct business
as usual or must put themselves on a war footing. If
they are to survive the challenge of the aggressor States
to their position, their territorial integrity and their
national independence, can they continue to live a
normal civilian life?
The problem is entirely unintelligible and entirely
insoluble if one looks at their difficulties as “ideo-
logical,” and supposes that the main trouble in France
or in England is a struggle between Communism and
Fascism, or between democracy and authoritarianism,
or between proletariat and capitalists.
The French and British working classes are not
Communist, and the governing classes are not Fascist.
It is poisonous nonsense to say that men like M.
Daladier, M. Reynaud, Mr. Chamberlain and Lord
Halifax are conspiring secretly to imitate the dic-
tatorships, and it is poisonous nonsense to say that
the French or British trade unions are promoting a
Communist revolution.
The truth of the matter is that substantially the
whole of the French and the British people are so
deeply attached to their free and easygoing civilian
way of life that they shrink from the sacrifices and
the discipline that are indispensable if they are to
defend their national interests.
It is, for example, the fashion of the moment to
say that Mr. Chamberlain is a kind of unavowed
Fascist. But what is the practical issue in England
between Mr. Chamberlain and his opponents? It is,
to put it broadly, conscription. What do the Eng-
lishmen who denounce Munich want to do? They
want to establish compulsory national service for
everyone, and they want a so-called Ministry of
Supply which will mobilise and direct in authoritative
fashion the industries of the British Isles. They want,
in short, to make Britain formidable by putting
Britain on a war footing.
What has Mr. Chamberlain, with his alleged
aspirations toward Fascism, been doing about these
proposals to centralise authority, to conscript labor
and to regiment industry? He has been opposing
these proposals because they will interfere with busi-
ness as usual, though he is now reluctantly beginning
to accept them by adopting a national registration of
the adult population. And why is he so reluctant to
accept the power which, were he in fact a Fascist, he
would eagerly seize? He is reluctant because he is a
civilian and a businessman and a politician who feels
that the workers and the businessmen of England hate
the idea of living under war conditions.
The same state of things exists in France. Ger-
many and Italy live in time of peace under the regime
which all nations have to adopt in time of war ;• and
the question which confronts Britain and France is
whether they can continue to play the game as if
they were at peace and still meet the challenge of
nations that are on a war basis.
Nobody likes to face this question, neither Mr.
Chamberlain nor the British Labor party, neither M.
Daladier nor M. Jouhaux. But it is the question, and
as long as it is not faced the actions of both democ-
racies will be paralysed by disputes over secondary
and superficial issues.
Their action will be paralysed because, if you
start from the premise that business can be con-
ducted as usual, then every one feels justified in quar-
relling as usual. If France, for example, is to pro-
ceed on the assumption that she is at peace, and that
she needs only to arm with her left hand, then it will
be difficult to persuade Labor to accept the liquidation
of its reforms while Capital is still free to leave France
and seek profit elsewhere.
A nation cannot have its cake and eat it too. It
cannot have the unity, the discipline and the sacrifices
that prevail when it is fighting for its national inde-
pendence, and at the same time have all the liberties
and luxuries that it enjoys when it is at peace and the
world is normal.
It is said: “Yes, this is true, all too true. But
shall we surrender our liberties in order to preserve
them?” The answer is that there are times when a
nation must surrender its liberties if it is to preserve
them, and when a nation is as gravely threatened as
France is to-day that may very well be the decision
that has to be taken.
For there is something more fundamental than
personal liberty. That something is national indepen-
dence. Before a people can be free, they must be in-
dependent, and once they lose their independence they
lose their freedom too. The Czechs maintained their
liberties. But they lost their independence. They are
now losing their liberties as well.
Therefore, a people that loves freedom and under-
stands it, and is worthy of it, must in the final test
be willing to accept discipline and sacrifice in order
to maintain its independence. For while nations may
be independent without being free, no people is ever
free if it is not independent.
The French as Cannon-fodder.
[One of the thoughts with which war-urgers have
tried to comfort Britain is that no British expeditionary
force would—or could—be sent to the Continent.
How this idea strikes the French is indicated in this
extract from a London “Spectator” article by D. K.
Gillie.]
Nothing makes a Frenchman dislike the English
more than the assumption that in the next war his
country should provide the infantry while the English
fight on the sea, in the air and in the factory. He is
acutely aware that the very stuff of France is threat-
ened, its flesh and blood.
There were 43,000 more deaths than births in
France in the first half of 1938. The suggestion that
this irreplaceable material should be used as cannon-
fodder while the Anglo-Saxon makes shells strikes
the Frenchman as indecent.
In the last war 1,325,000 Frenchmen were killed
as compared with 744,000 soldiers from Great Britain.
Since the total population of France is smaller and
more stable (so that the age groups are more equally
proportioned) this meant that 8.8 per cent, of the men
of the United Kingdom between 20 and 45 were killed,
but 18.2 p.c. of the Frenchmen of the same age. This
proportion was only surpassed in the case of Hungary
with 18.7 p.c., whereas that for Germany was 15.5 p.c.
In comparison with England the losses of the agricul-
tural population were probably proportionately still
heavier, for the industrial workman was rarer and
could therefore be less easily spared from the factory.
English visitors to France will do well to count
the names on the village war memorials and ask what
is the population of the parish. They will then under-
stand why the country population is inclined to sup-
port M. Bonnet and the Munich agreement.
Palestine Kidnappers.
(Condensed from an article by a London “Times ’
correspondent .)
The following account is based on most authentic
narratives, related by men who have been spirited
away to the hills from busy urban centres under the
very noses of the police and military.
One tells how he was standing in front of the
Post Office when an unknown Arab, with his hatta
concealing the lower part of his face, came up to him
and said he was wanted by some friends. He followed,
and when he asked why he was being taken so far
he was shown a revolver: he was wanted at rebel
-headquarters to answer some questions. Another man
was lured out of town in search of promised work.
A third was visited in his shop and ordered, under pain
of death, to come quietly, without giving an alarm to
any police or military who might be passed. Or the
victim may have been a police officer in uniform
who was invited to enter a car, and boldly driven out
of town, past road guards, who, on seeing a uni-
formed officer in the car, waved it past the barriers
without question. Of course, the man said nothing,
knowing that a revolver was pressed into his ribs.
Outside town, the captive is told he is being
taken to be interviewed by “the General.” Soon he
is turned over to other armed men, robbed ot his
money and valuables, blindfolded, and, as dark ap-
proaches, led a long trek into the rocky hills where
the rebels are then located. At length, hungry and
weary, bruised with stumbling over the stony path,
he comes to the concentration point. Sometimes it
is a house in some remote village where the rebel
command is quartered for the night, the feared yet
effusively welcomed guest. Or it may be in the rugged
hills where a cave is being used as a prison.
The prisoner’s first taste of his fate is that he is
vaguely charged with being a spy, a holder of an
identity card, a buyer at some Jewish shop, a seller of
land to Jews, with having failed to contribute to rebel
funds up to his means. He is told to take off his
clothes, the best of which are appropriated by the
prison guards ; then he is handcuffed, perhaps with
“bracelets” stolen from the police, and mercilessly
flogged by some stalwart ex-convict acting as “warder.”
Ten minutes is the average time for these beatings,
but sometimes it goes on for half an hour, even after
the man has fallen unconscious to the ground.
The prisoner is next thrust into the temporary
prison, a ruined house or natural cave, where he finds
some dozen or so already confined. Here are men
like himself —shopowners, carpenters, farmers, bus
drivers, cafd owners, some of whom have been held
thus for weeks. Among them is a sheikh, revered
in his own community, who has been accused of being
too intimate with the police and Government officials.
Food is now given the prisoners—a handful of
olives and a loaf of bread divided among from two
to five men. Parched by the long day’s march the
new men ask for water and are rewarded with a flick
of a whip from the warder: they will be given water
when he is ready to give it to them. The meal ended,
the prisoners are taken out and beaten by the man
with the biting whip. So it always is after a meal.
Meanwhile darkness has fallen, and they huddle
in the cave without blankets to protect them from the
chill which creeps over the hills. By crowding to-
gether they make the best of their condition. Now
in hushed voices they hear that this one or that has
been so beaten that his wounds will not heal, of
another that he has been beaten so severely every
day in the hope that he will buy his release with a
large ransom that he is nearly at breaking point.
They tell of some who were condemned to death
and shot before them all, and others who were placed
in dry wells with but little food and water till they
agreed to pay large sums into the rebel coffers.
About midnight a sharp command comes from
outside the cave ; time to move. The men are tied to-
gether two and two, and made to follow their guards,
now reinforced by some twoscore other armed men,
many in uniform, while a rapid march is made
through the darkness to some other lair for fear the
military have got wind of their position. By daylight
they are miles away, hidden in another cave.
Suddenly a low drone is heard overhead: the
R.A.F. ’planes are out scouting. The prisoners hav-
ing been sharply ordered to lie quiet, the guard hide
motionless behind the many rocks, while the ’planes
pass overhead without having spotted them. Or per-
haps from their cave’s mouth they can look across
the precipitous wadi to where troops, deployed on the
opposite hillside not a couple of hundred yards away,
are carrying out a search: but the captives dare not
cry out, and the rebels, seeing themselves outnumbered,
hold their fire.
The unhappy captives have seen little or nothing
of the leader on a white horse who commands the
district. He has no time for small fry. One day he
does appear. In the new batch of “wanted” men
which has been brought in is a man who has been
accused of giving information to the police. “The
General” appears in person as evening falls, orders
the prisoners before him, and charges one man with
acting as ghaffir for such and such a “British-loving”
Arab, and another with treason to the Arab cause.
The first is let off with a beating ; the second is shot
without so much as the taking of evidence or the
hearing of his own defence.
The Colonies Question.
[The colonies issue is temporarily shelved, partly
owing to general resentment at the treatment of Jews
in Germany, but even more because of the feeling that
concessions already made in the way of appeasement had
been accepted by Germany as an evidence of weakness,
and with no attempt to do anything in return. The
issue as it now stands is fairly stated in this comment
from London “Economist.”]
The colonial question has not been altered in
substance by recent events. Germany’s colonies were
wrested from her by force of arms; and insult was
added to injury when the conquest was excused by
false and trumped-up proofs that pre-war Germany
was unfit to govern colonial possessions.
Since the advent of Herr Hitler, patriotic irre-
dentism in Nazi propaganda has been peculiarly asso-
ciated with the colonial guilt lie; and the return of
the Reich’s former territories overseas has been claimed
unconditionally as a matter of right.
The economic grounds for the German claims are
less substantial than those of prestige or politics. The
possession of, say, the Reich’s old African territories
would admittedly provide some very slight relief to
her exchange difficulties by providing certain materials
which are at present bought elsewhere and so releas-
ing foreign exchange to purchase more essential com;
modities, such as iron, copper, bauxite, cotton ano
wool, from other places. And in the case of oils, sisai
and phosphates, the former colonies, including
in the Pacific, could be directly helpful to the Four
Year Plan. But the exports of these territories amount
in total value to less than 4 per cent, of the value
Franco's Spaniards .
Kver since the Spanish Civil War broke out the
pretence lias been kept up in cables that all the late
Barcelona Government side has been exclusively
Spanish, while about tlie only Spaniard on the other
side has been General Franco, leading hordes of
Italians, Moors and Germans.
The idea of the late Barcelona Government side
being exclusively Spanish is badly shaken by such
(uncabled) information as that given by 31. Francois
Valentin in a statement in the French Chamber last
month, reported in the French press:—
From 20,000 to 30,000 Frenchmen have crossed
the frontier of Spain. That is the effective strength
of two divisions, which we should have lacked
last September if we had expanded our partial
mobilisation into a general mobilisation.
“Spain,” printed in London with the object of
informing the British public on the progress of the
Civil War from the Nationalist point of view, states
in its January 12 issue that in the present offensive
Franco’s forces are six army corps which are
exclusively Spanish and one army corps of Legion-
aries. The forces are: —
Exclusively Spanish: Urgel Army Corps (Gen-
eral Munoz Grande ), Maestrazgo Army Corps
(General Garcia Valino ), Aragon Army Corps
(General Moscardd), Navarre Army Corps (Gen-
eral Solchaga), Morocco Army Corps (General
Yague), Catalonia Army Corps (General Badia ).
Army Corps of Legionaries: One division of Italian
volunteers, three divisions of “Arrows,” of whom
94 per cent, are Spanish and 6 per cent. Italian
Legionaries.
On another much misrepresented aspect of
Spain’s Civil War, the author Shane Leslie writes
in London “Daily Telegraph”:—
The supposal that a Franco victory in Spain
would be followed by a German-Italian Spain
will not be borne out by any who, like myself,
have ever lived in Spain. The Spaniard will no
more become a ■ German-Italian than a Russian
ally. I have close connections with Nationalist
Spain, and though the majority of Spaniards are
sore at the French assistance to Barcelona the
Burgos Government will be only too anxious to
be on good and lasting terms with England.


of Germany s imports, and to increase their contribu-
tion appreciably would entail an amount of investment
which the Reich at present could ill afford.
Nevertheless, it is scarcely in order for the pos-
sessors of colonies to base their refusal to surrender
a part of their property on demonstrations that the
Imperial game is not economically worth the candle.
Nor are Britons with their color-bar, or the remote
Americans with their negro problem, on very secure
ground when they base their denial of Germany’s
demands on German racial doctrines. It does not
follow, as night the day, that Jew-baiters will oppress
natives.
If moral issues were decisive, the unconditional
surrender of colonies to Germany would be wrong
because broad considerations of justice require not
unilateral concessions, but the application of the prin-
ciple of trusteeship to all colonies whatever their
ownership, the abatement of sovereign interests and
the world-wide recognition of the open door in colo-
nial commerce. The mandatory principle itself imposes
respect for these considerations. As it is, questions
of expediency and power politics probably prevail;
and it is not practicable to transfer colonies, simply
because it would be strategically unsafe to do so and
nothing would be gained. If, on the other hand, an
effective quid pro quo could be gained, if some guar-
antee of lasting peace could be assured, then some sort
of deal might reasonably be done.
Future of the Canal.
[lnspired by claims to a place on the Suez Canal
Co. board voiced on behalf of Italy, this article, con-
densed from London “Daily Telegraph,” is by J. B.
Firth, who advances reasons for opposing that proposal
and explains the future of the canal in the light of
established arrangements.]
Territorially the canal belongs to, and when the
company’s concession expires in 1968 the whole under-
taking will revert to, Egypt. These facts are strictly
pertinent to the Italian claim that the maritime Powers
using the canal should be represented upon the com-
pany’s board of directors in proportion to their annual
tonnage payment dues for transit.
The figures for 1937 show that Italian tonnage
passing through the canal was second to the British,
but the gap between them is wide: British 17,254,182,
Italian 5,866,087, German 3,313,220, Dutch 2,800,144,
French 1,819,783, Norwegian 1,657,437. Italy’s figures
for 1938 were very much less. Of the 32 directors on
the board, France, which is fifth on the tonnage list,
supplies 19, Great Britain 10, Egypt two (by recent
concession) and Holland one.
Italy seeks to strengthen her case by arguing that
so important a waterway ought not to be controlled
by a private company, but should be administered as
a universal public utility company and directed by an
international authority. This argument is good enough
in principle, and long found advocates in Great
Britain. Mr. Gladstone and others who criticised Dis-
raeli’s great coup in 1875 were strongly in favor of
internationalisation. The same plea was urged when
in 1909 the company sought an extension of its con-
cession for 40 years. But no plans were ever pro-
duced for overcoming the difficulties, and no one has
yet explained how any plan can be evolved without
doing extreme violence to the lawfully established
rights of the shareholders and of Egypt.
That is why the most strategically important
waterway in the world remains the property of a pri-
vate company whose first concern is to earn dividends
for its shareholders. While succeeding admirably in
that respect it has also fulfilled to the letter all its
original obligations and those of the subsequent
convention of 1880.
It was not the fault of Ferdinand de Lesseps or
of France that the canal was not a “universal” under-
taking. All the nations were warmly invited to co-
operate in its construction. The response of all but
France was languid ; that of Great Britain actively
hostile. The weight of the British Government was
thrown for political reasons against the project on
the ground that it was against British interests to create
a second Bosphorus, and when after the canal was
opened the promoters wanted more capital it was
virtually only from French investors that subscrip-
tions were forthcoming.
Is it then any real grievance for Italy or anyone
else that, as by far the greatest share of the capital
was French, control should lie in French hands? The
amount of Italian capital in the Suez Canal is negli-
gible: even her Suez tonnage was only one-third of
the British in a year when it was exceptionally heavy
owing to the Abyssinian war. If any country has
a legitimate grievance on the score of inadequate repre-
sentation it is Great Britain. But no grievance is felt
because no discrimination of any sort is shown, and
the requirements of the convention of 1880 are ful-
filled in every particular.
That convention certainly says that the board shall
consist of representatives of the countries “principally
interested.” This has been interpreted in practice as
if it meant interested financially and not as users. That
is quite in accord with the general international prac-
tice. In the other great world waterway, the Panama
Canal, the United States took care that no other Power
had a hand in the construction, and she secured terri-
torial sovereignty of the canal by rather high-handed
methods. What answer would Washington give to any
claim to representation on the directorate of the
Panama Canal from foreign users on the score of
tonnage figures?
It must be recollected that the company’s days
are numbered. The fact that its concession expires in
1968 will become more and more the dominant factor
in Egyptian politics as that date draws nearer. Even
In 1909 w hen the company sought an extension to
-008 such a storm of protest arose in Egypt that the
project had to be abandoned.
Meanwhile the rights of the Canal Company
cannot be invaded or diminished on any reasonable
pretext when it has faithfully observed all its obliga-
tions, and especially those which enjoin that the canal
shall be open in peace and war to the ships of all
nations, so long as they pay the dues. Italy has no
shadow of grievance on that head: her transports and
store ships passed without let or hindrance through
the canal when sanctions were in full force against her.
She may say that the canal is as much the “life
line” of her empire as it is that of the British Empire.
That is not to be denied. It is also a French “life
line,” and a Dutch. But there is not the slightest
danger of its being cut through the agency of the com-
pany or of Egypt. Everyone knows, moreover, that
however wide open the gates, the safety of the passage
depends on what may be encountered at the entrance
and at the exit. Both of these are independent of the
Canal Company and of Egypt.
With U.S.A.’s “Wets” and “Drys.”
(Condensed from an article by Manchester “Guardian”
New York correspondent.)
To-day, a little more than five years since the Pro-
hibition Amendment was removed from the United
States Constitution, there is still the wildest disparity,
as to regulation, between one State and another.
Four of them—Kansas, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and
Mississippi—make every intoxicating beverage illegal.
In all four there is a great deal of illicit drinking in
“speakeasies,” and the bootlegger flourishes. Several
other States, including Pennsylvania, permit the sale
of bottled spirits only in retail shops owned and
operated by the State itself. In 15 States one may buy
in restaurants and public houses wine or beer, but not
distilled spirits.
Only the most fanatical Prohibitionist would deny
that in a majority of the States the worst evils of
Prohibition—gangsterism and corruption of public
officials—have been much abated. In these States
children no longer grow up seeing their parents deliber-
ately violating the law and dealing with transgressors.
The number of persons arrested for breaking Federal
laws on this subject has dropped from 75,000 annually,
towards the close of the Prohibition era, to 25,000.
I he number of illicit distilling establishments destroyed
last year was 11,400, less than one-half as many as in
a typical year during Prohibition.
If this figure still seems startlingly large it must
be remembered that not only the Kentucky moun-
taineers but many other Americans have always
objected to paving a high tax on liquor and have made
their own secretly whenever they could. Most of the
stills seized by the authorities are small, family enter-
prises.
The deathrate from alcoholism has dropped by
almost one-half since Prohibition ended. This does
not, however, indicate temperance so much as the
absence of poisonous products, like wood alcohol.
If one asks what became of the thousands of
bootleggers when Prohibition ended, the answer is
that most of them turned respectable and continued
in the business. Probably a majority of the important
men in the manufacture and sale of liquor to-day are
in this category. On the whole they obey the law ;
they do not wish, if they can help it, to bring down
upon themselves another Prohibition era.
A subject hotly disputed is the amount of drink-
ing among young people. Prohibitionists insist it is as
large as, or larger than, before. Nearly everyone else,
however, disagrees. Hotelkeepers, particularly in
college towns, say that it is no longer “smart” to get
roaring drunk and smash all the furniture at a college
dance or dinner.
Another subject much disputed is the relation
between drinking and motor-car accidents. There is no
doubt that in many cases drivers in accidents have
been drinking. This is even more true of pedestrians
who get hurt along the highway. The missing bit of
information is the number of drivers who have been
drinking without getting into accidents. Such investi-
gation as has been made indicates that if you stop a
thousand motor-cars at random perhaps 35 or 40 per
cent, of the drivers will have had one or more drinks
during the preceding two hours.
There is no doubt that the quality of the liquor
consumed has much improved. Government tax
revenue is now more than £200,000,000 annually. Even
public officials admit, however, that vast quantities of
intoxicating beverages are consumed that have paid no
tax. Some estimates say that this may be true of 50
per cent, of the total. If such were the case it might
explain the mystery of the statistics which show that
Americans drink only one-half as much as they did in
1916. The answer, presumably, is that they are drink-
ing as much as ever but are paying tax on only one-
half of it.
Anti-Semitism in France.
ITbough cables copiously reported “French Foreign
Office spokesman” and such authorities as Madame
Tabouis on Munich, as well as recording the murder of
the German diplomat in Paris and its aftermath, they
somehow overlooked the significant matter touched on
by D. R. Gillie in this extract from a “Nineteenth
Century” article.]
A noticeable feature in the press after Munich
was a campaign against aliens, more especially against
political and Jewish emigres from Germany. If France
was to be excluded from Central Europe, then at least
she should not find strangers roaming about her own
garden. The population of France includes nearly
3,000,000 foreign immigrants and 800,000 citizens of
foreign origin naturalised since the war, not to men-
tion a very large number already naturalised before
the war. In other words, at least one-tenth of the
population of France is of more or less recent foreign
origin.
Already before the Munich Agreement was reached
the opponents of M. Bonnet’s policy were accused
of trying to provoke a war to serve Jewish interests.
After Munich it was evident that popular xenophobia
and anti-Semitism were rising. The spectacle of immi-
grant laborers remaining behind in the villages when
the Frenchmen were called up naturally stimulated
these emotions, which were not softened by the
number of foreigners, especially of German refugees,
who volunteered for military service, because their
names were only known to the recruiting offices.
As usual, it was the offensive and arrogant
foreigner who attracted all the attention. These feel-
ings even find expression in the leader columns of such
a paper as the “Temps”:
It is contrary to the most elementary prudence to
tolerate the presence on our territory of millions of
foreigners capable of forming, in the long run,
veritable national minorities in a country which, like
ours, has a deficient birthrate. One can also say, with-
out falling into racialism, which the French mind
reproves and condemns, that the presence of all these
foreigners amongst us threatens, by inevitable inter-
breeding, the balance of national characteristics to which
we owe our originality as a people and our unity as a
nation It is absolutely necessary and urgent that no
foreigner should be allowed to settle permanently or for
a long period within our frontier who does not satisfy
very severe conditions, especially with regard to political
neutrality and the possession of means of existence, so
that he will not constitute a threat to Frenchmen as a
rival in commerce or on the labor market.
The “Temps” leader of November 9, after the
17-year-old Jew Grynsban had shot the unfortunate
German diplomat Vom Rath, demanded that the door
of France should be slammed in the face of all poli-
tical refugees. In view of this attitude of the “Temps,”
it is not surprising that the scurrilous “Gringoire”
(claiming the largest circulation among popular week-
lies) should show on its front page a caricature of a
hideous, sell-satisfied young Jew holding a smoking
revolver and looking at a bleeding corpse. The
“Sturmer” could not have done better.
The Soviet’s Licensed Workers.
(Condensed from an article by London “Daily Mail's"
Rina correspondent.)
Heralded as the most important decree of the
year, the Moscow Council of People’s Commissars has
announced that during the first half of January more
than 20,000,000 new registration cards will be dis-
tributed to workers in Russia.
Unless a worker holds such a card he will be
unable to obtain employment.
ihe cards, which must be stamped by the local
administration or industrial undertaking, contain the
holder’s wages, various positions held, and state
whether his work has been satisfactory or not. A fine
ol more than £2 10s. may be imposed if the card is
lost, and people losing their employment on the
grounds ol sabotage, drunkenness, or absence from
work lace the danger of being unable to obtain other
employment.
The Soviet Press explains that the decree aims
first at improving production in many industries, 20
per cent, of whose output is unfit for sale or use.
The second aim is to lower the enormous labor
turnover in all industries and to halt the constant
migration of workers around the country seeking
better jobs. A third aim is to enable employers better
to control their workers and, by threats to make un-
favorable entries upon their cards, improve discipline
and combat sabotage.
By Air to Australia.
(Extiact from an article by Lord Lothian in London
“Observer.”)
Before starting I had no idea how easy it would
be to travel from London to Sydney in ten days, and
then back, by the wonderful Imperial Airways flying-
boats.
Leaving Southampton early in the morning we
stopped at Marseilles and Rome and spent an
enchanted evening on the Acropolis in Athens. We
had looked in on four of the great civilisations of
ancient and modern Europe, Greece, Rome, France
and England, in about 12 hours. Next day we passed
over lands covered with the remains of civilisations
now long dead, Crete, Egypt, the Palestine of David
and Solomon (landing on that pearl among waters
the Sea of Galilee), the empires of the Assyrians, the
Medes and the Babylonians before passing over the
Ur of Abraham to land at Basra for the night. On
again in the morning to see how oil and flight are
transforming the nomadic Arab coasts on one side
of the Persian Gulf and Persia on the other.
Next day, leaving Karachi at dawn, we pass out
ol the Islamic world and fly for a whole day past
Delhi, Agra, Benares, Allahabad (the Prayag of
Buddhist days), the capitals not only of emperors and
kings but of some of the most ancient and enduring
of religions, to Calcutta, now the second city of the
Empire. On again in the early morning to land in
Burma at Rangoon, in Siam at Bangkok, and so to
the rubber plantations near Penang, and to the magni-
ficent aerodrome at Singapore, close by the new naval
and air base. And finally, after touching at Sumatra,
Java, Bali and other well-governed Dutch islands, we
reach Australia—where animals were marsupial and
man was still living in the Stone Age, before Captain
Cook laid the foundation of what has become, per-
haps, the most mechanistic civilisation in the world.
Thus, apart from China and Japan, which derived
much of their ancient civilisation from Buddhist India,
the modern aeroplane shows us the panorama of his-
story, from Stone Age to skyscraper, in less than ten
days. And the first moral of the trip derives from
the debris of cities and irrigation works and temples,
once thronged with gay and vigorous peoples, now
lying empty and dead.
Is our modern civilisation to follow shortly the
way of the rest, as Spengler proclaims? Or is a new
world order in painful gestation? I take the latter
view, for one vital thing separates this age from its
predecessors. At bottom, civilisation is education —
education in the mass of knowledge and custom
handed down from the past and continuously trans-
formed by the initiative of the present. But for the
first time that knowledge is indestructible. It is no
longer the privileged secret of a transient caste.
Modern invention has made all literature and history
and the whole range of natural science and mechanics
the property of all nations. Modern knowledge will
remain available until it is surpassed by something
better.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Caesar established himself as a good
two-year-old in the season that brought
out Ajax, Hua and Avenger. Something
went wrong with his breathing apparatus,
and his subsequent performances were
disappointing to Colin Stephen, the
A.J.C. chairman, who bred him, treat-
ment proving ineffective. Dying, Mr.
Stephen left the horse to two daughters,
Miss Stephen and Mrs. Rutledge. Caesar
has since been tubed, and, racing in the
ladies’ colors at Victoria Park on
Wednesday, he ran an excellent second
in a division of the Flying Handicap.
The winner was Dungala, an elderly
gelding by imported Galadeer, who ran
in a few races at Randwick without
distinguishing himself. Rummage was
third. Dungala went out at 25 to 1, and
racecourse bookmakers grinned, but the
s.p. brotherhood was not so fortunate.
Early Bird was an even-money
favorite for Dungala’s race (Caesar was
at 5 to 2, and Publicity was also backed
at sixes). Early Bird’s position was a
surprise, for she had been donkey-licked
in a gallop by Lord Bine the previous
morning, and she had a bad barrier
position. She led for a time with Pub-
licity (he finished fourth), and looked
like getting a place until she was crowded
by Dungala, coming with a victorious
run on the outside. The stewards held
an inquiry into her running—the first
time this has happened in the case of a
favorite for the Adrian Knox Stakes
with that race only a few days off and
“accepted the explanations tendered.”
Desolation was a starter in the second
division of the Flying Handicap, and was
backed at fives. Ninth into the straight,
he finished fast in third place, but never
looked like catching Creditor (9 to 2).
As a young three-year-old, Creditor, who
is by John Buchan-Financial, did very
well in Brisbane, when Desolation was
winning there over longer distances.
Brought back to Sydney, Creditor lost
condition and was rested. The spell has
obviously done him good.
Chicola, who had finished a close third
to Anpapejo and River Namoi at Canter-
bury Park on the Saturday, returned
W. S. King and friends their losses, with
substantial interest, by winning the Vic-
toria Park Welter, at fours, from Edible
and Troy. Silenus, the favorite, ran
eleventh in a field of 21. That perhaps
explains his failure, for the black is a
"big horse and needs plenty of room.
He * * *
Sydney horses were right out of it when
Challenge Stakes numbers went up
at Randwick on Saturday. The winner,
Bradford, is trained at Newcastle ; the
runner-up, Lord Bine, comes from
Queensland, and Mudgee (N.S.W.) claims
the third horse, Grand Boy.
O’Sullivan had been engaged for Brad-
ford again. He was fortunate in drawing
No. 2 position ; Lord Bine had No. 15.
Had the latter been able to get across to
the rails earlier he may have scored. As
it was, he took charge at the top of the
straight when Royal Prince, Eastern
Maid and Brazandt had raced themselves
to a standstill, and shot away with a
good lead. It was a clever move on the
part of Darby Munro, but Bradford’s
rider didn’t let him get away too far. He
drew the whip, and, though Lord Bine
responded gallantly, Bradford’s advan-
tage of 61b. and the last run enabled him
to struggle on to victory. Neck; three-
quarters of a length; time, lmin. llsec.
—very good. O’Sullivan rode Silver
Rose when she won the Challenge in
1937.
Hopelessly placed at the half-mile,
Ccesar did very well to finish fourth. Next
to him was Gold Rod, whose perform-
ance pleased the owner and trainer so
much that he may be sent to Melbourne.
The big chestnut was in the centre of
the field for half a mile ; in the straight
he ran on strongly. Brazandt’s owner was
confident that he would be prominent all
the way, but the horse finished weakly.
He had No. 14 position and could never
get across to the rails.
This Page gave Mildura for the Bondi
Handicap and Braidwood Boy for the
January Handicap. Tens could be got
Mildura, and sixes Braidwood Boy, so
10s. “all up” would have brought in £3B
clear. Tote divs. for ss. were £2 9s. and
£1 15s. 9d.; closing quotes in the ring
were eights and fives. Mildura is a
Manfred-Miss Meadowes colt owned by
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt.
Trimmer (12 to 1) had a big lead in the
straight, but Mildura put in a Manfred-
like finish and beat him by “a long head”
(it looked more), with Astounding a poor
third. Loombah, the favorite, looked light
and may have trained off. He wound up
eighth, and never looked like getting a
place.
Braidwood Boy was always travelling
like a winner in his race. He hit the front
at the Leger, overhauling Unafraid, who
had cleared out at the home turn. Bringa
flashed through from a rear position to
beat Red Sails for the minor placing.
Tapestry was fifth and is not done with
yet.
Though quoted at 20 to 1 Gilt Veil
outpaced, indeed outclassed, her 13 oppo-
nents in the Widden Handicap. She was
soon in front, and there she stayed, run-
ning the five furlongs in Athboy
and Anne were second and third respec-
tively. Penthides, a hot favorite, missed
the jump and was always in trouble. The
crowd sportingly cheered a victory which
profited few, and friends gathered round
the owner, for he is knight Samuel Hor-
dern, and his colors, well known in other
years, and always popular, hadn’t been
victorious since 1932. Gilt Veil is by
Veilmond-Gold Tinge, and cost 450
guineas as a yearling. She could be sold
for a great deal more.
Sydney businessman W. C. Douglass
had another success with Ripley, a winner
at Warwick Farm. Ripley, who is
Queensland-bred (“by Bonnemont or
Rivoli”-Lero), was a 5-to-2 favorite for
the First Novice. The Blizzard, also
Queensland-bred, was forced wide at the
home turn; but for that he would have
made a close finish still closer. How-
ever, Ripley came home like a real Rivoli.
Grafin tried to lead all the way, but
seven furlongs is as far as he can go, at
least at present; Carinya was third.
Feminist, sporting the colors of H. S.
Thompson, the breeder, was supposed to
be a racecourse certainty for the Pad-
dington Handicap, but, though she began
briskly and had the run of the race, she
was beaten at the Leger. From that
point Tartanus, well ridden by an appren-
tice, G. Cook, had things all his own way.
Allunga’s stablemate, Cherry Bar, was
second and Feminist third. Tartanus
started at fives. Bramol (fourth) was
anchored by his weight, lOst. lib.; Tar-
tanus carried Bst. 31b.
Showing out first from the start in
the six-furlong Kurnell Handicap on the
second day of the A.J.C. meeting at
Randwick, Trimmer led all the way to
win comfortably from Hamurah and
Royal Prince. The last-named trailed
the leader to inside the distance without
making any impression on him, and was
cut out of second money by the improv-
ing Hamurah’s fairly good finishing run.
Though he carried only 6st. 71b. —Hamu-
rah top weight with 9st. 21b.—-Trimmer,
a three-year-old gelding by Pentheus-
Little Mutt, is a further good advertise-
ment for his sire. This son of Pentheus
has now won a couple of races well at
Randwick and been beaten only a head
in another.
Raced into excellent trim in a couple
of outings—including the one at Vic-
toria Park that led to a stewards’ in-
quiry—Early Bird was able to demon-
strate her superiority at a mile in the
Adrian Knox Stakes. Bartle let the
daughter of The Buzzard-Early Girl
bowl along behind Bonheur de Pere,
Diamond Wedding and June till a couple
of furlongs from home. Asked for the
effort as they swung into the straight,
Early Bird cantered past the leaders and
won comfortably from Diamond Wed-
ding, who ran a generally good race
and hung on well at the finish, and
Talkalot, who came from a long way
back and must have needed the run.
Winning earlier in the day on
Trimmer, Darby Munro proved that he
is back to his best riding form by bring-
ing old Allunga along just in time to
make a dead-heat of it with Edible in the
Amversaay. Young Crusader, as usual,
tried to lead from start to finish, and
at one stage had a break of four lengths.
He had had enough with two furlongs to
go, and Red Sails, who had trailed the
leader to the turn, ran to the front into
the straight He was soon tackled by
Edible, who was a couple of lengths
clear at the distance and looked to have
it in his keeping, until Munro brought
the old horse along in a stirring finish,
something like both horse and horseman
at their best. Red Sails clung on for
third money.
Troy, owned by knight James Mur-
doch, raced on Saturday, and The Bard
was to have started on Monday. He was
withdrawn, and flags were at half-mast,
for James Murdoch had died that morn-
ing. Member of the A.J.C. for 30 years,
and a committeeman for upwards of 10
years, Murdoch, a fine old Scotsman,
had done the club great service, and
some good horses Vitality and
Koomeela among them —raced in his
colors. He founded the Sydney store
that bears his name, was a director of
other companies, and a breeder of fat
cattle. During the war he was a Red
Cross Commissioner; afterwards he be-
came an M.L.C. and a power in the
Citizens’ Reform Association. The Burn-
side Homes were another of his many
interests.
* * * *
The crowd at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day witnessed a sensational finish in the
two-year-old race. Cairnsmore (3 to 1,
favorite) had slipped up on the inside of
Vanitare as they rounded the turn.
Almost immediately he began to lug out
—“wouldn’t answer to the bit,” the
jockey, Ashley Reed, afterwards ex-
plained. Proof, a Metallurgy filly from
Claude Goodfellow’s stable, had chal-
lenged on the whip hand of Cairnsmore.
Carried over to the judge’s box, Proof
almost fell, while Cairnsmore’s jockey
was in danger of being precipitated into
a boxthorn hedge.
Despite the prank he played, Cairns-
more scored by a neck from Vanitare,
with Proof half a neck farther away.
Proof ought to have won by lengths.
Had she finished second the stewards
must have awarded her the race. They
held an inquiry and exonerated Reed.
Strange to say, Metallurgy, the sire of
Proof, figured in a somewhat similar
Valley happening some years ago. He
dead-heated with Wilkes, whose rider
protested. Connections of the third horse,
Pearlfisher, protested against both dead-
heaters and got the stake, Metallurgy
being placed third.
Experience of Proof is on a par with
that of W. R. Hall’s Oxide in the Caul-
field Cup of 1893. Tim Swiveller was
first past the post, but, on appeal to the
V.R.C. Sainfoin got the spoils. Oxide,
the chief sufferer in the opinion of many
spectators, was placed third.
Valley fields were unaccountably small.
Five competed in the Tweedside Hurdle,
seven in the £lOOO William Reid Stakes
and seven in the Caldermeade Handicap.
No doubt the fact of there being racing
at Williamstown two days later contri-
buted to this state of affairs.
Erua (5 to 4, favorite) outclassed his
jumping rivals, but Aurie s Star sadly
failed his 10-to-9 supporters in the Wil-
liam Reid Stakes. The Adelaide-owned
sprinter wrestled with El Golea for con-
trol as far as the home bend, where both
petered out.
Going round the leaders, Amiable (7
to 2) took charge a furlong from the
post, scoring by a neck from the fast-
finishing Kanuri, with Pamelus a close
third. The course record of lmin. llisec.
for six furlongs was equalled. Pamelus
came home so well that he will have to
be reckoned with in the big autumn
sprints.
Caldermeade Handicap was so far from
truly run that the 1| miles occupied 2min.
lOisec—time that the Cranmallan Trial
runners improved upon to the extent of
nearly 4sec. Prince Sion (7 to 2) inflicted
a head defeat on Jakin (5 to 2, favorite)
in the “Caldermeade.” Most noteworthy
feature was Rhodes Scholar’s fourth, fly-
ing home. This brother to Charles Fox
is due for an early win.
Montaza (11 to 8) and Pakeha (6 to 4)
were bowled over in the Warrook High-
weight and Cranmallan Trial respectively.
Each had every opportunity in running,
but neither gained a “situation.” Arn-
shire romped home at eights in the
Welter. Starting at 13 to 2, Frank Mus-
grave’s mare, Court Gossip, carried
Harold Badger to a game victory in the
Trial.
* * * *
Absolute bottom-weights in Kevastar
and Windlite having won the Laverton
Trial Hurdle and the Maiden Plate re-
spectively at Williamstown on Monday,
and Riviera, only one remove from the
absolute bottom of the list, having taken
the Foundation Handicap for youngsters,
it was only time the well-weighted can-
didates had a turn when the top-weight,
Donaster, wound up a nice run along the
rails to take the Australia Day Cup
(lm. 3f.). The lightly-weighted Bonuna
made most of the running, leading Buz-
along at a fast bat to the turn, where
Buzalong moved up and momentarily
looked like going on. Then the topweight
came with a grand run, to win nicely
from Buzalong, with Prince Sion a good
third.
* * * *
Ajax has been nominated for the New-
market, the Doncaster and the Sydney
Cup. He is not likely to run in any of
them, but handicappers are always glad
to head their lists with a horse whose
supremacy admits of no argument.
* * * *
Australians who attended the yearling
sales in Maoriland have returned with
good accounts of Defaulter, who is to
be seen in Sydney at Easter —he has
been nominated for the Sydney Cup.
Defaulter, a bay colt by Defoe-Expense,
owned by H. T. Greenwood, has carried
everything before him in his own country.
His two latest successes were gained in
open company—in the Christmas Handi-
cap at Auckland and in the Wellington
Cup. Carrying Bst. 111 b. in each race,
he ran the mile at Auckland in lmin.
37 2-ssec., and the mile and a half at
Wellington in 2min. and did not
seem to be extended on either occasion.
No three-year-old had previously won
the Wellington Cup with Bst. 111 b.,
though Winning Hit tried in his year;
the minimum weight, now 6st. 71b., was
then 7st. The Australians who were at
the sale don’t give Defaulter much of a
chance with Ajax at any distance up to a
mile and a half, but allow that he may
beat Nuffield.
* * * *
Cooranga figures among the entries for
the Australian Cup, the Autumn Cup at
Warwick Farm and the Sydney Cup. In
the spring she proved herself a good
mare, and at the finish of the Metro-
politan she was travelling faster than the
two in front of her, Royal Chief and
Buzalong. The Australian and Sydney
Cups are races in which mares have dis-
tinguished themselves, and if Cooranga
regains her spring form she will have to
be respected in whichever marathon she
is set for, provided the handicappers don’t
take too exalted an opinion of her merits.
* * * *
Perth Cup winners (and seconds), Dyed
Garments, Lilyvale, lan ’Or, Eurythmic,
Lilypond and The Dimmer, have won the
Sydney Cup. All going well, two more of
them in Maikai (1937) and Gay Balkan
(1938) will try on Easter Monday to equal
their performances. Maikai has been at
Randwick for a considerable time, but
Gay Balkan is just about to arrive at
Melbourne. Both horses are in the Aus-
tralian Cup as well.
o Continued on page 32.)
Harry Sunderland, the Queenslander,
who is now secretary of the Wigan club
that plays League Rugby football, wants
to bring a Wigan team to N.S.W. and
Queensland next winter, and offers to in-
clude Sullivan, the veteran full-back.
Sydney Rugby League opinion is un-
sympathetic. Its idea is that Wigan
wouldn’t “draw.” Still, matches with
Wigan would be a change from the drab-
ness of club football and tussles with
Queensland —now rarely exhilarating,
though they were exciting enough in the
days of Craig, Duncan Thompson, Gor-
man, Frauenfelder and Brown.
(“ Sporting Notions” continued on
page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Maiden Handicap: Politesse.
Trial Stakes: Politesse or
Astounding.
Flying Handicap: Might Not;
next, Grey Derby.
Rosehill Handicap: River Namoi
or Braidwood Boy; next, Chicola.
Carlingford Mile: River Namoi
or Tartanus; next, Troy.
FOR EPSOM.
Moorabbin Handicap: Man-
olive ; next, Young Idea or
Manetis.
J. L. Reilly Stakes: Beaustone ;
next, Royal Jubilee.
Frankston Welter: Spray ; next,
Manetis or Plymouth Hoe.


COST LESS TO OWN
because they last longer
crank faster,
don't let you down
Willard Storage Battery Company of Australia Pty. Limited,
Manchester Unity Building, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia


0/7.0?%
&/so
>7
& *l^
76
You’ve got to have
ACCURACY
in a tyre gauge
A “fairly s
accurate” tyre
gauge is useless
—it cannot give you
a perfectly balanced
car. The Kismet “Cadet
is guaranteed accurate.
Used regularly it ensures
your driving comfort', skid-
less motoring and less tyre wear.
Calibrated up to
501 b. in large, clear
figures. Handsomely
finished ~in leather
wallet
KISMET
'CADET TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic.
Tasmania
Jt- 7Aetto€u?^MrKcU
Utonde/UiuicL
UTMOST ENJOYMENT
AT LITTLE COST
Considering its many attractions', its bracing
climate, its excellent touring facilities Tas-
mania truly offers the utmost holiday advan-
tages at lowest expense.
The Tasmanian Govt. Tourist Dept., will
provide an itinerary to suit your holiday
period, whether short or lengthy. Call or
write now for booklets and sailing dates, etc.
Obtain details of
famous Colour Line
Tours at All-Inclusive
cost from your State
Capital and return.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST DEPT.,
Sydney .. 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
Melbourne.. The Block, 286 Collins St.
Adelaide 12 Pine St.
Brisbane 196 Adelaide St.
Perth .... A.M.P. Building, William St.
Hobart .. Macquarie and Murray Sts.
7uiugy
Under the Whip
Pakenham had a record “gate” for its
meeting last Wednesday. Within easy
reach of the city, this course is popular
with Melbourne turf followers. H. and
M. Bourke, who have raced many top-
notch jumpers, are moving spirits in the
local club. They own the racecourse
freehold.
Chief event on the card, the Paken-
ham Gold Bracelet, attracted eight
runners and induced spirited betting.
Gladiolious (Graculus-Mary’s March)
started favorite at 5 to 2, but was in
only half a point better demand than
Old Style, while there was good support
for every other runner with one ex-
ception.
Race resolved itself into a match be-
tween Gladiolious and Old Style from the
home bend. Apprentice Mornement
squeezed Gladiolious home by a head.
Winner is by Graculus (Magpie-Nancy
Sykes), who, without being mated with
mares of fashionable breeding, has done
well at the stud. When trained by Dick
Bradfield he ran second to Wynette in
the Adelaide Cup of 1924.
Fred Hoysted registered a first-start
victory with Hotch Potch (Salmagundi-
Princess Edna) in the Juvenile Handicap.
This gelding belongs to “W. J. Pelham”
and his brother C. F. Taylor, whose
colors were carried so creditably in the
V.A.T.C. Anniversary Handicap on
January 21 by Donaster.
Bred by Alan Cooper at his Scone
stud, Hotch Potch comes from the same
family as Kuvera. His dam won on the
Sydney pony courses. Hotch Potch
opened at evens, but eased to 9 to 4
when money came with a rush for Annie
Rooney and Conflagration. ’With Ashley
Reed up, he led throughout and scored
easily.
“Mortimer Alson” and E. A. Under-
wood have had no luck with Panto’s
brother Swettenham, but they landed the
first division of the Maiden Plate with
another Pantheon horse, Caucasian, who,
like Swettenham, is trained at Williams-
town by R. Sinclair.
After 6 to 4 had been accepted, Cau-
casian eased to fours, Cider Lass and
Spanish Patrol going out in better de-
mand. Cider Lass gave a poor display.
It does not say much for Caucasian that
the aged jumper Dulla Dulla ran him to
a neck, but the colt has plenty of time
to improve. His dam, Brunette, is by
Magpie out of a sister to Artilleryman.
Interesting also is the breeding of
Denis Girl, who romped home at threes
in the second division of the Maiden
Plate. Her sire, Denis Boy, won the
Caulfield Cup and V.R.C. Cantala
Stakes of 1931, and the A.J.C. Metrop.
a year later, while her dam, Gwilliam G.,
was successful in the Sydney Cup of
1930.
Harry Freedman had a winning turn
with Pretend (3 to 1, favorite) in the
Novice Handicap. The Gay Lothario
gelding never gave his rivals a look-in.
Comparative outsiders prevailed in the
Welter Handicap and Trial Handicap,
Equatis and Raget figuring at sevens and
sixes respectively.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Louis Keeps the Title
Apart from a professional pug or two
—even worse tipsters in their own line
than jockeys are in theirs —nobody in his
senses expected John Henry Lewis to be
able to give Joe Louis nearly a stone
and a anc * ta^e wor W title from
A 't New York Louis proved so much
the better man that the mill had to be
stopped in his favor on a technical k.o.
in the first roU nd, after John Henry
had he en down three times,
Jn f actj on i y f eature of interest
about it worth entering in the record
books was the significant one that it was
the first time two negroes had met for
the heavyweight title. Australia isn’t the
only part of the world where there’s a
present shortage of good white scrappers.
How poor the crop is here is loudly pro-
claimed by the current invasion of coons
and the bragging offers on behalf of
o ne or two of them to meet anything in
Australia—black, white or brindle —
of any weight, with £lOO thrown in to
say the local couldn’t go the distance.
When the world title has to be fought
for by two coons—one of them a cruiser-
weight—the standing of whites in the
ring looks worse than ever before.
According to a recent American
biographer of Louis, there was a time
when, with plenty of white Americans
“Snoozer ran second in the Welter at fifty to one. Beaten by a nose.”
“ What's that? Blimey, I had a dollar on him! Bead it again.”
available, the Brown Bomber considered
he had a good reason for not meeting
them. By this account, Louis, early in
his career, had knocked out two white
Americans in successive weeks in
Chicago, when he received a note from
the Ku-Klux-Klan assuring him that
he’d be strung up by the neck if he didn’t
take a hiding from the next white he was
matched against. Louis didn’t take the
advice. Instead, he knocked his man
with a right so fast that scarcely anybody
in the crowded stadium saw the punch.
The crowd, declaring it a frame-up,
turned decidedly unpleasant.
The row was so venomous that Louis’s
astute manager-trainer—a negro lawyer
named Roxborough, who guided Louis
up the world championship ladder —de-
cided that the K.K.K. letter must have
meant business. He shrewdly prescribed
that Joe should fight against only fellow-
coons or foreigners, and the prescription
was followed for some time before they
ventured to meet another white
American.
According to this same authority, the
racial element has figured strongly in
Louis’s career. He went in for boxing
in the first place as a result of seeing his
father knocked down by a white over-
seer at the Detroit works where fati er
and son toiled, the lure being that in
the ring—and nowhere else in Gahd s
Own Country-a negro can lift a hand to
strike a white without risking being
lynched. Thus he could have revenge
on the Detroit overseer by proxy.
The same racial feeling, according to
this scribe, is a background to all the
Brown Bomber’s fights against whites,
He declares that the negroes regard every
Louis victory over a white as a
vengeance taken for them all. By that
reckoning, Max Schmeling must have
had a terrific tide of feeling against him
the last time he met Louis—a huge dark
cloud of it arising out of Harlem and
elsewhere, and, for good measure, the
even then mounting anti-German ill-
wishes of American fellow-whites. In
Harlem on that occasion this recorder
declares that he found the chapels—one
in pretty well every street—crowded with
negroes, swaying and chanting psalms
to the hottest jazz and praying to “the
Lord” for a Louis victory: “After all
our bitter sufferings, let us have sweet
revenge.” Coming after all that, last
week’s coon-pasting-coon must have
seemed dead flat.
Though he beat Schmeling that time
as easily as he has beaten Lewis, Louis’s
general performance indicates that
Schmeling at his top must have been
fairly good. When Louis first met
Schmeling the Brown Bomber’s record
was 26 fights for 26 wins, 22 by k. 0.; and
his victims had included Baer. Yet, de-
spite an eye closed early in the fight,
Schmeling gave him a thorough
trouncing, flooring him in the twelfth
with a punch to the jaw that knocked
Louis out for five minutes.
Win for the Alabama Kid
Stacked up against Victorian middle-
wejgbt champ. Jack Wilson (list. 121 b.)
tbe A i a bama Kid (12st. lib.) performed
as convinci , at West Melbourne
•u-c* c a c ,
Stadtum as m h.s first Sydney fights.
In his first Sydney engagement he let
an opponent, who was produced as a
Victorian champion, hit him as hard as
may be on his cast-iron jaw. The op-
position looked astounded when his
punches had not the slightest effect on
the Kid, who thereupon went in and
finished it off before the first round was
up. Matched next against a Banana-
lander whose chief virtue was toughness,
the Kid took a round and a half to
finish it. Then he was put against
Richards, who gave him the father of a
hiding, though the Australian champion
broke his right hand on the job. Getting
next into the ring with Lesnevich on the
hottest night Sydney has ever known, the
Kid wouldn’t fight. He took an in-
glorious walloping and lett tor Mei-
bourne, muttering that he'd show em,
or words to that effect.
Wilson, too, hit him with everything
about the place, but soon became
overawed at the futility of it, and then
took the sort of trouncing the Kid can
undoubtedly hand out in such circum-
stances. The fight had to be stopped m
the twelfth to save Wilson from complete
obliteration. An idea of the toug ness
of the Kid can be had from the fact that
after the scrap Wilson had to receive
hospital treatment for injuries—to botn
hands!


ij
lil*§
m
***< >/ *to»
*v
>**
•***
**
«-o.
O/r
2^4)
**>
**}>
~J®
Here's good news for farmers,
storekeepers, ironworkers,
builders, plumbers and
tradesmen! A new 1939 edi-
tion of "Lysaght's Referee"—
the most popular reference
handbook in Australia is
out! Packed full of useful,
authentic information, tables,
distances, rates, etc. Write
to-day for your copy sent
free and post free—to the
nearest office of
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
T. 7
TRAVEL SERVICE
North, South, East or West, wherever the
traveller may wish to go, in Australia, he may
use the convenient and safe travel service
that a Commonwealth Savings Bank Account
offers. Not only does a Savings Account
provide the means for saving, in advance,
the money needed for the journey, but helps
to protect it en route.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open,
and enables the owner to make, in advance,
provision for withdrawing or depositing
money at any point within the Commonwealth.
Every Post Office is an agency of the
Commonwealth
Savings Bank
• • • of Australia • ♦ •
Ins and Outs
N.S.W. cricket has fallen on lean times.
Its Sheffield Shield team, now without
O Reilly, will go through the season with-
out a win. It batted first—and feebly—
in the match against Victoria in Sydney,
and was all out 120. Barry Scott, a 23-
year-old Melbourne Uni. fast bowler,
went through the side. He had the
absurdly-boomed Barnes caught for a
duck, and finished with seven for 33.
Scott had played in one previous Shield
game —three years ago when McCormick
was in South Africa. On Saturday none
of the batsmen could do anything with
him ; he got lift and pace without any
help from the wicket. By stumps the
Victorians were 56 in the lead with eight
wickets in hand. Gregory 65 n.o. and
Hassett 64 n.o. batted very nicely, and
people left the ground wondering why the
Australian selectors had given Barnes
preference over Gregory.
* * * *
Though their second try was creditable,
the South Africans failed by 13 runs to
reach England’s score (469, innings
closed) in the third Test. They made
353 (Mitchell 109, Rowan 67, Viljoen
61 ; Fames 3 for 80, Verity 3 for 71). It
put England one up for the series.
• * * •
“S.T.S.”: The Kensington district club
in Adelaide gets small satisfaction (ex-
cept for occasional good gates when both
are in the field) out of possessing the
State's best batsman and best bowler.
Bradman and Grimmett have naturally
been away a good deal, and the club
is, except for University, bottom of the
district list, just as the State owning Aus-
tralia's best bowler is at the bottom of
the Sheffield Shield list.
Racquet and Bawl
McGrath was one of the disappoint-
ments of the long-drawn-out tennis
tourney at Kooyong. Bromwich beat him
6-0, 6-3 in the Australian singles, and,
partnering Crawford in the doubles,
Mac was of little use to him against
Quist and Bromwich, who won 6-3, 6-1,
6-0. In the final Quist and Bromwich
were too strong for Long and Turnbull
(they had vanquished Hopman and
Schwartz in four sets), but the outsiders
were not disgraced ; Long, indeed, played
very well. It went to 6-4, 7-5, 6-2.
Mrs. Westacott, of Queensland, became
the Australian champion of her sex by
defeating Mrs. Hopman 6-1, 6-2. In a
manner of speaking, she drove the
smaller woman off the court. In the
semi-finals she had beaten Miss Harti-
gan, and Mrs. Hopman’s victim was Miss
Coyne ; neither married lady lost a set.
* * * IF
“Net”: I predict that it will be a long
time before the A.L.T.A. sends any more
tennis-girls abroad. At Kooyong two
members of the late unfortunate team
were beaten at an early stage of the
Australian singles championship. Miss
Wynne, whose game has gone back
instead of forward, won a set from
Miss Coates, a Gippsland girl, but
lost two others horribly; Miss Steven-
son’s conqueror was Miss Blick. The
truth is that 95 p.c. of the sporting
girls sent overseas learn nothing, and
drop out soon after they return. Ad-
ministrators know this well enough, but
very few have the courage to stand up
against flapper-press propaganda for the
young women.
Miscellaneous.
Two tries were needed to run off the
second heat of the Australian 18-footers’
championship on Sydney Harbor. The
first, on Thursday, was blown out by a
southerly; a couple of boats capsized
and the others had to run for shelter.
On Saturday the Queensland boat Victor,
which had won the first heat, won again
—and took the title. Only one of the
Sydney boats—The Mistake, third—got
to the finishing line. Lucas, who sailed
Victor, missed making a clean sweep of
the series by about six inches, Taree
(N.S.W.) doing him out of the third heat
by that narrow margin. Final points
were: Victor 637, Taree 382; Queens-
land 866, N.S.W. 624.
* * ■* •
“Jachris”: Nakama got through his
Queensland tour without losing weight or
going off his tucker. He made new
Queensland figures for all distances from
110 yards to 1500 metres, the 800 yards
excepted. His time for the 440, 4min.
51 l-ssec., was also an Australian record.
He has already pleased the Victorians,
as he pleased the Queenslanders, by
his displays in Melbourne. In the
Victorian mile championship he won by
100 yards in .State record time, 23min.
6.Bsec.
* * * *
“M-.rjja”; Undisturbed by war talk,
the N.S.W. swimming heads are inviting
the Japanese Arai and Amano and an
American girl, Kathleen Rawls, to visit
Sydney—and other capitals if they are
good— next January. Arai is ranked as
the best in the world over the 100 and
200 metres—he has clocked 58 4-ssec.
and 2min. 9 3-ssec. respectively—and
Amano’s distances are 400 metres and a
mile ; Biddulph may shade him. Miss
Rawls has a go at everything, diving,
breaststroke and backstroke included.
She claims world’s records for 400 metres
and 800 metres freestyle.
* * # *
The third motor-cycle speedway Test
at Sydney was England’s—3l to 23.
Better teamwork won the day. The Aus-
tralian captain, Wilkinson, once more
notched a “possible.”
of 1934 he was a sick man, but he stuck
to his desk until his doctor —a friend and
fellow-writer —intervened, saying that
his condition was past curing and that
if he remained in Sydney death would
come soon. Higginson chafed at the
idea of fretting his life away idly in a
distant hospital. He was reconciled to
the inevitable when told that it wouldn’t
hurt him to write.
His staff job was kept for him, and a
receiving set was installed at his bed-
side by his old companions. For upwards
of four years—indeed until the last fort-
night of his life—he earned his salary
by doing a fair week’s work for The
Bulletin. “Sporting Notions,” “Abo-
riginalities,” “Society” pars, and occa-
sional political articles and book reviews
HIGGINSON, of “The Bulletin.”
—he typed them all in his bed, which he
rarely left; he never left the hospital. He
stopped only when his brain had grown
too tired to construct sentences and his
fingers too feeble to press the keys.
Jack Higginson was that sort of man.
He was born and brought up on a
Queensland station, and station life he
always loved. He was a capital horseman
and shot, and so good a footballer that he
represented Queensland at Union Rugby.
He was a stickler for amateurism in sport,
and for professionalism were reserved
the sharpest strokes of a pen that could
be very cutting when he liked, though
his admirers—among them were all
those who worked with him on The Bul-
letin and, at earlier periods, Melbourne
“Punch,” “Fairplay” and Brisbane
“Truth” —thought his best work as a
paragraphist was done when he wrote
reminiscently, with apt descriptive and
humorous touches, out of a full life.
A well-set-up man of middle height,
with a military bearing, Higginson was a
veteran of two wars. In South Africa he
fought as a lieutenant, in Sinai and
Palestine as a major. In between he was
a magistrate, serving with Moncton for
a time, in New Guinea. He didn’t care
for Moncton, but he had an abiding
admiration for William MacGregor and
Hubert Murray, and for Harry Chauvel,
Brudenell White and Tom Glasgow.
Queensland and Queenslanders had no
stouter champion.
Subjoined is a specimen of Higginson’s
talent for light verse. Bluejackets and
marines from a British squadron had
marched along Sydney streets, and an
afternoon paper reporter had awarded
the marines “a more soldierly bearing
than their companions.”
“J.B.H.”
In the early ’nineties, J. B. (Jack)
Higginson began contributing verse and
pars, to The Bulletin. The association,
always happy on both sides, lasted until
Thursday night, when Higginson passed
away in a Springwood (N.S.W.) hospital.
He had been a member of the staff
since March, 1927. For the greater part
The Leading Seaman drank his beer in sullen
solitude;
The Silent Navy’s bandy-legged epitome he
stood.
With furrowed brow he scowled upon the
scene of revelry,
And there was menace in his port and fury in
his eye;
And ever and anon he cried: “It knocks me
rotten, yus,
T’ read th’ blinkin’ Lobsters marched more
soldier-like than Us.”
Upon his sad seclusion then 1 ventured to
intrude.
Cried 1: “Brave offspring of the sea and boy
of bulldog brood,
Don’t let the cramping claws of care your land-
ward joyance fetter:
If it’s a girl of Melbourne town, our Sydney
girls are better!”
Said he: “It ain’t a blinkin’ tart, but some
damn’ silly Gus
Wot says th’ blecdin’ Lobsters piarched more
soldier-like than Us.”
“Well, what of that?” I blithely cried. “The
world lies bright before;
The beer is brimming in the pot, the damsels
all adore;
Let rancor rip, my noble lad, for, mark you,
the Marine
Has played a gallant part with you in many
a bloody scene.”
Quoth he: “Th’ Devil doubt him, but he wants
a blanky nuss,
The bloke that wrote th’ Lobsters marched
more soldier-like than Us.”
Said I: “He meant it well, no doubt, but ways
of navy men
To him are not so open, p’rhaps, as ways of
ink and pen.
How could he know that saturnine, yet silent,
rivalry
Lies ever ’twixt the Matlows and the Regiment
of the Sea?”
Cried he: “If I could get ’im ’ere, I’d teach
th’ silly cuss
To say th’ blecdin’ Lobsters marched more
soldier-like than Us.”
And when at last I left him, a sullen, sloppy
tear
Rolled slowly down his bronzed beak and
splashed into his beer.
The day was sharp and crisp as fizz, and joy
was in the air,
But there, alone and all aloof, he sang in blank
despair;
“Oh strike him pink an’ green an’ blue an’
everything that’s wuss,
Th’ bloke who says th’ Lobsters marched more
soldier-like than Us.”


Ot-U'W.
yui
WMWWILM
SYDNEY
Twice Daih/ 230-6
12 New O-o-sea Acts.
“BIG FUN SHOW OF 1939.
The Talk of Town.
In the Flesh,
THE VOICE OF SNOW WHITE
(Adriana Caselotti).
O’DONNELL & BLAIR,
the Crazy Builders: and New Stars.
CANBERRA EISTEDDFOD
Ist to 6th May, 1939.
Choral, Vocal, Instrumental,
Dramatic, Literary and Elocutionary
Sections (5 7).
Entries Close 31st March.
Syllabus obtainable from Box 18, G.P.0.«
Canberra.
H. G. DOWNING, Hon. Secretary.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Women”
_ _ , _ ,
Opening at Sydney Royal on Saturday
night to a crowded house which enjoyed
it enormously, this witty modern comedy
W / I^ n a womai ? anc ! actec \ by a cast
ol 40, all women, is chiefly about men.
Served up in the abstract, with a vinegar-
and-paprika garnishing of obstetric re-
suits and adulterous conduct, men so
dominate the dialogue, and are so clearly
realised thereby, that it’s surprising they
don’t walk on when the final curtains
are being taken.
Noticed among those present was a
police officer who officiates at Sydney
ringsides, where the job is to say when
pugs have had enough or grapplers are
overdoing it. The show has had acres
of free publicity playing up the idea that
it contains lines too tough for Sydney’s
sensitive stomach, and it has been re-
ported in the press that some of the
first-night lines had been ordered out
but had been left in by accident, though
they were considered all right in licen-
tious Melbourne. Further, that a police
report had gone in to Mr. Stevens on
the first-night performance. By any
means Sydney must be kept pure.
The truth of the matter is that the
play is not pornographic but highly
The Women at Theatre Royal, Sydney.
astringent. It is frank enough, but the ones
it should most infuriate are the feminists,
unless they have enough sense of humor
to allow that its wit condones its theme,
or unless the values accepted by the
author are accepted by women generally,
including feminists in the state of being
what one of the play’s characters calls
“frozen assets.”
The theme is this. When familiarity
or any other cause has worn the bloom
off matrimonial bliss women can escape
from themselves without necessarily
doing violence to the seventh command-
ment. They have a satisfying alternative
in their obsession with clothes and head-
gear ; and the playwright seems to hold
that this ought to be enough for them,
A visit to the dressmaker or milliner,
and the matrimonial situation might be
saved.
For the male there is no such alter-
native. A new hat or new clothes have
no such meaning for him as they have
for women. There is only one choice
—and, in this author’s acceptance, the
male invariably takes it another
woman. Provided the matrimonial match
was in the first place brought about by
true natural attraction—formerly called
love—the wife, if she is to keep her man,
must put on the best face she can in
the circumstances, being satisfied to lose
him temporarily in order to have him
at the end.
But the male, it could surely be argued,
has his satisfying alternatives, too, and
commonly takes them. It could be said
that for every woman who is physically
and otherwise satisfied with a new hat
in lieu of the alternative, there would be
a man simila. r ly satisfied by immersing
his whole self in work or obliterating
it in pots . (Xhis thesis is not didactically
laid down, as the playwright lays down
hers, but is advanced purely as a counter,
anc j ma y 5 jf preferred, be accepted as
ironical)
. ,
At events, whatever may be made
°f the logic or the morality of her thesis,
the playwright has something to say, and
she says it, first with a crude force, then
a brittle cleverness, subtly changing, as
the play runs along, to quite surprising
gentleness. Her attitude must be re-
garded from the feminist—though not
necessarily from the feminine—point of
v *f w as defeatist. It is not a new theory,
of course, that men are by nature
innately polygamist, but it is feminist
defeatism when a woman tells women,
or says on behalf of women, that each
woman must accept this, condone the
inevitable adulterous conduct of her
better half, and concentrate only on still
having him beside her at the end.
To achieve that much she will have-
in this author’s view nothing more
dangerous to contend with than the
ruthless destructive malice of her sex.
This will not be a matter of her pos-
sessing such a beau-ideal that the rest
will want to have him. They will be out
to destroy her, if they can, purely out
of malicious enjoyment of destruction,
This process provides the narrative of
the play. The man in the case has—off-
stage—fallen for the inevitable blonde
cutie. A woman acquaintance of the
wife learns of the affair from her mani-
curist, and the fun is started,
The surprised shock of the wife—a
perhaps somewhat incredibly trustful
wife—is soon fanned by malicious little
breaths into open resentment. Enter her
mother, to tender the playwright’s thesis
in the shape of maternal advice. She
herself . . . yes, your father, my dear
. . , there is nothing you can do about
it . . . pretend you know nothing . . .
don’t, whatever you do, let your women
friends know, or their malice will tear
the two of you apart . . . give him time,
and he’ll get tired of her . . . the chil-
dren will pull him back, if nothing else
... after all, I had your father at the
end . . . no, nothing else matters, my
dear child.
Malice, however, looks like winning,
It plays on her mental state and gets
her into intolerable situations. In the
long run, it is the wife burning her boats
and heading for Reno. The divorce is
proceeding; he is behaving very well
about it. The play has by now been
going on for two acts in nine scenes,
and the playwright is forced by the limits
of time to hurry over the solution to
her framework problem. Among a
bunch of prospective and accomplished
divorcees the wife learns to appreciate
her ma’s wise words. She sees the
symbolic meaning in the coloring with
which women have taken to dying their
fingernails: it is jungle-red. She accepts
it as an emblem for herself. What her
husband has done is of no account; the
only thing that matters is not to lose
him, but to get him back and hold him
by every resource of the jungle laws in
which she has been initiated. By these
means she succeeds, and the play’s state-
ment is hastily rounded off.
Save for the rush at the end, the play
is very clever craftsmanship. It opens
w,th a bunch of the women, one of
them a prospective mother, expanding
bridge-bidding into a general discourse
on the discomforts and other aspects of
pregnancy. Having thus somewhat
rudely shocked the audience awake, the
author sets herself for a continuous
brittle display ol feminine wit at its
keenest and most cutting, with enough
feminine humor worked in to raise the
prevailing chuckle-and-giggle into fairly
frequent bellow-and-guffaw. The 12
scenes are neat and effective cameos
of strictly feminine settings women
playing bridge, women having beauty
treatments, women in the bathroom (one
of them most chastely clad in soap
foam), women in various stages of
maternity, women at their slimming
exercises, women in bed, and, to wind
it all up—a malicious touch, if you like
—women in a women’s public retiring
room. And all the time women talking,
Great Scott, how they yabber!
Acting is tiptop. Irene Purcell gives a
stunning performance as the wife, and
splendid character-acting can be credited
collectively to her fellow-Americans and
general competence to the cast
altogether.
“ Sweethearts”
Nelson Eddy, Jeanette MacDonald.
Witnessed at Sydney St. James, this
is a graceful composition in color, with a
story that has some touches of originality,
splendid singing by the principals, nice
acting by Frank Morgan, Mischa Auer
and others, bright dialogue, and such in-
cidentals as a mannequin display of
frocking—Jeanette the mannequin—
warranted to take any woman’s breath
away and leave the strongest man dead
broke.
They are still experimenting with
color in films —not to get it right; it is
now excellent —• but in surprising
audiences with more and more novel
effects. Some of these are more strik-
ing than successful. This film opens by
the audience with a night scene
of neon signs on Broadway. It is bizarre
modernist effect, not bad as a surprise,
but a bit scrawny.
Subsequently there are some patches
of almost physically striking coloration,
particularly an outbreak of yellow taxis
in sharp light. These, perhaps, serve
the good purpose of variety in the
general scheme, but they are severe while
they last. That, however, isn’t for very
long. Far the greater part of the
coloration is in near-pastel tints.
The two principals are leads in a
Broadway stage show of the same name
as the film. Also, they are husband and
wife. When the film opens the play has
been running for six years and looks set
for another six. The leads have also
been married for about that time and are
more strongly attracted by each other
than ever. Then there arrives from
Hollywood an agent bent on luring them
away from N’Yark to what he represents
as the idyllic quiet life of filmdom.
Much pleasant light comedy is infused
into the story in the shape of play-pro-
ducer Morgan’s worries over retaining his
stars and the assistance he receives to
that end from Auer and others. How the
agent eventually books ’em and how the
ingenious Mischa who in this incar-
nation is a playwright— gets ’em back
makes the rest of the story, Mischa suc-
ceeding by playing on the jealousy of the
wife.
Though a pure musicomedy tale and
light as blown froth, its plot is a cut
above most of its kind—good enough to
claim at least a little of the interest more
firmly held by the singing, the pretty
stage settings and exquisite frocking.
Stage scenes are beautifully produced
ai ?s*. P rese * lte d- The influence of “Snow
lte an , 1 , e e .T ei ? wa l^ s . ?, n
son on the average bush vensi J fier> T e he
arrang i ng 0 f quite a number of them
m i g ht have been done by Disney, and so
m i g ht the coloring,
Among the players the coloring does
f ar better by the ladies than by the gents,
Nelson Eddy, husky hero in past appear-
ances, looks fat and pasty about the
jowls. Mischa looks even more sickly
than usual, and what the color does to
Morgan’s hair is a warning to all men
to go bald as rapidly as possible. The
res t 0 f the male team look to be in
advanced stages of pernicious amemia.
But the ladies are lovely. Jeanette
MacDonald has the glorious brand of red
hair that often goes with names like hers,
It is living beauty in this color film. She
comes through the coloration process
a dmirably altogether. The make-up the
i a dies affect lends itself very well to the
purpose of color photography, which may
be all that’s needed to account for the
comparatively poor showing of the gents.
They’ll have to revert to ancestral pre-
cedent and start daubing themselves too.
A leading soprano being able to appear
successfully as a mannequin indicates a
definite aesthetic achievement to the credit
of filmdom. Gone—thank heaven—the
soprano like a cask of tallow. The
present crop are pretty well all good-
looking, as well as being slim enough to
appear presentable even in male-slacks
rigouts. Jeanette looks as well in such
rigs as in the great range of lovely frocks
she wears.
Being a singing show the film’s
attractions from the male point of view
may be said to include a particularly
effective close-up view of Jeanette’s
tonsils.
“Sinners in Paradise
John Boles, Bruce Cabot.
In keeping with the general improve-
ment shown in films let loose last week,
Sydney Capitol weighs in with this
entertaining yarn of island castaways.
The tragic losses of American flying-
boats in the Pacific have furnished the
film with a splendid opening, and the
reproduction of one such catastrophe
has been accomplished with telling
realism. The characters of the film are
introduced briefly and effectively as they
register their passports and board the
’plane. Half-way to China they en-


f
y
LETS all
ENJOY LIFE!
all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! Nogrouch-^
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets wijh the best!
Paint the old town red
a bad Jdead or a touch of indigestion
/V
gyi
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
V Get ’em at any
/ pharmacy in 2'- or
4'6 bottles.
Yeaston
tablets
WHQQ
PAYS •
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE «n°
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
IVingello Mouse, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
counter a storm, and scenes of the ’plane
fighting through heavy clouds and
driving rain are among the most vivid
of their kind—real or otherwise —yet
shown on the screen.
Conditions inside the ’plane are de-
picted with equal force. None of the
passengers stands out clearly; all are
huddled in the one helpless unit, im-
potent against the fury of the storm.
A steward, hitherto courteous and sub-
missive, suddenly emerges to tell a
Senator to get to blazes, and then both
merge back into the crush of screaming
people. In the control cabin a wireless
operator sorts himself out long enough
to shout good-humoredly “Rotten navi-
gation ; 1 could do better myself,” and
is drowned a minute later.
That part of the film could hardly be
bettered, the contrasting tranquillity of
the following morning when the sur-
vivors are sleeping quietly on the beach
of some out-of-the-way island adding
strength to the preceding scenes. There-
after the film subsides to a quiet but
crisp story of several persons of widely
different character, and their various
reactions to their hardships and to each
other while cooped up together. Already
a refugee on the island and with a
Chinese servant (admirably but anony-
mously played) is Mr. Boles, he having
committed murder i.n the interests of
justice. The survivors who join him in-
clude a self-opinionated Senator with a
couple of salesmen interested in an
armament deal, bewchus nurse, million-
dahlar heiress guilty of mistreating her
employees, gangster, lady of the same
standing, and the ’plane’s steward.
Mr. Boles, at first objecting vigorously
to the intrusion, finds his liking for
solitude rudely shattered by bewchus
nurse; Senator wants to enforce Con-
stitution on party, and heiress tries to
cling to uppah-stratah ideals and wash
dishes at the same time. Gangster and
lady develop into two very nice people,
and steward can’t understand why
heiress won’t enter into the spirit of
things. Through all that is threaded
some light humor and, occasionally,
sharp satire.
The film is a bit vague concerning
what ultimate effect the enforced con-
finement may have on this interesting
array of people when they return to
civilisation. It contents itself with neat
sketches of each individual trying to
adapt himself or herself to the new
environment. All players—Bruce Cabot,
Gene Lockhart, Marion Martin among
them—belong to the same f.a.q. plane
of acting, and therefore none is suffi-
ciently outstanding to infringe on the
other.
“Say It in French.”
Olympe Bradna, Ray Milland.
Sydney Prince Edward makes this
Paramount lightweight its contribution
to the current outbreak of comedy.
Peopled with such engaging persons as
Miss Bradna, Janet Beecher, Irene Her-
vey and Mr. Milland, it’s an unusually
well-mannered offering with nary a tiff
of any magnitude in the whole length
and breadth of it, despite its main line
being matrimonial entanglement.
The Bradna, as neat a mamsell as
ever came out of France, finds herself
the most wronged person in the film,
but smiles through all of it. Spliced to
Mr. Milland while he was chasing a
golfing championship all over Yurrup,
she returns with him to Gahd’s Own to
find that his parents have lost every
bean in a market crash. Not knowing
that their wandering boy is already
spliced, they beseech him to wed a
wealthy heiress, since the announcement
of such an engagement would be suf-
ficient to restore papa’s failing credit.
Right on the chin Miss Bradna takes
it, and comes up smiling for more. The
only commonsensical solution, as she can
see it, is to keep their matrimonial state
temporarily under the lap. That agreed,
she enlists in the Milland menage as
maid to his mother. Then heiress
appears and nearly solves the whole
pother. During Mr. Milland’s absence
she has bestowed her affections else-
where, but on one who finds no favor
in her parents’ eyes. A temporary en-
gagement to Mr. Milland would ease
her parents’ wrath and be right into her
hand.
But, just when everything is how it
should be, heiress discovers that it’s Mr.
Milland for her, after all, and announces
engagement and wedding date an’ all.
Meantime, Miss Bradna is still hiding
her light and wondering where every-
thing will end. Of course, it all works
out satisfactorily and in the happiest
manner imaginable. Family, without
hesitation, take Miss Bradna right to
their bosom, and even heiress bears not
the slightest ill-feeling.
Altogether a very finished and taking
production, with a bright line of comedy
from Irene Hervey as the heiress.
“Going Places”
Anita Louise, Dick Powell,
In this stretch of lightly amusing
nonsense at Sydney Mayfair, Mr. Powell
is admirably cast and doesn’t sing very
much.
Its humor is of the broad knock-
about type that depends more on story
and situation than on acting or comedic
ability. Which is just as well, since Mr.
Powell is neither actor nor comedian
ol any merit; he is one of those pretty
Hollywooden puppets who can say funny
things when they’re put into their
mouths and who can fit parts that are
made tor them and that move of their
own accord. Similarly Miss Louise can
smile, grimace or pout very prettily,
and get away with it if nothing else
is called for.
In their right element they can be
very entertaining in their light and airy
fashion, and here they are right at home
in roles which probably couldn’t be
fitted by better actors and which, any-
way, aren’t worthy of better actors.
Mr. Powell sells saddles, skis, stuffed
lions and zebras and other sporting
appurtenances over the counter of an
exclusive sports store —so exclusive that
patronage is practically nil. So Mr.
Powell is dispatched as a male man-
nequin to a fashionable steeplechasing
resort with orders to parade in all the
sporting finery he can take with him.
To attract attention to himself and his
clothes he must also pose as a well-known
Australian steeplechase rider who hap-
pens to be conveniently elsewhere at
the moment.
It follows naturally that Mr. Powell
doesn’t know one end of a horse from
the other, and still more naturally that,
to maintain his impersonation, he will
have to ride a particularly spirited animal
over a particularly difficult course. Just
as naturally the owner of the horse
will be Miss Louise, she will have fallen
for Mr. Powell, will then discover his
real identity, the outlook will be awfullay
gloomay for all concerned, and the
bacon will be saved at the last moment
and in the approved Hollywood fashion,
complete with clinch.
It’s been done so often that all the
filmsmiths have to do is put the wheels
on and let it go. The wheels in this case
are plenty of polish, sound directing and
all the amusing situations and wisecracks
that can be packed into the running-
time. The humor is slight, but there’s
enough for a willing audience to lose
a good deal of it in laughter.
Walter Catlett also in the piece. He,
at least, is a comedian on his own merits,
and a good one. As floorwalker in the
sporting establishment he is detailed to
act as Mr. Powell’s valet, and makes of
that role the best stretch of consistent
humor in the film. With him are veterans
Harold Huber and Allen Jenkins work-
ing hard to raise laughs as a couple of
horsy gents, always with a dead cert,
and always without a cracker.
Remaining attractions to suit various
tastes are a great bulk of blackness called
Louis Armstrong who conducts a still
blacker band, and nearly bursts with
enthusiasm for his task, and a horse
with the wonderful name of Jeepers
Creepers, curiously unmanageable until
given a dose of Doctor Armstrong’s
“swing.”
“King of the Underworld.”
Kay Francis, Humphrey Bogart, James
Stephenson.
Gangster fare, presented on its own
fictional plane and treated for just what
it’s worth and no more, this main item
at Sydney Cameo and Civic goes over
as pretty fair entertainment.
Of its several merits, that which
should endear it most to addicts of
bang-bang-bang is the absence of clumsy
moralising. The Hollywooden make-up
of superficialities, twopenny-hero-worship
and sensationalism cuts a rather comic
figure when it climbs into the pulpit,
rilmsmiths playing with the crime-does-
not-pay statement are apt to lose if
more often than not in their own pre-
dilection lor so-called happy endings or
lor sentimentalism and false tragedy.
In this offering Bogart is a gangster
only because the story demands it and
not for purpose of framing argument
against any social system. Similarly, he
meets the usual sticky end because that’s
part ol the yarn and not because it
would be a fitting climax to a sermon.
I he part of a gangster fits him perfectly.
Apart from physical attributes he has
histrionic qualifications that obviate any
need for spectacular holdups, moiders,
robberies and other montage commonly
used to assist players of less ability.
Here he plays a gangster with a
Napoleonic complex, and though his
emulation of the French general may
seem a trifle exaggerated at times it
furnishes a touch of humorous relief,
and is also an integral part of the yarn.
Other finely purveyed aspects to his
character, such as gratitude for services
rendered and recognition of ability,
cause him to offer a lucrative if risky
position to a medico who saved the life
ol one of his henchmen. Position
accepted, the sawbones docs his bit ex-
tricating lead from Bogart’s team until
the appointment is terminated during an
untimely stoush with the law.
Enter Miss Francis with an excellent
performance. For some time this lady
has been floundering in weepful, mean-
ingless roles which have given her little
opportunity to show her talent. Talent
she certainly has, together with carriage,
poise, and ability to wear simple clothes
well. With a solid part in a vigorous
story and good actors to play up to,
Miss Francis here proves that she can
give the young ’uns a long lead and
beat ’em hollow.
As wife of the deceased medico and
a doctor herself, Miss Francis finds it
necessary to clear her name of any
association with her husband’s shady
practice. Her modus operandi is to shift
camp to a village where a couple of
Bogart’s men are imprisoned and where
he will almost certainly attempt to rescue
them. Mr. Bogart, arriving in due course,
collars his confederates, and in so doing
receives a bullet in the arm, through
which rescue and accident he, Miss
Francis and Stephenson make each
other’s acquaintance.
The inclusion in the film of Stephen-
son, as penniless author of a book on
the downfall of Napoleon and appointed
official biographer to the gangster, at
first seems a makeshift artifice to provide
heart interest, for Miss Francis. As far
as the story goes that’s all it is, but
Stephenson soon justifies his appearance.
He is a fine cut of a man, and likeable
with it, a tiptop actor and possessed of
one of the most pleasant speaking voices
heard for some time.
Acting is good all the way, and the
film moves smartly to a finish which is
at least novel and provides a very tense
climax.
“Escape from Yesterday.”
Akim Tamir off.
A masterly stretch of acting from
Tamiroff lifts this Sydney Prince Edward
offering several notches above the usual
run of supporting films.
As a Russian, a cattle-dealer and a
crook Tamiroff has something he can
really get his teeth into. He is forceful
and ruthless, but living in careless mag-
nificence and prizing his freedom above
everything.
The narrative is built around his
meeting with his son for the first time
in 20 years. Their reactions to each
other, at first doubtful acceptance and
then gusty good-fellowship, are splen-
didly portrayed, with Leif Erikson as
the son almost equalling Tamiroff’s per-
formance.
At this point the story takes a con-
ventional turn when Tamiroff is arrested
and sent up for a stretch behind the bars.
It deteriorates still further when Erikson,
planning to rescue his father, joins a
cavalry regiment with quarters near the
prison. The resulting complication is
as familiar as they make ’em. Erikson,
who finds the army has its morals and
has to decide whether to live up to
them or rescue his parent, slips in the
latter chapters, and Frances Farmer
enters as an unnecessary and useless
adornment, but Tamiroff’s fine work,
with support from Lynne Overman,
saves the film.
"Sins of Children at Sydney Cameo
and Civic, deals with two wealthy
adolescents who spliced themselves
against their parents’ wishes. They elope
to the rigors of simple life, and the film
tries to justify their misbehavior. A
horror.
“Flight to Fame,” at Sydney Mayfair,
is the kind of mess in which Mr. Bull-
dog Drummond is usually involved. He
isn’t in it, but everything that goes with
him is—death rays, record-breaking
’planes, moiders, crashes and clinch.
“Little Miss Roughneck ,” at Sydney
Capitol, has Edith Fellows as the cheild
star who runs away for publicity pur-
poses and shelters in the sylvan home
ol Leo Carrillo, who is then accused of
kidnapping her. Miss Fellows’s portrayal
of a disagreeable cheild and her mother’s
constant high-pitched jabbering are too
convincing to be entertaining.
Bush fire Appeals .
A.B.C. Concert
An A.B.C. effort on behalf of bush-
fire victims was a popular concert in
Sydney Town Hall one night last week
at which several musical notabilities gave
their services free in the good cause.
I he A.B.C.’s Symphony Orchestra and
Military Band were both on hand ; so
were conductors Antal Dorati, of the
Russian Ballet Co., and Percy Code.
Dorati put the orchestra through
“Mcistersingcr” and “Lohengrin” Preludes
very tastefully. He likes his Wagner with
more spirit than body. A very efficient
male quartet sang ditties like “The Mill
Wheel” prettily. Soprano Jean H atton
discoursed “Lo, Here the Gentle Lark,”
and baritone Walter Kingsley warbled.
The proceedings began to assume some
sort of appropriateness to the cause that
benefited right at the end of the pro-
gramme. Mouth-organist Larry Adler,
who earlier in the evening had gone
through a whole classical concerto,
weighed in with “Smoke Gets in Your
Eyes,” followed by Ravel’s “Bolero,”
which so many people confuse with Dc
Falla’s “Fire Dance” that there must be
some link. Adler’s playing, as ever, was a
demonstration that to the musical genius
the character of the instrument, so long
as it will make notes, doesn’t matter
much.
The audience went away happy after
hearing orchestra and military band co-
operating vigorously in Tschaikowsky’s
“1812” overture, generally believed to
include a representation of the Great Fire
of Moscow.
Art and Art Union
In aid of Bushfire Relief an exhibition
of pictures and art union has been opened
at Melb. Athenaeum, artists of all per-
suasion having sent along canvases gratis.
The show includes a wide range of
oil paintings, water-colors, etchings, draw-
ings and sculpture, in all the multitudi-
nous styles prevailing in the art com-
munity. So there is no lack of variety
in the chances presented to ticket buyers.
Among artists contributing are Arthur
Streeton, A. Colquhoun, Max Meldrum,
P. Hurry, Harold Herbert, Hans Heysen,
Dora Wilson, Mrs. A. M. E. Bale and
modernists George Bell, Arnold Shore
and Isabel Tweddle.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Overseas visitors to'
LONDON ;
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL-
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare , London
or
HOTEL RUSSELLi
Russell Square, W.C.t ■<
These hotels have a high reputa- '
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/” P er day.
Inclusive terms from 21 /■ per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
The Bulletin, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Wentworth has been the home of
Lady Angela Dawnay and her husband,
Lieutenant-Commander Peter Dawnay,
R.N., and the baby, Charles John, during
their six days in Sydney. Lady Angela
is the youngest daughter of the late Duke
of Buccleuch, and therefore a sister of
the Duchess of Gloucester. She and
her husband have been in Maoriland for
over two years, and as she is keen on
fishing she has had plenty of opportunity
to indulge in this sport. Son Charles
was born in Enzed, and christened in the
naval base chapel in Auckland.
Only fair to let our big fish know that
Zane Grey is back in port.
There’s one place at least where virtue
isn’t necessarily triumphant, and that’s a
race meeting. There’s something ex-
hilarating to weaker brothers and sisters
who occasionally chip a fragment off the
Ten Commandments in the knowledge
that the State’s giants in church or com-
merce have no better chance of pulling off
a double than they have themselves. The
Anniversary meeting on Saturday fairly
bristled with buyers of doubles. This
Letter, meanly copying a knowledgeable
tweedy man, bought a five-bob one on
Hamurah and Red Sails. Mrs. Salenger
took a 140-to-l chance. Knight Harry
Budge was another customer.
Dressing even in the vice-regal booths
was unexciting. The brightest spot was
the shirred pale-lilac ribbon on Lady
Gowrie’s hat. Admiral Custance, the
Governor-General and Mayor Norman
Nock were sighted by the proletariat in
the march past the stands. Lord Stra-
bolgi, Dame Mary Hughes, Mrs. George
Baird, who has been a guest at Admiralty
House, Mrs. E. J. Watt and Mrs. Norman
Nock were also in the v.-r. aura. Around
the corners of the stands the wind blew
cold and bitter, and Mrs. Albert Stillwell
in her silver-fox toque and chunky cape
of the same animal was one of the well-
protected. Attractive bits of nonsense
were the plumy little hats and toques,
their fronds of burgundy and black, green
and blue waving in the breeze like the
antennae of a crop of carnival beetles.
The trigness of Barbara Knox’s grey
tweeds was noted. Philippa Stephen
faced the weather fluctuations also in
smart tailorings. Very simply dressed in
printed silks was Lady Angela Dawnay.
She was steered around Randwick by
Mrs. Alexis Albert.
Mrs. Joe Coen was there, keeping a
keen eye on Darby Munro ; Mrs. Roger
Forrest Hughes, Mrs. S. Parsons and
many other women again backed their
trust in Bonheur de Pere. But the great
moment had not arrived. Mrs. Salenger’s
black sheer coat with its clipped-in waist
and cape sleeves was notable. Daughter
Pat, too, was a bright addition to the
afternoon. The McKelvey lady, Mrs.
George Osborne, Claudia Beazley and
Mrs. Jacobsen in tones of mauve were
also celebrating the first steps of the
pioneers to the rhythm of horses’ hooves.
“Dull and dirty,” says the Girl in the
Flat Opposite of “The Women.” She
also says that it is to be hoped that be-
ginning wives will not be influenced by
the wisecracks about motherhood in
the play, otherwise we’ll have an in-
surrection of pram manufacturers on our
hands beside which the international
situation will look like a dud squib. This
Letter got one laugh in the three acts. It
was where the countess (speaking of her
husband) says “he comes home every
afternoon smelling of a strange perfume.”
One of the others then asks: “Where
does he say he’s been?” Countess:
“Visiting his horse.” One laugh in three
acts is not good dredging. The Royal
was crowded for the opening, and there
were some furs that were anything but
obscure. One ankle-length cape or coat
of ermine caused quite a stir. What an
influx, too, of tiger-lilies. Mrs. E. Wun-
derlich wore some beauties grown in her
own garden.
Gladys Moncrieff, her cape and frock
of pale violet, smiled from a box. She
received an ovation, and the box was
massed with flowers from admirers. Mrs.
Norman Macleod wore small red orchids
in her dark hair, and there was a deep-
red rose caught in the full skirt of her
tulle frock. Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones
sported a long and fitting ivory coat. The
Frank Alberts were there; so was Mrs.
Alexis Albert in a silvered frock. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly wore her geranium-red out-
fit. Mrs. F. Pfeiffer was sleek in black.
Mrs. A. E. Grace and Mrs. Farley, two
regular first-nighters, were together.
Blue chiffons and Mrs. C. V.
Walker kept company. The stage frock-
ing was the sleekest of plumage. Mrs.
Larry Adler wore her mulberry-toned
trousers with long gold tunic and a gold
turban.
Herewith Tasmania’s only woman
Government medical officer. She is Dr.
Fanny Klausen, and she has been
appointed under the Tasmanian State
Government’s free medical scheme for
outlying country districts. As an ex-
periment the Government has appointed
six resident and two relieving officers to
supply free medical attention to the
people of the back country. Dr. Fanny
was already in private practice at Sorrell,
so now in her charge are the Sorrell
area and part of Spring Bay, about 50
miles from end to end.
Dr. Klausen, who was born in Peter-
sham, is a graduate of Sydney University,
and had had a country practice in
N.S.W. (Sofala) and one in Tasmania
(St. Helen’s) before she went to England
in 1933. The attraction of the climate
drew her back to Tasmania, where she
was practising over a year before taking
over this man’s job. “Mirror” readers
all over Australia know the doctor
favorably from the “ Mirror” Cookery
Book, of which she was co-editor (hers
was the job of measuring the calories,
proteins and so on) with Rosalie Wilson.
Needlework and unleashing a light and
sweet soprano voice help to occupy her
leisure moments. Paramount photograph.
Off in the Mariposa goes Mrs. N. Alex-
ander on her eighteenth trip to America.
With her go her doctor husband and
Joan Alcorn, of Bellevue Hill. This is
Joan’s first journey to the U.S.A., and
is by way of a birthday present from her
loving family. In New York Dr. and
Mrs. Alexander expect to see something
of Warren Munsell, who is doing rewrite
work on some coming Broadway pro-
ductions. He has also written a play of
which the option has been snatched up.
He has met Bob Waldron, of “Flying
Doctor” creation. Bob’s brain shuttle
has also been weaving plays. Warren
sends greetings to all Sydney friends.
The Albert Stillwells (she was Nellie
Leach of the jewelled soprano) are in
Sydney for a month. This is Albert s
first visit to Australia, but Mrs. Still-
well’s girlhood home was in Neutral
Bay. They arrived in the Mariposa by
way of America, and would have been
here earlier but for the Crisis. The Still-
wells’ home is in London, and they have
a seaside cottage in Sussex. Their home
is a meeting place for Australians who
live in England and in America. Ex-
plorer Hubert Wilkins’s lady and the
Cummings sisters drop in whenever they
are in London. Madame de Beaupuis
and daughter Mrs. Marjorie Osborne
are among other constants.
Sydney will know the bright face of
the second Lady Poynter no more. S e
died last week after an illness that had
been on her some considerable time.
Hers was an interesting and friendly
personality; her small head with its
straight fringe was an extremely paint-
able "one. Art and books and music were
the sources of her delight. She was for
a considerable time an active worlcei
for the T.B. Soldiers and Sailors As-
sociation and for the Returned Sailors
and Soldiers’ Imperial League. With her
husband, Sir Hugh Poynter, and her
daughters Shirley and Jocelyn she re-
turned from a world tour just before
Christmas.
Popular newspaper-girl Violet Man-
ning, her ship not yet out of Australian
waters, is on her way to England, where
she and mother, world upheavals allow-
ing, intend to pitch their camp for a year
or more. Violet, for some time before
she left Sydney, had done sparkling pub-
licity for the Ice Palais and the newly-
opened Prince’s. Cootamundra is her
home town, and an uncle was member
for Bathurst for some time.
The Pioneers, men and women, toasted
Captain Phillip and “the day we cele-
brate” first at the Women Pioneers’ eyrie
above Market-street and then in the Men
Pioneers’ hang-out in Phillip-street. More
than a hundred sherry glasses were called
into use when Guy Blaxland called
“Charge glasses.” Kelso King could not
be there, but his lady came in jade
greens. President Mrs. Wentworth
Grayson was tall and slim in ground-
length powder-blue sheers. Her black
felt hat was large, and had a high triangle
of a crown wreathed at its base with soft
amethyst wings. Carlotta Doyle, so long
secretary, for love, of the society, looked
really party in her grey chiffons and
lace. Former president Mrs. Lingham
was smart in navy and white.
Mrs. J, H. Sheil and daughter Maisie
Merewether, not long back from their
travels, talked Hollywood with Lady
Willoughby Carey. The latter’s large
black hat wore green and pink plumes.
Bishop Pilcher introduced a dash of
purple. The Childs family were there.
Hilda’s frock was printed in shades of
lilac. Pretty and blonde Paula Dane, a
London visitor to Australia, came with
the Comtesse de Vilme-Hautmont. John
Henry, just back from Ireland, talked
of the green land which he hadn’t seen
for 45 years. Miss da Silva Waugh
talked war precautions and found a keen
listener in Mayor Norman Nock’s lady.
Nina Flood was there. There were His-
torical Society importants and Aubrey
Halloran.
Mrs. Wallace Lawrence, of Johannes-
burg (and throughout S. Africa that
name is synonymous with tennis), is pay-
ing a return visit to her native Sydney.
She and her husband arrived just before
Christmas, and she had her first glimpse
of the Harbor City in 37 years. She
went to Jo’burg as a bride, and left be-
hind her a Sydney that, compared with
the one of bristling ramparts now reared
against the sky, was a rambling, easy-
going town. The Jo’burg she waved
farewell to is a different city from the
one she first knew. At that time the
Boer War was just ended, and Jo’burg s
transport still depended a good deal on
the horse tram. Now its buildings and
public services turn it into a miniature
New York. Asked if she knew “Dadge ”
who made friends in this town in the
years back, and who had been one Ol
the cleverest S’African women jour-
nalists, she replied: “Everybody knew
Dadge. If not to speak to, by reputa-
tion.”
Mrs. Lawrence was the guest of honor
at the afternoon party given by Mrs.
David Knox in the Forum Club on Aus-
tralia’s birthday. It was also the hostess s
birthday, so there was an extra blooming
of gladioli and —reminder that autumn is
just around the corner—great clusters of
zinnias and dahlias. The drawing-room
of the Forum reverberated to a sort of
tinkling confetti of talk and laughter as
more than 80 women aired their opinions
on everything from winter hats to Anton
Dolin. A Quaker-grey felt with an up-
flaring brim, a tailored frock of grey
sheer in the same soft toning were worn
by the hostess. Her husband and daugh-
ter Anne are off to Norfolk Island.
Soaring, too, was the brim of the shiny
black straw worn by Mrs. Norman
Macleod.
At the afternoon welcome to the
Mervyn Archdalls given by the F. C. G.
Tremletts, of Bradley’s Head, no guest
had need to go thirsty. Tacked up
prominently was a sign: “This way to the
Filling Station.” Dr. Archdall and his
wife left behind them a snowy London
and New York, and arrived on Sydney’s
hottest day ever. It was nearly two
hours before they were clear of the
wharves, and found themselves sprinting
for what was standing behind the re-
frigerator door. Germany and France
were in their itinerary—Paris, like Lon-
don, rather sad during the crisis. Black
was Mrs. Archdall’s choice for the party.
The neckline of her frock had an un-
usual quilted effect, and the crown of
her sailor hat was banded in feathers
shading from pale to deep green.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
spread its farewell foods before H. G.
Wells the night before that intrepid
person took flight for England. H.G.,
who travelled Dutch, and was timed to
leave at five o’clock next morning, didn’t
spend many hours between the blankets
that night, for it was close to eleven
before he was allowed to call it a day.
There were more speeches at this din-
ner than at any other ink-flavored party
to H.G. which this Letter attended. Most
of them were of more than average
length, and varied from eight to twenty
minutes. Whether you agreed with the
provocative and not altogether logical
Mr. Wells or not he must be handed a
few bays for conciseness and clarity of
speech.
The Diabetic Society raked in a few
half-crowns for the novelist's autograph.
The society’s representative, H. Parker,
arrived with a bushel or so of the signa-
ture. President Bartlett Adamson made a
speech ; Jean Devanny also ; Flora Elder-
shaw and Xavier Herbert likewise. The
Arthur Crockers were at the top table.
Marjorie Quinn and Catherine Lindsay
saw that the guest and the table were
according to plan. T. S. Gurr, his wife,
daughter and son-in-law made a family
party ; Aubrey Halloran was there. Will
Lawson and Neville Cayley were noted;
so was Adam McCay.
Lady Morris-Jones passed through
Sydney last week on her way to Bris-
bane and, after that, Maoriland. Her
ship is the Oronsay, and as husband is
busy with his Welsh constituency (one
of the most extensive in Great Britain)
she has for company in her journey a
bright young secretary, Mary Lemitt.
On Lady Morris-Jones’s return she will
be a guest of Lord and Lady Wakehurst.
Among her many experiences our Eng-
lish visitor has had her hand kissed
on two occasions by Herr Hitler. While
the Oronsay was in Sydney Lady Morris-
Jones had a small lunch party aboard,
among her guests being the lovely Mrs.
Bernard Barr.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the present address of
GEORGE HERBERT GREER, who was
Bookkeeper on Glcngylc Station, kindly com-
municate with P. M. STEVENSON, Glcngylc
Station, Boulia, Queensland.
WOULD any person knowing the whereabouts
of ARNOLD VICTOR NOSK.E, alias De
Gorongosia, whose last known address was
Booleroo Centre, South Australia, kindly com-
municate with W. LIERSCpI or H. ZANKER,
Box 7, Laura, South Australia, executors of the
estate of the late C. F. Noske?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2323 of 1938.
BETWEEN EMMA LILLIAN BAKER Peti-
tioner
And STEPHEN MORRIS BAKER Re-
spondent.
TO STEPHEN MORRIS BAKER of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA
LILLIAN BAKER has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable -Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted the Petitioner and with-
out any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years and
upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the eighteenth day of
April One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of January, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2288 of 1938.
BETWEEN MARY KATHERINE MARTIN
Petitioner
And HAROLD BRIAN MARTIN Re-
spondent.
TO HAROLD BRIAN MARTIN formerly of
Toronto New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY.
KATHERINE MARTIN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifth day
of April next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL, Esq., solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
are given away free for a penny
read it you will never be without it. 0
Every month six to nine patterns
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chattar
Mrs. Barry Thomson and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell spent an energetic afternoon last
week rubbing glasses with lemon-juice,
dipping them in frosted pink sugar,
opening bottles and pouring drinks by
the hundred for the cocktail party at the
Princess Theatre which followed upon
the “Hollywood Hotel” matinee ithey
organised for the Bushfire Relief. All
the “stayers” among the audience couldn’t
fit into the “bar parlor,” but the overflow
in the lounge didn’t go thirsty, for several
helpers moved around filling glasses from
frosty bottles in exchange for tickets
nipped off one by one from everybody’s
“skipping rope” of a dozen or more.
Several of the “Hollywood Hotel” girls
were there, and Marty May, Wilma
Horner and Bobbie Morris put in an
appearance. Comedian Morris brought
a small daughter aged three, wearing a
red sailor suit, who became pals for life
with the Garnet Carrolls’ John, who is
six. Mrs. Chas. Wenman was there with
her daughters, Mrs. Dudley Barr, hatlcss
in a cool frock of burgundy sheer, and
Sunday, whose twinkling feet get her
plenty of jobs. She now has her name on
the programme at the Tivoli.
Among those present when the Lord
Mayor opened the Artists’ Exhibition
and Art Union for the Bushfire Relief
was Mrs. Lance Lewis, of Adelaide, who
accompanied her sister-in-law, Mrs.
Essington Lewis. Mrs. Lance Lewis has
herself made opening speeches at art
exhibitions, so she has an inside ap-
preciation of the difficulties they present.
Cr. Coles’s task on this occasion was
comparatively easy, for he had every ex-
cuse to skip technicalities and come
straight to the point of urging everybody
to buy in a good cause whilst ad-
vocating the attractive odds of winning
a picture which the committee hopes
won’t be shorter than twelve-and-a-half
to one. Its aim is £l5OO from £1 tickets
for 120 pictures and pieces of sculpture.
Everybody knows that artists are hav-
ing a bad time, and those who are mak-
ing a comfortable living are famous
rarities, but all respond immediately to
a call to assist those in greater distress
than themselves. Some thought they had
lost their homes and their last tubes of
paint in the fires while they sat under wet
blankets or waded into a creek, and
Adrian Lawlor’s fears in this respect
were realised. All of them had painted
in one or more of the devastated areas.
The exhibition is interesting; many
valuable pictures have been donated, and
there is no question of the “sweepings
of the studio.” The only exceptions
among all the originals are the prints
given by Streeton. Eighty-five pounds
came in on the first afternoon, and dona-
tions for catalogues in sealed money-
boxes will help the gross takings. There
are no expenses for the show, which was
all arranged within 10 days. The art
union will be drawn at the Athenaeum
gallery on February 11 at 11 a.m.
The Rev. Tucker believes in the value
of cartoons; he thinks that one over
every pulpit would equal half a dozen
sermons. As Superior'of the Brotherhood
of St. Lawrence, the padre spoke at Mrs.
Ernest Poolman’s at-home last week
about the work done by the movement
and the appeal which is to be launched
for it in March. Members of the
Brotherhood labor among slum people
and transfer whole families to their farm
at Carrum Downs. They belong to the
Church of England, but their good deeds
are non-sectarian.
Lady Huntingfield (who came down
from Macedon for the occasion), Mrs.
Poolman (who has been interested in
the work of the Brotherhood since one
day many years ago when she found
ihe Rev. Tucker, then a perfect stranger,
ringing her front-door bell and prepared
to tell her all about it) and Dr. Gerald
Weigall (who keeps an eye on the health
of missioners and missionees) were also
among the afternoon’s speakers. From
those present promises of help were
forthcoming; also various suggestions
and several orders for the Brotherhood’s
money-box houses, which may be placed
in a prominent position for visitors to
notice in every home. They are neat
little miniatures made by Mrs. Percy
Webster, and according to the Rev.
Tucker may be ordered “to match car-
pet, wallpaper or husband’s eyes.”
The socially inclined will miss polo out
of this year’s March race week, the
drought, with its aftermath of hard, dry
and grassless grounds, being responsible
for the omission. At Moonee Valley,
where the March games are played, all
water used is necessary to keep the grass
alive on the track, so there’s not a drop
to spare for the middle of the course.
The Creswick Cup would have been a
feature of the Moonee Valley programme.
It has been donated by Mrs. H. F. Cres-
wick in place of the Huntingfield Cup,
won outright last year by Caramut. The
only polo matches listed at present for
Victoria are friendly games (at which
everybody is sure to know everybody else)
on February 11, when Melbourne Hunt
visits Mansfield and Hexham receives
hospitality from Cavendish. As the polo
has been cancelled, so has the Polo Ball,
but the committee hopes it will takes
place later in the year.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Pat Spiers-Jackson, who is on a visit
from Adelaide to Melbourne with her
mother, Mrs. Louis McCubbin. Pat’s
lovely emerald engagement ring is well
suited to her auburn coloring. She and
her fianed Warren Bonython (a son of
the Lavington Bonython couple, of
Adelaide) are both young enough to
wonder how any engaged people man-
aged to exist, when separated, before
the inauguration of England-Australia
airmails three times a week. Warren
recently left for England to study for
a Diploma of Chemical Engineering at
London University. He’s an old boy of
St. Peter’s, and got his B.Sc. last year
in Adelaide. He hopes to be back in
Australia towards the end of 1940.
Entertainers, flesh-and-blood and cellu-
loid, are helping along the Bushfire Relief
with shows at several theatres. The Lady
Mayoress’s effort for her husband’s fund
will take place at His Majesty’s on Feb-
ruary 8, and promises to be lavish and
spectacular and very fashionable as to
audience. It will be a mixture easy to
assimilate, a sort of chocolate eclair of
light and color and dancing from “The
Angel” and “The Beanstalk,” with a
spoonful of old sherry from “The Waltz
Dream.” Tivoli artists have promised
to assist. A £5 ss. lucky-seat prize
donated by Mrs. Sidney Myer will make
some individual in the audience very glad
that he or she didn’t stay at home that
evening. On Sunday, February 5, the
Tivoli will run a Bushfire Relief show,
and last Sunday (Jan. 29) the Regent put
on a preview of “Four Daughters.”
Owing to the Sabbath laws, the disposing
of seats for Sunday-night entertainments
involves application, invitation and
donation.
Gratifying to Australian tennis-players
and to the V.L.T.A. were the crowds
which came to Kooyong last week, es-
pecially on the final days, for this year
lacked the attraction of overseas stars.
On Saturday women appeared in their
coolest frocks, and several of the girls
left their hats at home and wore instead
bows on the back of the hair to match
their frocks, their scarves or the rims of
their sun-glasses. In the perfection of all-
white was Mrs. A. E. Boyes (accompanied
by her son Geoff), whose white frock
and hat were a perfect complement to
her white hair, the turquoise rims to her
sun-glasses being her only concession to
color. Jenny Outhwaite was another
worthy propagandist for all-white with a
turned-up Tonkinese hat and an aqua-
blue chiffon scarf. Mrs. Bill Hamilton
was in white linen. Nancye Wynne’s
green linen frock was accompanied by
white hat, shoes and bag.
Dot Stevenson wore brown only
a few shades deeper than the color
printed on her arms by so much
open air and sunshine. Noticed on
the way to cool drinks in between the
matches were the Howard Prices, Dr.
Eric Price and Dr. “Bung” Hill. The
coolest men present were the ice-cream
pedlars, for they wore light cotton coats ;
all the other hundreds, with the excep-
tion of a dozen enlightened spirits who
removed their coats, sat and cooked. It
would take no one less than Lord Hunt-
ingfield, if he followed Lord Gowrie’s
example at the Science Congress, to break
down Kooyong prejudices. But the State
Governor was meticulous with his red
carnation, and he looked perfectly happy
and at ease in his lightweight grey suit.
For the events concluded by that time
Lord Huntingfield made presentations on
Saturday. The trophies were placed on
a table on the lawn around the four-feet-
high men’s singles championship cup
played for on Monday. Among those
handed out by the Governor were the
men’s doubles cups to Bromwich and
Quist, “envelopes” for runners-up Turn-
bull and Long, a piece of silverware that
made Mrs. Westacott woman champion
of Australia, an “envelope” for her run-
ner-up, Mrs. Hopman, a cup for junior
champion Sidwell and a big moment and
a cup each for young juniors Joyce Wood
and Alison Burton, who won the girls’
doubles. Joyce had a cup in each hand,
for she also won the girls’ singles. Win-
some Haig and Dulcie Whittaker were
also in the running, and received recog-
nition (per “envelope”) for getting into
the girls’ finals.
A busy man who leaves for Brisbane
this week on an Air Raid Precautions
mission is Alan Brooksbank. He’s asso-
ciate to Mr. Justice Owen Dixon, but
his full-time hobby away from legal busi-
ness is the study of poisonous gases. Dur-
ing the war he was anti-gas engineer for
first a company, later a battalion and
finally a division in France. Since those
days he has continued his research and
experiments and has given gas-precaution
lectures in all the capitals to such bodies
as the R.S.L., the Fire Brigade, the Phar-
maceutical Chemists, Red Cross, St.
John’s Ambulance, the V.A.Ds., etc. He
believes that gas precautions are an im-
portant part of rearmament, and that the
policy of being prepared fits everybody
for an A.R.P. job ; technical work for
engineers, chemists, etc., but responsibili-
ties and duties also for men without tech-
nical training and women and children.
An A.R.P. syllabus has been compiled
with various courses of instruction —for
the specialists with scientific training, for
those who wish to become instructors and
for the general public. When Mr.
Brooksbank returns from Queensland he
will go to Tasmania in connection with
this work.
In the Broothorn photograph is an
English girl, Margaret Squires, who with
her mother and schoolboy brother Robin
came to Australia last year to join
Lieut.-General E. K. Squires, here for
two years as Inspector-General of the
Australian Military Forces. Miss Squires
is fond of sport, particularly tennis, and
she played lacrosse for her school (Queen
Anne’s, Berkshire). She has an air-pilot’s
license, and is availing herself of the
opportunity for more flying experience
in Australia.
Among Australians abroad who write
of an old-fashioned Christmas-card
Christmas, with ice underfoot and snow
thick upon the bare-branched trees, are
Phyllis and Beverley Balfour, who spent
the festive season with relatives at
Henley, where they woke up in the morn-
ing to find the snow so firm on the slopes
around the house that they were able to
go ski-ing. This was all good practice for
their January holiday in Switzerland, at
Sainte-Croix, where Phyllis was at a fin-
ishing school a few years ago. John Bal-
four, whose job is in Manchester, accom-
panied his sisters on their winter sports
holiday.
Phyllis and Beverley motored 13,000
miles without anything more serious
than a puncture in the car they hired
in England for several months. They
took it to the Continent, and were
down by the warm Mediterranean when
the war clouds of late September threat-
ened to break, whereupon they motored
to Dieppe with a minimum of stops and
thought themselves lucky to catch any
sort of boat, even though they had
either to stand on deck or sit on the floor
throughout the crossing. Plans for their
homeward journey are to catch the
Duchess of Richmond on January 27 for
Halifax, to cross Canada by train, with
brief stops at Montreal, Toronto, Niagara,
Banff, etc., and board the Niagara
in Vancouver, timed to arrive in Sydney
on March 11.
Among passengers who stepped off the
Stratheden on Sunday night were
the Arthur Pooles and their small son
David, who are being welcomed by many
friends in Melbourne. They expect to
be here for six months, and will prob-*
ably spend what is left of the summer at
one of the beaches. Mr. Poole, who is in
the Imperial Bank of India, is stationed
at Guntur, in Southern India. David is
meeting his relatives for the first time, for
he hadn’t arrived on the scene to gladden
the hearts of his parents when they were
last here in 1934.


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
DRIFT IN AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FINANCE
WILL LIFT IN GOLD PRICE AFFECT
COMMODITIES?
TRADE CREDITS (A’SIA) AND HAMILTONS
WHAT TO BUY AND SELL
February Issue On Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
First Sentence Competition
Cecil Stone, of 206 Agnes-street,
Rockhampton (Q.), took the first prize
of £2O in the first Bulletin Sentence
Competition. His entry, though it was
a gross insult to the distinguished littera-
teurs and dingo-hunters who frequent
Arguin' like mad.
the “Aboriginalities” pages, had a dis-
tant ring of truth about it:
Millions of leghorns excavating a Cool-
gardie scrapheap found two Aboliar coons
underneath, arguin’ like mad.
Very much less probable, but none
the less an entrancing picture, was the
entry from E. J. Gorman, of Myall
Downs, North Star (N.S.W.), that took
the second prize of £10:
The surprised surveyor, measuring old
gins for slacks, found one o’ them had
a 24ft. leg and a 33ft. one.
The entries were of an extremely high
standard. The only criticism that could
Measuring an old
gin.
be made is that
some of the
entries were too
far-fetched, and
that some of the
adventures attri-
buted to Gran-
dad, whatever
private delight
they gave to the
competitors (or to
the judges), could
hardly be prof-
fered to the cold
eye of the censor.
Grandad was
undoubtedly the
hero of the day,
a sprightly and
usually slightly
improper figure ;
but before his
escapades are
quoted this
motoring note
from N. H. Neale,
c/o A. P. Mon-
crieff, Wyong-road, Mosman, Sydney,
is offered as one of the best of the £l-
- winners:
Gazing at the corpse, the motorist in-
formed the ignorant creature that he had
come over him.
W. G. Blackstone, of Flat 2, 83 Mil-
son-road, Cremorne, Sydney, is the first
to scandalise the grandparent’s good
name, and has made it worse by locating
the crime in Melbourne:
In Collins-street, Grandad snapped his
backbone pointing out to his nurse a
young miss with a lethal leg.
There may be, too, a suggestion of
goings-on, a shadow of the superb old
person in Redheap, in the sentence from
Hugh C. McKerrow, of Barnsdale,
Stanley-terrace, Wynnum, E. 2 (Q.):
The only amusement Grandad got was
operating a jew’s-harp softly when no
one was about.
Grandad is evidently a sensitive soul.
The nicety o£ his sensibilities is clearly
demonstrated in the extraordinary
incident related by A. G. Holland,
of Zillman-road, Hendra, Brisbane,
which gives the poor old fellow
either the delicacy of Mr. Spooner
or an artistic objection to the corru-
gated untidiness of the human
frame:
Gazing in disgust, Grandad, artlessly
picking up the skeleton, slapped it in the
neck. ,
From K. Gray, of Wrotham, Shorn-
cliffe, Brisbane, came an account of
Grandad in frolic mood:
I was somewhat surprised when Gran-
dad, carrying a surveyor clad in a gum-
leaf, decided to run to Grafton.
Slapped it in the neck.
Had Mr. Gray known all sides of the
old boy’s character he might not have
been so astonished; G. A. Penty, of
79 Lagoon-street, Narrabeen (N.S.W.),
observes him not only transgressing him-
self but corrupting the young:
The baby complained of his beer and
Grandad staunchly backed him up in dis-
gust at the weak head on it.
The baby, indeed, vied with Grandpa
in vice and vigor. Here is the testimony
of N. McLean, of 433 Riley-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney:
Complained of his
beer.
The baby
existed on beer,
grasshoppers and
goannas until a
woman informed
“The Bulletin” of
his devilish accom-
plishments.
The infant is
hereby reproved;
and though he
deserves every
sympathy in the
predicament noted
by A. C. Ritchie,
o f Ruse-street,
Harri s Park
(N.S.W.), many
may find him, for
a child, far too precociously aggressive:
The baby> knowing he was abandoned
on the doorstep, struck his nurse with a
rusty broadaxe.
The brat still seems something of a
monster in the interesting dietetic in-
formation supplied by Harold Wheeler,
Box 124, Narrabri (N.S.W.):
Obviously the baby doesn’t feed on
grasshoppers when crows or goannas are
about.
Chas. A. Peters, of 36 Somerville-road,
Yarraville (Vic.), has the youngster on
a sticky diet:—
Baby, fishing in the molasses for his
rattle, fell in up to his neck, and licked
till he was out.
Struck his nurse.
Besides Grandad and the Awful Child,
a young woman named Molly was evi-
dently known, not altogether unfavor-
ably, to many of the competitors. Some
of her antics will, alas! never be known,
but at least this iridication of the girl’s
almost invariable high spirits, observed
by Mrs. J. Honeyman, of Woodward-
road, Orange (N.S.W.), can be made
public:
Molly skied the rooster and, catching
the corpse carefully, flung it at the vet.
Only once, unless that rather cryptic
statement could be taken to mean that
the vet. had poisoned the bird, did Molly
strike tragedy; but she will have the
sympathy of all in this distressing episode
related by C. W. Newbold, of 86 Ocean-
street, Bondi (N.S.W.):
Molly complained to the boss when she
was struck over the head with his wife’s
ironbark leg.
The baby and Grandad, however
much they may be condemned for
tosspots, are not the only Aus-
tralians to fall to the lures of
malt and hops in their final trans-
figuration. Eva L. Merritt, of
Liverpool-street, Sydney, notes the
phenomenon:
Beer with grasshoppers in it was dis-
tinctly satisfactory to the fellow who had
decided to have a lively day.
T. Sutton, of 25 Murriverie-road,
Bondi (N.S.W.), has pointed out a pro-
found truth in the assertion:
It is admitted that beer when flat cannot
be satisfactory, but if fish take to gum-
boots it isn’t too dusty!
As was to be expected with a com-
petition based on the “Aboriginal ities”
pages, numbers of competitors sub-
mitted observations on the curiosa of
nature. E. F. Shogren, of Elizabeth-
street, Sherwood, Brisbane, shows that
the country traditions of hospitality and
of kindliness to livestock do not stop
at hand-feeding ewes or bagmen:
Flies of assorted ancestry and battered
grasshoppers regularly accepted help
from the country.
Miss Poppy Anning, of Cornelia
Station, Pentland (N.Q.), reminds city-
dwellers that there is wisdom in wild
creatures, that even the brain of the
chook can soar above grit and eggs:
Chamberlain’s fowl abandoned hi*
reserve, and artlessly sought to take a
hand in the Government affair.
R. W. Dwyer, of Riley’s Hill (N.S.W.),
remarks with some truth:
Gazing at a goose through a theodolite
or swimming between two sharks is
original but unpleasant.
Miss U. Harte, of 20 Rogers-avenue,
Haberfield (N.S.W.), brings the result of
patient researches in marine life to in-
dicate that, if sharks were interviewed
about Zane Grey as Zane Grey is in-
terviewed about sharks, they would speak
with some force:
When swimming ashore, Zane glared at
a shark, which made a remark that the
experience was unique and most un-
pleasant.
Fisli take to gumboots.
From G. N. Tonkin, c/o Morris Hos-
pital, Northfield (S.A.), came a most
valuable hint for the farm:
To wash a plough-hand, put it in a
crab-pot, stripped, until bleached.
Finally, there was a cri du cceur from
F. Broughton, of Castle Hill (N.S.W.),
that only a heart of stone could ignore:
I have for days been puzzling over this,
so what about a hand-out?
Zane glared at a shark.
Handout of £1 agreed to, and the same
to all the others listed on this page, apart
f rom the main prizewinners.
Competitors searching for handouts
. - . Qr p
£uture competitions are
™ ned that w ° rd , s from . ver f s are abo ”'
and are beseeched to print then sentences
in BLOCK letters.
AUSTRALIAN MOVIE PIONEERS
“L.S.S.” remembers a notable pair:
Making feature movies in Australia
may be said to have started in W. A.
Gibson’s chemist’s shop backyard in Mel-
bourne. On the roof of the same building
one of the first exhibitions of imported
films was screened.
In 1906 “The Kelly Gang,” a 5000 ft.
“super feature,” emerged from Gibson’s
chemist’s shop studio to be screened in
“tin-shed” picture shows all over the
Commonwealth. It was the first feature
film made in Australia, and one of the
world’s first; Hollywood’s first 5000 ft.
film, “Great Train Robbery,” was pro-
duced in 1905.
The leading actors in “The Kelly
Gang” cannot now be identified. It cost
Gibson only £l6O, and the public’s re-
ception was so enthusiastic that Gibson
found he had struck gold. Between 1906
and 1909 at least a dozen features came
out of his little Melbourne studio, in-
cluding “The Double Event,” “Never
Too Late to Mend,” “The Bells,” “The
Luck of Roaring Camp,” “Called Back”
and the screen’s first mystery thriller,
Fergus Hume’s “Mystery of a Hansom
Cab.” Having sold the original outright
Hume finally died in England in penury,
though his shocker began a new vogue in
mystery novels and netted his more for-
tunate publishers thousands.
Gibson started the Australian news-
reel. As far back as 1907 he success-
fully adapted sound synchronisation to
his 5000 ft. musical romance “The Lost
Chord.” Most of his films ran into pro-
duction budgets of no more than £l6O ;
several of them cost considerably less.
They all returned sound profits.
Jack Gavin played almost as important
a part as Gibson in developing the Aus-
tralian “Shadow Show.” Gavin pro-
duced, directed and put plenty of verve
into the leading roles in “Thunderbolt,”
“Moonlight,” “Martin Cash,” “Ben Hall
and His Gang,” “Frank Gardiner,”
“Trooper O’Brien.” “Thunderbolt” was
the first motion picture feature ever made
in N. S. Wales (1906). It was financed
by Bert Forsyth, who next financed “Cap-
tain Moonlight,” the scenario of which
—as with all Gavin’s pictures—was done
by Gavin’s wife.
Gavin turned to good account the
Nurse Cavell affair with a film of that
name. Australian girl Vera Pearce —
later to be a top-flight comedienne in
British stage and screen casts—played
the title role. “The Murder of Captain
Fryer” was a further Gavin product,
and he also originated the first Aus-
tralian animated advertising short, which
featured a koala bear lapping up a cough
remedy.


y
•r 'well
4
gui
At your request zve shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
tcy
New Guinea
& Papua
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel* and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS. PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY Telephone: B 7901
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
Farewell to Abdul
“Munni”: In Centralia you met him,
tall, bright-eyed and on foot, leading a
camel train over blazing red sand. His
route covered hundreds of miles. His
job was man’s work, especially in the
days when camels of all sexes were
travelled together. He was up at morning
stir, miles on his way by sunrise ; mid-
day found him camping.
He brought food, materials, galvanised-
iron, over routes completely out of the
range of white transport.
Abdul and his fellows were to be
found at their great depots such as
Marree, clustered with their families and
their animals. A year or two will see the
centenary of the coming of the first of
them—brought out with the oonts by
the Elders of S.A. in the early ’forties.
Some of them acquired stations and
sheep, and their sons became indis-
tinguishable in outlook and ambition
from many another outback Australian.
Some served in the war with distinction
—fine shots, fine horsemen, eager fighters.
In Central Australia so much have they
meant to the life of the place that
when the Alice Springs railway went
through its mail train was named in
memory of them. To all Centralians it
is “The Ghan.”
In Queensland the Afghans—they were
always called that, although a large pro-
portion had never seen Afghanistan—
played another role besides that of desert
teamsters and carriers. Every station
looked for their hawkers’ vans, with their
open backs, pink silks, mouth-organs,
buttons, tapes, niggerhead, sweets, mush-
room hats and galatea.
Usually black-bearded, tall and
straight, often with service in an Indian
regiment behind them, the exotic hawkers
pulled in when shearing was due and
camped discreetly away from the rest
of the transients of the season. They were
always well-behaved, though sometimes
a voice might be heard from their direc-
tion, raised in weird song. Children liked
them for the conical screws of boiled
sweets which were sometimes their form
of discount. And they were nearly
always good to their horses. Where they
lived, nobody ever knew; wherever it
was, it was sure to be hundreds of miles
away.
Now, the day of the Afghan is over.
In the last 10 years, both as hawkers
and carriers, they have been driven from
the outback tracks by motor, train and
’plane. Soon, to meet one on the red
sand will be like seeing a ghost.
Every boat India-bound carries a sad
little band of them among the deck cargo
“off home” —a home which most of them
have forgotten, with which they have lost
all links except that of religion, whose
rites they sedulously observe.
Just an Old-fashioned Paper
“J.W.”: Dave Green, of Townsville,
publishes the “North Queensland Regis-
ter,” which surely can claim to be the
biggest weekly newspaper in the Empire
—lOO pages, each half the size of the
“S. M. Herald,” and with no waste space.
There is no room in the “Register”
for big black headings. Its readers from
Darwin to the Tweed, from Balik Papan
to Bourke, like value for their sixpence,
and they get it. Anybody who reads
the “Register” knows at the end of the
year all about Europe and Asia, though
very little about what the “Cronk-
News” and Madame Two-Blues think;
also about every stock movement, rain-
fall, rise in temperature, new tax, race
meeting, mining find, robbery, wedding,
flood, newly-paved street, freshly-painted
pub or “successful social” over an area
of 400,000 sq. miles. Also, he knows
what every important citizen of the North
and west Queensland has been doing
with himself. (“Janitor McGonigle, of
the Soldiers’ Hall, has returned from
Brisbane after a holiday.”)
The thing I most like about the “Regis-
ter” is its sturdy Australian patriotism.
The three columns which begin “Signor
Mussolini has the world guessing” are
dished up under a single small heading—
“ Rome Talks” —of the same type as that
over “Gulf Notes”: “The number of
refrigerators in the district is steadily in-
creasing.”
To the northern editor, "Man Hits
Leg with Axe” is typographically an event
of equal importance with “The Spanish
War.” And why not?
“Our Own Correspondent” is the core
of the “Register’s” news system, and he
has a free hand. He succeeds every week
in finding at least a column or so of
news in places where the New Journalism
wouldn’t find an inch. It makes hearten-
ing reading.
Sin, and especially cruelty, is
anathema to Our Correspondent. Ihe
dog-poisoner who has been at work at
Emerald is “a callous fiend....a cur
of the first magnitude, for whom a
“ Steady , Ma, y're spilli n’ the milk!”
rope and a stout limb are appropriate
companions.” Greatness does not awe
the local scribe, who can sometimes write
with a splendid economy of words:
Mr. Thorby, Minister for Civil Aviation,
passed through on Wednesday to investigate
the operation of the Empire mail service.
The weather was fine and calm.
And I like his way with crime. Take
the case of a cat-burglar who was pur-
sued to a wild-west station, foiled in
a romantic attempt to escape by car,
finally perceived drinking lemonade by
the Law. He is dismissed in a few hun-
dred words of unleaded and unpara-
graphed type, sandwiched between the
dry weather and a council meeting. What
a hero city reporters would have made
of him!
The same principles are applied to
social life. There are several fine pages
of pictures —curious, sporting, scenic ;
and always at least one page of brides,
Not the moving-picture bride coming out
of a large fashionable church, but little
brides who go to the studio to be photo-
graphed and have their trains properly
arranged, marriage being a solemn and
dignified’ event. Sometimes they bring
the bridegroom. Many an outback hut
is largely papered with a gallery of
br j des
But even if the North does not like
sexy and sensational journalism, its
people are not wowsers about the lighter
kind of manly enjoyment. Our Corres-
pondent is spending his New Year
traversing Cape York Peninsula:—
. b i n k pvprv har in
It aonears I will be over every oar in.
Australia for the coming year, because they
say whatever we do first in the New Year
we keep it up. Well, I will be satisfied
to wear the sleeves out of the shirt, as i
know a lot of occupations that are worse
than partaking of the cup that cheers.
We met several prospectors [at Laura] and
by the time we were ready for the track to
Coen we were more than three sheets in
g h re a r{ime;as™? did" in"?he
early stages, but the last 10 miles to Coen
they wondered what happened to them.
It’s easy to tell what happened to us; the
refreshments had petered out, and, like a
horse smelling water at a distance, we
could smell liquid refreshment at a greater
distance.
The New Journalism could do with
some of Dave Green’s technique.
“Phildee”: Up Darwin way just now
it’s too steamy for anyone to get ex-
cited about anything, but Sydney’s
“Daily News,” which every week dis-
covers secret and dangerous Nazi com-
munities anywhere between the Leeuwin
and New Guinea, has instigated a minor
battle in the N.T. capital. The “D.N.
discovered the usual strong branches
of Nazidom with their usual secret
meetings in the usual homes of German
residents in Darwin and Tennant Creek.
The stuff was reprinted for what it was
worth in Darwin’s “Northern Standard,”
and there ensued great battles of words
between writers of voluminous letters.
A pillar of the union debunked the
rumor, and suggested tar and feathers for
whoever hatched it. Another citizen
answered him with a two-column lucu-
bration surpassing Granny “Herald s
leader-writers at their best. A third
correspondent sailed in with the mfor-
mation that the “D.N.’s” objects are ‘to
. ... .
preserve our democratic liberties, restore
peace to the world, and achieve social
progress for the great masses of the
i After which broadside the
people Alter whicn Droausme tne
original critic wisely suggested a bottle ol
nerve tonic all round.
* * * *
“X.T.”: All over Queensland graziers
are saying that if heat-waves bring the
kind of rain which has fallen since New
Year they will put up with one every
year. Cloncurry, Hughenden, Emerald,
Longreach, Blackall, all the towns across
the Toowoomba Range out past Charle-
ville, have had falls from three-quarters
of an inch to 5-Jin. A lot more is needed
yet, but what has come already in many
places means temporary salvation.
* * * *
“Zedo”: They breed ’em tough up
Maryborough (Q.) way. When Alfred
Pearson, a local dairyman, found him-
self charged by a bull, he merely “caught
it by the horns and held it till a neigh-
bor came.” Nothing happened to him
except seven broken ribs. There was
once a Shorthorn bull in Queensland
which disliked a band. During a Bris-
bane Show parade he suddenly escaped,
with malicious purpose, and started
straight for the music. In his way were
Governors, councillors, a large platform
raised off the turf, stewards, and 80-year-
old Harry Bracker, who was telling me
about a Robertson sale in ’7B. The
Governors went where they could, and
I went under the platform. After a split
second I peeped out. Harry Bracker had
his umbrella open, and a ton of bull was
wilting visibly about a yard in front of it.
The small son of the owner arrived and led
the animal away. Subsequent experience
is all in favor of a brolly as a bull-
frightener. I have never seen a bull willing
to stand up to a quickly-opened gamp.
* * * *
“El V.”: Hitherto, since there has been
an officially-recognised five-day week at
Brisbane Town Hall, skeleton staffs only
have attended on Saturday mornings.
Now, even they are to be allowed to go
fishing, and the offices will close. Lord
Mayor Jones says that the public can be
educated to do business between Monday
and Friday. The president of the Queens-
land Taxpayers declares that the move
represents another cut in the value given
for council rates. And somebody else
remarks that it ought to be easier to
educate the council staffs, who have been
already accustomed to it, to do their
fishing on Saturday afternoons and Sun-
days than to teach ratepayers, who are
more numerous, fresh tricks.


0 s
a
M-n*
tie*
AV s
Mwm
W 11 H
Mullaro]
Milliard
MASTER
RADIO -VALVES
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Milliard (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
63-67 William Street, Sydney.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss, of vitality and premature .feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glanas.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. n i<i aee and
revitalise you, banishing premature oWg a
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day ™
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
821
GL4ND
TONIC
WBLfTS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Designs for Dry-cell
Superhets.
Following on the introduction of the
new 1.4-volt series of battery valves
(B. 14, 21 and 28/12/’3B), details of
U.vS.A. receiver circuits which use the
valves are of interest. Two circuits are
shown from “Radio-Craft.” The first
is a six-valve superhet, and the second
a four-valve mantel model superhet.
The six-valve receiver is described as
a four-band switched receiver, and can
be built up from the usual dual- or three-
Schematic circuit diagram of the Farmer’s Friend six-valve superhet using the new 1.4- volt valves. The entire filament con-
sumption is only 350 ma., and only 90 volts of B battery is used.
band coil kit. The only difficulty is that
the 1.4-volt valves are not yet available
in large quantity in Australia, though
the shortage should be remedied within
a few weeks. Some idea of the economy
of the six-valve receiver can be had
A four-valve dry-cell superhet suitable for mantel model or portable design.
Filament consumption is only 200ma. and plate current 8ma.
from the fact that the entire filament
consumption is only 350 milliamperes,
and plate voltage only 90 at 17 milli-
amperes. The filament consumption is
so low that two standard dry-cells con-
nected in parallel will last about five
months in normal use. Much better ser-
vice than this is obtainable if the new
Ever Ready type X 250 cell is used, the
life then working out around 800 hours
on a receiver of this type.
In the circuit diagram switch points
are shown in series with the coils for
R.F., mixer and oscillator stages, since
the original was designed round a four-
band kit covering broadcast and short
waves to 16 metres. For dual-wave
switching the circuit will be applied
similarly. A stage of R.F. is employed
(using the INSG), and is necessary for
short-wave purposes because of its
image rejection, high signal-to-noise
ratio and sensitivity. Two stages of I.F.
are used (lNsGs)as a second stage, and
add materially to sensitivity. The penta-
grid IA7G converter valve is used both
as mixer and oscillator, while a corn-
bination valve, the IHSG, is employed
both as diode detector and first audio
stage.
Note that three-circuit band-pass I.F.
transformers are shown in the circuit.
These are of a type manufactured by
the coil kit maker in U.S.A., and are
not normally obtainable in Australia.
The usual primary and secondary
564 kc. I.F.Ts. can be substituted with-
out any circuit alteration. Automatic
volume control is obtained from the
voltage developed by the incoming sig-
nal across the .smeg. volume control.
On very weak signals the A.V.C. may
be eliminated to advantage by means of
the switch SW2, which connects the
lmeg. resistor to earth, thus switching
off the A.V.C. All necessary values are
shown in the circuit diagram, and con-
struction of such a receiver should
present no difficulty to the experienced
constructor used to handling the usual
run of battery or A.C. superhets.
The second circuit diagram is of the
four-valve mantel model superhet for
broadcast coverage only. This is a par-
ticularly simple arrangement using the
IA7G mixer-oscillator with no pre-R.F.
stage, single I.F. stage with INSG, IHSG
detector-A.V.C., and IASG output
pentode. In the six-valve receiver the
output pentode is the ICSG.
D. B. K.
Portable 1.4-volt Valve
Receiver.
The new dry-cell valves will find wide-
spread use in the design of portable
lightweight broadcast receivers, and for
those interested in this type the cur-
rent issue of “Australasian Radio
World,” edited by A. Earl Read, B.Sc.,
contains full constructional details of
the One-Four Portable Five. The
writer found the receiver one of the best
portable sets yet tested. The R.F. stage,
using a INSG, operates from a sheet of
copper gauze inside the lid of the case,
so that there is no difficulty about track-
ing circuits with the coil kit used. Pro-
vision is made for an external aerial
for long-distance reception where
wanted. It is a superhet, the mixer being
the IA7G, with 465 kc. I.F. channel
using a INSG. Second detector is the
IHSG, and the ICSG output pentode
works into the latest Rola permag.
speaker with special alloy magnet and
transformer.
D. B. K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, s.-w.
Queenland. Receiver, Ideal Battery
T.R.F. All-waver, described B.
28/4/’37.
Conditions have been good for
some time now, with a remarkable
absence of static on the broadcast
band. The lower-frequency national
stations are heard all day and sup-
plement VLR3. In the mornings
there is plenty of enjoyable recep-
tion to be had on 49 and 31 metres.
These bands include GSA, ZRH,
ZRK, DJC and GSB, Ankara, Mos-
cow, Paris, Rome, 2RO and DJX.
On 25 metres the best station is
TPA3, followed by WBXK and
W2XE.
There is little on the 19-metre band
during the mornings, but W3XAL is still
strong on 16 metres. XCOG was logged
on 16.8 metres with a powerful signal
from 10 a.m. one morning, and was the
best station heard from China on any
wave-length.
GSB is particularly good just now,
and can even be heard in Transmission
5 until 9.45 a.m., but GSF is probably
the strongest of the Daventry trans-
mitters. Evening reception has been
good from 5 p.m. on such stations as
COCH, DJA, OLR4A and GSD, and
night reception is now excellent. Mos-
cow can be heard frequently on 31.5
metres with the same programme as on
19.65 metres.
K. B. G.
Amateur Chatter.
Further tests with the Jones double
s.w.f. aerial system indicates that it is
essential to have the lower section at
least a half-wave above earth if the
radiation pattern is to remain undis-
torted. It was found that, with this
section only a few feet above earth,
U.S.A., Honolulu and New Guinea were
easily workable, but nothing could be
raised in Europe. Removing the lower
section immediately brought contact
with England. As the writer prefers these
contacts, the lower section has been dis-
carded, 70ft. masts being out of the
question because of lack of guying snare
It was noticed also that the presence of
the lower section near to earth resulted
in greatly increased signal strength from
local stations when using the aerial for
reception. Increased DX signal reports
received with the double system how-
ever, show that it is really worth while
provided that it can be strung high
enough above surrounding objects. 6
A local amateur was heard to com-
plain that when any near-by stations with
in three miles or so started up he Jd to
close down owing to signals spreading
across the entire band. Inquiry brought
to light that the receiver is a T.R.F. type.
Anything but a selective superhet is hope-
less in congested areas, and it costs no
more to make an effective but simple,
super. The T.R.F. receiver, or even the
autodyne detector and one audio, has
its uses where the nearest station is
hundreds of miles distant, but few
amateurs work under such conditions.
On Sunday, 22/1 /*39, a 56mc. DX test
was run off with ZL4DQ, but nothing
was heard at either end. Sydney stations
co-operating were VKs 2NO, 2IQ and
2WJ. The last-named now has a modern
superhet in use, and hears harmonics
previously unnoticeable on other
receivers. The superhet uses an 1851 as
T.R.F. amplifier, capacity-coupled to a
6JBG mixer-oscillator with ultra-audion
oscillator section. Two stages of I.F. are
used at 1600 kc., and a noise silencer is
included. VK2IQ has raised the height
of his vertical J aerial, with the result
that his signal is now extremely strong
over Sydney. The extra height has im-
proved reception considerably. Many
14mc. ’phone adherents, evidently tiring
of the DX-chasing routine, are talking
of venturing to 56mc. A new station on
the band from Ryde, N.S.W., is
VK2ACF, who is yet heard only weakly
on the coast, owing to the use of a
transceiver.
During the early morning, from mid-
night on, the 14mc. band is crowded
with PKs, KAs, and ZS6’s on ’phone;
also a few Gs can be picked out. Dur-
ing daylight hours Americans are con-
spicuous by their absence, but Hawaiians
put powerful ’phone signals across the
Pacific.
Recent visitors at the writer’s station
were VKs 3AH and 2AKA, from Can-
terbury (Vic.) and Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
respectively.
Latest recommendations for ZLs at
the 1938 N.Z.A.R.T. Convention in-
-1 eluded regulations to be amended
to allow telephony operation on the
80-metre band only after six months'
operating with telegraphy; newly-
licensed amateurs to have at least 100
C.W. contacts before being permitted to
use telephony; six months’ C.W.
operation for new licensees before being
permitted to use telephony; and that
a Vigilance Committee be appointed to
note and make monthly reports on any
breaches of regulations governing ZL
amateur stations. This last follows the
VK practice, and it is interesting to note
that there is a similar move in U.S.A.
Elton Grey, ex-VK4LX, is now
established in Westralia as VK6ZX, and
is reported to be erecting a telegraph
pole as guyless support for a 14mc.
rotary beam.
Latest information from BERSI9S
at Powell Creek (N.T.) reports no suc-
cess with 56mc. DX there, but 28mc.
stations are still in evidence, although
falling off. Stations heard in the even-
ings include Gs 6DH, 6NF, 2ZP, SBD,
210, SBY, 2IM, BRQ, 3CN, GI6TK,
PAOEA, PAOAPX, OHSOD, OH2NB,
D3BEN, D3DCK, D4AFF, FBOB,
ON4AU, VU2AN, VS6AO and PK2WL.
K7GTP and K4EZR have been heard
around 21.00 G.M.T., but Americans
are scarce and VKs now missing
altogether. Southern stations would wel-
come the opportunity of hearing halt
as many Europeans on 28mc. as this list
shows. The N.T. must be a good -Smc.
listening location. Receiver in use at


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under dat;e as of
tbe following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from TJ.S.A
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times,
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
’’RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
fcjfautfetiti
SECOND
£5O Sentence Competition
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date February 8.
There Is No Entrance Charge.
Entries for the Second £5O Sentence Competition announced in last week’s
Bulletin (January 25) close on February 8, so that there is still a week for competitors
to enter.
The sentence has to be made up from words on the Aboriginalities pages in the
January 25 issue, and rules and conditions will be found on the Radio page of that
issue.
The sentence (in BLOCK letters) may be filled in either on the coupon provided
last week or on the one below. Entries should be posted to reach
“Sentence Competition No. 2,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than February 8.
SECOND SENTENCE COMPETITION.
NAME . .
ADDRESS
Sentence.
RESULTS AND NEW COMPETITIONS.
Results of the First Sentence Competition are on page 38 of this issue; results
of the Second will be published in The Bulletin of February 15.
In next week’s issue (February 8) a Third £5O Sentence Competition will be
announced.
BERSI9S is the Ultra Searcher, de-
scribed B. 3/8/’3B.
Westralian division ‘of WIA j
„ rrt . • - „ 0
organising a week-end outing to Rock-
ingham on February 18 and 19.
Members and their friends will be wel-
come, and hotel accommodation has
been arranged at reasonable cost.
VK6GM and VK.6FR, of the Field Day
Committee, are in charge of arranee-
ments. &
• •
L.-s.-w. listener Maloney at Woy Woy,
N.S.W., hears Sydney stations strongly
on 56mc. with a receiver similar to the
Ultra Searcher (B. 3/8/’3B), using 956
acorn T.R.F. stage and no super-re-
generation. Signal reports are: VK2IQ
Q- RB, VK2NO Q 5 R 7 and VK2WJ
Q 4 R 5. The location is not on an optical
path from Sydney, and the results show
what can be done with a good receiver in
supposedly poor locations.
VK2NO.
Recorded Television.
.
Recently arrived from England,
Oswald Anderson, head of Broadcast
Enterprises, London, referred at a
gathering of radio industry executives in
Sydney to an entirely new project in the
development of television. Technicians
are working secretly in England to per-
feet a system of “sound and image
disks' with which it will be possible to
reproduce the recorded vision and ac-
companying sound programme with a
This map, from “Television and Short-wave World” (England), shows the service
area of the London television station. The dotted area is that of reliable normal
service, and those positions indicated by crosses are where good television reception
has been experienced.
television receiver in the home. In these
circumstances it is likely that domestic
television on these lines may well be an
accomplished fact long before the first
television transmitting station is erected
and on the air in Australia.
If the development is perfected it
means that, with television receivers,
Australians would be able to enjoy the
best overseas television programmes,
recorded on wax disks similar to gramo-
phone records and “played” through a
pick-up arrangement. Anderson advised
Australian manufacturers to prepare for
this development, and they would do
well to think over his words. If actual
television transmission is to be yet a
long way round the Australian corner,
this projected development of “bottled
television” from overseas seems to be an
excellent way of filling a breach and
establishing a new industry which would
b e immediately popular,
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Veekay”: The Radio Society of
Great Britain counters a suggestion that
the licensing of amateur transmitters in
Great Britain should be made easier with
the claim that already the frequency
channels are overcrowded. In the U.S.A.
over 40,000 amateurs manage to find
elbowroom in these channels, whereas
in Britain the total number is 2600, and
in the whole of Europe under 7000.
R.S.G.B. is right, nevertheless, since the
mass of American amateurs might just as
well be in Europe when the bands are
“open.” International QRM is as much
of a problem as local QRM.
* * * *
“Querex”: The U.S.A. uses radio to
help handle its bushfires. At elevated
positions scattered widely over the
country high watchtowers are erected
equipped with radio so that the watch-
men can communicate instantly with the
nearest Forestry aerodrome. On receipt
of information of an outbreak ’planes
are taken out with firefighting equip-
ment of modern type, including chemical-
spraying equipment, which is dropped
by parachute near to the fire for the
ground party. Amateur radio stations
also co-oner^t e w ith Forestry centres
where possible.
“VK6DN”: How is this for an ex-
planation of electro-magnetic radiation?
The earth is a magnet, therefore it has
a magnetic field ; this field may con-
stitute the “ether” as a conducting
medium for electro-magnetic waves. As
the open circuit ( i.e., the antenna and
earth) oscillates, it disturbs the field
accordingly, and radiations occur, the
strength of the oscillations determining
the effect on the magnetic field. Sun-
spots affect this field by ionisation—thus
their effect on radio reception.
* * * *
Latest P.M.G. radio receiving license
figures for the whole of Australia give
the total at 1,102,315. Experimenters
are nearing the 2000 mark, being now
1942.
"Radio" for January.
This latest issue of “Radio,” U.S.A.,
is the annual Year Book number. An
amateur band superhet using the 6KB
converter valve as a mixer with oscillator
grid as injector grid to a 6F6 oscillator
is described by W6CEM, and for those
interested in the extreme U.H.Fs.
W9FM writes of an unusual receiver
using acorn valves as R.F. amplifiers
with considerable gain at two metres.
For the experimenter contemplating
construction of a crystal-controlled
56mc. transmitter a very simple but
effective exciter unit is described by
W6KFQ. This starts off with a 40-metre
crystal in a 42 pentode oscillator, fol-
lowed by capacity-coupled 6L6G quad-
rupler and T2l. The latter is a power
doubler to 56mc., and delivers 20 watts
output. With screen and plate modu-
lation this in itself makes a very handy
transmitter, or it can be applied as
driver to a high power push-pull final.
Among the descriptions of 1939 com-
munications receivers, one of technical
interest is the Howard 450 A. This em-
ploys two separate I.F. channels, at 465 kc.
and 1600 kc. respectively, the latter
giving improved operation at the higher
frequencies. Such a scheme should not
be difficult to include in a home-con-
structed receiver.
Other articles are: “More on the
Three-element Rotary,” “T2O 100-watt
’Phone,” “Modern Speech Amplifier
Design,” “10-Metre Car Radio Superhct-
converter,” “Switching Crystals,” “A
400-watt Diathermy Outfit,” “Radio with
the Airlines,” “Inexpensive 25-watt
Modulator,” “Care and Feeding of
807’5,” “Two-watt Portable ’Phone Trans-
mitter,” “A Great Circle Globe,” “Novel
Beam Antenna Indicator,” and “200
Crystal Watts on 56mc.” Subscription
to “Radio” is 18s. 6d. annually, accept-
able at The Bulletin office, 252 George-
street, Sydney. Copies are mailed direct
from the publishers and are not obtain-
able at this office.
Trade ltems.
The new Amplion “V” series of
, , , * . , . . •
speakers includes two electro-magnetic
types, V and VL respectively, the others
being VPI, VP2 and VP3 permagnetics.
Thr>v nr? all I?in fvnpc Tn thp<;p thp
I hey are all IZin. types, in these, the
heavy corrugated cone combines rugged
construction with the capacity for hand-
ling large output with low resonance
frequency. Cones are also specially
treated, being impregnated against pos-
sible weather variations in humidity un-
der tropical conditions. .Residual hum
in the electro-dynamic types is carefully
balanced out by using a copper damping
ring in conjunction with a suitable hum-
neutralising coil, the correct number of
turns being measured accurately on
laboratory equipment. New trans-
formers with improved characteristics are
fitted, and are well impregnated and
sealed in a metal casing.
A novel feature of these new Amplion
speakers is that the plug and socket con-
tact is mounted on the speaker housing,
making the speaker entirely self-
contained. This eliminates the necessity
for a terminal board and cover, as the
connector cable is wired into the re-
ceiver chassis and plugs directly on to the
speaker.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Sending the circuit of a recently-constructed
two-valve receiver using a 176 as regenerative
detector and first audio with ID4 output. At
first the set would not oscillate, so the reaction
coil was moved closer to the grid coil without
success. When a .00025 mfd. condenser was
connected from the plate side of the R.F. choke
to earth, oscillation occurred over portion of
the broadcast range, but not at the short-wave
tappings. Automatic bias was tried on the ID4,
but there is audio oscillation when this is done.
With automatic bias on the 176 the receiver
will not work at all. What’s wrong? —747.
Main trouble appears to be with the tapped
coil. It is inefficient to use a coil large enough
to cover the broadcast range and to tap this
down for wave-lengths as short as 20 metres.
There is considerable loss owing to “dead-end”
effect, and the better scheme is to use separate
coils for each range. In this case it will also
be necessary to employ a double section wave-
change switch with switched reaction coils.
There is no reason why the automatic biasing
should not function on the audio pentode, but
it is out of the question on the IJ6 in this
circuit. As this valve is a double triode with
common filament, it follows that applying bias
with the intention of suiting the second triode
for audio purposes will apply also to the first
section, and this is already functioning as a
grid-leak detector. In the circumstances bat-
tery bias will be better. One trouble with
audio oscillation may be due to the fact that
in your layout for portable work the grid coil
is placed over the ID4. This will lead to
instability.


mm
k * -
■
u
&*k
Suite: Rd. No.‘11589, 10927.
Ped. Basin: Rd. No. 10926.
The most important
room in the house ...
Gone are the days when the bathroom was merely an adjunct
to the home; to-day it is planned for utmost convenience and
comfort, and Fowler sanitary earthenware contributes liberally
towards that objective.
The bathroom suggestion (illustrated) features Fowler Ware
“Killara” toilet suite, “Bellevue” pedestal basin, Fowler Ware
wall recess fittings—sponge and soap holder, toothbrush holder,
paper-reel holder, Gargoyle faucets, also Fowler floor and
wall tiles.
Modern designs, uniform quality and finish plus functional
perfection unhold the widespread high reputation of Fowler
sanitary earthenware, which is manufactured in colours as well
as white.
Leading hardware and builders* suppliers throughout the
Commonwealth stock Fowler Ware. We will be pleased to
supply the name of your nearest supplier.
Products of the
FOWLER POTTERIES
BATHROOM AND KITCHEN
SANITARY EARTHENWARE
HOSPITAL AND GENERAL
ENAMELLED FIRECLAY WARE
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
TERRA COTTA WARE
Products of the
FOWLER POTTERIES
SALT GLAZED STONEWARE
INSULATORS
HOUSEHOLD CROCKERY AND
HOTELWARE
BRISTOLWARE
CHEMICAL WARE
Thomastown, Victoria,
Brisbane, Queensland.
* • ’ ’ , t ' * ' '
MANUFACTURED BY
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Manufacturers of Ceramics for over a century.
Administrative Offices, Showrooms and Potteries:
FITZROY STREET, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Interstate Agents:
J. M. SMITH PTY,, LTD., ’ MADDEN & JOHNSTON, BURFITT, SELTH & CO., LTD., A. BOND BARKER & CO., W. H. HUTHNANCE & CO.,
Rockhampton, Q’land. Townsville, Q’land. v ' French Street, Adelaide. William Street, Perth. Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
Registered 'Number 9425.
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP —EASY TO FIT-
LONG LIFE !
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
Jin. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of Tap. ' Jin. or
fin., Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
S&.
mm
CHINA
'
•'4
i- •<
t $
P
V
*
*
/“h-sce
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to Match
Shelley THE gift of gifts
Send 3d.- in stamps; to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH PTY., LTD., G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney,
New South Wales.
jUrTroda MartV-J-"
WhitSHill
MILL
WHITE
Water Paint
Kccp^—
‘
in AUSTRALIA BY
Felspar Products
"WHITE MILL" MILL WHITE
WATER PAINT
41b. 71b. 141 b. 211 b. 561 b.
2/3 3/9 6/6 12/- 21/-
Duralastic Zinc Paint
Non-poisonous
Twenty-six beautiful colours.
I8 7 ' Gallon
HARBUTT PAINT PTY. LTD.
Alexandria, N.S.W.
Brisbane Agents:
Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty., Ltd.


The Ricliarcition Chain lintel
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
-Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
UM-
t£>
D^.
As,
, <9 J
m"
y/^
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Merino Embargo Again.
“Ghanam”: There has been renewed
agitation for the removal of the export
embargo on merino sheep. It is based
on the plea that the ram market is very
, . _
sensitive o \ - es an
that, as a result studbreeders are drop-
ping out and the quality ot Australian
wool is suffering and on rams depends
our clip of the future.” It is suggested
that the removal ot the embargo would
do much to revive stud trade.
If that means that Australian wool-
breeders will again have to pay up to
several thousand pounds for a ram be-
cause of foreign competition, then the
, . . , , ’ ,
change would scarcely be to the advan-
tage of the Australian wool industry.
And if it means that, without develop-
ing artificial price levels, a sufficient num-
ber of rams is to be sent
abroad to save studs
which are being ruined
under present conditions,
it would be a step to-
wards economic suicide
for the graziers.
When a foreign buyer
comes to Australia for
either rams or ewes, he
wants only the best—the
kind of animal which
will help his country
either to do without Aus-
tralian wool or produce
a type of wool which
will compete with Aus-
tralian wool in world
markets.
Every ram and every
breeding ewe worth
keeping can be used in
Australia. There are
millions of acres which
are not carrying nearly
to their full capacity and
which, with proper hus-
bandry and if land ad-
ministrations encouraged
sheep improvement by
rent and taxation con-
cessions, could all be used at full pro-
duction rate. There is also consider-
able room for the improvement of wool
by the universal use of a better class
of sheep.
Export of stud animals, too, becomes
more and more dangerous year by year
as artificial blending materials are de-
veloped.
The graziers’ associations, which re-
view the position every year, have
hitherto been the strongest influence in
maintaining the embargo. One leading
newspaper says:
Remove this opposition of the various
graziers’ associations and almost at once
along would come South Africans, Argen-
tines and others with good money to buy
rams and ewes. And the money would
revive the studs and have a tremendous
influence on our own flocks of to-morrow.
Also, almost at once would come foreign
buyers to wool sales prepared to pay less
than they pay now for supplies. Any-
body who favors export of Australian
rams and stud ewes should pause to
consider what would be the effect if
the present market were oversupplied
instead of undersupplied with certain
types, or if certain types of Australian
wool had to face foreign competition.
The Value of Fat-lamb Trials.
“Balaam”: It is doubtful if fat-lamb-
raising trials are generally of any value.
In trials at Cowra (N.S.W.) Experiment
Farm, results of which have recently
been published, Southdown, Ryeland and
Dorset Horn rams were mated with first-
cross Romney-merino and Border
Leicester-merino ewes. Rams were
joined from Dec. 13, 1937, to Feb. 7,
1938.
The Southdown and Dorset Horn
showed highly favorable results. Lamb-
ing percentages for the various sections
were:
Southdown x Border Leicester-merino, 106%
Southdown x Romney-merino ........ 83%
Ryeland x Border-Leicester-merino .... 53 %
Ryeland x Romney-merino 53%
Dorset Horn x Border Leicester-merino 90%
Dorset Horn x Romney-merino 83%
Market returns for the lambs calculated
“Him bin make plurry smoke screen, boss, to cover his tracks.”
on the basis of “return per ewe mated”
accentuated the superiority of South-
down and Dorset Horn.
The official report states :
The outstanding features were the late-
ness of the Ryeland rams to mate under
the hot conditions, the low percentage of
Ryeland lambs, and the fact that Southdown
rams again gave, the highest percentage of
lambs, being slightly ahead of Dorset
Horns. Of the 390 ewes mated, 62 had
no lambs, and the reports adds,: Of this
number 52 were from the group joined
with Ryeland rams.
However, it says further that “The
factor causing the low Ryeland percent-
ages was the fatness and over-condition
of the rams. In the circumstances,
the Ryeland percentages are more satis-
factory than the figures indicate.”
Enough time and preparation should
have been allowed to get all breeds into
uniformly fit mating condition. The in-
formation about Southdown and Dorset
Horn rams might be interesting, but as
a comparison of the value of the three
Down breeds it is not only valueless
but misleading.
Coast Disease and Ataxia.
“Ghanam”: The C.S. and I.R. has re-
ported on coast disease in sheep and
lamb ataxia, which cause expensive losses
in S. Australian and Victorian areas in
which calcium carbonate is present in
large quantities in the soil.
Mostly the calcium comes from sea-
shells. Animals usually are affected after
several months on this overlimed country.
Their eyes become dull, they become
weak, wool growth slows up and the
fleece looks dead. Sometimes the mem-
branes of the mouth and muzzle become
blanched; the skin loses its rosiness,
appears anaemic and tender, and, at an
advanced stage of the disease, breaks
if the wool is parted too roughly.
The C.S. and I.R. has confirmed the
conclusion already arrived at in W.A.
that the trouble is not due to overplus
of lime, but to shortage of copper and
cobalt. As a sheep needs only one thirty-
thousandth of an ounce of cobalt and one
five-thousandth of an ounce of copper,
the deficiency is cheaply remedied. Where
sheep were run on dangerous country
without special treatment, they quickly
contracted coast disease. Where they
received one milligram of cobalt and
five mils, copper as soluble salts per day,
they were healthy.
Both chemicals can be given with a
salt lick, but great care must be exer-
cised, since both are poisonous in excess.
The best way is to make an intimate
mixture of five parts copper sulphate
with one part cobalt chloride —6oz. of
the mixture with" one gallon of water, in
an enamel bucket (anything galvanised
is dangerous). Sheep vary in the intake
of salt according to types of feed and
general conditions, but generally speaking
about 801 b. of salt per week should
provide for 1000 animals. To this add
eight pints of the popper-cobalt solution.
It is a good idea to isolate half a dozen
sheep and test them out on the lick
before working on a large scale, at the
same time watching the bulk of animals
on salt (without the extra minerals), so
as to determine without question their
normal appetite for lick.
Treating Milk Fever.
“Mookau”: Arguments as to the
cause of milk fever have been as varied
as those about how kangaroos are born.
Some locate the cause in the udder it-
self ; others blame brain anaemia, and
others still sugar shortage in the blood.
Two Scots—Dryene and Greig—put for-
ward the only explanation which can be
backed with chemical fact. They have
shown that a symptom is a marked drop
in lime content in the blood, and that
when this is repaired the animal re-
covers.
In milk there is about ioz. of lime
per gallon. When a cow is producing
young, the call for lime is heavier than
normally, since the lime content of
colostrum milk is greater than in ordinary
milk.
Milk fever is particularly a disease of
flush seasons. When cows are taken off
ordinary pasture and put into a lush
field a few weeks before calving, it is
possible that their mineral blood content
is affected. It is better to keep the animals
on a dry diet if used to it and drench
or give ensilage or hay and molasses.
The earliest symptom of the fever is
usually a drunken gait and a reluctance
in the cow to move about. In a couple
of hours or so, the patient goes down
and lies quietly with a lowered
temperature and no disposition to make
any movement except to twitch the head
round towards the ribs.
A careful watch enables treatment in
the staggering .stage —a drench of 2oz.
calcium chloride, with If pints water
and 2flb. molasses. Dr. Annet, of
Matangi, M.L., has also devised a
drench —one pint molasses stirred into a
quart of boiling water, to which jib.
hydrated lime is added. The mixture is
filtered when cool and will keep bottled,
so as to be ready for instant use.
If the animal falls, inflation of the
udder is vitally necessary, and there
should be a simple outfit, well sterilised,
on every farm. When the job is done,
the animal should be rolled into a sitting
position, brisket to earth, and propped
up. The lime drench should be given
to cows which are down if they can take
it without choking.
The disease seems preventive, how-
ever, by following the centuries-old
advice to hold a prospective dam in a
bare field for a few days before calving,
putting a little lime in drinking water
and keeping up minerals through licks.
Also, a sound precaution seems to be a
calcium drench given immediately after
calving, especially if the feed is green
and luscious and the lady in high con-
dition.
Farm Ham and Bacon.
“Pappamosca”: The “Victorian Agri-
cultural Journal’’ puts forward a handy
recipe for curing farm bacon, which is
best made from a well-fleshed and
-finished pig between 1001 b. and 1301 b.
weight.
For 24 hours before killing, give no
food but plenty of clean water. The
best method of killing is to stun and
“stick” in the throat, inserting the knife
just in front of the breastbone, pointing
towards the heart. Thorough bleeding
is essential.
So soon as the pig as lifeless the
carcass should be plunged in hot water
not less than 165 deg. and preferably
170 deg. Move the carcass about vigor-
ously and scrape until most of the hair
is removed. Hang up by the hind legs
and clean off the remaining hair with
a knife. Also, run the knife down each
side of the backbone and remove surplus
fat round the kidneys, etc. Then hang
again till the next morning, when the
carcass should be “set” for cutting up.
Curing should be done in a room with
a temperature under 70deg. Brine mix-
ture is made of one kero.-tin clean boiled
rainwater (cool), 101 b. coarse salt and
2oz. saltpetre. An egg should float in it.
Add brown sugar till its flavor is dis-
tinctly evident.
The pork should be rubbed well with
dry salt and left for two hours. Then
put the parts into the brine, weighted, and
leave for three weeks, taking them out
every week for another rub with dry


mij
3248.
■n
M
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze XHalf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 45/- in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY "
gyi
CONCRETE
FENCE
POSTS
WILL NOT BURN
"THEIR FIRST COST IS THE LAST COST"
Write for Free Advice and Booklets on
METHOD OF MAKING CON-
CRETE
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS
CONCRETE FOR FARM AND
STATION
LEAFING TANKS CONQUERED
WITH CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS
CONCRETE TROUGHS, TANKS
AND WELLS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON ST., SYDNEY
Phone: 82471
gyui
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS |
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by tlie Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels.
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
»r
E
S
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kino St., Sydney
AMPLITE
HOME POWER UNITS
8y BRIGGS 4 STRATTON
A small, compact Petrol Electric Generator,
everything a car engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
(i J Automatic Starting
(2) Air-Cleaner. Oil-bath type
(3) Petrol Filter
(4) Float-feed adjustable Carbu
/ettor.
(5) Magneto Ignition, etc
(6) Automatic Cut-out
Features 2. 3 and 4 are positively
exclusive to AMP-UTE Model 300.
*.*.«• |
9’l.rd: Ch *l 4 !*" A WA, M.lbc-'"'
Vic: Glon« L'9 k b , ud Hob.:'
5 Aut( N .-.o.MC j&Co ?efth
I w Aul*’. H. b-
Smaller model (manual tlertlngl available
Price £23/10/
AMPLION (A/S»a) PTY.ITP. 6*,CLARENCE ST.SYDNEY.
AN Y WH E RE
ANYTIME
«
MODEL 300
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
0 Will operate twelve 25 watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on I' gal. of petrol.
PRICE £35/15/-
Al,o BRIGGS & STRATTON PF.TROt
MOTORS from ! to 5 horsepouer
salt, especially round the knuckles and
sockets. Keep light well away—it in-
fluences bacon color.
When cure is complete, scrub the
bacon with warm water and a little
baking-soda. Hang the ham or bacon
till weeping stops, smoke in a barrel or
smokehouse. Take the bottom out of
the barrel, make a small clean fire and
cover it lightly with pine sawdust. Hang
the meat in the barrel at least a foot
above the smouldering embers and keep
on with the job for a few days until
the color is right. Then hang, preferably
covered in muslin or hessian, in a cool,
dry store -
If the meat shows mould when taken
out, 30 parts of olive-oil and one part
formalin will clean it up.
Sizes for Silos.
“J. Want”: First calculate the capacity
required—how much is wanted to feed
a sheep or a cow ; how many there are
to be fed.
Pit silage is the easiest and cheapest
form. A properly-built pit with easy
slopes might have a top length four times
bottom length, and a top width measur-
ing sft. to every 4ft. of bottom width,
with a depth of 6ft. to Bft. A pit 40ft.
long on top and 10ft. long at bottom
should be 10ft. wide at earth level, Bft.
wide at bottom and 6ft. deep.
With these measurements it is easy
to drive wagons in and out. It should
hold 21 tons of compressed silage,
Several small pits are better than one
large one, and variety of material pays,
About the maximum efficient depth is
10ft.—working conditions determine that.
Such a pit should be about 14ft. wide
at tO P and llft - at bottom, 70ft. long
at top and 30ft. at bottom. It would
hold 106 tons of average compressed
silage. This is about five tons more than
could be held in an above-ground, barrel-
lype silo, 16ft. in diameter and 25ft. deep,
Pit silos have all the handling advan-
tages on their side.
The best results from pit storage prob-
ably come from unchaffed maize or
sorghum. Drive the dray into the pit
and drop the load in lengths. Remember
the silo ends are sloping when packing,
so drop the second load so that its
middles cover the butts of the first load.
Then level up by hand to get even
pressure.
Maize or sorghum will give 20 tons
to 25 tons silage yield to the acre, against
six tons to 10 tons from oats and three
tons to six tons for lucerne or sub.
clover. But don’t let disparity in yield
prevent you from having a pit of
pleasant-smelling light-brown lucerne.
It has uses that other silage can never
fill.
Valuable New Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Grown for quality under
commercial conditions, the new rust-
immune wheat Eureka, evolved at Glen
Innes (N.S.W.) Experiment Farm, has
come through with credit both as a
farmer’s and miller's wheat. In field
crops of 25 and 20 acres at Tamworth
and Delungra yields of 39 bushels of
first-class plump milling grain were
obtained.
A mid-season grain, Eureka finishes well
to a full milling sample of “hard” grade,
like Florence in color. In official mill
and loaf tests it has given satisfactory
results. Of fair milling quality, it pro-
duced a high percentage of flour of
medium strong quality and high water
absorption. Baking quality ranked
almost equal to Gular, which is a third-
grade premium wheat.
“J.W.”: Nobody has yet claimed the
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.’s £5OOO re-
ward for a method of dealing with
skeleton weed. It turned out to be like
most other pests for which the eradi-
cation method is quite obvious use
land so thoroughly that no pest gets a
start, or, if it does, is eaten down before
it seeds. Once it is established the only
method is sheer hard work. If areas
were smaller, pasture culture more in-
tensive and sufficient stock were carried
for rotational purposes, there would be
less trouble with weeds. Also, there are
some avenues which have yet to be ex-
plored in regard to so-called pests. Stock
will eat skeleton weed. Have any of our
plant-breeders so far had a shot at
developing it into’ a really effective and
palatable fodder?
“Araki”: Seems to me that in the
right districts a lot more could be done
with Japanese millet. It doesn’t stand up
to drought as well as Sudan grass, but
in Eastern Australia it can be fed off a
month or six weeks after seeding. It
likes an alternating routine —graze when
six inches high and give it a rest till
fit to graze again. Broadcast sowing
calls for 151 b. to 201 b. seed per acre, or
101 b. drilled in. Don’t try it where
rainfall is not regular. Experiment with
a small patch to see that soil suits it
before using on any large scale.
Remember, too, that it is essentially a
grazing proposition ; as hay, it could not
win a beer bottle in Innamincka.
“Mulyan”: Noogoora burr can be got
rid of cheaply by keeping it grazed down
by sheep while young. On several runs on
the Lower Macquarie (N.S.W.) it has
proved useful as drought feed. Flocks
were shepherded on thickly-infested parts,
primarily to get rid of the weed. The
sheep ate it readily to the ground, pre-
ferring the stalks to the leaves. When
unchecked the burr spreads rapidly,
reaching a height of eight feet, and grow-
ing as thickly as wheat. Constant watch-
fulness is necessary to prevent reinfes-
tation, as the seeds can be carried
hundreds of miles by animals. The burr,
brought to N.S.W. from Queensland
about 40 years ago, was introduced in
cotton seed.
“J.S.P.”: The schoolboy’s description
of a horse is an animal with a leg at
each corner and a tail in the middle to
keep the flies off. This might equally
apply to a sheep except that in the
interests of blowfly protection the last-
named appendage is almost wholly
removed. It might be asked: Are we
overdoing this tail-docking business?
Watch a mob of short-wools when flies
are bad. Often you will see tails wagging
in all directions, brushing off flies. It
seems evident that if the tail were docked
so as to leave enough to protect the
critical patch of wool on which strike
usually occurs, there might be a reduc-
tion in the number of struck sheep. In
many cases to leave one extra joint
would be enough.
“Correa”: Eyre’s Peninsula (S.A.)
district is finding nitre bush (Nitraria
schoberi ) a useful sand-binder. At the
beginning of the century Whyalla
council was spending £2OO a year in
having sand drift carted away. To-day,
owing to the spread of nitre bush,
no expenditure is needed. Nitre bush
was first discovered on the salt plains of
Siberia, 200 years ago, and when found
growing along the Great Australian
Bight was believed to be a distinct Aus-
tralian genus. However, Bentham
established the fact that the Asiatic and
Australian species are identical. In some
districts along the shores of the Bight
nitre bush grows as thickly as a hedge.
Its juicy fruits did much to keep Eyre
alive on his famous trip of 1841.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My brother and I wish to secure a lease in the
N.T. to which to transfer ourselves, father,
mother and five children. We have between
£4OO and £5OO capital. What are the chances
of a decent living? Can we find work to help
us along while stock are increasing ? Where
do we apply for lease? —52104.
There is good country, both for sheep and
cattle, available, but it would be necessary for
any intending settler to visit the Territory to
select land. Any person proposing to take up
land must be prepared to 'bore for water. The
cost of sinking a bore and equipping it is be-
tween £l3OO and £l5OO. The prospects of
Obtaining work on stations in the Territory
are not very bright. Write to the Department
of Interior, Canberra, A.C.T., for further in-
formation.


Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board, Sydney
£lOOO,OOO LOAN
Interest 4i % p.a. Price of Issue par (£100)
REPAYABLE Ist FEBRUARY, 1949
LOAN NOW OPEN
Closes Not Later than 6th February, 1939
Guaranteed by the Government of New South Wales.
Loan underwritten by Messrs. J. B. Were & Son, Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, and London.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board from whatever source
arising.
Applications for subscriptions and instalments will be accepted free of
exchange at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Canberra, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, and through Members of
a recognised Australian Stock Exchange.
Interest will be payable and principal repayable at any of the above
Commonwealth Bank of Australia branches.
Prospectuses and application forms are obtainable at any of the Bank’s
branches and the Board’s Head Office, 45 Reservoir Street, Sydney, and
branches.
Stock or debentures will be issued at the option of the applicant, debentures
in denominations of £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO, and stock in multiples of £lOO.
The minimum amount that may be applied for in the Loan is £lOO, and
amounts in excess of £lOO must be for multiples of £lOO.
Applications may be paid in accordance with the following options:—
Option I—ln full with application
Option 2—£10% with application
£30% by 31st March, 1939
£30% by Ist May, 1939
£30% by Ist June, 1939
or
Option 3—£10% with application
£90% by Ist June, 1939
The Loan is a trustee investment in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania.
Applications will be made for the listing of the Loan on the principal Stock Exchanges in the
Commonwealth. ,
The Board reserves the right to close the Loan at any earlier date without notice and
partially to allot subscription.
WHY YOU SHOULD INVEST:
The Loan is a first-class investment, with repayment of principal at par assured and regular
payment of interest each half-year certain.
The money will be spent on essential water and sewerage works.
The Loan will be listed on Stock Exchange, and thus provide ready realisation.
T. HAYNES UPTON, President.
W. O. C. DAY, Secretary.
Sydney.


yfi
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Liist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORRES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per pacKet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Tbe right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
requires typing work; used to handling manu-
scripts, neat and accurate. —2248.
Young man (29), single, car and truck driver,
selling and advertising exp., city and country,
wants job anywhere.—22B2.
To buy Beaumont’s Fall of the Kaiser.
Bretherton s Tales of Three . Campaigns, Bott’s
tastern Flights and Nights, Carpenter’s Block-
Zeebrugge, Housman’s War Letters of Fallen
tnghshmen, Pedley’s Only This, Ribot’s Letters
a Friend, Renn’s After War, Thomassen’s
Fix Bayonets, Turner’s The Struggle in the Air,
Watson s A Company of Tanks and Witkop’s
German Students’ War Letters .—22o6.
To buy; second-hand, in good condition,
Harold Bell Wright’s When a Man’s a Man
and Gene Stratton Porter’s The Song of the
Cardinal.— 22l6.
Words of poems “The Binder Will Not Go”
and “Tramping Down from Dubbo.”—2274.
To hear from any Westons who came from
Brackley, Northamptonshire, England, or their
descendants.—222B.
To correspond with person in Pacific Islands
with a view to exchanging stamps.—22oB.
Information Sought.
(1) Highest and (2) lowest temperatures re-
corded in England?— 22s3.
(1) The maximum temperature of the air
recorded in the shade at 4ft. above the ground
is lOOdeg. F. This was observed at Wilton
House, Salisbury, on July 15, 1881, and at
Greenwich Observatory on August 9, 1911.
(2) The lowest temperature of the air recorded
jn the shade at 4ft. above the ground is minus
23deg. F., or 55deg. below freezing-point, at
Blackadder, Berwickshire, on December 4,
1879.
* * * *
(1) Could the armorial bearings of an Eng-
lish family be used by relatives in Australia?
(2) Any Australian regulations governing such
usage? (3) Are armorial bearings in use in
A ustralia to-day ? —2198.
(1) Proof of actual descent from the person to
whom the arms were originally granted would
have to be provided before permission could
be obtained from the College of Arms, whose
fee would be £7O or more. (2) Don’t know
of any. (3) Yes, by many families.
* * :1c *
Figures giving Australian trade with foreign
countries for 1937-38 ? —2283.
Belgium, imports from £1,140,974, exports
to £5,685,897; China, £601,870 and £616,520;
Egypt, £27,616 and £640,727; France, £964,554
and £11,055,647; Germany, £4,170,624 and
£4,410,098; Italy, £844,983 and £2,644,058;
Japan, £5,349,087 and £5,900,098; Netherlands,
£656,161 and £779,515; Netherlands East Indies,
£7,530,509 and £1,467,765; Norway, £495,560
and £56,573; Pacific Islands (various foreign),
£444,029 and £461,181; Philippine Islands,
£123,466 and £619,504; Spain, £108,225 and
£133,148; Sweden, £1,551,333 and £472,657;
Switzerland, £873,629 and £123,173; U.S.A.,
£17,759,175 and £10,859,622; other foreign
countries, £3,314,571 and £6,649,688.
H= * * *
A few details concerning William Butler
Yeats ?— 2285.
He was born in Dublin in 1865. Educated
at Godolphin School, Hammersmith, and Eras-
mus Smith School, Dublin. After three years
as an art student he abandoned art for litera-
ture, and founded Irish literary societies in
London and Dublin. He also, with the co-
operation of Lady Gregory and other enthusi-
asts, created the Irish National Theatre. His
first publication was The Wanderings of Oisin
in 1889. Since then he has published a large
number of plays, volumes of poetry, antholo-
gies and critical works. In 1923 he received
the Nobel Prize for Literature.
* * * *
(1) What probate duties would be charged
on an estate valued at £lO,OOO left to a wife
and children all over 21 ? (2) What is the posi-
tion of an amount of £2OOO from an insurance
policy left the same way? —2l9s.
(1) Federal duty: Where the net value of the
estate, after deducting debts, exceeds £2OOO the
rate per cent, is £l, together with an additional
percentage of one-fifth of £1 for every £lOOO (or
part) in excess of £2OOO, but so that the percen-
tage shall not exceed £l5. Where the estate
passes to a widow, children or grandchildren
a rebate of one-third is allowed. N.S.W. duty:
Where the final balance of the estate does not
exceed £61,000 the rate is two per cent, plus
a quarter per cent, for every £lOOO (or part)
by which the balance exceeds the thousand.
Half-rates to widow and to children under 21
only where the net estate does not exceed
£5OOO. (2) The £2OOO is absorbed into the
estate and becomes part of its assets.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the Duke of Edinburgh’s
visit to Australia ? (2) Did he visit Queensland
in the ’nineties? —2244.
(1) The visit of the Duke of Edinburgh
(Prince Alfred Ernest Albert, son of Queen
Victoria) occurred in 1867-68, when he travelled
in H.M.S. Galatea. Leaving Melbourne on
November 23, 1867, he reached Hobart on
January 7, Sydney January 20, left Sydney the
next day lor Queensland, arriving Moreton Bay
January 24. He returned to Sydney March 2,
and on March 12 narrowly escaped assassina-
tion at Clontarf. He was nursed at Govern-
ment House, and, making a quick recovery,
left on the return journey early in April. (2)
No return visit was made by the duke. Prince
Albert Victor and Prince George (the late
King) visited Brisbane in the Bacchante in
August, 1881.
* * * *
Has perpetual motion, as applied to motors,
ever been achieved? —2lBo.
No. To maintain any real machine in motion
requires the expenditure of energy. The most
perfect machine we can build will have some
frictional resistance, and energy must therefore
be supplied to keep it in motion.
* * * *
Weight of staple fibre and rayon consumed
annually (produced and imported ) in the British
Empire ? —2097.
Sufficiently detailed statistics of the industry
are not available to enable a precise reply to be
given. The United Kingdom production
of rayon for 1937 amounted to 119,700,0001 b.,
and the staple-fibre production was estimated
lor the same year at 35,000,0001 b. The export
of rayon was 13,200,0001 b., giving a consump-
tion of about 140,000,0001 b., but some of this
would certainly have been used in the manu-
facture of piecegoods for export. The Indian
imports amounted to approximately 28,000,0001 b.,
part of which came from the United Kingdom,
but a great deal from Japan. Total Australian
imports of all artificial silk for 1936-37
amounted to 6,879,0001 b. Canada for 1937
imported approximately 1,600,0001 b. and pro-
duced 16,500,0001 b. On these figures, it appears
that a total consumption within the Empire
would amount to about 200,000,0001 b per
annum.
* * * *
(1) Who was the head physician of Edward
VII. ? (2) Did he have a son who graduated
in 1895 or 1896 at Oxford University ? (3)
Did this son become a physician? —l9Bl.
(1) No such title as head physician. Sir
Francis Henry Laking was for many years the
trusted medical adviser of Edward VII. and
of the royal family. He was later physician
in ordinary to George V. and to Queen Alex-
andra. Other prominent men deputed to attend
King Edward were Sir James Reid, Sir R.
Douglas Powell and Dr. Bertrand Dawson. The
King, when Prince of Wales, suffered from
typhoid fever in 1871, and his life was saved
by Sir William Jenner and Sir William Gull.
For details as to the careers of any of these
men’s sons, reference to the “British Medical
Register” would be necessary.
* * * *
(1) Difference between alternating and direct
current? (2) Why are both forms employed?
(3) Has one form any advantage over the
other? —2241.
(1) A direct current is one in which the cur-
rent flows continuously in the one direction,
while an alternating current reverses its direc-
tion of flow a fixed number of times per second.
The time it takes to reach its maximum in one
direction, decrease, revers'e, reach its maximum
in the reverse direction, and again decrease to
nothing is called a cycle. The number of
cycles per second is called the frequency. (2)
Both forms have their own particular uses, but
alternating current is gradualy replacing direct
current for lighting and power. (3) Alternating
current has the advantage of being easily and
efficiently transformed from a low voltage to a
high voltage and vice versa, and electrical power
is more easily transmitted in the alternating
form than in the direct form.
* * # *
A few particulars concerning English author
Claude Houghton, with a list of his publi-
cations ? —2252.
His real name is Claude Houghton Oldfield,
and he was born at Sevenoaks (Kent), educated
at Dulwich College, and is a civil servant
attached to the Admiralty. Publications are as
follows: Verse, The Phantom Host, The
Tavern of Dreams; plays, Judas, In the House
of the High Priest; essays, In the Kingdoms
of the Spirit; novels, Neighbors, The Riddle
of Helena, Crisis, I Am Jonathan Scrivener, A
Hair Divides, Chaos Is Come Again, Julian
Grant Loses His Way, This Was Ivor Trent,
Christina, Strangers; short stories, Three Fan-
tastic Tales, The Beast. '
* * * *
Who are the members of (1) the Common-
wealth Literature Censorship Board and (1)
the Commonwealth Literary Fund? —2251.
(1) Dr. L. H. Allen (chairman), Prof. J. M.
Haydon and Kenneth Binns. The Appeal
Censor is Robert Garran. (2) S. Talbot Smith
(chairman), Dr. George Mackaness, Prof. W. A.
Osborne. The secretary is H. A. Barrenger.
* * * *
What is meant by the term “conservation
of energy” ? —2247.
Energy cannot be destroyed or lost, but it
can be converted from one form to another or
transferred from one body to another; but, no
matter what transformations are undergone,
when the total effects of the exertion are
summed up the result will be axactly equal to
the amount originally expended from the
source. This law is called the “conservation
of energy.”
Meaning of the term “philosopher’s stone’’ ?
—2249.
By this term alchemists understood a sub-
stance which would have the power of convert-
ing all base metals into gold. In accounts of
alleged transmutations that have survived the
stone is nearly always represented as consist-
ing of a red powdery material; on adding a
pinch of it to a container of molten lead the
latter was turned into gold.
* * * *
A plain brown tapestry-covered lounge suite
has been bleached by contact with perspiration-
soaked tennis clothes. Remedy? —224s.
Practically no remedy. The color has evapo-
rated under the influence of acids, been driven
into the furniture padding or gone off on the
clothing. You might mix a brown cold-water
dye rather strongly and try dabbing this on to
match the shade of the tapestry, but the results
are not promising to contemplate. Large deco-
rative square patches of- the same material
could be stitched on in a balanced manner;
but the only real solution appears to be new
loose covers.
* * * *
Simple recipe for old-time ginger beer? —
2171.
Assemble 31b. sugar, 4oz. whole ginger
(sometimes called “rough” ginger), cream
of tartar, juice of three lemons, one teaspoon
yeast, white of one egg and two gallons boiling
water. Bruise the ginger well with a hammer,
place in the water, bring to the boil and boil
for 20 minutes. Add sugar, lemon juice, then
strain. When cool, add the cream of tartar,
yeast and egg-white. Stir well and let stand
for 12 hours. Then bottle and cork.
* * * *
How to clean an enamel bath of green stains
caused by copper? —2l97.
Make up a mixture of equal parts of vinegar
and salt in a saucer, and rub on the stains with
a flannel. Wash off quickly with plenty of cold
water, as this cleaner itself may damage the
bath. Before trying this mixture, see what can
be done by scrubbing with hot soapy water
containing a little cloudy ammonia or by using
one of the commercial bath-cleaners of the
light abrading type.
* V # *
(1) What is Weil’s disease? (2) Symptoms ?
(3) Any cure? —2147.
(1) Weil’s disease is commonly known in the
areas in which it occurs as infective jaundice
{Leptospirosis icterohcemorrhagica). The cause
is a corkscrew-like organism (Leptospira),
apparently conveyed by rats, which enters
abrasions and infects the blood of human
beings. The disease has therefore been found
in sewer and canal workers, and in persons
bathing in contaminated waters. In October,
1933, there was an outbreak of 40 cases (three
deaths) at Ingham, N.Q., where rats abound in
the canefields. Fish-cleaners are also liable.
In fact, 21 occupations have been found to be
involved, and the case-fatality rate is about
15 p.c. (2) Intense jaundice, diarrhoea (some-
times bloodstained) and occasionally menin-
gitis. (3) A special anti-leptospira serum is
used with good effect, combined with daily
doses of calomel and the injection into the
patient’s veins of a solution of saline with
5 p.c. glucose.
* « * m
Meaning of duodenum, duodena and duo-
denal ?— 2212.
The duodenum (the word is of Latin origin)
is the first part of the small intestine, leading
directly from the lower end of the stomach,
and “duodena” may be used, though seldom,
as its plural form. “Duodenal” is an adjective
meaning “of, pertaining to, or situated in the
duodenum.” The duodenum is so called be-
cause it is about 12 finger-breadths in length.
* * * *
Particulars of the course in dietetics at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney? —22Bo.
Candidates must be between the ages of 21
and 30 years, and must first have obtained the
degree of Bachelor of Science. They must
also pass a medical examination. The fee for
the course, which lasts 12 months, is £2l.
Residence in the hospital is obligatory. A
charge of £1 per week is made for board,
room and laundry. Students are required to
provide their own books and uniforms. The
training includes all phases of dietary manage-
ment, with practical work, lectures, seminars,
case studies and field trips.
* * * *
(It How to construct a set of chimes from
brass tubing? (2) Any books on this subject?
—2167.
(1) Obtain four lengths of 5-Bin. diameter
tubing of the following lengths: 2ft. 7iin.,
2ft. 9|in., 2ft. and 3ft. 6|in. Larger
diameter tubing may be used, the proportions
being about the same, but the length of each
will require shortening to tune. The tubes are
hung in a row by cords attached to their upper
ends, with a spacing of |in. between each tube.
The exact tuning of the chimes must be carried
out with a piano. (2) Details will be found in
“Work” for January 27, 1923.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Sam Langford and
Sam McVea fight each other in Australia and
elsewhere? (2) What were the results? (3)
Are Langford and McVea still living? —22s9.
(1) Fifteen, six contests taking place in Aus-
tralia. (2) Langford won four contests, Mc-
Vea two; four contests were drawn, and in
five there was no decision. (3) McVea died
in 1918. Langford still lives in New York,
but is reported to be almost totally blind.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Jack Dempsey,
former heavyweight champion of the world,
born ? (2) In what outstanding contests did he
take part? —2lB9.
(1) Born Manassa, Colorado, June 24, 1895.
(2) Won the world’s heavyweight championship
by knocking out Jess Willard in three rounds
at Toledo, Ohio, July 4, 1919; knocked out
Georges Carpentier in four rounds at Jersey
City, July 2, 1921; outpointed Tommy Gibbons
in 15 rounds at Shelby, Montana, July 4, 1923 ;
knocked out Luis Firpo in two rounds at New
York, September 14, 1923; lost the world’s
heavyweight title, on a 10-round points de-
cision, to Gene Tunney at Philadelphia, Sep-
tember 23, 1926; knocked out Jack Sharkey
in seven rounds at New York City, July 21,
1927; lost to Tunney in 10 rounds at Chicago,
September 22, 1927. He then retired.
Brief Answers.
J.S.. The book is worth about st)s
K.A.S.: Communicate direct with the Com-
missioner of Native Affairs, W.A., in regard
to Karonie mission station and to the Chief
Protector of Aboriginals, S.A., in regard to
the Ooldea mission station M.V.: Write
Horitz Fruit Drinks, Langland-street, Valley,
Brisbane, and Victoria Cross Manufacturing
Co., 160 Logan-street, South Brisbane
T.H.A.T.: Write J. B. Regan, Phoenix Flour
Mill, Tamworth (N.S.W.) R.C.: (1) Write
for quotations and information to the follow-
R ° b f, rt B Dce and Co., 188-190 Kent-street,
Chas. Hall and Co., Reiby-place, James Hardie
Trading Co., 378 Kent-street—all Sydney. (2)
Depends on the size and style of the plant;
this information is supplied by the foregoing
firms. (3) Some information would be supplied
by the machinery merchants acting for the
makers of the gear; or you could pay a
premium to one of the city cleaning firms and
take a few weeks’ lessons as a worker. Pos-
sibly a good textbook on the subject would be
a help, though there is nothing like practical ex-
perience... .S.M.F.: Such stains are considered
rather difficult to remove. Buy a half-pound
tin of chloride of lime, and follow directions
for making a solution. Wet the stains in clean,
cold water, then dab in and out of the
limewater, and rinse quickly; repeat until
clean or hopeless. The linen must not
be allowed to remain long in the lime. Sun-
bleaching should follow P.R.M.: The Federal
High Court comprises John Greig Latham
(Chief Justice) and Justices George Rich,
H. E. Starke, O. Dixon, H. V. Evatt and E. A.
McTiernan S.P.: (1) ss. p.a. (2) Write
Mrs. Catherine Lindsay, hon. sec., Fellowship
of Australian Writers, Box 3448 R, G.P.0.,
Sydney... .H.T.: The ballet “Le Lac des
Cygnes” is an abridged version of a four-act
ballet composed by Tschaikowsky between
August, 1868, and March, 1876, and produced
at Moscow, Feb. 20, 1877 W.T.: T. Playford
(Premier, Treasurer and Minister of Immigra-
tion), George Ritchie (Chief Secretary, Mines
and Health), S. W. Jeffries (Attorney-General,
Education and Industry and Employment), M.
Mclntosh (Works, Railways, Marine and Local
Government), A. P. Blesing (Agriculture and
Afforestation), R. J. Rudall (Lands, Repatria-
tion and Irrigation) J.L.8.: Application
forms and details obtainable from the Under-
secretary, Agricultural Department, Sydney
J.G.: Get in touch with Vocational Guidance
Bureau, Education Department, Sydney
N.H.S.: Suspect glandular trouble, but you
give no indication as to the part of the body
affected, nor the age of the dog—both im-
portant. The trouble may be in the submaxil-
lary, the bronchial or the inguinal glands, each
of which requires different treatment. Baryta
Carb. 6 every hour might be tried J.H.R.:
If the tenant had an opportunity of inspecting
the house or of having it inspected by an ex-
pert, such as an architect or builder, before
entering into the tenancy and raised no objec-
tion, cannot see how the landlord can be held
responsible for the damage. If he made no
inquiry or inspection, the tenant took the house
at his own risk... .G.S.: In view of the irregu-
larity of the proceedings it would not be desir-
able. The Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street,
Sydney, would supply you with a list of text-
books P.H.: Write Queensland Agricultural
Department, Brisbane, for Advisory Leaflet No.
26, “Mushrooms”... .8.G.K.: Write Lewis
Berger and Sons, Rhodes (N.S.W.) 1.D.:
(1) Keep hair short. Wash scalp well twice
weekly with liquid soap, drying it thoroughly
and massaging well afterwards. Rub in a
lotion containing salicyclic acid (five parts),
castor oil (six parts), spirits of rosemary (50
parts) and spirit (150 parts). All this means
a chemist’s bill. (2) Probably all due to the
dandruff. See a doctor if condition does not
improve... .G. 8.: Cannot give an exact for-
mula, but most chemists stock preparations
containing silver nitrate in solution. This causes
a most unpleasant taste if tobacco is used.
The eating of sweets and avoidance of alcohol
are also helpful L.A.D.: Write to Institute
of Industrial Psychology, 12 O’Connell-street,
Sydney... .H.H.: Doit’t recollect the prescrip-
tion you want. Cause must be first deter-
mined ; and there are scores of causes for
catarrh, some of which can be cured only by
operation... .J.M.C.: (1) The seat of the de-
formities may be in the knee-joints or in the
bones above or below them, so that no general
treatment can be recommended for all cases.
But many cases in young adults are much im-
proved by operative treatment —a job for a
specialist. (2) and (3) The appliance is not very
successful in extreme cases, but a good deal can
be done to hide the deformity by an expert
tailor if bowing is not extreme... .R. 8.: The
letter seems to suggest that somebody at the
“tribunal” did not think the disabilities were
genuine. The word “voodoo,” a Creole French
corruption, has found its way into the English
language. The vodu was an African witch-
doctor, and “voodooism” was the name given
to a type of fetish-worship and quack-doctoring
practised among the negroes in Africa and the
West Indies, particularly in Haiti... .H.W.:
Percentage of potassium is highest in yolk of
egg, milk, veal, wheat, potatoes and peas. Per-
centage of magnesium is highest in milk,
cheese, eggs, green vegetables, butter and nuts.
. ...J.W.: (1) Runs scored from a no-ball are
always credited to the batsman and no sundry
is allowed. (2) When a ball lodges in the bats-
man’s clothing or is caught in his body it is
“dead” and the batsman is not out. De-
cisions on all such questions are left with the
umpires. (3) The captain has the right to ask
batsmen to retire during an innings. (4) When
a short run is called by the umpire the bats-
men remain at the wickets to which they have
run A.A.: The penalty is disqualification
for life from attending university examinations.
E.C.M.: Put the case of dried fruit in an
airtight box and fumigate it with carbon bi-
sulphate, at the rate of one fl. oz. to every 15
cub. ft. of space in the fumigation box.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
SHE DID NOT LIKF
A FAT HUSBAND
Wanted Him To Regain
His Athletic Figure.
Like many a former athlete, this man began
to put on weight as soon as he was forced
to give up his usual exercise, and his wife was
not very pleased when she saw how fat her
husband was getting. Read how he got his
weight down:
“My husband —up to three years ago—took
part in every kind of athletic game. Then
business responsibilities left him less and less
time for exercise. As a result, his weight in-
creased steadily, until, at sft. 8 in., he weighed
14 stone and a half. I persuaded him to take
Kruschen Salts, which had been recommended
for getting his weight down. At the end of the
first week he had lost 2 lbs. Now, after four
months, he is 26 lbs. lighter, and has taken four
inches off his waist measurement.” —(Mrs.)
W.B.J.
Kruschen Salts does not reduce you overnight.
But taken regularly over a period of time—
with a modified diet and gentle exercise—half-
a-teaspoonful in a glass of hot water every
morning before breakfast will take away un-
healthy tlesh and restore your figure to its
normal weight.
FALSE TEETH
EASYto CLEAN
... with
‘Steradent*
Fill the cap of the tin
with ‘Steradent,’ and
pour the powder into a
glass containing suffi-
cient warm water (not
hot) to cover the den-
tures. Stir well. Put
in the dentures and
leave them while you
dress or overnight. Take
them out and rinse
thoroughly under the tap. Black-
est stains vanish. Your whole
denture is spotlessly clean. Price
2A and 3/6 at all chemists.
You are safe with ‘Steradent.’
It it highly recommended by the
Dental Profession.
It EC KITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sviincv.
BEFORE
AFTER
fltAfu MllflO
•»WT*TruTrt
Steradent
Cleans and sterilises false teeth
yti
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand ,
Fiji y Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
was
» V
1
Bps*
Head Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.X.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo r o tice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Tame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re conn,buttons
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. shouia
be addressed to the Editor, not to members ot the staff personally.
L.F.8.: It swings along well enough, but
i's hackneyed and sentimental E.E.: Brief
, s its spell, indeed K.A.: Album verse
M.M.H.: Weak N.C.C.: It’s just a ditty.
MB.: No place for that... .L.G.K.:
■ Reas’ning” is a horrible contraction M.W.:
An old story 1.M.: It’s a long way back to
he '45 J.H.: A two-minute poem; work on
them J.S.: Very slight... .J. I.: Close
A.A.8.: “Forget ye the distant fight” if you
jj/e, but remember it doesn’t rhyme with
"quiet,” please... .W.L.: True, but you make
a very bad poem of it.... J.T.M.: Leave it to
Masefield J.A.P.: Say it in prose F.J.8.:
No: but the sixth stanza has the right touch.
S.G.C.: Not here... .J.H.P.: Four lines
from ode to “La belle Tabouis”:
Describe with zest, ma chCrie, how
Poor Wilhelmstrasse tries
To find out what it’s doing- now
By reading all your !
....C.MJ.: There’s a market if you can say
it m four lines instead of 48 W.P.: Not
.o bad for 16, but do you expect or want
a crow to be anything but “irresponsive”?....
W.J.W.: It would make a par., if true.,..
J.D.: Too thin... .R.A.C.: And yours is
undernourished A. 8.: “The Trade Winds”
are blowing home... .R.CJ.: N 0... .J. 5.8.:
Nothing new in it L.V.: Liked the early
part, but it just dwindles away E. 0.5.:
Doesn’t go over... .C.J.R.: So it was a dream,
-•• H.C.J.: It shrieks... .P.J.8.: Didn’t
enit>y the dance E.M.: Found the gentle-
man with “the head of an Adonis, and all a
stallion’s strength and beauty and fire” a
little tiresome T.L.C.: Fair, but ending too
obvious J.G.R. (London): Not interested
in article, nor in “privately syndicated serials.”
. ...J.F.: Haunted rooms are bad enough, but
in Ohio! G. 8.: Those pro. cardsharps
who were fooled by a “sleight-of-hand expert”
deserve to be dealt deuces for the rest of their
lives G.F.S.: Middle of yarn isn’t strong
enough to carry the snap ending... .M.A.:
Philandering knights and society guff aren’t the
best ingredients for a Bulletin short story,
A.J.E.: Gangster yarn too lurid J.C.S.:
Rocky humor K.A.J.: “Great Caesar’s
ghost; it’s incredible!” Exactly Jim the
Hobo: “Stonkered” is A.E.Y.: Just
failed to make it F.S.M.: Wouldn’t interest
anyone else but yourself F.F.: Neatly told,
but theme is hackneyed V.M.M.: Not a
smile in it... .R.F.C.: “Am I boring you
fellows?” You are L.R.8.: Ending is
forced. Try it again R.McC.: Too much
padding for a not-so-strong plot W.V.H.:
Doesn’t make a story... .J.S.P.: Near, but not
near enough to rattle the cashbox... .S.M.:
Not suitable... .Z.V.W.: F.a.q. 0n1y....
W.H.C.: Patches of good humor there, but
doesn't quite hit the mark... .Spooks:
You’ve got the idea now; just send them in
like the last lot D.S.: Have seen worse....
R.N.R.: Shorten, clarify, polish and resubmit.
. ...G.0’8.: No, but it's a fair effort....
M.K.8.: Still on the prosy side N.O’K.:
Too scrappy... .G.8.K.: “Bah!” 8ah!....
T.E.D.: Nice cheerful things you think about.
... .G.T.M.: Beyond even our “experts”....
R.T.H.: Not up... .N.S.D.: Nothing for
“Charity” R.S.J.: Might land it at another
address... .S.W.: P00r... .H.C.S.: Why the
gloomy finish? ... .F.S.: “Inspiration” not very
inspiring K.R.V.: We’ll burn the next mort-
gaged farm that comes our way... .G.T.8.:
Nothing remarkable, but all right for his age.
. ...F.N.: Not those; study our needs more
carefully R.D.L.: “Oaks” only an acorn.
P.R.C.: “I’ve pulled this to pieces several
times.” You might have put it together again
before you sent it to us... .L.S.V.: “Chaft”
doesn’t catch us... .J.T.N.: Suggest you re-
write it with a fresh plot K.C.P.: “R.1.P.”
w.p.b C.M.R.: You’re a bit early with that
autumn old-timer... .P.S.W.: “Are these of any
use?” Only as examples of how not to write
a yarn L.V.L.: Horace still chasing his goats
about the mountains... .H.T.: “I write purely
for the love of writing.” Well, keep such love-
affairs to yourself... .J.S.C.: Too heavy for
what’s in it D.C.J.: O. Henry beat you to
that 8.5. D.: Your history and geography
are somewhat rocky... .H.F.P.: No, nothing
in that line T.N.D.: Liked “refractory re-
actionaries” H.T.N.: Still trying to fathom
who was the sleuth, who was the murderer and
who was his victim D.A.C.: Try it else-
where...'.X.X.X.: The Bulletin admires
Wells the novelist, and has said so many a
time, but why shouldn’t it criticise Wells the
politician? He is no accepted authority on
matters of government. In that field one Lin-
coln is worth twenty tons of novelists.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.J.: No room for deformed bather and
playful porpoise... .T. 8.: Still don’t know
whether it is Billy Hughes or Gandhi... ,K.L.:
You’d do better if you scrapped that freakish
style G.R.8.: Has every appearance of
having been hacked out of hardwood with
a blunt axe....T.J.: So feeble that it could
hardly totter to the basket... .E.M.R.: There
was no need to inform us that it was a first
attempt K.C.: That antique rears its hoary
head at least once a month... .W.H.N.; Use
fixative on charcoal drawings T.N.; You
were early enough with your Easter sketch;
alas! it was far too crude... .G.C.: Drawing
cluttered up with labels, signposts and unneces-
sary figures... .S.T.A.: Too lifeless... .R. 8.:
King Billy is not a cheque-earner, neither is
the lass with clubfeet... .N.H.: Drawing has
dash and vigor, but wheeze is merely a far-
fetched pun E.G.: Might make an illus-
tration for a Band of Hope tract... .J.Y.: You
managed the pickle bottle, but you made an
awful mess of P011y... .N. 8.: Not enough kick.
. ...G.P.: Caricatures are du11... .J.D.: We
chase that drunk off our doorsteps at least twice
a week 8.M.: We presume that the chap with
the gamp is Mr. Chamberlain, but who is the
fellow wearing spats and an outsize Gladstone
collar? F.R.H.: Heat-wave cartoonlets were
horrible A.N.W.: A course at an art school
would be helpful J.W.S.: Get more life into
your drawings 8.H.: Wash drawings are
muddy, and the figures are all out of pro-
portion G.N.: As a political cartoonist you
proved a dud tipster R.J.: We don’t doubt
that they were dashed off in a few minutes,
but that’s no qualification for entry to our
pages J.C.: The week’s second worst.
“Phildee”: Why don’t they standardise
the gadgets and contrivances you handle
a dozen times a day? Is there anything
more exasperating when returning to a
strange domicile or visiting one than
to spend 10 minutes searching for a
hitherto unknown make of gate latch in
a hitherto unknown position, wasting an-
other five minutes pondering on how to
work the darned thing, and then nearly
amputating a finger in so doing? Then
there are light switches and doorknobs,
The Lord knows how many times I’ve
bashed an unwary conk or eye in grop-
ing for them. Then taps, bath-heaters,
stoves, slot-meters, cigarette-lighters and
tin-openers, in endless variety. And
sugar spoons. In childhood I was always
assured of the same spoon, and thus
knew to a fraction how much sugar I
consumed. Now, I have to use every-
thing from buckets and shovels to tongs
and serpents’ heads.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne “Herald” has
entered on its centenary year ; it first
appeared as the “Port Phillip Herald” on
Jan. 3, 1840. One Cavenagh, formerly of
the “Sydney Gazette,” started the paper,
with William Kerr and a certain Bousi-
quot as assistants. In the original issue
the clipper Hindostan is announced as
ready to receive wool at William’s Town,
Jonathan B. Were has four tents
for sale, and among the commodities
advertised are Java rice, Mauritius sugar,
port and sherry, Liverpool salt, Negrohead
and Cavendish tobacco and wax and
sperm candles. One of the most im-
portant items of news is a projected rise
in the price of bread—from Is. lOd. to
2s. for the 41b. loaf. The first issue was
distributed gratuitously “to every respect-
able inhabitant of Melbourne,” which
might have involved a reflection on those
inhabitants who didn’t get a copy had
not the proprietor protected himself by
“craving the indulgence of the people
till the runners got acquainted with the
town, which might involve mistakes and
delays in delivery.”
* * * *
The Baird Television concern, pioneer
of television in Britain, showed a loss of
£103,274 during the year to June 30 last,
making £668,443 sunk in development
since the co. started. In addition, patents,
etc., stand in the books at £539,416. Paid
capital is £1,087,500, and the 2s. 6d. pre-
ferred ords. are quoted at around 6d. in
London, the 2s. 6d. deferred ords. at
10£d. The directors, however, are hope-
ful of commercial development of the
invention in the near future. New capi-
tal will be required,
* * * *
“Tredor”: An untidy fellow, with a
habit of leaving clothes all over the
place, I changed my diggings, and was
horrified to discover that in the room
which I was to share there was not even
a pin out of place. That night, having
concealed my apparel as never before, I
watched with awe as room-mate straight-
ened a few trifles about the room, then
carefully folded his duds and placed them
on hooks and hangers. For three weeks
I spent an hour every day ensuring that
nothing of mine could possibly obtrude
on his immaculate existence. Then his
sister-in-law called. “It’s simply wonder-
ful what you’ve done for Herbert,” she
said. “He used to be the most careless
person imaginable, but we tidied his room
just before you arrived, and since then
he’s followed your example and never
left a thing out of place.” Herbert now
tells me he was scared stiff of what I
might have said if he had followed his
bent.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
%
& *
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
fui
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty.Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
m
n — _I L
. 'JX. 1 »Ml 11
AUJS.<KMJ
c ~--<
*53
X
*v
**
f^L-V
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS...NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
fyi
N-QBranch
st Oct st
TOWNSVIIU
C.Q.Branch n»i East S' Rockhampton.
fNfiINtiBINC SIJPPtv AUSTRALIA ■
A MIXED GRILL.
“See Germany for Yourself” advertise-
ments, inserted by the German Railways
Information Bureau, are appearing in
Australian newspapers that impute the
most ferocious designs to Hitler and
Goebbels. If war is planned for the
European spring the ads. are a mad waste
of money.
* * * *
Perth “Sunday Times” has a London
correspondent who reports “a sharp re-
action in Britain against warmongering
and sensationalism,” in particular “an
increasing resentment against that section
of the British press which is continually
magnifying international incidents or
giving prominence to canards” like the
Kaiser interview. The correspondent
mentions that papers which printed that
elaborate American lie “did not bother
to publish the denial.” It was the same
in Australia.
* * * *
J. A. Paterson, president of the Vic-
torian R.A.C., recently mentioned that
compulsory third-party insurance has
been promised in Victoria for years—
last year the Dunstans were too busy
with more important matters, such as
night-trotting—and that until the Govern-
ment falls into line the annoyance of
inter-State passes will remain.
One point which Mr. Paterson empha-
sised was that the legislation of all States
should be uniform.
Legislation should be uniform in all
matters other than provincial and
parochial matters. But that means one
Parliament with supreme and unchal-
lengeable powers.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: We hear a lot about the
marvellous discoveries of modern science,
but it is slightly debunking to realise that,
with all the modernity and all the science,
nobody knows what really happens when
one washes one’s hands. Either they get
clean or they don’t, but, until soapmakers
can be told just how and why, sub-
stantial sums will continue to be lost on
account of minute variations in manu-
facturing methods. Nor has science done
any better in the washing of fabrics. Some
kinds of woollen materials actually get
dirtier if washing is continued beyond a
certain stage. Artificial silk is the easiest
of all textiles to wash clean, but the
scientific nearest, so far, to just why is
a guess that for some reason or other
its fibres hold dirt less tenaciously than
do those of cotton or wool. The only
real test for any soap is the same as when
the Gauls first introduced soap to Caesar’s
legions—its ability to wash what it was
designed to wash.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I’ve always been afraid
of auction sales, first because of the
notion that any casual nod or blink
under the cold, compelling eye of the
auctioneer might land one with a white
leghorn rooster, a bowl of goldfish or
a second-best bedstead, and secondly be-
cause of the temptation to buy the
craziest offerings simply because they’re
cheap and “might come in handy some
day.” No doubt it was the idea of cheap-
ness and possible utility that impelled a
friend of mine at a Sydney sale last week
to walk off with a chaff-sack of —
Epsom salts!
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: That ancient
yarn about hidden treasure in a cave at
Queenscliff, near the entrance to Port
Phillip (Vic.), has again emerged from its
tomb. Its latest guise is that of pirates
who, in 1798, were disturbed by a war-
ship whilst hiding £20,000,000 worth of
golden images, origin unspecified, and
who blew up the cave before they were
captured. Unluckily for the tale, Port
Phillip was not discovered until February
14, 1802, when Lieut. Murray took the
exploring brig Lady Nelson through the
Heads. The yarn is at least 90 years old.
My father heard it in Geelong as a small
boy in 1849, and earned a parental hiding
by running away with some other kids in
one of his father’s boats to look for it.
But in those days it was a mere two
barrels of sovereigns, stowed away by
Tasmanian convicts who had captured a
ship.
* * •* *
“Immy”: Allan Cunningham, Sir
George Grey, Angus MacMillan and
Colonel Light are four more names to
add to the year’s list of Australian cen-
tenaries (B. 4/1 /’39).
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: It isn’t often that one
can catch Percy Lindsay out on detail
errors, but he has got his coxswain at
the wrong end of the boat (B. 4/1/’39).
That individual, “standing at his long
steer-oar,” as, being the coxswain, he
naturally would, “hailed Sir Henry, in
J. H. M. Abbott’s “Queer Cargo” yarn.
In the drawing the coxswain is shown
standing in the bow, the backs of his
crew to him, and no trace of a steer-oar
anywhere visible. It isn’t a whaleboat
either—they were graceful things, with
a powerful lift fore and aft and a low
midshift section —but looks like a ship’s
launch, a clumsy, high-wooded, apple-
bottom affair.
HUNTER’S HILL
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
BY the upper waters of Port Jack-
son, situated on a ridge separating
the’ long winding arm of the
harbor queerly known as the Lane
Cove “River” from the main western arm
just as queerly called the Parramatta
“River,” lies the suburb of Hunter’s Hill,
a municipality composed mainly of the
homes of well-to-do business and profes-
sional people
It is a picturesque and pleasant neigh-
, , , y . „iL rtef loct .hint, it
borhood, and alrnost *st thing t
might be suspected of would be a sort
of false pretences regarding its name.
Yet it has no more moral right 1° its
title than Woolloomooloo has to Manly s.
The real Hunter s Hill is five ot six
miles away.
In 1794 four political prisoners sup-
posed to have “spoken out of their turn”
were transported from Scotland to New
South Wales—Thomas Palmer, William
Skirving, Maurice Margarot and Thomas
Muir, the “Protestant Martyrs.” They
were .never treated as ordinary convicts,
and were even allowed to acquire
property in land. Muir escaped on an
American ship in 1796, and after many
adventures died in Paris a couple of
years later.
Soon after his arrival Muir bought
an estate on the present Milson’s Point,
which he named Hunter’s Hill, after his
father’s house near Glasgow. Forfeited
to the Crown on his escape, it was granted
in 1800 to one Robert Ryan. Then the
slow change of the name began, and a
curious chain of evidence relates to its
transposition to the locality that claims
it to-day.
Muir’s holding gave the name Hunter’s
Hill to the North Shore district, and some
soldiers’ grants made in 1796 carried it
on to the localities now known as Gore
Hill and Artarmon. This region is re-
ferred to as “Hunter’s Hill” as late as
1838, for in July of that year A. Polack
advertised for auction sale “the estate ot
Hunter’s Hill, on the north shore of Port
Jackson, containing a total of nearly 1000
acres and consisting of various Crown
grants situated in the district of Lane
Cove,” now called the Parish of Wil-
loughby.
There is a map of the County of turn-
berland, made in 1817, which shows the
whole of the northern side of the hat-
bor, as far as Pennant Hills to the north-
Middle Head Qn the sout h-east,
as Hunter , s Hill When the County of
Cumberland was divided up into parishes
a^ou j a century ago the Hunter’s Hill
jgjy became the Parish of Willoughby
and name was carried across the
Lane Cove River to an entirely different
district, its principal centre being the
present municipality of Ryde, which be-
came then and is still the Parish of Hun-
ter ’ s Hill.
The parish church of St. Anne at Ryde
was called at its foundation, and down to
the middle of the nineteenth century,
“St. Anne’s, Hunter’s Hill.” The name
D f Ryde was bestowed upon it in 1855
by the Rev. G. E. Turner, the incumbent,
an d G. M. Pope, the parish clerk—they
came from Ryde in the Isle of Wight.
The present Hunter’s Hill was then the
village of Tarban. In 1861 it was
incorporated and had its present name
bestowied upon it. (Incidentally, the
Hospital for the Insane at Gladesville
was known for many years after its
establishment as “Tarban Creek.”)
The real Hunter’s Hill, which Thomas
Muir named nearly a century and a half
ago, is somewhere about the end of the
steelwork of the northern approach to
Sydney Harbor bridge. The transposition
of titles was made by going a very long
way round the north side of Pork Jack-
son and took a long time to make, but
there it is now.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This week’s first prize of £3 3s. (plus space rates, 2|d. per line) has been
awarded to a Turondale (N.S.W.) writer for a timely resurrection and elaboration
of good advice given to his country by Henry Lawson. ... .
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO. . . .......... .
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
“Lock Your Rivers!”
It’s a fair while since Henry Lawson
sent his impassioned plea “Lock your
rivers!” scudding into a barren wilder-
ness, but it remains a wilderness.
Recently Australia was sweltering un-
der a sizzling dry spell, with high-tem-
perature records toppling and councils
placing restrictions on the too-free use
of precious water ; yet we could produce
sufficient cement in a few years to throw
a dam across every river we have. The
money is here, being spent on white
elephants like (to cite one) the Bridle
Track tourist road somewhere between
Bathurst and Hill End (N.S.W.).
Only those, like Lawson, who have
tramped the banks of some noble stream
in flood and watched it pour billions of
gallons of life-giying water into a salty
ocean, and again have tramped it with
the temperature around 110, the waterbag
empty and the next muddy waterhole
many miles ahead, can appreciate that
“Lock your rivers!”
Politicians, of course, do not tramp
rivers in flood or other times. — Turon
River (N.S.W.).
“Turon River” is C. J. Reynolds,
Turondale, via Bathurst, N.S.W. He wins
the £3 35., and space rates are added.
Improvising in a Hurry
By raising the age limit for volunteers
to enable returned soldiers to enlist, the
Government has again given a demon-
stration of its muddling methods. The
idea is that these men will be of use as
instructors—but what can they teach?
Discipline, tradition, marksmanship-
yes ; but new methods of tactics and
strategy in mechanised warfare which
have developed in the last 20 years,
are a closed book to them, and to
everyone who has not studied these
on the spot. If you start a new
departmental store in 1939 you don’t
look round for remnants of the
staff of one that went out of business in
1918, and who have been unemployed
ever since.
There are wars going on, and if the
Government had any gumption we could
have had by now a couple of thousand
instructors who had observed modern
warfare on the spot. As it is, we shall
“prepare” as we did in the last war.
The volunteer system is useless —all it
does is to provide a nucleus to handle a
mass of raw recruits in a hurry when war
comes. Here’s an instance of how waste-
ful hurry can be. At the large school
where I graduated in the last war, most
of the instructors and mechanics were
untrained for their specialised work, and
in one fortnight alone there were 13
deaths, mostly during solo flights, though
many instructors were lost, too. Never a
week went by without at least one fatal
accident, and the minor crashes were
legion. Nearly all were due to hurry,
with its consequent wastage. The writer,
in common with hundreds of others,
arrived in France with about 20 hours’
solo. Yes, we could fly—just. We learned
to fly, and to fight, on the job, instead of
beforehand, and, of course, that cost
more lives and machines.
The same thing is happening to-day—
everything is to be left until the last
minute. But can we count on our enemies
being as stupid this time? —J. N. R.
(N.S.W.).
Women Are Against It
The recruiting campaign cannot be a
success because the women are against
it. It is quite obvious that those who
stayed at home last time are not going
to volunteer for home defence, nor are
their offspring. Recruits, if any, must
come from the section that made the
sacrifice in 1914-18.
My husband and his two brothers en-
listed in 1915, leaving a considerable
farm to be kept going by their aged
parents and two sisters. The elder
sister, herself engaged to a soldier, had
to sacrifice a projected nursing career
to return to four years of strain and
anxiety with hard work on the farm.
She married after the war, but her
Anzac husband became an invalid owing
to war injuries. She nursed him through
years of patient suffering, only to be
left, lately, a widow with three
adolescent sons. This woman, herself
no less heroic than her husband, does
not want her boys to volunteer because
she thinks the principle is wrong. We
all enjoy privileges in Australia, and we
“ There's no oil, miss.'
“Well, I'm sure they put some in when I bought it."
should all be prepared to defend our
country. If universal training were
brought in she would regard it as a duty
to encourage her boys to serve cheer-
fully.
This view is shared by all the women
in this family, including that other who
was tragically left widowed years ago
with three small children to bring up,
their father a victim of gas. The sacri-
fice is still being made by the women
equally with the men, and their attitude
must be taken into consideration.—
Tam o’ Shanter (Vic.).
, * . . • ~
. be P res . ei ?t recruiting campaig
in the opinion of many b ? m ‘
pedited if those responsible did what The
Bu ,¥- ETIN has always urged-told Aus-
tralia ns more or the tru n.
* n , tbls case * m k ♦ thp
of military age should be told
chosen few know already that should
hostilities break out to-morrow every one
ot them ,s going to be conserved m some
way or another. All defence plans such
as they might be, are laid on that basis,
arl x . tbere . ls n .° P^f ha P s about 1 • ~
My point is this if it was generally
understood that this is to come about,
wouldn’t thousands more Australians
realise how much better it is to be ade-
nnat _i., tr _- H m p<>t that Hav‘> It
?s oblbus uAe most dull-witted’ that
for a man untrained to hope to cope with
an enemy versed in combat and weapons
since childhood is futile.
The position is now that too many are
relying on the protection of those who
are enou gh 1° enlist, whereas the
“mugs” (even unconsciously to most of
them) are certainly going to have the best
end of the stick.—B. B. (N.S.W.).
“Into Your Hands, Australia”
Just after the T 4-18 war C. E. W.
Bean, war correspondent and historian,
published a booklet titled, I think, Into
Your Hands, Australia. In this Bean
detailed a plan for the development of
the Northern Territory by a division
formed from the A.I.F. and commanded
by Monash. It is many years since I
read the booklet, but the general idea
remains in memory. Officered by ex-
perts, the rank and file need not neces-
sarily have been skilled farm-workers —-
but, of course, would have beaten their
bayonets into slash-hooks and left their
rifles at the Q.M.’s store.
The N.T. is still a problem. Why not
adopt Bean’s idea? An army of strong
young men commanded by officers ex-
pert in the various branches of farm-
ing and sworn to serve their country in
developing the N.T. could work wonders
in that part. I believe many young men
would consider it the opportunity of
their lives to adventure in a strange land
and serve their country with their strength
in peace as the A.I.F. did in war. And,
after all, the A.I.F. ran farms in France
and Belgium.—J. A. S. B. (Vic.).
Has Labor Advanced?
I read that Vesteys’ meatworks at Dar-
win are to be used for defence purposes.
This recalls to my mind the first example
I had of the stupidity of Labor. In 1919
I was in Vesteys’ Sydney office —the
Australian Investment Agency, Ltd., was
the name this mighty affair traded under
in N.S.W. The “kill” in 1919 was the
last kill made by Vesteys in Darwin.
Most, perhaps all, of the men employed
at the Fannie Bay meatworks Vesteys
took from Sydney —and brought back
to Sydney. That last kill in 1919 was
never treated at Darwin ; the men were
in too big a hurry to get back to Sydney.
The kill of 1919 came to Sydney
frozen, and was treated at John Cook
and Co.’s Sandown meatworks, on the
Parramatta River; these works were
burnt down many years ago and were
never rebuilt. Vesteys didn’t reopen at
Darwin. Their million-pounds meat-
works have been in the charge of care-
takers so that the intricate machinery
won’t go to ruin. But will these meat-
works at Fannie Bay ever reopen as
meatworks? Ask Labor. The Vestey
concern is so immense that it can almost
forget a million pounds. But such was
the stupidity of Australian Labor at that
period of our history. Is it any better
now? Well, perhaps they did at last
come to their senses at Port Kembla,
but !— Blue (N.S.W.).
Bushfires and Soil Erosion
The recent bushfires in Victoria and
N.S.W. have brought their usual stories
of death, horror and human courage and
endurance ; but these fires and a thou-
sand others do not seem to drive home
to those people who blissfully “burn
off,” etc., the almost incalculable harm
wrought on the face of the earth itself
by their activities.
Destruction of the natural forests and
grasses and the irreplaceable topsoil by
fife and erosion, owing to overstocking
and failure to rest the earth, is slowly but
surely killing the agricultural lands in
Australia and, among other countries,
America.
America has taken up the fight, but
tragically, belatedly, for a hundred mil-
lion acres or more of America’s finest
wheat-lands are parched, horrible “dust-
bowls.”
Reckless damming of rivers for electric
power has also upset the natural balance,
and the U.S.A. is paying heavily for its
refrigerators, radios, etc. Literally mil-
lions of tons of topsoil is being blown
from the face of North America and
Australia and, to a less extent, from
Russia.
The Russians, faced with shortage of
power in the southern areas, are building
hydro-electric dams, but first their scien-
tists evolved schemes whereby the level
of the Caspian would not be lowered,
for this event would have surprising re-
sults, to say the least of it, to the Stalin-
ites in that quarter.
Intelligent long-range planning of
stocking and water and forest conser-
vation and replanting may save the face
of the s.-e. of our continent (the central
strip is almost hopeless), and may
open the Murray from the sea to Albury
—but not, by all appearances, in my life-
time, though I’m only 22.—D. J. Ord
(Vic.).
Bushfire Prevention
When will the Vic. Forestry Commis-
sion do its share in the prevention of
bushfires? The surest way of preventing
the big blaze is to have a series of small
fires whenever small light fires can be
relied on not to get out of hand. The
light fires do not spoil the trees, and they
get rid of the undergrowth.
Of course, no one could expect to see
a safe fire these many weeks, but what
about the months since the winter when
small burns could have been made?
I know one small, dry bush township
the safety of which was assured by the
fact that many little fires had occurred
before the summer in the adjacent forest
lands —and that despite dashings back
and forth in a car along the main road
by forestry officers when they saw
. smoke.
Since the horror of 1926 I have listened
to prospectors, timber-workers and
settlers on occasion speak of the damage
and control of bushfires (a vital subject
to us bush folk), and all advocate the
use of fire as a later fire-prevention.
The midsummer bushfire is mostly be-
yond the control of human efforts unless
it is following a former burn that pre-
viously got rid of the undergrowth.
Cannot the Forestry Commission
organise on future occasions bands of
fire-lighters, using man’s natural caution?
If so, hundreds of people in Victoria’s


back-country will enjoy greater security.
—Marthavale (Vic.).
Saw a traveller light a fire to boil' a
billy alongside my gate and cream-can
box lately in a strong wind ; he went
away without properly extinguishing it,
and the wind livened it up after his de-
parture. I am not in timbered country,
but the grass was very dry and there
were buildings (house, car-shed, barn,
stables) near at hand and the wind was
whirling the sparks everywhere. He had
a bit of hessian round the fire while he
was there, but it was not sufficient pro-
tection.
I have repeatedly seen boys start fires
for the sake of watching the flame against
the background of a dark night. Severe,
very severe, penalties should be inflicted
upon those who light fires in the open
and fail to control them. Lightning and
perhaps friction and other causes some-
times start fires, but most of them are
caused by travellers and other people.
The law in this matter should be rigor-
ously enforced. As carelessness in extin-
guishing fires „is a more vital matter in
some localities than in others, it could
be left to the local-government bodies
to declare whether the law should apply
in a given locality or not. —B. Bay
(N.S.W.).
Drove over the Omeo Highway, via
Granite Flat, Bruthen, Bairnsdale, Or-
bost, Eden, to Narooma just before
Christmas. In many gullies fires were
burning, and most of ’em looked easy
to put out, but nobody seemed to be
worrying. Then came the heat-wave and
the norther, and many poor devils
couldn’t worry any more. A point over-
looked in preventive measures is the need
to mop up the burnt area after a fire and
put out every smouldering root, stump
and log. Have known roots to burn
underground for six weeks, then flare up
in the right wind and start another fire.
But the habit of letting a fire burn slowly
on a mountainside because it doesn’t look
dangerous and may (often does) burn
itself out will have to be cured. Vic-
toria’s appalling fires began nearly a fort-
night before Christmas ; I saw them.—
Old-timer (N.S.W.).
Do It Quickly
The national calamity which has
recently come to Australia through the
havoc of bushfires in Victoria and New-
South Wales has once again proved the
spontaneous generosity of Australians
—as evidenced by the splendid
response to the appeals for aid. Set
against this, one reads that the Common-
wealth Government will no doubt make
a grant when Cabinet meets early next
month. The grant should be made im-
mediately, but for this to be possible
there must be some fund available to be
drawn on at any time when the occasion
demands. I would suggest that, when
estimates are being prepared, con-
sideration be given to allocating a
certain amount to an Emergency Distress
Fund, and that the Prime Minister or
Treasurer be enpowered to draw the
amount necessary to alleviate suffering
and distress without having to wait for a
Cabinet meeting. Surely promptness in
alleviating distress and rehabilitating
sufferers is the first essential in matters
such as these! —C. W. H. (Q.).
Self-help
Our pioneers are constantly held up,
written of, and proclaimed as patterns
of sturdy independence. How far their
descendants have fallen in the scale of
self-reliance and self-help is daily illus-
trated. A severe hailstorm or an un-
usually sharp frost, and fruitgrowers
are pleading ruination and calling on the
State for a handout of taxpayers’ cash.
A flood ; and again, only on a larger
scale, the cry for Government help
echoes through the land. A drought;
fodder and stock at half rates, and a
score of requests for further con-
cessions to meet losses, real or antici-
pated.
Any remnant of the spirit boasted of
is so small that it is lost in the rush to
see “What’s the Government going to do
for us?” Very often the aid asked for is
given without proper inquiry. Losses
certainly do happen, but financial
juggling hides the true ability of many
applicants to stand the loss without any
monetary assistance from a too-easily-
persuaded Government department.—
Gabo (N.S.W.).
Plain Humanity in Literature
Modern literature may be divided into
two classes: the description of the
doings and undoings of the rich, and the
description of the wretchedness of the
poor.
Most light and cheerful stories are
of young gentlemen overburdened with
time and money, or of ladies whose chief
pastime is drinking cocktails.
Such a viewpoint is nauseating. Let
us have stories about the plain, ordinary
folk who work for wages, live decently
with wife and children, mind their own
business and are not soured because
they are not wealthy. These people are
the real backbone of the nation. Dickens
was a great novelist; he was great be-
cause he sensed the wonder and beauty
of the common life. His poor people
were not sitting around with sour faces
planning a revolution. They were eating
roast beef and pudding.
Let writers dwell more on the good-
ness and the nobleness of the common
lives about them. In short, give us a
little plain humanity!-— J. Rodda (S.A.).
Civil Aviation
The whole question of civil aviation in
Australia seems to need a thorough in-
vestigation. Inherent weaknesses in the
system are made apparent each time an
aircraft crashes. The Kyeema crash
inquiry was lost in a tangle of unneces-
sary red-tape and bungling.
The most recent crash, that at the
Katherine, showed something to be
amiss, else why was it necessary for the
chief civil aviation officer for the N.T.
to commandeer a private machine, the
only one available at Darwin, to get to
the scene of the crash in order to begin
a preliminary investigation? One would
at least expect a machine to be stationed
at Darwin in case of any such emer-
gency.
A properly-conducted inquiry should
be demanded, and the weaknesses,
typified by incidents such as these, imme-
diately rectified. —C. Alton (Vic.).
Dewponds
Mention in B. 11/1 /’39 of Mrs. Hall’s
(N.T.) intention of putting down a dew-
pond comes at an opportune time for
experiment in our waterless closer-
settled areas.
In a land where at the first hint of a
dry spell it is statesmanships to talk
conservation of water, a few dewponds,
or a lot of them, would probably cost
the public purse much less than the
“Hansard”-ing of the aforesaid states-
manshipish utterances. —T. C. (Q.).
Great Australian Adjective
Sydney modernists and conservatives
were at loggerheads recently in a quarrel
engineered by the Stunt Press over Mr.
Gollan’s objection to “the great Aus-
tralian adjective.” The Chief Secretary
was not the only one to wonder what all
the song and dance was about.
Whether “bloody” is derived from
the old oath “By Our Lady” or whether
it comes from the Low Dutch —actually
there are a host of fascinating theories —
does not really matter tuppence to the
man in the street. Logically, the ban
upon it should extend also to “blazing,”
“blighted,” “ruddy” and “flaming,” which
are euphemistic synonyms. Or why not
condemn the mild “dear me” because
it comes from the Italian “Dio mio
( salvi ),” meaning “God save me“? Why
allow “drat,” a corruption of “God rot” ;
or “doggone,” from “God damn” ; or
“blimey,” from “God blind me”; or
“cripes” and “crikey,” from “Christ”?
All these words have derivations as
sinister as “bloody” has. But “bloody”
happens to be a round, flowing word
that comes powerfully off the tongue and
gives a good deal of relief to sore feel-
ings. Some people use it habitually;
some people are shocked. So what? It
hardly seems to warrant all the wordage
in the Stunt Press, including a whole
column in the staid “S.M.H.” —O. M. A.
(N.S.W.).
A Change for Civil Servants
During the past few months I have run
against several examples of departmental
stupidity, as well as a couple of cases in
which civil servants showed that they
knew nothing outside of the rut of their
job. This sort of thing would be cured
if all public servants were compelled to
spend six months every few years in
working at the job of those whose affairs
they were supposed to guide or ad-
minister. The only drawback would be
an immense drop in the revenue of places
of public entertainment.
Who, for example, would want to
watch the antics of Mickey -Mouse on
the cinema screen when an even more
diverting sight could be seen at home?
There’s a chap in Adelaide who keeps
wanting to know when I’m going to pay
my apiary tax’; how I would enjoy the
sight of that same man trying to get
enough honey out of my beehives to pay
the tax! Just imagine how country car-
riers would howl with delight if they
could see an official of a State Trans-
port Strangulation Board trying to make
a living with a truck, especially along-
side a State border, where two lots of
vehicle tax have to be paid if the carrier
carts goods across a line on the map in
a country where the Commonwealth Con-
stitution states that trade between the
States shall be free! Wouldn’t it be
amusing to see that man halted by one
of his own road patrols and treated as if
he was trying to smuggle bootleg whisky
or Asiatic coolies into the country, in-
stead of carting hay from well-supplied
Naracoorte (S.A.) to fodderless districts
in western Victoria? —H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
“Liberty, Fraternity and Equality”
Dealing first with the last, how often
we hear that all men are equal. The suc-
cessful self-made man says, “If I could
do it so could anyone else.” Leaving men
on one side at present, we may assume
that the theorist says, “All horses are
equal,” so we put Phar Lap to the plough
and a Clydesdale wins the Melbourne
Cup. Men are not all equal, else why
is it that Joe Louis cannot compose
sonatas like Beethoven, that the garbage-
man can’t invent like Edison, and that
the storekeeper cannot be a Henry Ford?
On the side of “Liberty,” we may
mention the half-million Australian laws
and one million regulations, many for
the restriction of liberty. As for the
“Fraternity” item, let women from Dar-
linghurst call at Mrs. De la Plus Grand’s
next social gathering and prove the
“sisterhood” idea. “L., F. and E.” are
good talk for the masses, but only asses
would give them credence.— Obs. (W.A.).
Recruiting and the Greek Gods
In the sub-leader of 4/1/’39 The
Bulletin implies that young men would
be better occupied in the militia than in
lying in the sun on beaches. Perhaps
that is so ; why is it that the Greek gods
do not join up? What of the fellow who
is willing to do his share in the defence
of Australia but cannot get leave from
his work to do so?
I am employed on a newspaper
whose editorials are always urging other
employers to give their employees time
off to attend militia parades and camps,
but when I and others on the night staff
asked for Thursday night off to attend
parades the management nearly threw
a fit, while holidays to attend camps were
also considered out of the question. If
you would direct your efforts to the em-
ployers there would probably be more
volunteers and fewer Greek gods.— One
of the Surfers (Tas.).
National Fitness
The national fitness campaign may do
a great deal of good, but it will do even
better if it attacks the situation from a
human, rather than an official, point of
view.
Take the case of the married man, with
or without a family, who contracts t.b.
The doctor advises him it is infectious,
and for the safety of others as well as
for his own benefit he should enter a
sanatorium. The unfortunate sufferer
finds if he does so he must leave his wife
and family without any means of sup-
port, as the-invalid pension is absorbed
by the sanatorium authorities. Most men,
faced with this position, decide to try
to battle along with their job and hope
for the best; but the consequences are
disastrous for themselves and others.
If the Government provided for the
dependants of t.b. sufferers while they
were inmates of a sanatorium, the spread
of the disease would be greatly lessened,
which, incidentally, would be a saving,
financially, to the Government.
In addition, the mental relief to the
t.b. patient would greatly facilitate his
recovery, and national fitness would have
made a progressive step. — Burr (C.Q.).
National Honors
How many Australians, like Maori-
landers, would like to see the Common-
wealth follow the lead of Canada and
South Africa and do away with our
somewhat nauseating Birthday and New
Year Honors, which, in the main, go to
the “captains of industry” and highly-
paid State officials?
Why not inaugurate an “Australian
[and Maoriland] Legion of Honor” and
divide it into two classes? One class
could be for the recognition of all out-
standing deeds of bravery, such as bush-
fires, shark rescues, mine disasters, in
which brave and estimable citizens have
so often given signal examples.
The other class could admit those Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders whose services
to medicine, science, literature, art and
music, etc., have brought abiding lustre
to the two countries and happiness to
(MX.) cmzens -- AR ™™ O'HalioraS
“Tests”
I’m in agreement with “Spooks” (B
4/1/’39) that there should be an intelli-
gence test for voters ; but what about an
intelligence test for Justices of the Peace
and jurymen? Any citizen who drinks
his beer with a friendly politician can
become a Jay Pee on that politician’s
recommendation. Educational or even
ordinary intelligence attributes are never
questioned at the “sw’elpme-God” per-
formance. It is one of the commonest
things for Jay Pees to witness the statu-
tory declarations of their intimate friends
without seeing the signature of the de-
clarant personally written. It’s a serious
offence, but it happens every day in the
week.
Some of these amateur magistrates
don’t even know that interpolations and
alterations in statutory declarations must
be initialled by them. The ignorance of
some is appalling ; one I have in mind
adds the grandiose J.P. letters to his sig-
nature on his cheques!
A juryman’s intelligence is measured by
his property qualifications. Recently I
listened-in to a case at the Darlinghurst
Court. Nine jurymen had been sworn
when it suddenly occurred to the Judge
to ask the tenth man if he were a share-
holder in the complainant company—it
was a valueless-cheque case. He was,
and so were three of the other sworn
jurymen.— Lex (N.S.W.).
Oddly Contradictory
Are we Australians conservative or
copyist? Our dress, manners and
language are being moulded to conform
to the rote of some Hollywooden
standard, while all pro-sanity and pro-
Australian influences are suppressed on
account of some fear of “what America
might say.” ■
Nightly, during the summer months,
we find young men donning dark suits,
stiff collars and stiff shirt-fronts and
suffering torture on some 'dance floor
while all the dictates of commonsense are
in favor of some more cool and com-
fortable attire.
Why? Because Yankee films have
convinced the girls that such things
are just as natural accompaniments of
Yankee jazz as make-up and red nail
varnish.
Jazz and cosmetics have been taboo in
Germany for some time, yet the German
girl is making a much better job of
husband-finding than her Americanised
Australian sister.
Strangely, at the other end of the
scale we find Australian men stolidly
ignoring that admirable American custom
of going about coatless and vestless dur-
ing the hot weather. Over there police
and other uniforms and civilian clothes
are designed for coolness and comfort.
Here we frown on the coatless man
in the office or courtroom. And heaven
help the unfortunate uniformed one who
becomes so daring as to leave a top
button undone! — Wang-Madri (Q.).
“Children—and Mothers”
I feel inclined to cross swords with
“Eurydice” (B. 11/1/ ’39). Her picture
of a country woman’s life,, with three
small children to care for, is in my
opinion overdrawn.
I also reared three children in the
country, without gas or electricity to
lighten my labors. I did all my own work
of every kind, just as “Eurydice” does.
When I knew I would not be washing
up immediately I popped all the dirty
dishes into a large basin of water and
thus they were quite easy to wash when
the time came, instead of having “food
hardened” sticking to them. My children
were by no means angels —just ordinary
toddlers —but I managed to get through
meals without the eternally spilt milk and
food “E.” finds in her way.
As to the perpetual “howling, fighting
and getting into mischief,” normal chil-
dren have a scrap now and then, and cry
now and then —yes, and even get into
mischief now and then! But normal
children don’t do it all day long! My
own babies were so fond of being out of
doors that fully half of their every day
was spent playing in the yard quite con-
tentedly. In wet weather there was lots
to amuse them in the shed. They loved
that. And if they did squabble now and
then out there it didn’t greatly worry me.
working inside in the house. I was always
careful to see that anything that might
hurt them, or which they might break or
do damage to, was put up high out of the
reach of small fingers, thus doing away
with the necessity of that endless “mustn t
touch” business one so often hears..-"
Ex-Countrywoman (N.S.W.).


“The key to a man’s Career” — Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D
“The results »
%
m
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
ihe Pelman Course.
It is impossible to
speak too highly
of it.”
*
The Baroness Orezy.
fuyi
m
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
fyui
Dr. F. W. Norwood.
D.l>.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
yi
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pclman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
yi
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly ”
T »*
m
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
COURAGE
and
PURPOSE
defined and affirmed.
COURAGE, firmness of spirit
and swell of soul in the face
of danger and difficulty.
PURPOSE, the inspiration to
effort, developing character
and increasing courage by
enlargement of confidence.
The following extracts are from
letters published in “The Efficient
Mind,” copies of which are
posted free:
“I have become much stronger in
Will Power, and I am now not afraid
to say ‘No’ when it is necessary to
do so.”
“My fears are things of the past.
I have gained in mental energy, in-
terest, alertness and concentration.”
“Fear is practically eliminated. The
Course has given me faith in my
abilities and the power of more per-
sistent effort.”
“Childish fear of ridicule has de-
stroyed or marred much of my work
in the past. Now Pelmanism has
shown me how to conquer that fail-
ing.”
“It gives one more self—confidence
and courage in expressing his opinion.
“I have learnt the value of plan-
ning ahead, of having a settled pur-
pose, of consecutive thinking.”
“I now have a definite aim; my
powers of concentration, memory and
will have been greatly improved,”
“Occasions often arise when a sud-
den crisis, small or otherwise, is apt
to throw one off one’s balance. 1
have found that the Pelman Course
is of the greatest benefit in helping
me to retain my equilibrium in such
cases.”
“My aim is clear and more defined.
My powers of observation are very
much keener all round. 1 gained very
much from the study of the Lesson on
Will Power.”
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
-Concentration
-Observation
-Perception
-Optimism
-Cheerfulness
-Judgment
-Initiative
-Will Power
-Decision
-Originality
-Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain, in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc -
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow-, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over
40,000 have enrolled with the Institute
in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a worM-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and l*s
address in Australia is 8 Gloucester House,
390 Flinders Fane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Naney- - 1938. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin" a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Telman Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Tlease send tue, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
81
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ic
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
pjrr
THE world
yOU” 3
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
“The World
Is Yours”
A Thrilling
Tale af
The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
I'6
Post Free
dr
A.
or
6 i°S n \JIP
i'!/ QCr
e &
i’
"“’ e'
,o v
- S®<> e
6 "V
*\&y
ts '


10
i#
ft*
U»*
m*
10
\
*\
\
?\
V\
\m
k
<*
)
1
AN AUSTRALIAN
FACTORY IN AN
AUSTRALIAN
GARDEN
AUSTRALIAN
WIRELESS MANUFACTURE
The manufacture of wireless equipment in Australia has attained a very high degree of efficiency. Every type of
apparatus for use at sea, on land and in the air is now produced at the A.W.A. Radio-Electric Works.
Over 50 Broadcasting Stations have been made by A.W.A. for all parts of Australia, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji.
The largest of all, a 60 k.w. station, was manufactured for the New Zealand Broadcasting Board, and is the most
powerful broadcasting station in the Southern Hemisphere.
Australian manufactured wireless equipment has been installed in over 470 ships, and A.W.A. regularly exports to
Great Britain wireless equipment for vessels building there for Australian and New Zealand shipping companies.
The A.W.A. works are the largest for the manufacture of broadcasting receivers, as well as for communication equip-
ment used in the Commonwealth Lighthouse Service, Police Departments, N.S.W. Hydro-electric networks, Sydney
Ambulance, Sydney County Council, and many others.
The design and manufacture of radio-telephone transmitting and receiving equipment for use in aeroplanes, and
wireless equipment for ground communication with aircraft, constitutes still another phase of A.W.A. manufacture.
Over 1,500 Australians are normally employed at the A.W.A. Radio-electric Works in this great national industry.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (fl/ASIfl) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
