

W/A
I
I
i
I
f,
m
/A
/////
vm
%
'A
V/.
'/'A
V
w
A
y-
f
9
A.W.A. pioneered the Beam Wireless Service from
Australia to Great Britain and to North America, saving the
Australian public over £1,000,000.
A.W.A. pioneered overseas radio telephone services,
enabling telephone subscribers in Australia to ring over
30,000,000 telephone subscribers throughout the world.
A.W.A. pioneered Beam Wireless Picture gram ser-
vices, bringing photographs of world events to our daily
newspapers.
A.W.A. pioneered world-wide broadcasting services,
enabling good news of Australia to be radiated to all
countries.
A.W.A. pioneered manufacture of radio apparatus
for use in ships, aircraft and on land, making Australia
largely self-contained in this vital key industry.
AMALGAMATED
SS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
S. !
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL
ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
A Lindsay Hitler-Stalin Cartoon
Vol. 60. No. 3111.
Wednesday, September 27, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S'"tor« Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339 .
The Red Page
DOLEFUL H. G. WELLS .
In his latest book, The Fate of Homo
Sapiens (Seeker and Warburg; Angus
and Robertson), H. G. Wells stoops at
the bedside of decadent, sinking
humanity. The reader can’t be sure, since
Wells is by no means sure himself,
whether the figure is Henry G. Wells,
representing the well-known undertaker
of that name, or good Dr. Wells, with
a panacea for the multitudinous ills
which his clever diagnosing tells him
afflict the patient.
The ills he enumerates are so many—
everything about homo sapiens is a
lethal disease—that the reader runs the
risk of becoming as pessimistic as under-
taker Wells, or, because of the complicated
nature of the afflictions, is not unlikely
to be as suspicious of Dr. Wells’s panacea
as Dr. Wells is cocksure about it.
What Dr. Wells prescribes, if the
direful (and most forebodingly docu-
mented) fate of homo sapiens is to be
averted, is a “strenuous adaptation by
re-education of our species now.”
“Adapt or perish.” In other words,
homo sapiens must be educated and must
educate himself to comprehend that all
known religion, methods of government,
customs and creeds, social organism, con-
cepts of race everything, indeed, on
which existing civilisations rest are
sham and bogus; are, moreover, de-
monstrably responsible for the sickness
of mankind; and if not exchanged at
once for the only true faith, described
and elaborated in the erudite works of
Professor H. G. Wells, then the end of
mankind is not only certain but right
at hand.
That, briefly, is the argument and con-
clusion of Mr. Wells’s latest book. It
is an impressive example of the art of
thinking in a vacuum. The writing is
as lively and vigorous as ever, and the
discourse as dogmatic. Its argument in-
volves onslaughts on religious and other
cherished institutions, since the world
forces operating in the destruction of
mankind include the established religions,
the British oligarchy, the Jews, the Nazis,
Japanese Shintoism, and everything else
that at present conditions the outlook
and behavior of mankind. And since
in Mr. Wells’s view there is no hope
unless all these, along with all human
feelings and passions, are swept away
and his own clinical concept of a world
order substituted, the reader who accepts
Mr. Wells’s doctrine and pseudo-scien-
tific, rigidly materialist outlook can
hardly help concluding that all the direful
consequences paraded in Mr. Wells’s
prophecies are not merely logically pos-
sible but logically unavoidable.
Maker of Guns.
Taylor Caldwell’s 800-page Dynasty of
Death (Collins) is the story of a firm of
American armament makers from its
small beginning in 1837 till the eve of the
Great War.
The leading character, Joseph Barbour,
was head groom on an English estate.
Having invented an improved gunpowder
for his employer’s sporting friends, he
migrated to America with his four chil-
dren to join his brother George and a
Frenchman, Armand Bouchard, in found-
ing a small-arms factory.
Joseph’s eldest son Ernest even at 16
had all the instincts of the most ruthless
type of competitive businessman. Before
he was 20 he had forced his uncle out
of the business and made an alliance with
the Sessions Steel Works which was the
foundation of all their fortunes. His
younger brother Martin, an idealist and
dreamer, was his exact antithesis. Ernest
drove Martin out and he was killed in
the Civil War by home-grown munitions,
but his strain persisted to be a thorn in
the side of Ernest and his sort.
The family grew rich on wars, enlarged
its activities, fomented trouble at home
and abroad, threw in its influence every-
where on the side of ruthlessness. Ernest
remained the driving force behind all the
activities, the brain that conceived and
carried them out. Life began to punish
him, in the death or disaffection of his
children, in the jealousy—the eternal
rising of the young against
the patriarch—of his
nephews.
The story of a business
enterprise on an inter-
national scale and of the
rise of a family from poverty and insig-
nificance to being virtual world rulers,
Dynasty of Death is also, like The For-
syte Saga, a love story.
As a young man Ernest fell in love
with Amy, the niece and, as he thought,
heiress of his colleague Gregory Sessions.
When he discovered that not Amy but
another niece, May, was to inherit the
millions he switched and married her.
Amy married Martin, and became the
chief victim of his futile idealism. Ernest,
for all his hardness, could never forget
his love, and it became the troubling in-
fluence within the family, poisoning and
perverting the tangled pattern as the story
is pursued through the generations.
The incidents are often melodramatic
—the killing of Guy, Godfrey’s return,
Gertrude’s marriage—but this is toned
down by the immense length of the book.
The Dynasty of Death is impressive for
other reasons than its length and tenacity.
If the author has comparatively few ideas
he pursues them through all their per-
mutations and combinations, so that the
final effect is one of richness and variety.
The characters are real.
Poetry in War-time.
For the last five years the average
book of English verse has been looking
like a small-arms factory, so that the
outbreak of war won’t cause any sudden
stampede from birds and bees as it did
when the 1914 war hit the Georgians,
Of four recent books of verse only one
isn’t concerned with battle, and that
one, Christopher Hassall’s Penthesperon
(Heinemann ; F. W. Preece, Ltd., Syd-
ney), in spite of its archaism, has enough
facile images from contemporary life
to suggest that Hassall won’t have any
difficulty in tuning his lyre to war.
Recently (apparently for later work
than Penthesperon , with a trip to Aus-
tralia as his material) Hassall was
awarded the Hawthornden Prize. Pen-
thesperon carries on from Masefield’s
“The Daffodil Fields” and “The Widow
in the Bye Street,” and the work, like
Masefield’s, has its roots in Chaucer. Its
form is a fairly close imitation of The
Canterbury Tales, the title meaning “five
evenings,” and the poem a series of tales
supposed to have been told by a group
of friends on those five evenings. It has
humor, but some of the verse is very
weak:
One day it rained
As though the Ocean, weary of laying siege
To the unscalable cliffs, had jumped in air
And bombed the dry with water. Dave rode
home,
His heart foreboding evil. “I’ll see,” he
thought,
“If Stan has locked the boiler-house.” The
doors
Were bolted. Jugfuls of the sky bounced off
The overloaded gutter. It was dusk.
Similarly traditional in form, but very
much more vigorous, is Roy Campbell’s
Flowering Rifle (Longmans). This long
poem is directly concerned with war,
an account of Campbell’s experiences
while he was fighting for Franco in Spain.
There, are some good battle descriptions
and an account of a wild drive through
the night in a lorry to escape from Red
territory. Nevertheless, it is disappoint-
ing work from Campbell; he seems to
have lost the fertility with which he in-
vented new and exciting images, and has
taken to repeating earlier triumphs—“the
black horns of the Cross,” “furious
aurora,” “gale of gold.” The satire is
mainly a restatement of former gibes at
“pommies,” wowsers and Communists.
The poem has no design, nothing to give
it shape.
Here is verse that has some of his
old enchantment, though the notion of
poppies barking a Communist up a tree
won’t bear too close an examination:
But here we must be ballasted awhile
Tilt we remind the valleys of their style,
The ancient rhythm broken to restore
And teach the corn to rustle forth once more,
The sleeping princess with the yellow hair,
And fence her safely with our ridge of steel
That she may ride at our advancing heel,
Once more full-skirted with her waving plume
Her empire of the prairies to resume,
While the red poppies at her call aspire
With fangs of gold, and baying scent and fire,
Close at our stirrups run with lolling tongue
Like hounds to hunting when the world was
young
To bark the “comrade” up the nearest tree,
The lewd baboon who would not let her be.
Flowering Rifle, however, because of
its descriptions of modern warfare, has
much topical interest. Louis MacNeice’s
Autumn Journal (Faber ; Preece), topical
a few weeks ago because of the relation
of the crisis of September last year to
the crisis of August this year, has already
become dated. There is some personal
matter in it, and MacNeice has a keen,
humorous mind, but the poem was never
intended to be anything more than a
sort of newsreel in verse of events in
Europe from September, 1938, to the be-
ginning of this year. It remains a pleas-
antly-written piece of history:
If you have honor to spare, employ it on the
living:
The dead are dead as 1938.
Sleep to the noise of running water
To-morrow to be crossed, however deep;
This is no river of the dead or Lethe,
To-night we sleep
On the banks of Rubicon —the die is cast;
There will be time to audit
The accounts later, there will be sunlight later
And the equation will come out at last.
Like Campbell, and unlike MacNeice,
Stephen Spender still has his “news
value,” because his new book, The Still
Centre (Faber ; Preece), is war poetry in-
stead of crisis poetry. His finest lyric,
however, is as remote from war as Has-
sall’s pastorals; it is very much better
than anything in Penthesperon and very
much more immediate than anything else
Spender has written, except “The Ex-
press” and “Your body is stars whose
million glitter here”:
When I was young I woke gladly in the morn-
ing
With the dew I grieved towards the close of
day.
Now when I rise I curse the white cascade
That refreshes all roots, and I wish my eye-
lids
Were dead shutters pushed down by the end-
less weight
Of a mineral world. How strange it is that
at evening
When prolonged shadows lie down like cut hay
In my mad age I rejoice and my soul sings
Burning vividly in the centre of a cold sky.
Spender’s Spanish war poems are less
satisfactory. In his introduction he
apologises for “not striking a more heroic
note,” and suggests that only in the far
future will poets write successfully of
the heroism as well as of the fears and
anxieties of to-day. Campbell would
disagree.
New One by Clune.
There’s a new book out by Frank
Clune, and further evidence that he im-
proves with every book.
Clune himself could never have
imagined, when he was trying the MS. of
Try Anything Once on the dogs his
friends in Sydney, that he would ever
be writing as fluently and well as this.
He is not now quoting large slabs of
other people’s writing as he used to do.
He still quotes —in the sum total volu-
minously—but now he only quotes where
the original is better, for quaintness of
expression or some other quality, than
he could do it himself.
His thirst for information and propul-
sion to pass it on are as strong as ever.
He calls this book Sky High to Shanghai
(Angus and Robertson), and he goes
rollicking up to Japan, across to Korea
and China and Manchukuo, down to
Siam and home again. There is vigorous
writing in his eyewitness chapters on
warfare in China.
He set out, as his title suggests, to do
this trip by air ; before it was over, he was
riding on elephants. He flew from Syd-
ney to Brisbane ; there a hitch occurred
in his arrangements, so he went to Japan
by Japanese boat, eating Japanese food,
though he had the pessimistic foresight
to take a case of Australian forage along
with him.
It is understandable that this book
might not. be pleasing to any Japanese
reader. Clune’s intentions may be the
very best, but he can tread with heavy
feet on holy ground. His book might
not be pleasing, either, to any aesthetically
lofty mind, for the same reason. He has
one or two uneasy shots at depicting
beauty—such as that of cherry-blossomed
Japan—but he has no facility in that sort
of travel-writing.
His handicap in that, and strong asset
otherwise, is a vein of the ribald in his
literary make-up. This is the mainspring
of his gusty humor. It lets him down
with a wallop when he contemplates
Fujiyama, but it’s a priceless possession
when he becomes suspect to Japanese
police.
His book runs to 375 pages, with 60-
odd illustrations; every page is close-
packed with racily purveyed information,
with an assay of about one good laugh or
grin to the page. It is information not
otherwise readily accessible, the bulk of
it the oddest sort of historical curiosa.
He has a remarkable knack, too, of mak-
ing historical figures live. He likes parad-
ing buccaneers and freebooters; and
theorists can make what they like of the
fact that he has worked in the Taxation
Department.
He throws in with his happy-go-lucky
adventuring a series of illuminating
Chapters on that remarkable Australian
“Chinese” Morrison. To get his informa-
tion for these he waded through 20-odd
years of the “Times,” for which Morri-
son was the most notable of Far East
correspondents. That is typical of the
industry Clune puts into the hatching
out of his books.
Studies in Crime.
Joan Butler’s Rapid Fire (Stanley Paul;
Dymock’s) concerns a gunman-kidnapper,
but its chief attraction is its humor. It
goes at a great bat from start to finish ;
continually introducing new thrills and
interlarding them with absurd situations
and amusing cross-talk in Wodehouse
style and almost with the Wodehouse suc-
cess. Though it is set in an English farm-
house, and one or two of the characters
are English, the leading lady is a Holly-
wood star, and among the other prin-
cipals are three of her ex-husbands.
Shadows Before (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Dymock’s) is Dorothy Bowers’s
second novel and proves that her first,
Postscript to Poison, recently reviewed
here, was no flash in the pan. Shadows
Before is even better than its predecessor.
Matthew Weir is acquitted, after a long
retirement by the jury and an adverse
summing-up by the Judge, of a charge of
having poisoned his sister-in-law. When,
a few years later, his wife dies suddenly
—from arsenic poisoning suspicion
naturally points to him. This suspicion
is gravely strengthened by the circum-
stances, and the efforts of his few friends
to clear him appear hopeless. But In-
spector Pardoe is not satisfied. By a sur-
prise solution of the best kind the inno-
cence of Matthew Weir in both cases is
eventually clearly proved.
Jocelyn Playfair’s Murder Without
Mystery (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s) is quite a good yarn, though
ingenuous. The reader is left in no doubt
as to who commits the murder, why he
committed it, or why another man should
get the blame for it and find it hard to
prove his innocence. This knowledge
does not reduce the interest. Charles
Lenair, the hero, is a paladin who, when
danger threatens his secretly-beloved, de-
termines at all costs and against all reason
to remove the woman who is causing it.
How she is murdered, but not by him ;
how he is suspected; how he is saved at
the very verge of the gallows and how
his noble, but extremely foolish efforts
are rewarded make the story.
The Mask of Dimitrios, by Eric
Ambler (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s), is part thriller, part
biography, part character study. Its
theme is the research, conducted by
Charles Latimer, an English writer of
crime-detection stories, into the life of
one Dimitrios Makropoulos, spy, assassin,
white-slaver, dope-merchant and general
bad-hat, whose dead body is washed up
by the Bosphorus during Latimer’s visit
to Istanbul. By a queer sequence of
circumstances, Latimer comes in contact
with the corpse and, learning something
of Dimitrios’s strange history, is seized
with a desire to learn the whole of it and
write a biography of the dead scoundrel.
His adventures become weirder and
wilder as his research draws to an end.
A strange story, but a good one; the
building up of the figure of Dimitrios
is a fine piece of work.
The Open Way : E. Graham Howe and
L. Le Mesurier (Methuen). How to put
up with being alive. Religion, psychology,
mysticism, and a general injunction to
“accept” everything.
“My Country” (Allan’s, Melb.). Unison
song, words by Dorothea Mackellar,
music by Arthur S. Loam. A setting for
school use of Dorothea Mackellar’s well-
known Australian lyric.
Bail Up !: Hilary Lofting (New Century
Press). The Kelly gang. The first half
is a fictionised account of the gang’s
activities, the second half a reconstruc-
tion by means of selected newspaper
clippings.
Other recent publications:— General:
Russia, Friend or Foe?, Pat Sloan (Fred-
erick Muller, Ltd.); Dress: The Evolu-
tion of Cut and Its Effect on Modern
Design, R. K. Evans (Faber); An Eng-
lishman Explains : “Being Letters to a
German Student of the English” (W. K.
Scudamore (Heath Cranton, Ltd.); The
White War of 1938, Georges Duhamel
(Dent). Fiction: The Jingler, S. A.
Hosgood (New Century Press); Broad
Acres, W. M. Fleming (New Century
Press).


"‘•v
AMTHOKY HORDERNS
famous low prices
r
6<&'/ /
<u
\
&X
NT/
SSwIfJ;
:•:•:•:•£ :• -
•»
sSSSSSs
kfJ£. ;\. f
K*:?
W
x
if
U
i
ms>
I tv
■HB 1
SjiWiSSSii
< ' ;
Soon
sssgaßK* ••
W
IT
MR
<****
■
?- ' J
Fifty-seven different fittings,
season's colours and styles,
action backs in Donegals,
and Green tweeds. Price
New
Plain or
Brown,
29/6
SPORTS TROUSERS FROM 15/6
Light Greys, Blue Greys, Green Greys, Fawn^ a
—Choose a shade to blend with your c .
cut. At Anthony Horderns'. Prices
Self-supporting waists in njr colou» to J 5 /.
coat. Prices 21/-, 24/6, /// , 49/6
English made Sports Trousers
TO WEAR ALL WOOL WORSTED SAC SUITS 89/6
READY
Blue or grey all wool wor-
sted—a good quality, tail-
ored in our best possible
manner. Two or three but-
ton models reflecting the
latest style features, and
with the appearance of a
much more expensive suit.
At Anthony Horderns.
Price 89/6
35/- MEN'S DRESSING GOWNS 25/-
. • r cjllr smartly tailored finish
Ne w
with silk cord and girdle , nch chest .
tx S: 3 b SA SPECIAL PRICE 2V-
MEN’S HALF HOSE, PAIR 4/8
■StylrHe" mW. oil «~l
rheck and diamond enacts.
de,t« Size 10 to 12 in*. P"C. P™ 4/6
MEN’S MEW SPORTS SHIRTS 11/6
L W.P-*
MEM’S KHAKI SHORTS 3/11
TdeoMor beochwear .. for biking. "'“ft
Medium 'quality drill, one hip pocket . J"ce 3/11
Price 11/b
B|ll MEM’S SORE TRONKS 7/11
'’‘ , W Tlu „l s , elastic rib knit in o super quably.
Small, medium and O.S. Regular Price W
Waffle Knit: Regular Price : M
SPECIAL - .


OUT OF THE
PAST
SIR RICHARD RIDES TO
TOWN.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
AT six o’clock on a summer morning in 1835 his
Excellency Lieutenant-General Sir Richard
Bourke, K.C.8., Captain-General and Governor-
in-Chief in and over his Majesty’s Territory of
New South Wales, stood in the hilltop garden of Gov-
ernment House at Parramatta enjoying the morning
freshness after a night of heat and mosquitoes. Across
the river the walls of the new building for The King’s
School were nearing completion, and stood stark and
new-looking amid their enveloping scaffold poles, and
below him in “the Crescent” the fine orchard Gov-
ernor Phillip had started showed a roof of green foli-
age speckled with ripe fruit.
Tall bluegums grew about the racecourse that had
not long been laid out on the flat ground across the
river, and she-oaks overhung the placid waters of the
Dam. Lennox Bridge was building in the middle of
the town, but the narrow head of Port Jackson was
still crossed by a low timber viaduct. To the north
Church-street became the Windsor-road, and towards
Castle Hill were the infrequent clearings and home-
steads of some of the pioneer agriculturists.
An aide-de-camp in riding costume came into Mr.
Greenway’s pillared porch at the front door.
“The horses are ready, your Excellency,” he an-
nounced. “Shall I have them brought round?”
The Governor turned and shook his head, slap-
ping his Wellington boot with his riding-whip, and
pointing with it across to the scene he had been de-
lightedly contemplating.
“Gad! ’Tis a lovely spot, Westmacott! I never
tire of this lookout. No, don’t trouble to bring them
round—we’ll go to the stables. I want to speak to Mick
Rorke. Poor old Mick! He’s interested in a young-
ster who’s to be hanged in Sydney this forenoon.
Wants me to use my prerogative. But, of course, I
can do nothing. There’s Darling’s Bushranging Act-
brutal enough, I grant, but it’s the law, and I don’t
make the laws.”
“Come, sir—oh, come, now!” laughed Captain
Westmacott as they walked round the house. “The
autocrat denies his faculties!”
“Oh, proclamations, of course, and general orders,
and that sort of thing—but they’re only temporary
by-laws of expediency, so to speak. General Darling’s
Act warns all who go a-bushranging that they’ll be
hanged if we catch ’em, and I can’t make exceptions.
No help for it —though I’m sorry. I’d do a good deal
for Mick.”
They came into the stone-flagged stable-yard, and
a smart old fellow with a slit of a mouth, a long, Irish
upper lip, and close-cropped side-whiskers touched
his hat to them. The horses were perfect pictures of
perfect grooming, and Rorke waved his hand at them
pridefully as he addressed the Governor. “They’ll do
the thrip in two hours aisy, sorr —they’re in fine
fettle. Mebbe y’d be in time, y’r honor, for to do
what I asked ye? The name’s Tom Considine. A good
lad, so he is, an’ ’twould be pity for to take an’ croak
him, this fine day an’ all.”
When he had mounted, the Governor looked
down sorrowfully at his groom, staring eagerly up at
him from the pavement. An expression of deep sym-
pathy came into his clean-cut face as he shook his
head. “No, Mick, my good fellow —I can’t do it. I’ve
looked carefully into the case, but young Considine
was caught red-handed, and made no denial of his
bushranging. I can do nothing.”
Touching his hat again, his features set and sor-
rowful, the old Irishman fell back, and the two gentle-
men rode out of the yard. The sentry outside the
guardroom at the back of Government House came to
“the present” as Sir Richard passed by, the horses
reefing and dancing in the freshness of the morning.
“No chance for him, sir? A decent lad, I’m told,”
said the aide as they walked their mounts down the
hill to the beginning of George-street.
The Governor shook his head. “No, Westma-
cott, I must let the poor devil hang, bad luck to it! I
can’t make fish of one and flesh of another.” He
sighed. “Come along—we’ll push on while the horses
are fresh.”
C OLLOWED at a hundred yards interval by two
* dragoon-like mounted troopers of the Governor’s
bodyguard, they cantered down the wide highway,
swung into Church-street at the police office., and so,
past the twin towers of St. John’s, into the Sydney-
road.
It was a monotonous and dismal highway, mostly
cut through tea-tree scrub and stunted eucalyptus,
with little settlement along its length. At Homebush,
once Dr. D’Arcy Wentworth’s estate, stood a wayside
tavern known as the Half Way House, and here a
small crowd, busily discussing some matter of appar-
ent public interest, was gathered about the open door-
way under the swinging signboard advertising “Good
Accommodation For Man and Beast.” As the Gov-
ernor and his aide approached at a walk, a stout and
burly red-faced man detached himself from the others,
and advanced into the roadway.
“Looks as though Hennessy has something to say
to you, sir,” said Captain Westmacott in a low tone.
“Shall I inquire his business?”
“I’ll talk to him myself,” replied the Governor.
“Well, Hennessy, a very good morning to you. D’ye
wish to speak with me?”
It was evident from Mr. Hennessy’s important
bearing that what he had to say was also important.
He was the landlord of the Half Way House, and had
probably been deputed by local interests to place some
matter of moment before the Governor. “Y’r
Ex’lency,” he began, “ye know well that I’m a fellow-
countryman, and wouldn’t be afther takin’ liberties wid
y’r honor’s silf, but ’tis mesilf’d loike for to give ye a
worrud o’ friendly advoice.”
“Ah,” said his Excellency drily. ‘‘Ah, Mr. Hen-
nessy.”
“I’ve bin a long toime in New South Wales, y’r
Ex’lency, and have found out what’s what an’ how the
wind blows. This young fellie Considine, y’r Ex’lency
—’twould be a mistake for to hang him. I’ve a fast
hor-rse in me shtable, an’ a smart lad to ride him, and
he could be at the gaol dure before ten o’clock, if so
be-e y’r Ex’lency’d scribble a line to the sheriff.
Jist a worrud o’ reprave, y’r Ex”
‘‘Good morning, Mr. Hennessy,” said Sir Richard.
“I am glad to hear you know which way the wind
blows and what is what. Pray continue to cultivate
such useful knowledge. A very good morning to you,
Mr. Hennessy. Come, Westmacott, shall we try a
short gallop? The road seems good hereabout.”
When they drew rein, a mile further on, the Gov-
ernor turned to his aide with a rather rueful smile.
“ ’Tis not all beer and skittles, is it, Westmacott ? Poor
Hennessy! But what could I do?”
“Oh, well, sir, you turned it off splendidly. The
only possible answer.”
POR some considerable distance they rode on in
A silence, Westmacott smoking a cigar and the Gov-
ernor engrossed in his reflections. Through the late
Dr. Wardell’s estate of Petersham the road led them,
and they were coming into the not infrequent domes
of windblown sandhills so common in those days to
the south of Sydney, when the sound of galloping
hooves behind caused both to turn their heads. The
troopers of the escort had challenged the rider, and
had evidently allowed him to continue his course, for
one of them waved a hand to Captain Westmacott as
he turned in the saddle.
Presently the rider checked his horse to a trot,
and then into a walk, as he approached the Governor
and his aide-de-camp. Half a dozen yards away he
drew rein altogether, and lifted his beaver top-hat to
the Governor.
“Why, f Mr. Macartney!” exclaimed Sir Richard.
“Good morning to you. Pray, do you wish to see me?”
“Most urgent, your Excellency. A matter of life
and death.”
“Don’t tell me ’tis about young Considine, Mr.
Macartney.”
“That it is, sir! I beg your Excellency’s atten-
tion for but a brief moment. I assure you”
“I thought so, Westmacott. Well, Mr. Macartney?
I can give you a moment. But I’ve already had to
make two or three unfavorable replies about that
young man this morning.”
Sir Richard knew the gentleman who addressed
him for a free settler from the Hawkesbury, an ex-
subaltern of the Buffs, and a man of good repute.
Also, he was a fellow-countryman whom he liked
better to regard as such than bloated Mr. Hennessy of
the Half Way House. He listened attentively while the
other spoke.
“This young man, your Excellency—he can’t be
more than six and twenty —was assigned to me a few
years ago on his arrival in the colony? Then he went
to Hunter’s River with some cattle I’d sold to Major
Mudie, of Castle Forbes, and obtained a new assign-
ment to that person’s service. Well, I take it, Sir
Richard, that you are aware of Mudie’s reputation
as a taskmaster? A wicked tyrant, sir—a most de-
plorable slave-driver.”
The Governor nodded, with an expression of dis-
taste in his handsome features. “Indeed, I know all
about Major Mudie, Mr. Macartney. His reputation is
familiar to me. I say it in confidence and between
ourselves, sir—but Mudie’s been responsible for some
of the worst of the bushranging in our northern dis-
tricts. As you say, a most damnable tyrant. lam
seriously considering whether all convict labor should
not be denied him. So Considine was one of the
Major’s victims, was he?”
“Exactly, your Excellency—‘victim’ is the right
word. He was forced to abscond. He became mixed
up with other unfortunates of the same sort. Then
this affair of robbing the mailman near Wiseman’s
Ferry. Technically, of course, he’s a bushranger, but
he’s such a decent fellow, sir—one of the best sort of
the young Irish. A good fellow, Sir Richard, a good
fellow, indeed. I’ll go bail you’ll be able to congratu-
late yourself when your term of office expires, if you
will spare his life this morning. Give me a note to
the sheriff, sir, and I’ll engage to stop the execution.”
“My dear sir,” said the Governor sadly, “you’re
the third this morning—indeed, the fourth, for West-
macott has urged me also to pardon this young man.
But what can I do? No doubt the youngster’s all
you claim him to be —but he’s a bushranger. There’s
no help for it.”
Mr. Macartney removed his top-hat and wiped
his sweating forehead while he stared into the beaver’s
interior as if seeking further inspiration. Suddenly he
clapped it on his bald head and raised a hand. “Sir
Richard! You remember Peter Considine?” Mr.
Macartney spoke eagerly and hopefully. “Peter the
Hop-pole, they called him. Lord Baldo’s huntsman,
of the Blake’s Castle pack o’ hounds?”
“Why, of course I do. One of the best-known
men in all Ireland. But what’s the Hop-pole—gad,
he was nearly seven feet in his socks, if he was an
inch —what’s Long Peter got to do with it?”
“This boy Considine’s his son.”
“The deuce he is! Peter Considine’s son —and
to hang at ten o’clock! My God, Mr. Macartney, this
is terrible. Terrible!”
Sir Richard sat erect in the saddle, staring
amazedly at the Hawkesbury landowner, whilst Cap-
tain Westmacott looked from one to the other. A
little distance from them the two troopers, steel sword-
scabbards glinting in the sunlight, bestrode their horses


at “attention,” wooden-
faced and impassive, await-
ing orders.
“Why was young Con-
sidine sent out here?” asked
the Governor.
“For next to nothing,
Sir Richard —you or I might
have done the same. He
gave a process-server a
beating, and the man turned
nasty. A misfortune that
might happen to any gentle-
man. But there’s more to
tell of him, sir. More in-
deed! Your Excellency re-
members the Curragh point-
to-point in ’29? When the
Leprechaun won?”
“Of course, yes. Most
remarkable performance! ”
“D’ye remember the rider’s name?”
“No —I don’t recollect it.”
“ ’Twas young Tom Considine.”
“This lad—the boy who’s waiting to be hanged?”
“The very same, your Excellency. A horseman in
fen thousand. That’s the boy you’re going to hang at
ten o’clock for the sake of a damned ticket-of-leave
mailman.”
Gathering up his reins, the Governor looked at
his watch. “By heavens, no —not if I can save him!”
cried Dick Bourke. “Come, Mr. Macartney —come
along, Westmacott. We’ve just got time. A quarter
past nine. We can do it. Come !”
C? OUTH SYDNEY was almost empty of loafers that
summer morning, for the majority of dhem had
gone to the north end of George-street to witness the
execution, so not many people saw the Governor of
New South Wales ride that race against time and the
hangman.
They came to the toll-bar at the beginning of the
Parramatta-road, not far from the Sandhills cemetery,
where Sydney’s Central Railway Station stands to-day,
and Captain Westmacott shouted to the astonished
tollkeeper, running out of the ornate cottage Mr.
Francis Greenway had provided for the holder of
the office back in Macquarie’s day, to make haste and
bestir himself.
“Be quick, my man — quick ! His Excellency’s in
a hurry!”
“In the name of God, he is!” grunted the man
as he lowered again the stout timber barrier that
barred the highway to all but the Governor and the
Judges, and looked after the five galloping horses
veiling themselves in dust as they tore down into the
hollow of the Haymarket. “What the devil’s the
matter, I wonder. ’Tis not like Sir Richard to forget
the tollman’s little present. Not a bit like him!”
Up by the dusty Brickfields and the old burial
ground, the five horsemen thundered along the ruts of
George-street into the heart of the little town that
was the capital of the South Seas in 1835 —the Gov-
ernor in the lead, then Captain Westmacott and Mr.
Macartney, with the two astonished troopers of the
escort at the tail of the rapid procession, steel scab-
bards meeting their horses’ flanks with every plunging
stride of the mad race.
Past the Markets and the road to the Market
Wharf tore the five horses in a cloud of dust, their
riders urging them on with spur and whip. King-
street they raced across, passed by the General Post
Office opposite the long wall of the Military Bar-
racks, with its big gateway, guardroom and glimpse of
green parade-ground and tall buildings along the line
of York-street, which were the skyline then, and
charged over the intersection of Hunter-street. A
little lower down, outside the high wall and drab in-
terior buildings of Sydney Gaol, a crowd had
gathered, and the people scattered as the horse-
men flayed their excited steeds towards the
prison gate. At the further corner, where the wall
ended, was the declivity of Essex-street, and a little
way up the hill stood the grim structure of the
gallows, guarded by ranks of red-jacketed soldiers. An
empty rope hung from the beam, but the platform as
yet was empty. Captain Westmacott flung himself
from his horse, threw the reins to one of the troopers
and hammered on the massive bolt-studded wooden
gate with the silver butt of his riding-crop.
“Twenty minutes to the good!” cried Sir Richard,
glancing at his watch. “God be thanked !”
“Thank God for that!” echoed Mr. Macartney.
The troopers held the horses whilst the three of
them entered the gaol. The mob about the foot of
Essex-street rumbled its astonishment and impatience.
Ten o’clock came, and the gallows remained empty.
At a quarter past the top-hatted sheriff informed the
crowds of their disappointment. Somebody threw at
him a rotten tomato, which burst on his beaver. The
Sydney people were intolerant of breaches of faith
like this. An exasperating disappointment was the
least that could be said.
As his Excellency Sir Richard Bourke and Cap-
tain Westmacott walked their horses across the stone
bridge spanning the Tank Stream half an hour later,
on their way to Government House up on the hill-
side, the latter remarked, “Well, sir—we were in good
time. But may I ask why you changed your mind?
’Tis not very usual with your Excellency!”
“Ah, Westmacott,” laughed Sir Richard, swinging
round in the saddle and winking at his aide-de-camp,
“ ’Tis easily seen you're not an Irishman!”
RED
“Y’r Exlency,” began Mr. Hennessy, “ye know well that I’m a fellow-
countryman, and wouldn’t be- afther takin’ liberties wid y’r honor’s silf,
but ’tis mesilf’d loike for to give ye a worrud o’ friendly advoice."
BY A. E. BRIGHTWELL
A Maorilander—Mrs. A. E. Brightwell, c/o G.P.0., New Plymouth, Taranaki—
takes the £5 prize in the third of “The Bulletin’s” new-writer competitions. The
fourth competition, closing on October 7, will be the last in this series.
THE woman was grim. Grim a$ the mountain
peaks above, grim as death itself. “Ye won’t be
leaving her!” It was a demand, not a plea.
The doctor shrugged his shoulders. “My
dear woman, your daughter is a perfectly healthy girl,
and things are going on in the normal way. It will
probably be several hours before I’m needed at all.”
He looked away out over the bush falling sharply
to the countryside laid out below, and felt again a
prick of annoyance at this senseless waste of his time.
“Don’t ye be leaving her! I tell ye she’s all I
got!” The tall, straight figure was tense, the eyes
black in the hard, lined face. “We got to watch every
minute! He’ll get her from me for good, else!”
The doctor looked up sharply. “Who’ll get her
from you?”
“Red!”
“Her husband?”
“Aye!” came the answer, a curt syllable.
The doctor bit back the impatient words on his
lips. What use to advise this woman not to be fool-
ish? He looked at her instead ; at the plain and
sturdy dress, at the spare, straight form, and at the in-
tensity that might be terror —terror that struggled not
to give way. His features softened. “Look! There’s no
need at all for you to worry! Everything is quite
normal. I —well, I was just going to take a walk along
the roadway. I won’t even go beyond call.”
“How am I to know you’ll not be getting into
your car an’ goin’ off? See!” She made an abrupt
movement, and there in her hands was a great wad
of notes. “There’s plenty to pay.”
He indicated his bag on the well-scrubbed kitchen
table behind her. “I’m leaving my security!” Then,
at her curt nod, he turned his face to the mountain
roadway.
A QUEER situation.- First he’d received the ’phone
call, away back in town. An accident, they’d
said ; and then the voice he knew now to be that of
the woman in the mountain cabin had cut sharply in.
“A birth, you fool! A birth! Tell him to hurry! ”
And so he’d come —hurrying, making short work
of the stiff climb. He’d got here quite soon after the
’phone message, and now called himself a fool for
his haste. There was nothing wrong. A mountain girl
with her first baby ; hardy and strong and with the
pure grit of the mountain folk ; and perhaps all day
still to wait. But he’d taken to the pleasing face of
the girl, to her courage. Only once had she made a
sound. The pain had been severe enough to bring out
beads of perspiration upon the whiteness of her face,
and in the intensity of it her lips had opened on a
word that was half a moan: “Red!”
And the woman who was her mother, a different
being in the sickroom, eagerly efficient, determinedly
bright, had said: “You for a silly girl! I’d be think-
ing shame to be callin’ on a husband that could gallop
off and leave his woman on a day like this!”
She’d answered with spirit as the pain abated.
“Ye’re not fair to Red, ma! He’s my man, and I
love him!”
“Fair’s fair, my girl, an’ worth’s more than good
looks and blue eyes under a thatch of red hair!”
Queer old bird, the mother. How she hated the
husband, though she tried to soften it with the girl.
What did she mean —that Red would get the girl from
her for good? Some human tangle of these moun-
tain folk, he supposed. A strange body, the old
woman, the will in her strong as the storms that
must come suddenly to these heights.
The mountain roadway wound, very narrow,
uphill and down, through the bush. He glanced at
the huge trees rising on either side of it. Then, through
a sudden clearing, he glimpsed eerie wisps of mist
that circled the peaks above, silent and swift, though
no breath of air stirred the forest leaves.
He must turn back, must not get too far away
from the cabin. He could go on a little in the other
direction. And, as he walked, the mist, advancing un-
noticed from the sea, slipped on to the forest world.
Thick and sudden and unexpected, it held everything
around in a damp, dense, softly-moving grip.
It was yet more thick as he reached the group of
little buildings and put out a hand to the latch of
the closed cabin door. The door opened to his touch,
but he halted upon the threshold with a sense of
shock. This was not the building he had been in
before. It was another cabin, smaller than the first,
even more sparsely furnished.
A man, seated before a smouldering fire, had risen
to his feet. “Git out!”
But the doctor paid no heed to the terse order,
even when it was forcibly repeated. His swift stride
took him to the narrow bed and to the broken, bat-
tered figure lying on it. The white and stiffened face
was smeared with dirt and blood beneath a rugged
thatch of rich red hair. The words of the doctor
came sharply. “What’s this?”
“Well, Doc., reckon it’s a job for you, after. The
ole woman will sack me for lettin’ you in. There was
nothin’ to do, see? An’ she said the other job came
first. Suppose I didn’t fasten the door properly!”
“This the husband, Red?”
“Was —yes! How’s the girl?”
“Fine! ” The answer was absent. “Well, I’d better
get on to the job!”
“Yes, Doc.! An’ don’t let on to the ole woman! ”
“Accident?”
“Yes! Thrown from ’is ’orse on the way to
town this mornin’! Dead afore they got ’im back.
The ole woman got the girl into bed so’s she wouldn’t
know.”
THE doctor walked swiftly across the fog-covered
clearing. It would be nasty driving out. Black
logs and stumps loomed around out of the mist.
The mother was in the tiny bedroom.
“Nasty bit of fog, eh?”
“Oh, it comes an’ goes, up here. We’re in the
clouds.”
His own remark had been briskly professional,
but a lump rose in his throat at the stark efficiency of
the woman, at the glance that lingered, surprisingly
softened, between mother and daughter, when the girl,
almost exhausted, lowered herself again to the bed.
The hours crept by. He did all he could to lighten
things for her, and at last the child was born, a lusty,
yelling boy. The old woman took the babe to the
kitchen, and he turned his attention to the girl on the
bed. Strangely spent and pale she seemed, but he
had no fear for her.
And then it happened. Collapse.
He called sharply to the woman in the other room,
and together, desperately, they fought for the life.
Fought and fought, the woman like a wild-cat tense
with fury, beyond the time when they both knew they
could do no more.
Just before the end the girl spoke, weakly, yet,
it seemed to the doctor, with an uncanny exultation.
“Red! Red!”
The doctor turned from the stark tragedy of the
mother.
“She’d always go—he’d only to whistle!” The
simple statement was almost frightening.
He heard her leave the room, moving quietly but
firmly. He moved towards the kitchen ; then, in the
doorway, he paused.
The woman was holding the child in her arms. The
tiny face of the babe was working, the little fists
pounding, in a lusty urge to life ; and the fine soft
thatch of hair was already aflame.
The woman spoke one word: “Red!”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j 4 ffklt c H£he -cf h i& *ie mellomncMundXvuqiiei/
“The Parish Church of the Empire”—St. Paul’s Cathedral.
Left —Looking down the Nave, 1882.
Right —The High Altar, 1939.
“Wren’s Masterpiece,” a common designation for St. Paul V Cathedral, or “The Parish Church of the Empire,” to apply a modern but
none the less faithful and picturesque title, rears its noble proportions over the ashes of many churches. First, there was a Christian Church
of the earliest times of the faith. This was destroyed during the Diocletian persecution period. The second was raised in the reign
of Constantine the Great. The early Saxon heathens made short work of it. The third edifice dates away back to the year 610,
when Sebert, sub-King of Ethelbert, sovereign of Kent, and first Saxon monarch who was a Christian, rebuilt the church on the old
site. At this time, on the recommendation of St. Augustine, Melitus, first Bishop of London, was appointed. This church, a splendid
building for the era, improved and adorned by many successive holders of the See, from St. Erkenwold, the fourth after Melitus, was
destroyed by fire with a large section of the Metropolis in 1083. Immediately after this disaster Bishop Mauritius began the fourth
and still finer Cathedral, referred to in present days as “Old St. Paul’s,” a vast fane to disappear in the Great Fire of 1666. The
St. Paul’s we now see, commenced in 1675 and completed 1710, cost £747,954, a vast sum in those days, defrayed, however, by a small
tax on coal. Here repose many of the Empire’s illustrious dead —sailors, soldiers, philosophers, lawyers, poets —while many of the
monuments recording the memory among others of Sir Joshua Reynolds, John Howard, Dr. Johnson, Nelson, Rodney, Howe, Ralph
Abercrombie, Collingwood, Wellington, Turner, Lawrence, Kitchener, Jellicoe and Beatty are extremely fine, and also in the Cathedral
Australia’s first peer and noble son, Lord Forrest of Bunbury, is remembered. In the crypt reposes the great architect, Wren, with the
Latin inscription on his tomb: “Beneath lies Christopher Wren, the architect of this Church and City, who lived more than ninety years,
not for himself alone, but for the public. Reader, do you seek his monument? Look around!” The height of the cross at the top
of the dome is 365 ft. from the floor of the building. The illustrations seem to indicate some of the improvements the interior has undergone
in practically 60 years, reflecting a return to that beauty of surroundings in the temple which existed before the Reformation.


VERY STRANGE BEDFELLOWS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WAR LESSONS.
Though the war is not a month old, there are already
to be learned from it lessons that Australia will have
to apply as part of a national policy of preparedness.
The first concerns the supreme importance of the
internal-combustion engine in war. On the score of
mobility alone it has made back numbers of the steam
engine and the horse.
The Poles are renowned cavalrymen, and their
army relied on cavalry to a greater extent than any
other in the world. They had 40 regiments of cavalry
on their peace establishment. But against German
’planes, tanks and motorised infantry, artillery and
machine-gunners their cavalry regiments were useless.
The more gallantly they charged the more hideously
they suffered. Horrible as is the report that 3000
Polish horsemen attacked a squadron of tanks and left
2900 of their number at the place of slaughter, it is all
too probable ; and there must have been many kindred
examples of hopeless heroism. And low-flying bombers
made short and bloody work of supply columns based
on the farm-cart.
Armored trains went out with the South African
War, but it was thought that railways retained much
of their value for army transport. The Poles found
this a tragic fallacy. The story of their agony is
largely the story of the failure of their railways in
every particular. Stations, junctions, workshops, trains,
bridges, lines were easy marks for Hitler’s airmen, and
were bombed with ruthless efficiency and frightful
loss. Enemy troops were landed from the air at many
points behind the Polish lines. Motorised columns
dashed over the Polish roads at twice or thrice the
speed that the defenders could compass in their trains.
Almpst before they knew what had happened their
armies were turned. Some were surrounded and had
to surrender. Others cut their way through, but only
for a time. For the soldiers and refugees who made
for the Rumanian frontier, retreat became a ghastly
rout.
In Australia for a quarter of a century unifica-
tion of railway gauges has been discussed. In view of
unhappy Poland’s experience, it would be criminal
waste of money; and in the event of an invasion by
an enemy possessing superiority in the air, reliance on
the railways, whether gauges are unified or not, would
mean terrible loss of life. Yet because people are
slow to learn from the misfortunes of others, and
because the railways are great employers of labor and
politically important, acceptance of their suddenly
diminished military value will be difficult to secure.
Except for 2144 miles of Commonwealth lines
and 803 miles owned by companies, all the Austra-
lian railways, 28,000 miles altogether, are run by State
Governments. Partly because of this, the State Gov-
ernments have been permitted to have far too great
a say in the determination of Australian policy. All
their systems are bankrupt, but by various devices,
such as “writing off capital” (the public creditor never
writes it off) and allowing little or nothing for depre-
ciation, huge losses are concealed. Actually, of
course, they have to be met out of the taxes, and out
of the taxes also come large annual grants which are
reckoned as earnings. Along with these methods goes
a deliberate policy of hamstringing commercial road
transport—by swingeing taxation where common car-
riers are permitted, and in other cases by prohibitive
regulations. It has even been proposed that the trans-
port departments should run internal air services, with
power to forbid competition and subject private air-
lines to the same sort of control that they apply to
owners of service cars and motor-lorries ; but, cir-
cumstances being unpropitious, these plans have never
taken shape.
The State Governments’ appetite for power has
grown with the years, with the complaisance of Com-
monwealth Governments —shown especially in feed-
ing them with loans and grants—and with the weak-
ening of an always-defective Constitution by legal
judgments. When Britain went to war, its Prime
Minister did not assemble a mob of provincial Pre-
miers or their local counterparts and tell them what
he proposed to do and ask them what they proposed
to do. There are chairmen of county councils which
look after the local affairs of populations greater than
that of the most populous Australian State ; but they
were not consulted. There was no need to consult
them, the nation having only one Parliament, which
had armed the Government with all necessary emer-
gency powers. Thus, when war came, everything was
ready. The Government knew what it had to do and
did it instantly, supported by the whole nation.
What happened in Australia? Almost the first
message our Prime Minister received was a demand
for another Premiers’ Conference, and at the end of
a week big with events —for -one thing he had to
present his Budget and provide in it for three chroni-
cally unfinancial State Governments —he was obliged
to gather the flock of State Premiers about him and
hear them talk and talk and talk.
Loans, taxes and “works” were discussed, but evi-
dently no agreement was arrived at. At all events, on
the seventeenth day of the war the N.S.W. Treasurer
announced that his Government had “decided to pro-
ceed with its proposals for increased taxation” —pro-
posals made regardless of the nation’s war necessities
and designed to bring in far more than the Govern-
ment prosecuting the war is asking from N.S.W. tax-
payers—and protested that it had “commenced or will
commence works of strategic importance” for which
the Commonwealth Government refused to pay. The
Prime Minister wearily replied that “the works of
strategic importance,” a few roads, were “very low
down in the list of requirements,” and that the N.S.W.
Government had been told it would not be paid for
them. He gently reminded the inept and presumptuous
Government that it would benefit largely from Com-
monwealth war expenditure and from the British
purchases of produce and metals, and that it would
not have to find a penny for the war.
What would they say in England if Mr. Cham-
berlain had to switch his mind off the war and argue
with some absurd functionary in Liverpool or Bir-
mingham about a few unemployed-relief dirt jobs
alleged by the absurd functionary to be “strategic
works”?
Unfortunately, it is accepted by Commonwealth
politicians, nearly all of whom have grown up under
the seven-Parliaments system, that State Governments
have a right, not only to exist, but to go in for
squandermania, meddling and selfish provincialism,
even in war-time. The system has bred State Govern-
ment employees by the hundred thousand (in the 1938
Year-Book it is recorded that on June 30, 1937, there
were 325,877 Government employees working full time,
263,864 for State Governments, and that on December
31, 1937, there were 9136 servicemen in the Perma-
nent Forces: 2319 in the A.M.F., 2478 in the R.A.A.F.
and 4339 in the R.A.N.). On the other hand, it has
bred confusion and inertia, which are hard to over-
come even in national emergencies. Take the Men-
zies Government’s war measures. They may be cor-
rect, but they are not very energetic and not at all
heroic.
There will have to be great changes in Australia,
and the war will expedite them. As a war measure
all forms of transport should be placed under Com-
monwealth control, and Commonwealth control should
be continued until the people can be asked, by refer-
endum, to give to the national Parliament supreme
and unchallengeable powers over transport and all
other national matters. And, very obviously, the fight-
ing services will have to be provided with the best war
machines that money can buy ; and because—as recent
events have shown all too plainly—delivery of foreign
purchases when they are most needed can never be
depended upon, they will all have to be made in Aus-
tralia. And the fighting services will need to be suffi-
ciently strong and well-trained for the defence of a
nation possessed of a continent and under obligations
to help sister-nations. That means universal training
and universal liability to service.
Mein Gold Bricks.
Hitler appeared before his beloved Danzigers to
deliver another variation of his now-familiar mono-
logue on injured innocence, to send out tentative
feelers for peace to supplement those of Goring in
the previous week, and to issue another batch of
promises no doubt as trustworthy as any he had
uttered in the past.
The British Government promptly described the
speech as “full of the crass misstatements which
usually fall from Hitler’s lips,” denouncing the “tale
of broken promises, so long that he can scarcely expect
Britain to believe that German aspirations are limited
or that he has no further aspirations in the West.”
The French Government as promptly designated the
speech an attempt by Hitler “to justify himself to
the German people for dragging them into war,”
accusing him of “wanton lying” and of resorting to
his timeworn manoeuvre of attempting to split Britain
and France.
One of the most futile lies in the Fiihrer’s gold-
brick patter is his repeated charge of malevolent oppo-
sition by Britain to Germany’s natural development.
Not only in Britain, but throughout the Empire and
in France as well, reasonably-minded people, until
recently, carried generosity to extremes. Hitler’s word
was accepted at its face value; there was a generous
attempt to make amends for what many believed to
be the injustices of Versailles ; people who nursed no
vendetta of hatred were indulgent of German acts
that went against the grain, and for as long as it was
at all possible were ready to,put the best interpre-
tation on German declarations in regard to peaceful
intentions and limited national objectives.
After the apparent settlement of the early Czecho-
slovak crisis in July last year, the French Prime Min-
ister declared that his Government “placed confidence
in the peaceful aspirations which Chancellor Hitler has
always publicly claimed to be his.” Mr. Chamberlain
said in the House of Commons:
Hitler repeated to me with great earnestness what
he had already said at Berchtesgaden—namely, that this
[claim to the Sudeten German territory] was the last
of his territorial ambitions in Europe, and that he had
no wish to include in the Reich non-Germans. I have
no hesitation in saying, after our personal contact, that
I believe he means what he says.
That trust and generosity were freely extended to
Germany until March. The Naval Treaty with
Britain had apparently been honored, and the Peace
Pact with Poland had not yet been torn up. It was
possible to disregard Hitler’s past lying as no worse
than examples of inconsistency common to political
expediency the world over.
With the invasion of Czechoslovakia the mask
was off. It was then evident that there were no limits
to German ambitions as represented by Hitler and his
Nazi regime ; that the policy of proclaiming a calcu-
lated lie and then confirming it by its opposite in
action was inherent in the Nazi system. Then it was
that a member of the House of Commons summarised
the performance of the policy:
Each quotation is the Fiihrer’s, who on November
10, 1934, in Berlin asked: “When have- the German
people ever broken their word?”
1. Rearmament.
May 17, 1933. —“Germany will tread no other path
than that laid down by the Treaties. The German
Government will discuss all political and economic
questions only within the framework of the Treaties.”
(Reichstag.)
October 14, 1933. —Germany left the League and
the Disarmament Conference just when Sir John Simon
at Geneva was attempting a compromise between French
and German views on armaments.
March 10 and 16, 1935. —An air force and army
were anounced after Herr Hitler’s cold had delayed the
visit of Sir John Simon, who was to have attempted a
general settlement involving German arms equality.
2. Locarno.
January 30, 1934. —“After the Saar has been settled
the German Goverment is ready to accept not only the
letter but the spirit of Locarno.” (Reichstag.)
March 13, 1934.—“ The German Government has
never questioned the validity of Locarno.” (Note to
France.)
May 2, 1935. —The Franco-Soviet Pact is signed.
May 21, 1935.—“ The German Government will
scrupulously observe every treaty voluntarily concluded.
In particular it will hold to all obligations arising out
of Locarno so long as other parties are ready to stand
by that Treaty.” (Reichstag.)
March 7, 1936.—Germany denounced Locarno and
reoccupied the Rhineland opposite France and Belgium.
The excuse given was the Franco-Soviet Pact, to which
Belgium was not a party.
3. Austria.
May 17, 1933.—“ The German people have no
thought of invading any country.” (Reichstag.)
October 14, 1933.—“ When the Saar has been returned
to Germany only a madman could consider the possi-
bility of war between France and Germany. No one
would demand that millions of men should be anni-
hilated for a readjustment of our present frontier.”
(Reichstag.)
May 21, 1935. —“Germany neither intends nor wishes
to interfere in the internal affairs of Austria, to
annex Austria, or to conclude an Anschluss.” (Reich-
stag.)
March 7, 1936. — “Germany will never break the
peace of Europe. After three years I can regard the
struggle for German equality as concluded to-day
[after the Rhineland occupation]. We have no terri-
torial demands to make in Europe.” (Reichstag.)
July 11, 1936. —Austro-German Agreement recognises
Austrian sovereignty.
January 30, 1937. —“The period of so-called surprises
is now over.” (Reichstag.)
February 12, 1938.—Hitler reaffirms to Schuschnigg
at Berchtesgaden the Agreement of July 11, 1936.
March 11, 1938. —Germany annexes Austria.
January 1, 1939.—“1n January, 1938, I finally resolved
that during this year I wquld in one'way or another
win the right of the 6£ million Germans in Austria to
self-determination. ’ ’ (Reichstag.)
4. Czechoslovakia.
September 26, 1938. —“The last problem which must
be solved confronts us. It is the last territorial claim
whch I have to make in Europe. We do not want
any Czechs.” (Berlin.)
September 29, 1938. —The Munich Agreement said
that as soon as Czechoslovakia had satisfied Hungarian
and Polish claims Germany would be prepared to
guarantee the new frontiers.
October 9, 1938.—“N0w as a strong State we can
be ready to pursue a policy of understanding with sur-
rounding States. We want nothing from them. We
have no wishes, no claims.” (Saarbriicken.)
March 14, 1939.—The German Foreign Office told
the French and British Ambassadors that Germany
intended no drastic move.
March 15, 1939. —Czechoslovakia is invaded and
annexed.
Since then there have been acres of lying, or acts
exposing earlier lying. In his Reichstag speech of
January 30, 1937, Hitler said of the Poles:
The Italian nation and the new Italian State are
realities. The German nation and the German Reich
are likewise realities. The Polish nation and the Polish
State have also become realities. The people who belong
to those States want to live, and they will live.
In his Reichstag speech of February 20, 1938,
Hitler declared that “Germany respected Polish rights,”
and spoke of “arriving at a sincere spirit of friendly
co-operation.” Regarding Danzig, he then said that,
“since the advent of the new Commissioner, this most
dangerous place for European peace has entirely lost
its menace.” Also in that speech he was still conjur-
ing up the “Communist menace”: —•
With one single country alone we have detested to
enter into relationship. That State is Soviet Russia.
We see in Bolshevism more now than before the incar-
nation of human destructive forces. We therefore
oppose any attempt at the spreading of Bolshevism,
wherever it may take place, with disdain, and wherever
it threatens us, with hostility. From this arises our
relationship with Japan. I believe that a Japanese
defeat in the Far East would never be of any good
to Europe or America, but would exclusively benefit
Bolshevist Soviet Russia.
Hitler’s pledged word is a guarantee of nothing
except that he will break it when it suits him. It is
to save France and Britain from the fate of other coun-
tries to which he gave his pledged word that this war
is being waged.
MACANN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Catering for Conchies.
The Bulletin associates itself with Mr. Cameron s
protest against the Labor “amendments” to the
Defence Act, and against the Government’s surrender
of control of the House, when there was more urgent
business awaiting attention, so that objectors to com-
pulsory unionism—no, compulsory training and ser-
vice—might be humored.
While the sorry debate was in progress news
came from France that 105 members of the Chamber
of Deputies were serving as conscripts ; and as con-
scripts they have to go wherever they are sent. It
was proposed by Mr. Ward, of East Sydney, sup-
ported by his party, that Australians liable for home
service—and all fit Australians are —should be
exempted from obligation to serve in Papua, New
Guinea and Norfolk Island, as well as Maoriland.
This was too much for even the Menzies Government.
But to oblige Mr. Ward and his friends the con-
scientious-objector clause was “amended.”
Conscientious objectors may now contract out of
service whether their objections rest on religious
grounds or not. The Minister of Defence himself
introduced this “amendment” in terms which slightly
altered Mr. Ward’s, and it was carried by 46 to 14.
Mr. Cameron justly described the vote as “one of the
greatest surrenders to threat and minority dictatorship”
on record.
Members of Mr. Cameron’s party were among
the majority, and he was rebuked for his “outburst”
by Mr. McEwen, by one of the C.P. breakaways, Mr.
Fadden, and one of the Ministers, young Mr. Holt.
The prospect of his joining the Ministry is now remote.
Yet the Ministry needs him and needs his party’s sup-
port, so that it may claim to have a majority in each
Chamber and act accordingly.
Mr. Cameron is war-wise, and there is reason to
believe that he has drive, imagination and a right per-
ception of the value of time. If the Government is
possessed of these qualities the evidence is so far lack-
ing. It seems to be proceeding on the assumption
that the enemy will be held, with no great loss, on the
Western Front, and that the blockade will soon finish
him off. With Poland crushed; with Russia an
“aggressor” in the terms of the Anglo-Polish alliance,
a partner in another and more infamous partition and
a party to mysterious manoeuvres, not only with Ger-
many but with Turkey, which may have designs on
Irak; with Rumania a prey to faction (its Prime
Minister assassinated and bloodily avenged), and itself
in danger of being dismembered; with the U.S.A.
neutral and nothing to hope for from other countries,
the only safe assumption is that Australia will have to
draw on its powers of improvisation and put forth
its whole strength, and that there is not a moment to
be lost. A call from Canberra will find the nation
ready.
Another Historical Parallel.
One of the few humorous passages in military history
concerns the accounts of the first Napoleon s march
to Paris that appeared in the official “Moniteur” in
March, 1815. Boiled down, they went something like
this:
Accompanied by a handful of wretches, ill-armed and
half-starved, the brigand Bonaparte has reached Cannes from
Elba. He and the other criminals will soon be in chains.
The Corsican monster and his miserable ruffians have
been repulsed from Antibes. Their capture is merely a matter
of hours.
Aided by the treachery of part of the garrison, Bonaparte
has arrived at Grenoble. The great body of soldiers are loyal
to his most sacred Majesty King Louis XVIII, and Marshal
Ney will bring back the invader in an iron cage.
Lyons has opened its gates to Napoleon. The King and
his Court have left for Ghent.
With maidens scattering flowers in his path, the Emperor
and his brave army have arrived at Fontainebleau, endeared
to the Imperial family by so many noble recollections. The
trail of the fugitive Bourbons is littered with foundered
horses and abandoned coaches.
Amidst the cheers of a loyal people, our beloved Emperor
and King made a triumphal entry into Paris. Attended by
the Arch-Chancellor, his Imperial Majesty was borne' shoulder-
high into his palace of the Tuileries, where he was affection-
ately greeted by her Majesty the Queen of Holland.
* As funny in another way are the August-
September communiques of “Australian” Commu-
nists, also boiled down: —•
Chamberlain must at once sign the Anglo-Soviet pact
against the German butchers, and extend it to the Japanese
butchers, instead of attempting to make treacherous bargains
with the Fascists.
The Nazi hangmen write of the Polish State as a “mis-
fortune for its citizens.” In the organ of the Fascist beast
of prey, drug-addict Goring, the Poles are accused of possess-
ing a “rule of the cudgel”.... Germany under the Nazis is
not merely a land “ruled by the cudgel,” but, under the Nazis,
the rule of the headman’s axe and the midnight strangler, of
dehumanised thugs, the dregs of humanity.
Hitler compelled to recognise the growing might of
the Soviet Union sends Ribbentrop to Moscow to try to
make terms a great victory for the Soviet and for peace.
The Soviets agree to sign a non-aggression pact; but that
does not mean and could never mean that they are prepared
to give Hitler a free hand for new and greater aggressions....
Ribbentrop, when he commences negotiations with Molotov,
will soon find....that in the event of unprovoked aggression
the pact becomes null and void.
The Soviet-German Non-Aggression Pact will not interfere
in any way with the Soviet-French-British Defensive Pact.
Raw materials and military supplies can be sold to Poland if
she wants them.
The savage German Fascists have launched a new aggres-
sion against Poland, and the British Empire and France are
at war with Germany.
This war, launched for the purpose of the conquest ol
Poland and its subjection to the Fascist Empire of Hitler,
of Krupp and Thyssen, the German monopoly capitalists, is
an act of stark aggression, without justification of any £'
whatever. Therefore, lovers of justice and liberty throughout
the entire world will support the struggle of the Polish
people for their independence and against enslavement to a
foreign Power.
We support the war against Hitler Fascism on the basis
that its aims must be confined to the destruction of the Nazi
dictatorship, liberty for the German people, and independence
for Poland, Czechoslovakia and Austria.
The Communist party supports the Polish people in their
struggle for independence against the savage Nazi Fascists.
In the event that a voluntary expeditionary force is organised
for use in any part of the world to safeguard Australia
from aggression and/or to participate directly in the struggle
to defeat the aggressor armies, the Communist party will
advise fit and available members to offer their services.
The Government of the Polish ruling class that refused
to have Soviet troops on Polish soil, and thereby landed the
Polish people into a barbarous massacre, has fled to Rumania.
The Red Army is now engaged in saving the White Russian
and Ukrainian minorities from the Nazi invasion and its
accompanying horrors. The 5,000,000 Polish Jews will also
welcome the Red Army as a protection and refuge from the
Nazi persecution of the Jewish race. The Ukrainian and
White Russian territories were seized by the Polish imperialists
at the time when Soviet Russia was engaged in a life and
death struggle with the White Guard armies.
Enlist Now, comrades, for the war in Poland
so that you may “participate directly in the struggle
to defeat the aggressor armies.”
Legalising Robbery.
N. S. Wales has roughly two-fifths of the population
of the Commonwealth, and its proportion of the new
tax-revenue to be raised by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for Australia’s war effort will be roughly two-
fifths, i.e., about £3,000,000. The Sydney Govern-
ment proposes to extract a great deal more from N. S.
Wales taxpayers mainly to meet losses, incurred and
anticipated, which are and will be the consequences
of its financial rake’s progress. In relief tax alone for
nine months of 1939-40 it proposes to grab £2,142,000
more than the yield for the whole of 1938-39 ; and
other taxes are to be heavily increased.
Australians are prepared to pay special war taxa-
tion while strongly objecting to sheer wanton extrava-
gance, such as the distribution of £2,020,000 in special
grants among the provincial Governments of South
Australia, Westralia and Tasmania, and the squander-
ing of £20,000 on the sinecurist National Travel Asso-
ciation, of nearly £48,000 on the carcass of the League,
and of more than £47,000 on the overseas publicity
brigade. But if the people of N. S. Wales have to
find another £4,000,000 or £5,000,000 merely to feed
the wasteful folly of the alleged Parliament that lingers
superfluously in Macquarie-street, Sydney, it will be
flat legalised robbery.
Not twelve months ago the then leader of that
“Parliament,” who was also Treasurer, brought in a
Budget in which it was alleged that there would
be a surplus of nearly £BOOO. Before the thing had
even been debated 90 members voted themselves an-
other £205 p.a., making their salaries £875 p.a., and
started it from July 1, nearly four months previously.
Instead of a surplus of nearly £BOOO, there was an
admitted deficit of £2,750,000, and the Spooner-Stevens
wrangle was the means of disclosing that it was at least
a million more, a million having been borrowed, to
make the shortage look that much less terrific, from
the State Superannuation Board. Now the Auditor-
General, referring to a relief-work item of £1,400,000
that figured in the estimates of revenue, has revealed
that only £408,100 was spent out of revenue, the dif-
ference being no doubt charged up to loans.
Did any of the 90 members return the £205 he
had voted himself in the easy belief that the State
was paying its way instead of going £4,000,000 or
£5,000,000 to the bad on revenue account alone?
Not one did. Nor is it proposed to reduce
Parliamentary salaries by £205 p.a. now.
The present stopgap Government pretends that
expenditure on the old riotous scale can’t be
cut.. This is an insult to the intelligence of every
citizen who has known and is about to know again
what it means to live on a smaller income—an insult
with impudence added. What makes the thing grosser
still is that, in violation of all honest precedent, intro-
duction of the first and worst of the new bloodsucking
imposts preceded introduction of the Budget.
For the proposed victims of the legalised robbery
there is one consolation and one hope of escape. If
the threat to their depleted purses is consummated
there will be begun immediately a movement for the
abolition of the alleged Parliament. Such a move-
ment is long overdue, and once started it will spread
rapidly through the Commonwealth. All the State
Parliaments are superfluous, and all the State Govern-
ments are careering towards bankruptcy, though it
looks as if the N. S. Wales calamity will go bung first.
War Propaganda.
8.8. C. broadcasts to the German people are poor
stuff, and, judging by specimens cabled to Australia,
the leaflets dropped by British airmen are not much
better.
It is useless to ask the Germans to rise forthwith
against their oppressors. That sort of appeal was made
to the Italians by British Labor politicians during the
lamentable experience in “sanctions, and the only
result was to stiffen the nation’s back. The effect
would be the same in Australia, if Australians can be
imagined as being subjected to an international boy-
cott and invited by foreigners to be good little boys
and overthrow their Government. The whole Aus-
tralian nation would rally behind the Government,
even if the Government were Lang.
As for blahing to the Germans, on the “authority”
of American reporters, that their leaders are not only
gangsters but millionaires who have socked away their
millions in unspecified foreign banks, it is the very
delirium of folly. American reporters, American
novelists, American magazine-writers and American
film-makers of the kind that go in for muckraking
and sooling have done an immense amount of mis-
chief, and as propagandists their name is now mud.
The German Catholics offer a field which should
be exploited. They number nearly thirty millions, and
many of them, Austrians and Bavarians especially,
must be uneasy about the future of their church and
horrified at the merciless slaughter of inoffensive
Catholic Poles. Obviously they should be plied with
propaganda, and there are able Catholic historians and
journalists in Britain who could be depended upon
to address them in the right way. Then there are
German parents still mourning sons who fell in Spain
fighting against the Stalinists, as they were told. What
must such people think when they see Stalin allied
with Hitler and combining in another and more in-
famous partition of Poland? What must be the feel-
ings of the multitudinous readers of Mein Kampf
when they see the Bolshies advance 250 miles towards
Germany, with the sanction of the author who claims
to have delivered Germany from the Bolshevist peril?
Here again is a very palpable nucleus of discontent
with the Nazi regime which should be worked upon.
The propaganda weapon can be of service if skil-
fully employed, but unless it is so employed it will do
infinitely more harm than good.
Taxing Soldiers.
According to a ruling obtained by the Victorian Tax-
payers’ Association, income earned in the special-
service foicce and in the militia will be taxable, unless
special measures are taken to prevent it. The same
applies to allowances made by employers to men going
into camp.
In N. S. Wales a ruling has been given that relief
tax —heavily increased —will be collectable on the
actual amount paid by the employer. It is based on
the assumption that actual military pay will be made
tax-free ; but there is nothing in the Act to indicate
that the department may make a concession where
military pay plus employers’ allowance calls for a
higher rate of tax.
Rates of pay in the special-service force have not
been fixed —the basic militia rate is Bs. per day—but
thousands of enlisted men, with and without allow-
ances from employers and with and without income
from farms and businesses, will come within the ambit
of existing taxation rates.
N.S.W. Premier Mair has said very vaguely
that exemption of military pay will have to be pro-
vided for, but he mentioned nothing about employers’
allowances. In the relief-tax measure gagged through
the Assembly there is no suggestion that any change
is contemplated, and it lowers the exemption to £2 a
week.
In the last war taxation conditions were simple
and exemption of soldiers’ pay presented no diffi-
culty. With seven sets of tax-gatherers going their
hardest it is different now. All the same the thing
will have to be done, and that immediately, or the
nation will know the reason why.
New Slums for Old.
Premier Dunstan proposes to go on with the plan
for eliminating slum conditions in Melbourne by
extending the model settlement at Fishermen’s Bend.
This means that an inconsiderable number of
families who can afford to pay the rents will be accom-
modated in nice, hygienic, pleasant-looking little
houses with concrete footpaths, hot water in the bath-
room, e.l. and all mod. cons., and a patch of garden.
The insanitary wooden hovel, the tin shanty, the
decrepit lean-to bending in the direction of the prevail-
ing wind which sweeps over the foreshore, the goats,
the odd cow and the rubbish dump will vanish—in
fact, already are vanishing, as filling and levelling
proceed.
What happens to such families as are evicted?
In one case, the father is on “sustenance,” and the
mother can earn nothing, for there are six children.
Two are in hospital with diphtheria. Two more are
in the home of some benevolent society. The baby
looks healthy, and so does an elder sister, though her
teeth are badly in need of attention. She leads care-
free life, wandering about on the seashore and in the
sandhills studying the flora and fauna—in that locality
much more interesting and varied than in the garden
suburb adjoining. True, she lives with her “susso”
father, her mother and the baby in a row of cowsheds
which look in danger of collapsing ; but^ now, she
says, they are all going to live in “a room,” in South
Melbourne. The rent that the “susso” man pays for
his accommodation at Fishermen’s Bend, with fresh
air and ocean thrown in for nothing, would scarcely
buy the use of a back room without a fireplace and
with one window and access to an insanitary back-
yard in South Melbourne.
It could hardly be said that the Government’s
grandiose scheme for housing the people has improved
the condition of this family. Fishermen’s Bend has
at least kept two or its members healthy. The ameni-
ties of South Melbourne, where the slum landlord
flourishes in all his dreadful panoply of bad air, dirt,
ugliness and disease germs, may be too much for their
stock of resistance, and a few more individuals will
become a charge on the community.
To remove a slum in one part of Melbourne to
make a fresh one in another is not the intention of
the Housing Commission, but that is what it may
be doing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ente Marid”: Cabled that Who's
Who has not removed its biography of
Hitler, the proof of which he cor-
rected himself. Described as the “son
of an old Upper Austrian peasant and
artisan family. Religion, Catholic,” he
says he was educated at secondary
schools, studied painting and architecture
in Vienna, supported himself as an arti-
san in the building trade, volunteered for
the last war, was “wounded 1916, gassed
and temporarily blinded 1918,” and won
the Iron Cross, first and second class.
The rest of his career goes into a dozen
lines. He doesn’t seem to have any
recreations or clubs, but, if anybody
cares to ring up and make sure, his
number is Berlin, 11 6191. Hitler, by
the way, gets 30 lines, Chamber-
lain 26, Billy Hughes 43|, and Mr.
Finley, editor of the N’York “Times”
—“A.B., A.M., LL.D., L.H.D., J.U.D.,
Litt.D., Order of the Rising Sun (Japa-
nese), Order of Gediminas (Lithuania),”
etc. —95.
* * * *
“Fisher”: Quaintest repair job I’ve
heard of was done on the N. S. Wales
North Coast. A dairy foundry had spent
£6OO on a huge enamelled vat, made in
Melbourne. Scarcely installed, the vat
developed four rust-spots, and became
useless for cream-storage. The defects
were not covered by guarantee, and the
cost of sending the vat back to Mel-
bourne for a rebake was little short of
the price of a new one. The manager
confided his troubles to a dentist. For-
ceps promptly dug out a portable engine,
a few burrs and some gear, drilled all
the rust out of the “cavities,” trimmed
the edges to an undercut and applied
porcelain fillings to the damaged spots.
The vat is still vatting satisfactorily after
several months.
❖
“Colbun”: I am inclined to ascribe a
great deal of the trouble in which the
world is to-day to female sins of omis-
sion. There is little doubt that if some
buxom German lass had grabbed Hitler
for a husband 20 years ago he would
have been kept too busy at the job of
providing for her and the family to in-
dulge in kampfs and putsches and similar
dangerous enterprises. Signor Mussolini
was put through the mill, and for a dic-
tator he has behaved quite reasonably
except when annoyed by Mr. Anthony
Eden. Stalin, too, up till recently, has
confined his murders to the home-grown
citizen. When the mess comes to be
cleaned up there should be some hard-
and-fast international agreement to keep
elderly bachelors out of such jobs. They
lose all sense of perspective.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Eighty-five years ago this
month Victoria’s first steam railway ser-
vice—from the site of the present Flin-
ders-street station to Sandridge or Port
Melbourne —was inaugurated, and the
unique thing about it is that it was started
without a locomotive. Two locomo-
tives had been ordered from England,
but they had not arrived on the day for
the ceremony of dedication. Nothing
daunted, Governor Hotham turned up
with all the leading citizens and citi-
zenesses, and in due course four carriages
got on the move and disappeared from
the view of the awe-struck spectators at
the headlong speed of 10 m.p.h., and
with five times as much noise and smoke
as is made by the Spirit of Progress. The
motive power was a donkey-engine which
had been lashed to a truck.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Isn’t it about time that John
Bull as depicted in Empire newspaper art
altered his costume somewhat? Psycholo-
gists allege that the corns, bunions, ath-
lete’s foot and other effects of kneeboots
when constantly worn develop a dictator
complex. Since the last war J. Bull has
acquired a tin hat, putties, ankle-boots
and some rather nondescript uniforms,
but his civil-life garb is unchanged.
Couldn’t he be presented with a pair of
bowyangs to symbolise Australia, a
greenstone club for M.L., veld schoon
for S. Africa, a Canadian parka and, say,
a bottle of rum to denote the fervent
loyalty of the ancient colony of Jamaica?
Mr. Chamberlain’s historic umbrella
should not, of course, be forgotten. Also,
J.B. might well begin some suitable exer-
cises for flattening down the Union Jack
vest and establish a more even ratio be-
tween his chest and hip measurements.
“D.E.”: In the course of centuries the
region in which the French and Germans
are fighting has changed hands several
times. Saarelouis, now German, but threat-
ened by the French, was the birthplace of
Marshal Ney, “the bravest of the brave.”
When the Royalists, thirsting for his blood,
grabbed him after Waterloo, his lawyers
advised him to plead that he could not
be tried as a Frenchman, Saarelouis hav-
ing passed out of French possession. He
agreed to let them raise the plea, but by
a somewhat theatrical arrangement he
waived it, protesting that he had lived
and would die French. Ney was shot in
a ditch by soldiers of the Grand Army.
Generations afterwards imaginative
Americans invented the story that the
execution was a fake, and that he had
been spirited away to their country, where
he became a teacher in a military aca-
demy, dying with his secret unrevealed.
But many competent witnesses had seen
the body, and the romanticists didn’t
bother to mention that Ney left a devoted
widow and four sons.
* * * *
“Shadow”: Glorious educational
machinery our broadcasting organisation
and its press. “Wireless Weekly,” for
instance, instructs the young in the
details of their past with an illustrated
strip entitled “This Sydney of Ours.” One
feature in a recent issue is “famous pistol
duels,” the latest of which it names as
the one between old Tom Mitchell and
Stuart Donaldson in 1851. It dresses
the combatants in toppers, morning-
coats, low collars and ties of the fashion
which came in about 1928. And it shows
Australians buying theatre tickets in 1795
from a ticket-seller with a beard, the
buyers themselves being decorated with
side whiskers, Carrington moustaches and
hats and other clobber—wing starched
collars and ties—which did not arrive till
the eighteen-eighties. Actually, the Rum
Corps did not abandon pigtails and
powder till 1809. But we live and learn.
* * * *
“Shaym(hic)gain”: Wozzall thishyere
arg(hic)ment ’bout doin’ away with borrel-
necks in Shydney? Stoopid lorrer goan-
nersh—don’ stop ter think. Howsh a
bloke to pour out the flamin’ beer with-
out any neck on the borrel? Howsh
anyone goin’ to keep a cork in a borrel
with no neck on it? It’sh thesheyere
narks of teeto(hic)sallersh wantin’ to
shpill all the beer an’ rum in Aushtr(hic)-
alia, thash warrit ish. Cowsh oughter be
interned. Interferin’ with defensh, they
are. How can Bob Menziesh raise more
money from excishe on booze if booze
all getsh shpilt ’cos lorrer shilly wow-
sersh want to do away with borrel-
necksh? Shpose an enemy washter land
an’ Bob couldn’t afford give ush gunsh
’cos o’ no excishe money? We’d ’ave ter
fight the cowsh anyhow, an’ borrelshs’d
come in handy then. But ush blokesh
wouldn’t have nothin’ to hold on to.
Borrels wizzout neckshs no use fer
stoushin’. Shpies fer Hitler tryin’ desh-
troy Aus(hic)tralia’sh defenshes, thazworr-
theyare, the cowsh. Handsh off our
borrelnecks, I shay.
* He * *
“Tovarisch”: About the only worth-
while thing Sovietism has done for our
journalism is to give it a few vivid words.
“Wot about chuckin' a spanner in the works, Bill?"
“Cheka” and “Ogpu” are a couple of
well-known ones, but I think “liquidate
takes the championship sash. It has an
air of finality not conveyed by less exotic
expressions for the termination of a foes
existence, such as killed, shot, executed,
bumped off or stonkered. It is so much
more indicative of justice having been
done. I first encountered it in a trans-
lation of the works of Bukharin, since sub"
mitted to the process himself, and I think
I made the pioneer attempt to get it into
the Australian press. The editor I tried
it on was the late Tom Heney, ever a
stickler for the purity of our mother
tongue. “Ah, Mr. Tovarisch,” he said
silkily, peering over his glasses and point-
ing an emotional finger at the word, “this
outlandish expression. Do you not think
you could be more explicit? Can you
not say whether they boiled him down,
rendered him down or dissolved him in
acid?” Taking his pen firmly, the old
man scored the offence out and wrote
“assassinated.” But S. M. Bruce liked
it. I remember him turning it over on
his tongue. “Liquidate! Liquidate! I
wonder what sort of a drink I would
make if they liquidated me ?”
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: My daughter ancf
grandson have the same birthday date,
February 25, 25/2 for short. Next year
she will be 25 and her son two. He was
christened George Sydney after his father
and other grandfather. His father’s age
is 27, 25 plus 2. George senior is a
second son, born when his mother was
25, so that she is now 52. Her maiden
name was Street, and she was second in
a family of nine—which is the sum of
2, 5 and 2. The Bulletin’s address
being 252 George-street, Sydney, it seems
to be about 252 to 1 that the infant
is predestined to the pursuit of para-
graphs. I hope the editor in 1959 will
be kinder to him than the present one is
to George jun.’s granddad.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: True, as a “Society”
paragraphist recently complained, there
are no stirring war poems. Nevertheless,
they were reading stern stuff in England
last month. I quote the trumpet call of
Lynette Roberts’s “Poem” in the August
“Life and Letters,” the journal in which
the highbrows have huddled since the
death of the London “Mercury”:
I see 2 ears and a tale;
looking closer at the design
I see
fur ermine and 2 blancmange eyes
no
(polished rose quartz.)
The white form nibbles teethed leaves,
the white form twitches pink nose.
I poke with stick
the white form continues to nibble.
Peter the rabbit always hid behind the piano.
He came when he was called
Peter . . . Peter —
he did not come.
Puzzled
is it a
statue?
Yak from Tibet —Unicorn—white Polar bear
or my pale memory.
My own guess is that it’s Donald Duck.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: One of my most cherished
war-time recollections is of a Maori-
land swarry at which cash was raised for
the good cause by various means, among
them a competition on war names. An
obscure citizeness won the prize, an
elegant plate, ostentatiously taken by the
millionaire host from a cabinet and
presented with much ceremony. She
retired with her spoil, but a minute
later, with a sour look on her face,
was seen edging her way through
the throng to where the donor sat.
Thrusting the plate at him she remarked
tartly, “I don’t want this. And if you
haven’t any better sense than to go round
handing out things like this in war-time
it’s a pity.” He turned it over and investi-
gated the back. “Made in Germany”
met his gaze.
* * * *
“Dhas” remembers a prophet:
I last saw the just-dead Maori prophet
Ratana at a football match at Patea. A big
man, slightly stooping, very sombre-looking
for one of his race, listening abstractedly to
the conversation of the intelligent, educated.
young Maoris around him while the brass band
that accompanied him on all his outings made
the proceedings more like a Salvation Army
meeting than either a football match or a
gathering of Polynesians. His faith-healing
days were then long over, and he was just
emerging from retirement at his model village
near Wanganui to found another pa at Patea
and to lend his authority to a racial and
political movement to extend his influence
among his own people and to support the
Labor party. Pakehas took a great interest in
him when he began his “miraculous” cures
during the 1919 influenza epidemic; cripples
sought his help, and piles of crutches in his
church at Ratana village are supposed to
testify to his powers. Less interest was taken
in his social experiments, but Ratana village,
with its own church, school, printing office and
native policeman, and the co-operative farming
associated with it, are worth studying. Ratana’s
most recent activities were largely ignored by
the pakeha, but were important to the Maoris,
because old tribal feuds and nearly-legendary
ancestral claims as well as immediate politics'
were involved. When summoned on drunken-
driving charges, the prophet sent his secretary
to deputise for him in court, so the pakeha
hadn’t come in direct contact with him for
years.
TWO OF A TRADE.
[London “Times” remarks that the only bond
between Germany and Russia is the honor supposed
to exist among thieves.]
As cobbers you’d certainly rate them misfits,
The Teuton and Muscovite, Ivan and Fritz,
Addicted so recently, early and late,
To virulent outbursts of mutual hate,
With each of the twain by the other defined
As a menace to Europe, a curse to mankind.
Now partners! But tied by no more, one
believes,
Than the honor supposed to exist among thieves.
Strange bedfellows poverty finds, it is true;
And, it must be admitted, diplomacy, too.
But it’s odds before long we shall see them
dispute
Like burglars engaged in dividing their loot.
No “gentleman’s ’greements” appeal to the likes
Of Villon and Tabary, Crackit and Sikes,
No honor in whacking their ill-gotten sheaves
Save that which the proverb attributes to thieves.
To double-cross all who might trust them, in
turn,
Is a trick at which either has little to learn,
And, judged by their records, a craft in which
each
Is perfectly competent something to teach.
And now they are brothers in arms and in aims,
Will either be hindered from trying his games
On his mate, with the guile that entraps and
deceives,
By the honor supposed to obtain among thieves?
Who knows? Yet I fancy that neither will trust
His partner in infamy more than he must,
And the uttermost honor that either achieves
Will be that we assume may exist among thieves.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D'f ’ear that, Joe? We goiter be fitted with gas masks!”
“Craiser”: My neighbor, Mrs. Robin-
son, who lives on the crest of the hill,
has been reading the A.R.P. literature.
Incidentally, her best friend is Mrs. John-
son, who keeps a sweetshop at the bottom
of her paddock. “If a gas bomb dropped
in front of my house,” said Mrs. Robin-
son, “all I would have to do would be
to throw a bucket of water on it.” “What
would happen then?” I asked. “The gas
would all roll down on Mrs. Johnson’s.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: The celebrated painter was
being shown round the little art show by
the eminent politician who had per-
formed the opening ceremony. “Remark-
able talent, don’t you think,” said the
e.p., “considering the young lady has
only been painting for eighteen months?”
“Um, yes,” said the painter. “Quite
remarkable. That doesn’t look like Aus-
tralia.” “No, it isn’t,” said the e.p..
“That’s a Scotch landscape. “Um, yes,”
was the painter’s comment. “So Scotch
it doesn’t give you anything.”
# * * *
“Ek D.”: I am afraid that “T.S.” (B.
20/9/’39) follows the wrong stable for
his astrological information. Sydney
“Sun” .. . “Venus”! Bah! Why doesn’t
he go to a respectable authority like
Foulsham, alias Old Moore, who operates
“under the original copyright dating back
to 1697”: —
Upon the condition, attitude and de-
cisions of Herr Hitler depend the fate and
fortunes of perhaps four people out of
five in Europe.
That’s true enough, and with such a good
lead it is cheering to learn in a world full
of falling stock prices and Russophobia
that though the Fiihrer has a dynamic
nature his horoscope is “definitely un-
fortunate” with “Saturn elevated in ill-
aspect to his ruler, while Mercury,
afflicted by Uranus, is unbefriended.” It
appears that the poor old bloke —there
is a picture of him which suggests that
already he has influenza and is develop-
ing leprosy—will “have to weather some
adverse planetary influences in 1939,”
while in the spring of 1940 things so
serious are going to happen to him “that
it is even possible his health may fail
entirely, or to such extent as to cause
nervous breakdown.” And he may then
either plead for reconciliation with the
Powers or give way to a new leader, the
rubicund Goring, who “has Scorpio
rising and Mars his ruling planet.” Mr.
Goring, we are told, though a typical
Prussian soldier, “possesses a keen sense
of humor,” and under his gentle rule
there is “good hope that peace may be
preserved.” -
ifc % * *
“Cauboy”: During the 1914-18 war a
Japanese cruiser Was in port at Fre-
mantle and the commander thought it
would be a grateful act to send the ship’s
band to play in a park in Perth. The
event was advertised, and the young man
and the girl friend and the nurse with
the baby in the pram and the children
rolled up to listen. Then a deputy censor
suddenly remembered that one of his in-
structions was that movements of war-
ships must not be mentioned, and he was
just in time to stop the first edition of
the evening paper from coming out with
an acknowledgment of the Japanese cour-
tesy. “What am I to say then?” asked the
editor. “You can say a band played, but
you can’t say what band,” was the reply.
“Very well,” said the editor, and then
with a spurt of irritation before hanging
up the receiver: “And I suppose, to in-
crease the mystery, we ought to say it
isn’t quite certain whether it was a Band
of Hope or a band of performing bears.”
* sf * *
“F.S.”: Victoria’s National Gallery
and Library has some quaint old tradi-
tions, some of which have remained
untouched since 1850. One of them was
the belief, current at the time in England,
that fiction was only for old maids and
servant girls. The tradition has only been
twice violated since—once when Joyce’s
Ulysses crept in, presumably as a valu-
able commentary on the Odyssey of
Homer, and again when some private
individual presented the library with
a bunch of D. H. Lawrence’s novels.
Another hoary old tradition forbids the
copying of pictures
in the gallery by art
students. It was
originated over 70
years ago by an art
director who thought
that it was bad for
pupils to paint in-
doors because Con-
stable always painted
out -of - doors. Yet
the Gallery grants
scholarships to stu-
dents under the ex-
press condition that
they copy old
masters in the Euro-
pean galleries.
“El V.”: For a good gloom-chaser
there is nothing like a look back over
the diplomatic manoeuvres of the couple
of months before the war. It was only
on July 17, for instance, that the Italian
Propaganda Minister visited Berlin and
was informed by Hitler that a new
railway station “at which all dis-
tinguished guests of the Reich will
in future be received” would be
named the Mussolini Bahnhof. I
wonder what they are calling it now.
And it was in July that plenipotentiaries
of France and Germany solemnly sat
down and agreed to renew a trade agree-
ment of July, 1937, for another year, the
new terms including “an increase in the
German supply of coke [from the Saar
region] to France in exchange for more
French iron.” That’s one treaty which both
parties seem to be carrying out vigorously.
“R.A.’s” hail and farewell:
Dead at Darlinghurst, Sydney, Rose Rooney,
who for a generation added a note of color to
Sydney’s hotel life. Madame rose to com-
parative affluence as licensee of a hotel on
Barrack Hill near the Victoria Barracks,
where her bars were constantly packed with
prospective recruits and newly-joined men of
the A.I.F. In the early post-war period Madame
betook herself, her diamonds and her hand-
picked barmaids to the Graham, in Castle-
reagh-street, and thence to the Shamrock,
in George-street. Madame (she changed from
plain Mrs. R. after her brief' and only trip
abroad, when she returned with business cards
inscribed “Madame Rose Rooney, of Paris,
Los Angeles and Sydney”) was famous for her
appearances in the paddock at Randwick.
At a spring meeting she hove in sight
in a white dress, with a black-beaded
pattern of dragons, pagodas and rickshaw
coolies scattered over her hull and superstruc-
ture. A huge clump of osprey-feathers jutted
from her hat, her heels glittered with diamonds,
more diamonds were dripping from her neck,
ears and fingers. But she had a great heart.
One early morning I had been trying to fix
a jibbing car. I drove the nuisance to a city
garage, then walked into the Shamrock for a
drink. Madame glared at my dirty shirt and
overalls, left her cash register and served me
herself. “A rum, please—and milk.” “Oh!”
She served the drink and pushed back the coin.
“It’s on the house. Er —things not too good?”
“Rotten,” thinking of the car. “Had break-
fast?” “No.” “Have it with me.” She car-
ried over her toast, steak and coffee, divided
it, and we ate it at the counter. The dear old
girl thought I was broke. May she rest in peace!
"Coin anywere?”
“Colonel Bungstarter”: As a necessary
war precaution, and in the best interests
of economy and good government, Aus-
tralia should lose no time in instituting a
House of Lords. English experience
shows that it provides a handy dumping-
place for extinguished politicians. An
earldom for Earle Page would have saved
months of silly bickering and interfer-
ference with the national business at a
dangerous time. Baron Lang of Auburn
would be permanently restrained by
noblesse oblige from emitting more
wearying uproar against low cows, and
instead would be able to devote all his
energies to breeding prize bulls. Viscount
Hughes would still be at liberty to draw
attention to foemen thundering at our
gates, but it would no longer be neces-
sary to include him in every successive
Government. It is no new-fangled idea
—Wentworth recommended it more than
a century ago, though not quite in this
way, and he was Australia’s first Real
Patriot.
* * * *
“Chips”: “An’ anudder t’ing,” re-
marked Tony emphatically, “I got no
time for dese clevair da blokes come in
da shop when I’m busy sella da fruit an’
veg. One comes in de oder day, an’ I
say to ’im, ‘Well, whatta you like?’ ‘I
wanta some da fruit,’ he say, ‘but I not
seen a bit da decen’ fruit since I bin in
da place.’ ‘Oh, you notta see da decen’
fruit, hey?’ I say to him plenty da loud
voice. ‘I lika to know what da matter
wit’ all dis fruit in da shop. I spenda
plenty da good mon, buya da fruit an’
da veg., an’ you gotta da hide say lika
dat to me.’ ‘No dafence, stranger,’ he
speaks up. ‘Watta I mean it all ver’
small.’ Den ’e walk over and pick up da
big pumpk’ offa da box and say: ‘But
I musta admeet dis is da beegest apple
I see here since I land.’ ‘Oh,’ I say, ‘so
you t’ink dat da apple, eh? Well, let me
tella you dat’s da grape fall offa da
bunch when I carry it in, an’ I putta it
on da box so da people don’t do da trip
ovpr it.’ All da oder peoples in da shop
nearly doa da bust doa da laugh.”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Coolgardie of the ’nine-
ties supported two resident Mohammedan
priests (B. 30/8/’39)—a vicar, or his
Moslem equivalent, and a curate, both
from Karachi. In the tin mosque
in Lindsay-street sometimes a hun-
dred swarthy worshippers spread pray-
ing-mats and made obeisance to
Mecca. There, too, one morn of
Ramadan in 1896 grim murder was
done. Tagh Mahomet, church leader,
transport organiser, man of wealth and
physically a veritable prince, came with
his humblest camel-driver to pray. Close
behind Tagh crept Goulam Mahomet. At
the very instant of the mullah’s cry
Goulam pressed a revolver against Tagh’s
back and pulled the trigger. Tagh died
instantly. Goulam died five months later,
dropped through the trap in grim Fre-
mantle Gaol.
* * * *
“Zeter und Mordio”: Whatever else
the French smash, I hope they will not
find it necessary to do to the old city
of Trier what the Germans did in
1914-18 to Rheims and Ypres. Trier
(Treves, more familiarly) claims to be
the oldest city in Germany. Its inhabi-
tants faithfully believe that it dates from
about 1500 years before Roman times.
Its archbishopric (moribund since
Napoleon’s day) by tradition dates from
the first century a.d. and by history
from the fourth century, when Con-
stantine ruled in Constantinople. Its
cathedral' possesses gifts from Charle-
magne’s family. The air of the town is
such that anybody could believe anything
mystical about it. It lies near the river
on a fertile plain —of the kind on which
Australians would grow lucerne —in which
every tree and farmhouse look as if they
had been tenderly cared for since the
Deluge. Its farm roads wind with the
tortuousness of tracks which once turned
aside to avoid great trees. Its great
Black Gate and red sandstone architecture
seemed, when I first saw them, as if they
had stepped out of Grimms’ Fairy Tales.
There was a little hoar-frost on the grass
outside its gates, and goose girls sang be-
hind their sleek, noisy flocks. It is un-
imaginable to think of it under shell fire.
BALLAD OF RED NAILS.
I see some point and merit, I confess,
In almost any artificial aid
Employed to heighten the attractiveness
And supplement the charm of dame or maid
In their perpetually-waged crusade
Against the hearts of beauty-loving males.
But there’s one puzzle that I can’t evade:
Where is the lure in reddened fingernails?
The eyebrows deftly arched, the wavy tress,
The ruby lips so temptingly displayed—
What though we recognise them, more or less,
As products of the beauty-parlor trade,
Still there is artistry in what’s conveyed,
No sense of incongruity assails.
But when has ever portrait-painter laid
Bright red upon a lady’s fingernails?
Hair may be dyed with obvious success
Golden or raven, or a Titian shade,
But Art will never, I suggest, progress
Ahead of Nature in the tint essayed.
And, of whatever color wigs are made,
Green ones or blue the wildest fancy fails
To feature even at a masquerade.
Then why this urge for reddened fingernails?
Prince —-or more appositely, p’r’aps—princess,
Against the whims of Fashion naught avails,
I grant, but tell me, for I cannot guess,
What is the lure of reddened fingernails?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


:*s!**:
10 for 9 D
20 for 1 6
50 for 3 9
100 for 7^6
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVEN A'
■Jjky
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
Wr
Ml
i m
a
•:• - - •
,1
281?
POLITICAL POINTS
Hitler, in his “verbal communication”
of August 25 to the British Ambassador
at Berlin, taken down by Sir Nevile Hen-
derson in the third person:
[The] agreement with Russia was uncon-
ditional and signified a change in the
foreign policy of the Reich which would
last a very long time. Russia and Ger-
many would never again take up arms
against each other.
He repeated “the irrevocable determina-
tion of Germany never again to enter
into conflict with Russia.” “Never to
go to war with each other again” was the
post-Munich pledge he gave to Cham-
berlain, and signed on behalf of one
of “our two peoples.” Moscow Joe should
note that it was one with the Scrap of
Paper in 11 months.
Legislators have left Canberra without
debating the Estimates, which means that
a lot of people like the League and the
“National Travel Association” will get a
lot of money for nothing. Short as the
proceedings were, Federal Labor was
granted time for the “amendment” of the
Defence Act in the interest of “conchies,”
and the debate was made memorable by
Mr. Mahoney (Denison, Tas.):
We regard the territories as being outside
Australia.. ..1 do not believe that there is
need for compulsion, nor do I believe
it right that we should use compulsion to
send men outside Australia for the de-
fence of our territories.
So if an enemy invades our Papua or
our New Guinea the Mahoneys won’t be
there.
The Government failed of a majority
in the Senate on its proposal for a 75 p.c.
tax on the Australian price of gold in
excess of £9 a fine ounce. South African
Governments are taking more ; but the
Westralian Senators shrieked as did Free-
dom when Kosciusko fell, and their votes
decided the matter. The Government
is imposing a 50 p.c. excise by regulation.
To that course there are obvious objec-
tions. Seeing that the anti-tax Senators
represent a minority of taxpayers and
belong to a Chamber whose powers are
expressly limited, it would have been
infinitely better to keep Parliament in
action till they climbed down. The bill
was passed in the House without a
division.
Roosevelt is asking Congress to sub-
stitute cash-and-carry or come-and-get-it
for absoloot nootrality, and the Russian-
alliance press has gone into ecstasies of
admiration. “S. M. Herald,” in par-
ticular : —-
“No act of ours,” he said truly, “has
engendered the forces assaulting the foun-
dations of civilisation.”
“He said truly.” It may be true of the
President. It is not true of the American
sooler, and the American sooler is repre-
sented in the Roosevelt Cabinet.
The war is full of mysteries already.
Why have things been so quiet on the
Western Front? Why didn’t France and
Britain send help to Poland when the
Poles began to retreat? Why didn’t they
declare war on Russia when Russia be-
came an “aggressor” in the terms of
their alliances with Poland? Why have
the Russians been permitted to grab so
much of Poland and start Bolshevising
the occupied territories? Why have
they been allowed to make their
frontiers coterminous with those of anti-
communist Hungary and anti-Com-
munist Rumania and advance them
250 miles towards anti-Communist Ger-
many? Why is Italy neutral? Why
is the Turk sending a mission to Mos-
cow? Anyone is at liberty to guess the
answers—there is no harm in guessing.
But it would be foolish —and might be
dangerous— to accept the guesses of the
Russian-alliance mob, now cock-a-hoop
again.
As an excuse for bleeding the N.S.W.
taxpayers white, Richardson, the new
Sydney Treasurer, pleaded that his Gov-
ernment had “accepted responsibility for
defence works”; and he went on to
name a few roads. On his own showing
nobody asked his superfluous Govern-
ment to accept “responsibility for de-
fence works”; so in this matter it is
adding impertinence to its disgraceful
record of extravagance and ineptitude.
Perhaps he will be saying next that the
bankrupt-from-birth Cronulla railway
and the Salary Grab are defence works.
Stevens and Spooner came together
again to vote for the first- (and rotten)
fruit of their squandermania, the relief-
“I have been too modest.” —Hitler at Danzig.
“Ach, vot do I vant mit dese trappings of de
effete temocracies?”
tax measure which is to bleed the people
for another £2,142,000 in nine months.
Spoonerites opposed the thing, and hoarse
cries of “Squib!” were afterwards heard
from that quarter. But the outstanding
opponent was Wade, the C.P. member
for Barwon. Wade says he will now
vote to extinguish the Government.
Good, but he can do better —vote to
extinguish the Parliament.
Stevens, apologising for the relief-tax
ramp:
Because of the awkward constitutional
difficulties arising from so many Govern-
ment authorities, it is impossible to impose
taxation equitably throughout Australia.
This unctuous politician has been a pillar
of the “system” which makes it “impos-
sible to impose taxation equitably
throughout Australia.”
The sorry lottery business is a line
thing for some people, although econo-
mically a total loss. A defeated politician
who was consoled with a lottery job
recently completed a fine tour of other
provinces running “foreign” lotteries, his
mission being to see how “foreign” lot-
teries are run. In one of the provinces
he visited nine Health and Home Affairs
officials draw up to £1 ss. 6d. a time in
“set fees” for attending lottery drawings.
Drawings last year cost £l3Ol, and agents
received just on £157,000 in commission.
Bulking ever larger on the list of
amounts paid to the public creditor is
“interest on loans for relief work.” In
Victoria last year, with a bit of sinking-
fund money added, it reached £385,000 ;
and Victoria has been modest in this
respect compared with other provinces,
especially N.S.W. The yarn of the use-
less provincial politician is that relief
works are “reproductive.”
The war has already hit the world of
radio commentators. Mr. F. E. Baume
has gone to England to report it for his
paper, meanwhile causing it to be known
that his sword is at Gamelin’s service.
Mr. J. M. Prentice, who has quite for-
given Mussolini, and whose Great War
record was excellent, is singing “Back
to the Army Again, Sergeant!” And,
worn out by his labors for a Russian
alliance, “The Watchman” is resting. His
last exertion in the cause was to capture
the Lahn singlehanded. The Admiralty
unaccountably denied it.
In a reminiscent article contributed to
Sydney’s “Sunday Sun,” Page paid a
generous tribute to his “young, talented
and vigorous” successor:
His type is rare in politics, but I met
many men like him in France.
Those who heard Cameron over the air
on the following night must have recog-
nised the Digger in the crisp sentences
and the demand for a resolute war policy,
with .no darned nonsense about dignity.
There are isolationists and isolation-
ists. Lindbergh, advising his country to
keep out of the war, can be listened to
even in British countries with the respect
due to an American who has done no
sooling, and who was vilely attacked by
Communists for giving Britain valuable
first-hand information about the strength
of the different air forces. Borah, the Re-
publican Senator, is an isolationist of the
other sort. Last week he added to one
of his familiar anti-British outbursts the
sneer that there was “something phoney
about the war: Britain and France are
pulling their punches.” The youth of
Europe is not shedding enough blood to
please the dear old gentleman.
Reported that the Italian policy is
“highly appreciated by the French Gov-
ernment.” That policy, as stated by
Mussolini, is neutrality (tempered by the
possibility of the Duce having to make
“an announcement of historic import-
ance”), recognition of accomplished facts,
localisation of a war not yet an actuality
(“the great armies have not yet clashed”)
and steady work for peace. Mussolini
praises the British and French for not
declaring war on Russia —“with a wise
intention not to extend the conflict, Lon-
don and Paris have not reacted to the
Russian fait accompli
But it follows that they have com-
promised their moral justification for want-
ing to revoke the German fait accompli.
No peace effort from any quarter should
bo dismissed without consideration. On
the other hand, no peace can be satisfac-
tory without guaranteed disarmament
on a large scale, and who can guarantee
Nazis and Bolshies?
The long-delayed measure “to control
broadcasting” has been introduced by
Minister Harrison, the bureaucracy’s
meek admirer, preparatory to being
pigeonholed for another couple of years.
Appointments are to be “staggered.”
Hitherto it is the people who have been
staggered by the annual fee extracted for
a very so-so service and by other A.B.C.
impertinences. Members themselves were
staggered when it was given out that the
A.B.C. paper to be issued some day by a
very expensive staff might be delivered
free through the post. The Post Office
was staggered itself at the notion of
doing something for nothing, and its Mr.
Brown, who is one of our rulers,
answered in the negative.
Westralian Assembly debated address-
in-reply for 10 brief days and Wes-
tralian Council for 11 briefer days. On
the eleventh day the Council sat for
exactly an hour and 52 minutes, where-
upon members adjourned for 12 days.
And they get £6OO a year and free passes
over all the bankrupt railways and tram-
ways of the Commonwealth for that.
Tasmania has become the answer to
the politician’s prayer. In national affairs
it is looked after by six Senators, five
Representatives and 16 Commonwealth
Ministers; and, though there is a war
on, it is getting from the Commonwealth
Government, along with a host of other
benefits, just on £2 per head of tax-money
for purely provincial expenditure. Its
provincial affairs are attended to by two
Houses of Parliament, with 48 members,
of whom eight are Ministers. And all
with an electoral population of about
135,000.
The case of Claude Osborne Barker, of
Litchfields (A/asia), who got in for Irwin-
Moore (W.A.) in April and resigned in
August without taking his seat, has be-
come a minor political mystery. Thorn,
a C.P. member, asked Premier Willcock
whether Barker had been “disqualified
from sitting and voting,” and whether
“the allowance paid to him as a member”
had been “refunded to the Treasury.”
The answer was a curt double negative.
It may be taken to mean that Claude was
paid at the rate of £6OO p.a. for legis-
lative duties which he did not perform,
and for putting the country to the cost
of a by-election. Such things can be
when a superfluous Government gets
£590,000 in one swag from a Canberra
Administration which is an amazingly
reckless spender of the people’s money.


NOT SO QUIET ON THE HOME FRONT.


PERSONAL ITEMS
William Morris Hughes, who celebrated
his seventy-fifth birthday on Monday, has
had to cancel some current engagements
through indisposition. Everyone wishes
him a swift recovery. As Australia’s
Prime Minister through the decisive years
of the 1914-18 war, and a member of the
Imperial Cabinet, he has played an im-
portant part in Australian history. His
Parliamentary experience ranges over 45
years, and his first portfolio came to him
35 years ago. A sense of humor helps
him to weather the years.
Secretary Louis Monod, responsible for
most of the Victorian Agricultural Show,
started as a clerk with the Agricultural
LOUIS MONOD.
Society in 1912, and saw the annual event
through the period of the last war, save
in 1915, when the military took over the
grounds for a training camp. He is an
energetic Australian of Swiss parentage.
Essington Lewis, transferred from the
chairmanship of the advisory panel on
industrial organisation to be business con-
sultant to the Defence Dept., has had
wide experience of a great variety of
industrial organisations. Before he became
managing director of the 8.H.P., he had
gained general mining experience at
Broken Hill, Mount Lyell, Port Pirie and
Iron Knob, and he directs a whole host
of derivative enterprises, from wire rope
manufacture to chemicals. He is a vice-
president of the Vic. Chamber of Manu-
factures and a member of the Institutes
of Mining and Metallurgy in London
and America. He was born at the
Burra (S.A.) and educated at St. Peter’s,
Adelaide, served in the Great War and
has represented South Australia in inter-
* State football, polo, cricket and tennis.
He is 58 and lives in Melbourne.
Back from Europe on the heels of the
whirlwind is Ellis Davies, chief engineer
of the Ruwolt organisation in Melbourne.
He studied engineering developments in
England, Europe, U.S.A., Canada and
British Columbia. Some of the biggest
mining jobs in Australasia have Davies’s
handiwork on them, and in the process
he has come close to the annual record
for travel of bookwriter Curie, doing
most of it by aeroplane.
Dr. Jane Stocks Grieg, who passed over
in Melbourne the other day, was the most
celebrated of four sisters who made their
mark in two professions. One sister, Janet,
practised medicine; another, Flos, was
the first woman to be admitted to the Bar
in Victoria, and Fida also practised as a
lawyer. Jane pioneered the feminist
branch of the medical profession. She
was for 27 years senior woman medical
officer of the Victorian Education De-
partment, was a lecturer at Melbourne
University and a member of the Royal
Commission on Health. The diploma of
Public Health came her way in 1909,
when preventive medicine was the Cin-
derella of the healing art in Victoria.
She was born in Scotland.
First Australian casualty of the present
war period was Pilot-Officer F. A. Bishop,
of Oakleigh, Melbourne. He happened
to be in London during the September,
’3B, crisis, and offered himself to the War
Office for service. He was selected for
flying training, and was on the eve of
getting his commission when he was
killed in an air accident in Scotland. He
was 23, and was a member of the Univer-
sity of Melbourne Rifles.
“S. Down”: First woman judge of
sheep at a show in Australia is Joan
Harrison, young proprietress of Lowanna
Southdown stud, Rylstone, who was
arbiter in the Southdown section at
Cowra (N.S.W.) Show. She began sheep-
breeding at 15, and in the same year
exhibited at Sydney Sheep Show. Low-
anna Gad, which won ram championships
at Melbourne, Wagga and Sydney, was
her first triumph of breeding. In 1936
and 1937 she visited Maoriland and
bought rams and ewes, one of the rams
winning first prize at Sydney Sheep Show.
Last year she passed a sheep- and wool-
classing test with flying colors.
Dead in Adelaide at 86, W. G. Torr.
Though born in England, he had been a
good Australian since 1855, with one busy
interval at Oxford and Dublin wh.en in
his thirties, during which he acquired
LL.D. and M.A. degrees, and was called
to the Bar. Always a mighty Methodist,
he became head in turn of a school and
a training college in S.A. To the end,
under the pen-name of “Old Oxford,” he
was a voluminous writer for various
papers.
Mining man Ray Robinson, who died
recently in England, was well known in
Australia. He gained his first delving
experience at Palmer River (Q.), and con-
tributed to The Bulletin under the pen-
name “Ray X.” After setting up an
office in London, he looked over mining
propositions in Mexico, Spain, Turkestan,
Mongolia and other outlandish places.
He served with the Royal Engineers in
the 1914-18 war, emerging with rank as
major and the M.C. He was a member
of the British Military Mission to Russia
and the Far East in early post-war days.
In recent years he acquired mining in-
terests in W.A.
The family name of Sydney Edwards,
dead in Melbourne at 82, has been a
synonym for rowing in
Australia for close on a
century. His father,
James, was a Thames
waterman who brought
his experience to the
banks of the Yarra when
it was a tree-logged
stream down to its
mouth. James built
the first boatshed in
Melbourne, and the
first rowing eight, and
his five hefty sons
all became notable
oarsmen. Sydney steered
Scotch College to victory
in the Head-of-the-River
race in 1872, and sub-
sequently became a pro-
fessional sculling coach
for the leading crews of
every State. With the
rest of his family he built
boats which went to
every part of Australia,
and in some inter-State
contests every boat was
an Edwards-built one.
Charles M. Schwab,
dead at 77, was the
U.S.A.’s No. 1 iron-
master and steel sales-
man. In his early thirties
he was Carnegie’s “com-
pany president” at a
salary of a million
dollars a year. The
United States Steel Cor-
poration was Schwab’s own idea. He sold
it to J. P. Morgan and other bankers in
December, 1900, with the result that Car-
negie was bought out for 400 mil-
lion dollars, and all the important
steel interests of America were brought
under centralised management. The pro-
moters of the rearrangement are credited
with having made a profit of 600 million
dollars. Schwab was a good steel tech-
nologist and an admirable manager of
men, but his fame and fortune rested
on his abilities as a salesman.
Robert Rymill, of the widespread and
wealthy S.A. family, is to receive the rare
honor of a Livingstone medal from the
Geographical Society of the U.S.A. for
his Antarctic surveying in Grahamland,
1935-37. He already holds, for Green-
land work, the Murchison medal of the
similar British body. Rymill is in good
company with the Livingstone. When
it was founded in 1913, at the African
explorer’s birth centenary, the first holder
was another South Australian, Douglas
Mawson ; and it has since been awarded to
Roosevelt (Teddy), Byrd and Ellsworth.
Some October birthdays:
Q’land Home Secretary Hanlon, 52, on Ist;
H. C. V. Thorby, M.H.R. (Calare), 51, on
2nd; Chas. P. Smith (“West Australian”), 60,
Justice Richards (S.A.), 70, and authoress
Stella Miles Franklin (All That Swagger ), on
3rd; Justice Lowe (Vic.), 59, Justice Gore
(Papua), 51, and poet Hugh McCrae, 63, on
4th; Assistant Federal Treasurer Spender, 42,
on sth; ex-Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 78, on
7th; painter Hans Heysen, 62, and knight Sam
Walder (former Lord Mayor of Sydney), 60,
on Bth; Speck Attorney-Gen. E. J. Ogilvie,
47, or. 9th; Bishop Riley (Bendigo), 51, on
10th; poet Dr. C. H. Souter (Adel.), 75,
Lieut.-Col. A. C. Blacklow (Tas.), 60, and
knight Alexander Wales (former Lord Mayor
of Melb.), 54, on 11th; knight Harry Budge
(Syd.), 66, Bishop Dwyer (Wagga Wagga), 70,
Ted Grayndler (gen. sec., A.W.U.), 72, Rev.
P. J. Hartigan (author of Round the Boree
Log), 60, and Prof. Leslie Wilkinson (Syd.),
57, on 12th; N. S. Wales C.J. and Lieut.-Gov.
Jordan, 58, novelist Jack McLaren, 52, and
poet and critic W. J. Turner (Lond.), 50, on
13th; Prof. Henry Alcock (Q.), 53, Rev. James
Green (author and war chaplain), 73, Vic.
Senator Leckie, 67, and former Senator Guv
Arkins (now M.L.A., N.S.W.), 50, on. 14th';
Dr. G. P. Darnell Smith (formerly Director of
Sydney Botanic Gardens), 71, and knight John
McLaren (Syd.), 68, on 15th; N.S.W. Treasurer
Athol Richardson, 42, H. C. Barnard, M.H.R.,
49, and E. R. Pitt (Vic. Public Library), 62, on
16th; J. M. Drew, M.L.C. (W.A.), 74, F. W.
Eggleston (Melb.), 64, Vic. Closer Settlement
Commissioner Aird, 47, and L. C. Robson
(headmaster C.E.G.S., Syd.), 45, on 17th;
Lionel Lindsay, 65, on 18th; A. W. Lacey
(ex-M.H.R., now M.H.A., S.A.), 51, travel-
writer Nina Murdoch and novelist Hilda
Bridges, on 19th ; A. H. Gaze (British Phosphate
Commissioner, Melb.), 54, on 22nd; Bishop
Thomas (Willochra), 58, on 2'4th; H. S. Dett-
mann (Syd. Grammar School), 64, Prof, knight
Barraclough (Syd.), 65, and Judge Richardson
(Vic.), 60, on 25th; H. K. Nock, M.H.R.
(Riverina), 60, on 26th; Vic. Hon. Min. G. J.
Tuckett, M.L.C., 66, and Lieut.-Col. J. T. H.
Goodwin (Canberra), 74, on 28th; Prof.
Edwin Pitman (Tas.), 42, on 29th; explorer
knight Hubert Wilkins, 51, Prof. Wadham
(Melb. Uni.), 48, and knight W. R. Car-
penter (Syd.), 62, on 31st.
Commissioner John McMillan, Chief
of Staff of the Salvation Army,
dead in London at 64, was stationed
in Australia on the staff of Aus-
tralian Commander Herbert Booth
for 20 years, and married an Aus-
tralian girl. High commands in Canada
and the U.S.A. preluded his elevation to
the Army’s second-highest rank two years
ago.
W.J. McKELL, New Leader of N.S. Wales Labor.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Dead in England, a Jewish refugee
from Nazi Austria, Sigmund Freud, 83-
year-old originator of a new profession
and a new terminology. His methods of
“psychoanalysis” (the search for the causes
of mental attitudes) have met with much
acceptance among investigators in the
borderland between medical and psycho-
logical science, and some of his labels,
notably “inferiority complex” and the
“(Edipus complex,” have passed into all
languages. He made his residence in
England last year, and was immediately
granted British nationality.
Dead at 57, Sydney-born W. B.
Gurney, chief entomologist of the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture. He
entered the department 40 years ago as
assistant to W. W. Froggatt, and studied
entomology and allied subjects at Sydney
Uni., where he graduated B.Sc. in 1925.
His appointment as chief entomologist
dates two years further back. Mr-
Gurney, who made two tours abroad
while head of the entomological section,
was for a while president of the Natural-
ists’ Society of N. S. Wales,
P.B. JENKIN, Chief Censor.
Bulletin contributor J. J. Hardie,
whose fourth novel, Pastoral Symphony,
the first of a trilogy, has just been pub-
lished, was born at Troon, Scotland, 45
years ago and educated on the Continent.
He came to Australia at 17, and has seen
more of this country than the average
local-born. When the 1914-18 war broke
out Hardie was a cattleman in the
Northern Territory, and he rode a couple
of hundred miles to enlist. Rejected by
the military authorities he shipped across
to Canada, and finally served in France
in the Tanks Corps. Later he was trans-
ferred to the cavalry, and saw service
after the war on the North-west Frontier
in India, where he collected a com-
mission. Returning to Australia he be-
came a banana-grower on the Tweed
River (N.S.W.), but bunchy-top defeated
him and he retreated to the wool and
stock trade for which he had been
trained. He is now with the Graziers’
Co-operative Shearing Co., of Sydney.
Three novels by him, Cattle Camp, Lan-
tana and The Bridle Track, have been
successful sellers, and he wrote specially
for The Bulletin a book on station
management, and also supervised the
preparation of The Bulletin’s card of
standard wool types.
Norman Myer, who has been co-opted
by the Government to advise on the
clothing requirements of the services,
was born in Russia and brought out by
his uncle, the late Sidney Myer, along with
a brother who was subsequently killed in
a motor accident. He was educated at
Wesley College, Melbourne, and served
in the 1914-18 war. He is managing
director of Myer’s, Melbourne, chairman
of directors of the Adelaide subsidiary, on
the boards of all the numerous Myer
activities and charitable funds in Vic-
toria, and is one of the most accessible
men who ever ran a big business.
Alexander Sydney Joske, dead in Mel-
bourne at 76, was a Melbourne-born
medico who got his degrees at Melbourne
Uni. He had been president of the
Vic. Medical Board since 1915, and
for the last two years was president of
the Trustees of the National Gallery. He
was also one of the Felton Bequest,
trustees and chief of the Victorian Kip-
ling Society. Gardening was his hobby.
John MacKenzie, the retiring Modera-
tor-General of the Presbyterian Church
of Australia, complained of the dis-
tances a Moderator-General had to
travel. His successor isn’t likely to com-
plain much on the same score. In the
last 20 years he has travelled to and fro
over an area about the sizb of Europe
where, when he began, communications,
were almost non-existent, and where the
infrequent settler regarded the visit of
a parson, much less a doctor, as more of
a miracle than the feeding of the ten
thousand. The same energetic individual
left that area almost as closely knit
together as the country districts of Vic-
toria, and nearly as well served by medi-
cal facilities as a Melbourne suburb. He
is the Rev. John Flynn—“ Flynn of the
Inland” —who founded the flying-doctor
service and the pedal wireless system over
a third part of the continent. Flynn
is young at 59, and his energy and en-
thusiasm haven’t lessened. He can work
like a carthorse and think a good deal
quicker.


r
m
i£r
r
i 3
m.
-4J
\
m
T
a
NO
/#
hare
04
the r
*w
If
m*
Id
ra
xSs^n
sfa *
m
Cap
d
»v
Re
r.
%
i*
PCs
&
'
54
p
m
>
r
6
\
j=
xW:;®
J
m
**
Ct
J
George Aria, famous cartoonist, gives
us this impression of his favourite
phrase, "No thanks, I'd rather have
a Red Capstan."
m
i
m
m
0m
|f|
m
125 E-6-9
m*m*** !
It's always time lor a Special Mild in the RED Pack
10 for 6d. - 20 for 1/- - - Also flat and round fifties and hundreds


ABORIGINALITIES
Old-timer”: When Mac, one of the
hard-doers of the old A.1.F., took over
his soldier’s block in the mallee, near
Cowangie (Vic.), only two things clouded
his horizon—rabbits and the rabbit in-
spector. He set about eliminating the
former in the time-honored way of
digging out warrens and netting his place,
but this takes time, and he wanted to
grow wheat as well. The inspector be-
came the bane of Mac’s existence, con-
tinually harassing the old Digger until
it became too much, and the mind that
had helped to win a reputation for dash,
initiative and resource for the Anzacs got
busy. On his next visit the inspector
nearly fell out of his sulky as Mac’s
14-year-old daughter, completely nude,
tripped blithely from the house to the
stables. His eyes goggled as Mac, simi-
larly unclad, came to the door and civilly
inquired after his health. Beyond Mac
could be seen the white body of his wife.
The inspector stammered his astonish-
ment. “We’re goin’ f’r nature on this
place,” said Mac airily. “ ’Course, we’ll
have t’ wear clothes when we go t’ town,
an’ that, but here on the place we”
But the rabbit inspector, a family man
and a wowser, as Mac well knew, was on
his way, and thereafter conducted his
business with Mac by correspondence.
* * * w
“Naomi”: I think “Devil Fish” (B.
9/8/’39) slips a cog when he assumes
KING EDWARD
1901 1910
“ 'Sail ri', sergeant — jus' Wanna know if I'm O.K. fer the Light 'Orse."
that the Maoris’ use of the word pooka is
due to the influence of Spanish navigators.
They knew nothing of pigs till Captain
Cook brought them, and pooka is simply
the nearest a Maori can get to “pork”
or “porker.” Latin, Greek, Japanese
and Sanskrit have many words in com-
mon with the Maori tongue. Pero was
the name given to the extinct Maori dog.
Peropero was to call him. Kuri is the
word now used.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Although the
majority of our birds mate during the
spring months (B. 13/9/’39), spring mat-
ing is not an invariable rule. The lyre-
bird hatches her solitary chick in June
or July, the quail brings forth a more
numerous brood in December or Janu-
ary, and young scrub turkeys and black
cockatoos are sometimes seen in August.
Nor do the majority of imported animals
“stick to the Australian spring when
mating.” Most of them mate when the
spirit moves them, which appears to be
at any old time, as witness the fox,
rabbit, cat, dog, etc.
“Septus”: A native, sitting alone and
waving his arms, drew my attention re-
cently, and, on approaching closer un-
observed, I concluded that he was mum-
bling to himself. At a distance of about
four yards his murmurings were barely
audible, but investigation proved him to
be conversing with a gin at least 60 yards
away. Which sets me wondering if
natives lip-read; rarely do they raise
their voices to a shout.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: A bush contractor, travel-
ling from a western N.S.W. run in a
tilted cart, drawn by one horse, got into
a wide stretch of drought country. When
Dobbin looked like giving in his owner
bought a bushel of pollard, mixed it with
flour and made the moke a damper every
day. That picked him up, and, whilst
other travellers’ horses were fading out,
Dobbin improved. A small loaf did
the horse all day and kept him in good
fettle. Now and again a little treacle
was added, which was not only a good
strengthening food in itself, but added
a sheen to the animal’s coat. I knew
another man who shared his ordinary
damper with his moke while travelling
down from Aramac.(Q.) when the track
was bare. Though the ration was no
more than the man had himself, eked
out with a bit of bush, the horse kept
in fair condition while other horses on
the same track became dog-poor and
weaft. A bit of damper, given regularly,
also saved a lot of horse-hunting ; the
prads came to the camp for it in the
morning.
“Tracechain”: Have owned a few good
snake dogs, and none of them had a
ritual about it; the ritualists die very,
very young. And a good killer doesn’t
bark ; not unless the snake gets away
into the haunts of the boss. Then the
dog goes frantic; the veriest mug can
pick that bark. Instinct or not, the best
snake-killing dogs are fond of children ;
and the wisje man is thankful and seeks
elsewhere for a worker the one-man
dog.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: “Jayem” (B. 6/9/ ’39)
should have watched the finish of that
whedlbarrow bet. He’d probably have
seen Long Harry make a stalemate and
save his two quid. Before one man can
wheel another in a barrow there must
be willingness to be wheeled and per-
feet co-operation. Any movement on
the part of the cargo would upset the
balance, and a determined lurch to one
side would drag the handles out of the
wheeler’s hands. I once saw a man try
to wheel a young pig after netting it
down securely. Porky still had room
to roll, and he sank the barrow in less
than 10 yards. A further attempt pro-
duced a hurricane and another shipwreck.
Any bricklayer’s laborer will tell you
what will happen if even a couple of
bricks happen to slip, to one side.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Until a pair of yellow
thornbills started house-building a fort-
night ago within easy view of the veran-
dah 1 never realised what unpractical
idiots some birds are. They coldly re-
jected the store of varied materials which
we provide for such visitors, and lugged
every scrap of precisely similar bark,
grass, feathers and the rest from many
times the distance, making a separate
flight for each scrap. The lady shaped
the nest by sitting in it and weaving and
plaiting with bill and feet very neatly
and well, but when it was half finished
they held a consultation and tore it all
to pieces. One would have imagined
that the material would be used in the
new nest which they started a few feet
away in the same tree ; but not with those
nitwits. New stuff of just the tame kind
had to be lugged home from great dis-
tances. Finally they got tired and botched
it up anyhow. With the least common-
sense they could have done a far better
job in a quarter of the time and a tenth
of the work.
* * * *
“Telluride”: Old Will and I struck
the pub at Hawley’s Find one perishing
day in midsummer with a few ounces of
yellow metal in the kick and a pair of
raging thirsts. When Bung produced two
foaming schooners Will pounced on his
and had downed half of it before he woke
up. “Hey, boss,” he complained, “this
beer’s too flamin’ hot.” “Don’t let that
worry you,” replied Bung unconcernedly
as he strolled out of the bar. “I’ll soon
fix that.” We had visions of some cool,
shady spot round the back with bottles
standing in a tank of water. Bung re-
appeared, not with dripping bottles, but
with two saucers which he banged down
on the bar. “Here,” he growled, “you
blokes are too fussy, but if you must
cool your beer, pour it out and blow
on it! ”
* * * *
“Bungham”: “Bogaduck’s” ducks (B.
23/8/’39) that can sense the whereabouts
of a thunderstorm hundreds of miles
away are certainly rare birds. The species
I know have no such acumen. I lived
for years hard by an extensive lagoon
where hundreds of ducks lived in well-
fed content. Their number varied little
throughout the year, despite the visitation
of frequent thunderstorms. Thirty miles
away another colony lived on a marshy
tract which in the dry season became
concrete-like in its hardness. But most
of the birds preferred doing a starve
round the few remaining mudholes to
venturing on the well-stocked lagoon. It
may be, of course, in these enlightened
days that “close preserves” are observed
by the feathered fraternities.
“The 0.D.”: As “Cam
Cove” remarked (B.
13/9/’39), one never
knew what the old-time
mailman was capable of.
Years ago an inoffensive
little man with an enor-
mous moustache carried
the mails from Balranald
to Mildura. He looked as
though he couldn’t hurt
a' fly. One day in Euston
a big Dane, primed with
booze, ran amuck. He
cleaned up a few local
lads and then the cop
tried to pinch him. But
the Scowegian giant was
a wrestler as well as a
rough-houser, and the
Force suffered defeat. Then the mail-
man came along, sized up the situation,
stroked his mo., and in two seconds had
the Dane helpless. H.M.’s mailman was
an ex-jiu-jitsu teacher,
* * * *
“Bilge”: Textbooks on marine en-
gineering seem reluctant to give any
information about the filling or emptying
of those iron tanks we call ships, and
avoid reference to the complicated system
of pipes and valves installed to keep a
ship dry. Designers wisely refrain from
fitting those seacocks on which “Mistri
Sahib” (B. 6/9/ ’39) can get no informa-
tion. They could too easily be left
accidentally open. Yet it is quite a
simple matter for the experienced to
sink an ordinary tramp steamer. By re-
moving the bilge injection and all the
bilge valves, opening the tank valves and
taking the caps off the tank sounding
pipes on the main deck, the main injec-
tion and tank injection valves can then
be opened and the vessel will fill,
Methods would vary according to the
fittings. Writers of sea stories often spoil
them by digging into technicalities they
don’t understand.
THE OUTCASTS.
Though justice he had meted out
To one who earned it well,
Across his path by sun and moon
A scaffold’s shadow fell.
Three nights he rode by creek and ridge,
Three nights, till morning dawned,
And at his feet —deep, vast and strange—
The Koumong hollow yawned.
Then came the challenge of the Law—
The trooper’s ringing call—
The carbine shining in the sun,
The flight, the shot, the fall.
Beneath tall cliffs, stern, frowning cliffs,
Safe from the Law, he stood—
A horseless, gunless, weary man, .
His shoulder dripping blood.
Now, in that dark gorge where he moved
A wild-dog had his haunt—
A dog that ranged the countryside,
White-fanged and fierce and gaunt.
Half-dingo and half-cattle-dog,
By lust of killing spurred—
The foe of sheep- and cattlemen —
He raided flock and herd.
Ere, round and red, the sun went down
The outlaw, looking back —
His shoulder dripping blood —beheld
The great dog on his track.
The sunset died, and grim and dark
Grew cliff and mountain-crown.
Man-hunted, he had fled for days;
A dog now tracked him down.
With night came pain and broken sleep,
And terror and despair.
Two days, half-blind, with failing feet,
He wandered—God knows where.
Yet ever, ever on his track
The dog, relentless, hung—
Like deadly doom made visible —
With blood-red, outthrust tongue.
Then fell the lonesome night again,
And, though the cloudless sky
Was sown with pulsing, living stars,
He knew that death was nigh.
He slept and woke —what sight was this
He saw with eyes grown dim?
Great paws lay lightly on his chest,
Fond eyes looked down on him.
Was this some trick that fancy played
Upon him, worn and weak?
No fancy this,’ for as he stirred
The great dog licked his cheek.
Winds wandered through the bracken fronds,
Leaves danced and swayed above;
Wild eyes looked down into his eyes—
Wild eyes made soft by love.
As singing down its mossy bed
The Koumong River ran,
In strange companionship they lay—
The hunted dog and man.
Thus comforted, the stricken man
Smiled, stretched his limbs, and passed;
Forsaken, hunted, cheated, cursed,
Love tracked him down at last.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“Ellenvale”: “The most pig-headed
bloke I ever knew,” Old Dan said, “was
‘Timepiece’ Tommy, who lived by hisself
down on the South Oss border. ‘Time-
piece’ owned a 50 .ar-old clock that he
reckoned kept perfect time, an’ nobody
could tell him different. Even when this
ticker started to race like a Cup winner
‘Timepiece’ jist wouldn’t give in that she
was gainin’; he’d still regerlate his life
by it, an’ consequently got hisself in a
terrible mess-up. He’d get up at five,
have his breakfast, an’ by the time he’d
finished his flamin’ clock would be show-
in’ close on twelve, so he’d have dinner
straight away ; in fact, he’d have to bolt
it down so’s he wouldn’t be late for tea.
The clock kept on gainin’, an’ ‘Timepiece
nearly bust hisself tryin’ to keep up with
it. Talk about time flyin’—he never
found time to do anything but eat an’
sleep, an’ what sleep he got wasn’t much.
In the finish he found his birthday corn-
in’ round every month or so, an’ what
with his overeatin’ an’ his great age (he
was 145 by his reckonin’, or rather his
clock’s) poor ole ‘Timepiece’ pegged out,
still believin’ in his clock to the last.”
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Beware of omens!
Among Cousin-Jack miners it used to be
half-jokingly asserted that if a man’s
“spider” (spiked candle-holder) fell three
times in quick succession on night-shift
it was a sign that a stray rooster had in-
vaded the home roost. Willyum, middle-
aged, brawny, and with a youngish wife,
met with just such a happening. Five
minutes after the third fall he was at
the plat. “Tell un shiftboss usun not
feelin’ too good. Un goin’ home.” Down
on the flat where his cabin stood a little
apart from his neighbors, Willyum re-
connoitred with stealth. His worst sus-
picions were confirmed. Creeping on
stockinged feet to the bedroom window
he caught whispers within, even an occa-
sional light giggle. It was too much. The
back door was locked, but Willyum’s
shoulder took it, lock, hinges and all.
“Do ’ee mean t' tell me I doan know goanner when I see un ?”
"Any of you blokes know where I can find this 'ere Siegfried Line?"
Charging into the bedroom he flung him-
self on the barely visible figure that occu-
pied his usual place in the double bed.
And right on that moment his wife hit
him behind the ear with the potato-
masher that she kept handy for just such
an entrance. When he came round he
found himself assailed, verbally, by two
women. Just a neighbor’s wife, timid
when her husband went on night-shift,
come to share the loneliness with Mrs.
Willyum. It took years for Willyum to
live the matter down. Later he won
moderate fame as the inventor of a
“spider” guaranteed not to fall.
Sf * * *
“D.F.”: The record for the number of
trees on one acre of land is probably
held by Emu Bay (Tas.). In a count once
made by Henry Hellyer, a Van Diemen’s
Land Co. surveyor, there were, including
tree-ferns, 2384 trees. Of these 500 were
under 12in. in girth, 990 were between
lft. and 2ft., 716 between 2ft. and 3ft.,
56 between 3ft. and 6ft., 20 from 6ft. to
12ft., 12 from 12ft. to 21ft. and four
from 21ft. to 30ft. There were 84 tree-
ferns.
* * * *
“Shorus”: Australians should feel
gratified at the rapid spread of the
eucalypts if the trees are acknowledged
as natives of this continent. It’s when
their origin is wrongfully credited to some
other country that the patriot gets all
heated. A Maorilander in England was
the guest at the country home of a belted
earl, and while taking a stroll in the
grounds with the hostess came upon a
kowhai-tree in golden bloom. As the
kowhai is the darling of the M.L. poet
and gardener, she went into raptures over
it. Her Leddyship regarded her guest’s
transports with an amused air. “Yes, it’s
a lovely tree,” she said. “It’s a native
of China—you can tell by the quaint
name. I believe it doesn’t grow any-
where else in the world.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Apart from the inflamed
imaginations of Inky Wayfarers and pub-
going adventurers, is there any actual
instance of an octopus having killed a
human being? During almost half a
century of acquaintance with the waters
of Australia, New Guinea, Pacific Islands,
Malaya and the Dutch Indies, I have
never come across one, or heard of one
from any reliable observer, white or
native. Also, I’ve never seen an octopus
with tentacles longer than sft. or one
which didn’t go for its life when one
poked it with a stick or oar. I’ve opened
dozens and never found anything inside
them but shellfish and crabs, not even
fish. Squids tackle fish, and there is
ample evidence to show that they grow
to great size in deep water, but they arc
quite different animals from the octopus.
I grant the ugliness of the great black
eyes, parrot beak and squirming tentacles
of the octopus, but as a real danger I
regard him as a bluffer and fraud.
* *
“ Gryllus”: Al-
though we have
nearly 300 species of
d inkum Aussie home-
descended species of
cockroaches in Aus-
tralia, the only
troublesome ones are
all immigrants. The
so-called Australian
kind isn’t true to
name, but came
originally from Asia
or Africa. It has a
yellow ring on the
thorax-front and yel-
low streaks on the
wing covers. The
American kind is
the biggest, reddish-
brown and a strong
flier. The Oriental
kind, same as the
English “black-
beetle,” is dark-
brown, and only the
gentlemen fly. The
little dark yellow or
flight brown ’roach
is the allegedly Ger-
man kind, and worst
of all in making a mess or spoiling
food. Germans call it the Russian cock-
roach, Russians the Prussian ditto. But
one dinkum Aussie species puts it all
over the rest of the insect world by get-
ting its friends to eat off the wings which
get in its way when sheltering under logs.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I wus a witness in a case
one time,” related Dan, “when a bloke
wus up for righteous behavior an’ re-
sistin’ arrest. The John had to call on
me an’ two other blokes to help get him
into the lockup. Fightin’ drunk, the
bloke wus. The case came before the
on’y J.P. in the place, an ole cocky that
the bloke had been workin’ for a little
while previous. When accoosed said he d
done it the J.P. glared at him. ‘Well,’
he says, savage, ‘ ’e pleads guilty to put-
tin’ up sech a scrap it takes four able-
bodied men to deal with him, eh?’ This
with another glare at the cove in the box.
‘I had him workin’ fer me, or serposed
to be,’ he goes on, ‘an’ he wus that slow
he cud hardly get outa his own road.
That’s why I sacked the loafer. I’d never
have believed he had it in him but fer
the evidence of yous four men, an him
pleadin’ guilty. All right! He’s fined
ten quid fer what he’s charged with, an’
another tenner fer gettin’ money outa
me under false pretences.’ ”
* * * *
“Thar-she-blows”: The oddest thing
about the whale is its playfulness,
especially if it is a humpback. Both
humpies and blue rorquals frequent the
W.A. coast as far north as Nor’-west
Cape. The blue, however, is a timid,
sedate fellow, off like a shot at the
slightest alarm. The humpback is bolder.
Some call him the thrasher from his trick
on a calm day of suddenly clouting the
water with an immense flipper—the
thunderlike sound carrying for miles.
Just in playfulness a humpy, too, will
give a cobber or perhaps a sweetheart a
thumping smack, not unlike the too-
hearty back-thumping human. Another
trick is rolling over and over sideways,
like kids rolling down a slope. Some-
times a pair will be at this caper, as
cuddlesome as any amorous humans.' But
the oddest of all tricks is that of lying
on one side with an immense white flipper
stuck up like the sail of a lugger. Many
the west coast skipper who at a distance
has taken a school of humpies for a fleet
of luggers. Another antic is the scratch-
ing of the cetacean back to get rid of
barnacles and other parasites. Luggers
have lost their keel or been capsized
when drifting at night over deep water
just through the itchiness of a humpback
At Flinders Bay (Cape Leeuwin) the last
seaward pile of a once-pro.ud jetty to-day
serves as a scratching post for hump-
backs ; it’s worth watching when a 40-
footer scarifies his hide.
TO STEELE RUDD.
I’m reading them again to-night
With all the old surprise and joy,
The yarns you wrote, to our delight,
When you were just a country boy.
A fig for two-and-forty years
And lines the hateful crow has cut
And vanished hopes and brooding fears—
I’m back, well pleased, at Shingle Hut.
Unchanged, unspoilt, and lively still,
They’re all at dinner, bless their hearts:
Dad, Dave, Sal, Joe and little Bill,
Tom, Mother —passing pumpkin tarts.
Miss Ribbone quits —she’s “off her feed.
Maloney joins the champing crew;
And Bob, who never learned to read —
Poor Bob “reads” Doolan’s paper through.
I close the book and turn a knob.
What sounds are these that stun the ear?
A strident, coltish, witless mob
In borrowed trappings —yours —appear.
What desecration! Brave old Dad
And dear old Mother —billed as “Mum” —
Butchered to make a blasted ad.
For someone’s beastly chewing gum!
No poor white trash your pencil drew,
But straight Australians, game and free.
Your bush folk live. Their speech rings true.
But their creator —where is he?
Come back, old man, from Heaven’s bar;
Describe once more, with smiling phiz,
Our people, as they were and are,
Our country, as it was and is.
N.S.W.
D. EMPSON.


» ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . ; . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street', E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone M 4601.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. sfcrves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 170,294 10 p.c. = 120,000 50,294 591,334
1930.. 9 „ „ 108,000 40,184 631,518
1931.. 78,050 6i ~ ~ 78,000 50 631,568
1932.. 72,027 6 „ „ .72,000 27 631,595
1933.. 72,659 6 „ „ 72,000 659 632,254
1934.. 84,426 6* „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 'll,, ~ 90,000 2,751 641 431
1936. . 108,819 8 „ ~ 96,000 12,819 654,’250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754 250
1937.. 120,136 9 p.c. = 112,453 1 „ „ 00 „ 00
Staff fund, £5OOO . . .. j 2.683 706,933
Share premiums, £70,000 . . . . 826,933
1938.. 151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 \ Irn „ c ...
Staff fund, £5OOO .. lo ’ 008 842,001
Share premiums, £89,051 .. .. 931,052
1939.. 152,287 9 p.c. = 144,327 ) „ qfio ni -
Staff fund, £5OOO .. 2)900 934)012
In 1914 Tooheys paid 8 p.c., and con-
tinued to do so until 1919, when £37,500
of reserves was capitalised. In 1921 the
rate was lifted to 9 p.c., and to 10 p.c.
six years later, and then remained steady
to the point where the introductory table
takes up the story. That was just before
the big break in the markets. The aver-
age consumption of beer in N. S. Wales
fell from 11.3 gallons per head of popu-
lation in 1929 to 6.9 gallons in 1932,
since when consumption and expenditure
figures have moved in this way:
z Expenditure—,
Ended Per Head
Dec. , ’OOO Gallons TotaT, Popu-
-31, Beer. Spirits. Wine. £’ooo. lation.
1932.. 18,042 610.4 1271.3 10,380 £4 0 6
1933.. 18,925 617.4 1473.0 10,500 4 0 9
1934.. 21,573 716.8 1559.5 11,490 4 7 7
1935.. 23,764 761.4 1619.2 12,530* 414 9
1936.. 26,218 785.9 1641.8 13,320 419 10
1937.. 28,881 824.1 1663.9 14,520 5 7 9
1938.. 34,249 848.1 1622.5 15,870 516 8
Last year’s expenditure per head of popu-
lation was the highest since the boom
years 1927-29, when average was about
£7 2s. Subject to dispatch of a large ex-
peditionary force overseas—it can be sent
only if and when Britain asks for it —
war conditions can be expected to further
increase the consumption of beer. But
operating and distributing costs continue
to climb, Federal company tax has been
doubled, making it 2s. in the £, excise
has been bumped up from Is. 9d. to 2s.
per gallon, and further bleeding on behalf
of the State, which has no financial re-
sponsibilities in connection with the war,
is expected. The lift in excise has been
passed on, but the higher taxes and other
costs will bite deeply into earnings.
The market notes this and the slender
margin between last year’s earnings and
distributions and anticipates a strengthen-
ing of interest rates. It therefore prices
the f.-p. 16s. shares at 265. 3d. as against
30s. a year ago and 325. 9d. 12 months
before that. Allowing for the final div.
(9d. per share), the return at 265. 3d.
would be 5.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 245. Bd. in net tangibles.
A most heartening feature of the
change-over from peace to war condi-
tions has been the absence of anything in
the nature of panic selling on the security
markets. Also, the committees of the
Stock Exchanges throughout the Com-
monwealth are to be congratulated on the
action they took to check “bear” and
other speculative activities.
Last term Toohey’s gross earnings
sprang £4o,67o—that was after allowing
£33,944 (up £1191) for depreciation and
making an unspecified provision for bad
debts, etc.:
r , . 1929. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Oioss earnings £ / 82,921 £616,283 £780.887 £821.557
Jixes... .. 612,627 506v464 628,914 669,270
Net profit. . £170,294 £108,819 £151,973 £152,287
Exes, took all but £314 of the increase,
leaving the net result at 9.5 p.c.
on average capital as against 10.3, 9.6, 9,
7.7, 7 and 6 p.c. back to 1933. The div.
was kept at 9 p.c. Whether that rate will
prove within reach at next balance will
depend largely upon the extent to which
costs continue to rise.
Last term there was a lot of new capi-
tal in the business which contributed little
or nothing to earnings:
1929. 1934. 1938. 1939.
£,£,£,£
Capital .. 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,540,000 1,725,301
S u li (1 r y
creditors.. 497,220 245,933 437,761 438,145
Loans* .. 325,773 791,574 790,024
Brewery,
hotels, etc 1,593,197 1,891,053 2,952,249 3.195,395
Stocks .. 161,886 77,354 102,592 101,503
Bock debts 584.413 437,784 577,760 616,858
Cash, etc... 24,059 7,146 13,082 18,544
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 39,560 39,212
* Advances by subsidiary.
Half-way through the year 240,625 new
16s. shares were put out, one for eight,
at a premium of Bs. each. When the
books closed £185,301 of the capital and
£89,051 of the premium money had been
gathered, leaving £14,398, half capital and
the other share premiums, still to come.
The money went into the brewery, hotels,
etc. (up £243,146), and debtors’ balances
(up £39,098), which augurs well for future
earnings. Since 1929 no less than
£1,602,198 has been added to the book
value of fixed assets, including hotel prop-
erties. Leaving loans from the subsi-
diary and shares therein out of the figur-
ing, more or less liquids exceeded the
balance of the debt at the end of July
by £298,760, or £43,087 more than at the
previous balance.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
n t, . . To Re- Re-
4rec., .Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 73 766
June,
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82.683
Written off, £6OOO 76.683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7 „ „ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off, £5O .. .. .. 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,256
Share premiums, £BBOO .. 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 ) 01
Staff lurid, £lOOO 1 1945 21,311
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 lnQ
Staff fund, £lOOO T 2798 24409
1938.. 22,655 9 p.c. = 21,780 \
To staff fund, £5OO j 375 24,484
1939.. 27,554 9 p.c. = 21,780 )
To staff fund, £l5OO j 4274 28,tj8
* Half-year.
A splendid showing, all things consid-
ered. The co., which began as a coffee
palace in the 1880’s, is one of Mel-
bourne s dry” hotels, and caters
largely for country visitors. Its popu-
larity is demonstrated by a spring of
£9700 in last term’s gross earnings
(£57,735), despite lower prices for agri-
cultural and pastoral products and 'lifts
in wages and the cost of provisions.
Rates, taxes, depreciation, etc. (£30,181),
took £4BOl of the increase, leaving the
net result £4899 better at 11.3 p.c. on
capital as against 9.3, 10.5 and 9.2 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. That leaves
out of the reckoning £l5OO sent to the
staff fund. The div. was kept at 9 p.c.
Prospects of the co. earning sufficient
during the current term to maintain 9
p.c. are encouraging, notwithstanding
that the Federal rate of company tax has
been doubled and that costs continue on
the up-grade. Although the co. made no
alteration in its moderate tariff rates last
year, it may be forced to lift its charges
a little during the current term, the chair-
man says. Between 1914 and 1920 the
div. was lifted from 12} p.c. to 22 } p.c.
Similar conditions do not prevail at the
moment, and it is doubtful whether any-
thing better than 9 p.c. need be looked
tor -tor a while, at any rate. Since much
of the capital has been issued at a pre-
mium, divs. are not worth the full de-
clared rate to most shareholders.
At 16s 3d. (16s. 6d. a year ago) the
r.-p. 10s. shares return 5.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis The net tangible cover, book
value, is 11s. 2d. per share.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
n -i i 1930. 1935. 1938. 1939
Capital : . £174,857 £193,600 £242,000 £242 000
Liabilities .. 56,230 117,141 94,182 83,591
freeholds .. 165,617 264,637 246,258 240 654
102 ’ 984 102 ‘ 692 99 057 97 805
Plant & furniture 41.024 39,757 21 125 17 655
stores . . 607 952 840 1 041
Debtois . 505 101 ]2 7 ’2B°
Investments & cash 6,000 1,819 7,830 12,810
The properties, which provide accommo-
dation for some 850 people, front Little
Collins-street, with an entrance from
Collins-street. The freehold, or. centre
block, was largely rebuilt in 1934. The
building lease, obtained from the Bap-
tist Church and on which a nine-storeyed
extension of premises was erected in
1927, runs out in 1993. At June 30 it
figured at £97,091, and provision has
been made for redemption through a
sinking fund. The ground-floor lease of
the Clyde building, used as a cafeteria,
runs out next year, and figures in the
books at £714. Of the liabilities, £70,494
(down £13,898) is on mortgage. Includ-
ing this, the excess of liabilities over more
or less liquids was £69,451, an improve-
ment of £15,934 over the twelvemonth.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net / -Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. f —Pref.— >, Ord. Total. serves, serves.
loin” Ja % o % 8% = 2°,502 15,380 19,414
? 980 - \ ” | ” B ’> » 20 - 502 9.562 28,976
193?" i” 6 »>- 15,001 3,242 32,218
Jqoo- 6„„ 15,601 230 32,448
iol!" 8 ” 6 ” 6„ ~ 15,601 124 32,572
ioQr'* , 9 ” 7 ” 7„ ~ 18,051 3,027 35,599
25,963 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 2,727 43,787
7937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 1,663 45,449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7,. „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 3,508 51,743
War finds the co. in a very different
position this time. Scarcely had the co.
been formed in 1914 when the Great War
interfered, and production did not begin
until 1918. Meanwhile, estimates got
askew, plant cost more than was ex-
pected and the board had to lean heavily
upon its bankers. The prefs. got their
first div. in 1922 ; but it was not until
four years later, when arrears of pref.
divs. were rubbed out by the issue of
£45,546 of 6 p.c. bonus scrip, that the
business began to make much real pro-
gress. It has since stepped along in fine
style, and is now well equipped for main-
tenance of satisfactory earnings. The
ords. got into the picture with 5 p.c. in
1927, and have remained there, the aver-
age distribution over the last dozen years
being a shade over 7 p.c. —highest 8 p.c.,
lowest 6 p.c.
The co. is the only cement manufac-
turer in the Northern State, where there
is no immediate sign of any sharp con-
traction in the volume of public or other
works, and where competition from Brit-
ish cement —never very great—seems
more likely to diminish than increase in
the near future. Also, the entire output
of the plant at Darra is now made from
coral obtained from the co.’s leases in
Moreton Bay, plant has been modernised
and a new raw mill rotary kiln and other
equipment, to “ensure the highest effi-
ciency, and meet the demands of the State
for some time to come,” have recently
been installed.
After providing for taxation and openly
allowing £12,000 (same as previous term)
for depreciation, last term’s net result
was £722 better at £21,560, which was
£lO5B more than 10 p.c. to the firsts and
8 p.c. to the seconds and ords. would
have called for. But the div. was kept at
the minimum pref. rates, with 6 p.c. to
the ords., and an all-round 1 p.c. bonus
was added, same as for the two preceding
terms.
Capital is in 44,878 first 8 p.c. and
182,183 second 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
18,000 ords., all of £1 each. The prefs.
rank in the order stated for divs. and
capital, and advance point for point with
the ords. beyond 6 p.c. The market ex-
pects no change in the rate of distribu-
tion, despite stinging increases in taxa-
tion and a drop of 4s. per ton in the
price of cement as from the end of July.
On the basis of last year’s distribution
the firsts and seconds at 31s. and 275.
return 5.8 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively.
The ords. at 245. 6d. yield 5.7 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £6 12s 3d. firsts,
275. Bd. seconds and 775. 6d. ords.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1931. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £245,061 £.245,061 £245,061 £245,001
Creditors* . . 8,057 15,965 26,067 46,520
Freehold, etc! 28,605 30,710 20,405 20,976
Plant, etc. . . 313.890 321.644 327,223 401,309
Stocks .. 50,816 37,811 46,012 53,167
Book debts .. 11,082 23,741 36.841 40,111
Cash, etc. . . 17,578 97,491 98,467 49,340
* Including provision for taxation.
The year’s growth of £74,086 in plant
reflects additions already referred to. To
meet the outlay the co. added £20,453 to
the debt, which includes provision for
taxation. The contraction the more or
less liquid surplus (£96,104) was £59,149.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re —
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 53,914 10 p.c. = 50,000 3,914 138,60 S
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50,000 34,303 172,911
1931.. 53,471 8$ „ „ 43,750 9,721 182,632
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,761 21 „ „ 12,500 35,261 235,700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 „ ~ 37,500 14,665 250,365
1935.. 59,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
1936.. 67,710 14.5 „ „ 43,750 23,960 302,717
1937.. 62,937 20 „ „ 50,000 12,937 315,644
Deprec. reserve disappears, £20,368.. 295,276
1938.. 81,676 221 p.c. = 50,250 25,426 320,702
Deprec. reserve disappears, £11,803.. 308,899
1939.. 76,511 20 p.c. = 50,000 26,511 335,410
Unlike the Government railways, this
co.’s 36-mile track, which connects
Broken Hill with Cockburn, on the S.
Aus. border, pays handsomely, and has
done so for over half a century. And
the war and developments underground
at the southern end of the lode at the
Barrier aren’t likely to do the business
any harm, either.
More than three-quarters of the ton-
nage hauled consists of concentrates from
the big silver-lead-zinc cos. at the Bar-
rier, as the following table shows:
1933. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Goods Carried. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Coal, etc. . . 8,692 10,360 13,655 10,133
Lead con’trates 228,456 258,331 320,678 318,148
Zinc con’trates 203,484 290,205 257,784 330.754
Other goods.. 67,329' 98,466 150,295 119,937
Total .. 507,961 657,362 742,414 778,972
Last term the mining cos. sent some of
their accumulated zinc concentrates to
the roasters for treatment. The “other
goods” item, which shot up sharply dur-
ing the three years to June 30, 1938, and
fell away last term, largely reflects haul-
age of building material, machinery, etc.,
required for the new shafts at the Zinc
Corp. and North mines. Altogether an
extra 36,558 tons was hauled. But the
lift in wages, fuel and other costs
gobbled all the gains and more besides.
Before allowing for depreciation
(£12,660, down £4456) and leaving out
of the reckoning a reduction of £11,803
in the depreciation reserve (£84,756), but
including other minor reserve adjust-
ments, the net result was £5165 lighter at
£76,511, equal to 30.6 p.c. on capital as
against 32.6 p.c. and 24.3 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was low-
ered from 22\ p.c. to 20 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1934. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £350,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Creditors .. 33,799 50,830 59,853 54,888
Fixed assets.. 483,069 478,967 461,976 454,060
Fuel and stores 23,316 19,537 20,957 20,131
Sundry debtors 38.934 54,718 66,610 63,604
Cash, etc. . . 89,887 61,182 81,011 102,503
All fixed assets are reported in good
order. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£131,350, in-
cluding fuel, etc.) was £22,625.
From 1929 to 1935 6d. per share
(£12,500) was annually set aside for re-
demption of capital. Then the allocation
was reduced to 3d. per share (£6250) be-
cause developments already referred to
greatly lengthened the life of the field.
The present allowance for amortisation
aims at repayment of capital within the
next 28 years, or less. The probable life
of the field is well in excess of this.
The market prices the f.-p. 10s. shares
at 345. 3d. Allowing for the final div.
(Is. per share) the return at that price is
6 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis, with possi-
bilities. The net tangible cover per pound
of paid capital is 465. 10d., of which
365. 4d. is represented by fixed assets.
{“The Wild Cat Column” continued on
page 20.)


NEW GILT-EDGED INVESTMENT
k%
2
GUARANTEED BY THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
FIRST PUBLIC LOAN ISSUED BY THE
GRAIN ELEVATORS BOARD
Constituted under the Grain Elevators Act to establish and conduct a
comprehensive system for the Bulk Handling of Wheat in Victoria.
AMOUNT OF LOAN: £500,000
Price of Issue: Par (£100) —Repayable at £lOO on Ist October* 1949*
PARTICULARLY SUITABLE FOR NON-TAXABLE FUNDS
such as
Provident and Superannuation Funds,
Religious and Charitable Organisations,
Friendly Societies,
and for
Small Investors and Others in the Low Taxation Group*
APPLICATION LISTS NOW OPEN
Prospectus from
The Banker for the Issue:
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
or
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY J. B. WERE & SON
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne), Melbourne, Sydney and London.
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS CLOSE: 13th OCTOBER, 1939, or Earlier,
at the Board’s Discretion.
Interest and Principal Payable Free of Exchange in Victoria.
Subscriptions Payable in Full or by Instalments.
AN IDEAL INVESTMENT FOR COUNTRY RESIDENTS
An Authorised Trustee Investment in Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania.


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
" <?UALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
ŵ
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast"
MODEL “H”:
Bronze Bearing: ..
Ball Bearing: ....
Super “V’ Ball B.
Lawnmowers
10in. 12in. Win. 16in.
33/- 41/- 44/-
44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
I .SX EN^? RS- r _Have J’ ou an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
r J?? ES '~~ Try °- T - LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Gres
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony!
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B Davies
H.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt. ’
: ARE yOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF ;
INTEREST,
liMMlilllllßlliggl
If not you owe it to yourself and
family to enquire about
'FIRST AUSTRALIAN UtfiT TRUST
Custodian. Trustees, :: , Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
W rite for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:.
BOX 4028V.V,.0:P.0 m SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Plan Now for
AN INCOME
AT 60
£3 OR £4 A WEEK
OR MORE
JUST AS YOU ARRANGE
/"‘"'OME war, come peace, come
droughts or good seasons, the
work of the A.M.P. Society in
making life easier for its members
and their dependents goes on un-
disturbed : that is why membership
is so sure a blessing.
You might be drawing a good
wage or salary now, and you may
be amused at the idea of a retiring
allowance of a couple, or £3 a
week, but do not laugh! Thou-
sands of men and women, once in
profitable work, would now be
mighty glad of even two pounds a
week.
If you are in your best earning
years you can well afford to make
provision for your comfort and
security on retirement. The low
cost will astonish you.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
work out a plan to suit your need
and ideas. That will not commit
you to anything, but if you follow
the plan you will have peace of
mind. Ask to-day. If you prefer,
write for suggestions.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne,.
Grain Elevators Board Loan
The Victorian Grain Elevators Board
is on the market with £500,000 4} p.c. 10-
year debentures at par. Principal and in-
terest are secured upon the revenue and
assets of the board, and are guaranteed
by the State Government, while a cumu-
lative sinking fund of £1 p.c. p.a. will also
be provided out of the board’s revenue.
Further, the debentures are a trustee
security in Victoria, Queensland and Tas-
mania. They are especially attractive to
those who control provident and super-
annuation funds, friendly societies and
charitable, religious and educational insti-
tutions, which would get the full benefit
of the gross return of 4} p.c., because
earnings of these bodies are exempt from
income taxation.
The issue has been undervvritten by
J. B. Were and Son, who also underwrote
the , Sydney Water Board’s recent
£1,500,000 4j p.c. issue, for which
£1,024,800 was publicly subscribed, de-
spite the fact that war was declared
long before the issue closed.
The Grain Elevators Board was
created by the Victorian Parliament in
1934 to control bulk handling of wheat in
that State. The scheme includes erection
of 140 country silos, with big terminal
elevators at Geelong and Williamstown.
The estimated total capital outlay is
£2,000,000, of which £1,033,291 has
already been spent —£708,291 was raised
by loans and advances from the Victorian
Government and £325,000 by private
loans. Annual interest charge on existing
loans is £40,468. With handling charges
at 2d. per bushel at country silos and \d.
per bushel at terminal elevators, the
board figures that gross annual revenue
will average £233,334. Exes., including
interest and sinking fund, are put at
£209,363, leaving an estimated surplus of
£23,971.
The rate of interest offered is in keep-
ing with the current market yield from
comparable securities, and the Govern-
ment handling of war finance is designed
to frustrate any substantial or rapid
increase in interest rates.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd.
With the international quota back to
100 p.c. it means a domestic quota re-
lease of approx. 71 p.c. for these
Malayan producers—tin shares have pro-
vided the bright spot of ’Change deal-
ings. From 76.20 on Sept. 5, Sydney
’Change’s tin-share price index lifted to
104.15 on Sept. 16. There was weaken-
ing to 99.69 last week-end.
Kramat’s property is on the Kinta,
Perak. An Alluvial Tin float, but now
under Anglo-Oriental control, the co.
owns one of the largest and most eco-
nomical dredges in Malaya. Digging com-
menced in 1930. A small loss showed up
from the first term’s operations, but divs.
since have averaged 18 p.c. on capital,
despite restriction, etc., while at March 31
shareholders could see 3s. 4d. per share
(£107,925 stg.) in surplus liquids, thanks
partly to a liberal depreciation policy.
Past returns, however, are small guide
to the future, richest part of the property
having been worked out. Still, there was
approx, a further 30,550,000 c.y., averag-
ing 0.521 b. t. 0., ahead of the dredge at
March 31. On last term’s restricted turn-
over that would provide 12 years’ digging
seven years’ working to capacity
(375,000 c.y. monthly).
Some idea of potential earning power
under present conditions is afforded by
results for 1936, when, working ground
closely according to the value of remain-
ing dredging reserves and on a 71 p.c.
quota, £63,651 was netted with metallic
tin at £212 stg. That was after providing
£16,952 for depreciation. The wash is
mainly free dredging, and ample water is
available.
. Latest accounts reflect lower metal
prices and restriction of output from
73.7 p.c. to 29.6 p.c. of assessment
(1140 tons t. 0.), plus 49} tons for the
buffer pool. After providing £2186 less
for depreciation, etc., net showed a sharp
drop of £28,808 stg.:
Year
Mar., Revenue. Outgo.* Surplus. , —Dividends
£ £ £
1936.. 1 i, 14,742 51,091 63,651 25 p.c. = 41,250
[io reserve bucket-band, £4500.
1937.. } 444 > 754 77,867 66,877 35 p.e. = 57,750
(lo reserve bucket-band, £3OOO.
1938.. 1 81 > 288 39,452 41,836 25 p.c. = 41,250
4To reserve bucket-band, £4060.
1939 . 41,904 28,880 13,024 15 ,p.c. = 24,750
Includes depreciation: £16,952, 1936; £32,227
1937; £7186, 1938 ; £5OOO, 1939.
The £13,024 was £11,726 less than the
reduced 15 p.c. distribution called for.
A further 3d. a share was sent out in
August.
Here are recent performances from the
operating angle:
_ . . , 1936. 1938. 1939.
Cubic yards .. 3,547,000 3,253.000 2,612,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 812.2 546.8 515.7
Average yield c.y.,
pound .. . . 0.51 0.38 0.44
Assay, p.c. .. 75 75.7 75.7
Working costs, pence 2.01 *2.50 *2 91
Net ore real’n ton £132/18/6 £139/19/2 £125/5/3
Singapore av. met.
tin, ton .. £2ll/19/10 £219/-/- £195/1/2
Including provision for new bucket-line.
Last term the plant was fitted with a new
bucket-line and bottom tumbler and the
ladder strengthened, cost of the new in-
stallations being met from reserves. Since
the close of accounts, operations, as for
the same period last year, have been in
lean ground, average recovery being
only 0.31 b. With the low quotas that
have been ruling, policy has apparently
been to keep the plant working maximum
time possible.
Paid capital is £165,000 in ss. shares,
priced around 14s. 6d. in the sharemarket.
At March 31 fixed assets figured at
£96,683 property £65,741, dredge
£25,000, sundry plant, etc., £5943. De-
preciation reserve stands at £5OOO.
Zinc Corp.
Zinc Corp. netted £196,369 in 1938
as against £527,909 for the preceding
year. After giving the prefs. their fixed
cumulative 20 p.c, (4s. per £1 share), an
all-round 3s. per share was handed to
both prefs. and ords. (the ords. are f.-p,
10s. shares), making 35 p.c. for the prefs.
and 30 p.c. for the ords. as against
62} p.c. and 85 p.c. respectively for the
previous term. The total amount dis-
tributed in dividends was £183,963 as
against £431,142 in respect of 1937. The
collapse of earnings and distributions
was due to the sharp fall in metal prices.
Average London figures (in sterling)
compare as follows:
,qo 7 Lead, Ton. Zinc, Ton, .Silver, Oz.
•• •• £23 6 1 £22 611 Is. 9.6 d.
ly,: *B •• .. 15 6 6 14 1 7 Is 0 (16
1939—Jan.-July 14 10 4 13 15 4 Is.' 9.'2d.‘
Aug. 31.. 16 11 3 15 2 6 Is. 7.1 d.
On the outbreak of war the British Minis-
try of Supply decided to take Australia’s
surplus production of lead and zinc, or
the bulk of it, at prices ruling before war
was declared. On the basis of last year’s
production, a lift of £1 per ton in lead
would increase revenue by over £61,000
P.a., equal to Is. 4d. per share (pref. and
ord. combined). The maximum prices
fixed by the Ministry are £l7 ss. for
lead and £l5 12s. 6d. for spelter. Lead
and silver are the chief sources of profit.
In July, 1937, when zinc was fetching
£S23 13s. 9d. per ton, the chairman told
shareholders that the value of zinc con-
centrates increased to the co. by only ss.
to 7s. per ton, according to the range of
metal prices, for every £1 rise in the price
of zinc.
The following table show the amount
required for dividends at the rates stated,
together with the yield to Australian in-
vestors at prices mentioned:
' — Dividends p f ie
/ Ord. v—p,-ef. ? Total ° a r , d -
Per 10/- Per £ 1 Amount, 150/- 82/9
Share. P.c. Share. P.c. £S P c Pc
3/- 30 7/- 35 183,963 4.9' 3*B
4/6 4o 8/6 42J 251,375 6.0 5.7
6/- 60 10/- 50 318,788 7.0 7.6
Dividends are the gross amounts pay-
able in sterling, and therefore subject to
British income tax—3s. 2d. in the pound
last term, since substantially increased.
The yields are in terms of Australian cur-
rency, after deducting 3s. 2d. in the
pound British tax.
Increased div. announcements from
J. and A. Brown and Cessnock Collieries,
both on the Maitland (N.S.W.) field, are
encouraging signs in the crowded coal
industry. J. and A. Brown’s div., sub-
ject to audit, goes up from 3 p.c. to
5 p.c., and Cessnock’s from 6 p.c. to
7 p.c., making the average over the last
nine years 4.5 p.c. For the 12 months to
June 30 gross earnings of Cessnock lifted
from £226,845 to £240,704, or nearly
double the 1934 figure. After allowing an
unchanged £12,500 for depreciation, exes.,
however, absorbed all the increase and
£746 besides, leaving the net result at
£23,444, or 8.5 p.c. on capital. The
lower profit reflects the strike earlier
in the term and opening of No. 1
Cessnock colliery to cope with the
bigger volume of business. Installation
of a complete mechanisation here should
help costs in the current term, a slightly
higher price is now being obtained for
Government railway contracts, and a
“good demand” generally is reported—
at better prices, too. Paid capital is
£275,000 in 440,000 £1 shares —110,000
fully paid, the rest to 10s. Finances are
comfortable, more or less liquids
amounting to £96,018 ; outside liabilities
total. £23,233.
* * * *
Old Charters Towers (N.Q.) hands
will be pleased to know that the old Blue
Peter at The Broughton, now in the
hands of R. L. Shepherd, is having a
second life. Fifty ton lots per month of
2|oz. ore are being put out at present,
and on appearances can probably be in-
creased in the near future. In the stopes
between the 90ft. and 160 ft. levels there
is a continuous face of good stone
ranging up to 4ft. wide. So impressed
are Government officials with the latest
developments that driller Joe Berry and
a diamond drill crew went up in August
to test the reef below the deepest
workings. Future policy will depend on
the assays of the drill cores.
* * * *
The Mt. Freda battery at Soldier’s Cap,
Cloncurry (N.Q.), has been completed
with 10 head. Development of the sur-
rounding fields for gold was encouraged
by the North Australian Geophysical ex-
perts. This battery has just treated 60
tons for the low average of 3dwt. gold
per ton. The opencut returns gave 4dwt.,
and at this figure probably show a slight
pfofit. At the Gilded Rose prospectors
are-picking out 2oz. ore, but the quan-
tity of this grade is small.
* * * *
Mt. Molloy coppermine, near Mareeba
(N.Q.), has been recently reopened.
Samples taken from old faces yielded
20 p.c. copper; and the war demand for
the metal gives it an added chance to
get oyer the hurdle of reconditioning the
workings, an expense invariably above
estimates.
* * * *
An attempt to re-establish reef mining
on the old Morinish goldfield (C.Q.) is
being made by a Rockhampton syndi-
cate. The main workings on the Mt.
Morinish lode have been cleaned out for
a distance of 345 ft. The 250 ft. level has
been cleaned up and for 50ft. is showing
an 18in. quartz reef with nice prospects.
A trial crushing has been taken out from
this level. Tradition associates Gardiner,
the bushranger, with this old field.
* * * *
Throughput at Great Boulder (W.A.)
is being rushed up, and grade of mill-
feed is being fairly well maintained on
the increased crushings. In August treat-
ment fell only 14 tons short of the 40,000-
ton mark, working surplus for the month
(not allowing for gold tax) lifting to
£A38,123. It compares with an average
monthly crushing and working surplus of
30,000 tons and £23,890 respectively for
the preceding seven months. That leaves
expenditure on special development, etc.,
out of the reckoning. With recent instal-
lation of a new power unit, heavy capital
expenditure on plant also appears to have
dried up—for the time being, at any rate.
* * * *
Dr. Wade and an official of Freney
Oil have flown to the co.’s bore site in
the Kimberleys (W.A.). A directors’
report recently stated that the 23,000
reserve shares offered were overapplied
for, that the drilling crew couldn’t be
surpassed, and that the co. was now in
a better position to find oil than ever
before. Hope was expressed, too, that
the patience and perseverance of share-
holders would be “suitably” rewarded.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements. of claims. . .
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Du&fcury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.,
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager. _
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from .. .. .. 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/
Modem a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Graneentral,” Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
“Man who was jilted 50 years ago has not
spoken since.”
He might as well have married.
* * * *
“Bernard Shaw says the Dominions are
starved intellectually.”
Well, he can’t be everywhere at once.
t *i* 4*
“Walking Stick Made from Love Letters.”
— “Sun.”
Pretty strong cases can frequently be
made from them, too.
4* *!*
“Defendant said that before he kicked his
wife he had removed his boots.” — “Sun.”
The perfect gentleman!
* * * v
“Petrol will clean the silk lining of a hand-
bag.”—'S.M.H.”
And if the price keeps rising it will
also clean out pockets.
-I* -1-*
“Why Do Men Marry?” — Women’s mag.
Well, it’s the surest way to stop a
woman fussing about them.
•J* *i• 4* 4*
“Most Sydney pawnbrokers want to become
hotelkeepers. ’’ —‘ ‘Daily Telegraph. ’ ’
They want to meet people not prepared
to sign the pledge.
•i*
“There is a shortage of soap, but, if it’s
necessary to do so we will win the war with
dirty hands.” — Field-Marshal Goring.
Soap wouldn’t be much good, anyhow.
•%> *i*
“In Uganda, Africa, the most attractive
girls of a tribe, when rain is wanted, sit and
gaze at the sky.”— Travel notes.
In the belief that even the rain will
fall for them.
•£• *l*
“He stealthily moved into the new block of
flats and stood immobile in the passage, his
ear glued to the panel of the door.”
.—Extract from thriller.
He should have waited till the varnish
was dry.
•i* *i* 4* *i*
“Whep a man’s all alone and he comes to
his last match he is bound to feel nervous.
—Wireless advt.
So is a woman of 35.
A turf tipster is a man who makes
money telling other people how to lose
theirs.
•J* ❖ 4*
“Life is a joke to those who think.”
Hence our gloomy politicians.
“Promoter ses I goiter carry y' for three rounds .”
“A man charged with being in hotel during
pro hibited hours said he had gone there for
£ bath „
Anyhow, he landed in hot water.
J * 4. 4. 4.
cou]d be siUier than some of the
hats worn by modern flappers,” declares author.
Except what some of them cover,
“In the Spring. . . . ”
“Scientific study of lovers reveal them as
robots.” —“ World’s News.”
Though he steeled himself to marry
He’d have bolted if he could;
But he let the woman nail him —
Now he’s lost his screw for good.
Elm.
4* 4*
“The world-famous pianist, tired out with
the strain of his concert, had hardly closed his
eyes when the feverish twisting and turning
of his infant son awakened him.”
—Extract from short story.
Movement in A minor.
•F •!• 4*
“Airman married at a dance.” (
—Melbourne ‘‘Sun.
Caught on the hop.
Highlight.
Old comrade! In periods low and
depressed,
You often have caused me to rally
By many a witty and jovial jest,
And many a jocular sally ;
But nothing you say can disperse my
regrets
Or make me so terribly tickled
As watching you trying to roll cigarettes
When you are exceedingly pickled.
T.W. SNTHAN.
The Hat Trick.
“Some firms sent fashion spies to England
in order to anticipate the styles to be worn
during the royal visit to America.’ News item.
“Don’t shoot!” howled Alphonse
Pansy Fitz Stitcher, the famous fashion
expert. , ,
The Beautiful Spy had lured Alphonse
to her luxurious suite, and there he was
cornered like a rat at revolver-point.
But the Beautiful Spy never batted an
eyelash. She believed in bowling them
over.
“No tricks,” she hissed. “The dope on
those new modes —or else!”
Alphonse pulled himself together and
did a spot of quick thinking. He had
handled women too long to be tricked
like this/
The room was suddenly filled with up-
roarious laughter. Between spasms
Alphonse pointed a derisive finger at the
hat on the head of the B.S.
“You cad! You —you Are you
poking fun at my five-guinea model?”
she snarled.
“Five guineas!” roared Alphonse.
“Five guineas for a museum piece! An
atrocity! A murder! A pick-me-quick
from a West Ham pawnshop! Ye gods!
It is ter” , , . „ c
“You bounder!” howled the 8.b.,
almost in tears. “I’ll—I’ll”
“Listen,” cooed Alphonse, suddenly
lowering his voice. “My exclusive model
821 would transform you into a woman
of poise, dignity, youth and”
“How much?” came in eager tones
from the B.S.
“Listed at seven guineas, yours for six-
nineteen and eleven ; six-ten if you’ll put
that damn’ gun away.”
The gun went hurtling into a far
corner. Before he caught his second
breath, Alphonse was scragged by the
neck, dragged downstairs and dumped
into a taxi.
The last he remembered before col-
lapsing was, “To hell with this spy busi-
ness! Let’s get that hat and make it
snappy!”
D. McM.
Sporting Push.
“Amongst the troops now in France are
foremost representatives of every branch of
English sport.”
There are jockeys who will mount their
guns and not draw rein until the Ger-
mans are beaten ; cricketers who will hit
’em right and left, and bowl along to Ber-
lin ; footballers who will dash for the goal
ahead and tackle their opponents in fine
style ; billiardists who are bound to make
a break through the hardest-held de-
fences ; swimming champions who will
dive for the foe and crawl through the
barbed wire ; golfers who will be out to
get the Nazi eagle ; tennis-players anxious
to serve and smash the Siegfried Line,
and punters trying to get a long shot in.
H.M.
Some Little-known Facts About
Holland.
11.
ITS EARLY HISTORY.
The earliest-known inhabitants of the
Netherlands were of Celtic origin. Their
leader was the fierce Mynheer Aloysius
McAardvaark, who trained his armies on
a mixture of overproof potheen and
schnapps. The neighboring Germanic
Chatti tribe, who were the first to use
trenches in warfare, prevailed on
Aloysius, after years of fighting, to sign
a non-aggression pact. But the cost of
the subsequent furious rearmament and
u • 1 a u • j
huge armies so weakened both sides that
they could no longer pay their armies,
which disbanded.
Then the great Roman general
Domitius Corbulo marched in and took
Holland. Emilio Gorgonzola, the Gover-
nor, established many spaghetti foundries
and ordered that “Funiculi, Funicula” be
adopted as the new Dutch national
anthem. But the introduction of the
Roman bath was the last straw. The
Dutch-Celts revolted and, clad m sabots
and sporrans, and armed with petrified
haggises, routed the Roman army.
In 481 a.d. the Propaganda Ministry
of the Frankish king Clovis announced
that the Dutch were no longer fit to
govern themselves, and that it would be
necessary to protect the Frankish
minority from the unspeakable atrocities
to which it was being subjected. Accord-
ingly the vastly superior Frankish army
occupied the country.
It was not until the seventh century
that Christianity was introduced.
Dagobert L, who was a convert from
heathenism, issued a ukase that complete
freedom of religious belief would be
allowed, except that those not embracing
the new creed would be forthwith dipped
in molten lead. Later Louis the Pious,
realising the harshness of this edict,
altered it to burning at the stake.
In the Great Partition of Verdun (843
a.d.) Charles the Bald took part of Zea-
land and quickly established himself as
overlord of all the surrounding provinces.
His son Charles the Fat, to impress the
burghers with his faith in the wisdom of
his own laws and the incorruptibility
of their administration, sent a message
to the mayor of a village in the main
canal of which he had parked the royal
barge on the wrong side that he would
hand himself over to the village head-
man, who had judicial power to try minor
traffic cases. It wasn’t until Charles’s
head was grinning down at the populace
from a pike stuck outside the guildhall
that it was discovered that the scrivener
who penned the message had carelessly
inserted an “s” between the “head” and
“man.”
The new ruler was Charles the Simple,
who gained fame through his habit of
hanging up his sock every Christmas Eve
until he was 84 years old, when he died
of a broken heart on being told that there
was no Santa Claus.
Dirk 111. (Dirk
the Dag) was the
first of the Counts
of Holland to un-
dertake a crusade.
These he re-
ligiously e m -
barked on every
year until his
wife, Lucrezia the
Lemon, found out
that Dirk had
chosen a beauty-
contest winner as
his personal
stewardess on the
voyages. There-
after he was
ordered to cam-
paign in the
Frisian marsh-
lands, where he
contracted sur-
fer’s itch and
died.
When Edward
I. was at war
with France
Floris V. allied
himself with Eng-
land in the hope
of increasing Hol-
land’s trade. But
his experimental
shipments were
limited to bloat-
ers, Woodbine
cigarettes and
windmills, which
latter item proved
unpopular with
the English yokels
because they went cockeyed watching
the sails go round. England sent him
cheeses and bulbs. Angered at this futile
exchange, Floris joined Philip of France
against Edward. The burghers and com-
mon people backed him up, but the
nobles, who were deprived of their copies
of the London “Tailor and Cutter,
which was declared contraband, con-
spired against Floris, and he stopped a
knobkerry behind the ear.
William IV. having died without issue,
his nephew Albert of Bavaria was chosen
to be stadtholder, but being a foreigner,
and nervous as to his reception, he
dropped and smashed it. This was a bad
omen. There were two political parties,
the Hooks, representing the nobles, and
the Cods, representing, the burgher class.
Albert backed the Hooks, but he author-
ised the limiting of armament profits to
150 p.c. on unwatered capital, and on one
dark night when his doubles were off
duty he was caught by the Cods and
“liquidated.”
S.W.K.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
Sulphide Corp.
With known ore reserves now almost
depleted, closing down on Nov. 30 of the
old Central mine, unless “unforeseen cir-
cumstances” intervene, will complete an-
other page of Barrier history. The
property has been worked by the Sulphide
Corp. since 1895, when it took over from
the old Broken Hill Silver Mining Cos.
Now, like the B.H.P. before it, the co.
will become practically a purely indus-
trial undertaking, interested in the pro-
duction of cement, super., sulphuric and
hydrochloric acid and limestone, besides
zinc-concentrate roasting, on' Electrolytic
Zinc’s account, at Cockle Creek (N.S.W.).
A long-awaited reconstruction is then
scheduled to take place. It will involve
some repayment of capital, at present
£1,050,000 in 600,000 non-cumulative
participating 10 p.c. prefs. of £1 each and
a like number of 15s. ords. This will
.involve no hardship, as the following
summary of more or less liquids at the
date of the last available balance sheet
(June 30, 1938) ihdicates ; ‘ investments
include a holding in Lysaght Bros. (New-
castle), taken in at par but worth a lot
more, and there may be hidden strength
in some of the other assets also:
Cash ' . .. .. . ; £94,473
Government securities .. .1 374’,498
Sundry investments .. .. 72 852
Debtors, etc. .. .. .. 208,518
Stocks and stores .. .. 113,900
The lot aggregates £864,241 sterling.
Deducting £36,928 coming to outsiders,
the net liquid" surplus was thus £827,313,
subject to tax obligations and an unascer-
tained ; liability for workers’ compen-
sation. That would suffice to repay the
whole, of the pref. funds and then hand
the ords. 7s. 6d: stg. (10s. Aust.) per share
in addition.
Obviously, anything quite so extreme,
which would cramp trading operations,
is not likely ; but equallyobviously there
are definite possibilities in both prefs.
and ords. at 19s. and Bs. 6d. ,a share
respectively l in local currency. Full
return of,pref. capital, if decided upon,
would mean the distribution of 255. Aust.
per share, while current valuation of the
ords. pays nothing for fixed assets,
lumped at £512,635 stg. The figure in-
cludes the mine, etc., which, of course,
will be next to valueless when operations
cease.
From a financial viewpoint, closing
of the mine should not be unwel-
come to shareholders. In the published
accounts, returns from mining and the
Cockle Creek ventures aren’t separated,
but with metal prices at the level of the
past two years operations at the Barrier
have been a heavy drag on the rest of
the business, despite milling of British
ore for B.H.P.
Too much notice, therefore, need not
be taken of the disclosed 1938 profit—
£34,B74 stg., of which investment income
contributed £16,448. The figure was
struck before providing for taxation, but
after charging £20,945 for depreciation,
£53,815 for maintenance, and adding
£6674 to specific reserves. Assuming
full repayment of pref. money, the
£34,874 alone would nevertheless equal
7.7 p.c. on the £450,000 of ord. capital.
On the present market valuation of the
ords., it would represent an earnirig capa-
city of 16.5 p.c.
In anticipation of cessation of opera-
tions at the Barrier, the co. has lately
given a lot of attention to the de-
velopment of its Cockle Creek under-
takings. Over the three years to the
close of accounts in ’3B £65,200 stg. . was
spent on improvements and extensions;
to the benefit of unit Costs and output,
which has stepped along in this way':
Sulp. Lime-
Super., Acid, Cement, ' stone,
Tons. v Tons. Tons. Tons.
1935 .. 31,917 24,046 27',583 49,150
1936 .. 41,510 28,609 36,381 47,441
1937 .. 56,856 32,841 40,278 65,149
1938 .. 75,453 38,711 45,976 79,580
Further additions were made last year.
In cement, the co. enjoys the bulk of the
northern N.S.W. trade, capacity of
works being 80,000 tons p.a. Super, capa-
city is similar. Most of the outturn of
acid finds its way to B.H.P.’s Newcastle
steelworks, to which the best part of lime-
stone production from Attunga quarry
also goes—oyster-shell is used in cement-
production.
With its solid connections, the im-
mediate outlook on the demand side
for most of its products bright, and
losses now being incurred by the mine
out of the way, the co. appears set for
ẅ
"My oath, I’ve had experience! Why, I’ve helped to fire the one o’clock
gun.”
difficulties in maintaining imports, despite
maintenance of divs. at 1938 levels by
David Jones, Sydney, and Myers, Mel-
bourne. With defence orders coming in,
textiles were particularly active, a
good rise being scored by Yarra Falls,
of Melbourne and Sydney. Demand for
Goldsbrough Mort, Winchcombe Carson
and Younghusband exemplified the better
outlook facing pastorals, sugars were also
well supported, and the British Govern-
ment’s decision to take our canned-fruit
surplus sent strongly-entrenched Henry
Jones to a new recent high. With higher
duties on tobacco imminent, British
Tobacco tended to drift, and so did
Gordon and Gotch, which may have
some difficulty in maintaining earnings
under present conditions. The banking
group also attracted little attention,
though yields in most cases are now 5 p.c.
or more ; National’s £5-paids, returning
nearly 5.3 p.c. at £5 145,, look well worth
attention.
Effects of the fixing,of maximum prices
by the' British ' Ministry, of Supply and
other developments show, up in Sydney
’Change price indices of metal shares ;
■. ’ ' • • • • Com- •
, . . ,", Silver- , posite
lead. Copper. Tin. Mining.
Sept. T... 160.13 117.62 76.20 118.06
■ „ 16 179.13 139.65 ? 104.15 141.24
■ „ 18 ... 172.31 137129 , 101.78 137.09
„ 19 .. 172.56 136.29 99.57 136.31
„ 20 .. 179.34 142.11 102.45 141.34
„21 .. .178.08 142.11 102.84 140.79
»22 .. 175.20 140.81 102.02 139.05
’ Base: 1934 = 100.
The maximum prices compare, with those
ruling for, the 12 months to June 30 and
on August 31 as'follows :
Av. Year,. V Aug. 31, Fixed
■ • - 30/6/"39. 1939. ..Maximum.
Lead ..£l4 1711 £l6 11 3 £l7 5 0
Spelter’.; 13 18 2 15 2. 6 , 15 12 6
Electrolytic 48 8 0 52 15 0 51 0 0
Tin . .211 0 B r ' 229,18 9 230 0 0
The ; British also intends
taking the bulk of our surplus lead,
zinc and copper production at prices
approximating those ruling before the
outbreak of hostilities. Lead-producers
will be principally affected, practically
the whole of our copper produc-
tion and half Electrolytic Zinc’s output
being consumed within the Common-
wealth itself.
* * * *
Raising of the international tip quota'
to 100 p.c. for the September quarter —
it had only, a few days previously been
successively increased from 45 p.c. to 60
p.c. and. then to 80 p.c.—was coincident
with the Ministry of Supply’s fixation of
the sterling price for' the metal at £230
a ton, the upper limit, incidentally, en T
visaged by the buffer pool on its forma-
tion. It will mean the export of a large
part of the increased carryover stocks
which Asian producers have beep
allowed to accumulate. The latest quota
is the highest since the last quarter of
1937, when it was 110 p.c. Movements
since:
Quarter. 1938. 1939.
March .. . . : 70 p.c. 45'p.c.
June i .... 55 „ 40 „
September ... ■ .. 45 „ 100 „
December ..' .. 45 „
The figure, for the last quarter of the
current term has yet to be finalised. A
100 p.c. international quota will mean a
domestic release of approx. 71 p.c, for
Malayan producers. Siam has a mini-
mum quota of 18,500 tons, but is entitled
to participate in any relaxation of re-
striction when a 70 p.c. quota has been
allotted to other signatories to control.
The effect on the sharemarket has been -a
general rise of approximately 35 p.c. in
tin-share prices since the beginning of the
month.
The control agreement provides that,
in the event of hostilities in which a
signatory is concerned, that country may
apply to the International Tin Com-
mittee to export temporarily more than
its permissible output. If permission,
which must be by unanimous vote, is
refused, then the applicant country may
withdraw from the scheme. In the event
of such withdrawal, other signatories are
at liberty to abandon the scheme also.
Protection for B.H. Prop.’s proposed
tinplate venture is favored by the Tariff
Board and a duty is to be im-
posed to bring the c.i.f. and e. and
duty-paid cost of imported tinplate up
to £32 a ton with metallic tin at £A2BO.
The Prop, had asked for protection up
to a selling price of £34 a ton for 10 to
15 years, according as to whether plant,
to cost £4,000,000 or so, was set up at
Newcastle and Port Kembla or at Why-
alla (S.A.). The international situation
obscures the position at the moment.
* * * *
Contrib.-holders having withdrawn
their Privy Council appeal, Peters (Syd.)
will go ahead with the bonus proposals
carried in September, 1937, and hand out
one free f.-p. 14s. share for each of the
old f.-p. 14s. shares and for every three
14s. shares paid to 4s. Bd. The news
was appreciated by the market, as also
was the decision to call up half the out-
standing liability on the contribs., thus
increasing their , value, relatively to the
fully-paids, and quotes for the scrip
bounded up. Over the last two years the
board has set aside an amount which
would have since been paid on the bonus
issue as dividend had the gift-giving been
made when originally proposed. Allow-
ing for this, net price, of the shares ex
bonus is approx. 265. 6d. fully-paids and
15s. contribs.
* * * *
Affairs leading up to the liquidation of
Scottish Loan and Finance, with which
John Woolcott-Forbes was associated,
were discussed in B. 17/5/’39. A. E.
Campbell, the liquidator, now estimates
that assets as at June 5 will show a sur-
plus over liabilities of £4765. Share-
holders’ position is therefore obviously
hopeless. The last balance sheet filed
by the co. was made up to 31/12/’37. It
showed the following position:
Liabilities. Assets.
Paid capital £136,517 Consols, etc.... £28,454
P. and 1. a/c 4,103 Sundry debtors 51,889
Deferred profits 1,038 Shares .. ..106,532
Mortgage ~. 61,170 Equipment .. 880
Creditors, etc.. 3,231 Intangibles .. 18,304
£206,059 £206,059
All shares were then stated to have been
issjued for cash. In the following 12
months issued capital grew to approx.
£226,000, and at the date of the winding-
up was said to have been in the vicinity
of £250,000. Legal proceedings have been
instituted by the Crown against two
former directors. . .
•* * * *
A balance sheet of Coconut Conver-
sion, Ltd., made: up to Oct. 31, 1938,
and showing income for the year at £3l,
has come to hand. If shows the co. to
have been almost financially
fe'atherless at the time, only
tangible representation for
£14,010 of share . capital and
£547 coming to outsiders being
fixed assets of £1262 and more
or less liquids of £lO2. A
Sydney concern, the co. formed
in 1935, and gave G. G. John-
ston £7OOO in shares for licenses
to use processes for the pro-
duction of carbon from coco-
nut-shell or other vegetable
matter and extraction of oil
from shale. At last balance
intangibles came to £13,195, of
which £7850 was represented
by license account and £4150
by net development, exes, capi-
talised. A group of subsi-
diaries has since been thrown
off. ‘ ' J
* * *
Castlemaine Perkins’s new
one-for-five ord. offer at par
will add £250,000 to capital
account. The issue follows
hard on the heels of the
£249,333 new-issue announce-
ment by the Queensland co.,
the other Brisbane brewer. The
two cos. have come on to the
market in rapid succession to
each other the last four occasions they
have approached shareholders for funds:
—Q’land Brew.*— I C.-Perkins.t
Aug., ’34 .. 199,234$ j Dec., ’34 .. 250,000
June,’36 .. 249,043 I April,’36 .. 416,666
Mar., ’3B .. 249,233 | Jan.,’3B .. 333,334
Sept., ’39 .. 249,333 | Sept., ’39 .. 400,000
*£l shares, f 12s. 6d. shares. $ Prefs.
The C.P. offer will lift its share register
total to £1,500,000, on which main-
tenance of 10 p.c. would call for £9931
more profit than disclosed last term.
With taxation and other costs on the up-
grade, it suggests possible return to an
8 p.c. handout in view of the board’s de-
clared intention to strengthen reserves.
* * * *
For the year to June 30 div. of Koitaki
Rubber (Papua) goes back from 5 p.c.
to 10 p.c. (£7519) again. Trading results
were £4665 better at £8220, and profitable
disposal of shareholdings brought in a
further £1662. A heavier crop is being
budgeted for in the current term, and
prices are now better and look like
remaining so —for the present, at any
rate. The £1 ords. are around par.
* * , * * •
Four years ago, after a “comprehen-
sive” survey into the value of sharehold-
ings, directors of Henry Berry (A/asia)
earmarked £25,000 for depreciation
of the item. Now, despite reports of
“encouraging progress” and the like in
each year since, “substantial overstate-
ment of assets in the accounts of subsi-
diary cos.” is reported. Details are to
be laid before next month’s annual meet-
ing. Pref. capital is said to be intact,
but final div. on the A issue is being
passed. Issued capital is in 280,000 7 p.c.
A prefs. (in which the public is alone
interested), 205,390 7 p.c. Bs and 294,000
ords. At Sept. 15, 1938, the co. had
£875,108 invested in the subsidiaries,
which are in the difficult drygoods trade
throughout Australia and Maoriland.
Owing to no composite balance sheet of
holding co. and pups having been put
out, outsiders have never known the real
position. The new Vic. Companies Act
has at long last done something to pre-
vent that sort of thing.


w
OOD roads are essential to the defence of a nation such as
Australia. They facilitate the rapid transport of troops and
foodstuffs and provide quick access to key strategical positions
along our vast coastline. In no less degree are good roads the
means of quickening our contribution of essential supplies to
Great Britain and our Allies overseas.
With modern 'Caterpillar” Tractors and road machinery, old-
fashioned methods are dwarfed. "Caterpillar” provides a new
versatility, speed and operating economy enabling roads to be
built, improved and maintained at a cost that makes the tax-
payer’s pound go further. It also releases hundreds of men for
essential services of production and defence.
"Caterpillar” diesel power literally carries all before it. It clears
the land of scrub and trees, moves great masses of earth and rock
with its giant power, forms roads, makes and maintains shoulders,
cuts deep ditches, slopes steep banks, mixes and applies surface
materials.
The "Caterpillar” tractor keeps going day after day with little
upkeep and very low fuel cost. It is efficient in forming urban
streets or great highways, linking the farthest corners of a vast
continent.
Enlisting 'Caterpillar” diesel power is the solution to developing
defence and production at the lowest cost and an evidence of
capable management.
And "Caterpillar” Tractors serve not only in building roads, but
in constructing airports, in agriculture, timber milling, water
conservation, irrigation and in almost every industry which
indicates the greatness and prosperity of a nation. Wherever
dependable low cost diesel power can be used "Caterpillar” can
do more work more efficiently and more economically.
Below — W. & J. No. 12 Motor Grader, fitted with a
" Caterpillar ’’ Diesel engine, is the most versatile
one-man machine ever offered in Australia for the
economical building and maintenance of roads.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTR I B UTO R S
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson
Pty. Ltd.,
102 - 124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, S. Brisbane
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson
Pty. Ltd.,
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney
Victoria & Tasmania:
William Adams & Co.
Limited,
521 - 523 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australia:
The S. A. Tractor Company,
231 - 239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia:
Wigmores Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box B 83, G.P.O.
-
ill
mmm.
mm
II
mm
m
i
■* I
i ; r:
£»:■;
'•’;•> V
:••
H
it
*
:
£L&?


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
BRITAIN’S FIGHTING STRENGTH.
[The fighting strength of Germany and other
countries has been given such emphasis that J. Bull’s
great strength is perhaps not so well appreciated.
Some idea of it—necessarily of a general rather than
detailed kind—is provided by the four articles here
condensed from London “Times” and written by
authorities on the different branches of the service.]
“The Navy Well Prepared”
[For some time now the British Navy has been
undergoing a process of being strengthened by the
completion of one new warship every week. Navy
estimates for this year—£lso,ooo,ooo—were the largest
ever put forward in time of peace; building rate has
been about double the pre-1914 war rate; personnel
has increased from 89,214 in 1932 to 121,000.]
The outbreak of war has commonly in the past
found navies, even those of impressive strength on
paper, unprepared in many ways. Had war come last
September shortcomings would almost certainly have
revealed themselves in the Navy’s preparations for
war. To-day it is probably true to say that the Navy
—always, in the last two centuries, one of the most
powerful forces in the world—is better prepared for
its task than it has ever been before.
As well as the various reconstructed warships,
four new large cruisers and the first two flotillas of
Tribal destroyers—which may, by reason of their size
and power, be almost regarded as cruisers—have lately
been added.
A complete new flotilla of destroyers of standard
design—the J class —has reinforced substantially that
part of the Fleet on which will
fall the chief burden of deal-
ing with enemy submarines,
and they are shortly to be
joined by the next flotilla, the
K class, of which the first is
already in service.
Five new large submarines
of 1090 tons —the class to
which the ill-fated Thetis be-
longed—have joined the Fleet
in the last year, together with
three—the Unity, Undine and
Ursula —of half that displace-
ment. It is, however, anti-
submarine craft in which the
greatest accession of strength
has taken place. The increase
in destroyers has already been
noted, and they, of course, are
the craft most feared by the
submarine. But a diving sub-
marine is at a grave disadvan-
tage against any small surface
craft, too small to be a target
for her torpedoes, which car-
ries both depth charges and
the same hunting equipment.
Besides the 10 motor torpedo-boats and five M.A.S.
boats delivered during the year, over 80 trawlers have
been taken over'and equipped for similar duty, while
others are being built. The opposing force of sub-
marines will probably be larger even than that with
which we were faced at the end of 1918. But the
methods of countering them, assiduously developed
and practised in the interim, and the provision of
craft capable of putting those methods into practice
make the present position radically different from what
it was 20 years ago.
During 1939 there will be under construction in
Britain’s private shipbuilding yards some 200 ships,
totalling in displacement 870,000 tons. This great
total includes nine battleships, six aircraft carriers, 25
cruisers, 43 destroyers and 19 submarines, besides the
balance in the various categories of small craft, the
importance of which has been indicated above. The
country may still feel confidence that, if the Navy’s
difficulties are great, its spirit and strength will be
more than equal to them,
Growth of the Army
[Backing J. Bull’s greatly-increased strength in
trained man-power, described in this condensed article
by the “Times” military correspondent, is a strength of
2,600,000 potential infantrymen between the ages of
18 and 25 and another 3,750,000 between the ages of
25 and 35.]
While it would be foolish for us to underrate
some of the strategic difficulties of the present situa-
tion, it would be at least as unwise for others to dis-
count the tactical and technical developments which
have taken place in Britain.
The production of armaments entails a long
period of preparation, during which output seems
painfully slow. But a time comes, in a country where
the process is backed by great industrial resources,
when the trickle becomes a torrent almost before the
increasing volume has been noticed. This has been
the case not only with our output of military aircraft
—which some months ago attained a monthly figure
nearly five times that achieved last summer —but also
in certain important parts of the Army’s new equip-
ment, including the sphere in which it combines with
the Air Force in direct defence of Britain.
To appreciate the change that has taken place in
the sphere of air defence it is worth recalling that as
recently as the summer of 1937 only some 60 guns
and 200 searchlights were available for the whole of
the southern half of England, including the London
defences. And this sector would have been relatively
much better covered than the North if war had come.
Even when the crisis arose last September the
scale of guns available for the whole country was sub-
sequently reported to have been not much more than
200, of which only a small fraction were new type
pieces, while only about half the available number
were found to be in a state to open fire if an attack
had come during the crucial days before defects could
be remedied. Until as late as September 26, when the
Territorial anti-aircraft troops were at last called out,
any attack would have found no defence at all in
position; and their belated mobilisation naturally
brought to light numerous flaws.
Very different is the situation to-day. No definite
figures have been made public since early in the year,
but even these indicated the attainment of an estab-
lishment of nearly 1000 guns, while a big increase in
this scale was made subsequently. As for searchlights,
they have been multiplied to an even greater extent
than guns—for the service not only of the guns but of
the fighter aircraft. Results attained at practice
camp last year showed a fourfold increase in the
number of effective rounds ( i.e shells bursting close
to the target) compared with the previous year. This
summer the gunnery performance has been still more
striking in many cases. Most significant of all has
been the quickness with which newly-raised units have
drawn level with those of long standing.
Expert observers who have seen the Territorial
Field Army in camp these last few weeks have found
difficulty in realising that not only the units but the
men who fill their ranks have been part of the Army
for barely four months, and that until they came to
camp their training had been done only in the even-
ings or at week-ends. Even more than the experience
of the last war, it compels a revision of old ideas as to
the time required to produce a trained soldier. I
would not be understood as suggesting that their spirit
is higher than that of the men of 1914, but that it is
more businesslike. Their enthusiasm is notably free
NAVIES OF THE NATIONS.
from headiness ; it has hard work behind it. It is fer-
vent, but the fervor is of that soberly determined
nature which characterised Cromwell’s Ironsides.
The recent expansion of the Territorial Army has
increased Britain’s potential Field Army for employ-
ment abroad in direct or indirect aid of allies from a
mere six divisions to a scale of 32—23 infantry divi-
sions, six motor divisions and three armored divisions.
It represents a force approximately equal to the normal
size of the French army.
Air Force’s Expansion
[J. Bull’s Air Estimates for the present year exceeded
£220,000,000, compared with £18,000,000 in 1934. On
his Air Force alone J.B. has been spending this year
roughly double his 1932 expenditure on Navy, Army
and Air combined; since 1935 the colossal sum of
£550,000,000 has been spent on the Air Force alone.
Some idea of the result is given in this (condensed)
article by the “Times” aeronautical correspondent.]
The Royal Air Force may without exaggeration
be described as one of the marvels which the demo-
cratic system occasionally produces. In the last four
years its first-line strength has been multiplied at least
five times. The miracle is that it has done better than
its programme. That is not merely to say that the
numbers are higher in all respects than they were
expected to be. It is to say with the utmost emphasis
that the quality and spirit of the Air Force have never
been better even in the rosiest days of its short history.
All the facts that could support that statement
may not be put in evidence before the public at the
present time. If all the facts could be set forth this
story would be one of a strangely romantic quality —
romantic in the devotion of an industry to a task of
a magnitude such as it had never contemplated before,
romantic in the harnessing of science to the peculiar
and urgent needs of air defence, romantic in the sense
that the nation has thrown up in surprising numbers
young volunteers physically fit in every respect,
mentally equipped for a service in which a vast
number of things have to be learned, and moved by a
spirit of earnest endeavor, disguised under a light and
even flippant manner, yet belonging veritably to the
finest traditions of the service.
The quality of the men behind the machines is
only in one sense a virtue to be attributed to the Air
Force. The Force has declined to lower its standard,
but the fact that enough men of high standard were
available must be regarded as an inheritance from
the nation. The nation and not the Air Force has pro-
duced the men.
It is common knowledge that the aircraft industry
has produced a great many more aircraft than the
authorities expected it to yield within the given time.
That again is a story which, when it is told in full, will
seem too good to have been true in democratic Eng-
land. For the present it has to be accepted on the
word of those who have watched the output mount-
ing month by month. It is a story not yet complete,
for the productive power of the industry has still to
reach its limit. New factories are still being built.
New schemes of production are still in process o
realisation. For a whole year aircraft of the most
modern types have been flowing into the squadrons as
quickly as the squadrons could absorb them.
Blenheims and Battles, Wellingtons and Hamp-
dens have poured into the bomber units all through
the year. Spitfires and Hurricanes have been coming
out of the factories at such a rate that the majority or
the fighter squadrons have been re-equipped with them
during the present year; and it may be recalled that
500 of them were engaged in the air exercises of last
month.
These pilots were all flying high-speed aircraft.
They had all had to get used to them in the course ot
a few months or at most a year. They flew them as
though they had had them for years and they em-
ployed them for their proper purposes with an assur-
ance and precision which showed quite clearly how
thorough the tactical training has been.
Civil Defence (A.R.P.)
[Since this (condensed) article by the “Times” civil
defence correspondent was published (30/8/’39), Britain
has seen parts of this lately but splendidly organised
force in operation.]
Civil defence is a nation’s answer to the threat of
lightning massed attack from the air. It is a new
branch of defence, with no traditions and very little
experience behind it. Its problems of organisation
are greater even than those of the armed forces. It
demands the co-operation of every adult civilian with-
out exception ; it involves the
dispersal of huge numbers, the
training of an army of
2,500,000 volunteers, the spend-
ing eventually of close on
£100,000,000, and the work of
over 1500 local government
authorities.
When it has reached a
stage of progress in which a
“knockout blow” is impossible
it may be called satisfactory.
That stage has now been
reached in Britain, after 10
months of extraordinary effort
in every branch of national
life. It is impossible to pro-
tect everybody against high-
explosive bombs ; but it is pos-
sible to make gas attack fruit-
less, to ensure the maintenance
of communications, industry
and order. It is also possible
to ensure that children shall be
spared the terror and damage
of war, shall be educated, fed
and cared for. These things have
been planned to the last detail.
The policy is that everybody, at home or at work,
should be able to reach shelter within seven minutes
of hearing a warning. Already steel shelters to pro-
tect 6,500,000 people have been distributed free in
dangerous areas. Soon there will be enough to shelter
10,000,000. Under the Civil Defence Act every indus-
trial or commercial undertaking employing more than
50 persons is obliged to plan suitable shelter for them
before the end of November. In many essential under-
takings the shelter plans are magnificent and the staffs
have been trained to cope with any situation an air
raid might create. Behind the enrolled civilian army
of 2,500,000 must not be forgotten these trained
reserves of the factory and the business house.
Also, to plan the transfer of 3,000,000 people in
four days ; to arrange for their feeding and medical
care; to send 100,000 visitors to over 5,000,000 house-
holds in search of accommodation —that has been a
gigantic task without any parallel in other parts of
Europe. The teachers, householders and local gov-
ernment officials who have accomplished it have set
a splendid example of work and self-sacrifice.
There are gas masks for the whole population,
produced, fitted and distributed, and protective helmets
for babies to be issued to the number of over 1,500,000.
The 70,000 police of peace-time to be increased to
270,000. For fire-fighting services an establishment of
300,000 volunteers. In every borough employees of
the local authority have been trained in repair and
decontamination work. Builders’ firms have enrolled
squads of experienced men for the dangerous work
of rescue and demolition in damaged areas. Buses,
coaches and tradesmen’s vans have been prepared in
thousands for conversion into ambulances.
No possibility of surprise attack is left to an
enemy. In London alone there are over 500 sirens.
For two years town and county hall officials have
had to watch the newcomer, A.R.P., slowly thrusting
aside the normal work of local government. Great
expense has been incurred —£70,000,000 by the central
government alone —and staffs and premises have had
to be enlarged. It is impossible now to say where air-
raid precautions end and where civil defence begins.
As Seen by Ward Price.
[These extracts from G. Ward Price’s new book,
Year of Reckoning (Cassell), are chosen for their
bearing on the war now being waged. The author, of
course, knows Germany and its leaders intimately and
speaks with authority on the German internal situation.
He also gives some significant items of little-known
recent history.]
That Herr Hitler had always intended to bring
the Czech provinces within the Reich is certain. It was
only Mr. Chamberlain’s intervention which prevented
him from doing so at the autumn crisis of 1938. The
invasion opened a new chapter in European history.
It was the first step, unjustified by any racial argument.


towards the foundation of a German “Empire of
Europe” intended ultimately to embody all the States
lying between the eastern frontier of Germany and the
shores of the Black and Caspian Seas.
Germans say there will be five great World
Empires: The British World Empire ; the “Monroe
Doctrine” Empire of North and South America ; the
French Colonial Empire ; the Russo-Asiatic Empire ;
the new German European Empire.
That the National Socialist leaders envy the vast
possessions of the British Empire is beyond doubt.
Accustomed to the swift, effective action and hitherto
strikingly successful results of their totalitarian
methods, they despise our dilatory, discursive, dis-
organised democratic institutions, and deride the cyni-
cal way in which big business interests exploit the
State for profit. They do not greatly resent the abuse
directed against them by some British newspapers,
politicians and public speakers because this helps to
unite the German nation behind its Government and
builds up the idea of encirclement.
No regime could have obtained the hold of the
German people that the National Socialist Govern-
ment possesses if it were directed by such criminal
lunatic types as British Left Wing writers are accus-
tomed to depict.
One consideration determining Britain and
France, based on the principle that the German
appetite grows by eating, is the apprehension that,
when Germany has brought the whole of Eastern
Europe beneath her sway, she may turn, immensely
strengthened, to attack the two Western Powers.
The Germans are a docile race with unquestion-
ing faith in their leaders. For six years past their
minds have been subjected to persistent propaganda
impressing upon them the fundamental righteousness
of the national policy. Their sense of unjust treat-
ment in the past predisposes them to believe that any
kind of opposition to it on the part of Britain and
France must be malevolent.
The Germany that faces us to-day is not a
Western European nation, except in the sense that she
is a master of the arts of material civilisation de-
veloped in that region. Psychologically, Germany be-
longs to Central and Eastern Europe, an area which
missed many of the humanising influences that the
course of history brought to the peoples west of the
Rhine.
Such secret grumbling and jeering as goes on
in Germany cannot change the fact that, in the main,
the German nation stands solidly behind its present
leaders.
Gratitude is an unknown quality in international
relations. Were it not so, the Nazi Government might
well recall the fact that, in the days when its position
was still precarious, Britain twice vetoed a proposal for
its overthrow by force. On both occasions the initia-
tive came from Poland.
In 1933, Marshal Pilsudski suggested to France
a joint invasion of Germany. Again, on March 7,
1936, when German troops reoccupied the Rhineland,
the Poles urged the French to march against them
and promised their support. On both these sugges-
tions, the French Government consulted the British
Cabinet, whose advice was against any such action.
If Britain ever had plans of “encirclement” for Ger-
many, she would not have missed that opportunity.
It is unwise to count on internal collapse in Ger-
many, for every single German —even though he had
doubted the wisdom of his Government’s policy in the
past —would now be aware that the whole national
existence was at stake.
Would the Nazi organisation itself stand the
strain of war? Like all human institutions, it is full
of jealousies and rivalries, but these are counteracted
by the instinctive German sense of discipline and by
a sense of personal devotion to the Fiihrer.
The only potential human weakness that can be
detected in this intensely organised nation lies in the
fact that its nerves are already highly strung. For
years the younger generation of Germans has been
disciplined and ordered about by party officials.
However unwillingly Italy may have entered into
alliance with Germany, it is unlikely that she would,
or could, now break away from it. The British Gov-
ernment’s policy of sanctions forced Mussolini to
accept the position of junior partner to a formidable
and aggressive nation, and to seek his reward in the
form of German support for the realisation of those
Italian ambitions which Britain and France had
refused to gratify.
Even after sanctions had been in force for
months, Mussolini made a remarkable statement to
my friend Bertrand, de Jouvenel, a distinguished
French journalist, whose father had been Ambassador
in Rome. This occurred on June 1, 1936, the day that
M. Leon Blum formed the Popular Front Govern-
ment in France.
“Tell Blum that I am ready to negotiate with
France, independently of his anti-Fascist internal
policy,” said Mussolini. “With you I will defend
Czechoslovakia. With me you will defend Austria.
There is no other way to prevent the conquest of
Central Europe by Germany. Tell that to Blum. I
will sign a treaty with him to-morrow if he likes.”
M. de Jouvenel went back to Paris, where the
new Popular Front Prime Minister declined to see
him, while the officials of the Quai d’Orsay, to whom
he imparted the Duce’s message, dismissed it as of no
importance.
Hitler Wants No Bombs.
(From a London “Daily Express” article by Selkirk
Panton .)
One of the things Adolf Hitler must have thought
about as he sat weighing the chances of war and peace
was undoubtedly the future of all the grand buildings
he has dotted around Germany and the fine motor
roads he has threaded through the countryside.
He told me of his plans—rebuilding of Berlin to
take twenty years; reconstruction of Hamburg,
Munich, Cologne and other cities, turning them into
a modern Rome or Athens.
“That is not a war policy. That needs peace,”
he ended proudly. But to-day he faces the possibility
that all these plans might go up in brick and flying
mortar if enemy bombers got to work.
Of course, Goring has declared that those enemy
bombers will not live a moment over the Reich. But
all the new buildings have vast and efficient A.R.P.
shelters, dug deep into the ground. Hitler’s new
Chancellery, with all its hundreds of rooms and marble
halls, completed only last January, has A.R.P. shelters
to hold several thousand Berliners.
Hitler’s own shelter is sixty feet down in the
earth, complete with everything should enemy bombs
catch him in the capital. There are underground
hospitals, operating theatres, kitchens, food stores.
Hitler and his henchmen could live underground there
for weeks on end if they wanted to, or had to. So
at least the Fiihrer of the Reich sees the possibility
of having to seek shelter just as much as the people
in London, Rome or Paris.
Right up to the very last moment Hitler was
playing with his architectural plans and dreams. It
was a bitter blow to him that shortage of labor had
led him to restrict these plans during the last months.
It would be a still more bitter blow for him to have
to abandon them all for the time being, perhaps to
destruction.
Czechs “Sullen and Resentful.”
(From a London “Times” article by a correspondent
who, at time of writing (late in August), had recently
been in Bohemia.)
There has been no improvement in Czech-German
relations. The Czechs remain sullen, incredulous and
resentful.
In the attainment of certain objectives Germany
has acted with great speed and tenacity. A large slice
of the nation’s wealth has been acquired by the ban on
Czech purchases of “Aryanised” property, the army
has been liquidated and the gendarmerie disarmed,
the fortifications have been destroyed, large numbers
of Czech workers have been transferred to the Reich,
reducing unemployment in the Protectorate, and the
economic system has been safeguarded from any
immediate breakdown.
But Germany has found no successful method
of appeasing the Czech people. Prague Germans com-
plain that they find it difficult to persuade Czech taxi-
drivers to accept them as fares, German-owned shops
are boycotted, and Czech Cabinet Ministers who con-
sider it expedient to make statements urging co-opera-
tion with Germany are the object of threats which
make it clear to them that their actions have no popu-
lar support. It is now frankly admitted by the German
authorities that their original hopes that the main
bulk of the Czech people would accept the implications
of being a part of Greater Germany have been dis-
appointed.
The Czech Government’s authority grows in pro-
portion to the amount of resistance it shows to Ger-
man pressure. In. this situation the Czech Fascists
are an embarrassment to the Germans, for, by blindly
accepting the German point of view without any
means of influencing either the Government or the
National Unity party, they heighten the mood of re-
sistance in the Government, which is reluctant to lay
itself open to the charge of capitulating before a
group for which it has nothing but contempt.
There are signs that the German authorities are
readjusting their policy to meet the present mood of
the Czechs. The Sudeten-German influence, respon-
sible for so many revengeful acts, appears to be
waning. The Protector’s office is showing a significant
toleration in face of the passive resistance put up by
the Government.
The occupation of Bohemia and Moravia has
created problems in solving which the German author-
ities in Prague have as yet made little progress. The
chief of these is the subjugation of the people, who,
though disarmed, are in no way demoralised. On this
subject Machiavelli observed: “Whoever becomes
the ruler of a free city and does not destroy it
can expect to be destroyed by it, for it can always find
a motive for rebellion in the name of liberty and of
its ancient usages.”
Nazi-Communist Similarities.
(From a London “Times” letter by Frank Newnes.)
In spite of what the Left Wing and others say,
is there not more ideological sympathy between Com-
munism and Nazism than between Communism and
the democratic outlook of the British Empire, France,
and the United States? The similarities between Com-
munism and Nazism are many and important. Here
is a list of some:
(1) Both have a dictator, neither of them freely
elected by plebiscite of the people, or by any elected
assembly.
(2) Both have a controlled as against a free press.
(3) Both have a highly-developed secret police
which terrorises the country and deliberately prevents
people expressing their real views.
(4) Both have concentration camps to which any-
one may be sent without trial and kept there in-
definitely, and there is no writ of habeas corpus, or
other system, to get people out.
(5) Both believe in the right compulsorily to
employ people on public works, if necessary far from
the places where they live. Under this system Russia
has built a huge canal and worked timber camps,
and the Germans have built the Siegfried Line.
(6) The German treatment of the Jews and the
Russian treatment of the aristocrats and middle classes
is similar in principle. I understand that 3,000,000
Russians in the early days of Bolshevism fled from
Russia penniless and deprived of their property, and
there were no funds raised to help them. Those who
could not escape were murdered by the tens of
thousands.
(7) Both have a system of elections under which
there is one candidate approved by the Government
who gets 97 p.c. of the votes.
(8) In each country the Nazi and Communist
parties are minorities of 4,000,000 each, and in both
countries parties other than these are held to be
illegal.
(9) With regard to trade unions—the Nazis have
abolished them, but have organised a system of
committees in every factory representing men and
employers. The Russians have altered their trade-
union organisation so much that the English trade
unions will not admit them to. the international trade
union congress, and they have a similar system of com-
mittees for every factory.
(10) Communism is anti-Christian and has prac-
tically suppressed the Greek Church. The Nazis have
not suppressed any form of organised Christianity yet,
but their attitude in many respects is hostile, as shown
by their treatment of Pastor Niemoller and others.
(11) The Bolshevists started by socialising every-
thing, but I understand have now modified that policy,
and more private enterprise and private property are
being allowed. The Nazis to begin with did not
socialise everything, but they are moving more and
more in that direction, and the time will obviously
come soon w'hen the differences in this respect will
be very slight.
There are, of course, many other similarities,
and also differences, but the foregoing list of simi-
larities is quite sufficient to cause the two Govern-
ments to come together and not criticise each other
on the ground of a differing outlook.
War-time Restrictions.
[By way of a reminder and fortification against
future developments, a few of the more curious restric-
tions imposed in Britain in the last war, recalled by
Anthony Cotterell in a London “Daily Express” article.]
Under the D.O.R.A. regulations of the last war
the Government could take over your factory or
workshop. Or make you leave your home. Or
destroy your home.
No passenger was allowed to travel alone in a
compartment over the Forth Bridge (for fear he might
bomb it). You could get penal servitude for lighting
a bonfire on a hill near a defended harbor. Or
spreading reports likely to create alarm. Or giving
a soldier on duty a drink.
It might be an offence to write home from the
seaside that you saw a fleet pass by. At Portsmouth
newsboys were forbidden to call war news in the
streets. You could be prosecuted for saying to a
friend, “I have been told by a man who has a friend
at the War Office that the Zeppelins are coming to-
night.”
You were forbidden to treat anyone to a drink
(penalty up to six months with or without hard
labor, or a fine up to £100). It was illegal to loiter
near a bridge. In and after 1916 you couldn’t buy a
new car except for official reasons. There was a Lon-
don regulation to prohibit the then common practice
of whistling for cabs between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m.
Herring fishing was prohibited at Yarmouth. It
was an offence to sail or row further than a mile
from the coast in a pleasure boat.
It was an offence to sell spirits between 2.30 p.m.
Fridays and 12.30 p.m. Mondays. It was an offence
for an ammunition worker to leave his job to get
more wages without his employer’s permission. But
an employer could fire a worker without his per-
mission.
It was an offence to fly a kite. To speak in a
foreign language on the telephone. To ring church
bells after sundown. To melt down sovereigns into
ornaments. To keep a souvenir fragment from a
bomb dropped from the air.
Suspected persons could be arrested without
warrant. By the end of 1916 people walked about
in darkness, were not allowed to use a private car,
had to draw their blinds by 5 p.m. and muffle all
their lights. Had to leave clubs and restaurants by
9.30 p.m.
In April, 1917, a meatless day was ordered in
all places of public catering, and the supply of potatoes
w'as limited to so many days a week. In January,
1918, it became a crime to buy a reel of thread at a
draper’s shop without a license from the Director of
Raw Materials. Said Colonel Pinkham, a Willesden
magistrate: “We shall soon have to register for leave
to sneeze.”


m
tsSk
-li-r/H
&
m
/Ti
vh
VS,
W"
■M
m
€4,
£»glS
g£
/•/V
/^>
6
\
y*
\
’•? V///> ' '
4, I#2
\
m
it
\
V\
=z
ow-
%
s'.
E TH^i M
m
in
V
V/
X , A
» :
eBEwEoa eorr/
?7 r °P^Lro ,y .
. \
A?,3
SIIHOOI
i 311109 193/13
3jn
lliOlf IV3MIIVO
ŵ
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


SPORTING
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PHOT")
“If Adios does not win this how is he
going to win the Epsom?” was queried
by those who backed him for the Quality
Handicap at Rosehill. He strengthened
their belief in him for the Randwick mile,
though it is probable they were a little
anxious when, consequent on being a
trifle slow in finding his legs, he was
sixth, and some distance from the leaders,
nearing the half-mile post.
In the next furlong he rapidly made
up his leeway, and, though behind Del-
mestor and Beechwood entering the
straight, he was a sure winner just after
commencing the last furlong. Delmestor
ran up to her best form, but it was by
only a half-head she beat St. Constant for
second, and he and Sedunum were whip-
ping in the field after going two furlongs.
Approaching the turn Geebung looked a
probable place-getter, but the stronger-
finishing St. Constant cut him out of
third money.
The particular disappointment was
Micawber, who looks bigger than when
he was previously in Sydney. The pace
was too fast for him in the early part,
and, after being slightly hampered in the
straight, Shean eased him right up when
his chance of getting a place was hope-
less. Not that he could have got one
even with a clear run. Rodborough and
Gilltown never really got in it, but, as
Beechwood looked as if the racing would
benefit him, I fancy there is a possibility
of his picking up something before he
returns to Melbourne.
Beau Vite won the Clarendon Stakes
as decisively as expected. For the first
few furlongs Lappin was content to let
him bowl along behind the other three,
Reading doing the pacemaking. Just after
turning into the straight Beau Vite went
wide and hung slightly for a few strides.
Someone near me ejaculated “He can’t
come on,” but he quickly disposed of
that idea. With a fast finishing run he
settled High Caste and Reading in
turn, and got within a half-second of
Rogilla’s nine-furlongs record of
for Rosehill. Dashing Cavalier was out-
classed.
Beau Vite was in receipt of 81b. from
Reading and High Caste. That was a
useful advantage, but he beat them in a
fashion that suggested the result would
have been the same at even weights.
Beau Vite has earned £lO5O in Sydney,
and certainly looks well in line for an
additional £3BOO in the A.J.C. Derby.
Beaulivre, who has won the two races
in which he has started in Maoriland this
season, would now find Beau Vite a more
troublesome opponent than when he twice
beat him at Riccarton (Christchurch) in
the autumn.
Notwithstanding the Hawkesbury
Grand Handicap was truly run, Feminist
was going so easily in third place three
furlongs from home that it was palpable
she was going to have a comfortable win.
It did not cost her an effort to settle
Gold Spark half-way down the straight,
and I have rarely seen a race that looked
such a certainty so far from home.
L’Aiglon and Pantler finished strongly
in the minor places, though without being
able to trouble Feminist in the least.
Cooranga, as usual, was slow to get going,
but, though she made up a lot of leeway
down the straight, it was not a really
impressive effort. She was meeting
Feminist only 31b. worse than Metropoli-
tan terms, and was beaten much more
than that. Still, a drop of 71b. may do a
lot for her. L’Aiglon is going to be
nearer his best for the A.J.C. meeting
than I anticipated a week or two ago,
but Fearless did not run as well as when
third to Head Check and Cooranga at
Tattersall’s recent meeting. It is doubt-
ful whether he will improve. Head
Check, in finishing among the tail-enders,
again demonstrated that she is unreliable,
and even with her light weight of 6.10
there does not seem much hope for her
in the Metropolitan.
Gold Salute is proving himself even
better than his Maoriland wins suggested.
He is a strongly-built colt and, looking
well up to weight, made light of his 8.12
in the Rowley Mile. After commencing
smartly, he looked in danger of being
squeezed back near the five-furlongs post
when he collided with the rail, but,
quickly regaining his position, appeared
a sure winner entering the straight, not-
withstanding he was a length and a half
behind Berani at that stage.
At the half-mile Berani was four
lengths ahead of Between and Gold
Salute, but, though he struggled on
gamely, he had no chance against the
last-named over the final furlong. Leif
finished strongly enough in third place
to make her worth backing at a middle
distance. Rathlin, though fourth, was
never a winning possibility, and Between
tired.
The first division of the Novice Handi-
cap proved that Pierce was not so good
as previously supposed. After making a
forward move at the three furlongs he
weakened in the straight, and the top-
weight, Glorious, won from Gas, who
did not have the best of luck in running.
In the second division Val Eaton out-
stayed Danger Mark, who seemed to
have the race in hand opposite the Leger.
It was a good performance on the part of
Val Eaton, as his rider lost his whip, and
also finished with a foot out of the
stirrup. Fay B. was supposed to be a
certainty, but she fell early in the race.
* * * *
If G. F. Wilson had the opportunity
of rehandicapping Adios it is certain
he would make him meet all his probable
Epsom Handicap opponents on a few
pounds worse terms. The chestnut’s
two recent wins have been at seven fur-
longs, but an additional furlong is un-
likely. to trouble, him.
As he will meet Delmestor on the
same terms, and St. Constant 61b., Gee-
bung 21b. and Sedunum 71b. better than
at Rosehill, they will have difficulty in
reversing positions. The extra distance
will be helpful to St. Constant and Sedu-
num, but, in addition to figures being
against them, both are likely to be giving
Adios a lot of start commencing the
last three furlongs. Parsons’s accident
at Newcastle robbed Adios of his in-
tended jockey, and, with McCarten on
Mildura, G. Price got in touch with
Ashley Reed in Melbourne, and he is to
be on the chestnut.
Micawber’s running at Rosehill would
seem to put him out of the picture. His
owner expected him to run well, and his
form was so palpably incorrect that it
might be advisable to overlook it. Prior
to last week I favored his chance more
than that of anything else in the Epsom,
but it would now be difficult to place
him ahead of Adios, whom he will meet
only 41b. better. Still, I expect an im-
proved display on his part.
Mildura tired when Geebung beat
him in the Camellia Stakes at Rose-
hill, but he will meet the latter 61b.
better, and since then he has made such
good progress in his work that I am
giving him preference over his stable-com-
pdnion Adios. The latter may be slightly
disadvantaged in being ridden by a
jockey new to him, while McCarten
thoroughly understands Mildura. A
winner at a mile at Randwick, and at a
mile and a quarter in Brisbane, Mildura
should see the Epsom right out.
Astounding’s recent form entitled him
to a deal of consideration, but the loss
of Lappin’s services may adversely affect
his chance. However, it is reported
Duncan will be on him, and he is riding
well. Geebung can be relied on to run
an honest race, but his prospects of a big
win may still be brighter in the Caulfield
Cup than the Epsom.
Bradford is sure to be all the better
for the racing he has done, and may
show to greater advantage than Red
Thespian, despite his defeat by the latter
in the Cameron Handicap at Newcastle.
They again meet on the same terms.
Speardale’s owner expects him to do well.
Hybol is a good miler, but recent form
does not put Bramol, Gilltown or
Denita in a favorable light, and a
mile may bother Grand Boy. Te Hero
has the necessary pace for an Epsom,
but it is little use backing a horse that
is likely to stop at the post.
I am sticking to my four of last week
—Micawber, Adios, Mildura and As-
tounding—but now prefer Mildura and
Adios.
* * * *
On the way she scored at a mile and
a quarter in fast time at Rosehill it is
hard to go past Feminist in looking for
the winner of the Metropolitan. She is
down 41b. as compared with last week,
improvement in her is probable, and she
has already won at Randwick at the
Metropolitan distance.
Cooranga will be giving her 31b. less
than last week, but that will be scarcely
sufficient to bring them together, and
I am allowing for the longer trip doing
a lot for the representative of Lamond’s
stable. Even if Royal Chief should win
the Colin Stephen Stakes, I think 9.10
will stop him.
Malagigi’s form in his last two races
was moderate, and his stable-companion
Respirator appeals more to me. How-
ever, the betting market does not say as
much for him as for Malagigi, and, as
Respirator favors the Melbourne way
round, perhaps his first start in a big
race will be in the Caulfield Cup. Still,
if he runs in the Metropolitan he is
sure to play a prominent part.
#*••••
Red Sails did not shape as well at
Rosehill as I anticipated, and though
Pantier is weighted at 6.12 he will carry
at least 41b._ overweight if O’Sullivan
rides him. That places him at a disad-
vantage as compared with Feminist', who
will also meet L’Aiglon 111 b. better.
Therefore, if figures always worked out
correctly, L’Aiglon’s chance of beating
the Pantheon mare is indifferent.
It is said that, with a more favorable
run Vestal would have won the New-
castle Cup, but she is in receipt of only
51b. from Feminist, and it is question-
able whether, at that difference, she
would have been a formidable opponent
for the latter at Rosehill. She gives a
deal of promise as a stayer, but not more
than Feminist.
#.•***•
In Own Folk Payten’s stable has a
good second string, and though it was
thought there would be difficulty in get-
ting a rider for him at that weight, a cap-
able one has been secured in the Queens-
lander J. Conquest.
I do not look to Adios to succeed
if he fails in the Epsom. I think the
distance is just far enough to trouble
him, though Bard of Avon, Loquacious,
Denis Boy and Regal Son won the Met-
ropolitan after failing in the Epsom.
• •••••
Buzalong still counts, with only 71b.
more than when he won the Caulfield
Cup, and 41b. less than when he gave
Respirator 161 b. and a beating in the
Bond Cup at Caulfield last autumn. He
is working well, and is probably better
now than when Royal Chief beat him in
last year’s Metropolitan. That would be
necessary to succeed, as he is up 81b.
Strength was the last Metropolitan
winner to give the books a real turn-up.
They are praying for something similar
this year, but do not know in which
direction to look for something to beat
Feminist, who is sure to start favorite.
* * * *
Backers had to lay a shade of odds on
Nuffield for last year’s A.J.C. Derby,
and it seems as if Beau Vite will put
them in a similar position. Form points
to him as the winner. Although he has
not raced beyond nine furlongs, the way
he finished at that distance on two
occasions indicated that he would not
be troubled by a longer trip. In 8.10 he
will be carrying more weight than in his
previous wins in Sydney, but, though he
is not a big fellow, the way he handled
8.2 against Defaulter in the Chelmsford
Stakes did not suggest that an extra 81b.
would pull him up against horses of his
own age even at a mile and a half.
There is little between High Caste and
Reading at nine furlongs, but the
former did not shape like a potential
stayer in the Clarendon Stakes. Alter
the Rosehill Guineas it was claimed that
Wilson was unlucky not to have finished
ahead of both, and, consequent on the
way they acquitted themselves on Satur-
day, I have joined the ranks of those
who believe the Victorian will prove
their master at a mile and a half. He will
be ridden by Badger.
The weight will not trouble Gold
Salute, who ran out the mile so well at
Rosehill against a fair welter field of
older horses that the Derby distance is
likely to be within his compass. I am
afraid High Caste is not a stayer
and perhaps may not start. It is
doubtful whether Bonny Loch is going
to turn out as well as expected. In the
Canterbury Guineas he finished about
half a length ahead of Dashing Cavalier,
who ran third, and the latter had no
chance in Beau Vite’s race at Rosehill.
McCarten and Ellis tossed for the
mount on Beau Vite, and the call favored
the former, who has had three wins in
the A.J.C. Derby, his successful mounts
being Ballymena, Ammon Ra and Theo,
all bred in Maoriland. If he should win
on Beau Vite he will have something
more for which to thank horses from
his own country. As Ellis will be on
Gold Salute he will have a good mount,
even though he might have preferred
Beau Vite. Gold Salute and Wilson
strike me as being Beau Vite’s most
dangerous opponents, though Reading’s
trainer claims he is improving with each
run.
Carrying 9st. 21b., which is 31b. more
than his Caulfield Cup impost, Bour-
bon won the Mentone Cup on Saturday
in most impressive style. Through
weakness of stable support he eased
from fours to twice those odds. It was
a good result for ringmen, as the chief
fancies—Pageant (9 to 4), Gay Prince
(fours) and Elanage (sevens) —finished
“outside the money.”
By coming from the rear division with
half a mile to go and scoring, running
away, from Beaustone and Fearnought,
the Tippler stallion reproduced the form
that enabled him to finish second to
Catalogue in the last Melbourne Cup
and win the V.R.C. Handicap a few days
later.
Some of the Mentone Cup runners
suffered through a scrimmage in the
straight. Gay Prince was jammed on the
rails and Harold Badger almost had to
pull him up. However, it is not likely
that Jack Holt’s candidate would have
troubled Bourbon, as he wasn’t shaping
like a winner.
Pageant’s owner, H. E. Spry, is con-
vinced that the son of Windbag would
have justified his hot favoritism but for
the jockey persisting in hugging the rails,
where no opening presented itself.
“Pageant,” he added, “is fitter than when
he won at Mentone on September 9,
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
FIRST DAY.
First Hurdle Race: El Banado,
1 ; Spearbine, 2 ; First Son, 3.
Trial Stakes: Katanga, 1 ; Kes-
trel, 2 ; Lavengro, 3.
A.J.C. Derby: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Gold Salute, 2 ; Wilson, 3.
Epsom Handicap: Mildura, 1 ;
Adios, 2; Astounding or Micaw-
ber, 3.
Colin Stephen Stakes: Royal
Chief, 1 ; Feminist, 2 ; Mosaic, 3.
Kensington Handicap: Denis, 1 ;
Olympus, 2 ; Caesar, 3.
SECOND DAY.
Breeders’ Plate: Broadcaster, 1 ;
St. Andrew, 2 ; The Elk, 3.
Metropolitan: Feminist, 1 ; Buza-
long, 2 ; Cooranga, 3.
THIRD DAY.
Craven Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Gold Rod, 2; St. Constant, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: Trueness, 1 ;
Deferential, 2 ; Contestor, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
By “SENTRY.”
Pascoe Welter Handicap: Cro-
jick, 1 ; Eligible, 2 ; Old Serpent, 3.
Merri Trial Handicap: Grand
Tour, 1 ; Lanarus, 2 ; Little Slam, 3.
Lindsay Gordon Steeplechase :
Niello, 1 ; Inazuma, 2 ; Rhymster,
3.
Quality Handicap: Manrico, 1 ;
Pure Gold, 2 ; El Golea, 3.
Tullamarine Handicap: Millie’s
Hope, 1; Pure Gold, 2 ; Rivette, 3.
Ailsa Handicap: Birdplay, 1 ;
Amiable, 2 ; Destiny Bay, 3.


VICTORIA RACING CLUB
SPRING MEETING, 1939.
General entries for the following races
close at the Offices of the V.R.C., Mel-
bourne, at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, October
3, 1939.
All Entries to be accompanied by £l.
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, NOV. 4.
The Wakeful Stakes, £750, One Mile (special
weights, for three-year-old fillies).
L. K. S. Maekinnon Stakes, £lOOO, One Mile
ancl a Quarter (standard w.f.a.),
Hotham Handicap, £7OO, One Mile and a Half.
SECOND DAY, TUESDAY, NOV. 7.
Cup Hurdle Race, £7OO, Two Miles.
Railway Highweight Handicap, £7OO, Six
Furlongs (lowest handicap weight Bst.)
The Mimosa Stakes, £7OO, about Four Furlongs
and a Half (for two-year-old fillies).
Cui> Steeplechase, £7OO, about Two Miles and
Half a Furlong.
Yan Yean Stakes, £7OO, One Mile.
THIRD DAY, THURSDAY, NOV. 9.
November Hurdle Race, £7OO, Two Miles and
a Half.
Byron Moore Stakes, £7OO, Five Furlongs
(special weights, for two-year-olds).
Linlithgow Stakes, £lOOO, One Mila (standard
w.f.a.).
Carnival Handicap, £7OO, One Mile and a
Quarter (for three-year-olds). .
Veteran Stakes, £7OO, One Mile and a Half
(for four-year-olds and upwards).
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, NOV. 11.
Batman Stakes, £7OO, One Mile (for three-year-
olds, special weights).
Flemington Stakes, £7OO, Five Furlongs (for
two-year-old colts and geldings).
C. B. Fisher Plate, £lOOO, One Mile and a Half
(standard w.f.a.).
V.R.C. Handicap, £lOOO, One Mile and Three-
quarters.
j. A. MacLeod Steeplechase, £7OO, about Two
Miles and a Half.
The Ottawa Stakes, £7OO, Five Furlongs (for
two-year-old fillies).
Final Handicap, £7OO, One Mile and a Quarter.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary, Y.R.C,
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
ii new a
CHAMPIONS
n
A
1
WS
§ss
w
An Empire product—made in
Windsor , Canada
Bring BETTER ACCELERATION
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
improve acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ly. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
... and more! Champions
save you money.
and I am still confident about the Caul-
field Cup.”
Though unplaced, Glenfino pleased his
connections immensely by hitting the
front after turning for home. If appren-
tice J. Purtell had not been incapacitated
by a fall on the previous Saturday there
might have been a different tale to tell.
Boys of 6st. 71b. who can ride vigorously
are very scarce in Melbourne. Peter
Lawry, his trainer, is confident that
Glenfino will shine over a long distance.
Little G. McCormick, the rider of
Glenfino, was reprimanded for forcing
Sir Grey on to Caragona and causing
the latter to lose ground in the straight.
Caragona, who set the pace, finished a
bad last because of the interference. He
is a stable-companion of Glenfino, and
narrowly lost to Pageant at Mentone on
September 9.
Bourbon, formerly trained by W. H.
McLauchlan jun., has changed hands
since last spring, and now is in the Caul-
field stable of Frank Godby. During the
same period Elanage has passed from the
hands of J. Fryer into those of Fred
Foulsham, who had reason for en-
couragement in the M.L. stallion’s
fourth in the Mentone Cup. A Bagot
Handicap and King’s Plate winner,
Elanage is on the up-grade. Foulsham
ran second in the Leslie Stuart Stakes
with Ena, who isn’t far from being
cherry-ripe.
Only the doubt as to whether Manrico
would see out seven furlongs prevented
him being a red-hot favorite for the
Leslie Stuart Stakes, despite the opposi-
tion of El Golea, who beat Aurie’s Star
in the last Newmarket Handicap. El
Golea opened in prime demand, but
Manrico supplanted him and started at
6 to 4.
Never has Manrico been in such great
galloping trim. He scooted off as soon
as the barrier lifted, led into the straight
by six lengths and won, easing up, by
four in lmin. 25sec., which stripped
fsec. off the course record and equalled
the time put up by Adios in the Quality
Handicap at Rosehill.
El Golea shaped far below his best
form. At the half-mile he was only
fourth, 10 lengths behind Manrico, and
made up no leeway in the straight, being
deprived of fourth place by Destiny Bay.
••.• • • •
It was an unlucky afternoon for chain-
store proprietor Archie Crofts. His
colors were carried in the Hurdle Race
by Heroic Chief, who got caught in the
tapes and remained at the post. Next
reverse was complete downfall of
Romney Chief in a division of the Yarra-
man Handicap, topped off by El
Golea’s poor effort.
Timber-mill owner A. G. Newman
tasted the fruits of victory when Prince
Sion appropriated the first division of
.the Dandenong Welter, for which he was
backed from 25 to 1 down to tens. This
was perhaps the most spectacular win of
the afternoon. Last for the greater part
of the journey, Prince Sion flew over the
concluding two furlongs.
Newman believes that Prince Sion has
reached the fulness of his powers and
will take a lot of beating in the Caulfield
Cup. Last season he was third in the
Toorak Handicap, and won the A.R.C.
Birthday Cup. Previous good efforts by
Prince Sion were his victory in the
V.R.C. Yan Yean Stakes and third in
the Williamstown Cup as a four-year-
old.
Jack Holt landed a double at Men-
tone —the Leslie Stuart Stakes with Man-
rico and the second division of the Dan-
denong Walter with Old Serpent (imp.).
Latter horse was bought from Frank
Bullock a little while back on behalf of
Percy Miller, of Sydney. Nice odds of
5 to 1 were obtained about Old Ser-
pent, who squeezed home by a head
from El Nene, with the 2-to-l favorite,
Bankshaw, third. Through the rider of
El Nene being 61b. underweight Bank-
shaw was placed second and Aladale
third.
* * * *
Numerically, the weight-for-age fields
at Randwick will not be strong,
and as Royal Chief has recovered from
the heel trouble that kept him on the
easy list for a few days last week he
should repeat his victory of last year in
the Colin Stephen Stakes. It may not be
exactly soft for him, as Mosaic is rapidly
getting into shape, and the Queenslander
Seven Fifty, who did so well in Brisbane,
is among those engaged.
Malagigi and L’Aiglon are also in the
Colin Stephen Stakes, but a win by either
would be a surprise, though the latter’s
second in the Hawkesbury Grand
Handicap showed that he.is improving.
At the same time he was giving Feminist
only 51b. against 71b. in the Colin
Stephen Stakes. If another race for
Feminist prior to the Colin Stephen
Stakes is deemed necessary, she may
prove she is not out of place in weight-
for-age company. As her engagements at
the meeting include the Craven Plate and
Randwick Plate, her owner and trainer
must be of that opinion.
• •••••
Last year Royal Chief was a 5-to-4
favorite for the Craven Plate, but missed
a place. No matter how he fares in the
Metropolitan this year, .the run in that
with 9.10 is not going to help him in
next week’s Craven Plate. In the cir-
cumstances his trainer may think it
wiser policy to miss that race and wait
for the Randwick Plate on the conclud-
ing day. St. Constant, Gold Rod, Seven
Fifty, Adios and Feminist are among the
other older horses in the Craven Plate,
which, by the way, has been won only
twice in the last 20 years by three-year-
olds—Biplane and Phar Lap.
High Caste, Beau Vite, Wilson and
Marengo are this year’s three-year-old
entrants, and if Beau Vite wins the
Derby I suppose he will be a runner. As
he is not in the Caulfield Guineas there
is no need to hurry him down south ;
whereas the Guineas, at a mile, may be
more attractive to High Caste’s owner
than the Craven Plate. First money in
the Guineas is £2lOO, and a mile against
horses of his own age will suit High
Caste.
* * * *
After Saturday’s racing at Rosehill
Adios was definite favorite for the
Epsom, succeeded by his stable-com-
panion Mildura. Next were Geebung,
St. Constant and Micawber, succeeded by
Sedunum and Astounding. In favoritism
for the Metropolitan the order was Femi-
nist, Cooranga, Royal Chief, Malagigi
and Buzalong.
* * * *
At latest W. Lappin was doing as well
as could be expected, but the injuries
received in his fall at Rosehill on Satur-
day included a slight fracture of the skull,
which unfortunately means he will not
be riding again for some time. Unless
he makes specially rapid progress he may
have to miss the Melbourne Cup meeting.
* * * *
Rufe Naylor, known throughout Aus-
tralia in connection with most branches
of sport, died suddenly at his residence
at Randwick on Monday. First of all
identified principally with pedestrianism,
Naylor took Donaldson and Postle to
South Africa and then to England. Later
he promoted big sweeps, and conducted
a racecourse in South Africa. Returning
to Australia, his operations took a wide
range, but horseracing came in for most
attention.
* * * *
With the luck of the race against him,
Own Folk won the Green Hills Handi-
cap at Warwick Farm in fine style, fairly
running over his opponents at the finish,
and the time was fast. As he is big and
strong, a drop of 141 b. in the Metro-
politan may not make such a difference
to him as it would to many other horses,
and, though third, he had no chance
against Respirator and Buzalong in the
Spring Handicap at the “Farm” last
month. Assuming he does not carry
overweight he will meet both 51b. better,
but, unless he has improved, that differ-
ence might be scarcely sufficient to en-
able him to turn the tables on them.
* * * *
Merry Smile won the Gimcrack Stakes
at her first start in Sydney last season,
but subsequently raced so unluckily at
meetings here —six minor places being
credited her in ten races —that owner and
trainer could not well be begrudged her
win at Warwick Farm. Belvoir is speedy,
but Merry Smile went too fast for him
throughout the Welter Handicap, and she
was never in danger of being overhauled,
though Flaring’s good finish said a lot
for his chance of shortly picking up a
race.
* * * *
It was hard luck for owner H. D.
Greenwood and trainer F. Roberts that
Defaulter could not continue his Aus-
tralian engagements. Two w.f.a. races at
Randwick seemed certain to go to him,
and his Melbourne Cup chance was un-
deniable. Defaulter is to go home next
week. Vet. Davis sees no reason why,
after a blistering and rest, he should not
again become thoroughly sound, and
next autumn may see Defaulter again
racing in Australia. In winning the
Chelmsford Stakes Defaulter more than
paid expenses attached to his present trip,
and his Sydney record stands at four
wins for five starts. “Must take the bad
with the good in racing,” is Roberts’s
philosophical summing-up of the posi-
tion, but it is always regrettable when a
horse of Defaulter’s calibre goes amiss.
* * * *
When Denis was at 6 to 4 for the
Warwick Farm Welter, and 6 to 1 was
on offer against the most fancied of the
remainder at an early stage of the betting,
those racing wiseacres who are always
looking for the worst pronounced it a
“one-goer race.” Such ideas at any meet-
ing of importance always amuse me, and,
so far from triers being few, the alleged
“certainty” ran nearly last. The field in-
cluded several fast beginners, and they
had Denis off his legs in the first furlong.
I think he would have been better
suited by the Flying Handicap at a fur-
long further distance earlier in the
day, and, though I heard several who lost
money on him denounce him as “Not a
horse at all,” perhaps it would be in-
advisable to let that idea cause them to
quite overlook him at his next start.
Horseracing is a business in which over-
pronounced opinions do not pay.
* * * *
When three-year-olds win in open com-
pany early in the season, it makes me
wonder that owners of useful two-year-
olds are not terhpted to try them against
the older horses in sprints in June and
July. They would be sure to be leniently
treated, and would be much better off
than racing against lightly-weighted
horses of their own age. At one time it
was common to see two-year-olds racing
in the principal sprints at Randwick
towards the close of the season, but
present-day trainers are opposed to that
idea.
* # * *
During the past 25 years the Spring
Stakes (now the Colin Stephen Stakes)
has been won twice by several horses,
but during that period Poitrel put up the
best record. He won twice, and at his
third attempt dead-heated Kennaquhair
for first.
• •••••
Poitrel in his two successive wins
downed Maoriland cracks in Desert Gold
and Gloaming, and the 2.31 he recorded
in defeating the former has only once
been improved upon in the race, Winalot
doing 2.30| in 1929. The previous Y ear
Winalot and Limerick dead-heated,
Among jockeys the race was good for J.
Pike, as he won on Winalot, Veilmond,
Peter Pan and twice on Phar Lap. As
D. Munro won twice on Rogilla, and
once on Allunga, and is likely to'be in
the game for many more years, he has
a reasonable chance of equalling Pikes
record. Bartle had his first win m the
race last year, when he scored on Royal
Chief. *
„ * , * * . .
Bad g er ’ wbo , 1S c A Ol J l^ B nprhJ will
|° ride Wilson in the A.J.C.
b^ 0 01 ? 1 . (^ee,:,ung in the Epsom P-
O Sullivan was unavailable, o g
P ri °r engagement tor Bra l
though beaten in the Cameron Handicap
at Newcastle, ran well enough to assure
his being a starter for the Epsom.
bung’s owner should account himself
fortunate in securing such a capable rider
as Badger, and, if his horse fails, it is un-
likely to be attributable to anything lack-
ing in horsemanship. *
TJ , * . * A rtllr , tArc
some ot those disgrun P
see a non-trier in n J
beate n horse they trainers
associate more with own rs wbere
theil : ldeas wouM be modified. Wlhere
a Z
to „ d< ? thei L beSt ’ and 1 tr „i npr(:
, vers . ost owneis .
101 ses l* 131 tle a y^ ra 8 e lac 8
not senousiy consider is Nor
oes l ‘ e ( act °f a *} orae , - -
run a bs°l ntely unbacke mean
non '' lier - I have often hear
say relative to one of his horses: 111
be pleased if it wins, but on recent form
it is impossible for me to back it. Yet,
' , J^ at horse should run well, thoug
without winning, you are likely to hear
f,?J^ eane , aa Y what it, could have done
h h had been hying.
Weight . for . age races o£ten pro ve traps
f backers who believe they can-
not go wrong if they pin their faith to
(he | avorite s At season - s A ,j. C .
j that opinion did not
work out well. Avenger (10 to 9 on) was
heaten in the Colin Stephen Stakes,
R , chief (5 t 0 4) in the Laven Plate,
and Allunga-(5 to 4 on) in the Rand-
wick plat * the two . y ; ar . old races at
set wei hts Beau Mari J (5 to 2 ) missed
in the Breeders’ Plate, and Folk Song (2
to „ in the Gimcrack Stakes but R B Wa ,
chi / f the lar ick at s’to 5 ’ to 2 won
, he Canonbury Stakes,
* # +
. Elanage is a horse that should be worth
£ollowing in Melbourne this spring. He
has won e at weight . for . age at $ mi f e and
three . quarterS; ;„ d in handicaps up to a
mile a 4 nd a ha j £ when he won H , he F Bagot
Handica with 7 . 13 he did the mi|e a s nd
a hal£ ; F 2 . 29 j which is a record
for Flem i n g t o„: He went amiss after
doing a U „f e racing last spring; and had
& 6 * 6 ’


m
S*9SB£-*£;
**'. ’ :•;* ' :■•.■•*••• *Vv**av, .
ss?
CL ’Vuv\,
Some men, by their very occupations, have great
traditions to keep up. Not the least of them
is that they should take some care of their personal
appearance. In this matter of the daily shave
for instance, they like all the rest of us are
expected to look fresh and clean-shaven throughout
the day. That’s one reason why you don’t find
these men using cheap razor blades. They know that
in the long run it’s a false economy. They use the
Gillette system because it gives them quicker, closer,
cleaner shaves than any other method in the world!
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
to be put aside, but accounts of his track
work suggest he is quite himself again. A
win in the Melbourne Cup with 8.10 may
be beyond him, but there are other races
that will give him a good chance of
adding to his-credit account. By Posterity
(sire of Mosaic) from Impetuous he is a
five-year-old.
* * * *
The late T. Payten did well with two-
year-olds, and his mantle appears to have
fallen on his son Bailey, who has a good
record with youngsters. At Randwick
last spring Royal Sceptre, one of his
team, divided the Breeders’ Plate with
Beaucaire, and another, Rival Chief,
won the Canonbury Stakes. Payten com-
menced this season with a lot of two-
year-olds, but he is preparing only three
for immediate racing. They are Mar-
engo’s sister Trueness (Harinero-Truest),
John (John Buchan-Mince Pie) and The
Elk (El Cacique-Yule Cake). The last-
mentioned two are owned by Mrs. C. H.
Osborne and Trueness by Mrs. M. J.
McKay. They can all gallop well enough
to give their trainer a chance of a win.
* He Jfc *
Bourbon has been well backed for the
Caulfield Cup, but it is improbable his
supporters for that race will overlook the
Melbourne Cup. There is a. fair price
going about him for the latter, and that
would be handy to have in the event of
his running well in the Caulfield Cup
without winning. It can be said of Bour-
bon that he can get two miles, and, though
in 8.11 he has 131 b. more than when
second last year, he had 8.10 when he
subsequently won the V.R.C. Handicap,
one and three-quarter miles. If he should
win the Caulfield Cup anyone backing
him for both races will be able to afford
possible loss on the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Few racegoers have witnessed 56 suc-
cessive A.J.C. Derbies, but that was the
record of well-known Sydney man C. A.
Forrester, who died recently. He was
associated with the firm of Pitt, Son and
Badgery for many years, and was the
only son of W. Forrester, whose
numerous racing successes included Mel-
bourne Cups with Gaulus and The
Grafter.
* * * *
The two-year-old trials at Victoria Park
prior to the A.J.C. spring meeting are
always of interest, but it is doubtful
whether those of Friday last threw as
much light as usual on Randwick pos-
sibilities. J. T. Jamieson and B. Payten
were unrepresented ; the former has a
promising youngster in Tidal Wave
(Tiderace-My Own).
Of the colts Indian Emperor (Harinero-
La Bergeronette), St. Andrew (Gay Lotha-
rio-Andromeda), Broadcaster (Marconi-
gram-Lady Canberra), Grand Fils (Beau
Pere-Timid), Peruke (Veilmond-Periwoo),
Shem (Portofino-Semetist) and Fearless
Fox (Foxbridge-Eager Rose) impressed
me most. Fillies that did well were
Phoebe (sister to Peter Pan), Dark
Elegance (El Cacique-Deferential) and
Addition (The Buzzard-Calculate).
Indian Emperor, who is being trained
by J. Pike for the Maharajah of Kolha-
pur, cost 450 guineas as a yearling, while
Grand Fils was sold for 1000 guineas,
St. Andrew 700 guineas, Fearless Fox 600
guineas, Addition 525 guineas, Tiderace
1400 guineas, and Trueness 550 guineas.
The form shown by Peter Pan’s sister
Phoebe in her division of the trials at
Victoria Park will assure her being one
of the popular fancies for the Gimcrack
Stakes. She is good, but there are others
distinctly promising. Contestor (Con-
stant Son-Poetaster) is of the number.
She is trained at Rosehill by T. Haylen
for P. C. Julian. Last year that com-
bination landed the Gimcrack Stakes
with Merry Smile.
Trueness, Addition, Haridelle, Ap-
plause, Merry Myra and Dark Elegance
are among the smart gallopers, and I
have a good opinion of the last-named.
She easily won her division of the trials,
and, with McMenamin as her rider,
carried plenty of weight, and went
smoothly throughout.
* * * *
Up to August 15 Gordon Richards had
ridden in 575 races in England this
season. Of these he had won 124, but
anyone following his mounts at £1 a
time would have been out of pocket
£9l. At that he had done much better
than E. Smith, who has been on Blue
Peter and various other important win-
ners ; Smith’s followers were £237 on the
wrong side at a stake of £1 a race. Fifty
jockeys had ridden winners in England
on the flat this year up to the date men-
tioned, and support of each had entailed
a loss, the lowest being £9 15s. At one
time the following of jockeys’ mounts
was a popular betting system in England.
It is not surprising that it is not now
favored.
* * * *
The particular sensation in racing
circles in England this season was young
Gordon Rolls, who, with two brothers,
shared a fortune of £465,000 left by his
father. Early this year he started buying
racehorses, and when interviewed said:
“I am going to prove what I have always
believed —that it is easy to make money
at betting if you have the capital.”
He bought some cheap two-year-old
fillies to commence with, and then gained
notoriety by giving high prices for sell-
ing-race winners. His first win was in a
small event at Ayr in June, and he was
reported to have lost £5OOO in one day
at Goodwood. Perhaps that assisted in
his arriving at the conclusion that his
belief it was easy to “beat the books”
was somewhat erroneous, as last month
he cabled from the Continent to Steve
Donoghue to sell the 12 horses he was
training for him. Even large fortunes will
not stand dinges of £5OOO a day.
Touching on people who thought bet-
ting on racehorses was an easy road to
great wealth, the death took place in
England last month at 70 years of age
of the Earl of Rosslyn, who, when he
inherited £17,000 a year and £50,000 in
good investments when he was 21 years
old, decided the safest way to add to his
income was to own and back racehorses.
He won an Ascot Gold Cup and other
important races with Buccaneer, but it
did not take him many years to go
through his fortune, and he subsequently
admitted he had been “one of the biggest
mugs.” Lord Rosslyn estimated his
racing losses at £250,000.
* * * *
There have been slight alterations in
the conditions of the Liverpool Grand
National Steeplechase, which, if the war
does not interfere, will be run at Aintree
on April 5. In addition to the barring of
riders who have not won five steeplechases
the minimum weight has been raised to
10.3, an increase of 31b. This action has
been taken to lessen the necessity for wast-
ing on the part of some jockeys, as well as
make the use of dangerously light saddles
unnecessary. A little while ago the
National Hunt Committee passed a rule
which empowered handicappers to make
the maximum 12.0 in steeplechases of
four miles or over. This will probably
be acted upon in the Grand National.
Hi * * *
Many followers of racing are firm in
the belief that our stayers have de-
teriorated in the last 20 or 30 years. Time
for races does not uphold that idea. In
1914 Kingsburgh made the record of 3.26
for the Melbourne Cup. It has been
reduced to 3.21 L, and it cannot be
contended that the track has improved
to that extent in 25 years. The position
is much the same in respect of the Syd-
ney Cup. Lilyveil’s 3.26 j was the best
up to 1914. Now Mosaic’s 3.21| is the
record. Over the period covered, the
advance in time of the two Cups has been
practically the same. In reply to the ob-
jection that nowadays we breed too much
for speed, it can be pointed out that im-
provement is shown not only in sprints,
but in distances ranging from a mile and
a half to two miles.
* * * *-
Phar Lap’s sister Nea Lap was sold
at a high price to an American for breed-
ing purposes. A three-year-old from her
has been racing over there, and her two-
year-old son Poet’s Corner, owned by
J. H. Whitney, was trained in England
this season by Boyd-Rochfort. After two
or three unplaced runs Poet’s Corner ran
second in a two-year-old selling race at
Nottingham last month. Evidently his
trainer did not think much of the effort,
as Poet’s Comer was sold after the race
for 200 guineas. He is by Royal
Minstrel.
/ * * * *
Writing from Wellington (M.L.), ’ a
correspondent asks what I think of the
enclosed clipping in the way of riding
instructions, “and yet,” he adds, “they
are scarcely more foolish than some
owners and trainers do give.” The clip-
ping is as follows:
“I was ridin’ a horse down Invercargill
way for the local Irish policeman,” said
an old ex-jockey, “and before I climbed
on board this is what he tells me: ‘Listen,
me b’y. Let him go full spade till half-
way; incrase your pace till the strate,
then give him his hid, an’ you’ll win
aisy.’ An,’ by jingo, I pulled me stick
on him from the jump off, flogged ’im all
the way, and won by two chain.”
Overloading a rider with instructions
has caused the loss of many races. If
instructions are not adhered to, and a
horse is beaten, the jockey knows he is
going to be blamed, and sooner than take
that risk he will act against his own
judgment, even though he may know it
is going to cost him the race. I know
one Sydney trainer who is invariably
terse in his instructions. They are gener-
ally as follows: “You are riding the
horse. Do your best and use your own
judgment.” Others are so long-winded
that a rider has scarcely time to think
of all his instructions before the race
is over.
* * * *
At the Victoria Park two-year-old trials
one could not help being struck by the
fact that several of the starters were not
out to do their best. Some went wide
at the turn, while others were eased up
soon after getting into the straight. I
do not profess to be able to teach trainers
their business, but it would be difficult
to convince me that such tactics are com-
mendable with youngsters having their
first run in what was tantamount to a
race. Two-year-olds learn bad habits
quickly enough without encouragement,
and it is not improbable that after the
trials some trainers knew little more than
that their charges could go fast for three
furlongs. Some will be boomed to a
greater extent than if they had been
ridden right out, and they have to go
five furlongs at Randwick. Besides
which, every race there is worth winning
for the prize-money alone, without doing
any dodging in order to get a price.
* * * *
A decidedly unusual petition was
presented at the Birmingham (Eng.)
County Court last month. It was on be-
half of the King’s Heath Racecourse,
Ltd., owners of the King’s Heath grey-
hound racecourse, and it was asked that
its capital should be reduced from
£4400 to £4OO. In granting the appli-
cation the Judge said “It was a very
satisfactory thing in these days that a
company should actually have too much
for its wants.” Dividends of 100 p.c.
were paid on the 8800 shares of a shilling
each in the last two years. The solicitor
for the club said the club could be fun
without capital. Not surprising, in view
of its dividends.
* * * *
Only for the dropping of the St.
Leger, Blue Peter might have run his
English winnings into over £40,000 this
year. The four races he had won up to
August 19 carried a total of £31,964,
and materially assisted in giving his sire
nearly £sl*ooo this season up to the
date mentioned.
Steve Donoghue would be among
those specially disappointed by the aban-
donment of this year’s English St. Leger,
in which followers of racing were eagerly
looking forward to the meeting of the
French crack, Pharis 11., and Blue Peter.
Pharis 11. was to have gone into
Donoghue’s stables a few weeks prior to
the Doncaster meeting. Donoghue trains
some horses in England for M. Boussac,
owner of Pharis 11., and though it is


POOJ* VirHlff
F£n^,fJ»i2r£
ML If t
IT
MOTOR OIL
f/Mf PREVENT ITL
W'
Thousands of times a minute, with
each opening and closing of the valves,
with each stroke of the pistons, petrol
Is robbed of some power.
You are paying for petrol that sneaks by unused—You'll get
the most mileage from your petrol—more power and speed—
and less maintenance—with VEEDOL. Millions of motorists the
world over have found that VEEDOL is truly the "Extra Mileage
Motor Oil.”
Fill up to-day with VEEDOL and give your car a chance to get
your money’s worth out of whatever petrol you use.
Demand VEEDOLr-It costs no more
V 391
NEPTUNE Ol
[ INCORPORAT
L COMPANY PTY. LTD.
ED IN N.S.W.] ALL STATES.
improbable he would have taken over
the colt from his French trainer he
would have been associated with him in
the event of success.
The St. Leger was run at Doncaster
in the first year of the last war, but, with
the name changed to the September
Stakes, it was decided at Newmarket the
four following years. Donoghue has
pleasant memories of the race at New-
market, as he won on Pommern and
Gay Crusader. War-time Derbies also
saw Donoghue well to the fore, as he
won on Pommern and Gay Crusader,
while J. Childs was successful on Fifi-
nella and Gainsborough during the same
period.
The abandonment of the St. Leger also
caused an alteration of Lord Rosebery’s
plans for Blue Peter. He intended he
should run in next year’s Ascot Gold
Cup, but now he will start at the stud
during the coming season. As the war
must cause a slump in the breeding of
thoroughbreds in England, Blue Peter’s
fee is likely to be lower than in ordinary
circumstances.
M.Q. and Rafferty
By all report New Yorker Bob Pastor
hasn’t a punch comparable to a hoof
from a Clydesdale, nor even a Shetland ;
yet in his effort to wrest the world heavy-
weight title from Louis he had the negro
groggy in the eighth, and with an ounce
of luck would have outed him. Louis
retained the title with a k.o. in the 11th,
but came out of the engagement severely
cut about.
* * * *
Billy Fundess —a dusky lad who has
done a good bit of his scrapping up
around Les Darcy’s native heath —won a
points decision over Maxie Richards at
Sydney. Fundess has a very handy left.
He’s tall and rangy, and if he keeps on at
his present rate will be a lightweight to
reckon with a year hence.
The scrap was a 12-round curtain-
raiser to the main event, a good, hard
scrap between Henry Moreno (8.13)
and A 1 Brown (8.11). Brown is a
comedic little cullud gent., and, though
Moreno won well enough on points, A 1
appealed strongly to the crowd. He was
doing something all the time, contrasting
favorably with Moreno’s monotonously
unvaried style.
* * * *
From the word get into it, Hockey
Bennell (10.3) overshadowed Taney Lee
(10.6) at the stadium Pat McHugh has
established in the Roxy Theatre, North
Sydney. Taney tried hard enough, but
he was utterly, though not very disas-
trously, outclassed. Hockey was so
superior that he was satisfied to give the
inhabitants of his native heath a nice
exhibition of boxing. Here and there he
jolted Taney with vimful short rights,, but
mostly he boxed him with his left, hooked
or sent straight into Taney’s evidently
tough visage.
Nineteenth Hole
(By JIM FERRIER.)
Since the Australian Golf Union an-
nounced the possibility of allowing the
national championships, which are at
present confined to courses in N.S.W.,
Victoria and South Australia, to be
played in the other States, the proposal
has been widely discussed.
This year Westralia sent amateur and
professional teams to Melbourne in
order to keep its players and cause in
front of the authorities. Queensland has
often sent teams down, and has per-
sistently pushed its claims for a national
meeting. It would certainly be desirable
to hold the championships in all States
in turn, but the question of keeping the
meetings truly representative must be
considered.
Long-distance trips are expensive, and
a meeting in Perth would find many
players in the Eastern States forced to
miss out. Professionals would have to
rely upon their tournament winnings, as
prize-money is very small and barely
covers travelling and incidental expenses.
A meeting in Brisbane would not offer
so much difficulty, as most of Australia’s
leading golfers hail from N.S.W. and
Victoria. Brisbane possesses in Royal
Queensland a course unsurpassed in
Australia, and Queenslanders are pinning
their hopes to Royal Queensland to bring
them a national meeting. In the past
poor greens were against them, but
experiments with South African couch-
grass seem to have succeeded in
overcoming this weakness.
In regard to Tasmania extra travelling
would not be such a big item; Tassie’s
problem is to improve its courses till
they are more testing and up to cham-
pionship standards.
Following Royal and Ancient practice,
the union has restricted the number of
championship courses to two in each
State. Although there are courses as
good as those selected, the union refrains
from adding to the present list.
Golf is by no means a paying busi-
ness from the professional point of view.
This fact stops the controlling body from
doing some of the things that overseas
authorities are able to. This season,
however, shows that the State controlling
bodies are becoming more active; they
have stated their intention of sending
amateur teams to the national cham-
pionship meeting each year. If this policy
is continued, and good support in the
way of gate-money is received, the time
will come when the leading players will
be sent by their States instead of at their
own expense, and meetings held in all
States will then be fully representative.
This year £6OO was collected during the
championship meeting at Royal Mel-
bourne. If this rate continues it should
be possible to increase the prize-money
and provide funds to send teams to the
meeting.
There is only one way to raise the
standard of play, and that is to give
golfers the opportunity of playing away
from their home courses as much as pos-
sible. This can be done by giving the
open championship meeting to all States
in turn, and by assisting players to make
the trips as members of their State teams,
bigger prizes being given to attract the
professionals.
Footbrawl
It’s to be a Melbourne-Collingwood
final to the V.F.L. season next Saturday,
’Wood’s old-established “system” having
overwhelmed St. Kilda. That, briefly, is
the story of their “preliminary final” at
Melbourne Cricket Ground—’Wood
called the tune and nullified the pace and
dash that had carried the St. Kilda lads
through against Richmond, playing close
to their men and keeping it a dour down-
the-centre game.
’Wood made many changes. Three
new men came in, and positions were
altered considerably to tighten the team’s
work. Todd, of course, was a persistent
attacking force at centre-full-forward,
and the Brownlow medal winner, Whalen,
was a tower of strength to Collingwood
in the centre position. There was a
welter of scoring. ’Wood’s forwards had
34 scoring shots, and 20 of them raised
both flags. St. Kilda trailed along
doggedly, but it could manage only
15.15 against that 20.14 (105 points to
’Wood’s 134), and on the day that
was a fair measure of Collingwood’s
superiority.
So St. Kilda will have to wait once
again before it can force its way into a
League final. Collingwood’s experience
and tactics have carried it through many
times before, and its supporters are con-
fident that the “system” will be strong
enough to reverse the semi-final result
against Melbourne—’Wood was beaten
then 15.14 to 12.18, but the team played
raggedly.
* * * *
It was a toss-up who heaved the biggest
sigh of relief at the conclusion of the final
of the N.S.W. Rugby League State cham-
pionship—players or spectators. Public
interest in the code died for the season
with the winning of the grade premier-
ship, and this new baby of the League
hasn’t earned the shekels hoped for. In-
fanticide is more than a possibility. Presi-
dent Harry Flegg has already fulminated
against it. Canterbury-Bankstown carried
off the bauble by beating South Sydney
25-12.
Miscellaneous
“T.”: Westralians can fairly complain
that precious little Federal spirit is shown
in the control of at least two of the pas-
times in which their representatives are
pre-eminent. J. B. Sheedy, secretary of
the Australian Swimming Union, is a
Perth man. This always riles Sydney
brasshats and sporting writers, and last
week Taylor, the A.S.U. president,
erupted to the effect that “control of
swimming in Australia should be in big
cities, not villages!” There’s nationalism
for you! In the same city about
the same time the Victorian objection to
Marshall, the Perth lad who is Austra-
lian and Empire champion at billiards,
on the ground that he is not really an
amateur, was raised again. Marshall
learned to play in his father’s billiard
saloon, and the presumption is that his
dad did not charge him for playing:
ergo, he must be a pro. If he had been
the son of a profiteer with six tables he
would be a lilywhite. The snobbish pro-
test was dismissed by the A.A.8.C., and
Marshall, though pressed by one
opponent —Sakzewski, the Queenslander
—went on to another victory. He has
an unbeaten record in championships;
Empire (two), Australian (four) and
Westralian (four).
He * * *
“Sturt”: Prince Alfred and St. Peter’s,
the two oldest G.P.S. in Adelaide, have
an unusually complete winter set of old-
boys’ matches. This year “Saints” won
golf, Rugby, hockey, lacrosse and bridge ;
“Princes,” Australian-rules football and
baseball.


CU-MXUjA
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daily -2 IS-&
n
iriw€»i.i
■OV '3; Crt!
SYDNEY
7V/'c« £<?//(/ 230-Q
Commencing Monday, October 2.
THE WOKLD-FAMOUS MILLS BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
Last Days
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Minister of Mirth,
And His All Star Company.
ŵ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage. Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
Laughton in “The Beachcomber”
The Universal people had Sydney
scribes and scribeens along to their Kent-
street theatrette to behold Charles Laugh-
ton as a ballay beachcomber chappie in
a jollay old boatah —armed with a
shanghai and abetted by a hirsute rascal
of a tyke—trying to live down, per beer,
gin, Nelson’s Blood and a dusky cloud of
amoral island beauties, the well-nigh in-
supportable memory that his pater is a
parson.
The story is one of Somerset
Maugham’s ; the film version—classed by
the U.S. Board of Review as one of the
ten best pictures of the year —a rich and
palatable blend of South Sea romance,
farce, melodrama and the rollicking low-
character comedy in which Laughton is
a master. His beachcomber is cast up
with a remittance of £8 a month on an
Eastern Archipelago outpost of the Dutch
Empire, somewhere about nor’-west o’
Darwin. He’s not the usual rag-and-bones
degenerate, but a well-nourished member
of the species, an accomplished booze-
artist.
Most of the laughs—and it carries a
good quota —reside in the Maughamian
remarks juicily gargled out by Laughton,
whose attributes include a singular talent
for making a virtue out of repulsiveness.
His beachcomber is beefy, dirty, un-
kempt, deplorably immoral, and likeable.
The main thread of it concerns the
beachcomber and the ultra-prim and
proper medico-missionary sister of the
island medico-missionary; propinquity
and natural urges operating to bring the
blatantly proper young woman far
enough down off her spinster perch to
be on a level with the beachcomber with-
out his having to accomplish any great
change of character, except to turn up
the suds.
An interlocking theme helps the film
enormously. This has to do with the
friendship that has grown up between
the beachcomber and the Dutch Gover-
nor, the Gov. such a sterling piece of
characterisation by Robert Newton, a
moderately young English actor, that it
threatens even Laughton’s claim to be
the leading figure. The medico-mission-
ary (male) is another good character item,
in the burlesque vein.
Elsa Lanchester (Mrs. Laughton) is
feminine lead —a very difficult part ad-
mirably played.
* * * ; i=
“Gone to the Dogs”
Cinesound’s latest, with broad acres
of damfoolery, a wisp of a plot and
occasional imitations of Hollywooden
ingredients, is provoking Sydney Capitol
patrons to high degrees of mirth.
It’s nearly all George Wallace—-zoo-
keeper George stoushing seven feet of
gorilla ; dispenser George mixing monkey
medicine in the clinic and discovering
a dope to propel greyhounds at twice
their normal m.p.h.; detective George
investigating a haunted house to recover
a stolen hound; aviator George flying
back to the course in time to start the
hound under its rightful colors.
John Dobbie looms up on the horizon
occasionally, and then everything, in-
cluding even George, is blotted from the
landscape. A rare one, John, with a
good bent for buffoonery and the weight
to make his presence felt.
As entertaining a comedy as George
and Cinesound have made.
* * * *
“Lucky Night”
Lively and diverting entertainment as a
whole, with smart dialogue in the Ameri-
can wisecracking manner; a feasible,
natural story; topnotch casting of the
small-part players ; a good leaven of sen-
timent offsetting the smart sophistication ;
and beautiful team work by Robert
Taylor and Myrna Loy, sums up this
St. James comedy.
Myrna makes as good a team with
Robert as she did with Powell. The
present Robert is well advanced in his
transition from a mere pretty boy to a
somewhat tougher, more virile repre-
sentative of the male species. He’s get-
ting fat, but otherwise is improved.
Miss Loy, daughter of a steel magnate,
goes out into the world to find her own
feet, and, hunting for a job, mates up
with Taylor. They have a hectic night's
gambling and knocking off noggins—
started with a pinched coin—and wake
up married, but with no recollection of
the event. Then Robert gets a job, and
conflict arises over his wanting to carry
on enjoying life, and her wanting to
domesticate him in a safe and cosy nest.
The hectic night is a particularly
bright stretch.
* * * *
Boyer and Irene Dunne
“When To-morrow Comes,” seen at
the State, might be described as a picture
that has class without much perform-
ance, like a thoroughbred horse that isn’t
much of a galloper.
In settings and other details of making
it’s all very attractive; the acting’s
polished and the photography excellent.
A storm, with thunder, lightning and
torrential rain, in which quite a stretch
of the action takes place—the liveliest of
it out on the roads at night in a car —is
strikingly portrayed.
But as a whole the film seemed far
too long for the story it has to tell and
the minor emotions involved, which are
those of Prince Charming (Charles Boyer;
great pianist) and the impecunious maid
(Irene Dunne; waitress). The story is the
development of the love affair over a
few days, so gradually presented as to
seem to spread over years. There are
good romantic passages—out sailing on
stormy water, in the pianist’s beautifully-
appointed house, and in an organ loft of
a flooded church.
Boyer is extra-well cast in the sym-
pathetic part of the French virtuoso;
Miss Dunne not nearly so well. She
seems much better suited to modern
sophistication, with a vein of comedy.
5|C * * *
“Second Fiddle”
This current Sydney Regent offering
would have been lifted above f.a.q.
rating if it had contained more of
Sonja Henie’s skating. She does very
little of it, and nothing else that couldn’t
be managed by any of the ten-thousand-
and-one pretty faces that pass for
actresses in Hollywood. She’s a small-
town schoolmarm who lands a much-
coveted role in a cahlahssal Hollywood
opus. Her publicity-manager fakes a
romance for her and causes much pother
until he eventually discovers that he feels
that way himself. Tyrone Power main-
tains his customary woodenness. Edna
May Oliver and Alan Dinehart evoke
a fair quota of guffaw.
* * * *
“Home From Home”
Sandy Powell —a tubby little cove with
a high-pitched voice and amazing com-
placency —inhabits this English offering
at Sydney Lyceum in much the same
fashion as George Formby takes control
of his films. Sandy’s main concern is
to remain in gaol, which represents to
him the ideal existence —no worries, no
wife and everything on the house. A
fair stretch of laughter with a couple
of good old music-hall items thrown in.
* * * *
“Five Came Back”
A ’plane crashing in South American
jungle and marooning its passengers is
the backbone of this entertaining item
at Sydney Embassy.
The nature of the surrounding terrain
permits only half the human cargo to
be taken off, leaving the rest to the
designs of approaching headhunters.
Varied character development and dis-
integration are interestingly portrayed
by Joseph Calleia, Aubrey C. Smith,
Chester Morris and John Carradine.
Melbourne Show .
The theme of this melodrama, which
packed the Melbourne Showground on
Saturday afternoon and on other occa-
sions hereinbefore and thereafter, is an
old one. It is Man’s immemorial
struggle for perfection.
The villain of the piece is
Nature, and the hero is the
human species’ unconquer-
able urge to master its environ-
ment. The results are the giant
mangelwurzel, the majestic
Clydesdale, the heifer ’hat gives
over 300 pounds of butterfat to
the acre and the Jersey which
flows more continuously than
the Murrumbidgee.
This year, thanks to producer
Louis Monod, they all put up an
outstanding performance.
Stage and Concerts.
John Brownlee sang at an
A.B.C. broadcast concert at
Melbourne Town Tall, the pro-
gramme beginning with the
Tschaikowsky “Pathetic” Sym-
phony and ending with “Wotan’s
Farewell” and the “Magic Fire”
music from Wagner’s “Wal-
kiire.” The Geelong baritone did
not seem completely at his ease
in this, his voice in the solemn
declamatory passages sounding
as if it were coming through a
veil of velvet. Possibly the veil
was supplied by the orchestra,
which did not seem as much at
home in company with the
singer as it was in the Tschai-
kowsky. In the encore, “O Star
of Eve,” from “Tannhauser,”
the singer’s voice was more in
evidence, and he got an enthu-
siastic ovation.
Brownlee cancelled his mid-week Syd-
ney concert (the second of his pro-
gramme) and sang his farewell to an un-
crowded Town Hall on Saturday night.
Again his excerpts from opera —“Deh
Vieni,” from “Don Giovanni,” and
“Vision Fugitive,” from Massanet’s
“Herodiade” —were the most notable
items in a recital which included a Handel
number, a group of songs by Rachmani-
noff and lyrics by Italian and English
masters.
Associated with the baritone was
soprano Marie Ryan, a winner at the
recent Sydney Eisteddfod. She has a
good natural voice, but won’t enjoy it
long unless she learns to manage her top
notes more easily.
Ivor Newton played Chopin delight-
fully.
* # * v
Beresford Fowler staged “Oliver Twist”
at the Nicholas Buildings, Melbourne.
Nancy Fryberg made the show as Mrs.
Corney. Reversing the Shakspearean
tradition, Oliver was done by a girl,
Marjorie Troussillot, who gave the
character a fair degree of verisimilitude.
Bill Sikes was in the hands of Mr.
Fowler, who was accompanied by a bull-
dog which looked as if butter wouldn’t
melt in its mouth.
* * * *
Sydney Royal’s “Switzerland” con-
tinues with some of the most interesting
exhibits ever seen in a refrigerator—the
pretty “skaterinas” (why not call them
“skis”?) darting about like wildfire, the
graceful MacKinnon sisters, the still
more graceful Elsie Heathcote, and Phil
Taylor sometimes looking like Dick
Turpin and sometimes like a giraffe.
Eddie Marcel keeps things bright all
the time, even if he does bring a blush to
the ice occasionally
* * * *
American actor lan Keith makes his
Sydney debut at the Minerva to-morrow
(Thursday) night in a mystery comedy
entitled “I Killed the Count.” It’s billed
for a fortnight’s run; then “Libel” for
a week; and after that “Dinner at
Eight” and “Elizabeth the Queen” for a
fortnight each.
* * * *
Sydney Con.’s monthly orchestral
concert was conducted by Dr. Bainton.
Most important item was the Second
Symphony of Sibelius, salient features of
which were very fairly expressed. In the
D Major Violin Concerto of Brahms
soloist was H. J. McClean, recently re-
turned from study in London. He com-
mands a good tone and plays with in-
telligence.
* * * *
Joseph Post, who looks extraordinarily
like Professor Heinze in miniature,
directed the A.B.C. orchestra through the
Geo. Wallace, descending with grey-
hound (?), and John Dobbie (Ist. 2801b.),
in “Gone to the Dogs,” at Sydney
Capitol.
last of the free midday concerts at the
Melb. Town Hall. He made a pleasant
item of Delius’s “On Hearing the First
Cuckoo, etc.” There was a sweeping in-
tensity about the “Carnival in Paris” of
the Norwegian composer Svendsen, and
the three Spanish dances of Granados
were lively and gamesome.
Granados was drowned returning
from America in 1916 when the Sussex
was torpedoed by a German submarine.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory’s latest success is
Keith Winter’s “Shining Hour.”
It is all very modern, without being
exactly cynical. David and Judy are
happily married, when his brother brings
in a bride, Mariella, and she and David
instantly discover that they are made for
each other only. Nobody blames them ;
it just happened so. Judy says to her
rival: “You have a logical mind ; see that
it always remains so”; and exit to
commit suicide. Then David goes all to
pieces, but Mariella remembers her
logic, and recalls him to sanity. Judy’s
sacrifice must not be wqsted. People
don’t elope, these times; they will just
“go away together.” Curtain.
Jeane Tier, a newcomer, held the house
gripped as the all-too-logical heroine;
Vivienne Oldfield, Donald Noblet and
Beryl Kook also good.
Artbursts.
The “Contemporary Art” show has
finished its opening month in Adelaide,
and moves eastward. It has steadily
brought in the crowds, and lecturers
have striven to reconcile them to the
oddities from France. The English
section is far more sane. Tonks and
Wilson Steer even dare to depict beauty.
Lamb (who was born in Adelaide long
ago) has a portrait-group in the modern
style, clumsy figures, yet sound.
* * * *
Sydney’s Windsor Group opened its
first show at the Federation Building.
Most notable member is Laurie Elborne,
whose pictures of Sydney’s back streets,
painted with studied sincerity and sim-
plicity, catch the atmosphere exactly.
Maud Cannon, who ranges from nudes
to landscape, cleverly achieves a difficult
effect in “Night, Woolloomooloo.”
Marjorie Glynn shows portraits painted
with sledge-hammer vigor. Jim Davis gets
charm and feeling into the most un-
promising subjects. His “Wet Bridge”
and “Dusk; Rose Bay,” especially appeal.
Roderick Shaw, an exponent mostly of
the blobs-and-smudges style, deserts it
in “The Gap, Avoca,” and produces a
striking study of water in turmoil.


ẁ
BRANDAIIERrS
m
m
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER h CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney is glad to welcome Lady Wake-
hurst and daughter the Hon. Henrietta
Loder back to its sunshine and its, so
far, gas-maskless smiles. The vice-regal
lady returned last Saturday.
The emerald of Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s
velvet coat seemed to burn deeper in the
last-minute excitements before the cur-
tains rolled back on the opening number
of last Saturday night’s entertainment for
the French Alliance and the Polish Relief
fund. Mr. and Mrs. Kelly had really
carried the affair from beginning to end,
The Conservatorium was more than com-
fortably filled. Bertie himself played in
the orchestra, which performed works by
Rameau, Debussy and Saint-Saens, all as
French as the tricolor which decorated
the cover of the programmes. The Racine
declamation was given by Mrs. Alice
Brenac with dramatic fire, and Comtesse
Jean d’Espinay did a group of poems by
Rostand and Geraldy. Both wore black
satin for their acts.
France’s Consul-General Jean Tremou-
let was there. Poland’s Consul-General
made a speech that was much applauded.
Mrs. de Noskowski, too, was in the audi-
ence. Mrs. Carleton Kelly, in a spreading
pink frock and a deep-blue feather cape,
sold programmes ; so did Mrs. M. Doucet.
Ushering was done by Ginette Scamps,
Shirley Poynter, Betty Wharton, Gloria
Cosgrave. The Henri Segaerts (he is Bel-
gium’s Consul-General in Siam, now on
holiday in Sydney) were busy in the in-
terval linking up with old friends. Mr.
Segaert was to have been in the play
which had to be cut out because of many
of the players being called to the colors.
Many French fashionables were there.
The Isaacs lady, who is quite at home in
the French tongue, and the Francis
Anderson couple likewise, registered
every word of the recitations. Morna
Mackenzie and Captain K. O’B. Harding
popped in from Government House. A
pretty girl was Coral Birrell.
When the drums of war have died into
the silence of oblivion, John Brownlee’s
singing last Saturday will still echo in
the hearts of those who heard him in
“Vision Fugitive,” the Mozart group and
the Handel number. These concerts are
still another debt which musical Sydney
owes to J. and N. Tait. Lady Gowrie
came to the concert, and set amid the
group of ladies from Admiralty House
was Dr. Malcolm Sargent, whose running
commentary in the interval seemed to
keep all entertained. E. J. Tait was there
with Mrs. E. J., and at the end of the
concert convoyed Mrs. Brownlee, who
had sat through the concert beside the
wife of A.B.C. plenipotentiary Moses.
Broadcasting High Command was
present in the person of W. J. Cleary and
Mrs. Cleary. Mrs. Feakes was there with
her Admiral. Marie Ryan, a symphony
in blue, sang like an angel, perhaps a
slightly nervous angel. Her mother and
two equally-pretty sisters were there to
applaud. Mrs. Heath Green, the Robert
Dixsons, Mrs. John Fuller, of the cameo-
like profile, Violet Roche, soon to leave
for a visit to Maoriland, Thelma Houston
and sister Evelyn were enthusiasts. So
were Mrs. F. J. Davy, the Harald Bow-
dens and Mrs. Walter Burfitt.
With a handful of aces in the way of
guests of honor the Musical Associa-
tion’s party could not fail to be a
success. Dr. Malcolm Sargent, slim and
glossy, singer John Brownlee with his
handsome wife, Ivor Newton, of whom
Malcolm said “If there is anything to
know about a prima donna, and he
doesn’t know it, then it is something not
fit to be known.” Local honored were
Dr. Bainton, president of 1939 Music
Week, and Mrs. Ferrari Passmore, its
organiser. She had been to the Corso
at Manly to cheer on the opening roll
of drums there, and therefore made late
entry to the reception.
The speeches were many, and all
sprinkled with humor of the everyday
variety, and quite easy to follow. John
Brownlee apologised for not wearing a
boiled shirt, because his was at the laun-
dry, adding that he had rung up Dr.
Sargent for the loan of one, and Mal-
colm replied that he couldn’t oblige, as
he was already dressed. The musical
programme was dealt with effectively by
Eisteddfod champions. Of these Marie
Ryan, who sang with John Brownlee (at
his request) on Saturday night, was a
charmful little figure in spreading rose
du Barry taffetas.
Wide silver bracelets gleamed as Mrs.
Brownlee passed, trailing a length of
rose-red chiffon handkerchief against the
Florentine blue of her frock. The wife of
new president Lindley Evans added bur-
gundy tones to the official group. Valerie
Purves was there in black. Secretary
Edna Andrews rustled in black taffeta
and net. Mrs. McCartney’s ermine cape
swung back to show sapphire-blue laces.
Miss Tennyson Miller was there.
Another of the much-greeted was Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, back from a four
years’ stay in England, where she gave
nine illustrated lectures on Australia.
She also talked Australia in Rhode
Island, where she stayed with American
relations. Ivory and gold was Mrs.
Harry Twigden’s ground-length coat.
Noted the Robert Dixsons and the wife
of Crown Solcitor J. E. Clark.
Nancy Luciano, the serene-looking girl
in this Norton Trevaire photograph, will
give a recital in the Conservatorium on
Thursday of next week. Nancy’s voice
has been barbered and permed into rich
graciousness by Francis Halls. From his
studio, it will be remembered, a student
went direct to appearances at Covent
Garden. Nancy’s programme is com-
prehensive. She will sing opera, lieder
and old Italian, Russian and English airs.
The Convent of Our Lady of the Sacred
Heart, Kensington, will benefit.
Greater numbers than usual (or so it
seemed) thronged the Education Depart-
ment’s galleries for the opening of the
Arts and Crafts show last week. During
Lady Gowrie’s speech the long inner
room was packed to breathlessness. Re-
marks were mostly to the effect that art
must go forward in spite of the battering
ram of war. Lady Gowrie’s crepes were
burgundy in tone, and harmonised with
the blue of the accompanying Mrs.
Bracegirdle’s ensemble. Florence Sulman,
B. J. Waterhouse and Librarian Ifould
were other importants grouped on the
dais against a background of stage sets
by Guenda Bainton and Harold Abbott.
Of Harold’s, the model for “Hassan” and
that for “any Shakspearean play” have
a dignified simplicity that appeals.
Guenda’s “Don Giovanni” set had all
the charm of its period.
Impossible to pass unheeding the metal
work, 50 pieces of it, of Elisabeth Soder-
berg. These came as a gift from Den-
mark from Elisabeth’s widower, who re-
membered the friends he and his wife
made in Sydney. In the dining-room de-
signed by Mrs. Leo Marks the grey-blue
walls were the same as used in one of
the sets in the film “Seven Little Aus-
tralians.” 0.8. Pictures, which produced
the film, lent these walls to the Society
of Arts and Crafts. Mrs. Marks designed
no fewer than nine sets for the Ethel
Turner classic. Nance Mackenzie’s ivory
satin curtains with their blocked design
in blue went well with the black plates
with their white fern design.
Among the gay glazes—the blues, the
yellows, the greens —walked Norman
Nock’s lady. Husband’s sister Olive has
an exhibit of fans, delicately carved
things of Putt’s pine, walnut and maple.
The white satin one on which the blue
wrens circle is now the property of the
Governor-General’s lady—presented by
the society. Mrs. Ashley Cooper’s pillow
lace and lace fan. Rosalie Wilson’s pink
linen hanky with its native-rose design,
Vi Eyre’s swooping green gulls, and Mil-
dred Creed’s silver were among the things
of beauty that caught the gaze of Mrs.
J. C. Windeyer—her suit as blue as a
summer afternoon’s sky. Mrs. C. T.
Lorenz (whose hat was of the new toast
shade, its straw rather like torchon lace.
Pretty Mrs. Mollie Grey is now in
Bathurst Hospital suffering from concus-
sion, the result of a riding accident.
Mollie is a fine horsewoman, but her
mount dashed into a tree. However, the
worst is now over, much to the relief of
the patient’s many friends.
Like a corner of the market-place in
Ispahan or Teheran is Anthony Horderns’
Fine Art Gallery. Here is a profusion
of Persian rugs in madder reds, deep,
deep blues, creams and golds. Fascinat-
ing is the Tekke Bokara, commonly
known as the Hatchley Bokara. Its de-
sign shows a praying niche and a candle-
stick pattern. There are Ladik prayer
rugs, Shiraz (blue, rose and gold in these),
Kasac and Hamadan rugs. The Kelims
would make colorful panels. But you
don’t have to go to Persia to get a Per-
sian rug (though this exhibition is an
imported one). At one end of the gal-
lery a mother and her pretty young
daughter are weaving the rich patterns
on a tall hand loom.
When Alice Nall married her Alfred
Morgan last week she married into one
of Sydney’s oldest law firms. Her ’groom
and his brother, incidentally, are in
war-service units. The wedding in
St. Philip’s on Church Hill was an after-
noon one. The bride, who was ’maided
by sister Patricia (both are among Syd-
ney’s smart girls), wore a wide-brimmed
white felt hat with her frock of white
jersey. ’Groom’s mother, Mrs. Harold
Morgan, was unable, through ill health,
to be present. The reception, a small
family one, was in the home of bride’s
mother, Mrs. H. G. Nall, of Mosman.
A time for everything was the idea
behind the explicit programme arranged
for the A.I.F. Ball. From eight o’clock,
when members of the committees were
timed to assemble in the outer foyer, till
the shutters went up at 1.30 a.m. with
“Auld Lang Syne,” followed by “God
Save,” everything was run with military
precision. With intervals of five minutes
between, the groups of official guests
arrived, and from 8.25 to 9.30 there was
a constant coming and going of impdr-
tants between the vestibule and the official
enclosure. The Walder lady was the
president.
There were trumpeters and pipers, and
you should have heard “Rule, Britannia,”
echoing through the Trocadero. This
was after the president, in her rose-white
frock, took her place of honor, and just
before Mrs. C. A. Burnet (matron of
honor for the eleventh year) brought for-
ward her little covey of debs. They were
18 in number, and had gallant escort of
Army, Navy and Air Force officers.
The decorations were very stirring.
Flags and waratahs, waratahs and flags
met the gaze at every turn. There were
also pictures of the King and Queen in
the foyer, and a portrait of the King was
mounted on a Union Jack whose 75ft. of
glowing color hung at one end of the
ballroom. Another beautiful and large
flag was the one made and embroidered
years ago by Mrs. Crawford Robertson.
This is backed by heavy red satin, and
its red, white and blue panels are thickly
embroidered with the names of the gal-
lant and the great. The laurel wreath in
the middle has about it the names of the
first wounded home from Gallipoli.
L. A. Robb, who was chairman of
ball committees, brought Mrs. Robb
to the party. Mayor and Mayoress Nock
were in the president’s party, which was
starry with major-generals, brigadier-
generals, brigadiers, colonels, group-
captains and other commanders of the
fighting forces. Billy Hughes and his
Dame Mary were among the many
hundreds.
Farmer’s annual children’s competition
tarts and hobbies) drew 1800 exhibits to
the Blaxland Galleries. In the model
section, beneath a squadron of aero-
planes, a battleship lay at anchor,
bounded by a fairy pond and a bungalow
of wooden matches. Hand-made pottery,
bookbinding, meccano, sewing, maps,
stamp and coin collections were also
represented. In sympathy and admira-
tion for the patients’ fortitude remaining
space goes to the Children’s Hospital
exhibit. The flower sprays (shells) of
Keith Redding (eight), Frank Martin
(15), George O’Brien and John Cooper
(13) made appeal, while Barry Wither-
ington’s (six) woollen owl stooped
graciously, and winked his wise old eye
at the passer-by.
By its elegance and in some cases its
almost sinister beauty the orchid allures.
About it is woven no tender sentiment
such as the poet’s dower to the rose and
the violet. It is like some supreme artist.
The orchid in amazing loveliness decked
the Blaxland Galleries last week. Here
were thick, creamy sprays of Dendrobium
thyrsiflorum, the more exotic Dendrobium
undulatum with its speckled, serrated and
curled petals. Pure white open orchids
turned more simple faces to the world,
and near by rose a spray of delicate
mauve, as faint as wistaria. On the white
lip and petals of the Vanda luzonica
Nature has sprinkled purple markings.
T. W. Nelson, who shared a display with
Judge Markell, demonstrated by measure-
ments that some of the prize blooms were
six and eight inches across. He could
also explain the exact difference between
the Cypripedium, or “lady’s slipper’
orchid, and the Cymbidiums.
This is the photograph which pretty
Wenonah Tregurtha sent a week or two
ago from the West to her intended
parents-in-law, Major-General and Mrs.
Hardie. From John Hallam studio.
Even Archbishop Mowll was seen at
Charles Benson’s song recital in the Aus-
tralia last week. Audience was largely
woman, and an expert ready-reckoner
estimated that there were over 600 of
her. This afternoon recital was timed
for 3.15, and by a quarter to five the
audience was rushing back into the world
of reality and war, its soul refreshed
by the interval with the poetry of Omar
linked in sweetness with Liza Lehmann’s
music, “The Dream” from “Manon,” and
an old Scottish air, “Think On Me,”
words by Lady Jane Scott. The manu-
script music of this was picked up by
the tenor on a stall in London’s Edge-
ware-road. In support, richly flowed the
’cello of Nelson Cooke, and as hand in
glove violinist Norah Williamson and
pianist Mildred Hill kept company.
Hector Tinkler’s accompanying, too, was
a bright border to the pattern of the
afternoon. Walter Swinson, whose
wife organised the recital, was a
listener. The Alexander Gordon lady
enjoyed the afternoon, and later spoke
of daughter Anne, still in England,
and doing her bit in the evacuation
manoeuvres by running a cottage and
cooking for nine of the executive. Anne
hadn’t cooked at all before she left Syd-
ney, but confidence and a good cookery
book are unbeatable. Mrs. Crawford
Robertson, in between items, was calcu-
lating sugar and fruit. She is one of the
active in the Empire Society’s movement
to send food to Britain.
Harry Dangar, who was a soldier all
through the last war, but who now passes
his days between the pastures and the
palette, is to have a show of his water-
colors in the Grosvenor Galleries during
race week. Most of the Dangar clan
and their friends on the land will then
be in town, so it’s the best time of the
year for this artist. The Hunter valley,
where Mrs. Harry’s people live, Armidale
and New England, where Gostwyck, his
cousins’ home, stands, and all around
Coolah have yielded scenes for the
painter’s poetic sensibilities. Incidentally
relation Mrs. Norman Dangar got back
a week or two ago from her jaunt to
Europe, but the Rodney Dangars, so Mrs.
Rodney’s sister Bea McDonald told last
week, had not left England yet.


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than S pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orderd. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE of WILLIAM ALLSE-
BROOK, late of Hobart in Tasmania,
painter and paperhanger, deceased.
WILL BINGHAM CHARLES ALLSEBROOK,
a son of the abovenamed deceased, who was
last heard of in Queensland about 16 or 18
years ago, please communicate with THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE OF TASMANIA,
Hobart?
'Legal Notice.
TO JOHN COLENSO NAYLOR, formerly of
Adelaide, in the State of South Aus-
tralia, Solicitor.
TAKE NOTICE that the Law Society of
South Australia Incorporated will move the
Supreme Court of South Australia on Tues-
day, the 24th day of October, 1939, or so soon
thereafter as counsel can be heard, for an order
that your name be removed from the Roll of
Practitioners of the said Court and that you
shall pay the costs of all proceedings. The
motion will be based on a report of the
Statutory Committee of the said Society con-
cerning certain of your transactions relating to
the property of one Nellie Evelyn Hall.
J. H. PORTUS,
Exchange Building, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Secretary of the Law Society of South
Australia, Incorporated.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1017 of 1939.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH HOLMES EATOCK,
Petitioner
And NOEL CHARLTON EATOCK Re-
spondent.
TO NOEL CHARLTON EATOCK late of
21 Stephen Street Balmain in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
HOLMES EATOCK has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Eighteenth day
of December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of you not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed frep of charge.
Dated this 25th day of September, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
' Registrar.
N. C. ROWLES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
King-pins of last week and of this
are the country people who go to the
Show and talk in the jargon of horses,
cattle, sheep, good soil that grows a good
crop and the thousand-odd pests that
are waiting to attack it. Then there are
those who recognise prime bacon when
they hear it grunt, the dog fanciers, the
poultry experts and the owners of trades-
men’s carts all fussed up with ribbons
for the horses’ manes and fresh paint for
the vehicles. Manufacturers’ exhibits
make a prosperous picture. Though
the primary producer is still tops at an
agricultural show the industrialists have
a big share in the importance of the
event. They also rejoiced in the brilliant
weather of last week and the satisfactory
attendances.
Additions to the ground this year in-
clude a new concrete pavilion near the
result board. It is thus in an excellent
position for dodging afternoon sun in
the eyes. New items on the programme
were night polo matches in the ring and
mannequin parades of woollen apparel
in the Hall of Agriculture. An interest-
ing point was that as many men as
women stopped to watch the finished pro-
ducts take ‘the floor on their very attrac-
tive models. While this well-presented
diversion was in progress hardly any-
one in the pavilion followed first inten-
tions of examining fleeces, crops, moun-
tains of colorful fruit and vegetables,
cold storage products in glass-faced
freezers, miniature paddocks of feed and
grasses, a model of a farm showing the
devastations of soil erosion and the suc-
cessful combating of this wastage by
planting, trenching, forest-preserving,
etc.
Among frocks worn in the woollen
mannequin parade were two bridal
gowns, lacy weaves in fairy-fine wool.
One was sprinkled with dewdrop beads
upon the yoke. The materials hung
beautifully. One of the ’maids wore a
vividly-patterned frock in blues and
purples—no one would have guessed
that it was wool.
Impressions of a tour among the live-
stock were that (to the ignorant who
can’t appreciate it) the aroma of the
cattle is like a sock in the jaw, but that
of the pigs non-existent, also that the
most popular name among the pigs at
the moment is Hector. There were
several Hectors ; some were enormous,
others just medium-sized, but all no
doubt were loved equally by their
owners. Caralulup Joyful was there with
her family of 10, seeking refuge from
them in peevish grunts. Next door
Glenloch Virgie, mother of 11, slept
peacefully among her progeny.
The Women’s Industries presented a
pavilion of work of high standard in
skill and patience. Mrs. Wills Cook’s
collection of One Woman’s Work won
first prize in its section. Among the
hand-made rugs Mrs. John Kennedy’s
exhibit, a lyrebird in a brown-and-orange
color scheme, attained highest honor.
At the Show this year there is a Central-
Australian exhibition for which the In-
land Mission has collaborated. It pre-
sents a mia-mia and two abos. to do
tracking and firelighting, native weapons,
native flora, some excellent photographs
of North Queensland and the Northern
Territory, and a collection of lizards,
goannas and mountain devils. The
lizards travelled well, but tragedy over-
took them as soon as they were settled
in their cages, for the largest lizard
started to eat his companions as fast as
he could get them down.
Many of the lads who had dates to go
to the Caritas Christi dance at Grosvenor
last week were, when the time came,
under canvas and far from anything as
snooty as boiled shirts, but the com-
mittee got busy eulogising the virtues of
the bridge-room to friends of their
mothers’ generation and extra tickets were
sold to compensate for the absentees in
khaki. President Hilary Dunlea wore
sunset-pink twinkling with diamente. The
ticket secretaries were Yvonne Wearne
(in mushroom-pink lace) and Mary
Millea (in a bouffant gown of white tulle
with white flowers piled high upon her
dark head). Sheila Breheny’s summer-
time linen was of figured design attached
to a pastel-blue yoke.
Mollie Carter’s frock was an attach-
ment of black skirt and patterned tunic.
Noel Gambetta’s choice was for the blue
of a deep sea, and Roma Colman’s some-
thing as fresh and starched as white
muslin can be, with a flicker of cherry-
colored embroidery to match the velvet
ribbon in her hair. Nell Vaughan was
among the many wearers of little fur
capes, so useful for sitting on the stairs
between dances. Phyllis Wearne brought
along a bluebird-of-happiness brooch for
each of the evening’s hostesses. Among
prizes in the lucky-envelope competition
were a parchment-shaded lamp made by
Margaret Foley and a cushion the hand-
work of Miss E. Plunkett.
Athol Shmith’s photograph is of
Dorothea Dixon, who will play Curley’s
wife in John Steinbeck’s “Of Mice and
Men,” which will commence a season at
the Comedy on Saturday. This is Doro-
thea’s initiation in a McMahon produc-
tion ; most of her experience hitherto has
been in University dramatic shows and
revues. She’s the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. B. Dixon, of Kooyong-road,
Armadale, has graduated in Arts and is
now doing dress-designing at Melbourne
Technical College.
The Rev. F. L. Oliver, R.A.N., who is
the friend of hardy mariners and able
seamen who have the responsibility of
getting food to England during the war,
has been called up for service, but he
has not relinquished his work here with-
out making plans for others to carry on.
To serve this end an auxiliary was formed
last week for the Victorian Mission to
Seamen, Mr. Oliver’s plan being that 500
or more voluntary workers should pledge
themselves to provide £lOOO a year for
the mission. As its needs are in the
region of £2OOO other donations will be
most welcome.
The new auxiliary’s first meeting took
place at Mrs. Ernest Poolman’s home,
with Dr. Gerald Weigall in the chair. He
was put there, he explained, at the insti-
gation of Mrs. Percy Webster, and his
sense of humor was as usual in good
form. Mr. Oliver inferred that his pal
Barnacle Bill is a stout fellow underneath
his dungaree blouse, although, as he
doesn’t wear brass buttons, he often loses
in the race of making feminine hearts
flutter. He is supposed to believe that
whisky is the drink of man and that a
bottle of rum is worth a broken nose, but
he also appreciates a friendly club on
shore where he can find pens, ink and
notepaper for writing to the girl in the
port, a piano, a radio, billiard-tables, con-
certs and sports meetings arranged, etc.
Church services are voluntary at the mis-
sion, but Mr. Oliver could challenge any
community of “landlubbers” to produce a
broken church pew like one at his mis-
sion which cracked during a service
through the weight of its freight of men.
At the meeting Mrs. Percy Webster
was elected president, ahd Mrs. Poolman
and Mrs. W. M. S. Boucher vice-presi-
dents. Lady Dugan came along, con-
sented to be patron, and made the sug-
gestion that she would like to visit the
mission as soon as possible. It being a
morning that dripped with rain, the
verandah of Mrs. Poolman’s home was
outlined with umbrellas of all shapes
and colors. Dressing at the meeting was
sombre, with a preponderance of black
coats and silver-fox furs. Exceptions
were Mrs. lan Macdonald’s red-fox cape,
a blue velvet ribbon beneath the brim of
Mrs. Cecil Finch’s black hat and a swig
of petunia worn aloft in hat and veil by
Mrs. Thomson Tait.
The vast open spaces of Grong Grong,
a mansion built in the days when walls
were thick and solid, ceilings were high
and space was taken for granted, was
lent by Mrs. Tom Smith for a bridge
party last week. There were fires in
every room to keep 200-odd women warm
and Lady Dugan came along for tea. She
heard the reason for the party, the
scholarship fund for the University
Women’s College, and settled the destiny
of lucky envelopes by drawing out of a
basket the winners of Christmas hampers
and other prizes. Mrs. W. J. Tuckfield,
who, with Mrs. E. R. Stewart, was ticket
secretary, found herself the recipient
thereupon of a box of chocolates, the
kind that made her feel she had taken a
leap back to her debutante days. Presi-
dent of the committee, Mrs. J. D. G.
Medley, addressed the assemblage, and
Mrs. G. H. Cowling looked after the
books and treasury.
Jo Parer, who has been abroad with
her Uncle Willie Higgins for eight
months, returned to Melbourne recently.
Her cousin, Geoff Higgins, went also, but
in London he met a friend of a previous
visit, Betty Kay. These two discovered
that they held a brief for matrimony,
sought a padre’s blessing, went honey-
mooning in England, and are now on
their way out to Australia. Among the
things Jo brought back with her were
gadgets from every port, brochures of
night clubs in Paris, a statuette in wood
from Bali, Sultan’s harem cushions from
the banks of the Nile, and from London
a pair of linen sandals decorated with
Dutch windmills and soled with several
layers of cork to lift the wearer an inch
or so off the ground. In Switzerland she
bought a fob watch, the tiny timepiece
hidden beneath a secret spring in a
globule of black enamel.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. F. J. Goble, wife of Air Vice-
Marshal Goble. Chief of the Air Staff of
the R.A.A.F. Mrs. Goble is president of
the Air Force Officers’ Wives and
Mothers’ Association, which maintains a
trust fund for the education of orphans
of Air Force officers and also helps the
After-Care Hospital. Immediate work in
hand is for the bridge party at Buckley’s
on October 12. As soon as this has taken
place the association will collaborate with
the wives and mothers of airmen of all
ranks for an R.A.A.F. Comforts Fund.
The Air Vice-Marshal and his English
wife (Australian by adoption) have three
sons. John is a naval cadet and the two
younger boys are at Trinity Grammar
School.
The Carry On Club is to carry on with
its ball. The younger members of the
committee had their jaws set on that
point, and carried the day at the meeting
where they argued with the tenacity of
politicians. As the object of the Carry
On Club is to give assistance to returned
soldiers and their dependants, it feels
it is its duty to keep its flag flying higher
than ever these days. The Lady Mayoress,
who presided at the meeting in the Town
Hall, found herself blown in the breeze
to right and to left, and was obviously
relieved when a truce was called after
when the pessimists had been vanquished
by the words of the optimists. The dance
will take place on November 1 in the
St. Kilda Town Hall. The Governor and
Lady Dugan will be present; so will the
band of the Royal Melbourne Regiment,
and the lads who are in the army now
will be popular. Ticket secretaries are
Vaire Wilkinson, Suzanne Crane, Freda
Connolly, Valerie Crowther and Rose-
mary Lyon,
Jeanne Gautier, violinist, being tem-
porarily mislaid on her way from the
other hemisphere to this one, John
Brownlee took her place at the last celeb-
rity concert of the season, travelling over
from Sydney to fulfil the engagement.
Brownlee was allotted less space and time
on the programme than any other celebri -
ties at A.B.C. concerts. Including his
encore, for which he gave “Star of Eve,”
from “Tannhauser,” in French, he sang
for less than a quarter of an hour. His
name appeared only once on the pro-
gramme, beside “Wotan’s Farewell,”
from “The Valkyrie.” He and Prof.
Heinze reached an agreement that Hitler’s
favorite composer would have to stand a
purge of his German words, and the
“Farewell” was sung in English. Thus
Brownlee’s patriotism overruled any bid
he might have made for popular stage
appearance, for he had to carry a large
and cumbersome book of music.
Mrs. Brownlee brought a touch of
color into the house with her scarlet
gloves. Otherwise she was a picture of
sleek, dark head contrasted with white
ermine wrap and white gown. Mrs. Russell
Grimwade’s black frock showed a glitter
of diamente at the throat. Bunty Scho-
field was also in black, and Phyl Connor’s
cloak was of parchment velvet. The
Keith Roberts couple were there, she
wearing a black wrap with white fur-
relief upon the collar. Ruth Littleton
found in the foyer friends she hadn’t
seen for a couple of years. She’s
been living in Sydney doing baby-wel-
fare work, and came over to Melbourne
for the marriage of brother Geoffrey
to Edith Cranswick, which took place in
the Sale Cathedral last Saturday (23rd),
with the bride’s father, who is the Bishop
of Gippsland, officiating.
Absent from among the violinists in
the orchestra was Harry Hutchins, who
wouldn’t have missed a celebrity concert
for anything less than a honeymoon. He
and Rhoda Law Smith were married at
Camperdown a few days previously. A
lass in the audience with a romantic in-
terest and a pocketful of cables all
to the point of “marriage in October”
was Pat Spiers Jackson, of Adelaide,
whose fiance, Warren Bonython, has
usurped the feminine privilege of naming
the day, or at least the month. But the
circumstances allow for such latitude, for
the ship he was travelling on to England
“disappeared” for a time. But Warren
has now flashed an “all’s-well” message
to his family, and says he’ll be home by
October, even if he has to swim.


MACQUARIE GROVE
l~ I
FLYING and GLIDER
SCHOOL PTY., LTD.
CAMDEN, N.S.W.—’Phone: Camden 13.
OFFICIAL OPENING.
The public is invited to attend the official
opening of the new Hangars and Work-
shops by the Minister of Civil Aviation,
the Hon. J. V. Fairbairn, M.H.R., on
Saturday, September 30, in conjunction
with the Royal Aero Club Aerial Race
Day.
The dance set down for this date
has been cancelled.
Receive flying instruction at the company’s own
ideally situated aerodrome at Camden.
Training ab initio to Commercial Pilot’s
Licence.
Write for particulars.
E. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, Manager,
Box 4, Camden.
r BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
feoefors say your virility and vig-
our depend greatly an your Hor-
mone Gland*. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract.' Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness. J
i. Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY. A
MEN!
r.
TvJ 0 WES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THE FLYING COLUMN
The Polish Tragedy
“Aileron”: The unfortunate Poles had
little chance in the air. They make good
flying men, but their equipment must
have been pitifully inadequate both in
type and numbers beside the massed
squadrons of Messerschmitts and
Heinkels. Their air force last year con-
sisted of only six regiments. Their
home-built machines were scarcely fit to
stand up even to third-line air forces of
a great Power. There was the LWS
2UBR, which could carry a ton bomb-
load at a cruising speed of 186 m.p.h.—-
a machine something like our Avro
Anson, but of poor quality. There were
the little PWS 26 biplane fighter—“top
speed 126 m.p.h.”—and a few squadrons
of the more modern PZL P 27, a medium
bomber with a maximum service speed
of 285.6 m.p.h. and features which had
been discarded by modern services four
and five years ago. But no native fighters,
interceptors, pursuit ’planes or dive
bombers which could stand up to opposi-
tion of even the 1931 vintage.
Added to these Polish-made machines
was a miscellaneous collection of foreign
’planes, released to make way for faster,
more heavily-gunned machines at home.
Compared with the German squadrons of
heavy bombers, troop-carriers, light dive
bombers and fighters designed to attack
infantry, give mobility and strength and
flank protection to masses of advancing
mechanised and marching troops, the
Poles must have been able to oppose
only something beyond comparison poor
and few. The measure of their machines
and the condition of their pilots are
shown by the fact that scores of them —-
some reports said hundreds —fled to
Rumania and were interned.
“Ek D.”: The offer of an Expedition-
ary Air Force to Britain looks good. It is
proposed to send four bomber and two
fighter squadrons, calling for 150 pilots,
250 gunners, observers and radio men,
with an administrative staff of 150—if
it’s found possible a ground staff of 2500
will go also. Machines will be provided
by Britain. The scheme has advantages
on both sides. The new force will be
welcomed in Britain, for the quality of
Australian flying men who have gone
overseas for R.A.F. special courses is
well known. At the same time it will
give our men necessary war and modern-
machine experience.
The force will be recruited mainly
from Citizen Air Force and Citizen Air
Reserve men; senior officers will be
drawn from the R.A.A.F. In no time
1000 regular and reserve pilots had
offered their services.
“Zedo”: Australians have continued to
score in promotions in the R.A.F. Just
before hostilities began, the job of Air
Officer C.-in-C. Training in Britain was
handed over to Sydney-native Arthur
Longmore, just returned from a visit to
his native country with the British air
mission. He has been flying longer than
any other officer in the R.A.F. —his ticket
number is 72 and it was taken out on
April 25, 1911.
Another Australian appointment was
that of Arthur Coningham to the im-
portant No. 4 bomber group (Yorkshire)
command. A Brisbane boy, Coningham
went to Maoriland in his school days
and passed from N.Z. University into
the Canterbury Rifles, saw service from
Samoa to Gallipoli, joined the R.F.C. in
1916, and won the D. 5.0., M.C. and
D.F.C. for gallantry.
% * * #
“Dawn Patrol”: Aircraft used in the
last war for anti-submarine patrols were
mainly semi-rigid “blimp” airships. They
were slow and vulnerable. It is a dif-
ferent story to-day, as witness the case
of the South African R.A.F. pilot who
pipped a U-boat. He first sighted her
on the surface and took cover in clouds,
emerging at 1500 ft. to make sure she was
Nazi. That ascertained, he dropped a
clutch of h.e. eggs a few yards ahead
of the bow as the craft was submerging.
The neat effort had the desired effect of
counteracting the dive and plunging the
nose above water; once a sub. gets a
setback to a dive, it takes some little time
to recover stability. Came a second salvo,
the nearest bomb only about 6ft. from
the hull amidships. The effect was im-
mediate : the stern lifted clear, and down
the sub. went at an acute angle with a
swirl of whirlpools, left by escaping air.
That persisted for more than 20 minutes,
and can be taken as evidence that the
craft never rose again. U-boat com-
manders have good cause to fear high-
speed, long-range bombers capable of
patrolling large expanses of water with
heavy bomb loads.
.■s * * #
August issue of the British “Overseas
Trade Bulletin” gives a heartening ac-
count of R.A.F. developments. Personnel
of 150,000 is now provided for —as many
men roughly as there are in the Navy.
The latest supplementary estimate was
for £14,000,000 for aircraft and balloons,
which was equal to nearly the entire
R.A.F. expenditure, including payment of
personnel, in 1934. A total of £107,000,000
was scheduled to be spent on the service
this year even before war broke out.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Air operations in this war
have already assumed a character un-
dreamt of in 1914. Consider the rescue
of 34 men from a torpedoed British
freighter by two R.A.F. flying-boats. The
flying-boats were patrolling an area in the
Atlantic when the radio operators inter-
cepted distress calls from the ship, which
had been tin-fished amidships. They
arrived ten minutes before she took her
last plunge. Observing that two crowded
lifeboats were away, with mariners cling-
ing to the sides, the pilots hunted for the
U-boat, without success. Despite a very
choppy sea, they then gathered in the sur-
vivors. One, with an extra load of 20
men, was hard put to take off again, but
both aircraft did their job, and reached
land with all survivors. It’s the first-
known instance of aircraft rescuing
sailors from a sinking ship
* * * *
“Don”: Rolls-Royce’s new factory at
Crewe, Staffs, which had its first anni-
versary in August this year, when the
Secretary of State for the Air inspected
it, cost £1,500,000, most of it found by
the Government. In the huge building,
nearly a quarter of a mile long, industry
is humming on the production of Merlin
engines, used in certain types of British
fighters and bombers. Installation of
machinery started only last October, and
in May the first Merlin engine was com-
pleted. These engines go to the French
as well as the British air force. So well
has output been orgainsed that engines
for France can be supplied easily with-
out interfering with the supply of a large
quantity for the R.A.F. Employees new
to the class of work received special
training.
* * * *
“Skywar”: The most recent British
military seaplane is the Saunders-Roe
Lerwick, a high-wing all-metal monoplane
flying-boat with two Bristol Hercules
sleeve-valve motors, having controllable-
pitch airscrews and carried in stream-
lined nacelles at the wing leading edge.
The Lerwick is the successor to the
Saunders-Roe London biplane, and is
capable of greatly improved performance.
Wings are fully cantilever, with no ex-
ternal bracing wires or struts, and there
is exceptionally full wing-flap equipment
to facilitate take-off and alighting. The
machine measures just under 81ft. from
wing-tip to wing-tip, is 63ft. long
and 23|-ft. high. The Hercules-type
Bristol engine has passed tests at a maxi-
mum output rating of 1380 h.p.
* * * *
“Merlin”: New developments promise
to make learning to fly dead easy. Many
machines are now fitted with “tricycle”
undercarriages, simplifying take-off and
landing. The inherently stable aeroplane
that needs no rudder movement when
once in the air is also becoming popular.
One of the hardest things for a beginner
to overcome is misjudgment of the cor-
rect amount of rudder to apply for a
turn, but a few years hence this function
will be taken care of in the control
column. An aeroplane will then, on its
own account, make a perfect turn with-
out trying to skid or slip.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Gliding has its unexpected
thrills. Ron Roberts, president of the Mel-
bourne Gliding Club, found his Grunau
Baby 11. being sucked into a stormcloud.
He put the sailplane into a dive in which
the air speed registered 70 m.p.h., against
the 30 m.p.h. for which the machine was
designed, but discovered that he was
soaring to zenith tail-first. He was with-
out a parachute, was moving towards the
sea, and the tug-of-war between the wind
and the Grunau threatened to tear it |
halves. After an involuntary climb to
4000 ft., he succeeded in getting control
and making for earth.
* * * * . ~
British “United Services Review
throws an interesting bit of light on
Russian air strategy. It details the opera-
tions of 18 Japanese ’planes in Outer
Mongolia against 150 Russian machines.
The Japanese lost five in their attack and
brought down 49 Russians. The “Review
comments that the Russians appear to
have blundered across the border m
clumsy mass formation which would
prove “as helpless in the face of skilful
fighter-tactics as a school of herrings with
devourers on front and rear.” The core,
it says, must have been a passive target.
They could not defend themselves for
fear of hitting their flank machines, and
the Japanese, therefore, merely had to
fire into the brown until their guns ran
hot. In Spain, early in the piece, some-
• thing the same Russian tactics were re-
ported with somewhat the same results.
There a joyous carelessness about details
was noticed among Russians—wrong pro-
pellers sent out with machines, for in-
stance, and fighters for which the car-
burettors had been forgotten.
* * * *
“Guns”: Roland Garros, a French
pilot, was the first to attempt to fire
through the propeller field early in the
last war. He fitted steel deflectors to the
propeller blades, to divert such bullets
as didn’t get through. Fokker invented
a means of synchronisation whereby the
airscrew itself fired the gun. A knob on
one blade struck a cam as it revolved,
operating a knee-action lever and rod, the
device being so arranged that the pilot
could control it. The Constantinesco
gear consists of a column of oil in a pipe
line operated by a cam on the engine
crankshaft. The impulse travels along
the line to a second plunger, which trips
the gun trigger. An oil reservoir under
high pressure is provided, and this can be
speedily recharged by the pilot as re-
quired.
* * * *
“Flat-spin”: Germany’s opposite
number to Britain’s Spitfire is the Messer-
schmitt M.e. 109. It is slightly smaller
that the Spitfire and has a much higher
wing loading —311 b. per square foot,
against the Spitfire’s 241 b has wing
slots and flaps which tend to counteract
the high loading. The German ’plane is
credited with a top speed of 354 m.p.h. at
12,000 feet with 1100 h.p., and the Spit-
fire with 367 m.p.h. with rather less
power. Both machines are single-sparred,
stress-skinned, low-wing monoplanes.
“Let ’em have it, boys!”


THE SERVICE MAN
In Maoriland, as in Australia, Diggers
have been excluded from the special-
service force. Age-limits in both cases
are 21-35 for full privates and n.c.os.,
30 for subalterns, 35 for captains, 40
for majors and 45 for lieut.-colonels. It
is a truly amazing policy, considering
that there must be thousands of fit Dig-
gers of 40 or so in both Dominions,
and that Britain is conscripting men of
41.
Victoria was the first to open depots
for the recruiting of the new A.I.F. In
all States barracks and area officers have
been besieged since the announcement
that enlistment would begin. It is ex-
pected that about a fourth of all men
enrolled will come from the A.M.F.
Twenty-five per cent, of places have been
reserved for country districts where there
is no militia training.
Specialists of various kinds are in
demand, “babblers” especially. Truck-
and van-owner drivers are also needed.
They must be between 18 and 35, and
prepared to enlist both their vehicles and
themselves. They will be paid special
rates and allowances and mileage while
in camp.
* * * *
Colonel Sturdee will be G.O.C. of the
Eastern Command, with headquarters in
Sydney. The command’s training school
for specialists and junior officers will open
at Liverpool on October 15 under Major
E. W. Bundy, till recently C.O. of the
56th at Cootamundra.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: The new A.I.F. uniform will
get a good many blessings for its con-
venience. In the British version the hat
is shady and light, about the same de-
lightful shape as that worn by seasoned
golfers. The tunic is much looser than
the old A.I.F. tunic so as to give free
movement to the arms and allow full
advantage to be taken of the outsize capa-
city of the pockets. The trousers resemble
those which real British gentlemen used
to wear for shooting when Edward VII.
was monarch —-they come down nearly
to the ankle, where they merge into a
short puttee. I suspect they were sug-
gested by an experienced Q.M.S. The rig
will be a delight to experienced looters.
There are enough spaces in the outfit to
hide away the whole of a brigade’s
chicken run.
# * * *
The Royal Air Force has no “old
age” complex. A recent big list of pro-
motions of R.A.F. men to be group cap-
tains contained nobody under 42 and
many of 48. Flying is a much more
arduous and nerve-wrecking job than
any in civilian life, and most of these
birdmen had been at it from 22 to 24
years.
Sj! * * *
“Gun-lock”: The M.L. Defence Minister
has asked for volunteers (17-27) to serve as
pilots, observers and air gunners with the
R.A.F. or R.N.Z.A.F. for the duration of
the war. They will be trained primarily in
M.L. and rank will be granted as Lead-
ing Aircraftsman as a starter. Rate of
pay is £l5O per annum plus ratings
quarters. If selected for overseas service,
pay is to continue until reporting for
duty with the R.A.F.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Britain’s first major naval
loss, the torpedoing of the aircraft carrier
Courageous —570-odd gallant lads went
down with her —recalls the similar fate of
the Audacious early in the last war. The
Courageous was the oldest of the aircraft
carriers, launched in 1917 as a cruiser
and converted. When first commis-
sioned for air duty she carried 48
’planes with a complement of 1216 offi-
cers and men, including those of the
R.A.F. attached for fleet air arm duties.
Her armament comprised 16 4.7 guns,
four three-pounders, and a number of
smaller guns. She was not heavily
armored, having been designed for speed
and gun power.
* * * *
The Auto Cycle Union proposes to
form a motor-cycle dispatch riders’ sec-
tion of the National Emergency Service
in N.S.W., ages 18-45. R. White, 26
Park-avenue, Randwick, Sydney (’phone
FX 3148), will answer inquiries.
* * * *
“Zedo”: A Queensland recruiting
depot has had one old-timer who asked
whether there would be a mob of sheep
ip feed the army because, though he was
too old to fight and a bit lame, he was
good enough to keep a few woollies in
order. Another aspirant, a six-footer
about a yard thick, strolled into a metro-
politan barracks and remarked that he
wanted to be “a military policeman.”
* * * *
“Yamurgh”: Lt.-Col. Tommy White,
M.H.R., wants to enlist, but so far
they won’t let him. He was one
of the four original members of the
Australian Flying Corps in 1914, when
it owned a couple of ancient Bristols and
a box-kite with a 50-h.p. Gnome engine.
Sent to Mespot, he was given a Maurice
Farman with a range of 150 miles and a
speed of 45 m.p.h., a rifle for protection
and Yeats-Brown (“Bengal Lancer”) as
observer. Sometimes the pair managed
a 200-mile flight by the simple expedient
of burying Y.-B. under petrol cans; but
then there was no room for the rifle.
Their interesting career was cut short
when —their engine running well for the
time being—they volunteered to cut the
Bagdad-Aleppo telegraph line. Landing
beside a busy military road, Yeats-Brown
was to festoon the line with gun-cotton
“It still fits, Ma.”
while White fought the Turkish Army
with the rifle. Calculations were upset
through the Farman running into a tele-
graph pole. Brown let off his fireworks
and White fought the Turks, but to no
avail. The two spent a long, lean holi-
day in Afion Karahissar in Central Asia
Minor. White feels that he missed so
much of the last war that he is entitled
to all of this one.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales State Conference of
the R.S.L. has pledged itself “to accept
new obligations to protect the interests of
all those serving in the present or future
wars.” The League has had a busy year
in N.S.W. Of £30,000 spent in relieving
distress, 93 per cent, went to non-mem-
bers. All told, 3903 men were placed in
jobs. Total membership is 27,444 —an
increase of 8000 since 1933-34.
N. S. Wales has nominated Gilbert
Dyett as Federal president of the R.S.L.
for his twenty-first term, and L. A. Robb,
secretary to the N.S.W. Governor, has
been elected State president for the
eleventh year. Dyett was invalided home
after Lone Pine. Robb was with the
2nd Div. Signal Co. for five years. He
has represented the League at three over-
seas conventions, and has been on the
Federal Council since 1924.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: New Guinea took the an-
nouncement of war calmly. The local
“Parliament” promptly passed one ordi-
nance to enroll a special reserve Euro-
pean police force and another to create a
volunteer defence force to consist of 20
officers and 400 men. Nothing is said—
and nothing will be said —about age-
limits.
* * * *
“D.D.”: Apart from the sinking of
the Courageous, the U-boats have done
nothing much, and are said to have
suffered severely. Ocean-goers are re-
ported in the China Seas and on both
sides of the North American con-
tinent. The smallest are over 200 ft.
long, and the supply, according to
Jane’s Fighting Ships, at the begin-
ning of this year included class
U 37-44 and U 64-68 (building), 740 tons
with six torpedo tubes (U 37 was com-
pleted on August 4, 1938, 38 and 39
later in the year); U 25 and 26, 712-
tonners built in 1936 ; U 45-55 and 69-71.
Another class, U 27-33, 500 tons, were all
launched in 1936. Beside these, there
were 12 coastal and harbor defence boats
completed in 1935, 12 more the follow-
ing year—babies of 250 tons. Eight more
were laid down last year. This would
have given Germany early this year ten
700-tonners, twenty-one 500-tonners and
thirty-two 250-tonners. She has nothing
like the 1350-2000-ton monsters of other
first-class navies.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The world’s key-
ships to-day are the 1660 or so oil-tankers,
aggregating nearly 11 million tons. About
28 p.c. are British, 26 p.c. American,
18 p.c. Norwegian, 3.5 p.c. Italian, 3.2
p.c. Japanese, 2.2 p.c. French and 1.9
p.c. German. Their average speed is
from 12 to 13 knots, but new American
types develop 19 knots or more. In peace-
time England and France absorb 400,000
barrels of oil daily, 42 gallons to a barrel.
Allowing for a doubled consumption in
war-time, an average of at least 16 tanker
ships will require to reach British and
French ports daily. Neutrality require-
ments cut off the American and Nor-
wegian 44 p.c., and were the Mediter-
ranean route closed the job of main-
taining supplies would be difficult, but,
with temporary conversions of freighters
and an efficient convoy system, much less
difficult than in 1917-18.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Battle-tanks go back to
the pre-Christian era. When Antiochus
the Syrian king was besieging Jerusalem
and endeavoring to crush Judas Macca-
baeus, he brought along 32
elephants ‘-exercised in battle.” The
animals were covered with “three strong
towers of wood, securely fastened,
according to the Maccabean chronicler
of the Apocrypha, and these contained 32
men in addition to the Indian who acted
as driver and conductor. To provoke the
elephants to the proper pitch of aggres-
siveness, they were shown the blood of
grapes and mulberries. One valiant Jew
succeeded in putting a tank out of action
by crawling under its belly and thrusting
a spear into its undergear. That tank
collapsed and fell upon the patriot.
The Mistakes of 1914.
“Ek D.’s” memories:
Last time strategists were so clearly aware
of each other’s plans that some of the events
of 1914 seem inexplicable at this distance. The
Germans, of course, had the advantage of
holding, in Alsace-Lorraine, strong territory on
the French side of the Rhine. Their game was
based on the Schlieffen Plan, framed in 1905.
Von Schlieffen was an able old cuss—he fore-
saw that Russia would be involved, that Britain
would come in and that it would be necesssary
to invade Belgium.
His scheme was to create a sort of revolving
door of armies working on the pivot of the
Metz-Thionville fortresses. North of this he
proposed a great overhanging arm of forces
comprising 53 divisions, stretching away to the
north-west, with a shorter arm reaching towards
the Swiss border, in which there were to be
only 10 divisions.
He proposed to deal the Russians a nasty
smack which would make them hasten out of
reach, meanwhile letting the southern wing of
his western army swing back on the defensive
to the Rhine, tempting the French to concen-
trate on it. Then his 53 northern divisions,
backed by reserves and ersatz troops massed in
the rear, would swing southward, gradually
crushing the French in a giant pincer move-
ment which would confine them against the
Rhine army, with their backs to the wall of
Germany and neutral Switzerland.
The French, on the other hand, had a
neat little defensive scheme which would leave
a tempting gap in their lines, to be presently
closed when the Germans poured through,
isolating the invaders from their country, west
of a fine strong line of impregnable French
fortresses. For this, however, a year or so
before the war, Papa Joffre and his new staff
substituted an offensive plan of striking at
German industrial areas.
None of the schemes worked. Von
Schlieffen himself was off the map when war
broke out. His ideas were operated by the
second Moltke, a futile person with none of
the old Moltke’s genius. He had 10 more
front-line divisions than when the plan was
made, and mistakenly used them to strengthen
the southern drawback armies instead of adding
them to the weight of the northern crusher
armies. The fact that the Kaiser’s Little Willie
and Prince Rupprecht were the army com-
manders in the “retreat zone” may have had
something to do with the change. Anyway,
when the fight came, both were all for glory,
and, instead of making the intended strategic
retreat, they both held ground and spoiled
the German scheme.
The French, on the other hand, miscalcu-
lated a lot of important factors. Their
offensive tactics were to be largely based on
the use of their new 75, a weapon in a class
by itself for effectiveness and mobility at the
time. But they made the mistake of under-
estimating the quality of German reserves and
treating them as last-resource men instead of
good first-line soldiers, thus miscalculating the
strength opposed to them by nearly half.
They had not bargained for the new technique
of massed machine-gun activity. Neither did
they realise that the new German heavy
howitzers would destroy all delusions that
existing fortresses could not be quickly
smashed.
Their last mistake was to divert the Rus-
sians from their original plan, which was to
throw their whole weight against Austria.
Political considerations made that unpalatable.
The Russians were converted to the idea of a
northern drive. Tannenberg was the result.
Finally, though Britain and France knew that
in the event of attack the northern part of the
German army would sweep through Belgium,
neither realised that the sweep would be so
wide. Old Roberts foresaw the danger. His
suggestion, when the B.E.F. was mooted, was
that it should act in complete independence
of France. He contended that as the British
force, though small, was the most highly-
trained army in the world, fully adapted for
the mobility on which its tradition was based,
it would be better to land it directly in Bel-
gium, where it would sit on top of the swing-
ing German crush arm and play hob with its
northern flank.
Roberts’s ideas were regarded as the vapor-
ings of senility. Afterwards people wished
they had listened to him.
The biggest mistake of the war, however,
was the Germans’ failure to estimate the re-
sources latent in the British Empire, the quality
of the million soldiers which the Dominions
and colonies would send and British fibre and
power to endure.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns' dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
...... General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tq hand.
To avoid confusion in fifing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
lb® r * Bbt „ selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Elderly man, Sydney, wants situation, house
and kitchen work, on station. Refs. —4785.
Youth (18), Sydney, has been employed six
months as a houseboy, honest, clean and willing
worker, seeks position.—4796.
To buy “Esquire” for January, April and
May, 1934, February, May and September,
1935, and May, 1936.—4795.
Collector wants samples of playing cards, or
will exchange same.—477o.
To correspond with Bulletin readers, any
subject, but books in particular.— 474B.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the extent of the German mer-
cantile marine before the present war ? (2)
What countries were the biggest buyers of
German goods ? (3) Total German imports and
exports for 1938 ? (4) What was Germany’s
national income ? —4834. .
(1) On June 30, 1938, it amounted to 2328
ships of 4,243,835 registered gross tons. (2)
Following figures are for 1938 and represent
millions of reichsmarks: Belgium 190.4, France
229, Italy 349.1, Netherlands 459.8, Czecho-
slovakia 161.6, Sweden 275.2, United Kingdom
374.1, United States 157.2, Argentina 152.9,
Brazil 163.2, China 104.6, Japan 102.8, British
India 114.3. (3) Imports, 5449 million reichs-
marks ; exports, 5256 million marks. (4) In
1937 it amounted to 70,972 million reichs-
marks. •
* * * *
(1) Areas of those parts of Poland which
previously belonged to Russia, Prussia, Austria
and Czechoslovakia? (2) Population of War-
saw ? (3) Names of towns in Poland with a
population exceeding 100,000 ? —4802.
(1) The territory of Poland is made up of
territories which after the three partitions of
Poland in 1772, 1793 and 1795 belonged to
Russia (101,196 square miles), to Prussia
(6973 square miles) and to Austria (30,914
square miles). In September, 1938, Poland an-
nexed from Czechoslovakia a territory of 419
square miles, with a population of 241,698. (2)
1,265,700 at January 1, 1938. (3) Lodz,
665,200; Lwow, 317,700; Poznan, 268,800;
Cracow, 254,600; Wilno, 208,500; Bydgoszcz,
137,100; Czestochowa, 136,000; Katowice,
132,900; Sosnowiec, 124,500; Lublin, 119,900;
Chorzow, 109,100; and Gdynia, 113,800—a1l at
January 1, 1938.
* * * *
(1) Location of internment camps in Aus-
tralia during the Great War of 1914-18 3 (2)
How many enemy aliens were interned? (3)
How many escaped from the camps? (4) How
many died while in the camps? (5) How many
were liberated during or at the end of the
war ? (6) How many were deported, and when ?
(7) Cost to the Commonwealth Government ?
—4790.
(1) N.S.W., Holdsworthy, Liverpool, Berrima,
Trial Bay and Bourke; Q’land, Enoggera; Vic.,
Police Depot, Melbourne, afterwards at Lang-
warrin and Point Cook; S.A., Torrens Island;
W.A., Rottnest Island; Tas., Claremont, after-
wards at Bruny Island. (2) 6739 men, 67
women and 84 children. (3) 58. (4) 201 men
and one woman, 104 of these deaths being due
to pneumonic influenza. (5) 46 Austrian Slavs
or Czechs were transferred to the Yugoslavian
forces in Serbia, and either during or at the
end of the war 1124 were liberated. (6)
5276 were sent back, chiefly to Germany, in
nine special ships which sailed at various dates
between May, 1919, and June, 1920. (7)
£1,335,084.
* • * * *
What are the names of the principal Euro-
pean countries, including Russia and Turkey,
in their own languages ? —4825.,
Belgium (Royaume de Belgique), Bulgaria
(Bulgariya), Denmark (Kongeriget Danmark),
Finland (Suoimi), France (Republique Fran-
qaise), Germany (Deutsches Reich), Greece
(Hellas), Hungary (Magyarorszag), Italy (Regno
d’ltalia), Holland (Nederland), Norway (Norge),
Poland (Rzeczpospolita Polska), Portugal
(Republica Portuguesa), Rumania (Romania),
Russia (Soyuz Sovietskikh Sotsialisticheskikh
Respublik), Spain (Republica Espanola),
Sweden (Sverige), Switzerland (Schweizerische
Eidgenossenschaft), Turkey (Turkiye Cumhuri-
yeti), Yugoslavia (Kraljevina Jugoslavije).
* * * *
Whereabouts in Australia has asbestos been
found ? —4807.
It has been discovered in all the States ex-
cept Vic., but rarely in payable quantities. In
N-S.W. it has been found near Barraba in the
north and Gundagai in the south. In Q’land
a belt of country between Cawarral and
Canoona (south-west of Rockhampton) shows
seams. In S.A. deposits of the “mountain
leather” and “mountain cork” varieties have
been found at Oollawirra (north-west of Peters-
burg) and of the blue variety near Eudunda
(west of the Murray bend) and Hawker (south-
east of Lake Torrens). In W.A. the fibrous
chrysolite variety has been found south-
east of Cossack, in the district between the
headwaters of the Yule and the Nullagine.
Chief Tas. deposit is located at Anderson’s
Creek in the Beaconsfield goldfield (west of the
Tamar).
(1) Present price of antimony? (2) Lowest
price it has been ? (3) Extent of market ? (4)
Possible buyers ? —4328.
(1) £75 p.t. in London on 8/9/’39 for Eng-
lish antimony. (2) Since 1800 the lowest price
was £25 10s. p.t. (1903). (3) Principal use
for production of alloys such as type and anti-
friction metals. Also used in pigments and
medicine. (4) Try Frank Hambridge, Sydney.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Bulletin
versifier W. T. Goodge, author of “Hits!
Skits! and Jingles!”? —4779.
Born in London, 1862, son of a clerk of courts.
Arriving in Sydney in 1880 by the Cathay, he
took a job as jackeroo on Wingadee station,
Nyngan (N.S.W.). There he experienced a
drought, and wrote his first verse (a six-line
stanza carved with a penknife on the smooth
trunk of a bluegum-tree, giving his unprintable
opinion of the station manager and the owners,
Cobb and Co.). Soon afterwards he began
contributing verse to various papers. He joined
a Lithgow paper, had a term with the
“Daily Telegraph,” Sydney, as a reporter and
writer of a topical column, became editor of
the Orange “Leader,” and eventually part-owner
of the paper. From Orange he went to Sydney,
and was a freelance writer until his death in
1909. He wrote topical and bush jingles for
The Bulletin and weekly contributions to
other Sydney papers, also the words of a
number of patriotic songs and lyrics for J. C.
Williamson.
•S ;jj
Are owners of motor vehicles in Q’land
compelled to take out third-party risk insur-
ance ? If so, a few details concerning the pro-
visions of the 1aw? —4869.
Yes, under the Motor Vehicles Insurance
Act of 1936, which came into force on March
1, 1937, all owners of motor vehicles are re-
quired to insure and to keep insured against
third-party risk (personal injury only). The
certificate of insurance must be presented before
registration or renewal of registration will be
effected. The Act provides for a minimum
insurance of £750 against any liability which
may arise on account of the death or bodily
injury of any person caused by the negligence
or wilful default of the driver. The provisions
of the Act apply only while the vehicle is
being used in Q’land.
* * * *
(1) Exact location of the Blue Mountains
( N.S.W. ), and are the Jenolan Caves a part of
them? (2) Why are they called the Blue
Mountains ? —4813.
(1) The name “Blue Mountains” is often
used in a vague and erroneous way to denote
the whole main-range region west of Sydney;
thus the Jenolan Caves are said to lie “in the
heart of the Blue Mountains,” though they
are at least 25 miles from their nearest edge.
The name is properly applied only to the sand-
stone plateau bounded on the north by the
Capertee and Colo rivers and on the south and
west by the Cox; the Kurrajong ridge, though
a part of this plateau, is usually considered
a separate area. (2) The name was originally
given to them because of the bluish haze that
in a warm climate hangs over all hills seen
from a distance.
***:;:
(1) Does a returned soldier qualify for the
old-age pension at 60 ? (2) If he owns his
own house, is there any limit to its value ?
(3) If a relative allowed him to live in a house
rent-free would the fact that he pays no rent
make any difference to his and his wife’s pen-
sion ? —4473.
(1) Not for an old-age pension under the
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act. Under the
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act, however,
a returned soldier who has served in a theatre
of war is eligible to receive an old-age service
pension at the age of 60. (2) Value of home
does not affect the rate of pension so long as
pensioner resides in it. (3) If the husband,
wife, father, mother or child of a pensioner
allowed the pensioner to reside in a house rent-
free the rate of pension would not be affected.
With regard to other relatives, the position is
somewhat different, as the pensioner would be
regarded as in receipt of free lodging. The
value of free lodging would be regarded as
income, but as the amount would not exceed
ss. per week (10s. per week in the case of hus-
band and wife) the rate of pension would not
be affected unless the pensioner had other in-
come exceeding 7s. 6d. per week (15s. per
week in the case of husband and wife).
* * * *
Following particulars regarding Northern
Territory police force : (1) Age of entry, (2)
physical standard, (3) educational standard, (4)
general standards, (5) making of application,
(6) strength of force, (7) duties other than
ordinary police duties performed by force, and
(8) salaries paid to constables ? —4594.
(1) Not under 21 or over 26. (2) Minimum
weight lOst. 101 b., minimum height sft. 9in.,
minimum chest measurement (normal) 37in. if
under 6ft., 38in. if 6ft. or over. (3) Inter-
mediate or equivalent standard. (4) Applicants
should be efficient horsemen and have a know-
ledge of horse management. Satisfactory testi-
monials of character must be produced. Be-
fore appointment the successful applicant will
be required to furnish a birth certificate, also
a certificate from a Commonwealth medical
officer. The medical examination will be
arranged by the Department of the Interior.
(5) On ordinary letter paper in own handwrit-
ing- Set out full name, date and year of
birth, whether married or single, and whether
natural-born or naturalised British subject.
< -°P' es only of references, etc., should be for-
warded. (6) It consists of a superintendent, an
inspector, three sergeants (first class), three
sergeants (second class) and 36 constables. An
appointee may be required to serve anywhere
in the Territory. (7) Members of the police
force are ex-officio health inspectors and stock
inspectors. Officers may also be required to
act as protectors of aboriginals, dip inspectors
c er^s °f court. (8) Commencing salary
£312 (nominal), rising to a maximum, after 11
years service, of £4OB (nominal). Salary is sub-
ject to variations in cost of living, as disclosed
by the Commonwealth Statistician’s index
figures. Full salary commences from date of
embarkation, but 10s. per day is deducted from
salary whilst on board ship. Married officers
are paid an allowance of £2O per annum.
* * * *
Best method of learning how (1) to speak
and (2) to write Chinese A—4784.
(1) With the aid of a tutor. There are as
many ways of speaking Chinese as there are
languages in Europe. Mandarin (divided into
northern, southern and western Mandarin) is
the lingua franca of officialdom and educated
people. As each word is modified by a tone,
and there are five to 10 tones, an ear for music
is practically essential. (2) The written lan-
guage is the same for all dialects, like our
Roman numerals. Mateer’s Primary Lessons
and Bullock’s Progressive Exercises in the
Chinese Written Language are standards. But
here again a teacher is probably indispensable.
The Chinese Cdnsuls can sometimes supply
addresses.
* * * *
(1) Who are the six Queensland Senators,
and to what parties do they belong? (2)
Names of Queensland members of the House
of Reps., their electorates, and to what parties
do they belong? —4799.
(1) Elected September 15, 1934 —W. J. Cooper
(U.C.P.), T. W. Crawford (U.A.P.), H. S
Foil (U.A.P.); elected October 23, 1937—G.
Brown (Lab.), J. S. Codings (Lab.) and B.
Courtice (Lab.). (2) Brisbane, G. Lawson
(Lab.); Griffith, W. P. Conelan (Lab.), elected
May 20, 1939, in place of the late F. M. J.
Baker; Lilley, W. A. Jolley (U.A.P.); Darling
Downs, A. W. Fadden (U.C.P.); Maranoa,
J. A. J. Hunter (U.C.P.); Moreton, J. Francis
(U.A.P.); Wide Bay, B. H. Corser (U.C.P.);
Capricornia, F. M. Forde (Lab.); Herbert,
G. W. Martens (Lab.); Kennedy, W. J. F.
Riordan (Lab.). ,
* * * *
(1) How should application be made to select
a grazing homestead in Queensland? (2) On
what conditions is Q'land sheep country
opened for grazing homestead selection ?
4490.
(1) An application must be made on the
prescribed form, signed by the applicant in
the presence of a witness and lodged by hand
at the District Land Office, on or before the
day of opening, by the applicant personally or
by an agent appointed by him in writing. A
deposit of a year’s rent and one-fifth of the
survey fee must accompany the application.
(2) Sheep country is opened for grazing home-
stead selection subject to the condition that,
within three years from the issue of the license
to occupy it must be stocked to its reasonable
carrying capacity with the applicant’s own
sheep and thereafter used for legitimate wool-
growing purposes. In the case of land that
is being opened for grazing homestead selection
subject to that condition, an applicant with
land experience will, before he will be ad-
mitted to ballot, require to satisfy the Land
Commissioner that he has capital or backing
equal to a year’s rent and the value of the
improvements on the portion applied for. A
person without land experience will require to
have 50 per cent, more capital or backing
than that required by an experienced land man.
* * * *
(1) Period of study and cost of graduation
in each faculty at Sydney University? (2)
Period of study and cost of the various diploma
courses offering at Sydney University? —4B47.
(1) Arts, three years, £80; Arts (Honors), four
years, £81; Economics, four years, £102; Law,
four years, £103; Medicine, six years, £259;
Dentistry, four years, £223; Agriculture, four
years, £125; Veterinary Science, five years,
£151; Science, three years, £105; Science
(Honors), four years, £121; Engineering, four
years—Civil £167, Mechanical and Electrical
£lBB, Mining and Metallurgy £l9l, Technology
£167; Architecture, five years, £195. (2)
Commerce, three years, £4B; Education, one
year, £27; Pharmaceutical Science, three years,
£77; Psychological Medicine, four terms, £29;
Public Administration, three years, £4B; Public
Health, one year, £10; Tropical Medicine,
three months, £5; Tropical Hygiene, three
months, £5. Instruction in the last three
courses is given at the C’wealth School of
Public Health and Tropical Medicine.
* * 1 *
When was the N.S.W. Advisory Council of
Education appointed, what are its functions
and whom do its members represent? —4B2l.
It was appointed by the Minister for Edu-
cation in 1934, and given statutory authority in
terms of the Public Instruction and University
(Amendment) Act, 1936. The functions of the
council are to report on such matters con-
nected with public education as may be re-
ferred by the Minister and to advise him on
matters connected with public education in
the State. The council consists of the vice-
chancellor of Sydney University, the members
of the Board of Secondary School Studies,
one representative of each Technical Education
Advisory Council, the president of the N.S.W.
Public School Teachers’ Federation, the director
of the Conservatorium of Music, the appren-
ticeship commissioner, and 10 members
appointed by the Governor, of whom two are
selected to represent trade unions and one to
represent Roman Catholic schools.
Does Anybody Know?
Biographical details concerning Guy Eden,
author of Bush Ballads and Other Verses, pub-
lished by Sisley, London, 1907? —4772.
Brief Answers.
0.J.E.: The verse appeared in The Bulle-
tin of December 12, 1912.... A.S.: Write
M. B. Welch, Senior Research Officer, Division
of Wood Technology, N.S.W. Forestry Commis-
sion, 96 Harrington-street, Sydney... .E.B. :
(1) Canada financed all the operations con-
nected with her participation in the Great War,
1914-18. In addition to supplying kit and
rations, 746,000,000 dollars was spent in pay
and allowances, 30,500,000 dollars on ocean
transport and 45,400,000 dollars on land trans-
port. (2) War expenditures of the Canadian
Government for the years affected by the war
were: 1915, 60,750,476 dollars; 1916,
166,197,755 dollars; 1917, 306,488,815 dollars;
1918, 343,836,802 dollars; 1919, 446,519,440
dollars; and 1920, 346,612,955 dollars
1.T.: No record of that player with N.S.W.
Rugby Union in representative matches; also,
cannot trace his boxing career... .A.R.M.:
G. O. Allen captained the 1936-37 English XI
in Australia in five Test matches, all of which
were played without a time limit... .S.P.:
The “Crown of Thorns” shrub is Euphorbia
splendens, and should be grown in a warm
corner... .R.J.T.: Employees engaged in the
rural industry mentioned are not covered by the
terms of any N.S.W. industrial award. There is a
possibility, however, that a Federal award will
apply. Write to the Deputy Industrial Regis-
trar, Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
Arbitration, Court House, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
R.R.: Second-hand booksellers sell it
at 15s A.A.: Unable to find evidence
that police were sent from Vic. to Broken
Hill (N.S.W.) during a strike. In 1892 and
1909 N.S.W. police were called in, and
in 1917 police were sent from S.A
W.N.V.: (1) Assuming that no part of the
services in respect of which the pension will
be payable were rendered in Australia, the
recipient will not be liable for State income
tax or special income tax, and not liable to
Federal income tax provided tax has been paid
thereon in England. If no tax is payable in
England the amount of the pension, expressed
in Australian currency, would be subject to
Federal tax. (2) Assuming that the £275 in
question is sterling the amount of Federal
tax payable, based on the rates operating for
the year ended June 30, 1938, would be ,
£2 os. Id. (3) The liability of the pension
to tax may be affected by subsequent amend-
ments to the Income Tax Acts... .N.A.M.:
Rules for Compositors and Readers at the
University Press, Oxford (4s. Id. posted), and
Collins’s Authors and Printers’ Dictionary (4s.
10s. posted); from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .T.M.1.: The snake described is
the red-naped or diadem snake (Pseude-
laps diademd). This is a venomous species,
but on account of its small size may
be regarded as practically harmless H.Z. :
Section 45AL of the Australian Soldiers’ Re-
patriation Act stipulates that a service pension
shall be payable only to a bona fide resident
of the Commonwealth, provided that, in any
case where a service pensioner is absent from
the Commonwealth and, in the opinion of the
Repatriation Commission, his absence is of a
temporary nature, the Commission may con-
tinue, for a period not exceeding six months,
payment of the service pension to the pen-
sioner during his absence... .F.M.H.: (1)
There are no red retriever dogs. (2) and (3)
See David Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney,
whose advice is free to Bulletin readers. (4)
He should be allowed freedom on the premises
practically all day and taken for a walk of
at least one-hour duration twice daily. (5)
Minimum food allowance is |oz. per pound
weight of d0g....E.H.: Use a cement-base
paint such as Boncote, available from Swan’s,
Ltd., Elizabeth-street, Sydney, or Rencote,
available from Dickson, Primer and Co., 73
Day-street,Sydney....J.C.B.: Write Department
of Agriculture, Melbourne... .G. 8.: Get in
touch with the Deputy Commissioner, Repatria-
tion Commission, Sydney... .T.S.A.: Kings-
ford Smith flew a Lockheed Affair on his second
trans-Pacific flight from Brisbane to Oaklands,
California... .R.S.: Correct version is “Si nous
n’avions point de defauts, nous ne prendrions
pas tant de plaisir a en remarquer dans les
autres.” It was written by La Rochefoucauld,
and, translated, reads; “If we had no faults,
we should not take so much pleasure in notic-
ing them in others L.F.: (1) T. E. Spencer’s
How McDougall Topped the Score was pub-
lished by the N-S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney,
in 1906. (2) The same firm published his
Budgeree Ballads in 1908. (3) His Why
Doherty Died was a second edition of Bud-
geree Ballads under a new name. (4) W. T.
Goodge’s Hits! Skits! and Jingles! was pub-
lished by The Bulletin in 1899 J.M.C.:
My Reminiscences, by George Reid (second-
hand, 10s. 6d.), and Alfred Deakin, by Walter
Murdoch (12s. 6d.), from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .E.T.8.: Get in touch with P. F.
Schroeder and Son, 48 Chippen-street, Red-
fern (N.S.W.) J.D.: (1) Rates vary from
2£d. to 44d. per line according to page of
appearance, size of type and width of column.
(2) No limitation; success depends upon suita-
bility. (3) A survey of the paper will
indicate editorial requirements.... W.D.8.:
Write C. J. V. Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street,
Leichhardt (N.S.W.) H.L.: Get in touch
with the District Naval Officer, Naval Staff
Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff (N.S.W.) F.C.:
Amounts raised in Australia during the Great
War (1914-18) for patriotic funds have been esti-
mated as: N.S.W. £4,911,453, Vic. £3,294,273,
Q’land £2,302,970, S.A. £1,794,248, W.A.
£1,188,650, Tas. £310,707. The sums given
are those raised in money. It has not been
attempted to estimate the total value of gifts
in kind. Further particulars will be found
in Vol. II of the Official History of Australia
in the War of 1914-18. .. .H.A.J.: Boronga
means “a big waterhole”; Carawatha, “pine
trees”; Coolah, “a junction”; Glenora,
‘‘eagle”; Inglebar, “crayfish hole”; Marayong,
“emu”; Meemar, “star”; Moonya, “dwelling” ;
Murrobo, “thunder”; Piallaway, “cracked
mussel-shell”; Pucawan, “native bear”; Tar-
coola, “river bend”; Toolijooa, “home of.
emus”; Wilruna, “sunset.” All are N.S.W.
abo. place-names.


vj AN/ A
Bali —Singapore
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes —•
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901
mm
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON. AUCKLAND
M
>.%£'VV^
.
■
CiS2>
*g§& :
Kojgl
OUTDOORS
Every changing
mood of nature is
an invitation to
filming in Koda-
chrome. Once you
start using Koda-
chrome you’ll dis-
cover how truly
colourful the world
is and how your
appreciation of that
colour grows with
your filming of it.
From sunrise to
sunset, your Koda-
chrome - loaded
Cine - Kodak can
catch every hue and
tone,
INDOORS
A special kind of
Kqd achrome
Type A is avail
able for indoor
work. It is speci-
ally colour balanced
for use by Photo-
flood light.
A New Thrill in Life
This exclusive Kodak colour process
gives you no mere illusion of colour,
but the real thing full-bodied and
brilliant, or soft and subtle. It's
colour as you wanted it together
with all the action of life itself l
Let us demonstrate.
Of all Cine-Kodak Dealers and
KODAK (A/asia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Rockhampton, Cairns, New-
castle, Ballarat.
NATURAL COLOUR
MOVIES
I
J
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.P.: An echo of Keats D. 0.: Try it
elsewhere... .A.H.8.: A thought, but you ex-
press it feebly... .8.A.G.: Do away with those
“dids” and “doths”. N.F.: “Bacchian
Soliloquy” staggering back T.H.H.: Pro-
mising, but it’s no recommendation that it
was dashed off in 10 minutes C.S.: Cheer
up T.E.McC.: Try “The Prodigal’s Re-
turn” on a religious paper... .G. 8.: A weak
finish N.K.: “The Cat” needs feeding
J.W.: Trite as the title... .8.W.: Presum-
ably it means something, but it doesn’t seem
to G.8.R.: “Six Per Cent.” won’t pay any-
thing like that... .K.T.C.: Heartening to hear
that “this is the only yarn I’ll ever write”
8.T.5.: Those “unusual ideas” are twopence
a dozen... .F.8.A.: The sub-editorial pencil
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
will not blemish “Anne’s Good Record”
C.F.P.: That has been the first effort of count-
less other amateurs... .8.F.L.: It’s incorrigible.
C.P.R.: “The Lost Lode” had best re-
main lost 8.G.L.: What made you think of
“Riparian Ruminations”? ... .N.T.: Have you
ever seen an abo.? ... .H.8.R.: “Crestfallen”
should be 8.N.A.: The point eludes u 5....
J.R.C.: Can surely promise not to publish
anything else like that... .H.F.1.: An amazing
batch of literary mistakes... .L.T.C.: You’re
still a long way short of publication standard.
. ...M.T.F.; We’re hardened to the likes of
“Coquette” Couldn’t you let just
one week pass without sending in that kind of
thing? J.R.V.: A little more action might
put it across H.T.C.: You’re very excited
about something 8.L.E.: Yes, the law plays
some queer tricks, but none so queer as those.
L.D.Y.: Interest too local F. 8.5.:
Neither funny nor interesting 8.D.P.: “I
have several more stories in this vein which
I would like to deliver personally.” You do
so at your own risk G.R.L.: Not interested
in African jungle romances 5.C.8.: They
come our way in hundreds 8.8. E.: Plot
has whiskers, and the style died with the Boer
War 8.R.E.: You don’t say much in 7000
words V.R.: Warmer C.D.L.: Well,
that’s another murdering prospector out of the
way F.N.: Have you ever tried knitting?
S.L.A.: Cut the sketch and try again
H.P.R., J.D.8., F.R., H.T.P. and D.D.: Not
here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.N.: Dumped the crumpled pair perpetrated
in violet ink R.S.C.: Sixpence wasted in
stamps, not to mention the paper and ink
M.D.: The drunk and the milkman are going
the way of a thousand comrades P.D.:
Correct enough artistically, but there’s not a
laugh in any of them M.F.: Suggestions
for drawings are welcomed and paid for if
acceptable; they need not be accompanied by
any drawing 8.5. L.: A dyspeptic brand of
humor and a colorless drawing M.T.: Try
us with something original W.C.: So
that old ’un is still doing the rounds E.P.:
Let him send us some of his own work; can’t
judge from copies... .A. 8.: The nag made us
think of the wooden horse of Troy... .J.D.:
A Christmas-card drawing and a mid-Victorian
chestnut S.A.: Large and untidy batch of
misfits was soon outed W.N.: We notice
that our friend the plumber is still blundering
into the bathroom at the wrong moment
L.W.: It didn’t suit... .A.J.: Never mind,
others have dreams like that, too 8.W.:
Shows vigor, but lines are misdirected
T.M.A.: Still in the unacceptable class
P.D.: The lady and gent, have stepped out of
an old-fashioned comic postcard F.L-G.:
The snake passed muster but not the kooka-
burra or the weird cove with the gun
J.C.H.: A fair sketch in the rough; skill may
come with practice, so study hard E.V.:
The trifle you threw us was thrown out
G.L.: You are the makings of an excellent
stonemason... .NJ.C.: The subject’s been
overdone.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Tom Challen the young Melbourne
artist, has made’ good in London, Start-
ing out with the desire to be a painter,
he paid for his tuition at the National
Gallery school by playing the piano in
theatre orchestras. The young man landed
in London just in time to fill the gap
left on the “Daily Herald” by the
death of Will Dyson. Then he got the
jobs of cartoonist for the “Sunday Pic-
tonal” and “Socialist Tribune.” Within
less than a year his cartoons have become
almost as famous as Dyson’s, though he
regards them as merely bread and butter
service to his real activity, portrait paint-
service iu mt, y,
in §- * *
* , /r , ,
“S.”: “Robin Hyde (B. 6/9/39)
passed out in a London flat from
benzedrine poisoning. Her privations
in China had overtaxed her strength
and, though she had a few pounds
in the bank and M.L.’s High Com-
missioner was making arrangements
for her to go home, she was
worried about money. She had
written a number of prose works, of
which her just-published account of the
Odyssey that led to her death is easily
the best, but M.L. will chiefly remember
her for her poetry, vivid, colorful, sing-
ing verse with an undertone of rare
power. A sample from “Joseph’s Lilies,”
the last poem she sent to The Bulletin :
But when they took their way with Him,
The lewd and treacherous of mirth,
Whose eyes have lost the look of sky,
Whose feet have lost the grip of earth,
I prayed by every power of bark,
Th P ewoodshould y blossom ’neath His cheek,
The bough be gentle to His hap,
And a springing wild-rose stay with Him,
Entwined and wrought through bloody dark.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: Now that Russia
has played the traitor, can one hope
, , y ... , ~ ,
that there will be some discouragement
to the enthusiasts for the (so-called) Rus-
Sian ballet? There can be no objection
to the athletic exercise; barring, perhaps,
its stained-glass-window attitudes. But
one does object to its being elevated in
many quarters into something very like
a religion; also to the silly convention
that good British or Australian dancers
must call themselves Ipushyouova or
Serge Pantz before they can get a chance.
V * * . *
“C.R.”: The plan for Jew.sh settlements
in the Ktmberleys calls to m,nd tha
a similar method was proposed to deal
with the influx of refugees from Belgium
which was expected in 1914. The same
claims were made for its prospects, and
the same appeals were made to the
patriotism of Australians. If a few thou-
sand city-bred Belgians had been dumped
on the land, nothing is surer than that
they would have been abandoned when
the patriotic fever had subsided. The
Indian Army officers who put the money
they got from the sale of their commis-
sions into farms in the very much more
habitable Victorian Mallee might be able
to give Dr. Steinberg some information
about it, if he thinks the Australian re-
luctance to accommodate his people is
another manifestation of racial prejudice.
* * . * * .
Lao-dah : I was in England during
the fabulous “passage of the Russian
army.” The phantoms landed at several
ports in Scotland, appeared simul-
taneously on the same day in English
counties as far apart as Sussex and Corn-
wall, and finally vanished into thin air
somewhere in the vicinity of Bourne-
mouth. Their strength, physical appear-
ance, spirit and quaint Slav habits were
discussed, and sufficient material was pro-
vided for any newspaper’s military expert
to base a calculation on the effect the
spooks would produce when they were
ready to be launched at the enemy.
j was hospital at the time. The Cock-
ney youth who came daily, to massage
me had seen shuttered trains standing
at a railway station, lifted a blind,
peeped inside and spotted bearded Mus-
covites arrayed in the uniforms made
familiar to him by the photos, in his illus-
trated daily. Nobody ever discovered
how the story originated,
* * * *
. „ _ . , . c . . £
E 1 v - J °“ o£ the manifestations of
Ihis war has been a certain boorishness
ln disposing of Ambassadors. In 1914
Von Jagow and Goschen said good-byes
with a scrupulous and regretful courtesy,
In Austria De Bunsen and Berchtold
“parted with sincere regret. I begged H.E.
to present my profound respects to the
Emperor Francis Joseph with an expres-
sion of my hope that he would pass
through these sad times with unimpaired
health and strength.” Then the ladies of
the Austrian Foreign Office called on the
ladies of the British Embassy, and when
the British party left for the Swiss border
they were “left in no doubt that the
Austro-Hungarian Government desired
that the journey should be performed
under the most comfortable conditions
possible.”
* * * * *
“F.S.”: Musicians really, interested in
music would agree, if they were left
alone, with the dictum of Malcolm Sar-
gent, who, when asked whether he would
continue to play German music, said
there was no such thing as German music
or British music: there was only good
music and bad music. Unfortunately, the
musical people aren’t half as influential
in Melbourne as the unmusical. In the
last war sundry society ladies announced
their patriotic intention of banning Ger-
man music. The leading musician of the
day asked them: “What music will you
play, then?” They started a British Music
Society; and British music became a
symbol for boredom and political preju-
dice. It was years before it recovered
from the setback the patriots gave it.


sm
§
=3s
£
Both the hall and the stair
way belonged to the '9o’s
m
m
m
m
*
The walls were stained wood
. . . dingy . . . depressing!
85
"A nondescript hall has the same effect as a shabby suit . . . yet it's surprising
how many people neglect the entrance to their home. I've done quite a lot
of hall-modernising jobs lately, using Cane-ite .'. . the white-ant-proofed, easy-
to-work insulating board. With Cane-ite (which is made in handy sized Ivory
and Natural Boards of just the right thicknesses) even the most out-of-date
hall or any other room, for that matter can be made as modern as the
moment, at very little cost . . . gnd no structural alterations are necessary."
Builder Brown . . t
Builder Brown—and all other builders
—know the value, also, of Masonite
. . "THE WONDER BOARDS OF 1000
USES" . the non-splintering, grain-
less, non-warping boards which have
such amazing versatility.
m M
E-ITE
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)*
Please send me sample and literature on □ CANE-ITE □ MASONITE.
NAME
ADDRESS
3-27-9
% Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. CA9-9
MT»I
MAIL THIS
UPON TO-DAY
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE INVESTOR AND THE CRISIS.
HOW WARS ARE FINANCED.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
New Guinea Goes to War
“Kaloa”: New Guinea joined in the
war quietly. The Administrator returned
from a tour of Madang and the Sepik dis-
tricts in time to hear about the signing
of the Russian-German pact. Nothing
seemed to happen except the usual ser-
vice transfers, the usual cricket and the
usual vulcanological report (“The slopes
of the embayment have been subject to
minor landslides, exposing several small
fumaroles”).
Otherwise, the only sign of energy was
the ebullition in the local paper of one
who wished to amalgamate all New
Guinea’s many associations:
I would that all the associations had a
president blessed with the red hair, intes-
tinal fortitude and get-together spirit of
“Blue” Allan. Then, I firmly believe, we
would get up on our own hind, legs and
go out after what we want and land home
with the bacon. What about giving it a
fly, Diggers?
September 1 came with apparently no
change to disturb the calm of the Man-
date ; but on September 4 the Rabaul s
“Times” issued a “special” about the size
of a pocket handkerchief —“War De-
clared by Britain, France, Australia and
New Zealand.” At the same time, official
gazettes announced that Australia “and,
of course, its Territories, including New
Guinea,” were in a state of war.
The Legislative Council, opening its
eleventh session, paused long enough to
call for 420 military volunteers. It is
certain that, however much the Digger
may be pushed aside by recruiting
authorities in- the South, the old-timer
A.I.F. man of the North, who has been
perspiring among the gouriers for the last
20 years, will’form the first line of Aus-
tralasian defence just below the Equator.
For obvious reasons, a European
volunteer police force will be added to
the existing white-officered native force.'
The Administrator remarked that the
question of enemy aliens was a “diffi-
culty,” but that instructions would soon
be issued. They are all to be registered.
After that, Parliament turned to the
burning question of whether another com-
mittee could not be appointed to recon-
sider the route of the Morobe goldfields
road. The Council decided against it, and
was then free to devote itself for the rest
of its meeting to what Rabaul Parlia-
mentary argot calls “routine business.”
What’s a war in a country where Par-
liament in two days can raise an army,
pass the Budget, an appropriation ordi-
nance and 23 other bills amending every-
thing under the sun?
, There was no excitement and no need
apparently for the Government’s injunc-
tion to thq- populace to “remain calm.”
The only inhabitants who were not calm
were the usual midnight crop of over-
turning native lorry drivers and a loyal
subject who painted a large green swas-
tika on the door of one of Rabaul’s most
anti-Nazi Teutons.
“Titre”: Last month, Queensland's
export quota of sugax for the new season
was fixed at 415,612-long tons. Under
the war-purchase scheme it is likely to
be considerably more. The British Gov-
ernment appointed a Sugar Control Board
which immediately requisitioned all pur-
chases made by private firms, including
export sugar, ownership of which is
vested 1 in the Queensland Government.
The price has been established at £7 10s.
a ton, .96 polarisation, c.i.f., plus prefer-
ence,; which is approximately £2 per ton
'better than last year. The Queensland
Government will immediately acquire
50,000 tons of extra sugar for Britain at
export price, which will extend the cut-
ting.season and relieve a lot of growers
with standover cane. In Brisbane retail
price of sugar will remain at 4d.
* * * *
“Eungella”: Mackay’s new million-
pound harbor is not so popular as’ it was
before its christening by Forgan Smith
on August 26. The wharfies celebrated
by refusing to load sugar in the new
haven unless all the demands which they
have before the Arbitration Court, and
some more, are met. So ships have gone
on loading from tenders out at sea and
the Harbor Board has been losing £lOOO
a day on its empty basin. Canegrowers,.
on whose shoulders the cost of the harbor
will fall, are, however, a determined lot.
In 1928 when wharfies held them up they
broke the strike with a threat to load the
ships themselves. And they have now
made it clear that they will repeat the
performance if the strike continues after
the Arbitration Court has given its re-
served decision on the dispute.
* * * *
“Sambio”: Papua, on September 6,
withdrew from sale its series of air-mail
stamps commemorating the Territory’s
jubilee. A new set was issued the same
day—2d., 3d., 5d., Bd. and Is. The de-
sign comprises a picture gallery in which
the King, a canoe and a D.H. 86 all
figure. There are also some Papuan orna-
ments for fill-up. The last issues brought
in profits which ran into five figures. It
makes me sigh for lost opportunities.
What could not a heady cove have made
out of surcharged German New Guineas
during the last bit of strife if the present
stamp-buying public had existed?
* * * c
“Countess-street”: After years of par-
tial eclipse, Brisbane’s oldest railway sta-
tion is to come into its own again. For
many years Roma-street, named after the
Greek wife of Queensland’s first Gov-
ernor, was treated as a goods depot
through which passenger trains passed
with their heads in the air, even though
Railway Department headquarters were
grouped around it. In the last year or
two, there has been a great shifting of
the accessories of the old place from
which all the pioneering of the south-west
was done. Now a new station is to be
built. When it is finished next year, all*
long-distance traffic will be diverted en-
tirely from Central, north-bound trains
passing through the Normanby loop and
missing the city altogether. Central will
become the Wynyard of Brisbane, de-
voted entirely to suburban traffic.
* * * *
Queensland University and the blind
institutions have had welcome gifts
through the will of I. S. Feehan, the Vic-
torian squatter-sportsman who was for
long the owner of Donor’s Hill in the
Gulf Country. The University gets
£5OOO and the blind £lOOO.
#'* * $
“Dick Tafone”: One of the most
attractive roads in S. Queensland is—or
was —the Anzac Memorial Drive between
Petrie'and Redcliffe. Its charm lay in the
trees which bordered it on each side,
selected for their beauty of shape, foli-
age or flowers, paid for by public sub-
scription, and dedicated as a living
' memorial to Australians who laid down
their lives in 1914-18. Now, with an-
other world-catastrophe calling for yet
more Australian lives and bodies, the
drive is a mutilated, battered travesty of
its former self, the memorial trees are
hacked, torn and disfigured for miles.
Do not rush hastily to, the conclusion
that this brutal spoiling of a lovely thing,
this insulting expression of contempt for
the memories of those who died for our
country,’is the work of Nazidom, or even
of criminal lunatics. It merely is the
Brisbane City Council and Electricity
Commission putting through an electric
power and light line. A few silly damn’
trees can’t stand in the way of that!
* * * *
“Clayfield”: I wonder if an Australian
sheriff has ever before had to face the
problems with 1 which Queensland legal
authorities are trying to deal in the cases
of the 37 men charged with having in-
vaded Parliament House. Jurymen sum-
moned number 600. Their presence will
cost £6OO a day, and the Supreme Court
staff is going greyheaded trying to find a
space big enough and dignified enough
in which to call “challenge.” The
Supreme Court quadrangle was sug-
gested ; but it will hold only 400.
* * * *
“Murray” : Few Australians realise the
extent to which Torresylslanders , govern
themselves... Each year self-government
is increasing .the policy. A ; hew step is
the removal of the "local half-caste from
the jurisdiction of the Abo. Protection
Department; and a bill giving islanders
the right to elect councils to manage their
purely domestic affairs has been intro-
duced in Queensland Parliament. All
natives over 18 will have the vote, and
the councils will collect rates and taxes
and spend them.
* * *
“Attack”: Tennant Creek is having a
bit of excitement through the discovery
of gold in the main street. It isn’t the
first time this sort of thing has happened.
I remember in the fevered days of the
Dee Rush in 1903 a sudden burst of
enthusiasm in Mt. Morgan (C.Q.) when
all sorts of places were pegged out. The
main street survived only through the
illegal efforts of a town ganger armed
with a large pick. “The lor!” he yelled,
waving his weapon at eager miner’s-right
holders. “Begorra, here’s the lor. Taste
it will ye, and be wilcome.” There was
some confusion, it being washing day,
when a lot of backyards were absorbed
into the hunting ground. But when an
enterprising digger tried to peg out the
Champion pub the town thought it was
going too far. There must have been a
dozen other rushes at the time, all abor-
tive except one. That was a swoop on
a Chinese garden in which it was rumored
that enough sly grog to fill the Big Dam
had been planted. Rumor for once
proved true. A spring,! of the choicest
moonshine was struck in a ship’s tank
under Ah Foo’s hut.
* # * *
“X.T.”: Strange institutions, Govern-
ments. N.T. law and police practice in-
herit their traditions from S.A. But the
other day, when Blain asked Perkins in
the House whether N.T. 1 policemen had
any training before joining the force,
the Minister replied that they did, indeed
—in N. S.: Wales. . .Where, of course,
there are no blacks, outback, nor any
S. Australian law.
* * * *
“Gain”: New Guinea missions are in
for a trying time. Out of 682 non-indi-
genous missionaries 412 are Germans, 96
British, 40 Americans, 50 Dutch. One
concern has 142 Germans, 25 Dutch, 12
British, three Poles, three Czechs and five
French on the staff. Another has 94
Germany, five Poles,-nine Austrians and
no British. The largest holds over. 30,000
acres of land, has 490 places of worship,
90, f 6OO adherents and 380 ; village schools.
Out of a total population of 5900 within
the Territory there are 3329 British, 1525
Chinese and 469 Germans (increase last
year 74),-the balance being made'up of
over 20 other races. It should be a good
place to raise an argument, and there are
members of the half-caste population who
should have no difficulty in starting a
debate on international affairs single-
handed. Among those listed are:British-
native-German-native, r Chinese - native-
German-native, Lord Howe Islapder-
German-native, Filipino-German-native
and German-Austrian-native. ■ .•■■■>
** • *
“Murray”: Under the impact of
modern methods, leprpsy;is ceasing to
be the incurable horror "it once was.
Within the past fortnight, a , batch of
natives and half-castes have been released
from Darwin’s leprosarium with provi-
sional clean bills of health. They will
be kept under observation, but the
chances are that they are cured. Many
a man is now walking about among his
fellows who a few years ago would have
been under sentence, of slow and terrible
death.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
n
n
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
VM* .
ir ‘
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Merino and Crossbred.
“Ghanam”: While nowadays there are
probably considerably more crossbred
clips offered, it is curious to note that,
despite the development of the lamb in-
dustry, the percentage of merino wool
shorn in Australia has been steadily in-
creasing.
When the last war broke out, 90 p.c.
of the wool grown in N. S. Wales and 79
p.c. of that in the Commonwealth was
merino. In 1919, 69 p.c. of N.S.W. wool
was merino and only 66 p.c. for the whole
of Australia.
Dalgety’s Annual Wool Review
remarks:
The figures show how crossbred produc-
tion was assisted by the more or less arti-
ficial basis created by the Wool Appraise-
ment Scheme during the World War, and
how the proportion of crossbred produced
decreased when normal marketing was re-
verted to and crossbred wool had to stand
on its own merits.
It would, perhaps, be truer to say
“when the demand for crossbreds fell
with the demand for uniform and coarser
army cloths.” In any case, there is n 6
doubt that wool quality and sheep purity
will have to be watched even more closely
this war than last, more especially as
there is likely to be an unlimited de-
mand for meat and with it an added
temptation to combine the mutton and
wool businesses.
Last year, Commonwealth wool was
84 p.c. merino, as it had been in the pre-
vious two years. Queensland for 12 years
past has been 100 p.c. merino. In N. S.
Wales the figure is 91 p.c. —slightly higher
than in 1913-14. Victoria stands at 59
p.c. as against 49 p.c. 25 years ago. West-
ralia has ceased to be the 100 p.c. merino
State it was before 1914. It got back to
98 p.c. just before the depression, but
sub. clover and lambs have brought its
proportion down to 94 p.c.
Tasmania, which 25 years ago was the
chief source for the mainland of new
merino strains, now shows a serious de-
cline. Its climate makes it a lamb-
export State ; more and more English
breeds are creeping in, and now only
24 p.c. of wool produced is of the breed
which Australia has made her own.
In Maoriland, 32 p.c. of wool is cross-
bred ; during the last war the figure was
as high as 48 p.c.
Though crossbreds are in heavy de-
mand during a war, superior prices are
an effective incentive to merino produc-
tion in normal times. In December, 1914,
merino 70’s super tops could command
only 26d. and 60’s ordinary 24d. So 58’s
comeback supers at 28d. were 2d. dearer
than 70's supers, which were only on the
same level with 56’s average ; and 50’s
average were worth id. more than 60’s
supers. Against the 70’s supers price of
26d., 46’s average were bringing 21id.
Contrast these figures with December,
1938, when 70’s supers brought 27d., 58’s
comeback 2lid. and 46’s averaged only
14id.
Crossbred wool offered this season in
the Commonwealth will probably total
round 500,000 bales, of which over three-
fifths will come from Victoria and more
than one-fifth from N.S.W., the other
four States providing about 70,000 bales.
Small Crossbred Clips.
“Ovis”: Small mixed crossbred clips
are particularly difficult to handle,
yet with the increase in lamb-breeding
they become more common every season.
The main essential with crossbred wool
is the gauge of fibre, but color, condition
and staple length also count heavily.
Grades are restricted in a small clip,
but there is usually a wide quality range
between fleece and fleece. Grading a
small clip along the same lines as a large
clip will in many cases produce a museum
of star lots.
Work on a fineness basis, remembering
that between counts there is a wide varia-
“Can y’ spare ’alf a pint, Mrs. ’ Arris ?”
tion of prices and that the inclusion of
a little coarse-fibred wool among higher
counts may mean pence per pound.
Skirt fleeces lightly.
All flocks —ewes, wethers, etc. —should
be lumped under one general heading.
In a clip of, say, 65 to 80 bales, class-
ing might roughly be as follows: Counts
60/64’s, if well grown and good to the
eye, might go to “AAA comeback” ; good
58’s would be “AA comeback” ; healthy,
even-length 56/58’s range might be
classed under “super-crossbred” ; shorter
staple, less attractive wool in the same
range will make “AAA crossbred.”
Counts round 50’s are “AA crossbred,”
if the wool is good and even ; strong
44/46’s, “A crossbred” ; while wool in
the 46/50’s range, overheavy in condition,
short and dull, would be relegated to
“crossbred.”
In still smaller clips, the last five lines
or the “super,” “AAA,” “AA” and “A”
should be enough to cover all needs.
The principle is always the same —
fineness.
Zebu Cattle Possibilities.
From F. H. Finch, of Argentina:
“Mookau” (B. 23 /8 / ’39) mentioned
that I had become a convert to the idea
of crossing zebu cattle with Queensland
herds, but did not make- my position
quite clear. All supporters of the zebu
cross recognise that, in regions where Eng-
lish cattle can be raised, it would be
absurd to cross them with the Indian
breed.
I understand that in the lowlands of
Queensland and the N.T. there are vast
areas of grasslands on which English
cattle deteriorate and degenerate. In
these districts I consider that the zebu
cross will prove more profitable and eco-
nomical than the pure Shorthorn, Here-
ford, Polled Angus, Devon or Sussex.
During a recent visit to Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.), I saw a line of four-five-year-
old Shorthorn steers which had been
bred on the Barkly Tableland (N.T.).
They were big, well-grown animals with
skeletons strong enough to carry all the
meat they would ever grow. It would
be a mistake to introduce the zebu into
districts capable of producing such steers
as those from Brunette Downs.
The King Ranch, owned by the Kle-
berg family in Texas, has 1,250,000 acres
and is the biggest in U.S.A. They run
between 80,000 and 100,000 head of
cattle. Over 20 years ago this ranch had
two herds of approximately 40,000 head
each of pure-bred Shorthorns and pure-
bred Herefords, each breed kept entirely
apart. In spite of the fact that the best
bulls were bought each year the herds
deteriorated —young stock developed
poorly and slowly, calving returns were
low and there was heavy mortality.
A gift zebu bull tried on a lot of old
cull cows sired about 120 calves. Since
then a young Kleberg, specially trained,
has evolved a lovely breed of cattle, the
Santa Gertrudis, a fixed type with three-
eighths zebu blood and five-eighths Short-
horn.
These cattle are all deep cherry-red.
They show something of the zebu blood
in the shape of their ears, horns, dewlap
and belly line, are big and strong, grand
rustlers in light country, and specially
good mothers.
I have never seen anywhere such
splendid development of the young stock
on light grass and scrub country as 1 saw
on the King Ranch. The heifers are put
into service at two years old, calve at
three and rear beautiful calves while
maintaining their own good condition.
The Santa Gertrudis cattle have no
trace of the zebu hump, and their meat is
just as good as the best English beef. The
Klebergs are now crossing their Here-
fords on the same lines.
I manage a herd of 30,000 head of
good quality Hereford cattle in n.-e,
Argentina, and for the last four years or
so have noticed the same degeneration
setting in as the Klebergs saw in their
stock 20-odd years ago. I consider that
the only remedy in this case is to intro-
duce zebu blood. Last year we bought
some Santa Gertrudis crossbred bulls,
and my experience to date is that they
remain strong under adverse conditions —
great heat and humidity, flies and ticks
—which knock the Hereford bulls to
pieces.
Our company has a place in S.
Rhodesia. Here, too, we have recently
found the same deterioration. Though
the two herds have been graded up to
almost pure Sussex and P. Angus, it has
been decided to revert to the Afrikander
bulls.
Dr. R. B. Kelley at Penrith (N.S.W.)
is working with various people in Queens-
land who are conducting the zebu cross-
ing experiments under his direction. In
the meantime, tropical and sub-tropical
cattle-raisers whose stock is going back
should read his pamphlet on “Zebu
(Brahman) Cross Cattle and Their Possi-
bilities in N. Australia,” published by the
C.S. and I.R.
Pigs Is Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Pigbreeding is an
ideal war-time investment. Pig meat
carries plenty of warming fat, and War
Offices do not bother so much about
standards as peace-time buyers. Bacon
can be reckoned on to carry better than
other meats.
The S. Australian Government's pig
expert announces that there is “now an


OFFICER’S BOOTS
STANDARD MILITARY PATTERN
47/6 Per Pair
• HIGH MILITARY LEG
• HEAVY DOUBLE
SOLE
• WATER - RESISTING
OOZE CALF UPPER
• WATERPROOF
TONGUE
• CAL F-L I N E D
THROUGHOUT
Write for a Catalogue of
our stock of Country
Boots and Shoes.
: • '
m
m
8942.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
11
I •
JOHN DANKS & SON f>ty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone: CB3BO.
’Phone: M 6505,
JTuTfy'ctZlefz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
mm
o
&
%p6^
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils
and their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or
coal tar derivative. Healing, Soothing, Repellent.
NOT SOLUBLE, THEREFORE CANNOT WASH OUT
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
ENDORSED BY LEADING WOOLGROWERS
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY. LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St.,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
W.K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.)PTY. LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St.,
CHIPPENDALE, N. S. WALES.
A SELF-COX TAIN ED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow Hoes Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold—Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
A,
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
ẅ
almost unlimited market in Britain and
there is no need to fear overproduction.”
He says that if the right type is pro-
duced there is no reason why the trade
should not grow till it is equal to the
lamb trade.
The essential factor in the production
of choice bacon pigs is variety of food.
Skim is almost an essential for choice
pigbreeding, and feeding based on grain
is almost certain to result in too fat a
carcass for the ordinary trade. Still,
almost all farm crops from grass up-
wards— wheat, barley, maize, lucerne,
turnips, pumpkins and artichokes (for
which the animals love to forage)—make
good pig-raising provender. With plenty
of grain and green stuff, milk can be
'disregarded from the weaning stage.
Grain and green-stuff porkers and
baconers are a little slower maturing
than those which get a regular milk
ration, but a pig is an ideal vehicle for
marketing grown farm produce.
“Perfect” Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Holdfast, a new variety
evolved by Professor Engledow, of Cam-
bridge, is being hailed in England as a
“perfect” wheat. The professor claims
that the grain is of improved bread-
maker s quality. Another character of
special value is the short, strong straw
which prevents the crop being laid down
by storms.
Australian farmers, however, should
be reminded that in N.S.W. Holdfast was
tested in the field last season at Cowra,
Wagga, Temora and Glen Innes experi-
ment farms. At each centre it made
short, robust straw growth but was too
late in maturity to suit any but table-
land districts, where wheat has ceased to
be an important crop. Susceptibility to
stem rust was also observed.
Hints for the Farm.
“B-gar”: The time to attend to the over-
grown hooves of old sheep is when they
are brought in for shearing. Catch all
the long-toed ones before they enter the
catching pens and trim the hooves well
back, blocking rather than pointing the*
feet. If footrot is present special treat-
ment must be given, trimming being only
a waste of time. While on the job, saw
off ingrowing horns.
“Canbelego”: Provide brood sows with
good grazing from time of mating. At
least six weeks before farrowing, supple-
ment the grazing with lib. to 41b. of
crushed grain daily. If available, give
each sow a gallon of skim-milk every
day. Milk can be replaced with -jib. to
41b. of meat-meal, given in two feeds
daily.
“Mullengah”: Sweet potatoes make
valuable pig feed. To set out roots so
that plants can be raised for spring and
summer planting, dig a trench 6in. to Bin.
deep and 4ft. wide. Put the roots on
the bottom of the trench 3in. to 4in.
apart, and cover with soil. Keep the
soil moist, but not wet. Young plants
should be ready to put out in five to
eight weeks. Good varieties are White
Yam, Yellow Strassburg, Nancy Hall,
Southern Queen and Porto Rico.
“Yeno Ham”: Give scouring weaner
pigs loz. of castor oil, then drench with
4oz. of boiled water. Four hours later
give equal parts boiled water and boiled
separated milk. Decrease the quantity
ol water in each feed, and increase the
milk allowance until the pigs are getting
all separated milk, when a little pollard
can be added.
“Sheepo ’: The worth of the big plain-
bodied merino is exemplified by the
weights cut at some stations in S.A. Mt.
Eba cut 821 bales from 20,000 sheep,
6000 wethers averaging 17flb. a head,
while 5000 summer lambs averaged 94-lb.,
the average for the clip being 15flb. a
head.
“Bungaree”: The day before war was
declared woolpacks were quoted at
3s. 9|d. in Sydney. Two days later the
price jumped to 4s. 6d. ; then Indian jute
merchants declared they could fill no
further orders for Australia, and the price
soared to ss. 6d. At this point Federal
regulations were stretched to declare that
woolpacks were on the list of articles
whose retail price should be that of Aug.
31 3s. — but brokers and agents
answered that they had no packs for sale.
“Mookau”: The requisition prices for
Australian lamb —ex depots—have been
fixed in London as follows: First quality,
under 281 b., 7fd.; 291 b. to 421 b., ;
431 b. to 501 b., ; 511 b. and over, sd.
Second-quality prices will be 7fd. under
281 b. ; the other grades respectively 7d.,
64d. and 4|d. The return to producers
looks satisfactory, but there is some un-
certainty about the cost of delivering to
depots.
“Kyogle”: The cattle tick is at it again
this season along the N.S.W. north
coast. The Federal Tick Commission
has forbidden the movement of cattle on
fever-stricken holdings outside a tick
area. Fifty new dips are to be constructed
immediately—there are 408 more needed,
towards which there will be a half-and-
half grant by the Commonwealth and
N.S.W. of £104,000. In localities not
provided for, subsidies will be- considered
if applications are made by farmers.
The Australian Dairy Board recom-
mended the acceptance of the British
Government’s offer to buy all surplus
Australian butter and cheese manufac-
tured before June 30, 1940. The equal-
isation system will be maintained, and
the contract will be supervised by the
Board and State committees. The mini-
mum prices for unsalted butter after Sep-
tember 13 till further notice were, c.i.f.
and e., salted 117 s. per cwt., unsalted
1195., first-grade salted 1155., unsalted
117 s.
“Zedo”: There is some anxiety about
supplies of potash for fruitgrowers. Pine-
apple growers use large quantities of
heavy potash-content fertiliser —10-6-10
—but reduction is possible with all plants
more than a year old. Citrus are unlikely
to suffer for a season, at least, if they
are confined to phosphoric acid-nitrogen
mixtures. Tomatoes, too, on most soils
do well on six parts super, and one part
amm. sulph. The inland granite-soil
fruit belts along the Queensland border
are all right; they, of course, carry a
heavier percentage of potash than most.
“Old Q.”: I can’t understand why
some attempt isn’t made to acclimatise
the Cape gooseberry south of the
Queensland border. Up North, it springs
up in every clearing and fruits luxuriantly
without help from anybody. Sown, l|oz.
seed will plant an acre. In southern
climes it should do best in a warm spot
planted from a seedbed. Seedlings like
rich start —cover the seed, which is
small, with loam and animal manure
about |in. deep. Give plenty of water,
but gradually harden off by reducing the
supply before transplanting, which should
be done at eight weeks from sprouting.
The plants should be put in rows 4ft.
apart each way, well watered when trans-
ferred and given a topdressing of two
parts super, with one part amm. sulph.
The first lot of fruit should be ripe three
months after transplanting, and harvest-
ing will go on for at least two months,
with returns of up to 2\ tons to the acre
on good land. If well pruned, the plants
will last a couple of seasons. The C.g.
has few diseases —downy mildew is the
worst, and Bordeaux mixture will handle
that. There is usually a good demand
for it for jam-making. On many of the
coastal scrub soils north of Sydney, the
plant should be a commercial success.
“X.T.”: Queensland Agricultural De-
partment has often made reference to the
difference in germination qualities of
hand-shelled and machine-shelled pea-
nuts. The explanation seems to lie in the
injury done by the machine to the outer
skin of the nut, allowing fungi to enter.
Rot follows, which begins in the seed and
cuts the young plant off before it reaches
the soil surface. The only safe way of
using machine-shelled nuts is to give them
a preliminary copper or mercury dusting.
Copper dusts are very effective when
used at the rate of about loz. to 201 b. of
kernels. They are to be preferred to mer-
cury dusts, which need careful handling.
The department estimates that dusting
improves germination of machine-shelled
kernels by 33 1-3 per cent.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are now severe y
sub-edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published will, without
disqualification, be obliged.
The prize is awarded this week to a Grafton (N.S.W.) writer who summons up
memories of bush days in Queensland.
Those Old Bush Days
A quarter of a century ago I lived in
the far-western cattle country in Queens-
land —on the Paroo, Nebine, Warrego,
Condamine and neighboring rivers
when there were paddocks there bigger
than many stations of to-day, and one
mate, a couple of dogs and the stock
and nobody else nearer than the head
station, say 25 to 40 miles away.
With a pack of cards, a trickle of such
cheap editions as Winwood Reade’s Mar-
tyrdom of Man, Carlyle’s Sartor Resar-
tus, More’s Utopia, Bellamy’s Looking
Backward and a few score of other then
popular books, read by candlelight or
fat lamp, and supplemented by the two
latest copies of The Bulletin, brought
out fortnightly by the ration cart, we
were happy.
Once a week or so we’d meet another
human being on our rides, and at inter-
vals of months have a few days at the
station, playing two-up on the river
bank, exchanging books and views,
learning the accordion or some other
one-man instrument, and eating station
tucker. Our worst cares were saddle-
galls, waitawhile bush and rabbit holes.
It was ambition that ruined us. We
wanted to get ahead in the world and
deserted the bush for the cities. Now
we eat expensive foods which never ap-
proach salt mutton and damper washed
down with milkless tea in the sunset glow
by a billabong; listen to performers
whose music never approaches the liquid
beauty of the butcher-bird on a limb or
the melodious piping of the magpies on
the box flats ; strain at bedroom physical
jerks in a vain attempt to keep down the
surplus fat and get back the clean feel
of a liver well exercised by days in the
saddle, and cast longing eyes towards
the days when we were happy and healthy
and eager for life on 255. a week and
rations, in the “stark loneliness” of the
bush.
I met Bill yesterday. He stuck to the
bush. He has his bookshelf filled with
the old favorites, his accordion and a
wireless set, money in the bank which he
does not need, and a look of supreme
content. Heaven to him is sitting on his
heels in the afterglow, dissecting Buckle’s
History of the Universe or arguing the
point over Adam Smith’s Wealth of
Nations. I spent an hour with Bill, and
learned that he has found the Philoso-
pher’s Stone, and is hanging on to it in
spite of the urge of the cities. Here, I
thought, is a lesson for our youth.—
Horseface (N.S.W.).
“Horseface,” the winner, is A. E. Yarra,
Dobie-street, Grafton, N.S.W.
The Fact of War
Up to September 3, 1939, the outlook
of most of us lay sandwiched between
two wars: the last one and the next. The
“next” is now here, and —face it we must.
I refuse to believe that anyone (includ-
ing Hitler) will enjoy this modern con-
flict ; I refuse to believe that average
normal human beings could do otherwise
than thoroughly dislike the idea of war.
Though I don’t for a moment think that
war is a normal activity of mankind,
now that we are involved in this resort to
arms we should face the fact that it is
better to win than to lose. Deplorable
as war is, to have imposed on us the will
of another people is very much worse.
Historians will decide whether we were
talked into this war or not. Undoubtedly
during the past five or six years the
volume of war talk and war writing has
been very considerable. The only fact
that seemed to hamper the commentators
was an inability to forecast the exact
line-up, for they did not really know
who would fight whom, and for what.
There have also been many gruesome
predictions about the lot of the civilian
population in this war —in spite of the
fact that both Spain and China have re-
cently furnished proof of the inability of
aerial bombardment, even with high ex-
plosive and incendiary bombs, to force a
military decision. In spite of continual
air raids on Madrid, Barcelona and
Valencia, none of those cities was re-
duced to ruins. The Japanese subjected
Shanghai to frequent bombardment from
the air for 11 weeks, but it was the old-
fashioned infantry who finally captured
the city. No decisive results have ever
yet followed the bombing of any towns
in any war.
When the time comes, let us hope we
shall be left with sufficient wisdom to
make a decisive peace —a peace that will
really entail peace. As for that gruesome
prediction that this war must put an end
to civilisation, let us banish such a
thought from our minds instantly. Civili-
sation does not consist in material pos-
sessions, nor in mere accessories to the
art of living. God willing, we shall be
wiser after this war than we ever were
before ; and though we may have to learn
the art of doing without a large number
of supposed “wants,” and the means of
gratifying them, we shall ultimately win
through to a nobler and worthier type of
civilisation than we have ever known
before— Ex-Imperial Officer (N.S.W.).
“Croakers”
Already the war has brought forth the
usual crop of croakers who enthusiasti-
cally inform everybody who will listen
that this will be the most terrible war that
has even been, and that the end of the
world will inevitably follow, plus another
class who mournfully insist that “the
British Empire will fall to pieces this
time.”
It is no use reminding them that people
said, these things in 1914, and probably
in 1814, and repeated most of them in
the depression years. They don’t really
believe any of these things will happen,
or want them to, either. The real truth
is that most of them are not very intel-
lectual people who have no special claim
to distinction, and the only way they can
attract a little temporary notoriety is by
making predictions of this kind.
The best way to silence their prognos-
tications is to ask them for a donation
to some worthy cause, or to offer to live
with them as a guest till the end of the
world comes, on the ground that they
won’t need to be troubled with money
matters much longer. The latter plan
acts like a charm in changing the con-
versation. —G. I. L. (Vic.).
Out of Evil?
During the past few years we have
been regaled with statements by H. G.
Wells, University professors and others
that a “next war” would mean the end
of civilisation and the downfall of human-
ity. That war has come, and, like other
wars, it will pass, leaving scars behind
it and broken hearts, but humanity and
civilisation will live on.
It is not war that has ever destroyed a
civilisation, but always an improperly-
used peace given over to indulgence and
immorality, and accompanied by rotten-
ness and decay. Evil as war may be, it
allows no time for decay. To-day the
instruments of death have reached a ter-
rible perfection, and it is conceivable
that this war may be a bloody one, but
the only record of opponents wiping each
other from the face of the earth is the
case of the Kilkenny cats.
Our civilisation may be dealt a severe
blow, but that could do it quite a lot of
good—it was getting lazy. As for our
humanity, it will be put to the test when
this war is over and peace terms are
being discussed. This time there must
be a real peace, based on mutual under-
standing. If the war can achieve that, it
will not have been in vain.
But, at all events, let us give a deaf ear
to the “end-of-civilisation” ranters, who
are the very first to cry “don’t get the
jitters.” —Pip (Vic.).
Economy
Could The Bulletin use one column
of “The Other Fellow’s Mind” every
week to point out actual cases of waste
that must come under the notice of its
readers?
While we are at war economy should
be drilled into every civil and military
servant. Take the Government use of
stationery. Two examples in my letter
box this week are (1) a note about my
telephone written on foolscap paper when
any business house would use a slip
of paper half or even quarter the size,
and (2) a script returned by the A.B.C.
I enclosed a stamped addressed envelope
—foolscap size, postage 4d. A.B.C. sent
a lovely envelope measuring lOin. by Bin.
by registered post at a cost of 9d. Instead
of the usual slip with the printed “re-
grets” there was another sheet of fools-
cap. Although A.B.C. paid the full
registered rate it did not bother to seal
up the envelope.
Waste can take many forms, and it is
not always easily seen. For example,
our artillery is equipped with leather
bandoliers to hold rifle cartridges, but
I have never known an artilleryman to
use his bandolier to hold a live rifle
cartridge. Because it is an article of
equipment surviving from the South
African and earlier wars, too pretty to
be thrown away, no doubt it will be
made and issued to the troops ir this
war. On active service the troops will
use the cotton bandolier in which cart-
ridges are packed and issued.
Officers’ uniforms will be made of
finest barathea —material that the wearers
would never dream of buying in time
of peace. Here again the front-line man
will dress in the uniform of the Digger,
and the pretty dress will be pure waste
from an efficiency point of view.
I bought a sword once for £6 65., but
I would have been wiser to invest in a
knuckleduster —Ploto (N.S.W.).
Another Afternoon Paper
When Sydney, a city of 1,300,000
people, was thirsting for news about the
European situation there was only one
afternoon newspaper to satisfy the pub-
lic. This has been the case in the second
largest white city in the Empire for six
years or more.
In Glasgow, smaller than Sydney,
there are three afternoon papers, all of
which seem to be on a sound financial
basis. In San Francisco and Los Angeles,
cities of approximately the same size,
there are at least , two evening or after-
noon dailies in each city. Hong Kong, a
British colony of about 20,000 Euro-
peans, supports two afternoon papers
and three morning dailies in the English
language.
It seems strange that Sydney business-
men shy off putting their money into a
daily newspaper when such ventures, if
properly handled, can reap enormous
profits. —F. G. (N.S.W.).
Ploughs Before Rifles
Though it would be a grave mistake
to send a single soldier overseas for ser-
vice, every able-bodied man should be
trained for home defence.
The present alignment of the Powers
suggests that we are not in imminent
peril of invasion, even if such could ever
be seriously contemplated by any enemy
force. But, since every British possession
is an outpost of imperial defence, Aus-
tralia should be no less invulnerable than
the strongest link in the imperial chain.
While English authorities implore their
farmers to dig up an extra acre of land,
we have thousands upon thousands of
acres of the most fertile country in the
world quite untouched by a plough. It
seems, therefore, that our most valuable
contribution would not be soldiers, but
essential commodities. Train every avail-
able man for a military emergency first,
and then utilise the man-power to speed
up agricultural production.
Whatever measure of military success
an expeditionary force might accom-
plish would be far outweighed by the
accelerated home production of essential
foodstuffs. Even in this age of mechani-
cal warfare armies still “march on their
stomachs.” — Celt (N.S.W.).
“Nootral”?
I read with appreciation J. Hiram
Sooler’s little poem “Nootral” (B.
13/9/’39). It would have given me con-
siderably more kick if I hadn’t listened
to the news broadcast the night before.
There I learned that Maoriland within a
few hours enlisted 6600 men for service
at home or abroad. Then we were told
by the president of the Chamber of
Manufactures that every man in Aus-
tralia would be in a job, working hard,
and selling his produce to Britain —no
doubt at war-time prices. This .was con-
firmed by Dr. Walker in his talk on
foreign affairs.
Mr. Curtin has declared with a good
deal of emphasis that there will not be
any form of conscription for the defence
of Australia, and that he will also oppose
the dispatch of any expeditionary force.
Mr. Menzies’s first idea was to draft the
militia into camp for 16 days at a time.
So what the hell —as Hiram himself
would say—have we on the Yanks? It’s
true that we have “declared war” on
Germany, and they haven’t, but our
roles are to be identical, to skulk at home
and make money at the expense of the
men who are doing the fighting. They
are depending on Britain even for the
escort across the Atlantic of their own
nationals.
We are cocking snooks at the Germans
in the sure and certain hope that there
are very efficient armies and navies
between us and them. We used to be
told that Australia found her soul at
Anzac. This time we are not in the
market for souls, but are out after the
cash. So why sling off at the Yanks?
They may be neutrals, but we’re not even
that we’re neuters. Fitzwilliam
(N.S.W.).
The Digger
Is it too late to correct the impression
created and fostered by writers who
should know better that the Digger was
a slovenly individual much addicted to
post-leaning' perpetrating 40-year-old
wisecracks to the confusion of his
superiors, and continually using the
filthiest words in or out of the so-called
Australian language? The point that
these writers seem to labor in their
“histories” is that the Digger was defi-
nitely unamenable to discipline, particu-
larly in reference to saluting. The
episode of the Digger and the one-pip
artist, which, by the way, is entirely
mythical, has become in some quarters
a journalistic tradition.
While, with .the exception of the First
Division, whose personnel was largely
composed of Imperial reservists, the
Digger-to-be was only a partly-trained
soldier, the training that he had under-
gone previous to embarkation was suffi-
ciently far advanced to engender self-
respect, which cannot be attained in the
absence of respect for others.
The raw material for the A.I.F. was
drawn from all over the Commonwealth
and from all sections of the community.
Doubtless it contained blokes or persons
who, prior to enlisting, thought that the
outward expression of manhood was to
spit violently on the footpath, call on
the Creator at frequent intervals to
strike them dead, and generally to emu-
late the basket from the bush.
With their preliminary training com-
pleted, the dawning knowledge that the
type of person whom they had formerly
imagined to be a “shrewdie” was merely
an ignorant country bumpkin was at
once a blow to their self-conceit and
the birth of their real manhood. Their
education grew to man-size after they
had had the opportunity of mixing with,
and learning to respect, men of other
races whom they had previously held
in more or less good-natured contempt.
At this stage, saluting was no
longer irksome for two reasons: one,
because they recognised it to be a uni-
form military greeting similar to rais-
ing the hat or waving the hand in civil
life; and, two, because a special mili-
tary order banned saluting either in the
front line or in supports long before the
ribald soldiery of the A.I.F. landed in
Europe. I. wonder if the alleged his-
torians are conversant with the latter fact?
Whilst it is admitted, to a certain ex-
tent, that the Digger was not a parade-
ground soldier, it must be remembered
that most of those good men had gone
west before our arrival; but, training
for training, the Digger would pull his
weight either in front-line work or in
soldierly smartness alongside any troops
who ever sprang to the word “Fix.” —
Bobbie Edzem (N.S.W.).
Market Garden in Central Q.
“R.G.H.’s” (B. 30/8/’39) account of
“facts as they exist” is not a true statement
of affairs in Central Queensland, though I
don’t doubt conditions such as he states
-—a high rent for uncleared land with no
ultimate prospect of sharing in owner-
ship later —obtain in very closely and
old-settled districts of coastal rainfall.
If “R.G.H.” or others are ambitious
to work a few acres for market garden-
ing, citrus and mango groves, etc., already
and recently cleared, they can investigate
this area and I can assure them they will
be welcome at a mere nominal rent, and
be offered an arrangement of a mutual
co-operative nature. There are several
small places with superlatively rich
alluvial soil, creek bends, etc., available,
with wells of soft water at shallow depth.
The young man of our generation here
gets plenty of remunerative work in in-
land Queensland from the pastoral and
timber industries, and is inclined to re-
gard intense cultivation of the soil as
only suitable for aliens.
If only a few of the young men work-
ing in market gardens and orchards in


and around, say, Melbourne knew the
facts here there would soon be an exodus
to Central and North Queensland, where
vegetables and fruits are seldom less than
100 p.c. above coast and southern prices.
—Mundabullangana (Q.).
Our Soil Is Precious
As soon as farmers realise that, by the
alchemy of war, a vast market for their
produce has suddenly sprung up, there
will be a rush to grow crops, wool and
stock. Every possible acre will be brought
into production, every effort made to
bump yields up to the limit.
At such a time steady work done by
those who have tried to teach in recent
years that the basis of successful farm-
ing is soil conservation may go for
nothing. The plough will go into land
liable to wind and rain erosion the
moment it is cultivated ; many of those
who had planned an erosion-control pro-
gramme will be tempted to drop it;
work may slacken on the noxious-weed
campaign ; sheep- and cattlemen will be
tempted to revert to their old pernicious
habits of flogging the country with more
stock than it should be asked to carry.
Unless some control is exercised, either
by the Commonwealth or the various
States, our crop and grazing lands are
to suffer an onslaught on their fertility
during the next three or more years that
will throw us back into the bad old era
of sucking the soil dry.
There is talk of the Government form-
ing all sorts of bureaux and boards for
this or that activity connected with the
war. As one who knows something of
farming, and of the lack of vision likely
to be common at this time, I suggest that
the Federal Government should consider
ways and means to check overexploita-
tion of the land. Otherwise Australia
will come out of this war with a big
cheque in the bank but with Ihe loss of
millions of pounds in ruined lands. And
it will be afterwards, when the stricken
European nations are crying for food
and clothing, that Australia will need to
go on producing even more than during
the war.
Conservation of soil and of soil fer-
tility should be among Australia’s most
important war activities. Ben Cubbin
(N.S.W.).
Wireless License Fees
Appeals from The Bulletin and
others to have wireless license fees re-
duced seem to have been listened to by
A.B.C. with about as little interest as
some people listen to an A.B.C. pro-
gramme.
If the Government is too timid to
legislate for a reduced fee, it might
at least put the matter to the people by
holding a referendum, the cost of which
could easily be borne by A.B.C.
When the referendum is held it would
be quite unnecessary to ask whether the
people wished to have the fee reduced
—public opinion on the matter is such
that it could be taken for granted. All
that need be ascertained is whether the
people are willing to pay 15s. or whether
they would like it lower at half a guinea.
This may sound a bit one-sided, but
hasn't the extracting of a guinea all these
years been just as one-sided? —J. F. H.
(S.A.).
Political “Honor”
We are hearing a lot of talk from our
politicians about everyone making sacri-
fices during the war, but not a word
from State members about refunding the
increase in salary which they gave them-
selves without any authority or mandate
from their employers, the poor, long-
suffering public.
In view of the recent startling dis-
closures as to the true position of the
State’s finances, the action of increasing
their salary becomes more disgusting,
particularly as these selfsame gentle-
men voted against an increase in the
miserable pittance allowed as food relief.
When they come fawning over us for
our votes in a few months’ time they’ll
get a very rude awakening.
I have always voted anti-Labor, but I
reckon that the Mair-Bruxner-Stevens
combine has offered a glorious oppor-
tunity to Mr. McKell and his party.—
H. M. (N.S.W.).
Sirens
As the latest streamlined fire-engine
whizzed past me the other day with an
ear-splitting scream I happened to glance
at a chap in the front seat, and was
amazed to see that he was turning a
handle round and round with all his
might.
I don’t profess to know much about
fire brigades, and I know even less about
sirens, but it seems to me that a siren
could be worked by some easier means
than vigorously winding a handle. By
the time the brigade reached the scene
of the lire, the poor fellow who had
been handle-winding all the way would be
—or should be, if he’s human —in a state
of exhaustion. If he merely has to press
a button he will be as fresh as a daisy
on arrival at the fire and fit to rescue all
the fair damsels available.
Why modernise the fire brigade build-
ing, the men’s helmets, the engines, the
methods of fire-fighting and stick to
an old-fashioned siren? — Stripperette
(S.A.). v
More “Happy-ever-after” Books
It has often been said that the lack of
interest in Australian literature is due to
the fact that Australian writers are pos-
sessed by a strong inferiority complex. I
am inclined to think that the reverse is
the case: viz., that Australian writers,
especially fiction writers, have in the
past laid too much stress on art, and
not enough on what is the raison d’etre
of all literature public taste and
demand.
That long-awaited “great Australian
novel” has been a fetish with them for
so long that every writer, at the outset
of and during his career, labors under
the delusion that it is his bounden duty,
if he is to serve Australian literature, to
carry out that great task. The result is
that we have many Australian novels of
really high, but heavy, standard, which
the majority of Australian readers—the
escapists—shun. Meanwhile, light litera-
ture, which forms the basis and mainstay
of the reading matter of most countries
of the world, is conspicuous only by its
absence. In short, Australian literature is
practically all cream and no milk.
I know of only one Australian writer
who has consistently tried to satisfy the
escapist reader, and, although most of his
books appear to me mere tripe, he is
one of our best-selling and best-known
authors to-day. He has probably done
more to popularise the Australian scene
than any other writer.
.So let us have more yarns with happy-
ever-after themes. They should inspire
publishers with enough confidence in the
Australian reader’s support of his own
writers that they would give our true
literature a fair deal. — Ques Tion (Q.).
Gerald Dillon (B. 23/8 / ’39) blames
Australia’s “gloom” and “monotony” for
the pessimism of its literature. What
about the writers themselves? I consider
that a morose scribe couldn’t write a
sunny book, nor a cheery soul produce a
doleful outpouring—that is, in all sin-
cerity.
This country abounds in material of
the brightest and most unique, which
only awaits the revealing pen. In both
bush and city I have seen a wealth of
variety in Australian character. Here is
a happy hunting-ground' for the writer
with deep insight and a genius for inter-
preting local character.
Novelists have succeeded in drab sur-
roundings and with very colorless people
as their models simply because of a
natural inspiration which guided their
pens. Why Australia should be chosen
as a place offering the writer no romance
is a mystery to me. Perhaps we haven’t
yet found the writer who is Australian. —
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Gambling
We are a race of gamblers, and the
average Australian will have his “flutter”
whether it be on the Stock Exchange or
in a penny “tin-hare” double. “Eureka”
(B. 16/8/’39) did well to draw attention
to the gambling devices other than bel-
ting, for the “wowser” usually makes the
modest punter the butt of all his jibes.
Gambling will never be abolished, and,
as “E.” says, all forms of gambling should
be allowed, but under strict control.
As an instance of the difference be-
tween legalised and illegal gambling, I
quote an eminent English author on the
position in Ireland:
There is one thing Belfast and Dublin
have in common. That is the open betting
office. There is this difference, though.
In Dublin they are legal and licensed,
clean and tidy, and no one is allowed to
loiter in them. In Belfast they are illegal
and unlicensed, and are dirty, foul, ill-
smelling dens, at least the dozen I entered.
There are 198 of them all over the town,
open at all hours to the street to all-comers
without let or hindrance from authority.
During racing hours they are packed with
workers and workless, shop assistants,
clerks, old men and young. It is an aston-
ishing spectacle, more so as they are all
unlawful betting places. The Government
will not enforce the law through fear of the
well-organised betting world, and will not
license them through fear of giving offence
to the religious world. And so an admitted
canker in the life of Belfast is allowed to
thrive mightily.
Our position is akin to Belfast’s. The
s.p. houses exist here and, like after-
hours trading, will continue to do so.
The gambling business, then, should be
put on a legitimate footing, and all would
benefit thereby.— Yreva (Q.).
Unemployment
Australia to-day, on a £4-per-head-per-
week-production basis alone, is losing
£30,000,000 p.a. through unemployment.
To analyse, or to state fundamentals:
(1) Money spent on mere sustenance wages
means money poorly spent.
(2) Savings bank drawings used for susten-
ance are nationally detrimental.
(3) Work-making, and therefore cash-expend-
ing, devices, unless really reproductive, are
undesirable.
(4) Training schemes, while at first blush
appearing good, fail to meet the need unless
guaranteed employment is to follow.
(5) _ The idea that profit causes poverty is
fallacious. Take away the possibility of profit
(or incentive) and we get stagnation and little
or no employment. The laborer is worthy of
his hire, and the hirer is equally worthy of his
reward.
What then?
(a) “Regrade” our railway trucks and carry
nearly double on the same deadweight, as they
do in U.S.A.
(6) Re-speed our trains through lighter con-
struction.
(c) These two will enable costs to be reduced
and wifi increase earnings.
(d) From waste material (notably New
Guinea nipa palm) make our own power-
alcohol.
(e) Encourage factories from overseas by site
concessions, cheap power, less taxation and no
unnecessary interference.
(/) Search for those items for which we send
the most money away and make them, if prac-
ticable, ourselves.
(,?) Ascertain the largest imports made by
other countries and see that we get our share
of that business —reciprocating where necessary.
Then shall we have a diminished unem-
ployed list and an increasing income.—
Ex (W.A.).
Jobless Men
We are accustomed to reading press
remarks about jobs for the unemployed,
but we don’t see enough of sympathy
and understanding for them when jobs
are not available.
Jobless men drain the bitterest dregs
of the cup of humiliation. They gradu-
ally develop feelings of utter frustration
that only men who have tried and failed
to support their wives and families know.
Even a fool should understand how hurt-
ful this is to masculine pride and how
galling are the constant anxiety and bore-
dom of long periods of unpaid idleness.
The jobless are the butts for endless
advice and sarcasm, and even their own
kin, growing weary of their inability to
obtain work, seem to delight in publicly
commenting on their shiftlessness. How
unkind this is, and how plucky hundreds
of men are to endure it as patiently as
they do!
In some cases they may be duds, but,
after all, they’re human and unfortunate.
It’s caddish to kick men who are down
on their luck. Those smug sons of
prosperity, lavish in generous details of
what they would do if they were out of
work, have no idea of the problems and
mental depression of job-seekers. If they
had they might realise that it is a crime
to give worthless and usually imprac-
tical advice to men when some tolerance
and sympathy would hearten them and
restore, for a little while at least, their
bruised belief in themselves.
Scoff at the unemployed if you like,
but here’s one “other fellow” who is
darned sorry for them. —P- Rad won
(Vic.).
“Explaining Hitler”
There are many ways of “explaining
Hitler” (B. 9/8/’39), but this explanation
was written by Hilaire Belloc about 1904
in The Path to Rome:
It also showed me something intimate
and fundamental about the Germans which
Tacitus never understood and which all our
historians miss—they are of necessity histrionic.
Note Ido not say it is a vice of theirs. It is
a necessity of theirs, an appetite. They must
see themselves on a stage. Whether they do
things well or ill, whether it is their excel-
lent army, with its ridiculous parade, or their
eighteenth-century sans-soucis, with avenues and
surprises, or their national legends, with gods
in wigs and strong men in tights, they must
be play-actors to be happy and therefore to
be efficient; and if I were Lord of Germany
and desired to lead my nation and to be loved
by them, I should put great golden feathers
on my helmet, I should use rhetorical expres-
sions, spout monologues in public, organise
wide cavalry charges at reviews, and move
through life generally to the crashing of an
orchestra. For by doing this even a vulgar,
short and diseased man, who dabbled in stocks
and shares and was led by financiers, could be-
come a hero and do his nation good.
It seems as good an explanation as any.
—M. M. P. (N.S.W.).
A “Bulletin” Club
I “dips me lid” to T. J. Palmer for his
suggestion for the formation of a Bulle-
tin Club.
At a recent meeting of journalists in
Sydney it was admitted that The Bulle-
tin was the only Australian paper that
had always given the freelance a fair
go. A club, therefore, under the patron-
age of The B. could hardly be other than
a success.
As the running expenses of such a club
are low it would support itself on a small
membership fee. A reading-room could
be provided and lectures catering for the
cultural and intellectual betterment of the
members could be arranged.
If none of these things was offered the
club would still be worth while, for unity
gives strength, and strength is what the
freelances the world over need. —F. A.
Burke (N.S.W.).
Not Cussedness
F. Olsen (B. 30 /8 / ’39) wants to know
what is the bee in so many Aussie bon-
nets that makes them prefer the haggard
worries of a penurious “independence”
to a regular wage envelope.
I for one would be willing to accept
a regular wage envelope provided it came
from a source where I would not be sub-
jected to the dictates of a union boss,
who in many cases is not even Aussie or
Aussie-born.
I have had contact with a number of
people who have been robbed of their
wage envelopes, not because they had
any desire to cease work, but because the
union boss and a few followers said we
are going on strike. Strike for what? —
very often something ridiculous. The
result: wages lost, in many cases for
good, by everyone except the union boss.
—One of ’Em (N.S.W.).
“Somebody Ought To”
You hear it everywhere ; “somebody”
ought to do this and “somebody”
should do that; it really means that the
person who says it is too busy with his
own affairs, is too' lazy or lacks the
moral courage to perform a public duty.
I was in a friend’s car. We came to a
fallen limb lying across the road, with
tracks which showed that hundreds of
cars had made a detour to avoid it.
“You’d think somebody would drag
that thing off the road,” my friend re-
marked, as he also followed the detour.
He first looked surprised, then somewhat
ashamed, when his small daughter re-
torted, “Aren’t you ‘somebody,’ Dad? v
Without replying he stopped the car,
turned, drove back to the bough and we
dragged it off the road. Only a minute’s
work, but we wouldn’t have done it if
a child hadn’t shown us that it was the
public duty of the first person who saw
that limb to remove it.
Shire councils are always striking this
sort of thing; a case occurred in my
district a few days ago. Heavy rains
softened the road and a bog-hole de-
veloped ; complaints started to arrive at
the council office and the gang was sent
out with a truck to fill it in.
“That job cost us £3 at the very least,”
the engineer informed me. “Three men
and a truck had to come 12 miles to do
an hour’s work, and hold up a lot of
other work while they did it. Yet half
the people who come along here are
driving trucks, they all carry a shovel
and there’s plenty of sand and rock for
filling down there on the creek bank.
Anyone passing this way could have done
the work, and we would have gladly
paid him ten shillings to do it.”
We must realise that each and every
individual of us is the “somebody” who
should attend to such things. — Bogaduck
(S.A.).
Australian Literature
“No matter how original a writer may
be, he is branded at the very start as a
plagiarist, and by his own country, which
thinks it is paying him a compliment
while it is really doing him a cruel and
almost irreparable injury.”
Henry Lawson wrote that in a preface,
and it would scarcely need revising to
apply to-day. Horseracing is still the great
Australian culture, and literature remains
practically in its kindergarten stage.
No Australian writer yet has had a fair
deal from his country. Lawson is our
outstanding national literary figure, but
the manner in which he was neglected
during his lifetime is a positive indict-
ment of Australian apathy. Yet his
works were given excellent reviews over-
seas.
Steele Rudd, who gave us the real Dad
and Dave—characterisations which, inci-
dentally, have been garbled and burlesqued
for radio —didn’t go as far as he should
have gone. Hilary Lofting, an excellent
short-story writer —one of our best —died
recently in comparative obscurity.
Australia certainly can produce the
talent, but it cannot, it seems, cultivate
it or accurately appraise it. Our writers
come out on top when they get away
from the old home town. Dale Collins is
one of the highest-paid writers in the
world. Fleet-street is crammed with Aus-
tralians who make excellent money.
Payment in Australia is a big factor
against the writer. Compare a guinea
a thousand words for short stories in
Australia to fifty and two hundred
pounds a story paid by American jour-
nals, and upwards of £2O by English
magazines. Our award linage rates are
2yd. —from one to five cents a word is
the rate in America. Such remuneration
is worth the sweat and grind of writing.
D.N. (N.S.W.).


om
HOT
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
FOR
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“ steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
* In Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills will be found a
medicine that by acting on the Liver and Bowels corrects the
everyday little ills of life. For Biliousness, Constipation, Sick
Headaches, and such complaints arising from Imperfect Digestion
and Sluggish Liver they are unexcelled.
!»
&
PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU LOOK AND FEEL BRIGHTER
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief, if the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculai
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
w
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
mmm
AUSTRALIAN j
BARKERS j
i; AND BITEMSI
k
Robert RU/na s||
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the J3arb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Xow reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
el<>V^
,l S® (S eC
/>«V* ,-••:::
„# s$
xs-
- ,;■••• V
.-•*
, >##*
.-•' of 1° 'V^'jV'


Gtuzk
ScJt
to CL
'i
' '
> ;
V
I
/
4
&/
!
/
4j
7.x. :
\
fr
/
■
7
/
II!
3
iii
It
• ..SjcSfi <
‘•fs&ts
Vr r' .5 “V
&K’Js
Wc
'0 0
£’&. i- %
V.y ’ •'•*
V 0
r ---5 :•'.
:U%
' "*&}&£
KZ&rs-Zmip'
M-i&k Afe
■imS'm
:^lWl
iS#
3b?3B&'
%t?-'h-x >v»«
*■ of +£* •■ ■Jfc - >: <<ij%
r\ *‘v .I*. *■ ' i, *■
■r.-v va&
s£s& '*s&&!
. > 4 ?«t
WOT 7)
V A £siA 0 li^
■M
%!?&
I:-i : ><•
fl
:=&• .VC\.
, ft,*;* 5S®
f Cooi ehf tfe/; Cl? 1 * 1 ’ 5
lC at e y» G,1 boy’ s
wSS&gSa:
... for preference stick to GILBEY’S
~. It goes well with water... and all
kinds of minerals... A bottle on the
boat is nearly as necessary as a bottle
in the home... Don’t slip—tie up to
Gilbey’s... It now costs no more than
ordinary gins.
«5>
Ss>
ms NI9 MS &
THE GIN OF GENERATION
