

jltv MO 3HO
SHMHKt 3 Hi
KEEN PLEASURE, with Tooheys Pilsener up
(colors: Amber body, White cap), leads the
field in the Good Health Stakes.
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
When ordering
Pilsener say
TOOHEYS Pilsener
11
HERE S
n
TO EE
I
|
The Bulletin
Read “The Other Fellow’s Mindpages 49, 50
Vol. 60.—N0. 3079.
Wednesday, February 15, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
LIFE OF JACK LONDON.
Irving Stone, whose Lust for Life was a fictionised
biography of Vincent Van Gogh, has written an
equally interesting book in Sailor on Horseback
(Collins), a straight biography of Jack London. Stone
says that London, a great lover of life, committed
suicide by taking poison, in a fit of depression and
disillusionment. His act broadly parallels that of the
leading character in his autobiographical novel,
Martin Eden, written many years ago. Perhaps this
is mere coincidence, but it points an interesting field
of psychological speculation.
London’s mother was Flora Wellman, a pro-
fessional spiritualist of doubtful sanity. Throughout
his life he maintained doubt as to who was his father,
being unwilling to accept the weight of evidence —as
does Stone —that his father was “Professor” Chaney,
an Irish astrologer and charlatan of ability. When
he was eight months old his mother married John
London, a farmer, a gentle-natured man who was
a father to the boy and whose daughter Eliza was the
one stable influence of his life. The story of his life
follows the arc of his character in storm-tossed line.
His childhood was one of constant change and
bitter poverty, largely brought about by the crack-
brained schemes in which his mother involved her
husband whenever he began to prosper. At eleven
Jack was helping to support the family. At thirteen
he left school to work in a canning factory for ten
cents an hour, working from ten to nineteen hours a
day. This was in San Francisco in 1891. He had two
joys in life, omnivorous reading and sailing on the
treacherous bay in a leaky boat he bought for a
dollar.
At fifteen he turned oyster-pirate. He bought a
skiff with borrowed money and found he had
acquired Mamie, a sixteen-year-old girl as daredevil as
himself, along with it. One of the most daring of
the oyster thieves, he made good money for a couple
of years, drinking it in the bars of the waterfront;
then he joined the Fish Patrol, rounding up oyster
poachers at the point of the gun. There followed a
voyage as able seaman aboard a North Pacific whaler.
On his return he found the country in the grip
of a depression. He got a job as fireman’s mate in
an electricity plant at eight cents an hour, only to
discover that he had displaced two men, one of whom,
driven desperate by want, had committed suicide.
Angry and disgusted, he gave up his job and joined
a march of the unemployed to Washington. Train-
jumping and begging their way, they reached their
destination, where the leader was immediately
arrested for walking on the grass. London did a
month in gaol on a vagrancy charge for sleeping in
a paddock.
At twenty he turned his thoughts to the higher
education, worked his way through high school, earn-
ing his living by odd jobs, and even spent two terms
at the University of California. The return of hard
times finished this enterprise, and then came the gold
rush to the Klondyke, which he joined and from
which he returned penniless, to apply for a job in the
post office.
It was while waiting for this appointment that
he began to write. He was living in semi-starvation,
and postage was a problem. By the time the appoint-
ment came through he had begun to place an occa-
sional story, so he decided against the regular job.
It was now that the conflicts of his character began to
emerge. The most outright of individualists, he was
also a socialist, through the pity and indignation which
a close view of the sufferings of the helpless poor had
aroused in him. On top of that he was a professed
Nietzschean, because the doctrine of the superman fed
his self-confidence and will to succeed.
He fell in love, but his girl’s mother wouldn’t
let her share his poverty, and Mabel hadn’t the
strength of character to go her own way. Caught on
the rebound, London married Bessie Maddern, a hand-
some Irish girl, and, three years later, left her and
their two children at an hour’s notice, when he fell
in love with Charmian Kittredge. By this time he was
a national character. He caused a scandal by rousing
Chicago officials from their beds to marry him to
Charmian the minute he received news that his
divorce from Bessie was made absolute.
He was fairly charging through life by now. He
lived magnificently, bought a ranch in California, kept
open house for his friends, and sponsored every lame
dog that came in sight. That his power for sheer
action had not deserted him was proved when he went
to the Russo-Japanese war as a special correspondent,
and was the only newspaper man to get through to
the front. He did it by crossing the Yellow Sea in
an open junk in the depth of winter. For his enter-
prise he was thrown into gaol by the Japs, but he got
his copy through to his paper.
His cruise through the South Seas in the Snark
marked the beginning of his decline. He was
swindled by outfitters, suffered ill-health as a con-
sequence of excessive exposure to the tropical sun,
returned to California to find that his property had
been mismanaged and that his literary sun was de-
clining. The South Seas had not given his genius the
impetus that Alaska had done. The quality of his
work had fallen off and was no longer sought for at
fancy prices.
The fact was that life was presenting a bill. The
magnificent vitality so prodigally expended was near-
ing exhaustion. He couldn’t face the truth, and
plunged into grandiose ranching projects. He built a
£16,000 ranch house that was destroyed by fire the
night before he was to move into it. The fire was
proved to be the work of hostile incendiaries, and this,
as much as the financial loss, was a heavy blow. Char-
mian failed him. In increasing ill-health, he felt his
life empty because he had no son. Last and worst,
his literary inspiration deserted him completely. The
one thing that remained to the end was his generosity.
His dependants, relatives, workmen and lame dogs,
numbered hundreds. He was only forty when he de-
cided that he had reached the end.
Sailor on Horseback is compiled in the main from
material London had assembled for an autobiography
he intended to write. Into this has been woven the
memories of his wife and stepsister and of many old
associates. It is a moving book, obviously a labor of
love, tingling with excitement, reflecting the vitality,
the spontaneity and human warmth of its subject.
London is presented fully, in the many sides of his
character, a man who must always excel, who always
ran to excess, in generosity, in foolhardiness, in good-
fellowship, in license; both strong and weak, stead-
fast and unreliable. He cut his own road across both
the literary and social conventions of his day. In
the first he met with revolutionary success ; the second
was what probably, in the end, brought him to the
ground.
Chamberlain, Goring, Joe Louis, etc.
Pallas Publishing Co., a London concern, has
struck out with a new line of cheap publications—
brief biographies of world figures ; 127 pages to each
vol.; English price Is., say Is. 6d. Australian. The
small books are competently done and manage within
brief limits to give something more than an outline of
their subjects’ lives and careers.
Neville Chamberlain, by L. Raskay, is one of the
briefest. (Though each is of 127 pages, size of type
and spacing varies their length: the Goring is about
twice as long as the Chamberlain.) There would be
plenty in Chamberlain’s life for an effective biography
by a great portrayer of character ; but —counting out
the past crowded year —the best of the material for such
a purpose lies in the seven years Chamberlain spent
early in his life as a plantation pioneer on Andros
Island in the Bahamas ; seven years which Chamber-
lain himself writes off as utterly wasted.
To arrest a decline in the family fortunes by con-
verting the virgin Andros into a rich sisal-producing
property was the life-part allotted to young Neville
Chamberlain in the early ’nineties. He, it was agreed,
had no talent for a political career; his half-brother
Austen was the one destined to follow their illustrious
father, Joseph Chamberlain, in the House of Commons.
To attempt what Neville Chamberlain attempted
called for some courage ; to have stuck to the doomed
venture for seven years called for much more of that
quality, and for perseverance and tenacity of pur-
pose. The importance of all this in shaping the charac-
ter now familiar to everybody could not be lost on
the most superficial of biographers.
Even there on Andros Neville Chamberlain was
“excessively formal.” He was respected and admired,
but he was too distant for warm regard. He toiled
hard enough; but when he visited Nassau, the capital
of the islands, he always dressed correctly in morning-
coat and top hat, to the joy of the inhabitants. By
this account the whole of the Andros venture sounds
very English and very amateurish, but still, in its way,
admirable. When at last the venture had to be written
off as a failure, Joseph Chamberlain’s fortune was
a further £50,000 to the bad.
As with most other figures in these brief
biographies, it seems to be an advantage that Neville
Chamberlain’s story is still unfinished. Unlike the
usual experience of looking backward on coming to
the end of a biography, the reader is left looking for-
ward, with his own speculations on the future.
De Valera, by G. M. Pechell, runs along on the
same line of steady inevitability as the Chamberlain,
though, of course, enlivened with far more exciting
incidents, De Valera, as his biographer-in-brief re-
marks, having “put up with enough discomforts to
last several men a number of lifetimes,” mainly repre-
sented by his terms in gaol as a political prisoner and
his narrow escapes, among these the sheer good for-
tune of American citizenship saving him from the
execution squad.
It is a neatly turned portrait of one of the most
remarkable of outstanding living men, perhaps the
most remarkable thing about all of whom is that they
are so extraordinarily unlike each other, the contrast
being no more marked than between any two who are
outstanding in any given country —Hitler and Goring,
for example. The Irish leader’s biographer-in-brief
pictures a De Valera —known fondly as Dev —who
has never lacked personal courage, either moral or
physical; who has in every line in his priestlike face
kindness blended with a stubborn doggedness which
will gain its purpose in the end, or die.
Most turbulent of all in the batch to hand is the
violent life very strongly depicted in Field-Marshal
Goring, by P. R. Wetzlar-Miihlens. Goring has cer-
tainly not lacked in courage. In the war he person-
ally brought down 34 Allied ’planes in aerial fighting,
receiving the very highest German decorations and
being mentioned time after time in dispatches. At
the end he disobeyed the order to hand his squadron
over to the Americans, giving the command, instead,
for it to fly in close formation to Darmstadt. Bad
weather forcing some of the squadron down at Mann-
heim, they were there arrested by the military council
in command. Hearing of this, Goring, ordering the
rest of the squadron along with him, flew over Mann-
heim and sent down an ultimatum threatening to blow
the place off the face of the earth if his comrades
were not freed and allowed to join him. The military
council did not take long “reconsidering” the matter,
and the full squadron flew on.
Oddly enough, in view of the sort of pictures of
him in the voluminous anti-German propaganda which
masquerades as “news” in the press, Goring’s life
from then on is a replica of the lives of German ex-
soldiers as sympathetically and heroically depicted in
such films as “The Road Back” and “Three Com-
rades.” One of the significant things overlooked by
writers on the rise of Nazism in Germany is the extent
to which it was an ex-soldier movement. In the
course of that struggle Goring himself was badly
wounded by machine-gun bullets ; he was smuggled
into Austria in a very serious condition, but was there
pulled through.
A big man in both the physically bulky and the
political sense, it takes a big canvas to hold Goring,
and the background of it is here remarkably well done,
especially considering the space limits. Such occur-
rences as the 1934 “blood purge” of Rohm and hun-
dreds of his fellow-conspirators against Hitler’s regime
make vivid pages, this particular occurrence so vividly
done that through the rest of the story and afterwards
the shots in that dreadful execution-slaughter can still
be heard.
From such characters and scenes to the story of
Charles B. Cochran, by James Cleugh, is a leap from
the plane of strong, living drama into a pleasant
swirl of inconsequential froth. In his own way, of
course, Cochran has been an outstanding figure ; the
story of his theatre producing, fight promoting and
bankruptcy experiences is engagingly told.
It should be noted that all these somewhat oddly-
named authors employ whatever scraps of humor are
available to help brighten their good-humored ac-
counts. For instance, Mr. Chamberlain, in the midst
of the economic crisis, when helping Britain out of
that mess was his daily preoccupation, writing to the
“Times”: “Sirs, —It may be of interest to record that
in walking through St. James’s Park to-day I noticed
a grey wagtail running about P.S. —For the pur-
pose of removing doubts, as we .say in the House of
Commons, I should perhaps add that I mean a grey
wagtail and not a pied.” Or De Valera, at the peak
of his triumphant visit to America, having to shake
hands with 1500 individual admirers in one day. Or
there is the malicious story, repeated for what it is
worth, that Goring has duplicate sets of his medals
pinned to his pyjamas. Also touching on Goring’s
militaristic exhibitionism the even better one of Hitler
sending for a singer in an opera to come to his box
and be complimented, Hitler meanwhile going away
from the box for a few minutes and on returning,
seeing the opera-helmeted and -breastplated singer
standing there, ejaculating, “Oh, I say, Goring, this
is really too much!”
One of the Cochran stories concerns a play pro-
duced at the Princes Theatre, London, in which the
ingenious use of mirrors to achieve an effect of
Nelson’s ghost appearing beside a gallant naval cap-
tain praying beside his bunk one night went wrong
and revealed, instead, a couple of sceneshifters stow-
ing away a rare old feed of bread and cheese copi-
ously washed down with draughts of beer.
The reader moves to another plane again with
Joe Louis, by Oscar Ray. The Brown Bomber’s
biographer-in-brief brings off the minor literary
miracle of writing an account which Joe would prob-
ably read with great pleasure and Joe’s greatest enemy
with fully equal relish.
Upton Sinclair's Latest.
The title of Upton Sinclair’s new novel, Little
Steel (T. Werner Laurie), refers to the small steelworks
outside the big American combine. The combine can
never quite run its fence round them. They make a
living by undercutting and by making their own agree-
ments with Labor.
When the Committee of Industrial Organisation
got to work among the combine’s mill operatives the
combine “recognised” it and negotiated with it as to
labor conditions, largely, it is to be gathered, on ac-
count of the C. 1.0. having received President Roose-
velt’s official blessing. But “Little Steel” stood out.
It gave the C. 1.0. representatives a tough time when
they came to the small steel towns —frequently in the
disguise of pedlars—and it hired “industrial consul-
tants” to advise it how to foster contentment among
its employees by taking humanitarian interest in their
welfare.
In Little Steel the industrial consultant hired by
Quayle, the owner of Valleyville Steelworks, turns out
to be a mere personal opportunist. As a result of
Quayle’s resistance to the C. 1.0. a costly strike breaks
out. Valleyville shares are depreciated. The consul-
tant accepts a commission as buying agent from a man
who wishes to unite all the little steel mills into a
minor combine under his control, and, with a view to
enlarging his commission, the consultant takes further
steps to depress the value of Quayle’s property.
In respect of this Little Steel is just another Ameri-
can graft story, but in respect of its socio-political
background Sinclair has some interesting things to
say. Sinclair is a socialist and the author of 60 radical
novels, so that when he puts the following succinct
explanation of current Communist party tactics into
the mouth of one of his characters he is not suspect
of doing so in the interests of reaction or of Fascism.
Up till recently the Reds made no bones about their
support of murder and loot; but now they have seen
the answer to that programme supplied in Italy and
Germany, so they have been forced to disguise their
plans. Their beloved Russia needs the support of the
democratic nations against Fascism, so the Reds are a ll
for democracy, and their programme is carefully camou-
flaged. But if you have any doubt as to what they
really mean, you have only to read the proceedings
of the Russian congresses in which this new “party
line” was discussed and adopted to see that dictatorship
and confiscation remain their only thought, and that
they are prepared to take it up again the moment they
get the upper hand. _ ,
Sinclair’s character goes on to explain the activi-
ties of the Reds in the National Students’ Union or
o Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Hurry! Sale Ends
SATURDAY, 18™
t - •"'>
fig
vV-
-s
m
$■
IB
Ifei
SfiWwwww;
I
10/6 MEN’S PYJAMA SUITS NOW AT
Men's Pyjama Suits made up in smart, colourful stripes,
in British Suedette. Full, comfortable fitting. Sizes S.M.,
Men's and O.S.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pair 10/6
SALE PRICE, pair 8/6
86
9/6 MEN’S BRITISH POPLIN SHIRTS AT
Business Shirts with two neat, matching collars. Made in
our workrooms. Fit and finish guaranteed. New
Blue-Grey striped designs. Sizes 14 to 17 inch necks.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 9/6
SALE PRICE, each 7/11
7li
7'6 NATURAL WOOL & COTTON D’WEAR
Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear in light to medium
weights. Reliable wearing. Undershirts have short
sleeves . . . Underpants for cosiness to ankle. Sizes
34 to 44 inch chests or waists. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, each, 7/6. SALE PRICE, each 5/3
53
2/11 FANCY HALF HOSE NOW
Fancy Cashmere Half Hose in all the latest check, stripes
and jacquard designs. Grey, Blue, Brown or Navy grounds.
Sizes 10 to 12 inch.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices, pair 2/6, 2/11
SALE PRICE, pair 1/9
19
• Mercery, Clothing—Ground Floor —George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations
N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
fc'sfeSSrHSSia
I__
1 WHILE 1 LIVE I'll OROwr
"THE SENIOR STORE”
&ig|w»jL ;
m 5
11
<*m
w;>:5W.
;WW;
'•*:•'• ••
.
m
mi
aw;
;@s
12
147'
0
T
TO
MEASURE
/
Solid All Wool Worsteds in shades and designs that will
be worn during 1939. These are an outstanding example
of quality clothes at low prices. Tailored in our new and
improved manner. British pre-shrunk linings and inter-
linings. Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices, 126/-, 1477-
SALE PRICE, each 95/-
65 ; - WORSTED SPORTS COATS
Ready-to-wear in a range of sizes for
men 9 to 15 stone. The newest tail-
ored back styles. Patch pockets. Art
silk linings. Fancy checks in Blue
Greys, Fawns, etc.
591
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 657-
SALE PRICE, each 59/6
25/- WORSTED SPORTS TROUSERS
All wool ] Cut by Anthony Horderns'
expert cutters on the latest English
"drape" style. Mid and light Greys.
Full sports make. 30 to 44 in. waists.
226
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 257-
SALE PRICE, each 22/6
Men’s Dressing Gowns
USUALLY PRICED AT 35/-
NOW TO CLEAR
All Wool Dressing Gowns
in a warm weight, check
material. Navy, Brown,
Grey or Fawn, with con-
25
trasting collar, cuffs, cord, girdle to tone. Sizes
36 to 44 inch chests. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, each 35/-. SALE PRICE, each 25/-


LIM FENG’S JOSS
by
ALAN
HILL
DRAWING BY PHILLIPS.
lIM FENG was a Straits-born Chinaman. When he
I left home to make his way in the world his father,
L_ a pedlar of syrups and sweet cakes on the Penang
waterfront, presented him with a soapstone joss,
a miniature replica of the mammoth “Smiling Buddha”
that sat, hands on paunch, beaming down on its
devotees in the Ayer Itam temple that sprawled on
the hill overlooking the town.
Through successive stages —spud-peeler, officers’
“boy,” saloon waiter—Lim rose to the status of a
deep-sea tramp-steamer’s cook. Wherever Lim Feng
went, his joss went also ; to it Lim ascribed any good
fortune that came his way, and his rise in the mari-
time sphere.
And Lim’s joss stuck to him. More than once,
when down to his last coin in some shore-side pak-a-
pu or fan-tan joint, his luck turned for the better.
There was an occasion when, transferring his scanty
kit from a Limehouse dosshouse to a new ship, it
saved his life. Tucked inside Lim’s denim jacket—
the soapstone Buddha stood a bare six inches high—
it turned aside a knife blade that otherwise would
have slipped between Lim’s skinny ribs and punctured
his vitals.
But Lim Feng’s faith in his joss was sadly strained
in a bad week of March hurricanes in the South
Pacific. In his “cabin,” a small steel box alongside the
Gloria Watson’s galley, Lim burned joss-stick after
joss-stick to the little grinning image on the shelf over
his bunk, all to no avail. To all intents the joss was
uninterested in Lim’s supplications, and the bad
weather, which the Cook detested and feared, grew
steadily worse.
Then the Gloria Watson, bound from the British
Solomons to Sydney with a full swag of copra, found
the pounding seas and driving gales too much for her,
and suddenly decided to pack up. Caught between
two towering whitecaps, the vessel took a strain that
would have worried many a younger craft. A warning
creak, different from all other ship noises, shuddered
along the full length of her keelson.
The sound made Captain Janes, her master,
stare suspiciously and fearfully at George Samson,
his chief officer. In the reflected light from the bridge
binnacle both men’s faces showed a sudden pallor.
“Another of those,” roared the Old Man, yelling to
beat the booming of the wind, “and she’ll fold up like
a concertina!”
Another did come. Taken unawares, too old, too
sluggish and deeply-laden to lift to the scend of the
seas, the Gloria Watson hung like the Prophet’s coffin
for an instant while an abyss of trough fell away
from under her, leaving her to form a bridge between
two monster crests. Again came that ominous creak-
ing as every plate, frame and beam in the sorely-
tested hull protested. Then came the cracking and
tearing that told the anxious listeners aloft all that
had happened. The Gloria Watson’s back was broken.
Captain Janes dragged at the whistle lanyard,
sending four long blasts, signal for all hands to boats’
stations, screaming out into the fury-ridden night.
Samson, ringing “Stop” on the telegraph, placed
cupped hands to mouth and turned to the skipper.
“Boats?” he asked simply. “I wouldn’t give her more
than quarter of an hour’s wallowing in a sea like
this, sir!”
The Old Man nodded, cocking an attentive ear
as the whistle in the engineroom voice pipe shrilled.
He listened, grunted, then bawled down the tube:
“Better come up! She’s done for!”
He answered Samson’s question. “Yes —boats.
And get ’em away damn’ quick. The chief says that
she’s gone for’ard of No. 1 cross-bunker, and that the
bulkhead won’t hold. Engineroom’s flooding already.
She’ll break in halves” 1
His voice trailed away, torn from his lips by the
wind as he slithered to leeward across the canting
bridge of the condemned ship.
THAT was the last George Samson saw of the
master of the Gloria Watson. In point of fact,
Samson’s was the only boat that managed to get clear
away from the plunging tramp —and that by a fluke
in a sudden, unexpected
lull lasting for a minute
before coming on harder
than ever.
Eight men came
with the mate: the
second and third engi-
neers, the boatswain, two
A.Bs., a greaser, a fire-
man and Lim Feng—
Lim Feng plus an oilskin-
covered bundle that held
a pair of embroidered
slippers, a dozen joss-
sticks, a box of matches
and his joss.
For forty-eight hours
the boat rode to its sea
anchor, all hands bailing
frantically to keep her afloat. By dawn on the third
day the hurricane had taken off enough to permit the
setting of a rag of sail, and the lifeboat lurched over
the swells, headed sou’-west for the coast of Queens-
land, six hundred miles away.
Four days later the wind petered out, and so did
the scanty store of biscuit. There had been only time to
grab a few handfuls before the Gloria Watson took
her last dive. A flat calm, usual follower of cyclonic
disturbances, eased the sea down to a level, lifeless
plane over which the boat crawled, shoved along
wearily by racked arms and blistered hands that
barely had the strength to drag oars through water.
Over all, a pitiless sun glared down from an aching
sky of brass.
A T noon on the sixteenth day adrift Samson sighted
the islet a sandy cay a few feet above high-
water level, a couple of arid acres covered with
ragged gorse and coarse, stunted scrub, with three
übiquitous coconut palms sticking up like beckon-
ing fingers against the skyline. By this time there
were only six men in the boat. When the second —
and last —water beaker was broached its contents
were found to be salted. So the boatswain died.
Shortly after a thirst-maddened second engineer went
over the side, to be followed twenty-four hours later
by the greaser.
It was almost sundown when the keel rubbed on
the sand of the beach, and the remnant of the boat’s
crew staggered crazily across the strand to scrabble
at the feet of the palms. Luckily they did not have to
climb for the coconuts ; many were strewn around.
Lopping off the tops with sheaf knives, they drank,
then Samson and his men keeled over, to sleep the
sleep of utter exhaustion.
First to wake in the morning, Lim Feng sat up in
the sand, shivered, and looked about him. Looked
harder, then scrambled to where the mate lay snoring
face-down in the sand, moaning in his sleep. Lim
shook his shoulder urgently.
Samson woke painfully, every movement sending
torturing twinges through muscles and limbs not yet
unaccustomed to the cramped confines of a twenty-
seven-foot ship’s lifeboat. Rubbing his salt-caked
eyelids he yawned, and sat up stiffly. “What’s the
matter, Chink?” he demanded irritably. “Can’t you
let a man rest?”
“Lookee-see —quick!” Lim Feng’s tone made the
mate aware of something amiss.
“What’s up?”
“Boat gone!”
Samson struggled to his feet and reeled to the
water’s edge. Lim Feng was right—the lifeboat had
vanished! Then Samson realised that the craft, drawn
but a short distance up the beach by its desperately-
weak crew, and forgotten in the joy of finding some-
thing to drink, had floated off on the top of a tide
and drifted back to sea on the receding ebb.
During the day they caught some scuttling land
crabs, and on the next managed to land an unwary
fish with a line made from unravelled threads of
singlet and a safety-pin for hook. These they ate
raw, for all their matches had been stowed in a water-
tight box beneath a thwart in the boat in order to
keep them dry. All, that is, save Lim Feng’s box in
his oilskin bundle, and the cook said nothing of it.
He had not forgotten to bring his bundle ashore on
disembarking, and he needed that box of matches
for a particular purpose.
Hr AKING stock, the castaways found no water, but
1 enough coconuts to provide drink for a few
weeks. These, the crabs, and an unlikely fish were
all the island could provide just enough to
keep life going for a time, but only just.
Lim Feng rose at dawn the third day ashore and
took his oilskin package into the scrub. It was high
time, he thought, that his joss got on the job and did
a trifle of work. He set the Buddha in a sanctuary
of windblown bushes, stuck a joss stick in the sand
before it and lit the offering with a match from his
private box. Lim had no qualms about not adding
his matches to the common stock. At a pinch, food
could be eaten raw, but without matches one could
not light a joss-stick, and without its smouldering
incense how was the joss to be propitiated for a
possible wrong done it, or its aid invoked?
Samson was next awake. He rose from his hollow
in the sand, stretched, then sniffed as a strange scent
drifted down-wind. Where had he smelt it before?
Momentarily, he was puzzled ; then he remembered.
In the streets of Hong Kong, of Singapore, Shanghai
—anywhere in the East. “This,” thought Samson,
“is worth investigating,” and he tramped unsteadily
across the beach, until he found Lim Feng squatting
in front of his joss and saw the thin spiral of white
aromatic smoke rising from the joss stick into the
already-warm air. As well, he saw the opened oilskin
bundle, the embroidered slippers, the remaining joss
sticks —and the box of matches.
“Matches, eh?” growled the burly mate of the
Gloria Watson, stepping closer. “Holding out on us,
were you, yellerbelly? I’ve a good mind to break
your blasted neck”
He bent and picked up the box of matches. “We
can have fire with these,” he snarled, “and signal any
passing ship. We could even cook those stinking
crabs!”
Savagely, he planted a kick on the widest part
of Lim Feng’s tattered blue dungaree trousers, and
stepped over him as he sprawled. “This’ll stop you
wasting good fire on a giggling idol!”
He grabbed the Smiling Buddha and, with a
swift curve of his arm, sent it hurtling into the scrub.
“And to keep you from further temptation, you lemon-
colored loafer, I’ll chuck these mosquito-chasers into
the ditch!” He scooped up the joss-sticks from the
oilskin package and trudged back to the beach.
Lim Feng said nothing, though he was seething
with hate and fury against the man who had dared to
insult and desecrate his joss. Instead, he sought for it
fruitlessly all day in the dense undergrowth.
But the next day, while gathering brushwood for
a huge bonfire piled on the beach, ready to be touched


off should a ship heave in sight, Lim Feng found his
joss and set it up in another hidden den in the bushes
on the far side of the island from the camp. At nights,
when all were sleeping, he crawled away and made
his obeisances; but Lim knew that the ceremonies
were incomplete. How could prayers reach the ears
of a joss when they were not borne in incense smoke?
How could one expect recognition? The Buddha
would never be lenient enough to overlook the sacri-
lege of the white barbarian!
LYING awake one night under a tropical sky like
navy-blue velvet studded with diamonds, an idea
came to Lim. Even if he had no joss-sticks he could
still make a fire-offering, a substitute for the orthodox
devotion. Then he would sneak back and knife the
sleeping Samson, and thus wash out the white man’s
crime in white man’s blood. Surely the joss, seeing
that Lim Feng was doing his best, would then make
full allowances and abate his wrath?
Carefully he rose on hands and knees and edged
his way to where a small fire glowed. Cautiously, he
withdrew a smouldering stick, and silently as a ghost
slid into the bushes lining the beach, and made for
the clearing where the joss sat in solitary state in a
little bough shelter.
Hurriedly, Lim gathered a handful of dry leaves
and gorse, and blew the faggot-end into flame. Then
he sank back on his haunches, and stared with slant,
shoe-button eyes through the pungent smoke at his
joss. Calmly, benignly, the joss stared back at Lim
Feng.
But, unluckily for Lim, his prospective victim was
restless as well. Jerking awake from a troubled doze,
Samson had, interestedly, watched the cook creep to
the fire, then steal away from the beach. Samson was
curious; he followed. For a big man, the mate moved
very quietly.
“The swine’s most likely got a coconut stowed
away somewhere, and is off to swig it all on his
own,” he muttered as he eased through the scrub.
“I’ll belt the daylights out of him if he has!” For by
this time the supply of drinking nuts was so low that,
even under the rigid rationing enforced by the mate,
it could not hold out for many more days.
When Samson came on the unsuspecting Lim, he
stopped for a while to take in the queer spectacle.
Then he recognised the significance of the joss and the
tiny, smoking fire, and ripped out an oath. “So you’ve
found that blasted idol-thing, have you? Bowing and
scraping to a hunk of stone, eh? I wouldn’t be sur-
prised if that gargoyle isn’t responsible for all our
bad luck! ”
He grabbed Lim by the scruff and shook him.
“I’m going to teach you a lesson, you goddam slit-
eyed rat,” he rasped, and sent Lim’s votive fire scat-
tering with a thrust of his foot.
But Samson had no time to chastise Lim Feng.
The embers, fanned by a light wind, flickered in the
tinder-dry undergrowth. Almost instantaneously a
bush flared into flame ;, then another —and another.
“Here” Samson dropped Lim Feng ; “bear a
hand to put this out. This tinpot island’ll be alight
fore and aft in a brace of shakes!”
But neither the combined efforts of Samson, Lim
Feng nor the hastily-awakened sleepers were of any use.
They slashed and flailed at the ever-growing fire with
uprooted shrubs, but their toil was of no avail. As
fast as flame was extinguished in one place it broke
out in another ; runnels of fire trickling through bone-
dry vegetation defied their puny efforts.
Soon the entire islet was ablaze, a roaring hell of
crackling, leaping spires of flame and choking smoke.
Battling until they were ready to drop in their tracks,
they retreated to the camp site on the beach.
In a short time even this poor haven was unten-
able ; to stay would have meant roasting, or suffocat-
ing in the impenetrable pall of greasy smoke the
breeze rolled down on them.
“Only one thing for it,” gasped Samson, dragging
a burnt hand across streaming eyes and blackened,
scorched eyebrows. “We’ll have to take to the water,
get out as far as we can and wait for it to burn itself
out. When it does, and when we get ashore again,
I’ll attend to that ruddy Chow! ”
Like the rearguard of some battered, worn-out
army, they backed yard by yard into the gentle surf,
wading out to armpit depth, and ducking their heads
under the cool water. A ragged line of singed, beaten
men, waiting for the finish. At the extreme end of
the line, remote from Samson, was Lim Feng. A bulge
under his torn cotton shirt indicated the new, and
probably the last, resting place of his joss. Where Lim
Feng went, his joss went too!
The end came, though unexpectedly, after they
had been an hour in the water. Samson, lifting his
weary head, croaked to the man nearest him.
“Charlie! What was that —hear anything?”
The third engineer sagged brokenly, letting the
water take some of his weight, before he replied.
“Thought I did —but it was nothin’, I guess. Must
have been dreaming!”
“Wait a bit. Listen.” Samson’s tone was sharper
now. “There it is again!”
The crackling roar of the fire had died down a
little, and to Samson’s straining ears came a dull, regu-
lar thumping. Then silence. Then again the regular
beat, muted and mingled with other sounds this time,
Oars in rowlocks—and human voices!
* * * * *
, .-w ,~ TT , . , .
«Y ou a were dead luck >'’ f ld sk W .‘he
1 ‘ rad >"B schooner after breakfast next morning.
But for that blaze I d have passed the island in the
dark. But, knowing it to be uninhabited, I stood in
when I saw the fire, just to have a look around.
Comfortable, with a sound meal under his belt,
Samson sucked reflectively at a borrowed pipe. Far
astern, a black cloud sullying the horizon marked the
last of the smoke oblation to Lim Feng’s joss.
“I ran in, making it on the weather side,” con-
tinued the skipper. “I stood on and off; didn’t care
to mess about in the dark, in case of reefs ; so I put
a boat over, and had it row around the show. Must
have picked you up just about in the nick of time!”
“Just about,” agreed Samson. “Well, I think I’ll
follow my mates’ lead, and grab an extra caulk! ”
He went down the poop ladder to the schooner’s
ma i„ deck. In the shadow of the big foresail, the
G|oria Watson survivors spraw i ed on the hatch, mak-
jn arrears of sl Al , ex , Lim Feng .
Lim sat hed on a bollard> ipd ustriously rub-
bing smoke stains from the smooth surface of the
Smiling Buddha with a piece torn from his skimpy
pan ts. Samson grinned and, as near as a Chinaman
can, Lim Feng grinned back.
’ “Glad you salvaged his nibs,” said Samson,
lowering himself on to the hatch. “Good joss, eh?”
Lim Feng spat on his rag and scrubbed vigor-
ously. “Him velly good joss,” said Lim Feng.
CATS
BY G.C.B.
EVER since I’ve been a ratcatcher I ain’t ’ad no
time for cats on account of them pokin’ about
and scarin’ rats away from me traps ; but they
didn’t give me much trouble because the only
real cat-lover ’ere was Miss Dyer, and ’er cats was
too ’aughty and well-bred to stoop to worryin’ about
rats. But when Mr. Porter come to stay at the
Shelterin’ Palm things changed considerable.
He was terrible fond of cats, and he used to
talk about ’em in the bar of an evenin’ till we was sick
of listenin’, and he took a dislike to me from the start
because I couldn’t ’elp smilin’ a bit when he praised
’em up as ratcatchers.
“You can laugh, Raggles, me man,” he ses. “But
you know that if enough people kept cats you wouldn’t
’ave a job.”
“Cats can’t never take the place of a skilful rat-
catcher, Mr. Porter,” I explains. “ ’Ow many rats
would I catch if I. played with ’em for hours like
cats do?”
“You don’t understand, me man,” he ses; “the
smell of a cat keeps rats away.”
“P’r’aps you’re right, Mr. Porter,” I ses quietly ;
“but who’s goin’ to keep a cat like that?”
“Iggerance,” he sniffs. “Iggerance, that’s your
trouble, Raggles.”
“The iggerant ones,” I ses polite, “is them fool-
ish cat-lovers”
“Wot’s that?” ses big Chris Dyer, wot ’ad just
come in. “Wot’s that about cat-lovers bein’ iggerant?”
Knowin’ Chris to be terrible fond of ’is sister and
not wantin’ to ’urt ! is feelin’s I tells ’im soothin’ that
I wasn’t talkin’ about Miss Dyer particular. “I know
the wimmen ’ere say she ’as to keep cats for com-
pany because she ain’t been lucky enough to get a
’usband to keep”
“Shut up!” roars Chris. “Cats is a jolly sight
better company than the ’usbands some of the wimmen
’ere ’ave got.”
“They might be, Chris,” I agrees ; “but all I ever
see ’em do is stalk about lookin’ prosperous and
makin’ ’aughty noises. Like some people I comes in
contact with,” I ses, lookin’ at Mr. Porter.
“Go on, laugh!” ses Mr. Porter, glarin’ around
the bar. “But you’ll laugh the other side of your face,
Raggles, when you find that cats ’ave put you out of
a job.”
I couldn’t make out wot he was drivin’ at, but
when I sees the “Local News” the followin’ evenin’
I understands.
The article wot Mr. Porter ’ad wrote about Cats
and Rats wasn’t important, bein’ just a very long and
careful explainin’ of wot a tremenjous lot he didn’t
know about the subject, but at the end was a an-
nouncement wot was important. It said that the writer,
bein’ anxious to make cats popular, was goin’ to ’old
regular cat competitions, the first to be ’eld in two
months’ time. There was to be a ’andsome silver cup
and cash prize for the best cat, as well as consolation
prizes and a special one for the person wot ’ad the
most cats in the competition. It finished up sayin’ that
the town ’all would be used for the show.
I could ’ardly believe that the Town Clerk would
lower the dignity of our main public buildin’ by
allowin’ it to be used for such a purpose, but when I
’ad a word with ’im I found ’im quite enthusiastic, and
he wouldn’t listen to me when I tries to point out that
rat-catchin’ is scientific and requires years of study.
“All right, all right,” he ses. “It’ll be a relief to
you to know that you won’t ’ave to study no more,
because if people takes the interest in this competition
that Mr. Porter thinks they will I’ll ’ave to see about
transferrin’ you to the street-cleanin’. That’s all,
Raggles.”
It was surprisin’ ’ow many people—some of ’em
supposed to be me friends, too —-wot ’ad a try for
them prizes : two days later there wasn’t a stray cat
to be seen. Everyone was talkin’, ’ighly excited, about
cats and silver cups and cash prizes, and praisin’ up
Mr. Porter; but when I drops into Miss Dyer’s to set
a few traps I finds that she’s the worst of the lot.
“Mr. Porter’s doin’ a excellent thing,” she ses.
“I feel very grateful to ’im meself because I’m sure
I’m goin’ to be rewarded for all the time I’ve spent on
Marigold and Lydia.” And she picks up one of ’er
fat, overfed, bubbly-eyed animals and starts talkin’
to it so weak-minded about doin’ its best that I was
near sick, and when she goes on about ’ow certain
she is of gettin’ that cup I couldn’t ’elp givin’ ’er some-
thin’ to think about.
“I knows a bit about animals, Miss Dyer,” I ses,
shakin’ me ’ead at ’em. “And them cats ain’t ’ealthy.
Look at their eyes.”
“Wot nonsense!” she ses sharp. But she gazes
concerned into Marigold’s eyes and then ’as a look
at Lydia’s.
“Better see Mr. Porter about ’em,” I ses. “He
seems to know more about cats than they knows about
themselves.”
Of course, I was only speakin’ sarcastic, but she
must ’ave took me serious, because when I ’appens
to pass ’er place next day there was Mr. Porter on
the lawn nursin’ Lydia and chattin’ to Miss Dyer. It
wasn’t the only visit he paid ’er neither, and, thinkin’
that it was only natural for two people wot was silly
the same way to like to chat about their foolishness,
I didn’t take no notice ; but it wasn’t long before I
begins to suspect ’ow things was between ’em, and,
after I ’ad noticed ’ow Miss Dyer ’ad started wearin’
young-lookin’ dresses and waves in ’er ’air, it dawns
on me that there might be trouble for them two
through the competition. I ’as a word with Chris
about it when I sees ’im at the Shelterin’ Palm one
evenin’.
“I ’ope you won’t mind me mentionin’ it, Chris,”
I ses. “But it’s about that sister of yours and ’er
cats”
“You shut your face about my sister and ’er cats,”
growled Chris, bad-tempered as usual.
“I can’t shut me face to wot’s goin’ on,” I ses
firm. “It’s up to your sister not to go in for that
competition. You know ’ow things is between ’er and
Mr. Porter. You know them two ain’t been seein’
each other day after day just to talk about cats.”
“Great Scott!” he ses. “I ’ad no idea, but now
that you mentions it.” He looks thoughtful and nods
’is ’ead a few times, smilin’ to ’imself. “Yes. You’re
right, Raggles. It’s a wonder I didn’t wake up before.”
“If he awards ’er that cup, Chris,” I ses, “it’ll
cause a lot of trouble and talkin’ ’ere ; and then if he
don’t give it to ’er it’ll cause a lot of trouble and
talkin’ between them two after they’re married. The
only thing to do is to tell your future brother-in-law
to persuade ’er to keep them cats out of it. He’s in
the bar now.”
“Right!” ses Chris, and he ducks into the bar
and comes out with Mr. Porter.
“Why shouldn’t she go in for the competition?”
ses Mr. Porter surprised, after Chris ’ad put it to ’im.
“You know,” ses Chris, givin’ ’im a dig in the
ribs wot near knocked ’im over. “People talk. Raggles
’ere ain’t the only one wot’s noticed ’ow things is
between you and Lily, I’m sure.”
Mr. Porter gives a sudden jump and looks at me,
’is face goin’ a bit purple.
“You’re a lucky man, Mr. Porter,” goes on Chris,
cheerful. “I can quite understand you wantin’ to give
Lily that prize, because, after all, you’re gettin’ one
yourself. I dunno wot I’ll do without ’er.”
“Look ’ere,” ses Mr. Porter desperate. “You’re
makin’ a big—that is” He stops sudden, catchin’
Chris’s eye.
“Wot was you goin’ to say?” ses Chris very slow.
“Nothin’,” ses Mr. Porter quick. “Nothin’.” He
licks ’is lips wot was quite dry and white. “Come
and ’ave a drink.” He gives a queer, crooked sort of
grin. “To —to celebrate.”
We ’ad a few, and Chris keeps tellin’ ’is future
brother-in-law ’ow lucky he was to get a wife like Lily.
In fact, he pointed out so much that in the end he
must’ve convinced Mr. Porter that Lily was too good
for ’im, because ever since that night no one ’ere ’as
ever clapped eyes on Mr. Porter.
But there was a lot said about ’im for a long time
after, both by Chris and them wot ’ad wasted their
’ard-earned money on milk and cat’s-meat; and as cats
is more unpopular ’ere than ever I’m still at me old
job usin’ me traps as usual.
After all, you can’t beat a trap for clearin’ out
rats and pests wot makes a nuisance of themselves.


A Man and His Wife
NO RETORN
by Osmar E. White
ILLUSTRATED
BY
SHELLEY
The fire had cut through
the boundary from the
direction of Strainer Post
—a fiat, creeping monster
that spread and spread
over the cypress needles
and the powder-dry rem-
nants of grass between the
trees.
PEOPLE round Tibrogargan have never thought
much of Sutter’s wife. It’s not, you understand,
that they’ve anything definite against her, for
she’s a good wife to Jim. It’s just that she
doesn’t fit.
If anybody drops in at Sutter’s on the way up
the Six Foot, they mostly catch her. The youngest
baby, John, has pulled things all over the verandah
and is squawling in the middle of the mess ; or one
of the blue cattle-pups Jim has taken to breeding is
sprawled on the kangaroo-skin rug in the front room ;
or she’s boiling up the copper in the backyard and
her eyes are red and watery.
Not that she makes you uncomfortable by apolo-
gising for anything. She asks you in for a cup of tea
in the kitchen if you’re a near neighbor, or, if you’re
not, clears away enough odds and ends for you to
sit down in the front room.
It isn’t that. It’s something no one can put a
finger on —the way she looks at things round the
house, the way she walks, moves just a split second
after any other woman would have started... All
the while you’re talking to her you’ve got an uncom-
fortable feeling she wishes you hadn’t dropped in.
Yet, when you go, she stands on the verandah shading
her eyes and looking after you till you’re out of sight...
Jim Sutter is altogether different.
People round Tibrogargan have always liked Jim.
He’s big and strong and good-looking, and he works
on his place as hard as any three men. It isn’t much
of a place. It runs into the stony country at the back
of Exeter Creek as far as Strainer Post Mountain —
six or seven thousand acres that will hardly carry a
sheep to five in good years. But Jim is proud of it.
Proud is the word. It’s queer, too, how Jim is
proud. Most men are proud of their places because
of the good land they’ve got. If they show you round,
they’ll show you the good paddocks and the new
fences and the best animals. But Jim doesn’t. He
shows you the rough stuff round the Strainer Post —
rolling miles of stunted cypress-pine, bare ridges that
blast back the heat with a furnace fierceness, deep
gullies with rubble sides choked by thornbush, the
Strainer Post itself, pointing like a copper finger into
the sun-dulled sky.
“I own that mountain,” he’ll say. “She’s on my
property. No one has ever got to the top of her.”
T IM’S old man, Laurie Sutter, left Jim the place. He
settled on Dimboolin plains forty years ago and
built up one of the nicest properties in the north-west.
He made enough out of it to buy places for all his
sons. Jim was the youngest, so he got Tibrogargan.
After the old man died, three of the boys sold out
and went to the city. The country never got into their
blood. But Jim was different. He raised a bit of
money on the place and moved into the old home-
stead on Exeter Creek. He put up miles of new fence,
and sank a well and fixed up a shed and ploughed
fifteen acres for crops along the flat. People shook
their heads at first because they reckoned Tibrogargan
was no good. It drove the Skinner boys off. But after
Jim had been going a year or two, he had twice as
much stuff on the place as the Skinners ever had, and
he started to make it pay enough to put in improve-
ments.
When Jim was twenty-nine he got married.
People were surprised, because they all thought if Jim
ever married it would be one of the Lachlan girls ;
but Jim must go and pick up with a town girl—a
p?stty-enough little thing, with dark, bobbed hair and
a round face, and she wore clothes that set her off.
The first two years it turned out for the best.
You d hardly believe the difference Jim’s new wife
made down at Tibrogargan. She cleared up all the
rooms and had them papered, and dug a bit of garden
and made him fence it. They planted a hedge and a
few fruit-trees, and some willows on the soak for
shade. Even in midsummer she carted enough water
from the well to keep a few bright things going in
the garden. They whitewashed the house and built
a bark lean-to for the harness, instead of keeping it
on the verandah. Anyone could see with half an eye
that Jim was happy.
He was making enough money to do things about
the place and still pay off a bit of what he’d borrowed.
As time went on he would be able to put some by.
For the first time the old homestead down by the
creek started to look like a homestead. The white-
wash shone in the sun, and the hedge and the trees
were springing up green.
At the end of the second year Jim said if the
prices held up he was going to put in a windmill and
buy new furniture for the front room.
The clip was good and the prices did hold up,
but that was the year the first baby came. Jim’s wife
had a bad time. She was in hospital for six weeks,
and when she came out she wasn’t much good for
another six. Jim had to get one of the Butfield girls
out to help her. First and last it cost him a good
deal more than he’d looked for.
All that happened in the middle of the hot
weather, and it was amazing how quickly the place
slipped back with no one to cart water and coax
things along. Jim did his best, but he had his hands
full on the run at the best of times. Some of the
fruit-trees and patches of the hedge died out, and the
garden got baked as hard as a brick.
Of course, when her strength came back Jim’s
wife started to clean up again ; but the baby was a
bit ailing with the year being so hot, and she couldn’t
get ahead of everything that had to be done. The
place didn’t look the same.
Now that Jim had done almost all the fencing he
needed he had to work harder still to keep showing
improvements. He got a bit thinner and browner, and
he looked older, but his pride in Tibrogargan lost none
of its strength. If anything he was prouder. He’d
talk more. If you rode down the Six Foot with him,
you’d see his eye travelling over the fences and the
stock and the dark horizon of cypress with a hard,
bright look.
It was Jim’s wife who really changed.
Again, it was nothing you could put your finger
on. She lost a lot of her fresh prettiness, of course,
after that second summer, but no one could expect
anything else. It wasn’t that she lost interest, or was
unhappy so that you’d notice, or fell out of love with
Jim. They were in love. It was just, somehow, that
she couldn’t manage . . .
She worked hard, cooked good meals, looked
after the baby, did her best in the garden. But she
never caught up. She’d clean the house, but never got
round to tidying up before it was dirty again. She’d
plant flowers and vegetables in the garden but, some-
how or other, she’d have to leave the watering for a
day or two just at the critical time, and the heat would
get them before they came to anything.
Jim understood. He didn’t grouch. He knew how
hard it was for him to catch up. His wife managed
well enough to suit him. It wasn’t his home that
mattered anyway, it was the place.
U / HEN Jim and his wife had been on Tibrogargan
seven years they had a run of bad luck. It was a
poor lambing that year, and afterwards there was a
long dry spell. People round about couldn’t remem-
ber a drier spell for twenty years.
Ordinarily Jim wouldn’t have worried, but the
year before he had put in the windmill and spent
money on wire and fixing up a new shed. He’d had
to borrow again to do it, and he didn’t like that for a
start.
There was no rain at all in the spring, and the
weather held fine right through the autumn and into
the winter again. The creeks in the back paddocks
started to dry up and Jim had to bring out his stock
and handfeed. Everybody round Tibrogargan was in
the same boat, though not as badly as Jim, because
most of the places were better watered.
You might wonder how sheep could pick up a
living on Tibrogargan at any time, but now it was
really dry you would have wondered why the cypresses
themselves didn’t shrivel. For miles —right back to
the mountains —the country gave off heat like the top
of a cookstove. There was no blade of green or
sliver of grass underfoot as far as the eye could see.
There was a dead, dun silence in the air that only the
crows set shivering.
Jim had no chance of carrying his stock through
it, and he had to sell on a market that was already
glutted with drought culls. He lost so heavily that
he knew, even if rain fell before lambing, it would
take him four or five years to make up lost ground.
He had been too confident —stocked the place too
heavily.
The spring rain did not come.
Jim clipped a bare three hundred. They ran out,
skinny, staggering rakes of things, from the race on
to the river paddocks, rooting and bleating in the dust.
When the clip was done, he went out and pulled what
dead wool he could get and rode home with it in
slimy sackfuls across his saddle.
It was not, mark you, that Jim was beaten. But
he was starting to get afraid —afraid that he would
lose Tibrogargan. He didn’t hope, or expect, things
to come easy. He never had. He didn’t ride out
dreaming about miracles that would make him
wealthy, set him free from the bondage of those
barren, stony ridges, the little creeks where the coarse,
rank grass and the watercress grew, the stark finger
of the mountain pointing into the sky, the green
hollow where the homestead stood among its pitiful
trees. He wanted rain only so that he could stay with
them, and master them to the end of his days.
\ X / HEN the real pinch came, Jim’s wife showed up.
“ From the first day that he let on he was afraid,
a change came over her. She seemed to get back,
gradually, the life and purpose the years had drained
out of her. She even looked younger.
The change was slow. It showed itself, first, as
a sort of stiffening, a new certainty in what she did.
She smiled more, even sang about her work. For the
first time since the baby was born Jim came home
at night to find the jobs about the house were all done.
The kitchen was swept and the front room tidied and
the table set. More often than not she was pottering
about the garden waiting for him, carrying a bucket
or two of water from the well for special plants that
still lived through the ceaseless blasting of the sun.
Jim was no fool. He saw the change in her. He
knew that almost any other woman would have given
in, have matched his mood of black watching. He
knew that she was standing by him, and that standing
by him gave her a new courage—a kind of courage
that made him almost ashamed of being afraid for
Tibrogargan.
For the first time for years he started talking to
her again about the place— not just about what he
was doing or where he was going, for he always told
her about the work, but about what he was going
to do when the dry spell broke, and how he was get-
ting scared, and how much the place meant to him.
She was so strong for his plans, so contemptuous of


his fears, that he thought it funny a man could live
with his wife for seven years and then something could
happen to bring them even closer together.
“Don’t worry so, Jim,” she would say. “You’re
not going to be driven off the place. If it doesn’t rain
for ten years it can’t drive us off the place. Every-
body else is as bad off as we are.”
The words were what he wanted her to say, but
he knew it wasn’t true. Other places all round had
heavy stock losses, everybody owed money to the
banks, nobody had any feed and few had enough
water. But the other places were better country than
Tibrogargan.
“What if we are driven off?” he asked once.
“We won’t be,” she said. “But if we are, we —we
can start again, Jim. Somewhere else. You can earn
a living woolclassing. You’re a good classer, Jim.
There’s money in that. We’ll soon get enough to
start again.”
That was the only thing she ever said that hurt
Jim. He knew she didn’t mean it to hurt. He looked
at her and saw that she only meant he was a good
enough man to provide for them, whatever happened.
He thought she was brave to say it and look him
squarely in the eyes and smile.
“You’re a good wife, Kath,” he said awkwardly.
“A man couldn’t have a better.”
1 ATE in February a fire broke out on Grogan’s
place. An east wind sprang up and drove it down
on Sutter’s back paddocks.
No one believed it could get any hotter, but it
did. All day long the air was filled with the reek of
burning cypresses. The smoke rolled over the sky
and turned it from a dead, dusty blue to the color of
hot copper. At night half the horizon seemed alight,
and the wind that blew from it was like a breath out of
the grating of a blast furnace.
Jim rode over with men from Grogan’s and
Colonel Kane’s to fight the fire and try to save his
fences. The morning he went his wife got up at four
to cut him a bag of sandwiches and bake scones.
“You can’t go without food, Jim,” she said. “You
don’t know when you’ll get back. You’ll need it.”
All the morning she watched the smoke pall get-
ting thicker over the back boundary. At noon she
put the child in the little paling yard Jim had made
for him on the verandah, saddled up the spare stock-
horse and rode out with more food. But she couldn’t
find the fighters.
The fire had cut through the boundary from the
direction of Strainer Post. It was burning between
her and Grogan’s—a flat, creeping monster that spread
and spread over the cypress needles and the powder-
dry remnants of grass between the trees. Every now
and then a tongue of flame would run up the bark
of a tree and the crown would burst into a red,
roaring torch.
She watched it for a while until the heat was too
great to bear, and the flying cinders started to char
her blouse. Then she rode back.
Jim, she thought, would almost surely bring back
the other men. She made the meal ready for sun-
down, but they did not arrive until nine o’clock. The
hooves of the weary cavalcade gave her a warning,
clipping in the shingle of the creekbed.
She went out to meet them at the gate with a
lamp—seven weary, smoke-blackened men, parched
and stiff with sixteen hours of useless fighting.
She knew Jim’s fences were going as soon as she
looked at him. His eyes were red and wild in his
smutty face, his shirt hung in charred tatters from his
stooped shoulders. He didn’t say anything, but his
fingers bit into the flesh of her arm when he passed
her in the dark.
The grumble of talk died when she set the food
down before them. They ate almost silently, raven-
ously—washing down the stringy mutton, the potatoes
and bread with cups of scalding tea poured out of
her biggest enamel teapot. The sweat cut pale runnels
in their jowls as their jaws worked.
“Well, Jim,” said Grogan, pushing back his chair,
“the wind might change, but otherwise she’ll run
through your line. We’ll go out in the morning if you
think it’ll do any good.”
Sutter shook his head.
“It’s no good,” he said. “Without rain it’ll run
right through like you say.”
The other five growled.
“This’ll finish me,” Sutter said after a minute,
“once the fencing goes.”
“It’s too big,” said Grogan. “A hundred men
couldn’t do nothing. We’ll be getting along, Jim.
Thank yer kindly for the dinner, Mrs. Sutter. We’re
sorry we couldn’t do nothing.”
“Thank you, Mr. Grogan,” she said quietly. “The
dinner was nothing.”
She went out and held the lamp up and watched
them ride away down the Six Foot, a row of dark
men on horseback, strangely alike, sitting the saddles
as if each and his horse were one. Their heads seemed
all bent over to the dull glow in the east.
Jim was still sitting at the kitchen table when
she went in. He had his head in his hands and he
didn’t look up.
“To-morrow we’ll go to town,” he said. “There’s
no use in staying here now.”
After he’d said it, she thought she could feel her
heart in her body. Jim didn’t say anything else. He
got up and went to bed. For once she had no words
to encourage him. She just washed up the dishes
and then followed, quietly as a mouse, and lay down
on the bed beside him.
It was a strange sensation to feel your heart, she
thought. It was as if it had been dead and now had
come to life again, and was singing.
“To-morrow,” he had said, “we’ll go to town.”
In those five words her future was born again
and his pride breathed its last.
Sutter lay still, like a log. The sleep of his defeat
was so deep he scarcely breathed. Her hand touched
him and felt the heat of his body, the film of sweat
on his cheek. Her mind ran out into a hundred joy-
ous, green fantasies —flowers and fields and rivers,
the sounds of a city, and people’s laughter, and the
waves of the sea on the shore. No more the prospect
of the dark cypress and the warning finger of the
mountain admonishing her.
"THAT was the night the dry spell broke.
1 The rain came after midnight—at first a drop
or two big in the belly with promise, then a shower
pattering on the roof ; then a downpour that roared
and hissed into the earth, flooded the stony creeks,
coursed in spattering runnels down the hot cliffs of
Strainer Post Mountain.
So deep was his sleep that Jim Sutter did not
awaken to know the sharp, bitter ecstasy of that
moment of reprieve. But his wife heard it, lying still
beside him.
“And to-morrow,” her loose, tear-wet lips framed
soundlessly, “we would have gone to town.”
When the clip was done, he went
out and pulled what dead wool
he could get and rode home with
it in slimy sackfuls across his
saddle.
TRUCKING
BY K. E. GOULTER.
SAM WOODS, Gilly Smith, Sandy and me sat
on the saleyard rail and listened to Joe Gantly,
—or Mister Gantly, as he always makes me
call him—boasting to a bunch of city toffs about
how his two dogs had won the Huntaway and the
Heading and Yarding two years running at the inter-
provincial trials.
We lot, that knew Gantly, had to listen to his
skite, for the darn good reason that it was true, but
that’s not excusing it any. Then I’m blessed if old
Sam didn't go and spit, sort of accidental, right be-
tween Gantly’s tan shoes, and say, in his slow kind
of way: “Mebbe yer tykes are bloomin’ wonders,
Joe no Misters from old but the dinkum
test of a dorg, I reckon, is takin a draft °f l am s >
right off their mas, to the tiuckin yards.
Gantly’s moustache quivered. There wasn t much
love lost between him and Sam, ever. “That so?” he
said, drawling a bit. “I’ll back Nip and Tuck ’gainst
any team of dogs in the district.”
Old Sam came back at him then, and I could
only put it down to his having had one too many
before the sale started.
“Orl right, Joe,” he said. “We’re both truckin’
ter-morrer, aren’t we? Tell y’ what, I’ll lay yer a fiver
that, startin’ level, my lambs’ll be on them trucks ahead
of yours.”
Gantly threw back his head and laughed, and
some of the chaps that were aiming to get something
out of him, or that owed him money, joined in. I
thought he’d fall over, he laughed that hard, and I
can’t say but what he had good reason, Sam’s dogs
having something of a reputation. A pack of yarrup-
ing curs, they were, that would, as like as not, leave
the sheep to take care of themselves if they happened
to put up a hare or a rabbit.
I looked at Sam. kind of sorrowfully, because I
liked the old fellow, and I didn’t like to see him losing
a fiver when he was half-tight. But Sam wasn't sor-
„,., , , ,
Lemme see, he said. Yer place s a quarter-
mile nearer the yards than mine. Train goes at eight,
so supposin we say you start at six an me at ten to.
Danny he turned to me you 11 be helpin yer boss
*b them l am bs, an you 11 see e keeps the time
rig bf- .
I nodded, not too anxiously. But Gantly was still
treating the whole thing as a joke. “Righto,” he said.
“if you’re' so certain of those dogs of yours, Sam,”
and he laughed again.
Then Sam’s daughter, Sal, a red-haired, bare-
legged kid of about twelve, came up and lugged the
old man away. That was the last we saw of Sam
that day, and Gantly started in again, talking about
how good Nip and Tuck were.
On the way home, Gantly said to me: “Remember
old Sam’s trucking last year?”
“Yes,” said I; “took him so long the train’d gone
six hours before he got to the yards.”
Gantly grinned. “And the year before he and
the lambs ended up in the creek behind Sandy’s place,
with the old man clawing the air, and the dogs that
darned cowed that they’d gone and hidden under
Sandy’s woolshed.” And he slapped his thigh and
laughed that hard his horse shied.
NJEXT morning I was up pretty smartly, and fin-
-1 ished the cows early, so as I could help Gantly
take the mob down —four hundred of ’em drafted off
their mothers the evening before.
Right on the tick of six we left the home paddock
gate, the lambs drawing well, not breaking back to
the ewes more than you’d expect or the two of us,
using gum boughs, and Nip and Tuck could deal with.
As we got near the yards, I couldn’t help feeling
a bit sorry for old Sam, losing that fiver when his
wife and kids hadn’t proper clothes, but just then I
saw dust rising from the direction of the trucking-
yards, behind the pine belt.
“Hullo, someone else’s trucking,” said Gantly.
“It couldn’t be Sam,” said I, sort of hoping.
“Go to blazes and talk sense,” said Gantly, but I
could see he was uneasy, even though he’d ridden down
to the yards before we left, to make sure Sam was
playing fair. I’d seen him go while I was milking.
And a lot more uneasy Gantly was five minutes
later, when we rounded into the holding yard and saw
one of Sam’s dogs . . . and then the back of the old
man himself, just putting his last truck on.
You could have knocked me down with a cow’s
tail, and as for Gantly I thought he was going to have
a fit. What beat me was how old Sam had managed
it. Dogs are dogs, and you can’t change their natures
overnight.
I was standing behind the mob, Gantly having
gone forward to open the gates, and I happened to
glance down the bit of an alley that runs from the
trucking yards over to the main road, and suddenly 1
knew how Sam had done it. Just scurrying out of
sight round the corner was Sam’s red-headed kid, fol-
lowed by five poddy-looking lambs and three old
ewes!
Yes, old Sam had got the better of Gantly with
a trick as old as Adam, and I wouldn’t have said any-
thing for worlds. Gantly’s mind ran only to dogs,
and he never would have stooped to the trick of lead-
ing the mob down with a kid, three pet ewes and five
pet lambs.


MAIL ORDERS
PROMPTLY
DISPATCHED.
r-
n
CD
Best quality Cutting-out Scissors, 7in.
overall, 7/6 each.
OJ
m
Nail Clipper for hard finger- and toe-
nails, 6/6 each.
A Suggestion for a Wedding Gift.
The Chatsworth Oak Cabinet, fitted
with 42 pieces of Best Quality
Stainless Knives and Silverware,
£B/17/6.
The Voyager
Manicure Set,
fitted with Clipper,
Scissors and File,
21/6.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Cutlery from Baker’s —A Guarantee of Quality.
ls:
Baker’s Standard fin. Razor, White
Handle, 13/6 each.
Horsehide Strop for above,
10/6 each.
sd
Round Bread Board, colored edgi
4/6; Postage 1/- extra.
I In -
Poultry Secateur, for cutting the
joint's of cooked poultry,
12/6 per pair.
28-PAGE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
POSTED FREE.
s
Best Quality Ordi-
nary Steel Carver
and Fork,
28/6 per pair.
the universities and in the widespread Civil Liberties
Union, both ostensibly dedicated to the preservation
of the American social tradition, yet both, in their
activities, moving for its overthrow. Referring to Red
activities under the cloak of American freedom, Sin-
clair has his character say in conclusion:
The Reds, you see, speak in the name of a God
they don t believe in, and of a Constitution they labor
to destroy; they demand the right to do in America
all the things for which they would be shot if they
tried them in Russia.
Quayle comes so much under the influence of his
industrial consultant that he contemplates selling out
in a depressed market, an act that would reduce his
estimated fortune from twelve or fifteen millions to
about three millions. His children are made of sterner
stuff and, hearing of his intention, take steps to have
him declared “mentally incompetent.” At this point
he is a consenting party to being kidnapped by an
eccentric tinker, a friend of his boyhood, and he and
the tinker go on a rambling tour of the country.
It is pretty evident that the chief topic, the Valley-
ville strike, wasn’t enough for a full-length book, so,
pending the climax, Sinclair trundles his leading char-
acter from place to place, pausing at those which
afford him an opportunity to examine—for the reader’s
benefit—different aspects of the American industrial
scene. Among these places is the State of Georgia, to
where many of the New England textile mills have
removed in the hope of escaping pressing labor diffi-
culties in their place of origin.
Upton Sinclair is notable for his capacity for hit-
ting on' a hot topical theme rather than for great
ability as a novelist. His fictional characters are melo-
dramatic in action and woefully ventriloquial in the
discussion scents. Little Steel is essentially a book for
those who take their fiction lightly and their sociology
seriously. Granted that, it is full of interest. Pictures
of C. 1.0. organisers at work are illuminating and the
strike scenes are well done. Outstanding in the latter
are the note of desperation among the strikers and the
almost immediate resort to anarchic violence on both
sides. It seems to arise from the third party to the
dispute—the general public—having no means of mak-
ing itself felt. Comparison with the average trade
dispute in Australia lends fresh democratic lustre to
the Australian machinery for arbitration.
Comedy of Childhood.
Anyone who wants to recapture the fears, adven-
tures and delights of childhood that seern so infinitely
comical and precious to the adult mind could not do
better than to accompany Martin Armstrong, bird’s-
nesting among the late ’eighties for what was amusing
in his own childhood, in Victorian Peep-Show (Michael
Joseph). It will remind everyone of the time he or
she raided Dodson’s orchard, or climbed a tree to
drop things on the passers-by, or strongly suspected
that there was a ghost in the bathroom.
Armstrong might be called a sentimentalist for
failing to present childhood as a period of the most
intense agonies, hatreds and jealousies as well as of
pleasures ; but after all, recalling the time as an adult,
not re-living it as a child, it really is amusing that one
seriously wanted to kill the brats from next-door.
From his adult standpoint, Armstrong's recollec-
tions are irresistibly funny. Nearly all children, one
suddenly remembers, make up the maddest verses and
recite them with all the seriousness of an incantation.
This was his sister’s tactful prayer for fine weather:
I pray to Thee, my gracious God,
May it be fine to-day.
If not, why do not let it be:
If so, why let it be.
Then there is the vengeful power of a verse ; for a
child to capture an enemy in a couplet is as satisfying
as is the possession of a paring of toenail to a witch-
doctor. Armstrong’s under-nurse was fat; he slew her
with
Emma White,
Her dress is too tight!
Though he calls it “Victorian,” Armstrong’s child-
hood had none of the conventional seclusion under
the shadow of the aspidistra. His father terrified him
not with sermon and slipper but with the joking sug-
gestion of “giving him to Mr. Doggett as part pay-
ment for a piano.” “I receive this,” says Armstrong,
“in perfect seriousness and a mortal fear takes hold
of me ; I feel the smart of it in the pit of my stomach.”
He recalls the tremendous impression made on
him by the first funeral he saw ; and the inevitable
sequel of imitating it by the solemn burial of an insect
(it should have been a bird). In the matter of ghosts
he had the usual fears of deserted, cobwebby rooms,
and “I regarded the cistern with misgiving. It had a
way of chirping and hissing to itself for no apparent
reason, which showed it had a certain independent life
of its own.”
There was the delicious terror and excitement of
retrieving a cricket ball from the garden of an irate
neighbor ; the horror when he slipped in to inspect a
room decorated for a party, found himself trapped by
the approach of his parents and their guests, hid under
the sofa, was sat on by a fat visitor, screeched and
was hauled out to be laughed at. There were the
delights of country and beach:
Just as the winters of my childhood remain for me
seasons of deep and continual snow, so the summer
holidays at Alnmouth live in my memory as an
unbroken succession of hot, sunny days. I can still
feel myself lying in the sunbaked hollows of the sand-
dunes, the needle-pointed rushes pricking through my
stockings, still smell the aromatic fragrance given off
by those same rushes and the yellow stonecrop and rest-
harrow, with its flowers like little, pink sweet-peas,
and the hot stench of the ragwort which the black-and-
orange caterpillars of the cinnabar moth used to eat
down to mere skeletons.
Not less fascinating than the portrait of childhood
is Armstrong’s gallery of relatives, nurses and servants
as seen through the eyes of childhood. The most en-
trancing might be poor Miss Chapman, the governess
who had more than her share of that unfortunate
faculty of embarrassing the young. When Armstrong
played the piano she used to sing the words in “a thin
piping voice that made me blush for her. To put an
end to this, I used to accelerate to a speed at which
she couldn’t keep up with me.” But Miss Watkins,
another governess, was almost equally comic and
pathetic. The day before she left to get married she
called first Armstrong and then his sister to her room
and whispered dramatically to each “I’m twenty-
eight!” Of course it meant nothing to the children.
Uncle Billy, the convivial, is another delightful
character; once he was roistering home in dress-
clothes with a Stilton cheese under his arm ; cheese
slipped into a pond and Billy, without a moment’s
hesitation, dived in after it. The grandfather, too, for
whom a few minutes of family company were more
than enough, rings true. “Sometimes one would meet
him taking a constitutional in the grounds or come
upon him unexpectedly sitting in a summer-house,
serene, jovial and motionless as the image of a Chinese
god.”
A final guarantee of the accuracy of Armstrong’s
recollections is his statement (laughable now) of the
dreadful automatism that possesses a child whose
nerves are strained beyond bearing. On the beach,
with a friend of his nurse:
She was a plain, spectacled young woman, and I was
unpleasantly surprised when, at a particular moment,
she opened her mouth to say something and her upper
row of teeth shut on to the lower row of their own
accord. She made herself very agreeable to me, and
yet, in the course of the afternoon, I was impelled to
take up by the leg a doll that lay conveniently to hand
and hit her a crack on the jaw with it. I can still hear
the knock of its wax head on her chinbone.
The book is short, and the publishers, who have
been using the Mayflower Press to produce some hand-
some books lately, have made a very pleasing job of it.
Success in Broadcasting.
Two recent books comment on current broad-
casting from widely different angles. In a satiric pass-
age in a novel, The Professor, by Rex Warner (Boris-
wood), radio management is flayed for its tendency to
place manner before matter, and in This and That
(Allen and Unwin) an eminently successful 8.8. C.
broadcaster, John Hilton, combines tips for success
with a bookful of selected broadcasts.
Hilton opines that the broadcast word is un-
suited for publication, and among truisms he never
stumbled upon anything more self-evident, for his
own work appears unconscionably thin when stripped
of the voice and set down in stark print. As the title
suggests, the talks are about nothing in particular;
just pawky little essays on such subjects as “Clatter
and Chatter,” “Manners Motorists,” “Toleration,”
“Work Saving in the Home,” “Letters from Listeners!”
Coming from so eminent a source they are to be
taken as models ; which they are, in their way, being
perfectly innocuous, well within the intellectual reach
of a dull child of 10, studiously playful, and uniformly
considerate of the sensibilities of Mr. Hilton’s listeners.
There is not a sentence in them that could be con-
strued as controversial, not a sentiment that would
disturb anyone. One title, “Vincent Van Gogh,” sug-
gested that he might at last have something to say ;
but no, Vincent is only a peg to hang a moral on—
and even that doesn’t appear until the seventh page of
a ten-page talk.
Notwithstanding the lightness of the matter it
appears, from a talk “On Giving a Talk,” that con-
siderable moral earnestness is necessary. “You’ve got
to find and create a radio version of yourself, the radio
quintessence of yourself, and then write for it, and
go to the microphone and act it —with all the truth and
sincerity at your command.” In the same talk Hilton
explains how to proceed to this refinement of the soul:
The good rule is that if you want to put people
right, you do your best to start with yourself. You’ve
a much better chance with yourself than with anybody
else. You don’t even have to cross the street to give
yourself a good talking to. You can keep your eyes
on yourself without much trouble, day in and day out.
You can put yourself right without giving the least
offence to anybody. You can let yourself know you’re
not a fellow to be played with. You can tell yourself
off and get no backchat.
The rest of Hilton’s talks reveal that he is full of
amiable little studio tricks. He discusses himself, re-
vealing his innermost character with innocent naivete :
“I’m one of those selfish, jealous, envious, greedy and
grasping sort of fellows ; I don’t mean that, but . . .
well . . . you know . . . just like you, I have the usual
amount.”
Rex Warner’s small satire, in The Professor, falls
on all that Mr. Hilton cherishes like a drop of scald-
ing fat. The Chancellor of an unnamed country de-
cides, in an hour of grave crisis, to make a national
broadcast. He is delayed in a waiting-room by the
studio manager, who endeavors, under the guise of
general conversation, to brush up his radio style.
At the microphone—toward which he had been
invited with a sweeping gesture —the Chancellor began
by noisily clearing his throat. He was the unfortunate
head of a country threatened by both revolution and
invasion, but these, to the studio manager, were
matters of small moment. As the noise resounded
before the instrument he pressed an extended fore-
finger to his lips and rolled his eyes at the ceiling.
“The Chancellor gave him a stern look and began to
speak.”
Neither of these books covers the entire field of
broadcasting, but they combine to arouse the reflection
that a wonderful “radio personality” was lost to the
world when Ella Wheeler Wilcox died before the
popularisation of wireless.
Reviewed Briefly.
Youngsters’ Fare . . .
Puppy and the Cat Hodge (Collins). Canine and
feline biographies by Lorna Lewis. Nicely illustrated
by Lucy Dawson.
Niki Takes a Holiday : Rene Worley and Roberts
Johnson (Michael Joseph). Circus horse on vacation
and cutting capers among his bucolic brethren.
Fiction . . .
Purple Testament: Harold Weston (Eldon Press).
Melodrama with an armaments manufacturer in the
role of the villain who is foiled.
Family Life: Chester Mordant (Geoffrey Bles).
Current problems stirred into a story of a financier,
his wife and his mistress. The wife rises to the top.
12 Midnight Street: Reginald Davis (Geoffrey
Bles). An artist making a pilgrimage by foot to Can-
terbury stops off to help solve a rural murder.
Fast Company : Marco Page (Heinemann). Dirty
doings in the rare book trade. Ingenious and highly-
amusing detective novel.
Onward Trolley : Gene Fowler (Dent). Hero’s a
military oddity in a Rocky Mountain town. Hilarious,
on Wodehouse’s say-so.


'Tks/ 9 sol of tfy' ~dssi£/x
ihb yMhb 9 Juw& iiui 51uww0....
The fascination of a Feltex floor grows stronger as
you live with it and discover more and more its
good points. Feltex, in plain colours or marbled
effects, lends luxury to floors, is silent and soft to
the tread, and makes “Home Sweet Home.” Feltex is
economical too —don’t forget, it’s 50 inches wide. It
is easily cleaned with FELTEX DUAL CLEANER and is
reversible.
See the range at any good furniture store, or write for free
pattern card to Department SG, Box 3281 PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
Insist on Genuine FELTEX—Look for the Name !
FG24B
■
v \ 1 //N|L* 4# , ,
Cv
">>
*■s
V
n**'-
* mT "Li
I
I
iiipii
i •• f f
lWf*:
''
. \J
'V : \,
-p,
I
■ ■
mr f
KflnMtf
■'s‘
, r mam
lytii|M|ti
M
Wm
H V' 5 ' ■
- :.
J# *-r. ■ •* - *
& :■ ,
BPTJS. ; : ■■ ■ i V« < :|>
: - sas* l
- .-V
■
K2£ " ’ •
. ' r -
II
>■ ?:
■4
m
' ' ' i ®r
,
*3 m2
™v yBA; '*"
V vxjr 4 * ’
.-.v .-. .
/
■
J
?-5i
11
m
•f:
M
a»' ■'
~. .
• T f- •••
'4/4 4 s' <'<
:
s
£
§s|ipi
m.
■■:■£.■£■£££
11
'■*,
m
■ • 'M
* > ’"'
£~C '-as
4>
■■
& -
■
'»
m
|:||
:
gllSgn
: |;74;/:4l:v:lf;:
>'•,. S-
C ;
m ... ~:|
SHI
H
• ■->-;■


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
rrniS'cfwie mellcwucgsandlvuqmi
BERKELEY SQUARE.
BERKELEY SQUARE the centre of Mayfair, lying back in a northerly direction from Piccadilly, the ultra-aristocratic area of
the West End in the days of Dickens, Thackeray and Trollope and earlier —has passed from its proverbial high social plane to one less
picturesque perhaps, but more in consonance with the changed conditions of the times, particularly as revealed since the Great War. Old
mansions, inhabited for generations by members of the nobility, have gone, and in their place massive structures rear their not always
lovely architectural bulks skyward. Here is an illustration of this in the new £1,000,000 and 900-roomed Air Ministry Building, which
overshadows this once-placid space with its depressing ponderousness. The British Minister for Air, Sir Kingsley Wood, is observed hoisting
the Air Ministry Flag over the completed headquarters on December 6, 1938, of that arm of national and Imperial defence which, so to
speak of yesterday’s birth, is now regarded by many as in actuality, from the viewpoint of Empire preservation under modern conditions
of warfare, “the senior service.” Berkeley Square is emphatically a tiny corner of mighty London no visitor should fail to see, if only
for the colorful and variegated pictures of a past it conjures up; also as a striking object-lesson of the march of that change, call it
utilitarian if you will, which knows not clamor of bygone romance nor heeds the echoes of a social life going back over centuries.
Mayfair, as our forebears knew it, has gone, and so, too, has its centre —Berkeley Square. The name alone remains. Sic transit, etc.


NO ENCORE.
“The Franks, weary of campaigning in Spain, retreated through the defiles of the Pyrenees.... In vain Oliver begged Roland to sound his horn and summon
Charlemagne to his aid Roland alone survived on the field of battle. With a last effort he blew his horn." —Story of the Song of Roland.
“Communist militiamen, retreating to France through the defiles of the Pyrenees, were led by Marty, a member of the Chamber of Deputies. They marched singing to
their concentration camp.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton Quay,
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.:
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
LICKED AGAIN.
The Spanish war, which dragged on indecisively for
many months, is having a swift and —to people who
have blindly swallowed the mush with which they
have been fed for three years —disappointing finish.
The Spaniard is traditionally a good fighter behind
walls, and for Spaniards contending in the national
cause against armies of foreign mercenaries (newspaper
description) the Reds cut a poor figure compared with
the men who sent the “war to the knife” message to
Napoleon’s marshal from twice-besieged Saragossa.
In the last phase they collapsed very ingloriously.
Their air force was the first to bolt, and it is pitiful
to read of “84 Republican army aeroplanes” landing
and surrendering on French soil while there were still
armies in the field. But politicians were conspicuous
in the rush to save skins.
Throughout the war on the Red side there was
nothing comparable to the defence of the Alcazar.
For upwards of two months a handful of Nationalist
Spaniards held the ruins of that old fortress, though
they were encumbered with women and children and
the city was occupied by the enemy. They had little
food or water ; they were, of course, outnumbered,
and they had to endure a savage bombardment,
which was stilled only to admit of attacks
with bomb and bayonet. Efforts were made
to starve them out, smoke them out and blow them
up. More dead than alive, they were finally relieved
by a Nationalist force, which fought its way into
Toledo in consummation of a task which had seemed
beyond its powers.
From that moment it seemed probable to observers
not deceived by foreign “news” of the kind that
Madame Tabouis retails and by Communist propa-
ganda that the Nationalists would win the war. It
was plain that they were struggling towards objects far
more precious to them than the setting-up of a Franco
dictatorship. Men don’t fight as did the garrison of
the Alcazar and the relieving army to ensure victory
for a vulgar military revolt. As the war proceeded
plain people increasingly accepted the Nationalist view
that it was a contest between race and tradition, on
the one side, and, on the other, Moscow international-
ism, with the familiar Moscow accompaniments, and
a spot of anarchism. And race and tradition have
prevailed.
Brag, cant and blah were placed at the service
of the losers. The war was “written up” in the cables
as if they were winning all along the line. Losses of
territory were transformed into retirements “according
to plan.” An unwonted seizure of a town, soon
regained, became “the decisive victory of Teruel.” A
polyglot mob of Red militia, a brigade of which would
have been easy meat for any veteran A.I.F. or 29th
or 51st Division battalion, was proclaimed “the finest
fighting force the world has ever seen.” As in all
Spanish civil wars ruthless things were done on both
sides. Those done by Reds were not mentioned,
even in papers classed as Conservative; those for
which Nationalists were responsible were paraded
and denounced in the world press and repeated, with
embellishments, in cinema theatres and over the air.
This one-sided reporting went on even when the issue
had been decided. “Atrocities” vouched for by very
untrustworthy authorities were attributed, as usual, to
“German and Italian airmen.” People were left to
believe, if sufficiently credulous, that the 84 ’planes
surrendered in France were wholly manned by Span-
iards and all of Spanish make.
In a sense it is true that Spain during the last
three years has been a battleground for “the
ideologies,” but the extent of foreign participation will
not be determined until sober history has been written
by authorities who had access to all the available
evidence. Unquestionably, the Francoists have been
supported by Italians and Germans, and the Reds by
Frenchmen and Russians. Though the Reds recruited
a couple of thousand volunteers in Britain, 1200 or
so in Canada and a few score in Australia, the British
Government has been steadfastly neutral, and it is
now clear to all but the blind and the biased that
neutrality was the best policy.
Early in the piece Moscow sent a Mr. Rosenberg,
who looked just like a pawnbroker, to its Embassy in
Madrid. Considering the historical Spanish attitude to
the Jews, it was in its way as stupid a move as that
other stroke of Moscow policy, killing off all the best
farmers ( kulaks ) to promote Communist agriculture;
and this seems to have been tardily recognised. Any-
way, Mr. Rosenberg was moved on. But while he
reigned Russian ’planes and tanks were active —or as
active as Russian ’planes and tanks could be expected
to be —and Commissars shot up in all directions. How-
ever, it is improbable that there were ever many Rus-
sians in Spain, or Germans either, even though one-
eyed war correspondents, hiding in shell-holes, saw “the
Germans” bomb Guernica. Australians have seen any
number of low-flying aeroplanes over their cities. If
any one of them went into a court of law and swore
that he could tell the nationality of the fliers with the
naked eye from the ground he would not be believed.
The Italians have made no secret of the man-
power they have added to the Nationalist armies—-
all the partisan countries have concealed the truth
about their contributions in aeroplanes, tanks, other
machines and the personnel. Italian formations have
been named in official newspapers, as well as in
foreign publications, and Italian casualty lists have
been regularly issued at Rome. Italian policy has been
defended by the argument that the establishment of
a hostile Red State in the Mediterranean, a State in
the closest relations with Moscow and with the
French Communist party, would be a deadly threat to
their own Fascist State.
The French have not been so frank. Indeed, their
Government pretended, until the pretence could be
kept up no longer, that France was sticking to non-
intervention in the spirit and in the letter. Actually,
it has been no mystery in Europe that men, arms and
supplies from France were passed over the Pyrenees
in a steady stream by frontier guards in the pay of or
in sympathy with the Communist and Socialist organi-
sations which backed Negrin and his predecessor
Caballero, and which are so strong in France that the
Communists alone have 82 members in the Chamber
of Deputies. In “Uncabled Additions” (B. 1/2/’39)
there was quoted the statement of another Deputy, M.
Franfois Valentin, that if France had had to rpobilise
fully in September it would have been short of two
divisions, “20,000 or 30,000” men of military age hav-
ing “crossed the frontier of Spain.” It was Franco’s
threat to the frontier that started the Red rot.
When the frontier was about to be closed the Aus-
tralian public was permitted to learn things of which
it had been kept in ignorance. This, for example
(Sydney “Daily Telegraph”):
Andre Marty, the midget French Deputy who led the
French naval mutiny in the Black Sea in 1918, led
the last 1000 International troops over the French border
from Catalonia. Marty had a dirty bandage about his
head, and carried a blackthorn stick in his hand.
And this (Sydney “Sun”):
With his entire general staff, the Spanish Premier,
Dr. Negrin, fled across the frontier into France. As
he left Spanish soil he looked back and gave the
clenched-fist salute of the Communists.
Headlines in Thursday’s Sydney papers are
interesting:—-
NEGRIN PROCLAIMS “FIGHT TO FINISH”
(“Daily Telegraph”); “NO SURRENDER,” SAYS
NEGRIN (“Daily News”); NEGRIN QUITS SPAIN
(“Sun”).
Truth will out in spite of the most elaborate
attempts to keep it corked. Not only the press—with
few exceptions—but American and British novelists,
American magazine-writers, Left Wing Book Club
pets and professors, lady politicians, film-fakers, radio
blatherskites and the litter of Leagues Against War and
Fascism have labored to convince the public that
Negrin and his friends had no connection with Com-
munism, but were the hope of the democratic side.
In short, the Communists have been beaten again.
Every strike, every war they start or support is doomed
from the moment they swarm in. Braggarts when
things seem to be going their way, squealers when the
tide turns, they fail, and always will fail, when real
fighting has to be done. God help us all if the
exuberant patron of the Major Attlee battalion is ever
permitted to drag us into an alliance with their gim-
crack Republic!
Film "History."
Such things happening in cycles and being now about
due, it can be forecast much more “reliably” than
Madame Tabouis manages (a) that Australian and
Maoriland audiences will shortly be regaled with an
outbreak of Hollywoodenised history, and ( b ) that
critics, Fathers of Ten and others who get hot under
the collar about such matters will be castigating the
filmsmiths for falsification and distortion.
The substance of what may be expected in pro-
test has lately been aired in London “Daily Tele-
graph” by Campbell Dixon, a film critic who is also
an Australian. Mr. Dixon submits that if history is
worth including in the education on which millions
are spent every year, it is because, in a world provided
by science with the means of lying on a scale impos-
sible in less civilised ages, there are still people who
think Truth, for its own sake, of some value. Why
trouble with education at all, asks Mr. Dixon, if what
you teach by day you promptly unteach by night?
If nobody cares twopence whether the impulsive and
amorous Tudor beheaded Anne Boleyn for adultery with
Jefferson Davis, or Pocahontas for dalliance with Master
Colpepper, then let us not have any more nonsense
about history in the schools. What sense is there in
spending millions on crowding facts into children’s
heads when the first film-producer in search of a
“twist,” or a new thrill, or a fat role for Mr. Longshot,
or a pretty period setting for Miss Closeup, can dig
them all out again in 90 minutes?
For make no mistake about the screen’s power to do
it. A big success like “The Private Life of Henry
VIII.” or “Mutiny on the Bounty” is seen by millions
of people. Few of them have read much history, and
even those with the usual school smattering find their
previous dim conceptions of men and events swept away
and vividly reshaped by the terrific impact of the visual
image.
Mr. Dixon adds that in a score of so-called his-
torical pictures Hollywood has shown great events
brought about by the wrong people, characters changed
beyond recognition and grand passions between his-
torical figures who in real life never looked at each
other twice. “The maker of a film,” declares Mr.
Dixon, “has no more right to call it historical if it
isn’t than I have to sell plums as pickles.”
All of which will no doubt be applauded by those
who rate the importance of schooling—which is what
Mr. Dixon obviously refers to when he speaks of edu-
cation—and the sacredness of history as highly as
Mr. Dixon rates them. But surely this is an argument
which turns and rends itself ; for if the teaching of
history in schools is so ineffective that distortion in
fictional films can so easily bring it to naught, it must
be a waste of time and money in any case.
Instead of being attacked for bemusing people’s
minds with historical shoddy, Hollywood should be
applauded for showing up a schooling system so poor
that all its teaching of history withers away in the
face of an hour or so of assorted falsehoods paraded
in a moving picture. If that is the best our pedagogues
can manage it is time they were sacked.
Or if we must keep them for other purposes—if
there are other worth-while things they can impart in
the course of years that Hollywood won’t be able to
dig out in 90 minutest-then surely the way out is not
to abuse Hollywood or yell for the censor, but to
counter the pernicious attack with the weapons that
Hollywood has apparently proved to be so effective-
use films in the schools and thus give schooling also
the benefit of “the terrific impact of the visual image.”
If false history paraded on the screen is so impressive
that an hour or two of it can uproot and replace
all that has ever been gathered from books and peda-
gogues, surely the thing to do is to provide the peda-
gogues with this means of getting in indelibly with
the truth.
Getting in with the “terrific impact of the visual
image” when the brain is at what’s supposed to be the
impressionable and formative stage ought to be a fair
shot at overcoming anything Hollywood is likely to do.
That failing, it might be as well to recognise that
the sort of minds it fails on are subnormal and not
likely to be influenced either for the good or the bad
by film history or any other history, true or false.
In any case, who is Clio that she alone should be
held so sacred? Is history any more important than
the other matters of human concern on which Holly-
wood habitually prevaricates? At least Clio is given
some sort of a start. These days few people grow to
adulthood without having had the benefit of some
guidance on established historical facts. If their minds
are such that'film falsification can completely beat
that start it does not mean that the schooling system
they had the benefit of is a waste of time and money,
but only that it was wasted on them.
What about the other matters on which Hollywood
is such a common liar? What about the perpetual
glorification of false human values? Is it any more
important to have a set of historical facts right than
to be right, as near as may be, about the true and the
false in the living present?
Hollywood is now exerting its powerful propa-
ganda talents in picture after picture to impose the
snobocracy of riches on the democratic idea. Posses-
sion of riches not merely as a means to power but as
the most desirable of all virtues, and the reconciling
of this dictum with the democratic principle, is the
most common underlying theme of all in Hollywood
productions. What do the facts of Anne Boleyn’s solo
flight to the Antarctic matter compared with the con-
stant reiteration and swallowing of such a travesty of
human values and such a destructive negation of demo-
cratic society?
Hollywood is a persistent prevaricator on all
matters of cultural design. It has made not one but
scores of pictures on the theme that Beethoven, with
all that’s approximately equivalent, is trash; that imi-
tation primitive jungle throbs and discords set the
musical standards. Its sticky sentimentalism paraded
as grand emotion ; its dictum that a criminal career
is absolved if the criminal at last achieves to its
snobocracy of riches ; its grimaces and grins mas-
querading as the histrionic art, till few would know
good acting if they saw it; its catchpenny porno-
graphy ; its constant parading of the artificial and
superficial in aspirations and rewards, manners and
behavior —is there one single matter of importance to
humanity on which Hollywood is not a liar?
On top of all this there is the false reporting of
current events in which Hollywood shines as a rival
of cable columns at their worst. Are the falsehoods
thus served up any less important than historical false-
hoods? What does occasional film lying about history
matter compared with persistent film lying about
countries other than our own —lying calculated to fan
hatred against the peoples of those countries?
By cunningly joining together a bit of this and a
bit of that to make an apparently consecutive relating
of events, and adding the high-pitched, mock-excited
voice of a commentator to “dramatise” the supposed
pictorial record, Hollywood is daily and nightly in-
sinuating false conceptions of other countries and their
peoples into the minds of millions. By this means il
may in the long run contribute greatly towards inflam-
ing people to the state of wanting to go to war against
those other peoples. Is this of no importance?
How often is Hollywood hauled over the coals
for any of these falsifications? Yet let it depart by
a hairbreadth from the historical fact of some defunct
emperor’s behavior and the outcry can be deafening.
By what specious argument, other than the pedantic,
can it be demonstrated that falsification of history-
important as authentic history admitedly is to a right
interpretation of contemporary affairs —is any more
important than the rest of the Hollywooden falsifi-
cations of cultural values, human behavior and con-
temporary events on which schooling can provide
little, if any, guidance in advance?
The conclusion to the matter would seem to be
that Truth has not nearly such earnest defenders as
those who only serve her handmaiden Clio.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Peace! Peace!"
Every Pope is assured of a place in history. Pius XI.
will be remembered for ever in his native Italy for
his contribution to the settlement of “the Roman
question,” a settlement which “established the full and
independent sovereignty of the Holy See in the City
of the Vatican” ; regulated, in a Concordat, “the con-
dition of religion and of the Church in Italy,” and
made financial arrangements acceptable to both parties.
In other words, Pius XI., for the Church, and Benito
Mussolini, for the State, ended an old quarrel which
had injured both.
In non-Catholic countries, the Pope who died on
February 10 was honored for his unswerving devotion
to peace, and for his noble championship of oppressed
minorities not of his religion. Mr. Chamberlain, who
is a Unitarian, conveyed the sentiments of English-
speaking people to the aged Pontiff a fortnight before
his death, and spoke in the British Parliament words
such as had not been uttered for centuries:
It was a privilege to hear from the lips of his
Holiness expressions of the admiration and affection
that he entertained for the King and Queen and the
peoples of the British Empire. Nor could we doubt
the sincerity and depth of the preoccupation of his
Holiness with many of the problems that are troubling
the peace of Europe and the conscience of mankind.
We were deeply moved by the courage and humanity
that animated his bearing and outlook.
The war in Spain must have been a dreadful worry
to the Pope. Before the end came he had the deep
satisfaction of knowing that the Church in Spain would
not suffer the fate of the Church in Russia. His last
words were: “We had still so many things to do!
Peace! Peace!” One is reminded of Clarendon on
the doomed Falkland:
Sitting among his friends, often, after- a deep silence
and frequent sighs, he would, with a shrill and sad
accent, ingeminate the word “Peace, Peace!” and would
presently profess that the very agony of the war . and
the view of the calamities and desolation the kingdom
did, and must, endure took his sleep from him and
would shortly break his heart.
Falkland fell in battle at 33. He was not under-
stood by his rough age. The Pope who is dead would
have understood him.
"Monro and His 'Works'."
From J. A. Graham, “Sole Proprietor Monro and
Buist,” Cronulla:
As a reader of The Bulletin for many years I
was always under the impression that your paper
exercised some care in the compiling of facts for
leading articles, but after reading “Monro and His
‘Works’ ” 1 have had a rude awakening. No one could
possibly object to fair ccttnment, and as it is so easy
and cheap to make investigations concerning any
particular business I am forced to think that the article
must have been inspired by some interested person who
has everything to lose and nothing to gain by a railway
to Cronulla, and who also has no reason to think well
of Mr. Monro.
For your information (and anyone else's, for that
matter) I definitely purchased in hard-earned cash
the business of Monro and Buist in 1925 from Mr.
C. O. J. Monro. An investigation at the Registrar-
General’s Office will disclose the fact that I took Mr.
Monro.into partnership on 6/1/’3B to assist me dur-
ing an extra busy period. The partnership terminated
on 175/’3B, and the usual notice was published in the
Sydney “Morning Herald” and other papers, so why
ask Parliament for an explanation when you could have
found this out for yourself?
This was ryerely a temporary arrangement. Mr.
Monro paid nothing to come into the business, and
took nothing out of it excepting commissions earned
during his term as an auctioneer of exceptional ability.
Through an oversight the telephone entry was allowed
to remain.
There follow a puff for Mr. Monro, another for
Cronulla and a string of questions. The Bulletin
will publish the puffs and answer the questions if Mr.
Monro puts them in his own name. Mr. Graham is
not the member for Georges River. Mr. Monro is.
So Mr. Graham “took Mr. Monro into partner-
ship on 6/1 /’3B” and “the partnership terminated on
1 /5/’38.” And “through an oversight” (whose?) “the
telephone entry was allowed to remain.” The queer
thing is that the “telephone entry” appeared in the
directory issued in May, 1937, eight months before
“I took Mr. Monro into partnership,” in the same
form in which it-appeared in the 1938 directories (they
are issued half-yearly), as here quoted last week:
MONRO & BUIST Est Agnts .. .) Crnula 184
Connecting with— 1 Crnula 459
C O J Monro MLA | J A Graham j
Do Res C O J Monro MLA .. Crnula 452
It also appeared in the November, 1937, directory,
and it will remain in the current directory till next
May. In effect, “the oversight” had the odd quality
of prematureness, and has been strangely prolonged.
Strange, too, is the fact that “the entry” mentions Mr.
Monro three times and Mr. Graham once.
Mr. Monro said in the Legislative Assembly on
July 1, 1936, that “for many years” he had “operated
in the [Cronulla] district as an auctioneer and estate
agent, which business I sold in 1925.” He was speak-
ing on the railway bill. That measure was subjected
to hostile criticism on several grounds—it had been
brought in with a rush without reference to the
Public Works Committee ; the route was too long and
would cost too much ; Government steam trams from
Sutherland to Cronulla had failed, with heavy losses ;
and on the sketchy official information furnished to
Parliament the railway would be a heavy loser from
the outset. Annual loss for the first few years was
figured at £22,000 ; it was bound to be more. One
member blurted out “This is only a land-jobber’s
railway.”
There would assuredly have been more hostile
criticism had members been vouchsafed a vision of
Mr.. Monro’s name being connected by the telephone
directory for two years, 1937-39, with the “business I
sold in 1925.” There has certainly been more from
a public which has been informed that another 10 p.c.
on Government railway revenue is to be extracted
from it to meet losses loosely estimated at upwards
of £1,500,000 in 1938-39 and more in 1939-40, and
that passengers in some districts may have to pay 25
p.c. more. And it is not- likely to be stilled by the
reflection that, in addition to Mr. Monro’s income
from “the business during an extra busy period,” he is
getting an extra £205 p.a. for his services to the same
public, an increase—thanks to Mr. Stevens of the
Drive for National Efficiency, the Advance on All
Fronts —dated back four months.
Another Step in Bureaucracy.
Mr. W. J. Mac Kay was appointed N.S.W. police chief
under the amendment to the Police Regulation Act
(1935) which changed the title from Inspector-General
to Commissioner. He was appointed by the Governor
and is supposed to be under a Minister, the Chief
Secretary. The Minister cannot dismiss him. If the
Minister decides on suspension, he has to get the con-
sent of the Governor-in-Council and report the sus-
pension to Parliament within seven days of its next
meeting. Provided both Houses of Parliament vote
for dismissal within 21 days, the Commissioner can be
dismissed ; not otherwise.
Mr. Mac Kay began his reign by decreeing that
licensed pubs ordered by Parliament to close at 6 p.m.
might keep open till 6.20 p.m. He had a trip abroad
and months of sick leave, the latter a sequel to pro-
longed inquiries into the conduct of policemen engaged
in the campaign against s.p. Now he has introduced a
feature new to administration in Australia.
Hitherto it has been an understood thing that
every departmental head will see press reporters and
private people who have legitimate business. Prime
Minister and Premiers follow this practice.
The President of the United States has regular
meetings with the press and holds open-house levees
for American citizens. Heads of the biggest businesses
have no difficulty in finding time to see anybody who
may have something to say which affects the business.
Mr. Mac Kay, however, being a law to himself,
has decided that he is different. He has closed his
door, except to highly privileged visitors. He has
appointed an inspector to be his deputy and given
the inspector the title of “chief receptionist”—a term
hitherto reserved for beauty-parlor girls, hat-shop
attendants and the like.
There is no department in which doors leading
to the head should be so widely open as a Police
Department. Openness and freedom of access by the
public are the best safeguards against corruption and
other abuses in the force. If safeguards are not needed,
openness is the best guardian of the force’s repu-
tation.
If the Stevens Government stands Mr. Mac Kay’s
passion for solitude and silence it will stand anything
from a bureaucrat.
A Real Native Problem.
If the New Guinea native proceeds to develop “cul-
turally” along present lines, Australia is going to be
faced with something it has not hitherto known —a
real native problem.
The Rabaul and Moresby newspapers report that
natives are almost incessantly in the courts for
“civilised” crimes—forgery, fraud and the like —
besides the perennial crop of charges of insulting Euro-
pean women and being on premises with illegal intent.
Natives owning cars about Rabaul career along the
roads on their way to midnight drinking parties.
In the past Papua kept its natives well in hand.
The coming of oil-boring companies has made a dif-
ference. Companies are perennially short of labor
and will pay any price to get it. Recruited natives
know the advantages of employment by foreigners
who never saw them at work in their headhunting
days. “Education” along European lines has taught
them that they can be rude to whites ; but if a white
retaliates with so much as a push there is a court of
law which is bound to “protect” the native, and a
Native Affairs Department to put his case for him.
Often the native’s policy seems to be one of de-
liberate exasperation to provoke assault, so that he
may demand to be paid off and retire to work for
some foreigner who will give him a job washing a
few shirts and treat him as a brother. In cases reported
at Moresby the provocation consists in the “boy”
standing dumb when spoken to, flatly refusing to
hear or take any notice of anything said to him till his
employer’s temper breaks. Then the “boy” tells the
authorities he didn’t hear.
At present, only a comparative few of the natives
have been educated into this frame of mind—only
one-third of the area of mandated New Guinea is
under even nominal administrative control. When in
a few years Australia has the responsibility of govern-
ing nearly a million natives it will be different. Very
different.
Progress, Is It ?
“El V.”: I have just been re-reading a little book of
statistics by Mulhall, now, perhaps, forgotten.
Mulhall gave the position of all the countries of the
world at a given point in the nineteenth century.
J. Bull’s carrying trade by sea was 52,000,000
tons of merchandise in a single year. Norway and
Sweden were his nearest rivals with 9,250,000 tons.
The ten greatest sea-carrying countries dealt that year
with 3,000,000 tons less than the British total.
In railway traffic, Britain carried 844,000,000 tons
as against 960,000,000 tons carried by Germany,
France and U.S.A. Taxation was under £3 10s. per
head. The national debt had decreased from
£789,000,000 to £774,000,000 in 10 years. The whole of
the national debts of the world, including those of
Greater Britain and S. America, totalled £5,207,000,000
—that of the U.S.A. alone to-day is reaching out for
twice that world figure.
Keeping up a force of 258,000 in the Royal Navy
and the British Army cost £26,000,000 a year. There
was no German war scare, though Germany main-
tained double the British forces. Almost every country
in the world was measurably within distance of being
able to provide grain for its people.
The Governments of Australia collected revenue
amounting to £15,927,000. Their total debts were
£91,142,000 ; population was 2,863,000. Population
has since increased by 150 per cent, or so ; debts have
increased by 1200 per cent., and revenue —well, the
Commonwealth collects a sum equal to the whole of
the national debt in 1880.
But in these times there are compensations, of
course. We may have spent money like water, but
look at what we have bought! The Lambeth Walk—
oi!—is a most appropriate anthem for the age.
Penang.
“Feng-Shui”: I read that Penang is to be made into
another Singapore. In any case, it is to be one of the
most strongly-defended British ports in those parts.
It is a picturesque island, about 14 miles across, with
a peak like Hong Kong’s, except that the peak is
covered with dense jungle and has a scenic railway run-
ning up it. The mainland is four miles away at
Province Wellesley. Penang is the Clapham Junction
of India and the Malay Archipelago, where railways
from Singapore and Siam connect with ocean-going
ships from Europe, China and the Dutch East Indies.
The colony was founded for the old East India
Company by Captain Light, father of the Colonel
Light whom Adelaide remembers. Colonel Light’s
mother was named Rozells, and is said to have come
from the colony of half-castes whom Admiral
d’Albuquerque left behind him in Malacca when the
Dutch and the British ousted the Portuguese from
Malaya. There is a legend that Captain Light settled
Penang by the expedient of filling a cannon with silver
dollars and firing them into the jungle, to encourage
the natives to go in for clearing and cultivation.
Whether true or not, Captain Light was out of the
run of ordinary Empire-builders, like his son, who
planned Adelaide on such original lines that the citi-
zens kicked him out, while remaining themselves to
enjoy the fruits of his originality.
Penang prospered, and now has a population
approaching the half-million composed of every known
race of mankind and every possible admixture. Dur-
ing the Great War Von Mueller, of the Emden, tried
to spread sedition by steaming in at one end of the
harbor, sinking a Russian warship and a French war-
ship—the officers were ashore drinking cocktails —and
then escaping at the other.
The island’s position athwart the Malacca Strait is
strategically important. There have been alarums and
excursions over recurrent rumors that the Japanese
have made a treaty with Siam to cut a canal across
the spine of the Malay Peninsula to short-circuit the
British route from India to Further Asia.
Burrinjuck by the Bucket.
“De Facto” on moving molehills and making
mountains:
Angels rush in where politicians and political economists
fear to tread. So we find migration within the Empire
mostly in the hands of well-meaning bodies working like
beavers each in its own way while the efforts of the political
authorities are mostly confined to noises off.
It is a long job to fill Burrinjuck with buckets, especially
if there is a leak under the wail. No doubt things have
moved since, but there was a sensation round Australia House
last year when the strength of the staff handling migration
was increased by 50 per cent, at one stroke. There had
been two officials on the job, and a third was sent to help
them.
Both Earle Page and Menzies were concerned about
migration when they were in London. Menzies came to the
conclusion that the Commonwealth Government should either
decide that it could do something worth while in British
migration or stop talking so much about it and tackle other
jobs. Page rather pinned his faith to Dutchmen —specifically
to drain the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) swamps—and to Danes.
The Dutch have been going steadily to South Africa at the
rate of 2000 a year for some time, and more may go there.
Besides we are a little late, for both Denmark and Holland
(as well as Switzerland) concluded in 1937 immigration and
colonisation conventions with Argentina, which wants these
northern settlers for its Andean valleys in the south.
Perhaps the British Air Mission is the forerunner of
something real in British migration. Why stop at decentral-
ising aircraft manufacture? If, for instance, we stopped
sending greasy wool to Yorkshire and dragging some of it
back we could have some of the mills. That would save
sending round the world the tucker to feed the woolspinners.
Apply the idea all round and things would be much easier
in Britain. We might get off with a Crisis once a week.
Meanwhile the tiny tots of British migration ladled out
by good works are lost in the rush of refugees swelling city
populations.
Chamberlain Appeals for
Volunteers.
Given in full in this week’s “Uncabled
Additions,” Mr. Chamberlain’s appeal for
national-service volunteers is recom-
mended as an antidote for all those
afflicted with the jitters as a result of the
alarming statements uttered by Mr. Lyons,
Mr. Hughes and Mr. Stevens in a similar
cause in Australia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INK"
“Pardon me, mate, this suite is engaged .”
“Pawang”: The case of a Chinaman
admitted to a Melbourne hospital sup-
posedly suffering from jaundice, but
equipped with the national complexion,
recalls another case at the Melbourne
General Hospital. One day when a sur-
geon noted for his pepperiness and direct-
ness was in attendance, two trembling
Celestials came into the clinic. The elder
opened his mouth and, pointing at it,
made inarticulate and agonising noises.
Up on the table with him! ” shouted the
eminent sawbones to the nurses. The
Chinaman was hoisted on to the table, the
cap clapped over his mouth and his pro-
tests drowned in chloroform. A few
minutes afterwards his tonsils were being
borne to the dustbin. The surgeon was
dealing with the next case, a lengthy and
difficult one, when a nurse came tiptoeing
up to him. “That Chinaman you operated
on just now refuses to go away, doctor.”
“Is he fit to go away?” snapped the sur-
geon. “Oh, yes,” said the nurse. “But as
far as I can make out, he says you took
the tonsils out of the wrong man. His
companion didn’t know a word of Eng-
lish and he was trying to tell us what his
friend wanted.”
* * * f
“T.P.”: The gold fever that swept Bun-
inyong (Vic.) in 1851 after Thomas His-
cock’s discovery established the ancient
village’s suburb, Ballarat, and enlarged
the Rev. Thomas Hastie’s boarding-
school beyond recognition. It was a
decade or so later that Annie Middlemist
took charge of the infant department,
The ot h er day Miss Middlemist, 92 now,
left her home in Sale and revisited Bun-
inyong on the bicycle she has used for
50 years. The still mentally and physi-
cally vigorous lady can claim to be the
oldest cyclist in Victoria,
* * *,
“X.S.’*: Vic. Prohibitionists are mdig-
nant at the proposal of the Dunstan Gov-
ernment to legislate out of existence the
eight-yearly referendum for liquor aboli-
tion . j-,ut w j-, at do they expect? They
’ , , . , . ....
haven t succeeded in making drinking
unpopular, and Sunday closing isn’t
popular yet, even among the police, who
are supposed to enforce it. A friend
was Passing a country pub the other Sun-
day morning. It was wide open to the
world; there were crowds inside and
out, and it looked as if there were a
village fair in progress. My friend wanted
a hair of the dog that had bitten him
on the previous evening, but decided to
drive on when he saw two constables in
uniform standing beside a motor-car
apparently taking names. The pubkeeper
waved him to stop, however. “What’s
the big idea?” said the motorist, pulling
up. “Isn’t there a raid on?” “Raid!”
inquired the publican. “Where? What
raid?” “Look at those two policemen,”
said the motorist. “Oh, them,” said the
grog-dispenser smiling. “They stopped
to have a pot. They’re not licensing
police ; they’re traffic men.”
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: The crowd stood in Car-
rington-street, Sydney; heads craned in
dead, breathless silence. On the top of
the 300 ft. skeleton tower of the new
A.W.A. building across Wynyard-square
somebody was gilding the lantern. Up
there against the burning sky he looked
like a small beetle polishing a rock-
melon. His legs hupg down on one side,
his arms reached down on the other, his
nadir, so to speak, was pointed directly
to the zenith of heaven. Nobody moved
while he curled himself back into a posi-
tion which was at least perpendicular, if
not safe. Then a slow voice broke the
suspense. “Cripes,” it said, “I ’ope ’is
missus ain’t a Methodist. ’ls missus ’ll
’ear something to-night when he tries to
sit down on that there sunburn.” Where
but in a British-speaking country could
you get a reaction to danger like that?
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: A curious outcome of
the war-blather skite with which Great
Dailies fill their pages has been a marked
rise in sales of diamond jewellery. Dia-
monds possess a standard international
value, they are always saleable in a very
wide market, they are easy to hide or
convey, and they do not attract the notice
attaching to conversion into other cur-
rency of an equivalent value in gold. In
these days of excellent imitations, they
can be displayed openly without attract-
ing any particular attention other than
mildly derisive. In past ones, “the wife’s
diamonds” have often conferred upon
manipulators of other people’s money the
double benefit of a reputation as a gener-
ous and affectionate husband during the
time of prosperity and a comfortable
retirement into bankruptcy later on.
* * ,
Hamer : It wdl be news to many w o
ar„ k h Tccr. H He y ca r Td° whiriS
cash he possessed “in his sock” when he
went to London, and his general principle
was to hypothecate his expectations. But
I have just been inspecting a Government
Savings Bank passbook in his name care-
fully preserved by a private citizen. It
is a pathetic document. On September 7,
1917 the account was opened with a
credit of £27—Angus and Robertson
royalties may have been responsible;
there were drawings of £l2 and £lO and
then a dribble of amounts indicating that
Lawson was striving to keep a little
socked away; but on October 3 the
account was closed. The chap who
perused the book with me exclaimed-
“ Fancy Henry keeping money for nearly
a month!” J
*„ * * *
“C.Q”: Country magistrates who are
endeavoring to sheet home responsibility
for starting bushfires in Victoria are hav-
ing more success than the metropolitan
police had over the mysterious hedge-
burner who terrorised the south-eastern
suburbs a decade ago. Year after year,
in the appropriate season, this sinister in-
dividual began his operations, and house-
holders opened their front doors in the
mornings sighing with relief if the
arboreal frames to their gardens were still
standing. For three years in succession
he flourished, always selecting the same
narrow area and the driest season. The
total of his incinerations was 70 hedges,
one of which was valued by its owner at
£2OO. All the police ever discovered
about him was that he was an old man
and rode a bicycle.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Could the wraith of Dr. Aber-
nethy visit Australian universities, his
famous inquiry, made to a London lec-
ture theatre crammed with medical
students, “God help you, gentlemen,
how ever do you all expect to make a
living?” would be more than ever jus-
tified. In 1938 Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane Universities had
1952 enrolled students of medicine,
468 of them in the
first year. If the
proportion of in-
crease for 1938 con-
tinues to 1939, about
one in every 250
young Australian
men and women will
be a medical student.
Of other professions,
316 were qualifying
in dentistry, 800 in
law, and 625 in en-
gineering. Day and
evening students at
Australian universi-
ties increased from
2465 in 1911 to
11,900 in 1938, not
counting nearly 1200
external students.
Yet, with all this
keen intellectual
material, Australia is
lamentably behind-
hand in making even
elementary provision
for advanced scien-
tific research.
* #
“Clio”: When a
worker met with an
accident a junior
clerk was deputed to
go to the victim’s
home and break the
news to his wife that
her husband was in
hospital. The young
man arrived at a
terrace house in an
insalubrious subbub
and knocked loudly.
There was no reply,
though he could
have sworn he saw
a curtain wavering.
Repeated knocking
brought no response,
but on going round
a back lane he
was able to verify
through a crack in
a locked gate his impression that there
was somebody home. Being young and
athletic, he scaled the wall and dropped
neatly into the yard. There a stout lady
with her perm, in pins listened to his tale
and sighed relievedly. ‘My goodness,
said she, “is that all? Why, I thought
Y° u wus the time-payment man come to
collect the wireless money!
*•* * . *
“B.”: Anything more innocuous (01
more uninteresting to other people) than
those birthday calls so relentlessly emitted
By B-class radio stations could hardly be
imagined. But one of them in Sydney
the other day landed a gentleman whose
nata j d was t^us honored j n t 0 a peck
of .rouble No. married his wife
thought the broadcasting of her good
W|shes to her spouse would be a bemitifu
tribute. But a very little while after
hubby’s name and address were pelted
into the ether stern-faced men in blue
arrived and took him off to face charges
of wife-desertion and bigamy, and at time
of writing he’s languishing at Long Bay.
It’s a pity he can’t sue the radio station
for heavy damages. Undoubtedly hes
sustained ’em.
THE WINTER GAME.
“There had been some punching in the con-
cluding stages of the match, but not more than
is frequently seen.” — Manly Football Club's official
report on a rough-play charge dating from Sep-
tember.
Things grew a bit lively, it can’t be concealed,
Ere victors and vanquished retired from the
field.
There were huskies in each contumacious clan
Who seemed less obsessed with the ball than
the man.
But, though feeling ran high, there was nothing
at all
Remotely resembling a Donnybrook brawl,
And the wallops exchanged, although vicious
and keen,
Were really no more than are frequently seen.
To call it a roughhouse would be an absurd
Misuse of that pungent American word.
True, Jones intercepted a foeman’s career,
As he streaked for the goal, with a clip on
the ear;
And Brown, with no rigid regard for the law,
Cooked Robinson’s goose with a sock on the
jaw.
But these venial yieldings to spite or to spleen
In the ardor of football are frequently seen.
It was Gordon, I think, who was first to pro-
claim
That no recreation or pastime or game
Which carried no hint of mischance or mishap
Was worth, in his honest opinion, a rap.
A bullet to chew for those amiable souls
Addicted to tennis, to golf or to bowls,
But could football endure without wigs on the
green
Or other amenities frequently seen?
How drab and how dreary the game would
become
Sans lash on the touchlines or stoush in the
scrum,
Or speedy three-quarters evading the check
That the turkey at Christmas acquires in the
neck!
Still, here was a match you might schedule as
mild
Beside those where players get savage and wild,
For the punches they traded, their tackles be-
tween,
Were not a bit worse than are frequently seen.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.E.”: Talking about John Fairfax,
of “S. M. Herald” and the Congrega-
tional Church, and James Fairfax, of “S.
M. Herald” and the Y.M.C.A., I read*
in the “Herald” of Jan. 17 that “the mini-
mum fine of £3O each was imposed on
Hubert Carl Thomas, manager of the
Carl Thomas Club,” and a waiter “at the
same club for a breach of the liquor
laws” — i.e., supplying a copper with gin.
The copper said:
I visited the club in the company of a
woman about 11 p.m. on January 3. I
bought a squash and cigarettes and asked
the waiter for a drink. I was provided
with gin, and, when I left, presented a
£1 note in payment for the gin, the squash
and cigarettes, receiving 6s. 6d. change.
Thomas said:
I make a “cover” charge for people
visiting my restaurant of ss. a head. The
gin was not sold to Sternbeck —it was
lent to him.
The magistrate said: —•
A perfect stranger comes into the club,
and it seems to me most incredible that
in those circumstances credit should be
given him. I can only come to the con-
clusion that this cover charge is a subter-
fuge to cover the loan of the gin.
Having taken all that in, I was interested
to read, in “S. M. Herald” of Feb. 10,
that there had been Excitement at Mid-
night in the joint where the copper got
his gin:
When midnight came last night it
brought with it some exciting moments at
the Carl Thomas Club, which was cele-
brating its first birthday by holding a
dinner dance. There was one candle on a
cake which was cut at midnight, and that
hour also ushered in the birthday of one of
the dancers.
Followed a description of the ladies’
dresses. Above were pictures of mem-
bers of the elite “at the Carl Thomas
Club birthday dinner dance.” Altogether
a charming example of the change in
journalistic standards. But that candle
on a cake smacks of early-Victorianism.
Why not a gin-bottle surmounted by a
copper’s helmet?
* * $ *
“Wodgil”: It was Dr. Johnson (wasn’t
it?) who wrote, in ridicule of the simple
style of the old balladists:
I put my hat upon my head
And went into the Strand,
And there I met another man
With his hat in his hand.
The trend of fashion in Sydney is such
that, if the spirit of the old Great Cham
could be transported to the local coun-
terpart of the Strand, say, in six months’
time, there might be difficulty in finding
a man with his hat in his hand. Or a
woman either. Business girls are increas-
ingly going to work without hats. They
were timid about it at first, bearing their
lids as did the chap that Johnson spotted,
but now, in countless numbers, they are
leaving their hats at home. I suppose
it is only another of the myriad forms
of feminine vanity, but I wager they will
pay for it in bothersome accumu-
lations of city dust, wrinkled foreheads
and eyestrain, caused by glare. In fact,
taking only the glare, I maintain that the
no-hat habit is silly in the daytime for
both sexes, particularly when the dog-
star (or the equivalent) rages.
* * * *
“D.E,”: One unfortunate feature of the
Spanish civil war has been the bringing
of nurses into politics. A.I.F. nurses had
no politics (more power to their elbows!),
but sisters and probationers whom the
Reds sent to Barcelona from these parts
seem to have been spending half their
time spouting from public platforms
and shrilly urging us old buffers to
empty our pockets in the Cause.
Stunt press and Flapper press have
seen to it that they have received
whips of advertising (with portraits), and
to the Communist press, open and dis-
guised, they are all “heroines” —just as
the young gentlemen of the Red Inter-
national Brigade (“the greatest fighting
force the world has ever seen”) are all
“heroes.” But two itinerant young ladies
in red capes suffered a mortifying “cooler”
at Westport (M.L.). They asked the
Mayor to preside at the usual meeting
and support the appeal for alms. His
Worship refused, saying curtly that there
was “a sufficient field for humanitarian
effort in these islands.” He added that
if the young women “felt obliged to go
out of the country” he would recommend
“Australia, where they have had dreadful
bushfires.” And Westport is a fortress
of Labor.
* * * *
“F.S.”: One of the silliest things the
Spanish Republicans did was to try
to export the art treasures of Madrid to
Geneva. The only result was that the 40
lorryloads of masterpieces of Velasquez,
Rembrandt, Goya and others were re-
“Look at me beautiful ship, Olsen! I knew We shouldn't have brought her in during a heat-wave."
ported to have been bombed by National-
ist ’planes on the road, where they could
easily have been mistaken for war muni-
tions. Napoleon tried to remove the
same pictures, but his reason was under-
standable. He wanted them to be the
glories of his empire in Paris. When
Wellington captured the convoy he could
not understand why any military com-
mander would want to encumber his
retreat with such effete lumber ; but Wel-
lington was a Philistine of Philistines. If
the pictures had been left in storage in
Madrid it is most unlikely that any harm
would have come to them. It was freely
reported that all the paintings the Tsars
had collected in Petrograd had been de-
stroyed by the revolutionaries. It turned
out that not a canvas had been scratched.
The mob was too busy looting the pubs.
* * * *
Though no English sove-
reign has been much of a horseman (B.
1/2/’39), surely none displayed such igno-
rance of equines as did Queen Victoria.
Driving in an open carriage at an Aider-
shot review one day, the old lady dropped
into a doze. Alongside, on a bit-champ-
ing, head-tossing prad, rode a young
officer who was suddenly horrified to see
a clot of foam from his horse’s mouth
land fair on the face of royalty. With
a startled shudder, the Queen awoke.
This time there was no doubt about it—
her Majesty certainly was “not amused.”
She gave the young officer one withering
glance, then faced ahead again, looking
the personification of imperial dignity.
On her return to the palace she peremp-
torily notified the Aldershot C.O. that
henceforward horses were not to be
allowed to froth at the mouth when on
parade.
* * * *
“Kay C.”: Tell Unk White that in his
picture of a modern hygienic baby
hospital (B. 25/1/’39) he made a cardinal
error by depicting an infant sucking a
dummy. The “comforter” has been taboo
since Truby King discovered that it
“interferes with the growth of the jaws
and the development of the teeth, and
favors the development of a high and
narrow roofed mouth and narrow nasal
passages, which easily become obstructed.”
* # * *
“Captain Pintle”: The Ellerman
freighter City of Pretoria recently un-
derwent a startling experience west of
Albany (W.A.). Out of a moderate sea
there suddenly arose a wave more than
70ft. from trough to crest. There was
just time to get the ship bow on ; then
it broke over the forecastle-head and
buried 170 ft. of her under solid green
sea. The heavy steel breakwater was
twisted, the foredeck buckled, the star-
board bridge wing carried away, the
wheelhouse windows were stove in, the
saloon was filled to its ceiling, and
ten men were injured in less than a
couple of minutes. Had the hatch-covers
gone, she couldn’t have survived. These
giant waves, solitary or in small
series, are caused mainly by sub-
marine earthquakes, sometimes by glacial
slips or breaks. One, in the South
Atlantic, swept overboard the whole crew
"I don't care how hot it is—you git back to your ingine."
of a Loch line windjammer,
except one man who was sick
in his berth. The record one
was after the Krakatoa erup-
tion in Sunda Strait.
* * *
“Nakh”: Unlucky lifts? A
truck-driver was speeding Mel-
bourneward along the Geelong
road when a young woman sig-
nalled him from the roadside.
She had been invited to the
opening of a gin distillery and
was late for her appointment.
The Jehu told her to jump
aboard, and off they sped.
When they arrived at their
destination the lady couldn’t
do less than suggest that the truck-driver
look in for a few minutes at the func-
tion on her ticket. An hour later
the truckman, having been entertained as
only gin-distillery magnates know how
to entertain, emerged from the dedicated
building, climbed into his vehicle and set
off for another part of the great city.
Five minutes later he ran first into a
lorry and then into a lamp-post, broke his
wrist, lacerated his features and mangled
his firm’s property out of recognition.
He lost his job and his license. Previous
to meeting the damsel in distress he
hadn’t had a drink for 15 years.
* * * *
“Toeclip”: What’s happened to all the
makes of bicycles that were household
words in Australasia at the beginning of
the century? In addition to the many
first-class iron steeds made up from
8.5. A., Eadie and Abingdon parts by
local mechanics everywhere, we had from
England the Beeston, Wolverhampton
and Coventry Humbers, the Rover,
Raleigh, Elswick, Osmond, Ariel, Rudge-
Whitworth and a dozen other brands.
America.sent the Columbia (including a
chainless model), the Sterling, Rambler,
Cleveland and Red Bird. In a recent
issue of “Cycling,” published in London,
the only cycle firms named or represented
in advertising are the 8.5. A., New Hud-
son and James, with one or two names
unknown 40 years ago. American jour-
nals sometimes carry Columbia ads.—the
rest of the U.S.A. makers, if any are still
extant, seem to pool their advertising an-
nonymously. And what has become of
such interesting freaks as the 91b. Durs-
ley-Pedersen and the detachable Humber
that packed up in a hamper and was held
together by cotterpins?
* * * *
“Presfotog”: Daguerreotypy, first
popular form of photography, burst upon
the world just one
hundred years ago.
In 1854 Queen Vic-
toria became the sub-
ject of the first press
photograph (at the
opening of the Crystal
Palace). Two years
later photographers
went out to the
Crimea. There are
photographs on record
of the Valley of Death
(down which charged
Tennyson’s Six Hun-
dred) with cannon balls lying here and
there.
* * * *
“Ming”: Youthful grandmothers?
That Brisbane case fades into nothing-
ness beside a Maoriland instance. The
girl was married in Calcutta on her thir-
teenth birthday, and is just' 14 years and
a week older than her first child, a daugh-
ter. Daughter married at 17 —result,
grandmotherhood for her mother at 32.
And mother might have achieved a record
family instead of a mere dozen but for
the fact that there’s a gap of eight years
between her first and her second child.
As is usual in such families, there is an
entertaining mix-up at the tail-end, when
nieces and nephews may be seen enter-
taining or chastising aunts and , uncles
years younger than themselves.


€?
10 for 9d...20 for 1 7 6
E1869
CRAVEN
tjcuU aft/mcutie tkeh
99
00
jm
PREVENT
T H R
POLITICAL POINTS
Commonwealth Ministers deliberating
—or going through the motions —at
Hobart decided on a national register.
A voluntary national register, of course,
Britain having set the precedent. If
Britain plumped for voluntary Courts and
voluntary police, Joe would dutifully
Tune-in.
Australian politicians who from time
to time propose to establish provident
funds for themselves, the public to do
most of the paying, have been antici-
pated by members of the House of
Commons. Out of their £450 a year
and no rail, tram or bus passes, the
Commoners are to pension defeated
members who have fallen on evil days.
There will be no tuning-in to Britain
in this case.
Admiral Kanji Kato is dead in Japan,
and Australia was represented at the
funeral. As commander of the Ibuki
Kato helped to protect the first A.I.F.
troopships, and when H.M.A.S. Sydney
left to tackle the Emden he hoisted the
signal “I wish to go and help Sydney.”
These things should be remembered when
Australians are being urged to hate Japan
by a section which wanted to quit in
1918, and which threatens to boycott
Australia’s defence preparations.
Casey’s last words to the nation before
he left for Hobart and Cabinet work (a
lot of play was also on the programme)
were that he was “fully conversant with
the situation in the world to-day,” and
knew it was at “knife-edge.”
It needs only a turn of the knife and
the world would be plunged into a con-
flict worse than in 1914, and before Aus-
tralia knew it she might be fighting for
existence.
We never get any of this sort of thing
from Maoriland Ministers.
After publishing about a hundred
columns of excited stuff about The Crisis,
“S. M. Herald” condescended to give its
public the Maoriland P.M.’s views.
MR. SAVAGE’S COMMENT.
Wellington, Wednesday.
“I can see nothing whatever in the
present situation to get excited about,” de-
clared the Prime Minister, Mr. Savage,
commenting on statements about New
Zealand’s defences.
That was all. A half : inch par., with a
one line heading, at the foot of a column.
Yet Savage knows as much about what
is going on as Lyons, and ten times as
much as “Granny” and its tin-god
Stevens.
What happened to The Crisis? When
the Nationalists took Barcelona “S. M.
Herald” was sure that The Crisis had
come again, and on Jan. 30, the morn-
ing of Hitler’s speech, it trotted out the
headline again. But on Feb. 11 it
allowed Professor Roberts to refer to
the “comparative outward calm of the
last fortnight,” and to say, after a series
of surmises as to what London, Paris
and Berlin were about, that “the
Mediterranean Crisis has not yet eventu-
ated.” Better liaison should be estab-
lished between the prof.’s study and the
editor’s office.
In the last lap of the campaign in
Catalonia there was an exciting race
to France. The field consisted of
“democratic” politicians Azana, the
President; Negrin, the Premier, his Min-
isters and the members of “the autono-
mous Catalonian Government.” Azana
won by a neck.
In the rush from Catalonia the crews
of “85 Republican army planes”
travelled fastest and farthest. They must
have made record time for surrenderors ;
and they certainly made military history ;
nothing of the kind ever happened be-
fore. Just as certainly Australians would
have liked to know something about
their nationality and the origin of their
machines; but this information was de-
nied them, the episode being dismissed
in an inch or so of type. Three days
later, “warplanes, allegedly Italian,
bombed Port Mahon (Minorca),” and
“S. M. Herald” gave half a column of
that. Just like an old bitch returning
to its vomit.
The Australian public will have to
wait for “Uncabled Additions” to give
a coherent account of the Red collapse
in Spain, but even in the confused and
scrappy narratives of papers that backed
the loser significant things appeared. For
"At the opening of the appeasement conference in London, Arabs and Jews declined to sit at the same
table. Mr. Chamberlain is preparing a peace plan.”
“Do, PLEASE, come under my umbrella!”
example, “16,000 soldiers, all marching
in perfect formation,” marched —the
wrong way. “Thirty thousand troops,”
ordered to “resist to the last man, began
the evacuation when they learned that
the invaders were 10 miles distant.” And
“the last of the retreating Loyalists,”
part of three bodies of 40,000, “ran
across the international road at Le
Perthus.” A sorry anti-climax, after all
the blah. The lesson for Australians is
that when things are going badly men
won’t sacrifice themselves for a shabby
cause like Red Internationalism.
As was here predicted from the first
—though no prophetic instinct was re-
quired— the refugees from Europe are
nearly all settling in overpopulated Syd-
ney. Sir Bruce Bruce-Porter, the Lon-
don doctor, said to a Sydney “D.T. ’
man that “these people are town-dwellers
by heredity” and that, inasmuch as they
are being admitted out of “kindness and
courtesy,” they should be obliged to settle
in inland towns. Not a bad idea. Inland
towns are nearly all underpopulated, and
in nearly all the refugees would probably
compete not with British-Australians,
but with those other newspaper pets the
Greeks.
“S. M. Herald,” which would open the
gates to a lot more refugees than the
15,000 limit —if it is the limit —reports
that the rush of Jews to Sydney
half-solved a King’s Cross landlord
problem, brought about by overbuilding
of flats. Granny gives a good account
of most of the newcomers, and quotes
a shopkeeper to the effect that they are
unsparing in “their condemnation of
another type of German Jew who refuses
or is unable to banish an objectionable
arrogance and intolerance.” She allows
Professor Angus to write in another
article that “the aggressiveness and the
boastfulness” of Jews from Europe,
“backed by international Jewry,” have
done much to antagonise the Palestine
Arabs. The Professor, who is North
of Ireland, has returned from Palestine
pro-Arab, though not —being a man of
God—anti-Jew.
An anopheles mosquito bit Minister
Thorby during his travels to and from
Singapore and intermediate parts, and
he was unable to attend the Hobart
Cabinet meetings arranged regardless of
expense. Had he been present in good
health there would have been a Minis-
terial shindy, for he was reported to
have informed a newspaper correspondent
exactly how many warplanes Darwin is
to have ; and his colleague Street would
have been obliged to report that in
countries where national defence is a
serious business, and. not a pastime for
tyros, that sort of thing isn t done. The
malaria may compel Thorby to resign,
Even his enemies would rather see him
nghting in his fashion than too
sicic to tight.
.A Jew from Vienna, aged 32, has been
given an engineering job by one of those
“semi-Government” authorities which
have become part and parcel of Stevens’s
borrowine svstem Tt is of ronrso tbo
Borrowing system, it is, or course, tne
alleged County Council, whose young
Mr Gardmer, now chairman no longer,
lortily announced that he had no use
for returned-soldier preference. Can-
berra didnt know what it was doing
“it blithely promised to admit those
15,000 refugees, but, then, does Can-
berra ever know what it is doing?
In Sydney last week bread was 6id. the
two-pound loaf, milk Bd. a quart, beer
9d. a pint, eggs 2s. 4d. a dozen, peas lOd.
a pound, beans round Is. 5d., cabbages
Is. 6d. each and more, onions 5d a
pound, and potatoes 4d.; and Govern
ment ratlway fares were about to go up
The price of potatoes could be reduced
by at least one-half if the embargo on
Maonland spuds were raised; and if h
were Australian orange-growers who as
,t is, have to be bounty.fed, would at
once find a profitable market in Maori-
land Savage says he will guarantee this
but Lyons is not interested. Our P M is
potato-minded.
Ab ° ut n he u. que ; r j? exodus on record
was the flight of 60 or 70 abos from
Cumeroogunga, a reserve on the NSW
side of the Murray, to Dunstan’s State.'
It is alleged that an agitator from Syd-
ney induced them to believe that dread-
ful things would happen to them unless
they bolted. Sydney “Daily News” blames
Hitler—Nazi Plot to Rouse Blacks Not
to be outdone, “S. M. Herald” darkly in-
sinuates that the bombings in Britain have
been inspired from the same quarter—
“lf the I.R.A. excesses have not been
aided and abetted from the Continent
they are at least welcomed by those who
wish to keep Britain weak.”
Bell, of Melbourne
Tramways Board,
proposes to tear a
leaf out of Clapp's
book and have
Spirits of Progress
running on his tram-
lines. There are to
be 30 of them, with
rubber cushions, ele-
gant domed ceilings,
springing like a car,
and windows which
ventilate without
blowing your hair
off. The next step
will no doubt be air-
conditioning, a
buffet, radio, baths,
h. and c. and uni-
formed hostesses to
while away the
tedium of travel
from East Malvern
to Bourke-s tre e t.
How many extra
fares this will land
in the board’s pocket
isn’t stated, but the
note Bell strikes con-
tinues to be cheerful.
Value of imports
from “the East,”
where Canberra has
distributed large
quantities of Trade
Commissioners and
Assistant Trade
Commissioners, ex-
ceeded value of exports to “the East” by
£4,065,000 Australian for the six months
to December 31. Measured in Australian
pounds, exports to the Netherlands
Indies declined from £746,900 to
£692,400, imports from the same bad
customer being worth £3,412,100 British.
Somehow this kind of thing always hap-
pens when Australia sends missionaries—
no, Trade Commissioners —to “the East.”
Sydney “D.T.,” which discovered that
France was one of the Low Countries,
has made another important contribu-
tion to historical knowledge:
Hitler told us again and again that all
he wanted from Czechoslovakia was the
return of the 3,500,000 “lost” and “perse-
cuted” Germans.... The “lost” Germans
had never belonged to Germany.
Certainly they never belonged to the
Hohenzollerns’ German empire (1871-
1918), but for nearly 400 years they
belonged to the German empire of the
Habsburgs; and the Habsburg who
fought Napoleon was “emperor of Ger-
many” to that potentate. And it is over
300 years since a Habsburg decreed that
German should be one of the official
languages in Bohemia, because he had
more German subjects there than Slavs
speaking the old Bohemian tongue.


HOUNDED DOWN.
“Police Alsatian dogs in N.S.W. are being trained to obey commands by radio through small sets which they will carry. Searching for persons reported lost will be part
of their work.”


'4*OUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL...
But even with approx* £2O you
pan hove o . stoke to-day. in.
Australian industry ...
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Bookhi h yours on
; : •> request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V; GAO., SVDNEy
TELEPHONE: 85294 '
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
DRIFT IN AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FINANCE
WILL LIFT IN GOLD PRICE AFFECT
COMMODITIES?
TRADE CREDITS (A’SIA) AND HAMILTONS
WHAT TO BUY AND SELL
February Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out IS Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day ami
get rid of more than 3 pounds of w T aste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait ! Ask your chemist for DOAN'S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Vinton Smith, one of the organisers of
the Citizens’ Defence Movement and chief
speaker at the Melbourne Town Hall
meeting which urged the necessity for
compulsory training, is a South Aus-
tralian who started his career in a Sydney
bank. After doing his bit in the Great
War he went into business in Melbourne,
and sat in the Assembly as member for
Oakleigh from 1932 to 1937. He visited
Germany in 1936, and is now a member
of the Stock Exchange. He is a first-
class golfer, swimmer and tennis-player.
Wallace Sandford (succeeding J. H.
Gosse) is president and Claude Jennings,
the old international cricketer, is secre-
tary of Adelaide Chamber of Commerce,
which is having a hundredth birthday
with S. M. Bruce as principal guest. This
claims to be the oldest C. of C. in Aus-
tralia ; also its “daily exchange,” started
as early as 1841, developed later into the
Stock Exchange of Adelaide.
A Maorilander who has climbed high
in the R.A.F. is Air Commodore K. R.
Park, recently appointed Chief of Staff
of the Fighter Command. A son of
Professor James Park, for many years
dean of the mining faculty at Otago Uni.,
K.R. was born and educated in Dunedin
(M.L.). He was a gunner at Gallipoli
with the M.L. forces, and on being sent
to the Western Front wangled a transfer
to the R.A.F. He saw the war through
in that service, and distinguished himself
as a pilot. Later he got his step to wing-
commander, and held important posts in
Egypt and South Africa, so successfully
that Oxford Uni. gave him an honorary
M.A. degree and King George VI. ap-
pointed him one of his four air aides-de-
camp.
A wiry little, deeply-sunburned elderly
man in a clerical collar who is at present
whipping the trout streams of Maoriland
is Canon E. S. Savage, rector of St. Bar-
tholomew the Great, London’s oldest
church, a canon of St. Paul’s, chaplain of
the Company of Butchers and chaplain
of'the Company of Playing Card Makers.
Under his well-worn fisherman’s coat he
wears a magnificent pectoral cross of
solid gold, symbol of an honor conferred
on him by the Greek Orthodox Church
for services in the Near East, where he
was Chief Commissioner of the Y.M.C.A.
during the Great War. The Serbians gave
him the Order of the Red Cross and St.
Sava. In pre-war times he was a mem-
ber of the international commission that
investigated the Bulgarian atrocities. This
is the canon’s second visit to Fernland
with rod and creel.
Captain C. W. Palmer, senior pilot in
the Port Phillip service, retired the other
day after 34 years’ service, during which
he piloted more than 8000 ships through
the Heads. Among them were the
Renown, the Hood and the flagship of
the U.S.A. Navy in 1908. In the old days
Captain Palmer once battled for 12 days
befbre it was possible to get a barque
through tk; Heads in a north-westerly
gale.
On the death of Sir Hussey Burgh
Fairlie-Cuninghame, holder of one of the
oldest of Scottish baronetcies, who was
crushed beneath a tractor while working
on his property at Manilla (N.S.W.), the
title passes to his brother, William Alan
Fairlie-Cuninghame. The new and fifteenth
baronet is master in charge of the pre-
paratory section of St. John’s Psychology
School at Vaucluse, Sydney. Son of the
thirteenth baronet, who farmed at Young
(N.S.W.), he graduated B.Eng. at Sydney
Uni., and served during the Great War
as a lieutenant in the sth Pioneer Bat-
talion A.I.F. from 1915 to 1919. He
proposes to continue his scholastic career.
The young poets of Australia have a
good friend in John K. Moir, of Mel-
bourne. He founded the Bread and
Cheese Club, where young writers and
young artists meet. This club has pub-
lished a number of small books of verses
in limited editions. The latest is Light
of Earth, by a Gympie pressman, Victor
Kennedy, beautifully printed on hand-
made paper by the Hawthorn Press.
Moir bears the expense of each book.
He has also erected bronze plaques to
the memory of Australian writers like
Jennings Carmichael and Bernard
O’Dowd; and he is preparing to
place a memorial to George Coppin, the
famous old actor. The envelopes that
carry his letters bear little stickers read-
ing, “Combine Pleasure and Patriotism.
Read Australian Books.”
The Cilento gold medal, bestowed
annually for the best practical work for
the furtherance of tropical hygiene and
native welfare in Australasia, has in 1938
been shared by Drs. E. H. Derrick, of
the Laboratory of Microbiology in Bris-
bane, and F. M. Burnett, of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute, Melbourne. Dr.
Derrick continued an investigation of
obscure fevers occurring along the north
coast, and discovered a type of human
leptospirosis new to science. He also
found a previously unknown disease
among the several which had been con-
fused under the name of “abattoir fever,”
now classified as Queensland rickettsiosis.
Both represent definite advances in know-
ledge. Dr. Burnett assisted Dr. Derrick
in much of the latter work, and suggested
new lines of inquiry.
W. H. Cooper, who comes to Sydney
to take over the management of the head
office of the Bank of Australasia, in
W. H. COOPER.
Martin-place, is a Londoner who joined
the bank in Westralia in 1900. After war
service in the 44th Battalion, ended by a
bullet through the lung in 1917, he re-
joined the ’Asia, climbed to an inspector-
ship after holding posts in every capital
of Australia, and toured China, Japan
and the East Indies on bank business.
Latterly he has been manager in Perth.
A keen fisherman, and can hold his own
at golf and tennis.
The Sacred College will meet in the Sis-
tine Chapel of the Vatican on March 3 to
“make” a new Pope. Pius XI. died on
Friday, two days before the celebrations
in honor of his seventeenth anniversary
as Pontiff were due to commence. He
had seen much change in the condition
of the Church he governed in the 81
years since he was born Achille Ratti, a
peasant’s son, in northern Italy, and he
had a long training for the work he was
to do in directing that change. He had
many years as archivist at the Ambrosian
Library in Milan, studying intensely, and
it was not until 1918 that his public work
in the administration of the Church be-
gan. Thereafter his rise was rapid. In
that year he was sent as Apostolic Visi-
tor to Poland, became
Nuncio to that country the
following year, and in 1921
was appointed Cardinal
Archbishop of Milan. Seven
months later he went to
Rome following the death of
Pius X., and remained there
Pope. His first public action
was to deliver his blessing
from the front balcony of
St. Peter’s, though no
previous Pope had appeared
there since 1870, and his work was
crowned with the signing of the Lateran
Treaty, restoring the temporal sovereignty
of the Papacy, in 1929. It is popularly
expected that he will be followed in his
office by yet another Archbishop of
Milan, Cardinal Schuster, though there
is a saying in the Church: “Whosoever
goes to a Papal election Pope, returns a
Cardinal.”
Australia loses a valuable adopted son,
and hundreds of Diggers a beloved
friend, by the decision of Dr. J. P. Low-
son, research professor of medical
psychology in the University of Queens-
land, to retire and live in England.
Brought to Queensland by arrangement
between the Red Cross Society and the
University, he became also consulting
psychiatrist for the Repatriation Depart-
ment, and in 15 years led scores of
broken men out of the black depths of
war-neuroses to a normal, happy life. An
Edinburgh graduate, trained as a neurolo-
gist at the famous Saltpetriere Hospital
in Paris, and afterwards at Munich, he
served for the greater part of the war as
psycho-neurologist to the Third Army in
France. His profound knowledge of
war-mentality and war-experiences, com-
bined with a genius for overcoming inhi-
bitions, secured remarkable results in a
particularly difficult field of psychiatric
medicine.
Patrick White, whose first novel,
Happy Valley, has just been published
in London, lived in Australia till the
age of 13. He was at school in England,
then returned to N. S. Wales for three
years, working on father’s sheep-station.
He afterwards took an honors degree in
Modern Languages at Cambridge, and
has since lived mainly in London, France
and Germany. Two plays by
hi m, “Bread - and - Butter
Women” and “The School
for Friends,” have been pro-
duced at Bryant’s Playhouse,
Sydney, and short stories and
poems have appeared in the
London “Mercury,” “New
Verse,” and other English magazines.
He has written for musical revue, and
has a sketch in Herbert Farjeon’s
“Nine Sharp,” which has run for nearly
a year in London.
Martin Charles Boniwell, the new
Federal Public Service Commissioner,
knows something about pulling together.
He was stroke of the Tasmanian crew in
the days when the Speck made a habit
of winning the inter-State eights in the
beginning of the century.
Judge Stretton, who is inquiring into
the cause and cure of bushfires, was trans-
lated to the Vic. County Court Bench two
years ago. At 43, he was the youngest
man ever to reach judgeship in Victoria.
Last week this page incorrectly stated
that J. P. Mahony had been appointed
general manager of City Mutual Life.
His promotion was from the position of
new-business manager in N.S.W. to the
managership of the N.S.W. branch. Wil-
liam Bennett is managing director and
general manager, with assistant general
manager J. A. Thomson, actuary George
WILLIAM BENNETT.
Diamond, security manager Michael
L’Estrange and general secretary John
G. Taylor as his executive officers.
Just retired after notching his half
century with London and Lancashire
Insurance Co., C. E. Harrisson, Maori-
land manager. Born in Melbourne,
C.E.H. started insurance in 1888 in the
Melbourne office of the co. He went to
Perth as manager in 1913, and in 1931
crossed the Tasman to manage at Auck-
land. His hobby is stamp-collecting, and
to date he has accumulated 30,000 speci-
mens.
“Ek Dum”:-
The Gaekwar of Baroda, just dead, repre-
sented a kingdom which was one of the
triumphs of British patience. The able Duncan,
while Governor of Bombay, with his friend and
military secretary, Lachlan Macquarie, later
Governor of N. S. Wales, secured British con-
trol of it, t . along with that of Surat, at the
beginning of last century; but British rule was
no bed of roses until the advent of the recent
Gaekwar Farzand-i-Khas-i-Dowlat-i-Englishia
Maharaja Sir Sayaji Rao Gaekwar Sena Khas
Khel Samsher Bahadur, to introduce him in
full. In the seventies a Gaekwar was tried on
a charge of attempting to poison a British Resi-
dent, Col. Phayre, and deposed. The late
lamented, though he was one of the five princes
of India entitled to a 21-gun salute, and had
an income of a couple of millions sterling a
year on the strength of ruling a State about
a tenth as big as Victoria, was a peasant boy
of a family very remotely related to the royal
line. He was adopted by the enfeebled Khande
Rao, and grew into a stout, strong-faced old
man, as determined as he looked, who once earned
headlines by turning his back on British royalty
at a Durbar. He modernised the State, gave
it British-type Parliamentary and municipal in-
stitutions, with a school to every four square
miles; and during the war he gave hundreds of
thousands of pounds to buy British equipment.
He was liberal-minded in social ideas, and his
celebratory gifts to his people at his diamond
jubilee as ruler three years ago included a
fund of £750,000 to raise the status of the de-
pressed classes, and a ‘couple of vernacular
broadcasting stations. He wrote several books,
mainly on Indian politics, and popularised
billiards and tennis in his capital, which is
about the size of Newcastle (N.S.W.) and about
as rich as Babylon in its prime.


Sr*
A
m
Y bs" ■
/
Vw>'*"W//vm
mm
mm.
mm
at ' s
..itt's * llW
ASK PLEASE
MM
MM
FOP THPEE-THPEES
■
M i
V ...» H
U? J
• ? O o
rr*4
**
THREE-THREES
ALWAYS PLEASE
m
I
■mm
m
I A'
i 1
m
"
MgBMB
■ 1
3*$! JO
■rap
sss
\~Z
• '•'■ ' >4%: V .v. N / v &r -
m
IZMSv
mm
-c-
¥: :.x
S
> - -
ill
.: • >> •
•' . : y •-•
THE SECRET IS THE
THREE-THREES BLEED
i. m
n
X ?
M S #
8
2L
“Absolutely unique in their qualities”:
wmmmm
MUMS
mmmm
m
,
'Si
m
mg
m
m
ms
liiili
§«&3i
111111
' *
||||I
MtlNtl
m m' ','h is ' 'i
c
i / A
C
\
£
A
G
£©rk Tipped and Plain, 9—6d.; 18— l/-j 27—-1/6. Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties.
9576D-2.


dsa
“Wang”: Dad went along to see how
Dave and the hand were getting on with
the fencing job. When he got to the
scene of operations he found a number
of postholes dug and posts lying about
but no sign of the toilers. Then he heard
voices coming from behind a thick bush
some distance away, and quietly made
his way to it. Peering around it he saw
Dave and the hand seated there with a
pack of cards playing crib. The scoring
“board” was a cleared space of ground
with holes dug in it, and the “pegs”
twigs about 6in. long. Dad stood and
watched them for a minute or two, and
then drawled, “Sorry to interrupt yer,
boys ; but it’s occurred to me you could
improve on what yer doin’ quite a lot.
Why not use them postholes over there,
an’ them posts for pegs? Then you
could sorta combine bizness with
pleasure. See?” He reached down and
grabbed up the cards. “But I’m afraid
you’ll have to play with spades only,”
he added as he walked away, grinning
to himself.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Nevertire’s” cook (B.
18/1/ ’39) might as well have given the
boss’s kid the right information. There
are geese that perch on trees —in North-
ern Australia, especially along the Daly
River, they can be seen in thousands.
Feet adapted both for swimming and
perching. Nothing remarkable about it;
the common shag or cormorant is built
the same way. Who hasn’t seen a shag
perched on a spiked beacon-post or even
on a wire-netting fence?
* * * *
“Tracechain”: The exact locality of
“D.’s” storm (B. 25/1/’39) which broke
after a three years’ drought interests me.
A Queenslander well known for his
seasonal forecasting research work told
me that he has'been unable to locate any
place in Australia where rain did not fall
in any calendar year. “D.’s” corner,
nevertheless, is a dry hole. It was at Cos-
sack in 1891 that only 34 points were
recorded for the entire year. For a period
of 20 consecutive months 63 points only
were recorded. Queensland in 1905 had
two tallies under the inch, Coorabulka
with 79 and Boulia 95 points. I await
correction from those outbackers who
pound the streets called George, Collins
and Queen, but no Madame Tabouis
stuff, please.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: “Wandi’s” elaborate de-
scription of the shingleback lizard (B.
18/1/’39) adequately fits what is known
all over W.A. as the sleepy or bobtail
lizard. But I don’t think the reptile
could kill a snake even if a chloroformed
one were put in front of it. Still, it is
interesting to know that the species is
so widely distributed. A livelier variety
is found around the western deserts
towards-the Nullarbor Plains. This is the
spiky bobtail, its rear being well armed
with sharp spines, probably as a defence
against the snakes that “W.” presumes
the species kills. Has a fondness for
holing up in crevices in hollow timber,
particularly snap-and-rattle and desert
oak. And when the serpent in search
of dinner comes nosing in the spines
probably discourage it. Boiler-firing on
W.A. mines, I cremated hundreds
through sheer inability to extricate the
wretched creatures from the crevices in
which they had jammed themselves.
* * * *
“J.H.S.”: The crested bell bird’s call is
a subject over which the Council is peren-
nially at grips, but for me the secret of
that queer ventriloquial effect is resolved.
It is the result of two birds (male and
female) being associated in making the
call. The cock bird gives the tonk, tonk,
tonk, while the female (nearly always
from some distance) adds that peculiar
but. musical end-turn. The male bird’s
“Hold ’er, Bert —’e might save us the trouble of drivin' one of
them piles home."
“ringing” sounds very flat when the
female neglects, is too busy or too far off
to respond, as sometimes happens. Often
when searching for our sheep-belled
horses on a showery morning, when the
birds are- most musical, have I been
momentarily tricked at hearing the ring-
ing of a distant bellbird.
* * * *
“Pisces”: The wet season was in full
swing in N.Q. and the Proserpine was
in flood. A couple of hundred yards from
the river there was a permanent lagoon,
and, barring odd spasms, there was no
connection between it and the river, which
ran into the sea. As I squelched through
the waist-high grass I caught the sound
of something wriggling along near my
feet. It wasn’t the carpet snake that I
expected to see, but a barramundi. It
was heading for the lagoon. That 10-
pounder found its way into my frying-
pan instead. Possibly it didn’t leave the
river voluntarily, but it certainly was
making straight for a safe refuge.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: I sometimes wonder
if everything occurs in one’s life purely
by accident or whether there really is
a designing fate. My first job on the
Mile was given me by a kindly shift-boss,
a young 6ft. Maorilander. My first task
was running damp cyanide sand out of
a 100 ft. pass, said sand being used as
stope filling. Presently the sand, at
about 50ft. up, hung. With the advice
and assistance of a fellow-bogger I tied
a couple of plugs of fracteur on to a
30ft. rod and shoved them up the pass,
firing by means of a long fuse. But
though we did this twice the pass still
obstinately hung. Then my shift-boss
came along. “Maybe there’s a plank or
something jammed across. I’ll just crawl
inside and have a look.” Clambering up
through the shoot he entered the pass
and stood erect, holding his candle high.
Then—whoosh! The hang-up that had
defied two dynamite shots fell. A man
suffocates in sand in less than five
minutes ; it was upwards of half an hour
before they got him out.
* ❖ * *
“Yunderup”: Conclusions arrived at
by scientific observers and just ordinary
observers sometimes differ remarkably.
Giving heed to the fisherman’s perennial
complaint that shags prey on edible fish,
a W.A. University committee decided to
investigate the matter. The main sphere
of its observations was the Swan River,
and during a period of about 18 months
a number of shags were shot and ex-
amined. According to these scientists
the shag certainly ate fish, yet in some
remarkable manner seemed to dis-
criminate between marketable and non-
marketable varieties. Verdict: That the
shag should be preserved rather than
destroyed. Now from W.A.’s south-west
comes the plaint of enthusiasts, there
endeavoring to acclimatise trout, that
shags, flying inland, prey upon the
immature trout to such an extent that
acclimatisation efforts are likely to be
nullified.
sk * * *
“The 0.D.”: H. D. McClelland, of
Gerringong (N.S.W.), has preserved in
spirits the head of a lamb that had
several strands of wool, sin. long, grow-
ing through the pupils of each eye. The
lamb could sec and grew well until
passed over to a local butcher.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Had a visit from an
interesting chap who offered to divine
any accessible underground water on the
place, and to back any finding by put-
ting down a well on the no-water-no-pay
basis. Luckily we’re amply supplied, but
he had a whole hatful of testimonials
from well-known people and firms ex-
pressing satisfaction with his results. He
sounded like a competent geologist, but
what is the dinkum oil on this “dowsing,”
as they call it in England? It is practised
all over Europe, in the U.S., Canada,
South Africa and Australia, also in India
and China by native exponents. Orth
dox science refuses even to consider it,
but it certainly manages to yield some
surprising results, not seldom in direct
contradiction of scientific opinion. I’ve
heard experienced miners and well-borers
enthuse over it; others, equally experi-
enced, condemn it as the sheerest of
frauds. And I’m hanged if I can see why
underground water or minerals should
twist a forked stick held in a man’s
hands.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Are blood sports cruel?
I know something crueller' When dad
brought home an Old English game
rooster, bred for the ring, we kids
gathered round to see the fun. The
neighbor’s Black Spaniard shaped up
with all the stern joy of a conquistador
from Old Castile. We called it no fight
and left. Our gamecock hadn’t inflicted
a scratch on the other’s inviting display
of comb and wattles. Let anyone who
cares to plumb the depths of bird misery
watch the way of a Spanish rooster with
an adversary too proud to scrap. It
beats cockfighting.
* * * *
“Valerin”: The swaggie dropped
Matilda against the wall and put down
a sprat on the bar. “Damn’ rough roads
you got about here, boss,” he remarked
to Bung. “Shouldn’t matter to you ; you
ain’t got a car, I suppose?” was the surly
reply. “Too right I ain’t, but it delays
me, stoppin’ ev’ry fifty yards ter put the
lid on the billy!”
“Leon”: The dreaming peace of a
summer afternoon in a South Aus.
country town was rudely shattered as a
startled hound raced down ,the main
street, a black and ancient billycan
attached to its tail, with a perspiring and
blasphemous bagman in hot pursuit.
With' a neat Rugby tackle he laid the
animal low and proceeded to separate
dog and billy, breathing vengeance on
“them boys” when and if he caught
them. “Is it your dog?” I asked sym-
pathetically. “I dunno whose flamin’
dorg it is,” he panted indignantly, “but
it’s my blasted billy!”
* * * W
“Nor’-west”: Of course I’ve used what
“D. Beech” (B. 11/1/’39) calls floating
lines; it all depends what I’m fishing
for. I wouldn’t use a weighted line for
skipjack (trevally), nor
for tailer, nor when
night-angling for king-
fish —all of these being
fish that seek food in
mid-water. Nor would
I use one for garfish or
pike, both of which
feed right on the sur-
face. But for snapper,
fiathead and jewfish I
always use a heavily-
weighted line, never
having in a long experi-
ence caught such fish
otherwwise. Observa-
tion (I invariably ex-
amine the stomachs of
fish as I clean them)
has taught me that the
last-mentioned are pure
bottom-feeders, it being
useless to fish for
snapper other than on a
rocky weed-grown bottom. And we don’t
anchor to fish for these bottom-feeders,
not being members of a suicide club —
on the unsheltered western coast one
never knows when a big swamping sea
will happen along. We drift; and as
the rising afternoon southerly accelerates
the drift we tie on more lead. And when
the drift ultimately becomes so rapid
that it is impossible to keep a bait on
the bottom—well, we’re usually heading
for harbor before that. As for my skip-
per, if all the fish that he’s lifted from
the Indian Ocean could be placed head
to tail the line would reach a good long
way across Australia.
* * * $
“Spokeshave”: Uncompensated suf-
ferers from the Vic. bushfires are hun-
dreds of kangaroos, wallabies and other
fauna whose natural feeding grounds
have been devastated. The result has
been that the Fisheries and Games De-
partment has been inundated with re-
quests from settlers for licenses to shoot
the animals, to save their own dimin-
ished pastures. Chief Inspector Lewis is
loath to give the licenses and won’t allow
shooting of large numbers. So he has
made the unprecedented suggestion that
the kangaroos and wallabies should come
in for relief in the shape of lucerne hay
and chaff, to be deposited in suitable
places. An even more remarkable situa-
tion is that motoring parties and bush
people who have a tender spot for the
national fauna now fill their cars with
bread, biscuits, maize, fruit and green
s f off and leave it near creeks and other
drinking-places.
GLIMPSES.
A-seeking for a theme to tell
In story or in rhyme,
As I walked round the Rocks to-day
I met good Master Time.
He held a mirror in his hands,
A magic glass, that showed
A summer noon of long ago
Upon an old-time road.
An old-time road it showed to me,
Rain-rutted and wheel-grooved,
On which strange folk, quaint-costumed
folk,
Through golden noontide moved.
Thereon 1 saw a squad of men
With shouldered muskets tread;
Red coats they wore, and they marched by,
Eyes staring straight ahead.
On. on they marched, while citizens,
From wayside windows raised,
Some smiling, some with sullen eyes,
Upon them mutely gazed.
And then I saw a lad and lass
Trip down that old-time way,
Well loved were they in Currency—
So young, so glad, were they.
A man of much account passed by,
Gray-bearded, grave and cold,
In broadcloth garbed, across his chest
A thick, broad chain of gold.
A windmill in the distance turned
Above a group of trees,
And little wreaths of dust arose
Before a north-east breeze.
Three girls beside a well I saw—
Gay folk and winsome folk —
Their lips were red, their cheeks were
red,
Each wore a scarlet cloak.
Came down the road three whaling men
On love and liquor bent,
Who dipped and filled their pails for
them,
And kissed them ere they went.
These things, these glimpses of the Past,
Time in his mirror showed,
As seeking for a theme to-day
Around the Rocks I strode.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“ That's not an elephant — it's Uncle.”
“Larra”: Bone-pointing isn’t always a
success. When Tiger had been missing
for two days we thought he had gone on
a walkabout, but found him on the third
day lying on the storeroom floor and
apparently in a bad way. He just sum-
moned sufficient strength to inform us
that “bad pfeller Jimmy bin pointum
bone, pretty soon this pfeller dead.” The
abo. refused to fight against the magic,
and so we decided to try out a little
“white-pfeller magic.” We managed to
get half a bottle of whisky into Tiger by
easy stages; after that the rest of the
bottle was taken without much trouble,
and our patient sank into a drunken
slumber about dusk. It was a very sur-
prised Tiger who woke next morning to
find he was still alive. Dunno what his
head was like, but he managed to stow
away a hearty breakfast and then asked
for two days off to go longa bush. He
spent his holiday in chasing Jimmy well
out past the East Alligator.
¥ + * *
“Poseidon”: What is a record day’s
stage with sheep? I have done 19 miles
between 4 a.m. and 5 p.m. with young
wethers carrying eight months’ wool, but
had to stop for three hours at midday
because of the heat, otherwise I might
have made a decent stage of it. The
best effort I have heard of for ewes was
17 miles between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m., but
the day was cool and cloudy, necessi-
tating only about an hour’s spell on the
dinner-camp. On the other hand, I have
worked hard from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m. and
covered only two miles, so it would
appear that the recognised rule of six
miles a day is a pretty fair one.
* * * *
“Centre”: My redback spider tally
this summer has totalled three only, and
poor samples at that. What has become
of them? Generally I have to jvatch my
step in sheds and garden from early
spring to late autumn, during which time
I usually kill hundreds of the pests.
Abnormal weather conditions have upset
insect life generally, and maybe queered
the birthrate of the redbacks ; or perhaps
some bird, lizard or rodent has dis-
covered that they’re good to eat, and is
living high. The shortage has been
noticed all over our N.S.W. district, what-
ever the cause.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Time was when old
Jimmy Beggs (peace to his ashes) was
content to push a handcart from town
to town between the Wakool and the
Anabranch (N.S.W.), but when the T 9
drought came on horses became cheap
and James decided that it might be
easier to use one to haul him and his
worldly goods on his peregrinations
about the rivers. At a sale in Barham
Jimmy got an ancient prad for 7s. 6d.
Trying to conceal his pride, he brought
the moke down to the camp and offered
it a drink. It refused. He then offered
it some chaff. Another refusal. A joyful
gleam came into Jimmy’s eyes. “Blimey,”
he muttered, “if he’ll only work, what
a bargain I’ve landed!”
* * * *
“I’fail”: Various Aboites have de-
scribed the flock pigeon as “white-fleshed.”
I have shot and eaten them from Gympie
to Cairns, and the flesh of all mine have
been dark. Moreover, although the soup
is particularly good, the flesh, especially
the large breast, is inclined to be tough
and dry. This bird, one of the largest
of our pigeons, is of a
grey color except for
a black bar on the
underneath part of the
tailfeathers and a
brown topknot. Strong,
fast fliers, they travel
in search of fig, cedar,
grape and other scrub
berries, and a flock of
them flying low over-
head sounds like a
small hurricane. They
can swallow whole the
big “blue” and “acid”
figs of up to liin. in
diameter. Unlike most
pigeons, they are hard
to bring down, and I
have shot them and
found old scars where
they have been hit be-
fore, usually low —the
wounds would have been sufficient to drop
any other pigeon. I have never yet seen
a flock pigeon drinking or feeding on the
ground. For white flesh and deep chest
the wonga, a ground feeder, takes the
palm, and when stuffed and baked in a
brown-paper bag it is fit for a Hollywood
millionaire.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Last winter we con-
structed a mouse-proof chaff shed, and
got in a supply. Shortly afterwards the
door was left open, and signs indicated
that a mouse had taken the opportunity
to wqlk in. Traps didn’t entice it, and
the cat didn’t stand a chance among the
bagged chaff. As the last bag came out
the other day the cat had a harvest —
mother mouse and family of five, all
doing well. The only possible source of
water was the dew from the iron roof,
and in summer this would be negligible,
yet the mice were all fat. Seems to be an
argument in favor of prohibition.
* * * *
“Bluetongue”: Read somewhere the
other day that “throwing a bullock by
the tail is a difficult feat that few stock-
men can accomplish.” A very mislead-
ing statement. Throwing by the tail is
merely a matter of timing and
balance, and as there is little or
no danger attached to it the
“smart young fellers” on most
stations practise the trick. With
“bulldogging” (throwing by the
head) the beginner takes a big
chance of pulling the beast over
on himself, so naturally there
are not nearly so many triers
and fewer experts. Any deter-
mined lad can learn to toss a
beast by the tail after seeing it
done and practising a few dozen
times. It is not nearly as
hard or risky as mounting a
vicious colt for the first few
times.
* * *
“Watch”: I’ve acted as con-
ductor to mobs of horses, cattle,
sheep and pigs, and for the
easiest to handle I nominate the
last Go ahead with a spring-cart
over the axle of which is draped a ’roo
or wallaby carcass and the grunters will
follow you across Australia. Failing easy
meat like that, just tip out a grain of
corn from the bag now and again, and
the porkers will squeal with the ecstasy
of a flapper fastening to an ice-cream
cone. At night it’s easier again ; all you
want is a muddy waterhole. Put Dennis
and his missus on that and they’ll
wallow till it’s time to harness up the
spring-cart again and run a few more
grains of corn along the trail.
* * * *
“Oovine”: Watch a ewe lying down in
a paddock with her lamb. The youngster,
of course, always nestles between the old
girl’s legs when she reposes. But you’ll
always find Ma on the weather side serv-
ing as a windbreak for her baby.
* * * *
“Dingo”: People who marvel at the
way trees contrive to live on seemingly
solid rocky outcrops are evidently not
conversant with the methods employed
by ancient miners back to the days of the
Pharaohs. The stunt was to drill holes
along the cutting-line of the stone to be
excavated, either with metal drills or
strong acids, and then belt solid wooden
wedges down with mauls. Provided the
wedges had been well-seasoned before-
hand, a result equal to the best blasting
powder we know of was obtained by
pouring water continually over the wood
of the wedges until they swelled suffi-
ciently to tear the rock apart. Trees use
the same method. The tip of the root
exudes an acid that eats a pilot-hole into
the solid rock, and a steady supply of
moist sap to swell the living root itself
is all that is necessary to complete the
job.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The nobler animals are
doomed. They call it the Apex of the
Age of Mammals. The whale is the
largest creature of which science has
any record, and the African elephant is
only a size smaller than the mammoth
of yesterday. The quagga, which so
lately roamed South Africa in vast herds,
is now extinct. In 50 years’ time, we are
assured, the great majority of its con-
temporaries will have disappeared; a
century hence all will be gone. Nothing
can be done about it. The encroaching
settler will tolerate not one of the score
or more species of big game with which
Africa was stocked to capacity but 30
years ago. The best that Governments
may do is to allow the last representa-
tives of each to linger under unnatural
conditions in reservations. This planet
is not now Nature’s laboratory, but
man’s. Evolution has had a good innings.
Its palmy seons are past.
* * * *
“Greenie”: A fallacious belief appar-
ently held by some of the Council is
that young turtles suffer a high mortality
on their way from the nest to the sea,
immediately after hatching. Actually,
they don’t leave the nest till about three
days after hatching, nor do they come
out of their own volition during the day-
time. Most of their land enemies sleep
during the night. The short walk from
the incubator to high tide doesn’t gener-
ally allow much time for any stray pre-
datories to get in their nasty work. We
can only guess at the mortality of the
little coves after they reach the ocean ;
but the biggest loss on land is previous
to hatching. Any old-man goanna can
pick a turtle’s nest in one shot, in spite
of the number of fake dummies she
might build, and what he can’t eat at
the first sitting, no matter what stage
of incubation they are at, he’ll leave for
the next meal. Beach dingoes are hot
stuff at picking a turtle’s nest, and they
don’t want any probing stick to tell ’em
which is the right and which the false-
alarm of the turtle’s diggings. Other
things take a hand, but the go. and dog
alone can make an impression that’s felt.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The harrier-hawk nestling
is easily peeved by anything stickybeak-
ing round its nursery. It can use its
claws, too, as my spaniel discovered when
he went blithely questing through a crop.
There was a sudden yelp, and the hound
charged out with a pin-feathered skele-
ton hanging to his snout; this he scraped
off by diving through a fence. With a
stick, which it grabbed tenaciously, I
carried the perky hawklet back to the
nursery, whence it waved threateningly
the tightly-clutched waddy. The spaniel
I found sitting sad-eyed behind a strainer
post, a noughts-and-crosses diagram
engraved redly upon his nose.
* * * *
“CDI”: A death-adder paid in full
the wages of gluttony on Llanrheidol
(W.Q.). On a disused track we found
him, perfectly preserved on account of
the dry air, though he must have been
dead for weeks, and was only a shell.
Out of his ugly, gaping jaws protruded
the last couple of inches of a brown
snake —the rest was all inside. It’s not
a bit uncommon for Joe Blake to make
a pig of himself and pay the penalty,
but the odd thing about this case was
that it was a children’s party —the adder
was about eight inches long, the baby
brownie slightly smaller.
“Blast tha, where be ’e off to —Poort Darwin?”
GOOD OLD STANDBY.
Three days ago the rain began to lash along
the hill,
Whipped by a wind that from the south came
shrieking;
And little time it took for all the billabongs
to fill,
And *less for us to find the tent was leaking.
J. Pluvius has set his brand on every pan and
pot—
When this occurs it’s fierce to be a camper—
And now good tucker, savory and dished up
piping hot,
Has given place to cocky’s joy and damper.
The creek whose bed we scraped until our
bones were like to crack
Is now a torrent, strewn with rocks and
roaring.
The road is quite impassable; and over every
track
A sheet of yellow water’s ever pouring.
We’re cut off from the township, and ter-
backer’s running low,
And, though our appetites we never pamper,
The sight and sound of sizzling chops seem
dreams of long ago;
But, still, there’s always cocky’s joy and
damper.
We’re short of tea and sugar, jam, “condensed”
and Melb’ne beans;
We’ve got no wireless set or concertina,
And all we have for reading is a few old
Bulleteens
And a Yankee’s book on fossicking at Lena.
We envy city blokes who clerk and saw and
carry hods;
No rescuers will reach us with a hamper;
We’re castaways, as you might say, maroons —
but what’s the odds?
There’s still a bit of cocky’s joy and damper.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
LUDOWICI PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
o
a
22
' S
Ta
ISHEO
Ludowici Pioneer Leather Belting has proved itself
superior for the hardest conditions. It is waterproof
and well-nigh wearproof.
Made only by the Original Ludowici Company to
standards of quality well-known for 80 years.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 YORK STREET SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ,
6 p.c. Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 p.c. = 696,354 45,182
Co. reconstructed; shares in sub-
-12 m’ths sidiaries written up £2,324,131,
to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 64 p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929. . 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ ~ 894,791 27,668
1930.. 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ ~ 976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ „ 650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 31,085
1933.. . 585,611 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ ~ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 .. 343,783
Cash bonus (3J p.c.), £305,042 .. 38,741
1937.. 911.386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40.174
1938.. 911.479 96,507 .10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
This holding co., whose scrip is among
the leaders in the inter-State stock
markets, controls a group of subsidiaries
which constitute one of the largest and
most prosperous industrial organisations
in Australia. At the end of October last
its £9,619,186 of share capita 1—1,484,727
6} p.c. cum. prefs. and 8,134,459 ords. —
together with reserves and £19,166 com-
ing to sundry creditors, was represented
by shares in subsidiaries £7,722,192
(cost), debtors’ and debit balartces
£2,106,118 (mostly advances to sub-
sidiaries), and cash £14,431. The parent’s
accounts do not include its interest in the
undivided profits of the subsidiaries —
W. D. and H. O. Wills, British Australian
Tobacco, the States Tobacco Co. and
S. T. Leigh and Co.—over whose figures
the curtain was kept drawn until a year
or so ago.
For 13 years to the close of accounts
in 1927 the parent! paid a steady 12 p.c.
div., sweetened with £628,591 of bonus
scrip. Then a two-for-five gift to the
ords. (£2,324,131, provided by writing up
the book value of shares in other cos.)
lifted capital to its present figure,
the ord. div. dropped to 10 p.c. ; it rose
to 12 p.c. again in 1930. But slump cur-
tailed expenditure on smokes, competi-
tion increased and the spring in exchange,
income and other taxes and alterations
in the tariff swelled outgoings, and the
div. fell to 6 p.c. in 1932, and remained
steady for four years. The rate rose to
7 p.c. in ’36, followed by 10 p.c. for each
of the last two years, and 10 p.c. to the
ords. is now worth nearly 20 p.c. on their
capital as it stood at the close of accounts
in 1921.
The following table, showing consump-
tion of cigarettes and tobacco in Austra-
lia, helps to explain what has happened
of recent years:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29 . . 6.357,779 14,116.648 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934- . . 4.770,064 14.088,562 18,838,626
1935- . . 5.190,065 14,598,251 19,788,316
1936- . . 5,733,307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- . . 6,204,124 16,396,755 22,600,879
Compared with 1928-29 fewer cigarettes
were smoked, but more tobacco was con-
sumed during the 12 months to June 30
last; the total of the two showed an
increase of about 10 p.c. Since Sept.,
1935, customs and excise duty on cigar-
ettes and tobacco (used for pipes and
roll-your-own cigarettes) have been
12s. 2d. and Bs. per pound respectively, a
difference of 4s. 2d. as against 4s. Bd. pre-
viously, and abolition of the Federal
special tax on income from property has
been a help, too.
A consolidated statement of assets and
liabilities of the holding co. and its sub-
sidiaries is now sent to shareholders, but
this is not accompanied by a consoli-
dated p. atnd 1. account. Here is the
position as the published figures show it:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . . . £9,619,186 £9,619,186
Outside shares . . . . 12,550 12,550
General reserve . . . . 597,474 604,222
Profit and loss balance . . 749,591 751,117
Depreciation reserve . . 1.871,198 1,925,389
Sundry creditors* .. 639,317 623,570
Freeholds 1,075,062 1,109,094
Plant, etc. . . . . 1,312,121 1,412,436
Stock . . . . ■. . 6,205.747 6,665,186
Debtors 1,181,292 1,162,416
Investments . . . . 941.632 322,631
Cash 80,298 171,107
Goodwill, etc 2,693,165 2,693,165
* Including tax provision, etc.
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £15,747, add £34,032
to freeholds, £100,315 to plant, etc.,
£90,809 to cash, and carry an extra
£459,439 of stock (looks like a shrewd
move considering the possibility of
extra taxation), the board reduced
investnfents (mainly Government securi-
ties) by £619,001 and debtors’ balances
by £18,876. Freeholds, some of which
were bought long before the inflation of
property values began, and investments
appear at cost, while machinery and
stocks figure at or below cost, and an
unspecified’ provision is made for bad
debts, etc. Including stocks, more or
less liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£7,697,770 when the books closed. The
year’s growth in net tangibles was
£62,465. The visible provision for de-
preciation appears to be in excess of im-
mediate requirements for the purpose.
During the year the ords. fluctuated
between 51s. 3d. and 425. 9d. on the
market. At 475. 6d., which was the
figure last week-end, the return is 4.2
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 30s. 9d. also yield 4.2 p.c. The net
tangible cover is visibly £6 15s. sd. prefs.
and 21s. ords.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£. £ £ £
1628.. 58,970 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 51,243 7,727 38,460
Added Service Shares reserve, £35,000.. 73,460
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,915
1930.. 64,224 6 p.c.* Nil 6,610 57,614 140,529
Loss.
1931.. 26.260 t Nil Nil 114,269
Profit.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26.577 6* „ 4 p.c. 31.579 112.567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 24 „ 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* „ Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £2500 .. .. 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
1938.. 18,632 6*,, 14 p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
includes 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
265. f After making special provision (£59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts, tlncludes arrears.
This co.’s figures reflect the fortunes
of wheat-farmers, graziers and others
whose returns are governed mainly by
seasons and prices. Slump stopped a
short -run of 10 p.c. divs., and for the
half-dozen years to the close of ac-
counts in 1936 aggregate losses (£72,081)
exceeded aggregate profits (£65,868) by
£6213. The drop in the price of wheat,
reduced demand for fertiliser, price-cut-
ting and farmers’ debts were mainly re-
sponsible. The sudden lift in the price
of grain in 1937 raised hopes of regular
and satisfactory divs. again; but the
price soon collapsed, and Governments in
practically all wheat-exporting countries
have had to come to the assistance of the
industry with bounties or price guaran-
tees, while there has been talk of an inter-
national scheme for reduction of acre-
age. In Australia the declared aim is to
raise the price to local growers to about
4s. Bd. per bushel, the difference between
this figure and world parity to be met
from proceeds of a flour tax imposed by
the States. Cresco’s earnings partly de-
pend upon the success of this price-lifting
scheme.
During the last term the co.’s three
plants in S. Aus. and the one at Geelong
(Vic.) all turned out and sold more fer-
tiliser, and 5 p.c., as against 4 p.c. for
the previous term, was received on the
£90,000 holding in Cresco Fertilizers
(W.A.). Gross earnings (£68,436) sprang
£8834; but exes. (£49,804, including
£16,289 for depreciation) took all the in-
crease and £455 besides, owing to lifts in
wages and other costs factors. The
£18,632 of profit claimed was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 1.9 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against approximately 2
p.c. for the previous term and losses for
the two years before that. Shareholders
got 1| p.c., their first taste since 1934,
making the average a shade under 1 p.c.
over the last nine years. The £68,958 of
reserves is none too stout a prop for
capital, considering the nature of the
business and the amount of outside
money at risk therein.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £734.571 £734,679 £734,679 £733,165
Liabilities . . 498,433 132,709 256,466 307,509
Freeholds and ] f
plant . . \ 608,211 \ 453.735 509.485 572,098
Stocks .. j [ 136,818 123,739 161,499
Shares in other
cos. . . 90,000 90,000 90,005 90,005
Advances to W.A.
co 78,620 —'
Debtors . . 602,375 209,468 202.930 176,124
Cash, etc. . . 939 61,043 140,458 87,155
Farm property, etc. 41,737
The reduction of £1514 in capital was
on account of forfeited shares, the
amount being used for depreciation. The
growth of £62,613 in freeholds and plant
was mainly in respect of extensions and
additions to the Lincoln (S. Aus.) and
Geelong (Vic.) works. The new farm
properties item represents acquisitions to
protect old debts and straight-out invest-
ment purchases, from which “considerable
profit is anticipated.” To meet the year’s
outlay on works and farms, and carry
an extra £37,760 of stocks, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £53,303, debtors’ balances
were reduced by £26,806, and £51,043
was added to the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors. Among the creditors,
Cresco Fertilizers (W.A.), for which this
Adelaide co. acts as banker, figures for
£133,458 (up £37,596). Since the close
of accounts, the Westralian co. has paid
6 p.c. in respect of its last term.
At 19s. 6d. the 6 p.c. cum. prefs. yield
6.1 p.c., and last year’s net earnings were
nearly three times their annual require-
ments. The ords. at ss. 6d. return 5.4
p.c. on the basis of last year’s distribu-
tion. The net tangible cover (book value)
is £7 4s. 6d. prefs. and £1 2s. 2d. ords.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil - 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,651
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 24 p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2| „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 24 ~ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935. . 11,057 24 „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,515 .6 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
1938.. 21,291 4 „ „ 19,649 1,642 52,893
For nearly 20 years after the profitable
war-time contracts ran out and the
Argentine got a stranglehold on British
and Continental markets with baby beef
the industry in Australia remained in the
doldrums. It emerged a couple of years
or so ago, following Britain’s withdrawal
of restrictions on Australian chilled and
its agreement not to levy import duties
on beef from the Dominions, while main-
taining levies and quantitative restric-
tions on shipments from the Argen-
tine. Also, in 1935, when an un-
specified loss on shipments of chilled
affected this co.’s earnings, the board
spent over £45,000 on the Townsville
works, mainly in connection with chilling,
and at the same time reorganised and
strengthened the co.’s London selling
arrangements. One result of all this was
that in 1937 earnings reached their
second-highest point for 19 years, and
only once previously in that period (in
1920) had shareholders received a 6 p.c.
div., the average being 2.3 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, selling prices for the co.’s
products continued to strengthen, and
further improvement in earnings might
have been looked for. Actually, there
was a sharp contraction of £8224 in the
declared net result, which benefited by
transfer of an unspecified amount previ-
ously set aside for a contingency which
no longer exists. The £21,291 of profit
claimed was 4.3 p.c. on capital as againsl
6 p.c. and 4 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The board explains the position
this way: —•
The period under review has been a very
difficult one for the industry, owing to
the serious drop in the value of all by-
products. Although prices for beef, both
chilled and frozen, have been on a slightly
higher basis than the preceding year, the
demand has not been so buoyant, and a
larger proportion of this year’s output is
being carried over than was the case last
year. Moreover, the indications are that,
for the time being, the British market has
reached its peak so far as prices are con-
cerned, and the probability is that, for the
poorer grades of beef at any rate, lower
prices will rule.
Whatever profit or loss there may have
been on sale of the co.’s Eagle Farm
works and freehold at Pinkenba, near
Brisbane, was absorbed by inner reserves.
A couple of points were chipped off the
distribution to shareholders, reducing it
to 4 p.c., and making the average over
the last seven years 3.4 p.c. Though
returns from this class of business need
to be averaged, the past is not much of
a guide to the future, owing to the recent
change in outlook. Appearances are that
an average of, say, 5 p.c. may not prove
beyond reach. Earnings are directly sub-
ject to a wide range of influences, includ-
ing developments overseas, where most of
the output is sold, as well as seasonal,
industrial and other local economic
factors.
Substantial additions and improve-
ments to the co.’s Ross River (Towns-
ville) works are under construction, and
the board will have no difficulty in find-
ing the money:—•
1931. 1935. 1937. 1933.
Paid capital. . £654.975 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* ". . 17,610 190,827 223,369 249,533
Property, live-
stock. shares
in other cos. 423,532 399,091 370,556 332,957
Stock.. .. 35,243 141.332 187,968 227,990
Stores . . 20,180 19,698 21.827 17,662
Debtors & cash 244.282 185.033 214,975 234,688
* Including provision for contingencies.
The net reduction of £37,599 in property,
etc., chiefly reflects the sale already re-
ferred to, which was also largely respon-
sible for the growth of £29,416 in the more
or less liquid surplus of £230,817, which
includes stocks (up £40,022). Cash and
Government securities (£166,116 = ss. per
share) were up £36,769, and debtors’
balances (£68,582) were down £17,046.
The market prices the f.-p. 15s. shares
(ss. was returned in cash in 1933) at 11s.
or thereabouts, as against 13s. 3d. a year
ago. The return at 11s. is 5.5 p.c. on
a 4 p.c. div. basis; the cover is 16s. 9d.
per share in net tangibles.


A Message
to Pontiac
Owners
r p HE present Pontiac owner
will be gratified to see that
for 1939 Pontiac holds unswerv-
ingly to its policy of safe-
guarding its owners against loss
of resale value.
Here are no radical changes in
style to cause existing owners
to lament their sudden loss in
depreciation and pride of owner-
ship.
The continuance of such estab-
lished Pontiac characteristics as
the Silver Streak bonnet makes
every Pontiac model one of a
closely related family.
And that freedom from reckless
change is true, not only of
Pontiac’s appearance, but of its
engineering features.
In mechanical design Pontiac has
always been in the vanguard ol
progress, adding improvements in
advance, not waiting till com-
petition requires it.
We can imagine the satisfaction
of Pontiac owners as they read
the advertisements of other cars
who for 1939 are " announcing”
features which Pontiac has long
possessed.
Indepedent Front Wheel Spring-
ing has been incorporated on
Pontiac since 1934.
Safety Shift Gear Control, which
is another Pontiac feature being
widely imitated, was introduced
by Pontiac in 1938.
By comparison with cars which
are only now adding those
features, last year’s Pontiac could
be * justifiably claimed to be a
1939 car.
But—for 1939 Pontiac has still
further improvements and refine-
ments to offer features too
numerous to mention here. Out-
standing amongst these features
is the biggest contribution of
1939 car engineering to motoring
pleasure and safety . . . Pontiac’s
new Visionair Body by Holden
in which a new type of body
construction allows of slenderer,
yet stronger corner and side
pillows and greater window area
all round. The improvement in
vision is nothing less than re-
markable.
Please come in and see the 1939
Pontiac regardless of whether
you are thinking of a new model
or not. As a Pontiac owner we
would like you to see the 1939
models. And if you are so
enthusiastic about them as to
advise your friends to see them
also, then—many thanks!
General Motors-Holden’s Limited
tfgauM. PONTIAC^t^f
ALL THE GLAMOUR
aMd AT LOWER PRICES
m
I
TWO SUPERB
SIXES for 1939
..to make you
proud . . and
save you
money
More than ever the Most
Beautiful Thing on Wheels
■poti&ete. SILVER ARROW u,™
Here’s news! This economical 115-inch wheelbase Silver
Arrow Six is actually lower priced than last year’s
Pontiac Six, though it has Safety Shift Gear Control as
standard equipment for one thing ... a saving to you of
the £5 extra required for this feature in 1938. It has
Independent Front Wheel Springing . . linked parallelo-
gram steering ... the famous Pontiac triple-sealed
hydraulic brakes. It is powered by Pontiac’s super-
smooth square-design engine. And it has this year’s
greatest advance . . . the new body construction of the
Visionair Body by Holden with its marvellously improved
driving vision and greater windscreen areas (see column
at left) ... a body that is even more luxuriously equipped
and furnished. You’ll admire the new interiors with their
super-dull finish leather upholstery ... the new T-spoke
Steering Wheel ... the new wood grained and
chromium inlay door panels . . . the handsome
grained instrument panel and door garnish mouldings.
Externally the Silver Arrow’s beauty is enhanced by
“ cat-walk ” radiator grilles . . . new headlamps
which are safely mounted between the fender and the
bonnet and are thus protected from minor accident
which would put them
out of focus . . . new
bonnet louvres and new
safety exterior door
handles which streamline
into the belt moulding
and big-capacity trunk.
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR RADIO.
The modern motorist has an ‘AIR CHIEF’ installed in his car, to
derive maximum enjoyment from motoring. A model specially
designed for Pontiac is included in the range at prices from Eight-
een Guineas. Ask for a demonstration. You will be pleased with
the excellent reception of ‘AIR CHIEF’.
(Below)
-po*OUui CHIEFTAIN
Here’s the largest, most desirable Pontiac Six ever built
. . , the new 120-inch wheelbase Pontiac Chieftain. It’s
just a step up in price from the Silver Arrow ... and it
means a big saving to people who in past years have
bought higher-priced cars. Those people will do well to
see this distinguished new Chieftain for they will find it
combines eight cylinder smoothness with six cylinder
economy. The Pontiac Chieftain gives you all your
heart could wish. Inside, you sink back in wide, broad
deep-sprung Relax-o-form seats of soft, super-dull finish
leather. You enjoy the unobstructive vision of the deep,
wide windscreen and windows and the slender corner
and side pillars of Pontiac’s Visionair Body by Holden.
There are Armrests to rest your elbow, Assist Loops
in which to crook your fingers, No-Draught Ventila-
tion Window to scoop in cooling breezes in summer
and bring draughtless ventilation in winter. There
is a Cigarette Lighter both in the instrument panel
and in the Smoking Case in the rear seat; and an
Electric Clock on the instrument panel. Everywhere
is evidence of beauty and good taste ... in the
handsome wood-grained instrument panel and garnish
mouldings of the doors
. . . in the chromium
and tenite door and win-
dow controls, in the up-
holstery treatment in the
softly carpeted floor and
smoothly - tailored roof.
"PoHUm for W 9
Buy from your Local Pontiac Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Pontiac Dealers throughout Australia.
41C
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
* £, £>£,£>
1928 9730 10 p.c. = 7930 1800 19,071
1929 .. 8540 10 „ „ 7930 610 19,681
1930 .. 6032 7i„ „ 5947 85 19,766
1931 .. 1484 6i „ „ 4758 16,492
1932 .. 5028 7 ~ „ 5551 15,969
1933 .. 6257 7 „ „ 5551 706 16,675
1934 .. 4477 54 „ „ 4362 115 16,790
1935 .. 4247 5 „ „ 3965 282 17,072
1936 .. 5957 74 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 .. 7126 8 „ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 . . 6592 74 „ „ 5947 645 18,509
The foundations of the business were laid
by John Charles Ludowici as far back
as 1858. After the public became
interested in 1911, the co. continued to
give a good account of itself, widening
its local connections and building up an
export trade with Asia in the belting and
other leather products it manufactures.
Although slump slowed down the rate
of earnings, and made them more
irregular, shareholders, who got a steady
10 p.c. for 14 years to the close of ac-
counts in 1929, were never shown an
empty basket, the average distribution
for the last nine difficult years being
6.8 p.c., despite keen competition.
Last year prices, both for the co.’s raw
materials and finished products, fluc-
tuated, while costs were difficult to re-
strain, and customers were more inclined
to mark-time with than advance their
orders. One result was net earnings
(down £534) dropped to 8.3 p.c. on
capital, compared with 9, 7.5, 5.3, 5.6,
7.8, 6.3, 1.8, 7.6, 10.1 and 12.2 p.c. back
to 1928. Half a point was chipped off
the div., reducing it to 7j p.c., the final
being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
Prospects of 7 p.c. being maintained
are encouraging. Much depends upon
fluctuations in raw materials and other
costs. Apart from the co.’s China trade,
its other connections continue to slowly
widen, and import restrictions in Maori-
land are not expected to affect turnover
there, because the Dominion’s sale of
raw hides to Australia is worth a lot
more than its purchases of leather from
the Commonwealth. Further improve-
ments to the power-transmission and
engineering section are expected to lower
costs there, and “several important con-
tracts with the Defence Department are
being undertaken.”
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities . . . . 30,765 32,740 13,914 31,926
Freeholds . . .. 50,881 50,881 50,881 58,477
Plant, etc. .. 7,677 6,895 5,859 7,191
Stocks . . . . 47,373 53,658 42,892 54,452
Book debts . . 21,744 18,398 13,037 10,903
Cash, etc. . . 2,259 2,177 2,498 2,404
To meet a net addition of £11,560 to
stocks (apparently the management ex-
pects a further rise in the price of hides),
£7596 in freeholds (a property at S. Mel-
bourne previously rented was bought),
£1332 to plant, and reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£2803) by
£2BO, the board tacked £18,292 on to the
overdraft (£29,123). The more or less
liquid surplus (£35,833) was £B6BO
weaker than at the previous balance.
Over the twelvemonth the price of the
pound shares has fluctuated between
255. and 235. on the market. At the
lower figure, which was the price last
week-end, the return is 6.6 p.c. on a
74- p.c. div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
distribution. The cover is 245. Bd. in net
tangibles.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£> £>£*££,
1928.. 16,362 26§ p.c.=14,000 4080 13,138
1929.. 12,569 20 „ „ 10,500 2303 12,904
1930.. 5,257 10 „ „ 5,250 3055 9,856
Loss.
1931.. 1,618 Nil 1958 6,280
Profit.
1932.. 261 Nil 261 6,541
1933.. 1,087 Nil 1087 7,628
1934.. 3,706 6 p.c. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 „ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9.425 10 ~ .. 5,250 >
Staff bonus, £1720 .. .. J 2455 11,130
1937.. 8,859 12 p.c.= 6,300 l 100 n , 9 ,„ n
Staff bonus, £1559 .. . . j luuu 42,130
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 ) o nVfi
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. . . j ' 3U ' t> ls,2Ub
This is one of Sydney’s leading real-
estate-agency businesses, and its earnings
reflect the vicissitudes of the market. So
rapid was the price inflation at the peak
of the boom, brought about largely by
lavish spending of loan money, partly
from overseas, that some properties
changed hands two and even three times
in a year. In these circumstances, well-
established agency concerns like R. and
W. could not avoid earning fat profits.
When the spending stopped the market
got a jolt; it collapsed when slump and
Langism destroyed confidence in the
future of property as an investment. This
confidence has been gradually restored
with the improvement in conditions gen-
erally, as the following comparison of
Sydney property sales shows:
City. Suburos.
1924 .. .. £2,100,000 £3,500,000
1926 .. .. 7,000,000 3,750,000
1928 .. .. 2,750,000 4,816,024
1930 .. .. 698,575 1,339,977
1931 .. .. 364,420 484,528
1932 .. .. 660,695 580,782
1933 . . . . 786,385 793,852
1934 . . . . 850,964 1,563,503
1935 . . . . 1,238,058 2,338,785
1936 . . . 1,174,431 2,993,843
1937 . . . . 887,634 4,367,877
1938 . . • . 1,185,165 5,083,589
The advance has been most marked in
suburban sales, which last year exceeded
the 1928 figure. The growth last year
was £715*712 suburban and £297,531 city,
total £1,013,243. R. and W.’s turnover


Scene near New Norfolk.
TASMANIAN
HOLIDAY TOURS
arranged by the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment Tourist Department enable
you to fully enjoy an inexpensive
holiday in a bracing climate amid
scenes of unrivalled beauty and his-
toric interest.
ALL-INCLUSIVE COST covers
return sea voyage, also trips and
accommodation while in the lovely
Island State. Full details and book-
lets on request—post free.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST DEPT.,
4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
286 Collins Street Melbourne
12 Pirie Street Adelaide
A.M.P. Chambers, William St.. Perth
196 Adelaide Street Brisbane
and Hobart and Launceston.
Old Powder Mayazine, Port Arthur.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
For Sale.
SELF-PRIMING Centrifugal Pump for total
head of 176 ft. and cap. 5000 gals, per hour,
direct-coupled on bedplate to 12-h.p. 3-phase
motor, 400 volts, 50 cycles, fitted with ball-
bearings. Both squirrel-cage and slip-ring
rotors are available, latter with automatic
starter. Spare shaft and impellers for pump
included. Previously operated Bordertown
water supply, recently superseded by Govern-
ment-owned scheme. Can be inspected at
Bordertown Power Station. Apply REG F.
FAIRBROTHER, District Clerk, District
Council of Tatiara, Box 127, P. 0., Border-
town, S. Australia.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
as
Two Hazards
to Overcome
For most men there are two great
hazards in life: —
(1) Dying too soon, leaving depen-
dents to fend for themselves;
(2) Living too long; outliving
earning power and facing
poverty in old age.
The wise man plans his A.M.P.
policies with five aims in view:
(1) To pay off any mortgages he
may have.
(2) To pay bills owing at his death.
(3) To provide enough income for
his wife and family to live in
reasonable comfort.
(4) To provide money for his
children’s education, and
(5) To enable him tto retire in
comfort at 65 or thereabouts
if he lives to that age.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send you an experienced man to
discuss How the Society Can Help
You Make Your Dreams Come True.
Do that to-day, or, if you prefer,
ask for a copy of “Investing in
Happiness.” Write to-day.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
for 1938 was £1,394,912 (up £36,626).
There was a sharp spring of £2517 in net
earnings, which reached 21.6 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 16.8, 17.9, 8.9, 7 and a
shade over 2 p.c. back to 1933. The
div. was kept at 12 p.c.: it averaged 20.6
p.c. for the decade to the close of ac-
counts in 1930; then for the next three
years shareholders were passed by, the
average for the last five being 9.6 p.c.
Assuming that advances are readily
realisable, practically the whole of the
co. ’9 assets are liquid:—•
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities . . . . 7,316 17,230 25,956 15,279-
Advances . . . . 43,986 48.040 34,227 30,362
Cash. etc... .. 18,872 25,382 55,304 51,679
Odds and ends . . 2,277 3,571 3,770 3,885
Sundry debtors . . 7,163 4,413 4,266 5,262
The position is obviously comfortable,
the outside debt being more than three
times covered by cash, etc., alone when
the books last closed.
The market, doubtful whether better
than 12 p.c. need be looked for at present,
prices the f.-p. 15s. shares at 295. or
thereabouts, as against 31s. a year ago.
The return at 295. is 6.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 19s. 4d. in net
tangibles.
P. and O. Steam
Catering for the England-Australia-
India-Far East passenger and freight ser-
vices, this big British shipping co. and its
subsidiaries control 313 vessels aggregat-
ing 2,040,130 tons gross, excluding ships
building.
Reflecting popularity of the two new
“Strath”-class boats 23,000-tonners —
placed in commission during the year and
freight-rate increases late in the previous
term, the parent co.’s earnings from all
sources registered further lift last year,
European political upsets and continu-
ance of hostilities in China notwith-
standing. Three years’ p. and 1. figures:
f- -*—Dividends
Pref. Old. To
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. 4 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
’36.. 328,910 152,000 183,701 4,152,094
’37.. 476,808 152,000 183,701 1 . u , 9n ,
To contingencies, etc., £150,000 ) ’ ’
’3B. . 621,510 152,000 367,401 ? 2 7 ,109 4,170,310
To provident account, £75,000 ) ’ ’ ’
The actual improvement was better than
indicated by the profit column, which
includes non-recurring income—£244,92o
in 1937, as against £44,854 last
term, when £25,000 expended on recon-
ditioning the Mongolia for charter work
was also charged against revenue. After
visibly allowing an unchanged £885,000
for depreciation, the net result was
£27,109 more than a provident-fund con-
tribution of £75,000 and 5 p.c. to the
prefs. and 8 p.c. (3 p.c. bonus) to the
ords. called for. Undistributed earnings
of the subsidiaries have not been taken
into account.
Consolidated figures of the parent and
the pups show paid capital at £13,864,715
and free reserves, allowing for final divs.,
of £18,243,348. Debenture stock (mostly
3|-4| p.c.) figures at £8,609,243, and
other liabilities at £10,285,905. Exclud-
ing trade investments (£5,276,382),
liquids amount to £21,425,362. Ship
property (cost £84,374,720) is in at
£22,929,326. The depreciation provision
represents an average allowance of nearly
6 p.c. p.a. on cost.
Rising costs, partly a result of the
extent to which competition demands
personal service be carried, are a prob-
lem. Another thorn in the managerial
side is the extent to which Suez Canal
charges, which are calculated on space
and not a per capita basis, bite into pas-
senger earnings in off-season sailings.
Kuala Lumpur Tin, N.L.
Operating at Kalumpang, Selangor
(F.M.S.), this co. has a nominal assess-
ment of 703 tons t.o. annually. Two
dredges are owned, combined maximum
capacity approx. 230,000 c.y. monthly—
No. 1, 90,000 c.y. ; No. 2, 140,000 c.y.
On both plants £10,891 has been spent
on reconditioning over the last three
years.
On the basis of figures at Sept. 30,
1933, dredging reserves are somewhere
above 31,000,000 c.y., giving the property
a life of 12 years, working to capacity.
Values were put at 0.81 b.; actual mean
recovery over the last decade has been
0.581 b. A further 252 acres of low-grade
ground may also later be turned to pro-
fitable account. The wash is mainly
free-dredging, and adequate water is
available.
Divs. have totalled £275,967 since the
beginning, the flow being uninterrupted
by slump. Last term’s handout was 15
p.c., as against \2\ p.c. in 1937, though
profits were more than cut in two. Re-
sults back to ’35:
, —Profit t — : —Divs.
Sept., Revenue. Exes.* Net Share. Amt. Share.
1935. . £43.971 £23,041 £20,930 2/1 £20,040 2/-
19 o 6 i 45,643 24,829 20,814 2/1 20,040 2/-
1 Dredge reconditioning exes.. £4210.
1937 J 93,118 38,197 54,921 5/6 25,050 2/6
l Dredge reconditioning exes., £2507.
1938 1 53,351 28,588 24,763 2/5 30,060 3/-
/ Dredge reconditioning exes., £4174.
* Includes depreciation—l93s. £307 ; 1936, £133;
1937, £6226; 1938, £127.
Profit was struck after charging a
nominal £127 (down £6099) for depre-
ciation and writing back £2OOO from
insurance reserve, but before taking into
account £4174 expended on recondition-
ing the larger dredge. Buffer-pool con-
tributions—7.B p.c. of assessment —have
been taken in at cost of production.
No. 1 dredge worked five months in
the shallow and poorer Eastern sector,
turning over 404,980 c.y., averaging
0.461 b. t.o. No. 2 plant in 10 months
dug 1,181,006 c.y., returning an average
0.531 b. Combined performances:
1936 * 1937. 1938.
Treated, c.y 1,304,672 2,285.648 1,585,986
Yield, t. 0., tons . . 326.9 525.7 366.3
Recovery c.y., pound 0.56 0.51 0.51
Assay, ,p.c 75.8 75.8 75.8
Mine costs, c.y. . . 4.57 d. 3.35 d. 4.3 d.
* No. 2 dredge only operating.
The rise in costs, always on the high
side, reflects output curtailment and road
deviation in order to bring the old main
road, rich in tin, into dredging reserves.
Since the close of accounts poor values
have been encountered, recoveries on
turnover of 502,000 c.y. averaging 0.351 b.
t.o. in the four months to January ; mine
profit for the period was down to
£3476 stg.
Paid capital is £130,800 —113,400 £1
shares fully paid and 87,000 called to 4s.
At balance day more or less liquids
amounted to £62,186 and liabilities to
£l3ll. The liquid surplus was equivalent
to 6s. per share.
A float of Tongkah Compound, N.L.,
by which 37 p.c. of the issued capital is
held, Tongkah Compound No. 3 com-
menced active operations in July last
after a decade of marking time. Having
produced its quota (66.3 tons t. 0.), plus
permitted carryover, the dredge closed
down on Nov. 5 until the current Jan.-
June quota period. Yields were well in
line with bored values, 304,000 c.y. yield-
ing 119 i tons t. 0., an average of o.BBlb.
The co. is working Eastern Tin’s old
property at Renong, Siam; 429 bores
have been put down with these results:
No. Aver. Value,
Bores. Depth. C.y.
J. S. Paterson . . .. 333 26ft. lOoz.
A. C. MeLeod .. .. 76 20ift. 1740 z.
F. Grey Wilson . . . . 20 22ft. 15oz.
The Ngow sector, which may prove diffi-
cult to handle in parts, mangroves being
one trouble, is estimated to contain
15,000,000 c.y. of lib. wash ; the Bann-
gow area, 5,500,000 averaging 0.441 b.
Dredge capacity is 120,000 c.y. monthly,
but assessment (297.5 tons t.o. annually)
is small; efforts to secure an increase
have been unsuccessful. Issued capital
is £150,000 in £1 shares —38,000 fully
paid, the balance called to 15s. At June
30 more or less liquids amounted to
£15,471 and liabilities to £5990.
* ¥ * *
Declaration of a shilling div., making
2s. a share for the current term to date,
has put heart into Golden Plateau sup-
porters. Down below 7s. earlier in the
month, the shares have been taken to
9s. The financial year ends on June
.30. Last term 3s. a share went out,
being covered by profits with £9936 to
spare. Recoveries this term, however,
have been 2\ ’weights down at 6.4dwt.
Last two yields have been below that,
with the result that the board has been
unable to maintain its monthly gold out-
put around the 2000 oz. mark, despite the
fact that throughput is now running at
the rate of 79,000 tons p.a., as against
the 56,912 tons handled last term. Large
blocks of ore exist at depth, but the
tendency is for values to lessen as the
workings go down, while for the same
cause costs of extraction aren’t lightening.
* * * *
Though the crushing year doesn’t
terminate till the end of the month, and
the accounts aren’t made up till a month
later, Raub Australian, Pahang (F.M.S.),
has declared its final div.—sd. per share,
plus 2d. bonus, making a total of Is. 7d.
a share for the year, as against Is. Id.,
Is. Bd. and Is. for the three preceding
periods. The distribution will call for
£63,333. At 6dwt. battery recoveries
this year compare with 6.l9dwt. for 1938
and 7.BBdwt. for 1937, but current earn-
ings have benefited from operation of
the new sands-retreatment plant. Per-
formances by bom units for the 48
weeks to Jan. 31:
t — 1 Ore ~ Y Sands
Gold, Gold, Mine
Period, Tons. Oz. Tons. Oz. Profit.
12w. May 21 14,685 4,677 19,107 1229 £15,708
12w. Aug. 13 15,113 4.885 18,506 1583 18,968
16w. Dec. 3 18,853 5,624 22,883 2630 26,954
Bw. Jan. 31 9,959 2,422 13,887 1239
48 weeks .. 58,610 17,608 74,383 6681 *61,630
* 40 weeks.
Broken nature of the ore-shoots renders
mining both difficult and uncertain.
Shareholders thought they saw the writ-
ing on the wall again a year or so back,
when less than six months’ mill-feed was
estimated to be in sight, but extensive
and costly development appears to have
been productive of results. At 13s. per
ss. share, the equivalent of eight years’
distributions at last term’s rate will be
necessary to repay present market capi-
talisation of the show.
* * *
Paringa (W.A.) has bought and added
Block 45, comprising 33 acres, to its Kal-
goorlie holding, which now aggregates 68
acres. Block 45 lies north of the Paringa
property, and is separated from it by
North Kalgurli Central and other mines.
One of the first telluride discoveries at
Kalgoorlie was made on Block 45, but the
deposit proved to be very limited, and
the original co. which prospected it and
other near-by finds went broke. The
last, holder, Golden Mile Block 45, N.L.,
did some diamond-drilling and develop-
ment, but had to stop because funds ran
out. Later, the board tried but failed to
induce London interests to take 200,000
forfeited shares at Is. each.
* * * *
After making an examination of the
Lady Shenton (W.A.), geologist K. J.
Finucane recommends sectional develop-
ment of mine workings to below 700 ft.,
and also some diamond-drilling. The
board has decided to go ahead on this
basis, and shareholders are to be notified
of any developments.
* * * *
A London financial group with ex-
tensive gold and other mining interests
in Australia, and more extensive interests
still in S. Africa, has acquired a con-
trolling interest in Yukon Consolidated,
Ltd., which holds practically all known
placer-gold areas at Klondike. Dredging
reserves are estimated well, in excess of
100,000,000 cubic yards of gravels,
believed to contain 43,181,200 dollars’
worth of gold. During last operating
seasom —May to December —1,288,000
dollars’ worth of bullion was won from
the holding.


SMOKE-OH!
“There is nothing a woman fears more than
losing her youth.”— Women’s paper.
Still, he’s not likely to get away.
•F *F *F *F
“Petitioner said that whenever they had had
a quarrel her husband stayed out until mid-
night.” — Divorce report.
At least he could boast he made her
sit up.
-F *F *F *F
“Campaign for Cleaner Milk.” — “Sun.”
They’re getting too fussy ; isn’t water
clean enough?
•F *F *F *F
“What is the best way to cure a man of an
irritating state of equanimity?”
— Women’s paper.
Marry him!
•F *F *F *F
“There is scope for artistry in the kitchen
just as there is in the studio.”
: — Women’s paper.
Even a bride can produce a sketchy
meal.
“Are youse the fishin' party wot ordered this beer ?”
“Mouse starts automatic burglar alarm.”
Must have seen a cat burglar.
•F *F *F *F
“Problem of Financial Relations.”
—News heading.
A greater problem is that of our un-
financial relations.
•F *F *F *F
“Much caution should be exercised when
backing cars.” — Motoring note.
And horses.
•F *F *F *P
“Canberra hasn’t even one pawnshop.”
—Magazine item.
There would be far too many unre-
deemed pledges there.
•F *F *F *F
“Eskimos know nothing about war.”
— Article.
Then it’s time they were civilised.
•F »F *F *F *
“Traveller admits he suffered much hardship
whilst exploring the outback in a six-wheeled
caravan.” — News item.
Evidently the cocktail shaker wouldn’t
function.
»F *F *F *F
“Radio-announcing is a gift.”
—Radio journal.
Of the gab?
•F *F *F "F
“Former veteran jockey is now an evan-
gelist.”—Sporting note.
Straightening up for the run home?
“There is money to be made out of dress-
making.”—Women’s paper.
Sew and ye shall reap.
•F *F *F 4*
Before marriage a man spends most
of his time spooning ; after marriage he
is always forking out.
*F .J.
“What is the price of a girl’s popularity?”
asks a writer.
Well, it would be a good figure.
“New system of photography will show
movie stars in true colors.” — Film blurb.
But will the censor pass it?
*F *F *F *F
“You should visit your dentist every three
months.” — Med. advt.
To read of the progress of the Boer
War?
•F *F *F *F
“Aeroplanes may now be purchased on time-
payment.” — Aviation mag.
This’ll suit some pilots down to the
ground.
•J* •J* *l*
“Parachutist shaves whilst descending from
’plane.” — News item.
He must live in a boarding-house.
•F »F *F *F
“New washing-machine almost thinks.”
—Scientific magazine.
They may spare a thought for our shirt
buttons.
•F *F *F *F
“Most singers who apply for radio auditions
are untrained.” — Wireless paper.
Don’t practise what they screech.
•F *F *F *F
Most present-day fighters appear to
have only a feint idea of the game.
•F *F *F *F
Women are like umbrellas, easy to
handle if you shut them up.
•F *F *F *F
“This wealthy man saw the picture of a
beautiful girl on a foreign banknote, sought
her out and married her.” — Sydney paper.
A currency lass!
“In the Spring....”
A mid-Victorian bard it was who sweetly
sang that spring
To young men’s fancies mushy thoughts
assuredly would bring;
But since our Stunt Press prophets came
at dubious devices
The spring’s more noted as a time to look
for some new Crises.
NIPPER.
A Sound Theory.
“Describing the evolution of mechanical
aids in diagnosis, Professor Osborne suggests
that sound amplification may be used for
certain parts of the body. Muscles, for in-
stance, on contracting, give out a note.”
—“Medical Journal of Australia.”
Trust the medical profession auda-
ciously to claim a discovery that I not
only made but exploited years ago.
Owing to a stupid law that forbids
anyone in Australia setting up as a doctor
without first learning a lot of tripe at
universities, I hung out my shingle as a
sure-fire healer in one of the big cities.
Being a foreigner, I soon had a large
practice.
So skilful was I that I could treat
every malady from warts to pericarditis
with herb medicines—stinkwort, ipecac-
uanha and desiccated mangelwurzel
proved best and cheapest.. I gave my
patients their full money’s worth with
some beautifully tinted water which
formed the bulk of the nostrum.
One summer, after a prolonged beer
strike, a virulent epidemic of muscular
rheumatism broke out among the men.
The doctors around me were doing
pretty well until I bought advertising
time from a radio station and told the
women that anyone attending doctors
for this complaint were liable to be left
with sandy blight and an enlarged
grummet. I also stressed that my cure
was three bob cheaper than a doctor’s fee.
Did they come at it? The Police De-
partment had to detail a traffic cop to
control the queues.
My system of diagnosis was to twang
the patient’s bicep (only the right arm,
curiously, was affected) and, listening
intently, compare the note it gave off with
my tuning fork. If it was, say, F in alt,
I would prescribe a mauve medicine ; if
it rang E below the stave, he would get
the canary-yellow mixture, and so on.
One day a large navvy came in for
treatment. Twanging his enormous
muscle, I was surprised to find that it
was two octaves above the highest note
on the tuning fork.
I was just about to give him the
medicine corresponding to the highest
note on the scale when I paused. After
all, I had my professional ethics to con-
sider. Determined to do the right thing
by him, I got an entirely new color by
adding some reddish hair tonic I had
bought for myself.
A few days later he strode in, black-
browed and menacing. Taking me by
the scruff of the neck he opened his
mouth to its fullest extent and pointed
with his free hand to the cavity. What
I saw amazed me; his tonsils were com-
pletely covered with a luxurious growth
of hair!
“I wonder what could have happened?”
I murmured.
“That won’t interest you so much as
what’s going to happen,” he said brutally.
“Now, see if you can cure yourself with
that bilgewater y’ve been sellin’ —cop
this! ”
I did. Fractured in three places, they
said at the hospital. Ever since then my
jaw has been so skewwhiff that I have
to bend a cigarette at right-angles so
that the lighted end won’t stick in my
eye.
I suspect those damned doctors left
it like that on purpose.
Bo.
Superseded.
“Under the Nazi Four Year Plan only super-
cats that show special ability in destroying
rats are to be bred.” — “Sun.”
‘‘Hell!” groaned the super-cat as he
Went limping home in agony.
“It’s no joke when a super-cat
Happens to meet a super-rat!"
McM.
This Espionage Business.
IV.
It is not to be supposed that a member
of the Secret Service has carte blanche
to carry out his duties in the manner he
thinks best. After all, he is a civil ser-
vant, and as such is subject to various
departmental regulations. For instance,
when not abroad, he is due to sign on
at the War Office (room X 2) at 9 a.m.
At 9.3 a.m. the Personal Clerk to the
Acting Chief Clerk draws a red-ink line
under the last name shown. Those who
are later than the three minutes’ grace
allowed must, therefore, sign under the red
line. Any agent whose name appears
under the red line more than four times
in a month has a “black” mark recorded
on his departmental history card. When
he gets ten of these he automatically
“blows out” and starts all over again.
The popular conception is that when
a Secret Service agent is assigned to a
foreign case he just stuffs his pyjama
pants and a toothbrush into his hip
pocket, kisses the family good-bye (with
due secrecy), and, pulling his hat well
down and his overcoat collar well up,
sneaks into a third-class carriage seem-
ingly engrossed in a book, but actually
with his ears well open to catch scraps
of conversation which may be useful.
This is far from being the. case, except
in regard to his travelling third class. He
does this because there is no fourth class.
The War Office doesn’t throw money
about.
In reality his preparations for depar-
ture are elaborate. He must take at least
three trunks full of disguises, ranging
from an African porter’s loincloth to the
uniforms of generals of all nationalities.
His false whiskers and wigs occupy an-
other, and still another contains code-
books. He also has a few with false
bottoms in which to put any plans and
documents he may purloin. His make-up
box completes his outfit.
To avert suspicion and trick the anti-
espionage authorities of the country he
is bound for, he assumes a title such as
Comte Pomme de Terre, Laird of Kil-
kenny, and wears kilts in a riotous tartan,
an old hat with a pipe stuck in the band
and a short, dagger-shaped beard. He
also speaks in Czechoslovakian with a
guttural accent and shrugs his shoulders
expressively.
The reason for this strategy is obvious.
The a.-e. authorities will have got the
oil from one of their spies that Dl4 has
left London to get hold of the Hun-
garian Army’s improved requisition form
which simplifies the system of returns
from battalion H.Q. to G.H.Q. of stocks
of jam on hand.
They will naturally be puzzled as to
what nationality the apparent tourist
really is, and while they are still figuring
it out he will have got his job done and
be half-way back again in the guise of
a gravedigger. Moreover, they will be
expecting a monocled, spatted English-
man in a bowler hat and striped school
tie who refers to the Customs official as
a “beastlay officious boundah.”
While abroad the Government spy
hasn’t got an open go so far as time is
concerned ; for instance, he can’t take an
afternoon off and go to the pictures if
he wants to.
He must keep strictly to the same office
hours as he would do were he doing
routine work back home. So that a
proper check can be kept on his move-
ments he has to keep a “time book,”
which he must sign and submit at regular
intervals for inspection. It may read
something like this:
Cracow, February 14.
9 a.m. —Set out to shadow Przntlzk re
Saratov fortification plans. Did so until
10.42, when it came over dull and no more
shadows available. Walked to Kronprinz-
square, arriving
11.17. Sat in park
till 1 p.m. work-
ing out plan of
campaign to get
into Fort Tyntak.
1 p.m.-2 p.m.—
Lunch.
2 p.m. —Started
thinking again,
finishing at 2.32.
Left square for
hotel, arriving 2.38.
Disguise completed
by 3.16. Arrived
fort 3.31. Man-
oeuvred around till
4.35, when availed
self of opportunity
to knock guard on
head. Unsuccess-
fully rummaged
among absent Com-
mander’s papers till
4.45, when knocked
off for day (quarter-
h o u r travelling
time allowed to
get back to hotel —
my “home depot”
—by 5 p.m.).
Thus every minute of the day is rigidly
accounted for.
Likewise, when an agent is due to go
on his three weeks’ annual leave, he
hands over his work to the man who is
to relieve him, but must inform his
successor to what stage the case is ad-
vanced. If, for instance, he had got only
half-way through a safe with his oxy-
actylene outfit when the time came fot
him to knock off, he must intimate to his
fellow-spy every detail of the case — e.g.,
how much more steel has to be cut
through, etc.
In extremely urgent cases a spy is
authorised to work overtime, but as this
entails being paid time and a half the
practice is discouraged by most War
Offices.
Taken all in all a spy’s life is, unlike
the policeman’s, rather a happy one. It
has been rendered much less hazardous
of recent years. In the old days a spy
took his life in his hands, particularly in
getting information concerning secret
conferences between heads of States,
troop movements, secret military pacts,
etc. This is no longer necessary since
the advent of Madame Tabouis into the
diplomatic press field.
This lady is the repository of all such
secrets. There is not a secret line written
dealing with international intrigues of
which she is not aware even before the
ink is dry on the paper. Every move,
present and future, on the chessboard of
power politics she is fully informed of.
Instead of risking a firing squad in an
endeavor to get all this information as
in former times, all the modern spy need
do is snap up the first edition of
“L’CEuvre,” take his pick of all the secrets
unveiled therein, and let his Government
know immediately.
This is what has made spying one of
the “sheltered” jobs.
S.W.K.


vJ A V/\
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. ''MERKUR''
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901
WL
K
-m
128 ADELAIDE STREET. BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE. FREMANTLE. CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
Three new floors of
bedrooms, all with
private bathrooms—24-
hour hot water service
and telephones.
In
Sydney
• • •
Stay
at the
P # /*’A */
■m ill il *is ||ps U r %mm
Bill 111
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated in an elevated position away from trams,
trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bath-
rooms —24-hour hot water service and telephones.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
A Variety Show
Australian wool sales to the end of
January had netted £23,694,552 from a
turnover of 1,770,325 bales. Taking in
last season’s carryover, there remain only
about 1,200,000 bales still to go, includ-
ing some of the poorer-quality wools.
Elowever, during January the average
price kept to 11. Id. per pound for greasy
and scoured wools, and last week in
Sydney the average for greasy was 10.9 d.,
as against 10.5 d. greasy during the seven
months to the end of January.
If these average prices are maintained
until the selling season finishes, a wool
cheque of £40,000,000 would be assured.
Although the season’s clip is short, and
the demand seemingly good, the price
of the product keeps phenomenally low.
A conservative estimate would suggest
that a gross return of just under
£40,000,000 will be the final figure.
Taking all the circumstances into
account, that wouldn’t be so bad in the
present moody state of the world.
The trade balance has improved
slightly despite our shrunken export
values, but it still isn’t satisfactory. The
success of the internal conversion loan
in December helped our credit position,
and has made the way easier for the
current loan operation.
The public finances are among the less
cheering features of our economic posi-
tion. Budgets have an unsteady appear-
ance, and already N. S. Wales has
announced a lift in rail fares, and Mr.
Stevens some time back dropped the
job of State Treasurer and handed it
over without a great deal of ceremony
to another member of the Cabinet. N. S.
Wales, of course, is expecting a deficit
this year, and the Commonwealth
Treasurer says that increased taxation is
inevitable. Much of it will be exacted
in the name of Defence, just as another
tax was once introduced in aid of Un-
employment Relief. In no State has it
been discontinued.
The wheat market is still described as
“stagnant,” and the outlook for many
growers is bad, even when the bounty is
taken into account. Bread prices are
up following introduction of the flour
tax to provide the bounty, and the rising
cost of living has become our chief
economic problem once again.
There are grounds for hoping that the
position overseas will show improvement
this year, and that wool especially will
come back to a more reasonable price.
There may be a slackening in the build-
ing trade inside Australia, as construc-
tion activity usually comes in cycles, and
new buildings have been going up at a
fast rate for some years. Variety rather
than smoothness seems to be indicated
in the economic outlook.
Ngahere Gold Dredging, formed early
in 1937 with Malcolm Newman and
Tom Owen as the mining and technical
brai ns , to °k over a dredging property lb
r ß des from Greymouth, M.L. Another
director was George F Davis, whom
everyone knows as one of the principals
world-wide Davis Gelatine organi-
satlon i there were a^so on Ike board
three others from Maonland, one ol
them, Methuen, being succeeded by
a Mr. McKellar. Ngahere was capital-
tsed on a basis similar to Arahura and
Ranieri the two Hokitika shows now in
the public eye, and Ngahere had troubles
s,m har to them in financing dredge con-
struction owing to the rise in costs of
steel, etc. But, provided the propeities
come up to expectations, the extia capi-
tal outlay should represent a trifle in
Ngahere s life. Another development is
§i v ’ n § shareholders more concern. As
“If love gits yer that Way I'm stickin' to beer an' smokes."
Newman, Owen and Davis put it in a
circular, the position is as follows:
For some time two out of the three
members of the board of Ngahere Gold
Dredging who are resident in New Zea-
land have been making determined efforts
to take control of the company out of the
hands of the full board, three of whom, the
undersigned, reside in Sydney. To combat
these efforts alternate directors for the Syd-
ney members of the board were recently
appointed. The New Zealand members,
however, with one member dissenting
[Ryall], refused to allow the alternate
directors to attend directors’ meetings and
appointed another member to the board
without notifying or consulting the Aus-
tralian members. They also appointed as
managers of Ngahere Gold Dredging a
prospecting and promoting company of
which the newly-appointed director is the
principal executive and of which another
of the New Zealand board of Ngahere
Gold Dredging is chairman. We feel sure
you will agree that this position is intoler-
able.
The attitude of two of the three (or
four, if you include the new appointee)
Maoriland directors seems to have been
rather staggering. The Australian direc-
tors are bent on having a wholesale
resignation of the board, themselves in-
cluded, and then resting the case on
shareholders’ judgment. And nothing
could be fairer than that.
Provided Newman and Owen have
uninterrupted supervision of Ngahere,
the show looks like turning out as well
as Kanieri and Arahura, but having a
rather shorter life. Costs are likely to be
in Ngahere’s favor. With production
about six months off, there were un-
official sales of the ords. at 21s. 6d. last
week in Sydney.
* * * *
Sargents, the Sydney catering co., has
declared an interim of 5 p.c., compared
with an interim of 4 p.c. and final of
54- p.c. (making 94 p.c. for the year) in
1937-38 Since the tradine results of
y ■ . e ,. , ° f
restaurateurs indicate the measure of
m + ,1 •
public spending to some extent, this
higher interim of Sargents (the co.
definitely caters for the “general public’')
has encouraging aspects for traders as
a whole—not only for Sargents’ share-
holders. At 285., cum div., the scrip
returns 7.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. p.a. basis
The co. s depression experience wasn t
good, hence one reason for the present
high return. Under favorable trade
conditions, however, the co. has always
done well. 3
* * * *
The fall in the price of tallow hides
etc., affected the by-products income of
the Queensland Meat Export Co and
f a result net profit has dropped £BOOO,
to £-1,291. The div. has been reduced
to 4 p.c. (calling for all but £l6OO of
the profit), compared with 6 p.c. last
term. Q.M.E. shares are offered at
11s. 9d., no buyers.
* * * *
The new £8,500,000 Commonwealth
loan, mostly for “works,” etc., entered
the market with the December’ (conver-
sion) issue quoted at a 20s. premium, in-
cluding about two months’ interest.
Terms for the new float are the same as
those for the December issue. new
loan is free of brokerage to buyers ;
listed loans carry ss. per cent, commis-
sion.
t * * «
1t , ,
In Melbourne last week:-
Holeproof, despite the prophets of gloom
in the hosier y trade > increased its profit slightly
and maintained its ord. div. at 10 p.c.
T n c , . . 0 „ •
J.B. Were and Son, the sharebrokers, were
]eft with only £ 79)1 oo of the Sydney Water
Board’s £1,000,000 loan,
King i SLA nd Scheelite shares rose to 3s.
6d., buyers ; production of wolfram concentrates
is now under way on the Bass Strait island,
“ d were not atfccted b » ,he
Ward "and Co., the bankrupt firm of share-
brokers, paid a first and final div. of approxi-
mately 3d. in the £1 to unsecured creditors.


Holeproof, 235. 6d.
The yield on Holeproof ords.,
cum Is. 2.4 d. div., is 9 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, and the shares
look attractive among the textile
stocks.
ill
i
iIIMITt
This amazing transfor-
mation was easily and
inexpensively achieved
with Masonite. This
room was an old
fashioned kitchen un-
attractive and incon-
venient.
0 In this re-modelled kitchen, cupboards are of
Tempered Presdwood lacquered "refrigerator white",
the working surface and table top are of the same
non - splintering, easily - worked, grainless all - wood
board. Masonite Temprtile forms the easily washed
walls behind the working surfaces. The wails above
the cupboards and the ceiling of the kitchen are of
Masonite Presdwood.
Modernisation work is just one of the many fields in
which Masonite can help you. We suggest you write for
details of the “Wonder Board of a Thousand Uses.”
CAN E-ITE
With sound-deadening,
white-ant-proof Cane-
ite, insulation and
decoration can be sim-
ultaneously achieved.
Cane-ite combines real
economy, with truly
remarkable insulation
qualities. Write for
samples.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney . . . Melbourne . . . Brisbane . . . Adelaide . . . Perth M 37-8
oft 0
FOR ANY ROOM
IN THE HOUSE
OPEN
OR
CLOSED
FIRE AT
WILL.
• '
mm ■
*
i is
■
mamum
m
• ,
f _ * - /
I
i
4\v
-•. i /;-4
r ■
~ *s -■!. ■ %3'y £
THE LIVING
ROOM
Fire open all
day, closed all
night, and still
burning. Burns
coke, coal or
wood.
LOUNGE
A cheery open
fire without the
trouble or dirt
of old-fashioned
fires.
DINING ROOM
An open fire at meal-
times and the room
always warm. Burns
coke, coal or wood.
HALL
An “Otto” in the hall
keeps the chill from the
entire house.
CALL AND INSPECT
We also stock the following slow-burning fires: —
ESSE SUNRAY KOSI RAYO EXCELSEE
PHONE M 6505 <l5 LINES ) LATE SHOPPING. FRIDAY. 8-JO PM.
JOHN DANKS *«» SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED < INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA 1
324-440 Pitt Street SYDNEY. M 6505.
391-403 Rourke Street .... MELBOURNE. M 2381.
The Barrier Mines
“Forecast” puts his money on Zinc
Corp.:
“Rhoda-Knight” (B. 8/2/’3B) should have
gone further and compared North B.H. and
Zinc Corp. on a share-unit basis. The struggle
for leadership of the Barrier mines is at an
interesting stage. South has dropped out, but
the other two are racing for the lead, both
having huge re-establishment programmes near-
ing completion. North and Zinc Corp. will be
starting up their carefully-chosen designs of
treatment plants during the first half of this
year, each putting through 50,000 tons a month.
Zinc Corp.’s new all-flotation plant will be first
—in a month or so —and North will begin
running-in' its gravity-c«m-flotation outfit
around the middle of the year.
North ore is richer in silver than Zinc’s but
pooler in lead; zinc occurs in about the same
ratio in each mine. North’s costs are higher
than Zinc Corp.’s. With lead at £l5 stg. per
ton and silver at 2s. stg. per ounce, both mines
will make a profit of about £1 a ton of crude
ore after their respective plants have reached
routine conditions.
Ore expectancy of the North can be taken
as 10,000,000 tons, not more, till the effect of
the De Bavay fault has. been determined; Zinc
Corp. can look forward to 10,000,000 tons with-
out any further probing by diamond drills.
The life of both mines can be taken, with
increased tonnage, at 15 years.
The number of shares in North is 2,800,000
and in Zinc Corp. 898,831, of which 245,692
are 20 p.c. preference, which, will absorb a
minimum of £A921,345 during the 15 years.
The total profit with an average price of lead
and silver as mentioned fox the assumed life
would be approximately £10,000,000 for each
mine, but £A921,345 has to be paid to prefer-
ence shareholders of Zinc Corp., leaving
£A9,078,655 to be divided among 898,831
shares. Under such conditions North share-
holders for a period of 15 years would re-
ceive 725. for each share (now at 455. in the
market), and Zinc Corp. £lO for each ord.
share. (90s. at present)—that is, after the return
of the present value of the shares there would
be a surplus of 275. and 110 s. per share, rep-
resenting Is. 9d. and 7s. per share per annum,
or 4 p.c. and 7.7 p.c. per share per annum
respectively.
Zinc Corp. has English income tax to con-
tend with certainly, but it has a 30 pic. inter-
est in “Tittle Zinc,” on the southern extension
of its leases. When the present huge capital
expenditures have been completed, form points
to Zinc Corp. as the better proposition from
an investor’s viewpoint.
The High Court’s judgment in the case
of Peters American Delicacy, Sydney,
favors the fully-paid shareholders, thus
upsetting the verdict of the N. S. Wales
Equity Court. Unless the people repre-
senting the contributing shareholders take
the matter to the Privy Council, the pro-
posed issue of bonus shares will be made
in proportion to the amount paid up on
each share at present, and not on a share -
for-share basis. The fully-paids lifted
3s. following delivery of the judgment;
the contribs. weakened on quotation.
Because of reductions in imports and
higher gold exports the Australian trade
balance for the seven months to Jan. 31
was £2,400,000 sterling better than for
the same period of 1937-38. Still, the
£6,724,000 stg. in hand for the seven
months is less than a third of our annual
overseas interest commitments.
* * * *
The announcement that the new issue
by Felt and Textiles was to be in the
shape of prefs. slightly disappointed sup-
porters of the stock. The shares had
lifted from 30s. in December to 335. last
week ; when a pref. issue was mentioned
(terms and extent yet undisclosed) there
was a drop of Is. a share.
* * * «
Though the ords. in David Jones and
Farmers, leading Sydney retailers, have
shown fairly substantial recovery after
recent market shocks, ords. in Myers,
Melbourne, keep consistently weak,
28s. 6d. being taken one day last week.
Perhaps many Melbourne people already
hold shares in Myers and aren’t inclined
to buy more, hence the comparatively
poor support in evidence for the stock.
Estate scrip has helped to weigh down
the market, it is true, but if that influence
is still the major one operating it simply
means that there is a bargain sale on in
Myer shares. Victoria has been having a
bad time with drought, heat and bush-
fires, and the city has been feeling it as
well as the country; but Myers were
doing quite all right up to the time of the
annual meeting in October, at least. The
co.’£ interim ord. div., payable in April,
may give some clue as to what the year’s
rate will be. Last term the 9 p.c. was
well covered—l4.s p.c. was actually
shown.
* * * *
Shares in Mt. Kasi (Fiji) at 4s. 3d. are
one of the interesting gold specs, on the
Sydney market. Though grade is low
(recoveries average about 4|dwtf), so are
costs and capitalisation, and the manage-
ment' is definitely working to a plan of
making a real mine of the show if exten-
sions of the ore-body pan out as antici-
pated. There is more than enough in
sight already to support the present
market price. ,
* * * *
Ormonoid Roofing, Sydney, declared
a “mystery’’ interim dividend payable
on March 6. Shareholders weren’t. to
know the rate until they got their cheques.
The idea wasn’t intended as a little diver-
sion to brighten the lives of the bulls or
the bears, but was aimed at giving persons
(shareholders) outside the Stock Ex-
change the div. information as soon as
those inside it. The whole proposal
brought the co. into conflict with Sydney
’Change committee, and on Saturday the
div. was announced —15 p.c. p.a. Market
support for the shares immediately
strengthened.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton Mills, a prosperous
and soundly financed N.S.W. enterprise,
is issuing 20,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs., one
for two, to present pref. shareholders.
Business is expanding. Sydney Cotton
Mills, a new float by a breakaway from
Bradford’s personnel, has gone to allot-
ment on the subscription of 24,000 £1
shares. It is intended to capitalise this
new concern at £56,000. The Melbourne
firm of Davies, Coop and Co. is consider-
ing extending its business to other States.
* * * *
Australian Drug ords., quoted “wide”
in Sydney at 11s. 3d. buyer, 12s. 3d.
seller, would return 7.5 p.c. if they could
be picked up at 12s. ; this compares with
a shade under 6 p.c. offering on Drug
Houses scrip at 225. Australian Drug
ords. have a restricted market, and there
is some pref. capital ahead of them ; but
for holding purposes they possess attrac-
tions.
* * * *
There was some turnover in Castle-
maine Perkins (Brisbane) shares in south-
ern States last week, the price lifting
eventually to 225. 6d., returning 4.6 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The shares will
eventually go higher.
* * * *
G. J. Coles ords. resumed active turn-
over in Sydney and Melbourne early last
week at firmer prices. Quotes ran up to
765. 3d., after 745. 6d., but even this lift
left the price level still well below the
80s. that was the usual thing a few weeks
ago. Some aspects of Coles ords. as an
investment were mentioned here last
week. Ords. in the other big chain-
store concern, Woolworths, keep around
235., returning about £2 13s. per cent.
It is the glamorous past history, as well
as the great strength of its subsidiary cos.,
that makes shares in Woolworths so
keenly supported by the market.
**, * *
The catch in the linseed-processing
trade these days seems to be no longer
that a surplus of oik builds up as a result
of the production of meal, but that meal
is becoming the problem, oil output at
present being taken readily since the
building and linoleum trades became so
active.
- * * * *
This page (B. 1/2/’39) said that the
market paid ' full price for Sydney
Ferries ss. shares at 6s. lid., and sug-
gested that the 7 p.c. div. was in danger.
Accounts to Dec. 31, out on Monday,
showed profits lower and the div. down
to 6 p.c., reserves being drawn on to
pay it.
Interim div. of F.R.S. Ideal Spring Co.,
listed in Melbourne and Sydney, is at
the rate of 12 p.c. p.a. The co. is earning
ample margins above that rate at present.
Market support lifted the scrip from
265. 6d. to 275. last Friday.
.■s * * *
Interim div. declared by John Mc-
Grath, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane dis-
tributors of Hillman and Humber cars
and investors in other enterprises, has
been maintained at 10 p.c. p.a. In 1937-
38 a 2 p.c. bonus with the final made
12 p.c. for the year. The market for
this stock at present is very weak, sellers
asking 355., on which basis the yield is
7 p.c., assuming that 12 p.c. altogether
goes out this year again. The reason
for the market weakness isn’t quite clear,
unless it is that slack times in the trade
are feared or that the production by the
Nuffield group in England of a new 10-
h.p. o.h.v. Morris will eventually bring
increased competition into the Australian
field for Hillman cars.
* # * *
An interim div. is due from Mauri
Bros, and Thomson in March, and the
fcustomary interest is being taken in the
shares, 675, being quoted last week, after
sales as low as 60s. in 1938 and as high
as 755. in 1937. Here is a concern of
remarkable earning power (the 27.6 p.c.
shown on ord. capital last year didn’t
tell the whole story) and strong finances,
handling first-class lines (Crown bottle
seals, Champion’s vinegar, Cornwell’s
malt extract, Amatice shop refrigerators,
etc.) and paying a 15 p.c. ord. div., that
has disappointed the sharemarket on
several occasions during the past few
years when no bonus issue was an-
nounced or no increase was made in
the div. rate. Though it seems only a
matter of time before shareholders come
in for some additional benefits, buyers
at the present price of 675. aren’t doing
too badly with a yield of £4 11s. p.c.
even if the div. stays at 15 p.c.
* * * *
Intercolonial Investment and Land, of
Sydney, has kept its interim div. at 7
p.c. p.a. This co. is in the house-
mortgage business, and it has some for-
feited properties from which it draws
rent; also it does a bit of estate-
subdividing occasionally. It is a re-
markably well-conducted concern, with
50 years of experience behind it. One
fruit of this experience has been the
establishment of strong inner reserves.


UNCHBLED ADDITIONS
Anglo-Japanese Differences in China.
[Points of difference between British and Japanese
in China, as reported by a London “Times” special
correspondent, whose (condensed) article, supplying the
British answers, goes to show that the gulf between
Eastern and Western outlook is as wide as when Kipling
noted it.]
Long a stronghold of British trade in China,
Tientsin is now one of the blackest spots in Anglo-
Japanese relations. Amid a morass of suspicion and
mistrust on both sides the Japanese appear to be pre-
paring for a fight to reduce the concessions to im-
potence, with the result of virtually abolishing British
and other foreign trade in North China.
There are complete answers to the Japanese
charges against the concessions, but none is satisfac-
tory to the Japanese, who either do not believe or fail
to understand them. The misunderstandings are due
largely to different conceptions of human rights and
of the conduct of public affairs.
When the Japanese argue that the authorities
should suppress all anti-Japanese movements and
activities the answer is that this is done and that no
guerrilla leader could conduct operations from the
security of the concessions without being discovered
and arrested. But the Japanese have their own con-
ception of police procedure and human rights, and how
it conflicts with the Western conception has been
shown in Tientsin. Early in 1938 the Japanese asked
for the arrest of a Chinese in the British concession.
He was detained, and the Japanese were asked to
provide a prima facie case on a criminal charge. This
they could not understand. They demanded his extra-
dition on the simple allegation that he was an enemy.
When the British police refused to hand him over
they were faced with an ultimatum that Japanese gen-
darmes would enter British territory and take him by
force. The British brigadier informed them that any
such attempt would be met with all the force at his
command. It was sufficient. Cooler Japanese heads
persuaded the hotter to desist. But, though they de-
sisted, it is safe to say that they never understood the
British attitude.
When the currency reforms went into operation
in 1935-36 about $50,000,000 of silver remained in
Chinese banks in Tientsin. Japanese influence in
North China was then sufficiently strong to prevent its
being shipped to Shanghai, and the Chinese banks
placed it in vaults in the concession areas. There it
is held in the name of the National Government, and
can only be given up on receipt of orders signed by
the Finance Minister, now in Chungking. This silver
the Japanese reckoned upon as backing for the note
issue of the Federal Reserve Bank they established in
Peking in March, 1938. They regard the holding of
this silver as a further cause of complaint.
The telephone system of Tientsin —another cause
of complaint—was formerly under the control of the
Chinese Ministry of Communications. Hostilities
brought chaos in communications, which are now in
Japanese control and under strict censorship. In the
early stages of hostilities the British and French con-
cessions maintained their own telephone system per-
force, and still do. *
Concerning the charge that the concession authori-
ties permit the existence of radio stations in contact
with the “enemy” areas of China, the reply is that all
radio sets in the concessions have to be licensed by
the concession authorities, who see that they are not
improperly used. That there are radio stations in the
concessions communicating with outside places can-
not be denied. They are essential. The Japanese
authorities have been unable or unwilling to reduce
the chaos which has existed for. 18 months. Com-
munications between places in North China, Tientsin
and Peking, and with Shanghai, are appallingly bad.
It often takes an incredible time to get telegrams de-
livered in Shanghai from the North, although the
Japanese tariff is more than three times the former
Chinese. Foreign traders have frequently had to com-
plain of business telegrams being so mutilated as to
be unreadable ; this has happened on such a scale
as to force the belief that it is deliberate. If foreign
traders had not established private means of com-
munication they could do no business at all.
Another important difference at the root of the
trouble lies in the meaning of the word neutrality. As
belligerents in China the Japanese demand neutrality
of the concessions, but as fellow-foreigners in China
they demand co-operation. Throughout the past year
they have made much use in Tientsin of the word
co-operation, oblivious or ignorant of the patent fact
that that is hardly the right relationship between
neutral and belligerent. And, to the Japanese, co-
operation means compliance with wishes if not obedi-
ence to orders. Strict neutrality is invariably inter-
preted as hostility.
With so little hope of settling grievances to the
satisfaction of both sides it is difficult to see how rela-
tions can do other than deteriorate. Japanese residents,
in the course of private conversations with responsible
people in the concessions, have hinted that unless
matters improve to Japanese satisfaction, particularly
by the handing over of the silver, drastic steps may be
taken. It appears that these drastic steps are in pro-
cess of preparation. The Japanese army gave orders
in August that all Japanese residents and their busi-
nesses were to be withdrawn from the British and
French concessions. The exodus began, but later was
slowed up. A little while ago it was resumed in
earnest, and by the end of November the Japanese
population of the British concession had been reduced
by 80 per cent. The French concession figures are
believed to be about the same. Once all Japanese are
withdrawn it will be easy for the army to throw a
cordon round the concessions and bring business to a
standstill.
Franco’s Plans for Spain.
(Condensed from an article in London “Times” by a
correspondent lately in Spain.)
The royalists in the Nationalist camp live in
hopes that a restoration of a constitutional monarchy
may yet be the means of uniting Spaniards. The
Spanish Bourbons in exile have received much courtesy
from the Italian royal family. Don Juan, the Pre-
tender to the Spanish throne (it is understood that
Don Alfonso, though he. has not abdicated his rights,
no longer aspires to return as king), keeps in close
touch.
General Franco, however, has shown no inclina-
tion of being a General Monk. Every one of his
rare public pronouncements on general policy shows
him more and more in the light of a guarantor of
the new liberties, the Caudillo (Leader) of his people.
His most recent message is particularly note-
worthy. In it he affirms that the Glorioso Movimiento
will gain only new energy with the end of hostilities.
A programme of reforms, including better sanitation,
education and justice, and the access to all careers of
the humble —similar, indeed, to many of the Republi-
can schemes —is outlined.
There is a new note in his statement: “I aspire
not only to conquer but to convince. Indeed, I should
have little interest in a victory not followed by con-
viction. What good could come out of such an empty
victory, bereft of authentic fruits, that would shrivel
for lack of national horizons? Spaniards, all Spaniards,
those who help me to-day and those who fight against
me to-day, shall be convinced.” 1
To redeem the “so-called lower classes” and the
“vast sadness of the middle class” is one of the
Caudillo’s dearest wishes, for, says he, “I desire that
my policy shall have the profound popular character
that history records in the policies of the days of
Spain’s greatness.”
A curious sidelight is thrown by the plans General
Franco is making to provide for “exiles and political
emigrants,” men who will have to leave Spain but for
whose maintenance abroad, until such time as they also
can be redeemed, it is proposed to “set up institutions
of culture and work and assure adequate means of
livelihood,” so that no Spaniard in foreign parts shall
be abandoned.
Chamberlain’s Appeal for Volunteers.
[As explained in the panel item on this page, this
Chamberlain broadcast talk is given in full, though
it is an appeal addressed only to the people in Britain.
The national service handbook mentioned shows under
numerous heads the many forms of national service
for which British citizens may volunteer; Australia is
to have something of the kind in its voluntary register
scheme. No less than 20,000,000 copies of the hand-
book were printed for distribution —the heaviest delivery
job ever imposed on postmen in Britain.]
Starting the Government drive for volunteers in
the country’s defence services with a broadcast talk,
Mr. Chamberlain said:
“I want to speak to you to-night about the Gov-
ernment scheme of voluntary national service and
about the handbook which will be delivered at all your
homes this week. But before I do so I am going to
say a few words about the conditions which, in our
view, make the scheme necessary for the security of
the country.
“It is a scheme to make us ready for war. That
does not mean that I think war is coming. You know
that I have done, and shall continue to do, all I can
to preserve peace for ourselves and for others, too.
“We in this country would never begin a war, but
we might be forced to take part in a war begun by
others, or we might be attacked ourselves if the Gov-
ernment of some other country were to think we could
not defend ourselves effectively.
“The better prepared we are to defend ourselves
and to resist attack the less likely is it that any
aggressor will try an adventure in which the chances
of success would be so unpromising. That is my first
point.
“My second point is this. Modern war is not like
the wars of the past. The development of air forces
has deprived us of our island security.
“In our case, as in the case of Continental coun-
tries, the civilians would be the victims of attack as
much as soldiers, sailors or airmen. Indeed they might
very likely be the first victims.
“For that reason if we wish to protect our civilian
population in time of war we must prepare the neces-
sary organisation in time of peace. More than that,
we must train it in peace, for there will be no time to
train after war starts.
“Therefore you will see that our scheme is just
one of common prudence, just as necessary for our
safety as battleships or guns or aeroplanes—though
not meaning any more than they do that war is bound
to come soon, or even at all.
“Now let me turn to the handbook, which I hope
you will all read very carefully when it comes. For
its message concerns you all. You will find it a de-
scription of many different forms of service which
would be required for the safety or the assistance of
the public if our country were involved in war.
“What we ask those of you to do who are ready
to volunteer, and are not already engaged in work
essential to the country’s security—which is itself
national service—is to choose one of those other forms
of service and to undertake the necessary training
forthwith.
“I leave it to you to study these different forms
of service, and to decide each of you whether there is
one for which you are fitted. The handbook will tell
you about them simply and clearly, and it is not my
purpose now to attempt to describe them.
“If, when you have read the book, you are doubt-
ful whether you can be of assistance, or want to know
what you could most usefully do, it tells you of
friendly advisers who will be at hand to help you.
“I do not seek in any way to give guidance in
what is essentially a personal problem: I only ask you
to give your thought to it.
“A schedule has been prepared of all the occu-
pations which are so essential to the war effort of the
nation that persons engaged in them should not bind
themselves to undertake in war any other form of
full-time service.
“It may be that in view of the nature of your
occupation your best service will be to continue the
work or the occupation in which you are now en-
gaged. This schedule is not being sent to every home,
because it affects only a proportion of the people.
“But it will be made widely available, and if you
are in doubt the advisers to whom I have already
referred will be able to tell you what to do.
“If you are ready to volunteer, ask yourself for
what service you are personally fitted. Then make
your choice, and give your answer on the form which
you will find in the book.
“More volunteers are needed in some services than
in others ; but in all cases we must have the numbers
we ask for. Those who come forward first will, if
they are found suitable, be accepted first.
“But if you are placed in reserve for later train-
ing in the service which you have chosen, do not be
disappointed. It is the will to serve that counts, and by
offering your assistance you will have done your part.
“One last point I want to emphasise. Ours is a
voluntary scheme. Our call is for voluntary effort and
voluntary effort alone. There are some who sincerely
believe that a compulsory scheme would be more effec-
tive. But compulsion is not in accordance with the
democratic system under which we live, or consistent
with the tradition of freedom which we have always
striven to maintain. We are confident that we shall
get all the volunteers we want without recourse to
compulsion.
“Many of you, I know, have been asking how you
could help at this time. Most of you, I believe, have
felt a need in your own hearts to offer some kind or
sacrifice or services to your country in these diiticuit
times. Our proposals give you your opportunity, h
For Comparison.
For a special reason Mr. Chamberlain’s broadcast
talk starting: the British Government drive for
volunteers for defence services is given on this page
in full as reported in I.ondon “Daily Mail” (24/l/’39).
The special reason is so that the phrasing:, the
purport and the whole tone of the speech may be
available for comparison with Mr. Lyons’s and Mr.
Hughes's speeches on a like effort (“Would that
you knew while there is yet time on what a slender
thread peace in Australia depends!” , . . “War is
thundering: at our gates!”).
It should also be compared with cable-versions
that appeared in Australian newspapers (25/l/’39).
Some of these versions, at least, were fairly exten-
sive, and the omission of portions from them could
very reasonably be defended. Among other things,
it could be said that the gist of the speech was
given. Still, comparison with published versions will
show that the tone of the speech was changed. An
instance: —
“The necessary organisation for our protec-
tion must be made in peace time. Moreover,
we must train in peace time, for there will be
no time to train after war starts. Therefore,
the scheme is merely common prudence.”
This will be found on comparison with the
accompanying article, “Chamberlain’s Appeal for
Volunteers,” to be a more or less fair, if rough, repre-
sentation of the gist of Mr. Chamberlain’s remarks.
But after “prudence” he went on to say more that
was not included in the cable version, though in
both its substance and tone it seems of the utmost
importance. Mr. Chamberlain said: —
“Therefore you will see that our scheme is
just one of common prudence, just as necessary
for our safety as battleships or guns or aero-
planes—though not meaning any more than they
do that war is bound to come soon or even at
all.”
Also, in the cable version Mr. Chamberlain was
represented as having said :
“You know that l have done all I can to
preserve peace for ourselves and for others.”
From that, it will be found, the phase “and
shall continue to do” has been omitted. The differ-
ence, of course, is between Mr. Chamberlain (cable
version), stumped in despair and futility, adopting
the last resource, and, Mr. Chamberlain (as he is)
continuing with his great peace work, but insisting
with ordinary commonsense on national security.
These curious differences are, however, of far less
importance than the general difference in statement
and tone between Mr. Chamberlain’s speech and the
alarming outpourings of Mr. Lyons, Mr. Hughes and
an increasing number of others, all of them, like
Britain’s P.M., appealing for volunteers.


is for you to show the world what a free people is pre-
pared to do in defence of its liberties and the ideals
in which it believes. And 1 have the sure conviction
that my call to you will bring in full measure the
response for which I ask.”
J. L. Garvin’s View of It.
[Condensed from London “Observer.” What Mr.
Garvin really thinks of the voluntary system now being
tried out in Britain coincides with what increasing
numbers think of it in Australia —that, if the position
is as represented, the “system” is a humbug and should
give way to compulsory national service. Last Sep-
tember evidently brought great disillusionment to Mr.
Garvin, and in these extracts he speaks with the note
of urgency and alarm he suddenly adopted midway in
that crisis.]
For good or ill, the world’s destinies depend on
one question—whether democracy is equally capable
of armed defence and self-preservation under the iron
pressure created by the dictatorships ; or whether the
free societies, proved incapable, shall doom themselves
to fall.
A greater political and human issue has not been
at stake through all time. That issue is brought to a
head among ourselves by the final call for national
effort on a voluntary basis.
The answer within the next couple of months —
that is up to some point before Easter —may go
farther than might at first sight be supposed to deter-
mine our own future for better or worse and much
more than our own. If Britain could not keep the
citadel of the world’s freedom unconquerable no
democratic system could survive on this side of the
Atlantic.
We may be convinced that on the continued prin-
ciples of “business as usual” and of doles without
work as usual, neither the materials and equipment
for passive defence nor the guns and ’planes for active
resistance to overhead attack can be provided in
adequate quantity with sufficient speed. But at' the
present moment and under the party system as it
stands to-day we must take these hazardous limita-
tions of democracy as they are. We cannot divide
labor in the workshops as well as convulse politics
by a premature controversy on compulsion.
Between now and Easter the voluntary system
must have the fullest chance, though the last, to show
what it can do. This concerns not only the political
life of the nation but the life of every individual man,
woman and child.
The actual results of the recruiting crusade while
the spirit is fresh will soon tell us where we are to
find ourselves, one way or the other. The nation’s
danger, as before, is loss of time when we should be
making sure of the short-term programme at least,
without losing a day. If any danger for the Cabinet
itself appears between now and Easter it will arise
not on foreign policy but on defence.
The Submarine Line-up.
[ln this condensed article London “Daily Telegraph”
naval correspondent Hector C. Bywater outlines the
submarine strength for defence and attack of Britain
and France against the Anti-Comintern Powers, and
gives related information that would help to bring
the screeching war-seekers up with a jolt if anything
could do so. The line-up he envisages, and the
dangers he indicates, would be the inevitable conse-
quence of any of the sundry wars they have been seeking
for years while Britain has been virtually disarmed.]
To British ears the word “U-boat” —which is not,
as many believe, a nickname, but the official German
abbreviation of “Unterseeboot” —must always have a
sinister sound. For the greater part of the last war it
was the deadliest weapon we had to face at sea, and
the one that brought us nearest to defeat.
How narrow was the margin that separated us
from catastrophe has been vividly exposed by post-
war historians. During the first six months of 1917,
when the German unrestricted submarine war was
at its height, the destruction of Allied and neutral
cargo tonnage was so prodigious that it seemed only
a matter of weeks before our reserves of food and raw
materials would give out, leaving us no alternative
to capitulation.
In the month of April, 1917, alone the U-boats
sank 155 British merchantmen of 516,394 tons. In
the war years enemy submarines destroyed 11,153,000
tons of merchant shipping, Britain’s loss in this dire
total being 6,682,000 tons. Yet in August, 1914, Ger-
many had only 28 U-boats ready for service and about
12 under construction. As the Austrian flotilla did not
exceed 12 units built and building, the enemy Powers
could not marshal more than 52 submarines in the
early stages of the war, compared with the present
combined Germany-Italy-Japan total of 274 (10 of
these, German, being as yet only projected).
This immense armada of foreign submarines is
distributed over areas which are of vital strategical
importance in relation to the communications of the
British Commonwealth. A substantial proportion of
them are ocean-going vessels with a cruising radius
up to 12,000 miles or more, and there is hardly any
point on the 85,000-mile trade routes of the Common-
wealth which could not be reached by the U-boats of
one or other of the three Powers named. In the last
war the submarine menace was confined mainly to
home waters and the Mediterranean. In a future
struggle it might become virtually world-wide.
A further disturbing contrast to the position in
1914 and that of 1939 must be emphasised, in view of
the fact that the destroyer—large and small, including
the sea-going torpedo-boat—was then, and still re-
mains, the submarine’s most dreaded enemy. In 1914
we possessed about 285 effective torpedo craft. These
were joined when war broke out by the large flotillas
of France and Italy, and eventually by strong contin-
gents from the U.S.A. and Japan.
To-day we have only 199 torpedo craft, excluding
motor torpedo-boats, and over 70 of these are obsolete,
having been laid down in the war period. France,
our only prospective coadjutor in a future naval war,
could contribute 93 torpedo craft. Consequently the
Entente Powers could muster only 292 of these craft
against the 274 submarines of the Rome-Berlin-Tokio
bloc.
Britain’s capacity for resisting submarine attack
on seaborne trade has diminished relatively to an
alarming extent compared with 1914. As at the same
time Britain’s cargo-carrying fleet is smaller by nearly
2000 ships and there are in the. United Kingdom
4,000,000 more mouths to feed, the outlook is far
from reassuring.
The prevailing idea that the institution of convoy
will automatically make our food and supply ships
safe from aggression is, it is to be feared, illusory. If
anti-submarine tactics have advanced in the post-war
era, it is not to be supposed that the offensive Powers
of the U-boat have remained in statu quo.
During the last war an attacking submarine suf-
fered under two disabilities which cramped its style
and robbed it of many victims. First, the track of a
torpedo could generally be detected almost imme-
diately after it had left the tube, by the line of bubbles
exhausted from the compressed-air engine which was
then the only method of propelling torpedoes.
Secondly, when the torpedo was ejected from the
tube there was a marked upheaval of 'water which, in
a smooth sea, often gave timely warning to the ship
attacked.
Science has partly, if not wholly, overcome both
these drawbacks. It is evident that “invisible” tor-
pedoes would give the U-boat an immense advan-
tage when attacking, besides improving its chances of
escaping undetected afterwards. Germany had de-
veloped an invisible torpedo in 1918, but, fortunately,
too late for use by her U-boats. That her naval tech-
nicians have remained idle for the last 20 years is
scarcely to be expected.
In naval circles there is a growing demand for
more destroyers— not the very large and expensive
vessels now building, but craft of anything from 750
to 1000 tons, as well as for more escort and patrol
vessels specially equipped for anti-submarine work.
Germany, meanwhile, denies that she has any in-
tention of building forthwith the extra submarine ton-
nage, about 40,000, which she has claimed. It may,
therefore, be some years before she doubles her present
U-boat fleet, if indeed she ever does. But Britain’s
need for more commerce-protecting cruisers and anti-
submarine units is pressing. Not less so is the need
for more merchant tonnage to provide a reserve
against? inevitable war-time losses. At present no
such reserve exists.
Reign of the Rumor-monger.
('Condensed from a London “Sunday Graphic” article by
Beverley Baxter, and, of course, by no means applicable
only to England .)
In one of our most serious national dailies a head-
line attracted my eye. The date line was from Rome.
It appeared that some French journalist had written in
a Paris paper that one Frenchman could whip ten
Italians and that the Italian Navy was reluctant to go
to sea even in peace-time. Taking up the challenge,
an Italian newspaper was beating its breast and say-
ing that some day this French journalist would go too
far.
Important news that! Rush it to London, wire-
less it to New York. It will scare daylight out of
everyone. It will set the Chancelleries of Europe
trembling, and should produce at least six first-class
new rumors.
Have we gone a little mad in this country, is the
national character deteriorating, or is it possible that
there are influences at work which genuinely desire
war or at least a condition of nerves and suspicion
which make real peace impossible?
That there are certain elements in this country
which desire war between Germany and the democ-
racies is unquestionable—nor are they necessarily
British. That there are international financiers who
hope to make fortunes by raiding currencies, as in
1931, is only too obvious.
Yet neither the warmonger nor the international
financier can explain the susceptibility of normal,
decent men to the rumor-monger. Not only is no
resistance put up to the rumor germ, but the victim be-
comes a willing and eager carrier of it.
Spreading these mischievous stories is robbing men
of employment, retarding prosperity and weakening
the national purpose ; making it more and more diffi-
cult for industry to form plans for the future and
rendering the task of government almost impossible.
The present crop includes rumors that Italy will
seize Tunis in March, then throw 100,000 fresh men
into Spain to clean up the mess there, and that
Germany will invade Holland, seize Rumania and walk
into the Ukraine.
The truth is that Italy has already an army in
Spain, another in Libya and a third in Abyssinia.
Even if Mussolini is thought to be a complete fool —
and there is plenty of evidence that he is not —is he
going to send a fourth army into Tunisia in order to
bring France into war against her? Italy has been
bled white by her foreign adventures. She is the most
peace-hungry nation in the world to-day. Believe it
or not, while Mussolini wants more outlet for Italian
aspirations, he wants peace even more.
As for Germany, she will make every effort to
extend the area of her economic and political in-
fluences, and there is no law to prevent her. She will
certainly cause trouble, but she will not embark on a
world war. The tide has gone against Hitler since
Munich. America is arming like a giant. France is
recovering swiftly. Russia is able to concentrate on
the West as Japan grows more and more exhausted
in the East. Britain is overhauling Germany in the air
and is absolutely supreme on the sea. The German
people are as peace-hungry as the Italians. In fact,
Germany will probably soon make some dramatic and
constructive move to try to create stability, peace
and a progressive measure of disarmament in Europe.
Yet, though I do not know who or what is to
blame, I can never remember any time when rumor
was at such a premium and sanity at such a discount.
The Stargazing Racket.
{Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
W. E. Woosnam-Jones.)
It is now well over two centuries since Swift, in
the Bickerstaff Papers, launched his famous attack
upon John Partridge, the notorious Almanack Maker,
and the whole noxious tribe of fortune-tellers and
astrologers who infested the London of his day. Par-
tridge and his noisome crew foundered in the gales
of laughter and jeering. With one shrewd thrust Swift
had burst the bubble, doubtless, he must have hoped,
for ever.
One wonders what Swift would think were he
alive to-day. From being the tea-time amusement of
the country maidservant and the shady occupation of
certain furtive dwellers in dubious side-streets, for-
tune-telling and astrological prediction have recently
entered the arena of “big business,” and become an
integral part of our national life.
It can be a source of little pride to those who
loudly proclaim the educative mission of the modern
press and the ethical standards of British journalism
to note how completely Fleet-street during the past
few months has capitulated to this resurgence of primi-
tive superstition. One after another London dailies
have succumbed to the new demand, and now offer
their columns for “Fortune Forecasts” and “Lucky
Horoscopes” to advise and guide their many millions
of readers, the proud product of over half a century’s
free State education, who gladly accept with all due
seriousness this invaluable advice from the planets.
There are, of course, some notable exceptions.
Among them it is pleasant to discover the “Times”
and the' “Daily Herald” for once in amicable and
laudable company. But these exceptions are few. The
situation is even worse when one turns to the Sunday
press. With two obvious exceptions this is riddled
through and through with the new quackery. One
does not know which most to deplore, the moronic
mentality which demands and absorbs this drivel, or
the cynical venality which supplies it.
It is easy to deprecate and minimise the influence
of this new charlatanism on our national life, but to
do so is seriously to misjudge the situation. Our news-
paper magnates are not in business for fun. The
space in their journals is valuable, and we may be
certain that this steady spate of prediction and pro-
phecy would not long be allowed to continue if there
were not a large and increasing demand for it. Inquiry
will quickly produce surprising evidence of the very
serious way in which these horoscopes and forecasts
are regarded in family and in business circles by con-
siderable numbers of our populace. Men of consider-
able ability and position study the weekly forecasts
of their favorite newspapers with religious care. Should
a certain day be indicated as unlucky for signing
papers or for making important decisions, they flatly
refuse to sign papers or to make decisions on that
day.
One has only to keep one’s ears open in trains
and buses to note the numbers of people who are
repeating the reassuring statement that although
there will be a crisis in the spring there will be no
war, on the satisfying authority of Old Moore’s
Almanack. With this kind of background to the
public thought we need scarcely be surprised by the
inglorious spectacle of one of our more reputable
popular Sunday newspapers proudly announcing that
in it alone may the discriminating reader find the
authentic predictions of Petulengro, the Gipsy Oracle,
to which a rival organ makes the truly shattering
counterblast that its editorial staff has been strength-
ened by the engagement of no less a man than Old
Moore himself. We may, no doubt, shortly expect to
hear that tempting offers are being made by other
bitter rivals to Old Mother Shipton.
Somewhere, John Partridge must be grinning.
On Lloyd George.
London “Times,” attacking a recent Lloyd
George outburst:
Mr. Lloyd George’s utterances are no
longer, perhaps, a matter for serious comment.
Certainly in a speech so brimful of contradic-
tions and misstatements as that which ly>
delivered on January 19 [served up, of course,
in cables] it is impossible to refute his poirnts
one by one without devoting to it far more
space than it deserves.
The service which Mr. Chamberlain has
rendered to his country and to the world, both
actually and figuratively, is, first, to show that
he is not afraid to meet the dictators face to
face ; and, second and more important, that he
has met their peoples face to face and been
able to bring home to them the true significance
of his peaceful mission.
And when Mr. Lloyd George says that the
British Prime Minister has been “cringing and
crawling before dictators for months” he is
using language altogether unworthy of one
who has held that high office himself. It can
only make his countrymen regret that a man
who once stood so high can sink so low.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Can Manolive beat Ajax at weight-
for-age over Ajax’s favorite distance?
The possibility would have been ridi-
culed before the spring meetings; but
after the C. F. Orr Stakes at Williams-
town on Saturday the question was seri-
ously asked by hundreds.
Carrying weight for age at Williams-
t-own, Manolive made hacks of a field
which, small as it was, included the best
three-year-old of the year and the
Maoriland mare Stretto. Stretto has
beaten Gold Rod at w.f.a., her recent
Maoriland form was good, and she was
backed—at threes. Manolive was favor-
ite at twos —a shade better was laid —
and Nuffield was firm at 9 to 4.
The distance was one mjle 55 yards.
Manolive got to the front almost imme-
diately, was never extended, and could
have cut something off the time —lmin.
41 3-ssec. A surprise commission for
Carpentier brought that three-year-old
to 8 to 1 ; he finished a fair second, a
length and three-quarters behind Man-
olive, Stretto being third two and a half
lengths away. Nuffield was a poor
fourth, only a neck in front of Marauder,
who had given him a long start.
Shean rode Manolive, and he certainly
got more out of him than any other rider
has done. Manolive must now be
reckoned in the same class as his sire,
Manfred. Whether he is as good as
Ajax is another matter; as a Perth Cup
winner he might conceivably be too good
for the champion at two miles.
Sold for 1000 guineas a few months
ago, El Golea has proved himself a
cheap horse. His gallop in the Marine
Handicap was a good trial for the
Oakleigh Plate, if he starts in that race
(31b. has been added to his handicap
weight, which was 9st.), and the
Newmarket. Stretto’s stable-companion
Disdain, who won twice in Maoriland
before being brought to Melbourne
by Bagby, was favorite at 5 to 2 (El
Golea was at threes), but Kanuri beat
her handily into third place. El Golea
ran his “six” comfortably in lmin.
Ilfsec.
El Golea is, of course, a four-year-
old, and so is Montaza, who has been
very consistent lately. Montaza (3 to 1)
prevailed in a close finish with Lautus
(7 to 1) and Rhodes Scholar (7 to 1):
“head, half-head.” Rhodes Scholar
seemed to be doing rather the best of
the three when they flashed past the
post; it was a bit too close.
An excellent day for the bookmakers
began with the victory of Dulla Dulla
in the Hurdle Race ; he was 15 to 1 in
a field of seven. And the bagmen got a
skinner in the Apprentices’ Handicap,
the winner’s price being a nominal 100
to 1. He was Gay Circle, who hadn’t
started for eight months and whose two
previous performances were last and
second-last. Barham came into the
straight with a good lead, but his run
was perhaps premature. Anyway, he
finished fourth behind Gay Circle, High
Commissioner and the favorite, Magic
Circle. He may do better.
* * * *
An absentee from Melbourne for many
years, Barney Allen returned to that city
to die. In the naughty ’nineties Barney
was Melbourne’s most-talked-about
bookmaker, celebrated —after a fashion
—in song and story. Billy Emerson, a
representative American comedian of the
period, introduced a Barney Allen verse
in a popular ditty:
Could I only back a winner
What a different man I’d be!
I’d be like Barney Allen
And shout a champagne dinner
For all the boys and all the girls,
Could I only back a winner!
The time was to come when it wasn’t
safe to repeat those lines in Barney’s
presence, for most of the money he made
fielding—and he made stacks —he lost
backing his own horses, which developed
an appalling habit of running second in
races like the Melbourne Cup (Belove)
and the Newmarket (Gambler’s Gold).
Down to a few years ago Barney, look-
ing rather like a superannuated falcon,
could be seen supporting a bag in the
Randwick paddock and heard arguing
with silver punters. His last Sydney busi-
ness was a fruitshop at King’s Cross.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Three Perth Cup winners,
Manolive, Maikai and Gay Balkan, have
been nominated for the Australian Cup.
This must be a record ; anyway, I will
challenge contradiction and say that,
looking back over a career of 40 years as
a mug-punter, I can’t remember three
Melbourne Cup winners or three Sydney
Cup winners or three winners of any
other capital-city Cup having been nomi-
nated for the longest of all Australian
handicaps. Perth Cup winners haven’t
equalled in the Australian Cup their re-
markable Sydney Cup achievements, but
the 1919 and 1920 Australian Cups went
to horses from Perth—New Tipperary
and Macadam.
* * * *
Mutable, winner of the Australian Cup
in 1937, has been entered again this year,
and for the Newmarket as well; but it
is doubtful whether the Drake gelding
will start in either —or, indeed, in any
race during the autumn meetings. Some
time ago a lump began to form around
Mutable’s near fetlock joint. At first
this enlargement did not appear to affect
his galloping action, but latterly his public
form has been so poor that W. J. Smart,
the owner-trainer, threw Mutable out of
work and applied a blister.
* * * *
Nomination of Buzalong for the
Newmarket caused some surprise in Mel-
bourne, for in that city the Caulfield Cup
winner is known purely as a stayer. But
12 months ago he scored over six fur-
longs in Sydney and finished third in
the Doncaster. Buzalong doesn’t figure
among the Australian Cup aspirants.
Marauder, successful in 1937, was
entered, but will be reserved for the
Sydney Cup, an event which his owner,
Wallace Mitchell, the paddock book-
maker, was sanguine of winning several
years ago with Imitator. The Magpie
mare failed him badly.
* * * *
Newmarket Handicap impost of Ajax
(lOst. 21b.) is far from harsh when one
considers that at the same age four
years—Phar Lap was allotted list. lib.
As a four-year-old Carbine was top-
weight with lOst. 41b. The most crush-
ing burden ever allotted in a Newmarket
was list. 31b. to Machine Gun in 1905.
And he started!
*'* * *
Gold Rod, who is working well at
Randwick, has been taken out of the
Newmarket, and is evidently to be re-
served for the Doncaster. If he gets in
that race the weight he was given in
the Newmarket, 9st. 41b., he will be one
of the early favorites. Nowadays the
chestnut is neglected by a sporting press
that, in the early spring of 1936, pro-
claimed him a champion of champions,
but there are shrewd observers at Rand-
wick who say the best has yet to be
seen of him. After each of two attempts
to make a stayer of him —in the autumn
of 1937 and the spring of 1938 —Gold
Rod went off; but he has by no means
lost the speed which enabled him, as a
three-year-old, to win the Futurity with
9st. 31b. He really hasn’t had much
racing, though he seems to require
plenty— at suitable distances.
* * * *
Following horses sold by Alan Cooper
would have given immeasurably better
results than following horses owned by
Alan Cooper when he was in the boom.
Racing in other colors, St. Constant and
Early Bird have been very successful, and
now Beau Ercil has won his third race
for Mandel, the Sydney bookmaker, who
bought him for 800 guineas when Cooper
sent his racehorses in training to the yard.
The third race was the Armidale Cup,
and Beau Ercil, who was ridden by
Davidson, was one of three at 5 to 1, the
lowest price laid (the others were Aladdin
and Scarlet Circle), Nebraska (sevens)
and Red Thespian (eights) being also
backed. Beau Ercil had a comfortable
win from two outsiders, Tickle and Wee
Joy. Nebraska showed up well at the
outset, but dropped back suddenly and
came in with a cut tendon.
Mandel won a double at Armidale,
Aldrajac, a Bullhead gelding, capturing
a Maiden Handicap for him, Aldrajac
was favorite at 5 to 2. After Beau Ercil’s
first success for Mandel, the latter was
reported to have growled at the price-
an odd vindication of the general belief
among punters that Sydney prices are
rotten. Mandel afterwards protested that
he had been misunderstood or something.
Anyway, he couldn’t complain about the
odds laid at Armidale, which were a vast
improvement on what racegoers have to
put up with in the Sydney subbubs.
* * * *
The Ascot (Sydney) club introduced on
Wednesday what was proudly described
as an innovation —a six-furlongs flat race
for jumpers. It seems a queer way of
improving the breed of horses, which is
alleged to be what proprietary racing is
for ; but there were 14 starters, so the
innovators were satisfied. An elderly
stallion named Musk Deer, who won a
good race at Randwick a couple of
seasons ago but has done little since,
landed the first prize—a whole £80 —for
his owner, Heron, beating two other old-
stagers, Aussie Bee and Silver Coat. Short
Wave, who can sprint a bit, was an even-
money favorite, and finished fourth.
Musk Deer went out at 8 to 1, and those
who had coupled him in a tote double
with Silver Joan, winner of the Norris
Handicap (at fives), received £lO 7s.
for ss.
* * * *
Sydney-trained gallopers have not had
many successes in the Oakleigh Plate, the
last to score being Arachne in 1935. On
the strength of his runaway win in the
Flying Handicap at Canterbury Park
with lOst. 41b., Brazandt will carry a ton
of Sydney money in the Caulfield race on
Saturday. He has 9st. 41b. Brazandt
possesses exceptional speed, and the
walk-up start should suit him. The doubt
is whether he will have been in Mel-
bourne long enough to accustom himself
to other conditions.
Brazandt was a 7-to-4 favorite at Can-
terbury, though 5 to 2 was laid. Coutts
rode him perfectly, getting a break at
the half-mile. Mohican, unbacked, was
second; and the stewards immediately
opened an inquiry into his running.
Bonheur de Pere was third. Fortunes
have been lost this year on the disappoint-
ing filly.
Muswellbrook pastoralist E. Hunter
Bowman does not let his gallopers remain
idle. He saddled up. Cherry Bar for the
Canterbury Handicap and Immaculate
for the second division of the Park Stakes.
Each won and landed some nice wagers.
Cherry Bar, a good type of mare by
Rossendale from a former pony per-
former, Mistress Biddy, started at 9 to 2.
Eastern Maid and Beau Cheval had turns
in the leajl; but in the straight Cherry
Bar ran away from them, Edible and
Unafraid passing the beaten pacemakers
over the last bit. Cherry Bar is an eight-
year-old, but age doesn’t seem to wither
these Rossendale mares.
Immaculate, a five-year-old Heroic
gelding, had the rails position in his han-
dicap, and was favorite at 7 to 4. Jump-
ing into the lead, he went too fast for
Gymkhana and Venice, who tried to
reach him at the half-mile and again at
the turn, but tired. The first division
of the Park Stakes had gone to Rathlin
(5 to 2), who also drew the rails.
McCarten rode him hard throughout, and
he won cleverly from Fan Dancer and
the favorite, Bid. Rathlin is raced by
R. Cobden and his trainer Jack King.
He is by the Valais horse Glenariff from
Tibbie, who could stay.
Dr. Stuart Jones bred Blue Baron, a
grey colt by Grand Joy-Scintillate, and
had the pleasure of seeing him donkey-
lick his opponents in the first division of
the Nursery. The grey scored by five
lengths from Lord Balmore and Festoon.
He started at 10 to 9 on, but the doctor
refused to lay the odds and his colt ran
for the prize.
Inspector Scott looked the logical
winner of the second division. Last
month he ran a dead-heat with Blue
Baron at Canterbury. But his showing
on Saturday engendered the dark suspi-
cion that the Inspector is a squib. York
(9 to 4), one of Dick Wootton’s team
was on the rails. Away like an old stager,
York never left the fence, nor was he
ever at his top. In the end he beat
Hectic and Inspector Scott handily.
The Trial Stakes provided a good
finish between A.J.C. committeeman E. J.
Watt’s Heiress, a Maoriland-bred mare,
and the locally-trained Calmita, a useful-
looking mare by Valamita from Cal-
brook, who used to win races at Canter-
bury. The Brush turned for home with
the race as good as won, but 11 furlongs
proved a bit more than he could manage,
and Heiress made a dead-heat of it. She
started at 5 to 1, and Calmita had good
support at fours.
The Ashbury Handicap was a good
race for the Ring, since Chicola was at
8 to 1. Any horse that wins at eights can
be accounted an outsider at Canterbury.
The Blizzard and Mordent made a good
finish of it with Chicola. River Namoi
was favorite, and Dermid was backed
from 12 to 1 to fives. He failed badly,
and, though River Namoi was prominent
most of the way, he dropped back quickly
over the last furlong.
* * * *
Chairman-of-stewards Williams is
about to retire from the A.J.C. service.
He was entertained at Canterbury on
Saturday by the directors, Frank Under-
wood saying that, as it would probably
be the last Canterbury fixture at which
Williams would officiate, they wanted to
place on record their appreciation of
his work. A just tribute; and it will
be a pity if the A.J.C. committee can't
make some use of Williams’s knowledge
by appointing him to another staff job.
* * * *
This Page’s selections for Canterbury
Park were reduced by scratchings to four
horses. They were Brazandt, Cherry Bar,
River Namoi and Chicola, so there were
three winners among them. Unfortu-
nately the prophet made it “River Namoi
or Chicola” —they were in two races.
V * * *
# Carpeted by the stewards over the run-
ning of Mohican at Canterbury Park,
Russell, the trainer — Cecil Russell, if you
please—delivered his customary mono-
logue to reporters. The average trainer
is reticence incarnate ; but Russell will
talk.
* * * *
Silver Ring and Dermid, first and
second in the 1934 Epsom, met again
in the Ashbury Handicap at Canterbury
Park. Silver Ring finished fifth, and
Dermid eighth, in a field of nine. Both
began racing when they were two-year-
olds ; Silver Ring had 11 races at that
age, and Dermid had 10. It seems a
shame to keep the poor old beggars at it
in third-class company when Silver Ring
is rising 10 and Dermid rising 11 ; but
there is precious little sentiment in the
game nowadays.
* * if: *
Sydney owners and trainers of good
sprinters are balancing the attractions of
the V.R.C.’s Newmarket with that of the
Doomben club. Doomben’s Newmarket
is to be worth £150 more (£3150 as
against £3000), and is not so hard to win.
{Continued on page 32.)
“D.E.”: The “Saturday Evening Post,”
through which Irving Stone’s Sailor on
Horseback ran as a serial, had a yarn
about Jack London which mystified me.
It was to the effect that the American
paper which sent Jack to Sydney to do
the Johnson-Burns fight was slipped up
by him and had to get a member of the
staff to vamp up a report from the cables
in other papers. Everyone who was in
Sydney at that time knows that London
and his Charmian were at the fight, and
that Jack wrote a very good account of
it. In London’s report was the first refer-
ence to Johnson’s “golden smile.”
* * * *
“Googly”: Reference to the fact that
professional men don’t stay long in
cricket (B. 8/2/’39) reminds me of a story
“Ranji” Hordern told me of his retire-
ment. “Tibby” Cotter came to him intent
on getting him to reconsider it. “I can’t
afford to play,‘Tibby’,” Hordern replied;
“I’ve got my profession to consider.”
“Well, I’m slinging my job to take the
trip to England,” “Tibby” insisted. “If
I can do it you should do the same.”
Hordern seemed impressed. “And what
are you doing, ‘Tibby’?” he asked. “I’ve
got a job at the meatworks,” “Tibby”
replied. “I get thirty bob a week, and
I’m giving it up for the sake of cricket.”
FOR CAULFIELD.
St. George Stakes: Ajax ; next,
Manolive.
Oakleigh Plate: Brazandt; next,
Amiable.
Bond Handicap: Marauder ;
next, Tempest.
Salisbury Welter: Barham ; next,
Panax.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Maiden Handicap: Politesse;
next, Rudyard.
Glenfield Handicap : Trimmer;
next, Heroic Faith.
February Handicap: Feminist;
next, Jan Baz.
Minto Handicap: Herarde ; next,
Ripley.


CHEMIST tells how to
save money by making your
own family remedy for
COUGHS-COLDS
m
CATARRH
CROUP BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS & ’FLU
m
<?
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning.
CROUP
Four doses at HEENZO daily, also
take when cough is distressing.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning and
when cough is distressing.
isk for HEENZO
lefuse all substitutes
COSTS 21- —SA VES £s.
The use of this recipe gives you, for the cost of one, the equal in quantity of eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the best ready-made-up remedies for chest, nose and
throat ailments, the goodness of which is proved by the fact that it has been the
favourite family remedy for such ailments in the majority of Australian homes for
over twenty years.
In a jug make a syrup compound of four tablespoonfuls of sugar,
three tablespoonfuls of treacle or honey, one large breakfastcupful of
warm water. When the syrup is COLD (not before) pour it into a
large clean bottle, and add ONE bottle of concentrated HEENZO
(costs 2/- at any chemist or store). This wonderful money-saving
chest, nose and throat remedy is then ready for the immediate use
of all members of your family.
HOW TO USE
HEENZO
IN TREATMENT OF
COUGHS —COLDS
Take HEENZO every
few hours until cured.
Same treatment as coughs.
If taken at first sign cold
will quickly vanish.
WHOOPING COUGH
Call Doctor immediately for injections. Ease the
cough with made-up HEENZO.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take half teaspoonful of
concentrated HEENZO in wineglass of hot
water every four hours. Ease cough with
made-up HEENZO. Keep bowels open.
• '> dsfs
§gtp§§g|M
si : ; ■
sm
■•:■■■'•
'mmm
.
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally .
mm.
m
I
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief .
All leading Chemists
and Stores in Australia
sell
HEENZO
'HEENZ Ol
should be used in every home & offic


you can dependon
CHAMPIONS
for POWER
The power that comes from
strong hot sparks takes you over
the roads and up the hills with
less effort, less fuel and less
expense. Get the greater pow-
er that a new set of Champions
will give. The fuel they save
quickly p ays their small cost.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
i
tfc
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
AIR by the FOOT
years of hard
service. Pays regular
dividends in time ■ and
labour-saving.
kV
S'
You can ease through the job of tyre-inflation in next to no
time with a Kismet Foot Pump. Just tread on it —the patent
double-cylinder (supercharger) action does the rest twice as
easily and twice as quickly as an ordinary pump. And the built-in
Kismet Gauge tells you the exact pressure in each tyre.
PRICE 95/-.
Remember, a perfectly-balanced car gives more comfortable riding
and safer driving.
Manufactured in Sheffield. England, by WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD.
KISMET
2 CYLINDER 2 STAGE
FOOT PUMP
Factory Representative in Australia:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Under fhe Whip
This is a par. about a clergyman who
died last week, so it might seem "to have
strayed into the wrong column. But
the clergyman was Canon Cakebread, of
St. Jude’s, Randwick, and, though he
never went to the races, he was asso-
ciated for 27 of his 67 years with the
sport for which Randwick is famed.
The canon knew every trainer, foreman,
jockey and stableboy in the place, and all
their womenfolk, as well as all the Diggers
at the Memorial Hospital; and, fine old
boy that he was, he had a sterling in-
fluence on the life of the suburb. Hun-
dreds of racing people attended the
service in St. Jude’s and gathered round
the little churchyard in which he was
buried, and all went away feeling that
they had lost a friend.
* * * *
Two substantial dividends were paid at
the Geelong meeting last Wednesday.
Toykuni started ai 20 to 1 and returned
just on £7 (for 55.) in the tote ; Kiarana,
at 16 to 1 in the Ring, yielded £lO 7s. on
the machine. Toykuni (Shakuni-Dainty
Toy) belongs to W. J. Smart, who held a
retainer as jockey from “S. A. Rawdon”
in days gone by. After quitting the
saddle Smart settled in Brisbane, whence
he returned to Melbourne with Phe-
nomenon, a good-class sprinter, a few
seasons ago. Not even a tote ticket on
Toykuni was taken out by the owner.
Smart arrived late at Geelong, his car,
with trailing horsefloat, having jibbed en
route. Fined for the late saddling-up
of Floradora in the Juvenile Handicap,
he neglected to back Toykuni. Kiarana
is also owned by a former jockey, Theo
Lewis. In 1930 and again in 1931 Lewis
won the Williamstown Cup for Jack Holt
on Second Wind, a placegetter in Phar
Lap’s Melbourne Cup
Saul (David-Miss
Quex) came from
the extreme rear of
the field to finish an
impressive second to
Toykuni at Geelong.
This gelding is
owned by a daughter-
in-law of Otway
Falkiner, whose
colors were carried
to victory by David
in the 1923 Sydney
Cup. The son raced
Sally Rand (Friarsdale-Micology) at Men-
tone on the previous Saturday in the
“white, green shamrocks and cap” that
were registered by his uncle, the late Nor-
man Falkiner. Many great gallopers were
bred by Norman Falkiner, but possibly
he will be best remembered as the owner
of Bullawarra, who won an Australian
Steeple and was sent to England for the
Liverpool Grand National.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Henneberry in a Tough Scrap
After the painfully long run of thumbs
down to Australia, it was left to Fred
Henneberry (list. 4|lb.) to retrieve the
family fortune from Uncle Sam’s
itinerant crew. This he did by giving Joe
Smallwood (list. 51b.) the father and
grandfather of a doing in one of the
toughest scraps of a season that has had
plenty of the sort.
It was out at Leichhardt Stadium,
Fred’s old stamping ground, where he
fought his four- and six-round prelims,
in the days when he made it a ding-dong
go from the first bell. Latterly he has
got to taking his time over the early
rounds, fighting them as if the scrap was
scheduled to last till the next war. He
was on the job earlier than usual against
Smallwood, and established a lead in the
first four rounds, mainly by virtue of a
right cross against which the American
could think up no reasonable defence.
Even at this stage it had become some-
thing of a rough grappling match, with
Smallwood clawing his man and holding
him, and Fred doing his share of the
same. Still, there were some pretty
punches to the credit of Fred’s right
hand, and he was also ripping a desul-
tory left to the opposition’s midst. The
American, for his part, stood upright
with open-gloved left rigidly extended,
now and then holding Fred at the end of
it while trying to break through that
crouching smother-adept’s guard with
"I s'pose it's all right if you can afford that sort of thing.”
heavy rights that already had more than
a hint of the moonraking swing.
With Fred continually going in
crouched and smothered up and the
American claiming him, there was
throughout a lot of mauling and lying
on each other ; ref. Lacey breaking them,
and, when the gore started to fly, getting
his nice white shirt into such a mess that
birds would have taken him for sunset.
First sign of blood was over Henne-
berry’s eye in the sixth. Smallwood
affects a maniacal grin as part of his
somewhat unclassical style, and when
the scarlet smear spread across Fred’s
temple the grin appeared to welcome it.
Also, Smallwood appeared to drop his
hands and clench them against his thighs
in something of an ecstasy ; but as he be-
haved in much the same fashion after
taking any specially heavy bit of punish-
ment it was hard to divine just what was
the color of his thoughts.
Anyway, the mob —a packed house —
howled like a legion of furies at the sight,
and from here on it was a furious mill.
One of the best fighting points Henne-
berry retains —he has, perhaps, lost a
shade of his brilliance —is his old-time
willingness to mix it with the toughest,
while still keeping his block. He looks
fierce and he fights fiercer, but his think-
ing apparatus seems to be functioning
coldly.
Smallwood had something the better
of the round, though Fred, despite the
damage, got in a beautiful right or two to
the jaw, roughing his way in, smothered
up, and once there unwinding to let ’em
loose. The American was again a bit on
top in the seventh, in which the scrap
became more of a mauling match than
ever, and something of a talkie, too.
Smallwood talked at Fred, Fred talked
at Smallwood, Mr. Lacey talked at both
of them, and both of them talked at Mr.
Lacey. A good time, meanwhile, being
had by all—Fred ripping deadly stuff into
about the region of Texas in the United
States anatomy, with some peaches of
right crosses up about the vicinity of
Washington ; the U.S.A. responding with
weighty enough but ill-directed wallops to
anywhere between Bourke and Bronte ;
and Mr. Lacey well earning his oats
dragging them out of their struggling
bear-hugs.
In the eighth the American’s swing
gave conclusive signs of turning itself
into a bowler’s-right. As he rushed in in
that grievous style Fred hooked him with
a dandy left that halted him in his stride ;
then crashed successive rights and lefts
to the face as the U.S.A. went back. It
was a fierce bit of hitting, and when
Smallwood emerged from it he looked as
if he’d been taking part in a bullfight.
He has a sorry relic of a nose, smashed
in past battles beyond recognition or
repair, and now it was in a desperate
state. Another onslaught, and all his
features vanished in the wash. Mr. Lacey,
still tearing them apart, looked worse
than anybody.
Then, in this same gory round, a most
staggering thing happened— to Henne-
berry. His jaw getting in the way of a
swing that started somewhere about
Brazil and would have finished up in
China, for a moment it looked as if this
wild fluke had won the fight. Fred tot-
tered, then dropped on one knee ; but he
was up again at “eight,” fighting like a
demon when the bell went.
From here onwards Henneberry won
by streets. Smallwood made a present
of himself through repeatedly trying to
fluke another swing, leaving himself wide
open on the job and taking a frightful
hiding—tough, game, but a sad spec-
tacle. The American was still on his
feet at the end of the twelve, but he could
not have had more than a faint conscious-
ness of the fact.
Chinese Boxer’s Win
The national position retrieved by
Fred Henneberry promptly went to the
bow-wows again when Joe Kerwick
(Bst. 31b.) got into Sydney Arena ring to
test the latest import, American-born
Chinese scrapper Kui Kong Young (Bst.
3ilb.). Kerwick, hopelessly
was soon weakened by hearty body
punches which Young got home at will,
the Australian being in such shape by
the seventh that the ref. prevented com-
plete massacre by calling it a night. Mr.
Young showed out as an exceptionally
fast and neat boxer, but he’ll strike
tougher items hereabouts than Joe ever
got within coo-ee of being.
lan Ellis Scores
Australia is short of good lightweights.
lan Ellis, the former Victorian amateur
champion at the weight, revealed possi-
bilities in his bout with Billy Hamilton at
West Melbourne Stadium. Hamilton
looked the more rugged of the pair,
though really 4|lb. lighter than Ellis, who
weighed 9st. 111 b.; and for five rounds
he gave Ellis a rather appalling time.
Then Ellis came to light with straight
lefts, which gradually weakened Hamil-
ton. In the ninth he landed stinging
uppercuts, varied with right crosses and
body punches. Hamilton lasted the full
12 rounds, but referee Merv Williams
had no hesitation in crowning Ellis. And
nobody protested.
Vaughan Unlucky-
Tommy Vaughan, the Queenslander,
is one of the best and gamest of our
cruiserweights, and with a little more
speed and power of punch—they may
still be acquired, for Tommy is only a
youngster—he would trouble any of
them. He has had two close bouts with
Roscoe Manning, one of the multitude
of coons now in the Commonwealth, and
would have won the second, at Brisbane,
had Manning not contrived to knock
the plaster off an eyebrow gashed in the
first encounter. The flow of blood was
such that Vaughan, a bit ahead on
points at the end of the tenth round,
was reduced to boxing on the defensive,
and thus lost his advantage. In the last
few years a long list of Australians
matched with blacks have lost in pre-
cisely the some way.
The Fall of Walker
In B. 4/1 /’39 there was a description
of how A 1 Walker won The Fight of the
Year. It becomes The Bulletin’s
melancholy duty to chronicle Walker’s
fall from his high estate, and also from
the Sydney Stadium ring.
His opponent was Villa, a tough fellow
billed as a Filipino, though he looks Poly-
nesian. Whatever he is he’s not of the
glass-jawed breed, for the Marrickville
lad caught him fairly true to the jaw
with his devastating right in the opening
round and cleaner still with the same
punch in the second, and he took it with-
out flinching.
In the third Villa displayed a bit of
what might have been ringcraft, and was
to prove more effective later. Stopping
a left lead, he appeared to lose his block.
He shook his head, pawed at the air and
poked faces calculated to put the wind
up a totem-pole. On top of that, he came
in fighting hard with heavy rips to the
body and drove Walker against the ropes.


FREE!
WE WILL
YOU A
SEND
FREE
SAMPLE OF RE-NU LIQUID NU-METAL.
It Reconditions Cars, Trucks, Tractors,
Buses, Motor Cycles, Standing Engines,
etc., While-U-Drive. Just deposit thru
spark plug openings on Pistons. Saves
Re-bore. Ends Piston Slap, Rattles, Oil,
Petrol Waste, Buying New Parts. Restores
New Compression Power, Top Speed, Zip,
etc. Guaranteed good for 1 0,000 miles.
Harmless finest engine. Anyone can use
it. Trial Tube 6/6. We send C.O.D.
Re-Nu Coy., op. Richmond Station, Mel-
bourne. Twenty other lines. Agents
required. Free samples.
11l
w'.,
iM
mm
V/E
m
, :. , ;.''v:. ! ;'rr>>
i'XHI
m
EV
• •
THE FRIENDLY
SATISFYING CHARM OF BARNEYS
Men talk about Barneys almost as if it were human, as though it had being .... “friendliest
of all Tobaccos,” one smoker called it. One enthusiast got close to the heart of things
when he said: “There are times when a man needs not exactly a companion but a
sense of companionship . . . and Barneys supplies this need.”
How true this is can only be realised fully by those to whom the need is greatest . . .
amongst them those Barneys smokers in the lonely places of the earth! Just ponder this
. . . from a Barneys smoker exiled in the Arctic: “Up here in the far North comforts
are few and far between, and for me at least Tobacco ranks ‘number one’ —and only
the best is good enough.”
If you have found the Tobacco which takes
the place of friends—and sometimes, if needs
be, of food and drink ... be thankful . . .
don’t think of changing. But if you are still
seeking the Tobacco which measures up, in
goodness and smoking satisfaction, to ail that
a good Tobacco can . . . try cheery, chummy,
honest Barneys. There are three strengths,
all equally good. No other Tobacco has won
such praise from smokers well qualified to judge.
Barneys
(medium)
Parsons Pleasure
(mild)
Punchbowle
(full strength)
g At all good tobacconists ... ask for
jiSarttegs
The Ideal Tobacco
Each is sold in
the patent “Everfresh”
tin. 2 ozs. for 2/7.
5203
Walker fought back fiercely, but still with
fairly good control; landed another right
that should have been enough for any
man, and had something the better of
the round.
In the fourth Villa repeated the tactics.
Walker, baited, threw discretion to the
winds, and fought like a bearcat. It
looked dangerous, and it was. Nothing
could have suited the frizzy-topknotted
opposition better. With Walker coming
wildly at him, he had clean open country
down below, and he went in with a heavy
onslaught of successive rights and lefts.
Then he scored with a right uppercut, and
followed that with a right, another right
and a fine hooked left to the jaw. Walker
was on the ropes, smothered up, helpless
and as good as out. He came out into
midring by holding on.
loe Wallis broke them, and then
Walker established that he has the best
of fighting stuff in him. Pulling himself
together, he fought with a fierceness that
Villa couldn’t withstand. In a matter of
seconds, from being a well-beaten middle-
weight, the Australian was on top. He
fought Villa back to a corner and had
him there at his mercy, hitting him with
right and left to the jaw, but himself too
weak to bring off the knockout.
Walker was still weak when he came
out for the fifth, but so now was Villa.
They got into it at once, still in the bear-
cat manner, and were over on the ropes,
when Walker went partly through, lost
his balance and fell to the ringside bench
and underneath. A blow as his head was
outside the ropes helped to put him down,
but he seemed to fall more from weak-
ness. He fell very heavily and was
clean knocked out by striking his head
on the wooden bench. Fight to Villa on
a technical knock-out; but Walker lost
like a winner.
“Snow”: Great boxers as they were,
there is no need to go as far back as
Creedon and Hall (B. 8/ 2 / ’39) for a
memory of an Australian who could
clean up the present type of invader. Les
Darcy would have knocked them over in
batches, and thoroughly enjoyed himself
in doing so. I saw Creedon in action only
once, after his return from abroad. Pre-
maturely aged and broken, he was
matched with Billy McCall, the then Aus-
tralian heavyweight champion, one of the
rushing, tearing type with about as much
science as Bill Squires had later on.
Creedon’s display was an eye-opener.
Catching McCall’s wildest swings on his
gloves as if they were penny balloons, he
picked Billy to pieces with beautifully-
timed punches that travelled no more
.han a foot.
* * * *
“T.”: The Wyatt Earp, the 400-ton
exploration ship which the Common-
wealth Government is buying from the
American Lincoln Ellsworth, is named
after about the most famous gunman of
his time. He had a brother who was
almost as quick on the draw as him-
self. It is on record that the Earps
were fond of railway travel, and that
when their train stopped at a Wild West
hamlet they had a playful habit of com-
ing out of their carriage shooting. Wyatt
Earp refereed the first fight between Fitz-
simmons and Sharkey. Fitz knocked
Sharkey out, and the referee calmly
pointed to the loser, lying dead to the
world on the canvas —“the winnah,” he
said, “on a foul.” Fitz was going to
“pass him one,” but was grabbed by his
scared seconds and hurried away. Earp
would have shot him in his tracks.
Ins and Outs
South Australia will go into the last
inter-State game of the season with a
one-point lead ,over the visiting Vic-
torians. The chaps from Melbourne
were horribly licked in Brisbane, Queens-
land winning by an innings—its first
performance of the kind in Sheffield
Shield cricket. Don Tallon equalled
another world record for stumpers by
accounting for seven Victorian wickets
in the first knock, and the total of 348
contained not one bye (Christ, 3 for 48).
The batting on both sides was, for the
most part, slow. Hassett took over five
hours to make 139, and Brown eight
and three-quarter hours to knock up 215
—it brought his total for the season to
1057, the first time a Queenslander has
reached four figures. Allen obliged
with 79, and Baker showed real enter-
prise in putting together 97. Brown
closed at seven for 575. Rigg (54), Lee
(64) and Gregory (45) began solidly
enough for Victoria, but then Bill Tal-
lon found a patch on which to lob his
slow.s and it was “all out” 216, still
11 runs short. Tallon’s figures were
5 for 77.
“K.R.”: A weakness in Queensland
teams of recent years has been the lack
of a slow bowler of quality. Bill Tallon
looks like remedying it. In the match
against Victoria he dissolved a long
opening partnership, and sent the first
five Victorians back to the pavilion
when wickets were- needed. Bill’s tally
for the season is 18 wickets at 32. And
at times he has been handy with the bat.
“Jachris”: Slow though he was in
Brisbane, Brown has done very well this
season. His Shield average is 110. He
has skippered his young team admirably
and set it an example in the field. And
he has a good press. A knight of the
fountain-pen vouches for this: “Though
once a crude suburban lad, as a result
of his travels he is now a polished con-
versationalist, a clever after-dinner
speaker and one of the best-dressed
sportsmen in Australia.”
“S.T.S. - ’: E. S. White can retire from
big cricket with the comfortable remem-
brance of having knocked S.A. endways
twice, in consecutive seasons, once by
his bowling and once by his batting in
his home town, Sydney. In 1936 the
lad’s 8 for 31 was the chief factor in
dismissing S.A. for a measly 94. The
next year, with N.S.W. doing badly, he
came to light with 108 not out and a
ninth-wicket partnership with Oldfield of
164. This double seems more like the
all-round times of Noble or Armstrong
than the modern specialising days.
Miscellaneous.
Nakama seems bent on proving himself
the best all-round swimmer ever seen in
these parts. In Hobart during the second
series of Australian title events he brought
his tally for these races to six, adding suc-
cess in the 440 yards to his 110, 220, 880,
1650 and 330 yards—medley wins. Bid-
dulph followed him, and this time got
within three yards of the obliging Japa-
nese ; Queenslander Fleming was third.
The time, 4min. 56sec., was nothing sen-
sational. Ron Masters, of Victoria, added
the springboard event to his high-diving
title, and Sydney girl Pat Norton gathered
in, the women’s 220 freestyle.
* * * *
Decima Norman was defeated again at
the N.S.W. athletic championship meet-
ing on Sydney Sports Ground, and young
Dunn was beaten out of a place. Each
race was over 220 yards ; Miss Norman
was third to Joyce Walker and Miss Cole-
man, and Best, the Victorian, beat all
the men. Boot, the Maorilander, cap-
tured the 880, and Miss Bercove, a West-
ralienne with a nice style, won the 50 yards
for junior girls. The only performance
in the Olympic class was that of D. L.
Miller, a Gerringong (N.S.W.) farmer, in
the hop, step and jump. He did 51ft.
6|in. —nearly 6ft. better than the second
man and Ilyin, short of Tajima’s
Olympic and world record.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Queensland is search-
ing its pockets to give Mrs. Westacott,
Australian champion at last, an opportu-
nity of showing her tennis form at
Wimbledon. A trier at all times, and
as good a loser as a winner, Mrs. W
is a warm favorite with spectators, and
her spectacular forehand strokes are not
excelled.
* * * *
“Lettie”: Jiro Yamagishi and Fumi-
tero Nakano are again to be Japan’s
Davis Cup team, and they are to play in
the American zone again. Last year
Bromwich and Quist met them in the
zone final, winning by three matches to
two, after Yamagishi had defeated Brom-
wich, three sets to one. He will bear
watching again.
* * * *
“Pa Hunter”: Back on his native
heath after the Australia-Maoriland trip,
Bobby Locke didn’t take long to strike
form. He held his Transvaal open title
with a total of 265, a mere 26 strokes
lead on the runner-up. Locke went
round the last time in 64. That must have
made the youngster pretty cocky, for he
hastened to tell the reporters that he had
£5OO to say he could beat Cotton, the
match to take place in England over
72 holes, 36 on northern links and 36
in the South. Cotton won’t meet him.


CMJL^rv^
/a -t
rnrrTTrna
Twice. Daily-2'sorQ
AT THE.
TIVOII
SB-j
Commencing: Monday, February 20,
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY/’
featuring
BUSTER WEST & LUCILLE PAGE
And 10 Other Acts.
LAST DAYS In the Flesh,
THE VOICE OF SNOW WHITE
(Adriana Caselotti).
O’DONNELL, & BLAIR,
the Crazy Builders; and New Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Cowboy and the Lady”
Gary Cooper, Merle Oberon.
From the silhouettes of rearing horses
scattered through the routine preliminary
announcements to the conventional end-
ing, providing a generous ration of happi-
ness for everybody, this Sydney Regent
offering is pleasant light comedy enter-
tainment.
Playing opposite Cooper, the Tas-
manian girl gives a sound perform-
ance in a part well suited to her
classic, rather than fetching, style off
features. She is a daughter running
a grave risk of having her youth sac-
rificed to the ambitions of a pop who
aspires to the U.S.A. Presidency. It is a
nice comment —for what it may be worth
—that these ambitions are likely to be
smashed because a carefree old profes-
sorial uncle, who thinks her life wants
a bit of pepping up, takes her out for
an evening at a night club, where,
though their behavior is innocent of any-
thing worse than dancing, they have their
names taken in the course of a police
raid.
Pop, learning of this somewhat casu-
ally from unc., fears the worst —with
good reason ; political enemies have the
list, and are already at work on it. There-
fore it’s decided to pack daughter off to
Palm Beach, though how this is going
to help isn’t made particularly clear. It
being the off-season there, unc. throws in
some parting advice to the effect that a
mild affair with a plumber will help fill
in the time and improve her mind ; in-
stead, she’s shortly entangled in a thor-
oughly serious affair with a professional
rodeo cowboy, Gary temporarily follow-
ing that coarse occupation to gather the
needful for buildings and so forth on his
embryo ranch.
The film really gets into its swing with
Merle being given preliminary schooling
by her two maids in the art of cowboy
handling; they have a “blind date” with
a couple of cowpunchers, and the seed
lightly cast by unc., boredom from being
apparently the only guest at the posh
pubbery, and possibly a touch of nature
decide her to throw off her inhibitions
and go along with them.
Picking Gary for herself from the trio
of cow-wrestlers, she is soon having her
mind improved with such philosophical
dissertations as that work-horses are nice
people but non-crippled women who need
maids to help ’em into their clobber are
a pain in the neck. Result of this, of
course, being that she makes him think
she’s a “work-horse,” with his subsequent
discovery that she’s one of the despised
providing complication and narrative sus-
pense, all ending nicely, however, with
not only bride but unc. and a reformed
pop as well down on the ranch.
From the time Cooper appears, Miss
Oberon’s is a minor part, but she plays
it for every ounce it is worth. In
present film-taster’s experience of him,
Cooper has never yet given a bad per-
formance, and he here plays the cowboy
in his characteristic effortless style, giving
a dramatic, and something of a national,
significance to a part which in almost
any other hands would be merely farcical
and may have been originally designed as
nothing more. As well as being a
pleasant romantic comedy figure, his cow-
boy carries the standard of the Ameri-
can masculine ideal from the Lincoln
tradition.
Despite the sustained character per-
formances of principals and sundry good
supports, the film leaves an impression
of disjointedness, through the scene shift-
ing jerkily from place to place. There-
fore it seems better in its parts than as
a whole. There are some excellent bits
in it. In one of them Cooper picks the
Oberon lass up and heaves her, fully
dressed, into the hotel swimming pool by
way of expressing his opinion. This is
all the better for being in the nature of
an afterthought—a sudden inspiration
after he had voiced his opinion pretty
conclusively and had turned to make
what would have been a melodramatic
exit.
Best bit in the film is a scene enacted
in almost pure miming by Cooper inside
the framework of his new home, only
the uprights, beams and part of the floor
of which are as yet in place. He makes
capital fun of going through the business
of a pleasant evening at home there with
his wife, at which dumb show he’s well
advanced when his antics attract the
startled ranch-hands. They gather round,
and the look Cooper manages when their
presence dawns on him is a perfect
comedy moment. Though only the
faintest change comes into his expres-
Cowboy Gary Cooper expresses his opinion of a lady in “The Cowboy and
the Lady,” at Sydney Regent.
sion, his thoughts can be read as clearly
as if he spoke them. He decides to go on
with the masquerade, and presently has
all hands inside the skeleton of a cottage
receiving purely imaginary drinks and
settling down in imaginary chairs. The
whole of this scene is film acting and
directing at their very finest —a diverting
little comedy complete in itself, begun
quietly and worked gradually up to a
smashing climax.
Taking the film as a whole, Cooper
has had richer opportunities for his
talents, but what he has to do he does
splendidly, and his and Miss Oberon’s
characterisations, together with a feasible
enough story, make it enjoyable.
“The Young in Heart. 9 *
Billie Burke, Roland Young, Douglas
Fairbanks, Jnr., Janet Gaynor.
In this extra-rich comedy at Sydney
Century the Hollywood formula of speed,
sheer nonsense and a sparkling but hard
veneer of sophistication is discarded in
favor of a more leisurely gait and a
measure of human sentiment, which
make for a steadier story, with more
natural and engaging characters.
Its people are father, mother, son and
daughter four very amusing persons,
whose main attractive qualities are im-
perturbable charm, empty pockets and a
penchant for filling them by circulating
with doubtful intent in moneyed circles ;
in fact, four altogether charming crooks
whose main ambition is to remain that
way and continue to regard life with
studied indifference.
Into their ken, however, drifts a fragile,
lonely old lady with oodles of boodle and
not a soul to whom she might leave it.
Her sudden affection for the family allows
them to play to her for all they’re worth
as four poor but honest victims of cir-
cumstance seeking opportunity to earn an
honest crust. They move in under her
palatial roof, and there set about mak-
ing themselves as agreeable as possible
and thus ensuring that their names will
figure prominently in her will.
In this bright endeavor they encounter
something their philosophy caif t encom-
pass. The simplicity and trust of their
benefactor gradually break down their
former conceptions, until they find them-
selves —much against their will, of course
—positively liking the old girl. Worse
still, they’re almost proud of their pro-
gress in honest occupations in which they
have engaged to make a good showing.
In fact, though they keep it hidden even
from themselves, they’re taking more than
a healthy interest in honest living, and
are almost ashamed of themselves for
the swindle they’re planning. Presently,
so privately that they wouldn’t admit it
even to their own consciences, son and
daughter find they wouldn’t mind marry-
ing— not for money, which they had con-
sidered would and should be the ideal
and only match, but, of all things, for
love.
The human and humorous qualities of
such a situation will be obvious. Natur-
ally it calls for more capable acting than
most comedies —there are parts within
parts; the main figures are not merely
puppets in a string of fast-moving situa-
tions—and that need is easily filled by
topnotch performances all round.
Young is by now a comedic institution,
and present film-taster cannot recollect
him in a better performance. He is, of
course, father of the family, being also a
bogus pukka sahib of the Bengal
Lancers and particularly adept with a
deck of cards.
Fairbanks also turns in a practically
flawless job, and when he and Young are
together the comedy touches rare heights.
Their forte is strict abstinence from work,
which to them represents something terri-
fying and incomprehensible.
Witness the pair of them in thought-
ful deliberation of navvies lumping bags
and pushing barrows. Fairbanks can’t
understand it, but Young has a vague
theory. “It’s instinct that makes them
do it,” he says. “It’s some obscure bio-
logical phenomenon.” And when Young
himself is faced with the prospect of tak-
ing a position as a car salesman, his and
Fairbanks’s trepid approach, their touch-
ing farewell and Young’s fearful entrance
into the building to a mangled arrant
ment of Chopin’s “Funeral March” would
have fll the air of a major tragedy were
it not for the absurdity of the whole
set-up.
A sterling performance from Minnie
Dupree as the wealthy and friendless old
woman forms a strong pivot for the rest
of the film. She presents a fine character
study, whimsical enough for the demands
of a light-hearted story and sufficiently
serious to be regarded as a remarkable
stretch of acting until a twist in her role
gives a certain hollowness to her last
few scenes.
Miss Burke contributes well to the
proceedings. She hasn’t much to do, and
for that reason has been seen to better
advantage, but it is unlikely that anyone
could have filled her part more satisfac-
torily. The Gaynor figures nicely as
daughter of the family, first to wilt under
the barrage of affection. Paulette God-
dard in her first role of any note also
quite interesting, and a braw young Scot
by name of Richard Carlson, a new-
comer to the screen, verra guid indeed.
“A Man to Remember”
Edward Ellis.
This forceful and rather moving film
at Sydney Embassy will probably, by the
strength in its quietness and forbearance,
leave a more lasting impression than will
the arrogant and hysterical “March of
Time” newsreel which figures on the
same bill.
It draws its strength from a flat,
almost documentary, presentation. Rather
than a story it is a series of incidents
connected only in that they all concern
the same man, whose ideals were such
that his actions in each case could be
readily anticipated. His life is revealed
in retrospect while his funeral is passing
down the street, and each incident pre-
sented as the story behind various docu-
ments and accounts which three creditors
are hungrily examining.
The character has been portrayed be-
fore —that of a country doctor in a small
town devoting his life to the welfare of
the poorer industrial section. Here he
is up against a parsimonious business
community with its smug sense of well-
being, against pettifogging regulations,
against the ignorance of his own patients
and against their and his own poverty.
It is done with scarcely any resort to
what are called strong scenes and with
a simplicity and directness that are rare
in American films and only sometimes
present in the British product. Characters
are etched with a restraint in keeping
with the film, and Ellis, as the doctor,
does not once slip. He plays easily and
naturally a role which might have been
derived from Goldsmith’s parson.
The film and acting invite little com-
ment because they deal mainly with the
uninteresting episodes of everyday life,
with petty meanness, with seamy little
tragedies, and with the logical attempts
of any thoughtful man to combat them.
In the faithful recording of its material
the film is a masterpiece.
Also on the Embassy bill is Allen
Doone, Irish tenor, with half a dozen
Irish melodies. Mr. Doone’s lament for
the passing of the legit, stage in Sydney
is hereby echoed with enthusiasm.
“If l Were King”
Ronald Colman, Basil Rathbone.
Warning: This current offering at Syd-
ney Prince Edward is not for admirers
of Franqois Villon: any association ends
with the name, and the film is strictly for
addicts of medieval derring-do.
It suffers from two faults common to
many spectacular adventure films. Lack
of any concrete theme, of strong conflict-
ing personalities and of any development
or deterioration of a central character
leaves a certain looseness about the narra-
tive, which the filmsmiths only partly con-
ceal with a general display of lavishness,
heart-interest and hazardry. Secondly,
with the rapid advance of color, films
which depend largely on spectacle fall a
bit flat without it, and the only reflection
evoked by any particularly arresting shot
is that it would have been much more
effective in color.
Otherwise the film is a fair stretch of
excitement. It concerns a romantic rap-
scallion called Francois Villon, whose
worst offences were “consorting with cut-
throats and wantons,” occasionally loot-
ing the king’s storehouse, and humani-
tarianism a few hundred years ahead of
his time, and whose virtues were chivalry
and good manners and ability to spout
pretty verse when the inclination took
him. For poking a knife into the innards
of a traitor to the king he was elevated
from the gutter to Grand Marshal or
something, and was thus able to parade
the palace in finest costumery, cast a
selective eye over the ladies of the Court,


and when the occasion arose, save Paris
from a Burgundian invasion.
It’s pure swashbuckling in Hollywood’s
baldest conceptions of history. A couple
of swordfights and a moider or two make
good measure, and if things threaten to
fag there’s always a couple of thousand
extras who’ll make a great show of
knocking each other’s heads off and
making an unholy din in so doing.
There’s a thread of refrigerated heart-
interest trailing throughout. Frances Dee
is milady; she pouts and smiles quite
prettily, but that’s about all she has to
do. Ellen Drew, with an excellent por-
trayal of a tavern wench, is a much more
forceful lass, despite a pronounced Amur-
rican accent. Colman, of course, merits
something better. He could do what he
has to in his sleep, and carries it off with
ability to spare. Best performance in the
show comes from Rathbone as Louis XI.;
he makes a masterly job of it —one that
would do honor to any film.
“Straight, Place and Show.”
Ritz Bros.
Every attempt to exploit U.S.A. hoss-
racing humorously makes it more evi-
dent that the Marx trio worked that plot
for pretty well all it was worth.
The much noisier, not nearly so witty,
but more broadly funny Ritz team work
extra hard to make this Sydney Plaza
offering shift along. They introduce a
few original touches, especially during the
running of the steeplechase which is the
grand climax, but a lot of the laughs they
raise depend on the biggest member’s
ability to turn his optics inwards and
swivel ’em around.
They are handicapped by having to
play second fiddle to the film’s lurv-inter-
est theme —a silly bit of twaddle about a
goil who’s so taken up with her racing
neddie Playboy that it cracks up her
engagement. Playboy is given to the
Ritz persons, who discover —a good bit,
this ; pity there wasn’t furlongs more of
it —that he’s a natural steeplechaser.
At the end, of course, disappointed
swain pilots Playboy to victory in the
big steeplechase; reunion follows, and
everybody’s happy.
Film includes a crooner of the female
persuasion, for mild criticism of whom
see any of the relative sentences in the
adjoining Sentence Competition results.
“Annabel Takes a Tour,” at Sydney
Embassy, is one of those occasional films
so inconceivably dreadful that the spec-
tator is held to his seat in a kind of awful
fascination.
At a Bushßre Concert.
Bushfire relief received another benefit
from a concert at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, organised by Ernest Rolls.
All available local talent was requisi-
tioned, and buskers, hoofdancers, terpsi-
choreans, wisecrack artists and other
public amusers poured in from their en-
deavors at the neighboring playhouses to
keep the pot of entertainment boiling.
When The Bulletin arrived six young
ladies from Toorak dad in shining rai-
ment were posing on the grand staircase
for their photograph before a smiling
pressman ; the foyer resembled a church
bazaar, and the interior of the theatre
was packed with the beauty and fashion
of the cosmopolis.
Programme included Raymond Lam-
bert’s piano-playing ; revivals of musical
comedy and grand opera, in which Marie
Bremner, Browning Mummery, Thea
Phillips, Frederic Collier and other old
favorites appeared with distinction, and
George Hancock revived the faded glories
of the Red Shadow in a scarlet dress-
ing gown. Most satisfying items were
Helene Denizon’s dancing and the Lam-
beth Walk performed by Maryon Dale,
Fred Harper and ensemble, with the as-
sistance of the escalator of His Majesty’s.
A desire on the part of some of the
artists to advertise the merits of rival
theatres was evident but understandable
in the circumstances.
“Tovarich.”
The Independent Theatre presented
this polished comedy at Sydney Con,
last Saturday, and after a somewhat
strained first act made a thoroughly
good job of it.
Play deals with a couple of refugees
from Bolshevik Russia—a Duke and his
Duchess living a bare existence in Paris,
despite having something like four bil-
lion francs which had been entrusted
to them by the Tsar to be used in the
best interests of Russia. The couple take
positions as housemaid and butler in
the home of a Parisian banker, where
the reactions of a bourgeois family to
their eccentric Russian servants provide
the main line of comedy.
The attempts of French banks and
of a Soviet Commissar to obtain the
four billion furnish the play with a note
of drama which gave occasional trouble
to some members of the cast.
Doris Fitton as the Duchess managed
her part nicely, playing well to Eric
Wright as the Duke, whose performance
was capable, if a little blunt. Clive
Coppard as the banker turned in an ex-
cellent piece of work, having the advan-
tage of being just about perfectly cast
for his part. Ronald Folkard and
Audrey Cunningham as his children
offered straightforward interpretations,
and Arthur S. Reardon was at least
fierce without possessing the subtlety of
Basil Rathbone, who filled the role in a
recent filmed version of the play.
The play, produced by Betty Ward,
will be repeated at the Con. on February
18 and 25 and on March 4.
Legit, in Melbourne.
Legit, continues on the up-grade in Mel-
bourne this year. Apart from the good
efforts of Ernest Rolls in professional
drama, the semi-professional repertoire
of the Gregan McMahon Players will
include J. B. Priestley’s “When We Are
Married,” Beverley Nichols’s “Mesmer,”
Philip Moeller’s “George Sands” and a
revival of Oscar Wilde’s “The Import-
ance of Being Ernest.”
“Dinner at Eight,” the comedy of
Edna Ferber and George Kaufmann, will
start off the season on March 11 and be
followed by “The Ascent of F 6,” a play
in verse and prose by W. H. Auden and
Christopher Isherwood, in which there
will be three distinct scenes and side-
shows in the boxes in simultaneous opera-
tion. Thomas Dekker’s “The Shoe-
maker’s Holiday,” written in the sixteenth
century, will be an hors-d’oeuvre for the
intelligentsia.
The Nat. Theatre Movement will come
into the picture with “The Beggar’s
Opera,” which had a phenomenal run
in Australia when revived over a decade
ago.
SECOND SENTENCE COMPETITION
Crooners, crocodiles, ’roo-shooters,
goats, blondes and Governors—in about
that order —were easily most numerous
among the curious species of “Aborigi-
nalities” fauna entered for The Bulletin’s
Second Sentence Competition, the £2O
first prize in which goes to R. F. Fair-
brother, Box 127, P. 0., Bordertown
(S.A.), for the happy thought:
Imagine an Australian Governor wel-
coming Dad’s womenfolk with “What ho!
here’s mud in yer eye!”
On the overwhelmingly large number
of crooners paraded opinion was pretty
well unanimous, on the lines conveyed
by Miss M. M. Bates, 3 Toongarah-road,
Waverton, Sydney, who takes the second
prize of £lO for the arresting blend of
musical criticism, graphic description and
wish-fulfilment in the sentence:
The crooner displayed remarkable
activity when hand-grenades from en-
thusiastic music-lovers dropped to the
stage.
A more personal depiction wins one of
the 20 £1 prizes for Miss Milly Nolan,
Selby House, Wickham-terrace, Brisbane,
the critical attack being of the same satis-
fying standard:
The crooner, a lean, insignificant-look-
ing professional, sent the music-loving
crocodiles daft, dithered and frantic.
“Here’s mud in yer eye!”
Mrs. A. Purcell, 45 Court-street, Box
Hill, Ell (Vic.), no doubt by some pro-
cess of association of ideas, also called
on the primitive for the sake of compara-
tive criticism:
Changing a crooner for an orang-
outang is a good indication of taste, but
naturally the self-respecting animal is in-
dignant.
The Bulletin’s music critic was in-
clined to oppose the crooner entry sub-
mitted by E. M. Fisher, 17 Alice-street,
Harris Park (N.S.W.), on the ground that
it should have been the other way about,
but agreed that there was at least £1
worth of discernment in the classifica-
tion :
The strains of the crooner are fiendish,
but the tang of a billygoat is the greater
menace.
One of the more democratic of the
Governors figured in another entry at
least no less remotely associated with
music:
The orchestra dispensed swing-music,
and the Governor, in astonishment,
politely asked were they stonkered,
which wins £1 for M. Oswald, “Domain,”
c/o G.P.0., Sydney. Also among the
musically-minded, Miss A. L. Graham,
Claverton, Culcairn (N.S.W.), a kindred
spirit regarding “swing,” takes a similar
Changing a crooner for an orang-
outang.
prize with a strange, but convincing,
picture:
The calico-clad orchestra dispensed
swing-music, though thousands of pigs
responded with screeches of derision.
A more exalted scene —musically and
otherwise —is surrounding for the ethereal
picture envisaged by John W. Martin,
339 Military-road, Mosman, Sydney:
A calico-clad blonde would be a re-
markable curiosity, particularly if found
6500 feet above Kosciuszko love-making
with Beethoven.
In some other entries —ruled out for
various reasons—the behavior of the
ladies collectively referred to as “the
blonde” was at least no more disturbing
than the calico-clad one’s performance,
The crooner displayed remarkable
activity.
but in some other instances it was so
deplorable as to suggest what a char-
acter in the current play., “The Women,”
somewhat coarsely designates “dirty
brunette propaganda.” An unclassified
member of the sex to behave perhaps de-
plorably, though not altogether through
her own fault, is depicted by the vividly
descriptive pen of Mrs. H. Power, Palm-
woods (Q.).:
The pub dispensed claret-cup to Matilda,
who chased snakes, crocodiles and vora-
cious sea-lions behind the bar, yelling
“Halt!”
That Matilda must have been obeyed
would seem to be confirmed by Miss Rita
Hickey, Marriott-street, Holland Park,
Brisbane, though sobriety might still be in
doubt:
Eager to make the menu imposing,
Matilda steams snakes, crocodiles and
seals with green potatoes and billy tea.
Claret cup —Matilda’s downfall—is
heartily debunked by D. Milbourne,
Weldon Photoria, 393 George-street,
Sydney, an obvious Our ’Arborite in both
the spelling of his name and the manner
of his attack:
Claret cup, a remarkable curiosity
cherished in Melbourne, will invariably
provoke tears of blood from a healthy
Australian.
Something more potent, then, is
evidently indicated in the horrific occur-
rence reported by J. M. Campbell, 18
Greville-street, Randwick, Sydney:
“Impossible!” the old chap roared
across the bar, as snakes, crocodiles, seals
and vanishing pigs heaved towards him.
But apparently they breed ’em tougher
up North, judging by the hardy ancient
observed on the job by W. F. G. Dun-
can, Bennett-street, Charters Towers
(Q.).-;
“I dispensed with water in 1839,” said
the wayfarer with pride, as the beer
disappeared into his unnatcheral grit-
starved paunch.
It would be somewhere North of
Twenty-eight, too, that J. M. Glass, High-
street, Wauchope (N.S.W.), may have ob-
served the spectacle he vimfully de-
scribes: —
Foot by foot two hungry crocodiles
gained on the nig., whose delight in the
chase was not pronounced.
More curious observation —qualifica-
tion, perhaps, for a job as a foreign cor-
respondent—in the report of P. S. Hoss-
feld, 36 Payneham-road, St. Peters, Adel-
aide :
A reliable writer chanced to meet a
rabbit wiping the eyes of a goat with a
huge red stocking,
though, if it’s Madame Tabouis’s job he’s
after, there are other strong competitors
in the field, among them Mrs. T. Honey-
man, Woodward-road, Orange (N.S.W.):
The council found a ghost walking on
their property and charged it a quid for
an unnatcheral performance,
and T. Howarth, 29 Mann-street, Laun-
ceston (Tas.), who reads like a foundation
member of the Abo. Council itself:
A good point about the rhino is yer
can use it for lobbin’ quoits, ringin’ the
peg on its noddle.
J. W. Roberts, 35 Bancroft-avenue,
Roseville (N.S.W.), might also belong to
that august fraternity, judged by the in-
ventive genius evident in his entry:
Imagine the mud thrown on the council
responsible if thousands of crocodiles
were to roam the bush and just weep,
Love-making with
Beethoven.
the authentic Abo.
Council touch being
present also in the
nice character-
study submitted by
R. Beatty, Box 112,
P. 0., Pittsworth
(Q.):-
Th e reach-me-
downs of the
ancient ’roo-shooter
are not imposing,
but his deportment
is strictly Cam-
bridge.
Not so strict,
apparently, that of
the count (Oxford,
perhaps?) involved
in the singular inci-
dent reported by
B. D. Sweetland, 1
Francis - street,
Hunter’s Hill, Syd-
ney: —
The merry
maidens watched
eagerly the careless
count’s love-making
and roared with
delight when the
lovers dropped into
the saltwater.
Also, a proper
deportment might,
perhaps, have
spared the Gover-
nor mentioned by
William H. Web-
ber, 16 Pauling-
avenue, Coogee, Sydney, this ribald in-
quisitiveness :
Had they known that the traveller was
the Governor, they would not have asked
which pub developed his paunch.
Placed last here in the listing of £l-
- winners only because it stands so
distinctly alone in both substance and
literary style is the ringing challenge of
A reliable writer chanced to
meet a rabbit.
M. Blanton, 114 Pentland-parade, Seddon
(Vic.), to the entire host of ’em from old
Walton to Mr. Zane Grey:
I was the man what caught the fish
that was never equalled in history.


Divorce Notice.
TO DOREEN EVLYN SHARPLES formerly
of Te Awamutu but now of parts un-
known Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband JOHJN
ASHTON SHARPLES of Wellington Plumber
has filed in the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Wellington a Petition in Divorce against
you claiming dissolution of his ma JTiage on me
grounds of desertion YOU ARE THERE-
FORE NOTIFIED that unless you enter an
appearance and file an answer in the said Lour
at Wellington within thirty days from tne
appearance of this advertisement the said peti-
tion will be heard and determined in your
absence
DATED at Wellington this 7th day of Febru-
ary, 1939. G E PO LLOCK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re
quested to forward to her the foregoing adv
tisement. .
R. E. GILLON is the Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, whose address f° r se^- e ‘ s B mb .
offices of the said R. E. GILLON, 288
ton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Somehow Friday night’s military
parade was far more exciting than one in
Centennial Park. There the parades on
the vast green arena savor of pageantry,
but on Friday night when that young
army marched up Macquarie-street, down
into Martin-place and so to the Town
Hall there was something personal, ter-
rible and uplifting in the scene. Did
Phillip stir on his pedestal to the tramp,
tramp of those feet? What did Bobbie
Burns think when the searchlights from
the warships in Farm Cove tore the green
shadows of the Domain as a Scots regi-
ment stepped smartly to its regimental
tune, “Highland Laddie”?
The march was a stimulant to recruit-
ing. Three thousand took part in it.
Artillery, infantry, cavalry and field am-
bulances, they passed through dense lines
of humans who pressed close to the bar-
riers along Macquarie-street, thousands
of them. Thousands of them again
watched tensely around the Town Hall
steps ; some of these had eaten their tea
out of the bag. The ear-splitting mechan-
ised units —tractors with caterpillar
wheels, rubber-tyred service lorries, 60-
pounder guns and the howitzers —were
the objects of the closest attention. There
were amplifiers along the route, and mili-
tary men explained the weapons as they
passed. One man remarked that a certain
gun’s range was from, say, the Town
Hall steps to Gladesville. “Good enough
for me, dearie,” remarked one Friday-
night shopper. “Nothing could get in-
side the Heads with that on the lookout.”
The Town Hall was the saluting base,
and here the Governor-General (he was
a brigadier-general) took the salute. Lord
Wakehurst, who was a captain of the
Buffs, Mayor Nock and other im-
portants were there, standing up to a
bombardment of camera flashes. The
City of Sydney Regiment, which was
founded in 1854, displays in its colors
the fact that it took part in the Sudan.
There was another regiment in the parade
with this distinction. The Sydney Univer-
sity Regiment, with its pipe band, was
led by a Windeyer. A Windeyer formed
it. The Royal Artillery band, in spirited
style, put dash into the latter part of the
march.
First prize for public speaking goes to
Stanley Melbourne Bruce. When it comes
to phrasing and diction he leaves Prime
Minister Chamberlain away behind. His
English was as well groomed as his per-
son at the Royal Empire Society’s dinner
last week, and that’s saying something.
The dinner was in the banquet-room of
the Australia, and the members had
turned up in numbers. President Hugh
Denison being still away, knight Mason
Allard and his wife received the guests.
Deep-blue lame gleamed in her frock
and coat.
Admiral Custance was an important,
and the Chief Justice Jordan couple were
also at the official board, the lady’s frock
and jacket of tailored white crepe. Red
roses and a silver frock were worn by
Mrs. Bruxner, who was squired by her
Minister for Transport. Mrs. J. L. Ruth-
ven and Admiral and Mrs. Feakes were
some who listened keenly to the verbal
unravelling of the skein of events that led
to the present international situation.
Beatrice Meeks’s pink satins gleamed
from beneath a black taffeta coat.
Dorothy Porter’s satins were palely pink
as a tea-rose. Mrs. Cary brought daugh-
ter Margaret. Miss Kate Egan and Mrs.
Leon Lyons were together.
Sound the tocsin, clash the cymbals!
The 1939 celebrity concert season is just
around the corner. The women’s com-
mittee came in large numbers to the first
meeting of the year, and filled the ball-
room of the Australia with washing
crispies and shady hats. The original
idea behind the founding of the celebrity
concerts still prevails. It is to make
Sydney so music-conscious that it will
know a Chopin waltz from Brtinhilde’s
Battle Cry without once consulting the
programme. Then, of course, another
problem will arise—who will buy the pro-
grammes? The Alexander Gordon lady
presided at the meeting, and the Com-
mission’s chairman, W. J. Cleary, told of
the good things the A.B.C. has in store.
Mrs. Walter Swinson, Chief Justice
Jordan’s lady, Mrs. Walter Burfitt, Mrs.
Crawford Robertson and Miss Kate Egan
were among those who hung on his words
when he told of the return of Lotte Leh-
mann, Dr. Sargent and Georg Szell.
Artur Schnabel’s coming is causing
pleasurable upheavals of the music cells
belonging to those who know his work.
The committee has gained many new
members all pledged to fish for sub-
scribers as strenuously as Zane Grey for
shark. These include such out-of-towners
as Noreen Dangar, Daisy Osborne and
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar. One of the
happiest moves is the decision to try to
take these orchestral concerts to the
suburbs. Two smart listeners were Miss
Jobson and Winifred Wilson, the latter
tailored in Paris tan linen.
The Japanese Empire was founded 2599
years ago. On Saturday the anniversary
was celebrated at the Japanese Consul-
General’s home at Darling Point with the
same ceremonial as it was being cele-
brated in every part of the world where
citizens of that island kingdom are
gathered together. Consul-General Waka-
matsu and his wife had hung their home
Craig-y-mor with brilliant lanterns. They
lit the green shadows in the gardens, and
in the reception-rooms they shone on
bright masses of flowers. Mrs. Waka-
matsu wore a ceremonial national dress
of green and gold. This was a very offi-
cial and representative reception, and
brought out the Consular Corps. The
Premier was represented by Chief Secre-
tary Gollan. The Navy and the Army
and Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress were
there.
Mrs. Dorothy Patrick, who devotes
much of her time to the work of the
British-American movement for world
peace, is putting a tremor into the spine
of A.B.C. listeners with her series of
talks, “She Was a Spy.” If any woman
among us, after • listening to Dorothy’s
vibrant voice telling the tale, thinks she
has the nerve to be a secret service sleuth
it is not this writer. Photograph from
Montgomery Dunn.
The reception-rooms in Mrs. A. E.
Grace’s home, opening with long glass
doors on to a stone terrace that looks
across Rose Bay into the westering sun,
were crowded last Saturday. Quite 200,
perhaps more, friends had been bidden to
rejoice with the Grace and Miller families
over the approaching marriage (set for
to-morrow at St. Philip’s on Church Hill)
of Jean Miller and Mick Grace. Bride-
to-be looked very attractive in a frock
that was cunningly blue and silver in
front, while the rest of it was black. She
stood greeting the guests beside Mrs.
Grace, whose frock was modernised
period (Gainsborough would have loved
it) in jacaranda-blue marquisette. Three
young married daughters of the house,
Mrs. Rosis, Mrs. King and Mrs. McCathie,
all good-lookers, circulated among the
guests. Miss Grose, Mrs. Grace’s sister,
lobelia blue her crepes, was another who
helped the party go.
This was a great catch of good-look-
ing women, Mrs. Florence Taylor and
Mrs. McCathie, senior, among them.
Mrs. E. Wunderlich, in Quaker greys
from her ostrich plume to her shoes, was
there with son Dr. Theo Wunderlich and
his wife. The Maurice Gulsons were
there, her coat of fine linen embroidered
all over; in an openwork leaf design. Its
hooks and eyes, large old-fashioned ones,
were of pearl. Mrs. Miller, mother of
the bride-to-be, wore a frock of black
sheer, its sleeves embroidered in tiny
pearls in a cobweb design.
Lute Drummond in a dinner frock of
pale-beige satin patterned in pale-pink
roses, the George Nassoor couple with
slim, young daughter Joy, the Norman
McLeods, her frock of convolvulus blue
bright with field flowers, the Stuart
Doyles, the Weihens, Mrs. Dan Kelly, the
G. Grahams, the Parker lady and Aubrey
Halloran were a few who admired the
flower pieces and the arrangement,
worthy of a Margaret Preston, of fruits,
rising to a cascade of white and purple
grapes, that decked the buffet in the
dining-room.
To a very small and friendly tea-
party given by the Governor-General’s
lady last Friday went Grace Palotta.
Several of the women guests had been
interested in Joan Hammond, and Miss
Palotta told them of hearing the Sydfiey
girl sing in Vienna and in London. There
was nothing but praise for Joan’s sing-
ing and poise. Perhaps this city is going
to be, for the world of to-morrow, a
source of supply to its opera houses.
Bertha Clarke goes off to Japan next
month. She will arrive in time for the
cherry blossom. After that she visits
Korea, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Pekin and
Manchukuo, with a view to convoying
groups of tourists over this same interest-
ing route.
Staying at Government House are
Earl and Countess Beatty. His father
was Admiral Beatty, of Jutland renown.
On their way here they have visited
Maoriland. As the Earl is chairman of
the Navy League, this group in Sydney
is busy with entertaining him and his
slim and extremely smart lady. Canberra
is to have a visit from them, and they
leave us early in March.
Lovers of good singing remember Con-
stance Pickworth’s pretty soprano. Con-
stance, just about crisis time last year,
went back to Italy for a refresher course
in vocal art. From Milan she went with
her teacher to Angers in France (you’ll
find that town mentioned in Shakspeare),
and among other things she did there
was to give a costume recital at a five-to-
seven reception of the “Art Lovers.” She
apparently took the friends of the arts
and the newspapers by storm, and one
paper raved about Australia, “that coun-
try which, except around the coasts, is
scarcely habitable,” but which has given
so many good singers to the world —
Nellie Melba, Marjorie Lawrence and
Constance Pickworth among them. Pic-
tures of Constance show her charming
in a Watteau shepherdess outfit. In this
she sang “Cherry Ripe” and airs from
“Manon,”
The Orcades brought a cargo of in-
teresting people within the Heads. Among
them was Lady Margaret Loder, an aunt
of Lord Wakehurst, who has given up
big-game hunting for tapestry work. With
Lady Margaret is Mrs. E. M. Herbert,
of Yorkshire, a sort of runner-up to Zane
Grey as an angler. Then there was Grace
Palotta, slim, graceful and bright of eye.
Her room at the Australia flowered like
an enchanted garden. Grace was one of
Sydney’s best-loved actresses about 20
years ago. In the years between many
Australians have met her on their visits
to the Continent, so there are lots of
friends to give her welcome. Among
them was the Comtesse de Vilme-Haut-
mont. Miss Palotta leaves Australia in
two or three weeks’ time. In the mean-
time she is spending a holiday in Bathurst
with her friend Mrs. Marnie Holmes.
In this ship, too, were the Baron and
Baroness de Tuyll and David Smyth,
who will go back to London in time
for the wedding of Lady Mary Lygon
to her Russian prince.
Maoriland flying-girl Trevor Hunter
has just returned to her home town Wan-
ganui, taking with her even more ideas
of elevation. These she acquired in
Frances Scully’s summer school of ballet,
where she was a gifted and energetic
worker. Trevor was also a pupil in the
special classes taken by Anton Dolin in
Frances Scully’s school. Tesla photo-
graph.
How many of his fellow-citizens know
that man of law J. J. Mulligan is a keen
and discerning observer of character?
Proof of this is to be found in his latest
novel, Women Are Such The ground
covered in its 294 page's is as large as
the world itself, and the problems of Jew,
Gentile and aborigine, from Russia to
Berlin, from London to Sydney, are
touched upon in a lively and provocative
conversational style. We believe the
seals in the Bay of Whales are the only
objects which have escaped dissection by
J.J.’s pen. It is the quick and shrewd
observation that will be remembered
when the thread of story becomes hazy.
But isn’t that the charm of even
Smollett?
The women of Sydney weren’t all
thinking of air raid precautions and
first aid one afternoon last week. Fine
feathers were uppermost in their minds
when they gathered in the Forum Club
to watch a parade of frocks for day and
evening displayed by the graceful manne-
quins of Pellier’s. These frocks all bore
the overseas stamp, and it is interesting
to note how very feminine the Paris
frocks make their wearer. This dress
parade had more the appearance of a
reception. Seated about the club’s draw-
ing-room were all Sydney’s best-knowns
and best-dressed.
Men did not despise this first peep at
Eve’s winter wardrobe. Apart from the
gentlemen of the Continent, whom you
are not surprised to see, for they just
naturally understand clothes as they do
food and wines, there were a few Aus-
tralians. The Consul-General for the
Netherlands was there with his v/ife,
whose hat sported a fleur-de-lis. France’s
Consul-General Tremoulet and Trade
Commissioner Felix Faure were among
the audience. Newly-returned Mrs.
Douglas Levy was among the admirers
of the Mainbochers, the Patous, the Mar-
tial „ and Armand. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s
frock and small hat were smartness in
black. Mrs. C. J. Pao, the Pierre
Remonds, Valerie Crowther, Mrs. Harry
Meeks, Mrs. Lennox Bode and Mrs,
Stewart Jamieson were keen beholders.
Pretty Mollie (Mary Frances Rigby)
Patterson made shimmering progress up
the aisle of St. Mark’s at Darling Point
one night last week. Blue and silver
lame, a pale-blue tulle veil and pink tiger-
lilies were the highlights of her attire.
Above her veil a coronet of crystal
caught the light. Mollie’s father was Dr.
Ernest Rigby, of Perth. Her mother is
Mrs. G. H. Patterson, of Bellevue Hill.
Bridegroom was Bill Farnsworth, only
son of Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Farnsworth,
of Coolah and Sydney. Bridesmaids were
Shirley Scandrett and Helen Blaxland.
Only intimates were invited to the church,
but there was a great gathering for the
dinner and dance which followed at the
Royal Sydney Golf Club.
There was music in the air, evidently,
when the fashion-designers were deciding
the season’s color notes. There’s talk of
rhapsody—a brilliant, vibrant early-
winter blue. Lyric is a caramel-brown
of great warmth; concert hovers
between crushed strawberry and old
rose. Sonata is a coppery-bronze
tone. There are camellia-pink, waltz-
green, Yankee-blue and some others
that are grouped as “old Victorian”
colors. Shimmering velvets marked
“crease resisting” are striped more fes-
tively than the zebra. Green, red, yellow,
carnation, royal blue, fuchsia and two
tones of violet march the stripes in one
dazzling bolt. Eye-blinking, you think?
Not at all. When winter comes you’ll be
putting it into your evening cape and
liking it. Even the lames are stripe-
infected. Ideal for the pouffed skirt, or
even the crinoline (from it and air-raids,
Fleaven defend us) with which we are
threatened, are the taffetas on which lame
stripes make huge squares.
Hats are still pillbox, shako, beret and
fez in shape. There are also some varia-
tions of the doll hat. Velvet once more
holds its own as a fabric, and veils and
feathers are on everything that’s to be
worn on the female mind-container. Tall,
draped turbans will also be included in
mother’s overhead. Suede-finished felts
in spectator sports are what good spec-
tator sports hats should be —neat and
very simple, and often high in crown.


s erJ eS
V &at aC^ an a
s sex° Ve v Yve
<?*** '
_ 7, sn oV>i
as 1 ' caa eaCU oV en s^e V ’ g \ass^ ate
wttoW L w^t^;^>- tevW
yis
ofC
at «*#
'$° W * n Z»c«‘-T^ <*« ““TcW****'.. «vA
pTi’
i.TO
v \ -
"’"‘■'sfey
||
" A/
'1
"Jr
- iw',' f
•f '*% %
; .v’rv-
¥
v-r
jyGtfc


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centeilare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day. —■
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
The Bulletin, Sydney.
WAR!
Declare war on insect pests—
use IXSECTIBANK powder . . .
It cannot fail. Insectibane posi-
tively kills flies and other
insect pests but is harmless to
humans and animals: it lasts
longer, too! Sold everywhere
in Australia by chemists and
stores: buy Insectibane and
banish insects! The new
Insectibane Applicator ensures
effective distribution of the
powder in animals’ fur and in
insect-infested corners ... ask
to see it!
INSECTIBANE
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
There’s flutter of feathers about the
news that the Duke and Duchess of Kent
will be homeless while in Melbourne.
Many people would welcome the oppor-
tunity of lending their homes to the royal
pair, but the Government won’t entertain
such suggestions, and prefers, the sharing
of Government House by the Kents and
Dugans. Possibly the tactful Dugans will
think of an ingenious way to smooth out
the matter.
It seems that Melbourne won’t be 'see-
ing overmuch of the handsome George
and the beautiful Marina. They miss the
Cup by a couple of weeks, and start off
their office in the quiet, sleepy surround-
ings of Canberra. In preparation for their
visit wheels within wheels are already
revolving in every town. Some folk who
have lived at Canberra and called the
place “poisonous” grumble no longer.
Others who used to protest violently at
the possibility of their being transferred
to the Federal Capital are now paragons
of amenability.
Already mothers of very young children
are compiling pruned and repruned lists
of the kindergarten group which might
be drawn upon for playmates for Prince
Edward and Princess Alexandra. The
most enterprising of all, who previously
felt that their duties were done and their
families complete, are thinking it wouldn’t
be a bad plan to start again just in case
the little Alexandra has a maternal in-
stinct and is fond of playing with children
younger than herself.
As for the debs., they wouldn’t be en-
joying the bloom of youth if they didn’t
all want to make a curtsy to royalty.
The 16-year-olds will be clamoring to
leave school and come out early ; those
of 18 will be held up for possibilities of
ceremonial dances at the end of the year
—not that they will miss their dancing
all through the winter. Mothers’ pre-
judices seem to be well worn down, so
that few people ever think of a rigid line
between boy-and-girl parties and more
formal functions. The very young and
not-quite-so-young go dancing on the
same floor to the same swing music, wear-
ing one another’s plumage and progress-
ing gradually from lemonade and a glass
of sherry at Christmas to sparkling wine
tasted first at an elder sister’s wedding.
Crowned with success in a big way
was the gala performance at His
Majesty’s, the Lady Mayoress’s special
effort for the bushfire relief fund.
Although it was held late in the relief
campaign, everybody having already
made donations, there was no difficulty
about selling tickets, two by two or
dozen by dozen. Circle and gallery were
crowded, and there were only a very
few empty seats in the stalls. Artists
on contract with J.C.W. (the old name
persists ; A.N.Z.T. will have a hard job
to catch up on its predecessor’s euphony),
from the Tivoli and from the Fullers’
Hollywood Hotel” and superb Chinese
acrobats from Hoyt’s Regent had col-
laboration with their managements and
generously gave their services. As many
of those artists had already been in two
shows that day, and the “Waltz Dream”
people had been rehearsing, this was no
empty gesture. The audience was in-
terested in and liked what it heard and
saw of the voice and personality of a
new baritone brought out for “A Waltz
Dream,” Melton Moore.
The show didn’t finish till 11.50 p.m.,
so there was a scurry for last trams and
trains by those who don’t travel on their
own private wheels. The drink bars
cashed in on the hot night as fast as
bottles could be opened in the upstairs
foyer and in the adjoining reception
room. Cr. and Mrs. A. W. Coles re-
ceived Lord and Lady Huntingfield and
their party, including Colonel and Mrs.
Pott and a pocketful of aides, all of
v/hom were glad of long, cold thirst-
quenchers in the intervals and after the
show.
On her arrival Mrs. Coles paid a
visit to Mrs. H. S. Wooton’s flower
kiosk and chose something special in
orchids to play second fiddle to the pastel-
pink ostrich feathers of her glamorous
cape. A troupe of the younger genera-
tion sold programmes, sweets and flower
posies. The caramels and chocolates
were very sensibly boxed up in cartons
and a generous wrapping of decorative
paper, an idea that has every advantage
over the old bazaar custom of cardboard
baskets that overbalance to the loss of
their purchasers and the detriment of
the theatre floor.
On the large committee of assistants
were Mrs. Norman Carlyon, slim and
cool in duck-egg blue ; Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
in ivory chiffon, who was with a party
of 25 in the circle ; Paddy Wilkinson,
who disposed of chocolates with a smile,
and Mrs. Marchant Penfold, who also
had the ribbon of a tray of goods around
her neck (she saw part of the show from
a box with her husband). Mrs. C. de
Woolfe had flowers for sale and more
flowers, or at least their petals, arranged
in layers of shell-pink taffeta upon the
corsage of her frock (she comes from
Singapore, before her marriage was Mar-
jorie England, and recently celebrated
her twenty-first birthday).
Another youthful flower-girl was
Jean Young, who discarded her blue
quilted coat as the evening pro-
gressed and the crowd and the atmo-
sphere thickened. Fleeting glimpses in
the packed house were caught of
iridescent black and white sequins, con-
trasting elements, upon Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh’s gown ; of cool and fragile chif-
fon worn by Valerie Downes, who is
soon off to England; of the Robert
Knox couple and their son David and
his very newly-acquired fiancee Peggy
Mollard ; of blonde Mrs. Tom Paterson,
in white lace, and of Mrs. Gerald Bar-
rington, wearing one of the lovely silver
gowns noticeable during the evening.
A cheque for £730, to which there
will be added a further £4O-odd from
donations, sales of catalogues, etc., was
handed to the Lord Mayor on Saturday
morning at the drawing of the art union
of pictures organised by the painters of
Melbourne for the bushfire relief. Present
at the drawing were John Rowell, who
first thought of the idea, Mrs. Edith
Smart, who was on duty at the
Athenaeum every day during the ex-
hibition, and several other people who
had given unselfish services. Among
popular wins were the falling of Ola
Cohn’s bookends to knight Walter
Leitch (who bought the first book of
tickets sold), an A. D. Colquhoun pic-
ture for Lady Huntingfield and a Harold
Herbert for C. C. Gale, Secretary of the
Public Works, who has done an amount
of organising for the fire relief.
The only member of the Coles family
who drew a winner was Mrs. G. J. Coles.
Stanley Smith was present at the draw-
ing. He didn’t bring himself luck,
although he heard the names of Mrs.
Lindsay Smith and Edgar Smith both
called. The Lindsay Mildreds now have
a decorative Rupert Bunny upon their
walls, and Dr. Barbara Wood’s room
at Royal Melbourne Hospital looks all
the gayer for its newest acquisition, Will
Rowell’s “Enchanted Pool.” Mrs. Felix
Meyer, Dr. R. H. Strong, Captain Mof-
fat-Pender, Arthur Phillips, Mrs. Edward
Stevens, Val Blogg, Yvonne Cohen,
Guelda Pyke, Mrs. W. J. Cleery, Colonel
Pestell and J. A. Seitz were among the
lucky 120-odd. J. Hume Cook had an
extra run, for he won two pictures.
One of the week’s interesting engage-
ments is that announced between Judith
Chirnside and Reshid Bey. Judy is the
elder daughter of Captain and Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside, of Carranballac, Skip-
ton, and her fiance the only son of M.
Chefik Bey, who is Turkish, and Madame
Bey, who’s an Australian, of Ashburne-
place, London. The young couple met a
year ago when Mr. Bey was visiting this
country. Their friendship blossomed
when Mrs. Thiel and Judy were in Eng-
land recently, so that Mrs. Thiel was not
altogether surprised when her grand-
daughter confided to her the existence of
a beautiful ring set with six diamonds.
Although she is so young Judy can keep
a secret. No one in the Orcades knew
about the engagement until the ship
berthed in Melbourne and Mr. Bey came
on board to welcome his fiancee. He had
travelled to Australia a month earlier with
his mother, who before her marriage was
Florence Winter-Irving. So far no wed-
ding plaps have been made, but as Mr.
Bey’s profession is wool (he has had Brad-
ford experience) and as both he and Judy
are fond of country life their friends will
not be surprised if their first home is on
an Australian property.
Joyce Robinson (Dickinson-Monteath
photograph) has recently become en-
gaged to Rex Ebbott, younger son of the
F. B. Ebbott couple, of Malvern. Joyce,
who is the second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Robinson, of Walsh-street,
chose as an engagement ring an eternity
circlet of diamonds and emeralds. The
fact that the wedding will not take place
till the end of the year gives the young
couple a useful span of time to attend
sales and pick up pieces of old furniture
for the flat that is to be their home.
Mrs. Thiel and her granddaughter were
away 10 months. In London, where they
had apartments in Mayfair, they spent a
very social time seeing friends and attend-
ing parties and going off for week-ends
to visit Mrs. Thiel’s son Ken, who, with
his wife and son, lives at Hove, near
Brighton. Mrs. Thiel was present at the
impressive ceremony of the launching of
the Queen Elizabeth. A pleasant memory
is a motor trip to the extreme north-west
of Scotland. She had never before, seen
anything as purple as the heather nor as
peacefully beautiful as the lochs.
Last October she and Judy went to the
Continent, where they travelled, usually
by train, to Paris, Switzerland, Italy, the
Riviera, Vienna, Budapest and to Ger-
many, in which country they were im-
pressed by the loyalty shown to Hitler
and to the Government and the absence
of unemployment, and by the friendly
feeling in all walks of life for Mr. Cham-
berlain. The outbreaks which succeeded
the incident of the young Polish Jew
shooting a German diplomat in Paris
commenced suddenly and out of the blue
when they were in Nuremberg and con-
tinued while they were in Berlin. Passing
through Adelaide on their voyage home
the travellers were given such a heart-
warming welcome that they nearly missed
the ship. This reception was forthcoming
from several of Judy’s friends, all past
pupils of Clyde.
Two small girls who have found that
the possums in Fitzroy Gardens like to
have bananas handed to them every
evening at dusk are Shirley and Jo
Coombes, aged 10 and seven respectively,
who with their parents are new arrivals
in Australia. Their father is English
and was born in India ; their mother,
Canadian-born, has lived in England
since just after the war. At the moment
she is busy looking for a house for her
family, and hopes to have one by the
time the furniture, a radio set to which
her husband is particularly devoted, a
piano and china and crystal arrive from
England.
Mr. Coombes, who is engaged in
aeronautical research work at Fisher-
men’s Bend, a department under the
jurisdiction of the C.S. and 1.R., was
a pilot during the war and lakr studied
engineering. One of his lightweight
talents is for rapid and comical sketches
of the people he meets. Jo seems to
have inherited this flair, and recently
poured a billyful of cold water on her
father’s head with her pencilled impres-
sion of what he’ll look like when he
reaches the hoary old age of 41.
Blonde Thelma Besant leaves this week
in the Norwegian ship Taronga for pas-
tures new in South Africa. She expects
to be there for perhaps a year, and her
job will be propaganda for a firm of
beauty - culturists. Since her return
from England a couple of years ago
Thelma has toured all the States, and has
made four trips to North Queensland, by
train, sea and air, in connection with her
work. Recently she recuperated her
vitality and put an admirable coat of
suntan upon her skin on a three weeks’
holiday within sound of the breakers and
the penguins on the south side of Phillip
Island. To remind her of Australia in
the new country, where she has as yet no
friends, and of which she has been able
to discover remarkably little, she is tak-
ing her pictures, among them landscapes
and etchings by Australian artists.
Alec Pratt, who recently became
Kew’s Cr. Pratt, is entering the Gregan
McMahon sphere of fine arts with a
bang and repeated reverberations of his
own particular brand of laughter. He
has important roles in forthcoming Mc-
Mahon productions. On March 11 he’ll
have opportunities of throwing his weight
about in the Wallace Beery part of Dan
Packard in “Dinner at Eight.” On the
25th he will drop the Beery amiability
and become the pompous and objection-
able Ransome in “Ascent of F 6.”
Peggy Tronson (Broothorn photograph)
leaves on the 27th in the Monterey for
what will be her third trip abroad. This
steamship mileage pales before that of
her aunt, Mrs. Adrian Boccard, whom
she is accompanying. Mrs. Boccard has
been round the world so often and in
so many directions that she has forgotten
the number of her journeys. Peggy hopes
to be away six months, and may persuade
her cousin Pat Gray to return home at
the same time. Last year Pat slipped
•through the fingers of aunt Mrs. Boccard
to remain longer at the Paris University,
where she is studying languages and
history.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production *
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Stop
Constipation
HELP STOMACH
AND BOWELS
Constipation—called the Mother of Disease
—is at last being successfully treated in a
new way that is safe, natural and unusu-
ally simple. Specialists have traced the
primary cause of Constipation to the con-
ditions known as self-poisoning, i.e., a
clogged colon. Modern foods which fre-
quently lack roughage, vitamins and essen-
tial minerals fail to give the bowels suffi-
cient exercise. As a result of this inactivity,
the colon (large intestine) fails to pass out
of the body all the food refuse left over
from digestion. Fragments of food waste en-
crust on the colon walls—much as rust en-
crusts on a water pipe—and there decay.
The colon becomes hard, strangulated and
inactive. Poisons develop from decaying
encrusted matter and are absorbed into the
blood stream. These poisons circulating in
the blood cause headaches, depression,
bloating, indigestion and hosts of other dis-
tressing symptoms experienced by sufferers
from Constipation.
To get rid of Constipation you must first re-
move the encrusted waste matter on the
colon. The walls of the colon have become
semi-rigid because of this “human-rust”
deposit. Opening medicines only purge the
lower end of the colon, leaving the upper
part unaffected.
So drink warm water and ‘Coloseptic’ every
morning. This simple plan cleanses the en-
crusted waste from the colon, tones up the
walls, giving them back their normal move-
ment. It corrects all acid conditions in the
stomach and bowels. ‘Coloseptic’ also
stimulates the actions of the pores of the
skin and the lungs—vital organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. Once
the colon has been restored to normal
activity, you will be able to get full bene-
fits from your food with a consequent
gain in health, strength and vitality. Stop
Constipation—the basic cause of 95% of
disease —take ‘Coloseptic.’ At chemists—
Individual size, 2/9; Economy size, 5/6.
free sample
Send 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC CO. (N.Z.),
LTD., P.O. Box 1067, Auckland.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
New Deal for Binghi
“Munni”: The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has decided to go into N.T.
native-affairs management in a manner
which is high, wide and handsome.
There is to be a Native Affairs De-
partment “on the lines of New Guinea
and Papuan practice.”
New Guinea alone has an estimated
native population of 542,000. About a
third of these are under regular organised
control; another fifth at least under par-
tial control. There are seven districts, and
40,000 natives are employed under in-
denture. Natives paid taxes of £21,859 in
1936-37.
The Northern Territory boasts
17.730 natives according to the
N.T. official census of 1936, and
only about 10,000 of these are
nomadic. Of the balance, 2800 are
employed in supervised camps ; an-
other 700 are working outside
supervised camps, and 3800 are in
supervised camps, apparently not
employed. The totals include 630
half-castes.
There are to be a director and
an assistant director, a native con-
stabulary, “district officers, patrol
officers and officers capable of im-
parting native edu-
cation,” and a
training course, as
for New Guinea
cadets, at Sydney
University.
How many there
will be on the staff
is not stated. New
Guinea outside
Papua has 142
white and 900 native police and 11,031
native officials. The district officers and
their patrol officers perform—for Euro-
peans and Asiatics, as well as natives—
all duties of a magisterial and adminis-
trative nature which are carried out by
magistrates and an abundant civil service
in the N.T. All but four of N.G. Euro-
pean officials receive salaries of over
£3OO p.a.
It should be noted, with approval, that
N.T. natives “living in a tribal state will
be left alone and protected from intrusion
from whites,” so that the intensive re-
sponsibilities of the new department will
cover approximately 7000 Binghis, all
of whom, except 590, are in camps or
employment or in gaol, and half of whom
are in Darwin!
The few patrol officers, if they are any
good, must be paid wages equal to New
Guinea wages and have a hope of pro-
motion in front of them —£400 to £5OO a
year is the New Guinea average. New
Guinea district officers get from £6lB
to £7BO.
The native police are to “accompany
white officers on journeys, act as guides
and do ordinary routine police jobs.”
Will Mr. McEwen tell me, please, how
many miles of country there are in the
N.T. over which any competent white
officer is likely to need a native guide?
Courts of Native Affairs, of course, will
“be established on New Guinea lines.”
The D.O. will be the “magistrate in
charge of the court,” and “reputable
natives wherever possible will be nomi-
nated by the people themselves as
assessors.” In the primitive state all
natives who wish to live are “reputable”
in a native sense —the others get knocked
on the head at an early age. And if repu-
tation is to be judged by white-man stand-
ards, isn’t the white man stuffed with
anthropology, ethnology, theory, piety
and law, much better qualified to pick
the native mushrooms from the native
toadstools than the natives themselves?
Anyway, New Guinea has special dis-
trict native courts because it has to
handle each year about 2000 cases in
which impenitent coons are punished for
offences such as spreading false reports,
being out after nine o’clock, adultery,
having a pair of knuckledusters, playing
football in a residential area and riding a
bicycle without a permit. Except for a
few charges of sorcery and a dribble of
other crimes likely to raise village riots or
imperil authority, most of the offences
“’ Struth, where's Charley ?”
might be lumped under the head of being
a nuisance in white towns or plantations.
Serious crimes by natives, like owning
indecent photographs, buying copra with-
out a license, driving a car without a
license and following the example of Syd-
ney Government buses by overloading
passenger lorries, are not tried in native
New Guinea courts. The villains involved
are dealt with by ordinary 'District Court
procedure. More serious offences go to
the Supreme Court —incidentally over 50
p.c. of committals were for sexual
offences in 1936-37.
The total annual number of convic-
tions of abos. in the N.T. in all courts—
against New Guinea’s total of 3000- —is
normally from 170 to 200. Two-thirds
of all miscreants are charged with unlaw-
ful possession of goods, being in pro-
hibited areas, being drunk or drinking
liquor. The balance are cases which
mostly would be tried in ordinary courts
in New Guinea.
It is obvious that Native Department
magistrates, assessors and coppers are
going to have a nice, quiet time under the
new regime.
Lastly, compounds are to be reorgan-
ised much on Queensland lines — The
Bulletin has advocated this for years, as
the only system which has shown effec-
tive results. And the Government will
“co-operate with missions” and subsidise
them subject to their “following a general
policy for the physical care and training”
of abos. along lines laid down by the
Native Affairs Department.
The only missions are on the edges of
reservations. They depend for their pabu-
lum on districts in which the natives
have tribal organisation and, under the
new policy, are to be “left alone.” How
missionary effort for the physical well-
being of the locals and the Government
policy of isolation for tribes are to be
reconciled, Mr. McEwen perhaps knows ;
nobody else can know.
However, where Governments are con-
cerned the deciding and doing are not
always the same thing. In 1935-36, after
hearing the findings of a committee of
inquiry, the then Minister, Mr. Paterson,
approved of the establishment of a native
constabulary as “part of an extensive
plan to improve the status” of the black-
fellow. The “extensive plan,” if any,
was mislaid.
“X.T.”: As far back as 1814, Gover-
nor Macquarie decided to treat the native
as a neighbor and a man, and the
material he worked on was superior to
that of Darwin. He called regular annual
conferences of blackfellows at Parra-
matta. He gave those who wanted
’em land and stock. Unfortunately
they ate the stock and went to sleep
till the next conference. Macquarie
found a Native Institution with which
the tribes were delighted. Abo. youth
and beauty were taken there, clothed,
fed and educated. Some of them amazed
their teachers by their intelligence. When
they had graduated, they returned to the
tribes and were soon chasing goannas
with enthusiasm and getting in the way
of ambitious stockowners. A remnant
of their descendants sells boomerangs to
tourists.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: This New Guinea capital
business is becoming so complicated that
I sway every time I think of it. First,
the Commonwealth Government ap-
pointed an expert committee of vulcano-
logists to report whether Rabaul head-
quarters should be moved. It sent more
experts to report where it should be
moved to. It sent W. M. Hughes to
report whether the experts were right.
W.M.H. said “No,” and plumped for
Salamaua as a quiet, earthquake-free
place. Providence sent a tidal wave and
an earthquake within a few months, and
the Hughes Plan disappeared like a reced-
ing geyser. Now, a Cabinet sub-com-
mittee —I’ve missed out one or two of
those which operated previously—will ask
more experts to report whether Port
Moresby shouldn’t be the capital of
amalgamated New Guinea and Papua.
All that will remain then will be for Mr.
Harrison to follow the committee and
for another committee to follow Mr.
Harrison. That will take the Common-
wealth Government about as far as it
gets with most of its schemes.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Latest scheme for
spending a little more revenue in Queens-
land is to send a couple of doctors to
make a “leprosy survey” of abos. There
used to be a bit of the disease along
the Cape York coasts and even in the
interior of the peninsula, but patients had
an odd habit of disappearing during long
walks with the Old Men. The strange
thing to me was that, while a healthy
native had no qualms about talking to
a leper, he would have preferred to kiss
the prong on Auld Snootie’s tail to
touching a leper or any of his belong-
ings. In other words, the natives seemed
to know what it took modern science a
long time to discover —that leprosy is
contagious but not infectious.
* * * *
“Mookau”: I nominate the Atherton
Tableland as the large-scale butter-pro-
duction country nearest in the world to
the Equator. Last year three factories
turned out 2090 tons.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Those who know
Torres Strait waters will be surprised to
hear that Goode Island—327ft. hill, light-
house, signal station and all —exists no
longer —at least officially. The latest
issue of Admiralty charts for the neigh-
borhood has altered it to Goods Island.
Flinders originally named it Good’s
Island during his 1802-03 survey. One of
Captain Owen Stanley’s cartographic
officers in H.M.S. Rattlesnake seems to
have been responsible for altering it to
Goode Island during the 1848-49 survey.
The error was perpetuated in the 1881
survey by H.M.S. Alert, and has con-
tinued until the present issue, which varies
it once more. The native name was
Palilug. Vessels approaching from the
westward signal the station if they require
a pilot for the Strait and Inner Passage
route down the Queensland coast.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane’s C.I. men
have scored a neat job of work without
making a single arrest. A 14-months
child was taken to a city doctor, who diag-
nosed probable diphtheria. While a swab
was being examined, the mother took the
child away, leaving a name and address.
The swab was positive, and an ambulance
was sent for the child. The name and
address given by the mother proved false.
Realising the danger from a diphtheria
case not in isolation, the city health
officials asked the police to help in trac-
ing the child. The request was made at
4 p.m. The only clue was the suburb
stated in the wrong address. A list of all
children born in that suburb during the
last two years was obtained from the
Registrar’s office, and three detectives
were told off to trace all of them. By
6.30 the missing child was under treat-
ment in the isolation hospital.


*^*saa./
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
ď
YOUR MONEY
That’s why GAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
Stato —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
St. George's House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are IS/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear iu July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Long-distance Television
Reception.
When the 8.8. C. television station com-
menced transmissions at Alexandra
Palace in North London an opportunity
was afforded radio engineers of studying
the transmission properties of ultra-short
waves in the region of seven metres. In
January, 1937, engineers of the Radio
Corporation of America erected special
aerial systems at Riverhead, New York,
with the object of determining whether
such waves could be regularly received at
long distances. 8.8. C. television sound
transmissions are heard well at this loca-
tion during certain periods, and the
images, too, have been observed success-
fully quite recently.
Before the station was erected it was
known that, under what may be termed
freak conditions, waves of the order of
five metres could span considerable dis-
tances. American amateurs reported sig-
nals clear across the continent, and Euro-
pean signals were heard intermittently.
In the Southern Hemisphere amateurs
were busy likewise, and there were veri-
fied reports of European and trans-
Tasman reception of five-metre signals
from experimental station VK2NO in
Sydney. Nine - hundred - miles working
has since been a regular yearly occur-
rence in U.S.A. during May, June and
July, and, last year, in December.
The continuous R.C.A. observations at
Riverhead have dispelled a good deal of
the mystery surrounding this subject, for
it has been found that the ultra-short-
wave signals from both London and
Berlin have been received in America- at
the precise periods when they should be
expected. Medium and long waves travel
to the Antipodes in long hops, being re-
flected by. layers in the upper atmosphere
and by the earth itself. Reflective prop-
erties of these upper layers vary consider-
ably, so that on some days wave-lengths
down to five metres are reflected, and on
other days the range of wave-lengths sub-
ject to such reflection does not extend
below 10 or 12 metres. By scientific
correlation the radio physicist is able
each day to state roughly just what the
available wave-length limit is.
Methods are now available for measur-
ing the strength of ionisation in the two
reflecting layers. Application of these
methods has shown 8.8. C. engineers that
the London television wave-lengths of six
to seven metres are more frequently
below the available limit than not, and
it is quite impossible to give a guaran-
teed overseas radio service by means of
them. The upper and more dense of the
two reflecting layers usually reaches maxi-
mum density in the English winter,
November and February being favorable
months. It is during these periods that
the American observers have recorded
best reception. A curious and unex-
plained feature of these spasmodic trans-
missions is that the signals often take the
longer route to America. They have been
heard more strongly when the receiving
aerial at Riverhead has been directed to
receive maximum signals from the west.
The short route is east, directly across
the Atlantic.
It may be deduced that there is no
hope that a regular Empire television
service is within the grasp of the radio
engineer in view of sunspot-cycle condi-
tions. As the sun’s activity, which is now
at a maximum, decreases during the next
few years, reports of ultra-short-wave re-
ception at long distances can be expected
to grow less frequent. Similarly it cannot
be expected that television will be any-
thing but a purely local service within
the confines of the country of operation.
Extension of the London service will
therefore have to be effected by means
of co-axial cable, which is a very expen-
sive method, or by relay stations, the
aerials of which will need to be prac-
tically within optical range of each other.
Despite these difficulties, television is
bound to forge ahead., The most inter-
esting possibility for Australia at present
appears to be the recorded method, dis-
cussed recently in Sydney with the writer
by Oswald Anderson, of Broadcasting
Enterprises, London. Economic difficul-
ties are a serious obstacle in the path of
establishing television stations in Aus-
tralia. No doubt in time a way will be
found to overcome them, but meanwhile
the idea of playing Alexandra Palace pro-
grammes with vision and sound from
disks sounds attractive enough to war-
rant immediate investigation.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
A newly-constructed u.-h.-f. superhet
is giving good results at the writer’s
experimental station. Using a system of
changeable coils the range covered is
from 60mc. to 28mc. (five to 10 metres) in-
clusive. Many receivers have been tested,
on five metres particularly, during the last
few years, but this outperforms any
previously tried, including a special im-
ported commercial receiver designed to
cover everything from 3.5 to 55 metres.
The receiver has the 1851 as primary
coupled T.R.F. amplifier with 6JBG con-
verter valve. Two stages of 1600 kc. I.F.
with 6D6’s and the new Tasma I.F.Ts.
comprise the intermediate channel, and a
6CBG is used as second detector and first
audio. Grid-leak detection with the
Jones cathode regeneration control for
C.W. is employed, and a 42 pentode feeds
a permag. speaker. Noise limiting with
the 6H6 double-diode is included, and
is particularly helpful in cutting off the
peaks Of electrical and ignition inter-
ference. Operation, by single-dial con-
trol, is done with all the ease of tuning
a conventional' broadcast receiver, and all
New lattice-type aerial tower constructed
by 56mc. experimenter M. Phillips
(VKSZU) previous to erection. This-
station is located at Prospect (S.A.).
Sydney five-metre stations are received
at full volume —in some cases with the
I.F. amplifier completely shut down. The
experimental seven-metre transmissions,
taking the programmes of 2CH simul-
taneously, are heard with more than
comfortable volume, no aerial being
needed for this station. When the
amateur 10-metre band is open the usual
run of Americans and Hawaiians are
there in full force, and several American
u.-s.-w. broadcasters and police stations
have been heard very strongly. The re-
ceiver will be described in detail shortly.
A similar job is to be taken to Newcastle,
N.S.W., to make tests on Sydney five-
metre transmissions, and the writer is
more than confident of good reception
results.
Tests with five-metre transmission and
reception using a vertical J type aerial,
with matching section and EOl line,
have shown marked improvement over
the double dipole beam. VK2IQ, at Bur-
wood, reports an increase of two Rs
in signal. Ordinary electrician’s conduit
is used for the radiator, and. 12-gauge
copper for the J matching section, the
electrical conductivity of the conduit
being improved by bonding a copper wire
along the length. This makes a self-
supporting structure projecting above the
pole. End-fire gain afforded by a “pitch-
fork” type of array (double J) is to be
compared.
The idea diagrammed, from “QST,”
shows a simple method of using two
“pitchforks” at right angles, with feeder
switching for change of directivity with-
out the necessity for rotation. Four-
direction edverage is thus given with a
minimum of trouble by operating a
DPDT switch in the “shack.” C shows
a side view of the arrangement, and D
is ,th e plan. The two radiators are
spaced only one-eighth wave, which is
2ft. at five metres. A, B and C are half-
wave radiators, Bft. 4in. long for 56mc.
This overall length includes the bend in-
wards to the junction of the quarter-
wave matching stub. The scheme would
undoubtedly be of great value on 10
and 20 metres also.
During the recent Vic. bushfires,
VK3WE, of Orneo, was engaged in hand-
ling emergency traffic and was hampered
for a considerable period by thoughtless
interference from a VK2 station.
Operation was on 7mc., which is the
ideal band for such work under normal
conditions. There is a real need for
keeping this band clear during
emergency, and methods similar to the
QRR of U.S.A. should be adopted. There,
once a station sends out a QRR (distress
call) all amateurs at once clear off the
air unless engaged in the traffic.
Something should be done about
removing customs duties on many
types of experimental radio equipment
from overseas, provided a guarantee be
given that the equipment is for experi-
mental use only and not for resale.
Communication receivers are priced £7O
now or more with duty, etc., and are far
beyond the means of the average ex-
perimenter. Practically none of the
needed apparatus is manufactured in Aus
tralia, nor is likely to be. The prohibitive
duties were introduced to benefit the
radio industry, and did not take the ex-
perimenter into consideration. There
are still fewer than 2000 Australian ex-
During a recent inter-State car journey
VK2AFQ included mobile 7me, 14mc,
and 56mc. equipment. Here he is shown
talking to N.S.W. stations from a South
Australian location.
perimenters licensed, and the industry
would lose nothing by concessions to
such a small number.
VK2NO.
What's What in Radio.
The N.S.W. police have been experi-
menting with a simple form of radio
control for police dogs. Zoe, one of the
best of the police Alsatians, has already
learned to answer radioed commands.
A small super-regenerative receiver,
operating on an ultra-short-wave channel,
is carried by a harness around the dog’s
body. The small loudspeaker, facing
forward to the dog’s ears, delivers ample
volume for the purpose. The idea came
from F. Thom, chief of Tasma Radio,
and was worked out by him in col-
laboration with Don. B. Knock, The
Bulletin’s radio editor.
* * * *
VLR, Melbourne’s short-wave broad-
caster, is likely to experience interference
on occasions in some overseas locations,
owing to the advent on the same fre-
Power supply for VK2AFQ mobile
equipment is derived from two Emerson
genemotors in series, shown here with a
combined transmitter-receiver. Operation
is from a six-volt car accumulator.
quency channel of HPSG, Panama City.
VLR is on 25.25 metres and the Central
American on 25.47 metres. Fortunately
operating times should differ in most
cases.
* * * *
A new 50-metre station which may be
heard in Australia is CXA2, in Monte-
video, Uruguay. Power is skw., and
operation time from 22.00 G.M.T.
* * * *
The normal system of measuring the
height above earth of an aeroplane is not
strictly accurate, for if the aircraft is
500 ft. above the summit of a 2000 ft.
mountain the registered altitude is shown


THIRD AND FINAL
£5O Sentence Competition
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date February 22.
There Is No Entrance Charge.
Entries for the Third £5O Sentence Competition announced in last week’s
“Bulletin” (February 8) close on February 22, so that there is still a week for
competitors to enter.
The sentence has to be made up from words on the Aboriginalities pages
in the February 8 issue, and rules and conditions will be found on the Radio
page of that issue.
The sentence (in BLOCK letters) may be filled in either on the coupon
provided last week or on the one below. Entries should be posted to reach
“Sentence Competition No. 3,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than February 22.
THIRD SENTENCE COMPETITION.
NAME
ADDRESS
Sentence.
RESULTS OF SECOND COMPETITION.
Results of the Second Sentence Competition are on page 35 of this issue;
results of the Third will be published in “The Bulletin” of March 1.
as 2500 ft. Altimeters can thus be respon-
sible for accidents in murky weather.
Two Japanese engineers have designed a
direct-reading radio reflector calibrated
in feet. The meter registers the height
above the nearest surrounding objects.
Accuracy is maintained down to a height
of only 14ft., and power consumption of
the equipment is only four watts.
* * * *
With a view to the more effective
combating of bushfires, the Queensland
Government is experimenting with
portable radio equipment supplied by
A.W.A. in the form of combination
transmitter-receivers. Each set weighs
only 251 b., and is readily carried by car,
horse or on a man’s shoulders. Both
transmitter and receiver are controlled
for wave-length by quartz crystals. This
simplifies operation in the hands of
relatively inexperienced users, as tuning
time is reduced to a minimum and the
equipment may be put into operation at
a moment’s notice. The aerial remains
in position when the equipment is in
transit, and gives a range up to ten miles,
which can be increased by using a roll-
up aerial supported by a tree or pole.
* * * *
When bushfires interrupted cable com -
munication between King Island (Bass
Strait) and the mainland of Australia,
radio stations of A.W.A. on the island
and at Melbourne provided the link. King
Island residents were for many years de-
pendent upon radio stations for com-
munication with the mainland, and when
the cable was installed recently the island
The complete radio installation of the Broken Hill Flying Doctor station
8SK, Broken Hill (N.S.W.), under test in the Colville Wireless Equip-
ment Co.'s factory prior to shipment. The relay-controlled transmitter is
housed in the large rack and panel framework with safety doors. All
control is done from the panels at the left, with all-wave national receiver
in the centre. The instruments on the right are General Radio Signal
generator, cathode-ray oscilloscope and modulation monitor.
radio station was maintained. This was
the second occasion within a week that
radio had proved invaluable, the other
instance being in the N.T. when floods
caused landline interruption.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: Several designs for home-
constructed television receivers have been
published in the English “Television and
Short-wave World.” The latest issue
contains a detailed description of the first
mechanical-optical receiver for home
construction. This uses an ingenious
high-speed mechanical scanning device
consisting of bright steel balls clamped
in grooves between two brass disks.
Home-made television receivers de-
scribed in this publication have been
responsible for long-distance reception
of the London transmissions in various
parts of England.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: That Australia is by no
means lagging in the speedy develop-
ment of navigational aviation radio
equipment was explained by T. Bushby,
of A.W.A. staff, in his lecture before the
Sydney Division of I.R.E. (Australia) on
7/2/’39 at Science House. He illustrated
the merits of the various homing and
D.F. systems by diagrams, and Tom
Court, of S.T.C., provided a working
model explanatory of the German
Lorenz ultra-short-wave system. It is
claimed that in the u.-s.-w. field particu-
larly Australian airways are showing
leadership. “Scotty” Allen and L. J.
Brain, of Qantas Airways, also spoke.
* * * *
“Enno”; Amateur radio scored again
during the recent disastrous earthquake
in Chile. First word to reach the outside
world of the upheaval came from an
amateur station at Concepcion. It told
of the loss of 2000 lives and asked for
help. Other Chilean amateurs speedily
established a communication chain.
Long-distance Ultra-short-
wave Reception.
Many reports have been received by
the 8.8. C. from overseas isources of
reception of the 7.23-metres sound trans-
missions from the Alexandra Palace
(London) television station. Latest veri-
fied report is from Chicago (U.S.A.),
where an amateur, W9ZHG, claims con-
sistent reception with a signal level
around 78db, and free from noise. He
uses the transmissions as a marker to
indicate when the ultra-short-wave bands
may be open for communication.
W9ZHG is attempting to record the
Alexandra Palace transmissions and to
relay them back to Europe on 10 metres.
H.-F. Operation of Radiotron
1C7-G.
The zero bias conditions of operation
for Radiotron IC7-G (or IC6) are per-
fectly satisfactory on the broadcast band
and on the 16.51-metre short-wave band
provided that suitable coils are used.
There is some difficulty, however, in
obtaining satisfactory operation with a
similar arrangement at 13 metres, and
one of the following methods is sug-
gested :
(1) With conditions as for standard
zero bias operation except that the oscil-
lator grid-leak is returned to the positive
end of the filament.
(2) With conditions as for standard
“-3 volts bias” operation, or
(3) With conditions as for standard
zero bias operation, except that full
voltage is applied to the anode grid and
the screen voltage is increased by de-
creasing the resistance of the dropping
resistor.
None of these devices is to be pre-
ferred on the broadcast band, but in
certain circumstances a compromise may
have to be made. Methods (1) and (3)
result in a decrease of plate resistance,
method (3) also being accompanied by
a considerable increase in B-battery
drain. Method (2) results in a decrease
of conversion conductance.
V.C.
Filament Voltage Limits for
1.4-volt Valves.
With the new 1.4-volt Radiotrons in-
tended for use with a dry-cell filament
supply, the full voltage of a new cell
will not harm the filaments. The lower
voltage limit will, however, depend
largely upon the design of the receiver,
and whether the broadcast band only is
covered or the short-wave band is also
included.
Tests in A.W. Valve Co.’s laboratory
to determine the lower voltage limit for
the IA7G converter valve showed
(1) that under the best conditions, and
with specially-selected valves, operation
of a sort could be obtained down to
0.85 volt on the broadcast band and one
volt on the short waves ; (2) that with
valves which had already given fair ser-
vice the oscillator ceases working at
about 1.2 volt on the filament on both
broadcast and short-wave bands. It
appears that with a new valve reasonable
operation may be expected down to
about 1.1 volt on the broadcast band
and 1.2 volt on the short-wave band.
The results are obviously dependent upon
the conditions of operation, and particu-
larly on coil design. They are given only
as an indication of what may be obtained
under certain conditions. It is interesting
to note that the valve manufacturer’s fila-
ment voltage rating is 1.4 volt, plus or
minus 10 p.c.—that is, from 1.26 volt
to 1.54 volt. No valve guarantee ex-
tends beyond these limits.
V.C.
Battery Acorn Valves.
Following on the well-known acorn
valves with indirectly-heated cathodes at
six volts, a new series with 1.4-volt
directly-heated filaments is announced
by Radiotron. They are intended for
use with a single dry cell, and include
the 957, 958 and 959. The 957 is a
triode acorn with a 1.4-volt 50ma. fila-
ment. The 958 is a larger version with
a 1.4-volt lOOma. filament, and the 958
is a sharp cut-off pentode acorn with a
1.4-volt 50ma. filament. The types will
undoubtedly be useful for portable and
low-powered ultra-short-wave equipment.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) What type of valves is best for a three-
valve battery receiver? (2) Anything further
on the 1.4-volt valves. I am at present using
two superdyne dry batteries and a six-volt car
accumulator. —752.
(1) Depends upon the filament needs. If
accumulator charging is not much of a prob-
lem, two-volt or six-volt types are suitable;
four-volt valves are now in the discard. (2)
Full details were given in B. 14, 21 and
28 /12/’3B.
y * * *
Using a car radio in the house we get only
about 12 hours out of the accumulator after
each charge. It is a six-volt 13-plate type and
brand-new. What causes this rapid discharge ?
—749.
While such a receiver is in use in a car
the accumulator is constantly on charge when
the car is in motion and is more or less kept
“floating.” If the receiver has six or more
valves an accumulator of around 100 ampere
hours capacity is advisable. If 240 volts A.C.
is available the present accumulator could
be kept on charge whenever the receiver is
idle. If power is on hand and it is intended
to use the receiver in future for home use, it
would be better to have the present power unit
changed for an A.C. pack by a competent radio
mechanic. There would be very little work in-
volved in making the change.
* * * *
l have a two-valve short-wave receiver used
mainly for amateur band work. It has a 57
detector and 56 audio, and I intend to change
the detector to the electron-coupled method,
which is reputed to be smoother and more
stable in action than the usual plate feed-
back coil method. A circuit of such an ar-
rangement is needed. —750.
The circuit shown —“QST’s” “selective” two-
valve arrangement, described in the current
issue—is the type you require. Selectivity is
gained with only a short aerial, connected
directly to the detector cathode-tap. The
detector valve, shown as a 58, can be the 57
without any alterations whatsoever. The usual
aerial coupling arrangements can be used for
normal operation. Parts list and coil data are
given.
Cl, C2 —lOOmmfd. variable.
C 3, C 4, C5 —lOOmmfd. mica.
C6 —smfd. 400-volt electrolytic.
C7 —lOmfd. 50-volt electrolytic.
C8 —O.Olmfd. paper, 400-volt.
C 9, CIO —o.oosmfd. paper, 400-volt (capacity
not critical).
R1 —0.5 to 5 megohms, 1-watt.
R2—50,000-ohm potentiometer.
R3 —25,000 ohms, 10-watt.
R4 —2000 ohms, 1-watt.
Rs—l megohm, 1-watt.
R6 —75 ohms, centre-tapped.
RFC—2.S-mh. R.F. choke.
Ll—See coil table.
L2 —High impedance audio choke (Thordarson
T-29C27).
Note. —C 6 and C 7 should not be over two
inches long.
Coil Data.
Band-
Total Turns, Cathode spread
Frequency Range. LI. Tap. Tap.
1450-3400 kc. (1.75) 54| . 3* 29J
3050-7100 kc. (3.5) 2l\ 1| Ilf
6100-14,200 kc. (7) 13| I 4*
10,600-24,000 kc. (14) 1\ \ H
18,000-41,000 kc. (28) 3i | i
All coils are wound with No. 24 D.S.C. wire
on l|in. diameter forms, the length of the coil
being Hin. in all cases. The figure in paren-
theses after each frequency range indicates the
amateur band for which that coil is used. The
taps are counted off from the lower or ground
terminal.


A ROPE
FOR EVERY
PURPOSE
♦ 9
' —as*
"ZZZZ.
** '*-***. *^*.*o^*^
«■»*s
B®*a*«iSS&
iMfIMMHSHMIi
.--■•■ . - : : - .’: "'
mm
>7
*+*»&*>
»v~~ »*„ + k«itkt**
$«&£&
: .
MsPp*
«■*:
•' :.'
&
an
PJMOObS
M
a*s
X
:
X
.
w®
■H
J> .
(BSi gf xx'
1N agaM
ss«
■i
XXXXXXxXX
.'Si
■ X
x ■■< '■ ■y^<
. SxX.
e<
'„ ™ z -
'l'X”.:..>
SBS
.
xXXXXX
?..>
W»M»|W f^tS*
•■:
mm
m
m
■•■-<
X
:-vXX; HI
sm
X. - ■ x m
THE
9
Renown
Manufactured by J. SCOTT PTY., LTD.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Works:
MASCOT,N.S.W.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
VM' a -
, I<£^ CU
is^^kr
<s^
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Corriedale Changes.
“Ghanam”: Following on decisions
made at the last Sydney R.A.S., the
studbook organisation is to be re-
modelled so as to recognise all Corrie-
dale studs registered with any existing
societies. The controlling body is to
call itself the Australasian Corriedale
Society.
There has always been argument as to
the sheep which should qualify for
Corriedale studbooks—some refuse to
recognise any animals not descended
from the N.Z. and A. Co.’s Lincoln-
merinos established on Levels Estate,
Canterbury (M.L.), in 1874. In future
registration will be in two flock books —
one for the unadulterated Levels blood
and the other for all stock recognisable
by any society. The first class will carry
the tattoo mark “L.C.M.,” and the
second “C.S.”
It seems a clumsy arrangement, and
will involve the transfer of L.C.M. studs
to C.S. register if a single" ram from studs
which are not Levels bred is introduced
Pedigrees should be enough to take care
of the exclusiveness of any particular
line. It would have been the same if
the Shorthorn cattle societies had insisted
in the formative period of the breed in
having three editions of Coates —one for
Booth, one for Bates and one for the
Scottish types.
Minerals and Sheep.
“Bungaree”: Though little is known
about the mineral needs of sheep, it has
been established that there is a general
shortage of lime and phosphorus in Aus-
tralian pastures, and that the chief need
is plain salt.
Licks, however, do not replace sup-
plementary fodders. Salt is sometimes
mixed with meat meal in the trough, but
only to bring the sheep to the meal and
accustom them to its taste and smell..
By itself meat meal is unpalatable.
Sulphur is not assimilable by sheep,
nor is there any need for iodine. In
certain limited areas a cobalt deficiency
has to be catered for, but generally
speaking a sheep’s needs are filled by
plain salt with the alternative of a con-
centrated lick containing phosphorus and
(in wormy country) iron to counteract
anaemia.
Of the three commonest forms of
phosphates superphosphate, dicalcic
phosphate and bone meal or bone flour —
dicalcic is best. Super, contains fluorine,
which is harmful if taken over long
periods. Dicalcic is dusty, and should
be damped with water during mixing.
It is slightly dearer than bone meal, but
its percentage of phosphoric acid is much
higher, and it is TOO p.c. assimilable.
Iron can best be supplied by the
addition of a small percentage of
limonite. The mixed dicalcic concen-
trate may be mixed with salt before
being supplied to sheep, but the best
plan is to fill one-half of the trough with
plain salt and the other half with con-
centrate to which perhaps 30 p.c. salt
has been added.
If sheep need the minerals contained
in the concentrate they will take a little
of it along with their regular salt.
Pigs in Maoriland.
“Pappamosca”: The M.L. Agricul-
tural Department has told pigbreeders
that 15 p.c. of all pigmeat sent in is
rejected or condemned at freezing works.
With partial condemnation for tubercular
heads the figure would be nearer 30 p.c.
About 2 p.c. only of all M.L. pigs are
condemned for t.b. About 16 p.c. are
partly condemned, most of them having
an affected submaxillary gland below
the jaw. These pigs are still exportable
after rigid inspection of all organs. Of
all animals turned down for t.b., 99 p.c.
have head and throat lesions, wherever
else they may be affected. Bowels and
liver each rank over 30 p.c. of rejects.
“If we get a good price for these, Ma, I'll buy y' another saucepan
An infected head means a reduced price
through differential poundage.
About 5 p.c. of Maoriland pigs offered
have sufficient marks of pleurisy, past
or present, to ensure rejection for export.
Rules about the disease are rigid—an
infected pig in the fever stage may be
poisonous. A pig cured of pleuro, show-
ing signs of infection on both sides, may
be worth 10s. less than normal.
About 1 p.c. go out for peritonitis-
thickened walls of the abdominal cavity,
calling for “stripping” of the membrane.
Rejection is automatic. Lastly come
abscesses caused by injuries, arthritis—
the most prolific cause of ham rejection,
since it causes swollen and inflamed joints
—bruisings, dirt, cuts from barbed wire
and injuries due to bad handling, minor
diseases and sheer carelessness, which
resulted in 107,000 cwt. of M.L. pork
being refused in 1938, at a cost to the
growers of £47,000.
Irrigation in W.A.
“Adsum”: W.A. engineers, experi-
enced with large-sized dams after the
Mundaring and Canning, are turning
their attention to streams in the mid-
Darling Ranges which build up and con-
tribute to the Murray, Harvey and Bruns-
wick rivers.
There are numerous deep creeks where
water is never absent. Another Mundar-
ing is being designed to supply Narrogin,
Pingelly, Wagin and their neighbors, and
do for that vast wheatfield what Mun-
daring did for Kalgoorlie and all the
farmers in between. The big drains that
looked so much like the framework of
an agricultural crossword puzzle down
Harvey and Waroona way are respon-
sible for several flourishing townships
and an ever-widening green countryside
where fat Jersey and other cattle feed
deep in paspalum, Kikuyu and meadow
clover.
One has only to note the lorries scoot-
ing along the bitumened roads to remote
farms or creameries to read the story of
the past 20 years of irrigation.
High-grade New Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. plant-breeders look
for good results in southern districts with
new types of farmers’ wheats of im-
proved baking quality, Mitchell and
Koala. They are expected to replace the
hall-marked weak-flour varieties, Wara-
tah, Ranee and Bobin, in Riverina and
the south-west.
In variety trials this season in com-
paratively new ground at Wagga farm,
Mitchell yielded at the rate of 36 bushels
121 b. per acre, and Koala 34 bushels
251 b., but were exceeded by Dundee,
Bencubbin and Gluford, which were on
a 39-. bushel level.
Both the newcomers were fixed and
named in 1937. Mitchell, a cross made
at Wagga Farm between Nabawa and
Dundee, is of better flour quality than
either parent. It also combines the high
flagsmut-resistance with the strong straw
of Dundee. Koala, a Nabawa-Hard
Federation cross produced at Temora, is
a soft wheat of exceptionally plump grain
of attractive 'appearance. It has a high
flagsmut-resistance. For baking quality
it is superior to any soft variety yet
tested here.
Improving Native Feeds.
“J. Want”: Has any Australian tried
breeding a perennial wheat of a grass
hybrid with wheat? There should be a
big future in it for grazing purposes.
Canadians have been on the job for a
long time, but in an area where the tem-
perature hits “fifty below” and stays
there for days together there seems to
be less chance of success than in a
climate like ours.
There should be room, too, for the
development of some of our native
grasses. Mitchell, Flinders, etc., should
be easily adaptable to other regions than
the artesian plains. Saltbush is—there’s
a splendid batch of it at Parramatta.
About five years ago I was at Green-
dale, out on the Nepean, the farm granted
W. C. Wentworth for his part in crossing
the Blue Mountains. There we found
some Old Man s.b. with leaves more than
an inch across. I put some of them in
a tea caddy; looked at the other day
they were still moist and palatable, which
seems to suggest conservation possibili-
ties.
Hoary Cress.
“C.G.8.”: Don’t know about other
places, but the only control recommended
for hoary cress (B. 25/1/’39) by the Vic-
torian Agricultural Department is not
sheep or spray, but thorough cultivation
of infested ground every 14 days for two
years.
Writer knows a place where after only
18 months it is possible to unearth cress
roots in paddocks as thick as a pencil,
blackened and rotting.
Never once during the whole of the
treatment must a leaf see sunlight. Salt
is bought in 12- and 14-tons lots and
spread 2in. thick over and around patches
of the weed, killing all other growth in
a desperate attempt to prevent the spread.
One man placed cress roots on top of
a strainer post under a ploughshare and
left them there all one summer. Then,
sown and watered, they grew again.
When cress appears in a cultivation
paddock encircle the patch with a “stake ’
fence, and remember every time a share
cuts a root you’ve got two cress plants
where one grew before. (Roots have
been found in the mud between a sheep’s
toes.) After fencing off, if you’re too
busy to cultivate every 14 days, use salt
and watch the edges of the patch.
First-class Wimmera land has changed
hands as low as £5 10s. per acre on
account of cress infestation ; it is now


A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR . ..
If you really want a work-
boot which will give you
absolute comfort, look as
well as any work-boot should
look, and give you excep-
tional wear, try a pair of
Abbey Cossacks.
Made with heavy double
sole, full calf lining through-
out and a tough calf upper.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in stout Black or Brown
Calf.
Price: Black Calf .. 39/6
Brown Calf . . 45/-
“// it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
53 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
•3®i
aiw
WK
V'» »’»,*•
>AsXn
way
y -x-,
s?
Ff/J^.
00
V. S V
«.ay
r HtL0 UUi
'M
00
with the AGA COOKER
THE AGA COOKER is the most effi-
cient cooker in the World. Not
until you have tasted the luxury of
AGA cooked meals will you realise how
food flavours can be improved. Of all
stoves, the AGA is the one that gives
you more appetising meals and the
greatest leisure.
The AGA is also the most economical
cooker in existence. THINK OF IT! the
fuel consumption of the AGA is GUAR-
ANTEED NOT TO EXCEED A CERTAIN
FIXED AMOUNT—the lowest in the
World. For instance, Model "C" illus-
trated, cannot cost more than £4 a year
for fuel (using coke at £2 per ton)..
ALWAYS READY
Burning continuously, the AGA is always
instantly ready to cook anything—first
thing in the morning last thing at
night—because every cooking point is
kept at the correct temperature. Of
special interest to Country folk, is the
fact that it needs fuelling only twice in
24 hours—there is no wood to chop, no
morning fire to light, no smoke, no
fumes, no soot.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FREE
Write now for free illustrated Booklet
R 2 giving full details.
LEVIN & GO. LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.)
45 KINS STREET, SYDNEY
And at 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Box 149<>, Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, I.td.
For Sale.
BEST Northern-grown Hunter River Tucerae
Seed. Any quantity, 1/3 lb. Cash with order.-
F. MARTIN, Box 96, Spalding, S. Australia..
5
E
S
EYE
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kina St., Sydney
f
H
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEARER THE MILL
THE BETTER THE PRICE!
★ The London Market offers
you definite advantages!
London is within 48 hours of the biggest mills in Europe.
You can consign your wool through your usual bank or agent, who
will arrange advances before shipment, and for proceeds to be
telegraphed from London within 24 hours of sale. Prices are usually
higher on the London market, and there is always spot demand!
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
growing fine irrigated permanent pastures
and lucerne. Sow infested ground with
permanent pasture and water it, and the
cress is not the worry Scotch thistles are.
A Lesson from the North.
“Titre”: Sugar-farmers in Queensland
have thoroughly organised to combat
pests. There are cane-pest destruction
funds for various districts always at work.
In Mourilyan district last season dam-
age from rats was reduced to a record
low level. The campaign began with a
blanket issue of the first 200,000 of the
2,000,000 baits laid during the year.
Every farm in the area received special
baits perfected in the fund’s laboratories.
To clean up houses, barracks and sheds
every farmer was supplied with a special
trap. Further, terriers were bred and
trained and given to farmers while still
puppies. One of them put up a record
during the season of 100 rats in a day.
Now with the rats on the run the
organisers are after the white grub. They
are making a farm-to-farm survey of its
incidence; and wherever they find the
grub at work a new fumigating machine,
invented locally and built on the spot,
will take care of the nuisance.
Rabbit Virus—Not Yet.
“Rodent”: David Rivett, chief execu-
tive of the C.S. and 1.R., considers the
results of the four years’ experiments
with the myxomatosis virus disease on
Wardang Island (S.A.) most disappoint-
ing.
False hopes were raised by a prema-
ture and unauthorised press report, and
the C.S. and I.R. has since been reticent
about the progress of the work. Methods
favorable to the entry of the disease into
a large number of warrens were adopted,
but the kill has been relatively small.
Myxomatosis has proved an exceedingly
toxic and a specific virus experimentally,
but not as practised under field con-
ditions. An effective method of spread-
ing the disease among rabbits in the
open has yet to be found.
The wholesale destruction of rabbits
by biological means is seemingly no fur-
ther advanced to-day than when Pasteur's
scientists failed with chicken cholera
virus at Rodd Island (Sydney) 50 years
ago, or when Dr. Danysz, from the
Pasteur Institute, had no better luck on
Dangar Island (Hawkesbury) 20 years
later. The lure in those days was the
£25,000 offered by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment —since withdrawn.
“Ghanarn”: A N.S.W. South Coast
farmer has taken to raising fat lambs
at Cobargo. Ryeland-Romney Marsh-
merino suckers, they were bred on six-
sheep-to-the-acre country. With finer
grasses a lot of the coast would turn off
good lambs.
“Yeno Ham”: Peter Gooley, of Casino
(N.S.W.), has increased production of his
dairy herd at small cost on “melon hole”
country. He ploughed the land, leaving
open drains at intervals to remove sur-
plus water. He grew two annual crops
of maize and Italian rye grass to sweeten
the soil, later sowing permanent pasture
mixtures. Best species were Phalaris
tuberosa and red clover, from which
five tons of hay per acre were cut after
heavy grazing. Topdressing with super,
in April and May resulted in a heavy
growth of white clover. Pastures are
mown every summer, and harrowed
several times during the year. Gooley
has used lime and dolomite with suc-
cess on badly-drained soils when first
broken up. He has planted 300-odd trees
(giant bamboos, Queensland lemon gums,
camphor laurels, willows and mulberries)
to provide shelter on naturally treeless
plains.
“Yanco”: The Murrumbidgee Irriga-
tion Area last year carried 225,000 sheep.
The rise in sheep-farming encouraged
the laying down of thousands of acres
of pastures and lucerne, but the work
has been set back by the withdrawal
of water from pastures and fodder crops.
Lucerne has stood up to the waterless
period better than any other pasture
plant. In sharp contrast, irrigated pas-
tures and fodders are in great heart in
the Wakool area, which is still receiving
normal deliveries of water from the
Hume Weir. All stock are in good con-
dition. Millet, Sudan and sorghum crops
are carrying large numbers of sheep.
Lucerne has given ton-cuts of hay at
monthly intervals, the fodder being
stocked for future use.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Where to get Early Range and De Marmonde
tomato seed? —2298.
Write to N. S. Wales Agricultural Dept.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the “Sunshine” full cream
dried milk co. ? (2) Could an enterprise such as
this be run in a small way on a dairy farm ?
(3) Process and approximate cost of small plant ?
—1997.
(1) Do not know the co. (2) No. (3) Two
main processes for the drying of milk are spray
drying and roller drying. In spray drying special
machines are required to force the milk into a
fine spray, when it is dried by means of hot
filtered air. In roller drying the milk is passed
over steam-heated, revolving steel rollers, from
which it falls as a dry film. It is then powdered
and placed into tins. (4) The machinery apd
buildings for a dried-milk factory would cost
thousands of pounds.
* * * *
(1) A simple method of starting one line of
fence at right angles to an existing line? (2)
How to tell the age of sheep by their teeth ?
(3) The meaning of “comeback” ? (4) When
is a sheep “full mouthed” ? —2120.
(1) The easiest is the “3, 4,5” method.
Any triangle having the sides in the ratio of
of the two smalfer h fides anB Any multipSeftf
3, 4 and 5 may be taken-15 20 Sid 25
fh°e“tm^%\TnS^%f e ’ S are **£
me accuracy. (2) and (4) After a lamb is born
it has eight milk teeth in the front of the
lower jaw. At 12 to 15 months the two centre
milk teeth are replaced by two permanent n-
cisors. At approximately two years two more
permanent teeth replace the milk teeth, one on
each side of the first two. At 30 to 36
months it becomes a six-tooth with the appear-
ance of two more permanent teeth, one on
each side. The sheep becomes a full-mouth
when the last two permanent incisors grow ud
replacing the last of the milk teeth at between
t l ' ec ® nc f°ur years the time varies con-
siderably. (3) A comeback is the result of
breeding back to the merino. The accepted
method of breeding is to mate a merino ram to
half-bred longwool British breed (Border
Leicester, Romney Marsh, etc.) x merino ewes.
* * * *
Is it tvuc that the N.S.W. Government pro-
poses to take over farms not considered in the
wheatbelt with a lump sum of £3OO as com-
pensation to the occupier? — 2263.
The N.S.W. Government is endeavoring to
relieve many wheatgrowers in the south-west—
Hillston, Rankin’s Springs and Lake Cargelligo
In certain circumstances a sum of money is
allowed when they abandon their farms. The
offer only applies to this particular area. For
further information, write the Under-Secretary
Department of Lands, Sydney.
* * * *
Can a young man, 30, with 12 years’ fam-
ing experience and, say, £l5O, take up reason-
ably good farming land? What help does the
Government give, if any? What part of the
Commonwealth would offer the best chance of
success, and could enough be made for a
start to maintain a wife and one child? — 2123.
Should be possible to make a start in the
more intensive types of farming, such as vege-
table-growing or poultry-raising. Many N.S.W.
country towns, especially those located on
rivers, offer good opportunities for young men,
as the local supply of vegetables is generally
insufficient. Usually it is easy either to rent
or obtain land on the share system for this
purpose.
* * * *
Is Pilliga Scrub (N.S.W.) suitable for settle-
ment ? Was there a scheme formulated in the
’nineties ? —2115.
Pilliga Scrub covers a large area between
Narrabri and Baradine. It includes several
types of land, some very poor, but much good
agricultural and grazing land. Most of it is
heavily timbered. Near Narrabri and Baradine
excellent wheat crops are being obtained on
cleared land. In the ’nineties a scheme was
started for the settlement of the land, some
blocks were cleared and a common water supply
provided. For a while settlement languished,
but in recent years good progress has been
made.


THE DEVELOPMENT OF
AUSTRALIA - MUST CO 0N...
WE cannot stand still —we must progress. Here
is a great continent in the process of develop-
ment which must not be retarded.
Public Works throughout Australia must be carried on,
and the Commonwealth and State Governments require
£8,500,000 for the purpose.
There is no safer, sounder or more worthy avenue for
the investment of your savings.
INTEREST,
31% p.a.
COMMONWEALTH
Any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or
Stockbroker will supply full particulars and application forms.
Treasurer.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Streeti
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free,
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
s
ds
Our Service Departmet
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is Entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Refined young lady (21), Sydney, desires
change from city office for one month on
station property with nice family. Assist light
duties, children, companion, etc.; distance
immaterial. Refs.—237s.
Lady, Sydney, typist, own machine, seeks
typing work, used to handling authors’ manu-
scripts, neat and accurate. —2400.
Youth (17), N.S.W., intermediate certificate,
one year Sydney Technical Commercial College,
holds bookkeeping diploma (English, book-
keeping and business principles), wants employ-
ment in Sydney. Refs.—234s.
Motor-driver (29), Sydney, licensed 12 years,
N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland and Northern
Territory, clean record, can hold position of
trust, business qualifications, wants employment.
—2390.
Active middle-aged man, Sydney, bachelor,
clean, steady, exp. house-kitchen work in
hospital and guest-house, seeks work in
country. Refs. —2380.
Investor to stand in on sound building pro-
position, Sydney city.—24o6.
To buy book Hans Has a Century. —2299.
To buy copy of Dreams in Flower, by Louise
Mack. —2404.
Will exchange reliable 9.5 movie outfit:
camera, projector, generator, etc. What
offers?—2399.
Information Sought.
What oath must the President of the United
States take upon assuming office? —2418.
The Constitution directs that the President
shall take the following oath or affirmation:
“I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
faithfully execute the office of President of the
United States and will, to the best of my
ability, preserve, protect and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States.”
* * * *
What countries are the principal buyers of
Australian eucalyptus oil? Any figures? —24ll.
For the year ending June 30, 1938, United
Kingdom bought 72,256 gals, valued at £43,308,
Canada 1895 at £1346, British Malaya 1272 at
£ll5O, M.L. 3100 at £3364, S. Africa 6583 at
£4671, other British countries 1240 at £864,
France 1552 at £976, Germany 26,571 at
£18,172, Siam 1529 at £1328, U.S.A. 38,245
at £18,162, and other foreign countries 2252
at £1197.
* * * *
What were the cause and the result of the
fuel between Stuart Donaldson and Sir Thomas
Mitchell in Sydney about 90 years ago ? —2420.
In September, 1851, Stuart Donaldson —who
lad been for three years an elected member of
he Legislative Council of N. S. Wales, but
was at the moment a candidate for election —
attacked the Government of the day for ex-
travagance, and cited as an example over-
expenditure in the Surveyor-General’s Depart-
ment. Sir Thomas Mitchell, who was head of
the department, attacked Donaldson in the
“S. M. Herald.” After much bickering Donald-
son declared that he was blaming the whole
system of land administration, not the Surveyor-
General’s Department in particular. This failed
to appease Mitchell, who sent a friend to him
to arrange a duel. On the 27th the two met
in the bush near what is now Centennial Park,
Sydney; each fired three shots, Mitchell’s last
going through Donaldson’s high hat. The
seconds then put an end to the fight.
* * * *
Are Australian butterflies destructive to culti-
vated plants? —236s.
Few are, though the larva of Papilio cegeus
infests orange-trees in N.S.W. and Queensland,
and that of the smaller P. anactus seems likely
to become a serious pest in the orange groves
of Mildura and Renmark on the Murray. Occa-
sionally the caper and allied plants are de-
foliated by the larva of the white caper butter-
fly ( Anaphceis teutonia), which appears periodi-
cally in immense swarms throughout eastern
Australia, and is sometimes blown across the
strait to Tasmania ; there, however, it does not
breed. A small lycaenid ( Zizina labradus )
attacks beans —and sometimes lucerne, peas
and other legumes—in the southern districts of
Australia.
* * * *
What is the difference between foam and
froth ?— 2369.
Fowler’s Modern English Usage has the fol-
lowing to say on the subject: “The natural
definition of foam would be the froth of the
sea, and that of froth the foam of beer. That
is to say, foam suggests the sea, froth suggests
beer, and while one word is appropriate to the
grand or the beautiful or the violent, the other
is appropriate to the homely or the ordinary
or the dirty. One demands of foam that it be
white; froth may be of what color it pleases.
Froth may be scum, but foam, though it may
become scum, ceases to be foam in the process.
It is perhaps also true that froth is thought
of mainly as part of a liquid that has sent it to
the top, and foam as a separate substance
often detached fn the act of making from its
source. But the difference is much less in the
meaning than in the suitable contexts.”
* * * *
Is it possible to solve the following problem,
and, if so, what is the answer? In a system
of cipher 10 letters are selected to represent
the 10 figures from 1 to 0. Three cipher
groups are received, the third group represent
ing the sum of the first two. The three groups
are “send,” “more” and “money.” No cipher
key is available. —2347.
This problem can be worked out without the
key. For example, the letter m can only rep-
resent the figure 1 because the s in send, plus
the m in more, must be either 10 or 11. Again
the s in send must be either 8 or 9. Further
research will show that it is 9. The answer is
10652, made up thus: Send equals 9567, more
equals 1085 and money 10652.
=i= * * *
Uses of tree known botanically as Exccecaria
agallocha ? —2423.
Known as milky mangrove or river poison
tree it exudes, when an incision is made in the
bark, an acrid juice, so volatile that no one
can gather a quarter of a pint without being
affected by it. The symptoms are a burning
sensation in the throat, sore eyes and head-
ache. A single drop falling into the eyes is said
to cause blindness. The natives of eastern
Australia, as well as those of New Guinea, use
this poisonous juice to cure leprosy, but in
Fiji the patient is fumigated with the smoke
of the burning wood. In India the sap of the
tree is called “tiger’s milk,” and is applied with
good effect to inveterate ulcers. A good
caoutchouc may also be prepared from the
milk. The tree has a light, soft wood, which
is excellent for carving and marqueterie.
* * * *
Total customs and excise revenue collected
at the various Queensland ports for the year
1937-38 ?— 2410.
Brisbane £3,622,226, Bowen £2244, Bunda-
berg £10,548, Cairns £128,689, Gladstone
£92,814, Mackay £15,842, Maryborough £14,528,
Rockhampton £95,725, Thursday Island £4389
and Townsville £301,596.
* * * *
(1) What prospects would one have of start-
ing a smoked-fish business in the far north of
Q’land, between Cooktown and Thursday
Island? (2) Where are the best markets? (3)
Method of marketing? (4) Is that stretch of
country inhabited by whites? (5) Commercial
value of crocodile skins? (6) What species of
snakes inhabit that region ? (7) Commercial
value of shark oil and skins? (8) Markets for
same? (9) Places of call by coastal boats be-
tween Cooktown and Thursday Island? (10)
Is that country malarial? —2233.
(1) Prospects not promising; local men do
their own smoking. (2) Brisbane is the only
market. (3) Auction at local market. (4) Very
few and far between. (5) One man at Darwin
is selling and doing well, but market is going
off. Write Frank Cox, Warwick, who handles
the skins. (6) Apart from sea snakes, there
are at least six species of python (constricting),
the green-tree snake, at least six venomous
snakes, and, most deadly of all, the taipan. (7)
No value; a few men sell dugong oil, but only
by the bottle. (8) Must sell wherever a buyer
can be found. (9) Coastal boats do not call in
anywhere between Cooktown and Thursday
Island, but the Wandana will call in anywhere.
(10) Occasionally malarial. No case for the last
two years.
* * * *
(1) Can cork-trees be grown in Australia, and
in what parts? (2) Age of trees for first crop?
(3) Amount of cork per tree per annum (in
pounds ) ? (4) Life of trees and if cultivation
is necessary? (5) Where principally grown at
present ? (6) How many trees per acre and
value per acre? (7) Would it be profitable to
grow in Victoria ? —2237.
(1) Cork is obtained from the bark of several
species of oak native to Southern Europe and
North Africa. Several cork-oak trees are growing
in Melbourne gardens. Some years ago plan-
tations were made in Southern California, but
although the trees made good growth the ven-
ture was not commercially successful. (2) In
Spain, the cork wood or bark is first removed
when the trees are about 20 years old, subse-
quent strippings being made at intervals of
about nine years. At the age of about 40
years the oak begins to yield its best bark, and
continues to be productive for about a century.
(3) The yield of bark varies from 501 b. to 1501 b.
per tree, depending on its size and age. (4) The
Spanish method of establishing a plantation is
to sow the acorns between rows of vines,
cultivating the ground as if it were a vineyard
for about 20 years. As the vines by this time
are becoming unprofitable they are rooted up.
Cork-trees are difficult to transplant on account
of the length of the roots. (5) The main pro-
ducing countries are France, Portugal and Spain.
In the latter two countries the plantations
cover more than \\ million acres. (6) The usual
rate of planting is from 40 to 50 trees per acre.
(7) As cork-oaks have not been grown com-
mercially in Victoria, it is not possible to say
whether their cultivation would be profitable.
(1) How to remove verdigris from a theodo-
lite? (2) How to preserve the instrument in
a good condition ? —2325.
(1) The work should be entrusted to an
instrument-repairer. E. Esdaile and Son, 42
Hunter-street, Sydney, would undertake the job.
(2) Keep the instrument dry and free from
dust. After use clean with a dry cloth, and
if the instrument has been allowed to become
wet thoroughly dry. The metalwork should
then be rubbed over with a slightly oiled rag
before returning to case. The slightest trace
of oil will be sufficient. If out of use for long
periods, inspect occasionally.
* * * *
Conditions of the Q’land Authors and Artists’
Association’s short story competition? —2373.
A first prize of £lO 10s. will be awarded. If
sufficient entries of merit there will be second
and third prizes. The competition is open to
all residents of Australia and M.L., and the
story must not exceed 6000 words, must be
original and not previously published. Other
things being equal, stories with an Australian
atmosphere will be preferred. Entries should
be enclosed in an envelope addressed: Short
Story Competition, Queensland Authors and
Artists’ Association, Box K 678, G.P.0., Bris-
bane, accompanied by a sealed envelope con-
taining the name and address of the writer.
The outside of this envelope should be endorsed
with the pen-name of the writer and the title
of the story. Competitors not members of
the association must forward an entrance fee
of 2s. 6d. No entries will be considered which
do not comply with this condition. Closing
date for receipt of entries is May 1, 1939.
* * * *
At what address in Melbourne may copies of
wills be obtained ? Are copies available to the
public, and is the charge for copies per line or a
fiat rate, and, if so, what? —2294.
The Registrar-General’s Office, Queen and
Lonsdale streets. If, however, you want an
accurate statement of the accounts and particu-
lars of the estate, search at the Master in
Equity’s office. Fee for search 2s. 6d., and, if a
copy is required, 6d. per folio of 72 words.
* * * *
Method of laying tiles on a concrete pave-
ment? —2311.
Any weak patches should be taken out and
made good with new concrete, and then the
whole surface should be thoroughly cleaned,
first with caustic soda and then with clean
water, to remove all traces of motor oil. Fol-
lowing this, the surface should be hacked with
a pick to procure a proper bond between the
superimposed layer and the foundation. A
layer of 3 to 1 cement mortar should then be
spread over the foundation, wetting the foun-
dation first and dusting it with neat cement.
Tiles are then embedded in the cement mortar
as the work progresses.
* -i' Sfc $
Recipe for making home-brewed stout ?
2309.
The home-brewing of liquor containing more
than two per cent, of spirit is forbidden by
Customs regulations. For a stout of less than that
alcoholic content take lib. brewers’ crystals or
good white sugar, 10 gallons water, 4|oz. hops,
one pint yeast, a pinch of isinglass and a few
raisins. Boil the water with the sugar and. hops
for an hour and then strain into a tub; put
the hops on again with a little more water,
boil for half an hour, and strain that into the
tub. Put a piece of muslin over a funnel, and
strain the liquor through this into a cask. Fill
up with cold water to make 10 gallons, then
add the yeast and raisins. For five days, as
the beer ferments, add water to keep to 10
gallons; on the sixth day take a tablespoon
of the beer, dissolve the isinglass in it, and
add to the beer to clear it of sediment. Let
stand another six days, then bottle carefully
so as not to disturb the sediment at the
bottom.
* * * *
How to make preserved lemon-juice? —222l.
Preserved lemon-juice is always a little un-
satisfactory, as it is difficult to secure complete
sterilisation. Squeeze the juice into a very well-
scoured saucepan, passing it through a strainer
to remove seeds, etc., and add a tablespoon of
sugar to every breakfast cup of juice. Bring
to the boil, and keep at boiling point for 10
minutes. Then pour into bottles or jars which
have been heated in the oven in readiness, add
a thin film of melted paraffin wax made very
hot, and cover at once. Store in a cool, dark
place. If you can keep the lemons by storing
them wrapped in tissue-paper on cool shelves,
and use them as required, it is better and
simpler; if the trees are kept free of scale,
manured and watered moderately, they should
provide lemons all the year round practically,
rendering preserving methods unnecessary.
How to remove a scorch caused by a hot
iron on grey tweed trousers? —2302.
Scorching is destruction by burning, and the
so-called marks are merely charred ends of
wool when on tweed materials. There is little
to do except brushing well to remove the burnt
parts. Following is a standard recipe for re-
moval of scorching, but more particularly
applies to white materials: Make a paste by
boiling together loz. shredded soap, 3oz.
fuller’s earth, the juice of two or three large
onions and one teacup vinegar. Spread this
on the scorches, let it dry on, then wash out
and press from the back when almost dry,
* * * *
(1) Who was the world’s heavyweight cham-
pion after Gene Tunney relinquished that title
in 1928 ? (2) Through whose hands has the
world’s heavyweight championship passed since
Tunney retired ? —2357.
(1) When Tunney retired in 1928 the New
York Boxing Commission ordered an elimina-
tion tournament to determine his successor.
Jack Sharkey and W. L. Stribling were the
survivors, and Sharkey outpointed Stribling (10
rounds) at Miami, Fla., on February 27, 1929.
(2) Max Schmeling defeated Sharkey (on a foul
in four rounds) in 1930; Sharkey outpointed
Schmeling (15 rounds) in 1932; Primo Camera
knocked out Sharkey (six rounds) in 1933; Max
Baer scored a technical knockout over Car-
nera (11 rounds) in 1934; James J. Braddock
outpointed Baer (10 rounds) in 1935; Joe
Louis knocked out Braddock (eight rounds) in
1937. Louis is still champion.
* * * *
(1) Names of members of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association selection committee ? (2) Have any
played first-class cricket? —1949.
(1) E. A. Dwyer, A. Vincent and S. J. Burt.
(2) Burt, who played for N.S.W. v. Queensland
on January 3,4, 6,7, 1931, scoring 10 and
no wickets for 32, is the only member who
has played in first-class cricket.
Brief Answers.
o ' I he t e coa * s are now turned out with
a duco finish, which requires only an occa-
sional wiping with a soft cloth to remove mud
or dust; if it is one of the former types with-
out duco, nothing is better than a good white
shoe-cream applied sparingly with a woollen
rag and then polished with a piece of old silk
or soft woollen cloth. When used in the rain
dry thoroughly before putting away and remove
oil or mud 8.L.: The prevailing wind direc-
tion in Sydney during December is E.NE at
9 a -ig. 3 p - m ;» ? nd N - E - at 9 a.m. and
E. at 3 p.m. during January and February.
M.B.: All three magazines have ceased pub-
lication.. .. J.W.R.: If the Australian represen-
tative is the authorised agent for the London
firm and the sale of fruit was made knowing
him to be such the principal is bound by
the contract and liable to the vendor
D. 1.: N.S.W. Rugby Union XV in the last
match against M.L. at Sydney in 1884 were-
H. Baylis, captain (full-back), S. Dean, H
Creer, F. Yeomans (three-quarters), G. Graham,
H. Fligg, A. Oxley (half-backs), A. Ford, H
Ford, J. Shaw, T. Walters, H. Clements, B.
Sweetland, F. Baylis, H. Osborne (forwards).
V.J.K.: A review appeared in the Red
Page of January 26, 1938 G.C.A.: (1), (2)
and (3) The plan you suggest is the best pos-
sible. (4) The first mentioned L. 8.: Such
passages are difficult to obtain. They are
usually secured by persons on the spot when a
ship arrives, and who have some influence with
the company handling the boat K.M.K.:
You might try either the Special Press or
Yaffa Syndicate—both of Sydney... .0.D.:
No connection that can be traced except Shaw,
who was at one time a dramatic critic
R.8.M.: The Book of Kells is an elaborately-
illuminated manuscript of the Gospels in Latin,
with certain local records, in the Irish Celtic
style of the seventh to ninth centuries, preserved
in the library of Trinity College, Dublin
D.J.S.: The A.U.S.N. co. indentures appren-
tices, who should be strong and well-educated
youths, aged 16 to 17 years. The indenture
is for four years, a premium of £52 10s. being
payable. Wages, commencing at the rate of
£1 p.m. during the first year and ending at
the rate of £3 p.m., are payable during the
apprenticeship. Upon completion of the
apprenticeship, the apprentice would be eligible
to sit for his second mate’s certificate examina-
tion, and after further service and study eventu-
ally be eligible for a master mariner’s certifi-
cate. The applicant should apply to the Marine
Superintendent of the co 8.E.C.: Get in
touch with the Pharmacy Board of N.S.W.,
Science House, 157 Gloucester-street, Sydney.
... .P.P.H.: Austral-English, by E. Morris
(165.) H.H.W.: A resident of N. S. Wales
is not required to lodge a return for the year
ended June 30, 1938, unless his total income
exceeded £156 J.H.P.: Under-Secretary, De-
partment of External Affairs, Canberra, A.C.T.,
will furnish a full list of their names and
addresses on application... .A.C.N.: Italy de-
clared war against the Central Powers on May
23, 1915... .R.M.A.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, Sydney, for leaflet “Prevention of
the Growth of Algse in Water”... .A. 8.: No
information about the .Lamonnerie family, but
there was a Charles Fattorini in Kempsey
(N.S.W.) in 1836, and a Dr. Fattorini in Port
Macquarie (N.S.W.) in 1841. The Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91 Phillip-street, Syd-
ney, may possibly have some information about
the family J.C.C.: Write Agricultural De-
partment, Sydney, for leaflet “Olive Culture.”
....H.E.M.: Write Society of Australian
Genealogists, 91 Phillip-street, Sydney 8.5.:
Condition is not pathological. Style of perch
where birds roost may. have something to do
with the trouble K.T.R.: Cassava is grown
to some extent in Q’land, and it is suggested
that you get in touch with the Q’land Agri-
cultural Department, Brisbane J.W.T.:
Q’land Education Department, Brisbane, may
know of some... .D.S.: The name is taken from
Chipping Norton, a market town and muni-
cipal borough in the Banbury Parliamentary
division of Oxfordshire, England. It is 26
miles n.-w. of Oxford by a branch of the Great
Western Railway. The place was of some im-
portance in Saxon times... .P.L.D.: (1) “Big
Bertha” was fired at a range of about 75 miles.
(2) No information is available as to the
longest range gun in existence. Maximum per-
formances of guns are kept secret by the nations
concerned. (3) It is not in the public interest
to disclose the range of Australian big guns.
G.C.C.: Royalty is payable in respect of
some mining purposes leases, but only if the
lease contains a specific clause providing for
payment of royalty. The Department of Mines,
Sydney, however, is empowered under the terms
of the lease to request the furnishing of a
return showing the quantity and value of gold
won therefrom... .G.8.H.: (1) The original
Ford “A” handbook was written by V. W. Page
and sold at 10s. It has now been incorporated
in a book by the same author entitled Ford
Models — VB, B and A Cars; price 15s. (2)
Bricks and Tiles, by A. B. Searle, price 175.;
Modem Brickmaking, by A. B. Searle, £4 10s.
. ...8.D.5.: The Australian Encyclopedia
refers to a ship Esmeralda from London which
was blown close inshore and, with all sails lost,
was unable to get off the land and ran into
Esmeralda Cove, Broughton Island. She was
beached, and was towed off a week or two later
without much damage. This was in 1877. That
is the only reference to a ship of that name
that can be traced A.J.M.: (1) All the six
State capital cities have Lord Mayors. (2)
F. B. Moulden, Lewis Cohen and J. L. Bony-
thon were knighted subsequent to being Lord
Mayor of Adelaide... .S.R.: It was Goethe
who said “No greater torment could there be
to me than to be alone in Paradise”
A.P.W.: It was said by Danton, and, trans-
lated, reads: “What we require in order to
conquer is audacity, and yet more audacity,
and always audacity”... .T.W.: William Ger-
hardi, the novelist, was born at St. Peters-
burg in 1895. His father was Charles Ger-
hardi, a British cotton-spinning manufacturer
settled at St. Petersburg. Address: Rossetti
House, Hallam-street, Portland-place, London,
W.l.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
COULD NOT KEEP
FOOD DOWN
Drugs Proved Useless
for His Indigestion.
For eight years now this man has enjoyed
perfect health, yet at one time he had become
a physical wreck through indigestion. Read
how this remarkable change was brought about:
“Ten years ago I was a physical wreck with
gastric indigestion. After taking treatment,
which included numerous drugs, without obtain-
ing relief, I got into a hopeless state. It was
so bad I could not keep food down. Finally
I tried Kruschen Salts, and for eight years
now I have enjoyed a state of perfect health.
I am supervisor in a world-famous motor
works, and though I am 65 I pass for 50.
E.T.
Kruschen is a combination of six salts, each
of which has an action of its own. The first
effect of these salts is to promote the flow of
saliva and so awaken the appetite. The next
action occurs in the stomach, where the diges-
tive juices are encouraged to pour out and
act correctly upon the food. Again, in the
intestinal tract, certain of these salts promote
a further flow of those vital juices which deal
with partly-digested food.
It cleans
• OP
mm
Iv.®
**s*!*ii'
■
H!==?lli
iiii! H I
H
ttfcr:
filtitiri
ii:
■arJiagawng
CLEANS AND
STERILIZES FALSE TEETH
FALSE
TEETH
How immaculately clean your false teeth
look after their ‘Steradent’ bath! Plates
wholesome; teeth glistening white. Re-
place them in your mouth. How delight-
fully fresh they feel!
Fill the cap of the tin with ‘Steradent’
and pour the powder into a glass contain-
ing sufficient warm water (not hot) to
cover the dentures. Stir well. Put in
your dentures and leave them while you
dress or overnight. Take them out and
rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Every stain vanishes —even blackest
tobacco stains disappear after a few
treatments. Plates regain their natural
colour. Dull, yellow-tinged teeth be-
come clean, lustrous like ‘live’ teeth.
‘Steradent’ penetrates into the tiniest
crevices which a brush could never reach.
Your whole plate is purified. You enjoy
a denture cleanliness and comfort never
known before.
‘Steradent’ is guar-
anteed harmless. Price
2/-. Double size, 3/6.
At all chemists.
TRIAL OFFER:
Send 2d. in stamps for
trial supply to Reckitts
(Over Sea) Ltd., Box
2515 88, G.P.O.,Sydney,
and mention the name of
this paper.
Kntai PUTS*
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service .
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO correspondents.
*•— ■ hos,a : char ° cM H " o\~« a uZ,TnTlTuZi
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff persona ly.
B M.L.: You fall down on it, but it’s a sub-
ject calling for something right out of the
ordinary A.R.: Some nice lines in it....
jHW.: Not our sort... .G.G.F.: The basket
took it, though it had its moments F.O’C.:
Fair irony in “The Voice,” but it’s far too
wordy U.C.: You see nothing new in a bush
wa lk Percy Penpusher: Sorry to hear of
vour affair with Sadie; sorrier still to read
your verse J.M.: Fair for a first effort, but
on )y fair P.H.: Something in “Camp,” but
vou do your best to make it invisible
H.T.8.: No room for ballad in the most
ancient manner... .A.M.H.: Not quite our
sort, but nicely done 1.5.8.: “S. M. Herald”
might buy; it’s swallowed Mr. Eden in every
other way except as a rhyme for “season”
H. 8.: Close, but not quite close enough....
C.A.: Don’t like it .J.D.S.: It still is.
F.S.H.: Conventional... .N.D.: Not for
us.. ■ F.R.F.: A little remote P.D.8.: We
know, we know—he rode the outlaw, stoushed
the practical joker, then proved to be a
squatter’s son with university education and,
so, married the girl... .J.M.: Nothing but
sympathy for the youngster whose girl told
him she loved another... .K.R.P.: That novel-
length “short story” is awaiting somebody to
cart it away H.M.A.: A daily is its mark.
F.W.O.: “?” —exactly... .1.F.G.D.: Falls
to pieces at the finish... .D.C.: “They Set a
Trap.” But it didn’t catch anything... .J.L.1.:
That blonde won’t get at our pockets....
T.M.P.G.: Poor J.T.M.: None of them
makes the grade... .H.T.8.: Ghosts, moiders,
doubloons hidden in the old farmhouse! What
are you giving us? ... .J.S.T.: Your confidence-
man couldn’t talk his way into a free side-
show L.P.T.: “Devilish Accomplishment”
amounted just to that G.C.D.: As a writer
you make a good typist H.T.C.: About
time you left that track C.A.C.: And you re
in another man’s pastures T.N.S.: Mis-
creant” admonished and sent home... .P. 8.5.:
But it doesn’t say anything S.W.: Has the
outstanding quality of being, the worst yarn
we’ve seen for two years N.L.S.: Pretty,
but they need more muscle D.L.R.: Is that
all you can do with a shipwreck?... .L.V.N.:
Come again when you have something worth
writing about T.L.A.: “I intend to try free-
lancing for a living.” Don’t G.T.N.: Any-
thing up to 10 years at the rate you’re going.
K.F.B.: C ’1 for the body L.D.F.:
Dreadful H.T.: Aren’t there any stops,
commas or capitals on your typewriter?
L.D.V.: None of those, but we could put up
with some more.. ~P.R.: Do you really
imagine that police work like that?
8.F.8.: Try your hand on something lighter.
. ...G.H.E.: Cut by more than half and try
again L.P.S.: Might make a par T. 8.5.:
That old-timer has been hanging around our
doors for fifty years L.R.: No more of
those, thank you... .L.R.C.: Piffle G.T.:
Possibly contains a suggestion for a humorous
drawing... .H.Y., N.R.E., J.R.D., L.R.A.,
D.P. and F.C.1.: Not up, but try them else-
where.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.: Chop a few feet off the giant and
remake his crooked partner N.H.: That gag
reached Australia with the First Fleet....
W.L.: Caricature commonplace; subject
not sufficiently in public eye A.8.J.:
Growing very weary of the drunk who
mistook a hairbrush for a mirror
B. Linework is much too heavy
T M.C.: You’re pardoned, but don’t repeat the
offence K.H.M.: Couldn’t see the cartoon
for the lettered balloons A.M.R.: You
burned the midnight oil to no good purpose.
S.S.: Rough and ready, all right
C. Didn’t fancy the old cove on the
doorstep, nor the angular housewife C.N.D.:
Declined sketch of collection of dwarfs falling
over precipice... .H.R.: A schoolboy howler
very poorly illustrated... .D.F.: The hand is
willing, but untrained... .H.R.M.: You would
be better employed cutting out fancy paper pat-
terns K.W.: What’s the reason for blanket-
ing all your characters in a thick f0g?....
P.A.J.: We needed a calculating machine to
count your errors... .C.S.: Cross-hatching is
stark and ugly, and why do all your figures
lean 45deg. to the left? ... .N.R.: Surfers so
lifeless that they’re hardly worth rescuing.
J P M.: You should do well when you dis-
card that stilted style and can think up brighter
gags F.T.: Like the chap who calls in for
a couple of bob that gag is always with u 5....
LB : Don’t imitate another man’s style, and
let us have gags that are fresh ...P.W.:
Maternity-eternity malapropism has been dead
this 50 years A.J.L.: Neat and tidy, but
not a chuckle in any of them J.H.: Dread-
ful.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Cauboy”: What the policeman who
censored the dialogue of “The Women”
in Sydney thought to achieve it is diffi-
cult to imagine. A merely verbal change
does not necessarily alter the meaning of
a statement and may even enhance its
effect out of all proportion. Take Lady
Chatterley’s Lover. The unexpurgated
edition was banned in Australia, but
after its author’s demise an edition with
all the objectionable words replaced by
asterisks was admitted. Any impartial
reader would agree that the bowdlerised
version was more suggestive than
the original. Moreover, the excisions did
not alter the situations in the slightest, nor
would wholesale omissions alter the basic
story of “The Women.”
* * * *
The sufferings of women and children
who have fled from Catalonia to France
in the depth of a hard winter have
touched all hearts ; but, for Red “heroes,”
many of the men seemed to have behaved
rather badly. Papers that sided with
their “Government” have been driven to
admit that a colonel “deserted his post
and crawled drenched from the river
at the French frontier town of Bourg-
Madame” and took refuge in a pub ,
that some of the refugees “refused to
do light work, even dishwashing,” and
others reached France “heavily bejewelled
and beringed, indicating that they had
plundered fellow-fugitives.” Also that
Nationalists occupying the fortress of
Montjuch found horrible evidence of
starvation, torture and massacre of
prisoners. Of that a lot more will doubt-
less be heard; but the cables hastily
changed the subject.
* * * *
Remember how, according to the even-
ing papers, savings banks had special
tellers on to accommodate depositors
who wanted to splash their money about
just before Christmas? Statistics issued
by the Commonwealth officer who keeps
tally of that sort of thing show that, for
the first time in seven years, deposits
in December exceeded withdrawals!
In fact, on December 31 last, de-
posits had reached the record total of
£243,650,000, up £10,100,000 during the
year —this growth itself being in the
nature of a record, though that during
1937 ran it very close with £9,300,000.
Christmas, 1938, wasn’t all it was cracked
up to be from the point of view of the
retail trade.
* * * *
The revelation that Australia has paid
upwards of £BOO,OOO in League of
Nations dues, plus costs of annual dele-
gations, moved a Canberra commentator
to recall that, after the collapse of the
League’s one experiment in sanctions,
the Lyons Government made these epoch-
marking proposals to Geneva:
(a) On a declaration by the League
Council that a member-State is an aggressor
sanctions should be automatically applied.
(, b ) Each member-State to decide for
itself whether a breach of the Covenant
has been committed.
(c) Regional pacts, the parties to render
military assistance should one or more be
attacked by an aggressor.
* * * *
Cabled that a Mr. R. G. W. Mackay
is positive that “a strong alliance be-
tween Britain, France and Russia would
prevent war.” . Who is Mr. R. G. W.
Mackay? A Sydney lawyer who went
to England, saying before he left that
Australia offered no scope for his
reforming zeal. With Sir Stafford Cripps
for patron, he tried to break into British
politics, but a provincial electorate re-
jected him. Now, Cripps having been ex-
pelled, Mr. R. W. G. Mackay is “not
going to follow Sir Stafford into the
wilderness,” but he continues to give
Australia unsolicited advice.
Dr. Ruby Davy, the animated little
woman who popularises lofty music by
means of lectures amplified by recitals
by leading Melbourne virtuosi, has a
number of firsts to her long list of dis-
tinctions in the musical line. She was
the first Australian woman to gain the
right to put Mus. Doc. after her name,
the first South Australian woman to take
a doctor’s degree in any faculty, the first
Adelaide woman to gain a licentiate of
music at Trinity College, London, and
the first outside Britain to be awarded a
fellowship of the same academy. She is
one of the most versatile of Melbourne’s
musical tribe, being an excellent pianist,
teacher, conductor, composer and elocu-
tionist. Her compositions include the
choral and orchestral work which was
performed at Melbourne’s centenary and
broadcast from 3LO. She runs a con-
servatorium of her own in Toorak-road.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Reported that Dr. William
Marston, inventor of the “lie detector,”
has been demonstrating a “love detector”
before the American Institution. The
instrument is called the pneumograph,
and is clamped partly round the chest
and partly round the leg of the subject.
Then he is asked certain questions. An
indicator records whether or not a hus-
band is in love with his wife, and, if not,
why not, whether the love is all sex or
has other ingredients of what the doctor
calls the higher emotions. Whether it
can detect mother-love is not stated. It
was tried on an aviator. His reactions
broke the instrument.


t
r/
ds
MONEY
IN SIMPLE SKETCHES
From a modest half-guinea for a sketch
like the one on the right, to hundreds of
pounds for striking advertising designs,
that is the wonderful scope in Commercial
Art!
ANYONE with drawing
ability can train to enter
this fascinating profes-
sion, by means of our famous Home-Study
Course.
We offer special ART ABILITY TESTS
and expert criticism Free of Charge. Write
for your copy of these tests now.
Mention “The Bulletin.”
Art Training Institute
80 Swanston St., Melbourne, Vic.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-t_j return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations . . „ 15
Sheep bought . . . , ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every "item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared,
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1933 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
. .QU
•1!
L
iv< n/■'»
aa
f IttUS'CWAKIE&S
m*
«*■
nGr,
•» >«*
!S4U
fe,T
*&£
% t f ;
ssact
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS... NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
d
N-QBranch
STURT S’
TOWNSVIUI
CQ.Branch N°l East S t Rockhampton..
ENGINEERING Supply c*Cf AUSTRALIA I?
THE WHITE MAN’S BURDEN
BY “FENG-SHUL.”
THE reason why the Australian can-
not live like the Englishman in
India, as “Ex-J.P.” remarks (B.
25/1/’39), is that life in India is
made easy for the official classes because
the bulk of the people never get a square
meal. And the reason for that is that all
the Englishman does is to pick plums,
metaphorically speaking, without culti-
vating the trees.
I lived on an island which had been
in continuous occupation by the British
for 150 years. Previously it had been in
the hands of the Portuguese and then of
the Dutch. There were no art gallery, no
public library, no newspapers, no monu-
ments or statues (except in the cemetery),
nor even any Government archive's.
Nobody knew anything about the history
of the place or took the slightest interest
in it. The only records were the anec-
dotes, mainly scandalous and usually
apocryphal, which were passed round
with the whisky soda and the gin pahit
between seven in the evening and eight.
Europeans knew nothing about the
laws, the administration, the habits,
customs and religion of the natives, and
cared nothing. If you wanted to know
anything about these things you had to
find it out for yourself or get a book
written by some archaeologist, botanist,
anthropologist or historian who by some
chance or other had once visited the
place, stayed as short a time as possible
ar, d then got out.
If you wrote a letter to a Government
°fh c ial concerning some question of
Pf 6 lel 4™ e< ? to you with
bis comments scrawled in pencil under-
neath. If you then added some rejoinder
of your own, in due course an indifferent
peon brought it back with the official’s
further remarks scribbled on the back
thereof, and whether it finished its
‘ ra S “ * hd °®“ al ’ s ° fflde or V our °™
pocket was a matter of chance,
T l o £
1 he reason why the affairs of the com-
munity could be carried on in this way
was that every official, from the highest
to the lowest, was busily engaged in pro-
tecting himself. As he wanted to protect
himself, he did his best to protect his
subordinates The subordinates were
busy protecting themselves and each
ot her, and consequently it was the lowly
native who got, metaphorically speaking,
all the kicks. Public Enemy No. 1 was
*he central administration in London,
w i 1 !?' 1 to kee ,P hnger °u the pulse
°1 the settlement by demands for the fill-
ing in of i nnumera ble forms. Since the
i oca i officials were concerned with keep-
ing the London officials in the dark about
themselves, the forms tended to multiply
at an amazing rate, the officials in Lon-
don naturally supposing that more forms
meant more information, when, as a
matter of fact, they meant exactly the
opposite.
It did not matter if things went from
bad to worse, because the officials went
on leave every three years and never
came back. They were always sent to
some other spot. If the new official blew
the gaff on his predecessor, he became
unpopular at the club, and, as there was
nowhere else to go, he only made things
uncomfortable for himself. Consequently
nobody was a reformer or an iconoclast;
it wasn’t done.
The only man I ever met who went in
for that sort of thing became so lonely
that he had to consort with Tamils,
Malays and Chinamen. Certainly he
lived a more interesting life than the rest
of us. He turned himself into a linguist
and an authority on native lore, and sub-
sequently wrote books. But he was re-
garded locally as suffering from some
quaint abnormality.
The administration of the public health
was in the hands of a man who thought
malaria was brought about by bad air, and
attributed his own immunity to drinking
every day, among other things, a bottle
of English beer. He had never heard of
Sir Ronald Ross. The climate was con-
sidered to be bad for women after six
months’ residence and for children after
the age of five, whereas the causes of the
neurotic condition of mothers and chil-
dren were psychological. The mothers
had nothing to do ; and the children tried
to reconcile what they learnt from native
servants with what their mothers had
taught them. When conflict manifested
itself in some sickness they were sent
away. The fathers regarded themselves
as heroes for not leaving the sinking ship.
Hence the plums turned into Dead Sea
fruit. If the Government were withdrawn
to-morrow, in a few years the island
would be as if the English had never
been, except for the cemetery and the
remains of a tennis court.
There are plenty of such abandoned
spots in the Orient where the White
Man’s Burden has been dropped.
Analogies with Australia are irrelevant.
Artist Noel Wood, who had a show in
Sydney some time ago, lives the simple
life. Three years ago he bought half
the island of Bedarra, near the Barrier
Reef, and took up residence in a house
of rocks and driftwood, with two months’
food, six fowls, an axe, a saw and paint-
ing materials. He lives on coconuts,
pawpaws, bananas, pineapples and fish.
One of his difficulties is the partiality of
his fowls for centipedes, which give the
eggs a novel but unpleasant flavor.
* * * *
The Coronation-medal issue revealed
that Feminist Leaders abound in Sydney,
and some of them insist on living up
to the part. One Feminist Leader bobbed
up at a Washington conference of poly-
glot Feminist Leaders. After informing
the other Feminist Leaders that “We in
Australia are definitely opposed to Mr.
Chamberlain’s policy,” and that “We are
boycotting the aggressor nations,” the
lady “won support in favor of a resolu-
tion for a boycott of Japan.” Another
Feminist Leader, the wife of a Judge,
has written a series of newspaper articles
to prove that Australia and the other de-
mocracies could tame “aggressor nations”
by refusing to trade with them. Adop-
tion of this policy, apart from other
probable consequences, would mean that
the lady would have to do her house-
keeping without her husband’s salary.
* * * He
“S.”: An extraordinary scholastic
record is that of Zelman Cowen, aged
19. Not only did this Melbourne Univer-
sity student gain his Arts degree with
first-class honors, but he won every ex-
hibition in every subject of his course.
Winner of the Wyselaskie scholarship in
English Constitutional History, winner
of the Dwight Prize in the History of
Political Science, and of various other
exhibitions netting him in all about £2OO
—such is the youth’s achievement.
* * * *
Dr. Moran, of Sydney, writes to The
Bulletin from Rome:
There is a cordiality here among the people
towards British people and things which has
not been present since sanctions were imposed.
Union Jacks are everywhere. I feel a certain
satisfaction now the tide is changing. We who
worked did nothing to create hatred, but some-
thing to make goodwill. There will always
be differences —political, religious, philosophical
—between different races, but the person who
deliberately foments trouble should be put up
against a wall. Let us argue. Let us keep
our powder dry. But let us give over spewing
out our disdain and our narrow-minded pre-
judices against other peoples. Warmongers are
not the chaps who will be in the infantry for
the next war. They will be fuming in M
clubs while our sons fight.


THE OTHER
FELLOWS
MINDS.
Again a Victorian gets this week’s prize £3 35., together with A.J.A. rates
2id a line. He is a volunteer, who pens a pertinent criticism of the quality of
the recruiting posters; and, “just in case,” his name remains an office secret —for the
present, anyway. .
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there is
another prize of £lO. This will be awarded next week.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Brighten the Advertising
I’m a gunner in the militia artillery,
but not because of the Government’s re-
cruiting posters. All that I’ve seen lack
one essential element —a selling point. It’s
sad but true that the majority of us young
Australians must be “sold” on the idea of
training to defend our country.
The militia must fight the counter-
attractions of sport and pleasure. It can
only do that with good advertising. The
recruiters are apparently blind to this,
for their posters lack the color and in-
terest of their war-time predecessors.
They told young Australians to fight
for their flag, their families and their free-
dom. To-day’s posters delicately side-
step any mention of fighting, and rarely
state why it is necessary to join the
militia. But if recruiting advertising
cannot be direct, why shouldn’t it be at-
tractive? A pretty girl on a poster would
work wonders.
The present posters aren’t worthy of
selling a cake of soap, much less the
King’s uniform.— Goff (Vic.).
“Goff” lives in a Melbourne suburb. He
wins the £3 3s. Because there may pos-
sibly be some official objection to his
letter, his name and address are with-
held, though naturally “The Bulletin’
would prefer to publish them.
“What’s in a Name?”
Far too many Australians are satisfied
to have a thing named, without bother-
ing to understand it. Ask the ordinary
man to define Fascism, Nazism, Democ-
racy, Communism, the U.A.P., Collec-
tive Security, Inflation, Self-determina-
tion, Federation or any other of the thou-
sand and one terms of the same kind
with which he is familiar through press
and radio, and his attempt will reveal a
confusion that has to be witnessed to be
believed.
I’m game to give a shade of odds that
many of our “glibbest” journalistic
crusaders couldn’t give a simple, straight-
forward definition of the thing they
would have us crusade against.
Most of us have plenty to say about
Hitler, Spain, Chamberlain, Lyons and
the rest of it, but most of us are simply
parrots, repeating what we see and hear.
It’s time we settled down and created in
our own minds some clarity of vision
about the things we support or oppose. —
M 8 (N.S.W.).
Go to Sea, Young Man!
Australia needs seamen as well as
soldiers. The farming youth of northern
N.S.W. (the part I come from) would
be well advised to choose a sea career
in either the navy or merchant marine.
The early cedar-getters have many de-
scendants who, I feel sure, have the
salt of the sea in their veins.
I am an able seaman. I have had five
years in the navy and two in the mer-
chant marine. My pay now, with aver-
age overtime, is £6 a week and keep.
The hours, conditions and hardships are
not so bad as farming.
I have travelled most of the world and
have met such notables as the Pope and
George V. I can always go* back to
farming when I can’t get work at sea.
The captain’s rank is attainable by the
ambitious youth who is keen and capable
enough. It is worth £lOOO a year or
more— True Blue (Q.).
Pedestrians’ Rights
I have read a number of motorists’
letters in the daily press, all of which
emphatically state that the presumptuous
pedestrian has not equal road rights with
the motorist. They point out that
modern roads are constructed out of the
extra taxes (detailed) paid by them, and
that the pedestrian contributes nothing
to such road cost.
The tenor of all these letters is that
the roads are virtually the property of
the motorist, and that the pedestrian uses
them only on sufferance.
We all know that it is essential to the
safety of both motorist and pedestrian
that the pedestrian’s use of the road be
properly controlled. But to argue that
“rights” should be determined according
to the amount of taxes paid by each
individual is not worthy of consideration.
This type of motorist should reflect
that the possession of a car is no indi-
“ Don't Worry, lad; Were going to land now!”
cation of wealth these days, and that
probably the pedestrian pays more in-
come tax than he. In that case, applying
his own argument, where does he stand
as regards “rights”?
Such an attitude towards the pedes-
trian certainly does not help to solve the
road-safety problems, and is no doubt
responsible for many accidents. —
R. J. Pearce (N.S.W.).
The Too-versatile Post Office
In addition to mails, telegraphs and
telephones, our P.M.G.’s Department
shows the way to the rest of the world
by controlling broadcasting in the issue
of all licenses, the final word in policy
and the manning of national stations. It
frames regulations—stacks of ’em —under
an obsolete Wireless Telegraphy Act
whose name and original purpose had
nothing whatever to do with broadcast-
ing, and compels “B” stations to staff
with fully-licensed operators, while un-
able (or unwilling) to do so with its own
stations.
Broadcasting cannot be treated as a
mere form of communication, nor is it
true to assert that technicalities are no
concern of the A.B.C. There is no sharp
dividing line between the supply of pro-
grammes and the correct and artistic
handling of them by technicians. Imagine
a theatre with two managers—one in
charge of actors and playwrights, and
the other in charge of stagehands—with
the constant need for consultation be-
tween the two camps to obtain results!
If the Post Office contented itself with
the issue of licenses and control of “B”
stations and left national broadcasting
entirely in the hands of the A.B.C. there
would be a chance of achieving unifica-
tion of effort and better presentation of
programmes. The highest standards of
technical efficiency in world broadcast-
ing are to be found in the 8.8. C. and
the major American networks, where
technicians and programme staffs alike
are responsible to one authority—that
supplying the programme. R. H. A.
(W.A.).
Wireless in Schools
My experience of many years as a
teacher leads me to doubt whether it does
not do more harm than good. The aver-
age modern child is as familiar with the
wireless as with “pictures.” Educational
films at school are so obviously inferior
to good travel pictures supplied at the
picture theatres that the children are sel-
dom much impressed. To wireless they
have listened so often that they have
acquired the habit of not listening to
items in which they are not specially in-
terested. Wireless lessons in school gen-
erally come under that head. The trouble
does not end here. The habit of inatten-
tion in class has always been a difficult
thing to counter. I think most teachers
will agree with me that it is on
the increase ; and I have little doubt that
the cause of that increase is the habit of
not listening to the spoken word, which
is a normal reaction to the constant use
of the radio.— John Alpin (Q.).
Equity or Iniquity?
Soldier- and “closer”-settlers in the
Victorian Mallee are much perturbed at
the elusive nature of “the 25 per cent,
equity” which they were assured would
remain in their holdings when the
Closer Settlement Commission had final-
ised adjustments and “writings-down.”
The trouble is no financial institutions
recognise it, and traders generally are
equally blind to the security. Now
settlers are advocating the establishment
of a Rural Credits Branch of the State
Savings Bank so that they can secure
advances. Worked up about it at a recent
meeting a Digger burst out, “If we can’t
negotiate it, I’d like to know what good
this blasted ‘iniquity’ is to us!” — Effem
(Vic.).
Dope
From time to time hints creep into the
local press of a rather disturbing amount
of dope-trafficking in Australia. Cocaine
can be obtained in most of our cities, if
one knows the ropes, and other drugs are
certainly in use. Occasionally dope-
pedlars are fined. This is too weak a
penalty. If it’s murder to shoot a man
dead, it’s murder to destroy his character
and mentality with drugs, and the penalty
should be as severe. —C. S. (N.S.W.).
Still Wanted': a Leader
As an Australian who has lived all
his life in western Queensland I feel
sure there must be thousands of Aus-
tralians who think the same as myself
in regard to our politicians. Very few
people take any notice of them; but
we realise they have a good job, and
they certainly make the most of it.
Half the electors would not bother
to vote if it was not compulsory. If
politicians were working for a private
concern and gave the same service as
they are giving to their country, most
of them would get the sack.
Some, at least, must have a certain
amount of ability to be able to get to
Parliament, but apparently getting in
exhausts their capabilities.
Is it impossible to get a leader?
Haven’t we a man with ordinary com-
monsense and the courage to do what
he believes to be right? What is the
calm, sober way out —without revolu-
tion? As Australians, and for our chil-
dren’s sake, surely we can find one
man to save our country before it is
too late. — Dafty (W.Q.).
Up 10 Per Cent.
Ostensibly because of a coal strike and
a drought, for neither of which they
could be held responsible, the taxpayers
of N.S.W. are to be slugged an extra 10
per cent, in freights and fares by the
Government-owned railways.
Controlled by a transport law which
has all sorts of powers to prevent private
enterprise from competing with them,
these railways are expected to show a
loss of £BOO,OOO this year. On business-
like figures, the loss is much greater. In
private enterprise, the manager of any
concern which, having a practical
monoply, showed heavy losses would be
asked to resign. No N.S.W. railway head
will be called upon even to explain.
Both the passenger and the owner of
freight in N.S.W. receive little or no ser-
vice. For the ordinary person train travel
over long distances is a nightmare ; if
there are children the prospect frightens
the boldest.
Freight and livestock get no better
treatment. We had the picture a few
days ago of several bags of flour being
withdrawn from export by Customs offi-
cers because they were contaminated by
coaldust from the truck and filth from
the tarpaulin used to cover them. Asked
to explain, the Railway Department airily
said that it wasn’t its business to provide
clean trucks. But a motor transport
operator willing to provide clean trans-
port wouldn’t be allowed to do so.
On the suburban services things are no
better. Second-class passengers fight and
scramble for a place (not a seat, a place )
on trains hauling empty first-class cars.
The passenger is ringed round with “must
nots” and “shalls,” receives no assistance
with luggage or children, is frequently
misled on unfamiliar routes.
A lot more could be said, but that’s
sufficient to explain in part the astounded
indignation of a people calmly told that
their travelling costs are to go up 10
per cent, on a transport system slow, in-
efficient, dirty, careless, irresponsible. It
would be tolerated nowhere else in the
world: — Traveller (N.S.W.).
Our Hidden Army
If Australian Governments are really
in earnest over the defence question they
can at once make a substantial beginning
towards the creation of a strong militia
force. Roughly, one in 10 of all Aus-
tralian males between 18 and 60 is a
Government employee in a life job, shel-
tered from competition or stress and
assured of a pension.
Taking only those between 18 and 40,
no finer class of military material can
be wished for. It is only reasonable to
expect, in appreciation of the benefits
conferred upon them by the country, an
enthusiastic and spontaneous response


from all civil servants to any call made
upon them by their Governments.
These Governments are busily assur-
ing us that the present is a time of ex-
treme danger and very grave difficulty.
The details are somewhat vague, but if
they are themselves convinced it is sur-
prising that they have made no such
call. If only one in every three
civil servants—or, say, three in every
five of those between 18 and 40 —were
to join up, they would constitute a militia
of over 60,000. The balance of Aus-
tralia’s 1,200,000 males between 18 and
40, when shown so patriotic an example,
could be expected, if only for shame’s
sake, to contribute at - least another
120,000.
We are frequently assured that the next
war will be conducted on a basis which
will subject women to the same risks as
men. There is thus no reason to exclude
from such a splendid national gesture by
our awakened civil services the many
thousands of women of active age who
now adorn them. They would make a
substantial addition to the National
Emergency Legion, and would emphasise
yet further the sincerity of so outstand-
ing a sacrifice by a sheltered class on the
altar of highest public duty.— Colbun
(Q-). „
An Old Game
The evil of slinging mud at foreign
countries was evidently recognised way
back in 1881. Extract from The Stark
Munro Letters, 1881-1884, by Conan
Doyle:
A man is punished for libel of a private
person, although the consequences can only
be slight. But a man may perpetrate inter-
national libel, which is a heinous and far-
reaching offence, and there is no law in the
world which can punish him. Think of the
contemptible crew of journalists and
satirists who are for ever picturing the
Englishman as haughty and h-dropping, or
the American as vulgar and expectorating.
If some millionaire would give them all a
trip round the world we should have
some rest —and if the plug came out of the
boat it would be more restful still. And
your vote-hunting politicians with their tail-
twisting campaigns, and our editors of the
supercilious weeklies with their inane tone
of superiority, if they were all aboard how
much clearer we should be! *
Attention, the “Daily Yell” and all radio-
screechers! No, on second thoughts, it
wouldn’t interest them —it was written
before 1914! —J. Macgowan (N.S.W.)
No Apples in Apple Isle
What, I wonder, would be the reaction
of Australians if upon opening their
morning papers they were to read in the
Stop Press: —•
Latest English Slogan: “Come to
London and enjoy our delicious Tasmanian
apples. Unprocurable in Apple Land.”
It is an extraordinary outlook on life,
whatever the economics of the matter
may be, that a land of luscious fruit
provides little, except low grade, for
either the tourist or native.
In this isle of plenty it is hardly pos-
sible to buy “quality” apples or indeed
good fruit of any kind. But it is particu-
larly noticeable in regard to apples, which
grow in their millions.
I cannot help feeling that it is a poor
thing to train Australians to accept for
their own consumption second-class food-
stuffs, particularly fruit, which is such a
necessary article of diet. M. Foster
CTas.).
Law and Disorder
“The welfare of the people is the
supreme law” may be fact as well as
motto in Missouri. It is eyewash in Aus-
tralia. The law-enforcement bodies for
which R. W. Gregory was so valiantly
enlisting sympathy and support in B.
25/1/’39 have nothing but their own dic-
tatorial methods to blame for the public’s
alleged non-co-operation.
Such are the justice and efficiency of
traffic administration in N.S.W. that
motor drivers definitely not guilty of the
charge on their blue paper line up, plead
“guilty,” and quietly pay their “guinea-
and-costs” rather than submit to the
maddening waiting, red-tape and invari-
able non-success of a “not-guilty” plea.
Who wouldn’t kick against the en-
forcement of tobacco laws which look
after the “welfare of the people” by try-
ing to see just how hard they can make it
for a man to buy cigarettes after tobac-
conists close? Is it for the “welfare of
the people” that we all, instead of being
privileged as free men to vote at elec-
tions, are compelled to vote or be fined?
Is it for the “welfare of the people” that
N.S.W. taxation authority wages war with
a lack of scruple that would put you or
me in gaol? I refer particularly to that
little trick of taxing wages never received
by the taxpayer but already garnisheed
as wages tax?
The State can expect, and will receive,
more public co-operation in the enforce-
ment of its laws when they are designed
and administered with more regard to
the “welfare of the people” and with
less humbug.—John B. Greer (N.S.W.).
R. W. Gregory upholds the law, and
says that the defendant can place his case
before the Court. Let R.W.G. try it
on at the Traffic Court and see how far
he gets. And what about the case just
lately at Lithgow (N.S.W.) where the
coroner committed a man for trial for
leaving the ignition-key in his car? The
Ciown Law Office fortunately intervened
there.
Let R.W.G. do from 10 to 12 in the
police courts any old morning. He will
then write to you asking to withdraw the
article you gave him the first prize for. —•
G. M. Reid (N.S.W.).
Keeping Jack Afloat
Doufcitless the naval authorities are
aware of the sad loss they sustain through
naval ratings leaving the service at the
end of their first period of 12 years, but
what are they doing to stop the drift
shorewards? With a few hundred pounds
deferred pay in his pocket—unless bur-
dened with family responsibilities—
naturally the average sailor is going to
try his luck ashore. He knows that if
he fails the navy will be only too glad
to take him back, although he may have
to accept a lower rating.
A pension scheme like the Royal Navy’s
would certainly have the effect of
making men sign on again to complete
time for a pension, but would be un-
popular in the R.A.N. A solution might
be to increase substantially the pay of
men taking on for a further period after
completing their 12 years. Something
should be done to stop the loss of ratings
at the height of their usefulness to the
service.—E. D. B. (Vic.).
Public as Censor of Films
The cinema is the greatest and most
important show the world has ever seen,
and children are being more educated,
in the broadest sense of the word, by
the cinema than by any other agency,
whether it is the school, the church or
the home. They may not be receiving in-
struction, but they are getting ideas of
conduct and notions about marriage and
divorce. Our standards of what con-
stitutes the good life are being formed
to a dominating extent by the cinema.
If we feel that the kind of films children
see is important, we must exert our in-
fluence to see that better films are shown,
and that bad films are either not shown
or are shunned when shown. We need
an organisation representing thousands of
people so that we can make terms with
the exhibitor. I am not a great believer
in censorship by a Government. It is
much better to rely on censorship by
the public.—J. V. R. (N.S.W.). •
Guests’ Responsibilities
, Time and time again Australia and
Maoriland have been made to appear
ludicrous, and sometimes have been really
injured by ill-timed and ill-considered
statements made by casual visitors to their
respective shores.
Sir Thingumbob Smithkin, after three
days in Geyserland, may pronounce the
country as headed straight for financial
and economic ruin. Lord Notadina may
say that in a few years Sydney will just be
a suburb of Japan, despite the fact that
he may have been in the big N.S.W. city
a few hours only. Now a recent visitor
to these shores (M.L.) has set an example
that all tourists might well follow. Lord
Strabolgi, when asked to comment, ad-
versely or otherwise, upon Mick Savage’s
political meanderings, replied like a toff:
“I am a guest in this country, and it
would be highly improper for me to
discuss your politics in any way.”—
Enzedder (M.L.).
Defence
Defence is in the Budget with a ven-
geance. Taxpayers are conjuring up
visions of fleets of ’planes, munition fac-
tories and big-gun emplacements.
But one of the most important links
in the chain is communication. In the
recent Central Australian floods the Over-
land Telegraph line and the railway were
put out of commission. Atmospheric in-
terference temporarily precluded radio
communication, and Darwin was cut off
from the world.
If natural upheavals can dislocate com-
munication, how much more disastrous
would be organised attacks on nerve-
centres of telegraphy, telephony and
radio? Horrible confusion would be the
result.
The second line, the alternative, seems
to indicate the use of light, speedy ’planes
stationed strategically all over the vari-
ous States. Government-subsidised aero
clubs could train pilots, and thorough
organisation could quickly develop a
scout corps capable of bridging the gap
caused by breakdown of the orthodox
lines of communication. The regular Air
Force, ’planes and personnel will be
needed for other duties. Defence authori-
ties should aim at a civil list of pilots at
least 7000 strong, which is not one per
thousand of population. —D. Jeffrey
(Q.).
Decay of Children’s Teeth
A national inquiry into the causes
of the decay of children’s teeth in Aus-
tralia should be started. Despite the
many natural advantages which the chil-
dren of Australia enjoy, their teeth are
very bad. There is such a prevalence of
dental caries that research is urgently
needed. The investigation should be
undertaken in each State under the super-
vision of the Commonwealth Department
of Health. The conclusions reached by
the investigators would enable the whole
problem to be approached with a view
to the establishment and use of preven-
tive measures.—A. P. (N.S.W.).
Consider the Fairy Story
It gets its grip on us in early child-
hood and never lets go. At mother’s knee
we hear of Grimm’s ogres and Ander-
sen’s witches, which appear very real to
our baby imaginations because most of
us live in a world of make-believe for the
first 15 years or so. Later, at Sunday
school, more ogres are served up in the
form of Satan, the devil, or God (to many
children God is an ogre waiting to punish
them for doing a wholly natural thing
which their parents say is “wrong”). The
growing mind now ceases actually to see
these ogres, but the vague, threatening
shadow is there, dominating actions, in-
hibiting impulses, creating doubts.
Literature comes in with its Simon
Legrees, Long John Silvers, Hurons, Pro-
fessor Moriartys and other ogres. Along
comes history (in British schools) with its
Philip, Van Tromp, Napoleon, all ogres
to our eyes. So it goes on, from Grimm to
Wells, and the adult human of our nation
is lost without an ogre—and a hero to
conquer him. Thus, to-day, Hitler and
Mussolini are ogres, Churchill and
Roosevelt and Anthony Eden are good
fairies or heroes, according to the point
of view.
The ogre-and-good-fairy habit, I think,
is more deeply ingrained in us than any
other, and the press, catering to what it
calls the public demand, is pandering to
that habit and nothing else, whether it
sees Hitler as ogre or fairy. This is the
thing confronting those who seek the
way of truth. It crucified Christ, Whose
ideal of truth has never been questioned,
and I think it will crucify civilisation
unless we can find some means of over-
coming it. Otherwise harmless old ladies,
who frothed at the very name of Hitler
last September, knew him not as a man
but as an ogre, and, desperately search-
ing for a hero to spoil him, found him in
Anthony Eden, handsome enough to fill
the part. Such is the vague conception
of things Chamberlain is up against.—
Boy Blue (N.S.W.).
In Defence of Youth
Recruits from four States:
If the nom de plume of “Not Forty” (B.
18 /1 / ’39) is a genuine one, and not merely an
astute camouflage to shelter him from the
barrage of brickbats which he must have
known his bigoted tirade against youth would
provoke, I feel sorry for him.
“N.F.” need not fear that the billiard-
saloon will lure modern youth to ruin. Judg-
ing by the difficulty I experienced in .trying to
sell a second-hand table, in ten years’
time billiard-saloons will be as rare as
miniature golf courses. As for hotels, youth
certainly has no monopoly of this indoor
sport. Most publicans have reached that sober
middle-age which “N.F.” finds so praiseworthy,
yet I’ve never heard of one giving up the
business because it might prove a stumbling-
block in the path of youth.
When it comes to the louts who scorch
around the countryside on motor-bikes, I feel
a personal affront, because I happen to be
one of the clan. With due modesty, I there-
fore refer “N.F.” to the fulsome praise which
the Chairman of the Forests Commission
(Mr. Galbraith) uttered concerning the activities
of motor-cyclists during the bushfires that swept
Victoria recently.
Indeed, a course of reading for detractors
of youth is necessary. Let them read the
annual reports of the Royal Humane Society
and lifesaving clubs and the honor roll of
aviation progress. And, finally, let them re-
member that if youth ever gets a chance to
take the helm it can hardly make a more in-
glorious mess of things than the so-called
statesmen have made for the last two decades.
—Melton (Vic.).
If “N.F.” ever had anything to do with sports
clubs or the like he would know that in 99 p.c.
of cases one will find two or three middle-
aged people in command simply because they
want things their way. That is what is wrong
with our Parliaments. — Not Thirty (W.A.).
Surely “Not Forty” realises that a man organ-
ising anything, be it sport or business, must have
had experience in the particular subject, other-
wise he would fail, no matter how old he is.
Recognising that older men have had the chance
of gaining experience during their longer life-
time, youth in many cases looks to its elders
of ~.,( , V ' CC anc * direction. “N.F.” accuses youth
p,,r^? USmB i[ nost t * ie r * ots ar) d upheavals in
, wou *d be nearer the mark if he
sought out those who gain most by the riots.
. .® a , 'i 1 ® crime, “N.F.” can’t take the
e !f n . lent ar >d hold it up as an example
, me whole community. The only reason
wny an elderly criminal retires from his trade
is because he has lost his agility or is in gaol.
As to individualism, take the young stockman
wno studies bookkeeping, gets a job in that
capacity on a station, and, as has happened
many times, becomes a manager. Take the
lettler who studies and becomes night-officer at
f ln his ascent on the ladder of success.
N.r. has only to mingle a little with youth
and get about a bit. He would find similar
instances of individualism wherever he turned.
—C. W. H. (Q ).
\x7?^ displays devoted loyalty to its ideals.
Who can deny that youth organisations,
political, sporting, social, are more efficient
than adult bodies? Youth forms groups, be-
cause cohesion means strength, and strength
victory. Youth has been attracted by the mag-
netic personality of certain men, and it has
given those men power. Dictators owe their
high places to the mighty phalanxes of youth,
loyal and sincere in their devotion. Youth
fervently believes its cause is right, and is pre-
pared to die for it.
Youth is not lazy, and if it is discontented
the older generation is blameable. Youth’s in-
heritance is economic depression, irritating
social conditions and the aftermath of world
war. — Nineteen (Vic.).
“Not Forty” touches a chord somewhere in
my anatomy with his charge that youth is
helpless and hopeless unless organised, especially
for sport, by its elders. We had an example
in Mudville-on-the-Mud when there was a
wild cry that we needed a swimming pool. The
Mayor and some henchmen, in the interests of
the physical development of youth and the
general progress of the town, arranged to
borrow and beg the wherewithal for the pool,
so the elders organised themselves and threw the
Mayor and his Olympic swimming aldermen
right out of civic life to a chorus of “We
won’t have baths! We don’t want baths!
Let ’em have a bath in the bathroom.”
Yet I estimated that only 10 per cent, of the
audience at the meetings held on the subject
was against the pool. Youth, strongly Olympic,
was stricken dumb for want of a leader.
When the fighting was all over and the
Mayor and his henchmen were licking their
wounds in oblivion, I was walking home with
one of the anti aldermen and listening to his
paean of victory. He wound up with a proud
lift of fils head and said: “We’ll stop the
village louts from breaking swimming records,
you mark me!”
So now I'm wondering if the elders of the
tribe do not ' need organising into a body,
marching to the kindergarten and, after a
severe caning, being instructed in the duties of
Age towards Youth.— Harry W. (N.S.W.).
.“Not. Forty’s” rather sweeping statements
seem to require some definitions, and of these
a definition of youth is important. The old
adage of “being as young as you feel” immedi-
ately is brought to, mind, and even “N.F.”
would be considered young compared with our
grandparents. Still, for argument’s sake, we
may consider the ages between 16 and 26 as
typifying youth.
Another consideiation is the definition of
a typical youth, for surely that is to whom
“N.F.” would refer. The most popular idea
would probably follow these lines: Leaves
school at intermediate standard, as his people
really are unable to continue his education to
academical study; obtains a job by his own
efforts, even doing well at it; is serious enough
to worry for the future of his parents; takes
an interest in politics and is openminded
about them; keen about sport, perhaps cricket,
swimming and tennis; eager to learn and genu-
inely anxious to improve his knowledge by the
study of good literature; fond of humor and
harmless fun, a very precious asset; appreciative
of the arts in some form but not bound by
the fetishes and conventions of previous genera-
tions.
Possibly “N.F.” will say that the foregoing
description is flattering, and that no such para-
gon exists to-day. Yet this is surely a more typical
youth than the totally heedless, reckless and
criminal type “N.F.’s article suggests. — Not
Twenty-two (Q.).
You will see in the cities and bigger towns a
certain class of young men who seem to have no
aim in life. What chance have they got when
they leave school (after being taught to read and
write) at the age of fourteen?
They take the first tinpot job that comes
along. At the age of 20 or 21 they are turned
loose; Big Business doesn’t want them. It can
get younger fellows to take their places.
Tfiere is usually no chance of betterment
in these jobs, and, most important of all, not
much interest in tfiem. At the end of the day
the lads want amusement. Moving pictures,
cheap dances, and, when they’re a little older,
the pubs.
They get sick of doing this sort of thing.
They hang around the streets, usually wonder-
ing whether their jobs will Hold till they are
past their majority. They start to talk about
cars and driving in general. There are plenty
of cars—unattended cars—about the streets.
They “borrow” one for the night, having no
end of a good time until trouble catches up.
Individualism? Well, doing things off your
own bat is not much fun for most young people
who like company. As for rushing “pell-mell
after the god of the moment,” that’s so much
bunk. You see, most young folk who can
think, and they do think, know tfiat the news-
papers and magazines are mostly blurb,
rumors and lies—“new journalism,” run by
the “mature” folk. If we are to look to them
for advice and guidance, Heaven help the youth
the world over.
Again, these everlasting “crises” give some
of us the notion that wars are going to break out
all over the place, so the idea is to get all the
excitement and pleasure we can before we are
told to go and fight the enemies (i.e., the youth
of another country) who have sullied the
“fionor” of our country, and so on.
As for Tarzan and his antics —well, that
cultured gentleman is about your age, isn’t he,
“Not Forty”? He manages to amuse the
younger people, I grant you, between the ages
of six and fourteen years. Mandrake I haven’t
met.
Anyway, think it over, “N.F.” Maybe I
am too young (I’ll be nineteen this month) to
air my views this way, but a lot of other
fellows think the same as I do.—Thoughts
(W.A.).


LOOK GWEN /SNT
JACK A PERFECT
SCREAM IN A COS
TUME /
ITS A PTTY RE
LOOKS SUCH A
weakl/aig /
f f GWENS MARQeV
WWEKEQO/TE P/GNT
WHAT A SKINNY
BAG OF BONES
'-LAM, I'LL SEND
THAT COUPON TO
\aIFPEDJ BRITON
:V P/QNT NOW/A
I My/ /‘ONEVET? '
BELIEVE IT/ JACK
I YOU PE SIMPLY
I gpano.nowoid you
GET SOCK YIONOEPFUL
MUSCLES. I'M PRCX/O
OF YOU /
TV:
iiiii
/ WANT you
NEXT/
Send
Coupon
below
for
amazing
TRIAL
OFFER
L
■I
ALFRED J. BRITON
Founder of Health and Physical Culture Magazine
1500 FREE BOOKS
THE SECRETS OF
MUSCULAR STRENGTH”
TO BE DISTRIBUTED
to “Bulletin” readers this month.
D EAD the most sensational book on
■ strength ever published. This book
will amaze you with its facts—startle
you with its possibilities. You don’t
know you’re alive until you get this
book in your own hands. Do you
know what gives a gorilla the strength
of 10 men? Do you know why
strength and virility are connected? It
will answer questions you have hardly dared
to ask yourself, and you can get a copy FREE—
if you hurry. Fill in the Coupon NOW, this
minute, and post it TO-DAY!
TEST THE WONDERFUL EXGELDING
COURSE FOR 30 DAYS AT OUR RISK!!
NOW you can test this famous
course yourself—try this re-
markable system in your own home
—under any condition you like, and
if it doesn’t add inches to your
chest, broaden your shoulders, de-
velop your arms, legs, neck and
back within 30 days, it COSTS YOTJ
NOTHING. But you must hurry;
this offer may never be repeated.
It places you under no obligation
whatsoever; all you have to do is
send the Coupon NOW!
IT TAKES JUST 30 DAYS.
BUT I'm not through with you
yet. I don’t make men by
halves. Give me just 30 days, and
then look yourself over. Now you
sure are somebody. The pathway
to happiness and success is easy!
People will ask to meet you. Suc-
cessful businessmen will realise that
here is another man to accept as one
of their own group. Your boss will
treat you with a new respect, and
that girl of yours will have that
look of love and affection in her
eye that in itself will more than
repay you.
DO WOMEN’S GLANCES
ADMIRE YOU
they pass you in the street
or on the beach? Do people
remark what a splendid build
you present? Or are you one
of those undersized, half-
developed, shrinking chaps whom
people only look upon with ridi-
cule? Take yourself aside, and
ask yourself that question!
11 Vi
** ;
"*■ >-r" ’" ■■ -..
--•>*•'*■ "■'"” ~ ....
if
FREE TO “BULLETIN” READERS!
j HAVE made the greatest and most amazing discovery
about muscle-building that YOU ever heard of. I have
learned that STRENGTH and vitality are connected! I his
story is in a brand-new book full of pictures —and for a
little while you can have that book FREE! If you want the
body and strength of an athlete and I know you do—shoot
that coupon along NOW! If you want to load your frame
with roll upon roll of smooth, easy-moving, rippling muscles
mail the coupon NOW! If you want the speedy strength
and lightning agility, the quick-moving grace and crushing
power of a tiger—print your name on that coupon before
you are three minutes older.
ALFRED J. BRITON
DEPT. L, 107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Seeing Is Believing
READ THIS POSITIVE PROOF
"HAVE INCREASED 6 fNCHES
ROUND CHEST. AN! FITTER,,
HEALTH/ERE MORE CONFIDENT
THAN EVER BEFORE. THANHS
TO YOUR COURSE'! P.PETROG, C. VfC.
NOW PROUD OF BODY.
“I don’t think there is a move
pleased man in this State than myself,
and I am move than proud of my
body every time 1 see its reflection in
the mirror. I can only say it is mar-
vellous.”—W. TIMBLETT, P., W.A.
“No doubt your course is the great-
est investment I have ever made, and
I have no hesitation in, recommend-
ing Excelling to anyone who is desirous
of building a superb physique and
developing phenomenal strength.”—
G. DEVITT, N., N.S.W.
“ASTOUNDING STRENGTH/’
“I’ve gained super strength. I can
bend a. horseshoe and break it in my
hand, tear packs of cards, bend an
iron bar in my teeth and around my
neck.” —W. M. IRLEY, 8., Queensland.
HURRY
COUPON
BELOW
FOR
YOUR
COPY!
7 HAVE REAPED THE
UTMOST VALUE PROM
YOUR WONOEPPUL
COURSE, WOOLO
RECOMMEND (T to
ANYONE:’'fjK HH-OORWm
Of PT. L. i.AUfT.
ASTOUNDED AT
IMPROVEMENT!
“I am writing to express my
deepest appreciation to you for
the benefit I have derived from
your course of physical culture.
When I measured myself recently
1 was astounded to see such im-
provement in so short a time.'’ —
J. W. STRINGER, P., Vic.
30 PAYS TRIAL COUPON
A. J. BRITON,
Dept. L,
107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE a
copy of your latest book. “The Secrets of Muscular
Strength—And How to Acquire It.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
sd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
the WOW-P
yours
(4
A BOOK BARGAIN'
G. B. LANCASTER'S
“The World
Is Yours”
A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOl
I'6
Post Free
n>:S
qO
&
e &
yo& 1
t*V
/
c o>>« -
>s* ~ s®V
ve • -
\V$ S
#•’
#*■
..*■ \°


A VITAL
MESSAGE
to Sufferers from
BRAIN FAG and THAT
DEPRESSED FEELING
SCIENTIFIC
CONTROL
Attached to the Laboratories
of the Douglas Drug Com-
pany are three fully-qualified
chemists and a Doctor of
Medicine who graduated at
the Universities of Edin-
burgh and Glasgow.
A Refreshing
HEALTH DRINK
A delightful health drink can
be made by mixing a dose of
BIDOMAK with a wine glass-
full or half a tumbler of ice
cold water, or any aerated
water.
A few drops of BIDOMAK in
a tumbler of ice cold water is
a delightful refreshing thirst-
quencher.
Lack of Confidence . . . Headaches . . . Nervous Indigestion ... Sleeplessness
... Listlessness .. . Anaemia .. . Nerve pains and other similar Nervous and
Constitutional weaknesses.
BIDOMAK provides a method of supplying energy to the cells of the body wherever the
natural supply of vitality is insufficient to maintain the normal activity of glands and
organs. It provides vital mineral elements. It is a scientific compound of certain vital
mineral elements which are lacking in the average modern diet, and which include ferrum,
calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphates, glycerophosphates, sucrose, as well as other neces-
sary elements. These are the cell foods which are vitally necessary for the blood to build
up and maintain the cells and tissues of the body by activating and rejuvenating the cells—
which banish the infirmities due to nerves and constitutional weaknesses.
Blessing of Vigorous Health
For men, women and children of naturally weak constitution
BIDOMAK gives the chance of revitalised, vigorous health,
whilst those who are obliged by their work to be keyed up
always have found in BIDOMAK a most certain way of
keeping always thrillingly fit.
BIDOMAK Increases Oxygen in the Blood Stream
and thus it increases the supply of red corpuscles and charges
the blood and tissues with an increased supply of revitalising,
life-giving oxygen.
BIDOMAK Creates New, Healthy Nerve Cells
and provides a full supply of healthy nerve fluid, at the same time
removing poisons and wastes from the system.
BIDOMAK creates a storage of energy and nerve force—overcomes
every run-down condition, every disorder not due to germ attack
but just to lack of energy and drive. It gives that vitality so
essential to full recovery from illness —that tonic stimulation without
which convalescence is a long-drawn-out agony of depression. It
improves the activity of every gland and organ in the system, and
supplements the driving force of the complicated machinery housed
in the human body whenever that force falls below the requirements
of the individual.
Take a course of BIDOMAK and your whole attitude towards life
will be changed.
-- ;
m
»-C*%
COMt
for a
Large
Bottle—
all Chemists
and Stores
New
Zealand,
3/6.
4 The Tonic of the Century
9?
For Nerves, Brain and that Depressed Feeling
Product of: Douglas Drug Coy., Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. Sole Wholesale Agents for Tasmania. L. Fairt o y
New Zealand Distributors: Fluenzol Ptv. Ltd.. Thorndon Quay, Wellington.
