

I ACTS give
that HUTUWAI TONIC
RHEUMATISM
In bed with MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM—
now gets about and does own work and
washing .
BRUNSWICK, MELBOURNE, NlO, VIC.,
26th September, 1938.
Dear Sirs, ' .
I lost ray appetite and could not sleep at night. I took
to bed with MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM in my back. Since
taking Hutuwai I can get about and do my own work and
washing, and can eat and sleep well. I NEVER FELT BETTER
FOR YEARS THAN I DO TO-DAY. I meet friends, who tell
me how well I look, and I tell them all it is due to HUTUWAI.
(Signed) (Mrs.) L. KENNEDY.,
NERVES
Was Run-down and 1 Nervous. ...
HEALTH COMPLETELY RESTORED by HUTUWAI
FIRST AVENUE, ST. PETERS, ADELAIDE, S.A.
21st April, 1939.
Dear Sirs,
For over two years I was completely run down, was nervous
and irritable, suffered from loss of sleep and with Indigestion.
My health generally was very poor. I was recommended your
Hutuwai Tonic, and after taking two bottles my health was
considerably improved. With this encouragement I continued
taking Hutuwai, and after taking it for ten weeks my health is
completely restored and I am feeling very fit.
I have recommended your Hutuwai to a score or more of
my friends, who are now taking it with beneficial results. I have
no hesitation in recommending Hutuwai to all those in poor
health.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) M. B. WILSON.
These are all true
reports . . . not made-
up stories.
GET RID OF YOUR ACHES AND PAINS!
Join the ever-growing army of Australians marching to RADIANT HEALTH with
Large Bottle,
4'6
(Including: Valuable
DIET CHART
FREE.)
Also in 3/- size.
If unobtainable locally,
direct from Hutuwai
Distributing Co., 210
George St., Sydney.
Postage 1/- extra per
bottle.
(Pronounce HOO-iOO-WY)
Sold and recommended by Chemists
and Stores throughout Australia.
V
The Bulletin
Discussion —or War?
Vol. 60.—N0. 3097.
Wednesday, June 21, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY*
Handvritmg
Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp.
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement system
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
HERBERT GEPP ON AUSTRALIA.
A collection of speeches and addresses given on
various occasions between 1923 and 1938 by knight
Herbert Gepp, before such diverse bodies as the Mel-
bourne Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Master
Bakers’ Association of Perth and the Sydney Rotary
Club and on occasions ranging from a Jubilee Smoke
Social of the Melbourne Technical College to the
opening of “a Conference of Scientific and Public
Organisations on Soil Erosion” —have been gathered
into a volume and published by Angus and Robertson
under the title Democracy’s Danger.
They are naturally a mixed bag, and would have
been the better for more careful editing. There are
many repetitions, not only of subject-matter, but of
phrasing, and an overload of those compliments and
genuflexions which, however graceful in their time
and place, do not carry over well into print. But
this is only the surface. Gepp has something to say,
and it wins its way through despite the circumlocu-
tory form. The addresses together give a pretty com-
plete picture of the author’s attitude to affairs, national
and industrial, and his views on defence, unemploy-
ment, the development of national resources and the
future of democracy.
The short biographical note appended to the book
by G. C. Remington shows Herbert Gepp’s life to
have been one of continuous success; in 1893 he got
his first job as a scientific cadet in the Australian
Explosive and Chemical Company and progressed
till he'abandoned his industrial career as general man-
ager of Electrolytic Zinc to become chairman of the
Development and Migration Commission. Since then
he has acted on a number of royal commissions and
has directed the aerial, geological and geophysical
survey of North Australia, besides returning to prac-
tical business in 1936 as manager of Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd. Few men can ever have been in
a better position to survey Australian industrial
development as a whole.
It is as a scientist and technician that he
approaches the problems of to-day. Democracy is in
danger, but its greatest danger as he sees it is neither
Communism nor Fascism, but muddle. A happy,
integrated, prosperous country has little to fear from
external propaganda, and, given those attributes, it
can always put itself in a position to resist external
aggression. Defence to-day is not so much a matter
of an inexhaustible supply of cannon fodder as of
mineral resources, efficient organisation and technical
skill. Australia has or can acquire all it needs by
fostering the key industries, which in time of war
could be adapted to the manufacture of armaments
and munitions; by the preparation of machinery,
technical and Governmental, to place the country im-
mediately on a war basis in time of need and to
utilise its resources to the full; and by the building up
not only of a reserve of materials but of men, scien-
tifically and technically trained.
The first plank of defence, he says, is the public
health of the community. Any defence vote that
draws off funds from the social services and so
sions a fall in the standard of living is money thrown
away. The main plank is to provide ourselves with a
sufficiency of highly-trained scientists, and to this end
scientific education should be fostered and an effort
made, by increasing their rewards, to keep our clever
young men at home.
For every problem Gepp has one answer —more
knowledge, more efficiency, more national self-help.
Goodwill is not enough. The trained mind is neces-
sary :
I suggest that we should eliminate constructively from
our minds the inherent Australian feeling that our
elected Parliamentary and municipal representatives have
been given the job, and that therefore we can go about
doing our individual bit of personal work or enjoying
our individual pastimes, and that we need not bother
to endeavor to gain wisdom and understanding so that
we may help and support our elected representatives.
He comes to the crux of his argument in a paper
entitled “The Place of an Economic Research and
Advisory Council in the Modern State,” and makes
clear his attitude to Parliamentary democracy. Democ-
racy is not a cut-and-dried form of government;
it is not even an end, but a means. The democratic
machine enables the people to make their will known
and to enforce its execution. He is a democrat by
conviction and believes that progress should be through
the progressive adaptation of the present machinery
to changing needs. The great weakness of Parliament
—and of other elected public bodiesI—is 1 —is that it is made
up, so to speak, of men-in-the-street, while the work
it has to do is largely work that only experts can do.
Parliament needs, in his belief, an extra-Parliamentary
advisory council of experts to lay before the members
the exact facts and conditions concerning the problems
facing them:
An economic council would improve the situation
in two ways. It would cause the percentage of mis-
takes to fall, and consequently effect an improvement
in stability. And if the results of its research were
widely published and the community encouraged to take
an interest in it, the psychological storms would become
fewer and less destructive.
He instances the success of the Loan Council, the
Tariff Board and a number of commissions. He would
apply scientific management to Government affairs.
In the industrial sphere he drives a middle course
between Capital and Labor. There is no need, he points
out, for progress to be made at the expense of either
party. It can be had for nothing by more efficient
organisation and the abolition of waste. He wants
to see the world cleaned up, exploited systematically
and benevolently for the benefit of all by experts. He
is confident that in this way a happy life can be secured
to every citizen without a change in the basis of
society.
To him, public spirit and the will to service are
the basis of all things:
The highest ideal in this world is one of service.
Each man and woman should in this young country of
ours be able in due course to determine in which direc-
tion —having regard to his own well-being and that of
his dependants—he can best serve the State. Having
so determined, he should endeavor by all means in his
power to devote such proportion of his time, ability
and energy as can be spared from the bread-winning
day to the common well-being of the nation, so that,
when his time of service is over, he can look back with
satisfaction and feel that, as far as he was able, he has
added to the common advancement.
Nor does he overlook the psychological factor. In a
speech delivered during the depression he stresses the
need for a cheerful mind, and on one occasion took his
text from a leading article in The Bulletin of August
20, 1930 —“Should We Spend or Save?” —strongly
endorsing and urging upon his hearers the attitude it
had outlined.
“To the shoemaker there’s nothing like leather”
is a saw that is applicable to the scientist in Her-
bert Gepp. In his enthusiasm for efficiency and the
technician he seems to incline, however unconsciously,
toward government for the people rather than by the
people, and his recommendations, if applied to the full,
might get between them and that political experience
out of which democracy grew and without which it
must wither. Nevertheless, he has put out an inter-
esting book, provocative and full of contributions to
thought on the problems confronting democracy in
Australia to-day.
Rehabilitating Governor Bligh.
Governor Bligh seems to have become the grand
controversial figure of Australian history. The scholars
are busy rescuing him from the romantics. The latter
have always found that a streak of the monster made
him more interesting for their purposes. This was
exploited to the full, for example, in the talkie version ;
and, indeed, there is plenty of evidence in his dis-
patches and elsewhere that he was an irascible and
difficult man.
The romantics have a prima facie case. He talked
like a violent man. There were some ugly stories
about him from contemporary pens—particularly in
the Morrison journal. There were always plenty of
people to hate him. These detractors have, until re-
cently, had things very much their own way, and
romantics have had grounds for representing him as
violent even to the point of mania. But historians are
now peeling the externals off the essentials.
In Rum Rebellion, Mr. Justice Evatt went beneath
the vituperation to the legal bones of the quarrel
between Bligh and the New South Wales Corps. He
gives the verdict to Bligh on almost every count.
H. S. Montgomerie in his William Bligh of the Bounty
in Fact and Fable combed out the facts of his earlier
history and exonerates him of all blame for the
mutiny. Now, in The Morrison Myth, which he de-
scribes as a “pendant” to his big book, Montgomerie
attacks the authenticity of the Morrison journal, on
which most of the stories of Bligh’s cruelty and dis-
honesty are founded.
James Morrison was one of the mutineers on the
Bounty. He had startled his life in the navy as a
midshipman, but was serving in the Bounty as a
gunner, the reason for his demotion being unknown.
He was that uncomfortable thing a man educated
above his work and with, apparently, a grievance
against life. He was, under Fletcher Christian, one
of the chiefs of the mutiny. Later, when the mutineers
split and Christian sailed away from Tahiti for Pit-
cairn, Morrison was one of those who remained
behind.
When Captain Edwards was sent out in the King’s
ship Pandora to deal with the mutineers, Christian and
party escaped, but Morrison and the others at Tahiti
were captured and taken back to England for trial.
While in the Pandora they were strictly confined in a
roundhouse —called Pandora’s box —on deck. When
the Pandora was wrecked in Torres Strait Morrison
almost lost his life. He was in the water for an hour
and a half, clad only in a Malay sarong. At his trial
he was found guilty and condemned to death. He
was, however, reprieved and later re-employed in the
navy, where he served until he was lost at sea in 1807.
A journal survived him. Before his death he
gave it to Heywood, formerly midshipman and
mutineer in the Bounty. From Heywood it passed to
his stepdaughter, Lady Belcher, who used it as the
foundation of a book, The Mutineers of the Bounty.
She or Mrs. Heywood also lent it to Sir John Barrow
to use in his book, Mutiny of the Bounty. Lady
Belcher bequeathed the manuscript to the Rev.
A. G. K. L’Estrange, who in turn left it to the Mitchell
Library. It was accepted by those who read it and
made use of it in their writings as an authentic con-
temporary document, written on the Bounty, at Tahiti
and on the Pandora.
Montgomerie examines its claim to be contem-
porary and discredits it on internal and external evi-
dence. Comparing the journal with the log of the
Bounty he finds many discrepancies of fact, particu-
larly as regards dates. Further, he points out that it
would have been impossible for Morrison to write and
preserve a journal when the events it narrates were
happening. Private journals were forbidden on the
Bounty, and the rule was enforced. Confinement in the
Pandora was rigorous, and the prisoners were dispos-
sessed of all private papers, nor was the indulgence
of writing materials accorded them. Even if Morrison
had managed to smuggle a journal into the Pandora
it is unlikely that it would have survived the period
he spent in the water clad only in his sarong.
Montgomerie sets the writing of the journal in the
year 1795 —the mutiny occurred in 1787. He believes
that the stories Morrison tells of Bligh’s violent
cruelty not only to the crew but to the officers, and
his dishonest appropriation of naval stores to his own
uses, were fabricated in order to make good the
mutiny. They occur in no other original papers, and
the many times they have been repeated in print all
trace back to this one source. Montgomerie winnows
the evidence very carefully, and adequately supports
his case. He claims that Bligh was maligned by a man
who was a convicted mutineer and who had a strong
motive for doing so, and that an ill-wind disseminated
the lies through a number of well-intentioned but too
credulous later works. The Morrison Myth was pri-
vately printed in England by the author.
Marie Stopes Strikes the Lyre.
“Like ‘A.E.’ and like Housman,” observes Marie
Slopes modestly in the notes to her Love Songs for
Young Lovers (Heinemann), “I write poetry only when
I am in a special state of excitation. This arises un-
prediclably and with no relation to outward circum-
stance. Quite unpremeditated, a poem seizes me, and
then it must be written down as quickly as my fingers
can move.”
Distressing as these symptoms must be to the
authoress, they are positively depressing to the scienti-
fically-minded reader. Here we are nearly half-way
through the twentieth century and no effective method
of verse-control yet discovered. Even if a writer is
prepared to endure the experience of composition,
which, as Dr. Stopes notes, “nearly doubles the normal
pulse rate,” what hope can there be in an over-
populated world for waifs such as:
All the long past is lit
With but one gleam
Beauty
Beauty
Beauty
The key to life.
Love Songs for Young Lovers comes with gar-
lands from John Masefield and Bernard Shaw —pecu-
liarly circumspect laurels. “You are a poet all right,”
says Shaw ; “it can’t be helped.” The Laureate adds:
“I hope you will write more poems like ‘We Burn.’
In these you are doing well what no one else could
do.” “We Burn” begins
We speak of fire
When oxygen leaps swift
In fierce embrace to carbon,
Then the lift
Of heat flicks red-hot tongues
So fierce they heavenward aspire.
Guarded though his comment is, Mr. Masefield is not
quite correct when he says that no one else could
write like that. Does he not remember from his
schooldays the lyric that began:
If any rational, integral
Function of X
Be divided by X minus A
Really, “We Burn” is a particularly unjust choice,
for many of the verses, if nothing to make the pulse
bound about like a ping-pong ball, are pretty enough:
Piercing white you dart and gleam
In the shallows of the stream.
As I follow in a spray
Chasing you, you slip away
Clouded ivory in spray,
Stay, I pray.
There are some mildly anatomical pieces that would
have been very much better done by D. H. La vrence,
but nothing that is likely to offend students of Dr.
Stopes’s more serious works.
Island of Enchantment.
There is an island off the coast of Brittany, a peak
of rock thrust up out of the sea, crowned by a
fortress-abbey so old that it seems to be part of the
rock itself. This is Mont Saint-Michel, a national
monument of France. Every summer thousands of
visitors come to see it, and the precipitous streets
below the abbey burst into the raucous life of com-
petition for their custom. In the winter, when no
one comes and all the inhabitants appear withdrawn
into the rock, the place seems walled in black ice. It
is this place that is the chief character in Roger
Vercel’s new novel, St. Michael Puts His Foot Down
(Harrap; translated from the French by Warre
Bradley Wells).
The Mount dominates the narrative and —with
the author’s consent —reduces the human characters
to the stature of marionettes. Vercel, who lives in
Brittany, is a near neighbor of the Mount and writes
of its every aspect with loving knowledge. He makes
its beauty and majesty real and the strangeness of its
setting amid swirling tides, quicksands and sudden
sea mists much more than the stage scenery for a
novel.
The chief human character of the story, Andre
Brelet, came with his wife Laura to the Mount one
{“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


Anthony Horderns'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Halt yearly genuine
e
• Electrical — Ground. Eloor— Pitt Street •
Delivered free only within our
delivery area.
WRITE FOR
112 PAGE
CATALOGUE
SENT POST
FREE ON REQUEST
0
c
D
j£
u
la>
o
0
3
Ul
I
OQ
So
i*4
16 demonstrator models I
of these famous English
"Eureka" Cleaners, slight- 1
ly shop soiled. Your
housework will become a (
pleasure under the effi-
cient suction of an "Eureka.
.
® Precision built.
• Powerful suction.
• Complete set of attachments.
• Operates easily.
© Spare parts always
available.
O Fully guaranteed and
serviced.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £lB/18/-. SALE £l6/16/-
• ’PHONE FOR A HOME DEMONSTRATj ON. 'J'EttM S e a
SERVICE APPLICABLE TO THE METJIOI^OLI 1 AN
ONLY. EASY TERMS AVAILABLE.
A
7 7 1 l Water Heaters
Why waste gas
on heating a
small quantity of
water? Approv-
ed Immersion
è
Heaters, 720 watts, shockproof,
fully guaranteed 12 months.
Complete with adaptor.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price : £/} }
SALE PRICE 5/11
"UNI" RADIO /
5 VALVE DUAL WAVE
USUALLY PRICED AT 16 CNS. - NOW
At this price there is no need to miss
the thrill of owning a modern Radio.
This handsome set -has a dynamic
speaker and features an extra large
Edge-lit dial. Installed, guaranteed and serviced 12 months free
of charge in the Metropolitan Area. Valves guaranteed 90 days.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £l6/16/-. SALE PRICE £l3/19/6
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 28/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS 22/-
£13196
é
I5 7 6 Electric Iron
For speed and ease of
use also for depend-
ability. Domestic weight;
and fitted with conveni-
ent thumb and heel rest.
r
Heavy nickel plated. Guaranteed 12
months. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price 15 / 6
SALE PRICE H/9
d
nn
Mmm
m\
• St
17'6 Elec. Jugs
" Uni" Electric
Jug, has best
quality bobbin
and element, is
thoroughly in-
•1 _
sulated, holds 3* pints, and boils
in approximately 4 to 5 mins.
Guaranteed 12 months. Regular
Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE 14/11
"y-tokunkA
/.'OJA\
-7^
15 6 "Uni" Toaster
The "Uni" Electric Toaster
gives you fresh, crisp toast —
right at the breakfast table.
Heavily nickel-plated. Finger-
tip insulation. Best quality
element. Complete with flex
139
and plug. Anthony Horderns Regular Price ib/b
SALE PRICE - 13/9
ŕ
Si SONS LUTED
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
25 - Bar Type
"Uni" Radiators
Bar Type "Uni" Radi-
ator, 1,000 watts, with
nickel-plated reflector,
complete with two yds.
17'6
of flex. Plug extra.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price ...
SALE PRICE “
25/-
17/6


Mutiny
OUT OF THE
PAST
THE ROEBUCK BAY
ADVENTURE.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
Lieutenant john daubane, r.n., of h.m.s.
Sirius, landed first in Sydney Cove with Gov-
— ernor Phillip on the evening of January 26,
1788. In due course, after his ship was wrecked
at Norfolk Island in 1790, he returned to England
with the rest of her company to continue his career in
the navy. He was One of Nelson’s captains at
Trafalgar, where he was so severely wounded as to
necessitate the amputation of a leg. Retired from the
service he came to Australia with his family in the
Barleycorn, a schooner of 200 tons burthen which he
owned and navigated himself. He had long been
interested in the development and progress of the
settlement at whose foundation he had assisted, and
he determined to become one of its pioneers.
The Barleycorn arrived in Sydney Cove some
three months after Macquarie had taken over the
government of the colony, and his Excellency shortly
discovered for Captain Daubane one of those enthu-
siastic friendships which were so characteristic of
him. How high was the regard he entertained for the
naval veteran is well exemplified by a letter he wrote
when making a further grant of 5000 acres to the
captain in the last months of his term of office.
“.And so, my dear Daubane, I came to
a conclusion that all the Enterprise, Sagacity
and Public Spirit which has ever marked your
career as a Colonist well deserved some worthy
Recompense. In giving you this Grant of Land
on Hunter’s River, I am not actuated so much
by a sense of valued Personal Friendship as
by a desire to leave the Territory which has
been my Pride and Joy—as well as, in part, my
constant Vexation and Worry— to the fullest
possible extent in the hands of men like your-
self who will continue its Advancement. In
such hands my fond hopes of Expansion have
been partially realised. May you, and men like
you, continue worthily to carry on this Good
Work. That your efforts in the Development of
this Noble Country may be bountifully blessed
by an indulgent Heaven is the Fervent Prayer
of y’r Sincere Friend, L. Macquarie.”
When the house on the first grant by the banks
of the Hawkesbury was completed in 1812, Captain
Daubane named it “Macquarie’s Oaks.” The Gov-
ernor was the first guest to be entertained there, and
the avenue of oak-trees which he planted remains
to-day one of the beauties of that lovely district.
In the library at Macquarie’s, Oaks there is, too,
a steel safe containing the Family Story of the Dau-
banes —a work, contained in several volumes, which
has during the last fifty years been greatly amplified.
One volume, rather thinner than most of the others,
has printed on its cover in faded gold letters: “The
Voyage of the Barleycorn in 1817.”
During his voyage from
England, Captain Daubane had
come in contact with an old
shipmate at the Cape of Good
Hope who was dying of con-
sumption, and had done much
to cheer and console his last
days. This gentleman had, in
his gratitude, confided to him an
interesting secret relating to
treasure supposed to have been
hidden at Roebuck Bay by the
celebrated Captain William
Dampier when he visited the
north-west coast of New Hol-
land, in H.M.S. Roebuck, at the
end of the seventeenth century.
He gave Captain Daubane a
curious old map, which was
alleged to have been made by
Dampier himself over a century
before. The story was that
Dampier, being in fear of
mutiny on the part of his crew,
had buried some rich jewels—the spoils of his earlier
piratical career —somewhere about the locality where
he had spent the greater part of the time during which
he was on the Australian coast.
Though he was very sceptical as to there being
anything in the tale, Captain Daubane made up his
mind that, if ever an opportunity should present itself
for doing so, he would make a search. When he was
finally settled at Macquarie’s Oaks, he decided to
send his son, young John Daubane, who was a youth
of courage and enterprise, in the Barleycorn, to see
what truth there might be in the tale.
His son had been a volunteer, in the capacity of
a servant, with Blaxland, Wentworth and Lawson
when they succeeded in making the first crossing of
the Blue Mountains. He made the trip in the Barley-
corn in 1817, and told the story of that eventful voyage
in a letter to his father dated “Batavia, September 10,
1817.” The letter is still preserved among the records
at Macquarie’s Oaks.
* * * * *
N A Y Dear Father (he wrote), I fear that, long before
‘VI this reaches you, you will have given me up for
dead, and have written off the schooner as a total
loss. I am glad to say, however, that though it is
unhappily the case that our beautiful and trim little
Barleycorn is no more, I am well and strong —tho’
for some considerable time I lay near the point of
death in this town, as a consequence of having received
a very severe wound that came close to being a mortal
one.
I have no doubt that you will have had the
letter I sent from King George’s Sound in His
Majesty’s ship Samarang, in wh. I inform’d you of
our safe arrival at that Port in the beginning of May.
In case you did not do so, I may say that there was
nothing of any consequence in it, save an expression
of my own opinion as to the sailing-master we pro-
cured in Sydney, in the place of poor old George
Carey, whose death, as it has turned out, was a very
severe and fatal blow to the successful execution of
our enterprise.
The voyage through Bass Straights was made in
fine weather, with a favourable wind, wh. cont’d with
us across the Gt. Australian Bight until we made
King George’s Sound, wh. is a most commodious and
safe anchorage. H.M.S. Samarang sail’d for Sydney
the next day but one after our getting in, and my
letter was sent aboard her.
I would that I had followed up my inclination to
request a passage back to Sydney for that villain
Braxter, and had apptd. the mate, Mr. George Waite,
to the command of the schooner in his stead. But
he was a most efficient navigator, and, moreover, had
been upon the W. Coast before, wh. Mr. Waite had
not. So, altho’ I had a strong foreboding of disaster,
I kept him with me, thereby ruining our plans, and at
the cost of the lives of all on board the Barleycorn
except myself.
I will give you an account of his behaviour so
that you may judge for yourself how truly unfortunate
it was I did not get rid of him by some means or
other.
I had pd. him in Sydney an advance upon his
wages so that he might purchase himself an outfit,
and there is no doubt that a large proportion of this
money was expended in the acquirement of a private
stock of spirits for his own consumption. It came
aboard in a large sea-chest and a packing case whilst
we lay at Underwood’s Wharf in the Cove, and I
remember remarking at the time what a great amount
of dunnage was necessary to his private convenience.
However, nothing was said, and this large quantity
of spirits was stow’d away in his cabbin without any
of us being aware of its real nature.
He must have been drinking heavily almost from
the time we left Sydney, but his constitution was such
that it had no apparent effect upon either his appear-
ance or his manner —unless it was to make the latter
seem a little contemptuous of my authority as your
Representative.
You will remember that he came to us with a
letter of introduction from our good friend Capt.
Ebor Bunker. Well, it has turned out that this was
a forgery—a very clever one, in wh. he imitated
exactly not only the Captain’s handwriting but his
quaint method of spelling as well. He had once
sailed with Mr. Bunker as Mate, and knew his peculiar
style of penmanship and grammar to a nicety. But
he was in reality an escap’d prisoner from the Coal
River, and how he contrived to evade detection in
Sydney passes my comprehension. All this I learned
from himself after the loss of the schooner.
My first trouble with him was as we enter’d
Bass Straights after passing the Ninety Mile Beach
and Wilson’s Promontory. He wish’d to proceed to
King Island, off the N.W. coast of Van Diemen’s
Land to seek an old companion who was, he said,
engag’d in the seal fisheries there, and was a
highly efficient pilot and navigator, with much ex-
perience of the West Coast of New Holland. I refused
to permit of his so doing—largely owing to the ad-
vice of Mr. Waite, who had form’d a very unfavour-
able opinion of the Master. He became somewhat
insolent over the matter, saying that he was Capt. of
the Barleycorn, and it was for him to set the ship’s
course, and he wd. do as he pleas’d. It was only by
threatening him with a pistol, and expressing a strong
resolution to keep the supreme command of the
schooner in my own hands, that I was able to induce
him to abate his preposterous demands. He sulkily
acquiesced by retiring to his cabbin, whence he sent
a message by the boy to say he was ill, and cont’d
drinking for 3 days.
We remain’d in K. George’s Sound for a week,
wooding and watering, and here Braxter’s conduct
grew so audacious and insolent that I was forc’d to
chastise him personally. There was a camp of native
blacks near the beach we were accustom’d to land
upon, and he gave the head man a bottle of rum in
exchange for a young lubra, whom he bro’t off to
the ship one afternoon in the boat. I saw him com-
ing from the poop, through my spy-glass, and awaited


WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short —1 500 t'o 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1000 words.
Closing date for the first of these competi-
tions is July 7. The sooner entries are sent in
the sooner they can be read and the judging
completed.
him at the gangway. He bellow’d for a rope to hoist
the girl up the side, she being averse from coming
aboard, but I intervened, and forbade him bring the
young woman into the ship.
“Who are you?” says he, impudently.
I inform’d him I wd. teach him who I was, bade
him come aboard, and order’d the boat’s crew to take
the young woman back to the beach.
He came up the side in a mighty rage, cursing
me in vile terms, and daring me to face him as man
to man. Deeming that, did I not assert myself, my
authority in the ship wd. be jeopardised, I knock’d him
down. Then ensued a stand-up fight with the bare
knuckles. As you know, Tom Mitchelmore, the old
prize-fighter, who keeps the Plough Inn at Windsor,
had taught me to be pretty adept with my hands
when I was a boy, and altho’ Braxter was a strong
man, and two stone heavier than myself, the science
told, and in less than ten minutes he lay unconscious
on the deck.
Again the fellow lurk’d in his cabbin, drinking
heavily, and did not make an appearance until we
had put to sea. You will thus perceive that we were
not a happy ship—though I have no blame for the
crew. Only two of them appear’d to side with the
Master —one being that fellow Tobias Turrill, whom
you suspected of robbing the store at Macquarie’s
Oaks, and the other the cook, an American negro who
was known as Pompey.
Head winds and a heavy sea troubled us in
weathering Cape Leeuwin, but thanks to Mr. Waite
we at length got roundabout this extreme S.W. corner
of New Holland, and, giving the coast a wide offing,
shaped a course N.E. by N. towards Dirk Hartog’s
Island, on the other side of wh. lies Shark’s Bay.
Braxter paid very little attention to his duties dur-
ing the run to Shark’s Bay, claiming that I had in-
flicted such injuries upon him that he was unwell.
Indeed, his nose was broken, and he had a pair of
black eyes, the contemplation of wh. afforded me
some satisfaction. He spent much time in the galley
with the negro Pompey, on the pretence of applying
hot fomentations to his bruised face, wh. was, in
truth, greatly swollen and disfigured—but, in reality,
in an attempt to foment mutiny amongst the men,
in wh. I am certain he was aided and abetted by
Turrill and the negro.
On the Sunday night before we came into
Shark’s Bay, it being dark and blowing a gale, with
rain, and the schooner running off the shore to sea-
ward upon the larboard tack, there was a disturbance
in the fo’c’sle, and Mr. Waite going forward to in-
vestigate it —that was the last I ever saw of the poor
man. I had taken the wheel myself, and was fully
employ’d in keeping the schooner upon her course,
when I thought I heard a scream that was immediately
carried off in the howling wind. I dared not leave
the wheel, being alone on the poop, but presently
comes Braxter running aft with word that the Mate
had fallen overboard. I am sure, as God is my Judge,
that he had been seized and thrown over the side by
Pompey and Braxter as he passed by the galley amid-
ships. I hove the schooner to, threw over a hen-
coop and some gratings, and burnt flares, but the
unfortunate Mate was no more seen.
In the morning, Martindale, the Boatswain, told
me he suspected Mr. Waite had been murder’d, but
he assured me that the crew, with the exception of
the two men I have mention’d, were loyal enough.
It was the plan of Braxter and these two, if they
could do it, to take the ship, and sail her to some
Dutch port in the East Indies, where they
wd. sell her for what she might bring, and
make their way to Europe. They hop’d to gain
over some of the crew to this end. Martin-
dale had learned all this by chancing to overhear a
conversation between Turrill and the negro Pompey.
So I made up my mind to be rid of Braxter and his
allies so soon as we again made the land.
When we were anch’d in Shark’s Bay, Braxter,
Turrill and the negro were taken by surprise by a
party under the Boatswain, overpower’d, and ironed.
I summoned the crew aft, and inform’d them of the
reason for this, and of what I intended doing. There
was a little murmuring when I said I was about to
leave them ashore in this place, but I put it to them
it was Braxter’s intention to have taken the ship and
murdered all who were not in agreement with him —
whereat they signified their approval of his punish-
ment.
Braxter blustered and swore, but when he was
got into the boat with his companions, his supply of
liquor from his cabbin, a bag of biscuits, a little salt
pork, a keg of water, a cooking-pot and his effects, he
began to whine. But I paid no attention to him, and
he and his friends were landed on the shore of Dirk
Hartog’s Island.
Going ashore, two days afterwards, to leave him
a better store of provisions, I was met on the beach
by Braxter, who show’d me a grave in the sands.
He said he had order’d the spirits to be let alone, and
the negro attempting to come at them privily, he had
stab’d him. The convict Turrill, he said further, had
gone demented with fear, and had run off to join the
native blacks, who, no doubt, would immediately
slay him, and probably feast upon his body.
Deeming that, did I
not assert myself, my
authority in the ship would
be jeopardised, I knock’d
him down.
Braxter fell upon his knees, and implor’d me not
to leave him there alone. He swore that my severity
had taught him a lesson, and that he was a reform’d
man. As witness to this, he pointed to the store of
grog, wh. remained untouched where it had been
piled up on the beach when he was landed there,
After some reflection, and considering he wd. be but
one man against the whole ship’s company, and
might perhaps be better relied upon when deprived of
strong drink, and being also doubtful of mine own
ability to navigate the schooner through the Dampier
Archipelago, I consented to his return on board,
Better far, it would have been, to hdve pistolled him
then and there.
When we sail’d from Shark’s Bay, I was per-
force compell’d to entrust much of the navigation to
Braxter. Five days afterwards, at midnight, in a
strong gale from the south’ard, he was at the wjieel,
whilst I snatch’d an hour’s sleep on a locker in the
cabbin, having had but little rest since leaving the
Bay. I was suddenly awakened by a concussion and
crash that threw me to the deck. As I climb’d the
companion, both masts went by the board, and I was
immediately wash’d over the side, so soon as I
reached the quarter-deck, by one of the great seas
that were pooping the schooner. I knew no more
until I woke in bright sunlight, with Braxter a-bend-
ing over me, a knife in his hand.
“Ah,” says he, “I paid ye back that time, my
young buck. ’Twas me fetched the island, and put the
ship ashore. Be to ye,” he says, “for a
tyrant!”
With that, a fierce rage possess’d me. He stab’d
at me, and wounded me in the right breast, but I
scrambled to my feet, and, picking up a great stone,
I pitched it with all my force in his face, so that he
was stunned. I struck him on the head again, sev ral
times, so that he lay bloody and horrid, and, as I
thought, dead. But his knife had wounded me sorely,
and I had lost much blood. I was spitting blood until
some time after I came here.
The beach of the little rocky inlet into wh. the
villain had run the ship was strewn with wreckage,
and immediately, staunching my wound as well as I
was able —I think the point of the knife had pierced
the outer covering of my right lung —I gather’d what
I could. The Barleycorn had been wash’d over a
reef, and was sunk in pretty deep water, and all the
crew —save Braxter and I —had been drowned. Some
of their bodies came ashore, but the sharks devour d
the greater part. I was too weak to bury those I
found, so they lay and rotted in the sun.
When I came back to where Braxter lay, after
collecting some articles from the wreckage that might
prove useful, I found him conscious, but evidently in
a dying condition. He confess’d himself to me he
was a bad wretch —and said ’twas but rage and malice
caus’d him put the Barleycorn ashore. Soon after,
he died. Since I had killed him, I made shift to dig
him a shallow grave in the sands —more to hide him
from my sight than for any other reason. He did not
look handsome, and lay outside a little cave that was
the only shelter I could find, and presently began to
stink.
So this was the end of my search for Cap’n. Dam-
pier’s hidden treasure. The map, of course, is lost,
and therefore it is the end of any further quest.
By my reckoning, we were about half-way
between Shark’s Bay and Roebuck Bay on a large
island of Dampier’s Archipelago. [This must have
been Barrow Island.] The land was poor and barren,
and cover’d wt. scrubby trees. I remain’d there, I
think, about a week, in a high fever, and then became
delirious, and thought I was at home on the Hawkes-
bury, or in the Blue Mountains with Mr. Blaxland.
When I came to myself, I was in bed in the Great
Cabbin of the Dutch sloop-of-war Molenvliet, Hendrik
Van Schreven, Com’dr. She had been sent to seek
for castaways from a Dutch East Indiaman that was
gone a-missing, and had called at my island, where a
boat’s party found me raving and naked, and nigh a
dead man.
They brought me here to Batavia, where I have
been treated with great kindness and consideration in
the house of the Gov’r, Mynheer Van Oesten, who
was at Sydney seven years ago, and made your ac-
quaintance there. I would have died but for the nurs-
ing of his daughter Ottilie Van Oesten, wt. whom I
am engag’d for to marry.
I have drawn a bill upon you for £2OO, wh. the
Govr. has kindly honour’d, and I hope, when my
strength is fully restor’d, in about two months’ time,
to get a passage to Sydney for both of us in a ship
of his Excellency’s wh. is going to the whale-fisheries
S. of Van Diemen’s Land. Mynheer Van Oesten
sends you his remembrances, and has not forgotten
the hospitality he enjoy’d in New S. Wales. He bids
me say he hopes his daughter may repay it. She is
indeed a treasure —tho’ I have fail’d of Capt. Dam-
pier’s.
* * * * *
A PORTRAIT of Ottilie Van Oesten, done in oils
by some Dutch artist at Batavia, hangs in the
dining-room of the old house at Macquarie’s Oaks,
not far from the faded letter which announced her
betrothal. Fair and flaxen, she bears an extraordinary
likeness to the great-great-great-great-granddaughter
who is the present keeper of the Daubane records.


JUSTICE
BY J.D. O'NEILL
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
The Tul-tul is responsible for the carrying
out Government regulations in the village
and any particular instructions of the patrol
officer. If the hereditary chief is of suitable
type, and if he can speak pidgin, he is usually
chosen, but it is usual to find both Lului and
Tul-tul in the village.
MARFAK, the Tul-tul of Bapi, was worried,
and it wasn’t just the Kiap’s coming on patrol
that was the cause, though that was worry
enough surely. All the village had been work-
ing hard for a week, cutting the grass and jungle
along the overgrown roads, putting bridges over the
streams, cleaning up the village, and building a new
house for the police boys.
Word had come ahead that this Kiap was strong
and cross too much if everything was not just right.
So everything had been in order when he arrived,
even to the firewood and bamboos full of water in
the “house police.” There was a big pile of kau-kau,
bananas and yams, though it was time belong hungry
in their village. And Marfak had put on a smile and
two shirts to greet the Kiap.
This one hadn’t been at Bapi before.
First thing he did was to order all shirts taken
off. He said shirts made them sick, but nobody was
going to believe that; didn’t he wear one himself?
Then he condemned the house-kiap, saying it was
fit only for pigs, and they’d better have a new one
when he came round again. He also ordered the
burial ground to be shifted from the place his pre-
decessor had had it moved to, and kicked up a really
unnecessary fuss about their using the doctor-boy’s
bandages for decorations in the sing-sing.
But these things were to be expected ; that was
the way of Kiaps. Two boys had been calaboosed
for not being in for roll call, and three others couldn’t
pay their ten marks tax. They’d have to act as car-
riers till the patrol finished ; but the village had to
supply carriers anyway.
Then had come this thunderbolt to put a crimp
in the old man’s brow.
Marfak fidgeted and shifted before the patrol
officer. He was taken unawares and felt injured.
Inquiry at this stage, without previous mention, was
distinctly unfair.
It was about a runaway boy from the mining
camp up in the mountains who had disappeared on
the way home to his place.
“You savvy this boy, Tul-tul?”
“Boy, Kiap ?”
“Yes, boy; name belong him, Cadua. He run
away. ’E boy belong Kafatu.”
“Me no savvy this boy, Kiap.”
Then his worst fears were confirmed. The Kiap
knew something ; wasn’t just guessing.
“What?” He didn’t savvy this boy? Hadn’t a
boy from this village found him in the gardens one
morning and killed him, and thrown the body into
an old pig trap? Did he mean to tell the Kiap to
his face that he didn’t know when there was a kill-
ing made in the village? He, the Tul-tul? Why, a
boy from this village, working in the mining camp,
knew all about it; he had told the Kiap up there.
Did he still say he didn’t know anything about this
boy?
Bewildered, Marfak still realised he must have
time. “Yes, Kiap, me no savvy this fella something.”
Well, he’d better make it his business to find out.
First thing in the morning he’d be ready to take the
Kiap to the place where this boy had been planted ;
and he’d have the man responsible for the murder,
or his name, if he wasn’t in the village. Anyway
he’d have a complete account of the whole business
or he might find himself implicated. Did he savvy?
He could go.
IT didn’t take old Marfak long to pick the informer,
1 and his own guilty conscience revealed the motive.
Oda had given the show away. He had forced Oda
to go back to work, threatening him with calaboose
for stealing gold during his last contract. He,
Marfak, had the gold now.
Oda hadn’t intended to make paper with the
white man any more ; thought he was going to enjoy
life hunting and loafing round the village, now that
he was married to Kisi and didn’t have to pay tax
any more. But Kisi looked good to Marfak, too,
and, women being what they were, he had made the
most of his opportunity as soon as Oda was away.
But Oda must have heard about it and tried to make
trouble by reporting this killing, which should have
been reported by the Tul-tul. Well, he, Marfak, was
a big fella man in the village and couldn’t be upset
as easily as that. He’d make that young fool savvy,
too.
Free from the lash of the Kiap’s tongue and the
menace of his eye, Marfak quickly summoned
Maningi, the Lului —the hereditary chief and, except
at such times as this when the Kiap was about, the
one man whose word was law in the village and
the “black mission.” These three ruled every aspect
of village life.
Two young men of the village had accounted for
the runaway, but all three agreed that they were too
good to be hung up for a son-of-a-pig Kafatu.
Besides, they were related to the old Lului, who was
proud of the lads’ spirit. Fortunately there was in
the village a long-long man, stupid and strong as an
ox; anyone could see that he wasn’t responsible,
and so quite capable of such a deplorable crime.
Besides, he was an orphan, an outcast, and no one
would worry about him if the Government did hang
him up.
The long-long man jumped at the chance of a
trip to the white man’s place on the big soda-water
with the Tul-tul. Marfak was a big fella man who
had previously taken no notice of him whatever;
he was anxious to please his new friend, so he
learned his story off pat.
How, one morning many moons ago, he had
found a strange man eating bananas in one of the
village gardens, and asked him what he was doing
there. The man had told him that he belonged to
Kafatu and was running away from the mining
camp. He had sat down with the stranger, and after
some time he remembered how his people used to
fight with the Kafatu people. He thought: “This
man deserves to die ; he is a Kafatu, and a runaway,
and nobody would mind if I killed him.” So, when
he stood up to go, he quickly struck the stranger in
the neck with his axe, then threw him in an old
pig trap. He hadn’t told anyone except Oda, whose
garden it was.
The long-long realised he was playing a big part,
and his back straightened with pride as he walked
back to his hut. He almost believed he had done the
deed ; surely he would make a great fighting-man.
Reaching his hut he snatched bow and arrow bundle
and sped the arrows away into the night. As luck
would have it, all sailed over the police compound
except one, which stuck in a post of the house-kiap.
It remained to greet the awakening Kiap’s incredu-
lous eyes, visual proof of the long-longs homicidal
tendencies.
Marfak was pleased, too ; he was safe and Oda
would probably get into trouble for not reporting
earlier. There was no chance of a slip ; he would
be interpreter at the little court in the village to-
morrow, and at the court on the beach. He hadn’t
been police-boy and Tul-tul all these years without
savvying this court business; even if the long-long
made a mess of things, he would see that the Kiap
got the story straight.
NEXT morning, when the mountains over the
valley were only a blue silhouette of jagged glass
against the whitening sky, Marfak and the long-long
were squatting near the smoke smudge in the house-
police.
When the call came, Marfak, with the long-long
at his heels, faced a newly-wrathful Kiap drawing
forceful attention to the threatening arrow stuck
breast high in the verandah-post. He goggled, but
the long-long boasted: “Truly I am a fine bowman
to throw an arrow so far ; and in the black night.”
Stuttered Marfak, “This man throwim, Kiap"
“Ask ’im what name this fashion; throw away
arrow long Kiap.”
Followed an interminable conversation with the
long-long, until the Kiap’s patience gave way. This
man ’e talk what name?”
“Kiap, this man ’e talk ’e strong too much long
bow ’n\ arrow.” Then hurriedly, “This man killim
Kafatu, Kiap.”
That brought them back on the track again.
Marfak explained that only last night, making in-
quiries, he had learned of that incident. Apparently
only the murderer, who the Kiap could see was a
really bad fellow, and Oda, in whose garden the
body was planted, had known of it. Marfak chuckled
(i Continued at foot of page 7.)


. ~ , , , , . , . , nf , . __
o thmk how he had turned that shaft back on the
; . , .
So, after ascertaining that it really was the long-
long who shot the arrow, they went off to locate the
body of the Kafatu, the Kiap striding.energetically
ahead swinging his crooked stick, spiked boots print-
ing the firm mud of the track Soon they turned off
Ihe road on to a track that led them straight up the
moun am si e.
It was after midday when they arrived back
with a leaf bundle all that was left of the Kafatu
ratting on the shoulder of an indifferent villager.
The bundle stuck into a handy clump of bam-
boos, the Kiap proceeded to examine the murderer,
Yes, he had killed the Kafatu. No, it wasn’t for
taking the bananas. And so, on and on, Marfak
interpreting, the Kiap puzzled at this loquacity after
so much secrecy, probing this way, then that, with
always the same result. The long-long is led forward,
a pen thrust in his hand. The police-boy grasps his
hand and makes a rough cross on the paper from
which the evidence has been read out. All finished,
That , s . everythjng slraightforward . The
Kiap is pleased.
, ND so the long-long went away next day.
A All the viUage gathered at the drome t 0 see
t he ’ p i ane waV e fluttering hands like wind-lapped
]eaves as u roared down , he . drome .
The , ons _ hng fe|t very jmportant> then fright .
ened, as the ’plane banked. Marfak, too, clutched his
Tul-tul’s red-banded cap and kept his head below the
window. The police-boy sat in the corner with his
rifle across his knees, and a big brown envelope stuck
under his belt. He chewed the Tul-tul’s betel-nut and
rattled the stick in the Tul-tul’s lime pot. The engines
roared, and went uua-uua-uua-uua, and after a while,
as nothing else seemed to happen, the long-long raised
his head cautiously to window level and gazed out
on sea and sky that merged into grey nothingness.
FOUR ROUNDS
BY PHIL DORTER.
AS Joe walked out of the tent he half turned to
say “The nigger should be / here any time,
Jimmy.”
Jimmy said “All right,” and bent down to
pull on his shoes. He knew the fight wouldn’t last
very long, because he knew he couldn’t beat the big
half-caste, and Joe had told him that the door-money
wouldn’t cover the stake he’d put up. That meant
Jimmy would have to stay on his feet for as long as
it was safe, and then go down kidding he’d been
fouled. Then Joe could argue with the mob until
they yelled for another fight to settle the business.
He wriggled his toes in his shoes. It wasn’t any
use wishing he’d never met Joe. He’d been eighteen
then, and had been skylarking on the beach like
he’d always done since he was a nipper. He’d been
doing handsprings and somersaults with the mob,
and throwing himself about, and Joe had seen him
and asked him if he wanted a job. The idea of doing
what he’d always wanted to and being paid for it
seemed all right, so Jimmy said “yes,” and joined up
with Joe’s one-horse circus.
Joe poked his head through the tent-flap and
said, “We’ve got as many as we’ll get, Jimmy. Y’
right?”
Jimmy nodded and went on lacing his shoes.
Moving about the suburbs with the circus had been
all right. He’d never been far from home and the
people he knew, and there weren’t any fights then
just acrobatic displays and a bit of trapeze work. But
when Joe. struck north along the coast and then out
through the little towns which dotted the goldfields,
they had to make every penny they could.
Jimmy threw on a light coat and walked slowly
across to the big tent where the ring was. He smiled
mechanically as someone said “Goo’ luck.”
Joe couldn’t afford to carry a team of fighters,
and he had to depend on matching a couple of local
boys ; but that was hard in the small towns, and some-
times the door-money wouldn’t cover expenses and a
stake large enough to attract a couple of boys. So
jimmy fought all-comers. If a good mob rolled up
he could go in and fight regardless of whether he won
or lost, and that wasn’t too bad, even though he wasn’t
much of a fighter. But when the crowd was poor
he either had to win to keep the stake-money or else
kid he’d been fouled so that Joe could work on the
mob for another fight and more door-money.
It was a rotten business, and he knew it, and most
of the mob knew it, too. But it went on because
Jimmy didn’t very well see what he could do about
it, and because the mob didn’t worry much provided
they saw some sort of a fight.
Jimmy went to his corner and sat on an upturned
kerosene-case, and the crowd gave him a clap. They
were no different from what he had seen in all the
other towns —hard, tough miners of all shapes and
sizes and glad to see anything that broke their routine
of beer and food and. work and steep.
The half-caste was in his corner, and Jimmy
looked him over. He could give Jimmy two or three
stone easily, and he was big and round and a light
sweat made his body shine. He looked almost soft,
but Jimmy had seen too many like him. They couldn’t
stay very long at any pace, but they could punch, and
punch hard, and it wasn’t easy to hurt them.
THE publican was to referee, and he stepped into
the ring to introduce the fighters, but the mob
talked too much and too loud, and someone yelled
“Get on with the yike.” Joe was timekeeper, and
said he was also there to see fair play for his boy,
which made Jimmy smile grimly. He came round and
whispered an unnecessary warning to keep out of the
half-caste’s reach, and then went back and knocked
the bell.
Jimmy sprang into the ring like he always did
because it appealed to the mob. He was naturally
springy—supple and lean and stringy with muscles
pressing against his skin —but he wasn’t any stronger
than knocking about with a circus and eating any
sort of tucker could make him. By comparison, the
half-caste was slow and heavy ; he seemed almost to
heave himself from his seat and slouch into the ring.
He hardly moved from the one position ; he put his
shoulders up and his chin in and watched Jimmy as
he danced about just out of reach. Jimmy came in
a fraction closer, and a left brushed his shoulder as
he flicked it aside. He landed a firm hard punch on
the other’s cheek, but the half-caste almost smiled
and swung in a heavy, vicious left which grazed Jimmy
low down on the chest.
Joe yelled “Keep your punches up,” but the mob
howled him down. It made the half-caste wild, and
he rushed in and swung savagely, and might have
landed the last punch if the bell hadn’t rung.
The half-caste flopped into his seat, washed his
mouth out with water from a beer-bottle and then lay
back panting, while a couple of his mates fanned him
with a towel. He was thinking that if he could hit
Jimmy that’d be the finish. Jimmy was thinking the
same; He was breathing lightly, but those wild rushes
worried him. The ring was small and the ground
rough, and the half-caste might swing in a lucky
punch.
The second and third rounds were like the first.
Jimmy whipped about and was hard to hit. He landed
several punches, but the half-caste shook them off
like so much water. He kept rushing in, but Jimmy
managed to avoid him. It was speed against force,
and the mob seemed to like it; they cheered the half-
caste whenever he moved and cheered Jimmy when
he placed a punch. But they booed whenever Joe
yelled “Keep your punches up” or “Be careful” or
“That was bloody near a foul.” Jimmy knew it was
just atmosphere.
At the end of the third round Joe came over
and whispered to him, “I don’t like those rushes.
You’d better go down this time.”
Jimmy nodded and said “All right,” and sprang
into the ring as the bell rang.
The half-caste was watching with dark, sullen
eyes. Jimmy danced in, feinted and dropped his
guard from his solar and then moved out again. He
did that three times, and the second and third time
the half-caste ripped heavy punches at him. Jimmy
knew then that he was watching for the same open-
ing again. He sparred for a few seconds, and then
came in and dropped his guard again. Something
like a thunderbolt hit him in the solar. It was harder
than he’d expected, and he wasn’t kidding when he
went down with his face twisted in agony. But he
remembered to press his gloves low down on his
stomach, and not where the half-caste had hit him.
Joe rushed into the ring yelling “Now don’t say that
wasn’t a foul —the dirtiest smack I’ve ever seen.”
The mob yelled and booed and told Joe to go to
hell, but Joe was used to that and yelled just as loudly
himself, and the rest of the circus mob took up with
him. Joe jumped on to a chair and quietened the
crowd by yelling louder than any of them. He talked
a lot, and said he’d stage another fight for them the
day after the next when Jimmy had recovered. They
milled around and muttered a bit, but the idea of
another fight got them in the end, and they slowly
emptied out of the tent and wandered back to the pub.
Jimmy staggered over to his tent and stretched
out on a rug on the floor. Joe came in and said
“Nice work, Jimmy. Y’ can do what y’ like when
y’ fight him on Monday.”
TIMMY thought he’d like to see Joe fight the half-
caste, but he didn’t say anything. He just lay on
the floor until Tong after the sun had gone down,
and then he got up and pulled on a pair of flannels
and a shirt and walked slowly through the town. He
passed the pub where the mob were singing and
arguing and slapping the half-caste on the back every
time anyone bought a round of drinks.
Jimmy kept on walking until he had passed the
last house. He went for another mile, and then lay
on a bank in the shadow of a great outcrop where
white quartz rilled down like a stream and glittered
like blue steel in the moonlight. He lay watching
the stars for a long time, and he thought of warm
white sand pushing between his toes. He felt his bare
soles slapping the hard wet beach, and his feet tickling
as the water swirled about his heels and washed the
sand from under them. Presently the moon dis-
appeared behind the outcrop. Jimmy shivered a little,
and then got up and walked slowly back through
the town to the tents.
THE BULL CALF
BY DAL STIVENS
WHEN the farmer found that the young cow
was in calf he was pleased. He went walking
quickly across the lucerne paddock to where
his son was working. A small white dog
went with him.
“She’s in calf,” he said. “I reckoned she would
be.”
Some weeks before they had taken her to the bull
for the first time. This would be her first calf. The
young cow was red-colored. Her teats were still small,
and she was slim-flanked.
“It ought to be a pretty fine calf,” the father said.
“I hope it ain’t a bull,” was all the son said.
The farm was a hundred acres of river flat. It
was one of the best farms in the district. But there
had been a drought for six months. There was little
grass left, and every morning the farmer and his son
had to hand-feed the stock. All along the river
farmers were buying feed for their cows. Every
Sunday when they came out of church they would
stand around and shake their heads.
The weeks went by and no rain fell. Cracks
opened in the ground. Some of them were three feet
deep and ran for yards. Banks crumbled and fell
into the river. The water in the river became lower ;
the mud dried and cracked and divided into geometri-
cal shapes. Then the shapes of mud curled up at the
edges like fish in a hot pan. Some of the cows died.
One evening the young cow was walking in the
paddock near the lucerne patch. Her time was near.
She walked slowly, with her head down. The calf
was heavy in her, and every time she set down
a leg the cleft hoof opened wide. Sometimes she
could feel the calf thrusting against the sides of her
belly, and when she came to the river she stopped
and stood there fot some minutes, moaning to her-
self, and turning her head slowly from side to side.
Her teats, which looked like black india-rubber, had
grown larger and softer, and now shook with every
movement of her body.
The paddock where the young cow was had been
eaten bare weeks before. There were only a few
cropped-grass roots looking like wornout brooms that
had been thrust, handle-first, into the soil.
The young cow moved on a few yards. Then she
pawed at the ground for a time. Then she stopped
and began moving her head slowly from side to side
and moaning. The dog heard, and came down and
barked at her.
During the night her calf was born.
It was a bull calf, and it was red like herself.
When the farmer’s son came along the river-bank in
the morning the red calf was nudging at her udder.
The man saw the calf, and began to curse to himself.
Later the farmer and his son drove the young
cow and her calf into another paddock, the calf fol-
lowing her on long, brittle legs, bumping at her udder.
“Isn’t he a fine calf?” the farmer said. “Just
like I reckoned she would have.”
“It had to be a bull,” the son said.
At times during the day the cow would run her
tongue over the calf’s body and call to him. Two
little breasts of unspoken horns grew on the calf’s
forehead. The young cow was happy with him that
day. When he butted with his head and bit her teats
she would turn her head and call out to him.
Two days later they took the calf away from
her. They tied a rope around his neck and dragged
him into the orchard and tied him to a tree. The
calf cried out for her. He tugged at the rope. He
set his hooves, which were shiny as though they had
been dipped in oil, into the ground, and fought the
rope, straining his long, lumpy-jointed legs. He cried
piteously, and the cow broke away from the men and
ran over to the orchard fence. She ran up and down
the fence, calling to the calf. She put her head down
and pushed at the fence. The wires rang, but the
fence held. The cow became mad with fear. She
rushed again and again at the fence, but it held. Then
they came with a whip and drove her away.
When the dog saw the calf tied up in the orchard
he went and lay down under another tree and waited.
He had seen calves taken into the orchard before. In
the back paddock the young cow called out for her
calf.
Later the farmer skinned the calf and threw the
body into the river. He would get one shilling and
sixpence for the skin.


stormy night in winter. Out of 700 applicants for a
job as guardian at the abbey he had been the success-
ful one. It had been his last resort. The Depression
had crushed his father’s shipbuilding business and
had brought tumbling down the far larger edifice of
his father-in-law’s firm. Andre and Laura had crept
out from under the ruins with nothing. Job-hunting
in Paris, where there were no jobs—only war between
those who had something they feared to lose and
those who had nothing—had broken Andre’s heart.
He was glad of this refuge, but Laura was not.
She could only remember that once she had been
rich and had had a good time, and now she was poor
and bored. No sooner had they arrived than the
beauty of the Mount began to winnow their lives.
Andre surrendered himself to it. He learned to know
the old building in all its aspects and grasped some-
thing of the inexhaustible stories that the centuries
had laid up in its stones. He made friends with the
local fishermen and shared with them the excitement
of hunting big fish caught in the shallows of the tide,
or of waiting before dawn for the wild geese to fly
over. He learnt about quicksands and how to save
himself by throwing himself flat and rolling till he
reached the edge. One day he and two others were
caught on the sands between the mist and the rising
tide and only just escaped with their lives. That experi-
ence made an island man of him.
By the time the summer came, the Mount and
all its traditions were in his blood. Only Laura
fretted, and the rift between her and her husband
widened. He’saw her for what she was, and stories
of her frivolity and of a notorious love affair before
she married him returned now to plague him with
their probability. Above all Laura resented her hus-
band’s contentment in his work as guide.
The summer showed Andre the reverse side of
the medal. The town emerged from sleep into ener-
getic competition. Booths, bazaars and shops sprang
up everywhere, and the goglus or spruikers deafened
one another in the streets:
But what ended by overwhelming you through its
endless repetition was the uglification of the supreme
spectacle which you had come here to see. At every
step it was presented to you a hundred times over, so
disfigured, so cheapened, that you felt like crying. The
ingenuity of curio manufacturers had multiplied Mont
Saint-Michel to the point of nausea. It had put the
Mount on plates; on chromo-lithographs in shrieking
colors; on salad bowls; on those slabs of wood with
bark frames that try to look rustic; in those globes full
of water and shavings which give an effect of snow
when you shake them.
All this very soon created an obsession. The carica-
ture ended by smashing the marvellous model. In this
ditch devoted to trade you could no longer see it. You
might think yourself a hundred leagues distant. You
could find it again only by going away from it.
But it is beauty, not ugliness, that always has the
last word:
All through the winter cloud, wind, rain or mist
gave it an aspect singularly changeable. The dark
months plagued it endlessly. They blotted it out,
wholly or in part; they ate away its pilasters and its
towers; they flattened it against the horizon or, on the
contrary, breached its ramparts with shadows. Squalls
spattered it with spray. The sea and the sands went
wan and livid beneath it, chilling it with their sudden
pallor, drowning it from below, as though it had become
its own reflection.
At last Laura found Andre a job of the sort for
which he had looked in Paris in vain. He suspected
that she had got it through her former lover. He
hesitated to accept and she delivered her ultimatum.
She will leave him if he doesn’t. His quandary is settled
for him. At the moment when he should be going to
Paris he is in a boat rowing out into the rising tide in
an effort to save two men marooned on the sand. The
book breaks off there. St. Michael has won.
This novel is a contrast to its predecessor, the
turbulent Lena, noticed on the Red Page several
months ago. It is quiet, and the end comes as an
anti-climax. All along the book seems to be prepar-
ing for tragedy, and then there is no tragedy. A couple
of unknown men are sacrificed to solve Andre’s riddle.
The threads of the story drawn so taut are allowed
to slacken again. The reader never quite knows the
truth about Laura. Nobody but the Mount is quite
alive. One imagines that the author just created the
characters to serve his design. The prose is good, with
inspired moments.
Three Readable Tales.
Three recent novels, nothing to bang the big
drum over, but all eminently readable, are Hans
Tolten’s Exile in the Wilderness (Selwyn and Blount;
translated from the German by F. T. Loesch), Ruth-
ven Todd’s Over the Mountain (Harrap), and C. S.
Forester’s Flying Colors (Michael Joseph).
The first is the story of a young German officer,
in debt and without prospects, who goes to Paraguay.
The place is seething with political intrigue and, be-
cause he refuses to take sides, he becomes an object
of suspicion, hatred and nefarious plotting. He has
numerous adventures, all very well told, but the
strength of the book is in the author’s intimate know-
ledge of the country.
Paraguay is evidently an earthly paradise, flawed
only by its inhabitants. Land that would grow any-
thing is used only for pasture. The great haciendas
are mostly owned by foreigners, the cattle tended by
proud Spanish-Indian gauchos who love danger and
hate work. The cattlebreeders are a law to them-
selves, living in feudal state, and generally in tacit
opposition to the Government. Soldiers are unpopu-
lar to the point of murder in the country districts,
and recruits have to be virtually kidnapped.
Paraguay appears never to have recovered from
the disastrous war of 1865-1870 when its powerful
neighbors reduced its population to a handful. In-
ternal strife has kept them from recovering or develop-
ing their country. In the towns every man is a loud-
voiced patriot, but as there are many brands of
patriotism no parties can ever agree for long enough
to effect constructive legislation. The country remains
backward in the midst of riches. Tolten’s account
of Neuva Germania, a colony founded on idealistic
lines by Naumann, its reduction to apostolic poverty
and unapostolic strife, is interesting in the light of
Australian William Lane’s experiment in the same
country, with somewhat similar history.
Over the Mountain has some of the elements of
an Aldous Huxley satire —with the bones removed —
Gulliver’s Travels and a Marx Brothers’ film. The
big idea is that Michael, a young man living in No
Such Land, becomes obsessed with the idea that he
must cross a mountain known as the Pale Peak. After
incredible effort he reaches the summit, but he gets
caught in a blizzard and is rescued by people he
doesn’t know after he has lost his memory as a result
of his sufferings.
They take him down to their country, a sort of
madman’s land where the daily lives of the people are
a rather terrible burlesque of civilisation. At length he
escapes and again toils up the mountain. Again he
is caught in a blizzard, again rescued. This time his
memory returns, and he realises that his adventures
really took place in his own country, its true charac-
ter unrecognised by him until he attempted to cross
the mountain. On the evidence of this book Todd is
a good writer but an inexperienced story-teller. His
book, like his hero, fails from attempting too much ,
but his style is very attractive.
Flying Colors, which was preceded by The
Happy Return and A Ship of the Line, completes the
story of Captain Hornblower. Commander of H.M.
ship Sutherland during the Napoleonic wars, without
influence or position, of poor physique, his name ridi-
culous, his wife red-faced and overamiable, he allowed
these facts to impress him with his own inferiority.
He doubted his courage and was continually surprised
to find that he had acted with courage and ability.
When Flying Colors opens Hornblower is in a
tight corner ; his ship sunk in an engagement com-
parable with the last fight of the Revenge, he is ex-
pecting to be seized by the French and taken to Paris
for trial and execution. Suspense is the lifeblood of
the tale of adventure that follows.
Hornblower survives, to report himself to the
commander of the fleet aboard the Victory. He is
deeply conscious of his failure in the loss of his ship,
but his subsequent trial is a triumph for him. The
bewildered man receives a public ovation, a knight-
hood and a sinecure that will make him financially
independent. His wife has obligingly departed to
another world and the way is open for him to marry
Lady Barbara, sister of the Duke of Wellington, whom
he first met in the days of The Happy Return. The
three-decker story of Hornblower is more than a
mere adventure yarn. It is well-written. Hornblower
is a type of Britain’s modest and courageous seafarers ;
the adjectives in his case being italicised.
Detectives and Defectives.
An acquaintanceship with the literature of crime-
detection which, like Sam Weller’s knowledge of
London, has been both extensive and peculiar has
led this reviewer to the belief that the • popularity of
such literature is based rather upon personality than
upon plot. Not the personality of the author, though
that, too, presumably, must largely •'affect the matter ;
but the personality of his detective hero. Sherlock
Holmes and Hercule Poirot, Lord Peter Wimsey and
Dr. Thorndike —it is their appearance in the story,
their alarums and excursions, their particular idio-
syncrasies, that make the interest.
Therefore, the half-dozen or so of crime stories
that come up for notice here this week, being all
totally deficient in such personal “pull,” lack the one
sure claim to distinction. Not one of the detectives
who potter round these chapters deserves to become
known. They are either stodgy or unfair, and in
some cases both.
Unfairness is the unpardonable sin. There are
certain things the writer of a thriller simply must not
do, and deliberately to deceive the reader is one of
them. The cards he lays upon the table must not be
false cards. They must conform to, even if they do
not actually assist in, the solution of the problem. In
not one of the books noted here has this basic prin-
ciple been adhered to. To this indictment it has to be
added that in two of them the “detectives” are silly
old women—in both senses of the term —whose sur-
plusage of garrulity is balanced by their complete de-
ficiency in commonsense ; that in one of-the others the
detective is of the worst hat-wearing, cigar-chewing
American type ; that in the fourth and fifth there is
no detective at all, and that in the sixth —and best of
a poor bunch—there is not even a corpse of any merit,
but only a last-minute exiguous “stiff” dragged in to
supply an obvious deficiency in the cast.
The story of Motive for Murder, by Basil Man-
ningham (Robert Hale), is divided into two parts—•
the one being a series of biographical notes by the
criminal-hero, an absurd party obsessed with the idea
that he is being defrauded out of a fortune and that
the only way to get even is to kill off all the other
intervening claimants; the other being the diary of a
foolish old spinster who manages to muss up the
whole affair. The criminal ends up by literally tak-
ing a dose of his own medicine, thus putting Finis
to himself and the story by one and the same opera-
tion.
Night on the Devil’s Pathway, by Charlotte
Murray Russell (The World’s Work, Ltd.), is, we are
told, “a Jane Amanda Edwards story,” the said Jane
Amanda being another elderly female with a passion
for poking her nose into other people’s affairs in the
sacred cause of crime-detection, and thereby making a
nuisance of herself generally. The idea would be a
good one, and possibly productive of some pleasant
comedy, if it were treated homoeopathically and in
humorous vein ; but taken seriously and in a large
dose, as here, it soon becomes boring to a degree.
All that one can say in favor of Charlotte Murray
Russell is that she is not lacking in a certain kind of
gory imagination, and that she can —and does —go in
for homicide with a passion worthy of a better cause.
The Big Sleep, by Raymond Chandler, tells of a
series of gangster-cwm-degenerate crimes that are so
involved in themselves and so mixed up with false clues
and divagations that nobody but a Chicago gunman
could possibly do justice to them. No more ghastly
collection of dope-fiends, “putters-on-the-spot” and
general dealers in violence and crime have ever been
gathered togther.
Midnight Sailing, by L. G. Blochman (Collins), is
a much better affair altogether. It has a direct, com-
prehensible style, is free of American gangster-talk—
although the detective-journalist in the case is an
American, as are the majority of the subsidiary char-
acters —and has a fairly reasonable plot. Glen Larkin,
the head reporter on a New York journal, is sent by
the Kumo Maru, bound for Japan, because his editor
has learned that Dorothy Bonner, the missing daugh-
ter of a millionaire who has recently been killed after
the disappearance of certain important military plans,
is aboard her. En route disappearances are followed
by murders, as fantastic as they are brutal; and
Larkin finds himself involved in as nice a hornet’s
nest as the most adventurous could wish for. Of
course in the end he solves all the problems, saves
his own life and that of the girl in the case, and, de-
spite the usual misunderstandings, marries her. A
plain blunt tale, whose main faults are its far from
unusual plot and its far from original or graceful
style.
No Harm Intended (The Bodley Head) is another
yarn by Elizabeth Sanxay Holding, whose Strange
Crime in Bermuda was deservedly praised here last
week. This second venture is not nearly so good.
The venue is laid in a New England seaside village,
and the people of the little drama are in the main
commonplace, or so fantastic as to be beyond belief.
All the same, this yarn is streets ahead of any one of
the five already noticed.
The Necessary Corpse (Nicholson and Watson) is
by R. C. Woodthorpe, who, in The Public School
Murder, wrote an excellent thriller with novelty both
in form and plot. Although somewhat lacking in
novelty, the plot of his latest is treated in a fashion
which lifts it above the ruck. But one knows all about
the “mystery” from the jump, the surprises come from
the characters rather than from the activities of the
persons of the drama, and the corpse is not intro-
duced until the very end. The scenes are laid in
England, and the writing is English pure and unde-
filed —a thing which in itself demands some gratitude ;
while a villain who can scale a bare wall and, while
hanging to a window-sill with one hand some hun-
dreds of feet from the ground, can draw himself up
sufficiently to take a pot shot at his victim with the
other certainly demands some admiration.
Various Verse
Caprice.
(To Mirrie Hill)
My heart, my heart, it flew away
Upon a golden summer day,
And, though I ran, ’twas all in vain—
I couldn’t catch my heart again.
Through forest brake and meadow-bent,
Now here, now there, the wild thing went —
I chased it south, I chased it north;
As I came in, it hurried forth;
Until, at last, forspent and worn,
I homeward traced the way forlorn:
When —suddenly—within my breast
I felt the tyrant glide to rest.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Winter.
Now from the year has all the flesh dropped off,
And we’re upon
The bone of sweetness;
The leaves have rotted beautifully and flaked
Away, and the sun
Has shed his splendor,
And out of the sky the moon’s chipped hard as stone.
Down to the very bone; the lamp-posts stand
Bare as the trees
In early dark;
A thin rain falls from underneath the stars,
Lonely and quiet,
And sentience
Seems a stone image sitting on the hill.
VICTORIA.
JEAN IRWIN.
To Walk That Path.
To-night as other nights
There is no easy way
To walk that path the lights
Proclaim on the black bay;
Yet love and simple cunning
By way of the dark shore
Would find a track and, running,
Knock at the stranger’s door.
Knock once where baffled speech
Drowses or prowls the room,
But eyes have light to reach
A little among the gloom.
Knock and go in, be guest
Of flesh and bone and hair,
And ask —and ask —or rest,
Stranger in stranger’s lair.
Not then in pride or fear
Do I stay here alone,
Where waters lit declare
The lights of faces shine.
But light’s no human way—
Go by the shore is wise:
And how go round the bay
The shoreless bay that lies
Between all eyes and mine?
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


nefteJ
Toee
The full nourishment of finest malted
oats is concentrated in this favorite
health beverage.
Brewed by
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
AGENTS:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
yfffblt mmxfwie mellcumeMxmdJmiq/uet
Westminster Hall.
mosMoLIHS - S tk Bfcriou ! ‘ la P penda f to th e splendid Gothic pile which houses “the Mother of Parliaments” described as the
nrio , y i] f m England The venerable building, which is so intimately bound up with our history as a nation, a race and Empire,
was on g „ all y founded by William Rufus in 1097, but rebuilt in its present form by Richard 11., who kept his Christmas here in 1399
believfd fn CenC6 ’tl he STT ° f ?’ aCCOrd,ng to the chroniclers, amounting to 10,000 each day. Its dimensions are still
?Jj £ to exceed . an 7 ° ther haU of lts kind ln Europe unsupported by pillars. Its length is 272 feet, breadth 74 feet and height 90
Irf tJ hC r °° f! C 'f I consists of chestnut wood, very curiously constructed and adorned with angels supporting shields, on which
are the arms of Richard 11. and his patron saint, Edward the Confessor. On the stone frieze below the windows are various
of a T rt co T ant V and other devices of that Kin g- The hall appears to have been designed for royal banquets and enter-
tainments, and the coronation feasts were partaken of here for “ages.” Courts of justice were also held here in very early times, in which
e sovereign himself was accustomed to preside, and the ancient stone “bench” whereon the monarch sat is stated to be still in
existence beneath the pavement in the upper end. Hence the “Curia Domini Regis,” or Court of King’s Bench, one of the four supreme
courts regularly held under this roof, the other courts being Chancery, Common Pleas and Exchequer, until well into the last century,
when the new and spacious buildings in the Strand were erected. The hall literally reeks with “brave history.” It was specially
Q . te ff T a *L a cou rt for the trials of William Wallace, Sir (now Saint) Thomas More, the Protector Somerset, Thomas, Earl of
Strafford, Minister of Charles 1., and also that of his equally ill-fated sovereign. In more modern times were tried the celebrated
Duchess of Kingston for bigamy, Warren Hastings on an impeachment for misconduct in India, Lord Byron, Lord Ferrers and Lord
Melville in 1806 for misappropriation of public money. The last coronation dinner held in the hall was that of George IV. Within
its walls Cromwell acclaimed the shouts of the Roundheads; capital sentences fell thick and fast on lords who had displeased Elizabeth,/
and the plaints were heard of Roman Catholics condemned for plotting to blow up Parliament. In the last few years extensive
repairs have been made to the roof, and the present generation has witnessed ceremonies happily far different in character from those
just indicated One of the latest was when the Bar of England tendered a welcome to the Bar Association of the United States,
and no more fitting venue could have been selected, all things considered.


TIENTSIN POKER.


The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aks.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
WeStralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WAR—OR DISCUSSION?
What is called, with a variety of pessimistic adjectives,
the state of world affairs more and more tends to
become a simple question of whether there shall be
a talk before war or war before a talk. There are
unpredictable forces that may lead the peoples of
many nations into a war that none of them wants,
but through all the confusion of furious babbling,
allegations, national aspirations and mutual sus-
picions, the alternative of talk before war or war and
then talk holds its ground.
This is fortunately clear to at least a few states-
men on the British side, however monstrous their
appreciation of the choice appears to bad-tempered
newspapers. The mere suggestion of discussion
appears to be anathema to some bellicose sheets.
Australia has one notorious specimen: the fuming
old lady of Hunter-street, Sydney, as full of fight as
an inebriated bunyip. F.a.q. example of style and
manner:
We do not think the British Government can afford
*o ignore an affront to Britain or to seek a reason for
inaction because of the laying of mines off Bilbao. Is
it only above-water attack that the British Navy will
resent?
The occasion, of course, Spain’s civil war —and
what of this occasion for “action” now? Against the
advocacy of the shrieking New Journalism, wise
statesmanship—or perhaps, in view of the silly nature
of the “cause,” it should be called no more than
ordinarily sane statesmanship—kept Britain out of a
foul and shoddy war, taking a hand in which would
have earned it the just censure not of a distantly-
detached posterity, but of the present generation.
The Spanish war has been fought out to a con-
clusion inevitable to all but fools from the time it be-
came known that the war was the outcome of a national
revolt against an alien cult imposed on the country
with every circumstance of murder, torture and bru-
tality inseparable from that cult. It is a war over
without the needless and inexcusable slaughter of hun-
dreds of thousands of British people now living ; and
not only, of course, of British people. For even those
who continually bellowed for “action” while it lasted
should have been well aware that such “action” would
certainly have led to all-in catastrophe.
The probability that that “action” in its conse-
quences would have split the British Empire in two had
no more influence with the “action”-urgers than the
orgy of death and maiming and destruction that must
have happened. And it requires no great feat of memory
to recall that this was not the only occasion for
“action” furiously pointed out. There was the even
more shabby Abyssinian occasion ; another war in
the list fought out without the inexcusable spilling of
British blood, and now already receded into a back
place in the perspective of history. But in its day
what an occasion it was held to be!
Abyssinia now represents another freely-can-
vassed opportunity for “action” which is to-day as
good as forgotten, along with the shrieking of news-
papers while it held out any hope of what they seem
to desire above everything else. Then there was the
incorporation of Austria as part of Germany. Here
was another great occasion for universal slaughter-
house operations. “The rape of Austria” was how
it was represented, while the people of the raped
country lined the roads and pelted their invaders with
flowers. But there should have been great slaughter
to save them, from themselves as well as from the
Germans!
Another opportunity missed! No man of sense
will deny that not one of all these opportunities for
action was worth the sacrifice of a single British life.
None but a lunatic would attempt to uphold that the
British Empire or the world would have been any
happier to-day if any of those opportunities for
“action” had been taken. They now seem miserably
cheap occasions compared with what must have been
the certain outcome of taking any one of them. But
this historical lesson is lost on those who bellowed
for “action” to be taken. To-day they have occa-
sions looming up just as large and inviting as those
others in their day. The call for “action” is as insis-
tent as ever.
Against the shabby trumpeters, it is to the credit
of humanity that a few men still evidently possess a
full realisation of consequences, and it is much to
Australia’s credit that one of them is not only Aus-
tralian but is the present leader of this country.
In every speech that he makes touching on world
affairs Mr. Menzies reveals a grasp of the realities in
extraordinary contrast to the howling actioneers. He
was on the platform again last week:
I have repeatedly urged that the process of armament
and the division of the great nations into two opposing
groups cannot be regarded as satisfactory. As long
as the spirit of aggression is in the ascendant it is
necessary for the peace-loving nations to arm, and arm
quickly. But obviously the world cannot go on for long
in this way. If we are to return to more peaceful
days and an era of trade and financial stability, I am
firmly of the opinion that it must be by way of the
conference table. Anomalies cannot be adjusted or a
sense of grievance removed by a resort to force. Our
experience shows that war does not solve problems.
It creates them. Given a will to peace as the first essen-
tial, there is a very real prospect of a peaceful settle-
ment at the conference table.
That appeared in “S. M. Herald” in a composite
column under the general headings:
PACT TALKS.
SUSPICIONS OF PUBLIC.
APPEASEMENT.
MISSION TO MOSCOW.
The leading item in the column was an attempt
by “our own correspondent” in London to show that
widespread suspicions had been aroused in Britain by
speeches made by Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax
in much the same vein as the speech made here by
Mr. Menzies. The substance of what the British Prime
Minister and Lord Halifax had said was that, while
Britain intended to go on arming against threat of
attack, it was ready at any time to meet other nations
at the conference table and discuss grievances and aims,
provided there was sufficient proof that the threat of
force had been dropped.
If it was true that such declaration led to wide-
spread suspicions on the part of the British public—
in other words, that the British public is now op-
posed to any discussion with other nations —then war
would be certain. It should not require the know-
ledge of foreign affairs and the grasp of realities
that are clearly part of the equipment of Mr. Men-
zies to appreciate that the huge spending on arma-
ments cannot go on indefinitely. Neither can it stop,
unless there is the right talk —the necessary change in
outlook of some of the parties—to stop it. The guns
on which the world’s treasure is being spent will have
to be stopped by what a few people who retain their
sanity and sense are advocating—peaceable confer-
ence and discussion. Otherwise nothing can be more
terribly certain than that the guns will go off.
Tientsin.
China has been called a topsy-turvy country, but there
is nothing so topsy-turvy as the foreign element in it.
The Japanese in China are waging a war which
they call an Incident. After the Incident had lasted a
year or so they discovered that they wished the British
to co-operate wholeheartedly with them in establishing
a New Order in the Far East. Their desire for such
co-operation has palpably increased since the British,
urged on by the French, proposed an alliance with
Soviet Russia. And last week they set out to induce
this pleasing spirit in the British by stringing barbed
wire around Tientsin and establishing a blockade cal-
culated to starve the British and French in the Tientsin
concessions into the frame of mind which they regard
as so desirable.
Tientsin is the chief port of Northern China, and
its population is round 1,300,000. It is much smaller
than Shanghai, where the human horde runs to
3,500,000 ; but its problems are precisely similar. It
was created in the midst of Chinese squalor and mis-
government as an oasis where trade with the natives
could be conducted without natives being able to make
trade impossible.
Under foreign control Tientsin became a model
city, and the Chinese have frequently taken it as an
example. If they had not had it as an example they
would not have been able to invent anything like it.
Its laws are an extraordinary compromise between
Chinese official notions of justice, the Chinese instinct
for being reasonable, and European standards of legal
propriety. Every one of Tientsin’s rights and privi-
leges has had to be fought for, and the battle has gone
on for generations.
Originally the Japanese were on the side of the
Europeans in this battle. Every gain for law and order
was a gain for Japanese, as well as Europeans, and
the Japanese were as fervently opposed to every
attempt of the Chinese to make encroachments as the
white man. The Chinese were just as bitterly resentful
of what they regarded as European and Japanese
aggression. The position has turned full circle.
Kuomintang and Communist Chinese now regard
Tientsin and other pales of the European as harbors
of refuge from the Japanese aggressor. They use them,
if they can, as jumping-off places for attacks on the
other party to the Incident, and as places to flee to
when their own territory becomes too hot to hold them.
The Europeans are prepared to trade with all and
sundry, but, inasmuch as they are obliged to harbor
generals, rebels, guerrilla leaders and buyers and sellers
of munitions, they are identified in the Japanese mind
with the Kuomintang-Communist China. What led to
the blockade was the shooting of the Chinese Dr. Cheng,
a pro-Japanese Superintendent of Customs, and the
refusal of the British authorities in Tientsin to hand
over to the Japanese four Chinese alleged to be impli-
cated in the murder.
Japanese are not above tearing a leaf out of
the Chinese book and kidnapping a politician or a
rich merchant, transporting him ever the border and
holding him to ransom. For the foreigner to agree
to share or surrender the control of European
settlements would meet with bitter opposition from
Kuomintang-Communist Chinese, who are at the
moment advocates of the concessions which they
wanted to eliminate before the Japanese attacked them.
The Japanese were once supporters of extra-
territoriality. Now they are against it, because the
abolition of the principle with the long name would
place foreigner and Chinese alike under the jurisdic-
tion of Chinese authorities who are Japanese puppets.
The blockade is an ugly business, and it bristles
with dangerous possibilities. Moreover, if the Japanese
gain control of Tientsin, they will obviously present
similar demands at Shanghai. According to the emi-
nent “News-Chronicle,” “a case could be made out
for giving full sovereignty over all ports back to
China,” but it would be a pusillanimous proceeding,
and one difficulty is that not only the Chiang Kai-
sheks but their opponents among their own people
claim to be China. Talk of surrendering the conces-
sions comes ill from people who were passionate for
intervention in Abyssinia, Spain, Austria and Czecho-
slovakia.
Australia has been sending a lot of wheat to
Tientsin, payment being made in Chinese dollars. It
is one of Japan’s grievances that Britain is backing
Chinese currency. The U.S.A. is also backing it, and
that points to a weakness in the Japanese position.
The Tientsin blockade does not directly involve
American interests, but it is a menace to them. And
the United States and the British Commonwealth are
Japan’s best customers. Militarists on the mainland
may choose to ignore that pregnant fact; the Japanese
Government and the Japanese people cannot.
FENG-SHUI.
Macquarie's Tomb.
An admirer revisits it:
Lachlan Macquarie had a reverence for tombs. To the
end of his life he had the burial-place of his first wife, in
Bombay, with its large black marble slab, tended with
care. His own tomb on his estate at Gruline, in Mull, Scotland,
once called Jarvisfield, was an imposing affair, inscribed in
the ilorid compliments with which the Regency age was wont
to bury its dead.
But the Clan Macquarie has left its native haunts. None
of its name remains on Ulva or Mull. Jarvisfield is in the
hands of strangers, and the tomb is crumbling. Nothing would
hurt Macquarie himself more than the thought of that, and
this country owes him a little consideration, since not only
its first institutions but its very name were born of his
initiative and his period.
Macquarie was the first Governor to fight for the estab-
lishment of free British institutions in N. S. Wales —the first
to advocate the jury system and courts independent of the
executive authority. He was the first to support Australian
literature and art. When he made a journey he took the
artist Lewin with him; when at home he gave Lewin employ-
ment, money, encouragement and a place in which to work.
He was the first administrator to encourage the people of New
South Wales to civic effort—within three years of his coming
they were forming subscription lists to raise civic buildings.
Macquarie founded the first country towns, built the first
country churches, encouraged the first private Australian manu-
facturers, and gave preference to them in buying Government
supplies. He laid down the first roads into the interior after open-
ing the way by official explorations. He built the first lighthouse
cn the continent, introduced the first real pilotage system,
appointed Sydney’s first police magistrate, its first police. He
replanned Sydney and named most of its principal streets,
gave it its parks and gardens, the first Australian shows,
its first monument, picked and baptised the sites of its two
cathedrals. Also, he initiated the first real policy of closer
settlement, preferring always the little man. He established our
first organised school system.
He was the first Governor who really conceived that
Australia might be a nation governed by Australians. He
mitigated the cruelties of the earlier years and reprobated
corporal punishment. Young Australians found him a warm
friend. Without his encouragement, it is doubtful whether
William Charles Wentworth would have flowered as an
Australian patriot.
Macquarie left behind him a flood of youngsters whom
he patronised and who a few years later were among the
continent’s first Cabinet Ministers, Parliamentarians and
industrialists. When he founded Bathurst he created a precedent
by reserving half his first grants for young Australians born.
The Australian modern economic system sprouted in
Macquarie’s time. He founded the first bank—the ’Wales —
against Colonial Office opposition, stood behind the first
Government Savings Bank when it was founded by Barron
Field, and helped to colonise New Zealand.
He reigned longer than any other Governor —12 years.
Most of what he did was upon his personal initiative,
and the effort broke and killed him, carried through as it
was against the opposition of a clique of colonists who
waxed fat while he lost everything.
Macquarie’s name lives and will never be forgotten.
At the same time, it is a paltry thing to grudge him the price
of the upkeep of his tomb. A public subscription is being
raised to repair it. That is disgraceful. The amount regularly
needed is so little that it is a shame that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment or the Commonwealth Government should need to be
asked to undertake the responsibility.
One of those Governments should make sure that Mac-
quarie’s own sentiment about his resting-place is not forgotten.
It would not even be too much if the small Mull
estate, which he knew he could never enjoy for long and
which he lovingly nursed for his “posterity” (it went out like
a candle), were bought and presented to the Scottish Realm,
along with the price of its upkeep, as a thanks-offering to the
little 30-mile circle round Beinn More which gave Australia
nearly 1000 names upon its map, apart from its Macquanes,
Macleans, Campbells, Camerons and Blacks.
It would be a useful gift if a tourist-house were built
upon it. It is the heart of the country which Dr. Johnson
visited, near to tourist Staffa and Ulva s Isle. It would
be easy to find wardens to take care of it The Duke at
Argyle, descendant of Macquarie s friend and landlord, Lora
Perth, descendant of his executor’s family ; the Black Watch,
battalions of which both Macquarie and his brother com-
manded, or the Clan Maclean Association— nearly every Mac
quarie marriage for 200 years had been to a Maclean or a
Campbell—would make appropriate trustees. Maclaine ol
Lochbuy was Macquarie’s uncle and guardian.
Over the gateway of the estate they might carve his
words announcing the departure of Lieutenant
“suivev the Western Coast of Australia which I hope wi
be !he name applied in future....to this immense continent.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Alliances and Conquest.
It is impossible to dissociate the blockade of the con-
cessions at Tientsin from the British overtures to
Soviet Russia for an alliance.
The blockade began on the very day a Foreign
Office official arrived at Moscow, bent on overcoming
the reluctance of the Reds, who are reluctant because
they are scared. On the next day the Australian
Minister for External Affairs, while pledging
his Government’s support for “the efforts of the
Government of the United Kingdom to secure Russian
participation on the most effective terms possible,”
admitted that “the effect which an eventual agreement
may have on Japan cannot be disregarded.” He de-
clared, however, that “it is not intended that such an
agreement should have any application outside
Europe,” and that “the Commonwealth Government
is satisfied that it would not prejudice the interests of
Japan.” If he can convince Tokio of this and satisfy
Moscow at the same time his persuasive genius will
be acknowledged throughout the world.
The change in British foreign policy has been
attended by none of the results effusively predicted
by those who claim to have forced it on the Chamber-
lain Government, and who —Eden, Churchill, the
British Labor and Liberal parties and the Stunt Press
—have been wrong all along. On the contrary, it has
dangerously increased British responsibilities without
wringing a sign of repentance or trepidation from the
Axis Powers.
The Axis Powers have indeed strengthened their
position in the Balkans and in the Baltic, and not
only by shaking the mailed fist. They have exploited
the Little Peoples’ fear of Russian penetration, which,
working on internal greed, envy and ambition, has
produced hideous civil wars. Germany can even
point to a non-aggression pact with decent little Den-
mark, though Britain, not Germany, is the Danes’
best customer.
The offer of an alliance to Russia has embarrassed
the Pope’s peace effort, and the effects have been par-
ticularly unfortunate in Spain, whose hatred of Russia
amounts to frenzy. If Spain joined the Axis Powers the
Cape route, as well as the Mediterranean and Pacific
routes, would be in jeopardy. And Moscow has had
the face to demand, as a condition of joining “the
European anti-aggression group'’ (Mr. Gullett’s ex-
pression, although the Soviet concern is more Asiatic
than European), that Britain should coerce Finland,
Latvia and Estonia.
“Guarantee these Baltic States, whether they like it
or not,” is the substance of an inspired article in
“Pravda.”
This to proud England, the champion of the small
democracies!
Mr. Chamberlain has been accused by one of
the roaring band of professors of having one foot in
the eighteenth-century and the other in the twentieth.
It is this gentleman and those who think like him who
are living in the eighteenth century.
Unless Germany is stopped by force, they say,
Germany will conquer all Europe. This is an
eighteenth-century conception of conquest, which is no
longer practicable on the Napoleonic scale or even in
the fashion of Frederick the Great, as Sweden, Switzer-
land and even Holland know. Their foreign policy is
neutrality— i.e., isolation.
Eighteenth-century also is the notion that Con-
tinental alliances avert war. The idea of Britain as
Europe’s policeman likewise dates from the eighteenth
century. It was abandoned for splendid isolation —
and it was splendid—after the silly Crimean cam-
paign, only to be revived in the League form, with the
crazy addendum that John Bull needed no baton,
moral force being sufficient.
Difficult as it may be in the pass to which things
have come, John Bull will have to abandon the police-
man role. If he had not been preoccupied with the
affairs of Europe, the nasty piece of work at Tientsin
might never have happened.
Slump in Ministerial Stocks.
Though it is not two months since it was sworn in,
the Menzies Government scrambled into recess look-
ing somewhat the worse for wear. It made a very
good beginning, and when the new Prime Minister
was attacked by the leader of the Country party
because he is without an A.I.F. record he had many
champions. There were not many when Dr. Page
had another go at him last week on the score of his
proposal to refer the luckless national-insurance
measure to a committee, that being one of the very
reasons he gave for leaving the Lyons Government;
and the proposal was heavily defeated in the House.
The Ministry’s stocks had already slumped as a
result of the amazing proceedings in the matter of
the Sydney G.P.O. tenders, the inquiry into which has
brought forth equally amazing evidence. Of that,
little can be said until the presiding Judge finishes his
job, but when he does a great deal more will have to
be said. Meanwhile, the action, of the Country party
in bringing the affair before the House has been abun-
dantly justified.
The Country party has been accused by the Syd-
ney daily papers, which hate it like poison, of imped-
ing the progress of business or something of the sort.
In point of fact the Government could not have got
through without its assistance. And when the public
considers the haste with which important measures
were pushed through last week, and the many unfor-
tunate results of other rush legislation, it can only
wish that the Agrarians had done a lot more impeding.
The U.A.P. press threatens the Country party
with a general election this year. Australia doesn’t
want a general election this year, and if Mr. Menzies
forces one on Australia without good cause his party
will get a dreadful doing.
Twenty-one Years Old.
The Royal Air Force, glorious child of the Royal
Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service, has
just celebrated its twenty-first birthday, with pro-
duction “increased fourfold since the beginning of the
year and rising steeply”—this outside the effort which
Australia and Canada are beginning to make.
The complexion of air defence has completely
changed since the last British spring. Then, large sec-
tions of the R.A.F. were still staggering round the sky
in five- and six-year-old types.
The most recent official report records that there
are ‘liundreds of Hawker Hurricane and Supermarine
Spitfire eight-gun fighters in the service.... each
capable of level flight far in excess of 300 miles per
hour and tested for the strain of aerial battle
by dives at more than 500 miles per hour.” Sir
Kingsley Wood has declared that “they are capable
of shooting down any type of bomber.” Another
type has gone into service—the Boulton Paul Defiant,
“believed to be the fastest warplane in the world,” and
gunned amidships with a power-operated turret
capable of a stream of fire to supplement some of the
deadliest head and tail batteries ever put between wings.
The Vickers-Wellington bombers —Maoriland has
ordered 30 —have been scheduled to succeed the
Wellesley single-engined machine which broke the
Suez-Darwin non-stop flight, and which could carry
10001 b. of bombs non-stop over 2590 miles. Officially,
the “performance of the Wellington is considered
better ; specially equipped, a Wellington could fly non-
stop 10,000 miles, say from England to Australia.”
No machine which cannot dive at 500 m.p.h. and fight
eight power-operated guns is safe in a fighting arena
in 1939, except big bombers of the Short Sunderland
type which Australia is buying, and which are flying
battleships. And the British Air Minister remarks
that “we have even better and faster types of bombers,
with a longer range, shortly coming forward.”
The biggest war-time bomber, the V/1500, had
a maximum speed of 103 m.p.h. The war-time
counterpart of the Bristol Blenheim, with its speed over
300 m.p.h., was the 0/400, with a maximum of 97
m.p.h. Sopwith Camels, which were the acme of
speed and deadliness when the R.A.F. was born, could
do no more than 113 m.p.h. at 10,000 feet.
The R.A.A.F., slightly younger than the R.A.F.,
is growing immensely too. The R.A.F. owes a great
deal of its efficiency to Australians and Maorilanders ;
and gladly acknowledges the debt.
General developments are such that Australia
can take it's place among military aeroplane-building
countries without a qualm of anxiety. Britain’s Air
Estimates this year provide for the spending of
£206,000,000, and the R.A.F. and its auxiliary services
will have a man-power of 250,000 before 1939 is out.
If is quite obvious why Britain is anxious for the
Dominions to start building. For a long time there
will be an eager market for any first-class surplus
machines we can make.
Melbourne's Sacrificed Children.
Victoria’s Premier Dunstan is gravely concerned
about the dismal increase in motor accidents. He
wants to eliminate the reckless driver by applying
severer penalties to killers and altering the regula-
tions under which licenses may be cancelled. What-
ever is done in this direction, however, there will
always be some reckless drivers, and there will always
be unexpected problems that will tax the nerves and
the resources of the most careful driver.
There was a case the other day where it was
clearly indicated tha’t a driver approaching two chil-
dren playing on the road with scooters was obliged
to run over one in order to save the other, there being
no alternative. The streets continue to be children’s
playgrounds, and the authorities continue to lay out
suburbs and make street gardens in the old conven-
tional fashion. Yet it is close on 20 years since the
late Burley Griffin, Canberra’s designer, showed them
a way out in a subdivision seven miles/ from Melbourne.
Anticipating the increase of motor traffic as well
as being concerned with beauty, Griffin planned his
suburb so that, while every block of houses should
front the road, at the back the children could run out
into a private park, completely closed to traffic. These
central parks were so designed as to be an integral
part of the householder’s garden, giving him a vested
interest in preserving its inviolability and promoting
its beauty. His wife would be saved from nervous
breakdown worrying as to what might be happening
to her children.
There was one objection to the Griffin plan. It
prevented building speculators squeezing an extra half
a dozen allotments out of a subdivision. It is all to
speculators’ pecuniary advantage to make Govern-
ments or councils supply parks and gardens.
Griffin’s experiment has been completely ignored
by the persons who profess to be concerned about
the traffic problem, and Eaglemont estate, the area in
question, threatens to be despoiled even by residents.
A recent scheme of alteration will make one of these
reservations available to car-owners and tradesmen
and Griffin’s purpose will be negatived. Councils
continue to make playgrounds in the middle of the
roadway in new suburbs and children have to risk
their necks in order to reach them.
Griffin, by the way, died in Lucknow. Australia
hadn’t much use for him.
Slugging the Taxpayer.
Taxation is already high in Australia and is going to
be higher. Not only will the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment demand more from the people to pay for
its defence programme—-which would be much less
costly if it hadn’t been belated —but State Govern-
ments with deficits will pounce upon as much as they
can safely take of what the Commonwealth Govern-
ment leaves. In the circumstances, the public may
fairly demand that Parliaments should assume that con-
trol of the public purse which they have neglected so
long, and spare it needless exactions and expenditure,
examples of which can be found by reading any
Treasurer’s estimates or any issue of the useful
periodical put out by the Taxpayers’ Associations.
Very obviously a substantial cut should be made
in the guinea annually charged for a listener’s
license. This impost bears hardest on those who
most need the service provided. A.B.C. itself has
shown that it is excessive by admitting that it is piling
up surpluses at the rate of £50,000 a year, and by
going in for a building programme and starting un-
wanted newspapers. The P.M.G.’s department’s share
of broadcasting profits last year was acknowledged
to be £82,200. In the same year its revenue exceeded
its expenditure by £2,788,600, though the expenditure
included £3,171,500 on “additions, works, buildings,
etc.,” broadcasting stations included. On the face of
it A.B.C. and the P.M.G.’s department could do a suffi-
cient broadcasting job profitably if the listener’s figure
were reduced to 15s.
And the Commonwealth subsidies lavished on the
alleged National Travel Association should cease at
the end of June. This concern gets £20,000 p.a., and
a lot more when there is an exhibition somewhere.
For the “valuable work” it claims to be doing Aus-
tralia maintains a forest of Government tourist
bureaux (every State has one and some of the States
have combined to start a seventh), a High Commis-
sioner’s office in London, another with a different
brand in New York and Trade Commissioners’ outfits
all over the Seven Seas. Judging by results, some of
the Trade Commissioners haven’t enough to do to
keep themselves warm. Shipping companies carrying
passengers to Australia also, of course, maintain tour-
ist services, so there is no need whatever for the
“National” Travel Association.
The general manager of this excrescence returned
to Australia last week, “after having visited the
Golden Gate Exposition at San Francisco and the
World’s Fair at New York,” with the report that “the
kangaroos at San Francisco are an immense success.”
His show wanted to send koalas, an outrage pre-
vented by public opinion. “The main purpose of our
advertising,” the gentleman burbled, “is to educate
2000 or more travel agencies and shipping companies
abroad” —as if they needed this very expensive edu-
cation. He added in the same inflated strain:
One purpose of my visit to the United States was
to obtain ideas for Australia’s £50,000 exhibit at the
New Zealand Centennial Exhibition. For £2OOO I
obtained the rights to some clever ideas patented in
the United States.
“I” obtained the rights! Who authorised him to
obtain the rights and who paid? Does the Govern-
ment at Canberra hand this Travel Association a
blank cheque, such as in effect State Railway and
Transport Commissioners receive when they feel the
need of overseas travel on the nod?
This year an overburdened nation will expect its
excessive Parliaments to review taxes and scrutinise
estimates as they have never done before. If they fail
in this duty, it will be so much the worse for those
which linger superfluous. The 6s. unnecessarily
exacted from every listener amounts to an unjustifiable
tax, and the imposition of a heavily-subsidised Travel
Association on the taxpayers is not only gross extrava-
gance but gross impertinence.
Case for the A.B.C.
Keith Barry: —May I offer the other point of view in
regard to the A.B.C.’s interest in Australian artists? Is it fair
to suggest that the Commission is disinterested in Australians,
to whom, in point of fact, some 92 p.c. of its artists’ fees are
paid?
In the past three years celebrity concert tours have been
arranged for Australians Eileen Joyce, Dorothy Helmrich, Essie
Ackland, Lauri and Dorothy Kennedy, not to mention the
tours of Ernest Llewellyn, Vaughan Hanly, Marshall Sumner
and other Australians in the capacity of associate artists to
celebrities. In the same period tours of the popular type have
been arranged for Gladys Moncrieff, Jim Davidson’s Band, A 1
Hammett’s Band and the National Military Band. Apart from
these concert tours no less than 42 different Australian soloists
have been associated with overseas celebrity conductors on a
public concert platform on 54 occasions. In addition, the
Commission has arranged over 100 studio tours for Australian
artists, including many who, like Sylvia Bernita, have come
back to their native land with that purpose expressly in view.
Over 260 Australian musicians are in full-time employ-
ment with the A.B.C. In its desire to stimulate Australian
composers various competitions have been arranged, and in
some cases certain works have been brought before the notice
of such musicians as Lotte Lehmann, Dr. Sargent and Pro-
fessor Szell, with the result that these compositions have been
included in their programmes. Have all the Australian
entrepreneurs put together ever achieved such results as these
in the matter of bringing Australian artists before the Aus-
tralian public?
A singer is quite entitled to express his unwillingness
personally to sing to Australians living in our inland cities,
but the tour criticised by you was actually not as comprehensive
as one done by five other singers—the Comedy Harmonists —
who enjoyed it so much that they are willingly repeating it
this year. A singer is also entitled to express the view that
Easter is an unsuitable time for a concert tour. The other
side of the story is that two world-famous singers—Lotte
Lehmann and Alexander Kipnis—did not find it so.
The Marjorie Lawrence discussion rather falls to the
ground because that very charming and gifted singer has
publicly sided with the Commission in the opinion that
Melbourne is able to fall into line with other civilised cities
of its size and support a first-class concert every night of the
week on occasions. Incidentally, a private entrepreneur has
himself booked the Melbourne Town Hall every night in the
week for a series of recitals he is to manage in the near
future. .And it must not be forgotten that the Commission
made definite offers to both Peter Dawson and Miss Lawrence
before these artists decided to associate themselves with other
managements. In any case, A.B.C. listeners will hear many of
Miss Lawrence’s recitals, since the Commission is co-operating
with her manager by paying for a series of broadcasts.
It might not be amiss to point out that no private man-
agement has ever attempted to do what the Commission is
doing on the production side of its business. Within the last
few years the Commission has sponsored a definite school of
Australian playwrights whose works are now being broadcast
in other parts of the world. These productions, incidentally,
have offered welcome opportunity for appearances on the part
of many actors whom private enterprise was apparently unable
to keep in employment.
Is there any need to conclude with the reminder that the
A.B.C. is an Australian affair run by Australians, many of
whom were overseas with Peter Dawson in 1914-18?
The Bulletin has nothing to add to its article,
and nothing to take back.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Qwert Yuiop”. Amongst the graver
effects of a falling birthrate upon what
will remain of future generations will be
a serious shortage of uncles. Aunts, too,
are drifting towards extinction, but, as a
class, they are of small tipping value to
the youthful nephew-niece, and far too
given to adverse criticism. In adult years
it is often possible to touch the f.a.q.
uncle for a fiver over a drink, but a
similar attempt on auntie would probably
only result in an overdose of tea and
being fobbed off with a quid and the
Canberra half-dollar that she was keep-
ing in her purse for luck. A bar-meet-
ing with a rich uncle from Fiji can be a
very paying proposition if he comes into
it as your uncle, but if one were to in-
troduce a rich aunt from Fiji in similar
circumstances the prospect would im-
mediately fly the coop. As for going
bail, aunts are worse than useless. Any-
one who has a good specimen of the old-
style uncle, once occurring in flocks,
should treasure him to his heart as a
museum specimen of real value.
❖ J{e sjc
“Sher Hoi": Ledwedge Vincent Law-
ler, who is alleged to have let a gun
off near the Duchess of Kent's car, and
to have fired through a dining-room win-
dow of the Harewoods’ London house,
is well known in Ballarat. He took out
a prospector’s license there ; disappeared
for a while, and returned to report a
rich find he had made. Over a bar-
counter he told me all about his dis-
covery, and he spoke most convincingly.
He said he needed a mate to help him.
His hallucinations landed him in a receiv-
ing home for a month ; after that he left
Ballarat. How he got to London is a
mystery, as before he left Ballarat he
exhibited all the outward and visible
signs of being down and out.
* * * *
“T.”: I treasure the memory of a
“costume-comedy” co. that once de-
scended on Perth. Business was rotten,
and I suppose the show was, too ; but
the manager, a resourceful fellow, did
not despair. Finally he got this ad. in-
serted in the solemn “West Australian”:
The Bohemians Are Going!
This Is Positively Their Last Night!
Roll Up, Roll Up, and Give ’Em a
Proper Send-off!
Good-bye to the Bohemians!
A Long Farewell
And a Sailor’s Farewell
To the Bohemians!
For one night only Tom Molloy’s old
theatre was packed to the doors.
=s * * *
“Ploto”: Veterans will smile when
they read that a recruit nowadays tries
on several pairs of trousers (B. 31/5/’39).
Old-timers of the instructional staff will
remember “Gantry Bill’s” method at the
School of Gunnery, Shoeburyness. Bill
was in charge of the quick-firing depart-
ment. Everything was done at the double,
even the clothes issue. Newcomers were
lined up outside the issue shed, marking
time at the double, while “Gantry” ex-
plained the method of distributing cloth-
ing. “You trots in ’ere, and you comes
out there, and your clothes meets you
half-way, double march!” Like that,
all in one breath. As the men galloped
through the passage they passed a door
on a bend, and as each lad passed the
door a tight ball containing two suits of
Canvas met him in the midriff. There
were no complaints; the magazines
would have exploded if a recruit wanted
to try on his pants.
* * * $
“Visitor”: About the nudest thing in
sight in Adelaide just now is the demure
Adelaide Club, opposite Government
House. For uncounted years its western
elevation has been masked by the Bank
of N.S.W. This has now disappeared,
and, though it is to rise again in in-
creased splendor, the afternoon sun
meanwhile shows up the club’s hinder
parts. Much the same thing applies to
Adelaide Steam’s headquarters in Currie-
street. The Bank of Adelaide has bought
and demolished a block of old offices, and
is to extend right back to Adelaide
Steam’s eastern wall.
# * $
“Ex-Mister”: The wreck of the Greek
freighter Fotini Carras on a brand-new
“ Nolo can yer see, Herbie ?”
uncharted islet raised by a submarine
disturbance in the Coral Sea, roughly
500 miles n.-e. of Brisbane, provides an
interesting contrast in sea communication
facilities compared with those of 45 years
ago. Fifty minutes after the first wire-
less distress signal left the ship all vessels
within reach had been warned, and they
and her master had received direct in-
formation regarding position, course and
distances. Early in February, 1894, a
whaleboat manned by the master and re-
maining crew of the 210-ton island-trad-
ing brigantine Borough Bell reached the
Queensland coast near the mouth of the
Fitzroy River after a perilous 16-day
voyage, and gave the first news of her
wreck three weeks previously on the
Bellona Reef, some 30 miles from the
new islet. She had been driven on to it
by a cyclone after leaving Noumea for
the Solomons.
* * # *
“Lyndo”: “Hornyhand” (B. 14/6/;’39)
doesn’t understand what it means to
“socialites” to be noticed in the papers.
Two damsels, daughters of an aspiring
matron, went off from our boarding-
house to some flash shivoo. Next morn-
ing the whole house was awakened by
someone having hysterics. It was the
aspiring matron. Taking up the paper
to read with early-morning tea, she had
made the dirs discovery that her daugh-
ters were not even “among those
present.” From her shrieks and impre-
cations they might have received notice
that they were debarred from heaven.
* * * *
“John B.”: Lithgow (N.S.W.) has
been celebrating the fiftieth anniversary
of its incorporation, and local historians
are busy with reminiscences. In the first
council of nine there were three Joneses
Denis, Davis and Thomas—who rep-
resented the Vale of Clwydd ward ; at
the end of the first year Tom dropped
out, and another Jones, Dan, took his
place. W. H. Donald, Chiang Kai-shek’s
right-hand man, has a link with the town,
He was trained on the “Mercury,” and
his father, afterwards M.L.A. for Hart-
ley, was first Mayor.
* $ $ *
“Oran”: I can sympathise with un-
happy folk dragged into the Shakspeare-
Bacon controversy, since I met an agi-
tated woman guest at an S.-B. Society’s
meeting in M.L. After regarding the
solemn faces of the members, she
clutched me and said, “For goodness
sake, tell me what I must believe! Do
they say Bacon wrote ‘The School for
Scandal’ or was it Milton?” Later the
secretary complained to me that most un-
suitable people were joining the society,
One woman had told him she adored
Shakspeare’s “Paradise Lost.” I felt sure
I knew which one.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The “beautification” of Mel-
bourne goes on apace. City Council
employees have been pulling up Moreton
Bay fig-trees, which have taken nearly
a century to grow to their present
size, preparatory to laying out lawns
and flower gardens. To produce as
much beauty as it is removing the
council would require a century of
time and a good deal more intelligence
than it has displayed in previous enter-
prises of the kind. Another recipe for
loveliness is the filling in of the university
lake, into which some of the most dis-
tinguished graduates have been thrown
by fellow-students. That the university
authorities are competent to beautify any-
thing is doubtful. Even when they get
a good picture like the portrait of Pro-
fessor Berry they hang it in a shocking
light.
* * *
“D.F.”: Queer names are usually
singletons. If the Christian name is
Capability or Abhorrence the surname is
apt to be Brown or Smith, and if the
surname is Godbehere or Fungus the
first name is probably John or William.
A good double was Sneezum Meesham.
I am assured that both are good, though
not common, Essex names. Sneezum M.
died in N.S.W. 20 years ago. Arid a
Sivyer Rootes is buried at Camden
(N.S.W.).
*** • *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “F.S.” (B.
7/6/’39) evidently never enjoyed intimate
association with George Reid, or he
wouldn’t talk about that massive states-
man subsisting “on almost no sleep at
all.” The Bulletin’s old Yes-No friend
could do an eight-hour stretch-out with
anyone, and while he was at it the sur-
rounding world was kept well aware of
it., Except perhaps for a long-dead West-
ralian politician, he was the cham-
pion snorer of the universe, as I recall
to my sorrow from memories of many
of his performances on the other side of
a thin partition. An Orient-line skipper
with whom G.H.R. once voyaged to
England used to swear that, while on
the bridge during a thick Channel fog,
he had to send a quartermaster down to
awaken George before he could be sure
that the Ooze Deep fog-siren, most
powerful in the world, was really itself
and not a mere echo of the nasal per-
formances of his distinguished passenger,
three decks below.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: In these jittery days
of tax-banditry, when anything illegal in
that line can always be settled by amend-
ing retrospective legislation, a million
seems quite a small sum in political ex-
penditures. But to deal it out in pound
notes at the rate of two a second, or £l2O
a minute, would take five days 18 hours
and 54 seconds of continuous going. Put
end to end the notes would stretch from
Sydney to Newcastle that is, if some
thieving cows didn’t start pinching them
as you went on. Any millionaire who
wants to take a look at his wealth with-
out that risk can hire a 30-acre race-
course and spread out the frogskins edge
to edge. They will just about cover it.
Still, we deal in millions in quite un-
appreciated ways. The average adult
human ticker beats 75 times a minute,
over 3,000,000 times a month, nearly
40,000,000 times a year. And those seem
small figures to any Brisbane resident
who tries to count the summer mos-
quitoes.
* =i= * *
“D.F.”: It is a wonder some Sydney
producer did not revive Farquhar’s
“Recruiting Officer” for June 4, the one
hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the
first play staged in Australia. The show
also marked the beginning of the art of
dramatic writing in these parts, for there
were a prologue and an epilogue, written
by one of the performers. Unhappily,
Tench thought these not worth inserting
in his book, though he admits that they
contained “some tolerable allusions to
the situation of the parties and the
novelty of a stage representation in
N.S.W.” So these first fruits of our
drama were lost. There were 60 spec-
tators, probably all that the hut would
hold. The gloomy Collins remarks that
the actors’ efforts to please were “not
unattended with success.”
* * . * *
“E.E.”: A Sydney concern which is
putting amateur plays, spoken by ama-
teurs, on the air, gave its listeners —per-
haps inadvertently—a pleasant surprise.
Oiie of the plays was done by the Syd-
ney University Players. Listeners, hard-
ened to high-pitched, plum-in-the-mouth
voices and bleating accents, prepared to
turn to another station until the torture
was over. But over the air came natural
voices,' every word delivered clearly and
distinctly, without a trace of affectation
or side. Softly modulated, those voices
were an example to those radio speakers
who seem to think they must soar to the
high Cs to be heard. One listener specu-
lated whether they were the result of
home or university training. If the latter,
then all radio-blah merchants should be
made to take a university course.
THE PIPES OF PEACE.
The piping times of peace—how old the phrase
is!
And how appropriate once, we may allow.
Peace of a sort is ours, but where the blazes
Is “piping,” in its early meaning, now?
They made Arcadian shepherds the purveyors
Thereof, the old-time bards of Rome and
Greece;
We hear a very diffrent sort of players,
These piping times of peace.
They featured Tityrus, beneath a shady
Ash or an oak, giving his flute a spin,
Blowing a tune of tribute to a lady
For proof that war was out and love was in;
Or Melibceus, sprawled in full content by
His flock of growing mutton and of fleece,
Tooting his horn. ’Twas that the poets meant
by
The piping times of peace.
Peace in our time! Goodwill among the
nations!
The statesman's orison, the churches’ prayer.
How they conflict, these pious aspirations,
With bugle’s summons and with trumpet’s
blare!
With ev’ry engine of destruction duly
Exploited, ev’ry arm on the increase,
What satire in the aphorism, truly—
The piping times of peace!
From shrill defiances and noisy sniping,
From gloomy fears and apprehensions griping,
Give to this harassed world, ye gods, release.
Let’s hear once more the music of the piping,
The piping times of peace.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Jungor”: Recent by-elections with
slender margins for the winners remind
me of a Westralian contest for a Leg.
Council seat that must surely rank as the
closest on record. In 1908 Con O’Brien,
a Perth publican who died not long ago,
and Harry Carson, brother of Alf Car-
son, of the “West Australian,” were can-
didates for the Central Province con-
stituency. I forget how many . electors
there were, but the number ran well into
four figures, and the count showed a
dead-heat. In the recount eight ballot-
papers which had been mislaid or some-
how escaped notice in the first tally were
admitted. The first count proved per-
fectly accurate ; of the eight new votes
admitted, four went each way. The re-
turning officer was left to exercise his
casting vote. He gave it in favor of
O’Brien, who had previously held the
seat —for Labor.
* * *
“8.8. C.”: In our Victorian district a
town band has been formed —and dis-
banded—-half a dozen times in 25 years.
It was decided to restore it to life again,
and the M.L.A. was roped in to speak
at the inevitable public meeting. He
delivered a flowery address, ending up
by moving that the band be resuscitated.
The motion was seconded and discussed
for a couple of hours, by which time the
chairman had forgotten what it was.
When he rose to put it, he said “the
motion before the chair is that the town
band be—be—that the town band be
resuffocated.” Carried unanimously.
* * * *
“D.a”: Tell “Nakhoda” (B. 17/5/’39)
there is one country where exchange is
still imperfectly understood by nearly
everybody—the New Hebrides. There,
under the Condominium, sterling, Aus-
tralian and French currencies are all legal
tender. Condominium officials are paid
half their salaries in sterling and half in
francs at 124 to the pound. A British
subject may be paid in Australian cur-
rency by cheque on an Australian bank.
For a trader with customs dues to meet
there is another rale of francs to the
pound, determined arbitrarily by the
Administration; and recently a new
postal rate on a gold basis has become
law: you divide the pound-franc ex-
change rate by some number which the
Administration announces from time to
time to find out how many one-franc
stamps you will get for £l. Stores have
their own day-to-day fluctuations in the
three exchanges. And under an un-
repealed pre-war ordinance the official
rate is 25 francs to the pound, sterling
or Australian. Still, champagne is only
a few bob a bottle, so you can get a
headache that way instead of by work-
ing out exchange puzzles.
* * * *
“Hamer"’: Besides the work he did as
a young man for The Bulletin N.S.W.
Judge Curlewis wrote a legal column for
the old “Daily Telegraph,” as chatty a
thing of its kind as I have ever read. The
last Curlewis yarn may be apocryphal,
but should be true. While waiting on a
lonely mountain station for a train to
Sydney the Judge was addressed by a
companionable but aspirate-misplacing
chap who would not take the hint that his
conversation, like that of the widow who
inflicted it on Mr. Weller, was not “re-
kvired.” “Goin’ ter ’ave rain,” the affable
stranger observed—“them ’eavy clouds
look hominous, as you might say.” “I am
quite sure I would not say anything of
the sort,” returned the Judge. “No?”
the pest proceeded. “Then you must be
a hoptimist!”
* * * *
“T.”: Out beyond Ryde (N.S.W.) John
Chinaman is engaged in another war of
races and is losing it —to the Maltese.
The Maltese are taking him on at his
own immemorial game, market-garden-
ing, and are beating him out of the field.
They employ all the modern improve-
ments ; sprinkler-irrigation, Australian-
made implements and fertiliser and so
forth. John potters along with his old
watering-can and hoe, and nowadays they
won’t do. So John is retreating before the
advance of the dark Mediterraneans
whom ex-Governor Jerry Strickland
ruled for an exciting period—he is
Maltese on his mother’s side —and Aus-
tralians watching the battle with some
sympathy for the old order tell you that
before long there won’t be one Celestial
cabbage-grower left about Ryde.
* * * *
“F.V.”: Sleepy Hollow woke up with
a start when its most promising child
prodigy was informed that she had won
the Empire Day essay contest and was
invited to stand out in front of the class
and read it aloud to the other scholars.
She broke down early in the reading,
burst into tears and confessed that
Daddy had written the essay for her.
Dominie sparred for wind for a while,
and when he had partially recovered
asked all those whose parents had helped
them with their essays to raise their
hands. All except three gave a Hitler
salute, without any political significance.
* * * 4=
“C.R.”: Undeterred by popular clamor
in Melbourne, the Federal Government is
going ahead with its own ideas of how
to accommodate ducal vice-royalty in
the southern capital. The Duke and
Duchess can’t be expected to sleep in the
Domain and take their meals at the pie-
“Take it easy on the comers , you!"
“We Were a bit cramped for space.”
cart, or even to stay at hotels. And,
although there are leading families
that would be only too glad to
lend their town or country residences
for an occasion of such national im-
portance, the Government, by pleasing
one donor, would make all the others so
jealous that it would seriously jeopardise
its political security, leading Melbourne
families having had great political in-
fluence for generations. A cheap solution
has been accepted, and the State Govern-
ment will be approached to place its
Government House at the service of the
Duke and Duchess. It will then have to
approach Sir Winston Dugan, who will
have to find some other quarters. He
could hardly absent himself altogether.
* * * *
“Skinner”: The latest revival in Mel-
bourne is mystery hiking. So many
aspirants rolled up on the (substi-
tute) King’s Birthday that the Rail-
ways Commissioners ran out of
tickets. Nevertheless, the number did
not approach the enormous figures
attained to when the craze was at
its height, which was during the depres-
sion. Like an invading army or a crowd
of Chinese refugees mystery hikers then
swept through quiet country townships.
On one occasion, standing by the roadside
watching the sweating multitude, I was
electrified to see two nuns walking sedately
along in the middle of the column. “Is
this a hike organised by one of the
religious confraternities?” I asked, drop-
ping in alongside one of the pedestrians
“Oh, you mean the nuns,” he said. “No,
they just got swept up in it.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: I read that Australian
manufacturers of confectionery turned
out 99,000.000 pounds last year—l4lb.
per head of population, man, woman and
infant. There was money in catering for
Australia’s sweet tooth even before the
war, when overseas competitors had a
large share of the trade. Macßobertson
started by making sweets in a nailcan
and peddling them. That is well known ;
not so well known is the fact that he
was offered three million for his works
as a going concern after the war. Hen-
derson, out of a job, began making
“honey kisses” in a shed opposite the
Victoria Barracks, Sydney, gates ; he died
worth £85,000 after his business had
been amalgamated with that of “One-
Meal-a-Day” Stedman, who cut up for
even more. A multitude of small for-
tunes have been made by others who
started from scratch. A bankruptcy
official of long standing told me he had
never known of a case in which a lolly-
maker had had to “go up King-street”—
the old-time term for bankruptcy. Cer-
tainly there is “sugar” in sweets,
c * * *
“Cauboy” lets himself go:-
Perhaps the silliest controversy on record
in Melbourne is the one about the impending
congestion of concerts at the Town Hall. If
one or other of the competing interests gets
driven out of the field, why should the public
worry? That is always happening in the show
world.
Listening to music instead of learning to
make it isn't an artistic activity, though lis-
teners may think it is. It is a form of self-
indulgence, like going to the races. Nine-
tenths of the people who go so assiduously to
concerts in Melbourne don’t know B minor
from a bull’s foot. They don’t know whether
one conductor is better or worse than another,
and they don’t know whether a new piece of
music is a work of genius or a bit of bunkum.
What they are doing is following a fashion.
They grumble at executants like Tossy Spiva-
kovsky, who is probably playing better than he
did when he came here first as a juvenile
prodigy, and they hint with knowing looks
that Schnabel came here only when he was past
his prime. The longer a European conductor
stays in Melbourne the ruder Melbourne be-
comes, until the spectacle is presented of sub-
urbanites rushing for the exits while an eminent
conductor is still acknowledging plaudits.
Looking at art or listening to music stimu-
lates, but it does not satisfy. Satisfaction
copies only from an individual’s own effort.
A stonemason or a carver probably gets more
satisfaction out of building a wall or making
a table than the whole mass of music-lovers
get out of listening to a season’s symphonies.
All the listener eventually gets is boredom. He
never blames himself for his loss of interest:
he blames the violinist, the conductor, the
A.B.C. or the Government.
A few individuals, like Miss Lawrence, are
fired by the first concert or opera they are
taken to and it starts them on an arduous
career at which they can never slacken till the
end of their life. But making things easy for
the rest of the community, as is done by
A.8.C., only produces a lot of grouchers.
There is far too much gawking at pictures,
gawking at music and gawking at films in
Melbourne. In fact, this is pre-eminently the
age of gawking. People were happier when
almost everybody could do something, if it
was only singing in a tavern chorus
HOT DOGS.
“At the S'uiifliiy afternoon picnic on President
Roosevelt’s lawn their Majesties ate a hot dog apiece
and voted them excellent.’
They ate hot dogs—consumed at Franklin’s
board
Frankforts in appetising rolls encased,
And as the snappy flavor each explored
They found it definitely to their taste.
Where rank and beauty moved in radiant togs,
They ate hot dogs.
They munched hot dogs. I doubt there was a
dish
Famed anywhere from Oregon to Maine,
Composed of flesh or fowl or fruit or fish,
They didn’t come upon in their campaign.
Lastly—include it in the catalogues—
They munched hot dogs.
They downed hot dogs. Who knows if ever
yet,
Inured to all the culinary joys
Of palaces', their teeth before had met
In savory, mustard-slathered saveloys?
But, as Rome does, so he to Rome who jogs.
They downed hot dogs.
They liked hot dogs. How true it is to tell
One touch of nature makes the whole world
kin!
While never cable came to chronicle
Their views on canvasback or terrapin,
On wings of turkeys or on tails of frogs,
They liked hot dogs.
They ate hot dogs, our gracious King and
Queen,
Beside the Hudson, and thereby expressed
And registered another tie between
Us and the Great Republic of the West
When, half a world away from London fogs,
They ate hot dogs.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SSs
W
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
%?■
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1866
SPECIALLY
EE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
The familiar end-of-the-session rush
was witnessed at Canberra last week,
Parliamentary business being now re-
garded as much less important than Loan
Council business. At the beginning of
this week, Stevens was bearing down on
Canberra with a demand for £18,000,000
or thereabouts to cover “Government
works,” “semi-Government works” and
deficits. If the Loan Council surrenders
to this unconscionable messer it may as
well turn up its toes.
One of the P.M.’s reasons for leaving
the Lyons Government was that, with the
national-insurance measure on the
Statute Book, a huge staff assembled and
“approved” societies bidding briskly for
customers, it wanted to refer the thing
to a committee. His own Government
wanted to do the very same thing, and the
House flattened out the proposal by over
two to one. Page, jumping at the chance
to get home on Menzies, and overdoing
it, remarked excitedly that it was a “con-
temptible volte-face.” Before Bob and
Earle fell out, the doctor himself sug-
gested that Casey’s brain-child were better
dead, and his party warmly approved.
Now they are all for resuscitating the
infant —some time.
Menzies, protesting too much r “I am
warmly wedded to national insurance.”
“Not as warmly as you were,” said
Forde. Page should have come in here
with an adaptation of Disraeli’s speech
on Peel when Peel turned dog on Pro-
tection :
You must not contrast too strongly the
hours of courtship with the months of pos-
session. When the beloved object has
ceased to charm, it is in vain to appeal to
the feelings. His own friends reproach
the right hon. gentleman. The right hon.
gentleman does what he can to keep them
quiet; he sometimes takes refuge in arro-
gant silence, and sometimes he treats them
with haughty frigidity; and if they knew
anything of human nature, they would take
the hint and shut their mouths. But they
won't.
It would have been much more effective
than “contemptible volte-face.”
Returning to Adelaide after a long
absence, J. H. Curie, the mining engineer
and writer, lost no time in renewing his
acquaintance with the wine of the country.
He says it is as good as any in the world,
and marvels at Australians’ indifference
to it. Australians prefer tea, though the
bottled sunshine they neglect has tonic
and mild aperient properties whiph tea
lacks. Because of this queer preference
and of idiotic licensing laws, what should
be a great industry languishes, and over-
seas funds have to be dipped into to
finance excessive tea imports from a bad-
customer country.
For two things N.S.W. is peculiar
among the States: inquiries which drag
on for months, sometimes years, and hos-
pital wrangles. The two are combined
in the affair of the Royal North Shore
Hospital, the secretary of which was in
the box for ten days. It came out in evi-
dence that 96 trainee nurses had signed a
round robin protesting that they were
underfed. Nevertheless, £2500 of hospital
funds was voted for legal expenses of the
defence, and the indications are that it
won’t nearly suffice.
Tyack, the endorsed U.A.P. candidate,
won the Hawthorn (Vic.) Assembly seat
rendered vacant by the death of J. A.
Gray, but the party vote fell from 14,192
to 11,757, whereas Labor’s rose from
9275 to 9979. Some Federal U.A.P.
worthies have been talking darkly about
having an election this year “to put the
Country party in its place.” It would be
political suicide.
Another Australian loan has had a
frosty reception— at home this time.
Any chance of an eleventh-hour suc-
cess was spoilt by the idiotic performance
of the Sydney Government. The day
before subscriptions closed the news-
papers were informed that N.S.W.
revenue for 11 months of 1938-39 was
down £405,600 and expenditure up
£1,274,500, the deficiency being
£2,253,600. Next morning Spooner, the
Minister for Parish Pumps, had the face
to announce that his “semi-Government
authorities” alone would require heaps
“N.S.W. State Ministers will make a strenuous fight at the Loan Council for more
funds. It is stated that they are even prepared to use threats.”
"Are you ready, Mair?”
more than the £4,750,000 to be borrowed
for the service of the whole Common-
wealth. No wonder subscriptions were
£900,000 less than the amount asked for.
Spooner, the N.S.W. Parish Pump
Minister, “formulating his demands” on
the Australian investor on the last loan-
subscription day:
Three millions for the Metropolitan
Water Board, £BOO,OOO for the Hunter
River Water Board, £250,000 for the Broken
Hill Water Board, £593,000 for Riverina
water schemes, £520,000 for a Central Table-
lands water scheme, £185,000 for one at
Lismore, £120,000 for the Grafton Water
Board and £1,000,000 for the Sydney
County Council.
And that was only part of the list. Next
time Menzies puts a loan on the market
he should arrange to have Spooner
gagged for the duration.
Despite Judge Stretton’s scathing
report, the Dunstan Ministry is still for
divided control of- forests, i.e., potential
bushfire areas in Victoria. In Canada
there is one authority which looks after
forests, historical places and flora and
fauna. Damage by fire is almost negli-
gible, and so many people visit the pro-
tected Canadian parks that they return
a revenue of £Bl,OOO annually. Dunstan,
for his part, is so hard pushed for money
that he is asking Canberra to cover an
anticipated deficit of close on a million.
Proportional representation may be
useful in the case of second Chambers,
but in respect of popular Houses the
lack of provision for by-elections is a
fatal defect. By-elections are always use-
ful and sometimes necessary to the proper
working of Parliamentary government.
It is utterly wrong that the people should
be denied a voice on the sweeping
changes necessitated by the sudden death
of a Premier. That is what is happening
in Tasmania.
Because they wanted to keep the
Ogilvie Labor Government in office, the
electors of Tasmania approved of the
Parliamentary term being extended from
three years to five years, that being
Ogilvie’s proposal. Now, two years
after the general election, Ogilvie is
dead, a rejected candidate has succeeded
him as member and one of his subordi-
nates has become Premier in his stead ;
and all without reference to the electors.
Even if a change of Premiers occurs
every quarter, they won’t have a say
till 1942. At best it is a travesty of
democracy, and it might conceivably turn
out worse than that.
A few months ago “S. M. Herald”
was growling about the 15,000 limit set
on immigration from Central Europe,
and muttering that it was miserable not
to take a lot more. Now it is growling
because many of its proteges have
settled in King’s Cross. That was only
to be expected ; it is the most natural
thing in the world for city-bred aliens
to come together in a strange city. But
to congregate in “a Jewish colony”
half a mile, as the crow flies, from
Granny’s office—how dare they?
Whenever there is trouble or possi-
bility of trouble in any part of the world,
“S. M. Herald” demands that Aus-
tralia shall be there with big boots on.
In the parlous state to which the de-
fences were reduced as a result of
following the “Herald’s” “policy” of re-
lying on the League to defend us, boots
are the only offensive weapons that could
be used. When news of the bayoneting
in the Shanghai mill arrived, Granny
ordered Menzies “to assist British
representations by refusing to proceed
with negotiations for a commercial
treaty with Tokio.” That would have
made a bad business ten million times
worse.
“Why go to London for loans?” asks
the “Worker,” when “we have all the
money we need right here on the spot and
a power of credit creation capable of
satisfying all the financial requirements
of the nation.” Maoriland Labor said
all that. Why has Maoriland Labor’s
Mr. Nash gone to London for loans?
Sydney Labor Council’s anti-national-
register meeting at the Town Hall was a
washout, although all the Red and Pink
boys were there. One of the speakers
was Martin, M.L.A. Nobody cares a
dump what State politicians say, as State
politicians, but Martin is a lawyer. If
the threatened resistance to the national-
register law materialises, Martin will have
to watch his step.
After having been doctorless for seven
years, Queensland Assembly is to have a
medical member, Dr. Watson Brown
being in for Gregory, represented for 24
years by George Pollock, the late Speaker.
Labor had held the seat for 40 years, and
it is distinctly worried.
Hitler, as reported in the London
“Times”:
Germany has already been completely
disarmed once. My proposals for arms
limitation were disregarded. I proposed a
maximum strength of 200,000 and then of
300,000 for all armies, together with the
abolition of bombers, poison gas and so
forth. Only when these proposals were
finally rejected in 1934 did I order German
rearmament.
If this is true —and no denial has ap-
peared—the unctuous Mr. Baldwin was
as great a calamity to the Empire as the
fatuous Mr. MacDonald.
From “Molongloside”:
Tragedy preceded the inquiry into the affair
of the Sydney G.P.O. tenders, an inquiry which
has already yielded startling evidence as to the
way things are run in departments; before he
could be called as a witness, E. H. Henderson,
the Chief Commonwealth Architect, hanged him-
self in his garage at Canberra. He left a
letter saying “I have committed no crime, but
even my indiscretions seem to be insurmount-
able ; the inquiry is causing me untold worry;
it breaks my heart to think that small indis-
cretions of mine should have led me into this
unfortunate imagined position through sheer
lack of thought and too much talking: from
the monetary point of view, I have never been
bribed in my life.” The evidence showed that
he had worried over his work, which had
accumulated greatly the last six months, and
that he feared blindness, one eye being sight-
less and the other overstrained.
Henderson was an Englishman who, as he
wrote, “faithfully served the Commonwealth
for 27 years.” His fate recalls that of C. Y.
O’Connor, the Westralian engineer, who de-
stroyed himself when his greatest work was
done, and when all Australia was preparing to
honor the man who had made water flow 380
miles from Mundaring to the arid goldfields.
Where sensitive men are concerned, overwork
and worry can be a deadly combination.
“F.S.”: One result of the Japanese
invasion of China has been to make the
Chinese more inventive. Mars has pro-
duced a transport system, arsenals,
munitions works and whatnot which it
would have taken Peace a century to do.
Two thousand miles of railway are pro-
jected in the distant provinces to which
Chiang Kai-shek has retreated ; 500,000
square miles of West China will now
come under development, and in a
few years the country will be linked
with Burma, French Cochin China,
Russia in Asia and Europe. The sea-
ways will cease to be of the same Im-
portance, and it is only on the seaways
that the Japanese can operate.


KNAVERY IN THE NURSERY.
"Attack crime at the cradle!”—N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mac Kay, at the Police Association conference.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. , By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/l/’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. j. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
. Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
INTEREST RATES:
WHY THEY RISE AND FALL.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITY PRICES.
FINANCING THE DEFENCE PROGRAMME.
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
PttblishCd bf The Bullclin Newspaper Co. Ptv.. Ltd.. 252 Ceor g e Street Sydney, and al^State,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Corrected his last exercise, at 68, James
Mcßae, sometime Director of Education
in Victoria. Born at Ascot, near Ballarat,
Mcßae joined the service in 1888. He
emerged at the top as Director in 1933,
and immediately proposed to abolish
routine and give the young ones a chance
to express themselves according to their
natural or acquired capacities. Another
of his proposals, then hotly debated, was
the teaching of sex in the classroom. As
he sensibly observed, some teachers were
less fitted to give it than country children
who were familiar with the biological
realities of the farmyard. He therefore
proposed to substitute gramophone
records. The scheme has been forgotten,
but the rest of Mcßae’s ideas have de-
veloped into the present system of visual
education and practical instruction.
To the year’s heavy roll of dead poli-
ticians has been added the name of
H. M. Hawkins, who on Friday night
fell from the seventh-storey window of
the Sydney office in which Jack Dunning-
ham, his predecessor as Minister for
Labor, died suddenly last year. Hawkins
was the most unobtrusive member of
the Stevens Ministry, and one of the most
useful members. He had been an M.L.C.
since 1932, and became at once an
honorary Minister, assisting Dunning-
ham. Hawkins was a pioneer of moving-
picture cos., and afterwards became
chairman of the H. W. Horning real-
estate firm. He was a quiet, equable,
religious man, devoted to the work of the
Methodist Church, in which he held many
offices, and to the affairs of the Waverley
War Memorial Hospital. He married —
for the second time—the widow of G. H.
Bosch, who gave most of his fortune to
Sydney University.
The radio business will not seem the
same without James Malone. He was
one of the pioneer workers before the
war when Balsillie, Taylor and their con-
freres were doing weird experiments on
moving trains. He won an M.C. on the
Somme in command of a wireless unit,
and his only boast is that he was the first
Digger to appear in Venice in uniform.
When broadcasting arrived it found
Malone chief inspector, and old hands
looking back on those days are inclined
to think that he missed his big chance by
staying in the department. His wit, his
store of yarns and his personality would
have made him a fortune as a feature
broadcaster. He goes to Brisbane as
Deputy P.M.G.
Walter Nash, Maoriland Minister of
Finance, as greeted by London “Daily
Mail” on his arrival over there: “The
Dominion regards him as its Strong Man.
He needs to be. He has come here for
£17,000,000.” Anyway, he is in familiar
surroundings. Born in England, he
started out as office-boy to a solici-
tor ; then he worked in a bike shop
and ran a tobacco shop before heading
with his wife and young son for M.L.
The son grew up to be a barrister; the
father started off selling books and soft-
goods.
The celebration of Lithgow’s golden
jubilee recalls that Thomas Evans, one of
the eight Town Clerks the town has had,
was Mayor also for three terms. He
was appointed T.C. in ’9B on the casting
vote of the Mayor, and 23 years later
as his Worship gave a casting vote in
similar circumstances. Evans still lives
at Lithgow, and is the local historian,
municipal and otherwise, having been
there for over half a century.
Dr. Watson Brown, the new M.L.A. for
Gregory (Q.), represented for many years
by the late George Pollock, the Labor
Speaker, is a Sydneian, educated at Fort-
street. He earned his medical course
schoolteaching. After two years with the
R.A.M.C. overseas, he came back to
graduate in 1920. He represented both
school and Sydney University in Rugby
Union teams. Dr. Watson Brown settled
down at Longreach 17 years ago as
Government Medical Officer. Germs and
debility have since had more than
a run for their money in the Mitchell-
grass country. He organised the Western
Children’s Jubilee Health Association and
filled the schoolkids with milk and
oranges. He went for sandy blight with
a big stick and the help of a specially-
imported trachoma specialist. And he was
one of the first Queensland medicoes to
use aerial transport.
H. D. Hake comes from his own public
school, Haileybury, where he was both
pupil and master, to take over the Com-
monwealth’s oldest public school, The
King’s School, Parramatta. He was
captain of Haileybury in his day. A
scholarship took him to Queen’s College,
Cambridge; then he went to Mespot.
with the Hampshires. He returned, an
undergraduate captain, to take an honors
degree in history. Hake played cricket
for Haileybury, the University and
Hampshire, and won blues for racquets
and hockey. His first sight of Australia
H. D. HAKE.
was in 1936, when he came out in charge
of a party of English public-school boys,
and he liked the country so much that
he returned at the first opportunity. His
appointment has broken The King’s
School tradition that its head should be
an Anglican clergyman.
You can’t keep the Clunies Ross clan
out of things. On the same day that
King Clunies Ross was showing Captain
Taylor and his mates round Cocos
islands, Mrs. Roosevelt met Queen Eliza-
beth in an azure dress made from Aus-
tralian wool supplied by Dr. lan Clunies
Ross, director of the International Wool
Secretariat in London. Apart from work-
ing on wool, lan’s hobby is promoting
better relations between Australia and
Japan. Four generations back from the
present ruler, Captain John Clunies Ross,
a Shetlander, settled on Cocos in 1827,
about the same time as one Hare, whom
Darwin, who was there in 1836, mildly
calls a worthless character. Hare did
not last long. His Malay slaves ran away
to Ross, and he left.
Sir Edward Chaytor, who commanded
the Anzac Mounted Division when
Jerusalem was taken, is dead, at 71, in
England. He fought in the S. African
War and throughout the Great War, in
which he was twice wounded. He was
C.-in-C. of the Maoriland Defence Force
till after the war. Retiring from the M.L.
Permanent Forces, he remained a major-
general in reserve till 1931.
They’re everywhere! Dropping into
Muscat after a 25 days’ run from Zanzi-
bar on an Arab dhow, Alan Villiers
found another Australian, Hickinbotham.
Hickinbotham is British agent there.
Hughes, Scullin and Menzies may be
expected at Ballarat (Vic.) very soon.
Life-size bronze busts of P.Ms. are to be
mounted on granite pedestals and erected
on each side of a drive in the Botanical
Gardens. The busts are being modelled
by Wallace Anderson, of Melbourne, and
Harold Herbert, himself a Ballarat man,
will O.K. them before casts are made.
The cost will be borne by Colonel
Crouch, sometime M.P. for Corangamite.
Just celebrated his eightieth birthday,
Frederick Tasman Rose, Tasmanian by
birth but Queenslander by adoption,
almost since Separation. In his youth a
compositor, he worked on the Stanthorpe
“Border Post” in the days of the
tin boom, transferred to the Government
Printing Office in Brisbane and is now
the only surviving member of the origi-
nal staff of the State Electoral Office.
Rose’s father was a cricketer, and intro-
duced the game into Canada.
The proposed translation of Harold
Clapp to an aircraft job brings the Chief
Commissionership of Victorian Railways
well within the grasp of Norman Charles
Harris, his second in command. Harris,
born at Moonee Ponds, was grounded
at Melbourne schools and finished
off at Mac Gill Uni., Toronto, where
he got his M.Sc. After passing
through the shops of the Canadian
Pacific Railroad, he came back to the
hydro-electric scheme in Tassie, went
to the war, where he gained a colonelcy
and a D. 5.0., and returned to the Vic-
torian railways. In that service it is
generally said of him that he has seldom,
if ever, been known to tick a man off.
When a subordinate makes a ridiculous
suggestion he always says “Yes, certainly,
I agree with you,” and then proceeds to
ask the suggestor questions which com-
pletely demolish his argument. Besides
being a diplomat, Harris is a first-rate
organiser, and is young at 53. Inciden-
tally, his mother-in-law is Mrs. I. R.
Moss, Melbourne’s best-known feminist.
J. A. Ferguson, who varies law work
in Sydney by collecting Australiana, has
done an excellent piece of work, for
those that like that kind of thing, by
making an annotated list of all books
dealing with, or touching on, Australia
and published before 1825. It may be
published one day, and though it will not
be a best-seller it will point the way to
a lot of interesting things. Ferguson has
another link with books, since he
married a daughter of George Robert-
son, of Angus and Robertson.
Norman Bede Rydge, stated to have
effected a merger of Hoyt’s and Greater
Union, is a company director who has
published more works on tax laws—
Federal, State and commercial —than
most university economists. He was
born in Sydney, educated at Fort-street,
and he directs the fortunes of hotels
and half a dozen Australia film enter-
prises, including Greater J. D. Williams,
Cinesound and Greater Union.
Charles Fenner, who becomes Director
of Education in S.A. on the retirement
of W. J. Adey, is a Victorian who had
long experience there in teaching before
he moved to Adelaide in 1917. He has
DR. FENNER.
been Superintendent of Technical Edu-
cation, and has already acted as Director
of Education during Adey’s absence in
Europe.
“D.Y.”: Who will be father of the
House of Reps, when W. M. Hughes
retires? Little Dr. Maloney dates from
1904, but he is 10 years older than
Hughes and a sick man. Henry Gregory,
returned for Dampier in 1913, has had
25 years of continuous service ; he also
is in poor health. Incidentally, more
than half of the House have been mem-
bers for less than eight years.
“Q.C.R.” farewells Ashton Murphy:
It seems almost unbelievable that Ashton
Murphy was only 66 when he died in Brisbane
after an operation. To me he seemed one of
the eternal verities in art. He did not take
himself seriously and loved to repeat Steele
Rudd’s joke against him that he was a “fat-
lamp artist” —one of those fellows whose work
will only bear inspection by a grease wick in
a shearer’s hut.
Ashton Murphy was more than that. He had
a quaint wit of his own hidden under his self-
effacing exterior, and having a story illustrated
by him used to be an experience. He would
read it, talk to the author, perhaps suggest
changes which would make it better fit for
illustration, ask to have a line written into the
text which would suit his idea. He and
Rudd would argue by the hour about the con-
tents of “Steele Rudd’s Magazine” when that
ambitious effort was in flower early in the cen-
tury. He loved Australian fauna and reptilia.
Give him a fine goanna to gaze at and he was
happy.
Ashton Murphy seemed always to be busy.
He helped to found the live Queensland
Authors and Artists’ Association, of which he
was perennial treasurer, but he had only to
sniff misfortune and he was off on the trail
of succor like a dachshund after a badger. Let
a friend be workless or hungry or in diffi-
culty and those with power to help became
familiar with a slim, conciliatory, quiet-voiced
suppliant who began operations as if he were
about to borrow a tenner and gradually de-
veloped his approach into a lecture on the
merits and needs of the victim of circumstance.
In an older day, he drew frequently for The
Bulletin, and he will always have his place
in Australian black-and-white history as one
of the typical reflectors of an age when the
bush was still the real heart of Australia.


i§
$
m
* \ :
(1
H
>
m
THREE-THREES
ALWAYS PLEASE
THE SECRET IS THE
"THREE-THREES''
BLEND
■Mi
lilt
■ v
lllllllilllll
liillllli
SW::4SKS
M
■■>■■■■■■.:■
m
mm
m
m
'X\';c
§»
\S
cttW'
TWt
=5O
j«r
&
HU /
ŕ


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “Some people ’ave queer
ideas of enjoyin’ themselves,” remarked
Dan. “I struck a bit of a township one
afternoon, made up of a store, a black-
smith’s shop an’ ’alf a dozen 'ouses. All
the places were shut up, an’ there wasn’t
a soul about except a whiskered old
party, ’bout eighty, sittin’ on a bench in
front of the store, lookin’ glum. ‘Where’s
ev’rybody ’avin’ a ’oliday?’ I ses.
‘Yes,’ ’e growls, ‘all ’cept me. An’ I would
be. too, on’y fer this rheumatiz of mine,
dammit. An’ I don’t s’pose I’ll ever get
another chance like this, blarst it!’ ‘Well,
they’ve left the place nice an’ open fer
any burglar what comes along,’ I ses, jist
for somethin’ t’ say. The ole bloke glared
at me an’ yapped, savage, ‘Burglar! I’ve
been here fifty year, an’ we’ve on’y had
one burglar ’ere in all that time, an’ that
was two nights ago, in this ’ere store!’
‘Go on,’ I ses ; ‘anythin’ taken?’ ‘On’y
the burglar ’imself,’ he ses, lookin’ as
sore as a boil, ‘an’ I missed it, bein’ in
bed with me blarsted rheumatiz. ’E’s bein’
tried t’-day at Bingadool. That’s where
ev’rybody in the place, ’cept me, dammit,
has gone; them what caught ’im t’ give
ev’dence, an’ them what didn’t ’ear of
it till after t’ see what sorta bloke a
burglar looks like.’ Then the ole coot
looks at me. eager-like, an’ ses, jerkin’ ’is
thumb towards the store door, ‘Say,
young feller, there ain’t no one ’bout
but me—what ’bout ’avin’ a go ’ere
yerself, eh?’ I grabs up me swag an’
toddles orf quick, with the ole bloke still
goin’ lousy ’bout never ’aving ’ad any
luck in his life:”
“Rodent”: When they’re swarming,
rats are the best track-obliterators I
know. Some years ago they came in one
big wave on the Barkly Tableland (Q.).
Riding over the plain out from Mungala
waterhole, on Walgra station, I dis-
mounted from my horse to have a closer
look at the ground—l thought some luna-
tic had been doing figures of eight on a
motor-bike. As I went up the river the
rats got thicker. One evening I got to
Dead Dog hole, just inside the. Austral
boundary on the other side of Lake Nash.
At sundown a couple of thousand cattle
watered at that hole, and the pad they
made was, as can be guessed, consider-
able. Never mind whaf sort of night I
had. At daylight next morning, when I
went for my horses, only the birdlike
tracks of the rats covered everything
within two miles of Dead Dog.
* s* * *
“Sa Tiko”: An accommodating statis-
tician has worked out the yearly amount
of codfish consumed by the Newfound-
land seals. He scales the feast at
6,000,000 cwt. Can’t say if his tally is
correct, but weight for weight I back the
cormorant to beat any gormandiser that
“You Were advertising for a locum.”
lives, either in feathers or fur. Those
black-and-white ornaments which seem to
ic p e t heir time on the beacon piles in
Sydney Harbor are the real gluttons.
They snatch the fish almost off our
plates, and it’s a hungry day for them if
* don ’ t get at least 51b. allowed to
lllt 7 7 . ° , .• T , • flll < ,
their individual rations. Their full and
proper supply is 71b. of fish each per day.
The seagull, apparently a more ravenous
ea ter, is satisfied with much less. Still,
on festive occasions, he can eat up to
4115 during a full eight-hour banquet-
and that is a good many times more than
bis own weight,
*** . *
“Koolpinyah”: . “Zamia Bill (B.
24/5/’39) is right about the NT. abo.
being a wonderful fellow when it comes
to travel at speed on foot. Years ago one
old man strolled from the white settle-
ment on the Daly River to the railway
station, Adelaide River, for the mail,
This was 70 miles ; the journey was done
in under two days and the return trip in
the same time. Umbulwidgie did this
trip every week right through the year,
* * * * .
“Dungeness”: Jacky was telling hts
cobbers about his first sight of a camel
—an unknown animal in their coastal
locality—while on his western trip with
the station boss, and made great play of
mimicry in picturing its lolloping gait
and bobbing neck. “What track that
pfeller?” asked old Peter. With a horny
sole Jacky swept the dirt smooth, tried,
failed, tried again, thought and grinned.
Dashing across to the camp he dived
into his hut, to reappear with his six-
month offspring wailing in his arms, a
surprised and indignant mother follow-
ing. Sweeping the soft dirt up in a low
pile he dumped the infant’s stern on it,
pressed it well in, removed the howling
Jacky, junior, and stood back with the
air of one who has completed a master-
piece. “Now you savvy track b’long
that pfeller camel,” he announced tri-
umphantly. The sculptured impression of
the infantile posterior was a perfect
replica of the deeply-split hoof with its
two rounded side pads.
# =s= * *
“Laetitia”: Queerest marine accident
I’ve seen followed the cutting up of a
turtle by a lugger crew of Torres Strait
abos. Amongst the few inedible por-
tions thrown overboard was a triangular
piece of bone formed by the junction of
flipper and carapace. Next morning
there drifted up on the beach a 7ft. shark,
its snout firmly wedged in the bony head-
stall.
:;< * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Bill was a marvel of
a teamster and invaluable on a road-
gang with roads and gravel-pits to be
ploughed. But tenders had to come
down, and the boss was reluctantly com-
pelled to ask Bill to take a quid a week
less, which still left him a good margin
above the award. Years of high wages
had given Bill a profound, if not exag-
gerated, opinion of his worth, so he
left on his motor-bike in quest of a job
down the line. Half-way there he
stopped at a little township for dinner,
and by good luck he struck Bob, a
fellow-teamster of some merit and with
as much pride as Bill. Over lunch he
told Bob of the indignity he had suffered,
and announced his intention of seeking
a job at Dowerin. Bob had just passed
through Dowerin. The teamster there
was receiving the bare award rate, and
considered himself lucky. Conditions
were similar all over the wheatbelt. Bill
started to think it over. Bob was doing
the same, and when the meal was over
they each rose quickly and hurried out.
Bob hired the only car in town and made
a good race of it, Bill winning by some-
thing less than two minutes. The boss
greeted him warmly and anxiously. Now
that he’d had time to consider it, could
Bill see his way clear to accept the
pound-a-week reduction? It mightn’t be
for long. “Hell, yes,” Bill agreed mag-
nanimously. “What’s a quid between
friends?”
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Experimenting is an
industry that never goes bankrupt
through discouragement. Out in the
limestone hill country of Buchan (Vic.)
they are assaulting the blackberry with
every conceivable form of destruction,
but it flourishes and marches on relent-
lessly. The latest experiment was with
Angora goats. These hairy animals were
imported to eat the thorny creeper. But
what did the goats do? They climbed
the rocky mountains and lived on the
tops. The blackberries spread along the
creeks and gullies. The bright idea then
was to tether the goats along the fringes
of the vine entanglements. But the goats
refused to be caught. As ancient as the
hills themselves is the adage that you
can’t keep a good goat down.
* * *
“C.R.”: An Englishman who took up
his residence on the Mornington Penin-
sula was unwittingly the host for what
must have been one of the most Gargan-
tuan repasts that have ever been provided
in the history of Victoria. He built a
fishpond in his garden and stocked it
with 214 goldfish, the average price of
which was something in the region of
two guineas apiece. Within a week the
pond was empty. This was how he
learnt of the existence of the kookaburra.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: An inquisitive lizard is the
blue-tongue, a useful insect-eater that
Binghi relishes and likens to fish. If you
stop a while near its home it will come
out cautiously to have a good look,
approaching to within a few feet. Other
lizards retire —most of them precipi-
tately. The thick and sluggish stickybeak,
up to 2ft. in length, is remarkable for
its broad Prussian-blue tongue —the most
gorgeous licker among wild life. Inter-
esting to watch that blue-tongue lapping
milk like a cat from a saucer. If the
milk is placed near its hidden retreat it
will come out for it, even while the
donor stands a little way off to watch it.
There are four smaller species ; the big
fellow inhabits the whole of Eastern Aus-
tralia. In some parts it is called sleepy
lizard, a name also applied to the shingle-
back, the slowest of all Australian
lizards. Blue-tongue, though second
favorite in the donkey stakes, on a warm
day could give Boggai the Shingleback
half-wav start in a mile and beat him.
“Billy See”: Had to smile over
“Gravelsnatcher’s” yarn of his pal hav-
ing a spark of steel removed from his
eye with a razor (B. 24/5/’39). What
did he think the operator would use —a
corner of folded paper or the burnt end
of a wooden match, like I’ve seen half a
hundred muddlers doing? In a lifetime
of various jobs I’ve spent hundreds of
hours at the open emery-wheel grinding
steel and white-iron.castings. To me and
my mates sparks in the eye were of
hourly occurrence. We operated on each
other right away, the instrument being a
piece of hacksaw-blade ground to a razor
edge and point. And also well magnet-
ised. That gave the blade an extra lift.
Practically no danger of cutting the eye,
given an operator with good eye himself
and a steady hand. And it’s surprising just
how tough the delicate-seeming cornea
really is: in certain eye operations it will
stand being stitched, and will even stand
the edges of the surgical wound being
drawn together and the stitches tied. No,
we didn’t wear goggles when working at
those emery-wheels: they travelled at
thousands of revs, per minute and we
needed our eyes clear to keep our fingers
out from between the wheel and the table
rest.
* * H= *
“Bungham”: A clutch of young wrens
had their home in a tree that overhung
my camp. One of the mites had only
one leg, and every evening without fail
his brothers and sisters manoeuvred the
crippled one into a position between
them so that they could prop him up
for the night. Judging by his continu-
ous squeaking if left alone he regarded
such attention as his rightful due.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: I liked that yarn of
“Dash D.’s” (B. 24/5/’39) about the
bloke who threw himself across the wind-
lass handle when he felt a heart attack
coming on and so saved his mate from
death. I was going to say that the man
who wrote it never hoisted his mate from
the bottom of a shaft deep enough to
cause his death. But I won’t —I’ll only
say that he must have had a different
mate and a different windlass from any
I have worked with. Have always been
a 12-stone man, but to hoist even a 10-
stoner up a 50ft. shaft taxed every
muscle of my body. We simply didn t
do it. When the shaft was too narrow
for a counterweight bucket, as a pros-
pecting shaft usually is, we used a rope
ladder, or else came up one corner by
means of footholds and the windlass
rope. As for falling across the handle
in a faint and keeping the man in the
bucket suspended in the shaft —well, any
inanimate body would almost certainly
be thrown aside by the pull of the weight.
Anyway, the jerking of the rope caused
by the stranded man climbing up would
soon do it. What any practical man
would do if feeling overcome would be
to peg the handle, either with a loop of
rope or a peg in the windlass standard.
And anyone other than the greenest mug
has such safeguards on a windlass.
THIS DAY.
It seems to me, though the seeming be
A folly that worldly folk may scorn,
That all the land in a joyous mood
Lies lapped this morn.
And just the reason that so it seems
I may not tell in so many words,
Yet told it is by the tossing trees
And singing birds.
And told it is by the sunlit streams
That dance and prattle as on they stray;
And told, told, too, by the wayward winds
With leaves at play.
And being in tune with the holiday mood
-That lightens the hollows and hills, sun-
kissed,
Foot-free and taskless, I’ll up and roam
Where’er I list.
Though north I journey, or south I go,
Though west I wander, or east I quest,
I shall make merry all folk I meet
With smile and jest.
From birds I’ll borrow their gay song-themes,
With winds-, and waters the wonder share
Of wayward roaming, as onward I
Exultant fare.
Daylong, way-long, as I wander on —
In pleasant musing at whiles immersed —
Wine-drinking, the rich, fine wine of joy,
I shall not thirst.
It shall befall that, though far from town,
Alone I shall not lonesome be,
For all that warbles and blooms shall bear
Me company.
Like one shall I feel at a festival—
A guest high-favored and wreathed with
flowers—
As r and SOU '
Thus wheresoever my fancy wills,
Since lights are lovely and life is good,
111 go a-questing afar to-day
In merry mood.
N .s.w.
BRIGALOW.


“Nagheer”: tony bagman (B.
7/5/’39) who roared up Piangil Pete’s
pub because his boots hadn’t been cleaned
got off better than he would have fared
at Jerry Butler’s old-time hostelry in
Strahan (Tas.). An average of about
eight wet days weekly and a particu-
larly gluey mud completely discouraged
any ideas thereabouts of glossiness in
gents’ footwear. A visiting English min-
ing expert, unversed in local matters, put
his trotter-cases outside the door in the
—to him —customary manner. Jerry,
navigating towards bed after chucking
out the last late customer, spotted them.
Growling ominously, the old chap sought
his toolchest and returned with a brace
and bit, a screwdriver and a jug of stale
beer. Twenty minutes later he reached
the marital couch, chuckling. “Tharrel
teach the flash cow,” he murmured to
the sleepy Mrs. Jerry. She found out
what he meant next morning. He had
screwed the boots to the floor and filled
them with sour beer.
* 5k * *
“Pop”: If those fellows have finished
firing salutes with burning bamboos and
other weeds, let them set fire to a pan-
danus palm—some call it bread-fruit,
though there isn’t enough bread in a
thousand acres of them to make a poul-
tice. As those trees grow they leave hang-
ing from the trunk a spiral of dead
fronds which burn with a crackle and a
hiss; when they get a wriggle on they’re
like stockwhips cracking. A patch of
cane-grass alight also gives a good pyro-
technic display.
That's the only bit needs renewin'—the rest of it's jake."
“I'll swap yer pillers, Erbert. Mine's too 'igh."
“Ysbrantsz”: The first marsupial ever
seen in Europe was the “wondrous beast”
with five young ones in her pouch which
Vicente Yanez Pinzon brought to Spain
in a.d. 1500. It was presumably an
American opossum from the coast of
Brazil or Guiana. The first known Old
World reference to marsupials, however,
seems to be the story of “a distant land
where there are creatures carrying their
young in their pouch” told by Lucian,
who lived from a.d. 120 to 180. Lucian
was born at Samosata, on the Euphrates,
and no doubt the yarn filtered through to
him by way of the Malay Archipelago,
Ceylon or India and the Persian Gulf,
from which mariners sailed to the East
Indies long before the days of Sinbad the
Sailor. It is not necessary, of course, to
go as far as Australia to find marsupials.
They are to be found in the islands to the
east of Wallace’s Line, such as Celebes
or Timor.
* * * *
“Y. the L.”: One of my favorite birds
is the strikingly-colored banded plover.
It is usually friendly, but when threat-
ened shows great courage. It will engage
hawks, crows and eagles should they
approach its nest or young, and will carry
out ground strafing on men or dogs for
the same reason. It is one of the fastest,
most graceful and effortless of fliers. One
day as I was driving a tractor-plough I
spotted a little brown hen sitting. As I
came nearer on each round she became
more agitated. Finally I had to swing
out to avoid the nest. As my roaring
steed drew near heading straight for her,
she slowly rose to her feet and straddled
the eggs. Then, standing with half-
spread wings, she faced bravely up to
the approaching monster. I passed
within a few feet of her, yet she didn’t
retreat an inch, but kept swivelling to
keep the tractor in front of her. As I
passed on she gradually sank back on
the eggs. The performance was repeated
next round when I passed on the other
side. It was one of the gamest things
I’ve ever seen in my life.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Ever since a neighbor’s house
was struck by lightning last week I’ve
been listening to varied superstitions
about lightning-flashes. Only one was
correct —that the danger to men is much
greater than to women. From 1932 to
1937 inclusive, 53 Australian males were
reported as killed by lightning, but only
six women. Popular superstition explains
it by some special sex-attraction, but the
real reason is that women’s work keeps
them indoors —safest of all places—dur-
ing thunderstorms. Lightning does
strike twice in the same place—the Eiffel
Tower and numerous skyscrapers have
been photographed while being struck re-
peatedly during a single storm. The con-
ductors carried off the charges. There
is no zigzag or forked lightning—they
are optical illusions, proved by high-speed
photos, to be due to secondary discharges.
The shattering effect on a tree is not
caused by a blow, but by the explosive
effect of suddenly vaporised fluid con-
tents of the timber. Come on, you bush-
lightning experts!
* * * *
“A-ten-shun”: Will the puzzle of the
migratory birds of Australia get another
angle now that the aircraft direction
beacon system is established in the Com-
monwealth? For years homing pigeons
have been known to lose their guiding
instinct in the vicinity of a wireless sta-
tion, and about 10 years ago the prin-
cipal ornithologists of America advanced
the theory that plovers must fly on a
“radio compass” system of their own.
The suggestion that the circling motion
of homing pigeons is their preliminary
preparation for getting the “feel” of
things magnetic seems an obvious one
to any observer these air-minded days ;
still, that high-flying navigation doesn’t
explain much about the locality sense
of many smaller birds. The hypothesis
that migrating birds follow constant lines
of magnetic force is interesting, and the
question arises, what effect will the con-
stant bombardment of radio direction
waves across the birds’ ancient migra-
tory lines have on annual visitors from
Russia and elsewhere?
* * * $
“Murrunguiry”: A western N.S.W.
squatter who regularly got a small cask
of rum with the station supplies had the
weight of the cask posted to him (to save
measuring the contents), and when it was
delivered he weighed the cask and tested
the liquor before paying the carrier.
This suspicion, and the fact that carriers
were only allowed grass and water near
the homestead when they had loading for
the station, was resented by Dick the
Dodger ; and he was prompted to pit his
wits against the other in a spirit of
rivalry. A fortnight after Dick had de-
livered a cask the squatter was amazed
to find it apparently empty, though it was
still heavy. Knocking the head off, he
saw inside a dozen sheep’s bladders
filled with water. Several quarts of rum
had been run out and weighed, and a
similar weight of water was put in the
bladders, each of which was filled from
the outside through a large bunghole,
and the neck securely tied with string
before being let go. Finally the bung-
hole was corked and covered with a hoop.
Thus what grog the Dodger had left was
up to standard, and the weight was
correct to an ounce.
** ‘ +
“Bowgada”: This Lake Eyre! When
I went to school, just on 40 years ago,
they taught me that when John McDouall
Stuart first set eyes on that vast area
of mystery it was full, waves 30ft. high
dashing up to the bases of its cliffs., Since
then I’ve read that within the white man’s
period of occupation it has never notice-
ably contained water. I’ve gazed across
it myself at least twice, but never a drop
of fluid could I see—but then I could
never get near because of the mud just
under the layer of salt and sand. Of
course, it’s drying up, just as all the rest
of this continent is drying up. But what
I want to know is—has anybody ever
seen it anything like full? And also has
any practical engineer ever made even a
cursory study of the possibility of let-
ting the ocean in? I know that all sorts
of amateurs, including the late Professor
Gregory, have had a stab at the project,
but I’ve seen engineers doing quite re-
markable things with land and water —
and with the amateurs predicting failure
right up to the moment of success. And
I have a friend who carried an altimeter
on his car —and he swears that one spot
showed a depth of 200 ft. below sea level.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: Most capable dingo-
hunter I ever came across was a woman ;
a mere slip of a girl, the daughter of a
Pilliga Scrub (N.S.W.) timber-cutter. An
old muzzle-loading 12-bore was her
means of dispatch, but employed in a
curious way. She operated only at night-
time. This was her modus operandi. For
as long as the dingo continued to howl,
she would hurry in the direction of the
sound. Immediately the howl ceased she
would stop and remain dead still until
the howl was renewed; then off she
would go again. In due course she would
thus get close enough to the howling
dog to make sure her charge of buck-
shot would reach its intended billet. Was
informed by the young lady that, if care-
ful to pay attention to wind direction,
it was possible to approach within a few
yards of a howling dingo.
NOTES FOR GOATS.
“A Queenslander who specialises in goat-drovang,
using specially trained dogs, makes quite a good
living out of it.” —“Daily Telegraph,”
To him it’s an attractive avocation,
Remunerative, easy and unique;
Far better than a long perambulation
With beef and mutton over hill and creek.
Goats lend themselves to mulga navigation;
They’re tractable, comparatively meek,
Provided you’ve a brace of well-trained hounds
To keep the mob from straying out of bounds.
What if they have a penchant for exploring
While ambling tardily along the track,
For ever hopeful of some titbit scoring
Such as discarded boot or soojee sack?
No need for any drover to be roaring
His bearded charges up, his whip to crack:
If Rover and his cobber do their stuff,
Persuasion —sweet persuasion—is enough.
And when the shades of night are gently falling
And to a halt the daily trek is brought,
When scran and bunk insistently are calling
And surcease from the cares of life is sought,
With smells as of a boneworks, fierce, appalling,
The undefended atmosphere is fraught,
Don’t bolt, with curses —that would be absurd:
Just shift your camp to windward of the herd.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


è
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET
Bedrooms, G/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d Hote or a Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m ). D«n ner from 5 30 (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. M4oQl. -
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
t-— —— Dividends ~
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£• £* £,£>£*
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 p.c. = 41,633 22,805 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. '38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152,726
1934.. 34,272 13,152. 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26.020 9,302 162,332
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30,759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 Si „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . 233;315
Provision contingencies written
back, £13,000 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
Besides doing a big merchandising busi-
ness in Fiji, this co. is a large plantation
(copra) owner there as well. Trade
activity depends largely upon conditions
in the copra, sugar, banana, dairying and
mining industries. Gold, discovered on the
Tavua field a few years ago, now figures
second in value on the list of the colony’s
exports:
f 1937 , -1938 -v
Commodity. Quantity. Value. Quantity. Value.
£ £
Sugar—raw tons 129,693 1,388,681 134,415 1,338,183
Copra, tons . . 30,001 407,354 33,475 270,915
Gold bullion, oz. 21,407 166,115 89,354 701.272
Bananas, bchs... 326,777 80,071 314,925 73,578
Other produce. . 79,699 74,849
Re-exports .. 91,737 76,232
Total exports £2,213,657 £2,535,029
The requirements of the mines and of the
people on the fields have helped to liven
business turnovers. But the general level
of incomes, and therefore of spending
power, in these islands is most affected
by the state of the copra trade. It was
the steady recession in the London price
of copra—the figure fell from £SI2 10s.
early in 1938 to £SB 12s. 6d. at the begin-
ning of November last, since when there
has been a slight strengthening—that was
mainly responsible for the contraction in
this co.’s earnings last term.
The slip in gross earnings (£176,667)
was £31,999. Including the allowance for
depreciation (£19,671, down £9120),
exes. (£123,800) were reduced by only
£2767. These and export and other figures
suggest that the drop in turnover was
in value rather than in physical volume.
Taking into the reckoning £3499 dropped
from somewhere into the insurance fund
(now £55,027), the net result was £28,731
lighter at £56,366. This was enough to
pay 6 p.c. on £219,206 of pref. money
and show 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 13.8, 11.6, 8.3, 6.7, 4, 4.8 and 2.7
p.c. back to the difficult days of 1933. The
special bonus ( 2\ p.c.) sent out in 1938
to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the
foundation of the business was not re-
peated, but the div. remained steady at
6 p.c., leaving £11,989 to lift the visible
lay-by to £258,304.
The writing back of £13,000 previously
allowed for contingencies but no longer
required suggests that the board is still
following a policy of keeping the div.
moderate and building up strength, vis-
ible and otherwise. Since 1922 £204,681
has been visibly added to reserves, and
that after making liberal allowances
annually for depreciation, and taking
£166,800 from the visible pile to write
down the book value of assets and pro-
vide for hurricane losses of £12,400.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1933. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . . . 12,420 5,758 3,904
Sundry creditors, etc... 18,228 24,876 19,564
Plantations .. .. 65,524 52,304- 54,984
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 331.762 313,943 314.392
Stocks, etc 212,276 321,427 274,145
Investments and cash. . 142,025 153,339 184,494
Capital value of
branches, etc. . . 65,706 70.788 82,013
Book debts, etc. . . 132,596 156,029 157,271
Chief balance-sheet movements were a
reduction of £47,282 in stocks, and addi-
tions of £31,155 and £11,255 in invest-
ments, etc., and the capital value of
branches respectively. When the books
closed, more or less liquids exceeded
outside liabilities by £674,455, an im-
provement of £3506 for the year.
Allowing for exchange (£lOO Fiji =
£A111|), the f.-p. pound ords. at 265. re-
turn 5.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities. The prefs. at 245. 6d. yield
5.4 p.c. Book value of the net tangible
cover is £4 11s. prefs. and 295. lid. ords.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. f —Dividends —, ten Off. serves.
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 10.p.c.
1929 .. 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
8 p.c.
1931 .. 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 1 41 667
Provident fund, £lOOO .. 1 ’
All res. written off assets, £41,667..
10 p.c.
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
8 p.c.
1933 .. 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 1 77R
Provident fund, £lOOO .. J
1934 . . 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 1 7 ,0
Provident fund, £lOOO .. )
1935 . . 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 . . 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 . . 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
1938 . . 144,038 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
1939 . : 147,631 10,208 63,333 67,603 11,779
Rumors that negotiations were afoot for
purchase of the business by the Sydney
County Council have been categorically
denied by the chairman. Nor are share-
holders likely to be asked for more at
an early date, notwithstanding that some
£250,000 worth of electrical equipment
has been ordered for delivery about the
end of next year or early in 1941. Owing
to allowances for depreciation, the co.
has been able to accumulate cash, etc.,
as the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:
1930. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £875,000 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors . . 126,096 131,893 138,996* 123,837*
Fixed assets 1,312,605 1,014,544 985,468 930.968
Stocks, etc... 21,072 21,501 .42,523 52,486
Book debts. . 11,289 . 7,578 12,949 16,296
Cash, etc. . . 6,182 51,792 68,621 101,918 •
* Including provision for taxation.
Including the allowance for depreciation
(shown as written off in the introductory
table), last year’s surplus earnings enabled
£15,159 to be chipped off the debt, £9963
to be added to stocks, £3347 to debtors’
balances, £30,348 to the holding of Com-
monwealth stock (£73,155) and £2949
to cash (£28,763). On fixed assets
£54,500 more was written off than was
spent. When the books closed, more or
less liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£46,863, an improvement of £61,766 over
the twelvemonth.
The £937,500 of paid capital is in
pound shares, of which 166,667 are paid
to 17s. 6d. each and carry a fixed cumu-
lative 7 p.c., and 833,333 are ords., nine-
tenths of them fully paid and the balance
paid to 10s. each. It was recently de-
cided to cancel the unpaid and uncalled
balance on the contributing ords., and
then to amalgamate them into pound
shares, thus reducing the amount of capi-
tal at call from £62,500 to £20,833.
The co., whose area is hemmed in by
the big Sydney electric-supply undertak-
ing, operates under five franchises, of
which two (Balmain and Newtown) are
perpetual, two (Petersham and Leichhardt)
run out in -1953, and one (Ashfield) in
1943, subject in all cases to purchase by
the municipal authorities at stated inter-
vals. Although the co. is not subject to
the N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity Act,
which aims at fixing the div. at not more
than p.c. on pref. and 6 p.c. on ord.
capital, it is doubtful whether anything
worth mentioning in the way of pickings
need be looked for by shareholders. For
the decade to the close of accounts in
1930 they received a steady 10 p.c., fol-
lowed by 8 p.c. for the next year, when
all reserves, including provision for
depreciation (£310,242 at April 30, 1931),
were used to write down the book value
of the undertaking. The div. was lifted
to 10 p.c. again in 1932, but dropped
back to 8 p.c. in ’33 and has remained
steady since.
Last term an extra 904 customers were
connected with the co.’s mains, making
36,569 in all, and a lot more current was
used. Gross earnings (£223,834) sprang
£9949, despite a reduction in the charge
to consumers. Including the allowance
for depreciation, exes. (£150,296) took all
but £221 of the increase. Allowing for
an unexplained addition of £6490 to the
insurance fund (£10,570), the net result
was £2632 better at £80,028, or £6487
more than the pref. div. and 8 p.c. to
the ords. called for.
The market sees no prospect of legis-
lative interference with the business at
the moment, and prices the ords. at
31s. 6d. as against 345. a year ago, when
another new issue was considered a
possibility. At the lower figure the return
is 4.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 245. yield 5.1 p.c. Including
uncalled pref. capital, the net tangible
backing is £5 16s. sd. prefs. and 20s. 3d.
ords,, mostly in fixed assets, worth what
they can earn.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends N
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1928 77,020 4325 10 p.c. = 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39,172 4325 5J „ „ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5i ~ „ 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 6 „ ~ 29,003 201- 270,035
1934 29,214 61 „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 5,100 282,194
1936 31,295 8§ „ „ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937 33,005 9| p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 <. .. 316,147
1938 37,091 9jj p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
This stoutly-ribbed vendor of paper,
printers’ requisites and fancy goods has
an able management which has grown
up in the business. Further, the co. has
been, and still is, a stout prop for many
in the printing trade—but no account is
taken in the books of its wide goodwill —
and, considering the volume of credit it
extends, it has given a very good account
of itself during difficult times.
For 15 years after the public became
interested in 1915 the ords. received a
steady 10 p.c., sweetened with £50,000 of
bonus scrip and new issues at par —paid
capital more than doubled during this
period. Slump brought the div. down to
5| p.c. for the two years to the close of
accounts in 1932 ; the rate has since gone
up by easy annual steps to 10 p.c. again
for last term, and, subject to economic
and other developments, looks like re-
maining there.
Meanwhile, the co. was able to return
£368,484 of capital (mainly by working
down stocks and book debts without
visible mishap), reducing the figure to
£322,256 in 1934. Turnover has since
expanded so rapidly that 53,709 new
pound shares were issued at a premium
of 10s. each shortly before the close of
accounts in 1937, and earnings have con-
tinued to benefit.
For the 12 months covered by latest
accounts the board says that “the busi-
ness of the co. continues to be buoyant
and satisfactory.” After providing for
taxation and other contingencies and
striking off the cost of fixtures, plant and
motor-cars (£4792 as against £2974 for
the previous term), declared net earnings
were £2590 better at £39,681, or 10.5
p.c. on capital as against 10.2, 10.2, 9.7,
9.5 and 9 p.c. for the five preceding years.
The £2085 that remained after raising the
div. from 9f p.c. to 10 p.c. made the
lay-by equal to 17s. per share.
Finances are healthy, as they always
have been, and balance-sheet movements
encouraging:
1930. ' 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £690,740 £322,256 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities* .. 106,094 77,923 161,686 109,650
Freeholds .. 110,319 120,565 120,565 120,565
Stocks. . . . 216,163 149,427 221,413 137,258
Sundry debtors 456,252 335,909 455,193 445,781
Cash and in-
vestments . . 308,471 87,223 68,206 118,822
* Including provident account and tax provision.
During the year stocks were reduced by
£84,155, enabling outside liabilities to be
reduced by £52,036 and cash and invest-
ments strengthened by £50,616. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£592,211) was £9085. The
item which catches the eye is debtors’
balances ; these are “adequately protected
by securities and/or reserves,” the board
says.
The market prices the pound shares at
50s. as against 475. about six months ago.
The return at 50s. is 4 p.c..on alO p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 375. in net tan-
gibles.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ &
1929*.. 10.898 20 p.c. = 4,000 6,898 2,226
1930 .. 31,568 40 „ „ 8,000 23,568 25,794
Bonus scrip issued, £20,000 .. 5,794
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,296
1932 .. 28,725 22i p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
1933 .. 13,053 20 „ „ 15,000 18,199
1934 . . 30,202 20 „ „ 15,000 15,202 33,401
1935 . . 20,818 20 „ „ 15,000 5,818 39,219
1936 . . 25,876 20 „ „ 15,000 10,876 50,095
Doubtfui debts written off, £5OOO .. 45,095
1937 .. 13,887 124 p.c. = 9,375 4 512 49,607
Estab. exes., etc., capitalised, £24,924.. 24,683
1938 . . 10.895 5 p.c. = 4,000 6,895 31,578
Net addition estab. account, £13,777.. 17,801
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 5 p.c.
1939 .. 11,265 8,633 4,000 16,433
*l5 months.
This offshoot of Guinea Gold pioneered
air transport from the coast to the gold-
fields in New Guinea ; and a very profi-
table venture it has been, too for the
8f years to the close of accounts in
1936 divs. averaged 25.3 p.c., sweetened


T
l
O
V
4
\
w
t
N
fc
H
T
E
\
1111#
:-:y
mm
w
• • -■ ■
HM
85*8
-Vo^
m
:>4:*S
E
u
m
V/
%
rrt
m
l 7
Q
Jl
V
>TC
-v
//vvr
r «
'V J
A'
r#lU 'l
> ■'
i iO
M.
v y
Dance, sing and enjoy
your week-end away from
home with a 1,4' volt port-
able radio. Easily car-
ried because it is so light
and compact always
ready to entertain you anti
your friends.
For your next tennis party
what could be better than
a modern 1.4 volt port -
able to provide music
between sets? Many
makes, many models for
you to choose from.
Bush picnics and outings
are made ten times more,
enjoyable when someone
has a 1.4 volt portable
radio to provide music
and entertainment . Take
one on your next trip .
EASILY CARRIED, SMARTLY
DESIGNED, AMAZINGLY EFFICIENT
Wherever you go this year—whatever you plan to do outdoors —add to
the enjoyment of yourself and your friends by taking one of the wonderful
new 1.4 volt portable radios along. Designed on entirely NEW lines and
incorporating the recently introduced 1.4 volt valve, it is lighter, more com-
pact, more efficient and more economical than any other type of portable
radio you've ever seen. Operates entirely on dry batteries—the smoothest
and most dependable source of power for portable sets —and costs as little
as Id. PER HOUR to run! Requiring no power-point, no earth, and no
outside aerial, you can carry and use it anywhere. Many well-known
makes, many smartly designed models available for you to choose from.
See them to-day at any good radio store, or if you have any difficulty
write direct to Box 37, Mascot, N.S.W., for complete details of latest types.
1.4 VOLT RADIO IS EQUIPPED WITH
RADIO BATTERIES
I
A
OWN
mKS
MUSIC


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
mg
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
é
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* :N * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies.
JI.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
■—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab," Melbourne.
SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS. . .
Careful investors * will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Bookiet to :
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 402$ V.V, G.P.0., syoNey
TELEPHONE: J 5294 t V
* <
Mm
wm
■■■■■■■
m.i
;> ■>
m
m
Laughing at the
HAZARDS
O’ LIFE
A.M.P. Society’s Plan
]\l INETY-NINE out of a hundred
couples face two great hazards:
(1) That the husband will die too soon,
leaving his wife and children to
fend for themselves.
(2) That the husband will live beyond
his earning years, and will spend
his old age in want.
Those are the risks, and very real risks
they are. They may, however, be happily
offset through membership in the A.M.P.
Society.
Through the A.M.P. a man may so
arrange his finances that he can laugh
at these hazards.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an
experienced man to talk over your
hazards; your financial problems. Give
him your confidence. He will be able
to help you with a sound plan for laugh-
ing at the hazards, and building up your
financial strength.
Send to-day. Even to-morrow may be
too late.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
with £20,000 of bonus scrip. But con-
ditions have changed ; over the last de-
cade competition has brought an 80 p.c.
cut in air freight rates in the Territory,
where the proposed motor road from the
coast to the fields might yet further inter-
fere with air-transport earnings there.
Also, because of these and other things,
activities were recently extended to Aus-
tralia, where development of air trans-
port is a national necessity, and where,
especially on the inland routes, ideal
flying conditions have contributed to
operational success. Yet, owing to the
incidence of the petrol tax, few clippers
of the sky, unsubsidised by the Govern-
ment, have been able to operate at a
profit—during the pioneering and de-
velopment stage, at any rate.
The co.’s Adelaide-Darwin weekly
service began in February, 1937, but it
was not until last month that the board
received from the Federal Government
a 12 months’ license for sole com-
mercial use of this main air route —over
it overseas air mails for S. Aus., Vic. and
Tas. are carried. What Government
subsidy the co. received for the 12 months
to the close of last accounts isn’t men-
tioned in the report, but in August last,
when the co. began to carry overseas air-
mails, the Minister for Defence said the
amount payable for the Adelaide-Darwin
service was £46,410. Including the Syd-
ney-Adelaide run, which was discon-
tinued in July, 1938, the co.’s Australian
services carried 117 tons (up 99 tons) of
mail, etc., and 2332 (up 414 passengers
for a gross revenue of £54,862 (up
£30,276) last term. Exes, amounted to
£69,394, leaving a loss of £14,532 on
account of Australian operations.
In New Guinea operating statistics
compare as follows:
Tonnage Average Passengers Gross
Feb., Transported. Freight.* Carried. Earnings.
1929.. 434 lO.Gld. BG9 £44,006
1930.. 949 8.28 d. 2,047 72,7:10
1931.. 1146 6.50 d. 1,995 67,922
1932.. 3947 5.91 d. 1,607 95,619
1933.. 3980 4,31 d. 3,856 77,695
1934.. 6044 4.12 d. 7,398 111,203
1935.. 5688 3.3 Gd. 9,721 114,465
1936.. 6476 2.90 d. 12,137 137,729
1937.. 6705 2.49 d. 11,869 96,134
1938.. 8408 1.94 d. 12,120 92,541
1989.. .8804 2.07 d. 11,626 102,576
* Per pound.
Exes, were only £3910 heavier, leaving
the profit from this section £6125 better
at £17,020. Combining the figures for
both sections of the business, and allow-
ing £5OOO for doubtful debts, gross earn-
ings were £157,438 and exes. £159,950,
leaving the net result £2512 on the wrong
side of the ledger. The board temporarily
capitalised £13,777 net of the Australian
exes., thus enabling a profit of £11,265
to be shown in the accounts. After
meeting pref. requirements, handing the
ords. 5 p.c. and writing off all intangibles,
the whole of the share capital and
£16,433 besides remained intact.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —•
1936 1937* 193 S 192 Q
Paid capital ..£75,000 £BO,OOO £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities . . 12,549 54,990 24,444 14,411
Fixed assets .. 70,950 141,119 174,844 147,961
Investments .. 31,788 5,398 3,152 4,738
Debtors .. 26,662 39,878 37,857 37,390
Cash .. .. 8,245 4,203 170 7,556
* Consolidated figures Guinea Airways and its sub-
sidiary, Holden’s Air Transport.
The year’s allowance for depreciation
was £32,471, and the net reduction in the
book value of fixed assets £26,883. A
reduction of £10,033 in the outside debt
was accompanied by a growth of £7386
in cash. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£35,273) was £18,538.
Obviously much depends upon when
the co.’s Australian service becomes
profitable. Hopes are that it will soon
carry a lot more overseas air-mail, which,
of course, would mean a bigger subsidy.
At 17s. 4d. the prefs. return 8 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. The ords. at 11s. 6d.
would yield 9.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distri-
bution. The net tangible cover is
£2 4s. Id. prefs. and 245. Id. ords.,
mainly in fixed assets, worth what they
can earn.
fhabawleik Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Burma being outside the international
tin control scheme, this Austral Malay off-
shoot participates in all the benefits of re-
striction without being compelled to cur-
tail its own output. With the exception of
the lean years 1930-32, when the dredge
closed down, consistently good profits
have thus been the order, despite, in the
past, high costs —as much as 11.87 d. per
c.y. in 1928.
Though rich and shallow, the property
is located in the wild and difficult-of-
access Mergui district, road-upkeep costs
being a considerable item of outgo. Heavy
clay, bamboo roots and vegetable matter,
together with dry seasons, are other
worries, though dam-construction has
done much to alleviate effects of the last-
named.
Last term digging of the low-grade
west leg of the property was completed,
operating results comparing with the two
previous years this way:
1936. 1,937. 1938.
Cubic yards .. 1,391,000 1,777,000 1,736,000
T. 0., tons.. .. 595.6 388.7 418.4
Av. recovery, t.o.—
New ground .. 1.051 b. 0.491 b. 0.541 b.
Tailings .. 0.431 b.
0.961 b. 0.491 b. 0.541 b.
Recovery p.c. bores 110 83 85
Working cost, c.y. 4.5 Gd. 3.74 d. 3.70 d.
Sterling price metallic
tin, ton . . £2OO/5/3 £240/18/- £lB9/18/11
Encouraging is the further if fractional
reduction in unit costs, despite more diffi-
cult ground dug, lost time owing to
trouble with the main screen, and dam-
building expenditure owing to undulating
nature of the ground dug. Recoveries are
in terms of the oxide assaying 72 p.c.
metal; they have averaged 92 p.c. of bore
values over the last four years.
Thanks to the increased output, the
slip in the year’s net surplus was only
£S 10,348, despite a slip of £SSO or more
a ton in the average forward price of tin:
, —'Surplus—v
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. 'Share. Amt.
1935.. £96,796 £49,981 £46,815 5/10 4/- £32,000
1936.. 85,079 40,517 44,562 5/6 3/6 28,000
1937.. 66,650 40,322 26,328 3/3 3/- 24,000
1938.. 56,371 40,391 15,980 2/- 2/6 20,000
* Includes depreciation: 1935, £4682 ; 1936, nil:
1937, £1826; 1938, £5161.
The div. was cut back 6d. to 2s. 6d. a
share. A further Is. 6d. a share has gone
out in respect of the current term.
The dredge is being shut down for
three months for fitting of new jigs, the
idea being to improve recoveries and
lower costs. Current term’s turnover
will thus be affected, but the board is
looking for recoveries of 0.61 b. per c.y.,
which, however, is only half the bored
value of remaining dredging reserves. For
the five months to May, actual recovery
averaged 0.751 b. and working surplus
£522,450.
Thabawleik has 160,000 f.-p. £1 shares,
priced at 325. apiece in the market, to
spread divs. over. Including a holding
(12,500 £1 shares) in Austral New Zea-
land Mining, latest Austral Malay fledg-
ling, but not yet in production, more or
less liquids amounted to £565,348 at
June 30 and indebtedness to £933.
Turning over 150,000 c.y. monthly,
measured reserves indicate a five years’
life for the co. What the more distant
future holds the board has not yet hinted
at.
In B. 14/6/’39 the “Wild Cat” said
the rate of interest on the £900,000 loan
of the State Electricity Commission
(Vic.) was 4j p.c., which was the rate
stated in preliminary data received from
official sources. Actually, the rate is. 4 4 -
р. which is in line with the market for
comparable securities.
* * * *
Placer Development’s interests continue
to spread. With its construction pro-
gramme now complete, Pato Consoli-
dated, the British Columbia venture, has
beaten Bulolo Gold Dredging (New
Guinea) in dredge turnover, but not in
gold output. Bulolo, however, expects
to have a seventh unit digging any day
now, with an eighth to follow in Sep-
tember. Asnazu, the Colombia (S.
America) show, has also commenced
preparatory field work for a new dredge
and power plant, which is expected to
begin digging at the rate of 4,000,000
с. annually in about 15 months’ time.
Rated capacity of the existing plant is
1,500,000 c.y. p.a. Finance to the extent
of $750,000 is being provided by Placer
and Oroville Dredging (between them
they own 82 p.c. of Asnazu’s $1,500,000
capital), half each at 6 p.c., repayable out
of half the exportable funds. Including
45,000,000 c.y. of lower-grade gravels
recently developed, Asnazu now has some
17 years’ work measured up, with possi-
bilities of further pay-dirt being de-
veloped. Placer has a 30.6 p.c. share-
interest in Bulolo, 36 p.c. in Pato and
41 p.c. in Asnazu. For the 12 months to
May last Bulolo gold output jumped
23,0100 z. to 157,725 fine ounces —
monthly returns make no mention of
silver production:
Treated, Gold, Working
Co. C.y. Fine Oz. Value. Surplus.*
Bulolo .. 14,688,000 157,725 £A1,380,094 £A933,876
Pato .. 14,842,000 f 60,443 $2,115,505
Asnazu .. 1,619,000 10,368 $362,880
* Gold at £AB 15s. an ounce. + Dredging yaidage
only; gold recovery includes hydraulicking output
also.
Pato and Asnazu each balance to April
30, whereas the above figures summarise
their quarterly statements for the year
to June 1. Pato, which has five dredges
and a like number of hydraulicking units
at work, hopes to follow up its recent 10
p.c. maiden distribution with regular half-
yearly handouts of like amout, while
Asnazu expects to pay 10 p.c. p.a. for
the present, and, of course, substantially
more when its new dredge commences
digging. The co. was in low-grade wash
for the greater part of last year. Bulolo
also looks like soon having little diffi-
culty in bettering its present 60 p.c. p.a.
disbursement.
* * » *
At London-controlled Boulder Per-
severance’s annual roll-up last month,
general-manager Joe Manners estimated
ore reserves at 400,000 tons, averaging
7.2dwt., and equal to three and "a half
years’ supply at present rate of extrac-
tion ; and more pay-ore is believed to
exist outside the measured limits. Fol-
lowing installation of modern equipment,
working costs, excluding treatment, had
decreased by approximately 2s. Bd. a ton
since September, 1935. Over the same
period a saving of 1 Id. a ton had also
been effected in treatment. Because of
these reductions it had been possible to
decrease the grade of ore that can be
profitably treated by over ldwt. a ton.
This allowed conservation of higher-
grade ore, and brought into the payable
limit a large tonnage of previously un-
payable stuff. Referring to the Enter-
prise mine, in which Perseverance holds
a big interest, and whose ore is treated
at the Perseverance mill, Manners said
that all expectations regarding tonnage,
grade and working costs were being ful-
filled. Working costs would be a little
less than Perseverance’s.
* * * *
Lake View South, which adjoins Lake
View at the south end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), seems to be making
good. In the early days of the field
the co.’s shares went to a substantial
premium in the market following reports
that a continuation of rich shoots then
being worked in the Lake View were
certain to be found in the property. They
were not, and after a large amount had
been spent on development, followed by
reconstructions and expenditure of more
capital, operations ceased, and for years
the mine was a derelict. The late Dr.
Laver and his friends, who became
owners when gold took a jump in price,
sold out to the present co., a subsidiary
of Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., in
1935. Last year a profit of £11,504 was
earned. A recent estimate of ore reserves
was 28,970 tons actual, averaging
6.9dwt., and 5890 tons probable, averag-
ing 6.6dwt.


SMOKE-OH!
“Their Majesties appeared grateful for the
relief from the sweltering heat that was pro-
vided by the spreading trees in the grounds
of the historic home.” — “S. M. Herald.
Flame-trees, no doubt.
•J* *s*
“How is your vocabulary?”— Advt.
No match for the wife’s.
4* 4* 4* 'l'
“Good speech is an essential part of a
full normal life.” — Lecturer.
It’s when you’re full that it’s normal
for good speech to get a bit thick.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Friday is usually the luckiest day in the
week for women.” — Astrological blurb.
Particularly married ones.
4* 4* 4*
“How do women annoy men?”
—“Daily Telegraph.
Well, they persist in marrying them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Comet appears after absence of 300,000
years.”
After a look at the earth in its present
condition, it will be glad to get away
for another 300,000 years.
•4* 4* 4* 4*
This opposition to a national register
will bring Australia to its census.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Perhaps another war could be avoided
if the nations made a treaty to end
treaties.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What books do women like best?”
— Writer.
Bankbooks.
4. 4. 4. 4*
“A man’s appearance is not everything to
a woman.” — Women’s paper.
But his non-appearance is.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Eskimos live on an all-meat diet.”
—Radio talk.
Then they don’t know their onions.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Few scholars would care to become his-
torians.”—Literary note.
There’s certainly no future in it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Mixed Possessions.
“When two people of equal financial stand-
ing marry, it seems fair that they should pay
equally for the home and its contents.”
M —Dorothy Dix.
It doesn’t work. When arguments
reach a crescendo in Emoh Ruo, Maria
is likely to order me to get out of her
dining-room.
“Your dining-room?” I sneer. You
only paid for the brickwork and half
the plastering. And you get off my
linoleum.”
“Well, you shift off my rug. And don t
dare throw that clock at me, it’s mine.’
It’s the same when we both want to
use the bathroom at the same time. “It’s
mine,” she says defiantly.
“I give you that in,” I return loftily.
“Then take this rubbish out of it,” and
out flies my shaving gear. It naturally
follows that Maria’s belongings decorat-
ing my hallstand, including the aspidistra,
are hurled out of the front door on to
the lawn.
The trouble is that neither of us can
buy out the other’s share.
H.M.
4, 4* * 4 1 4*
“After the argument with his wife he could
not sing. He went on the platform but felt
that he was off the note.” — “D.T.”
She was not the first wife who’d spoilt
her husband’s pitch.
4' 4 1 4* 4*
“If Pitt-street was much wider there could
be a row of waving palms there.” — “D.T.”
There are —especially since the refu-
gees arrived.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Is the mule going to the dogs?”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Yes, but it’s the donkeys who keep
the dogs going.
“Successful authors usually double-space
their typing.”— Literary course.
And unsuccessful ones their meals.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The latest umbrellas are covered with a
transparent waterproof material?’
—Fashion note.
Apparently they were invented by a
film star who shunned publicity.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dew furnishes the moisture necessary ,for
growing crops in many world. „
The farmers’ harvest is a fine crop of
bills marked “Overdue.”
ê
“At one time, the average American had
a vague idea that Australia was a wilderness
overrun with rabbits.” —Wireless talk.
Now they know that politicians are the
trouble.
Charming.
“Yesterday I actually saw a man wearing a
lucky charm.” — Women’s paper.
Although he’s got this lucky charm
He swears his nerves are quite a
wreck;
For since he said “You brought me
luck,”
She’s always hanging round his neck.
EVA.
In and Out of Dario.
(BY "JOCK WANDER.”)
Met Liz (“Bottle Legs”) Snodger yes-
terday immersing her gullet in a jorum
of plonk in the back parlor of the Blood-
house. I thought she looked particularly
svelte, even soignee, in her old mans old
football guernsey, which she had nattily
caught at the waist with a bit of string.
Whom do you think I saw at Limpy
Joe’s? You’d never guess. “One-Slash’
Looey! He was celebrating his gradua-
tion, having been “declared” following a
long country vacation. On dit that the
former Dario playboy-cwm-face-carver
“The bread and cheese is cornin', Alfie —but 'e Won't swaller th' beer."
proposes opening up again in business.
Something in the steel line, I fancy,
Caught an intimate glimpse of Swivel-
Eyed Mike and Rosy the Snorter lapping
up long soup a deux in Charlie the
Chink’s fan-tan joint last night. She,
vivacious as ever, must have said some-
thing rather flippant anent his double
fortissimo accompaniment to his own
ingurgitations, for he got her across the
kisser with a beautiful backhander.
Rosy was still dredging in her soup for
the three top teeth she’d lost when the
report of a sawn-off shotgun rang out
and your gossip-writer decided to pursue
again his weary pilgrimage for copy.
Winter sports are with us again. Saw
“Kewpie” Kate getting her issue in a
matchbox from The Pedlar at “Spotted”
Syd’s hash foundry. When Kate hits the
i“snpw” properly she doesn’t need a pair
of skis to get a rare pace up. She’s due
to go “oh the ice” any day now.
“Ocker” Johnno (he’s one of the
Johnnos) \vas shbwing me his very latest
acquisition—a dinky pearl-handed, under-
the-arm “squirt.”. He laughingly ex-
plained that black gats never brought
him any luck.
Paddy the Screw,. Dario’s best-known
standover man tells me he is going to
ë
Request.
Spout —if you must —those long orations
On politics,
Or tell me how your rich relations
Play dirty tricks;
Hold forth on how the shares are selling;
Give dull advice;
But prithee, friend, desist from telling
The same joke twice!
T.W. NATHAN.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
X.
Nearly every man, at some period of
his marital career, gets an irresistible
hankering to construct a piece of furni-
ture. The successful completion of the job,
even if it involves nothing more compli-
cated than banging the end out of a
butter-box and tacking some shadow-
tissue over it to convert it into a recep-
tacle for boots, will engender in him
remarkable confidence in his own creative
craftsmanship. Thereafter he will not be
satisfied until he has tackled something
more grandiose like a waxed-and-fumed
maple wardrobe..
The old maxim about crawling before
you can walk is especially applicable to
the hobby of cabinetmaking, and the
wise handyman will try his hand on
something simpler first. By far the easiest
item to start off on is a palmstand.
In getting a few points as to how one
is made you can —don’t sneer, please—
take a leaf out of your wife’s book.
When she proposes making, say, a bolero
jacket a la mode does she buy the
material and a pattern and just sort of
make a stab at it in the dark? No ; she
goes into a fashionable shop, announces
her intention of buying a six-guinea
ensemble and tries on the jacket. Then,
while the salesgirl is busy getting out
another few dozen frocks, she takes a
good screw at the gussets, piping,
accordion pleats, revers, etc. Then, when
she is certain she knows all the tricks, she
walks out with a show of dissatisfaction.
You can do the same in the furniture
shop. Don’t be squeamish about asking
to see every type they have in the place—
that’s what they’re there for. Register
disgust at the paucity of the selection
available. When the salesman, in despair,
goes off to see if he can dig up another,
upend one and make a rough sketch of
the way the legs are joined on and the
bottom fitted in.
Easiest to construct is the barrel type.
Unless you happen to have a steam plant
in your backyard - for bending wood you
will need to buy a barrel —those in which
rum is sold are the ideal size. Drain the
rum off into bottles and saw through the
barrel where it begins to curve in. The
wood left rough by the saw can be embel-
lished by tacking a strip of tin around it
and hammering it down both sides.
You will also need four pieces of
timber about 2in. square, length accord-
ing to the height you desire the palm-
stand to be. Here is a chance to cut
away from tradition and make your palm-
stand chest high. This will save the wife
bending down when, and if, she puts any-
thing in it.
Next plane down each side of these
four legs. The indentations left from
where the blade has gouged bits out can
be filled in with putty. It is best to stain
the whole thing afterwards in a mission
finish so that any slight defects will not
be noticed.
You can fix the barrel to the legs either
by hammering the nails through the
bottom of the inside of the barrel into
the ends of the legs, or by belting them
into the bottom of the barrel through the
legs from the outside.
The difficulty in the former method is
that you won’t be able to wield a lull-
sized hammer inside the narrow barrel.
You can, of course, chop half the handle
off, dowelling it back on again after the
job is finished. This will ensure neater
work, as no nail holes will show.
If you don’t want to risk spoiling your
hammer try the outside method. Put
the barrel upside-down on the ground
and, after marking the place where it is
to go, hold each leg hard against it and
hammer the nails through the legs on a
slant into the barrel bottom. This angle-
hitting may incline to shift the leg
slightly, but another nail driven in from
the other side should bring it back to
its right position.
As short nails might not hold, use
sturdy ones, say 4in. in length. The
points of these will come through into
the barrel, and as these might catch the
wife’s fingers if left sticking up they
should be turned down. This can easily
be effected by continually dropping
some heavy object, such as a boot last, on
them.
The other type of palmstand is the
four-sider. The making of this calls foi
greater mathematical accuracy to ensure
the sides being level. After having cut
and planed the four sides and legs make
a mark on the legs where you want the
top of the side to come to. All that is
needed then is to smear the edges of a
side with warm glue, clamp it between
two of the legs and keep it pressed hard
against your chest until the glue is set.
Repeat this with the other sides and
legs until the job is complete.
There is a knack in fitting the bottom
in Don’t try to glue it on from under-
neath. Cut it slightly on the large side
and force it down between the four sides
already in position. This will ensure its
being a tight fit. Should this cause the
sides to open up they can be closed again
by driving nails (no thicker than og.)
through them endwise.
A final tip. Having made your palm-
stand, select the darkest corner of the
lounge room to place it in. Then nail
it to the floor just in case it falls over.
Above all, don’t have anything heavier
than poppies stood in it; home-made
palmstands were never meant to take
weighty things like palms or aspidistras
S.W.K.


The North Shore Gas Company, Limited
SALE OF 49,325 SHARES
OF £1 EACH.
In accordance with the terms of'the Gas and Electricity Act, 1935,
the Directors will offer for sale
BY PUBLIC AUCTION
ON MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1939,
At 10 o’clock a.m., through their Auctioneers.
RICHARDSON and WRENCH, LIMITED,
AT THE ROOMS, 92 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
49,325 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
A copy of the Terms and Conditions of Sale may he had upon application
to the Auctioneers, members of the Stock Exchange, or the North . Shore
Gas Company, Limited.
THE ATTENTION, of Investors, Trustees, and others is directed to the sale
of the above Shares.
Note date and place of sale: MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1939,
At the rooms of RICHARDSON and WRENCH, LIMITED, Auctioneers,
92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (447)
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write jor explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors-.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Carlton and United Cos.
The market for the scrip in Carlton
and United Breweries holding cos. has
become very active. The leading holding
stock, Carlton Brewery rose to a record
price of 70s. last week, steadying at 695.,
and buyers for most other issues were
prominent, but unsatisfied with the
quantity of shares available. The
C.U.B. enterprise is one of the most
solidly prosperous brewing organisa-
tions in the Commonwealth ; from hard
experience following the crash of the
’nineties particular care has been taken of
finances in more modern times.
C.U.B. has a paid capital of £2,925,000,
held chiefly by eight holding cos., of
which Carlton, with a paid capital of
£816,992 (pound shares), is the largest,
Melbourne Co-operative coming next
with £431,981 (10s. shares). Castle-'
maine’s capital is £225,000 (15s. shares),
that of Foster £115,200 (pound shares)
and Shamrock £141,325 (pound shares).
Next to Carlton, Melb. Co-op. is the
most active market stock, followed by
Castlemaine. Foster and Shamrock are
quieter, while McCrackens, though listed,
is seldom dealt in. The less active stocks,
when they can be bought, give the highest
immediate and potential yield.
Carlton (and its subsidiary, Victoria
Brewery) had £285,915 in liquids, etc.,
£307,380 in breweries, hotels, etc., besides
928,295 shares in C.U.8., last balance day.
It owed £39,974. Rents, interest, etc.,
brought in £6671,' apart from income
from C.U.B.
Melbourne Co-op. had £68,661 in
liquids at 31/7/’3B, and £36,232 in hotels,
etc. It owed £422.- Holding in C.U.B.
is 975,000 ords. and 11,780 cum. prefs.
Castlemaine Brewery’s liquids totalled
£35,199 at 30/9/’3B, and it owned free-
holds, etc., valued at £21,772. Holding,
in C.U.B. was 153,750 ords. and 22,371
prefs. Outsiders were owed £272.
Foster Brewing Co. holds 124,573
shares in C.U.B. Liquids totalled
£22,436 at 31/1/’39. It then had’no out-
side liabilities and no fixed assets.
Shamrock Brewing Co. had £27,458 in
hotels at 31 /12/’3B ; it also held £17,914
in liquids. It owed £1568, and was on the
register as possessor of 124,573 shares in
C.U.B.
The operating concern, Carlton and
United Breweries, in its last; term (to June
30, 1938) distributed 74 p.c. of its profits,
(record) in an all-round 124- p.c. div. to
its holding cos. The following table
shows (1) the percentage of profit (to
their respective capitals) that the holding
cos. disclosed from such div. and their
other earnings; (2) the percentage to their
capital that their undistributed interest in
C.U.B.’s 1937-38 profit represented, (3),
the rate of div. each holding co. declared
on its capital, and (4) the percentage on
each holding co.’s capital that the un- a
distributed earnings of both the holding
and operating cos. represented. The last-
mentioned column shows, in other words,
the additional div. each holding co. could
have paid if all the profits of C.U.B. and
its holding cos. had been handed out
equitably to those people who ultimately
control the whole enterprise:
Undistri-
buted
C.U.B. Profit in
Disclosed Profits C.U.B. and
Profit to Re- Holding Holding
Capital, tained, Co. Div., Co.,
Holding Co. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carlton .. 16.7 5 15 6.7
Melb. Co-op. 28.9 10.1 26.7 ’ 12.3
Castlemaine 10.2 3.4 10 3.6
Foster .. 13.7 4.7 13 5.4
Shamrock ..12 3.9 11 4.9
It will be seen that the figures in
columns 1 and 2, less the div. paid as
“Men, I say, without leas’ fear of conterdicshun ”-
per column 3, leave the figure in column
4 —in each of the foregoing five cases.
Another aspect of the investment side
of the C.U.B. organisation may be seen
in this table;
Shares
in Yield Yield
C.U.B. Market on on
for Each Price Div. at Profit
100 of Own Market and
Holding Co. Own. Shares. Price, Equity,
p.c. p.c.
Carlton* (20/-) .. 113.6 69/- 4.35 6.29
Melb. Co-op. (10/-) 114.2 59/6 4.49 6.55
Castlemaine (15/-).. 59 31/ 4.84 7.55
Foster (20/-) .. 108 51/- 5.10 7.22
Shamrock (20/-) .. 88 45/- 4.89 7.00
* Including holding of subsidiary, Victoria
. Brewery.
The figures there should be read in con-
junction with the first table. It will be
seen that the immediate return offering
ranges from about 4.4 p.c. in Carlton’s
case to 5.1 p.c. in the instance of Foster.
When the undistributed'equity in the
earnings of C.U.B. is included, the return
varies from 6.3 p.c. in the case of Carlton
to 7.2 p.c. in Foster’s case.
From the preceding information it will
be noted that for purely holding purposes
Foster shares are the most attractive
among the GU.B. cos. But the shares
aren’t easy to buy, and at some future
date may be just as difficult to sell. There
is little to choose between Carlton and
Melb. Co-op., the most active, and there-
fore the most keenly priced, of the lot.
A sidelight on the whole enterprise is
got by delving into an aspect of the
financial history of Carlton. This co.
took over two waterlogged Melbourne
breweries after the crash of the ’nineties,
selling out (for shares) to Carlton and
United in 1907. By arrangement with
creditors divs. were limited to 3 p.c. until
the accounts were balanced, and up to
1922 that was all there was in it. But the
market for C.U.B. products expanded,
and with it earning power. Old debts
were cleared off by 1923, and next year
Carlton’s share-register was multiplied 17
times by the capitalisation of reserves.
There were some generous cash distribu-
tions about this time also ; divs. lifted,
and from 1926 to 1929 (inclusive) 14 p.c.
p.a. went out. In slump-time nothing less
than 8 p.c. was paid.
In this period of over 40 years share-
holders in the Carlton holding co. haven’t
had to put their hands in their pockets
for more than £20,000. Since 1924
C.U.B.’s capital has grown from
£1,100,000 to £2,925,000 by cash and
bonus issues, but Carlton shareholders
have maintained their equity without
having to put up a ha’penny. The princi-
pal point to be drawn from this history
is that Carlton’s interest in the growing
earning power and assets of C.U.B. is
not spread over any more shares than in
1924.
The Commonwealth £4,750,000 loan,
which offered a yield, including redemp-
tion, of £3 19s. 2d. per cent., was short-
subscribed by £900,000, notwithstanding
that the sum asked for was about
£3,000,000 less than the usual thing—the
Commonwealth Bank had already pro-
vided that sum in the shape of a short-
term loan in order to make the Loan
Council’s path easier. The premature
announcement of two semi-Government
loans in Victoria at higher rates of in-
terest- —the Electricity Commission’s
£900,000 loan at 4} p.c. and the Tram-
ways Board’s £650,000 operation at 4{
p.c. —has been criticised as having to do
with the failure of the Commonwealth
loan. It may have had something to do
with it. But it is abundantly clear that,
under present tightening credit condi-
tions, many potential lenders are of
opinion that present-day comparatively
low interest rates are out of step with
the cost of living, which has risen
steeply over the past two or three years.
The yields obtainable on investment
shares, generally speaking, have length-
ened considerably since the first quarter
of 1937, whereas an 11-year Common-
wealth Loan put out in April that year
returned £3 19s. Id. per cent., against
£3 19s. 2d. per cent, from the latest 16-
year flotation. It is probably true that,
from the theoretical point of view, the
low rate of gilt-edged interest now is
right and that the high cost of living is
wrong. But investors haven’t asked any-
one for a high cost of living.
Though interest rates on Consols were
on the rise during the 1936-37 financial
year, they were reduced by over 3s. per
cent, during 1937-38. Thus it is possible
that something may again happen to
check the upward surge in the cost of
borrowing in Australia. The best means
of making such a thing happen would
be to attack other forms of cost on a
national scale. It doesn’t seem likely that
prices for our exports will rise in the
near future to a point where they will do
the credit situation much good. So an
attack on costs is the indicated remedy
from many points of view.
* * * *
The newest development in the Aus-
tralian cotton manufacturing industry is
the introduction by Bradford Cotton
Mills, Sydney, of the sanforising process
for shrinking cloth before it passes out
of the factory. A new subsidiary, San-
forising Services of Australia, has just
been formed, and a machine has been
imported for the job. E. V. Gregson,
an expert as regards the plant and its
work, has been brought to the Common-
wealth after a similar commission in the
Argentine and Brazil. The process was
invented by Sanford L. Cluett, of the
Arrow shirt proprietary in the U.S.A.,
and was patented in 1930. It now has
a widening use in Britain and other parts
of the world. In spinning and weaving
cotton fibre, the secret of efficient pro-
duction is the keeping of first the thread
and then the cloth as taut as possible.
To the user, however, the resultant pro-
duct has the disadvantage of its basic
fibres being liable to shrink back to their
original tension after the first wash-
shrinkage''being anything up to 6in. in
the yard, according to the type of
material. Sanforising overcomes this in-
born disability of cotton goods by
mechanically shrinking to its “natural
zero length and width” any cotton or
linen and some art.-silk fabrics. In other
words, just as shrinkage in the first place
is caused by mechanical tensile-stretch-
ing, the sanforising cure is applied by
mechanical compressive shrinkage before
the fabric goes into use. Sanforising does
away with the necessity for buying over-
size garments in order to get a fit after
washing. Shrinkage is reduced to a maxi-
mum of quarter of an inch in 36in. The
Australian cotton industry is mainly con-
cerned in turning out loosely-woven
spongy materials, and the new pre-shrink-
ing process, which is well past the experi-
mental stage, should be particularly use-
ful to the trade. Bradford Cotton’s sub-
sidiary will pay a royalty to the patentees.
No further developments were re-
ported last week in the merger negotia-
tions between Bradford Cotton and Aus-
tral Silk and Cotton (Melbourne). But
Austral Silk shareholders remained hope-
ful, asking 14s. for their scrip in the
market.
* ♦ 3|C $
In Melbourne last week: —•
Ballarat Brewing Co. announced improved
profits at £47,008, against £45,998 in the pre-
ceding year. Ord. div. was unchanged at 124
p.c., and , called for £31,250. The co. issued
£125,000 of new 6 p..c. pref. capital during
the term, the charge on which up to balance
day was only £2500.
Melbourne Steam ords. rose to 295. 3d. on
the turnover of 500 shares; this is the highest
quote for a considerable time. A final div.
is due in August. Distributions for 1937-38
totalled 7 p.c.
Cocks Pioneer shares were weak at 9s. 6d.,
following a report on operations at the mine.
The working face is getting further away from
the plant, enabling safer working, but the
show still has its problems.
Robert Harper and Co. showed a profit
£1964 lower at £37,877. Ord. div. was kept
at 10 p.c.
Associated Pulp and Paper ords. sold at
20s. 6d. The co. is asking for a duty on
fine writings and printings. The co.’s pros-
pectus expressed the belief that no tariff pro-
tection would be necessary.
Gordon and Gotch ords. were the weakest
for some time at 525. 6d.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
mm®
iW
9 ,
m
\
: :
BS!
/
/
/
&39M1
Ijjjpp^
AUSTRALIA- ITALIA
SWMig €@MIMIWILm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
M
ss
98S
<tf*s
IBS*®
■
■
<?
<*
V,
£
a
"#TRY
Insulate the building in
which you house stock,
poultry, etc. you'll get
healthier conditions and
higher output. Cane-ite,
the white-ant-proofed, non-
sagging, non-warping cane
insulation boards, are the
most inexpensive and high-
ly effective medium for
such profitable insulation.
• City smartness for country bathrooms
and kitchens! Gleaming beauty with
a very practical side to itl With Masonite Tem-
prtile—the non-splintering, non-cracking and won-
derfully durable “tile-effect" board—any intelli-
gent carpenter can transform the walls of kitchen
and bathroom so that they have all the appear-
ance of being expensively tiled. You can have
any colour finish you like . . . and Masonite
Temprtile is as easy to keep clean as if it were
marble. Masonite Temprtile in 4 ft. widths up
to 12 ft. in length is one of “the wonder boards
of 1000 uses" . . . grainless, splinterless, manu-
factured from Australian Timber at the Australian
Masonite Plant. Let the samples tell you their
own story.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
G.Wlfni?
NAME
ADDRESS..
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)*.
Please send me free sample and details of □ MASONITE □ CANE-ITE
3-21-6
* Write to your nearest branch: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
i H ■. m hi m m m w m ■> h m n m u m M m n wm u kb nn m m ms aa n ua n kb ib n ■■ d. m m bb m n n
MA-24-9
Australia’s London loan that floated
like an iceberg, with most of itself under
water, is blamed to some extent for hav-
ing given the London sharemarket a
chill. The whole range of investments
lost color last week, industrials and gold-
mines fading notably, and Government
securities to a less marked extent. It is
hard to say definitely, however, which
was the cause and which the effect. But it
was largely an Empire matter, seemingly,
that did cause the trouble. Wall-street
weakened very little during a period in
which British industrials fell from 103.9
to 100.7 in the “Financial Times” index.
Then, following a drop in London to
98.8, Wall-street fell sharply also.
Australian ’Changes decided early
that their affinity was London, not Wall-
street, and the previously buoyant market
lost much of its verve. The Tientsin
business had an effect. Strength in some
middle-class industrials that hadn’t appre-
ciated to the same extent as front-rankers
in the May optimism helped to give the
share lists a steadier appearance than
they would otherwise have held. But
8.H.P., up to 665. before the failure of
the “Russian pact” to materialise had given
bears an excuse to get to work, drifted
back to 595. 6d. British Tobacco ords.
were down slightly at 475. 9d., and Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries ords. were
Is. 9d. weaker at 355. Kandos Cement
dropped from 31s. to 295. 3d., and sellers
were more in evidence than buyers
among retailer stocks.
Breweries, comparatively weak during
the May period, held with particular
firmness last week. The Carlton and
United group, dealt with at length else-
where, was particularly strong, while Syd-
ney breweries were firmer. Castlemaine
Perkins, Brisbane, was also sought after,
and Ballarat moved up on publication of
accounts.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. sold
at 735. 6d. on Thursday again, a bonus
issue being looked for still, bonus issues
at present being fashionable as well as,
seemingly, diplomatic. The co. has
plenty of competition, but is well man-
aged and, at present, is very prosperous.
Shipping shares generally remained firm,
though Sydney Ferries were weak, and
Huddart Parker dropped Is. 6d. in Syd-
ney. United Provisions ords. moved up
to 7s. 6d., looking interesting still. Cum-
berland Paper ords. (B. 14/6/’39) were
more sought after at the higher price of
255. 3d., though Australasian Paper ords.
dropped back 3d., to 295. 3d.
Picture scrip continued on its upward
way. There is unofficial talk of a merger
with Hoyt’s Theatres. It is a pity there
aren’t a few “official” profits coming along
to shareholders in the Greater Union
holding cos. instead. A temporary tie-up
with Hoyt’s a few years back failed to
produce them.
Bank of N. S. Wales shares, which had
been down to £2B 6s. in May, rose to
£29 2s. for a time last week. It was a
comparatively isolated recovery in the
bank section, however. National shares
were still weak ; Commercial of Sydney
was the only other bank on the list that
received support in any degree similar
to the ’Wales. Holders of bank shares
have reaped poor rewards over the past
10 years. For a long time there were
fears of political intervention in bank-
ing matters; now the credit situation is
tightening up again, which means slower
turnover of money and a greater risk
of bad debts.
* * * *
Notwithstanding that the production
quota has been raised from 40 p.c. to
45 p.c., tin last week kept near its 1938-39
record price of £227 12s. 6d. Under the
buffer pool scheme, if tin should rise
above £230 the pool’s stocks were to
be sold in order to stabilise the market
and to refresh the finances of the pool.
With that selling limit last week almost
in sight the pool has chosen instead to
increase the producing countries’ produc-
tion quota, thus giving many at present
struggling mines a better chance to pay
their way. Whether the move indicates
that the finances of the pool are stronger
than previously believed, or whether
countries signatory to the scheme have
become plaintive about the low quota, it
is hard to say. Australian investors in
Malayan tin stocks should benefit from
the increased quota. Mines operated
in the Commonwealth, such as Briseis
(Tas.) and Tableland Tin’s show at
Return Creek (N.Q.), are not subject to
the quota, and so long as the price keeps
up aren’t affected.
* * * *
It is a pleasure to learn of. a goldmine
being in a position to repay its debentures.
No, it isn’t Rothsay (W.A.) that we’re
talking about;, it’s that once-boosted
sharemarket tragedy Mandated Alluvials.
The co.’s principal mine wasn’t in the
Mandated Territory and it wasn’t an
alluvial show; the Sapphire mine, near
the Moresby King (Papua), that created
all the excitement three years or so ago
wasn’t the world-beater a lot of people
thought it was: (to their ruin, in some
cases), and yet it wasn’t a total loss,
either. From being largely a “wasn’t”
mine, the Sapphire-Moresby King prop-
erty has’at last produced a positive result
from a long list of negatives: Mandated
Alluvials made enough money scratching
out comparatively . small quantities of
good-grade ore to announce that on July
1 its debenture issue is to be repaid. The
ore carries a lot of copper and silver as
well as gold, and a matte is produced at
the mine and shipped to the mainland for
treatment. During the process of devel-
opment the co. has periodically stumbled
on blocks of good ore which have helped
the position considerably. The mine is
like that. It was'first thought to be a
synclinal ore-body. E. W. Bonwick
looked at it and reported that, by reason
of a fault, after existence as a shallow
bed the body dropped 70ft., “the de-
pressed portion consisting of unpayable
sulphides.” With copper at early-1937
(boom) prices he estimated profits more
or less in sight at £27,626. T. R. Victor
and F. M. Murdoch a few months later
said there should be about £42,000 net
in it from positive ore. Since then
copper has fallen heavily, but after July 1
the way should be clear for some dis-
tribution to shareholders. There are
98,000 shares issued, and at 3s. 6d. each
the market puts a price of about £17,000
on the show.
* * * *
For the 11 months to the end of May
Australia had a favorable trade balance
of £10,428,000 sterling more than
£2,000,000 smaller than for the same
period of 1937-38. London reserves have
again been drawn on heavily to meet our
overseas interest commitments, which
run to £22,000,000 or thereabouts each
year. But for our goldmines the whole
of the interest bill would have to be met
out of London reserves. In 1930-31 our
favorable trade balance was £28.4 mil-
lions sterling, ’3l-32 £40.6 millions, ’32-33
£38.6 millions, ’33-34 £37.9 millions,
’34-35 £16.1 millions, ’35-36 £23.7
millions, ’36-37 £35.7 millions and
’37-38 £ll.B millions. The shipment of
almost the entire gold reserve of the
Commonwealth Bank is not included in
those figures. Sterling securities in Lon-
don have been substituted for this gold
reserve.
V * * . *
George Peacock, chairman of Prestige,
Ltd., the big Melbourne women’s hosiery
concern, told shareholders the other day
that turnover in the co.’s past term
was a record. So far during the current
period business was keeping up, but
costs, including labor and taxation, were
also on the increase. Raw silk had also
become dearer. Increasing costs of pro-
duction are becoming Australia’s chief
bugbear once again.
* * * *
Sales of wool at the Australian auc-
tions totalled 2,732,893 bales (both greasy
and scoured) for the 11 months to the
end .of May. The proceeds were
£36,238,839, which compares with
£41,147,742 from 2,582,459 bales for the
corresponding period of the previous
season. Monthly figures (greasy and
scoured) for this season are as follows:
Total Average
Bales. Price, Lb. Proceeds,
d. £
July .. .. 7,766 12.7 116,684
August.. .. 38,437 10.4 513,007
September .. 276,942 9.6 3,505,848
October .. 393,489 10.4 5,183,600
November .. 444,892 11.0 6,092,535
December .. 233,584 11.1 3,184,221
January .. 375,215 11.1 5,098,657
February .. 334,275 11.0 4,485,593
March .. .. 371,428 10.6 4,867,784
April .. .. 125,686 9.7 1,497,551
May .. .. 131,179 9.8 1,693,359
Eleven mths. 2,732,893 10.6 36,238,839
The drop in prices hasn’t been quite so
marked as the figures for the last two
months would suggest. Toward the close
of the season the offerings are usually
very scrappy. Private and London sales
should bring the total return for the clip
to over £40,000,000.
* * * *
There are fears in Britain that the
country is laying up trouble for itself
by the heavy expenditure on armaments.
At the moment the outlay is creating em-
ployment—of a special and abnormal
character. There must inevitably be a .
special and abnormal reaction when the
present stimulus has spent itself —in other
words, when spending on armament cuts
out, as it must at some time or other.
Bradford Cotton.
In view of the small proportion
of the Australian market catered
for by cotton mills established in
the Commonwealth, there are possi-
bilities of considerable expansion in
the future. The ords. in Bradford
Cotton, an enterprising concern
mentioned elsewhere in these pages,
return £6 13s. 4d. per cent, at
375. 6d. Capital in relation to
the co.’s turnover is not over-
large.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Japan’s Aims in China.
[Cable-reporting on the war in China nus been no
better than on the war in Spain. There has been the
same misleading propaganda; the same preponderance
of views served up as news; the same element of
wishful thinking in such matters as the persistent
representing of China as a united nation. In the article
here condensed from the June “National Review”
J. O. P. Bland presents a detached account and analysis
of Japan’s aims and prospects.]
Ample notice has been given of the direction of
Japan’s Pan-Asian programme. They were clearly
defined by the Japanese Government in the “21
Demands” addressed to China in 1915, at a time (like
the present) when Great Britain was not in a position
to bring much pressure to bear in the Far East. The
21 Demands and the Sino-Japanese Military Agree-
ment secretly concluded in 1918 were practically iden-
tical with the “Imperial Policy” long advocated by
Ryohei Uchida and other leaders of the Black Dragon
Society.
But this Imperial Policy dates much further back,
to the earliest days of Japan’s relations with the
Western world. The writings of Yoshida Shoin, who
died in 1859, show that the Military party had its
plzyis already well laid for world domination, begin-
ning with the annexation of Korea, Formosa, Sag-
halien, Manchuria and Eastern Siberia. Again, after
Japan’s first war with China in 1895, the expansion-
ist ardor of the militarists was restrained and the
major fruits' of victory prudently abandoned, because
the Elder Statesmen realised that they could not hope
to defeat the coalition of Russia, France and Ger-
many, which had intervened to preserve the status quo.
But the dream of a great Japanese Empire, the
soaring ambitions of Japan’s “divine mission,” were
never really abandoned. She would bide her time,
awaiting the next favorable opportunity to establish
the New Order in East Asia.
With the rise to power of Germany re-armed,
coincident with the disarmament policy imposed on
Mr. Baldwin by the Geneva school of politicians, it
became increasingly evident that the opportunity was
at hand for the advancement of the Imperial Policy
and that the Military party would take rapid ad-
vantage of it. The ease and impunity with which
it was able to carry out its expansionist operations in
Manchuria and North China, from 1931 onwards,
justified its belief that the time had come for pro-
claiming its Pan-Asian programme for establishing
the New Order in East Asia and for making Japan
impregnably supreme in China, at the same time
eliminating the commercial and political interests of
the Western Powers in that country.
In the Military party’s persistent disregard for
the Treaty rights of British and other traders in China,
in its plainly declared intention to put an end to the
vexatious anachronism of the Foreign Settlements,
there is evidence that it regards the New Order as
a fait accompli. Japanese publicists are astonished
that England and America decline to admit its
validity and continue to vex the Government with
claims, protests and other futile formalities. They
hold that accomplished facts should be recognised ;
the New Order in East Asia claims to be as irrefutable
as that of Central Europe. The white man may cling
to the tottering fabric of his Far Eastern commerce,
but his hold is precarious. And so forth.
How swiftly the New Order movement has
gained momentum was shown by the observance, in
the beginning of March, of an organised “New Order
Week” at Shanghai. Slogans and banners were scat-
tered throughout Japan, Manchuria and all the terri-
tory controlled by Japan in China, accompanied by
radio addresses in several languages, exhorting the
peoples of East Asia to rally in support of the New
Order. Five Chinese leaders of the subsidised
“puppet” regime gave broadcast talks. Speeches testi-
fied to the enthusiasm with which the “New Order”
Chinese welcome the idea of political and economic
co-operation with Japan. Mr. Wen Tsung-yao de-
clared that the New Order would not be completely
established until Europe and America should have con-
ceded the demands of East Asia, including full racial
equality, the abolition of extra-territorial rights and
the Open Door for Asiatic immigration.
For the past two years British public opinion has
been continually assured by the House of Commons
and reassured by the semi-official experts of Chatham
House that national unity has been effectively achieved
in China under the leadership of Chiang Kai-shek and
that this spirit of unity has enabled China to put up
a successful resistance to the invader. This belief
has been proclaimed with such unanimity in the press
here and in the United States that, in assisting the
Kuomintang with funds, the British Government can
fairly claim to be pursuing a policy of which the
nation approves.
It is undoubtedly true that China’s guerrilla forces
have succeeded, beyond all expectations, in making
things uncomfortable for the Japanese ; the idea that
this success is due to political unity is, nevertheless, a
delusion, born of wishful thinking. It is a delusion
that has been persistently fostered by the ardent propa-
gandists for China, whose activities have been con-
tinually conspicuous since 1931, first at Geneva and
later in the League of Nations Union. The impulsive
sympathies of these “friends of China” have led them
into error and into misleading public opinion, chiefly
because they have never been willing to face the un-
pleasant truth that the permanent cause of China’s
lack of unity lies in the inveterate money-lust of the
official, or educated, class, a truth which the Chinese
themselves, in discussing their domestic politics, freely
admit.
The delusive nature of the political-unity idea is
sufficiently indicated by the attitude of the Cantonese
party, whose leaders (Wang Ching-wei, Wen Tsung-
yao, etc.) are now openly working, as they have often
done before, against the Generalissimo. Moreover,
the veteran northern war lord, Wu Pei-fu, is toying
with the Japanese proposal to make him President of
a new Federal Government of China, while the
“puppet” Government of Nanking has recently sent
ragged Chinese troops to assist the Japanese against
the guerrillas operating in the vicinity of the Shanghai
Settlements. These manifestations of disloyalty are all
unheeded ; the parrot-cry of political unity continues
to resound in the high places of our politics, and once
again failure to understand the mentality of the
Chinese is responsible for the drift and error of
Britain’s Far Eastern policy.
Since Chiang Kai-shek cannot hope to do more
than to harass the invader and since, on the other
hand, the invader’s New Order cannot hope to extend
beyond the limits controlled by Japan’s military forces,
there would seem to be every prospect of a long-
drawn stalemate. Such, however, is the deep-rooted
individualism of the Chinese, and such the severity of
economic pressure on all classes, that out of this
stalemate a modus vivendi may very possibly be con-
trived, such as would give to the Japanese their coveted
monopoly of exploitation and to the native-born a
satisfying share of well-paid posts and “face.” Nor
is it by any means impossible that a compromise
might be effected between the new “Federal” Gov-
ernment at Nanking and a separate Chiang Kai-shek
Government, controlling the western hinterland of
Yunnan, Kueichou and Szechuan. Several precedents
are to be found in Chinese history for such a solution,
Szechuan having more than once provided a defeated
chieftain with a last stronghold and an independent
kingdom.
In that event, can Japan carry out the vast busi-
ness of China’s reorganisation? Could her financial
structure stand the strain? On these questions the
prevailing spirit in Tokio is one of optimism, based
on Japan’s achievements without recourse to foreign
capital in the development of Korea and Formosa.
The slow industrial development of Australia, New
Zealand and Canada is compared with Japan’s rapid
progress in Korea and Formosa, where the volume of
foreign trade has been increased over twenty-fold, and
the opinion is held that the financial structure of
Japan is strong enough to disregard any threat of
trade boycotts or economic pressure which the
Western Powers might bring to bear.
Whether capable of fulfilment or not, there can
be no doubt that the Military party’s dream of a great
Japanese Empire, exceeding in glory that of ancient
Rome or modern England, is one which appeals
powerfully to the great mass of the people. The es-
tablishment of Japanese suzerainty over Northern and
Central China has long been regarded as a national
plan, to be carried out at the first favorable oppor-
tunity. The nation has bided its time since the set-
back of the Washington Conference, steadily prepar-
ing itself, as the opportunity was seen to be taking
shape, with England putting her trust in the Covenant
of the League and allowing herself to be disarmed to
the level of a third-rate Power. To-day, as in 1915,
the men who rule Japan believe that their star has
risen in the East, and the New Order, rapidly de-
veloping before our eyes, is the outcome of that belief.
Smuggling Jews into Palestine.
[The thorny-enough job of administering the Pales-
tine mandate now in the process of being made con-
siderably more difficult by the wholesale smuggling
of Jews into the country, as described by a London
“Times” correspondent in Jerusalem.]
Illegal Jewish immigrants into Palestine probably
equal the number of those legally allowed to enter.
In them the British Government has a problem of the
first magnitude. It is reliably estimated that in the past
year some 7000 have gained admission illegally, and
that to-day the figure exceeds the thousand legally
admitted a month.
In 1933-38 it is estimated that most of the 25,000
travellers who overstayed their visitors’ permits re-
mained illegally, and in addition there were those who
escaped any record by slipping furtively over the land
and water frontiers. But all this was on a small scale
compared with what is happening now. Unscrupulous
steamship agents have connived with Zionist enthusi-
asts and the police of Jew-baiting Governments to
facilitate refuge in Palestine for the frantic fugitives
from persecution.
The Odyssey of these unfortunates has yet to be
written in detail. We catch glimpses of them making
their way individually across Europe to Black Sea or
Eastern Mediterranean ports, or being allowed to hide
in the holds of the great Danube barges drifting down
stream to the East. Jewish agents with correspondents
in Palestine then arrange for transport in small Greek
and Rumanian steamers, and even sailing vessels,
which are attracted to the trade by the exorbitant
fares —£20 or £4O for hardly more than sitting room
in an overcrowded, dirty vessel. Packed with their
human cargo the ships set out for Palestine, and after
perhaps three or even five miserable weeks at sea come
in sight of the coast.
There are only two harbors, but the sandy shore
offers many an unwatched landing place. Here the
refugees are within hailing distance of the Land of
Hope to a people without a country, but as they have
no permits they must wait outside territorial waters
until dark, when they can attempt a landing in small
boats. They generally land between Tel Aviv and
Haifa, since here are many Jewish colonies ready to
hide them. If they get ashore successfully they are
met by omnibuses, and even by armed ghaffirs (watch-
men), who quickly scatter them in the Jewish settle-
ments.
These illegal immigrants come practically penni-
less, and have no documents to indicate their origin.
The result is that when they are caught no country will
accept responsibility for receiving them back. They
reach Palestine as an entirely unselected group, with
none of the safeguards or guarantees associated with
normal immigration.
The refusal of the Jewish Agency to admit that
his Majesty’s Government has the legal right to im-
pose any restriction other than economic absorptive
capacity upon immigration means that the business
has the moral backing of the people as a whole. In
short, the Jews are definitely taking the matter in their
own hands and ignoring the authority of Government.
What can be done to check illegal immigration,
or, better, to solve the problem without worsening the
already tense relations between Jews and Arabs?
Small vessels may be confiscated, but the profits are so
large that others are ready to succeed them. Penalties
levied on the captains of larger vessels are wholly
inadequate. And if caught there remains the un-
pleasant task of deciding what to do with the unfor-
tunates aboard them. Placing the illegals in concen-
tration camps is no solution. It is only a method of
delayed admission.
So far the Arabs have left it to the Government
to find a solution. If Government fail, it will soon be
suggested that if an Arab Government were set up
it would know how to deal with the matter.
The only fair, constructive way, short of the re-
laxation of the persecution of Jews in the countries
where they have lived so long, is to find some more
commodious and hopeful land for settlement than
Palestine. Should endeavors in this direction fail, one
is tempted once again to consider some form of par-
tition which would strictly delimit the area of Jewish
expansion in Palestine and place upon Jews them-
selves the distasteful task of controlling their immi-
gration, and, when the country is overtaxed, to refuse
further admissions. Perhaps only thus can part of
the country be saved for the Arabs and open civil
war between the two races avoided.
Danzig Waits.
[This graphic picture of Danzig, over which a
world war might possibly be fought, is condensed
from an article by a London “Times” special corre-
spondent in that “Free City.”]
On the pier at Zoppot, which Danzigers proudly
claim to be the longest on the Continent, the swastika
flag flies and the band plays German military marches.
Across the bay Polish destroyers lie at anchor and
units of Poland’s small submarine fleet slip in and
out of Gdynia. In the streets of Danzig itself Ger-
mans in the uniform of the S.A. and S.S. stroll about,
and police in grey-green uniforms, looking for all the
world like soldiers in the Reich, are everywhere to be
seen. A few miles away, on the wooded hills just
across the frontier, the khaki-clad troops of the Polish
Republic watch the Free City, determined that, how-
ever German the Danzigers may b 6, the delta of the
Vistula shall not return to Germany.
The Danzigers—4oo,ooo of themi in a territory
about the size of a small English county —look hope-
fully towards Berlin, knowing that there and not in
their Senate House the vital decisions will be taken.
They argue that, after all, the Corridor is very
narrow and German troops would, if the worst came
to the worst, quickly push across it and come to
the rescue of the Free City. Help would also come
from East Prussia, although the Polish claim that the
forces of the Republic would be in Konigsberg within
10 days of the outbreak of war is not regarded as
fantastic. As for the Polish batteries at Hel, which
would bombard Danzig from the sea, the Deutsch-
land or the Gneisenau might be trusted to take care
of them.
Nevertheless, it is fully realised that, whatever
the ultimate outcome of a war between Germany and
Poland, its early stages would probably be extremely
painful for Danzig. Therefore, all hopes are pinned
on Herr Hitler, who, it is thought, having achieved
so much without bloodshed, will surely find some way
of avoiding a conflict of which Danzig would bear
the first shock. The present position, it is said, in which
the foreign affairs, the Customs, and the railways of
Turnip Ghosts
From London “Evening Standard”: —
Troops who fought in the Spanish
war have been welcomed back in Ham-
burg.
We were told that they would stay in
Spain, that they would build airfields, that
they would take over the conduct of the
whole country. This was the story.
We live in a world of bogeymen and
turnip ghosts.
Newspapers in Australia which spread the
same false stories of Germans and Italians
staying on in Spain have made no attempt to
correct their “information.” But that is only
to be expected of them. They have not yet
admitted that a single Russian or French sol-
dier fought on the other side nor published a
line about the French and Russian war material
sent in enormous quantity into the “Republi-
can” part of Spain from the beginning of the
civil war onwards.


the Free City lie under Polish control cannot long
continue.
Yet to a neutral observer there seems to be little
in the situation of Danzig which should be intolerable
to a German, apart from the fact that the city is not
actually a legal part of the Reich. There are probably
more Nazi uniforms here, more pictures of the Fiihrer,
more swastika flags than in any German town of the
same size. Every aspect of National-Socialism is
given free play, from anti-Semitism to the Winter
Help organisation. Prominent Nazi leaders come and
go freely, giving Danzig at least as much attention
as other German towns. Tourists from the Reich,
attracted by special currency concessions, flock to
Zoppot in the summer, and Danzigers spend their
holidays in the Reich.
In fact, the casual visitor to Danzig might be
forgiven for not realising that he was not in Germany.
Only the occasional glimpse in the streets of a strange
khaki uniform indicates that there are Polish Customs
and postal officials in the town. But the Polish eagle
on a railway carriage in the station is a reminder that
it is the Polish and not the German State railways
which control Danzig lines ; at the frontier the Danzig
Customs officials are supervised by Poles.
Yet for the price in foreign control which the
Danziger pays he obtains solid advantages. His city
is the second port for Poland, the outlet of a rich
agricultural hinterland. Notwithstanding the rapid
growth of Gdynia in recent years, the entire Polish
timber trade still passes through Danzig, and much of
the Republic’s coal, minerals, and agricultural pro-
duce is still shipped from there. Danzig banks, in
contrast to those of the Reich, are rich in foreign
exchange, and the man in the street knows that he
can obtain eggs, butter, white flour, and coffee to any
extent in Danzig and that he cannot do so in Germany.
If Danzig were to become a truly German port most
of its prosperity would vanish.
All this is realised, and influences the opinion of
many Danzigers, but on the whole such arguments
weigh little against the almost mystic yearning for
reunion with the Fatherland. And so Danzig waits.
Public Opinion in Germany.
{Condensed from a letter by Charles Roden Buxton
in Manchester “Guardian.")
Tfie purpose of this letter is to urge the import-
ance of studying German public opinion. We rely for
the most part on the reports of journalists and English
visitors, but a study of Herr Hitler’s speeches is also
of great significance. They are extremely important
evidence as to what Germans are thinking and feeling.
And this is a question which (even if we are consider-
ing only the probability of war or the morale of the
German people in the event of war) is a highly practi-
cal one.
Perhaps the most significant thing about the
speech of April 28 is that more than one quarter of
it is devoted to a somewhat labored defence of the
action taken in Bohemia and Moravia in March. This
is clear evidence that grave uneasiness was felt at that
time among large sections of the people, and that it
was still felt six weeks later.
It is clear that Germans had become aware of
the alarm universally caused outside Germany by this
reversal of everything hitherto regarded as the essence
of their national policy of racial unification; had
become aware of the way in which, on every side,
people were anxiously asking the question: “Where
is the next blow going to fall?” For us, on the other
hand, it is important to realise the effect on their
minds of a military combination against them. The
fact that it was largely an answer to their own Govern-
ment’s policy in March was not enough to outweigh
the belief in “encirclement.”
This belief in “encirclement” leads to a further
conclusion —that Great Britain contemplates war
against Germany. Herr Hitler, after referring to the
conviction he had previously held that a war between
England and Germany would never again be possible,
said:
“I am, however, now compelled to state that the
policy of England is both unofficially and officially
leaving no doubt about the fact that such a conviction
is no longer shared in London, and that, on the con-
trary, the opinion prevails there that, no matter in
what conflict Germany should one day be entangled,
Great Britain would always have to take her stand
against Germany. Thus a war against Germany is
taken for granted in that country.”
This is probably the most serious factor in the
present dangerous situation; for it means that the
German people could be persuaded to enter upon a
war with Great Britain —reluctantly, of course, but
with the same sense of the justice of their cause as in
1914. They seem to feel that the case is convincing.
They believe that the British Empire, out of jealousy
and fear, is denying to Germany that reasonable “liv-
ing space” which every great nation claims ; although
it obtained this living space by means no more and
no less respectable than they, in their turn, are now
employing. They are not conscious of grudging, or
threatening, the British Empire’s living space, and they
regard it is an unjustifiable interference that the British
Empire should deny them theirs.
What does “encirclement” really mean to the
German mind? To answer this we must look more
closely at the conception of “living space.” Each of
Herr Hitler’s principal speeches marks a step forward
in defining it. It is made up of three elements — (a)
unity, (b) prosperity, (c) security. More and more
emphasis has been laid in the last year or two on the
second element —the economic aspect. The economic
difference between those living at “140 to the square
kilometre” and those more happily situated is now the
theme, to a great extent, of every speech. (The British
Empire, not Britain, is, of course, treated as the unit.)
The economic difficulties, which were overwhelm-
ing at the time of the great depression (beginning in
1930) and which were in fact the main factor in bring-
ing about the Nazi regime, have been intensified. They
are in some measure due to Germany’s own fault in
setting up a rigid system of autarky, but they are
inherent in Germany’s situation.
Germany is a country whose natural resources
(both in raw materials and in food) are inadequate to
support her large population and expanding indus-
tries. She is far more dependent on the outside world
than the British Empire or any Great Power, except
Italy and Japan. Yet she finds the outside world
largely closed to her, owing to the economic national-
ism which prevails. She is now subject to an economic
and financial boycott, none the less real because it is
largely caused by her own policy. Senator Pittman,
chairman of the U.S. Foreign Relations Committee, is
reported as saying: “We need not fight the Germans,
because we can starve them out.” The trade missions
now visiting the Balkan States seem to them to be
designed to carry this policy farther. All this is
vividly realised and keenly felt.
Underlying all particular policies is the conten-
tion that Germany has never been able to obtain the
slightest alleviation or concession, however reasonable,
by the method of conference and negotiation.
One point remains, which has an element of hope
in it. Herr Hitler appears to think it necessary to
meet, to some extent, the views of those Germans who
believe in a genuine comity of nations, or, at least, of
European nations. It is satisfactory to note that this
section of German opinion cannot be ignored.
Ex-service Men Fraternise.
[ln striking contrast to most of the quarrelsome
stuff that figures in cables, this item from a London
“Times” report indicates the feelings of men who have
already fought in one war.]
The final session of the annual conference of the
British Legion opened with a reference to the value
of friendly contacts between ex-service men of all
countries, former enemies included.
The chairman, Sir Francis Fetherston-Godley, said
that the worse the situation was with Germany the
more necessary it was for the ex-service men of both
countries to try to exchange viewpoints. In their move-
ment they had always to consider public opinion, but
he did not want anyone to think that all contact with
ex-service men, of whatever country they were mem-
bers, had been closed. It had not. It might be, for
the time being, politic for the official bodies to make
no move, but contacts were going on in other ways.
Members of the Legion went abroad on business and
met ex-service men there. That form of contact was
the best of all. The council believed that ex-service
men were the key to the position for the spread of
peaceful ideas in Europe.
General Sir lan Hamilton said it was useful in
these days to know what one’s opposite number was
thinking. For that reason he proposed to read some
extracts from a letter recently received from a highly-
placed German. Although the letter was written and
dated from Berlin on April 22, it was actually posted
a month later on May 24. It was censored, and it
would be interesting to know why it had been held up
for a month and then released. The writer of the
letter said:
“I will never forget the fine and splendid work
which the British Legion has done, in co-operation with
our ex-service men, for peace and goodwill. Bad
times may last some time, but at the end goodwill
and commonsense have always come.
“I am thoroughly convinced that the good work
which we have achieved for peace and understanding
has never been in vain and that one day the ex-service
men will play a most important part. Their activity
cannot be replaced by anyone else.
“Don’t you think it would be good if the leading
men on our organisations would keep up a certain
personal contact in spite of all difficulties? If one day
the anxiety to find an agreement becomes stronger and
overcomes all obstacles, it would at least mean losing
valuable time if all threads had been interrupted.
History shows that the greatest chances have been found
just at the moment when pessimists and sceptics have
used the word ‘impossible,’ which ex-service men do not
know.”
The conference unanimously carried a resolution
thanking the council for its great efforts in the cause
of peace and friendship by establishing friendly con-
tacts with ex-service men of other nations and express-
ing the hope that the same policy would be vigorously
pursued for the benefit not only of ex-service men but
of mankind in general.
A Union of Democracies.
[Clarence K. Streit’s book Union Now is being
widely read in the U.S A., where it is something of a
best-seller, and has been reviewed at length in most
English papers. A general outline of the author’s
visionary proposals is given in the article here con-
densed from the “Reader’s Digest” for June, having
appeared originally in “Fortune.”]
Mr. Streit is a dreamer and his book is perhaps
a dream. Nevertheless the votaries of liberty will lay
this book aside with a sigh, rather than with a shrug.
For it conjures up a vision of the greatest political
and economic opportunity in history.
He proposes that the democracies of the world
join together, not in alliance, not in league, but in a
union analogous to the American Union. Each citizen
of those democracies would be a citizen of that union,
precisely as each citizen of the 48 States is a citizen
of the United States. There would thus be formed a
new and gigantic nation, with a capital of its own, an
executive board, a Senate, a House of Representatives,
a judiciary. It would have power to frame the union’s
foreign policy. But with regard to internal affairs
its powers would be strictly limited.
Mr. Streit would invite 15 States into the union
as founders. Others would be admitted as the world
situation permits, provided they adopt a Bill of Rights.
Counting the independent dominions of Britain as
separate States, the founders would be: the U.S.A.,
Great Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the
Union of South Africa, Ireland, France, Belgium, the
Netherlands, Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway
and Finland.
No two States in this group have been at war
with each other for over 100 years. Their total popu-
lation would be about 280,000,000, half in Europe,
half overseas. With one Representative in the House
for each 500,000 of population, there would be roughly
540 Representatives, and the U.S. would fall just short
of a majority with 252. If the States of the British
Empire voted together they could muster 140. Thus,
neither Britain nor the U.S. could control the House
alone, though they could together. Their relative
position would be reversed in the Senate, where (to
protect the small States) Mr. Streit allows two Senators
for each 25,000,000 of population, or fraction thereof.
The union would establish single postal and com-
munications systems, abolish all tariffs between its
members, and set up a single currency. All colonies
would be pooled. Individual Britons, Hollanders and
Frenchmen would retain title to their properties in
Africa, Asia and the isles of the East; but the U.S.
citizen would acquire a political interest in them
nevertheless, and their exploitation would redound to
his advantage. These territories would bring the total
population of the union up to 900,000,000, or nearly
half the population of the earth.
The economic might of this union would be pro-
digious. These States already produce 96 per cent, of
the world’s nickel, 95 per cent, of the rubber, 73 per
cent, of the iron ore, 72 per cent, of the gold and tin,
66 per cent, of the oil, 65 per cent, of the coal, and
65 per cent, of the raw cotton. The rate of exploita-
tion, manufacture and marketing of these resources
would be enormously increased if the present inter-
national barriers were broken down. What is now
international trade would then become domestic trade,
with all the preference and protection that implies.
Gigantic opportunities would be opened up. A
rise in the standard of living of millions of con-
sumers would result from the expansion of markets
and the consequent lowering of prices for mass-
produced goods. There would be an inevitable revival
in shipping and in railroads, and hence in the capital-
goods industries behind them. Industrial unemploy-
ment might, therefore, almost disappear. And at the
same time the union’s agricultural products would
obtain preference in union markets, as against the
products of non-member States. A genuine union of
the democracies thus opens up an unprecedented vista
of industrial growth.
The new union would maintain a common army
and navy. The autocracies would certainly recoil
from challenging the military might of the 15 States
in question. And enormous savings could be effected
in armaments, especially in the present naval building
programme. The security of the world would be
enhanced.
The core of Mr. Striet’s idea —and as a New York
“Times” correspondent at Geneva for nine years, he
knows whereof he speaks—is the penetrating distinc-
tion he makes between alliance and league, on the one
hand, and union on the other. Alliances are tempo-
rary political expedients quite as apt to breed war as
to prevent it. And the league is equally futile.
Whereas a league is a collection of States, a union is a
collection of people ; and its powers are derived directly
from the people. There is inherent in the union the
same binding principle which, in separate States, is
known as “nationalism” ; indeed, it is nationalism, but
on a superscale. ■
Innumerable arguments against the practicality
of the scheme can be adduced —the scattered geograph-
ical positions of the democracies, their differing lan-
guages, cultures and economic habits, for instance.
To some of these objections there are answers.
The geographical distribution of the proposed union
presents no problem greater than that which con-
fronted the American founders. New York is closer
now to London than Boston was to Philadelphia in
1789; the transoceanic airplane will soon bring it
closer to Australia than it was formerly to Charleston.
But the objections to Union Now, and the answers
to the objections, are not really to the point. The
book is not cited here as a “practical,” and certainly
not as an immediate, solution to the troubles of the
democracies. It is cited because, merely to keep what
he has already won, man must always progress; and
to progress he must always have a vision of something
that he has not yet won.
And who knows? Visions sometimes come true.
"Near-war" costs
From the report presented by J. G. Winant
to the International Labor Conference:
Rearmament cannot continue at the
present rate of acceleration without eventually
absorbing so much of the national income of
many countries as will prove intolerable. A
point may come when defence expenditure-
will cause actual starvation in the lower-
income groups. Before this happens, it may be
hoped that some general international settle-
ment will intervene.
But it must be realised that, even in this
case, most countries in the world would have
to face the tremendous problems of readjust-
ment to a peace-time economy. Serious econo-
mic re-employment problems will arise, de-
manding urgent solution.
Some means of absorbing the. workers
thrown out of employment by the slowing
down of armament production — or, in other
words, of facilitating the change-over of in-
dustry from armaments to normal peace-time
production —will have to be devised.
We- know that the diversion of a substan-
tial part of the total income of any nation from
useful production and services to armaments
reduces standards of living. We know these
costs are added to each loaf of bread we buy,
to every acre- of land we cultivate, and to the
length of the day we labor to earn a living.
These costs are the realities under the intan-
gible shadow of war.
The wastage involved in the existing con-
dition of “near war” is not very different from
that which would be produced by war itself.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
From a Grand National standpoint the
Caulfield performances of Pooley Bridge
and Turf Boy on Saturday were highly
impressive. Pooley Bridge carried 12.5
to victory in the Toolambool Hurdle;
Turf Boy won the Wanda Steeple with
21b. more. Each was untroubled at the
finish.
Whereas Turf Boy always was a hot
favorite for his race, Pooley Bridge weak-
ened from threes to fives in wagering on
the Toolambool Hurdle. Punters made
Cape Race (Cape Horn-Ragfair) their
first choice, at threes. This gelding had
finished second to Pooley Bridge at
Flemington on June 3.
Reason for Cape Race being in such
strong request was unapparent. Clem
Hill, V.A.T.C. weight-adjuster, had made
him meet “Pooley” on exactly the same
relative terms as at headquarters a fort-
night before.
Supporters of Pooley Bridge did not
like his being in front half a mile from
home. It looked as if too much use was
being made of the topweight. But Pooley
Bridge scored so easily that the stewards
censured S. McKee for easing him up
when nearing the post. Nevizes beat
Bridge of Dee by a head for second.
None of the horses that finished behind
Bert Foulsham’s champion seem to have
any chance against him on July 1.
Nevizes displayed considerable improve-
ment on his form at Williamstown in the
race won by Kevastar, but a stablemate.
Green Cape, is presumed to be Bill
Burke’s main hope.
Judgment may be suspended in the
case of Imitari, who crashed at the
second obstacle. Stan Reid has given this
Baralong gelding a searching preparation,
and, bar accident, he may have to be
reckoned with in the National.
Turf Boy (7 to 4) had the drop on his
Wanda Steeple rivals from post to finish.
Alex. Fullarton allowed Trentwood and
Elegance to lead on sufferance at inter-
mediate stages, but the race was all over
bar shouting with half a mile to go.
Minor places were filled by Fulham
(twelves) and Jack Tar (25 to 1). Five
years ago Fulham appropriated the
Grand National Hurdle. A season later
he was runner-up to Sixteen Annas in
the Australian Hurdle and won the Aus-
tralian Steeple. Age has not greatly im-
paired his ability to gallop and jump.
Fullarton rode Turf Boy when he fin-
ished third in the Great Eastern at Oak-
bank (S.A.) on Easter Monday, and when
he lost the V.R.C. Royal Steeple to
Deckard by a head on June 12. No
arrangement as to the Grand National
mount had been made before Saturday.
M. T. McGrath, the owner-trainer, said:
“Fullarton is waiting to see how he runs
this time.”
Discovery of a promising juvenile was
made in the Minook Two-year-old, San
Carlos, a Beau Fils colt, smothering two
outsiders, Olympus and Magnetic Knight,
over the final furlongs. Trained by a
brother of Turf Boy’s owner, he started
at fives, being next in request to The
Progeny (9 to 4), who failed badly.
Downfall of The Trump in the Rich-
mond Handicap at twos shocked his ad-
mirers. They could not understand why
he should be last at the half-mile. How-
ever, Elwood Fisher declared that Pibroch
would win if a fast pace was set.
Quoted at 11 to 2, Pibroch had two
lengths to spare from Minim, with Frill
Prince third. The 1| miles occupied only
2min. 6Jsec., thanks to Ramdin trying
to steal the race. Frill Prince ought not
to be at 25 to 1 when next produced. He
won the Moonee Valley Cup of 1937,
beating Mala and Nightguard.
Receding from twos to threes, Hilton
nevertheless came to light splendidly in
the Rosny Plate. He reached the judge
two lengths in advance of Aurie’s Star,
with Kanuri a head farther off. Winner,
owned by W. R. Kemball, is a three-
year-old by Beau Frere.
Keelie (imp.) was at threes for the
Cambria Welter, but ran disappointingly.
Plymouth Hoe (eights) followed up his
recent Williamstown success by inflicting
a half-neck defeat on the unlucky High
Commissioner.
Pooley Bridge has been raised 31b. —-
to list. 131 b.—in the National Hurdle
for his success at Caulfield. That means
61b. less than his Toolambool Hurdle
weight. His party expected more, and
he is now naturally a warm favorite.
Turf Boy’s weight in the National Steeple
remains at 12st. He also is likely to go
out favorite, though at present Deckard
has pride of place.
=l= * * * •
Rain in Sydney affected the attend-
ance at Rosehill, but little fell on the
course, and the track looked particu-
larly well. Though four favorites won,
the bookmakers suffered no harm.
Forward made the Dundas Handicap
a good race for the Ring. When in the
mood and down in the weights he is no
mean sprinter. He started at 10 to 1, and,
ridden by Jim Pike’s apprentice, Fell,
ran clean away from the opposition at
the finish. The favorite, Royal Prince,
essayed to lead throughout, and Darby
Munro kept him in front till the Leger
was reached, but when Forward chal-
lenged Royal Prince’s effort was feeble.
Valhalla was to have started from the
rails position, but was sent to the out-
side for being fractious. His third to
Forward and Royal Prince drew attention
to his future prospects, for he raced wide
all the way and came home strongly.
It is now clear that Vestal should
have won the Winter Plate at Randwick.
Favorite for the Rosehill June Handicap
—at sto 2 —she had the measure of her
field at the home turn, coming away
from Hedonic and Gold Spark to win
by four lengths. Lappin rode the Pan-
theon mare and secured a nice position
in the first half-mile. Diamond Wedding
made the running, but this filly looks as
poor as a blackfellow’s dog, and she
dropped out at the top of the straight.
Jocular failed to stay the distance, a mile
and a quarter, and so did Speardale, who
is. more at home in mile welters. Cherry
Bar looked a danger at the home turn,
but Allunga’s stablemate found the jour-
ney too far.
Though Hectic, on form, had the best
credentials in the first division of the
Maiden Juvenile, her price drifted from
threes to fives. It came back to 7to 2,
and Sawyer landed her a winner by half a
neck from Canvasser, with Asnazu, hav-
ing his first start, half a head away.
Decelea was fourth. Deanna, a nice
Spearhead filly, daughter of a once-useful
performer, Lovebox, was the opening
favorite. She ran last.
Wee Warrah, a son of Magpie, could
gallop, and he has imparted speed to
at least one of his offspring—Goose Boy,
a small gelding, trained by Dewsbury for
Colonel Rutledge at Warwick Farm.
Goose Boy won the second division and
gave the bookies virtually a clean sheet,
as he went out at 15 to 1. Zel, owned
by Mandel the bookmaker, was in front
until the last few yards. Step Out, whose
owner won a Sydney Cup with Crucis,
was third. Trump Card, the favorite, ran
like a green ’un, losing lengths at the half-
mile. His strong run up the straight sug-
gests an early win. He is trained by
Jamieson for F. P. McCabe.
Belvoir came from Melbourne with a
bad reputation. A course of hurdling
has mended his manners. Politesse beat
him at Canterbury, but he cantered home
at Rosebery, and, penalised 51b., led all
the way in the Three-year-old Handicap
at Rosehill. Darby Munro rode him
along to take the lead, and then sat still;
but he had to bring the whip into play
to hold off Sologram and Shipley. The
last-named met with interference in the
last furlong. Belvoir started at 7 to 2
after a bet of £SOO to £2OO was taken.
Back in the business after an unfor-
tunate misunderstanding with the
stewards, Billy Cook was given the mount
on the locally-trained Morning Gift in
the Parramatta Mile. The mare raced
kindly for Cook, and after leading all
the way had enough in reserve to stall
off the hot favorite, Disalto, who had the
run of the race, but was not quite good
enough. Light Dragoon was third and
Sailmaker fourth. Reremoa, a winner on
the North Coast, showed pace and can be
placed to advantage.
Just when he looked certain to head
the jockeys’ list for the 1938-39 season.
Darby Munro has been suspended for
two months. There was interference in
the Dundas Handicap, Tarn being the
worst sufferer, and the stewards held that
Munro’s “careless riding was respon-
sible.” He is appealing to the A.J.C.
committee, but in these cases the com-
mittee rarely interferes with the judg-
ment of its stewards —whose terms, by
the way, have been renewed. Munro’s
total when the blow fell was 78 wins,
76 being outright and two dead-heats.
McCarten was next to him with 75 wins,
one a dead-heat.
* * * *
Many times during many years
members of the A.J.C. have criticised
the method of electing committeemen,
the number thereof and the term for
which they hold office. Asa result
of a meeting held in Sydney last week—•
there was an unusually large attendance
—the whole thorny subject is to be re-
ferred to members by post in the form
of a questionnaire. This is to oblige
country members, scores of whom sent
word that, though keenly interested, they
were unable to attend the meeting.
* * * *
Though Gold Rod is not to race in
the Doomben events, there will be strong
representation of southerners. Not only
racing people but taxgatherers are in-
terested. Queensland taxgatherers are
the most pertinacious of their breed, and
no southron can expect to win a race
or collect a substantial second or third
prize without having a heart-to-heart
talk with them or having to conduct an
animated correspondence by post.
* * * *
Leftwich, the owner of Buzalong, must
think a lot of that horse. He refused
2250 guineas for the Caulfield Cup
winner in Sydney last week at a sale
conducted by the Inglis firm. It seems
a pretty good price for a gelding that
will be six years in a few weeks, and
whose form has been so thoroughly ex-
posed that he is up among the nine-
stoners, though not in the w.f.a. class;
but Leftwich wanted more. There was
spirited competition for some of C. B.
Kellow’s brood mares, the highest price
being 750 guineas for Belle Gallante, by
Cyklon-Isa. Hush, the trainer, bought
Jocular for 500 guineas, and Mackinnon
had to go to 800 guineas for the two-
year-old Bel Oiseau, by Beau Pere-Joy-
bird. Castoffs from various studs went
very cheap, Matthews, the bookmaker,
snapping up a lot of them.
* * * *
Frank Bullock, who has been training
in England since he retired from the
saddle, is returning to Melbourne to rape
half a dozen English horses—Old Ser-
pent, Flying Dart, Silver Collar, Arpina,
Quartermaster and Contact—as partner
of his trainer-son F.L. With him comes
his father, Jim Bullock, who has shared
the son’s fortunes for many years.
Grandpa Bullock, now rising 81, was
just as good a rider as his son, but
weight prevented him from following the
same profession. He joined the Vic-
torian police, and tamed many an outlaw
for that body in the late ’eighties and
’nineties. When the mounted police put
on a show, Trooper Bullock’s riding of
buckjumpers was the star turn.
* * * *
“Mud”: It isn’t always the punter who
is the mug. These days the forehead of
our local s.p. man looks like a sheet of
ŵ
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Windarra Hurdle: Cheery Jack ;
next, Imitari.
Steeple: Grantley ; next, Wake-
rife.
Chandos Handicap: Bow Tie;
next, Stoic.
Deep Creek Handicap: Prince
Sion; next, Namakia.
Greenvale Welter: French Gem ;
next, Keelie.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Politesse ; next,
Valhalla.
Canterbury Handicap: Cable
Boy ; next, Masterpiece.
Park Stakes: Rummage ; next,
Light Dragoon. .


ITS
From out of the future comes “NEW LISTENING” . . .
The result of fulfilled laboratory experimentation and vital
new features creating amazing all-round performance,
“NEW LISTENING” is brilliant beyond belief . . . breathes
new life into every programme.
Don’t take it for granted! Treat yourself to a new thrill—
experience “NEW LISTENING” at your nearest Philips
Radioplayer Retailer!
Model 1852
For Electric Mains.
(World-Wide.)
Price 25 GNS.
MODEL 1840, Battery
Operated, is available in a
Cabinet of similar design.
Price 28 GNS.
The
Symbol
of Quality!
Model 1941
“The Wonder Set of
To-day.”
For A.C. Operation.
Price 13 GNS.
MODEL 1949 is avail-
able Battery Operated
in a similar cabinet.
Price 19 GNS.
With “NEW LISTENING” also comes
amazing value! These are some of the
new Philips Radioplayers which incorporate the new Philips
design and construction, radical new features, and modern,
appealing cabinets. Pride is the privilege of a Radioplayer
owner . . . and satisfaction a certainty.
HEAR THEM IN YOUR OWN HOME!
See your nearest Philips Retailer , or write
or f phone your local Philips Office.
PHILIPS
ẁ
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS AND VALVES


if
fy&ueje
TRUTH •
Either your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. Have complete confidence in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate —the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed ♦ g k
Accurate — 14/UTV
Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
flat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
Price,
ntmsfKiEY
TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., Vic.
Co-mg. t<y luo&ftic- LIIPZIE
9
Since the 12th Century Leipzig has held its own as
the world’s most famous market. For the past 700
years manufacturers and business men have met twice
yearly in this pleasant city to buy and sell for mutual
benefit.
Leipzig offers the newest and best in all types of
merchandise and mechanical equipment. It will pay
YOU to consider Leipzig in your buying plans.
LEIPZIG
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
Commences August 27th, 1939.
Comprising; General
Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment, Furniture,
Sports Goods, Photo-
graphic, Engineering
and liuilding Fairs.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL
will be exhibited.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) and
Letters of Introduction available of Lars C. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair, Challis House, Martin Place,
G. Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne; J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
H. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Australians are always welcome in Greater Germany.
Under the Whip
Jack Fryer, the M.L. trainer who
settled in Melbourne after landing the
1936 Cup with Wotan, has lost the
horses he trained for G. J. Barton. They
have been transferred to the care of
H. Wolters at Mentone. This happening
caused as much stir as the severance of
relations between W. R. Kemball and
George Jones a few years ago. Jones
began a lawsuit against Kemball, but it
was settled out of court.
Jones, who handled Limerick at one
stage of that horse's career, won a fair
share of races for Kemball, and Barton
had no reason for complaint against
Fryer in that regard.
Close friendship exists between Barton
and Balloch, a master-baker in Mel-
bourne. On June 12 Balloch’s Ruck
Man beat Barton’s Desert Chief in the
V.R.C. Birthday Handicap. So far from
jealousy being aroused, Barton immedi-
ately decided that Desert Chief should
become a stablemate of his conqueror.
* * * *
Outsiders with the minimum impost
have got home on a number of occasions
in the Grand National Hurdle. Aquarius
(1900), Arquebuse (1911), Rathfarnham
(1915), Narahquong (1918), Coybeau
(1927) and Longlands (1928) each carried
9st., and started at substantial odds.
It is a far cry from a Trial Hurdle
at Mentone to a National at Flemington,
but Lord Lytton (Verbius-Oakdene)
scored so convincingly last Wednesday
that he cannot entirely be discarded as
a candidate for the highest jumping
honors.
Favorite at 5 to 2 in a field of eleven,
Lord Lytton gave most of his rivals a
long start over the first mile, but jumped
like a stag and mowed them down from
the straight entrance. He is engaged in
both Nationals.
Lord Lytton hails from Tasmania, but
was bred at Sol Green’s Bacchus Marsh
stud. His dam, Oakdene, was in the
stable of N. D. Godby at the outset of
Norman’s career as a trainer. She be-
longed to a Tasmanian sportsman.
The former Sydney performer Inspec-
tor Scott, a colt by Marconigram from
Formulaus, created a good impression
by his victory in the juvenile handicap at
Mentone. Well backed at fives, he beat
Black Robin (fours) by three lengths.
Formulaus, dam of Inspector Scott, is
by Chrysolaus from Formula, by Multi-
form from Sonsie, by Ayr Laddie from
Vestatia, by Chester from Volley, by
Musket. In 1919 Tressady Queen, a half-
sister to Formulaus, finished second to
Trey in the Maribymong Plate, and sub-
sequently won the A.J.C. Champagne
Stakes.
• • • « •
Recovered from a recent illness, Jack
Holt saddled-up a couple of horses in
minor events at Mentone. Neither was
in commission. Holt brought Manrico
and Hall Mark’s sister, Pure Gold, to the
course. They looked physically fit to
begin a spring preparation.
Frank Dempsey seldom figures in the
saddle nowadays, but he always is ready
to ride for R. D. O’Donnell, who trains
for the Tyson brothers. Dempsey was
seen at his best on Atticus in the first
division of the Nicholson Welter at Men-
tone.
Though Atticus had not raced for some
months, he was made a 7-to-4 favorite,
and, taking charge early, toyed with the
opposition. Rising four years old, this
colt has developed into a massive thor-
oughbred. By Gay Lothario-Sweet Echo
he is a three-quarters brother to Sweet
Memories, winner of the Maribyrnong
Plate of 1936.
“That’s why I don’t need to buy one of them milkin’ machines."
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards v. Stewart and Another
The “other” was our lately-encountered
but now familiar acquaintance Bung-eye.
It was this ugly customer, not the Ameri-
can negro, who beat the local champion
at West Melbourne Stadium last week.
When Bung-eye forced the contest to be
stopped in the interval between the ninth
and tenth rounds Richards was clearly
ahead.
Ron wanted to continue, and had that
been possible would have won as con-
clusively as he’d done under a similar
handicap in Sydney. But that wise old
bird Jack Carroll, as third party to the
proceedings, did Ron a good turn. Jack
wanted it stopped in the course of the
ninth, and called a doctor to look at the
eye. Ron would have none of the doc.,
who had such a look at the damage as
he could get, and permitted the scrap to
go on. But at the end of the round
Jack insisted on another examination, and
to Jack’s credit and the chagrin of the
crowd the affair was stopped, Stewart
getting the verdict on a technical k.o.
The proceedings bore out the im-
pression mainly gathered from Stewart’s
contests in Sydney that the recent epi-
demic of Bung-eye wasn’t just one of
those phenomena that happen along in
strange cycles. Stewart beat Puerto
Rican Sabatino per medium of Bung-eye,
and could never have done it otherwise ;
the statuesque negro went within an ace
of beating Richards the same way, and
then in last week’s West Melbourne
Stadium affray did beat Ron that way.
The impression is that this hasn’t been
accidental. Stewart has appeared to
launch his right hand at the optic, and
from when he has landed the punch he
has kept on increasing the damage.
That is, of course, legitimate enough,
but it’s a nasty business to watch. It is
both an ugly and an easy way of winning
a fight. The punch to start the damage
needs to be a pretty good one, though
not so good that if it was on the jaw
it would be a knock-out. Once it has
been got home, the poorest of stuff serves
the purpose. Mere taps cut down on the
eye and jabs that would be innocuous
elsewhere do the job. It would make
the game an ugly business if many car-
ried it to the pitch of development that
Stewart seems to have reached.
Otherwise the West Melbourne scrap
wasn’t up to what the big crowd had
expected. Both scrappers showed respect
for each other’s punching ability, and
there was a good deal of missing. The
crowd was expressing its feelings pretty
vehemently when the eye-damage gave
them something to get genuinely excited
about. If Ron has any sense he’ll go
up to his native heath and luxuriate in
the shade of a banana-tree till the optic
is properly healed before consenting to
the other bout with Stewart. Then
there d be no doubt about the outcome.
TL v
ine Young-Miller Scrap
Though it lasted on to the tenth round,
the Sydney Sports Arena meeting of
Mickey Miller and Kui Kong Young
really ended several rounds earlier. For
the first four rounds it was magnificent.
These four were a grand fight, a stirring
contest, on their own. Followed another
few rounds of hard mill, interesting as a
trial of stamina. After that it was wholly
a matter of how much punishment Miller
could or would absorb before giving out.
rni . 5 V 6 V
ere was some support m those last
rounds for the idea that Kui is not only
one of the most awkward scrappers seen
in the ring hereabouts since Jack Carroll
quit the game, and one of the most dev-
astating little men, local or otherwise,
seen in action for many years, but that
he must also have a fair amount of mercy
in his make-up. He is one of the cleanest
of fighters ; there has not been a question-
able blow or action in any of his Sydney
scraps; and though it is a fact that he
has bowled all but one of a
mounting list of victims, he has done it
as nicely as possible, and the one who
lasted the distance with him Maxie
Richards was not unnecessarily
knocked about.
i n f act> judged by his recent perform-
anceSj Kui must have fought all those
earlier battles in the second-rate division
with the brakes on hard . The Kui who
outed Joe Hall twice and then beat Miller
cou id have beaten all the former lot in
a roU nd. So long as Miller still had fight
} n him it was this hard-fighting Kui
who was seen operating last week ; but
as soon as Miller’s stamina faded out so
did the vigor of Kui’s assault. It wasn't
that he, also, had wilted from the strain
of the torrid early rounds, for he finished
as strong as an ox. A blockily-built little
chap, he looks, and evidently is, extra-
ordinarily strong for his weight (Bst.
7|-lb.).
But it’s his awkardness that gets ’em.
Usually southpaws are ugly to watch, but
there’s nothing ugly about Kui. He
stands wrong-way-on, but he has devel-
oped the stance to a new pitch of perfec-
tion. With his right hand out short and
his left well held for hooking and body-
ripping, his balance firm and upright and
g° od muscle showing all over his lemon-
tinted structure, he looks a ring classic.
Miller had the right idea for over-
comin S the awkwardness and resorted to
d from time t 0 time - Keeping chin and
bod y § uarded in a comprehensive smother
Ml <? ke y T alked *5 cl ° se ’. then unw ° und
? nd k cut . loose ' J ® ut Ku > ,P°, ssesse „ s
mg brains, and he wasn t long finding
the answer to that. He used his feet, and
looked fast and speedy compared with
Mickey’s plodding,
Also, the fight had not been in progress
half a round when Mickey made a move
which even thus early clearly read: SOS
—Boxer in Distress. It was this. Worried
by Kui’s southpaw approach, he tried
to emulate it. In present scribe’s experi-
ence no orthodox scrapper has ever
changed, in puzzlement, to southpaw
against a southpaw and survived. It can
nearly always be taken as a distress sig-
nal. Hall tried it in his first engage-
ment with Kui, and lasted about 30
seconds. Miller is made of tougher stuff ;


TO REMOVE
STAINS from
FALSE TEETH
'Steradent’
removes stains
and decoloura-
tions from den-
tal plates. You
simply fill the cap
of the tin with 'Stera
dent’ and pour the
powder into a glass con- '
taining sufficient warm
water (not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir well.
Put in your dentures and ~~
leave them while you dress or overnight. Take
them out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Every stain disappears. Plates regain their whole-
some appearance. Dingy, discoloured teeth be-
come clean and natural-looking. Price 2/-.
Double size 3/6. At all chemists.
TRIAL OFFER: Send. 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515 8.8., G.P.0., Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
BEFORE
m
§§•
!
AFTER
Steradent
R£CD. TRADE MARK
c leans and sterilizes false teeth
GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
6
6
(£5
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents: JOUBERT &■ JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
• 111 m
*l
iiii
ffl?
>S
*%*
The A/I-Weather, JUI- Purpose Car /
The Convertible Coupe, newcomer
to the Ford V-8 quality range, com-
bines all the advantages of both
the "open” and the "closed” car.
Seating five (or even six) this model
has the de luxe appointments and
features of a closed car. With the
hood up—or down—it’s a smart car
in any company, a comfortable car
on all roads. Economy, always a Ford
feature, is even greater with the im-
proved V-8 engine and the new
vacuum economiser feature. Your
local Ford Dealer is waiting now to
demonstrate the advantages and
extra value of this new model to
you. Ford V-8 prices begin at £33 5
(F. 0.8. Ford Plant, plus Sales Tax).
FORD V-8 DELUXE CONVERTIBLE COUPE
■ /CjsSSm ink IKL
■■'
,«
i iMßt-
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Ford 8 H.P. . . "Prefect” . . Ford V-B’s . . Mercury . . Lincoln-Zephyr . . Lincoln V-12 F56.27Y
even so, he was unequal to cancelling out
a word of that writing on the wall.
Kui won the hard-fought first round
by a shade, and he also took the second,
which was even harder-fought. From
bell to bell both rounds were splendid
exhibitions of clean and heavy hitting,
of sterling defence and of ability to take
it. Then came the third —Mickey’s ; his
only one out of the whole ten, but an
exceptional performance. Mickey fought
like a champion. His attack was vig-
orous, his hitting clean and powerful,
and his defence just about perfect.
All of which, of course, is just as high
tribute to Kui, who weathered it and
came out for the fourth more intent on
tight than ever. Whether Mickey had ex-
hausted his vitality in that round or the
eagerness of Kui was too disconcerting
for him, the Australian was never again
on top. For another few rounds he
fought as well as in the opening couple,
but he was steadily slowing down, and
for the concluding three rounds he did
practically nothing but protect himself.
In the tenth, after Kui had delivered a
fairly solid left rip to the body, Mickey
slid down the ropes and sat there hold-
ing the guard in his trunks. No doubt
the blow hurt him, but it didn’t land
down there. The fact was that he
dropped from exhaustion, as plenty of
scrappers without his toughness and
courage would have done several rounds
earlier.
Footbrawf
Melbourne suffered a bad reverse on
Saturday, and instead of being first is
now last of “the four.” Collingwood is
on top again, leading on percentages from
Richmond, with St. Kilda next. It was
Carlton that overcame Melbourne—by
19-19 to 15-13, a margin that fairly re-
flected its superiority on the day. St.
Kilda, 19-16, had a day out against Foot-
scray, 12-14. ’Scray has yet to win a
match, though it generally manages to put
up a good fight.
Richmond was always superior to Gee-
long, though its shooting for goal was
bad. It was 12-22 to 9-15. ’Wood’s tally
against North was 12-21 to 10-18. South,
though still a long, long way from the
top, jumped up a couple of rungs by
defeating Hawthorn 15-18 to 12-14.
Haw-Hawthorn is no longer cock-a-
hoop. And Essendon downed Fitzroy
13-12 to 11-15.
“C.QAt St. Kilda, when Saints
played North, the score-board was
altered at half-time, Saints dropping from
ten goals to nine. The official calculations
conflicted so completely with the mental
arithmetic of hundreds of St. Kilda sup-
porters that secretary Hannah was
deluged with telephone calls from people
who assured him they had kept careful
count, and ten goals was right. Actually
a mistake had been made, and it was in-
teresting to note that North Melbourne
barrackers were much slower at recog-
nising it than St. Kilda’s. Anxious offi-
cials were relieved beyond words when
St. Kilda won by 14 points. “If Saints
had lost by five points or less there would
have been a riot,” one said. But do
people—even barrackers —ever riot.in St.
Kilda?
* * * *
But for injuries, the Victorian Rugby
Union team might have won its three
matches in Sydney. As it was it lost all
three, N.S.W. winning three out of four,
and Queensland two out of three. Casual-
ties among the Victorians were Cowper,
broken collar-bone ; Dorr, broken ribs;
Doxey, concussion (he was “out” for
hours) and bruised shoulder; Lang,
bruised shoulder; Carpenter, dislocated
wrist, “pulled” leg muscle and influenza ;
and there were others. All this suggests
rough and foul play, but the referees
didn’t spot any, though with so many
young fellows struggling for places among
the 29 to go to Britain tackling was keen ;
and the grounds were terribly hard. With
all their misfortunes, the Victorians very
nearly won one match, the second against
N.S.W. ; a converted try, warmly dis-
puted by a sporting crowd, gave the home
side the victory by four points.
For the last of the Rugby Union trials
bet ore the team to go overseas was
picked, the Union had the use of Sydney
C.G. Considerable rain had fallen, and
the patch of Bulli soil in the middle of the
ground muddied many guernseys and
some reputations. There were two
matches Australia v. the Rest and a
Combined XV (a sort of “third-best”
team) v. the N.S.W. discards. N.S.W.
won 33-17 and the Rest waltzed in 15
points ahead, 29-14.
As has happened so often, forwards
let the Australian team down. The Rest
had a much more vigorous and hard-
working pack. Stone, raking, got the
ball back from set-scrums so mono-
tonously as to make the half-back
Gibbons appear the best player on the
field —Ramalli, opposite him, rarely got
a show. From rucks, too, the ball went
to the Rest, and in the loose its forwards
were yards faster than the floundering
“Australians.”
Forwards scored six of the Rest’s seven
tries. The first of them was a gem.
Windon toed the ball through a ruck in
the centre patch, kept it at toe and out-
paced everybody to the line, where he
went over.
Wingers Carpenter (Victoria) and
Nicholson (Queensland) showed out best
for Australia. Nicholson, a compara-
tive newcomer, gives promise of
developing into a star. Kelaher and
Porter, on the Rest flanks, were little
behind the other pair, and Ide, the
Australian centre, strengthened his claims
on the selectors. . But Towers, play-
ing for N.S.W., impressed many of
the 12,000 spectators as the brainiest and
most polished centre of the bunch. Car-
rick, inside of Towers, appeared the only
centre likely to approach the veteran’s
quality. The pair made four tries for
their winger, Wogan, and Carrick bagged
a couple himself. Cerutti led the N.S.W.
forwards in all the thick stuff. Of the
“Combined” hopefuls the only one to
improve his chances of selection was the
Victorian centre, Hammon.
* * *
Having, with assistance from New-
castle, asserted their vast superiority over
Queensland, where League Rugby must
have gone to pot, Sydney clubs settled
down to the second round of the premier-
ship' competition. Game-of-the-day was
St. George v. South. The Dragons tore
about tirelessly for 80 minutes and, in the
second half particularly, swamped the
opposition with snappy handling, speed
and expert “grassing.” South could at
no stage uncork the effervescent brand of
football with which it had downed
the leaders, Balmain. Even its strong-
running forwards were beaten at their
own game. Winger Hazelton, who was
passed over in the State side, came to
light with three tries. St. G.’s final
lead was 21-8.
There were barely enough men left on
the field to make a quorum after referee
Tom McMahon had issued batches of
walking-tickets in the Canterbury-Banks-
town v. East fixture. Thereafter eschew-
ing stoush, the little band carried on play
in a minor capacity. It was 21-8 also in
this match at the finish, in C.-B.’s favor.
Balmain couldn’t get a sweat up against
the wooden-spooners, Newtown notching
one try to ’Main’s nine and six goals.
West and North played a ragged 8-all
draw.
* * * *
Hardest-fought game in the first round
of the knockout competition for the
N.S.W. State Soccer Cup was Gladesville-
Ryde v. Adamstown ; it resulted in a 2-
all draw. G.-R. can thank Walker, a
’keeper from Scotland, that the winning
goal wasn’t hoisted against it —he made
a marvellous save from a bullet-like shot
aimed by Clarke, the northern team’s
centre-forward. Solid tackling was the
order of the day, and the spirited play
was embellished by some pretty passing
rushes. St. George was unexpectedly
eliminated by Woonona-Bulli 2-0. By
the same margin Newcastle and Leich-
hardt were outed by Granville and
Weston respectively.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
'mM’WHS+VWA
AT THt
L
“HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD"’
featuring; ANNA MAY WONG in person
and New Company of Oversea
Variety Stars.
Big New Company Oversea Stars in
“BROADWAY HOT SHOTS”
featuring- SENATOR MURPHY, FOUR
FRANKS, and 10 other acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ẃ
At Sydney Minerva: End of Flossie (extreme left) and the dirty dog who done it (ditto right),
oarded in Camberwell as of inferior
social status and scarcely even English,
(Toorak Melbourne, thinks much the
same of Camberwell, Melbourne.)
Nobody sees his own point of view
relative to anybody else’s, consequently
il never enters his head to doubt it for
a moment. So there is the same hatred
between Russia and Germany as there
is between Camberwell and Peckham,
and each arises from the same causes.
They all refuse to meet in each other’s
drawing-rooms.
There is also an English bishop who
faints when a Russian commissar says
that Marxism is a religion; a British
Foreign Secretaiy who finds something
cowardly in killing Jews but something
heroic in killing foxes, and a deaconess
who has received a call and preaches
love of one’s neighbor to the further be-
wilderment of the bishop. But the crux
of the play is the dictators, capable ot
wreaking the most appalling havoc on
humanity because they are extraordinary
individuals who hold their points of view
with such tenacity that they get a lot of
followers. Whether he may be going in
the wrong direction never enters the head
of a dictator for a moment and it never
enters the heads of his followers either.
Hence there seems to be something mys-
! icid *5. dictators, ? nd ,hey f„ r <;
mcl,ned tO , * ere , ls s ? ne ®“*
“PWiatural about themselves when they
see the extraordinary effects they produce
on ° ther people.
There is something mystical, Shaw
points out, about the fact that otherwise
sensible people can believe in nonsense
that , 1S obvi ° us t 0 other people and be
ready to endure anything for their belief,
But the other people believe as implicitly
/heir own brand of nonsense as they
disbelieve in the nonsense of their neigh-
bors, and as everybody follows his feel-
there is a chaos which would be a
rip-roaring farce if it weren t so tragic,
Shaw hopes that if he puts represen-
tatives of the various points of view on
the stage and shows them relative to one
another, strutting about striking their
favorite attitudes, he may make them, not
so sure of the validity of their prejudices,
He has been doing it for half a century
and still has subject-matter in plenty. Ffe
is a trifle long-winded about it, but it is
not the garrulity of old age: he was
always long-winded,
Because Shaw does not think his char-
acters are scoundrels, though they may
think that of each other, his picture is
benign and kindly. Signor Bombardino,
Herr Battler, General Flanco and the
rest meet at the Court of International
Justice at The Hague, the dictators to
answer charges of being menaces to
civilisation,
it turns out in the course of the discus-
sion that the trouble with General Flanco
i s that he divides all human beings into
gentlemen and cads. If you are not a
gentleman you must be a cad ; and all
C ads should be exterminated.
Bombardino divides them into heroes
and cowards. His followers are the
heroes • and when the freezing of the
wor i d j s threatened owing to a sideslip
j n j ts or hh he hopes that the Italian
p eo pi e w fli be found 1000 years hence
by an eX piorer from another planet all
landing stiffly to attention in cold
s torage.
Herr Battler divides them into Nordics
and scoundre i s The Germans are the
est of the Nordics, and he is the
reatesl 0 f t h e Germans. Hence all
§ tates must be destroyed except the
Germans and he must be the ruler of the
wor j d state. This result is so desirable
any am ount of suffering is worth
but he is himself so sensitive to
suffer ’j ng t h a t when the earth starts con-
ẅ
faintest belief in the play. This was
leading-lady Lina Basquette, whose per-
formance in consequence is full com-
pensation for the performances of the
rest, and even for the piece itself.
Miss Basquette plays two parts —that
of Mary Charrington, wife of the man
suspected and hunted over the murder,
and that of the aforesaid Flossie, called
in the play Lily. In both parts Miss
Basquette gives a sincere and convincing
performance, and this is really remark-
able, because the part of Lily is intro-
duced via an awkward switchback in the
ill-constructed play. Up till then and
afterwards, Miss Basquette has the part
of the wife to manage, and the wife and
Lily are two very different beings.
The leading lady thereby gives body
and meaning to an otherwise hollow busi-
ness. The rest support her only as well
as their justifiable inability to take the
affair seriously will allow. That excel-
lent character actor Frank Bradley is
in it, acting the part of an editor. He
is no more an editor —even such an editor
as this playwright was able to invent —than
his fellow-excellent actor Frank Harvey
is a solicitor, even such a solicitor as,
etc. Henry Mollison is occasionally con-
vincing as Charrington, but mostly he
is just playing a part; and that goes for
the rest, some of whom manage to be
more wooden than others.
Not that they are to be censured for
it. The piece is nothing deeper than
a mystery-thriller, and puppets are as
good for its purpose as anything else.
That Miss Basquette is able to enter
into her parts—to get inside them and be
the women she represents —speaks volumes
for her beautifully childlike powers of
belief. She gives life to the two different
women as if they were really significant
figures in a great tragic drama.
Perhaps that overbalances the produc-
tion, focusing interest on a representa-
tion of character, when interest should be
centred on the development of the plot.
At the first interval present writer was
asked, “Well, who killed her?” He had
to admit it hadn’t dawned on him that
that was the point of interest. Yet the
questioner, of course, was right: that
and only that is the play; Miss Bas-
quette’s two women are a good actress’s
additions, a facade to the playwright’s
hollow construction ; and any idea that
there was more to it than this was merely
an illusion, engendered in part by Miss
Basquette and also by the surroundings.
In the street outside the Minerva’s
neon-lighted modernist design pageboys,
in scarlet cloaks, were letting befurred
and bestarched patrons out of cars and
taxis. In the foyer a swell crowd sparkled
and chattered, with more pageboys dart-
ing in and out among them. Up the
wide-carpeted stairs, via a balcony, and
so into the dress-circle, piloted by a pretty
nymph—one of a little corps of them
in a close-fitting, trailing robe, about the
color of burgundy. Seat roomy and most
comfortable ; and all about a theatre in-
terior giving the impression that one per-
fect day, when there were no worries on
his mind or in the world, architect Bruce
Dellit went to sleep under a mushroom
and dreamt it. He kept the dream anti
the mushroom curves, softly lighted it,
hung an old-silver curtain across the
stage sector, and left curved, low plat-
forms at the sides of the stalls, on one
of which near-islands two men and a
lady with a piano and string instruments
and a voice were giving a recital.
All of this added up in expectation to
something fairly considerable. The place
may one day become a talkie-house, but
it has tone above the usual sort of thing.
It would be an ideal setting for Russian
Ballet. It has class, and class should go
with it. A clumsily-constructed play on
the immortal question of Who Killed
Flossie Fewclothes? is something of a
bump. No doubt it is all right, taken on
its proper level, as superficial entertain-
ment ; but even that may be questioned,
since the entire interest lies in who
killed Flossie, and of a dozen or so
guesses heard during the first interval not
one was wrong!
Frank Harvey finally put the whole
piece on its proper plane with a spasm
of overacting which rightly labelled it
just a faulty melodrama.
Clearly the stage is hardly likely to re-
cover or survive on this sort of fare.
Instead of a good actress doing a fine
job, a good theatre and good intentions,
the stage seems in need of a dramatic
genius, a great actor-playwright, another
Will.
Till then, black limelight.


“Around the Clock.”
1£ merit counts, the Ghost should not
only be walking at Sydney Royal for a
while ; he should be turning handsprings.
Revue, the offering is on the generous
scale; crowded with good items; fast
without the mere rush that has charac-
terised recent things of the kind ; un-
commonly good in comedy and danc-
ing ; not a voice in it that isn’t pleasant
to listen to, whether singing or speaking;
a couple of big spectacle scenes, very
striking and no doubt impressive if you
like that sort of thing (a shade lavish and
opulent for present deadhead’s taste);
and a score or so individual turns, humor-
ous sketches and acts that are the essence
of variety.
It kicked off surprisingly with an extra
good turn almost as soon as the curtain
had gone up. This was Katrin Rosselle
giving an impression of a Hollywood film
star making one of those personal appear-
ances which are usually a pain in the
neck in vaudeville shows. The cutting
edge of what Miss Rosselle had to say
was as neat as the lady herself. In a few
minutes at the microphone she cut a
pretentious business to ribbons —all very
prettily, but most effectively.
Exceptionally promising, this; for a
show that could put on such a good
item as an appetiser would be sure to
have excellent fare later in the bill. But
what more aroused this onlooker’s in-
terest was that here was the stage giving
Hollywood one in the eye. To appreciate
this it might be necessary to have wit-
nessed the last dozen or so revues seen
in Sydney, and noted in them the
wretched defeatism of the stage attitude
towards Hollywood. In show after show
there have been turns in which honest
Poverty Pointers, got up to represent one
Hollywooden star and another, have
displayed such fawning subservience as to
suggest their conviction that the day of
the stage was over and themselves
anachronisms.
Miss Rosselle raised hope that the
stage may still have some fight in it. Con-
fidence continued to increase all through
the show.
An act that gave present deadhead
special satisfaction had in it Frank
Bradley, who elsewhere in these pages is
not unduly flattered: the spectacle of
one of the best character actors in the
country in a part with as much character
as a dud two-bob had been a very sad
experience. Evidently Mr. Bradley, after
appearing as the editor in “Black Lime-
light,” rushes to the Royal by taxi to
appear as Mr. Sweetacre, grower of prize
dahlias, undergoing a radio interview in
one of the several excellent sketches
written for the show by black-and-white
artist J. C. Bancks. As Mr. Sweetacre,
Mr. Bradley shows what a good actor
can do when he has been given a part
with real character. He does it with one
word. It is an effective word, and he uses
it superbly. He nearly wrecks the house
with it.
Another Bancks sketch —“With Gun
and Camera Down the Looloo Poopoo”
—gives Don Nicol the chance to show
that there’s nothing wrong with the
younger platoon of Poverty Pointers,
either. In the past Mr. Nicol’s comedy
had so turned on mimicking the mincing
speech and manners of effeminacy that
he had seemed one of the least funny
comedians ever let loose. As Colonel
Nicol, of the Hollywood Bengal Lancers
(Retired), he’s a different chap; an
authentic comedian.
An especially notable contributor to
the comedy side is Violet Carlson, a
diminutive lady with a sparkling pair of
eyes and infectious laughter. It’s part of
her recipe that the more the crowd
laughs the more she laughs, and it’s very
effective. Her version of a rhumba must
have damaged every rib present.
Jim Gerald is the comedy lead of the
show, and in several characteristic turns
is as good a comedian as ever he was,
despite the fact that he can’t be nearly
as young as he used to be. Dan Eckley,
comedy dancer, and George Dobbs, ditto,
also contribute well towards keeping the
show brisk and amusing ; Melton Moore
sings pleasantly when necessary ; Maxine
and Bobby make an incredibly good
canine vaudeville turn; the Six Danwells
put on a tumbling act right out of the
ordinary ; and then there is, among other
things, the Ballet Bodenwieser, a group of
most graceful and talented dancing lasses.
Right through, a capital show, without
a dud or a dud item in it.
“Hugh the Drover ”
Although its title could be mistaken for
an Australian one (many outbackers will
be amazed to know that oxen-conductors
plied their vociferous trade in the Old
Dart in Napoleonic times), Vaughan
Williams’s opera, both as to libretto and
music, is as English as Lord’s and Lam-
beth Walk.
In this bright two-acter, produced at
the Sydney Conservatorium on Saturday
night, the best contemporary English
composer has interwoven traditional
English folk-songs with his own skilfully-
constructed music. The score has its
minor faults —recitative passages are
somewhat stilted—but these are more
than counterbalanced by the general
sprightly melodiousness of the work,
which includes some fine concerted
numbers.
Against the Cotswold background of
Guenda Bainton’s artistic settings was
“The more I see of people the more I like my dog.”
enacted the admixture of comedy and
drama provided by the rivalry of honest
Hugh the Drover and scurvy John the
Butcher for the hand of the fair Mary,
daughter of the village cop. Kui Kong
Young mightn’t have been able to pick
up too many of the finer points of the
game from the scrap staged in the first
act between Hugh and John, but what
was lacking in pugilistic skill the con-
tenders made up for in willingness. The
ding-dong go ended in the scurvy one
taking the count from quite a realistic
right cross. Choruses were full-blooded
and the orchestra under Florent Hoog-
stoel first-rate.
Cynthia Garner was easy on ear and
eye as Mary, and Reginald Willoughby
acted and sang with good judgment.
Harold Tollemache lifted up a rich bass-
baritone to voice the sirloin-slicer’s hatred
of his rival in love, and Lila Vincent and
Robert Hughes capably filled minor roles.
Tiv.
Hollywood film star Anna May Wong,
chief bait for Melb. Tiv. at the present
moment, is a personable young woman
with a sweet, melancholy expression on
her Oriental face, and she wears rich
dresses.
She sings songs in Chinese, in French
and in English, but has no voice to
speak of, and she effectively dramatises a
sad tale by Noel Coward about a little
half-caste girl who got into the gutter.
But she has no more natural talent than
you will find in an easy day’s march
round Melbourne, and she certainly has
far less skill than Evers and Dolores, who
dance on the tightwire in an amazing
manner, or Burgess and Lamont, who
gyrate like devils.
Also on the bill is Joaquin Garay, the
Mexican troubadour, who noisily sere-
nades the air. A gent, with a protuberant
stomach who looks as if he had reached
the age and condition when a game of
bowls would be exhausting turns out to be
an acrobat of no mean attainments, and
finally takes his immense bulk on to the
tightwire, where he performs feats as re-
markable or even more so than his col-
leagues. Jack Lane and “Bugs” Wilson,
the Original Voice of Grumpy, throw
themselves about facetiously for a living,
and the Tivoli lovelies take a trip to
Hawaii.
“The Cheat.”
Sacha Guitry.
Seen at Sydney Savoy, this is another
of the Continental films they are
specialising in at that address. Generally
speaking, they do well to bid for a
select audience with them, rather than
appeal to the general run of filmgoers.
This does not apply to the present opus,
which is conducted in English and
mainly on a note of comedy, and for
those and other reasons should appeal
to anyone who likes films at all.
The photography in it never achieves
the crystal clarity that is common in
M.-G.-M. and other Hollywood produc-
tions, in which clear lighting is insisted
on even at the expense of reality or
credibility. But most of “The Cheat” is
enacted in brightly-lighted interiors—
gambling rooms at Monte Carlo, passages
in rooms in Parisian hotels and suchlike
places —so it is mostly naturally bright.
Also, the whole content of the picture is
of a light, Dickensian kind —comedy, en-
livened with Gallic wit, nonetheless swift
and neat for being expressed in English,
so very good that it might well be Clive
Brook speaking.
The story, too, is both good and
original. It flows along freely, clearly
and briskly—a well-told tale and a tale
well worth telling.
Briefly, the narrative thread and theme
are on these lines. A 12-year-old boy,
one of a family of a dozen, including
members of three generations, steals a
few sous in his father’s village shop in
which they are all living. For this he
is not allowed to share in the mush-
rooms which are the evening-meal titbit;
poisonous fungus has been included in
the repast, and all the eaters die. Think-
ing this over, the lad concludes that he
escaped because he had cheated, and as
he grows up this conclusion becomes the
dominating force in his life.
He tries to go straight, but finds that
it is only when he cheats that the gods
are kind to him; so he cheats more and
more, becomes a professional at it, builds
up a fortune in the gambling establish-
ments at Continental resorts, is eventually
compelled by sentiment to go straight,
loses his fortune because of that, and
finishes up a career of lavish gambling
working for a small wage sorting packs
for a leading firm of card-makers.
It is as neat in all the working out as
in the narrative idea. Clearly an original
and unusual story, and even if no more
could be said of it the film would
obviously be one out of the ordinary.
But in the presentation as well it is arrest-
ingly original—in this respect the most
original film seen in years.
The leading character is first seen
seated at a table in a small restaurant
writing his reminiscences. He reads as
he writes, and the film then casts back
and follows his life through, the scenes
presented as “silent” film with his voice
continuing as a dramatic accompaniment
—in fact, like a newsreel. Occasionally
characters also speak or sing, and the
time-lag between scenes is bridged over
by the device of returning, whenever a
scene has been worked out, to be back
again with the writer in the restaurant.
All the commenting is in English, and
it is surprising how convincing and dra-
matically effective it makes the silent
filming and the speed it imparts to the
action. This, of course, is enhanced by
the fact that Sacha Guitry, author, com-
mentator and actor, is excellent in all
three departments. As author he con-
cocted an engaging story and salted it
with wit; as actor he plays both his
time-bridging restaurant part and his
part in the film admirably; and as com-
mentator he gives life and sharp mean-
ing to the story, to the wit and to all the
characters.
By these unusual means the film en-
gagingly unfolds the interesting biography
of a man who had led an unusual and
picturesque life. Several women, of
course, enter into that life, and there is
a little scene touching one of these ladies
and himself and a presentation watch
which is a gem of witty comedy and quite
a miracle of skating on thin ice-. Occur-
ring near the end, it is an intrusion which
lends to break up the continuity of the
story and also the credibility, but it was
worth doing. In fact, whenever the
ladies are in question M. Guitry’s wit is
at its prettiest, matching one or two very
nice specimens of the pretty sex.
Of the generally good acting in sup-
port that of Serge Grave as the cheat as
a boy is outstanding. The Breens and
all that marionette tribe should take a
look at this chap!
“Trouble Brewing.”
George Formby.
The thing about George is that they
don’t breed many like him, and then only
on one particular tract of earth, and
so far they don’t seem to export ’em.
Hollywood hasn’t anything even re-
motely resembling him, and, if it had,
probably wouldn’t know what to do with
him. That Gt. Brit, knows how to treat
him is demonstrated in this rib-buster at
Sydney Lyceum.
It’s a stretch of honest damnfoolery,
with the inimitable George participating
in his own inimitable fashion. This time
he’s a copy-boy’s assistant or something
in the printing rooms of a London daily.
He also has a penchant for amateur
sleuthing, and an outbreak of forgeries
sets him off on an hour or so of the most
hilarious Formbyan adventure.
There’s one bit where George is
manoeuvred into a wrestling ring with a
human maneater. It’s a roar, like an-
other where, disguised as a waiter, he’s
prowling under table after table attempt-
ing to remove an important piece of
jotting from Countess Splurtz’s stocking
while that bewildered lady soundly be-
rates each of her table partners in turn.
There are others as good, particularly
when George and the lass with him track
the forgers to earth in a brewery.
Though not well constructed, the film
fairly rattles along. Scene after scene
is a little comedy on its own, and they’re
packed so closely on one another
that it seems no time at all from the start
to the typically English fadeout, wherein
George and his minx wind up the pro-
ceedings with a clinch in a tub of hops.
“The Ice Follies of 1939.”
Joan Crawford, James Stewart.
Anybody possessed of the supreme
fortitude and strength of will to squat
patiently beside the icebox for half an
hour until the bottle of hops therein
reaches the exactly ideal temperature
should find a somewhat similar agony
of anticipation and eventual joy of ful-
filment in viewing this current M.-G.-M.
offering at Sydney St. James. It’s well
worth sitting through the worst of it to
see the best of it.
In the more calamitous moments Joan
and James, as a couple of skating
vaudevillians —youngsters both of ’em,
and both out of a job and down to their
last cracker —suddenly bolt up the aisle
to be spliced.
It would not be impolite to say that,
despite all filmic decorations, Joan looks
as though she can give James several
years, and the splicing business has the
unfortunate effect of emphasising that
disparity.
Even apart from the age question,
there’s still a fair slab of indigestible sub-
stance to be stomached. Joan becomes
a famous screen actress, and in so doing
makes such a mess of her domestic
affairs that James quits home, to become
Amurrica’s leading ice-showman. And
there you have ’em —two leading lights
in a superficial firmament and unable
to meet because of the demands of their
darling public—until Joan bawls soul-
fully into a microphone at a slap-up
banquet that she doesn’t wanna be
famous any more, an’ she jus’ wantsta
go back to Jimmy.
All the foregoing, of course, refers to
the film in its punishing moments, and
it must be admitted that there’s a fair
period of them. When the top does
come off the bottle, however, there are
some arrestingly beautiful scenes in
technicolor of ice-skating, surpassing
anything of their kind yet seen on the
screen. The ice is new to this showman
—undisturbed by skatemarks, it reflects
almost perfectly the skaters and decora-
tions on it. Costuming and setting are
as lavish and as lovely as M.-G.-M. can
make them, and there’s one skater —a
man —whose grace and, at other times,
demonlike grotesqueness would defy
even the fantastic abilities of the Dis-
neyan pen.


w
BACKACHE.
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passmg
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to he
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and tt g
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty,
smarting. The acids and, “, ‘ the Wood
be passed out of the bod>, sta> ir J
and become poisonous. This cond
nagging backaches, leg pains loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. no4N’S
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN b
nAPKAPHE KIDNEY PILLS . • . used sue
cessfully the world over by millions of P
suffering with backache and PAi a nd will
disorders. They give quick relief aAd wm
help flush out the 15 mdes of kid }
So be sure you get DOAJN b
KIDNEY PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Before last week how many years is it
since Sydney had two flesh-and-blood
theatre first-nights in one week? Perhaps
the oldest inhabitant can tell. Anyway,
following the premiere of “Black Lime-
light” came “Around the Clock,” the glit-
tering, tinsel, almost Folies Bergeres revue
at the Royal. The orchestra opened this
with a flourish, such a flourish that one
and all thought that it was about to
blaze into “God Save,” and there was a
unanimous scuffling to the perpendicular.
But the orchestra had other ideas, and the
audience burst into laughter at itself
not a bad beginning. The curtain that
most intrigued was the one which showed
an elegant female leg, sleek in a black
silk stocking. This started in a frou-frou
of frills and tapered to a neat slippered
foot. If you didn’t like Violet Carlson
doing a rhumba, and hopping over her
frilled Spanish train whenever it got in
her way, and again when she moored a
guitar to her neck by a rope thicker than
a ship’s cable, you were in no mood to
go to the Journalists’ Ball.
The ballets, whose glitter put neon
lights to shame, and the jewelled clock,
every jewel a girl, were never the lights
to show a man the way to go home. Furs
were so profuse it would have been un-
safe to utter any jungle call. Frocks,
too, didn’t look as though woman was
saving everything against the arrival of
George and Marina. Ermine and silver
fox were the mixture in Mrs. Alexis
Albert’s cape, and snowy Arctic fox
was worn by Mrs. Schartl over her black
frock, which had large white marguerites
appliqued around its hem. One of those
new very full taffeta skirts that spread
out from a neat waistline made its ap-
pearance. It was in tartan, and was
worn with a blouse of white sheer. Mrs.
Maurice Gulson’s frock wore an un-
usual front panel of finely-pleated pale
pink, jade and cyclamen.
As Fnglish as the Cotswold Hills,
Vaughan Williams’s “Hugh the Drover”
caught the fancy of all who heard it last
Saturday night. The Conservatorium
was filled for this offering of the Con.
Opera School, and A.B.C. chairman
Cleary was among the listeners. So was
the Kelso King lady. Marie Bremner,
too, came out into the night humming
snatches of the music. If producer
Hilda Mulligan had searched for six
months she couldn’t have found any girl
to fit the part of heroine better than
Cynthia Garner. Somehow she suggested
a posy of primroses. Sets by Guenda
Bainton, whose proud father was among
the present, were very good.
“And Liberty wakes up and walks
abroad.” This line of knight Robert
Garran’s prologue to the Plantagenet
Pageant rang through the Great Hall of
the University, and lay like a benediction
on the minds of the listeners. In view
of our times the pageant, which marked
the 700th anniversary of the birth of
King Edward 1., “the English Justinian,
was very apt. Starting with Lion-heart,
the king of derring-do, the pageant said
things about King John which undei
to-day’s libel laws would bankrupt any
paper. Its crescendo was, of course, a
paean to Edward. The colorful robes of
the periods moved and were grouped
about the dais, the hall itself lending a
surrounding that might have been a bit of
monastic England. Mrs. Timothy Kelly
was the producer.
The idea of supplying a vital bit of
English history before their ball made
the flutter of the Memorial College of
Household Arts “different.”
The dance followed in the Union Re-
fectory. Mrs. J. C. Windeyer was the
president, the color of her frock Arctic
blue, her furs white fox. Margaret
Heaton, the principal of the college, was
there ; so was Dr. Mary Booth. Robert
Garran and the Julius lady were other
importants. Alison Nicholas; Enid Lovell
and Muriel Feldwick were some of the
people of the pageant. Lois Graham
added gold, and Helen Lloyd bouffant
blue chiffons.
Furs were provided with the proper
background by the Glaciarium last week.
The Ice Cabaret was the occasion. A
carpet red as the berries above a South-
land lake when the Remarkables are
heavy with snow ran diagonally across
the ice. Over this stepped daughters of
King Frost all snuggled up in furs —the
sort we should have, darling, instead of
our five-year-plan squirrel coat. Audrey
Connell, like a snowdrop that had been
stitched into white Arctic fox by its
mother, led the parade. There is an
absence of bulk about these coats and
capes that makes them flatter rather than
obscure the figure. President of the
cabaret, which will aid the expenses of
the White Ball, which, in turn, will aid
the Industrial Blind Institute, was Bea
Meeks. A close-up of her tawny
summer ermine coat was almost worth
that five bob entrance fee alone.
In addition, too, you could get quite a
look at Lina Basquette, the Minerva's
leading lady. Her pencil slimness was in
ground-length white. Beneath its hem
black-and-white striped taffeta frou-
frou’d. She carried a white muff, and
her close-fitting hat was white, too. With
husband Henry Mollison she was among
the judges of the smartest costumes on
the ice. Mrs. E. Murray’s black velvet
frock with a white heart on each side of
its fitting little bodice was a winner.
Joane Gough and Mrs. L. E. Croll were
others. This Letter hands a palm to
Mrs. Alan McGregor ; white and grey
her color scheme —very, very attractive.
The McKelvey lady wrapped her
pleasantness in mink. Mrs. Lennox
Bode, Mrs. Colin Galbraith, Mrs. J. L.
Ruthven, Mrs. Dick Allen, Noreen
Dangar and Mrs. Crawford Robertson
were among the befurred lookers-on.
Adella Anderson, who will play Marie
Houston’s accompaniments at her con-
cert next Monday, has journeyed all the
way from Chicago to do so. Adella’s
home town is the same as that of Richard
Crooks’s accompanist, and both share
the same love of Lake Michigan. The
40-mile drive north along its shores,
Adella claims, is one of the loveliest in
the world. She ought to know, since she
has travelled throughout Europe, even in
Russia; knows China and Japan and
most of the U.S.A. She has been Marie’s
associate artist for over two years, and
they have toured the east, south and
middle-west of their own land in com-
pany. Two of the interesting personali-
ties met in her latest travels were John
Gunther, author of Inside Asia, and
Gerome Beatty, now travelling the world
interviewing Americans of renown.
Photograph from Falk. The Conserva-
torium will house the concert, which will
be one of the season’s fashionable.
Two of Australia’s film starlets were
at the first night of “Black Limelight.”
Shirley Ann Richards in her peach-pink
frock, her long cherry-red velvet cloak
sweeping the ground, was with her good-
looking mother. Joy Howarth wore her
golden curls piled on top of her head,
and wore a cape that cascaded prize
ostrich fronds. The frock beneath was
blue chiffon. Marie Burke, too, made
impressive entry, and somebody who
looked the double of Charlotte Green-
wood (if not herself) was in a right-hand
box, while Jan Rubini of the enchanted
fiddle was on the left.
Knight T. S. Gordon and his lady were
down in the stalls. Mrs. E. Baume whis-
pered that husband was about to go in
for Federal politics. Her turquoise frock
had a Hellenic cut. Orchids and Mrs.
Alexis Albert went well together. The
Larry Adlers were applauders ; the pretty
Salenger girls came with mother ; Mrs.
Dan Kelly was escorted by son Kevin ;
the first-nighter Schartl couple were in
the circle -°Mrs Jimmy Dickson’s cloak
glowed garnet red.
“A night that will live in your
memory” was the slogan for the
Journalists’ Ball on Saturday night, and
even to-day there are still traces of head-
aches It was a night to make the Blax-
land Galleries feel frivolous and young,
Pirates, Spanish ladies, Gandhi and
beautiful ballet ladies flitted in and out
the dance’s mazes. The Dionne Quins
arrived but nobody went as a galley
slave ’Anyway why should they? It
was Saturday night, and Sunday’s a holi-
day Acting president Ken Hardy was
a sheik and Mrs. Hardy came in
Russian costume Mrs. J. F. Davenport
covered her black lace frock with a
brilliant shawl, and with the twist of a
black lace mantilla might have been a
daughter of Granada. Mrs. Faulkner
took her style from ancient Holyrood
and was Mary Queen of Scots.
One of the pleasant places in town
these days is the Water Color Institute’s
exhibition in the Education Galleries,
and Hazel Napier-Thomson’s “Gladioli”
and “Pomegranates” are part of its
beauty. Hazel is one of Sydney’s
young painters, and shows very definite
talent. The show is drawing a steady
stream of “the wise, the liberal and the
enlightened” (in the words of the circular
issued to announce the beginnings of the
English Water Color Society, 108 years
ago), and, though sales have not been
prodigious, Ursula Stevens, in charge,
says that interest has never been keener.
Great bowls of wattle and poinsettia
keep the rooms gay. Photograph by
Robin Cale.
Word comes through of Myrine
Collins’s wedding in New York to Cap-
tain James Harten, aide to Mayor La
Guardia. Myrine’s black hair and dark
eyes were thrown into relief by a shimmer
of white satin, its train edged with
ermine. There were 500 guests at the
wedding, which was at St. Peter’s
Church ; Mayor and Mrs. La Guardia
and Police Commissioner Valentine were
in the guest list. Australia’s Trade
Commissioner Macgregor gave the bride
away. A letter of introduction from our
own Town Hall to Mayors abroad should
be a treasured possession of every girl
who travels. Myrine met her beau
through a letter of introduction from
Sydney’s Mayor Nock to the Mayor of
New York.
Everybody who met Marjorie Lawrence
as she passed through Sydney liked her.
She’s as fresh and bright as an Australian
morning. Marjorie’s Australian visit is
only a short one, as she goes back to do
another season (her fifth) at the Metro-
politan Opera House, New York. The
Australian girl is considered one of the
world’s greatest Wagnerian singers, and
she has sung at Covent Gaden, Monte
Carlo and Paris. True to an old pledge
to her family she gave her first concert
in Winchelsea and her voice came over
the air delightfully.
The non-commissioned officers of the
Australian Corps of Signals are having
a night together on July 8. David
Jones’s ballroom is the location. The
Ist and 2nd Divisional Signals and Ist
Cavalry Divisional Signals are all in
this. Uniform or evening dress is the
wear.
Solicitor Alan Stewart, secretary of the
Old Svdneians’ Union, is very cheered
with the progress made by this year’s
ball committee. Everybody has got into
stride, and the 4th of July at the Troc.
promises to live long in the memory of
the O.S.U. The official table will be
surrounded by representatives of the
great public schools. The flower decora-
tions of same table are to be more than
georgeous. The ladies’ committee, ener-
getic and interested, held a card-party
last Friday to help with the ball expenses,
and all things are working towards a
harmonious whole.
Lord Baldwin and his wife went to
the wedding of Lady Mary Lygon and
her Russian prince. It was in the Greek
Orthodox Church in Pimlico, and the
ceremony took 45 minutes. Handsome
young brother Dick Lygon squired her.
Elder brother, the present Earl Beau-
champ, was ill with lumbago and could
not make it. The bride’s dress of heavy
parchment slipper satin copied almost
exactly one worn by Marie Antoinette.
Her headdress was a diamond tiara, one
of the pieces from the Russian Crown
jewels. That was a wedding present. So
was her diamond ring, which had
belonged to the Empress Catherine. Her
veil was formed of old Brussels lace from
her mother’s and her grandmother’s wed-
ding dresses. Throughout the ceremony
a great ornate crown was held a few
inches above her head by relays of
groomsmen. Steady-handed among them
was Prince Frederick of Prussia, a grand-
son of the ex-Kaiser. Reception was in
the spreading garden of an old house in
St. John’s Wood.
Fred Carpenter, formerly of Sydney
Grammar, has made good in Lon-
don as dancer and ballet director.
In “The Dancing Years,” which
features Ivor Novcllo, at Drury-
lane, he is credited with a brilliant exhibi-
tion. He made his debut with the Rail-
way and Tramway Musical Society in
“The Dancing Mistress,” and profession-
ally with Jimmy Godden and Elsie Prince
in “No, No, Nanette.” After a success-
ful season in America a few years back
with John Murray Anderson, and more
recently after cabaret work, he under-
took the production side of the ballets
with complete success. He created and
directed several ballets for C. B. Coch-
jan, and also for Jack Waller’s “Bobby,
Get Your Gun.”
When you go to a Schnabel concert
you should go musically starved. He
gives nothing but a three-course meal,
all solid. A Schnabel concert can be
depended upon to release its audience no
earlier than a quarter past ten ; and no
encores at that. Artur must be used to
the musicianly voracious. At one of his
concerts the sitters on the stage had pro-
vided themselves with glare glasses. A
few had rugs. It needs only a few skis
and it would look like an advertisement
for a tourist resort.
American novelist Faith Baldwin
turned out to be a brisk pretty little
person, not at all like any of her heroines
this Letter has met. In fact, the only
author ever encountered who measured
up to her leading lady was Cynthia
Stockley ; when she visited Sydney some
years ago she might have been one of
the lovely, sophisticated Rhodesian
creatures of her pen. Not that Faith
hasn’t a way with her. She has. Also
her hats are worth honorable mention.
She favors them small (like herself), of
the toque variety, and the one she wore
to the Women Writers’ lunch was of
rosy feather. The lunch was at the Carl-
ton, and the authoress conversed
pleasantly, mostly about writing without
temperament, making no serious dent on
one brain, till she told that the friend
who travels with her objects to early-
morning tea, while she herself does not
think too highly of the mid-morning
brew. Anyhow that’s not so much per-
sonal as racial. Didn’t all American his-
tory spring from a tea-leaf? At the
end Faith invited questions, and the thing
resolved into a sort of oral exam. But
she never hesitated —she knew all the
answers.
To-night at the Conservatorium blind
flautist Kirkbride-Smith will be heard at
his own testimonial concert. Time is
eight o’clock, and the tickets are only
three shillings each.


GETTING A WRIGGLE ON.


MO MORE COIDS
soothes and
Be free from colds, hay-
fever and catarrh this
winter . . . use Nazol the
perfected germ-destroying
■local application for all
nasal infections. Nazol
eases the nose and throat
almost instantly. Keep Nazol handy
. . . use it liberally and . . . smile
through winter! Generous supply only
2/6 with free applicator at all chemists.
w
Missing Friends.
Ernest Lloyd McKay.
WILL the abovenamed or anyone knowing
his present whereabouts please communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Napier, New Zealand?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 505 of 1939.
BETWEEN CATHERINE PETRIE LOW-
DEN LUMSDEN Petitioner
And JAMES MORRISON LUMSDEN
Respondent.
TO JAMES MORRISON LUMSDEN late of
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
PETRIE LOWDEN LUMSDEN has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and has
applied for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said, suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Seventh
day of September next and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. Copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of June, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
' A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 293 of 1939.
BETWEEN GEORGE BALLS Petitioner
And IVY IRENE BALLS Respondent
And IVAN JAMES Co-respondent.
TO IVY IRENE BALLS and IVAN JAMES
both late of 16 Sebastopol-street Marrick-
ville N.S.W.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GEORGE
BALLS has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you the said Respondent
IVY IRENE BALLS on the grounds of your
adultery AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
severally required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Thirteenth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of June, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
MARK MITCHELL & NELSON, Solicitors
for Petitioner, Yorkshire House, 14 Spring
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 556 of 1939.
BETWEEN GLADYS ELIZABETH ETHEL-
ENE WARING Petitioner
And GEORGE HENRY WARING Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE HENRY WARING formerly of
16 Womerah Avenue Darlinghurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
ELIZABETH ETHELENE WARING has
commenced a suit against you in this Honor-
able Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of adultery and
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Thirteenth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine,
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition»filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of June, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mel bourns
Chatter
Speculation was high in Winchelsea
and in Dean’s Marsh about the return
to the district of the pride of its heart,
now a great celebrity, with the world
of music at her feet. Would she be still
“our Marje” or some majestic being
from another planet? The home-town
folk need not have worried. Marjorie
Lawrence is “the goods” in spite of being
a prima donna ; she’s a young woman
with vitality and an enormous sense of
humor; and if her voice hadn’t been
her fortune her laugh would have. She
loves a joke and a good time, though
when she is singing arduously she cuts
down on late nights and too many
parties. Altogether, she is a very human
person. She has loads of energy and
keeps herself very fit, doesn’t play golf
(thinks it’s not strenuous enough), but
likes tennis, and must be something of
a champion at table tennis, for she always
manages to win prizes at this pacy game
on board ship.
Miss Lawrence rides a good deal, but
hasn’t possessed a horse of her own since
she left Australia, though she has had
some funny experiences on other people’s.
At the Paris Circus (an annual event for
charity to which artists contribute turns
irrelevant to their professions) Miss Law-
rence was asked to impersonate a whoop-
ing Indian chief dressed in feathers and
riding a showy horse over jumps. She
said that she laughed so much she nearly
disgraced Australia by coming off. To
some of her “bad moments” her
reactions have been smothered in a sense
of humor. As Brunnhilde upon the burn-
ing rock in “The Valkyrie,” she has nearly
set herself on fire several times. At
Monte Carlo in 1932, during her debut as
Elisabeth in “Tannhauser,” she had an
attack of nerves made worse by the size
of her crown ; it was too large, and kept
slipping and threatening to blot out both
face and voice—surely a trying night;
but they were tears of laughter and not
of temperament that were afterwards
shed in the dressing-room.
Mrs. R. G. Casey opened the Inde-
pendent Group’s exhibition of pictures
with a brief and tactful speech. Her
views were non-aggressive, though she
voiced a respect for the talent and in-
tegrity of the artists concerned. Most
of the painters exhibiting were present,
including Madge Freeman, making one
of her fortnightly visits to Melbourne.
By now she knows the railway journey
to Bendigo, paddock by paddock and
gum-tree by gum-tree. Next time she takes
possession of her charming converted-
stable studio in East Melbourne she
means to have some of her friends to
breakfast. Although it is the wrong
time of year for such crack-of-dawn
doings, those invited are sure to be on
the doormat bright and early.
Among others noticed at the exhibi-
tion was Elizabeth Hackett, of Adel-
aide, protected from the cold in a winter-
day apparel of fur coat and little berry-
red cap. The Val Bloggs were there,
Mrs. Blogg with shoulders snug under a
fur cape. Dr. Clive Stephen came along
to commend brother- and sister-artists ;
Mrs. Stephen also did the rounds in a
seascape alliance of marine-blue frock
and off-white-shingle-beach coat. Mrs.
C. R. Anderson, of Kerrisdale, wore
black and silver foxes. Mrs. Esmond
Lillies was all for tweeds and a lapel
mascot clipped from the tail of a deer
in a Scottish park. In tweeds also were
Mrs. M. G. Coles, who added a mush-
room-pink hat, and Marjorie Rankin,
whose fingers were tucked into hand-
woven woollen gloves.
The bridge party at Menzies’ in aid
of the Children’s Hospital was of such
calibre that extra tables had to be called
for to accommodate all those who
wanted to play. Stalls did a busy trade,
and there was a steady demand for
lucky tickets in a white taffeta cushion
stitched by Mrs. John Grimwade and in
various other prizes, including orders
for goods on firms and for something
special in pouch handbags bought by
Mrs. George Stevenson in Paris. Mrs.
Ernest Poolman was in charge of the
accessories stall, which catered for both
decorative and homely tastes; boxes of
freshly-picked garden peas were much in
request. Misses J. Turnbull and C. Syme
organised the flower barrows, stocked
from well-wishers’ gardens, including the
Richard Turnbull and the Hume Turn-
bull domains. Mrs. G. D. Young, who
was president of the committee, wore
midnight-blue. Mrs. Jack Murray, who
was in black with a gold pin pierc-
ing her black toque, brought along
daughters Winkie and Mollie to help sell
sweets. Cynthia Vernan Smith sold
orchids and bought a glamorous bloom
herself for her mother’s birthday on the
following day. Diana Stephens and
Penelope Little were among other young
folk who assisted at the party.
A very young couple who have an im-
portant engagement for the evening of
July 14 at the Melbourne Grammar
School chapel are Patricia Whitehead
and Bill Harrison. Patsy, who is the
youngest daughter of the G. H. White-
head couple, of Goodwood, Minhamite,
is sharing the fun of plans for frocks
and pre-wedding parties with a quintet
of attendants —Margaret Leary, Win
Moran, Molly Simson, Helen Wood and
Mary Stephens. Photograph of the
bride-to-be from Broothorn.
Seven small boys and girls, looking
smaller than ever through the size of
the posies upon their lapels, walked
through Menzies’ on their way from the
Children’s Hospital bridge party in the
lounge to their meeting with their
famous aunt, Marjorie Lawrence. The
children, arriving at the hotel, remem-
bered that they had meant to bring “Aunt
Marje” some flowers, inquiries for which
sent them round to the flower stalls,
where they decided to do the job properly
and wear their purchases like everybody
else around them was doing. Afterwards
the presentation went off beautifully with
an affectionate welcome from Aunt
Marje and cakes of all colors for the
seven little Australians.
At the Balaclava and East St. Kilda
Free Kindergarten, there is a new climb-
ing-tower, the gift of the Mothers’ Club.
The children exercise their monkey
muscles by clambering over its wooden
frame head-first, like spiders, or sideways
like crabs. At the kindergarten the young
folk are given a hot meal every day, and
they also eat the decorations (used to
augment the flowers), mountains of rosy-
red apples, cores and all. This kinder-
garten (like all others) has problems of
maintenance, so that the committee is
always running bridge parties and other
entertainments to balance the accounts.
Last week Mrs. Archie Michaelis brought
along films of her family’s travels abroad,
and produced a movie show that was
much appreciated. Mr. Michaelis is an
amateur of pertinacity as well as tech-
nique. He took photographs at the Eng-
lish Derby (and caught the horses as well
as the gipsies), and he “shot” the field
at Lord’s during one of the Tests in
spite of the injunctions against amateur
photographers. He has a colorful record
of the Changing of the Guard at Buck-
ingham Palace and of the finale of one
of the King’s levees (at which he had
been present before dashing back to the
hotel to change from knee-breeches into
something less noticeable for taking
photos, in a London street). Part of
the pictorial story also was set in Scot-
land, the Isle of Skye and the south of
France. Native cooks came into it on a
Nile steamer; also Egyptian snake-
charmers and Egyptian Boy Scouts.
Representatives from the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital auxiliaries were present
at the annual meeting of the central
council to listen to many speeches, a little
music, to take tea together, to look at
one another and wonder how in the
world they managed to raise £5OOO dur-
ing the last year. As usual, the function
took place in the Outpatients’ Hall, with
yet another crop of little nurses (from
the last school, in existence only three
weeks) clustered together on benches at
the back of the hall. They were like a
flock of grey-and-white seagulls resting
on a cliff until they suddenly came to
life at the word “food” (although it
wasn’t their food), when they handed
around cups and cakes at high speed.
Among those who took part in the
proceedings were Mrs J. D. G. Medley
and the Stawell lady, chairman and presi-
dent respectively of the central council,
and the hospital president, Dr. B. T.
Zwar, and Mrs. Zwar, whose pastel-blue
woollen coat was a lift in color for a
drab-skyed day. Mrs. G. R. A. Syme,
Mrs. Konrad Hiller and Miss A. Danks
were there ; also Mrs. Constance Hughes,
in her favorite brown, which suits her so
well. The Miller lady’s dash of color was
a royal-blue feather in her hat. Dr. S. O.
Cowen made a speech of some length on
a subject close to his heart —better con-
ditions for medical students. Colonel
Rupert Fanning was there, and his wife
was noticeable in a superlative grey coat
with motifs of Persian lamb. Mrs. Rus-
sell Clarke wore black, and Mrs. Sidney
Myer quantities of silver foxes as a knee-
length trimming for her black ensemble.
Winter is here. Dr. Julian Smith took
a rug with him to the final Crooks con-
cert in the Town Hall on Saturday night.
It. was the usual Crooks house, crowded
and varied in its choice of dressing. Mrs.
Crooks was there wearing one of her
many fur coats over a glittersome silver
gown.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Beryl Cowper, who is finding herself
much in request lately for services on
the committees of charity functions. She
is one of the hon. ticket secretaries for
the cabaret cocktail party to be held at
the new Hotel Australia on June 28,
which activity is sure to be a success,
for Mrs. Harold Clapp is in charge of
the organisation. It is for the Adult
Deaf and Dumb Society appeal.
Jewellery abroad calls for rings on the
fingers and bells on the toes, with wrists
and necks serving as substitutes if neces-
sary. Mrs. David Robertson, who re-
turned last week from a holiday in the
U.S.A., brought back with her some such
musical accessories for her friends’ jewel-
boxes. At her mother’s welcome-home
party Mrs. Robertson’s daughter, Mrs.
Laing-Hay, wore her presents —a ring
jingling with tiny silver bells and a bangle
to match. Sister Kathleen Duigan (who
is leaving for England in July to make
her home there with relatives) also wore
her gift from overseas, a necklace like
a cascade of red-and-gold wedding-rings.
Among the flowers that decorated the
rooms at Cresswell for the party were
several baskets and bouquets sent along
by friends with a glad-to-know-you-are-
home-again message, and for the table
in the dining-room a golden ship filled
with a cargo of marzipan and a “Look
Down the Hatch” tally ticket for some
special secret at the bottom of the hold.
The shipbuilder was Bob Scott. Among
guests present were the B. Bradleys, who
with their young baby are recent arrivals
from Kansas City. Their impressions
of Australia are favorable, though so
far they haven’t got used to stoking fires,
for it’s all steam-heat where they come
from. They like the look of trees still
green in winter, and are intrigued to
note that here 40 degrees is reported
“cold.” Others at the party included
Beatrice Mollard, who also travelled
home on the Monterey. She wore an
oatmeal coat and a chimney-pot hat the
color of a ripe persimmon. Dr. Lorna
Bray’s hat presented ear-pieces in vivid
green and scarlet feathers. Edith Hoare’s
was a posy of garden flowers. Dargie
Kaaten looked charming in her cape of
burgundy velvet, with its hood cunningly
attached backstage of her halo of plastic
curls. A visitor from Perth was Stanley
Wreford, discussing the lighter side of
finance with a kindred spirit, Stanley
Smith, of the Athenaeum Club. Another
guest, uninvited and undiscovered until
someone disappeared to carpet-level in
search of a dropped olive-stone, was the
family Aberdeen, who was watching
everything that went on from an undis-
turbed stance under the table.


BRANDALER’S
m
vs*
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BR.ANDA.UEK * CO. Ud. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route;
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated, in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
fiji.hdholuuT
aEEMSMS
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
ŵ
was seen heading out by the main chan-
nel. At the time of writing nothing more
had been heard of her.
There is a strong drift southwards
in the area which the men proposed to
fish. The mysterious factor is that it
sets in fairly close to the coast, a few
miles north of Cape Moreton, and would
keep them in sight of land most of the
time, and eventually bring them to the
N. S. Wales coast. As they had a sail,
engine-failure need not necessarily have
held them up. Edwin Carey, the young
owner of the launch, was one of the best
boatmen in the bay. The other members
of the party were G. D. Bradbury, Chief
Inspector of Hospitals; G. J. Maloney
and G. V. Maloney, his son; H. B.
Hopt, J. Weeddan, J. Laister, W. Stacey,
T. Stacey, Andrew Stirling, Roy Palmer
and James Turnbull. It was thought
possible that the party went ashore on
outer Moreton Island or on the coast
north of Caloundra, where there are
many unfrequented spots.
But on Sunday, June 18, the Nerita’s
dinghy, empty and upside-down, was
“So were no good at it, eh ?”
found between Cape Moreton and
Caloundra; and that suggested stark
tragedy.
v *•’ '**
“Kyabra”: Every morning the first
thing I turn to in my flapper journal is
• the account of the sufferings of the Simp-
son Desert expedition in a land where
dingoes howl all night, where there is
green earth, and where nobody seems
to be able to find water. A recent bulle-
tin was to the effect that the expedition-
aries had been reduced to a moisture
ration of eight gallons per day for nine
men. I was with a party that crossed
Central Australia in 1910-11. We got
down to half a pannikin a day for over
a week, but then we were not explorers.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Our Queensland Transport
Department has just shown the world
how not to encourage tourist traffic.
A party of Maoriland bowlers, having
been told of the glories of the scenery
North of Twenty-eight, decided to have
a good look at it, and hired a charabanc
in Sydney for £2OO. Arrived at Tweed
Heads, they were told they must leave
the vehicle behind and use trains. An
appeal to the Transport Board secured
them a special concession—they might
cross the border and bring their char, to
Brisbane in a straight line. Arrived there,
they would be allowed to make out a
case for their being permitted to travel
further by road; but the Transport
Board chairman pointed out that “suit-
able rail services for the north could be
arranged.”
# ❖ * *
“8.R.”: Thursday Island’s Mayor
Corran inadvertently put one over the
Local Government Act. Everybody who
goes to T.I. sees Corran. He is the
island’s most public-spirited and perma-
nent inhabitant. If pearlers are about
to strike, send for Mr. Corran; if the
dog has got a bait, ring up the “Pilot”
office and ask the Mayor to call. If a
distinguished visitor arrives, his Worship
patiently lays aside all his many other
duties, unearths the golfcourse from under
its natural growth, and points out the
Quetta Cathedral and Yokohama. On
Saturday nights his home used to be —
and I suppose still is—the scene of a
social gathering at which everybody was
welcome. In between his civic duties, he
finds time to run the smallest paper in
the world, as T.I. boasts with pride. No-
body grudges the sixpence which it costs.
Now it has been discovered that in 1893
Corran with the rest of Queensland went
bankrupt for £24 10s. when he was a
compositor in Brisbane, and for years
he has been Mayor without realising that
hundreds of pounds in penalties have
been piling up against him under the Act.
However, the Chief Justice has given him
a discharge, and his services have more
than earned him immunity.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The North does pro-
duce some queer accidents at times. A
motor-cyclist, with another man on the
pillion, took a corner rather too sharply
on the main Innisfail-Gordonvale road,
met two cassowaries and a chick on the
other side, ran into one of them and cap-
sized. Both men were cut and bruised;
the birds bolted into the scrub, and the
machine caught fire. What such shy
and elusive bushfolk were doing on a
much-frequented main traffic road is not
clear, but unreliable, beer-inspired local
opinion has it that they were probably
bringing the youngster into the Babinda
baby clinic, four miles away.
“Col. B.”: The commonsense humanity
with which Queensland is handling its
colored problem is further illustrated by
the recent decision to transfer half-castes
on a steadily-increasing scale to a special
settlement which will eventually secure
their absorption into the white popula-
tion. Better types of half-breeds are
being selected for transfer to Purga,
30-odd miles from Brisbane, in the West
Moreton district, where the Salvation
Army organisation will train them for
farm work, and help them to develop
towards white living standards and
methods. The S.A. has carried on a
voluntary system of the kind for years,
and many Purga people working on West
Moreton farms are regarded by everyone
as useful citizens. Good work along
similar lines is done at the Hammond
Island (Torres Strait) R.C. Mission, where
a half-caste settlement conducts its own
industries and store on a co-operative
system as efficiently as any white com-
munity.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Thirty-five years ago
Harry Hunter ran his lugger into a creek
north from Roebuck Bay, built himself
a hut, took to wife a damsel from a
neighboring tribe and settled to live ac-
cording to his philosophy. Far from the
haunts of men, there was a living to be
got at pearling, lugger-building, timber-
getting, cargo-carrying. Mrs. H. bore
him four sons. These he taught all the
ways of the sea. But, although himself
well-educated, Hunter never taught his
boys to read and write. Nowadays a son,
Robin Hunter, carries the mail, per ketch,
from Broome to Cape Leveque light-
house, 160 miles to the north. He it was
who rescued the Johnsons (B. 14/6/’39).
Whose was that tenth-rate mind that said
“The half-caste inherits all the vices of
both parents’ races and none of their
virtues”?
**- * *
“Munni”: All the Queensland north-
west will welcome the Government’s new
flying-doctor plan. The idea is to estab-
lish a base at Cloncurry, with several
auxiliary hospitals, and to provide medi-
cal attention in 150,000 square miles of
country. The local authorities turned it
down last year as a matter of finance,
but the Government is now favorable ;
and so it should be. People who put
up with heat, flies, drought, floods, dust-
storms and loneliness should not
have their medical facilities governed
by their own resources. They are serv-
ing a useful defensive purpose for the
south, apart from merely trying to
make a living.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ...
T
JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST.. .3I4 CEODGE ST. SYDNEY
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
M
WRITE
TO-DAY
The NETWORK
that COVERS—
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertl) I
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are IS/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Bead “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGE.
The Modern Television
Receiver.
Television, still only a remote possi-
bility so far as Australia is concerned, is
attracting a great deal of attention and
achieving much success overseas. “Tele-
vision and Short-wave World” has inter-
estingly explained the functioning of a
high-definition television receiver by
means of a diagram. Sound is received
simultaneously in a separate channel in a
similar superheterodyne arrangement—
without the time bases.
In many respects the vision receiver is
identical with the ordinary short-wave
radio receiver. Extra care is taken in the
construction and the frequency response
has to be infinitely better. It is unusual
for any broadcast set to reproduce signals
higher in frequency than 15,000 to
20,000 cycles, but in a television receiver
the circuits must be capable of passing
frequencies up to two megacycles in order
that picture definition shall not suffer.
As this means very broadly tuned
stages, and in many cases tuned circuits
heavily damped by low-value resistors,
the gain per stage is very much less than
that obtained in the normal manner. This
primarily accounts for the large number
of valves, usually 20, in the average
vision receiver.
The vision set can be split for the pur-
pose of comparison into four units, the
R.F. stages, mixer and high-frequency
oscillator, intermediate frequency ampli-
fying stages, second detector and
separator. With the exception of the
separator this sequence is exactly the
same as in a sound receiver.
A signal is received at a frequency of
45 megacycles and applied to the grid of
the first radio-frequency amplifier. This
valve amplifies in the normal manner
and passes the boosted signal, still with a
frequency of 45 megacycles, to the grid
of the second or even third amplifier.
The output from the final R.F. amplifier,
which by this time is a fairly strong
Diagrammatical explanation of the make-
up of a modern television receiver.
signal, is applied to the grid of .the first
detector or mixer. This valve is either
a hexode and a triode in the same glass
envelope or two separate valves, accord-
ing to the ideas of the designer.
An oscillator output is mixed with the
45-megacycle signal applied to the first
detector, but the oscillator frequency is
slightly different from that of the detector
frequency, in order to produce a lower
frequency. The difference depends on
the frequency required in the I.F. stages
—generally about eight megacycles.
The use of the lower frequency I.F.
stages is merely to obtain the maximum
amount of gain with adequate band
width. With a straight receiver when the
signal is amplified at 45 megacycles, as
many as seven R.F. stages are required
in order to supply a sufficiently high
voltage to the diode detector. However,
by amplifying at eight megacycles the
number of stages can be decreased
and the voltage applied to the second
detector increased.
The second section—that is, the detec-
tor-oscillator —should be considered as a
miniature transmitter, for it supplies a
signal to the primary of the first I.F.
transformer at a given frequency. The
third section, the I.F. stages, is also
straightforward, except that the trans-
formers must be designed to provide an
adequate band width. In many receivers
the band width is as high as five mega-
cycles in order to obtain maximum defi-
nition.
The second detector rectifies the eight-
megacycle signal, and applies it to the
grid of the cathode-ray tube for modu-
lation. The synchronising signals are
applied via the separator valve to the line
and frame time bases, the outputs of
which, after being amplified, are applied
to the frame and line deflection coils
around the neck of the cathode-ray tube.
One large power-pack is required to
feed the receiver, the two time bases,
high voltages to the anodes of the tube
and low voltage to the heater. Usually
a common power-pack is employed,
giving all voltages from four volts up to
5000 or 6000 volts.
Coils for Radiotron 6K8G.
Many users of 6KBG valves have been
disappointed with results through the
use of incorrect coils. Data on suitable
coils were given in B. 4/1/’39.
Other types of coils may be used pro-
vided that the correct oscillator grid cur-
rent is obtained. Oscillator grid leak for
the 6KBG should be 50,000 ohms, and the
grid current preferably should not ex-
ceed the limits O.lma. to 0.2 ma., except
that at wave-lengths above 50 metres the
maximum current may be increased to
0.25 ma. provided that good shielding and
layout are adopted. Should the oscil-
lator grid current drop too low the valve
is likely to be damaged permanently owing
to excessive screen dissipation. Should
the oscillator grid current exceed the
top limit as stated, there is a likelihood of
unsatisfactory operation—“spilling over”
and loss of sensitivity over portion of the
wave-band.
Voltages applied to the electrodes are
rather more critical than with other
types of converters, and it is strongly
recommended that both the screen and
the oscillator plate should be supplied
through a common dropping resistor of
15,000 ohms from a 250-volt supply. The
lower end of this resistor should be by-
passed to earth by means of an Bmmfd.
electroly/ic and a small mica condenser in
parallel so as to by-pass both audio and
radio frequencies. If these electrodes
are supplied from a voltage divider the
voltage should not exceed 100 volts on
the screen grid and 125 volts on the oscil-
lator plate. There is greater likelihood
of flutter and frequency drift occurring
when the supply is from a voltage
divider than from a dropping resistor.
It is recommended that the oscillator
grid current be measured in order to
determine whether suitable coils have
been used. This measurement may
'be done with the aid of a 0-1
milliammeter which should be in-
serted by breaking the connection
between the cathode and the 50,000-ohm
oscillator grid leak. The positive ter-
minal of the milliammeter should be
connected to the cathode and the nega-
tive terminal to the grid leak. If the
reading of grid current is too high over
the whole band it may be reduced by
reducing the coupling or the number of
turns on the primary of the oscillator
coil or by reducing the voltage applied
to the oscillator plate. The latter
arrangement should not be adopted un-
less a voltage divider js used, since the
screen voltage should be maintained at
100 volts.
Provided that the oscillator grid cur-
rent is within the recommended limits
the operation of the 6KBG should be ex-
tremely satisfactory, particularly at
wave-lengths below 20 metres, where its
extreme sensitivity is of particular advan-
tage. The 6KBG does not offer any
appreciable advantage over the 6ABG on
the broadcast band, and the use of the
6ABG is recommended in receivers
covering the broadcast band only.
V.C.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Conditions have improved on the 11-
metre band. W6XKG can be heard any
time from 8 a.m., being still audible at
2 p.m. with an excellent news session.
This is generally an outstanding station.
W4XA opens at 10.30 a.m., and is best
around 2 p.m., but is often heterodyned
by W9XUP. WBXNU is on the same
frequency as W6XKG, but can often be
heard at a shade higher frequency.
The 10-metre amateur stations are still
good in mid-morning and from 4 p.m.
On 13 metres GDJ is still very good on
occasions around 8.45 p.m., and the best
16-metre station now is DJH. At times,
however, this band is dead. GSF is
about the best of the 19-metre stations
at 8.45 p.m., and the main lower fre-
quencies are as consistently good at night
as by day. Good entertainment can be
enjoyed all day on 19, 25 and 31 metres,
with a few extra stations to pick from
on Sunday afternoons. The 41-metre
band is good before breakfast and at
night. On 34 metres two Cuban stations
are heard at 8 a.m. and 10 p.m., and on
35 metres a Rumanian has been heard
up to 9 a.m.
K.B.G.
[Current issue of “Electronics” (U.S.A.)
contains a description of the aerial used
by the 11-metre station W9XUP. The
exact frequency is 26,150 kc., and the
method of aerial coupling is unique in
u.-h.-f installations. It is essentially the
same as the “shunt-feed” method used
in many broadcast installations with an
earthed aerial. In the case of the
W9XUP installation the aerial is located
at the top of an earthed 175 ft. steel
tower. The concentric transmission line
runs up the side of the tower to the
aerial. On top of the steel tower, encased
in a weather-proof housing, is the series
condenser used for tuning the aerial. The
lead from the condenser to the aerial is
a semi-rigid conductor, since the slant
of this wire and its curvature are im-
portant factors in tuning the system. The
aerial proper is a long
seamless steel tube, 3in. in diameter,
approximately of this being
used as the radiator. It is mounted in a
sleeve fastened to the tower so that the
tube may be easily adjusted to any de-
sired length up to W9XUP
is owned and operated by station KSTP.
Frequency was originally 25,950 kc., but
the change to 26,150 kc. was made be-
cause of interference with other stations
in the same channel. — Ed.]
U.H.F. News from U.S.A.
W9BNX, W. Conklin, “Radio’s” asso-
ciate editor, writes telling of American
activity on 28mc. and the higher fre-
quencies.
Some observers have been interested in
the many cases of short skip on 10
metres during the past winter (in U.S.A.)
and the “woof-woof” fading of some of
these signals. The ionosphere storm of
24/2/’39, referred to in B. 26/4/’39, was
accompanied by sporadic E layer reflec-
tions which would account for the skip
at night. The turbulent nature of the
ionosphere explains the peculiar audio-
frequency fading. The National Bureau
of Standards states that the more com-
mon, poor, short-path 10-metre transmis-
sions appear to be by scattered reflec-
tions which have been discussed in
several papers. These reflections are oc-
casionally called G-layer reflections.
They are common on somewhat lower
frequencies when the ionisation density
is too low for regular E or F layer trans-
missions, and it is probably that some of
the 56mc. transmission is produced in
this way. The fluttering modulation ob-
served on transmissions appears to be
caused by interference of waves over
different paths and rapid changes in path
length, which produce the rapid fading.
There is a change of phase at the receiver
with a change of path length, and this is
complicated by interference of rapidly-
fading signals over several paths.
The Bureau comments on 56mc. con-
ditions such as those of 24/2/’39. The
general “mushiness” of signals was
caused by turbulence or boiling of the
ionosphere.
During this month 56mc. field days
are being held in many parts of U.S.A.
with attempts to make contacts up to dis-
tances of 300 miles. WBVO says that
there have been many days in the past
winter when he could have logged and
possibly worked with distant stations but
for instability of C.W. signals at low
audio levels. He complains also that
there is not enough use made of C.W.
to sign off or call. Keying with heavily-
loaded exciter stages causes a slight shift
in note of lkc. to lOkc. not counting the
drift of as high as 40kc. when using a
high-frequency crystal. This makes
numerous signals impossible to read
when just audible on a clear background.
Better stability will increase the number
of “open” days when C.W. will get
through, although the band may be
closed for ’phone.
That is worth stressing for Australian
conditions also, as far too many stations
are dabbling with hopelessly inefficient
and unstable apparatus. Stability in the
receiver needs attention, especially in the
H.F. oscillator circuit, where some shift
will occur with line voltage changes, and
drift with time.
Individual reports have some interest-
ing points. On 28 /3 / ’39 W2MO heard
at 10.45 p.m. the C.W. signals of WBCIR
at Q 5 R 7, but with a watery waver that
characterised all signals that evening.
This reception did not seem to be the


ẁ
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking —Wages Page 39
Rations ”
Sheep bought ” "
Wire netting »» b
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 1 2.
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
usual low atmosphere bending, because
the beam aerial didn’t make any differ-
ence. This has been noticed before in
U.S.A. on several occasions, and the
writer believes that beams are essential
if and when DX occurs plain aerials,
for local work up to 100 miles or so, but
possibly with horizontal polarisation, are
preferable.
WBQDU has finished with DX con-
tests and turned to 56mc. in earnest.
So much so that his home station uses
a kilowatt with a pair of 250TH’s.
WBOKC reports that he has had such
improved results from a system of
ground radials under his 20-metre ver-
tical aerial that he is trying the same
thing under a four-section vertical rotary
WBJK for five metres. “QST” recently
had an interesting article on this subject.
It is noted that the RME Co. uses the
new 6SK7 mixer valve with 6J5 oscil-
lator in its U.H.F. converter. This is
somewhat comparable to a 57 mixer.
RME connects the suppressor of the
mixer valve direct to the oscillator con-
trol grid.
WBVO has a preselector using two
acorns and three tuned circuits. His
receiver has acorn R.F. and detector
stages, 6J5 oscillator and 4mc. I.F. The
preselector is used only when background
noise is low, being designed for signal-
to-noise ratio rather than for maximum
gain, and works well when atmospheric
noises are low. He does not believe that
it helps the receiver when there is auto
ignition or other disturbance about.
In addition to plenty of activity and
investigation of 56mc. conditions in
U.S.A., there is now much activity on
112mc. (2i metres). Fair success is being
met with there, although the bulk
of equipment used at present is of the
self-excited transmitter and super-regen.
receiver variety. So far as the Austra-
lian U.H.F. experimenter is concerned,
the 56mc. band calls for attention, and
progress is slowly but steadily being made
—ll2mc. is not yet an experimental
channel in this country.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
Queer things happen to the polarisation
of 56mc. transmissions in covering long
distances. Consistent C.W. communica-
tion is now possible between VK2VU,
Singleton, and VK2LZ, Wentworth Falls,
N.S.W., over a more or less optical 90-
mile path, but, although a high, vertically-
polarised BJK. two-section beam array
is used in Singleton for transmission and
reception, it is only possible to hear the
A new type of microphone, designed by
the B.B.C.’s Research Department for
use when a highly-sensitive and incon-
spicuous instrument is required. It has
proved so successful that it has been
extensively adopted by overseas broad-
casting organisations. The photograph
shows the microphone without its protec-
tive covers, revealing the corrugated
aluminium ribbon, which moves in
response to sound, and the magnetic
system.
vertically polarised transmission from the
Wentworth Falls end by using a long
wire horizontal aerial. Yet the trans-
missions from Singleton are received by
VK2LZ on a half-wave vertical Zepp
at R 6. It will be interesting to deter-
mine just why the high vertical array at
VK2VU produces no signals in the
receiver. As a contrast is the reception at
Dundas, N.S.W., by VK2ABZ of the
Singleton C.W. transmissions. Here a
horizontally polarised half-wave doublet
is the only aerial producing the signals,
by way of a T.R.F. receiver with separate
regeneration valve. This is understand-
able to some extent, since Dundas is
much lower than the 3000 ft. of Went-
worth Falls, and intervening objects may
easily change the angle of arrival. It is
evident that the ideal aerial system is one
that can be immediately controlled from
the operating room for vertical, hori-
zontal and tilted positions.
On the evening of 10/6/’39 at 7.20
p.m., whilst listening for signals in
Sydney from VK2VU on 56,080 kc. C.W.,
a weak fading C.W. signal was observed
around this frequency. Because of
splatter from a modulated oscillator out-
fit somewhere identification was not pos-
sible, but it is thought that the signal
was from VK2VU’s transmitter.
The Sydney stations active on 56mc.
had decreased in number during the
week-end, but a new station, and one
with particularly interesting equipment,
was VK2JU, Chatswood, N.S.W. On
12/6/’39 it had an R 8 speech signal at
VK2NO and a steady T 9 carrier from
a simple two-stage M.O.P.A. transmitter.
A 6L6G is used as electron-coupled
oscillator with grid at 10 and plate at five
metres, capacity coupled to a single 809
final. A conventional layout and circuit
arrangement is used and puts a stable
56mc. transmission on the air at a mini-
mum of expense and trouble. Despite
the handicap of a makeshift aerial at
present, this strong signal from a very
screened location at Chatswood shows
just what can be done with appropriate
equipment at both ends. Three or four
years ago, when VK2IU and VK2NO
were using super-regenerative type equip-
ment, it was never possible to put any-
thing more than an R 4 signal between the
two positions/
With accurate frequency calibration
equipment available, VK2WJ spent two
evenings making calibrations on Sydney
56mc. transmissions, and revealed several
discrepancies from the assumed fre-
quencies. Those checked were VK2NO
at 56,073.88 kc., VK2IQ at 56,138.76 kc.,
VK2PS at 57,006.36 kc. and VK2AZ at
56,340 kc. VK2NO uses a crystal at
7005 kc. fundamental, and thus the fre-
quency in the 56mc. band should be
56,040 kc. The difference that can arise
through crystal-holder pressure and
dirt is considerable at this high harmonic.
Excellent results are being obtained at
the writer’s station with the new W.E.
type co-axial vertically-polarised aerial.
With this at an elevation of 50 feet or so,
results generally are superior to the
WBJK beam, which is 20 feet lower. The
Bassett 64-ohm concentric line provides
an accurate match to the centre of the
aerial, the only radiation taking place
even with high power being at the aerial
itself. It is planned to scrap the close-
spaced array and to erect this co-axial
system with resonant reflector instead.
The current issue of “QST” contains
an interesting article on a two-stage
56mc. M.O.P.A. transmitter using an
e.-c. 89, unity-coupled to two 89’s in push-
pull with suppressor modulation (59’s
could no doubt be substituted). WIIPL
adopted a clever neutralising scheme in
this transmitter, and the idea is worth
noting with valves requiring a very small
neutralising capacity, such as 89’s, 59’s,
6L6G’s and 807’s. The neutralising con-
densers are made of strips of copper £in.
wide and lin. long. These are mounted
around the outside of the output valves,
cross-connecting the strips to the grids.
They are first held in place with elastic
bands around the narrow end of the
valves and as close to the plate as pos-
sible. After the strips are in place, plate
voltage is applied to the final without
excitation, and the strips are peeled back
until no sign of oscillation is observed
when the tank condenser is tuned
throughout its range. The strips are then
cemented and the rubber bands peeled off
after the cement has set.
Reference was made previously to the
presence on 7280 kc. of a French broad-
casting station in Paris calling itself
“Radio Mondial.” As a result of the
efforts of the Reseau des Emmetteurs
Fran?ais and the A.R.R.L. this station
was suspended last April, but it is not
clear whether broadcasting in amateur
bands is to stop altogether. Theoretically,
broadcasters and amateurs will have
equal rights to the 7200 kc. and 7300 kc.
region after September, but with the
weight of American amateurs causing
QRM in broadcasts, as they surely will,
somebody is likely to drop out of the
unequal battle, and it doesn’t look as if
amateurs will be the losers.
G6FO’s “Short-wave Magazine” com-
ments on frequency stability on 56mc.,
pointing out that users of 56mc. are now
in two camps: the advanced experi-
menters who radiate stabilised trans-
missions and those beginners who' use
broad frequency modulated stuff and
super-regen. receivers. It is unlikely that
interference caused by the latter in
Sydney will ever become as troublesome
as in New York or Chicago. It has
long been discovered that the super-
regen. receiver does not give good re-
ception of a weak signal, and completely
misses the very weak signal, and straight
and superhet type receivers are well
established.
VK2NO.
An Experimental Station.
VK2AFS, Moree, N.S.W.
VK2AFS, owned and operated by Bob
Wilson at East Moree (N.S.W.), is noted
for the excellent quality of speech trans-
mission on the 7000 kc. band and a con-
sistently strong signal radiated by what
is genuinely a low-power assembly.
Although Bob Wilson sports a three-
letter callsign, he is far from being a
new hand at amateur radio. He made
a start in 1927 in company with VK3KU,
now VK2ACD, Ron Hipwell, chief engi-
neer of 2BH broadcasting station, Broken
Hill. After much work building and
rebuilding equipment, they finished up
with gear comprising 201 As throughout.
Wilson afterwards travelled Australasia
as electrician with Wirth’s Circus. Be-
tween 1934 and 1936 he was on the air
from Randwick (N.S.W.) as VK2TN,
moving in 1937 to the present location.
First transmitter used in Moree com-
prised a 59 electron oscillator with 2A3
buffer, followed by push-pull 2A3’s.
Modulation was the series method with
parallel ’so’s. Trouble developed with
the 2A3’s, and since May, 1939, VK2AFS
has been using a two-stage transmitter
with 59 crystal oscillator on 7296 kc., with
a single-type 45 as P.A. That is linked
to a full-wave zepp aerial 60ft. high with
54ft. feeders. The speech arrangement
consists of a 27 resistance-coupled to a
56, resistance-coupled to a 2A3 shunt-fed
to paralleled 2A3’s in series modulation,
the power pack for the transmitter final
stage and modulators delivering 450
volts at 150 ma. Battery bias is used for
the modulators at volts, and the
microphone is a home-made Reisz type.
The receiver is a five-valve broadcast
type with one-valve short-wave superhet
converter and 8.F.0. A more recent
change in the transmitter shows a line-
up of 59 crystal oscillator with a 6L6G
final stage, and the use of a crystal-type
microphone. With the single 45 valve
in the final as previously, VK2AFS
worked all Australasia on telephony, plus
VR4, VK9 and PK3. This has been
done on the 7mc. band. C.W. contacts
show a goodly quota of Americans and
Canadians. Occasionally VK2AFS uses
80 and 20 metres, and has worked all
Australian districts excepting Westralia
on those bands. On 20 metres, telephony
goes over to America and Canada.
D.B.K.
The Question Box.
I am living 60 miles from the nearest
accumulator-charging plant. My receiver is a
vibrator portable. Could you recommend a
wet primary battery 1 might use ? —;782.
Primary cells are out of the question with
vibratory power supply, the constant load
being far in excess of their capabilities. It
would be possible to run the receiver from
such cells by banking a large number in series-
parallel, but the method is expensive. Best way
out of the problem is to exchange the receiver
for one of the latest 1.4-volt valve portable re-
ceivers. These use the new low-drain dry-cell
battery valves, and, provided the usual heavy-
duty B batteries are used, will give very long
life on the initial cells. Complete information
on the application of 1.4-volt receivers can be
obtained from the Eveready Co., Box 37,
Mascot, N.S.W.
* * * *
Particulars of an all-stations receiver for bat-
tery operation using IA-volt valves ? I want it
for headphone use at an invalid’s bedside.
Do you propose to describe details of the port-
able set used by the N.S.W. Police Depart-
ment for attachment to police dogs? —7B4.
The 1.4-volt four-valve superhet (B.
14/6/’39) is particularly suitable, being de-
signed for use with a loop aerial. Headphones
may be used in place of the permag. midget
speaker. The super-regenerative receiver used
for tests with the police dogs is not particu-
larly suitable for use on broadcast frequencies,
and is designed for ultra-high frequencies only.


ẃ
\
<D>
IS
all
iu HWittnniui»m uu v
/// I \ \ N
you pay
for
PINT
of
s best
remedy for
Save lots of money by simply, in your
own home, adding a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated HEENZO to
sweetened water, ; thus making ONE
PINT of the world’s best- family
remedy, equally good and safe for
children and adults, as a speedy and
pleasant cure for chest, nose, and throat
ailments. . : i
By taking made-up HEENZO
internally you quickly soothe and banish
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS, and
INFLUENZA. Ex-
periments have proved
that the most effective
and economical treat-
ment for CATARRH
and COLDS IN THE
HEAD is placing a.
few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each
nostril night and morn-
ing. To gain instant relief from SORE
and SMOKERS’ THROATS,
gargle with made-up HEENZO when-
ever the irritation is felt. HEENZO
being pure, and free from poisons
or harsh drugs, cannot upset the
digestion of even the youngest baby.
You can also rely on HEENZO as a
safeguard against catching the ills of
winter chills by taking a dose before
venturing out into crowds, or cold, wet,
and windy weather.
ẅ
m
mfm.
MADE
UP
IN VOUR
nWN HOME
CHEST AILMENTS
FOR ALL CHEST
AILMENTS TAKE
HEENZO INTERNALLY
■
m
mao*
rous
HOME
GAPCLEfor
JODI THROAT*
GARGLE WITH
HEENZO TO GAIN
INSTANT RELIEF from
SORE THROATS
ORDER HEENZO FROM
YOUR CHEMIST OR
STORE.
HOW TO USE HEENZO AS
A SPEEDY REMEDY FOR
s as. )*
GOUGHS
Take made-up HEENZ© every
few hours until cured. Relief
starts with first dose.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take half
a teaspoonful of concentrated
HEE N Z O (straight from
original bottle) in half a wine-
glass of hot water every ; four
hours. Keep bowels open,* and
DON’T leave bed till twenty-
four hours after temperature
becomes normal.
GOLDS
Same c treatment, as coughs.
If taken at first. sign, cold
will quickly vanish.
BRONCHITIS
Take made-up HEENZO
night and morning and
when cough is troublesome.
WHOOPING COUGH
Call ~ your doctor immediately for injections. Ease the
cough with made-up HEENZO. No risk of overdosing,
because HEENZO does not contain any poisons. '
HEENZO IS DEFINITELY
SAFE FOR CffILUEEN |
; Cannot' upset even a bdby’s i
digestion. ;No poisons in I
HEENZO. -j
'HEENZOi
the best costs less!
w


The Richardson Chain Hotel
fill'll if
■4
•*
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
ŵ
Ap^‘
r
A*
<9^
JA&
rf-
XW~7*l
icX^ Lu
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Prospects for Wool.
“Ghanam”: It is ironic to read at the
end of a season in which wool has been
under lid. per lb. that “wool continues
to be a commodity for which there is a
strong and world-wide demand,” but that
is how the British Overseas Trade Depart-
ment Bulletin puts it. It adds that, with
wool at the present low level, there
seems to be “no hesitancy about building
up stocks in consuming centres.” A year
ago they were low in all countries except
U.S.A., “but have now been replenished
by the purchase of current clips as well
as virtually all the world’s carry-forward
wool.”
It is an enlightening comment. Stocks
were light and there was a strong demand.
But prices fell. under the influence of
that demand, and manufacturers took the
opportunity to stack away as much wool
as possible so as to insure that prices can
be kept down in future.
The remarkable increase in the demand
for wool at a time when world trade is
far from satisfactory' may be' attributed to
three factors —replenishment of stocks which
had been allowed to fall to a low level,
an increasing consumption due in part to
military requirements, and a policy of build-
ing up stocks for future needs.
The heaviest hoarders are the .York-,
shire buyers, the French and the
Belgians. Yorkshire has had ; its chance
largely because a Federal Government
pushed the biggest competitor of York-
shire out of the Australian wool market
in the interests of the neighboring cotton
county of Lancashire, and because other
strong competitors—Germany and Italy
—are hamstrung economically.,,
Graziers suggest a Government bonus
or price-fixing as a remedy for the
position. I’ve got another. The credit di
the grazing industry is still good enough
to raise a few millions and do some
hoarding itself.
If it is good enough for the overseas
buyer to stack it away at the present
prices, it is an equally good risk for us to
do the same. The wool could be bought
in the open market. It is always a good
asset. And it is safer in our hands than
in somebody else’s, for then we can con-
trol its issue. .'•••■
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Murrawong”: In spite of an un-
favorable year, studmasters are offering
good support to Sydney’s 1939 Sheep
Show and ram, sales.
There are increased entries of all
breeds except Polwarths and Dorset
Horns. Merino entries total 419 as
against 355 last year, and there will be a
big field for the Stonehaven Cup. Four
new studs are entering the show lists, in-
cluding Coonong, and practically all last
year’s winners will be in the field again.
Small graziers’ classes have more than
doubled last year’s entries.
British breeds reflect the growing in-
terest in the fat-lamb industry. Twice as
many Romney entries as last year have
been received, and local breeders will
have competition from other States to
meet.
Border Leicesters are also in force, and
three M.L. studmasters are bringing sheep
across the Tasman for the event. Close
on one hundred Southdowns will com-
pete for ribbons. Three breeders new
to Sydney are among the challengers.
Dorset Horn entries are only three
down on last year, and .Victorian and
S.A. studs will again be represented.
The well-known Parafield stud will
have four challengers . for Ryeland
honors. There is a keen demand for this
hardy Downs type ram. After a long
lapse, Shropshires will again be on view
with entries from one breeder. There is
one Polwarth entry also.
Judging will begin on June 20 and
British-breed sales will be held on June
23. Following the success of last year’s
experiment, all sales will take place at
the Showground during the week after
the Show. Here again, numbers, show an
all-round increase on the past two years.
Approximately. 3000 merinos will come
“Take the rod fr a while, Ma, so’s I kin ’ave a spell!"
under the hammer, with nearly 350 Cor-
riedales and close on 500 British breeds.
Blowflies—North and South.
“Macquarie” (from, back of Bourke):
“Peppin” (B. 24/5/’39) is right when he
says that wool ought to grow at right
angles to the skin, but I do not agree
that “development” should be bred right
out of merinos.
“Peppin’s” type is certainly desirable,
but to breed that type one must fre-
quently introduce a good .dense sire with
slight development, otherwise sheep
would be bred with far too long a staple,
the result being broken-down backs and
a very light fleece. In scouring tests
“Peppin” would probably win with his
plain-bodied, high-yielding sheep, but it
would be at least an even-money chance
when it came to sire qualities provided
both were mated properly.
“Damram” (B. 3/5/’39) is on the right
track : in fact, if more people jetted, say
five times a year, and crutched before
joining, the blowfly trouble would be
minimised 70 p.c. Dipping is useless for
fly-prevention, and crutching gives
about only five weeks’ immunity from
fly.
“Peppin” says that jetted sheep collect
dust and are knocked about. I say that
jetted sheep are not knocked about at
all, as compared with other methods of
fly-prevention.
“Warramulla” (a Central Queens-
lander): It looks as if “Damram” is
trying to get through on a “busted flush”
when he puts up the bluff of breeding
wrinkly sheep to give him an extra pound
of wool. He rates his extra return pretty
high when one considers the general aver-
age cut for Queensland is between 71b.
and 81b. per head.
The fleece from a wrinkly sheep carries
more yolk or condition than one from a
plain-bodied sheep. This yolk weighs
heavily. “Damram” should try scouring
his clip, and he’d soon find how much
of his extra pound goes out with the
wash. Too much importance is attached
to the greasy average made up in the
shearing-shed. The buyer bases his price
on the clean-scoured yield—but then his
job is to buy wool, not to sell it.
The breeder of wrinkly sheep in the
north will have in time a lot of poorly-
constitutioned animals on his hands—
happy hunting-grounds for the fly when
the seasons are right. The sweaty areas
set up in wrinkly sheep, especially around
the hindquarters, are ideal for fly strike.
It is not the “negligible” cost of the
jetting-race, plant, etc., or the cost of
four to six jettings per year which “Dam-
ram” mentions which would worry me
(my banker shoulders all that now).
The four to six musterings which it
entails would take its toll in the knocking
about the sheep would sustain, and the
amount of dust put into the wool on the
sheep’s back. Fancy trying to handle a
mob of ewes heavy in lamb, or with
young lambs at foot! And the fly gives
no consideration to time or place pro-
vided the weather suits.
Instead of six jettings during the year
far better to have one crutching properly
done at the right time. The cost would
not be double that which “Damram”
allows for his jettings, while the return
from the sale of the crutchings is a big
offset.
Remove the wool from that part of
the sheep which is the first to attract the
fly, and more than three parts of your
troubles are over. Only once in the last
ten years has it been necessary for us
to jet after the sheep have been crutched,
though we have had some vicious
seasons.
Footrot Treatment.
“Lion”: “J.R.D.” (B. 31/5/’39) gives
much good advice, but he doesn’t go
far enough.
Once lameness is evident sheep should
be treated in the paddock, and raddled
for quick future recognition. Use butter
of antimony after exposing seat of infec-
tion, applying it with a brush. It can be
carried in a small bottle, and a little goes
a long way. Cost is about ss. 6d. per
pound of liquid. Make sure it reaches
all parts. A white vapor will be noticed
on application to the hoof.
This treatment fixes early cases in two
applications, and where there are only a
few it is better than bluestone. Other-
wise follow “J.R.D.’s” method.
Often a lame sheep will be noted with
no apparent rot in the hoof. Examine
for redness above horn. Rot will usually
be found in the toe itself, and this will
have to be cut away, although it looks
hard and healthy prior to cutting. Have
had at least 20 cases like this, which were
promptly fixed as soon as treated.
I don’t approve of troughs in brand-
ing races or in large pens. Bluestone gets
into the wool too easily. Build your
foot-bath in the race itself, the narrow
sides of which will keep the sheep from
crowding and splashing each other or
falling down. Care is necessary when
putting sheep in. Plenty of men make
work easier and more efficient.
Cost of a race-bath is about five bags
of cement and two days’ work for one
man. Cover the receiving yard from the
race with lime (super, is a good sub-
stitute), and keep the sheep there as long
as possible to get their feet well limed.
After the race-bath is finished with, it
should be filled up with earth. This
preserves the concrete and prevents
dangers which exist when drafting-boards
are used.
Lime or super, around salt troughs in
paddocks is also good. A ring of lime
and then bluestone crystals near the
trough is another excellent method of
treatment and prevention.
If possible, paddocks should be spelled
for at least 10 days’ sunlight.
Wet weather means constant attention.
Midwinter Shearing Precautions.
“Sheepo”: Where shearing must be
done during midwiner, losses can be re-
duced to a minimum if some provision is
made for protecting the freshly-shorn
animals for the first night or two.
If shed space is available, in the shed
itself or underneath, each afternoon’s
mob should be kept under cover. Those
shorn before noon should be taken to a
paddock containing shelter. Where
neither exists, the shorn sheep must not
be driven fast or far. If they are over-
heated, it will mean plenty of deaths


Of
&
2933.
e
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
1
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
I
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
jTuT&ttlleZzffL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM-APPROVED *Y-HOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
N ° Require #
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS —“
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., vg|
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet. m
Agents all States.
ns
. i #
during the night. In no case should
shorn sheep be kept in the yards all
night. The slightest wind will cause them
to crowd up and many suffocate.
Rugs have proved profitable after mid-
winter shearing ; those fashioned out of
old sacks will well repay time and labor.
New W.A. Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: The W.A. Agricultural
Department announces a new variety of
wheat —a selection from Geeralying —
which has been registered as Climax.
Fixed by W. H. Cockram, at Nakarin, it
is claimed to be an improvement on the
parent.
Like Geeralying, it is of very early
maturity, highly resistant to flag smut
and to stem rust, but it differs from that
variety in being quite bald and having
a lesser tendency to shed the grain. Of
weak-flour strength, it has a higher water-
absorption than Bencubbin, which is
stronger than Geeralying.
Climax has been sown this season in
trial plots at Cowra, Condobolin and
Trangie (N.S.W.) experiment farms for
comparison with Geeralying, which is in-
eluded in the ten recommended bread
wheats in N.S.W., and has given excel-
lent commercial results in the north-west
and outer central-west.
Out with Potato Blight!
“Murphy”: Irish blight is a late-
autumn and winter disease, with a liking
for showery weather.
Spraying is the only preventive, and
it must be thorough and frequent. In a
dry season, give three or four doses of
Bordeaux mixture to plants ; in a wet
one, five. Start when plants are young
and keep the spray going. Be careful not
to spray when they are overdry or
the leaves will be burnt.
Spray can be made on the farm —41b.
bluestone, 41b. hydrated lime, 40 gallons
of water. Spraying is best done with a
portable pump spray. About 150 to 200
gallons are needed per acre, according to
the size of the plants.
Hints for the Farm.
“Yeno Ham”: A dairy cow needs
\\oz. of lime a day for maintenance and
\oz. to }oz. for every gallon of milk she
produces. Her phosphoric acid needs
are four-fifths of an ounce per day for
maintenance and two-thirds of an ounce
to loz. for each gallon of milk. A mixed
pasture of grasses and clovers, kept
closely grazed to give the young plants a
chance, is very near the ideal ration for a
cow giving up to 4gal. of milk a day.
Cows yielding more require supplemen-
tary feeding. Minerals and phosphoric
acid are best supplied through the plants
by pasture topdressing.
“Mullengah”: To make a dressing for
harness dissolve 2oz. of soft soap in T
pint of warm water in a jar, add 2oz.
of finely-chopped mutton suet, 6oz. of
shredded beeswax, 6oz. of powdered
sugar candy and (if the dressing is for
black harness) loz. of lampblack. Put
the jar into a pan of hot water and, as
the contents melt, stir frequently. Don’t
let the mixture boil. When the in-
gredients are dissolved and mixed leave
until nearly cold and gradually stir in 7-
pint of turpentine. Keep the polish
covered in small pots. Apply with a rag
and shine with a brush.
“B-gar”: When trying to catch fly-
struck sheep for treatment in the pad-
dock there’s always a risk of injury
through animals falling on bared shear-
blade points. A light guard, about an
inch in length, can be made quite simply
from tin. If a hole is punched in the tin
guard and string attached to the back
portion of the grip, the guard won’t be
forgotten when moving off after doing
each sheep.
“Observer”: The demand for cattle
for restocking has been apparent at all
N.S.W. sales centres. The trail has been
mainly southwards to the Riverina, where
there is unlimited pasture. One western
Riverina stud merino breeder, who at
this time last year was paying out £l5OO
a week for fodder for hand-feeding,
recently bought a mob of store steers at
£6 a head to eat off the coarser grass
and make grazing for the sheep.
“Drover”: What’s the record price for
fat bullocks, show cattle excepted, in the
Australian market? Glancing through
some old stock reports dated August,
1923, I saw where two Shorthorn bul-
locks sold on account of N. McGillivray,
of Gunbower Island, realised in the Ben-
digo saleyards (Vic.) £7O 10s. per head.
At the time beef in the various State
central markets was quoted at from 60s.
to 70s. per 1001 b. for prime quality ; so
those two Gunbower Island beasts must
have been whoppers.
“Canbelego”: Native trefoils, given an
autumn topdressing of 901 b. an acre, pro-
duced good feed and burr for W. F.
McDonald of Wambo, near Singleton
(N.S.W.), during last year’s dry spell.
Pasture improvement was at a disad-
vantage because of the lack of a good
winter legume before native trefoil was
tried. Outstanding species was cylindri-
cal burr trefoil {Medicctgo truncatula).
Immediately after the rain, clover in top-
dressed paddocks gave a great response.
A greater growth of the trefoils has
stepped up soil fertility, judging by the
regeneration of prairie-grass, tar-vine,
saltbushes and crowfoots which have
been in the paddocks for more than 30
years.
“Mt. Boppy”: Twenty-five years ago
William Helliwell, a Yorkshire lad, came
to Australia under a scheme by which
part of his passage money was paid out
of his wages of £1 a week. He worked
for wages for a year, searched for oppor-
tunities on a borrowed horse and rented
a farm, which he bought within three
years. To-day Helliwell owns Lingadell,
a farm of 300 acres in the Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) district, as well as another
block of 400 acres. He has a stud of
30 Jersey cows, headed by an imported
bull, and sells registered stock all over
the State. He fattens pigs, grows
turnips, potatoes, carrots, mangold wur-
zels, cattle carrots and swedes, which, put
through a slicer, are used with other
fodders to keep the stock going through
the winter. Crops include maize, lucerne
and sorghum, and there are 20 acres of
pasture, chiefly red clover, perennial rye
and cocksfoot. When erosion started in
one paddock, Helliwell filled the gullies
with silt taken from a dam, and sowed
the whole area with red and white clovers,
perennial and Wimmera ryes, sheep’s
burnett and cocksfoot. That paddock
won a pasture-improvement competition.
“K.Mc.”: ’Hoppers have laid a
quantity of eggs in parts of central-west
N. S. Wales. Heaviest infestation is at
Coonabarabran, where farmers are ex-
posing the eggs with plough or cultivator
to the rain and frosts —a wet winter
would rot the eggs.
“Mookau”: Queensland stock figures
show little change. Sheep numbered
22,500,000 on January 1, about the same
as last year. There are 600,000 less than
there were in 1915, despite the immense
development which has taken place in
water provision, transport facilities, sub-
division and rearrangement of rents.
Cattle show no change in values since last
year —6,000,000. But there were 37,000
more pigs—320,000 in all. It sounds
good, but it’s a ridiculous number when
you consider that little Denmark has
around 4,000,000. The pig industry
should be profitable in the sugar dis-
tricts. A rich bit of agricultural soil high
up and planted with taro, sweet potatoes
or some other .ground crops and a cover-
ing of Townsville lucerne or some such
weed, with movable shelters for the rainy
season, would be the way to start.
“Geedee”: With an increasing sheep
population on Victorian Mallee farms,
larger areas are being sown to oats,
chiefly to provide feed during the winter
and early spring months. Victorian
Agricultural Department tests have shown
that, although oats respond but little to
super, on stubble, the yield is increased
on fallow. The earlier maturing features
of such varieties as Dawn, Guyra and
Mulga are making them increasingly
popular. In grazing tests, early types
like Mulga provided the most feed early
in the season, but the mid-season type,
Dawn, was very little behind at that
period and excelled in the quantity of
feed produced during August and Sep-
tember. Algerian gives the most feed
liter in the season as it responds better
to rain at that time.
“Ergo”: Late infection of paspalum
pastures with ergot has appeared through-
out the N. S. Wales coastal dairying
districts, but with no apparent toxic effect
on the cattle in most localities. On the
Clarence, however, cattle showed signs of
sickness and staggers. Removed from pas-
palum paddocks they quickly recovered.
“Mulyan”: J. N. Barrett, of Edgeroi
(N.S.W.), has perfected an auto-header
for harvesting the tiny Mitchell-grass
seed. It’s meant a reduction in the price
of the seed from 7s. 6d. a pound to 9d. a
pound. A good average yield of Mitchell
seed is 601 b. an acre, but only 41b. is
required to sow an acre. The seed is
broadcast on the surface. No other treat-
ment is necessary, though some growers
lightly harrow the ground, or drive sheep
over it, after sowing. Thus 20 acres re-
served for seed (where graziers prefer
to harvest their own) will sow 300 acres.
Last year, 30 tons of seed was distri-
buted, and this season Barrett expects to
harvest 50 tons, by operating on different
properties with several machines.
“Yarrunga”: Contrary to the general
impression, pasture improvement means
a greater necessity for conserved fodder.
In Cowra (N.S.W.) district this year the
sappy bulk of growth of pasture has
caused many sheep losses, both by death
and lowered health. They might have
been prevented by feeding dried stored
fodder to the sheep as a supplement to
grazing. Some sheep on improved pastures
maintained full health and vitality when
a dry supplementary ration was provided,
while the improved-country sheep were
dying in abundant pasture. Stands of
mixed sub. clover and Wimmera-rye
grass fattened sheep without any losses,
while on adjacent country sown to sub.
clover alone there were deaths.


HASTINGS DEERING SERVICE LIMITED
INTERIM REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS
RECORD NET PROFIT
CHAIRMAN’S INTERIM
REPORT TO SHARE-
HOLDERS.
To the Shareholders:—
Your Directors, somewhat contrary
to general practice, and introducing
an innovation in so far as this Com-
pany is concerned, have decided to
publish an interim audited statement
to convey to shareholders the results
achieved over the first six months of
the current financial year, which con-
stitute a record of further satisfactory
progress.
Recession in certain businesses
throughout the State has been appar-
ent during past months, as evidenced
by the figures of many leading com-
panies, which, made known recently,
have disclosed reduced earnings.
My belief and confidence in our co-
operative efforts in Hastings Deering
Service Limited have been fully justi-
fied, however, by the whole-hearted
support which both our shareholders
and the general public have continued
to give our activities.
It is indeed a tribute to this support
and also a pleasure for me to be able
to report that to-day our individual
shareholders have increased to 2,900,
thus making this Company the largest
and most widely owned of its kind in
Australia.
Shareholders, who to-day have taken
up shares to the value of £185,000,
participate in the many advantages
which, through their patronage, the
Company has been able to offer.
As a result of this support and the
continuance of excellent work on the
part of all sections of our staff, to
which may be added careful and pru-
dent management, it gives me very
great pleasure to be able to inform
you that, notwithstanding difficult
trading conditions, the results of the
last half-year have constituted a record
in the history of the Company, both
as regards profits and financial
strength
HASTINGS DEERING SERVICE
LIMITED.
The largest and most modern building of
its kind in the world.
The building which we have as our
“Home,” as you know, is owned by
Hastings Deering Building Limited,
in which Company our shareholders
are part proprietors by the investment
of £30,000 in its ordinary shares,
which, apart from other advantages,
confer a controlling interest over its
affairs. As the Building Company has
now completed its first full financial
half-year since its official opening in
March, 1938, the moment is also oppor-
tune to publish its results, so that
shareholders may see for themselves
the very solid nature of their invest-
ment in an asset of which we are all
justifiably proud.
Allow me, therefore, to place before
you briefly the principal features of
the half-year recently closed.
HASTINGS DEERING
SERVICE LIMITED.
(Audited Results.)
NET PROFIT FOR SIX
MONTHS:
The net profit for the half-year
ended 28th February, 1939, as certi-
fied by the Company’s Auditors, was
as follows:
Net Trading Pro-
fit £7,146 2 2
Less —
Provision for
Depreciation . £6OB 7 3
Proportion writ-
ten off ex-
penses in con-
nection with
the issue of
shares .. .. 827 6 0
Interest on
Calls paid in
advance .. 1,090 12 6
Purchasers’
Dividends .. 756 8 7
£3,282 14 4
Balance available for Dividend
on Share Capital £3,863 7 10
Less —lnterim Dividend on all
Shares, paid 26th April,.
1939 £3,268 15 0
Surplus added to Accumulated
Profits .. £594 12 10
It is to be noted that the net balance
of £3,863/7/10 available for distribu-
tion considerably exceeds the net sur-
plus of £3,016/15/6 earned during
the full year ended 31st August, 1938.
DIVIDENDS PAID ON CAPI-
TAL SINCE INCEPTION OF
COMPANY, AUGUST, 1935.
FINAL DIVIDEND AT RATE OF
7% P.A., 31st AUGUST, 1936.
INTERIM DIVIDEND AT RATE
OF 7% P.A., 28th FEBRUARY,
1937.
FINAL DIVIDEND AT RATE OF
7% P.A., 31st AUGUST, 1937.
INTERIM DIVIDEND AT RATE
OF 7% P.A., 28th FEBRUARY,
1938.
FINAL DIVIDEND AT RATE OF
7 % P.A., 31st AUGUST, 1938.
INTERIM DIVIDEND AT RATE
OF 7% P.A., 28th FEBRUARY,
1939.
PURCHASERS’ DIVI-
DENDS.
Since the Company was formed in
August, 1935, less than four years ago,
Purchasers’ Dividends have been paid
regularly at quarterly intervals.
The thirteenth and fourteenth Pur-
chasers’ Dividends were paid during
the half-year, and absorbed £756/8/7,
whilst the balance available for divi-
dend on Share Capital as shown above
amounted to .. .. £3,863 710
the total .. .. £4,619 16 5
representing the aggregate surplus for
the six months available for distribu-
tion to shareholders.
It will be seen that those sharehold-
ers who transacted business with the
Company during the period received
by way of Purchasers’ Dividends
16% of this surplus, in addition to
the Preference Dividend of 7% per
annum on their shares.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
£185,000.
The progress in capital subscribed
during the six months was highly
satisfactory. At 31st August, 1938,
the subscribed capital was £117,245,
which rose during the half-year to
£155,720, an increase of £38,475; to-
day we have 2,900 shareholders who
have taken up shares to the value of
over £185,000.
TERMS BUSINESS
DOUBLED.
We have continued to expand in this
department, and the progress is repre-
sented in an increase from £58,365 of
Hire Purchase business at 31st August,
1938, to £111,948 at the close of the
half-year under review, an increase of
£53,583. To-day the total is £128,000.
PREVIOUS SALES RE-
CORDS EXCEEDED.
The Company’s sales have continued
to advance, and show a substantial in-
crease— £6,000 compared with the
previous six months, during which a
record turnover was established.
LIQUID RESOURCES.
The policy of providing ample
liquid resources to cope with the in-
creasing volume of trade has been
maintained. Six months ago the sur-
plus of current assets over current
liabilities was £55,783, which has now
risen to £95,241, an increase of £39,458.
The Balance Sheet thus shows a
healthy financial position
HASTINGS DEERING
BUILDING LIMITED.
(Audited Results.)
As previously stated, your Company
has a controlling interest in the Build-
ing Company, and the following are its
audited results:—
NET PROFIT:
The net profit of this Company for
the half-year ended 31st December,
1938, as certified by the Company’s
Auditors, was .. .. £2,597 2 4
from which two Interim
Dividends were paid,
absorbing .. .. £1,760 15 7
leaving a balance of .. £836 6 9
which has been added to the Com-
pany’s Accumulated Profits.
Hlf
m
m
m
Diagram of the Hastings Deering patented
system of “Roadways to the Roof,” which
handles the flow of incoming and outgoing
traffic simultaneously.
RETURN ON INVESTMENT
10.32%.
The net profit for the six months
was equivalent to a net earning at the
rate of 10.32% per annum on the
paid-up capital of the Company, a
highly satisfactory return for a city
property investment.
I feel sure that shareholders will be
gratified by these additional contri-
butions to the existing excellent re-
cord of the business, and must share
with me a sense of satisfaction in the
solid financial and profitable structure
which has been built up as a result of
the loyal and co-operative efforts of
our shareholders and our staff.
It is my belief that modern, efficient
and economical methods have played
no small part in the success of your
Companies. Accordingly, I would
mention in conclusion that, within
the course of the next few weeks, I
will be leaving for a visit to Britain
and America, where I intend, as on my
previous visit, to take full advantage
of every opportunity to make myself
familiar with the latest developments,
and at the same time investigate plans
for our future activities.
CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS.
sth June, 1939.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON.
Please send me copy of illustrated prospectus giving full particulars
of 7 per cent. Preference Shares in Hastings Deering Service Ltd.
NAME
ADDRESS
4jastlnjs ’Oeetlnj Jltd.
P.O. BOX 4333YY, TELEPHONE: F 0466 (25 lines)
OFF WILLIAM STREET, 680 YARDS FROM CENTRE OF CITY.
8216


e
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying: and
Selling: List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To get in touch with person wishing to learn
to play the mandolin or banjo-mandolin.—37sl.
To exchange perennial veld grass seed or
roots and field lupin seed for Mitchell grass
seed. —3746.
Words of verse beginning “The evening comes
to the valley soon” and ending:
Is there aught I could long for then,
’Neath heaven’s far-reaching arches?
Yes, I would long for your lips again
And the evening breeze in the larch'*''
—3767.
Information Sought.
Are there any links between Bach, Mozart,
Beethoven and Schubert, the composers mostly
played by Artur Schnabel? —3747.
Yes. Mozart, born six years after the death
of J. S. Bach, was familiar with that master’s
work; played Bach compositions at sight at the
age of seven. In later life was associated with
J. C. Bach, J. S. Bach’s youngest son, who
arranged a series of London concerts for
Mozart. Beethoven, born 14 years later than
Mozart, undoubtedly made the acquaintance of
the works of both Bach and Mozart in his
student days, and towards the end of his.
career, when he was developing the fugal style,
he must have frequently referred to Bach’s
monumental works in that field. When Beet-
hoven went to Vienna as a lad in 1787 he
played before Mozart. There is no evidence
that Schubert ever came under Bach’s in-
fluence. It was not till the last year of his
life that he got hold of some scores of Handel’s
oratorios, and bewailed his neglect to study
counterpoint. But as a student at the Imperial
Choir’s School in Vienna he took part in per-
formances of the overtures and symphonies of
Mozart and Beethoven, and to the end of his
days Beethoven was his musical god and hero,
though there is no trace of such an influence
in his highly original music. Beethoven re-
putedly held Schubert in high esteem as a song-
writer.
❖ ❖ %
By what means are telegrams sent in China
and Japan ? Presumably Morse code can’t be
used for sending Japanese and Chinese charac-
ters ?— 3702.
In China the telegrams are sent by means
of figure groups, each figure group represent-
ing a character, of which there are several
thousands. The Japanese use the Katakana
code, which covers all the pronounceable syl-
lables in the language, there being a dot-dash
combination for each one. There are 50
syllables in this code, such as “KA,” “KI,”
“KU,” “KE,” “KO,” “MA,” “MI,” “MU,”
“ME,” “MO,” etc. “Yokohama” would be
sent as “YO-KO-HA-MA,” in four groups.
* * * *
/ have two halfpenny Australian Common-
wealth stamps, both bearing the portrait of
Queen Elizabeth. The background of one is of
a uniform dark green shade, while the back-
ground of the other is white around the Queen’s
head, merging into a bright green near the
border. Is one of these stamps a misprint, and,
if so, is it of any value? —3711.
Neither stamp is worth more than face
value. The bright green stamp with uneven
background (die 1) was issued on May 10,
1937, but, as it was not considered altogether
satisfactory, it was withdrawn and a new die
(die 2) was prepared with a uniform back-
ground. The stamps were printed in a deeper
green, and were first issued on August 1, 1938.
The twopence stamp of the same issue is also
printed from two dies, but the difference be-
tween them is not quite so apparent as in the
two dies of the halfpenny.
* -s * *
What can be done to repair a tent which has
been affected with mildew ? —3682.
Dry the tent material thoroughly in the sun-
shine, and wipe over with a rag wrung out of
petrol to destroy the cells of the fungus. If
it is badly marked with black patches, scrub
lightly with a dry brush to remove as much
of the blackness as possible. To keep the
mildew at bay, air the tent as well as possible
in the mornings, and admit as much sunshine
as you can: an occasional wiping with a petrol
or kerosene rag will assist. Never fold the
tent away in a damp condition or keep it in
a damp place.
sf. * *
(1) Object of the Ricardo cylinder head,
sometimes used on car engines? (2) Principle
of operation ? (3) Advantages claimed ? —•
3559.
(1) To produce complete combustion of all
gases entering the combustion chamber. (2)
The fuel charge enters the combustion chamber
as a swirling uniform mass. Owing to this
swirling motion the outer layers of the fuel
charge are dug off the cylinder walls and hurled
into the energy-producing explosive mass, and
thus the great bulk of the gas is more easily
reached by the spark and 8 p.c. to 12 p.c. of
otherwise wasted fuel is utilised to produce
power rather than heat the exhaust. (3) The
manufacturers claim it gives more power with
less fuel, more speed, quicker acceleration and
easier and quicker starting.
* '* *
What happens when (1) washing soda, (2)
caustic soda is added to hard water with a
view to softening it? (3) The total hardness
in the water in question is CaCO3 29.7 p.p.
100,000. How is the water “softened” ? What
becomes of the CaCO3 when either of the
sodas is added? —3624.
(1) The hardness of water is due to the
presence of soluble lime and magnesia com-
pounds. When washing soda is added to a
hard water a chemical change takes place, re-
sulting in the precipitation of an insoluble
compound which may be allowed to settle out
from the water or which may be filtered off.
For example, if calcium sulphate is present
and sodium carbonate (washing soda) is added,
insoluble calcium carbonate is formed. (2)
When sodium hydrate (caustic soda) is added
to a hard water, a similar chemical change
takes place. For example, magnesium bicarbon-
ate, which may be present in a hard water, is
changed into magnesium hydrate, an insoluble
magnesium compound, which may be allowed
to settle or be filtered off. (3) A water of the
degree of hardness mentioned would require
approximately 12oz. washing soda per 100
gallons of water. The washing soda should be
dissolved in a small quantity of water and
then added to each 100-gallon lot of the hard
water; the latter should then be allowed to
stand for the lime and magnesia compounds
to settle, or the water should be filtered.
Simple method of preparing silver amalgam ?
—3521.
It can be easily made with finely-powdered
silver. Heat some mercury to 480-570 deg. F.
and then sprinkle the silver powder on it,
mixing well by stirring. The vessel is now
heated for several minutes and then allowed
to cool, the excess mercury being removed from
the granulated crystalline amalgam by pressing
in a leather bag. It can also be made by
dissolving silver in nitric acid, evaporating the
solution till the excess free acid is eliminated,
diluting with distilled water and adding mer-
cury to the fluid in proportion of four parts
by weight to one of the silver originally used.
The mercury precipitates the silver in a metallic
state and forms an amalgam with it. The
absence of white precipitate, if a few drops of
hydrochloric acid are added to a sample of
the fluid in a test tube, shows that all the silver
has been eliminated from the solution and is
present in the form of an amalgam.
* * * *
How are (1) fish glue and (2) fish fertiliser
made ? —3573.
(1) Usually made from fish offal, the skin
and bones being known to contain high per-
centages of adhesive matter! The offal is
thoroughly washed with water, then discharged
into extractors with live steam. After steam
digestion, the liquid is run off, allowed to
stand, the upper oily layer removed, and the
lower gluey solution clarified with alum. The
liquid is then filtered, concentrated in open vats,
and bleached with sulphur dioxide. (2) Made
from the residue of the fish-glue process after
removal from the extractors. It is dried in
steam-heated vessels, and mixed with potassium
and magnesium salts. It usually appears on
the market as fish-potash guano. Considerable
experience and plant are necessary for both
products, as well as an ample supply of raw
material.
* * * *
How to restore finish on a severely scratched
wireless cabinet of polished walnut? —3734.
The trade method of removing small scratches
and nicks caused in the packing cases is to
touch up the whitish marks with a little brown
stain in water; when that is dry, and the tint
matches the rest of the wood, the blemishes are
painted with clear lacquer with a thin brush.
* * * *
Recipe for duplicating ink — black, blue or
purple ? —3431.
There are several formulae, most of them
beyond the amateur; try these two, but make
small quantities at first to test their suitability.
(1) Dissolve loz. gum arabic in 6oz. water
and strain—this is the mucilage; for black,
use drop black powdered and ground finely
in the mucilage; for blue, ultramarine is used
in the same manner. (2) Triturate together 2oz.
Prussian blue, loz. lampblack, 3oz. gum arabic
and sufficient glycerine to make the paste. If
these inks do not suit, you might find the work
cheaper on a hectograph pad, a formula for
which can be supplied. All dry colors men-
tioned are stocked by paint stores.
* * * *
Description and habits of a bird known as
the shining starling? —366B.
The shining starling is a spring and summer
visitor to the Northern Territory and northern
Queensland from Papua and the Moluccas. It
is a dark-colored bird with glossy plumage
reflecting purple and green metallic tints and
with a bright red eye; it is noisy and sociable
in its habits, and feeds on scrub-fruits. Large
numbers of nests are constructed on the
branches of a single tree, which is sometimes
covered with them. The nests are large oval
structures, with the entrance at the side, sus-
pended by a tapering portion. The two or three
eggs are bluish-grey, with reddish markings,
chiefly at the larger end.
SJS
What is the value of wood ashes applied to
the household vegetable and flower garden ?
3717.
Wood ashes are rich in potash and most
valuable when mixed with well-rotted manures
and then dug into the soil. They are bene-
ficial for purifying sour land after it has been
thoroughly drained, working into the soil
around roses, and general flower-garden work,
and particularly for mixing into drills before
planting potatoes or sowing seed of peas and
beans. Wood ashes retain their value when
stored in a dry state. If the ashes are sieved
use the charcoal for drainage in seed-boxes
and trouble with woodlice and similar pests
will be minimised.
The method of staining and polishing pine
and hardwood floors? Is there an oil polish?
1 thought of staining with Condy’s crystals. —
3713.
Permanganate of potash (Condy’s crystals)
makes an excellent floor stain. When the right
shade has been obtained, the best treatment is
polishing with beeswax and turpentine dis-
solved together to a paste; a thorough rubbing
with this, followed by brisk rubbing with a
dry woollen cloth, gives a finish which stands
a lot of wear and is easily renewed. Oil polish
is best applied with an oil-mop; and the oil
should be one of the commercial preparations
sold for this purpose. A fair substitute is
made from equal parts of raw linseed oil and
turpentine; this must be applied sparingly, and
well rubbed afterwards. All polished wood
floors will show marks —there is no treatment
known which is quite perfect.
:{c
How to grow antirrhinums from cuttings? —
3778.
Mix together equal parts of sand, loam and
leaf-mould in boxes and water heavily to make
the soil settle firm. Make holes with a wide
piece of wood, and, after placing the strong
cuttings 3in. apart, fill in the holes with sharp
river sand and press it firmly about the cuttings.
Cover the boxes with glass or place them in a
hot-frame. Rooting will take place quickly and
the plants will be ready for the open garden in
about two months. Where special varieties are
required for exclusive display it is advisable to
label them.
, ❖ * * $
I have been offered a bed of lily-of-the-
valley roots; what is the best way to divide
them and which should be retained for future
use ? —3670.
Dig up the mass of matted clumps, pull them
apart and keep the strong roots which contain
more than three buds. Get the beds ready,
thoroughly pulverising the soil and mixing
into them plenty of rotted manure, leaf-mould
and sand. Firm the soil: lily-of-the-valley
will not grow in loose, lumpy ground. Lay the
roots 3in. apart in drills, cover with of
soil and finally firm the topsoil down with a
spade or place a board on the bed and stand
on it. Under shrubs or fruit-trees with a
northerly situation is an ideal position; but after
planting they should not be disturbed for at
least five years.
H*
(1) Who won the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship from Jack Johnson after he beat
Tommy Burns for it at the Sydney Stadium on
Boxing Day, 1908 ? (2) Who were the re-
spective world heavyweight champions (when,
where and how they won it) from Johnson
up to Joe Louis, who holds the title at present ?
—3789.
(1) Jess Willard, at Havana, Cuba, on April
5, 1915. (2) Jack Dempsey technically knocked
out Willard in four rounds at Toledo, Ohio,
on July 4, 1919. Gene Tunney outpointed
Dempsey in 10 rounds at Philadelphia on Sep-
tember 23, 1926. Tunney retired as champion
after stopping Tom Heeney in 11 rounds at
New York on July 26, 1928. Max Schmeling
won on a foul in four rounds from Jack
Sharkey at New York on June 12, 1930.
Sharkey outpointed Schmeling in 15 rounds at
Long Island City (N.Y.) on June 21, 1932.
Primo Camera knocked out Sharkey in six
rounds at Long Island City on June 29, 1933.
Max Baer stopped Camera in 11 rounds at
Long Island City on June 14, 1934. Jim Brad-
dock outpointed Baer in 15 rounds at Long
Island City on June 13, 1935. Joe Louis
knocked out Braddock in eight rounds at
Chicago on June 22, 1937.
* * *
When was the Sydney Cup first run and
what was it then worth ? Names of place-
getters, to whom did they belong, ages, weights
and riders? Names of other starters? —3631.
In 1866; it was worth £444 to the winner.
The place-getters and starters were: —. Merry’s
br. h. Yattendon, 4 years, Bst. 41b. (S. Holmes),
1; T. Ivory’s ro. m. Sultan, 4 years, 7st. 1 lib.
(J. Fuller), 2; J. Tait’s ch. g. Falcon, 4 years,
7st. 51b. (H. Martineer), 3 ; Tarragon, Canobie,
Sir Patrick, O’Meara, Forrester, Union Jack,
Potentate, The Pitsford, Angler, Rose of Aus-
tralia. It was won by a length; time, 3min.
43sec.
* * * *
Names of winners of first ten Melbourne
Cups, ages, weights, number of starters, riders
and times? —3259.
1861, Archer (5 yrs., 9st. 71b.), 17 starters,
rider J. Cutts, time 3m. 52sec.; 1862, Archer
(6 yrs., 10.2), 20 starters, J. Cutts, 3m. 47sec.;
1863, Banker (3yrs., 5.4), 7 starters, Chifney, 3m.
44sec.; 1864, Lantern (3 yrs., 6.3), 19 starters,
S. Davis, 3m. 55sec.; 1865, Toryboy (aged, 7.0),
23 starters, Kavanagh, 3m. 44sec.; 1866, The
Barb (3 yrs., 6.9), 28 starters, W. Davis, 3m.
43sec.; 1867, Tim Whiffler (5 yrs., 8.11), 27
starters, J. Driscoll, 3m. 39sec.; 1868, Glencoe
(4 yrs., 9.1), 25 starters, C. Stanley, 3m. 42sec.;
1869, Warrior (6 yrs., 8.10), 26 starters, J.
Morrison, 3m. 40sec.; 1870, Nimblefoot (aged,
6.3), 28 starters, J. Day, 3m. 37sec.
* * * ■¥■
(1) Prior to the late series, what are the
results of Rugby Union matches between
N.S.W. and Queensland, the number played
in each State and the biggest win by each
side ? (2) What were the scores in the South
Africa v. Australia R.U. Test match at Sydney
on July 17, 1937, and the scorers? —3656.
(1) N.S.W. has won 98 matches, Queensland
35, and eight were drawn; N.S.W. scored 2134
points against Queensland’s 1416. Seventy-three
matches have been played in Q., and 68 in
N.S.W. The biggest win by N.S.W. was 28
points to 8 at Sydney in 1931; Queensland’s
best was 20 to 0 at Brisbane in 1900. (2)
S. Africa scored 26 points (all in the first half),
N.S.W. 17 (six in the first half). The scorers
were: Van Reenen (2), Bergh, Babrow, Wil-
liams and Turner (tries), and Brand four goals
for S. Africa; Hodgson, Kelaher and O’Brien
(tries), Rankin one goal and two penalty goals
for Australia.
Brief Answers.
J.P.F.: A printed will form would be legal
and quite safe if confined to the simple dis-
position you propose and the instructions
accompanying the form strictly followed. To
go further you should have the will drafted
by a solicitor... .W.M.: Bread and Cheese
Club (hon. sec., E. J. Turner), 132 Cubitt-street,
South Richmond; the Australian Literature
Society (hon. sec., Mrs. Vernon Williams), 1
Ellesmere-road, Windsor; Henry Lawson
Memorial and Literary Society of Footscray
(hon. sec., Steve Ford), 63 Windsor-street,
Footscray; Australian Poetry Lovers’ Society
(hon. sec., George Fielding), 22 Harold-street,
Middle Park; Writers’ Cultural Club of Aus-
tralia (hon. sec., Miss F. O’Flynn), 20 Manton-
street, Burnley—all Melbourne... .H.S.: By
midnight on April 25, 1915, 16,000 Australian
and M.L. troops had landed on Gallipoli....
E.R.M.: Australasian Institute of Investors and
Patentees, 157 Gloucester-street, Sydney
C.T.V.: The books listed are not of any par-
ticular value, and it would not be worth while
sending them to Sydney for sale... .F.D.: The
parents would be eligible to apply for old-age
pension. The names of persons receiving invalid
or old-age pensions are not disclosed by the
department... .8.5.: Women graduates in
veterinary science are absorbed in either small
animal practice or in research work. At the
present time there are 15 women students in the
Faculty of Veterinary Science in Sydney Uni-
versity. The course extends over five years
H.E.C.: No market in Australia for engravings
mentioned. Local collectors are not interested,
and engravings realise a few shillings at the
most A.A.: (1) Yes. (2) There is an
association, but it is not a business agent.
(3) Representatives of the newspapers who
assess values. (4) Yes, circulation on Id. basis.
... .K.L.S.: (1) California blue pine not known
to N.S.W. nurserymen under that title; repeat
question to Director, Botanical Gardens, Bris-
bane. (2) Prune holmskioldia after flowering
by removing dead and straggly growths, and
shorten back the sturdy branches to about one-
third their length... .T.H.H.: Under the Statute
of Distributions one-third would go to the
widow, your second wife, and the residue in
equal proportions to the children of the first
marriage, in the event of an intestacy
H.L.F.W.: There is no reliable method of
changing the sex of a pawpaw plant. The
Department of Agriculture, Brisbane, will be
pleased to supply a pamphlet on pawpaw-
growing gratis upon application... .J.L.W.: (1)
Complete the form posted and return it to
Lands Department, Brisbane. (2) Salary ranges
from £2BO to £3BO. (3) There are not likely to
be vacancies for land rangers for some time
A.D.: The firm is a well-known and reputable
0ne....F.T.: See Who’s Who, 1939, page 1000.
F.D.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney, can
supply Salome, the Wandering Jewess, a novel
by Viereck and Eldridge, published by Duck-
worth and priced at 6s T.R.: No. As far
as observations have shown, a penguin merely
moves its egg by shuffling along; but it does
not move it very far... .A.L.V.: You win the
wager. Bradman scored a century in every Test
in which he batted in the 1938 English tour:
144 not out (second innings) in first Test, 102
not out (second innings) in second, 135 (first
innings) in third, 103 (first innings) in fourth.
Owing to injuries Bradman did not bat in the
fifth Test.... C.F.: Gross gate receipts from club
fixtures of N.S.W. Rugby Union in 1938 were
£4399 9s. 5d.. .. .H.A.J.: “Slip” Carr played in
R.U. rep. matches v. Queensland in 1919, S.
Africa and M.L. in 1921; his father, T. P. Carr,
was in rep. teams v. M.L. and Q. in 1886
W.C.: Details, too long to print on this
page, are given in the Commonwealth Official
Year-Book for 1939, available all public
libraries S.L.: A copy of the work should
be lodged at the Copyright Office, Common-
wealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney,
and a registration fee of ss. paid N. 8.:
T. C. Roughley, Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney, will advise if specimen
is forwarded... .H.C.: Verse was written by
C. J. Dennis and appeared in The Bulletin
of December 12, 1912. Send your address and
a copy will be posted G.N.: Would have
to see the etching before giving a valuation.
Artist is unknown to us and to Sydney art
dealers... .8.T.: (1) Depends upon size of flat
you want. A family flat, with two bedrooms,
can be had from ’3ss. to £2 55., without hot
water or refrigerator service, in the district
mentioned. (2) Much depends upon the location
and class of building. Send further particulars.
A.E.: Vaudeville, by Ronald McCuaig,
was printed and published by the author from
2 Wirringulla, St. Neot’s-avenue, Potts Point,
Sydney... .K.H.: Write Far West Homes, Gov-
ernment Savings Bank Building, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .D.R.: Copies are available
to recognised societies upon application....
T.J.: Mick Simmons, George-street, Haymarket,
Sydney, will send catalogues and rules... .B.B.:
“Banjo” Paterson’s reminiscences were printed
in the “S. M. Herald,” beginning on February
4, 1939... .W.H.M.: Surname can be changed
by deed poll, which involves registration with
the N.S.W. Registrar-General’s Department
and advertising in the press. Registration,
advertising and solicitor’s charges would not
involve more than a couple of guineas T.A.:
Research Branch, N.S.W. Public Library, Bent
and Macquarie-streets, Sydney, will make avail-
able a number of books on the subject....
A.F.F.: Governor Phillip’s Lookout is situated
at Beacon Hill, overlooking Manly and War-
ringah Shire, and about half a mile north of
Brookvale (N.5.W.)... .W.V.: Inspection can
be made on Saturdays and Sundays. Apply
Maritime Services Board, George-street, Syd-
ney ... .P.M.D.: Richard Hengist (“Orion”)
Horne was born in London on January 1,
1803. He died at Margate (England) on March
13, 1884... .J.S.P.: Net increase for material
only on articles might be: Socks Id., singlet
2d., suit Is. 9d., blankets 4s.


J 5
*
m
è
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
Four
and
a half weeks’ tour of the South
Sea Islands crowded with a succession of
picturesque vistas, novel and amusing inci-
dents and the delights of a sea voyage
under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages and
colourful native life, offer a never-ending
source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live on
the vessel throughout. Fares are free of
exchange.
BURNS. PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
- Telephone: 87901
ENOUGH TO BUILD A
2ft. fence around
AUSTRALIA
On
/ear
rftia
«/><*
or/
s ”°',S b H » LYSAr •"'tf' «S^fc*Sl?
::~~ ! s.?»., w .; ■«*
Ade^!de^l D -
'on
■Hoght
U J t a ) pty
Ad *l*id e
Frer »antl e
LYSAGHT
ORB
AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The smith, a puny man is he
H.McC.: Harder still to make a pact between
“claims” and “brains” as a rhyme... .L.G.K.:
rnn’t tut nr. . Uo v of .,_
* J\ ott , en P-C Hes stag-
genng back... .A.V.N.: Never fall for those
“wanton” hills... .J.L.S.: Elsewhere, perhaps.
. ...H.G.H.: Slight E.C.: The Duke would
indeed be flattered... .M.S.: Can’t assist you
to present Norieul Park to the nation. ...
N.J.D.: Keep him in clink as long as you can.
. ...A.H.8.: A most enigmatic worm... .K.S.:
Popular science... .T.J.C.: You don’t get
die “Air Hostess” off the ground... .T.W.P.:
''' R , M< *V Prefer your usual vein
ItVaot?story—’’.iTV’we get That one
every third mail... .8.C.R.: Give us time to
recover before you send any more J.T.N.:
Ripples in places, but the whole stream flows
too slowly... .V.T.L.: Neat, but not for us.
. ...L.C.P.: Park “A 12-Cylinder Model” with
a daily... .L.P.: Not here, friend, not here.
. ...N.R.L.: Why not kill all of ’em and be
done with it? ... .S.H.P.: It might be “A
Miracle,” but they don’t happen here
G. Stuff and nonsense... .R.W.L.: Read
Exterminator” and are now wondering
whether we’ve been shot or poisoned... .5.T.8.:
“Chickens” going home to roost... .R.W.S.:
The Blue Smoke of Destiny” sounds all right,
but what’s it mean?... .8.R.P.: Picture of a
lovelorn hen very touching... .L.D.: You’ve
cut the best part of it L.R.8.: It just
muddles happily along for 6000 words....
F.R.J.: “Sunset” comes in about once a day.
••••T.D.P.: Dealt very severely with “The
Philanderer”... .D.S.D.: It’s musty with age.
....L.T.W.: You might lose it in some out-
of-the-way place... .J.T.R.: Try a new plot
? T d n star i ; agaal- • • .P-T.V.: Too wordy
J.L.R.: A collection remarkably uniform in its
dreariness... .8.5. C.: Still not up... .H.1.M.:
Not bad, but it’s overburdened with words
aiid people... .8.T.P.: Merely a twitter....
C.8.T.: Try them in England... .J.T.D.: Have
sacked that detective a thousand times
H. : And more often still we’ve refused
to adopt that orphan P.E.8.: It arrived
with B.R.J.: Gave “Youth’s Im-
prudence” to the office boy as a warning
F.T.L.: Your literary ladder has a lot of old
rungs in it 8.G.H.: Not up, but keep at it.
. ...N.R.S.: It must have required considerable
ingenuity to tangle all that together 8.R.E.:
You’re in A. C. Headley’s paddock T.R.L.:
Sketch hopeless, yarn might scrape through
elsewhere ... .T.D.M.: Dreadful .. v, G.F.R.:
E.W., D.L.S., H.8.A., T.O’N. and P.D.S.: All
missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.W.: That drunk has been left on our
doorstep before A. 8.: Neat fashion-plates,
but they’re not for us T.J.: We said “No”
to those samples from the Never Never
K.R.8.: No room for irate wife waving frying-
pan L.N.: It’s about time that ancient
was allowed to rest in peace W.W.: Who
is the portly gent, tumbling from the sky?
A.K.: Thumbs down to caveman chain-letter
writer WJ.: Had its day.. . .C.N.: Take
more pains over humans and bother less about
the architecture in the background P.K.:
It ran off the rails long before it reached us.
. ...S.S.: The average 10-year-old nipper can
show you points P.M.D.: Artistically cor-
rect, but not very humorous G.W.: Tight-
rope walker had a fall into the w.p.b C.D.:
Not questioning the shape of the prehistoric
monster, but we do doubt the freshness of the
gag G.L.: You managed the pyramids in
the far distance but made an awful hash of
the tourists S.N.: All you’ll collect for that
absent-minded professor is a rejection slip....
N.P.: We’ve printed about 50,000 gags in our
time and that one is about the oldest of the
lot G.H.: More suited to a women’s paper.
C.S.T.: Attempt to draw a fire engine was
as bad as your attempt to draw a helicopter
M.D.: No better than the ordinary run of
comic postcards G.P.: Sorry, but the bottle-
oh did no business at 252 George-street
A.C.: Line work is too harsh, and figures are
as lifeless as a ventriloquist’s dummy P.M.:
Humpty-dumpty cartoon idea .doesn’t square up
with facts....A.E.W.: Can’t tell from copies;
let us see some originals N.H.: You should
begin to make your mark any time between
1945 and 1950.
COX’S ROAD
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE road that crosses the Blue Moun-
tains to the western plains of New
South Wales is to-day an almost
perfect highway. It follows the
track Blaxland, Wentworth and Lawson
marked in 1813, for the simple reason
that it is not possible to go over the
ranges by any other route except by the
one on the north side of the Grose Valley
discovered by young Archie Bell in 1823.
This is the road that made Australia.
It was not until it was found 25 years
after the British came to the country
that they were able to realise what their
heritage from the Stone Age really was.
But only in places does the present high-
way follow the line taken by William
Cox in 1814 when he made the first one,
though nowhere is it very far off. its
course.
Five months after the first crossing
Governor Macquarie sent Mr. Deputy-
Surveyor Evans to examine the pioneers’
route and find out what he could of the
new country they had discovered. He
took only five days to reach the point
where Blaxland had turned back, and
then pushed on about 100 miles further.
Macquarie was enthusiastically stately in
the tribute he paid to the explorers.
Evans was to get a grant of 1000 acres
in Van Diemen’s ■ Land, where he was
to be stationed, and the others a similar
area on Bathurst Plains. “The Governor
desires to confer on these gentlemen sub-
stantial marks of his sense of their meri-
torious exertions on this occasion, and
means to present them with a grant of
one thousand acres of land each in the
newly-discovered country.”
But if the blazing of the trail and its
subsequent survey were worthy of high
reward, not less so was the making of
the road across the mountains by Captain
Cox. With a patriotism highly appre-
ciated by Macquarie, he offered volun-
tarily to undertake the supervision of this
formidable job, and something may be
gathered of his personality from the speed
and thoroughness of its completion.
He began his operations at Emu Ford
on July 7, 1814, and finished them at
the future site of Bathurst on the 19th
of the following January—loly miles
over those rugged ranges in six months!
He had carefully picked his laborers, and
they were all good men. They had to
cut a way through the densest sort of
scrub, blast out great masses of rock,
bridge deep ravines and fill in huge
chasms throughout the length of
the road. It was a labor of love with
the leader; with the men there was an
incentive to hard work in the promise of
freedom on its completion which Cox
had obtained for them.
In a long account of his journey to
Bathurst Plains in 1815 Macquarie de-
scribes Cox’s road, and gives the stages
his party made in traversing it, conclud-
ing with high appreciation of Cox’s work
in constructing it. “The Governor can-
not conclude this account of his tour
without offering his best acknowledg-
ments to William Cox, Esq., for the im-
portant service he has rendered to the
colony—a passage to the newly-dis-
covered country—and at the same time
assuring him that he shall have great
pleasure in recommending his meritori-
ous services on this occasion to the favor-
able consideration of his Majesty’s Min-
isters.”
It was not the only work William Cox
did for Australia. He had been one of
the few good officers of the New South
Wales Corps, and as a sheepbreeder in
later years did much to establish and im-
prove the fine-wool industry that has been
the most valuable thing the country has
produced.
The memoirs of Bulletin poet E. J.
Brady are shortly to appear. They should
contain colorful material. The last lineal
descendant of Hugh Brady, first Anglican
Bishop of Meath, Ireland, E.J. was edu-
cated at Sydney and Washington, D.C.,
and spent his youth bushwhacking in
Australia, his middle life editing radical
and Labor papers in the capitals and the
country. He learnt about this continent
from end to end per medium of boat,
caravan and foot-slogging, and in the
last decade has been settled at Malla-
coota, Vic., near the N.S.W. border. He
is the author of a dozen books of prose
and poetry, and some of his sea chanteys
are well known outside Australia. He
will be 70 this year, but has started on a
new book, and his pen is always busy
with stories, verse and articles.
* * * »
Dr. Steinberg, secretary of the Free
Land Society, who wants to settle Jews
in Westralia, is a mild-looking bearded
Jew of 50 who was a Commissar of
Justice in the Soviet of Lenin’s day.
A year ago he took up with great
earnestness the idea of a Jewish settle-
ment in the Kimberley region, which
seemed to meet some encouragement
from one or two W.A. State Ministers
but foundered on the McEwen decision
against group settlement by foreigners,


FIFTY YEARS AGO
AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN JUNE
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
An Irish mission, headed by John Dillon,
M.P., was in Australia in 1889. Though
subscriptions came in frfeely, the month
of May yielding £lO,OOO, the envoys had
a mixed reception. Duncan Gillies, Vic-
toria’s Scotch Premier, was particularly
unfriendly. The closure being mentioned
in the Legislative Assembly by Shiels
(subsequently Premier himself) as an
MATTHEW DAVIES,
Speaker of the Victorian Parliament 50
years ago.
abortive attempt to wipe out the Irish
Nationalist party,” Gillies thundered that
“any sympathetic reference made in this
Chamber to Home Rule for Ireland is
an insult to every member of the House.”
.In Sydney, the envoys were cold-
shouldered by the Parkes Administration
—Henry’s fifth—and a Loyalist meeting,
with the Rev. Dill Macky as principal
speaker, was held in the Protestant Hall.
In Brisbane, however, three Cabinet Min-
isters attended the reception arranged for
them. But, though it was winter, their
warmest welcome they found in Orange,
where James Dalton took the chair at
Dillon’s public meeting and headed the
subscription list with £lOO.
“He did the same thing,” The Bulle-
tin recalled, “when John Redmond
visited Orange ; and, at the instigation
of Francis Abigail, M.L.A., he was
struck off the list of magistrates for hav-
ing signed an address to John Redmond
in which England was described as a
foreign nation.”
John and William Redmond married
Dalton girls, and there is a tradition in
Orange that James Dalton’s wedding
present to each couple was a cheque for
£lO,OOO. Willie Redmond fell in Flan-
ders in 1917, fighting for the Little
Peoples. His death and “the Troubles,”
which began in 1916, broke John Red-
mond’s heart.
Parkes arrived in Sydney in July, 1839,
and his is a centenary which should not be
overlooked. Long before the completion
of his fiftieth year as a colonist he had
fallen into financial difficulties, and in
1889 there was so much talk about some
of his financial transactions and those of
some of his associates that an inquiry
was instituted, at his instance. The in-
vestigating body was called the Casual
Labor Board, and the Premier was called
as a witness ; and a most unusual witness
he proved.
“Asked a simple question to which
yes or no could be given,” The Bulletin
commented, “he reeled off a lot of mag-
nificent balderdash about Lord Frederick
Cavendish. Asked whether the propriety
of making roads through the estate of
his colleague Mr. Burnsby Horns ever
came before the Cabinet, he blathered
off half a column of ‘Hansard’ about
Sir Robert Peel and the Corn Laws.”
“Was Mr. Jamieson in the habit of
seeing you frequently?” the chairman
asked.
“Oh, yes,” Parkes replied. “He is a
gentleman I have been acquainted with
for many years, and he used to presume
upon his acquaintance.”
A deed of assignment, dated October
12, 1887, was produced. “That is my
signature,” said .the Premier.
The words “John S. Jamieson, £1400,”
figured in the schedule. “How long has
that amount been due?” the chairman
asked.
“Oh, it accrued during many years —
fully seven or eight years. A consider-
able amount is for interest.” Thus
Parkes.
Replying to further questions, the
Premier admitted having held ten shares
in the Holt-Sutherland company. “But,”
he added indignantly, “surely you are
not appointed to try the Prime Minister of
this country, who appointed you —to in-
quire into his private affairs.”
“What I want to get at,” the chairman
proceeded, “is whether at the time you
approved of the construction of works
and roads on the Holt-Sutherland estate
you were or were not interested in the
property.”
“Well, suppose I was interested,”
Parkes shouted. “I resent with indig-
nation the supposition that I would be
influenced by any interest I might have
in the property. I desire this taken down.
Other persons may allow their conduct
to be influenced by such motives and
such objects. Ido not.”
Magnificent; but The Bulletin was
not satisfied. While allowing that the
board had “expressly absolved the wit-
ness from all imputation of dishonesty,”
it declared that “there is no country on
earth which can afford to have its bor-
rowed money spent by a man who claims
to be above the laws which, as he him-
self admits, apply to the actions of the
general community.” Jamieson it re-
ferred to as “Parkes’s dear old friend
‘Calico Jimmy’ ” —a term it afterwards
applied to the Sydney Freetrade party.
It never left Parkes alone. “We read,”
it said on another occasion, “that copies
of Parkes’s first book of ‘poetry’ have
just been sold for 20s. to 40s. each. We
have seen a two-headed calf sold for
fifty times as much.” Again:—•
Sir Henry and Lady Parkes entertained two
hundred Vernon boys at their Balmain resi-
dence. Dinner was served in a marquee, and
after Sir Henry had requested the boys to drink
her Majesty’s health, in tea, the Colonial
G.O.M. inflicted on them a long oration in
which he advanced that ancient story about the
good little boy with 2Jjd. in his pocket who,
after fearful struggles, arrived in London, “just
as you might leave the Vernon,” became a
wealthy merchant, a sheriff and a member of
Parliament. I am surprised that the Premier
should have recorded the awful end of the
good little boy with 2^d.
“I” was Ina Wildman, who wrote as
“Sappho Smith.” She died young, and
old readers still remember her with affec-
tion. “Sappho” had a lively style, and
kept her readers in touch with the
caprices of fashion, revealing incidentally
some of the difficulties they imposed on
her sex. For example:
Every skirt has a pocket in it, and yet what
a beast of burden the average female prefers
to be! She carries a bag, she carries a purse,
and her handkerchief is thrust in the front of
her bodice, a position from which for the sake
of appearances she daren’t haul it if there is
a man within cooee. The neat inside watch-
pocket has disappeared. In its stead we have
a little bag let inside our bodices, and we must
undo three or four buttons if we want to see
the time.
At the first Sydney reunion of the season
an odd gown was of black velvet, made straight
up and down without any bustle, the only
finish being a single row of marguerites round
the cut-out neck. Black reigned, the hand-
somest black gown being of moire, with beaded
skirt-panel, bodice to correspond. Two
theatrical-looking frocks were of white satin,
scantily cut, worn without improver of any
kind and finished off with pearl girdles. Then
a conscienceless individual came out in a pink
dress and brandished a scarlet fan, and another
person in pink had apparently taken some
yards of raw material and simply bound it
round herself.
But worse happened at the opening of
the Queensland Parliament.
One fearful creature came in bright red silk,
trimmed round the feet with red and green
tinsel, Empire bodice trimmed with the tinsel,
and large toque hat, the brim bordered with
red and green tinsel, and a glittering bird of
paradise perched at the top.
At the first winter at-home at Govern-
ment House, Sydney:
Lady Carrington received her visitors in the
red drawing-room. She wore deep heliotrope
poplin trimmed with moire ribbon on the skirt,
the bodice consisting of a loose jacket over a
hehotrope velvet vest, trimmed with bars of
passementerie; gold-crowned bonnet ornate
with mauve plume and deep heliotrope velvet
bows and short strings, tan gloves, diamond
bangles and gold-spotted fall. The Baron wore
sombre black, carried a, tan-colored hard-
hitter,” and smiled all the time.
The Baron had occasion for smiling,
at least some of the time:—
One lady appeared in smudgy pink silk worn
with a derelict pink gauze bonnet and a brown
It had been cabled from London that W.B. Dailey was to have a monument
in the neighborhood of St. Paul’s.
PARKES: “St. Paul’s may be good enough for a horator, but I'm going for to have
a go at the Poets’ Corner in the Habby.”
boa. Another sweet creature had quite eight
yards of vivid scarlet gauze tied under her
left ear. Another was without any bustle and
her back hair was loose.
They ordered these things better in
Melbourne: —•
The dressing at the Queen’s Birthday at-
home was exceedingly handsome all round.
Lady Robinson wore a demi-trained gown of
daffodil satin, with a jupe of pale daffodil
crepe, the low-cut bodice being trimmed with
crepe; a tiara of diamonds, pearl and diamond
ornaments and a huge daffodil yellow fan com-
pleted a fetching toilette. Lady Clark wore a
very handsome gown brocaded in silver with
front drapery, sleeves and bertha (how fashion-
able these detested berthas, which make
shoulders look wide out of all proportion are
just now!) in pale mauve crepe, the bodice
touched up with gold galoon and pearls.
“Sappho Smith” noted with apprecia-
tion that Governor and Lady Robinson
“do not solely cotton to the retired pork-
butcher or the recent beer-dispenser, but
assemble at their house also the brainy,
artistic, cultured portion of the commu-
nity.” An anonymous Melbourne critic
(presumably Edmund Fisher) objected
that Sir William Robinson composed
“excruciating songs, and made Santley
sing them at the Town Hall ; songs
“bristling with Cupids, skewered hearts
and all the fodder of valeptines.
They are so awfully erotic and balmy that
Lady Robinson is quite jealous, don t you
know? William protests that it is all imagi-
nary ; his Delias, Chloes, Chlorises and all those
pretty creatures are merely figurative. His
songs are on a par with Mrs. Leo Hunter s
in Pickwick.
Westralia, of which Sir William Robin-
son was thrice Governor (he was only
a stopgap in Victoria), had a much higher
opinion of his compositions. His Un-
furl the Flag” was sung in schools
(and not only Westralian schools), and
his “Remember Me No More” set many
a young woman’s heart fluttering. Battye,
the Westralian historian, while acknow-
ledging that he was “not an ideal Gover-
nor in every respect,” awards him a place
in “the first rank of constitutionalists.”
His constitutional performances are for-
gotten in Westralia, where he is remem-
bered only as “Fiddler Bill.”
Another celebrity of the period was
Dr. Bevan, the Melbourne divine, but a
worshipper complained that “listening to
Dr. Bevan preaching one always fancies
he is saying ‘thirty quid a week, thirty
quid a week.’ ” In 1889, as in 1939, a Tom
Playford was Premier of South Australia,
and this record of the present Playford’s
grandfather was preserved: “He is six-
feet-four, and wears larger boots than
any other Australian politician who has
not been a policeman.” And a cordial
understanding of the hands-across-the-
Atlantic sort was shattered by “Miss
Chamberlain, the lovely American girl,
who fell out with our Heir Apparent
through saying ‘Jumbo, you eat too
much.’ ”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
This week’s prize goes to a Ballarat man who, as befits a resident of a good
Australian town, raises the standard of revolt against the current exploitation of
“glamor.”
This Glamor Business
Do modern papers give too much pub-
licity to glamorous subjects, or is it that
the aura of so-called charm is woven
around the wrong people and ideas?
Young minds are bound to be influ-
enced by anecdotes about lovely girls
and handsome men who, with the aid of
their smiles and synthetic eyelashes, have
leapt overnight from obscurity to “fame.”
A little of such reading might be all right,
but why not more romantic stories about
people whose lifework really matters,
about scientists, doctors, clergymen,
teachers, artists and artisans, men and
women who, without limelight, strive
to help others?
What inspiring reading their stories
would make, and what guides they would
be for other ambitious people! No fabu-
lous fortunes fall easily into their laps,
and often, in the face of long discour-
agement, ill-health and anxiety, they have
had to fight to reach their goals.
Theirs would be sane, solid recitals of
human endeavor, yet too rarely we see
anything being made of them —perhaps
we’ve lost our sense of value and pro-
portion. What is needed to-day is less
talk about glamor and the joys of easy
wealth, and much more about courage
and the deep happiness to be gained from
hard work. —P. R. (Vic.).
“P.R.” (P. Radwon, of 213 Lyons-
Street, North Ballarat (Vic.), gets the
£3 3s. and space rates.
Present-day Human Wreckage
I have just given a feed to a member
of the “human-wreckage” class who
begged at the door. About his unshaven
face there was a look of refinement, and
his voice was cultured. Once upon a
time the members of this class who sat
in the parks and begged at our doors
were regarded as fit subjects for the
comic papers. The old view was to
laugh at them. They were just drunk-
ards, vagrants, all born hoboes, who if
one had to take them seriously (and one
seldom did) were looked on as nuis-
ances to be sooled off.
But now times have changed, and very
often these days men reach the derelict
class through no personal fault. Many
of them have been left behind in the on-
ward march of progress —victims very
often of the mechanisation of the age
in which we live. These days it is no
great surprise to find that the down-at-
heel who knocks at the door has an
Oxford accent. He is probably an ex-
professional man, a left-over. The
modern vagrant has stepped out of the
comic-strip page into the column that is
written with a pen dipped in pity and
headed “Victims of Circumstances.” —
S. C. W. (Q.).
Let’s Laugh It Off
One of the priceless possessions of
humanity is a sense of humor, yet few
world leaders appear to have either pos-
sessed it or attempted to cultivate it.
Propaganda —almost a fine art in these
times —never uses it, yet I dare swear
that if some world-prominent newspaper
had come out with a full-page picture of
Hitler in his shirt-tail last September the
universal gale of laughter would have
swept all thought of war from the face
of the earth.
Here in Australia ridicule is our most
potent weapon against any local dictator.
There was in Lang’s time a New Guard
with a leader who aspired to big things.
The populace ridiculed both the guard
and the leader. In my little coterie of
cobbers, Frith, of The 8., has done more
to kill scare talk by his persistent jeers
at certain foreign leaders than any other
factor. If only we could export this Aus-
tralian irreverence, this ability to pass
the dry, sardonic, humorous remark at
the right time, we’d save the world much
trouble that it now suffers because of its
tendency to take everything far too seri-
ously.
We are here but a little time ; Hitlers
and Roosevelts and Mussolinis pass
away; shadows flee and the sun shines
a " d , " ew shadows come. Let us laugh
while we can for we do nothing good
£«, °";„ world by contlnuousl y cryln B
Alack. .
. A joke may depend on nationality for
lt3 lau S h > bu * humor 1S universal,
An A. P. Herbert, as Prime Min-
ister, conferring with his German, French
and Italian counterparts, all able to see
and emphasise the funny side of the busi-
ness, would bring the world close to a
peace that is beyond understanding.—
The Grin (N.S.W.).
Children and Sex
. , ,
. Judith (B. 7/6/ 39) gives sound ad-
vlce on children and sex matters. Even
some religious societies have at last awak-
t° the fact that it is necessary to
“This oughter bring us a few bob at the price of scrap metal to-day !”
give youth some sane information on
biology.
The Y.W.C.A. in Adelaide is giving a
series of lectures to girls on this sub-
ject. The mistake it makes, however,
is in the matter of age. Every girl wish-
ing to attend these lectures must be over
17 years of age.
This is absurd, as most girls in this
climate mature around the age of 13.
Before reaching 17 they will know all the
facts of life. Sometimes they have been
educated in this by a sensible mother;
other times they have picked up the
knowledge in a questionable way.
If reputable societies are willing to
undertake this task, they should start
early.— Teetchem (S.A.).
Pioneers—and Others
The other day I was speaking to a
Victorian sheepbreeder ,who is a “self-
made man.” He started life up in the
north-west of the continent, landing up
there with a swag on his back. His first
job was to clear a racecourse, and from
that day to this he has continued to slog
in and exercise his excellent business
head.
This man remarked without bitterness
that the young men of Australia to-day
are not the pioneering men that their
fathers and grandfathers were.
Of course, for one thing, the best of
the land within reasonable distance of
civilisation has been taken up ; but this
does not excuse the lack of enterprise so
evident in the present generation. It
seems to me that one of the main causes
of the trouble lies in the fact that the
men of the last generation and, in some
cases, the generation before them made
sufficient money to enable them to rear
families that are not faced with the neces-
sity of fending for themselves —families
that have been soaked in the luxuries of
this “advanced” age. These things are all
very well in their way; but naturally the
children who experience them won’t grow
into pioneers. The pioneers deserve
praise, heaven knows; but theirs was
a case of pioneer or perish.
It is a wise father that, despite wealth,
pushes his son out to fend, a while at
least, for himself. Anyway, when our
generation of spenders has passed, per-
haps the impoverished generation soon
to rise will battle in the outback as
Grandpa did. — Young ’Un (Vic.).
The National Register
Why all this fuss about the national
register? And, again, when will the heads
of the Government learn to apply the
principles of ordinary everyday psy-
chology?
It is well known that a catchcry or
slogan is far more powerful in influenc-
ing the public mind than the reasoned
arguments of logic and commonsense.
Victories are won by the “England
expects,” etc., type of thing, and elec-
tions are lost by raising bogies with
strange or odious names that play on
the fears, especially the fear of the un-
known, inherent in human nature.
If the Federal Ministry had announced
its intention of making a Commonwealth
census no one would have turned a hair
or raised a single objection. Yet there
is not one question contained in the
national register that could not legiti-
mately be asked in a census. Questions
in the latter are even more personal.
But we are used to a census; not so a
national register. It sounds like the latest
foal by Panic out of Crisis.
In fact, a rose by any other name
smells like stale cabbage.— C. R. Jessop
(N.S.W.).
Make a Hook of It
I am not a nautical expert, and my
strongest claim in the engineering line is
that I once helped a chap to repair a
wheelbarrow. However, the recent sub-
marine disasters have made me ponder
as to why no provision is made in the
design of the hull to facilitate raising
the submarine by outside power when
its own raising-powers have failed.
Divers descend and report failure to
attach hawsers to the hull. Several days
then elapse while hawsers are passed
under the hull, and long before she has
been raised to the surface the inmates
have perished.
To my mind large shackles should be
built into the hull when the submarine
is constructed ; said shackles should be
on both sides, and for the full length
of the vessel. Then, in the event of
failure to rise, divers could quickly
attach scores of hawsers to the hull by
means of the shackles. Anything can be
moved provided you can get a grip and
have enough power.
In the case of the Thetis she was not
far from the test basin, and it is
reasonable to suppose she could have
been towed there had the rescue ships
been able to get a grip on her. The
emptying of the basin would have
speedily ended the drama before it be-
came disaster. — Burr (Q.).
The Nation’s Backbone
“E. 0.5.” (B. 31/5/’39) is scared of our
country population “degenerating” into
a peasant class. Why on earth call a
peasant class degenerate? Failing to
measure up to the artificial standards
of urban culture, and knowing nothing
of those evils this page is fond of
deprecating, is not a sign of decadence.
The fall of the Roman Empire was in
great part due to loss of its peasantry
and the cult of a fastidious urban life.
England is no better off for the decay of
its yeomanry. The peasantry was the
one sane element left in post-revolution
France; in the Spanish war I have
heard that in Navarre (to quote one
example) every man in the province
volunteered.
It is urbanites who are looking at the
picture upside down; a virile peasant
class is a country’s glory.—M. Pahlaw
(N.S.W.).
Road Fatalities
Despite the creation by the Labor Gov-
ernment of a Ministry of Transport, and
despite the first Minister’s determined on-
slaught upon careless and drunken driv-
ing, Maoriland has just made a new
record on the score of road accidents—
-50 deaths in as many days.
This all goes to show that one cannot
legislate against the human element. In
fact, there has been so much traffic legis-
lation and regulation that it has become
a question whether the roads were not
safer for pedestrians and motorists alike
before the Hon. R. Semple and his trans-
port officers started out on the clean-up.
Three suggestions for keeping the roads
safe: Learners’ plates, stricter license
tests and life-cancellation of the license
upon a third conviction for a serious
motoring offence. Belisha Beacon
(M.L.).
Dr. Rivett’s Scheme
Some years ago The Bulletin pub-
lished an article entitled “Too Big for
Them.” It was a criticism (and appre-
ciation) of a report by the C.S. and I.R.
on “Debts, Gold and Unemployment.”
This report, I think, was published in
August, 1934, or thereabouts. No other
newspaper, to my knowledge, ever even
mentioned it.
The report and The Bulletin article
made a deep impression on my neigh-
bors and on myself—so deep that I can-
not understand why the matter is allowed
to lie unheeded. Now that wool and
wheat are unprofitable, and we have to
listen to the wails of politicians when we
appeal for help—the wails being that the
crushing burden of overseas debts makes
any help for the man on the land nearly
impossible—don’t you think that if Dr.
Rivett’s scheme were put into operation
it would help us? It seems to me that
there is a section of the community that
doesn’t want to have our debts paid off.
Another article in The Bulletin on
this subject would be greatly appreciated
in the n.-w. corner of this State, where,
I can assure you, are many whose Bible
is The Bully. We need help, and that
badly, for, with low prices, drought
(wheat not even sown yet) and other
causes, our lot is not enviable. —D. J. F.
(N.S.W.).
Protecting Livestock
In the city a drayman who works a
horse with a sore shoulder is fined for
cruelty to dumb animals ; in the country
a careless grazier can let thousands of
sheep starve to death without being penal-
ised. The old excuse that it does not pay
to hand-feed has been disproved by every
C.J. Dennis Memorial Prize
The C. J. Dennis Memorial Commit-
tee of Sydney is asking for contributions
to create a fund to make possible a prize
annually for a poem.
That C. J. Dennis should be remem-
bered and honored is only just and right,
and I am sure every Australian poet and
every lover of Australian verse will do
what they can to see this end achieved.
I should like to see part of the prize-
money earmarked for vernacular verse.
Dennis found his public and touched the
hearts of countless Australians through
such verse.
So many of us followed the “Senti-
mental Bloke” through all his ups and
downs. We all loved Doreen. Untold
numbers of soldiers and their friends
knew Ginger Mick. To them he was a
real identity, and he will live while Aus-
tralia lives.
There was no swank about Dennis’s
writings. He told us of people he knew,
and he wrote of them just as he saw them.
Dennis was capable of writing, and
did write, high-class poetry, but he will
ever be known and remembered by his
vernacular verse.-
Vic (S.A.).


up-to-date grazier; the man who “can’t
afford” to provide feed surely can’t
afford to lose his sheep, which in many
cases represent most of his capital.
It is the old story of careless exploita-
tion of land and animals instead of effi-
cient farming, and should not be tolerated
in a country which should be past the
“pioneering” stage. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment has passed a Soil Erosion Bill which
gives it power to deal with the landowner
who wastes the country’s national asset,
the soil.
The livestock of the country are also
a national asset which the Government
would do well to preserve and protect
from the inhuman cruelty of death by
starvation. All that is needed is a proper
enforcement of the existing Cruelty to
Animals Act, by which major cruelties
could be punished as well as a mere sore
shoulder or raw flank on a single horse. —
S. (N.S.W.).
Patent Medicines
Australia could well follow the
example of Denmark, Norway and
Sweden in their control of the sale of
patent medicines.
In Denmark it is forbidden by law to
advertise cough cures and the like.
Such advertising is restricted to profes-
sional (medical) publications.
In Norway no patent medicine or phar-
maceutical product may be either adver-
tised or sold without the authority of the
Medical Board of the Ministry of Health.
If the Medical Board finds that the pro-
duct submitted for its approval is in-
jurious, it cannot be sold; if exagger-
ated claims are made for it, these must
be toned down ; if the price is too high
this has to be reduced.
In Sweden, also, similar restrictions are
in force. Chemists must not sell “dan-
gerous” patent medicines except when
these are prescribed by a doctor. The
Ministry of Health regularly compiles a
list of “dangerous” medicines. —C. A. B.
(Q-). _____
Do We Need “G-men”?
A Sunday paper is making a habit
of parading before the public the
list of unsolved serious crimes in
N. S. Wales. Certainly the average
citizen cannot feel other than concerned,
for the list of murders that have not
“outed” (so to speak) is almost a scandal.
Police state that in many cases, though
fairly sure of the guilty party, they can-
not obtain sufficient evidence on which
to base an arrest. From personal experi-
ence I know this to be particularly true
in country districts, where the aver-
age citizen, knowing he must continue to
live close to the family and friends of
the evil-doer and fearful of doing any-
thing likely to bring local disapproval,
closes up like the oyster when detectives
appear.
The stage has been reached when the
Federal Government should take a hand.
It could create a force (small) of trained
men, chosen not on physical but on in-
tellectual standards, and promulgate a
code of laws that would bring these ex-
perts in when a major crime baffled the
local police. In America it was the
Federal officers who finally reduced the
“big-shot” gangs and their leaders. An
egg thrown at Warwick (Q.) years ago
brought into being a Commonwealth
police force ; surely a list of unsolved
murders like that of N.S.W. should be
sufficient to create a Federal Bureau of
Criminology. And while we’re on the
subject, in view of the Commonwealth’s
need for babies the F.B.C. could take a
special interest in abortionists such as
the one in Sydney who got a paltry
three years’ hard, a sentence handed
out to a couple of comparatively lily-
white housebreakers on the same day.—•
Operator X (N.S.W.).
The Bogey of Fascism
We are beginning ,to hear a great deal
of the danger of Fascism in our midst.
It is, in fact, according to some, becom-
ing, if anything, a greater menace to us
than the machinations of the countries
that embrace it as a system of govern-
ment. Anyone whose political color is
not a shade of pink or red is accused of
leanings towards Fascism and a desire to
establish a dictatorship in Australia.
Let any Parliament try to govern, any
leader take a strong line in the interests
of national efficiency and co-ordination,
or any officer of the fighting services say
no to a photographer for some ghoulish
paper, in the interests of decency or
secrecy, and up goes the howl of Fascism.
The fear, if it is genuine and not just
propaganda served up as fodder for fools,
is largely due to muddled thinking. One
of the outstanding features of Fascism in
Italy and Germany is that it established
order where there was only chaos. There-
fore, anyone who attempts to bring a
little order into the chaos of democracy
must be a Fascist. Brilliant reasoning!
A blackfellow goes to sleep, therefore
anyone who sleeps must be a black-
fellow !
Actually neither Mr. Hitler nor Mr.
Mussolini invented the process of turning
chaos into order. It has been the pre-
rogative of man since he first began to
rise above the level of the beasts, and the
measure of his proficiency therein has
been the measure of his advancement
throughout the ages.
Away with this craven fear of Fas-
cism! Let us, before it is too late, give
our support to any who try to bring
some order into this state of laissez faire
that masquerades as democracy. There is
no danger of our going Fascist; in
character and temperament we are
diametrically opposed to it.—T. E. P.
(N.S.W.).
That Old School Tie
That old-school-tie tradition so ade-
quately explained by “Pardon Me” (B.
31/5/’39) has other aspects. • Many
young men denied a public-school edu-
cation through no fault of their own
have social aspirations. More often than
not the passport to society is that old
school tie, and one from “Pardon Me’s”
“vulgar mob” is cold-shouldered. A
snub can be a great blow to self-esteem.
One becomes embittered and disil-
lusioned. It is no exaggeration to say
that many existing radicals and Com-
munists discovered their new world only
after being socially slighted.
The old-school-tie joke is, after all,
based on truth. How would Mrs. Blah
receive me at her cocktail party to-
morrow afternoon if I burst in late with
the excuse, “ ’Scuse the ink stains on my
hands and coat, but I just had to finish
my ledger, and I really didn’t have time
to change my coat!” at a time when
Percy Blah was telling the Old College
Girls how he won the hundred yards in
evens?
Even though it bar my entry into the
uppah class, I’m not ashamed to admit
my free education, and while I appreciate
“Pardon Me’s” remarks
about “spiritual tradition/’ I must con-
fess that usually the associations of tra-
ditional neckwear are cocktail parties,
bores and snobs. — Austin McCallum
(Vic.).
Italians in the North
It might interest “Fair Play” (B.
10/5/’39) to know that when I first took
up my farm in North Queensland eight
years ago there were fewer than 5 p.c.
Italians in our area. Now over 60 p.c. of
the farmers are Italians, and the number
is increasing each year. No, the Italians
do not pioneer the land. When this
district was opened up eight years ago the
pioneer farmers were 90 p.c. Australian.
It is only since the district has proved
itself that the Italians are coming in.
“Fair Play” does not think it matters
if the Italian immigrants don’t learn to
speak English. All I can say is, if they
don’t it won’t be many years before we
Australians will have to learn Italian to
be understood in our own country.
Apart from this, the predominance of
Italians means the end of sport for young
Australian farmers. In the last two years
we have been unable to muster a football
or a cricket team. And what about cul-
ture? Our chance of getting a library
or a School of Arts grows slimmer each
year as Musso’s countrymen buy up the
farms. My quarrel is not with the
Italian farmers already out here, who
cannot be blamed for wanting the best
farms, but with the authorities who let
them come into the country. — Optimist
(Q.).
The Microphone Age
Where can I escape them?
Having been driven partially crazy by
the husky voices of males and females
issuing from the radio and screen I
recently decided to give the legit, a try.
Here, however, I found the same micro-
phone-addicts frightened to move more
than two feet from what seems to be
their lifeline.
One actor is reported to have said
that actors with good speaking voices
could not be found. This, however, is
contradicted by the excellent singing and
speaking to be heard at any performance
of the amateur theatrical societies in
Sydney.
Even politicians, once renowned for
their vocal powers, are now to be seen
mumbling into a microphone and trying
to blast the other fellow off the street,
not with invective, but with amplified
power.
It probably will not come in our day,
but possibly H. G. Wells has foreseen
the time when bottle-ohs and others of
similar calling will do their rounds
softly crooning into a portable ampli-
fier! —F. A. Burke (N.S.W.).
Child Stars
What psychologist among you can ex-
plain the increasing popularity of juve-
nile film stars?
Recently not fewer than ten such
juveniles (counting the Quins as five)
were featured simultaneously in Sydney
film-houses. True, a couple of them had
attained what Hollywood calls the
“awkward age” when they are neither
one thing nor the other, but the. box-
office preferred the juvenile angle in the
ads., and record houses were the result.
If this portends a return to the simpler
things of life, somebody is screwy. No
natural child would dare to behave in the
dreadful, affected manner of the “stars,”
who are held up as perfect examples of
what a child should do and be. —Er
(N.S.W.).
The “Pommies”
Speaking on behalf of U.A.P. candi-
dates in the electorate of Wilmot (Tas.),
the P.M., Mr. Menzies, slated the Labor-
ites for what he. termed their “isolation-
ist” policy in regard to Imperial defence.
He spoke for more than an hour on
this subject, and pointed out that Aus-
tralia would have ceased to exist as a
democratic country long ago were it not
for the strength and guardianship of the
Mother Country, the peoples of which,
he said, would lay down their lives in
the defence of Australia and Australians.
Mr. Menzies, of course, did not men-
tion that these same people are the de-
spised “Pommies.”— One of ’Em (Tas.).
Culture or Barbarism?
An individual with a deep appreciation
of the arts, I have been told that anyone
who reads poetry is childish or effemi-
nate. Yet the same persons who tell me
this are “nuts” (as they term it) on songs
(?) like “I’ve Got You Under My Skin”
and “You Can’t Stop. Me from Dream-
ing,” and syndicated adventure strips like
Seed Gawkins.
I shudder to think what the descen-
dants of these people will be, intellectu-
ally and aesthetically, if they inherit their
parents’ characteristics. Personally, I
don’t profess to be highly cultured; but
I do think people who educate themselves
solely on a diet of erotic swing music
and three-year-old-mentality adventure
and comic strips are definitely debasing
both themselves and the world —not so
much because they enjoy these things,
but because they are so ready to sneer
at and discourage anyone who attempts
to cultivate the higher centres of the
brain. Surely it is time we Australians
woke uo a little. — Shakspeare’s Ghost
(W.A.). *
Need for Restraint
It becomes increasingly evident that
the virtue most needed in these times is
the one most lacking—restraint.
If I were founding a modern univer-
sity I should, first of all, establish a Chair
of Restraint for the development of a
simple culture and a philosophy of life
as far removed as possible from the
present “high-pressure” system.
This faculty would seek to cultivate
restraint in all things, and particularly
in foreign diplomatic relations. It would
be opposed to nothing, but would en-
deavor scientifically, yet restrainedly, to
neutralise all forms of violence, from
letting off crackers to the manufacture
of armaments. Restraint would thus be-
come the new “Culture.”
The course of study would be quite
free to all members of the public, and
co-operation of the Government would
be sought to compel all holders of public
office to complete the course. —W.
(N.S.W.).
Why Easy-payment?
People who condemn “easy-payment”
systems (B. 17/5/’39) on the ground that
they cause poorer people to make their
lives a misery paying up back debts
always omit to see the cardinal point:
Why should people have to take advan-
tage of the instalment plan where things
like clothes, etc., are concerned? Is not
our country producing more wealth than
it ever did before? Why, then, should
one section of the community be in such
dire financial straits that it is unable to
pay cash for the common necessities of
civilised life? Because our country has
failed to provide openings for us must
we go round ragged and tattered—a dis-
grace to ourselves and everybody else?
No. The fault is not with the “instal-
ment system” at all, but with the condi-
tions which make it necessary. — One
Who Knows (W.A.).
The Provincial Spirit
The progress of national unity and the
development of an Australian national
ideal are, I firmly believe, hampered by
the growth of a narrow provincial spirit
which shows itself in practically every
State. The mere fact that a fellow-
Australian lives on the other side of a
State boundary makes him a stranger,
almost a foreigner. Already we have
our minorities —Broken Hill and the
Riverina in N.S.W., the south-eastern
district in S.A. Shall we be eventually
as troubled Europe is to-day because of
our rabbit-proof fences?
The “champions of State rights” had
a day out in Adelaide when the new
State Parliament House was opened.
The Adelaide “Advertiser’s” leader on
the event humorously quoted its own
report of an earlier ceremony—the open-
ing of the original House in 1889: “....
it was felt that when the financial posi-
tion of the colony will warrant it, it will
be a wise thing to fill up the vacant area
to King William-road with more granite
and marble.”.
The new building is mentioned as “a
declaration of our faith in our own
special Parliamentary institutions” and “as
an unmistakable intimation in granite
and marble of our resolve to maintain
those institutions inviolate.”
It may also be considered as a symbol
of the highest State taxation, of 15,000
unemployed, of more than two thousand
wheat-farmers bankrupt in recent years,
and all this in spite of enormous Com-
monwealth grants.
Is it too late for us to demolish these
senseless and meaningless divisions be-
tween one good Australian and another
and get on with the job of nation-build-
ing? To do this we need to use our
money and resources to better purpose
than “filling up vacant areas with granite
and marble.”— Unificationist (S.A.).
Air Mails and the Speck
Tell “V.D.” (B. 31/5/’39) the air mail
from England comes via Darwin, Adel-
aide and Melbourne, and reaches here
usually in 11 days ; that is, one day later
than Sydney or Melbourne.
An ordinary letter from Hobart leaves
by ’plane at 8.30 a.m. and reaches Mel-
bourne at noon, goes on to Sydney by
train and gets there before 10 next day.
If 3d. air fee is added the letter reaches
Sydney about 2.20 on the day it left
Hobart. How does this fit in with
“V.D.’s” statement that “carriage of
mails from Tas. to Melbourne and
Sydney is almost as slow as pre-flying
days”? I defy him to quote any instance
in proof of his further statement that a
letter missing an afternoon delivery may
be nearly 24 hours at the P.O.
His complaint about his local delivery
appears equally worthy of disbelief. —
Mail Officer (Tas.).
Flamin’ Youth!
“Youth! Youth! We want Youth!”
The parrot-cry is repeated in clubs,
leagues, associations, in the press, on the
air, town, country or foreign. And now
The Bulletin joins the “youth move-
ment.”
Neither old nor disappointed, I am
old enough to wonder what youth
knows of leadership, to wonder in
what other way youth is to acquire
those solid, practical virtues usually
only acquired in the school of ex-
perience. I am old enough to choose
the most experienced surgeon possible
for major operations, to sense the ac-
quired wisdom behind the judgments of
a Curlewis, to accept the knockbacks of
an editor, philosophically: —largely be-
cause experience tells me that surgeon,
Judge, editor, having apprenticed them-
selves to authority when younger, are
now old enough to act with that cool
detached judgment such as is impossible
to youth.
Roosevelt, Mussolini, Hitler, Billy
Hughes, Nuffield —aye, and Chamberlain
.—names from which the spotlight is
never withdrawn —not one of them is
young. Whether we like them or not,
the fact yet remains that they are able
men. Did they possess that same ability
at 20? No, of course not! It may have
been inherent, but was very much un-
developed.
We live in a mad world, led by
whom? Led necessarily by aged men.
1 say “No! ” Led, rather, by men who,
irrespective of age, must attune their ears
to the mad, ignorant urgings of the mil-
lions, both young and old, whom they
are presumed to lead.
Youth should get encouragement,
training for leadership—but for heaven s
sake don’t expect youth to lead unti
proof has been shown of outstanding
ability! Excepting, of course, in such
physical realms dominated by S “ C J ® ‘
ceptional figures as, say, Kingsford S
in his day and Don Bradman in me
Pr \Vhy,* the most human letter, that ever
appeared on this page was written ,y
man of 70 (Con O’Grady, B. 31/5/. 39).
—T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).


Every Day a
Day of Opportunity
é
Pelmanism is an all-round train-
ing. It develops agreeably, smoothly
and without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the
following are outstanding:—
Observation Self-Confidence
Concentration Judgment
Decisiveness Initiative
Will-Power Social Ease
The Constructive Imagination
And a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
ê
ë
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of "The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
95
POST THS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ē
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
' Australian
barkers
““BITERS
'W'-h
Robert f£t
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb, €
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many .
others in this *tl9
splendid book
on Dogs. '
,0 tf>)
256 Pages
(illustrated) .
\*
s
, r x,
PUP** n
(post • C \
V // ,
’ A. <^^ vV 0t
.••V$ 5 4‘WV’ 0


THE BEST NEWS OF THE YEAR FOR
ynf' i
mm
ms ■ i
imi
m
11l
3te ■ X
mmm
COUNTRY RESIDENTS
HALLSTROMS
NOW AVAILABLE IN EVERY
TOWNSHIP THROUGHOUT N.S.W.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
They are modern in every respect . . . they’re revolutionary . . .
unique. No matter if you live in town, suburbs, or in the back
country, a Hallstrom will prove itself the most efficient
Refrigerator you can possess.
■
The Greatest Develop-
ment in Modern
Refrigeration
A Hallstrom Refrigerator gives you larger holding
capacity . . . handsome modern cabinet (high-
quality steel, Dulux finished), porcelain-lined
interior, heavily chromium-plated fittings . . . extra
shelf area . . . ample cube-making trays . . .
compact overall measurement.
HALLSTROM REFRIGERATORS ARE FULLY
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Dimensions and Weight: Height, 4ft. Depth,
2ft. 3|-in. Width, 2ft. 1 in. Inside area, 2ft.
x Ift. 1 Jin. x Ift. 6in. (4.2 c. ft.). Net weight',
approx.: 3cwt. 21b. Packed weight, approx.:
4cwt. 21b.
OPERATED BY KEROSENE,
GAS OR ELECTRICITY
There are no motors to get out of order, no specialised knowledge
required to install them. They operate equally well by kerosene,
gas or electricity—to convert them one from the other is a simple
task and requires very little additional equipment.
r
Gas or Electrically Operated .. . £42/ 10 -
Kerosene Operated £45/10 -
r
\
/
/
\
u
m
m
% J
f i
w
mhmm
■...•■■<
■«* : -S ': s
.
/
V..
■
ASTOR
THE LOWEST PRICED RADIO
IN AUSTRALIA
ELECTRICAL OR BATTERY OPERATED
Whether you live in town or country, an Astor#
Radio will bring you entertainment second to
none. No other Radio offers such fidelity in tone,
on broadcast and dual-wave bands . . . none other
offers such mechanical and acoustic improvements,
beauty of cabinet and moderate prices. Small
wonder the Astor has climbed into the forefront
of modern radio during the past ten years.
Easy Terms Available.
MICKEY MOUSE BATTERY-OPERATED
(Above).- —This famous little all-rounder appears now as a Battery
Ra,dio, arid its outstanding efficiency has been overwhelmingly proved by
its popularity. This powerful 4-valve model that gives more than
6-valve performance is housed in as smart a bakelite cabinet as you
could wish. It uses the 1.4 v. Economy Valves, and no accumulator
is necessarv. Complete with- Batteries arid Metal Plug-in Battery
Box .... £l5/15/-
MICKEY MOUSE all-electric sv. A.C. Broadcast Mantel, in handsome
cabinet, as shown £l2/19/6
In Ivory, 10/6 extra.
ALADDIN
(At Right)
The Batteryless Vibrator
Dual - wave Superheterodyne
Mantel Model featuring Presto
Tuning. This exclusive new
feature means that one simple
movement of the automatic
dial accurately tunes to the
highest pitch of perfection any
one of 11 individual stations.
The stations can be pre-
selected according to the dis-
trict in which the set is
operated. Price £25/10/-
ALADDIN MANTEI,
MODEL,, sv. A.C. Dual-wave,
with Presto Tuning, £l7/17/
m
N.S.W. Country Distributors and Associated Metropolitan Distributors: —
BLOCH & GERBER Ltd.
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED
WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.
46-48 York Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MA6291 (10 lines).
