

PP’4
y
mm
1
V
N 4
m
i
mm
%&%%
m
—~r^”
lilb: 1
V,
®l»
li .. ■■■ v Pi
•>. 4
• ' '• ~ ‘ ■ •'• *■ ;
, ' •• •
«a*rnni M
1
XAXS
ip
W:
I
>,V, ■»:
»•-
V 4.4
«
■
W
bi PpcP PpP
( > : v f, -■;
: '
' . te. <1
. •:. 4*4*::* , ■■
•••••■?
4 4 ••- >: , r ~ 4 v ,
*4 ''• • 4 ■
":•■■ ; ? 4 4 *>, *';* ; ; : :.V V 4*4. :,* 4 >•
'P - 4'' v**;,*'
• : - . P ,'V t v ■
• 1
JPH* 1111
•\< ••• ■ v-n. -> K . ••
- •: ■
"liUPpPj: % ; >* '' ’• Pv4*
- r:>PPVV- v -
PP 4*4, V ;.'44
... ; f \■'•>/*', 5
m
■M
V> o
■
vV >?'*
-r:
I
ST
g * •'/.•• r' /* 's** : -
¥ ■ ifiiiirr m '" * VPP 1 If; v> '\ i 4 4>,
4 ■ 4 -:::; , : : 4* * 1 **
>< , :■•'• { S: <;•. ' ’** ... , . ' & . ... ,p. ** - ;
l <x ; •• ' - ' < - ••••' V- ,
v;.\ x ■
*>4 44 4'4 ;>^-.I V
vm.-- 4v*sv~. .
X fc
"' 44-
s
44 , ■ v ,■. .4 44 > :4'
<t \t v ,** i«4
IllPppP^fP
; : ,4 4.4;;''' ■ <4,;,'
'' pr ■ ? P x V 4
• v> '' ■ '■••:::■•
w, ?
Wm
pV
»
i •*'>
4 : i- >'4
■
■
:*■-!
>•- • •••■
mm
iillll
m
'
• • •
m
■ ■
i
EM
,
QUICKER an
DEPENDABLE
Y?:
UNDER ALL
WEATHER
CONDITIONS!
m
Batteries for all Purposes;
Car, Truck, Tractor,
-
Radio, Launch,
House
DISTRIBUTORS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 GOULBURN STREET, SYDNEY
ALL N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENTS AND THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
USE ERG BATTERIES
EXCLUSIVELY!
Equipment on Radiola for
10 years
manufactured by
Other Distributors:
Victoria KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD., 200 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
Queensland H. J. TOLHURST, Factory Representative, Box 1731 W,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
South Australia .. DAVID L. PRESCOTT, 91 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania DAVIES PTY., LTD., Launceston.
New Caledonia.. HAGEN FRERES, Noumea.
New Zealand .. .. BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS. LTD.. 436
Broadway, Newmarket, Auckland, S.E.I.
Fi jS ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.. Suva.
ERjG tfATTERIES PTY., LTD., 156 Goulburn Street, Sydney --- ■■■■ THE UNIT OF ENERGY
The Bulletin
What’s the Dictators’ Game?
Vol. 60.—N0. 3088.
Wednesday, April 19, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
«C3:00
The Prize is open this year to any
prose work —fiction, biography, autobiography,
history, etc.
Authors will assist if they will forward
entries as soon as they are ready and not wait
until the last few days. The earlier MSS. are
forwarded the earlier the judges will be able
to announce their decision.
Each MS. must be entered with author’s
pen-name attached ; full name and address to
accompany it in a sealed envelope, which will
not be opened until after the judges have
reached their decision.
Intending competitors have now only seven
weeks to complete and enter MSS.
imi
* uj*
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. Illustrated,
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement System oj
Writing, as advei'tised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My A ddress *
S.B. 139
The Red page
A NEW AUSTRALIAN NOVELIST.
The blurb says that Patrick White, author of
Happy Valley (Harrap ; Moore’s Bookshop) is “an
Australian from New South Wales who was educated
at Cheltenham and Cambridge and now lives in
London. He has written two plays, which were acted
in Bryant’s Playhouse, Sydney. He has also written
poems and short stories —published in the London
“Mercury’—and a sketch in Herbert Farjeon’s revue
‘Nine Sharp.’ ”
His book is a portrait of a small town in the
} Monaro —though it might, with equal fidelity, have
been a small town in Arkansas, or even Warwickshire
if Squire were substituted for squatter and a vicar
called in. The local doctor, at 32, is beginning to
realise that life isn’t going to be what he hoped at 18.
The local music teacher, pledged to culture and bor-
ing herself with Tolstoy and Turgenev when she
would much rather be reading the “Ladies’ Home
Journal,” is in much the same frame of mind. Things
begin to happen between them when she visits his
surgery to have a dressing applied to a very small
cut on her finger.
The schoolmaster —the most sympathetic charac-
ter in the book —is dying of asthma and is married
to a plump blonde who is thoroughly bored. Life
isn’t unfolding fast enough to suit Sidney Furlow—
daughter of the sheep station. She is lost some-
where between old-fashioned morals and newfangled
notions. Furlow, fumblingly and pathetically affec-
tionate, is incapable of dealing with anything that isn’t
sheerly objective, such as sheep and waterholes. He
lives in terror of being asked what he thinks of the
European situation. Mrs. Furlow, socially ambitious
—she finds the station homestead less satisfactory as
a place of residence than as an abstract idea —flutters
helplessly round her enigmatical and unmanageable
daughter. '
Sidney and Clem Hagan, Furlow’s new over-
seer, tough as a redgum knot, are both attracted and
repelled by each other. Clem gratifies one side of
his nature and thwarts another side by a too-easy
affair with the schoolmaster’s wife. She is strangled
by her husband just before he is carried off by a
cardiac seizure. The doctor’s wife, who puts her
hand to her chest whenever she speaks, hopes to
persuade her husband to buy a practice in the drier
climate of Queensland, and eventually succeeds, the
shock of the murder jerking him back to realities.
Sidney gets Hagan out of difficulties by swearing
that he was in her room on the night of the murder
—which leads to marriage and the obvious begin-
ning of another tragedy. The rest of the cast are
conventional bush types, school-children and a family
of Chinese storekeepers.
The seasons leap from winter mud to summer
drought, the livestock, apparently, being self-support-
ing. Not that nature has no interest for the author,
for he impresses the reader with the fertility of rams
and roosters. He gets at the quality of the landscape
in one place. “The country slept, inwardly intent on
some secret war of passion or trying to separate the
threads of old passions spent.” That is reminiscent of
D. H. Lawrence’s observations in Kangaroo. There
is also some Joyce:
The horses were going out. That glint is eye is
turned is his first race Stevie Everett and shirt sticks to
the skin, the orange conjunction with green where the
barrier stirs a nerve and Furlow’s mare with all that
weight treads mud said Interview the paper said balanc-
ing a cloud on flagpole feels his stirrups stretch to
what depth to what underneath whether muscle or air
or Quong’s colt keeps the store the awful twisters
these Chows in a country of possibilities and ideal at
2 or 5 to 1 the collar sticks on a lozenge from shout-
ing from stretching the neck to see the starter’s two-day
importance lead into place a bridle when the balloon
goes up.
The author can also write very good English.
Whether Patrick White is to be regarded as an
able recruit to the ranks of Australian novelists or
whether Happy Valley is just another Antipodean
echo is a matter of whether the accent falls on the
manner or the substance. White takes as his text a
remark of Gandhi’s to the effect that suffering is an
indispensable condition of our being, and follows it
out logically. His story handles firmly in every way,
the characters are fully imagined, events develop
out of character and circumstance, there is not the
slightest disposition to import false values.
Happy Valley is not a book for those who think
writers should work in collaboration with the Tourist
Bureau, but it is a very remarkable first novel. In
this picture of Mr. Furlow returning to his property,
Glen Marsh, after a disturbing venture into the
metropolitan world, you have Patrick White’s style
and nice sense of human values at a moment when
he deems syntax preferable to grammatical chaos:
He began to feel his confidence return, a confidence
founded on familiar things, the street at Moorang, the
road out to Happy Valley, the gates the chauffeur
would get down to open from there out to Glen Marsh.
These were understandable and safe, the landmarks of
discovered territory. His mind stirred with pleasurable
anticipation of dogs running out from the house and
Sidney perhaps standing on the steps. When she was
younger she would run out too with the dogs, and
climb on the running board, and ask what he had
brought. Her lips on his cheek were more inquisitive
than affectionate, but the analysis of motive was not
in Mr. Furlow’s line, and Sidney’s mouth was still a
kiss. He smiled. The diamond bracelet in his pocket
dragged down one side of his coat. The way she put
her hand in his pocket was coming home, was Sidney’s
hand, was contact with the comprehensible detail of
Glen Marsh, of Mr. Furlow himself.
Beside the question of whether the weight of
Happy Valley is in the manner or the matter —and
it really seems to be in the latter —there arises the
question of how far obvious influences have dictated
the selection of matter. Future work should answer
that.
Charles Morgan's Play.
Whatever Charles Morgan writes is the product
of matured thought. Eight years separated his two
novels, The Fountain and Sparkenbroke, and now,
after another long pause, comes a play, The Flashing
Stream (Macmillan). In it he implements a philo-
sophy which he sets forth in a preliminary essay. It
is one of individual salvation, a passionate and austere
idealism tinged with mysticism:
Many are persuaded by despair that against the
violence of the modem world there is no remedy but to
escape or to destroy; but there is another within the
reach of all —of a woman at her cradle, of a man of
science at his instruments, of a seaman at his wheel or
a ploughman at his furrow —the remedy of a single
mind, active, passionate and steadfast, which has upheld
the spirit of man through many tyrannies and shall
uphold it still. This singleness of mind, called by Jesus
“purity of heart,” the genius of love, of science and of
faith, resembles, in the confused landscape of experience,
a flashing stream, “fierce and unswerving as the zeal of
saints,” to which the few who see it can commit them-
selves absolutely. They are called fanatics, and indeed
they are not easily patient of those who would turn
them aside, but, amid the confusions of policies, the
adventure of being man and woman is continued in
them.
Every obsession is an attempt to escape. There are
groups of men who can think only in terms of their
own political creed, who pride themselves that they and
they alone are facing reality, and will admit nothing to
their judgment—neither art nor science nor religion—
unless it plead in the language of their economics.
Those who differ from them they call escapists, without
guessing that economic obsession is their own bolt-hole.
Afraid to ask what a man is and what he may become,
they ask what he has and what he may obtain, as if
their standard of possessions were indeed a “standard
of life.”
The play purports to be an illustration of this.
It is so lofty in conception and so unhesitatingly pre-
supposes a world of supermen that any concrete nar-
rative is too narrow to convey it. The essay is well
enough, the play is well enough, but their juxtaposi-
tion is unfortunate. The essay belittles the play.
Morgan has not found a mould large enough for his
ideas, and the statement of them in theory under-
lines the inadequacy of the play.
Commander Edward Ferrers, R.N., has invented
an aerial bomb, which he calls “The Scorpion.”
Launched into the air it can be directed by wireless
into the vicinity of an enemy aeroplane. Once within
the field of vibration set up by the aeroplane it is
drawn into collision and explodes with inevitably
fatal results. For the perfecting and trial of this
device the Admiralty set up an experimental station
on the small island of St. Hilary, under the command
of Admiral Helston. The men lived in something
resembling monastic seclusion, their minds and ener-
gies concentrated on their work. There is only one
woman on the island, Lady Helston, the Admiral’s
wife.
In one of the trials, Selby, the mathematician of
the group, is killed. He is, Ferrers fears, irreplace-
able. His only equal in his particular field is his
sister, Karen Selby. She visits the island shortly after
her brother’s death, and the Admiral persuades Ferrers
to take her on to his staff. He feels that it is a mis-
take, but considerations of work come first. Karen
is an individualist as single-minded as he is. She
sees herself as one against the world.
“If you won’t march in one of their regiments you
are always accused of escaping from life. Mathematics
isn’t that to me. It’s one of the ways of listening.
It’s one of the ways of being and living. One of the
ways. They don’t want to listen. They want to shout
and compel. But the world is growing tired of regi-
ments. They fail everywhere. The misery they want
to cure by force is the misery they have created by
force —and will create again. Suddenly men and women
will grow tired of marching in step and shouting
choruses. We shall listen when we are still. The world
is beginning to listen again. It is beginning to watch
again. In poetry the thing comes through words.
Music says it direct. Saints and lovers know it.”
Ferrers and Karen love one another at first sight,
but they subjugate their love to the work in hand,
refusing to let any personal considerations interfere.
This does not prevent Lady Helston, who is herself,
quite unavailmgly, attracted to Ferrers, from being
acutely jealous. She is the exact antithesis of Karen,
a woman at the mercy of her desires. She wanted
to be the sole inspiration of men’s work, yet was filled
with jealous hatred of it.
Out of jealousy of Karen and pique she per-
suades her husband to report unfavorably on the
experiments at St. Hilary to the Admiralty after the
failure, in one particular, of a test. The station is to
be shut up, and Ferrers is in despair. He tells Karen
that not only is his lifework ruined, but that they
must part for ever. He could not marry a woman
who had witnessed his failure. Karen, by a quibble,
pretending to discover a mathematical error that does
not exist, persuades the First Lord of the Admiralty
to reopen the station. The situation is saved and the
lovers reunited. Lady Helston is incidentally routed.
The end is weak, hinging as it does on a lie. The
final happiness is here as incongruous as it was in
The Fountain. The play has wit, the characters are
well-drawn and the action swift, but it would have
been more convincing had it not been harnessed to
a theory.
GiSbertian Trinidad.
According to Arthur Calder-Mar shall, in Glory
Dead (Michael Joseph), it takes two colored police-
men to direct traffic at intersections in Port of Spain,
Trinidad. They stand back to back, and from time
to time inevitably give contradictory signals. If an
accident occurs they pounce on the unfortunate
drivers, generally members of their own race, and
demand to know, “How this happen?”
The picture gives the quality of life generally in
Trinidad, its opera-bouffe absurdities arising out of
the tragic inability of a backward race to deal ade-
quately with the demands of a comparatively com-
plex environment. The situation is not helped by
rising shades of yellow each repudiating the one
darker than itself, without any justification in reason.
On top of that the white race, perhaps out of ines-
capable human imitativeness, has become tinctured
with Darktown habits of mind. Calder-Marshall
gives a description of the legislative building—heavy
stucco embellishments limewashed red and a super-
fluity of Corinthian columns made of plaster of Pans
and supporting nothing—and a picture of the Legisla-
ture in session that couldn’t be duplicated in any
country where the bulk of the population was not
of African origin.
Calder-Marshall has the gift of being able to
amuse and inform at the same time. The descriptive
part of his book is a series of living glimpses of
Port of Spain taken from dawn to dawn and rang-
ing from huddled figures in alleys whose only address
is the doorstep where they spend the night, to the
country club where a small circle of whites, familiar
with each other to the point of boredom, dance lan-
guidly in the tropic heat.
It is a picture of the ineffectual and pathetically
second-rate: buses whose rattling outdoes the sound
of their horns ; butchers who wrap up the flies along
with the meat; a black solicitor resorting to florid
oratory in defence of a “fair damsel” —as dark as
himself —who is charged with using bad language in
a public place ; a hatless cyclist shielding his head
during a shower with the letter he is on his way to
post; the shopping district where the shoppers “move
slowly past like a stream of treacle,” and are urged
by spruikers to the purchase of bargains that are
mainly British and American factory “throw-outs.”
The narrative part of Glory Dead deals with the
author’s experiences as a lecturer in trade-union
organisation. He went there following the Trinidad
riots, which, apparently, were an unpleasantness that
might have been avoided had the colored plantation
and oilfield workers had organisations which they
themselves trusted and through which they could nego-
tiate. The riots had arisen out of their inexperience
of unionism as much as out of their grievances.
Calder-Marshall, fairly well known in British Labor
circles and visiting Trinidad with very moderate aims
in view, found himself regarded with considerable
suspicion. He seems to have left the situation
healthier than he found it.
A One-day Novel.
In her new novel, In the Fine Summer Weather
(Chatto and Windus), Catherine Whitcomb casts her
net into a New Hampshire lake and draws up a mixed
collection of human beings. She dumps them on the
shore, puts a frame round them and allows them to
wander at will within it for 24 hours.
The characters are Simon Thrace, an author who
compensates himself for present neglect by the ex-
pectation of posthumous fame; Myra, his dissatis-
fied wife, who loves him, hates him, drinks too much
and aspires to widowhood ; Dick and Kitty, a rich
young couple who are so happy that they fear the
gods will notice it and be jealous; Clancy, their son,
a complete young ruffian at seven ; a dark and mys-
terious baroness, Natalie; Daphne, her daughter, an
{Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN- ADVERTISING” and in every act.
"THE SENIOR STORE’
0
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Aatum SALE
(!
Wm
m
m
-ytM.
' iv-
m
! irS
23%
m
m
s*sa
SiaS
m
mw%
m
m
I
rvx*?<:
s&m.
m
111
ill!
m
II
ill*®
ftlllfa
m
m
mWsws-
-
wma
Urn
'M
*@s» :
♦,»> **
m^kom
wmMkW'
m
mm
WM
mmm
Mmm,
m
m
if
mzm
/A
m.
m
m
asm
i
mm
\f
I
m
mt
m.
£a', m
'? 1
M
■«!
M
li
90/- RAGLANS. NOW AT
Lightweight all wool
Coats. Greys, Fawns,
Browns, etc. Neat Her-
ringbone or Overcheck
designs. Fully lined, and
89/6
rain-proofed.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each, 907-
SALE PRICE ; 89/6
70/- TOPCOATS AT
A splendid
range in all
wool Tweeds.
Newest grey
shades. 1939
63-
Double Breasted form fitting
styles. Tailored in our best
possible manner.
Regular Price, each 707-
SALE PRICE, each 637-
O Men’s Clothing, Mercery, Shoes —
Lower Ground Floor —George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in
N.S.IV. and seaports in the Common-
wealth.
USE OUR
D.P.S.
10/6 PYJAMAS AT
"Hordura" (Regd.)
Pyjamas for men
are all that could
be desired for per-
fect rest. Made by
9/6
Anthony Horderns' with a reliable
soft-finished flannelette. Small,
Medium and O.S.
Regular Price, pair 10/6
SALE PRICE, pair 9/6
7/6 UNDERWEAR
Natural wool and
cotton Underwear.
Medium weight
that will give sat-
isfactory wear. A
5'3
production of one of Australia's
leading manufacturers. Under-
shirts or Underpants. Sizes 34 to
44 inch chest or waist.
Regular Price, per garment, 7/6
SALE PRICE, per garment 5/3
I
1
22/6 CARDIGANS
Very smart men's
V necked Car-
digans knitted in
all ‘wool. Med-
ium weight . . .
17/6
and they're cosy for the cooler
days and nights ahead. Fancy
check or jacquard designs in
Blues, Grey, Brown. 36 to 42
inch chests. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, each '22/6
SALE PRICE 17/6
MEN'S TUNIC SHIRTS
USUALLY 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
Featuring attached collar,
truly wonderful sale value
Shirts. In neat striped effects
in Blues and Greys. Sizes 14
to 17 inch collars.
5' >
dfg
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
SALE PRICE, each 4/9
147/- ENGLISH TOPCOATS NOW AT
Best quality cloths tailored in our best manner on current English
styles. Single or Double Breasted. Herringbones, Overchecks in
Greys, Fawns, Brown, Blue-Greys, etc. Fittings for all types of
figures. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 1477-
SALE PRICE, each
135/-
135'
42/-. 37/6 HANDCRAFT SHOES NOW AT
We offer 260 pairs of "Tree" Brand super Handcraft
Men's Shoes, made from genuine imported Zug and
Zebu leathers, imported from Scotland. Brogues
with extra stout soles, whole golosh models on the
ace last with medium or extra stout soles. All have
32 6
stitched heels and extra wide welts. Full and half sizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices, pair 42/-, 37/6
SALE PRICE, pair 32/6
’Phone M 2401; Day or Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C G.P.O.


By One of the Two Sisters Who Wrote "All-About”
OLD Woman
BY M. DURACK
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
THE garden stretched up from the tangled palms
at the river’s edge to the top of the steep red
bank. There were rows of cabbages and cauli-
flowers looking a little sickly in the sun, a row
of withered lettuces and another of carrots whose
tops drooped dismally. Only the hardy chilli bushes
and the avenue of pawpaw trees lifted their heads
as bravely as before when it had been known as “the
best garden in the Territory.”
Daisy sat in the shade, shoulders hunched for-
ward, legs straight out in front of her like thin black
sticks. Her slim hands lay limply in her lap. The
gate of the garden had been left ajar, and as she sat
there two hens and a scraggy rooster pushed their
way through and scuttled forward with small noises
of excitement to root about among the cabbages.
Daisy watched them through half-closed lids, her
heavy lower lip drooping slightly towards her chin.
She picked up a piece of dried mud and threw it
languidly in the direction of the scratching fowls.
They went busily on scratching. Daisy relaxed again.
What did it matter? The vegetables would die soon
like all the “pretty flowers” in the homestead garden.
She and Biddy and Mabel would go round every day
with their watering tins, as they had always done, but
now it wouldn’t take them very long.
It was surprising how far one tin of water could
be made to spread if no one was looking. Old
Woman had always known when the ground was only
wet on top, and it had meant harsh words and short
rations and forfeit of holidays, but now no one
bothered to look. They said, “Go and water the
garden!” and when all the plants were dead at last
they would say, “You can’t grow anything in this
country; there’s something in the water”; or “The
soil’s no good,” or “The climate’s all wrong.”
But Old Woman had made things grow. Even
roses had bloomed in shaded nooks by the home-
stead. Others said, “The blacks are useless. You can’t
make them work. It’s hopeless to try.” But Old
Woman had made them work. Long before daylight
she had them out, filling their water tins from the
river and carrying them up the steep bank to the
garden—on steamy, hot mornings when the sweat
poured from their lean bodies, on mornings so cold
that they shivered uncontrollably in their thin dresses.
Old Woman had not let them wear their woollen
jumpers because when they were cold they worked
harder to get warm.
ENAISY had been watering the garden for Old
Woman ever since she could remember. At first
she had been given a small tin that held just as much
as she could carry, and as she grew bigger so the tin
grew bigger until she was deemed old enough to lift
two kerosene-tins of water, slung on a pole across
her shoulders. Sometimes it had looked as though
her thin black legs would snap under the weight of
it, but Daisy was strong —stronger thap she made out,
Old Woman had said ; and she was quick, too. She
could understand what was required of her more
readily than some of the older ones, for she had soon
grasped the fact that with Old Woman it paid you
to be quick, just as with others it paid to be stupid.
Old Woman didn’t laugh at you when you were
stupid and give the job to someone else. She made
you do it whether you were stupid or not.
Old Woman had seen in Daisy the promise of
the servant she had almost despaired of finding,
someone she could trust to leave in charge of the
house and garden when she went for a holiday. She
taught her to sew, to wash and iron, to wait at table
and to keep the house in order. She taught her to be
clean and tidy and obedient, and kept her away as
much as possible from the camp. Even after washing-
up at night she was forbidden to go near the camp,
where the nightly corroboree was in progress. She
must sleep in clean blankets of her own in the little
shed near the kitchen, close to Ranger’s kennel.
Ranger was Old Woman’s own dog. He had
been taught that anything with a black skin was his
natural enemy, though he must tolerate those that
moved about the house as long as they showed no
tendencies to disobedience. Daisy had the marks of
Ranger’s teeth in the calf of her leg from the time she
had been caught attempting to escape from her soli-
tary sleeping place and join her people. Ranger
watched all day out of the corner of his eye, like
Old Woman did. Nothing they did escaped Ranger
and Old Woman. Nothing Old Woman and Ranger
did escaped them.
Daisy was ten years old when she first came up
to sleep at the house. She hated the little shed. A
Chinaman cook had died there once, and it was
haunted after dark with ghosty yellow men and creep-
ing debbil-debbils. She would lie awake trembling
under her blankets, listening to the high-pitched sing-
ing and the tap-tap-tapping of the corroboree sticks
and the sound of feet stamping down'the red earth.
Sometimes they would sing a corroboree about
Old Woman and Ranger. It was done in the spirit
of bravado, but even though they knew Old Woman
did not understand the language they sang it more
softly than the other songs. Sometimes, too, they
would sing a song for Daisy. It was always the
same song, repeated over and over, using her native
name in case they might hear from the house:
Dalgerri is only a piccaninny. She is very small.
Some day she will he a woman and Jung alia will take
her to his own country.
Daisy had never seen Jungalla, but she knew
that she belonged to him, that he was her tribal hus-
band. She knew, too, that he was a wild man who
had never worked on a station or worn boots and
trousers, and that the policemen were after him
because he had killed a dingo-trapper who had
poisoned his hunting dogs.
Sometimes the station boys would come back
from a long walkabout and tell how they had met
Jungalla and how strong he was, and laugh because
the policemen could not catch him. And Daisy knew
that some day he would come for her and take her off
into the bush. Sometimes she wondered a little how
he would manage it, with Old Woman and Ranger
watching her all day and keeping their ears open
for any sound at night. At times when the bush
hunger gnawed at her she looked forward to the
coming of Jungalla as she might have done to the
walkabout that was denied her.
As time passed a feeling of uneasiness grew in
the camp. The old men murmured together and the
women whispered amongst themselves. They saw
that Daisy’s dress no longer hung straight from her
shoulders as she moved about her work: it jutted a
little now from two firm points that told of her
approaching maturity, and they were disturbed. Soon
Jungalla would come for her, and he would scorn
the old men for having failed in the duty of initiating
her, through the age-old secret ceremonies, into the
meaning of tribal womanhood. They wondered what
would happen when Jungalla came and found that
Old Woman kept her up at the house. They specu-
lated that he and his followers would come some
night after the full moon, when they could less easily
be seen. They said he would be wearing war paint
and feathers, and'would bring spears and perhaps a
gun.
BUT it was full moon when Jungalla chose to
collect his bride. He came into the camp, quite
alone, before Old Woman had silenced the corroboree


for the night. He was wearing a hair belt, no war
paint or feathers, and carried no weapons of any
kind. The firelight shone and flickered on his strong
Jimbs and picked out the great wheels of swollen
flesh that marked him a warrior. The camp dogs
stirred, but made no sound. The song stopped
abruptly. The dancers ceased stamping and every
corroboree stick was still, and Daisy, listening up at
the house, also knew that Jungalla had come, although
the pause was only momentary. In another instant
they were singing on as though nothing had happened,
because Old Woman always grew suspicious if the
corroboree stopped of its own accord.
Under cover of the women’s voices Jungalla sat
aside, talking to the old men.
“You will have to wait,” they told him. “Old
Woman keeps her up at the house, and there is a
dog that never sleeps.”
“Where does she camp?” Jungalla asked.
The old men pointed to the buildings, gleaming
white in the moonlight beyond the camp, indicating
the doorway of Daisy’s shed. “The dog has teeth,”
they said, “and Old Woman can shoot straight—even
in the dark.”
“I will wait until Old Woman is asleep,” Jun-
galla said. “I am not afraid of dogs. They are my
friends.”
The old men nodded, remembering that their
own dogs, contrary to custom when a stranger came
into the camp, had scarcely stirred on the approach
of Jungalla. It was a magic some men had with
animals, but Ranger was different, they said. One
of them showed the mark of Ranger’s teeth on his
thigh.
After midnight Jungalla made his way to the
house. The silent forms in the paper-bark humpies
at the camp lay rigid in their blankets. Some of the
women trembled. They waited breathlessly, strain-
ing their ears for the sound of Ranger’s fury. The
seconds passed into minutes. The dwindling embers
in the corroboree fire crumbled slowly into ashes,
but there was no sound from the house.
Morning came. The lubras slunk fearfully about
their work. They registered surprise at the disappear-
ance of Daisy, and kept as far out of range as pos-
sible from Old Woman’s cold fury. But they were
not as fearful of Ranger as they had been before.
He, too, was in disgrace . . .
[) AISY had been in the bush for a year, living the
meagre, fugitive existence of the outlaw natives
before the police patrol discovered her. Hitherto she
had been able to elude them with the others, but now
she was weak and could not travel so far with a
baby on her back. Jungalla told her the police would
find her if she stayed. It was better to kill the baby,
he said, and then she. would be free and able to
travel as fast as the rest of them.
Daisy had not wanted her baby at first, but she
wanted it now that they were threatening to take it
way from her. She did not even care very much if
the police found her and brought her back again. A
year of bush life had robbed her of any resistance
she might have had. The soles of her feet, unused
to walking long distances, had been burnt through
the outer callus to the tender flesh beneath. It
hurt her to walk even had she felt strong enough.
The station food had been meagre, but at least it
had been regular, while the outlaw’s mode of living
was to starve for a few days, and when the hunting
was good to have one tremendous feast of snake,
goanna or kangaroo—“bush tucker” to which she
was not accustomed. A year had dimmed her memory
of the life she had led beneath the watchful eyes of
Old' Woman and Ranger, and a strange feeling of
homesickness gripped her at the thought of the little
homestead on the river bank. Perhaps, she thought,
Old Woman would be a little pleased about the
baby. It was thin, but it was a good baby and didn’t
cry very much. They would like it in the camp, and
the old people would look after it while she worked
at the house.
When the policeman and the trackers came she
gave them her name without hesitation.
“So you’re Daisy!” the white man said. “We’ve
got orders from your missus to bring you home again,
but I guess she wasn’t reckoning on a brat as well!”
There were other natives with the party, being
brought in as witnesses to some further crime of Jun-
galla and his band. These went on foot between the
horses. They were all footsore and inclined to be
sullen. They had no idea why they were being
brought in, but imagined it was for some crime they
were deemed to have committed and speculated in
monotones as to what would become of them. One
of them had been arrested before, on a cattle-spearing
charge, and said they were going to prison. Daisy
was put to walk amongst them with the baby slung
on her back in a paper-bark coolamon.
When they had gone a few miles one of the
trackers came to the white man and said, “That lubra
gotta shore foot. I can’t make’m keep up longa
’nother mob! ”
The policeman looked back. He could see that
Daisy was sagging beneath her burden and seemed
likely, very soon, to drop by the wayside. “Better
i
give ’er your horse, Jacob,
he said. “You can lead it.”
Jacob was a good-
natured boy. He assented
cheerfully, lifted Daisy
into the saddle, took the reins and
walked quietly on ahead. It had
not occurred to him, however, to
adjust the stirrups to accommodate
her weary legs, so she rode on,
clinging to the pummel with both
hands, legs dangling helplessly be-
side the swinging irons. She had
never been on a horse before, and
her limbs grew stiff and her body
ached to the unaccustomed move-
ment. Her full breasts, rubbing
against the coarse hessian of her
only garment, were chafed and
sore. The baby grew hungry and
struggled and cried on her back,
but she could not feed it riding
along as she needed her hands to
support her.
It was four days before they reached the home-
stead, and when the little cavalcade drew up beside
the house something like joy stirred in the heart of
the young lubra. It was her home —her country. The
familiar jagged hills, cutting the skyline across the
river, were her hills, and they were her people in the
camp on the red soil flat.
A white woman came down the garden path
with a dog leaping and barking at her heels. Her
missus! Old Woman! Her impulse was to run for-
ward and throw herself at her feet with her baby,
but she hung back while the policeman approached
and told his story.
“We found the runaway at last,” he said. “She’s
been increasing the population—looks pretty miser-
able on it, too!”
Daisy came forward, half-shy, half-proud, smil-
ing under lowered lashes. She had gone away a
piccaninny and come back a woman with a “little
pfeller” of her own. She glanced up expectantly, but
there was no softening light in Old Woman’s cold
eyes. Daisy was suddenly conscious of the fjlthy rags
she wore, conscious that her hair was matted and
unkempt, that her face was dirty and her baby was
dirty, too. There was a little silence, and then Old
Woman’s voice cut in upon it like a knife, bringing
the burning tears from beneath Daisy’s lowered
lashes. Daisy was not a proud little mother any
more. She was just a delinquent conscious of her
degradation and her shame. She turned, head down,
and walked off across the flat towards the humpies
of her people. Old Woman’s voice followed her, but
though she had heard the words often enough she
did not understand very much of what was said. It
was all about people who talked of “uplifting the
aborigines” and how they should live in the Territory
for a while and learn just how worthless and cun-
ning and ungrateful their “black brothers” really
were.
YALD Woman did not attempt to keep Daisy up
v - > ' at the house any more. She said she had learnt
her lesson. It was worse than useless trying to lift
them out of the squalor of their surroundings ; be-
sides, it wasn’t safe, after what had happened, to
have a lubra about the place at night when the men
were away. It was no use trying to drum any morals
into them. They were just bad and that was an end
of it.
But Daisy was still permitted to work about the
house. She worked from before daylight until after
dark. There was a little respite after lunch while
Old Woman had her siesta, but even then she usually
thought out little jobs that kept her from the camp,
like mending or looking for grubs in the garden.
Daisy’s piccaninny was always fretful, always hungry
because she could only snatch a few minutes here
and there to steal off and feed it, and all the time in
the distance Old Woman’s voice, piercing and harsh,
would be calling her back again. Once she was
caught taking a little milk from one of the goats in
the yard. Old Woman threatened to send her and
her brat back to the bush again to fend for them-
selves, and Daisy did not dare steal milk any more.
She was frightened of the bush, frightened that
Jungalla would find her and take her back again to
the old outlaw life she had lived before her baby came.
It was not Jungalla himself she feared so much as
the wild country he roamed and the hunted, meagre
life he led. She did not dare go walkabout with
the others, unless it was .only a very short distance
from the house. Once or twice he came into the
camp at night to take her away, but she had escaped
and hidden in the pandanus by the river until dawn.
As long as she could remember her life had
consisted of one fear or another —fear of punishment,
fear of cold and hunger, fear of debbil-debbils that
had haunted her when she had slept alone in the
dark shed by the kitchen, but to the native mind no
fear was ever quite as great, quite as terrible as fear
of a strange country, of meeting strange tribes of
whom terrible tales had been told since piccaninny
days, the fear that lay in strange places where the
shapes of hills were unfamiliar to the eye, where
the gorges were deep and mysterious arid rivers
wound through unknown ways. Then, too, there
was always the fear of what would await her when
they found her at last and brought her back again.
So it was that the years passed, and Daisy and
her companions remained at the homestead, mute
slaves of their fear . . .
DUT now Old Woman was gone. She had told
L - J _ them she was not coming back any more. They
had worn her out with their laziness and their cun-
ning and their ingratitude.
Old Woman was gone. Her “pretty flowers” and
her vegetables wilted in the sun, and the hens
scratched about among the cabbages. Idle little
groups sat around the camps all day. There wasn’t
enough work for them all, though Old Woman had
found plenty, heaven only knew! They sang and
corroboreed all night. No one told them when it
was time to stop and go to sleep, but somehow there
wasn’t the same zest about it as before, when it was
their one precious hour of pleasure in the day. Nobody
was afraid now and nobody worked very much. What
was the use of working? You got nothing extra if
you did and nothing happened to you if you didn’t.
Jungalla had been arrested at last, and that fear,
too, had been removed from Daisy’s life. The picca-
ninny was toddling and nobody minded how much
milk was taken from the goat yard. There was
nothing to worry about, nothing to fear any more, and
so Daisy sat with her worn hands idle in her lap
and her shoulders hunched forward like a tired old
woman. She felt like an old woman, too, though
she was still scarcely seventeen —like someone who
had come through years of toil and suffering and fear
to the monotonous quietude of age.
A dusty dog dug its way under the garden fence
and stretched itself out at her feet. It might have
been any camp dog but for the worn leather collar
about its neck. Daisy stretched out her hand and
fondled it lovingly. *
“Poor old Ranger,” she said. A tear welled up
under her lashes and splashed down her dusky cheek
into her lap. “Poor Old Woman!”


Mrs. Parsley "Speechless with Indignation ”
A REGULAR PUNCH-US PIRATE
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
ALL I can say is that, as Mr. Slompack says,
some people show an employable lack of
immorality,” said Mrs. Parsley. My landlady
was in a state she describes as “speechless
with indignation,” which means that she is more
talkative than ever.
“Deplorable lack of morality?” I suggested.
“Yes ; that’s what I said,” retorted Mrs. Parsley.
“And some of them who show it ought to know
better, like that Mr. Hurrah, whose conduct was
always impeekable, as he told me himself. It’s easy
enough for them single men. But let them face real
trouble and hardship. Let them get married! Not
too often, of course,” added Mrs. Parsley hastily.
“The man who has more than one wife deserves what
happens, and gets no symphony from me.”
My astonishment at this philosophical outburst
left me wide open to Mrs. Parsley’s attack ; and she
continued: “Always saying ‘I wash my hands of it,’
Mr. Hurrah was; a regular Punch-us Pirate. By
profession he is one of them artichokes, and when
he first came here he was always talking of self-
contained eunuchs and remuddling these flats till I
was sick and tired of him. When he found that I
didn’t want to be remuddled he washed his hands
of that too. But he wasn’t able to wash his hands
so easily of them Snazzlewit pearls.”
“The Snazzlewit pearls?” I queried.
‘ ‘ NT EVER shall I forget all the trouble there was
A about them," said Mrs. Parsley. “It began
the night Mrs. Trumpett came moving into the flats
calling out, ‘Mrs. Parsley! Mrs. Parsley! There’s a
man in your garbage tin!’
“The way it sounded was as if one of the women
had thrown her husband there, which I have no
doubt some of them wives would have liked to have
done ; but when I went down to the yard a lot of
people were there, and a couple of policemen who
had hold of a man they said they were going to
charge with being illegitimately on the premises with-
out an awful excuse. Which they did in the effluvia
of time.
“ ‘lt must be those Snazzlewit pearls,’ says Mr.
Slompack. ‘The man no doubt was sneaking into
the flats when he heard Mrs. Trumpett opening the
back gate. He hid himself in that big garbage tin
to escape reservation ; and if he hadn’t sneezed he
would have been all right.’
“ ‘But Mrs. Snazzlewit told me she had them
pearls kept in a safe depositor,’ I says. ‘She never
wears them.’
“ ‘l’m afraid you’ll find a lot of niftyarious
characters who don’t know that, or don’t believe it,
will try to get those pearls, Mrs. Parsley,’ said Mr.
Slompack.
“Truer words were never spoken in jest; and
if I had known what was to follow I think I would
have asked those Snazzlewits to leave, taking their
objects of bigotry and virtue, as Mr. Slompack called
them.
“Of course, everybody knew those Snazzlewit
pearls; they were as infamous as those pearls that
were thrown before the gadding swine in the Bible ;
and there was a lot of talk about them when Mr.
Snazzlewit went bankrupt. But Mr. Snazzlewit wasn’t
going to let his creditors touch a hair of the head,
as they say, of a present he’d given to his wife.
“At first, when I found that the Snazzlewits, who
had taken Number 4, was the same as were bank-
rupt, I was upset, especially when I saw in the paper
how he had told the officious asinine that he
hadn’t a penny in the world. But I must say that the
way he paid his rent showed he was a gentleman, if
ever they was one.
“ ‘lt takes all sorts to make a whirl,’ Mr. Slompack
says; which is very true, the all-sorts who have been
in these flats having often put my head in a whirl.
T can’t help liking these Snazzlewits, in spite of the
way he treated his credi-
tors. By the accounts they
certainly hit things up,
spending money like prob-
ables ; but he seems to
have made up his mind to
give his wife a good time,
and she’s just as contented
as he is now it’s over.’
“Which they must
have spent a lot of money,
all the talk of it there was
in the papers and the
nasty things that officious
asinine said about Mr.
Snazzlewit having given
slavish entertainments fit
for a king when he was
- bankrupt. The papers put
in photers of Mrs. Snazzle-
wit as she was at the Prince’s Ball, wearing the valu-
able pearl necklace which the officious asinine wanted
to get. It appeared that Mrs. Snazzlewit had had
her photer in the papers time after time before they
got into all that trouble and came to live in these flats.
“‘I don’t mind being poor, Mrs. Parsley,’ she
said. ‘Poor dear Sam has been very good to me. He
tried to give me everything, and if I had known he
was running himself in difficulties I would not have
allowed him to do it. And I would gladly sell my
pearls if it would help him. But he won’t let me.
Although it may seem silly to have such valuable jools
when we’re living in poverty.’
“And then she went away, all wrapt up in furs
that didn’t look much like poverty to me, to a bridge
party.
“But considering the way some wives went on
with their husbands when they lost their money she
was very nice; and only that I didn’t like them
niftyarious characters coming after them pearls, which
they seemed to do even though it was a wild goat’s
chase, as the saying is, I had nothing against them
as tenants.
“‘Some night,’ says Miss Portley, ‘we will all
be murdered in our beds by one of these thieves.’
“That was after the man had been caught in the
garbage tin, when another man was nearly caught
in fragrance de licker, as it is called, trying to break
into the Snazzlewits’ flat when they was still out
at a party, and only a little while after that there was
what Mr. Higgley told me.
il \ A R- HIGGLEY was a prodigy of Mr. Hurrah’s,
AVI w h o h a d introduced him to the flats because
Mr. Hurrah said he was vaccinated with Miss Lovejoy,
who Mr. Slompack called the Queen of She-bears,
which was some of that Hairy Percy’s flage he was
so fond of. Very up in the air was Miss Lovejoy
with most people, but she seemed rather to take to
Mr. Higgley when he came to stay in the flats, all
dressed up with gloves and a walking-stick and spats.
But I’m sure I couldn’t make heads or tails of that
young man, for he suddenly took notice of Miss
Portley, who laughed at him in his get-up ; a few
days later he’s dressed up like a reg’lar larrikin, taking
Miss Portley to Luna Park on all the razzle-dazzles
and the houplas and coming back with her eating
hamburgers. Miss Lovejoy swept past them with her
nose in the air; but directly he sees that he runs after
her.
“He couldn’t make up his mind, young Mr.
Higgley couldn’t. When he was with Miss Portley
he wanted Miss Lovejoy ; and when he was dressed
up to please Miss Lovejoy it was Miss Portley he
seemed to think most about. And soon those girls
were breathing fire and brimstone and treacle at one
another’s throats, Miss Portley making remarks about
women who tried to turn a man into a tailor’s dummy,
and Miss Lovejoy talking about girls who dragged
a man down to their own level. And there was Miss
Tryon, who shared the flat with Miss Portley, saying
Mr. Higgley was only a worm. It was very unpleasant
to have that going on.
“Mr. Hurrah, too, was annoyed. He said he felt
the model irresponsibility for having introduced Mr.
Higgley to Miss Lovejoy. It was then he said his own
conduct was impeekable ; and he wasn’t going to have
Mr. Higgley playing fast and loose with a young
woman’s affections. I thought he was going to say
that he would wash his hands of him, but he didn’t.
He said he would wipe the floor with him if he
didn’t behave decently to Miss Lovejoy after making
her believe he was serious.
“I couldn’t have that going on in my flats, and
so I told Mr. Higgley.
“ ‘Distension amongst my tenants is something I
will not permit, Mr. Higgley,’ I told him; ‘and you
seem to have become a regular bony distension.
Either you bring that to an end or I must ask you
for your flat,’ I says.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘I have made up my
mind to ask Miss Lovejoy to marry me. I worship
the very ground she talks upon. She is a woman who
would uplift a man. Because she suggested it, I am
getting my voice agricultured with Mr. Dewly-
Throttle.’
“Which Mr. Dewly-Throttle was a new tenant
who had just come to the flats. He said he was a
member of the Philammonia, and he intended to give
lessons in voice perdition. A great deal of noise Mr.
Dewly-Throttle made, singing ‘Ah-ah-ah-ah’ over
and over again, and songs in foreign languages.
“ ‘But, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Higgley, ‘there’s
something about Mr. Dewly-Throttle I think you
ought to know. When I went into his flat for my
lesson I noticed a lot of dust beside the sideboard.
It made me so curious that while he was in the
bedroom I had a look. Mrs. Parsley, he’s dug a lot
of bricks out of the wall! The hole is hidden behind
the sideboard!’
“You talk about a bolt from the bombshell!
Mr. Dewly-Throttle had taken the flat next to the
Snazzlewits ; it was as plain as one of them spike-
staffs that he was making that hole in the wall to
get through after those Snazzlewit pearls that wasn't
there. It wasn’t a minute before I was poundering
on his door demanding for him to let me see what
he was doing with my wall. Although he wouldn’t
let me in he must have known the game was up, for
when I went back with Detective Carmody Mr.
Dewly-Throttle was gone with all his belongings.
“The police took the fingerprints he had left
with his fingers on the furniture ; and later on they
brought back photers which was Mr. Dewly-Throttle
all right, but they said his real name was Blotsom
and he was only just out of gaol for robbery. The
police said he poised as a musician, which he really
was; that shows how far some people will go to
commit a wave of crime when they’ll even sing to
do it. The police said he’d probably done all that
singing to drown the noise he was making removing
them bricks. There’s complicity for you!
“OVERYBODY said that the Snazzlewits had had
A—' a very lucky escape ; quite a fuss was made over
Mr. Higgley for having seen that dust; and it didn’t
seem that rightly I could tell him to go after that,
even though he had gone back on Miss Lovejoy again
and back to Miss Portley, and Mr. Hurrah was
making them remarks once more about wiping the
floor with him.
“It was terrible, too, having all those niftyarious
characters coming after the pearls. like that, hiding
in garbage tins and jumping from windows and
digging holes in walls.
“It was a relief to me to hear from Mrs. Snazzle-
wit that they might get rid of those pearls, which of
course everybody was saying they was very foolish to
keep that money in mere joolry when it might be
investured, making money for them.
“ ‘You may not have any further occasion for
this worry, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mrs. Snazzlewit, ‘which
1 am very sorry you should have been caused. It
seems absurd to keep those valuable pearls now,
especially as I want to help dear old Sam, who’s
been a perfect dear to me. I’m going to sell those
pearls shortly and invest the money to be a benedic-
tion to us.’
“ ‘No, you’re not,’ says Mr. Snazzlewit, quite
warm.
“ ‘Oh, yes, I am. They’re my pearls, aren’t they?
And if I want to sell them I can. I think I may get
Mr. Hurrah to get his friend to devalue them for me.
“Although I am not one to debulge anything that
is told me in diffidence, it was surprising how that
news ran over the flats like wildflowers. Everybody
said Mrs. Snazzlewit was doing the right thing;
especially Mr. Wassail. Mrs. Wassail, who was
like that, had been wanting pearls ever since the
Snazzlewits had arrived.
“Never would I have permitted it if I had known
that those pearls was going to be brought into my
establishment, where they had already caused enough
trouble without being there. Like a thunderclap of
hands the dreadful thing happened. Them pearls
were on Mrs. Snazzlewit’s neck one minute, and the
next minute, as you might say, they were gone.
“Mrs. Snazzlewit had called me into her flat.
‘I thought you might like to see the famous pearls,
she says. ‘Of course. I’ve arranged for them to go
back to the safe depositor after this evening’s over.
“And there they were! Mrs. Snazzlewit was all
got up to go out to some special affair; and
so was he. But she had one of those diamond
ta-ra-ras on her hair; and there was them pear s
on her chest. They was lovely, I must say ; but they
made me quite sick in the stummick, thinking of what


might happen if any of those sort of people who
hide in garbage tins knew about this. 1 was quite
glad when I saw them go away in the taxi.
“And then they forgot about putting them jools
back in the safe depositor! It was too late, and they
had come home, thinking it wouldn’t matter to keep
those pearls for a single night. That was where they
made the mistake ; which mistakes will happen in
the best lubricated families.
“Never shall I forget the hulloobooloo there was
in the morning, like a regular pandermonia let loose,
when those pearls were found to be stolen. They
had hidden them under the mattress at the foot of
the bed ; and in the morning they were gone.
“Mrs. Snazzlewit was historical, and the police
had already arrived when I got upstairs ; and people
were in the corridors in their dressing-gowns whis-
perin’ together as if someone was dead.
“ ‘I wonder when Mrs. Snazzlewit expects to get
the insurance,’ said Mr. Slompack sinfully, as they
call it.
“But them pearls, it turned out, weren’t insured
at all; and, considering it was dead loss, them Snazzle-
wits took it very well, especially him, being cool as a
concubine. But it was dreadful. There were the
police asking questions of everybody. But nothing
did they find out. A window in the flat had been
forced open, but the police said the dust hadn’t been
disturbed on the sill and they didn’t believe that any-
one had come in that way; regular doubting
Thompsons they are about lots of things. Their
theorem was that somebody had got into the flat
while the Snazzlewits were out, and forced that
window to create a false scent, and whoever was the
thief had had a key.
“I asked them to search my flat, and most of the
tenants said they could search theirs; but it was
surprising what them police found out about things
happening and people wandering about these flats
at midnight. There was Mr. Andrews and Mr.
Hurrah and Mr. Wassail had all been seen about
at about three in the morning. That was why, when
I heard what they had explained, I told Mr. Andrews
and that woman in Number 21 I’d always had my
auspicions about to go next day. Mr. Hurrah said he
had been doing a bit of quiet defective work, thinking
the new tenant in Number 10 might be another
Dewly-Throttle ; and he was the first to ask the de-
tectives to search him and his room. Mr. Wassail
didn’t want to say what he had been doing at first,
but that was because he’d been upstairs drinking with
the Major, which Mrs. Wassail hated him doing that.
“So it all ended with everyone being auspicious
of everyone else, and nobody knowing what had
become of them pearls. Them detectives’d come
bouncing into the place at all times, unsuspected, as
if they wanted to spring a surprise ; and they’d ask
where So-and-so or somebody else was, and go up to
speak to them. But it didn’t seem to do any good.
Them missing pearls seemed to be likely to be one
of them undissolved myst’ries.
‘‘ C VERYBODY was so wound up that it was
*— almost like the relief that comes before the
storm when there was a disturbance in the place. It
was that Mr. Hurrah trying to wipe the floor with
Mr. Higgley. But it was over when I got to where
the tenants had gathered. To my surprise there was
that Miss Tryon there, going for Mr. Hurrah like a
tiger cat.
“ ‘You big bully,’ she says. ‘Using your strength
on a man who isn’t nearly your size!’
“ ‘lt’s been something that’s
been coming to him for a long
time,’ says Mr. Hurrah. ‘The
way he’s behaved is disgusting!’
“ ‘Cripes, I’ll have you on
any time,’ says that Mr. Higgley.
“ ‘Now, now! ’ I says firmly.
‘I won’t have this sort of thing
in my establishment. I’m sick
and tired of all this; and I’ll be
glad of your room at the end
of the week, Mr. Higgley.’
“ ‘But that isn’t fair! It
was Mr. Hurrah attacked him,’
says Miss Tryon.
“ ‘Mr. Higgley knows I said
he would have to go, long ago,’
I says.
“But I didn’t expect that |
Mr. Higgley would go next day. I
The first I knew of that was I
when I heard the sound of
voices going up the stairs; and
there was Detective Cassidy and
a couple of other plainclothes
policemen and Mr. Higgley.
“ ‘Did you know Mr. Higg-
ley was leaving you to-day, Mrs.
Parsley?’ asked Mr. Cassidy.
“ ‘No, I did. not,’ I says all
of a fluster.
“ ‘No ; I thought not,’ says
Mr. Cassidy. ‘Well, we caught
him going away, and we want
to have a look at his luggage.
To save him trouble we brought
him back to his flat.’
“‘I tell you Mr. Higgley
wouldn’t do anything dishonest!’
says Miss Tryon, which it sur-
prised me to see her there. But he
looked all white and scared like a
man under-sentenced to death.
“They hadn’t gone upstairs long before I decided
to take the bull by the horns of the delimit, as they
say, and go up, too. As the landlady, I had a right to
know what was going on in the establishment. On
the stairs I passed Scotty, the handyman, and he
was all excited.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘they’ve got the pearls! ’
“‘What!’ I cries.
“ ‘That ’lggley ’ad them,’ he says. ‘I ’eard about
it. They’ve got the Snazzlewits up there and they’re
arresting ’lggley.’
“Somehow I felt sorry ; he might be a fool, but
I never thought there was no harm in him. But
when they let me into the flat, which they didn’t until
Mr. Snazzlewit said it was all right, they wasn’t
arresting Mr. Higgley. They seemed annoyed with
Mr. Snazzlewit.
“ ‘You know, Mr. Snazzlewit, there’s such a
charge as obstructing the police,’ says Mr. Cassidy.
“‘I can’t help that,’ says Mr. Snazzlewit. ‘l’m
not going to let that young feller suffer wrongly. I
repeat, I gave him the pearls.’
“ ‘You mean to tell us you stole your own
pearls—or rather your wife’s —and simply gave them
away? Why?’
“ ‘My wife was going to have them valued,’ says
Mr. Snazzlewit.
“‘Well, what of that?’ demands Mr. Cassidy,
looking like a reg’lar Name-this, as they say.
“Mr. Snazzlewit looked at his wife, standing
beside him. ‘I didn’t want my wife to discover they
were valueless —worth possibly fifty pounds, as a very
good bit of imitation jewellery, instead of real pearls.
I wanted my wife to be happy, to have her name in
the papers if she liked it; but even when I was chuck-
ing round money to do that I didn’t feel like spend-
ing thousands just for some pearls. So’
“ ‘My dear old Sam!’ says Mrs. Snazzlewit. ‘And
you didn’t know that I guessed all the time? If I
hadn’t I’d have tried to sell the pearls long ago. Why,
you old darling, I knew you wanted to make me
happy, and I didn’t mind the trick at all.’
“‘I told you Eric wasn’t dishonest!’ says Miss
Tryon, triumphant-like, to Cassidy.
“ ‘What are you doing here, Miss Tryon?’ I says.
“ ‘l’m not Miss Tryon. I’m Mrs. Higgley,’ she
says. ‘We were married this morning. Somebody
had to marry the poor boy to stop other women mak-
ing a fool of him. And so’
“Well, talk about a whirl without end, that was
the way my head was when I got downstairs, es-
pecially when the people kept coming along to ask
what had happened, like the curiosity that killed the
cat in spite of its nine wives. Mr. Slompack laughed
when he heard it all.
“ ‘So that was it! ’he says. ‘Clever! Old Sam
Snazzlewit didn’t spend twenty thousand pounds of
the money that was short on those pearls, and the
rest of the money didn’t go in an organ of extrava-
gance. The papers boomed the extravagant doings
just as they did the pearls, without doubting they
were real; and even the officious asinine didn’t
auspect that that didn’t explain how the money went.’
“ ‘I can’t make head and tails of that,’ I says.
“ ‘There’s no occasion for you ever to be wor-
ried at the Snazzlewits’ rent,’ he says with a wink.
1 had spoken to him about that when they first came.
‘Well, I hope, for Mr. Snazzlewit’s sake, the officious
asinine doesn’t call for a fresh inquiry.’
“Which I may say didn’t happen.
‘ ‘ ISS LOVEJOY was in my flat when Mr.
Hurrah came, looking very upset and a bit
startled to see her there.
“ ‘Mr. Snazzlewit said that about the pearls?’ he
gasped incredibly. ‘Said they weren’t worth fifty
pounds?’
“He seemed to swallow hard when I told him
‘yes.’ .
“‘Oh, well,’ he says, careless-like, at last. ‘I did
my best for you, Higgley. Now I wash my hands of
the whole thing.’ That reg’lar Punch-us Pirate turned
to go.
“ ‘Oh, no, darling,’ says Miss Lovejoy, rising and
linking her arm in his. ‘Not of the whole thing. Not
of me. It was kind of you trying to get me married
off before I found out that your wife had got the
divorce you told me she would never try to get. No
wonder you dodged to prevent me seeing the papers.
The night the pearls were stolen you came to my
flat’
“ ‘Oh, hush! ’ he says.
“ ‘What does it matter?’ she says. ‘I am still fond
of you, Tom, in spite of your faults. I’ll marry you.’
“ ‘I told you that’s impossible,’ he says, angry,
and tries to get away. The struggle between them
took me all by surprise ; all I could say was ‘Stop
that now!’ Miss Lovejoy it was that broke away
and got behind the couch.
“ ‘Oh, you won’t marry me, hey?’ she says. ‘All
right! Mrs. Parsley, what do you think of these?’
“If I couldn’t believe my eyes there was them
Snazzlewit pearls! They was in a case she must
have grabbed from his pocket, which she had opened
to show me.
“I could only gasp.
“ ‘But Mr. Snazzlewit gave the pearls to Mr.
Higgley!’ I says.
“ ‘No, he didn’t! ’ says Miss Lovejoy. ‘They were
an imitation —Mr. Hurrah got them made. He got
me to get photers of Mrs. Snazzlewit wearing those
pearls, so that he could get them copied and —and
what he thought was pearls are imitations, too! ’ She
began to laugh.
“He had been standing like a codfish out of
water, but he was quiet all of a sudden.
“ ‘All right, Ruby, I’ll give in,’ he says.
“And would you believe it the next moment that
Queen of She-bears was in his arms sobbing and
saying that she’d only gone on like she had because
she loved him —which what some women will do to
a man when they love him is surprising, especially
to the men. And what is more surprising is what
some of them love the men for.
“Well, let lying dogs sleep is a very good
motter, so I didn’t say anything about all that. They
did get married ; that Queen of She-bears was some-
thing Mr. Hurrah couldn’t wash his hands of, but
all I can say is that what Mr. Slompack says about
some people having an employable lack of immorality
must be right!” Mrs. Parsley finished on a note of
indignation, and grabbed her carpet-sweeper.
“If I couldn’t believe my eyes there was them Snazzlewit pearls."


angelic child of five ; Hector Almond and his wife
Lisa, whose complicated marital happiness is almost
wrecked by their childlessness and Hector’s roving
ways.
1 hey balance one another with a neatness that
is not at first obvious. Simon and Myra are another
version of Hector and Lisa with the roles reversed—■
both men long for immortality, one in his child, the
other in his writings. Clancy and Daphne, the two
children, offset one another. The simplicity and hap-
piness of Dick and Kitty act as a foil to the com-
plexity and misery of the other two couples. Natalie
is just necessary as a stage property.
The characters are involved in a situation. Daphne
is Hector Almond’s illegitimate daughter. Lisa is
deeply attracted to the child at the first chance meet-
ing, and when she discovers her identity a new sym-
pathy for and understanding of her husband arises
in her. She is ready to move heaven and earth to
adopt the little girl.
The situation is resolved. Natalie, coming to
Dick’s house, where the Almonds are staying, for
the purpose of making a scene, finds that the party,
except Simon, has gone to the casino for the even-
ing. She decides to follow and Simon offers to drive
her. He is drunk and they have an accident. Both
are killed. Simon has removed the obstacle to his
fame and Natalie’s death makes it possible for
Hector and Lisa to adopt Daphne. The book ends
with the return of the revellers still ignorant of the
accident that has changed their lives.
This novel is agreeably written but rather long-
drawn-out. All the characters think about themselves
and discuss one another endlessly. They do it rather
well, but with the total effect of much about little.
Paperbacks and Everyman's.
With paperbacks everywhere and selling at 9d.—
6d. in England—Everyman’s begins to look almost
costly at 3s. (in Australia). Actually it is cheap ;
in its present neat binding it makes quite a tidy library
shelf, and even in the perhaps somewhat experimental
vols. lately being added the literary standard is kept
at least as high as recent writers have been able to
manage.
There are some good ones in the paperbacks—
they’re even doing a Shakspeare, though that’s freak-
ish of them —but the bulk of these publishings are as
ephemeral as the magazines they somewhat resemble
and largely replace. Booksellers declare that the
Penguins, Pelicans and the like are attracting entirely
new readers—people who never ventured into a book-
shop before. That might be so ; but it will be extra-
ordinary if they do not establish a cheap-books habit,
knocking the bottom out of any demand for a large
number of books which, for one reason and another
"their bulk, their illustrations, an author’s necessarily
long labor, or costs an author has been put to in
travel and the like —can’t be published cheaply.
The price of such books is somewhat conditioned
by the comparatively small demand, so they would
have to be dearer than ever, and many of them would
never get published at all. Authors of novels, when
the paperbacks make a serious attack on this part of
the book trade, will probably have less trouble get-
ting into print, and that, and the satisfaction of reach-
ing a vast public, may compensate them for the
royalties on sixpenny publishings, and having to sell
10,000 copies or so in order to buy a loaf or two of
bread. As for poets, they might as well learn rock-
carving, and give their work to the world by carving
it on the back of tombstones at dead of night. Still,
most novelists now reckon themselves lucky not to be
run in for ever daring to write a novel, and reviewers
appear to be the readers of poetry.
Even with the policy of including modem copy-
right works, begun in 1935, Everyman’s doesn’t enter
into the competition or figure in the publishing revolu-
tion the paperbacks are bringing about. Few of its
“moderns” may be likely to last, and no doubt many
of them will have to be weeded out and replaced in
time, but they include Conrad, Galsworthy, W. H.
Hudson, Aldous Huxley, Chesterton and Belloc,
which is a tidy party, as well as Priestley, Walpole,
Maugham, Coward and others all sufficiently good
to indicate the standard. Most of even these have
the patina of a decade or two on them, and have
evidently been selected —as well as this can be done
with contemporary work —with a corrective eye to
the great background that is the bulk of Everyman’s,
and a hopeful reliance on contemporary judgment.
The last inclusion to hand, incidentally, was an Aus-
tralian effort, and anything but modern, except for
the introduction by Dr. Mackaness —A Book of the
Bounty, which can safely be left to settle down per-
manently with the enduring stuff of which Every-
man’s is mostly made.
Right back at its beginnings the policy for Every-
man’s didn’t include —as the paperbacks now increas-
ingly do—hitherto unpublished works, or anything
like. The originally decided price was Is., which in
turn —considering the get-up of Everyman books —
makes the paperbacks look almost dear. It was
promised from the start that Everyman’s would in-
clude 1000 works ; with A Book of the Bounty the
total reached 950. In the meantime,, without seeing
his promise fulfilled, J. M. Dent had passed hence
and his son Hugh R. Dent also. That son, who had
been with the firm from the beginning, was still on
deck at the firm’s jubilee last October, and the story
of the firm, and that of Everyman’s as well, made up
the beautifully-printed book that helped to mark the
occasion. Titled The House of Dent, it included a re-
print of J. M. Dent’s Memoirs, with additional
chapters by Hugh R. Dent. Now the firm has issued,
revised and brought up to date, a new edition of The
Reader s Guide to Everyman’ s Library, the editor of
which—R. Farquharson Sharp, ex-Keeper of Books
at the British Museum —rounds off the story.
, in his Memoirs, J. M. Dent already
had the idea of publishing a library of a Thousand
Best Books, at “the democratic price” of Is., when
hrnest Rhys happened along with much the same
idea. Rhys, too, hit on the title Everyman’s, and,
with that stimulus, they faced up to the huge job of
preparing the first 50 vols. for simultaneous publica-
li°n- The first 50 were duly published en bloc in
February, 1906 ; in the first year 155 vols. were issued ;
and the very success proved highly embarrassing to
i” e Dent finances. J. M. Dent had counted on using
the money from the first issue to produce the second,
and so on ; instead, he had to invest it all in reprints,
which did not sell so rapidly, so that the money
became locked up. He had struggled up from meagre
beginnings ; had pinched and saved to put every pos-
sible sixpence into the firm he was establishing ; and
on that account he had determined in advance to
produce Everyman’s without borrowing. It was only
by virtue of extended credits that he was able to see
it through, but see it through he did, with Boswell’s
Johnson heading the list, and the best of what easily
• holds place as one of the greatest of all libraries, at
whatever price, completed at the time of his death
in 1926.
R. Farquharson Sharp’s Guide to Everyman’s is
really a guide to English literature. Even among the
outstanding modems Shaw and Joyce are about the
only names of real importance missing, many others,
of course, being in the list only through some of their
verses appearing in one or other of the anthologies.
That applies also to some of the earlier poets. For
the rest, Everyman’s includes, as near as is humanly
possible to have it, the very best ever written in the
language in every literary form.
If the Free Library idea in Australia ever gets
beyond the proposing stage, a couple of hundred
Everyman’s could not possibly be improved on for
providing a shelf or so of the greatest literature at
the least cost —a firm background to each established
library’s general reading. In any case, the prospective
librarians —or anyone else interested in literature, for
that matter —will find The Reader’s Guide to Every-
man’s Library one of the most engaging and instruc-
tive of reference books.
An Ethel Mannin Romance.
The hero, and he is obviously the hero, of Ethel
Mannin’s Darkness My Bride (Jarrolds ; per Robert-
son and Mullens) is Bob Harrison, son of an English
clergyman, who, rather than follow his father into
the pulpit, sets out to make his own way in the world.
He leaves school at 18 with no notion of what he
wants to do except that he has a strong aversion to
everything his father does ; he drifts from one job
to another, and ends up schoolmaster in a prep,
school.
On holidays in France he goes to the ballet,
steps on a lady’s dress and thus meets his future wife.
He becomes enslaved by her beauty, marries her and
finds she is a businesslike woman, considerably more
efficient than his own incompetent self. He decides
to run away.
He makes for Europe and meets on the Channel
boat the young scion of an English peer who is in
something the same pickle as himself. He has mar-
ried, his wife has fallen in love with another man
and he considers it is only cricket to stand out of
the way. He is a nice, friendly, affectionate person,
the opposite of Bob, who jeers at everything, and the
ill-assorted pair wander down to the Riviera together.
They see a French bullfight (Miss Mannin reports
these things excellently), get mixed up in a few fights
and then Bob takes to drink. His companion gets
sick of him and leaves him, and a Greek shipping tout
picks him up and gets him a passage in a British
tramp to Batoum. He gets ashore without a passport
and shelters with a Russo-Germanic household in
the Caucasian steppe.
He falls in love with one of the daughters of the
house who has been jilted by her lover in favor of
the Red Army and is furiously anti-Soviet. Her
brother, who has deserted from the Red Army, is
anxious to escape to Spain to fight against Franco.
Bob decides to do his bit by helping him to escape.
He dons his uniform and starts the military police
off on a false scent.
The book closes with him dying in the effort to
escape, but there is an epilogue in which he reappears
in the spirit and is reunited to his wife, all problems
having apparently been smoothed away by some mys-
terious and unexplained alchemy.
Miss Mannin writes well and has a more than
ordinary talent for making things live. But one feels
she has only done half a job of work. She has stated
the case of the son reacting against his father reason-
ably well. But she brings a promising statement to
a slovenly conclusion by flopping ingloriously into
romance.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . , .
The Sword of Islam : Rafael Sabatini (Hutchin-
son). Returns to the scene and time of The Sea Hawk
—the Mediterranean when Christianity and Islam were
in grapples—and incorporates a feud between two
patrician families of Genoa with the story of the his-
toric figure Dragut-Reis, a sea rover known as the
“Drawn Sword of Islam.”
Like Water Flowing: Margaret Mackay (Angus
and Robertson). China. The problem of the half-
caste girl of good parentage. Fails to grip—though
Pearl Buck guarantees its fidelity to fact.
Lover of the Great Bear: Sergiusz Piasetski
(Routledge ; Moore’s Bookshop). Love and smuggling
on the Russian-Pohsh frontier after the Revolution.
Nostalgic the author writes from gaol-and packed
with action, but Piasetski keeps right on after all pos-
sible variations on a simple theme have been
exhausted.
% en W rl\ at They Want • Chester Mordant
(Geoffrey files). The demure home-loving girl who
left her hard-boiled rivals gasping when she married
a peer. Lightly cynical.
General . . .
This World of Ours: Kurt Lubinski (Hodder
and Stoughton). World travel. Rather superficial —■
but the author is an A 1 photographer.
I Lost My Girlish Laughter: Jane Allen (Faber).
Hollywood rehashed from the viewpoint of a bright
lass in search of a career. Lightly amusing.
The Flowering Shrub Garden: Michael Haworth-
Booth (Country Life). To the Australian flower
gardener this is a book of far greater value than
most that come out of England, conditions being so
different that many of them have no practical use
at all. The most valuable part of this one is its treat-
ment of garden design and layout, effective mixed
groupings of shrubs and the like. Additionally, it is,
like most Country Life productions, a beautiful book,
illustrated with dozens of large-page photographs of
lovely shrubs in flower —not studio pieces, but pictures
of the shrubs in their garden settings.
“Minor Scribe”: Why doesn’t the authors and
artists’ section of the A.J.A. or the Fellowship of
Australian Writers get busy about the poor rates of
pay offered to local authors for plays, short stories
and so on by national and commercial radio stations?
The A.J.A. might consider serving a log of claims
on the radio stations as it does in the case of news-
paper proprietors. An agreement covering previously
published (or performed) matter recently signed
between the 8.8. C. and the Society of Authors, the
League of British Dramatists and the Publishers’
Assoc, provides a minimum payment of 25 guineas for
a single performance of a full-length play ; six guineas
for plays running over five, but not exceeding 15
minutes ; and four guineas for plays running under
five minutes ; one guinea for a poem not exceeding
12 lines ; two guineas for a poem over 12, but not
exceeding 50 lines, and a further one guinea for every
further 50 lines; from 10s. 6d. for stories under
200 words to £3 13s. 6d. for stories between 750 and
1000 words, with £1 11s. 6d. for every further 500
words or part thereof. All fees are for single per-
formances and do not apply to works specially written
for broadcasting, for which, I presume, the rates are
very much higher.
Various Verse
"Dosser.”
No mark for the hand-wringer,
No light for “Ah, so lonely,”
No flame for bannered anger,
No man, but knowledge only
Of sun-up, sundown, hunger
And a long withered glitter
• —Long way, long time, no matter
When butts are white in the gutter —
Out of the rain old Jack
Lies under the mad rock.
If then of its ill-will
Closer the rock folds
Around his bones until
Sun rises, seabird scolds,
But Jack entombed lies still,
There needs but to be said
Safe in your double bed
That rock is old and mad
And, quick or rotting, Jack
Is an old man mad as rock.
N.S.W.
Douglas Stewart.
Bittern.
Into the mists of my dreams there surges
The clamor of frogs, and their monklike dirges,
And the voice of bush-water among small stones
Crying in silvery monotones.
A thin wind ripples the coarse brown sedge
On the shadowy rim of the still marsh-edge;
The sun-bleached skirts of the wild grass shake
With a silken frou-frou; and so I wake!
I step from my couch, and a mopoke calls
Like a dark bell tolling from castle walls;
And I hear an answer come drifting down
From the rocky steep where grey she-oaks weep
And ebony blackwoods frown.
The cool mud oozes between my toes
As I wade where the brackish water flows;
And I quench my thirst, and I seek my meat
Where the faces of mirrored stars shine sweet.
Thus I sip and sup
Till the moon comes up
Like the yellow head of a buttercup;
And turns the shallows to saffron fire;
And gilds the thorns of the spiteful briar.
A ' wild black swan and his dusky bride
Wing over the water side by side;
And platypus paddle shorewards in glee
While the wake of their passing comes back to me.
Grey fieldmice creep to the pools to drink
Where long tree-shadows lie black as ink;
But I am alone, and with all my might
1 thunder my longing down the night:
The world stands breathless in sudden Iright.
Then, light as a crescent gumleaf falling,
She comes to the clamor of my calling-
Stepping daintily through roots twining,
The moon on her sleek throat softly shining,
She comes with a flirting of glossy wing j
And the glow of her eyes is a lovely thing.
In joy I woo her till dun dawn stains
The east and the buttercup moonlight wanes;
Then, proud as the black swan and his bride,
We enter the covert side by side; ' „
And the gleam of her eyes and her breasts soft sweep
Follow me into the mists of sleep.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


ITS
/
From out of the future comes “NEW LISTENING” .'. .
The result of fulfilled laboratory experimentation and vital
new features creating amazing all-round performance,
“NEW LISTENING” is brilliant beyond belief . . . breathes
new life into every programme.
Don’t take it for granted! Treat yourself to a new thrill—
experience “NEW LISTENING” at your nearest Philips
Radioplayer Retailer!
Model 1852
For Electric Mains.
(World-Wide.)
Price 25 GNS.
MOD EL 1840, Battery
Operated, is available in a
Cabinet of similar design.
Price 28 GNS.
m
* *
mm
mm.
p|l||lll
Hl m
m
i &Em
df
The
Symbol
of Quality!
Model 1941
“The Wonder Set of
To-day.”
For A.C. Operation.
Price 13 GNS.
MODEL 1949 is avail-
able Battery Operated
in a similar cabinet.
Price 19 GNS.
With “NEW LISTENING” also comes
amazing value! These are some of the
new Philips Radioplayers which incorporate the new Philips
design and construction, radical new features, and modern,
appealing cabinets. Pride is the privilege of a Radioplayer
owner . . . and satisfaction a certainty.
HEAR THEM IN YOUR OWN HOME!
See your nearest Philips Retailer, or write
or 9 phone your local Philips Office .
gdf
r(idl0k*i/cw
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS AND VALVES


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/fffblt melmimeJdxiridJmuquei/
There is more truth than poetry in the
expression—“The Tower is the history
of England.” The phrase altered thus,
“The Tower is the history of the British
race,” would be even more applicable.
This venerable pile is the most -famous
“exhibit” London has to show the visitor,
as it is the oldest structure within the
Metropolis. When the first foundations
were laid, and by whom, are themes on
which antiquarians are not united.
Tradition attributes the oldest part of the
Tower to Julius Caesar, who made it a
fortress, mint and treasury. Coins and
so forth have been discovered which
tend to confirm this tradition. Stow, the
noted sixteenth century antiquary, in his
Survey of London (1598) relates that he
found in “a fair register book of the
acts of the Bishops of Rochester, set
down by Edmund of Hadenham, that
William I., surnamed Conqueror, builded
the Tower of London, to wit the great
white and square tower there, about the
year of Christ 1078, appointing Gun-
dulph, then Bishop of Rochester, to be
principal surveyor and overseer of that
work.” In the days of Julius Caesar the
London Wall, which surrounded the
town, began at the Tower site. In suc-
cessive reigns it has been fortress,
museum, palace, prison, jewel-house,
armory, zoo and several other things. The
large square structure known as the
White Tower was the work the Bishop
of Rochester carried out for the Con-
queror, and repaired and strengthened
by Henry III. in 1240. This fortress,
to apply a less common appellation to
the Tower, has, within, the appearance
of a fair-sized town, there being ranges
of buildings, several streets, besides the
barracks’ the whole comprising within
the walls an extent of some 12 acres.
The ditch or moat which entirely sur-
rounded the land side is now used for
drill and other purposes. On the river
front is a pleasing promenade or wharf
connected with the Tower by a draw-
bridge, adjacent to which is a cut leading
from the moat to the river, secured by
a gate bearing the ominous title Traitor’s
Gate, as State prisoners were conveyed
by this passage to Westminster for trial.
The Tower was the chief residence of
the Sovereigns till after the accession of
Queen Elizabeth. The Tower precincts
are filled with much that rivets the atten-
tion of visitors. The room in which the
Crown Jewels are kept is, naturally,
greatly patronised. The historian makes
for the Spanish Armory, where repose
the trophies of the celebrated victory of
the Armada, together with a represen-
tation of Queen Elizabeth seen standing
by the side of her horse arrayed in the
same dress and armor she wore at Til-
bury when she made her memorable
The Tower of London and the Traitor’s Gate.
speech to the army there assembled. The Tower would be strange if the warders —Beefeaters —in their quaint costume were absent. The word
Beet eaters is derived from the French word “Boufeteirs,” “attendants” at the boufet. For long the Tower was the great State prison and here some
°t the most illustrious men and women of our race suffered and perished. During the Great War the Tower reverted to its prison character, and
only a tew years ago a military officer was confined there, the incident giving rise to much Parliamentary discussion. Tower Hill adjacent has
come down with tearful recollections of executions. No place in London can provide deeper and more solemn lessons to visitors The erim old
tortalice is something unique in the world to-day. ’ v '


THE BIRTHDAY CAKE.
“That’8 your share, Benito. You took it, you know.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WHAT’S THE DICTATORS' GAME?
This much is certain: they don’t, and won’t, play
their variety of power politics as ladies play ludo
or mah jongg. Into a very old game they have intro-
duced new rules, rules made entirely to suit themselves.
And they have very strong cards in their hands.
Behind these dictators are conscript nations which
trust them absolutely, regarding them as single-
minded patriots who have done much for their peoples
and will do more. They have gone in not only for
immense armaments, but for magnificent public
works, in the process giving employment to millions
who were idle and hopeless. And they have gained
position after position, the German partner especially,
without an open quarrel with the other players,
because in the arming of their devoted followers at
all points they have expended greater efforts and
shown a keener appreciation of the power of modern
weapons and of the value of time.
Of the strength of the dictator-countries in the
air, startling evidence is presented by Paul Johnston,
editor of “Aviation,” in an article contributed to the
“Saturday Evening Post” of February 18. A queer
camaraderie, from which reputable chroniclers are
not excluded, exists among air forces, and editors of
periodicals like “Aviation,” British as well as
American, are very well informed. As for the “Post,”
it is the soberest publication that comes to Australia
from the U.S.A.; one of the very few indeed that are
not under the suspicion of printing Left-Wing propa-
ganda disguised as impartial comment or news.
Mr. Johnston “made” his “first survey of Euro-
pean military aviation,” visiting England, France, Hol-
land and Germany, in the autumn of 1936. At the
beginning of last winter, “with the permission of
the Air Ministry,” he was shown over the Heinkel
works at Oranienburg. There he saw, concealed in a
pinewood, “one of the most remarkable manufacturing
plants I had ever seen.”
In view before us were 50-odd Heinkel twin-engined
bombers —as slick and efficient fighting machines as
any force that the world could put up Here in the
flesh was the bogey that had risen up to haunt Cham-
berlain six weeks before. Here was one clue, at least,
to the Peace of Munich.
“By the end of 1938,” after revisiting “the aero-
nautical industries” of Britain, France and Holland,
as well as Germany, and also having “a look at con-
ditions in Italy,” Mr. Johnston had arrived at these
conclusions:
England, in spite of the expenditure of two years’
effort and of huge sums of money, is still muddling
along, far behind in her aircraft production and pilot-
training programme. She was obviously caught far
off base by the September crisis. France, in the midst
of social difficulties and under extreme economic pres-
sure, has slipped from first to last place in the ranks
of the great air Powers of Europe. Actually Italy
seems better off, aviation-wise, than either England or
France.
But Germany stands head and shoulders above all
of them. Germany is the only country in the world
whose military aviation combines both quality and
quantity in proper proportions The German air
force probably has available between 10,000 and 11,000
military airplanes of all types—exclusive of purely
primary trainers.
All of which —and there is a lot more —makes the
Dominion reader profoundly thankful that Mr.
Chamberlain took charge of foreign affairs in Sep-
tember, and that neither Mr. Eden nor Mr. Churchill
nor yet Mr. Duff Cooper was in control.
But the Fiihrer broke one of his verbal undertak-
ings to the Prime Minister. He seized Bohemia and
Moravia, set up a “protectorate” in Slovakia and let
the Hungarians grab Ruthenia in violation of his
assurance that he would not interfere with the Czechs.
Does that mean that he despised British rearmament
too much to fear reprisals or other possible conse-
quences of the outraging of British (and American)
public opinion? Not necessarily.
As was here suggested at the time, it may mean
that he discovered, during the six months, that British
and French rearmament, backed by superior money
power, was making such giant strides that he was in
danger of losing the race unless he took the Czecho-
slovak plants—among them the Skoda works—that
were his for the taking. He had to consider Russian
armament, too ; and it is significant that he brought
off his coup while the Communists were in conference
in Moscow and boasting that the Mighty Soviet War
Machine was mightier than ever. Then the Hun-
garians, whose relations with the Poles are perhaps
too friendly for his liking, may, to some extent, have
forced his hand.
Does it follow, in any case, that he intends to
make war on France and Britain? By no means. He
knows by his own experiences on the Western Front
that France, now protected by its Maginot Line, would
be a very tough nut to crack. Britain, with its great
superiority in sea-power, conceded in the Anglo-
German Naval Agreement, and its old European
reputation for winning “one battle, the last,” would
be tougher still. And if Britain were in danger of
losing, the U.S.A., as Hitler must realise, would come
into the war for its own protection. In 1939, as in
1917, it could not reconcile itself to the position of
being the last threatened fortress of democracy. There
is no need for “entangling alliances” to reinforce this
conclusion, nor is there any need for an alliance with
Russia, which would divide the Empire. Russia must
fight, if attacked, to hold what it has and to justify
its vast pretensions. Concert with Russia was diffi-
cult in 1914-1916 ; it would be impossible in the event
of another war with Germany. In any case, it would
be unnecessary.
It is conceivable that the Germans give more
thought to being attacked by the Western democracies
than to attacking them. All along they have taken
seriously the Winston Churchill plan for arraying 10
Powers against them and the Eden campaign for
patching up collective security and the objurgations
of Mr. Duff Cooper, whose latest was “thrice-
perjured traitor.” Hitler never lets them forget the
exertions of these gentlemen. He is now in a posi-
tion to say, apropos of the pledge to Poland and of
the corresponding offers to Greece and Rumania,
“What did I tell you?”
Indeed, the anti-Nazi campaign of the Ginger
Group, the Labor and Liberal parties and many
British, American and Dominion newspapers and
magazines, marked as it has been by hysteria and, in the
case of flapper- and gutter-papers and radio stations,
by attacks on his private life, has played into Hitler’s
hands all along. So far from weakening the allegiance
of his people, it has strengthened it. This has been
the case also with the corresponding campaign
directed against Mussolini. At the beginning of
“sanctions” Mr. Herbert Morrison, the British Labor
leader, invited the Italians to rise up against their
oppressor ; and the fatuous notion that foreign nations
whose forms of government we dislike will dutifully
respond to this sort of argument —as often as not
expressed in grossly abusive terms—is still cherished.
Mussolini has made himself master of Albania.
Why? He must have known, as Hitler knew last
month, that this action would incense and alarm the
British and infuriate the Americans. He has been
cultivating the good opinion of Moslems in North
Africa and Arabia ; he must have known that the
virtual annexation of n three-fourths-Moslem king-
dom, feebly resisted as it was, would cost him all
he has gained in those quarters by propaganda and
intrigue. There is oil in Albania, but not enough, nor
of sufficiently good quality, to warrant the forcible
occupation of the country at the cost of British,
American and Moslem goodwill.
At first glance it seemed that the main object of
the Albanian adventure was to coerce Yugoslavia and
Greece into refusing to join a Balkans alliance against
the Axis. As things have fallen out, Italy’s relations
with Yugoslavia do not seem to have been impaired,
and it stole a march on Britain by guaranteeing the
independence of Greece, a mark of favor or friend-
ship or something which drew an effusive telegram
from the Greek dictator, Metaxas.
No doubt pride urged the man on; pride and
fear. Italy had been overshadowed by Germany ; it
was losing trade in the Balkans and losing “face” ; it
saw Hitler blocking its proteges the Hungarians in
Slovakia and restraining them from pitching into
Rumania; saw him present his “comprehensive trade
agreement” to or force it on Rumania, which used to
be in the Italian orbit. It was time for Italy to assert
itself, to regain its prestige in the Balkans, to show
Hitler and everybody that if the role assigned to it
was that of Germany’s meek and inert associate Italy
would not accept it; and for such a demonstration
Albania was the nearest and easiest theatre. It is all
conjecture, of course, but then so much of the stuff
that comes over the cables and through the ether is
conjectural.
Does Mussolini mean to go to war with' France
and Britain as Hitler’s junior partner? It is altogether
unlikely. To do so would mean the acceptance of
frightful losses in men and material and the com-
plete disappearance for an indefinite period of the
tourist trade on which Italy so largely depends, with
probably the destruction of many of the new monu-
ments and public works. Along with the huge expen-
diture on the army, the navy and the air force, and
the campaigns in Abyssinia and Spain, these enter-
prises have strained the resources of a country that,
judged by British and American standards, is very
poor, and very vulnerable withal.
The dictators have made it brutally plain that
their policy is to grab what they can without war.
But war with Britain and France would bring great
calamities on their peoples even if it were successful,
and, if unsuccessful, it would mean the end of them-
selves and their systems and that very Bolshevisation,
with its attendant horrors, from which, they protest,
they saved their countries, and which constitutes their
strongest claim to the gratitude of the middle-aged and
old. But fear and the prospect of getting compen-
sation to the east and of enlisting the active support
of Japan and Spain and the moral support of other
anti-Communist countries might make them fight if
Britain accepted Russia as an ally, as France has
done. Then they might say, as did the ex-Kaiser:
“The sword is being forced into our hands.”
Mr. Chamberlain was urged by the Liberal and
Labor parties, which are mad on a Russian alliance,
by the Ginger Group —Mr. Churchill, for once, ex-
cepted —and by those French journalists who imagine
that the sole object of British policy should be to
prop the decaying grandeur of France, to denounce
the Anglo-Italian Agreement. This, while “frankly
confessing the deepest disappointment at the
Italian Government’s action, which has cast a shadow
over the genuineness of its assurances,” he has refused
to do —mindful, no doubt, of the interests of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, which his candid friends and
open opponents never consider. But the pledge to
Poland has been followed by guarantees to Greece
and Rumania, expressed in almost identical terms.
His Majesty’s Government has come to the con-
clusion that in the event of action being taken which
clearly _ threatened the independence of Greece and
Rumania, and which the Greek or Rumanian Govern-
ment considered it vital to resist with all its forces,
his Majesty’s Government would feel itself bound at
once to lend the Greek or Rumanian Government all
the support in its power.
It is an extension of a policy which has so far
been useless, and is obviously dangerous. -In the case
of Greece and Rumania, it may not be so dangerous
as it looks, for these countries could not effectually
resist an Axis invasion and probably wouldn’t try.
Dominion doubts of the new policy have been
pointedly expressed by Mr. Hertzog, who questioned
the accuracy of a statement attributed to Mr. Cham-
berlain that “the whole Empire has approved of the
British guarantee to Poland.” He added significantly
that “the Dominions have been informed of Euro-
pean developments, but have not been asked to
approve of any step taken by Britain.”
The position is similar to that of the Locarno era
—the Dominions are not bound by Britain’s European
commitments.
This is, no doubt, the Constitutional position, bu;
Australia and Maoriland could not and would not
try to contract out of a British war, though they
would hate to be in one.
Last week the papers were full of alarming reports
and the situation became distinctly unpleasant. But
there was one very reassuring sign: the arrangement
whereby the King and Queen are to leave for North
America in May remained unaltered. And at the
week-end President Roosevelt, taking a bold initiative,
was asking the dictators for assurances that they
would not attack independent States in Europe, North
Africa or Asia Minor, undertaking, for his part, to
solicit reciprocal guarantees and give his blessing to
“political discussions” considered “necessary or desir-
able,” and to “participate in discussions” aimed at
“opening up avenues of international trade, so that
every nation may be enabled to buy and sell on equal
terms in the world market,” and at reduction of
armaments.
Pages from a Dirty Past.
In the bookshops a big tome can be bought from
what are called the “remainder” shelves, marked
down from 12s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.; brand spanking new
in a red-white-and-blue dust-jacket, with a recom-
mendation by the late Prime Minister of the Com-
monwealth that “no person, after reading this book,
could fail to do everything in his power to further
the cause of world peace.” It would be good to feel
that other statesmen had read it, too, though the per-
formance of some makes this seem doubtful.
It bears a somewhat unseasonable —perhaps just
now even an unpopular—title, Vain Glory. Its
many authors all had a close personal view of the
last stampede into the shambles—some of them lost
their lives in the slaughter; one at least was executed
by a squad of his fellow-Tommies ; others either them-
selves shot or witnessed other officers shooting men
under their own command, “to steady the troops” ;
others describe, sparing no detail, men living more
revoltingly than beasts ever lived and dying the foul-
est of deaths.
Major-General A. C. Temperley submits that it
“should bring home to those in a position to influ-
ence public opinion the awful responsibility of appeal-
ing to the sword.” He speaks of the “wasted lives,”
and asserts that “the glamor of war has departed
and we can see more clearly its hideousness and
brutality.” Can “we”? At this present moment it
might very well be doubted. He also credits the
book with containing “all that can be said of the
futility and the horror of war”—an overstatement;
it does not take in the military hospitals, where, for
these 20-odd post-war years, men with lungs destroyed
by gas and with recurrent and incurable wounds have
found the vainglory to be a tragic nightmare drawn
out through all their days.
One of the writers, R. H. Mottram, was struck
by the fact that “all countries engaged in the war had
periods of widespread mutiny.” He wrote that this
“should be noticed and recorded, not hushed up.”
The French had two serious mutinies ; one went
within an ace of leaving the Germans victorious and
was stopped only by wholesale executions. It needs
to be kept in mind that in none of these instances
were the men cowards, deep thinkers or conscientious
objectors; they were front-line fighting troops re-
belling against rottenness and futility. With the
Germans it was a continuous filtering-through of
individuals or small parties who had concluded that
they would be better off as British prisoners than as
combatants. In Italy it was a “continuous corruption
and lassitude,” which made the troops in the line of
less and less value. In Russia it was the mutiny of
the fighting men against fighting any longer.
The British also had their mutiny—at Etapes
(France); a large and fairly harmless mob wandering
through the near-by towns and over the countryside
completely out of control. Shortly after, wrote R. H.
Mottram,
the miserable failure of an offensive was brought to
a close. But the effect was permanent. # From this
time there developed a new spirit of taking care of
one’s self among the men, which ended, in late 1918,
in few rifles being fired, and would, in a few more
weeks, have meant the cessation of the war, by the
front line not refusing but quietly omitting to do duty.
The Armistice came just in time.
All the men involved in these revolts against war had
been well and truly through the hoop —not war as


canvassed by a great many evident enthusiasts in
newspaper columns, but the real thing, such as the
Battle of Arras:
The attack opened on April 9 and closed on May 5
without having achieved its objective. British casual-
ties numbered 132,000.
Or the Battle of the Somme, on the opening day
alone of which—July 1, 1916—the British casualties
numbered 57,470, including 993 officers and 18,247
other ranks killed or died of wounds. On one day!
Of the French effort at Verdun one of their officers
set down for the future guidance of war enthusiasts:
Had I the right to prolong resistance beyond human
strength and to compromise uselessly the life of these
brave men who had done their duty so heroically? I
took a turn in the corridor. What I saw was frighten-
ing. Men were overcome with vomiting due to urine
in the stomach, for so wretched _ were they that they
had reached the point of drinking their own urine.
Some lost consciousness. In the main gallery, a man
was licking a little wet streak on the wall.
That is nothing extraordinary compared with scores
of passages—many of them worse —that could be
quoted from this repository of actual experience.
Some passages have the marks of humor, until the
reader looks past them to the men’s feelings and the
conditions they represent:
Sgt. Dawson went out into No-man’s Land to have
a look at the wire. He got some way when he became
hopelessly bogged and unable to move. He was found
by a party of five Boches who proceeded to pull him
out. They informed him that they were his prisoners
and demanded to be taken across to our trenches.
Sgt. Dawson had hopelessly lost his way and said so,
but they said it was quite all right as they knew the
way, and conducted him back to our advanced Bn.
Hqs. On the way back they picked up another of our
men, also bogged, and took him along with them.
A Quaker found himself in an English guardroom
with Tommies who had been through the hoop.
“What are you here for, mate?” one asked.
I thought it best to be as simple as possible, so I
said: “Well, you see, I am a Quaker, and I refused
to join the army, because I think that war is murder.”
The man took a step backwards. A terrible light,
came into his eyes. He raised his arm, which had a
wound stripe on it. I thought he was going to spring
at me.
“Murder?” he said. “Murder? It’s bloody murder! ”
In their sum total these documents represent war
as well as that can be accomplished by words. The
Quaker is merely a contrasting intrusion ; the rest
were fighting men, nearly all of whom —and there
are a lot of them —had been up to their necks in the
shambles. They include V.Cs. Even though it be too
late now for them to do any good, they provide a
corrective to the noisy fools who are apparently ready
to face up to anything —except war’s grim realities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Picking a P.M.
The question of a successor to Mr. Lyons was raised
before his death. Mr. Marr, M.H.R., attending a
U.A.P. electorate conference in Croydon, represented
by Premier Stevens, made these remarks :
As Mr. Stevens has. been a great leader for the
State, so I hope that some day w© may have him as
a great leader in the Federal arena. While we have
a great leader in Mr. Lyons, a man cannot go on for
ever.
The “U.A.P. Review” gave prominence to this
eulogy, and also to a Stevens speech, delivered to
U.A.P. Youth, which sounded as if Mr. Stevens had
already been sworn in. But offers of safe seats for
Mr. Stevens were not forthcoming, though Victorian,
as well as N.S.W., members were sounded.
So out of the field went Mr. Stevens, leaving,
among resident U.A.P. possibilities, Mr. Menzies, Mr.
Hughes and Mr. Casey.
Mr. Casey’s chances were slim from the beginning.
Mr. Hughes found party-room support last week ; but
Australia had enough of Mr. Hughes as Prime
Minister 16 years ago, when he was 58. He was
Nationalist then, and he is U.A.P. now ; in the mean-
time he helped to turn out a Nationalist-C.P. Govern-
ment.
Mr. Menzies looked to have stronger backing.
Mr. Menzies announced when he retired from the
Lyons Ministry that he had “repeatedly been at vari-
ance with the majority of the Cabinet on important
matters and, in particular, upon major aspects of the
defence proposals” ; but then great numbers of people
were at variance with his late colleagues on major
issues, and members know it.
The “last but weighty straw” which caused the
resignation of Mr. Menzies was the determination of
the Government, suddenly expressed, to repeal the
national insurance provisions relating to old age,
widows’ and orphans’ pensions, and to “substitute for
the remainder of the Act a new medical scheme to
be worked out.” Unless he could convert his late
colleagues and their parties to his way of thinking,
Mr. Menzies as Prime Minister would be haunted by
his own assertion that he “stands by national insur-
ance” and that “a defeat in defending it would be
an honorable one.”
Some of his supporters think Mr. Menzies might
“accept a compromise consistent with the stand he
took,” and mention the appointment of a select com-
mittee. But here again Mr. Menzies is faced with his
own words:
Frankly, I do not think that we could expect to be
taken seriously if we started off again with conferences
and committees at a time when we have so notoriously
failed to go on with an Act which represents two years
of labor, a vast amount of organisation and con-
siderable expenditure of public and private funds.
Moreover, he pronounced the Insurance Act “a most
prominent part of the programme which I advocated
to my electors,” and the Government’s “greatest
achievement.”
Embarrassing, very. All the same, Mr. Menzies
was favorite when starters were going to the post at
Canberra. Then it was mentioned, on the strength of
a cable to the effect that Mr. Bruce would return if
it were considered “imperative,” that the High Com-
missioner might be in the field; and postponement of
the race was suggested. Nobody mentioned Mr.
Cameron, it being taken for granted that the runners
would be confined to U.A.P. men. Mr. Cameron’s
time will come.
Bigger and Better.
After a return trip to Canberra, Mr. C. L. A. Abbott,
who was transferred from an unsafe seat in that city
to a snug position in Darwin as Administrator, set
out on a three months’ holiday jaunt to London.
He paused long enough in Townsville to be inter-
viewed.
Mr. Abbott remarked that, since the Abbott
regime was conferred on it, the Territory had “ceased
to be regarded as a land of desolation, strikes and
despair.” Production this year would exceed
£1,000,000. That very day the Director of Naval Vic-
tualling was explaining that the authorities proposed to
send up from the south quantities of food “sufficient
to keep everyone in Darwin alive in time of war.”
Mr. Abbott next said that, as a result of his
visit to Canberra, it had been found possible to
transact official business that would have had to
remain in abeyance for three months had it been
necessary for contacts to be established by mail. As
air mails are delivered in Canberra within 24 hours
after leaving Darwin and vice versa, it is evident that
the Administration has not discovered this mode of
communication. Perhaps it still uses camels.
Referring to the naval oil tanks at Darwin, Mr.,
Abbott explained that they were tucked away behind
a hill and “could not possibly” be hit by a shell from
outside. The fact is that foreign navies have guns
capable of dropping shells behind hills from 25 miles
away. Mr. Abbott doesn’t set his naval standards
high. The Townsville paper reports that he inspected
the patrol boat Kuru, which has been in Townsville
Harbor since September, and was “well pleased with
her appearance.” He attributed the trouble which the
vessel had had since her launching last year to “what
naval men term ‘Joss’ —Joss being the Chinese god
of bad luck.”
Joss seems to spend a lot of his time in Mr.
Abbott’s principality.
Sequel to the Bushfires.
“Nakhqda”: In a highly emotional speech delivered
from a heap of cinders in a bushfire area, Victoria’s ,
Premier Dunstan said that nothing would be allowed
to stand between the Government and its determina-
tion to restore settlers to their burnt-out holdings.
But hell is paved with the good intentions of poli-
ticians like Mr. Dunstan.
At Woods Point, one of the towns that suffered
most, there has occurred a situation which parallels
one in an American film which, when I saw it, I
thought a typical example of plot-absurdity. Indig-
nant settlers burn down the village land office. This
automatically wipes out the claims of land-jumpers.
The natural question is, why wouldn’t the deeds have
been registered elsewhere?
Only four houses have been rebuilt at Woods
Point. A hundred and fifty people are still living in
tents, and others have got sick of waiting and gone
elsewhere. Reason is that in the majority of cases no-
body knows who owns the land and the burnt-out prop-
erties, deeds having all gone west in the Black Friday
conflagration. Registration of transfer of ownership
with the Titles Office had not been effected, and when
official maps arrived at Woods Point they were found
still to bear the names of owners long dead or de-
parted. A search is being made for relatives, but it
will take a long time.
At Noojee one bushfire-relief house has been built
and five have been started. There are 250 tent-
dwellers and 50 tents in which to accommodate them.
The trouble at Noojee is shortage of timber, the two
local mills being incapable of meeting the demand,
while the cost of importing timber is allegedly pro*
hibitive. The Forests Commission is trying to build
a road to fresh forests, but will take 12 months to
complete it. Residents are clearing out.
Warrandyte is one of the few towns without the
same melancholy record. Of the 161 houses that were
destroyed in this resort of artists and tourists, over
40 have been rebuilt, some on a much-improved scale
—only six families are tentodytes, and all except a
dozen burnt-out families have remained in the dis-
trict. Some of the rebuilding has been done with
public funds, some is due to the stimulus of artists
and some to disinterested voluntary assistance from
the city. As a specimen, 60 employees of McKay’s
at Sunshine have been putting in their week-ends
building houses for the most necessitous. But War-
randyte happens to be only 16 miles from Melbourne.
As was pointed out in The Bulletin months
ago, by handing over the business to committees
without appointing a central authority with a resolute
individual to boss it, the Government was heading
for precisely the mess that occurred after the 1926
disaster, when the winter found the Government of
that day still muddling along. Some of the commit-
tees are so enmeshed in red-tape that their heads are
as difficult to interview as Oriental potentates.
It's a Free Country.
In all the cities and most of the towns salesmen are
to be seen offering the Communist party’s official
organ, the “Workers’ Weekly.” The “W.W.” is
preaching that the European stage is “set for terrible
events.” It believes that “without the assistance of
the Soviet Union the peoples of the Empire and
France are doomed to a dreadful war, a fearful on-
slaught by the Axis triangle.” The paper thinks a
“peace-preserving pact with the mighty Soviet Union”
would be a main guarantee to the world that Britain
had made an end of appeasement.
On the same page is reported a meeting to con-
sider “civilian defence” which will be held in May
at Wollongong (N.S.W.). The Illawarra Labor Coun-
cil is not satisfied with the Government’s defence
policy, wants 16in. guns for Port Kembla and advo-
cates that the unemployed be put on building bomb-
proof shelters in N. S. Wales coastal towns.
Meanwhile, Mr. J. B. Miles, the Australian head
of the Communist party, has been in Westralia. He is
preaching that the compulsory register is a means by
which the Government “will know all the scabs in
Australia” and urging the Labor party to oppose the
register as being a “preparatory conscription measure.”
He says “we cannot defeat military-fascist methods
from abroad by adopting military-fascist methods at
home.”
Australia, of course, is a country in which Com-
munists can say things for which the backs of their
heads would be blown out by Stalin’s executioners if
they said them about the U.S.S.R. in Moscow. Mr.
Miles even feels safe in saying this:
Join the militia if you want to, and learn to use
arms, but take the politics I have been giving you in
with you and give them to the people in the militia.
What politics must Communist followers take
into the militia? Those which say that Britain and
U.S.S.R. must form a peace bloc ? Those which say
limited compulsory service to defend Australia and
democracy (in conjunction with Russia) would be a
“military-fascist” measure? Or those which affirm
that the out-and-out and ruthless conscription system
of the U.S.S.R. to support the ideals which that
country is supposed just now to hold in common
with Britain is not a “military-fascist” measure?
Mr. Miles and his friends will need to exhaust
all their right of free speech to make their divergent
stands regarding Australian compulsory training and
that of the U.S.S.R. sound even sane, much less
logical.
"The Minority of One."
“Ek D.” dips into history:
Ancient Englishmen, sitting at the few club windows
which remain in St. James’s-street and Piccadilly, must have
rubbed their hands as they read the report of the speech
delivered on the Ark Royal by Earl Stanhope (B. 12/4/’39),
and realised that there was once more in England a Stanhope
in “a minority of one” tradition. For more than 200 years
there were Stanhopes of that sort.
They held three peerages—Chesterfield, Stanhope and
Harrington. A Chesterfield made his mark in the days of
Johnson. Later generations found a haven in Maoriland. A
daughter of the main Chesterfield line was living recently in
King’s Cross, Sydney, the wife of a naval officer.
Harrington Stanhopes were an eccentric crew, after they
received into the family a female descendant of Charles 11.
and Barbara Villiers. Macquarie was on the staff of one when
in command of the London district the year before Trafalgar.
Harrington-street, Sydney, is named in that Harrington’s honor.
His son was Byron’s quarrelsome coadjutor in Greece.
But the main line of Stanhopes has been something
almost unique in English history. The first earl was son of
a Stuart-Restoration-period Ambassador, born in Paris, who
had to be naturalised. He became, as Lord Mahon, a soldier
in Marlborough’s wars, a lieutenant-general in command of the
British forces in Spain. He took Minorca—Port Mahon is
named after him. He told the Government, “England ought
never to part with this island, which will give the law to the
Mediterranean in war and peace.” He became Chancellor of
the Exchequer, rich through marrying a daughter of Pitt, of
Madras, the Earl of Chatham’s grandfather.
His son, the second Earl Stanhope, was declared by the
French scientist Lablande to be the greatest mathematician in
England. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society.
The third earl was elected an F.R.S. at 19. He shared the
invention of the lightning conductor, had a steamboat running
(badly) in 1795, invented the Stanhope printing press-
familiar even to-day—logography (forerunner of linotyping),
stereotyping and calculating machines. A type of microscope
lens bears his name. He ushered in the doom of the age
of paint and powder by appearing at Court as early as
1773 without it —his father’s idea. “Wheat was dear.”
That Stanhope opposed the war with America. He con-
tinually moved for peace with France, even in Napoleon’s
day. In 1795, moving a resolution against the French war, he
found himself “in a minority of one.” Somebody struck a
medal and immortalised the phrase.
That earl married Pitt’s sister and opposed him.
Horace Walpole recorded that his harangues had been the
chief influence “in calming down the tempest of the Gordon
riots.” But Horace called Stanhope “a savage, a republican,
a royalist—l don’t know what.”
By his Pitt marriage the third earl had three daughters;
Lady Hester Stanhope, who kept house for the second Pitt,
was one. By a second marriage, he had three sons. One
became heir to Australia’s godfather, Joseph Banks. Another,
the fourth earl, an F.R.S. at 26, had a daughter who was
mother to the Earl of Rosebery, who married Hannah de
Rothschild, owned a Derby winner and became Prime Minister.
A second-generation descendant was Edward Stanhope, fellow
of All Souls, whose address-to-the-Throne speech, which he
was chosen by Disraeli to deliver, sounded to Lord Randolph
Churchill like “a recitation by Gibbon.” Named Colonial
Secretary, he founded the Imperial Conference system, passed
the first Imperial Defence Act (1888), and revolutionised life
for the British regular by his reforms.
The fifth earl was an F.R.S. at 22. He (chiefly) and
Macaulay were the founders of the Copyright Law for. whom
Australian authors (sometimes) pray. He was one of the
soundest historians and biographers of his day—sounder than
Macaulay, who praised him a little patronisingly. He founded
the National Portrait Gallery and the Historical Monuments
Commission.
Robert Lowe, known in early N.S.W. history, came one
of his hardest croppers by sneering at Stanhope’s proposal
for subsidising the excavation of Troy. A German-American
grocer, Schliemann, turned the joke against Lowe. That
Stanhope’s daughter was mother to N.S.W. Governor Lord
Beauchamp, lately dead. The fifth earl was a bitter Tory and
opponent of the Reform Bill, in contrast to “Citoyen” Stan-
hope, his grandfather. Like the rest, he was often in a
minority of one; but his son who succeeded him kept up the
tradition only by being the single Stanhope earl for genera-
tions who did not achieve greatness —he rose no higher than
a lordship of the Treasury.
The seventh earl at 58 has become First Lord of the
Admiralty. The speech in which he said some of his men were
absent because “they had been needed to man the aircraft
batteries, to be ready for anything that might happen, put
him very much in a minority and thoroughly in accord with
the family tradition.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“All visitors ashore! All visitors ashore, PLEASE.”
“Basic Wager”: I ain’t a Communist
yet, but I won’t say what I’ll be by
next Easter if Sydney “D.T.,” “Sun” and
“Herald” keep on reminding me of the
very different rules that apply to rich
and poor in this fine, free country. If
my old woman took to imbibing gin
(which she isn’t likely to do, apart from
the fact we can’t afford it) it’d cause a
lot of talk if she did it in the middle of
George-street, and if I were to be seen
waving a beer-bottle in Martin-place my
boss’d have a hard word or two to say.
But our aristos not only do their
guzzling in public, but like to be photo-
graphed in the act for the delectation of
the whole population. I see pictures of
fat old men, probably tight, wearing
funny paper caps ; of a young sprig of the
squattocracy downing a bottle of “1928
vintage Roderer” (for which, I suppose,
he or his papa paid a couple of quid)
for a bet; of fat old girls and skinny
young girls, evidently half-sozzled, lap-
ping up cocktails. I’ve been invited
to admire a fat old man described as
a “bon viveur” for his generosity in
giving a champagne party for “his family
and friends,” and a beautiful young
gentleman (he’s an “interior decorator
of some of our snootiest country homes”)
who was caught “signalling for more
grape-juice to decorate his interior.”
And I read a three-quarter-page account,
illustrated, of a party at the Aus-
tralia —a dinner of ten courses, one of
the highlights of which was 1855 Cour-
voisier brandy at £8 a bottle. Pate de
foie gras, truffles and champignons a la
creme figured in the feast. The chef, the
account ends, went home and had for his
dinner two boiled eggs. Yes, they rub
it in, don’t they?—the difference between
us and them .*
* * * *
“Alban”: Albania isn’t likely to miss
King Zog very much, for since his
accession he had never been anywhere in
his own country outside the towns of
Tirana and Durres. Even William of
Wied, who now lives quietly in Munich,
got about more than that during his
brief spell of Albanian kingship. Had
circumstances been otherwise Albania
might have had an English King, for the
throne was offered to the late Lord
Headley, who was a convert to the
faith of Islam. It has been mentioned
that Gullett’s mother-in-law, former
Bulletin contributor Barbara Baynton,
became Lord Headley’s second wife.
“D.E.”: “King Zog reached Greece
with the Albanian gold reserve, 400,000
gold francs.” I am grateful to the cor-
respondent who discovered that; it will
set me reading once more the most
charming of biographies, and turning
first to the chapter in which Boswell
gives an account of the dinner at which
he entertained Dr. Johnson and Wilkes.
They began cracking jokes at the expense
of his nation. Boswell could take them,
as all Scots can —they share this admir-
able characteristic with the Jews. Scenery
being mentioned, the doctor opined that
the grandest bit in Scotland was the high-
road to England. Wilkes capped that with
his story of the wild island lord who
captured Glasgow, and after his victory
embarked with the entire city treasure —
three and six.
“Scylax”: The Commonwealth has a
treaty with Albania. It dates back to
pre-Zog days and concerns the admis-
• f ah. • -x-
sion to Australia of Albanian citizens.
At the end of 1924, when it seemed likely
that there would be a considerable flow
of migration to Australia from the
Balkans, it was agreed between the Com-
monwealth and Albania that not more
than 100 Albanians should be admitted
to Australia in any one month. They
were also required to possess at least £4O
on landing nr to he nominated bv ner-
on landing or to he nominated hy per-
sons already in the Commonwealth.
Similar agreements were made at the
similar agreements were made at tne
same time with Greece and with Yugo-
slavia. In these cases the quota of 100
a month had been largely exceeded dur-
mg the last six months o£ 1924, the
monthly average being 234 Greeks and
168 Yugoslavs There has been no
necessity to apply the Albanian restnc-
tion, but it may be invoked if there is
any rush of refugees.
4t „. * „ * . , * e a
“Ek Dum : This scheme of a Sydney
lady to train housewives to spring from
gas attacks has the germ of a great idea ;
but I don’t hold with the originator s
modest conception of her sex s general
athletic condition as untrained. A fevy
weeks ago I decided to buy a s lr a
a sale in Pitt-street, Sydney, and had the
luck to get there early. Outside the
closed door I saw what seemed to be
about five hundred gentle-looking females
and five large and athletic males—probable
surf gods, they looked. Then the door
opened. The first line of forwards went
over me in a surge, kick, bang and
splinter. Somebody pushed me in the
face with a handbag containing a flat-
iron, a pair of handcuffs and a beef-
skewer, and someone else grabbed me
while I was still stunned, and heaved me
into the discard. With the other five
brutal males I turned sadly away after
a glimpse at a wall of surging backs,
When we do have an air raid you won’t
catch me competing with the bargain-
hunting sex for a place in the shelter. I
propose to stay safely outside with the
gas and the themite bombs.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: A Sydney newsagent
has learnt with a sense of shock that an
airgun which he was charged with sell-
“/to ”boy under 14 years old was a
“firearm” within the meaning of the Act.
So it should be—there is one German
type on the market which is deadly dan-
gerous at short range, and has the double
disadvantage, from a public-safety point of
view, of being almost noiseless. I’d add
bows and arrows to the prohibited list.
Anybody who has seen the damage which
a good Queensland lancewood bow can
do would vote for it as a killer against
a pea-rifle at short range.
* * % *
“Tajet”: While it strikes a high note
of religious fervor an article in the Syd-
ney journal delivered to me on Good
Friday admits that “there may not be
to-day, as there once was, a complete
cessation of secular interests.” This is
borne out by the fact that a race sup-
plement or tipping guide was delivered
along with the sermon. This supplement
seems completely secular except for the
mention of St. Constant and Heroic
Faith.
* * * *
“Whangamomona”: I knew that
mothers-in-law, old soldiers and tin
lizzies were immortal, but not till I visited
a dairy factory at Tirau (M.L.) did I
realise that ferries, too, go on for ever.
The engine that made the wheels go
round had ticked across Sydney Harbor
for years until the Bridge went up,
some ferries went off, and an enterprising
dairy co. got a bargain.
* * * *
“G ene r a 1 Prac.”:
There’s one thing to be
said for the medical
profession its mem-
bers are about as talka-
tive as oysters or tomb-
stones in their gossip
about patients. Since
the days of AEsculapius
medical men have been
enjoined to keep a tight
mouth over their
patients’ illnesses. But
the whole thing is
purely ethical, purely a
code of honor, for
medical secrecy is not
recognised in a court of
law. Thus, when a
member of the Medical
Board (N.S.W.) told
some new graduates the
other day that a medi-
cal attendant, if he
bowed to the best medi-
cal opinion, “should
refuse to disclose infor-
mation even in the face
of a command from
the presiding Judge,” he
was tartly reminded by
a leading K.C. that doc-
tors, like humble lay-
men, must obey the law
relating to testimony in
the witness-box. It’s a
great mistake always to
allow convictions of
personal honor to con-
flict with the statutes.
Such an error once
landed a colleague of
mine in a police cell.
* *
“X.S.”: Two deter-
mined thieves turned up
in Melbourne recently.
One climbed through
the window of a subur-
ban bedroom and was
getting away with a few
odds and ends when
the owner came in.
After he had decamped
the householder went
to bed, but first took the precaution
of putting £4O in notes which the thief
had missed under the mattress of his
bed. He woke up a couple of hours
later to find that the notes had also gone.
The other specimen of persistence was
caught smashing the window of a motor-
car containing a traveller’s millinery
samples. The owner and passers-by gave
chase, but the thief dodged them down
a lane. When they returned to the car
they were just in time to see the same
slippery gent, making off with the mil-
linery.
* * * *
“T.D.”: There was a curious echo of
the dead past the other day when the
French arrested Charles Roos on a
charge of espionage. In the days when
the French and Belgians occupied the
Rhineland Charles was leader of the
Rhenish separatists and sought to estab-
lish an independent State there, a French
Manchukuo, as it were. Later Roos tried
to lead an Alsatian Separatist movement,
but the Alsatians did not want to sepa-
rate any more than the Rhinelanders.
To-day the so-called Separatist move-
ment in Alsace is concerned with pre-
serving local customs, speech and tradi-
tions.
REDIVIVUS.
“Ajax Back on His Pedestal.” — “S.M.H.” headline.
This grey old world of ours is racked and rent
With woes and worries and afflictions sore;
Over a torn and troubled Continent
Hangs the grim shadow of impending war;
More engines of destruction, ever more,
Take shape in dockyard and in arsenal.
Still, in the gloom’s one gleam you can’t
ignore:
Ajax is back upon his pedestal!
Will fickle Fortune, do you think, relent
And Billy Hughes to his old perch restore?
Can Lang again be super-eminent
In Labor’s camp, as in those days of yore
When would-be rivals trembled at the roar
Which downed rebellion and squelched cabal?
Who knows? But if for them there’s no
encore,
Ajax is back upon his pedestal.
It’s somewhat hard, when your good brass
you’ve spent
On nags that regularly fail to score.
To harbor anything but discontent
For every figure in the equine corps.
But now and then comes one we all adore
For sheer outstandingness. Heart up, old pal!
There’s balm in Gilead yet, as oft before!
Ajax is back upon his pedestal.
Doped, was he doped—or merely indolent —
That day he failed? ’Tis like we never shall
Agree about the cause of that descent
From dizzy summits of accomplishment.
But here’s a far more notable event:
Ajax is back upon his pedestal!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


. “Spokeshave”: Since the last referen-
dum the Prohibition war has been nar-
rowed down in Vic. to a local skirmish
in the Licensing Court between Wets and
Drys in the suburb of Burwood, which
was incorporated in 1927 in the local
option area of Booroondarra. Some
people in Burwood now want the pub.
that a prospective Bung wants to erect
in their district at an estimated cost of
£11,000; others assert that if Booze is
allowed to present its unhallowed face
the residents of Burwood will become
criminals, maniacs, wife-beaters and
wasters (though there are still quite a
few respectable residents in the wet
suburbs of Kew, Toorak and Moonee
Ponds). Wet advocates say that so much
grog is brought into Burwood that the
bottle-ohs there are all millionaires, and
the rush is so great every evening that
the Tramways Board has to put on extra
trams. But a retired telephone mechanic
provided the brightest interlude in sup-
porting the application for a license to
establish a hotel. “Don’t let your wife
hear you say that,” said the legal ad-
viser to the Drys. “She’s in Tasmania,”
said the witness. “Ah! ” said the Gent.
One, “it does give us courage.” “What?
Beer?” “No, but you’re getting warm—
Bass Strait.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: In the last few months
an anti-Semitic campaign has reared its
head in the industrial suburbs of Mel-
bourne, particularly Carlton. Slogans
that might be copies of Nazi proclama-
tions in Berlin have begun to appear on
footpaths and walls, and windows in
private dwellings of the Chosen Race and
in the Kadimah Jewish hall have been
broken and showers of stones flung into
meetings. After the European model,
Gentile sympathisers with the Jews come
in for the attentions of organised bands
of larrikins. Anti-Semitic demonstrations
are as common now as demonstrations
against the Salvation Army used to be.
They were practically unknown in Mel-
bourne until recently.
% & * *
“Strict Veg.”: An unopened bottle of
beer had a sad Odyssey on the
Flinders-street station, Melbourne, 'on
a recent holiday evening just after
the pubs had shut. For some reason
unstated a man abandoned the bottle
on the top step of one of the
entrances. It was eyed suspiciously by
hundreds, until a six-year-old girl spotted
it and, liking the gay look of the label,
picked it up and proudly pursued her
mother with it. The mother was not so
pleased with her present, however, and
after remonstrating with her infant de-
posited the incriminating object in a
dustbin. A porter promptly pounced on
it and bore it off in the direction of the
Lost Property Office, followed with re-
gretful eyes by approximately 200 male
suburbanites who had been within sight
of Eldorado without knowing it.
* $ * *
“Ex-Mister”; Among all the ships
which visit Australian ports only three
fly two national flags simultaneously to
indicate their country of origin. They
are the Dalia, Aloe and Erica, owned by
the South African Government. In any
port other than a South African one
the old Union Government flag, the Blue
British Ensign defaced in the lower
quarter of the fly end by the national
emblem of the Union, is shown at the
stern staff. The jackstaff on the bow
shows the new national flag of red, white
"Gad, Prendergast, so you're the bounder who's been pinching my mushrooms!"
and blue, adopted some years ago on
account of racially-political objections
Blue Ensign as a national embelm.
In South African waters their position
is reversed. The reason for the .two is
that the old flag is known throughout
the Seven Seas, and, anyhow, indicates
Empire origin, but the new one is still
a stranger in most foreign ports.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s skyline is chang-
ing at a great rate. The handsome two-
or three-storey brown-stone buildings of
40 years back are being scrapped for
more modern structures. Elder Smith’s
has disappeared, for the moment, in the
process; and the Bank of N.S.W., on
the finest site in the city opposite Gov-
ernment House gate, is nearly down.
Facing it cornerwise is the almost com-
pleted Parliament House, to be opened
in June. This, like the railway station
next below it on North-terrace, can be
variously regarded as “a glorious struc-
ture, the pride of the city, and provid-
ing for the needs of a century to come,”
or as plain White Elephant.
* * * *
“Runa”: When the Sydney dailies
first announced the arrest of McKay, of
“Bones Mystery” fame, one of them
stepped aside to remark that Parnell, the
suburb in which the gentleman was
found, was a “poor but respectable
locality.” Both true, as the local old-
time gibe, “Parnell, pride, poverty and
pianos,” testifies, but it has a storied past,
and at one time possessed the most aris-
tocratic street in Auckland, St. Stephen’s-
avenue, .which took its name from the
Maori college established there. Hugh
Walpole was born in Parnell. Sir George
Grey lived there. I can vouch for
its respectability because I lived there
myself and had as neighbor a succession
of Anglican bishops, housed then in
ancient and picturesque buildings, from
the belfry of which rang out most even-
ings the famous Selwyn presentation
chimes, known to generations of Auck-
landers as “The Bishop’s Bells.”
# * * *
“Mayo”: The vicar of our up-country
parish sent out the fiery cross for
donations of clothing and household
items for a deserving cause. Sundry
parcels arrived, and were duly acknow-
ledged, but one parcel, consisting of a
large towel, came anonymously. “It is
beautiful quality,” remarked the parson
appreciatively. “A very generous donor
to send a good article like this.” Then,
turning to his 10-year-old son, he added,
“It seems to have some kind of motto
on it, Henry. What is it? I haven’t my
glasses here.” Henry regarded the alleged
motto doubtfully. “I don’t think it’s
exactly a motto, Dad,” he said. “It says
‘Hotel Exclusive.’ ”
* * * *
“Fiona”: Oswald, our office-boy, was
nearly fired the other day. The boss,
divorced last year and married again
last week, tossed a letter on Oswald’s
desk at lunch-time and remarked, “When
my wife comes in, give her this en-
velope.” “Yes, sir,” said Oswald. “Which
wife, sir?” The boss gave an imitation
of Vesuvius on the verge of eruption
and had a word with the chief clerk. We
felt Oswald was doomed, but he is still
with us. The boss’s first wife, for the
only time on record, came in that after-
noon, and the miracle saved Oswald.
* * * *
“Tredor”: I was, of course, grieved to
read of the murder of the British Consul
at Mosul, Iraq, but in seeking the cause
of his death I found reports as much
confused as were those, of the death of
the American gangster Durand (B.
12/4/’39). Turning up my Sydney
“Telly” I found that “infuriated Arabs”
stoned him to death “as he stood on the
steps of his Consulate trying to pacify
them.” That’s what Melbourne “Argus”
“That place ain't so good. They on'y 'arf feed a man."
said too, but Melbourne’s “Age” told me
that he “was assassinated with revolver
shots during a demonstration after the
news of King Ghazi’s death.” I sought
“S. M. Herald’s” advice, but that vener-
able lady shuddered, drew her skirts
around her and muttered that the poor
man was “felled with a pickaxe on the
Consulate balcony.”
* * * *
“Scat”: Herr Hitler might be one up
in popularity over Musso. in a Sydney
subbub (B. 12/4/’39), but in a Sydney
filmhouse I visited last week he was at
least two down. When a photograph of
a cap and uniform with the boss Nazi
somewhere inside it was shown on the.
screen a barrage of hissing, booing and
catcalls arose from the stalls, and even
a bloke in a stuffed shirt on my right
in the lounge couldn’t resist making a
sound like a soda-siphon. Hitler, as
ever, seemed to care not.
* sp * *
“D.F.”: There is good news from
U.S.A. for those who think that there
may not be time enough to work out a
policy of world appeasement. Prof. H. A.
Bethe, of Cornell University, gives us
another 35,000,000 years before there is
any material decrease in the amount of
heat given out by the sun. He has
evolved a theory that the energy of the
sun and of the stars comes from the
transmutation of hydrogen into helium.
Atoms of ordinary carbon are bom-
barded by atoms of hydrogen which fly
about inside the sun at high speeds due
to high temperatures. Working through
nitrogen the transmutation gives eventu-
ally ordinary carbon on the one hand
and helium on the other. Then the car-
bon can go through the process all over
again. As 35 p.c. of the sun’s mass is
reckoned to consist of hydrogen it will
take a long, long time to use it up.
* *
“F.S.”: A Melbourne
critic dolefully predicts
that unless Grisha Golu-
boff, the boy violinist, is
taken off the concert plat-
form for a decade he will
be ruined musically, as
was predicted in the case
of Philip Hargreave, the
Australian infant prodigy
of the piano. The two
cases are entirely dif-
ferent. Before young
Hargreave had anything
like the skill of Goluboff
he was rushed through
a series oi concerts, whose success
mainly depended on the novelty of a
little boy in an Eton jacket being more
or less familiar with the sublime works
of Bach and Beethoven. Hargreave had
no real taste for the show business, and
when he met a young doctor in Adelaide
he became enamored of medicine and
threw up music altogether. But to the
natural-born virtuoso like Grisha the
platform is just as essential a part of his
life as a sitter is to a portrait painter.
The platform is obviously the breath of
life to him, but when he plays a piece
the only thing that seems to interest him
is how to play it better. And though
he’s more concerned with his own ideals
than with the applause of audiences, if
he fell behind in the fierce struggle that
goes on in the virtuoso world it would
probably spell “finish” for him.
EXAMPLE BETTER THAN
PRECEPT.
“Ninety delegates at the annual conference of the
N SW Oyster Farmers’ Association consumed 4000
ovsters according to one estimate—another is 6000—
at their official supper.
They met—as every and any section
Of our industrious producers must —
To hit on means of mutual protection
And other trade requirements to adjust;
And when the final problem in connection
With oysters in the bed had been discussed.
With fine appropriateness they explored
The merits of the same upon the board.
Our squatter-kings, converging from their
stations
Their place in solemn conference to take,
Might just as aptly close deliberations
A mammoth ex officio meal to make,
And demonstrate thereby the fascinations
Of juicy mutton-chops and tender steak,
Attested by themselves. I wonder when
They’ll take a pointer from the oystermen.
What better method could there be of booming
The articles you cultivate and sell,
Whether they’re vegetables fresh and blooming
Or bivalves from the newly-opened shell,
Than by appreciatively consuming
A tidy whack of them yourself as well,
To show, more cogently than any speech,
You personally practise what you preach?
They talked of oysters—and it’s safe to assert
you
Might have learnt much from all they had
to say
About the appetising mollusc’s virtue,
Inadequately recognised to-day.
And finally, to prove it couldn’t hurt you;
Each farmer of our foreshores stowed away
With real relish underneath his vest
A generous five dozen of the best!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVENA
m
ElB6B
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
■fa***
Va/Hf
/
-
•v
LiUtMliiiiiiiiililiuiiidiii
E SPECIALLY "
P R E-V E N T
POLITICAL POINTS
Roosevelt has asked Hitler and Musso-
lini for an anti-aggression pact covering
Europe, Egypt and Asia Minor, and is
transferring the U.S. Navy from the
Atlantic to the Pacific. That’s doing
things.
In The Bulletin of September 27,
1923, there was an article in which “J. A.
Lyons, leader of the Labor party in the
Tasmanian Assembly,” then electioneer-
ing, ’‘puts his case.” And he made out a
very strong case, but one sentence has
an odd ring nowadays—“ The National-
ists have almost crippled the State finan-
cially, and are driving our people away.”
The racing reporter was asked to make
a collection of the papers’ tips for the
Prime Minister Stakes. Here is the result
in his own words:
Melbourne “Age”: Menzies, a moral.
“Argus”: Casey, home-and-dry.
“S. M. Herald”: With a start, Bruce;
if no Bruce, Stevens.
Sydney “D.T.”: After reading the stars
and interpreting their influence on the race,
Bruce.
Sydney “Sun”: Stevens, a lay-down
misere.
“Smith’s Weekly”: Billy, with big
boots on.
“Terewth”: Too open. Perhaps Street.
Summing them up, he wrote: “Most
favored, Bruce.”
Days before Lyons’s body was laid in
his honored grave, it was suggested that
Dame Enid should contest Wilmot. The
poor lady will have enough to do to bring
up her fatherless family ; in any case,
Australia is getting more than enough of
the keep-the-seat-in-the-family business.
The widow of a Sydney Assemblyman
has become his successor, and the widow
of another hopes to succeed him. In
Queensland a father sought party en-
dorsement for his dead son’s electorate.
In Westralia a brother went after the
nomination for his late sister’s seat, which
she inherited from their father.
The easily-pleased Mair, on whom
Stevens planted the Treasury baby after
having the face to predict a surplus, re-
ports that N.S.W. revenue for nine
months of the financial year failed by
£3,850,600 to reach expenditure. Com-
pared with the corresponding nine
months of 1937-38 the “regression,” as
they call it, was £1,848,500. But Mr.
Mair is delighted.
Lang’s “foreign policy,” he announced
at Easter, is isolation —not for the Empire
but for Australia. Heffron Labor is for
“collective security,” pronouncing it “the
method whereby the countries threatened
by Fascist Germany, Italy and Japan can
unite with the toiling masses of Fascist
countries to hold back the aggressor.”
The idea of a national army such as
Switzerland possesses is abhorrent to both
“parties,” but “if the toiling masses of
Fascist countries” failed to “hold back
the aggressor” the “parties” would be
willing to throw pamphlets at him.
The latest from La Tabouis was that
the Germans would invade Poland and
Holland last Saturday. Once more
Madame missed with both barrels.
Just when another Hughes stunt was
beginning, a paper came out with a por-
trait of tbe candidate, presenting him as
an old, frail man being helped across
the street by a policeman. Though he
doesn’t worry as Lyons did, it would
be a crime to put him in Lyons’s place.
Even if he didn’t fall down on the job,
the strain of it would kill him in a few
months.
Sydney “D.T.” admits two impedi-
ments to its darling project of a Rus-
sian alliance—Poland and Rumania:
Neither is keen on joining forces with
the Soviet. Poland and Rumania are afraid
of the Russians. Both have territory that
formerly belonged to Russia. Both still
have flaunted before them a Red bogey.
In other words, living next door to
Russia they don’t trust it a yard, nor do
they believe the stories of Russian invin-
cibility. But we, though subjected to
Russian intrigue for 20 years, are ex-
pected to trust it and to swallow the
stories, though we saw Russia crack up
in the Crimea and against Japan and
against Germany and against Poland.
Seventeen years ago, thanks to Lloyd
George, Britain backed the Greeks
against the Turks, and when they came
running out of Asia Minor Lloyd George
wanted the Dominions to declare war.
Now Britain is backing the Greeks
again—against the Italians this time.
Twenty years ago, Britain, thanks to
Winston Churchill, backed the White
Russians against the Red Russians, and
"One of Hitler’s 50th-birthday gifts is the freedom of the ‘Free’ City of Danzig.”
This Freedom (Behind Bullet-proof Glass).
Churchill had to be restrained from lead-
ing his proteges in person. Now the cry
has gone up that Britain should back the
Red Russians against the Germans, and
Churchill is convinced that he can bring
it off.
The Golden Mile is growling at the
composition of the State Ministry chosen
by Caucus. It used to provide Labor
Premiers (Scaddan and Collier) and at
least some of the Ministers; now it is
without Cabinet representation, Smith,
the member for Kalgoorlie, having been
dropped as Minister of Railways. Even
the Minister of Mines, Panton, is a Perth
man. There is another Perth Minister,
Millington, Fremantle has two Ministers,
Kidston and Gray, both Ms.L.C., and
the North has Wise and Coverley.
Premier Willcock comes from Gerald-
ton; Hawke represents Northam, and
Nulsen, one of the two new Ministers—
Coverley is the other —sits for Kanowna.
A Melbourne “Age” correspondent got
heavily home on the bosses of the Young
Communist League, who are “viewing
with alarm the decision to institute a
compulsory national register, believing
that it is a step towards compulsory mili-
tary training and conscription.” He
quoted from the Soviet Constitution,
“drawn up at the instance of the Com-
munist party.”
Article 132: Universal military service is
the law.
Article 133: Impairing the military might
of the State is punishable with the
full severity of the law as a most heinous
crime.
If Sydney “D.T.” is granted the desire
of its heart, these cheeky Reds will be
transformed into our Gallant Allies.
Before the last election M.L. Nats,
were using a book by J. A. Lee on the
Labor Government for propaganda
against it. An open letter, attributed to
Lee at the recent party conference, at-
tacked the “dilatoriness” of Mr. Nash’s
financial policy. Lang believed in quick-
fire finance, too.
All the prophets are at it again. Thus
“Madame Tabouis asserts that a Spanish-
German-Italian-Japanese military pact
was concluded at Burgos on April 7,” the
Spaniards undertaking to let their “part-
ners” control all the Spanish naval bases
and train and re-equip the Spanish army
and help it to grab Gibraltar and French
Morocco. It would be a miracle if (1)
Spanish pride accepted control of a vic-
torious army by three foreign Powers, and
(2 ) if a decimated nation, contemplating
its wrecked cities, were not utterly war-
weary after three years. But most of
Madame’s prophecies require miracles for
fulfilment.
It’s a bad time for taxation reform,
but the Taxpayers’ Associations are peg-
ging away at it. At their conference in
Sydney they drew pointed attention to
the iniquities of double taxation by State
Governments and to the lack of a check
on Federal spending.
Dunstan, who is threatening to take
more from the Victorians, though he
knows that Casey will have first cut at
them for defence purposes, has been
reminded by the Victorian Taxpayers in
their quarterly that, apart altogether
from Commonwealth imposts, Vic-
torians already have to pay three taxes
on income—(1) ordinary, (2) unem-
ployed-relief, (3) special. And under
Dunstan “a man with a wife and four
children pays as much unemployed-relief
tax as a single man.”
A.8.C., which is rolling in easy money,
mainly the produce of excessive taxation,
talks of running a weekly in competition
with taxpayers. Cameron, the P.M.G.,
ought to have something to say about
that. The alleged National Travel Asso-
ciation, which gets lavish subsidies
from the Treasury (£20,000 p.a., as a rule,
though there have been massive increases
this year), runs a magazine called “Walk-
about,” and there is nothing to prevent
its keeping “Walkabout” going with part
of its gifts from the public purse. Casey
doesn’t object, but Cameron is not a
Casey.
Sydney “Sun” of April 11, “From Our
Special Representative”:
Latest German troop concentrations em-
brace the entire Polish frontier from the
Baltic to Slovakia... .Italian troops, tech-
nicians and medical units continue to land
in Albania. Italian columns are militarily
completing the occupation of the country.
Sydney “Sun” editorial, same issue:
There are vague stories about German
troops on the Polish frontier, and Italian
troops on the Yugoslav frontier, and a tale
by a traveller from Holland about the clos-
ing of Dutch ports... .These, and other
unsupported tales, have an effect grossly
in excess of their significance, even if they
are true It is not wise to listen to every
story or blanch at every rumor.
“Above all, for variety.”
During the last couple of years the
more superfluous Westralian Chamber
rejected or mangled a lot of Labor
measures —in some cases to the secret
relief of the authors and Premier
Willcock threatened during the election
campaign that he would “liberalise the
franchise.” Such threats were common
before the war, but nothing ever came
of them. Since the war, and especially
since Perth Labor Governments began
to get easy money from Canberra, there
has been far greater enthusiasm for
“liberalising” Parliamentary salaries.
Every year the N.S.W. Auditor-General
publishes a long list of amounts spent
without reference to Parliament. F. A.
Bland, Professor of Public Administra-
tion, recalling that “Parliament was asked
to vote £1,449,000 that was spent without
its authority in 1937-38,” put a question
to the Commonwealth Institute of
Accountants.
If the Government can spend a couple
of millions without the approval of Par-
liament, why seek its approval at all?
Why have such a Parliament at all? Aus-
tralia needs only one Parliament: Maori-
land, South Africa and Britain each get
along with one. If there were one Par-
liament instead of seven, that one
Parliament wouldn’t dare to loaf as the
present Federal concern does, and public
opinion, concentrating on the one Parlia-
ment, wouldn’t suffer abuses that super-
fluous State shows have made chronic.
During the year to the end of February
Australia lost 137 British and native-
born Australians by migration. It gained
309 Albanians, 102 Czechs, 54 Dutch, 47
Estonians, 2562 Germans, 983 Greeks,
2708 Italians, 941 Poles, 66 Rumanians,
288 Russians, 130 North Americans and
612 Yugoslavs, as well as Bulgarians,
Belgians, Danes, Finns, Letts, Nor-
wegians, Spaniards, Swiss and others.
Over 9000 strangers were added to the
population.


BOMBPROOF.
“Physical training for members whoso weight would hamper them in running for shelter in an air raid was suggested to members of the N.S.W. Housewives' Association."


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250 000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
tf#
wMm
mmmmm
m
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
SHARE PRICES—WHY THEY FLUCTUATE
N.Z. EXCHANGE
GOLD—TIN—COPPER
WHATS GOOD TO BUY AND SELL
April Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Forgan Smiths’ new Mines Min-
ister, Jimmy Larcornbe, brings to the
job a training in practical Queensland
politics which began nearly 50 years ago.
His father was a neighbor and close
friend of “Wullie” Kidston, afterwards
Queensland Premier, and in 1893 they
were the first two Labor men to contest
the double electoral divisions of Rock-
hampton. Among family friends and
visitors were Andy Fisher, afterwards
Prime Minister of Australia, Andy Daw-
son, later Premier of Queensland and
Federal Minister for Defence, and Billy
Browne, who also attained State Cabinet
rank. Fired by such examples, Jimmy
made politics his career, and achieved
Ministerial rank successively as Rail-
ways. and Works, with the Theodores
and McCormicks, with a spell as Acting
Speaker. Colleague Foley will keep
Mines warm for him until the return of
Mr. Dash releases him from the humor-
ous duty of Acting Minister for Trans-
port.
Acting-Governor of S.A. is the 76-
year-old knight George Murray, the
GEORGE MURRAY.
State’s C.J., who has been Lieut.-Gover-
nor for the last 23 years and received
his K.C.M.G. the year following that
appointment. Son of a pioneer pas-
toralist, he had great success at school
and later at Adelaide and Cambridge
Universities, winning shoals of scholar-
ships. He was called to the Bar in 1888,
and made legal history in 1906 by being
the first graduate of Adelaide Uni. to
take silk. The Supreme Court Bench
claimed him in 1912, and he’s been Chief
Justice since 1916. His Chancellorship
of Adelaide Uni. antedates that appoint-
ment. He’s a bachelor.
As versatile in both sacred and secular
spheres as the Father O’Flynn of the
ballad was Father W. J. O’Leary, S.J.,
formerly director of Riverview Obser-
vatory (Sydney), who died suddenly
while playing golf. Born in Dublin 70
years ago, he was the son of a medico-
scientist. W.J. studied at Tullabeg and
Clongowes colleges in Ireland, and at
Louvain and Strasburg, qualifying for
the priesthood and perfecting his know-
ledge of the sciences, particularly seis-
mology and astronomy. He was for a
while director of the Rathfarnham Ob-
servatory in Dublin, and professor of
physics and mathematics at the Jesuit
College, Milltown Park, Dublin. He
came to Riverview Observatory 10 years
ago, retiring last year. While at River-
view he discovered some new variable
stars. Handsome, charming in manner,
an eloquent preacher and a born teacher,
Father O Leary was the beau ideal of
his Order.
Maoriland’s Minister of Lands Frank
Langstone, selected to represent the
Dominion at the International Labor
Conference at Geneva, prides himself on
having had the scantiest early schooling
of any man in the M.L. Parliament.
# He soaked himself in Henry George
and Edward Bellamy, and several times
when in opposition introduced, with-
out success, a bill to take over the
Bank of New Zealand. He represents
the Waimarino, a scattered King Country
electorate, and his views haven’t pre-
vented him making a success of his port-
folio. His contribution to the Native
Land Problem is a blunt tip to Henare
thqt he’d better do something for him-
self instead of spending his time and
money on gambling and waipiro.
Adelaide has lost its probably oldest
inhabitant, George Brown, at 106. He
had long been, famous for an unusual
hobby. After retiring from business he
amused himself by attending regularly
at the sittings of S.A. Parliament, and
his figure became familiar to its mem-
bers, who after some years joined to
make him a presentation in recognition
of what they considered his unique good
taste.
A distinguished Australian, still in his
early forties, will add another to his
record of intellectual achievements when
knight Raphael West Cilento is admitted
as a barrister of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at the next’ meeting of the
Full Court. Director-General of Health
and Medical Services for the State, and
Prof, of Social and Tropical Medicine
at Queensland Uni., he is also an hI.D.,
B.S. of Adelaide Uni., Duncan and
Lalcaca gold medallist of the London
School of Tropical Medicine, and holds
the diploma of tropical medicine of the
University of London. Before joining
the Queensland service he had been
Director of Tropical Hygiene in the
Commonwealth Department of Health,
Director of the Australian Institute of
Tropical Medicine at Townsville, a Dis-
trict M.O. in the Malay States and, dur-
ing the war years, a captain in the
A.A.M.S. in German New Guinea.
Malcolm Sargent, who will be back in
Australia shortly to conduct a fresh
series of concerts for the A.8.C., is still
a young man in a hurry. On Good
Friday he conducted the Philharmonic
Orchestra in London. On Easter Mon-
day he was waving his baton over the
Palestine Philharmonic at Tel-Aviv.
A. E. Monk, just elected unopposed to
the presidentship of the Vic. branch of
the Australian Labor party, is the young
man who, as assistant secretary to the
Melbourne Trades Hall Council, took
the lead in the fierce battle that was
joined between Communistic elements
and orthodox Laborites as to who
should take charge of the Melbourne
unemployed during the depression. Monk
won after having been thrown out of
meetings. He has crowded more execu-
tive jobs into his 38 years than any other
man in the movement. At 19 he was
secretary to a confer-
ence of Federal unions,
and later presented the
workers’ case to the
Basic Wage Commis-
sion. He is president
of the A.C.T.U. and a
member of both the
State and Federal poli-
tical advisory com-
mittees.
Maxwell Holyman, a
licensed passenger air-
pilot at 17, is of the
fourth generation of a
very remarkable Tas-
manian family. In
1852, Captain William
Holyman, son of a
master mariner, first
flew' his own house-
flag, a white star on a
red ground, in the 14-
ton ketch Colleen
Bawn, coastal-trading
out of Launceston
(Tas.). His three sons,
Tom, William and
James—James is still
managing director at
Launceston at 76
—all became master
mariners, the tonnage
grew and a regular
service operated to Mel-
bourne via King Island. Of the next
generation, every male but one qualified
either as a master mariner or a marine
engineer. In 1932, they took to the air
as Holyman’s Airways, with Captain
Victor Holyman flying a Fox Moth
from Launceston to Melbourne. He was
lost in the Miss Hobart in 1934, prob-
ably the first man to fly an airliner over
a route on which he had commanded
ships. Two years later, Australian
National Airways was born, and shows
the 87-year-old white star on red on
the bows' of great airliners in every Aus-
tralian capital.
Harry Percy Brown is the man to
blame when anything goes wrong with
the postal service. He’s been Director-
General of Posts and Telegraphs for the
last 15 years. Born in England, he had
25 years’ service in the British Post Office,
and came to Australia as technical ad-
viser in 1923, receiving his present
H. P. BROWN.
appointment in that year. He has repre-
sented the Commonwealth at various im-
portant conferences on the subject of
international communication. Motors
and plays golf.
Anton Bakker, the subject of this Frith
model, is well known in Sydney, where
his roots stretch down for 20 years.
Manager in Australia for K.P.M. (Dutch
steamship line) for that period; his
daughter married a British naval officer,
and his son’s in the Australian militia. Re-
cently he motored through Belgium, Hol-
land, Germany, Hungary and Czecho-
ANTON BARKER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Slovakia, and stayed a month in Buda-
pest, attracted by the gipsy music. Now
he has added to his other transport wor-
ries the Australian managership, of
K.N.I.L.M. (Dutch air line).
Captain James Bull, who has died at
90 in Victoria, crammed a whole shelf
of exciting adventure novels into the first
third of his 90 years. He shipped at 15
in deepwater sail, and before he got his
ticket had been wrecked on the Chinese
coast, washed overboard and back again
in an Atlantic gale, and stabbed by
mutineers. His first few years as an
officer took him round the Horn nine
times, each of them in a gale, and in-
cluded such little episodes as a fire on an
immigrant ship, taking a boat to rescue
a crew from a foundering French barque
in a Biscay gale, and a bullet in the leg
as an onlooker at a revolution in Iquique.
For a quiet life, he took the schooner
Dove, 47 tons, from Melbourne to New
Guinea with 16 other adventurers to
look for gold in 1878. They found none,
but four died of malaria, and the Dove
foundered as a result of borer-worms in
her planking, just within bare reach of
a Navy survey-ship. For many later
years Bull owned and skippered vessels
in the Gippsland Lakes trade.
Glenville Massy, dead in Brisbane at
76, was about the last of the Cape York
(N.Q.) pastoral pioneers. Born at Gun-
daroo (N.S.W.), he joined two brothers
in the Bowen district in 1881. A year
later, he and his 24-year-old elder brother
Charlie took 1000 head of breeders up
to the Stewart River, 400 miles or so.
It was almost as adventurous as the
journey of the Jardine brothers 18 years
before. Two years later Charles Massy
was killed by a runaway police tracker.
The Massys were always friends with the
abos., who helped Glenville to move his
cattle to new country on the Archer
and Coen rivers, 70 miles north-west-
ward. With brother Ormy, “Glen” carried
on there until 1893. They opened up
the Fresh Food and Ice Co., as an out-
let for their stock, at Thursday Island,
where “Glen” remained until 1911, when
he acquired a southern property and
settled in Brisbane.


SHEARERS’
DRINKING MUGS
Hygienic and Durable
FOWLER WARE
MUGS of Finest Quality,
Semi-vitreous EARTHENWARE
Perfectly smooth
No curled edges
Do not stain or rust
No lodgment for food remnants to putrefy
Retains liquid temperatures longer
Made specially for industrial and rural use
Will withstand plenty of hard usage
Always clean and glistening
£5
V-
£
&
&
a
Merchants throughout Australia stock Fowler Products —
Household Crockery and Stoneware, Sanitaryware ,
IVall and Flooring Tiles.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century
Marrickville, N.S.W. - Thomastown, Vic. - Brisbane, Qld.
3
7^7-
MODERN BATHROOMS
The past twenty years have seen a rapid evolution of the
bathroom, from just a necessary adjunct to the most import-
ant room in the house.
To-day, comfort, brightness and convenience are all carefully
planned.
There is no adequate substitute for earthenware—glazed tiles
for the wall, colorful tiles for the floor, toilet suites, pedestal
wash basins and wall fittings. Earthenware does not wear
away, the colors cannot fade, it is easy to clean and keep clean.
Whether you are building a new home or modernising your
existing one, Fowler earthenware will give you a lifetime of
service and the satisfaction of knowing you have installed the
best.
Leading Hardware and Builders’ Suppliers throughout Aus-
tralia stock Fowler Ware.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century.
Marrickville, N.S.W. Thomastown, Vic. Brisbane, Qld.
-<O-
JO
B
■
MiiiHiil
ne
POETRV IN CHINA 1
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to
Match
Shelley is Poetry in Chinaware
Send 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully-colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH Pty. Ltd.
G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
Registered Number 9425.
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP—EASY TO FIT-
LONG LIFE I
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
a in. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of Tap. Jin. or
fin., Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Canteens of Cutlery
by
COOPER BROS. OF SHEFFIELD
World-famous Cutlers and
Silversmiths since 1866.
HBEH
Obtainable from all
leading stores and
jewellers.
Trade inquiries to
BOX 1389 J,
SYDNEY.


ABORIGINALITIES
"Is that the second or third time Cyrils come up?”
“Turoar”: “Cold? Youse blokes
don’t know wot it means,” Old Bob
snorted. “Up at Upper Gang-Gang, that’s
where it’s cold. Me an’ Tarry Tom wus
up there wunst cuttin’ sleepers, and we
gotter keep a great roarin’ fire goin’
night an’ day ter thaw the red-gum out.
An’ even then we’re gappin’ our adzes
all ter blazes. One night there’s a devil
uv a thunderstorm. Nex’ mornin’ we
finds the place littered with thumpin’
big pieces uv ice. Funny ice, too, all
blue an’ streaky. ‘Wotinell’s this?’ says
Tarry, breakin’ a lump orf. It starts
meltin’ in ’is ’and. Nex’ moment ’e
gives a ’elluva roar an’ gits knocked
kickin’. Yair —frozen lighternin’! ”
* * * *
“Caledonicus”: Another case of bird-
and tree-interdependence is seen with the
New Caledonian friar-bird (Philimon
lessoni). Among N.C.’s unique botanical
curiosities is a tree with a long, thin,
sticky seedpod. This not only attracts
insects on which the bird feeds, but the
seeds in the pod itself are food for the
friar-bird. The fowl unavoidably gets
some seedpods stuck on his plumage.
Later, while resting elsewhere, he picks
these off and drops them, and thus the
tree is propagated.
* * * *
“Walkagee”: White cockatoos may be
scarce in the back country these days (B.
29/ 3/ ’39), but for the first time in history
the black or gang-gang variety has
made its appearance in Melbourne and
suburbs. Passing St. Kilda (Vic.) station
the other evening 1 saw a flock of fifty-
odd whirling in flight a few feet above
the electric tram-wires. The invasion has
caused a certain amount of annoyance
to suburban gardeners. One irate lawn-
grower, catching sight of a flock perched
in his fruit-trees, ridiculed the idea that
such things as black cockatoos existed.
No, they ain’t black by nature,” he
opined. “They’re just some of them there
ordinary white cockatoos what got singed
in the bushfires—the chatterin’ cows! ”
“Coolibah”: With “Puffinus” (B.
29/3/’39) I deplore the disappearance of
the once-great flocks of sulphur-crested
cockatoos. The sight of countless thou-
sands as they came swinging over the
McPherson and Wonga-Wallen Ranges
to feast in the maize crops in the then
new scrub clearings of the Coomera
River was to me, a small boy, fascinat-
ing and never-to-be-forgotten. But “P.”
is wrong about the sentry business. As
a student of the birds’ habits I have
watched the sentry, grown impatient,
walk up and down his perch with crest
erect scolding the gourmands below, but
never leaving his post until relieved. But,
shrewd though he is, our snow-white
thief is beaten for tricks by the crow.
That black devil not only has alert sen-
tries posted when harvesting a maize
crop, but sends out scouts to reconnoitre
the position before attacking en masse.
The scout comes at dawn, flies high over
the field several times and, if satisfied
that all is well, calls loudly to the black
army. Answering calls herald the com-
ing of the flock.
* * * *
“Timothy Tywire”: The way a man
eats shows the sort of toiler he is. Slow
workers dawdle over their meals; quick
workers stoke up expeditiously. That
renowned speed-artist the shearer usually
polishes off a meal in the time it would
take him to separate two jumbucks from
their fleeces. And he gets something out
of it too —something the dawdler is too
slow to get. And that’s a permanently-
impaired digestion.
* * * sfe
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Wilber” could
learn much from a trip to W.A., where
he’d not only see axes sharpened with
files (B. 29/3/’39), but he’d get an idea
how to choose an axe. Any axe that’s
been in stock over six months in a West-
ralian country store is as full of dents
as an abo.’s skull, for that’s how we test
’em—hold one flat on the hand, and
strike its face with the corner of another.
If it’s too hard (small dent) or too soft
(deep dent) it’s rejected. A hard axe
will chip ; in exceptionally hard going,
like dead whitegum, I’ve seen the “face”
fly right out; a soft axe won’t keep an
edge. To see a bushman sharpen an axe
is an education. A couple of blows
elbow-high into a tree leaves a notch
into which the back of the axe is driven
hard. After one side has been filed it
is reversed. Not one axeman in 20 regu-
larly uses a grindstone. It’s the file every
time for taking the shoulder off. To put
an edge on we mostly use a carborundum
stone.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The fact that nurserymen near
Cronulla (N.S.W.) are using as fertiliser
the hundreds of tons of seaweed washed
up on the beaches by recent heavy seas
is a reminder that many millions of tons
of good manure go to waste round the
coasts of the Commonwealth every year.
Tasmanian gardeners and orchardists
have long known the value of seaweed
and kelp. It used to be said of the people
who worked small areas of sand at Straw-
berry Hill, on the east coast, that they
lived on kelp, transmuted, of course, into
fruit and vegetables. In western Ireland,
the Scottish islands, the Channel Islands
and Cornwall the harvest of kelp and
seaweed is important; there it is cut at
low tide.
.** * *
“16 x 6”: “Tired Tim’s” yarn about
the boss and the minus fence postholes
(B. 22/3/’39) somehow recalls “Ripan-
tear” Jones and his foreman. Ripantear
was a builder, seldom able to keep a
competent man. Engaged, with other
contracts, in erecting a large brick hall,
he bustled on to the job one day with
the demand: “Haven’t you got those
blank principals ready yet?” The prin-
cipals, huge triangular frames of Oregon,
strutted, braced and bolted, were ready,
a full dozen of them, each supposed to
be capable of bridging between the two
walls and thus carrying the roof. “Well,
up they go!” With the first principal
hoisted and swinging on the derrick,
Ripantear, mounting to the top of the
wall, took one end, the foreman the
other. “How’s she fit?” Rip demanded.
“Not too bad,” replied the foreman after
a little hesitation. “Hold her there while
I go down and get my rule.” “Pity
you couldn’t have thought of your rule! ”
Rip snorted. Ten minutes later, tired of
holding on, he yelled to the laborers be-
low : : “Ain’t that blank foreman ever
coming back?” “Dunno,” volunteered
the “tea-joey.” “He put on his coat and
got up the street for his life.” “What the
hell”——• “Can’t you see?” drawled one
of the laborers. “That principal’s a foot
short on one end—the foreman’s end!”
It was —and so were the other 11. And
the foreman, realising the bloomer for
which he was responsible, had left Rip-
antear up the ladder, holding on, while
he made good his escape.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: I’ve met a variety of
adventurous Aussies, but the ones who
have impressed me most are three old
lads who come out every month or so
for a night’s offshore fishing. The young-
est is well over 60, none are boating or
athletic men, or ever have been, and all
get seasick on the least provocation. It
isn’t booze, for they never bring more
than six bottles of beer amongst the five
of us for a trip of around 24 hours.
But they are always ready to go out and
stay out in any weather, and I’ve never
heard a growl or a grouse from them in
all our three years’ acquaintance, even
after an almost fishless trip in a heavy
swell. When the engine broke down and
we had to make an eight-hour beat under
sail against a heavy south-easter, they
asked no fool questions, and did just
what Bill and I wanted in the way of
being used as shifting ballast. Bill agrees
that if they were 40 years younger we
could make them into the best fishing
crew that ever sailed.
* * * *
“Old Ben”: The two city girls holiday-
ing on the station were having the time
of their lives exercising their wit on old
George, honest son of toil. “You think
you know everything, don’t you?” said
he at last. “Well, I’ll bet you a dollar
each you can’t hit a jam-tin at 15 yards
with my .22 ; six shots each.” The flap-
pers promptly accepted, but after the last
shot—the tin, to their chagrin, still re-
maining unmarked—they reluctantly paid
up. “That was a risky bet,” I remarked
later to George. “Aw, I dunno. It
might’ve been if I hadn’t put the sight
right up first,” he drawled.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: I was taking a short
cut through Henare’s property when
Mere hailed me from the whare door-
way. “If you see Henare up te top
paddock mustering sheep,” she said, “tell
him hurry home with te plate an’ spoon
he got, pecause visitors here waiting for
kai.” “What’s he doing with a plate
and spoon up there—having a binder on
his own?” I asked laughingly. The lady
shook her head. “Ho, no,” she said;
“but if he want to stop te kuris chasing
sheep he just have to scrape te plate
hard with t’at spoon.”
* * * *
“Splodger”: Gone is the art of making
needlewood pipes. Warbreccan, on the
Lower Thompson (W.Q.), was a great
place for pipemakers ; there were needle-
wood scrubs on Parrot Creek. The best
artists used the roots. They had to be
dug, dried, seasoned. Then a sharp knife,
an emery wheel and a ton of patience.
A good needlewood pipe was the thing of
joy that lasted for ever. It had a glori-
ous natural design, smoked cool, didn’t
char, couldn’t split, rarely went sour.
When the old fellows tired of making
needlewoods they only had to go a few
miles up to Flat Top Mountain and they
got pipeclay that made the best meer-
schaum pipes. That also is a lost art.
Who now sees an elaborately-carved,
delicately-colored meerschaum? Instead
of using what nature intended for a
smoke the shearer of to-day rolls his own.
Well, what about needlewood cigarette-
holders?
* * * *
“First Blue”: “Valencia Creek’s” sug-
gestion for decapitating a fowl by means
of a stockwhip (B. 29/3/’39) is a good
one provided the wielder of the knout
knows his job. In the hands of an ama-
teur, however, the method is apt to result
in unpleasantness and bother. I once
saw an alleged expert attempt to behead
the Christmas turkey in this manner, and
the complications that ensued made me a
confirmed follower of the old axe-and-
woodblock method. Standing the ap-
proved distance from the victim, the
executioner let fly with might and main.
Instead of just flicking the gobbler, how-
ever, some two or three feet of the lash
entwined itself, tentacle-fashion, around
the creature’s neck and, lifting it clean
from the ground, hurled it, protesting
luridly, through the bathroom window.
Ma-in-law was laving her loveliness
therein at the time, and what she said
about the occurrence was a revelation.
* * * *
“Cranus”: Not only does the human
skull possess peculiar fire-resisting proper-
ties, but above all other parts of the
body it longest defies the solvent action
of Mother Earth. “Dominic” (B.
15/3/’39) told of how Chief Midgerooroo
met his death against the wall of the
old Perth barracks. He was, of course,
buried close at hand, in what was then
the bush, not more than a couple of
hundreds yards distant. Ninety years
and more passed. In the meantime a
cathedral with its residential deanery
arose. Digging in the deanery garden
one day workmen unearthed a skull.
Whose could it be other than the war-
like Midgerooroo? All other vestiges
of the once-powerful body had dis-
appeared, yet there it still lay, wonder-
fully preserved, the old thinking-box, the
works inside of which nearly a century
before had caused Swan River settlers
great perturbation.
THE OLD RED RAG.
It is fifty years and a bit, God knows,
Since I rode the Bush where the Darling flows,
And snatched bogged sheep from the crowding
crows,
And fastened a girth on a bucking nag—
And here, going strong, is the old Red Rag!
It is forty years since its pages spoke
Through “Banjo” and Lawson and “Breaker”
and Boake,
While Dorrington, Bedford, Fisher and “Rudd”
Spilled us their laughter or bathed us in blood
And wrote their romances of billy and swag—
How we looked for their names in the old Red
Rag!
It’s a far cry now to the Southern Cross
And the jackeroo and the station boss,
And the droving camps and the nights gold-
starred,
And the dusty days in the drafting-yard,
And the days we dived for the mailman’s bag
To bury a nose in the old Red Rag.
But my heart goes back to the careless times
When I, like the rest, would spin my rhymes
And somehow get under the editor’s guard
And say my say as a backblock bard.
Now my hair is grey and my footsteps lag,
But I lift my hat to the old Red Rag!
SELKIRK, SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Wang”: Dad, with the useless bay
gelding tied behind the sulky, drove into
the township on horse-sales day. After
handing the nag over to the auctioneer’s
representative with instructions to sell it
for whatever it would bring, Dad went
to the pub. A couple of hours later,
well pickled, he made his way to the
saleyards. The auctioneer was just put-
ting up a horse, and Dad draped himself
over the rails to watch. The auctioneer
declaimed on the merits of the nag, and
Dad, with a hazy idea that he needed a
horse to replace the gelding, hiccupped
a bid. The hammer-wielder looked at
Dad and grinned. “But, Mr. Cowbails,”
he began. “Shut hup,” Dad cried, and
the crowd laughed. The auctioneer
started to say something again ; but Dad,
now roused to anger, roared that he
wanted to buy that horse and wouldn’t
be put off. “All right,” said the auc-
tioneer, bringing down the hammer,
“he’s yours.” Late that evening when
Dad arrived home, singing happily, with
his purchase, the family went out to
meet him. Then young Joe remarked,
“Yer wasn’t able t’ sell the geldin’, Dad.”
The remark brought Dad off the sulky,
suddenly sobered. He gave a look at
his purchase, and then stumped towards
the house, using language that nearly
set it on fire. But it was mild to what
he said two days later when he got a
bill for the auctioneer’s commission on
the sale.
“Say when!”
“Squealer”: There’s no wild bird
responds quicker to kindness than that
shy creature the curlew—ornithologists
call it the stone-plover. On South Molle
Island (Q.), when the Lamonds were
there, Mrs. Lamond started off by leaving
fowl-feed at a spot where a couple of
curlews usually ran. Very shortly those
birds had increased to a dozen or more.
Soon they could tell her step on the
gravel, and would come out to meet
her, dancing gravely in circles, skipping
and doing steps that a brolga never
learned. But if anyone else went near
them they would streak through the scrub
like brown shadows, to melt into the
landscape So adeptly as to defy the
keenest eye.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: “Dusty Bob” (B.
29/3/’39) notwithstanding, my pet ’roo
thumps his tail when taking sharp turns
during his invariable exercises at day-
break. Bush ’roos also thump their tails
as a danger-warning to the mob. Mar-
supials spring off both legs simultane-
ously ; owing to their peculiar physical
construction they lack the faculty of mov-
ing one leg at a time. Even when feed-
ing, the paws and tail take the weight
while the legs are moved forward.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The town and district of
Flinders—or Streaky Bay, to give it the
popular name —on the west coast of
S.A. has a unique water scheme. The
first settlers found that fresh water could
be procured from shallow wells, but if
these were sunk too deep, or were too
much drawn upon, the water would be-
come salt and remain so. Further in-
vestigation revealed that the whole of
the Robinson freshwater basin consisted
of a layer of fresh Water floating on
a layer of salt water, like cream on milk.
The Waterworks Department made
pumping tests and found that if a large
sump was made, with impervious sides
and bottom, and with its upper edge
only slightly below the level of the upper
water table, this fresh water could be
drawn off without disturbing the layer
of brine in the lower stratum. Now hun-
dreds of thousands of gallons can be
pumped out without upsetting the balance
between the two layers of water.
* * * *
“Bungham”: Tell “Tired Tim” (B.
8/3/’39) that it was Naaman of old
lamenting for his “rivers of Damascus”
who first uttered that nostalgic cry of the
exile for his native heath. I have heard
a drunken Irishman crying for his Kerry
hills, and the wastrel son of an English
nobleman babbling in his dying de-
lirium of Kent’s green lanes. But for
sheer throat-tightening pathos I shall
always remember the two septuage-
narians, man and wife, both feeble and
faltering, who after many years’ absence
faced back to their old home, a God-
forsaken tract of stumps and tussocks
that would not feed a rabbit.
* * * *
“Kesem”: Ask a timberman in
spotted-gum country when that tree
blossoms and the chances are he can’t
tell you. In the Chinchilla (W.Q.) dis-
trict this eucalyptus flowered in the late
“Would you kindly get me a pillow , sir?”
spring of last year, but as far as can
be ascertained it had not flowered for
several years previously. According to
some, it blossoms every three years, and
then only if it’s a good season. The
blossoming period of native trees of the
same species differs with longitude as
well as latitude. Leichhardt observed that
he saw the bloodwoods flowering in
December in Moreton Bay, but it was
June in Gulf waters before they burst
into their creamy froth. I have noticed
that both ironbarks (narrow-leaf) and
apple-tree flowered about six weeks later
than the same species did 150 miles east.
“Tired Tim”: The law being what it
is, Billy the half-caste, married to a half-
caste woman, is black in the eyes of
Bung, but his sons are “white.” The lion
in his path, as Mrs. Parsley would say,
is a full-blooded aboriginal parent in his
woodpile. Human nature being what it
is, Billy’s beverage is beer, and both
young men drink lemonade.
& $ * *
“Flight”: Agree with “Waranbini”
(B. 15/3/’39) that an emu fight is a rare
thing. In ones I have seen the pecks
and kicks noted by “W.” were replaced
by a more vigorous method: they
charged each other like merino rams.
A shade of a second before impact they
both left the ground and met chest to
chest in mid-air. When they grappled
they reached over like Muscovy drakes
and took a grip at the base of the other
fellow’s stump of a wing. Apparently,
in the long ago, that wing could land a
punch. Though the wing had atrophied,
the instinct to nullify it remains.
* * * *
“Passage Pilot”: Witnessed a nega-
tive sort of duel the other day. It was
between a deep-sea toad and a tiger
shark. The toadie was floating on top of
the waves, fully inflated, spluttering his
indignation. He was about 2ft. or so long,
the size of a Rugby football, with spikes
and spines sticking out all over him—
some call the deep-sea a porcupine fish.
The tiger, about 12ft. long, was eyeing
that bloke from below and circling be-
neath him. Don’t know the nark’s inten-
tions ; but toadie knew enough to keep
inflated. After a bit the waves washed
him near some rocks in deep water. I
thought that would end him. Not a bit
of it! Every bump he took added to
his indignation and made him swell big-
ger. The shark remained in attendance.
Didn’t see the finish, but the way the
toadie was swelling when last I saw him
he was im danger of bursting any min-
ute and flying into a thousand pieces.
Against that, the buffeting on the rocks
might have knocked the wind out of him
in time. If the big fellow did eat him,
then he must have had a wonderful diges-
tion. An ordinary toad as big as a man’s
little finger boiled in a kerosene tin of
fowl feed will turn up the chooks’ toes.
¥ * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Joe, who prided
himself on his penmanship, was writing
a letter for Sam, whose education had
been neglected. After setting down all
the news that Sam could think of, Joe
asked, “How shall I finish it?” “Say I
hope you’re well, as this leaves me at
present,” said Sam, meditatively; “and
that other thing they usually put,
‘Excuse bad writing.’ ”
HORSE OF A DIFFERENT COLOR.
“I can tell yer,” said Tommy the Bouncer,
‘‘the ’orse is a study apart;
They range from the calm an’ collected to ones
’ighly-strung like a tart.
There are some y’ must kid to to ’andle,
exactly the same as some blokes;
An’ I know wot I’m talkin’ about, see? I’ve
worked all me life among mokes.
“Yair, they’re flamin’ near ’uman in some ways,
from thoroughbred down to the crock,
More espeshly the way they’ll react to a thing
in the way of a shock.
Years ago I’d a chestnut, as nervous as any
that ever was shod—
An’ once this same weakness of his was the
cause of me coppin’ a wad.
“This prad was both sprinter and stayer —it
could’ve give Ajax a go;
I’m bottin’ around Western Queensland, just
pickin’ up odd bits o’ dough,
An’ I drifts into Itsprettyonkus in time for the
race meetin’ there.
The Spinifex Stakes is a soda—l cleaned up
that pussy affair —
“But the next day’s the cream o’ the meetin’;
they’re runnin’ the All-Comers’ Plate.
Now I noo, ’avin’ won with the chestnut, ’is
price’d be short —that’s a skate —
So I’d took the precaution to enter an ’orse
with a different name
For the Plate. Yair, 1 s’pose it was risky, but,
blimey! that’s all in the game.
“For, y’see, I ’ad only the chestnut; but
’adn’t I thought of a lurk?
You can bet y’r sweet life! In this racin’
there’s always a stunt y’ can work.
It was only a matter of changin’ ’is color —
no paint, though, for me;
It’s too messy. Besides that, my method was
simple an’ neat as could be.
“So that night, when I ’ears snorts an’ stampin’,
I just sorta noo that me steed
‘Ad munched to the corpse of the snake that
I’d thoughtfully slipped in ’is feed.
I told yer before ’e’s dead nervous an’ easily
works up a fright:
Well, ev’rything’s just as I ’oped for —the shock
turned ’im grey overnight!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERSAU'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.43 p.m.). Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., LI.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: JTames Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The WLEDAL COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 654,060 14 p.c. = 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 . . 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ ~630,000 4,636,943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ ~ 585,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ „ 236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 74 „ ~253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.. 265,087 9jf — 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 7J p.c.= 270,281* 4,657,266
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 4,668,330
1937.. 309,501 8 „ „ 297,000* 4,680,831
1938.. 310,049' 8 ~ „ 288.000* 4,702,880
*After deducting tax.
tlncludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
There has been a steady drift in the
market for bank scrip over the last
couple of years. Excluding the two
Maoriland banks, the average return
from the nine trading banks in Aus-
tralia was 3.2 p.c. for April, 1937, a
wink over 4 p.c. for April, 1938, and a
shade more than 4.5 p.c. for April, 1939.
Chief causes are (1) the shadow of pros-
pective Federal legislation concerning
compulsory deposits, etc., which has
receded into the background—for the
moment, at any rate —and (2) failure of
declared net earnings to adequately re-
spond to the improvement in conditions
generally. There is certainly not the
profit in banking there used to be. Still,
owing to the solid nature of Australia’s
banking system and the part it played in
cushioning the shock of the depression,
the market of recent years took the view
that the banks were making fairly sub-
stantial additions to their inner reserves
in order to repair damage done to these
shock-absorbers during the big slump.
But profits are still less than half what
they were in 1929, although the ratio of
advances to deposits now approaches the
figure of nine years ago. Partly because
of all this, and partly because of the
low prices for wool and wheat, the
tendency of trade generally to mark
time, increased Government spending on
defence, prospective growth in taxation,
and uncertainty as to the future, owing
to disturbed international conditions, the
market now prices bank scrip on the
assumption that, apart from reasonable
provision for contingencies, earnings are
fully disclosed.
The ’Asia, whose headquarters are in
London, does most of its business in
Australia, where it enjoys a large turn-
over in the exchange market. It is
strongest in Victoria, where it gathers
about 43 p.c. of its deposits, 23 p.c. in
N. S. Wales, and 15 p.c. in Maoriland.
The balance comes from the other four
Australian States.
Its £lO shares paid to £s—the
other £5 is a contingent liability
callable only in the event of liquidation—
are priced at £8 19s. on the market as
against £9 15s. a year ago, and £l3 Bs.
in March, 1937. The lowest price touched
during the slump was £9 10s. in 1931.
The 8 p.c. div. is payable in sterling and
subject to English income tax (4s. in the
pound for the last half of the 1938 term).
Allowing for exchange and tax at the
rate stated, 8 p.c. is also worth 8 p.c. in
Australian currency, on which basis the
return at £8 19s. is 4.4 p.c. Visibly the
net tangible backing is 40s. lid. per
pound of paid capital.
Last term an expansion of £3,586,300
in advances and a contraction of
£1,211,724 in deposits were accompanied
by a shrinkage of £4,417,769 in low-
interest-bearing liquids. Gross earnings
(£1,403,992) were £122,233 stronger. The
tax bill (£349,735) was £79,971 heavier,
and ordinary trading exes. (£744,207)
were up £41,711. That left the net result
only £552 better at 6.8 p.c. on the
£4,500,000 of capital as against 6.8, 6.6,
6, 5.8, 5.7, 5.6, 4.8, 13.6 and 15 p.c. back
to 1929. On shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) the latest re-
sult was only 3.3 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
1929. 1937. 1938.
Notes .. .. £434,329 £2,773 £2,745
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 5,317,750 5,568,657
Deposits .. 34,414,798 40,775,464 39,563,740
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,914,862 18,458,217 14,040,448
Bills, etc. . . 3,362,670 2,917,107 2,673,088
Advances . . 34,314,960 33,460,837 37,047,137
Premises . . 278,373 607,718 739,349
When the books closed advances
amounted to 93.6 p.c. of deposits as
against 82 p.c. for the previous term
and 99 p.c. in 1929. Depositors and
others could see 31.1 p.c. of their money
in liquids, and the bank was holding
£4 18s. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own.
Service, the keynote of all business
these days, is not being overlooked by
the banks. The ’Asia now assists its
customers who require financial help for
what the bank considers good reason,
but who, although in steady employment,
can offer no security beyond their
character and earning power. Properly
handled there should be little loss on
this class of business, and very satisfac-
tory pickings.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 62,995 74 p.c. = 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 74 „ ~ 56,250 4,239 86,410
Jan.,
1932*. 56,695 6i ~ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6J „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 „ ~ 37,500 101,759
1936.. 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 6.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938.. 65,145 6i „ „ 46,875 } „ „
To staff fund, £5OOO . . J 16,370 134,621
1939.. 51,233 6ip.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,979
*l3 months.
Headquarters are in Fiji, and have been
ever since the co. took over this section
of the big B.P. organisation In 1920 In
addition to buying and selling copra,
cocoa, trochus shell, timber, ivory nut,
beche-de-mer, vanilla and other island
products, the co. does a large general
merchandise, shipping and finance (ad-
vances to planters and others connected
with island enterprise) business as well.
From the start the policy has been to
keep divs. moderate (they have averaged
6.1 p.c. over the last 19 years), and extend
and strengthen the business out of earn-
ings, visible and otherwise. It is this
policy which enhances the investment
possibilities of the scrip, especially as a
holding proposition. But the market, in-
fluenced by immediate prospects,
lengthens or shortens its bid for the co.’s
shares partly in accordance with the price
of copra, upon which activity in island
trading, and therefore the co.’s earnings,
depends to some extent.
Although the London price of copra
tumbled from £27 a ton in 1928 to £7 ss.
a ton in 1934, the div. over the same
period was reduced by only 2\ p.c., leav-
ing it at 5 p.c. During 1934 the co.’s copra
transactions showed a loss for a while ;
so the shipping, merchandising and out-
side investments provide very satisfactory
returns, even in bad times.
Last term opened with copra around
£l2 10s. a ton in London ; last week-end
the figure was £9 15s. Prices for other
island produce eased, too, and the co.’s
gross earnings were £19,196 lighter,
though sale of the leasehold on the
Phrenix Islands to the Gilbert and Ellis
Islands Colony Government (at an un-
stated figure) may have accounted for
some of the drop:—•
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dee., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1927 .. .. 101,785 97,681 60.4
1929 .. .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 .. .. 185,060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 .. .. 169,182 112,487 66.4
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1935 .. .. 137,507 100,349 72.9
1936 .. .. 153,393 110,639 72.1
1937 . . . . 180,189 122,101 67.8
1938 . . . . 203,465 138,320 68.1
1939' . . . . 184,269 133,036 72.2
Including an allowance of £23,049 (down
£10,544) for depreciation, exes, were £5284
lighter. The net result (down £13,912) was
equal to 6.8 p.c. on capital as against
8.7, 7.7, 5.7, 4.9, 5, 6.9, 7.5, 8 and 8.1
p.c. back to 1929. Still, the div. was kept
at 6J p.c., an interim 7d. and final Bd.
per share, same as in the previous term.
During the year two new motor vessels
took up the running in the inter-island
trade, and a larger one, now under con-
struction, for trade between the islands
and Pacific Coast ports of N. America,
including Mexico, is due for delivery
in June. The Malak, which was on the
inter-island run, was sold. Any profit
there may have been in this connection,
or on the sale of the Phoenix lease, has
been whisked away to inner reserves.
Here are balance-sheet figures :
1929. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 85,092 30,724 46,089 48,348
Properties, 1 (
wharves, etc. j- 435,890 554,179 ( 274,872 314,226
Investments j [ 266,356 264,564
Stocks, etc. .. 287,613 158,898 178,562 127,830
Book debts . . 189,962 175,498 179,788 190,202
Cash . . . . 60,048 36,662 61,132 65,504
The growth in the book value of fixed
assets was £39,354 ; book debts were up
£10,414 and cash £4372. The drop in
the stocks item was £50,732, and in in-
vestments £1792. Owing to the outlay
on fixed assets there was a contraction
of £38,205 in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£335,188, excluding investments).
The market prices the pound shares
at 255. as against 275. 9d. a year ago.
At the lower figure the return is 5 p.c.
on a 6j p.c. div. basis, with possibilities.
Visibly the cover is 235. 6d. in net
tangibles.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney,)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.t Dividends. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £,
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4,413 5„ „ 4262 151 ( 19
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO j
From inner reserves, £57,000 1
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. I „'<•
t™ r 96
1932.. 71,284 Nil ] •
Deficit.t
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £31,018 .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. .. 176,956
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit.
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5,878 166,463
1936.. 11,559 Nil 11,559 154,904
1937.. 7,381 Nil 7,381 147,523
Surplus cancellation debentures, £1954.. 145,569
Debenture interest written back, £1236.. 144,333
1938.. 14,473 Nil 14,473 129,860
* Eight months.
f Excluding capital reserve, £166,167 at Dec. 31, ’3B.
t After payment of debenture interest, etc.
Difficult to say when shareholders, who
haven’t had anything since 1931, are
likely to get into the picture again. In
front of their £107,806 of capital is
£516,500 of debentures, and in front of
these debentures are the mortgage
(£76,715) and overdraft (£104,582). Chief
investment interest is in the debentures,
which are the funded trade debts of the
old Bond co., and are secured by a float-
ing charge over the co.’s assets. Origi-
nally these debentures carried 7 p.c. p.a.,
which was reduced by the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act to £5 Bs. 6d. p.c.,
and then by agreement to 2 p.c., 2\ p.c.
and 3 p.c. for the three years to the end
of Oct., 1937, and to 4 p.c. p.a. until May
1, 1941. The idea was to facilitate pur-
chase of new plant, and so strengthen
the co.’s competitive power. The differ-
ence between £5 Bs. 6d. p.c. and the lower
rates mentioned is to be paid out of earn-
ings when profits and the co.’s financial
position permit. At the end of 1938 the
contingent liability in this respect was
£40,997, or £7 18s. 9d. per £lOO deben-
ture.
The market prices the debentures at
£5l 10s. as against £57 10s. a year ago.
Allowing for the next interest payment
(£2 10s.), due May 1, the net price is
£49, at which figure the return is 8.3 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. interest basis, plus arrears.
The net tangible cover is £127 18s.
That includes a capital reserve of
£166,167 (£32 3s. sd. per debenture),
which is largely a book entry in respect
of the freehold. The pound shares at
3s. 9d. have a speculative interest which
might be worth something a few years
hence.
Despite keen competition, the upward
trend of costs and the general tendency
for turnovers to slacken their pace a little
during the last half of 1938, Bond’s sales
kept on expanding. Gross earnings
(£138,664) were £12,638 stronger. Exes.
(£98,293) were up £5051, owing appar-
ently to a heavier allowance for deprecia-
tion (£27,791, up £6990). The net result
was £7587 stronger at £40,371, of which
a year’s debenture interest took £20,731
and £5185 was paid off arrears of interest,
leaving £14,473 to further strengthen the
finances of the business. That leaves out
of the reckoning a surplus of £1954 on
purchase of debentures and £1236 trans-
ferred from the previous year’s accounts,
due to overprovision of interest. The
board’s policy of modernising and ex-
tending the plant, appears to be bearing
fruit.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —-
. 1933. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £86,442 £92,306 £ 102,806 £107,806
Debentures . . 529.747 522,669 525,206 519,943
Mortgage .. 109,786 101.797 93,771 76 714
Overdraft . . 122,099 97,408 87,072 104 582
Sundry creditors 30,312 14,337 16,696 18,514
Freehold .. 320,920 320,981 322,150 327,052
Plant .. 212,754 190,009 192,033 180.317
Stocks .. 226,034 205,517 227,833 236.559
Book debts . . 128,602 99,409 98,168 115,504
Cash, etc. . . 10,426 12,238 4,010 4,433
Last year £17,057 was snipped off the
mortgage, and £17,510 was added to the
overdraft. Including the allowance for
depreciation, etc., surplus earnings en-
abled £4902 to be added to freehold,
£8726 to stocks and £17,336 to debtors’
balances. When the books closed more
or less liquids exceeded the floating debt
and the mortgage by £156,686, or £24,214
more than at the previous balance.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
r— Dividends Re- Re-
Fcb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
.. 62,757 8 p.e. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 105,733
1930 . . 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 . . 25,911 8 „ 10 „ 25,028 883 125,043
Jnoo " 18 > 037 7 - 6 » 7 ». 17,717 320 125,363
1930 . 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 .. 126,148
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.e. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 • • 30,193 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Sharp premiums, £12,556 . . .. 144,358
•' 34 ’ 276 8 P-c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 . . 42,265 8 ~ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 ~ 12 J „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
A splendid showing. Many retailers
found it difficult to maintain turnover
owing to the fall in wool and wheat
prices, the unsettling effect of inter-
national developments, the demands of
the Government for defence and other
expenditures, and prospective increases
in the burden of taxation. Also, costs
remained on the up-grade. Still Mc-
Dowells substantially increased its sales,


This advertisement is an abridgement only of the full Prospectus and is published merely for public information and not as an invitation to subscribe for shares.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
CELLULOSE AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Registered in South Australia as a Limited Company under “The Companies Acts 1934 and 1935” on the 28th day of March, 1939.
PROSPECTUS of an issue at par of 165,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.
Authorised Capital:
800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £BOO,OOO
35,000 shares of £1 each have been firm subscribed by the underwriters.
1 15,000 shares of £1 each are offered for public subscription payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment,
and the balance to be subscribed in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than two months,
15,000 shares of £l each are to be issued and allotted as fully paid to the Vendor Company, Australasian Cellulose Manufac-
tures, Limited, pursuant to the Agreement hereinafter mentioned.
635,000 shares of £l each are to be held in reserve.
800,000
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment in the present issue is 125,000 shares.
The whole of such 125,000 shares, inclusive of the 35,000 firm subscribed, have been underwritten.
DIRECTORS.
TOM ELDER BARR-SMITH, the Younger, of Nairne, South Australia, Pastoralist.
LAURENCE JOHN HARTNETT, M.1.E., of “Rubra,” Mount Eliza, Victoria, Managing Director of General Motors Holdens, Ltd.
HON. EDWARD WHEEWALL HOLDEN, M.L.C., B.Sc., M.1.E., of Dequetteville Terrace, Kent Town, South Australia, Company Director.
THOMAS ROWLAND MORRIS, of Wilson Street, Brighton, Victoria, Managing Director of Morris & Walker Proprietary, Ltd., Cardboard Box Manufacturers.
ANDREW DOUGLASS YOUNG, of First Avenue, East Adelaide, South Australia, Sharebroker.
APPOINTED BY THE TREASURER OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
FRANK TENNYSON PERRY, of College Street, College Park, South Australia, Managing Director of Perry Engineering Company, Limited, and
ALAN GEORGE PICKERING, A.1.C.A., of Jellicoe Street, Linden, South Australia, Officer of the State Treasury.
Bankers'.
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, King William Street, Adelaide.
Solicitors:
Vaughan & Litchfield, Industrial Building, King William Street, Adelaide.
Auditors:
Steele, Calder, Austin & Slade, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Alliance Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Brokers'.
Robert Bruce & Sons, Investment Brokers, Brookman Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Secretary and Registered Office;
C. E. PIPER, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),' Pharmacy Building, Gawler Place, Adelaide.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company has been formed to undertake the manufacture of papers, paper boards,
building boards and other cellulose products. The present issue of capital is to manufacture
high-quality cardboards from wool pulp and straw-fibre building boards. The extensive
softwood forests in the south-east of South Australia, from which the State Government
has contracted to supply the Company with its timber, provide the only source of softwood
timber in the Commonwealth of sufficient maturity and area to permit of large-scale pulping.
An adjunct to the manufacture of cardboards will be a building board plant working
with straw as its raw material by the Schacht process, which gives the remarkable yield
of over 90 tons of building (or insulating) boards for every 100 tons of straw used.
THE MILL-SITE.
The area of 80 acres secured for the Mill is about six miles from Millicent, in close
proximity to the Mt. Burr, Penola, and other South-eastern Forests, and is directly served
by the Snuggery Channel. The District Council of Millicent, which controls this Channel,
has granted the Company a 21 years’ franchise with right of renewal, which assures a
permanent water supply more than adequate for present and any possible future needs.
Ample straw is obtainable within convenient transport distance of the Mill.
The Mill site is on the Mt. Gambier-Beachport Railway, 26 miles from Beachport,
which possesses a suitable harbour where full shipments of coal can be unloaded and, by
the backloading of finished products to the Eastern States, favourable rates of freightage
both ways are assured.
VALUABLE TIMBER RIGHTS.
By the contract with the South Australian Government, the Company is assured of
its supplies of pinus radiata pulpwood. The shortage of the world’s timber resources gives
a special value to the Government softwood plantations, which comprise in all over
70,000 acres.
Large-scale factory tests carried out in co-operation with the South Australian Forestry
Department with a shipment to Europe from Mt. Burr of pinus radiata thinnings proved
the high value of these Australian-grown softwoods for pulping _ purposes, and provided
invaluable technical data which promise important developments in the cellulose industry.
MARKETS.
The types of cardboards to be made at Millicent Mill (Leather-boards and White Pulp
Boards) can only be made from softwood timber, and are now wholly imported. Though
the prices at which these imported boards are now sold are at least 25% higher than those
upon which the Company’s estimates have been calculated, the latter provide a very
profitable return to the Company. The whole of the Company’s annual output in both
cardboards and building boards, totalling 5000 tons, can be readily absorbed in the
Australian market, which increases at the rate of 10% every year.
NATIONAL IMPORTANCE OF THE INDUSTRY.
The national value of the industry is that it provides:
A market for the timber grown in our State Forests in which over £1,000,000 of
public money is invested.
A profitable return to the farmer for straw now going to waste.
An encouraging lead in the decentralising of Australian secondary industries.
An opportunity for developing in the Commonwealth other manufactures for which
cellulose is the essential raw material, such as celluloid, cellophane, artificial silk,
staple fibre, cellulose paints, lacquers and explosives.
A contribution to defence needs in times of grave national emergency.
TECHNICAL STAFF.
As the Company’s technical expert, the services have been secured of Mr. J. C.
Heerdt, a paper engineer of the highest qualifications, who has been for some years
associated with outstanding scientists in the paper-making world, in perfecting new pro-
cesses of paper and board manufacture,
This first unit of production will provide direct employment for approximately 150
men. The plant is expected to be in full operation within 12 months
CONSIDERATION TO THE VENDOR COMPANY.
The present project is intended as the first stage in the development of a larger under-
taking, which covers a wider field of cellulose manufactures. The Vendor Company has
formulated a production programme in complete detail for such extension of operations,
which can consequently be proceeded with immediately it is considered desirable, and the
requisite additional capital is available.
The purchase > agreement provides, as consideration for the transfer of its rights and
assets, and as reimbursement for its outlay in preparatory work, etc., the Vendor Company
is to be allotted 15,000 fully paid shares of £1 each of the present issue, and a further
proportionate number of shares in new share capital raised by Cellulose Australia, Limited,
for the extension of its works, provided that the total number of such additional Vendor
shares is not to exceed 20,000, and the new issues are floated within five years of the
registration of the Company.
Any additional capital which either the State Government or the State Bank provides
in any form beyond the £25,000 now being underwritten by the Government, will not
carry any right to the Vendor Company of receiving such additional Vendor shares.
Apart from the usual flotation and preliminary expenses, no cash consideration what-
soever is payable to the Vendor Company. The Vendor Company is further showing its
faith in the enterprise by undertaking that no Vendor shares shall be sold in any Australian
market within two years of the issue thereof.
ESTIMATED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
Mill-site and Buildings .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £32,000
Plant installed on Mill-site, including freight and exchange .. .. 87,620
Company Flotation Expenses, Brokerage, Underwriting .. .. 9,000
Working Capital and Contingencies .. .. .. .. .. 21,380
Vendors’ Shares .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 15,000
£165,000
ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROFITS.
Annual Revenue—
From Sale of Cardboards and Building Boards .. .. .. £106,177
Annual Costs
Raw Material, Labour, Power, Factory Costs, Depreciation, Over-
head, and all other charges .. .. .. .. .. 81,141
Annual Profit—
The annual Profit as shown above, but without allowing for
taxation .. .. .. .. .. . • • ■ • • 25,036
These estimates, which are certified by Mr. Heerdt as conservative and fully covering
the actual expenditure, have been checked by the Company’s auditors, whose report states
that they have been prepared with thoroughness and accuracy and may be accepted as sound.
The Company will pay a brokerage of fourpence per share to members of recognised
Stock Exchanges on shares allotted as the result of applications bearing their stamp, and
an overriding brokerage of twopence per share to the Company’s brokers on all subscribed
shares allotted other than those allotted to underwriters.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares must be made on the form accompanying the Prospectus. The
allotment of shares will be made at the discretion of the Directors. Copies of the full
Prospectus and forms of application for shares may be had from:
The office of the Company:
Pharmacy Building, Gawler Place, Adelaide.
The offices of the Company’s Brokers:
Robert Bruce & Sons, Investment Brokers, Brookman Buildings, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide
The Members of the Stock Exchanges of Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney.
OPENING AND CLOSING OF LIST.
The Subscription List will be opened on the 18th day of April, 1939, and will close
at 5 p.m. on the 10th day of May, 1939, but the Directors reserve the right to close the
list at any earlier date.
Statutory Requirements Relating to This Abridged Prospectus.
The statutory requirements of Section 137 of The Companies Act, 1936, of New South
Wales have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, but are contained in the
printed Prospectus which is dated the 15th day of April, 1939, and a copy of which duly
certified has been filed with the Registrar-General for the State of New South Wales. The
names, descriptions and addresses of the Directors are as above. The minimum subscription
on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is when 125,000 shares have been applied
for. Applications for shares will be received only on one of the forms ot application
referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the Prospectus.
which were assisted by the cash-order
and lay-by sections of the business.
The co. specialises in medium-priced
drapery lines, and has lately spent
a lot of money remodelling its premises
(they are in the busy G.P.O. block), thus
providing better display and shopping
facilities, which count for much these
days when competition takes the form of
services of one kind and another, includ-
ing care for the comfort and convenience
of customers. For the last 16 years the
outstanding feature of the business has
been steady expansion combined with
very satisfactory earning power. Paid
capital, which was £88,309 in 1924, is
now £302,726, and for the seven years
to the close of accounts in 1930 divs.
averaged 13.5 p.c., while for the nine
years since, including the difficult slump
period, the average has been approxi-
mately 10 p.c.
The spring in gross earnings from all
sources (£260,755) was £42,627. Includ-
ing £15,000 (up £5000) set aside for the
taxgatherer and £4lOO (up £1800) for de-
preciation, exes. (£207,651) took £31,788
of the increase, leaving the net result
£10,839 better at £53,104. This was
enough to pay the small pref. div. (£800)
and show 17.8 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 14.1, 11.6, 13.2, 12.1, 10.2, 10.1,
7.1, 10.3 and 20.3 p.c. back to 1930. A
2\ p.c. bonus was added to the 10 p.c.
div., making \2\ p.c. for the year.
The lift in the distribution fitted in with
the anticipations of the market, which
prices the pound shares at 435. 6d., as
against 425. 7d. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 5.7 p.c. on the
basis of a 12i p.c. distribution. It is a
very satisfactory return, all things con-
sidered. What the current term holds for
the business will partly depend upon in-
ternational developments.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —
1925. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £252,272 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000 75,000 75,000
Overdraft . . 30,111 21,206 8,239
Sundry creditors 456 18,091 28,500 31,808
Freeholds, fit-
InfSent’:: } 4< “' 888 883 ' 572 888 ' ISS
Stocks .. 58,800 94,488 107,317 112.981
Book debts . . 23,078 14,082 44,178 54,883
Cash, etc. . . 14,754 20,511 4,408 4,977
Scares in sub-
sidiary . . 90,903 90,903
Including the allowance for depreciation,
etc., the year’s surplus, earnings, together
with an extra £3308 from sundry credi-
tors, enabled the co. to spend £4621 more
than was written off on fixed assets, add
£5664 to stocks, £10,705 to debtors’
balances, and snip £12,967 off the over-
draft. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£57,794) was
£26,597.
Sydney Water Board Loan
Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board is on the market
with another £1,000,000 of 4 \ p.c.
stock or debentures, at the option of the
applicant, with a 10-year currency at par.
This will complete the board’s £3,000,000
programme for the current financial year.
The issue, underwritten by J. B. Were
and Son, Melbourne, will close on or
before May 12. The money will be spent
on essential extensions of Sydney’s water
ard sewerage works. The loan is a trus-
tee security in N. S. Wales, Queensland
and Tasmania, and therefore has a special
appeal to residents of the three Eastern
States. Both principal and interest are
guaranteed by the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment, and a sinking fund at the rate of
10s. p.c. p.a. is created by the board


THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(Incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
SEVENTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 27th March, 1939, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 27th March, 1939,
after deduction of £2295/2/4, Depreciation, is . . .. ..£71,120 15 4
Plus the balance brought forward from the previous year . . . . 45,345 8 5
£116,466 3 9
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per
annum was paid in November last . . .. .. .. ~31,250 0 0
£85,216 3 9
Out of which the Directors have transferred to Bank Premises and
Furniture account an amount of . . . . . . . . . . 20,000 0 0
Leaving available . . . . . . . . . . . . . .£65,216 3 9
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year
ended 27th March, 1939, at the rate of 5J% per annum, payable
after the General Meeting on 17th May, 1939 . . ; . . . 34,375 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . . . . . . .£30,841 3 9
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 17th May, 1939, at
1 2 o’clock noon, at which the shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director
in the place of Mr. Stanley McGregor Reid, who retires in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but is eligible for re-election and offers himself accordingly.
On the 31st March last Mr. W. J. Masson retired from the position of General
Manager, which he had held since 30t'h August, 1927.
Mr. O. L. Isaachsen was appointed General Manager as from Ist April, 1939.
The Shareholders will be asked to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year
and to fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
O. L. ISAACHSEN, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
Adelaide, 13th April, 1939.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(Incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
BALANCE SHEET, 27th MARCH, 1939.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised (250,000 Shares at
£5 each) £1,250,000 0 0
Issued (250,000 Shares at £5
each) ' . . 1,250.000 0 o
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of
Credit, etc., £509,737/15/5.
ASSETS'.
Specie, Bullion and Cash Balances £49,757 18 0
Australian Notes and Cash with
Commonwealth Bank of Australia 410,378 12 3
Reserve Fund Investments, consist-
ing of Government Securities,
£702,669/17/10, and other
Securities, £9843 —at or under
market value .... .. .. 712,512 17 10
Money at Short Call and Common-
Liabilities of Customers on Letters of Credit, etc.,
as per Contra, £509,737/15/5.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
From 28th March, 1938, to 27th March, 1939.
To Dividend in May,
1938 . . . . £31,250 0 0
„ Dividend in
November, 1938 . . 31,250 0 0
Transfer to Bank Premises and
Furniture account
Balance 27th March, 1939
£62,500 0 0
20,000 0 0
65,216 3 9
£147,716 3 9,
By Balance 28th March, 1938 .. £76,595 8 5
~ Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision, for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted and
deducting Expenses at Head
Office and 61 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc., and
Directors’ Fees, £2500 .. 71,120 15 4
£147,716 3 9
RESERVE FUND,
To Balance at this date .. ..£1,000,000 0 0
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and Approved
Securities)
£1,000,000. 0 0
0. L. ISAACHSEN, General Manager.
W. E. \V EL HO URN, Secretary.
By Balance 28th March, 1938 .. £1,000,000 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
HOWARD W. LLOYD]
A. E. HAMILTON
W. STEELE I
Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
VV e report that in our opinion the above Bala,nee Sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of The Bank of Adelaide's affairs on 27th March, 1939, according to the
best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books of the Bank submitted.
We have obtained all information and explanations required by us.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and other Securities of the Bank
on hand at the Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches, other than London, have been
taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
In our opinion, the Register of Members and other records which the Bank is required to keep by
the South Australian Companies Act, 1934, or by its Articles of Association, have been properly kept.
KENNETH W. NEILL
R. B. WILTSHIRE
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
Adelaide, 12th April, 1939.
Auditors.
I, OSCAR LIONEL IS'AACTISEN, General Manager of The Bank of Adelaide, DO SOLEMNLY AND
SINCERELY DECLARE—
That the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used partly in the business, and partly in
Government and approved securities.
That the accompanying statement and balance sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, true in every particular.
That the names, addresses and occupations of persons who are the Directors of the Bank at the date
of this statement are:—
SIR HOWARD WATSON LLOYD (Chairman), College Town, Accountant.
HON. EDWARD WHEEWALL HOLDEN, B.Sc., M.I.E. (Aust.), M.L.C., Kent Town, Manufacturer.
ALBERT EDWIN HAMILTON, M.B.E., Adelaide, Accountant.
WILLIAM STEELE, Millswood, Company Director.
STANLEY McGRE.GOR REID, Millswood, Accountant.
AND I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1936.
0. L. ISAACHSEN.
DECLARED at Adelaide, in the State of South Australia, this 13th day of April, 1939, before me—
C. W. BARNES,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the State of South Australia.
We, Howard W. Lloyd, Albert E. Hamilton, and William Steele, of College Town Adelaide and
Millswood respectively, being Directors of The Bank of Adelaide, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that in our
opinion the above Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so cs to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Adelaide this 13th day of April, 1939.
HOWARD W. LLOYD,]
A. E. HAMILTON }
VV. STEELE J
Directors.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
?
If not you owe It to yourself and
to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd*
Wfiie for o Free Booklet fo
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.Y, G.P.0., SYDNEY,£
TELEPHONE: 8 5294
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
H.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
THE
IiyiTCniNSURAMCE
U 111 I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Hen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Ha nag
against all loans it raises. The fund is
used, among other things, to buy the
board’s loans should they fall below par
in the market, thus providing an addi-
tional prop to the market value of the
security. Under its Act the board is
empowered to levy at the rate of Is. 6d.
in the pound each for water and sewer-
age services. The actual rates charged
for 1938-39 are 9|d. and 8|d. respec-
tively ; so there is a wide margin of secu-
rity there.
Cuthbert’s Misima (Papua)
, —P rofit—Divi
Dec., Revenue. Exes.f Net. Share. Share. Amt.
1 £57,889 £26,794 £31,095 2/0.7 1/6 £22,500
iwjo , ,p o special reserve, £2000.
,„o,. j 68,075 34,391 33,684 2/2.8 2/- 30,000
1 ‘ ( To special reserve, £2000.
inog ) 86,518 42,816 43,702 2/10.8 2/- 30,000
1 To special reserve, £3000.
* 14| months, f Includes bonus to white staff,
£1125, 1936; £1500, 1937.
The spring in last year’s earnings was
due mainly to bigger throughput and
partly to a bit better recovery of gold
and silver, and to a slight lift in the Lon -
don average price for gold (£S7 2s. 6.28d.
per fine ounce, as against £S7 Os. 9.01d.
in 1937). There was less of the two metals
in the ore, which assayed 6dwt. 6gr. gold
(down 3gr.) and 35dwt. 17gr. silver
(down lldwt. 7gr.), and costs (22s. 6d.)
were 4.5d. a ton higher. Here is a com-
parison of treatment and recovery figures,
etc.: —
1936. 1937. 1938.
Treated, tons .. .. 21,707 26,119 33,521
Gold, oz 6,375 7,407 9,537
Recovery, p.c. . . . . 91.0 90.8 92.0
Silver, oz. . . . . 19,008 21,387 20,707
Recovery, ton . . . . 52/11 51/11 51/6
Operating- costs, ton .. 21/1.1 22/1.5 22/6
Shortage of native labor prevented
throughput reaching plant capacity of
40,000 tons p.a.; it also delayed widening
the second haulage tunnel and com-
pletion of the new ore-bin and con-
necting motor road to the mill, and was
the chief factor in bumping up costs per
ton. These were mining and develop-
ment 14s. 2.8d. (up 8. Id.), milling
7s. 10.4d. (up 1.3d.) and general 4.8d.
(down 4.9d.). That excludes manage-
ment exes., etc. (£2934), written off
plant (£670) and the bonus to the white
staff (£1500), together equal to 3s. (Hd.
per ton. Net earnings were £10,018
( = 8d. per share) better at 2s. 10.8d. per
10s. share. But the div. was kept at
2s., money being wanted for further de-
velopment of the property.
The year’s capital expenditure on mine
and plant was £2604 and £5638 respec-
tively, making their book values £90,849
and £51,981 respectively. When the books
closed more or less liquids, including pre-
payments (£2000), totalled £26,155, and
there was £8377 coming to sundry credi-
tors, including provision for taxation.
Ore reserves are put at 194,496 (up
4405) tons positive and 117,854 (up 4929)
tons probable. These figures relate to
the oxidised zone of the southern section,
where there is some more (possible) ore
above No. 9 level. No work has yet
been done on the sulphides, and little
development has been undertaken in the
northern section, where a start to open
up the oxides will be made toward the
end of this year.
. Toward the close of last accounts
the shortage of native labor was over-
come. This should mean increased pro-
duction, and therefore bigger revenue
and reduced costs. The market, however,
prices the f.-p. pound shares at 15s. 6d.
as against 20s. a year ago. On the basis
of last year’s figures a lift in throughput
to 40,000 tons p.a. would alone increase
net earnings to approximately 3s. 6d. per
share. On this basis, which makes no
allowance for future requirements for
development, the investor at 15s. 6d. who
looks for his money back plus 10 p.c. p.a.
counts on an eight years’ life for the
property. This is covered by positive
and probable ore in the oxidised portion
of the southern section alone.
South Kalgurli, on the East Coolgardie
field (W.A.), shows a drop of about
£A4500 in working surplus for the year
to March. Reduced throughput appears
chiefly responsible. Yields slipped a
bit, reflecting gradual impoverishment in
the ore-bodies at depth, but much of
the loss here was offset by cost-savings,
despite more onerous labor awards. The
co. is one of the few major Westralian
concerns not to have bumped up mill
capacity of late. That is because the main
mine, which is now like a rabbit warren,
couldn’t stand it. It is to the Hainault
section, at present being tested, that
the board is looking for a continuance
of prosperity in the future. The co. has
a fat purse.
* * * *
Cox’s Find, on the isolated Erlistoun
field, north of Laverton (W.A.), won
gold worth £150,600 for the 12 months
to March last. Production figures were
17,863 tons ore for 16,915oz. gold, an'
average of 19dwt. a ton, as against
17.4dwt. in the preceding term. Costs
are the chief bugbear. They were 60s. 9d.
a ton, excluding development, for the
1938 term; but the grade of ore can
stand it. The mine is three-fourths
owned by Western Mining Corp. and one-
fourth by Central Gold, of Adelaide. At
2s. 4d. the latter’s shares appear not
without interest, though recent yields
haven’t been quite up to last term’s
average.
si*
Coolgardie Brilliants were billed as
dirt cheap, yet 121,000 (there are 400,000
issued) were sold in the vestibule of the
Perth Stock Exchange the other day for
non-payment of the first call of lyd. Of
the 121,000, 111,000 realised 2d. each, and
10,000 2yd. apiece. Since formation in
1934 the co. has successively tried, and
failed, to make its fortune at Coolgardie,
Yalgoo, Lennonville, Mt. Magnet and
Kingston, all in Westralia.
a? * * *
Mt. Magnet Gold Mines, Ltd., has
taken an option on the old Paris mine,
within sight of its present holdings at
Mt. Magnet (W.A.). A large low-grade
ore-body is the attraction.. The co. is
London-controlled, and Lord Lee of
Fareham is chairman. It has operated
Hill 60 and St. George mines for some
time, and has paid a few dividends.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has declared a
final div. for 1938 of 9d. a share, making
2s. (sterling) for the year, less English
income tax of 2s. 9d. in the £. Net profit
for the year was £110,000, compared with
£166,466 for 1937. The annual meeting
is scheduled for May 8.
* * * *
Kunanalling Gold (W.A.) will refund
11yd. a share to those on the register at
an early date. The co. formerly worked
Blackett’s Premier and other properties
at Kunanalling, but developments at
depth were unsatisfactory, and it sold
out to the mine manager. There was
£2800 cash in hand at Dec. 1 last.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
m
iffl
'•'mmiii'v*
11 Hill
Ml
ill
ill
IKK
m
* m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: BW2061 (9 lines)
B6363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Sherry Stolen.” — Melbourne “Sun.”
Police are now watching all ports.
“ Thai's enough, boys — it's gorn tWO o'clock .”
“Wireless announcers demand higher wages
than captains of airliners.” — News item.
Well, after all, look at the flights of
imagination they tackle.
•F *F *F *F
“Does your wife’s cooking tickle your
palate?”— Cookery note.
Yes, but we’re scared to laugh.
•I* *F *F *F
“How did people spend their evenings
before wireless was invented?”— Radio talk.
In peace.
4* 4* 4* +
“Gardeners seem to have the happy knack
of remaining perpetually young.”
—Gardening note.
Always among the evergreens.
•F *F *F *F
“The personnel of an American group of
archaeologists who propose excavating near , the
ancient city of Petra will include a married
woman.” — Women’s mag.
Trust a woman to dig up the past.
•F -F »F *F
“ ‘It’s taxis for the officers, trams for the
sailors,’ he said bitterly.”— ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Sailors don’t car.
•F *F *F *F
“Their [nudists] sole form of resistance to
authority were dogged, patient nude parades by
the whole community.”— Women’s paper.
They certainly maintained a bold front.
•F *F *F *F
“Undoubtedly the average woman is pleased
with her success when she succeeds in wheed-
ling from her husband money she did not ex-
pect.”—Women’s paper.
Yes, it often goes to her head.
•F *F *F *F
“That the longest way round is the sweetest
way home is still the belief of lovers.”
— Women’s mag.
And taxi-drivers.
A pedestrian is a man with a new car
and a son or daughter over sixteen.
•F »F *F *F
“Why stammer and stutter?”-— Advt.
Well, it gives her time to chip in and
say just. what she suspects and then you
won’t start squaring off about the wrong
thing.
<%• 4* *F *F
“Parachute jumping as cure for “nerves.”
— Advt.
From the moment the ’chute doesn’t
open you’ll never ever worry about any-
thing.
4* 4 1
“Whistling is against the law in Iceland.’
— ‘‘World’s News.”
Probably because an Icelander’s breath
freezes so quickly that if he whistles
while walking across the street a barri-
cade springs up.
' 4* .*F 4* *F
“Give the Fat Man a Break!”'
—‘‘Sunday Sun.
After all, he can’t bend.
4* 4*
Funny the way these platinpm blondes
are usually set on tin!
“It is a green world on which we look to-
day.”—“S.M.H.” gardening note.
And, like many a green that’s nearly
cooked, it’s almost ready to boil over.
Romance.
Here where we sit above the moving seas,
The moon’s soft silver rays upon them
dance,
Throwing a largesse on their cool
unease —•
The shillings and the florins of
romance.
A lover I, a lover’s theme I plead;
And as / lean to take her warm, soft
lips
She says: “Say, kiddo, l could do a
feed —
What say we go and get some fish and
chips ?”
H. M.
Cause and Effect.
“Some Women spend all that their husbands
earn on fashionable clothes merely to excite
the envy of the woman next door.”
— Women’s mag.
One man likes watching his bank balance
grow
And willingly toils to that end;
Another on pleasure will spend all his
dough
With pais of a similar blend.
But he with a wife who is stylishly
dressed
From daylight to darkness must labor.
His nose to the grindstone he keeps
closely pressed
That hers may turn up at the neighbor.
Leon.
Colored Up.
In the pink of condition, though blue
with the cold, Violet walked, with black
thoughts in her mind, in a brown study.
Tom may have been born into the
purple ; but she had read his thoughts
and they showed a yellow streak.
He, a man, had borrowed silver from
her; she suspected that he was after
her gold. She flushed scarlet as, with
a grey prospect for the future, she re-
flected upon the chestnuts he had told
her about himself; how green he must
think she was!
Evidently this Hugh of hers was no
good. She would have to get another.
The idea made her madder as the thought
rose.
Her mind was made up. Ho longer
would she allow him to fawn upon her.
His day Was dun.
H. M.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
I.
“You’re .very lucky, Hazel, having a
husband who’s able to do so many things
about the house. I think he’s real clever.
My useless affair can’t even knock a nail
in properly.”
That and similar despairing cries are
raised daily by exasperated wives in thou-
sands of suburban homes. Are you one
of the “useless affairs,” condemned to go
through life the butt of your wife’s oppro-
brium and sarcasm? Do you poke
around, puzzled, futile and indexterous,
when she orders you to replace the
broken window-sash cord or cut the new
linoleum for the kitchen? If you are,
or do, and you have the slightest vestige
of grey matter functioning, you will stop
exactly as you are and thus save yourself
lots of work which, under the excuse of
your acknowledged uselessness, you can
at present push on to a hired man.
But, being married (and therefore a bit
dull in the dome), it’s odds that you will
desire to emulate the handiness of Hazel’s
model husband —even though he’s a dud
compared with some other woman’s hus-
band Hazel’s heard of.
In no way can a man’s latent ability
with his hands be better tested than by
the assemblage of some simple piece of
mechanism. Why not start on a new
lawnmower?
After having developed a corn on his
chest through years of pushing a screech-
ing old mass of -scrap iron which left the
lawn looking as if it had been hacked at
with a knife and fork, it will eventually
dawn on the compulsory buffalo-barber
that a new mower wouldn’t be out of
place. By forgetting to tell his wife of
his new rise of ten bob a week he will be
enabled to pay off the Is. 6d. a week
when he gets one on t.p.
Expecting it to be delivered all ready
to put on the sward and walk behind,
bitter disillusionment will be his when
he is confronted with a easeful of parts
Which have to be assembled. Certainly
the main “works” have been put together
for him, but there will be still enough
assembling to be done to test his in-
genuity.
As a deep concentration is necessary
he should, before starting the job, wait
until the wife finishes her extensive
homily on the evils of extravagance and
her opinions on the selfishness of some
men who spend money on their own
pleasure while their wives have to look
frumpish in last year’s ring velvet and
the children wanting winter singlets, too.
The developing of a relaxed throat will
indicate that her arguments are becom-
ing exhausted, and an uninterrupted study
of the work awaiting him may be ex-
pected.
Having unpacked the case and laid all
the parts out, the first thing to do is to
study carefully the instruction chart.
Hereon will be found an illustration of
the mower showing the numbered parts
and their corresponding descriptions, as
well as simple instructions on how to
assemble it.
These instructions will start off like
this: “Put the two shaft brackets (H28)
through the security loops (Ml3). Pass
the two roller-carrier bolts through the
L.H. spider sole plate (D32), attach the
shaft bracket adjusting screw and nut
(H23), placing all in position by means
of the sole plate end screw (Q.24),
first affixing to screw cone adjustment
(G15a).” Nothing could sound plainer.
It is possible that your, ignorance of
everyday terms may be such that you
haven’t the least idea what is meant by
a spider sole plate. All that is needed
to solve this is a little elementary analysis.
Take the word “spider.” It must have
been used for a purpose. What sort of
spiders are there? Funnel-web, tarantula,
redback . . . there it is, redback. That
is one clue. Next we come to sole. Sole
plate. Fishplate. Turning up your diction-
ary you will find that a fishplate is a
short piece of steel used at the junction
of rails to hold them together. There-
fore all you’ve got to find is a piece of
steel painted red that is used to hold
two things together. Similar deductions
to sort out the other pieces will be equally
simple.
Drop all the pieces you recognise into
their allotted spaces, tighten up and
loosen screws and nuts where indicated,
and within a few hours the whole should
be starting to look like a completed
mower. The instructions advise spinning
the cutting cylinder around to see that
it is free.
Try this. You will find it won’t budge
even on exerting pressure. Try loosen-
ing every nut and screw you can see.
Now try spinning the cutting knives. You
will find that they spin so freely you won’t
be able to withdraw your fingers quickly
enough to prevent one or two being
jammed against the cutting blade. Release
gently and apply iodine.
For the adjustment of the “cutting
height” the instructions further advise to
place on “raised smooth surface (such as
kitchen table).”
Do this, lowering blades by loosening
screws at each side. Now run it along
the table sharply. There will be a series
of bumps, the regularity of which will
be denoted by the evenly-spaced bits that
the cutting blade has chewed out of the
table. This will prove a valuable guide,
for it is obvious that it is set slightly
low. Keep lifting the blade until bumps
disappear, and it will run along the
table without even shaving the varnish
off.
Should the wife not be present while
this operation is in progress, throw the
tablecloth over the table when you have
finished. One of the kids will probably
be blamed for it.
S. W. K.


df
n '
» n
/
V
/
GIVE YOUR BOY ABBEY ORTHOPAEDICS .
Let his feet grow naturally and remain free from foot troubles which
cause so much pain and discomfort.
Growing feet need Orthopaedics to help them develop into happy,
healthy feet.
Made in Black or Brown Calf with strong welted soles and heels,
medium and wide fittings and in full and half sizes.
PRICES: 13 to I£, 21/-; 2 to 5, 23/6; 6, 25/-.
ABBEY SHOES
316. George St., 53 Castlereagh St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.”
I
in less than a minute . . . without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Globite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
if**
ED
aeroplane
CASE
Business,Rollouy,Etc.
Great Boulder Proprietary
On the southern end of the Golden
Mile, and bounded by the leases of
Lake View and Star, Boulder Persever-
ance, South Kal. and the Enterprise, the
Great Boulder mine has been turning out
gold almost without interruption since
the ’nineties, though no divs. were paid
for the period 1924-28. From 1895 to
1937 the present co. treated 5,192,219
tons for 4,853,2600 z. and paid £6,495,000
sterling in dividends. In the early days
the mine was libelled with the descrip-
tion of “wild cat.”
For nearly 30 years paid capital stood
at £175,000. Then Claude de Bernales,
of the Wiluna Gold Corp., arrived with
the gold boom, and expansion of opera-
tions was begun. After the war the co.
had fallen on lean years, and to-day divs.
are still no more than 25 p.c. p.a., in
spite of great development since the gold
price inflated. In 1933 capital was in-
creased by the issue of 583,333 new 2s.
shares at ss. each, and in 1936 the allot-
ment of 166,667 shares to Great Boulder
Mining and Finance at Bs. 6d. a share
brought paid capital up to £250,000 in
2,500,000 shares of 2s. each.
In June, 1935, the co. transferred
all its mining investments outside the
Boulder mine to Great Boulder Mining
and Finance. This concern also bought
(for £312,500, of which £BO,OOO was
cash) a swag of shares and options re-
lating to nine mines, including Fitz-
gerald Brown Coal, from the Aus-
tralian Machinery and Investment Co.,
a concern in which the De Bernales
family was largely interested. Opera-
tions and/or options were abandoned in
most of these cases, and the ss. shares,
which sold at 4s. in 1936, have been a s
low as 7d. since in London. Great
Boulder Prop, owns 414,000 shares in
the Mining and Finance Co. ; it seems to
be on the safe side in valuing the lot at
£1 in its books. When the tangle is all
straightened out, G.B.M.F. is found prin-
cipally to represent equities in Yellow-
dine, Comet and Great Boulder itself,
with interests also in S’Africa, Nigeria
and Colombia. The co.’s difficulties have
chiefly arisen from the “abandonment,”
“curtailment” and “suspension” of
operations on,a large proportion of the
properties control of which was acquired
by the deal with Australian Machinery
and Investment Co.
Coming back to Great Boulder Prop.,
in 1927 its developed ore reserves
were 86,227 tons going 9.3dwt. In the
calendar year 1927 122,262 tons was
treated, the plant being on the heels of
development. In July, 1934, a new oil-
flotation plant started up, capacity 15,000
tons a month. Capacity has since been
doubled, extensions and refinements hav-
ing had the finishing touches put on them
only a month or two ago. The cost has
been heavy and divs. to shareholders
have been small. It has been found
necessary to cyanide the ore prior to
flotation, and working costs were dis-
appointingly high for some time.
At the end of 1936 positive and prob-
able ore reserves had swollen to 836,959
short tons going 7.2dwt. A year later
they were up to 1,062,200 short tons of
6.9dwt. grade, equal to three years’ mill
sl ™ rt tons a In
1937 218,224 short tons was milled; in
1938 3,5 443 shor , tons For , he month
0 f February, 1939, 32,083 short tons
went through the mill. Part of the Great
Boulder property is worked by tributors,
the co. doing the milling for exes, and
a proportion of the gold recovery.
The co.’s manager in Australia is
Australian Mines Management and Sec-
retariate, Ltd., a subsidiary of Austra-
]jan Machinery and Investment Co. A
“Look What they dam vandals been up to 'gen, Mawther!"
body of shareholders in London has now
gone to some pains in investigating,
from an outsider’s viewpoint, the
affairs of Great Boulder and its
web of company, affiliations and con-
nections, and the essence of this self-
appointed committee’s opinion seems to
be that there is altogether too much De
Bernales about the whole show for their
liking. They explain why in detail,
marking their circular (March 7) “private
and confidential,” and ask for support
towards (a) appointing a shareholders’
committee, ( b ) appointment of an in-
spector under the British Companies
Act, (c) a requisition for an extraordi-
nary general meeting, and (d) proxies for
the annual and extraordinary general
meetings.
In a letter dated March 24 Great
Boulder’s secretary, under instructions
from the board, says that the body call-
ing the “shareholders’ committee” has not
been appointed by shareholders generally.
It is also said that much of the “com-
mittee’s” circular contains “irrelevant”
matter. A “full reply” is promised. It
will be awaited with expectation as, to
say the least, the “committee’s” circular
is highly interesting.
It is intended to terminate tributors’
contracts as they expire, the co. itself to
work as much of its area as possible. For
a time Great Boulder’s costs were high
and extraction poor. In 1936, from head
values of 9.ldwt., the plant extracted only
7.64dwt. ; in 1937, 6.Bdwt. from B.3sdwt,
From January to May, 1938, extraction
is said by Claude de Bernales to have
lifted to 92.3 p.c., which compares with
83.9 p.c. in 1936. Apparently the pre-
cynidation of the ores is having effect;
but it will be interesting to know also
what effect is will have on costs. The co.’s
ore reserves are among the best-grade
on the Golden Mile (noting that the co.
always talks in “short” tons), and recent
millings have been above average grade.
But results have compared poorly with,
say, North Kalgurli, which mills at about
one-third of Great Boulder’s present
plant capacity.
True, the new plant, which cost a
packet of money, only recently got into
its stride. Also, the Lake View and Star
ore next door for a long while gave up
less than 90 p.c. of its values to the flota-
tion process. Again, Great Boulder has
spent a lot of cash in developing its at-
present extensive ore reserves. But the
time is clearly ripe for results to be com-
ing to hand. Shareholders have more
than a technical interest in the Great
Boulder mine ; they have a financial in-
terest with a market value of over
£1,300,000 Aust. The year 1938, for
which accounts are not yet to hand, was
one of transition and experiment. In
the current term large-scale operations
should be of a more settled character,
and unless a very big increase in net
earnings for 1939 is shown over rff
results for 1937 (£59,182 stg.) there is
likely to be widespread discontent among
shareholders irrespective of the present
movement afoot in London.
It is interesting, in view of the unsettled
state of affairs overseas just now, to
consider wool prices in Australia before,
during and after the Great War. At the
close of the last century the Common-
wealth wool cheque worked out at
tlo 14s. Bd. a bale for the season. Next
year it was about half that price. For
the 12 years 1902-03 to 1913-14 the
seasonal average never rose higher than
£l3 18s. 7d. or fell lower than £ll 10s. Bd.
a bale. What happened after war broke
out is shown in this table:
Australian Clip
Av. Price
Bales Sold. Per Bale.
J9ll-1Z .. .. 1,700,494 £ll 16 3
J2J2-J2 '• •• £518,650 13 11 9
4 .. .. 1,703,744 13 6 2
1914- .. .. 1,222,872 12 3 7
1915- .. .. 1,443,118 15 7 6
19 6- 7 * .. .. 1,670,281 20 1 8
1917- .. .. 1,907,331 22 6 1
1918- .. .. 2,030,916 22 6 4
1919- .. .. 2,045,912 22 1 9
1920- .. .. 791,409 16 11 5
1921- .. .. 2,226,758 16 15 0
*Appraisement seasons.
The purchase by the British Government
of all Australian wools, allowing for
Commonwealth manufacturers’ require-
ments, began during the 1916-17 season.
A flat rate of a pound greasy (55
p.c. up on the 1913-14 average) was paid
by Britain, appraisers putting a
price on the various grades of
wool within the limits allowed by
the average agreed upon. During
this period of Government acqui-
sition the price to the Australian
grower jumped to over £22 a
bale, and the clip passed
2,000,000 bales a year. Costs of
production increased, of course,
but during the appraisement
period the price was entirely
satisfactory to the Australian
grower.
When the appraisement scheme
ran out soon after the end of the
war there were found to be large
stocks and poor demand follow-
ing dislocation of foreign ex-
changes, etc. Sales and prices
slumped in the 1920-21 season,
and on Jan. 27, 1921, Bawra was
formed to market the current clip
and also the carryover wools of
Australian growers and the Brit-
ish Government. Its operations
were successful, and in the 1922-
23 season Australian wool sold
at an average of £23 18s. 7d. a
bale. Next year £3l 7s. lOd. was
the mean price—the clip was
small —and, bad seasons continu-
ing, in 1924-25 a record price of
£34 19s. Bd. a bale was averaged. Recent
clips have been about twice the size of
those between 1923 and 1925, and the
present price of the staple is less than
half what it was in'those hectic years.
*■ * *
The Great War of 1914-18 brought
Australia higher wheat prices at the same
time as it brought increased labor and
other production costs. It is worth while
noting particularly, however, that there
was no sustained fall in prices after
the commencement of hostilities.
Following’ is a list of Australian export
prices for wheat covering the pre-war,
war and post-war periods:
Bushel. Bushtfei.
1908 ; . 4s. Id. 1915-16 ... ss. 7d.
1909- .. 4s. 2d. 1916-17 .. 45.,10d.
1910 .. 4s. 2d. 1917-18 .. ss. 3Td.
1911 .. 3s. 6d. 1918-19 .. ss. id.
1912' ..’ 3s. lid. 1919-20 .. ss. 6d.
1913 -.. 3s. 9d. 1920-21 .. 9s. Od.
1914-15.. 4s. Id. 1921-22 .. ss. 9d.
Production of wheat in 1915-16 was
179,065,703 bushels, a record up to that
time. The previous season had, owing
to drought, yielded no more than
24,892,402 bushels, the lowest harvest
since 1902. By 1919-20 the harvest had
slumped to 45,974,992 bushels. It re-
gained normal proportions during the
next few years, prompted by the 95.. a
bushel averaged during 1920-21.
* * * *
At 355., ex div., last week Yarra Falls
shares returned 5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The price represented a drop of
a couple of shillings. The co. should be
maintaining its earnings, and if the militia
is ever to get equipped with uniforms
woollen textile cos. generally should be
in the picture. Yarra Falls spins yarn,
some of which it sells to other mills, as
well as weaving tweeds, worsteds, etc.
It owns the Globe Worsted Mills, Syd-
ney, besides its large Melbourne factory.


Adelaide Steam, 30s, 3d.
At current quotations Adelaide
Steamship shares return £4 13s. 4d.
per cent., with backing of more
than usual security.
k
ijOli
111 send n
CHEQUE'
CONVENIENCE
SAFETY
A RECOR
Payment by cheque has three out-
standing advantages:
Having a current account, you are
enabled to pay from your desk at
home. This saves time, fare-money,
waiting at cashiers’ desks, and the need
for carrying large sums of cash about
with you.
With a current account, your funds are
protected from theft, fire, and general
loss. Your cheques also afford the
safety of a receipt for each amount
paid.
Your cheque-butts, with , their details of
each expenditure, serve as a record of
payment, and are a positive aid in
budgeting.
Ask for full particulars and free
Booklet “Services and Facilities” from
the nearest Branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria). -
::|i, r
64-16-39
ARE YOU
ON YOUR
LAST LEGS?
OUR CRUISES
WILL PUT
NEW LITE
INTO YOU
EARLY JUNE—“ORONSAY”t —FIJI (Suva)
CATE JUNE—“ORONTES”S—R A B A U L
LATE JULY- 11 ORAM A ” t-N O U M E A
By way of Barrier Reef; returns by way of
Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands.
u
LATE AUG.—“OTRANTO”f—P A P U A
By way of Barrier Reef.
t First Saloon and Tourist ‘B\
$ First Saloon and Tourist.
The earlier you book the wider your choice
of cabins.
ORIENT
LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd., Incorporated in England
G. J. Coles and Co. is on the market
once more for new ord. capital. A par
issue of 215,250 ords. is offered, the pro-
portion being one new share for every
five held. The money is required to
“provide for expansion.” Since the hul-
labaloo over directors’ bonuses (then
running to £50,000 or £60,000 a year) a
couple of years ago there has been con-
siderable uncertainty in the market’s
opinion of this stock, and support has
been even more erratic than the general
behavior of the sharemarkets under in-
fluence of the “international situation.”
Announcement of the new issue last
week caused a firming in the market,
sales being made at 795., after recent
quotes of 735. The co. has not been such
a spectacular moneyspinner as WooL
worths. At 765., cum rights to the new
issue, the net price is about 665. On
that basis, assuming that the p.c.
div. is maintained, the yield would be
5.3 p.c.
H: * * *
The new concentrating plant of North
Broken Hill began operations on Tues-
day of last week. It is a gravity-cum-
dotation affair, and when the new milling
section is completed it will be capable
of dealing with up to 600,000 tons a
year. The sulphide ore in the North
mine proper and the oxidised and semi-
oxidised stuff in the British, function and
Junction North leases will be as one to
its maw. The whole scheme of re-
equipment is expected to be complete by
June 30. Both costs and recoveries are
anticipated to improve. There is inter-
esting speculation at the Barrier as to
whether Zinc Corp.’s new wholly-flotation
plant will be more economical than
North’s gravity-cum-flotation outfit. And
opinion sems to lean to the belief that
Zinc Corp. will have the honor by a
whisker.
The M.L.C.’s bonus issue is five for
two, making seven shares altogether
where two were held before, and paid
capital will lift from £200,000 to
£700,000. The free scrip will be pro-
vided from reserves apart from policy-
holders’ funds; the latter have been
built up to the point where returns of
2\ p.c. p.a. on Ord. funds and 2| p.c.
on Industrial funds, will meet anticipated
future policy obligations. They are the
strongest bases of actuarial valuation
employed in Australia, and, as the actual
interest earnings have been about 4}
p.c. in recent years, there has been a
good margin for bonuses, etc.
* * * *
Prices of base-metal shares continue to
fluctuate with the day-to-day quotations
for metals. Over the past nine months
lead has moved up and down between
£l4 6s. and £l6 4s. sterling (monthly
averages) and spelter between £l3 10s.
and £l5 2s. Shares in North Broken
Hill have touched as high as 525. 6d. and
as low as 395. 6d. (Sept.) in the same
period. In the case of Electro. Zinc ords.
variations haven’t been so wide —high
475. 6d., low 41s. Here is the market
picture in detail:
Lead, Spelter, Electro. North
Ton. Ton. Zinc Ord. B.H.
High. Low. High. Low.
July ..£14.9 £14.1 45/6 41/9 51/9 46/9
Aug. .. 14.8 13.5 44/- 42/6 48/9 43/6
Sept. .. 15.2 14.0 42/3 41/6 46/3 39/6
Oct. .. 16.2 15.1 45/9 41/- 51/9 44/3
Nov. .. 16.1 14.4 47/6 45/- 52/6 46/9
Dec. .. 15.1 13.7 45/9 44/9 48/9 46/9
Jan. .. 14.5 13.7 46/6 41/- 49/9 41/3
Feb. .. 14.3 13.5 46/3 45/3 46/- 43/9
Mar. .. 14.7 13.7 47/6 44/- 46/6 42/-
Last week, with lead at £l4 3s. 2d. and
spelter at £l3 Bs. 9d., North shares sold
at 40s. 9d. and Electro. Zinc ords. at
435. 3d.
* * * *
Although some members of the build-
ing trade report that slackness is now
becoming evident, the value of permits
issued for Sydney and .suburbs during
February were in excess of those for
February, 1938. During the December
quarter of 1938 permit values exceeded
those for the same period of the pre-
ceding two years. Up to the end- of
1938 the building trades showed a low
ratio of trade-union unemployment,
though the exodus to Maoriland may
have taken some surplus labor away
from the Commonwealth, and made its
building activity look greater than it
really was.
Depletion of the funds of some of the
Government-financed building societies
in N. S. Wales has had an effect on
Sydney suburban building activity re-
cently. War scares, etc., have also
affected both the mortgage and real estate
markets.
**. * *
Australia’s national debt now amounts
to over £1,292,000,000 —something more
than £lB6 a head. Of the total, about
£705,000,000 (Australian) is due in the
Commonwealth (annual interest bill
£25,000,000 Aust.), there is £543,000,000
sterling owing in London (interest bill
£18,200,000 sterling), and £45,000,000
sterling due in New York (costing
£2,240,000 sterling a year). The average
cost for interest is £3 11s. lOd. per cent.
for Australian-domiciled debt, £3 18s. 7d.
(stg.) per cent, for our London obligations
—after allowing for suspended interest
on war debt due to the British Govern-
ment —and a shade over £5 (stg.) per
cent, in New York.
e * * *
In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles ords. sold as high as 795. in
appreciation of the new par issue, but there was
a marked weakening as “Hitler’s birthday” drew
nearer and announcement of the new war risk
insurance rates was received. On Saturday
this insurance position was relieved somewhat
by the British Government’s action, but the
“risks,” if any, didn’t appear to have materially
altered one way or the other.
The sharemarket generally wasn’t so dis-
couraged as in Sydney, where on Friday closing
quotes for Australian Consolidated Indus-
tries, Broken Hill Prop., G. J. Coles and
British Tobacco were all lower than in Mel-
bourne. Base metal shares were also weaker in
Sydney.
The Cocks shows at Eldorado were both
weak. Pioneer sold down to 12s. lid.,
Eldorado down to 14s. sd. Fiji issues were
stagnant, in keeping with the general tone of
the market.


UNC abled ADDITIONS
The Great Fight Against War.
°f big organisation controlling London
Sunday Times ’ and many other newspapers in various
P arts u which have consistently supported
Chamberlain foreign policy, Lord Kemsley wrote for the
Sunday Times” this (condensed) justification of that
policy.]
Reflecting on events of the past two years, I
have come to two conclusions: (1) That in the so-
called policy of appeasement there is nothing to regret
and much of which we may be proud ; and (2) that
though, through no fault of ours, it has not achieved
its purpose, yet it has given to Britain a moral
strength throughout the world of value incalculable.
In 1937, shortly after he succeeded to the Pre-
miership, Mr. Chamberlain began his peace cam-
paign. From the first, it was a fight against heavy
odds. But it did not create new danger. The danger
was there already. Europe was dividing into oppos-
ing ideological camps ; the gulf between them was
rapidly widening and deepening.
To let things drift was, almost certainly, to make
war inevitable. There was no hope of peace except
in persistently pursuing it. The prize was so infinitely
precious that no humane statesman could leave any-
thing undone that might help in winning it. If the
prize eluded our grasp, we should, at any rate, be
no worse off than before. We are, indeed, far better
off, for not only are the country’s defences vastly
stronger than they were two years ago, but there is
that immeasurable asset of moral prestige. If the
worst comes to the worst, bloodguiltiness will not
be with us. The whole world will know that our
hands are clean.
It has often been said that we carried forbear-
ance much too far in our dealings with Herr Hitler’s
Government; and, indeed, it may be admitted that
for no cause less than that of the world’s peace could
we have gone on in the face of such serious discour-
agements. Still we were ready, at the earliest oppor-
tunity, to go into conference in the hope of reaching
agreements so comprehensive that confidence would
be restored sufficiently to establish a new sense of
security in Europe so that not only might peace be
made safe but the wealth-destroying armaments race
stopped. It was the way of peace, and till it was
tried none could be sure that success was unattainable.
Some people talk as if Germany’s annexation of
Czechoslovakia was the result of Munich. Is it not
almost certain that if there had been no Munich
Conference Czechoslovakia would have been annexed
then? Though Sudetenland went to Germany the
rest of the country was saved and the loss of its inde-
pendence in these recent days is due not to Munich,
but to the dishonoring of Munich, to the duplicity
of Herr Hitler in suddenly violating the treaty to
which he had put his hand.
I am not impressed now by the taunt that Mr.
Chamberlain ought to have known that Hitler would
be faithless. How could he have known? It is
pertinent to point out that our most important agree-
ment with Germany before Munich —the Naval
Agreement—is believed to have been faithfully kept.
But are peaceful settlements to be sought only when
statesmen are perfectly sure beforehand that they will
be attained? Was Europe to be plunged into war
last autumn because of the possibility that the head
of the German State would be false to his signature?
He had boasted that when he gave his word he
kept it; and now he was putting his name to a docu-
ment providing for the final settlement of the
Czech frontiers. He said he had no further territorial
claims. He insisted that he did not want non-
Germans in the Reich. It was not only to Mr. Cham-
berlain that these assurances were given ; they were
given also to M. Daladier and Signor Mussolini, the
other signatories. If one was deceived, they all were
—and not only they but the people of Germany, too.
The world is reduced to chaos if agreements are
not made or are not kept when they are made. They
are so necessary, indeed, that they cannot be refused
because of mere suspicion that a signatory may not
honor his engagement, though in such case the'other
signatories will, in common prudence, take measures
to safeguard themselves against violation of the signed
word. And that Britain’s Government did after
Munich. Instead of slackening, rearmament was
speeded up and expanded. Deficiencies revealed dur-
ing the crisis last autumn have been in large part
made good. To-day the country’s defences are im-
mensely stronger than they were then. The Civil
Defence Bill proves that the Government is ready to
take and use full power to safeguard the country’s
security.
For one, I resent the imputation that any share
of responsibility for the tearing up of the Munich
agreement can be placed on the British Government
or on those who have supported its policy. Blame
for wrongdoing attaches only to the wrongdoer. We
had hoped and worked for appeasement, and, instead,
there is new and brutal aggression. The Govern-
ment’s prompt action in challenging this and in invit-
ing other peace-loving nations to co-operate in any
measures of resistance that are decided upon has
evoked the sympathy and support of all parties. The
Government has the country behind it as rarely
before. There can be no doubt either of the people’s
response or that Europe will again be delivered from
any menace of enslaving domination.
Line Up or Shut Up!
[ln this extract of a London ‘'Observer” article
J. L. Garvin gives those who oppose national service
something to answer, especially those who at the same
time have long been advocates of “action” —the breed
every bit as common in Australia as in England.]
Do we mean business or not when we say that
the democratic nations must rise up at need to fight
the supreme fight of all time for freedom? If we
do mean business —as henceforth we must or be silent
for shame—then certain things follow.
We should seek at once to organise a British
Expeditionary Force of twice the size proposed. We
should raise the Territorial Force to at least twice its
present strength as rapidly as equipment could be
provided by enlarged and accelerated manufacture.
Compulsory education in schools as we now have it
should be supplemented by a period of compulsory
training in camp for all vigorous male youth at the
age of 18 or so.
This pressing necessity is still denounced as un-
democratic. Nothing could be more peculiarly insular
than this ancient conception prolonged into the air-
age. Nothing could be further from the general
truths of past politics and present history. Manhood
service and organisation for national defence is the
very basis of all those States in Europe who seek
to maintain their independence and to call their life
their own.
What is more democratic and honorable, for
instance, than the famous Swiss system of general
training to fight to the death at need for patriotism
and liberty? Where would they be without it? What
example could be a better model for ourselves? The
national levy for defence is a fundamental principle
in France, Holland, Belgium and the Scandinavian
nations, as in Poland, the other Baltic States, the
Balkan States, Turkey, and the rest. Not to speak of
Soviet Russia, with whose mighty “conscription” the
Labor and Liberal parties urge us to associate our
fortunes.
Would those parties, if they could, abolish the
present national organisation in any of these coun-
tries? Not for a moment. They applaud the Soviet
form of compulsion for defence as they applaud the
Swiss. Then let there be an end of the argument that
what is approved abroad as part of the strength and
hope of a common cause would be undemocratic
and degrading at home.
The soul of the irony appears in one exquisite
illustration. Were it not for “conscription” in France,
British exemption from it would be impossible. The
Nazi and Fascist Press still jeer by word and cartoon
that British democrats will fight to the last French-
man and the last conscripted man elsewhere, but
shrink above all things from an equal liability to
personal service. This gross but plausible misunder-
standing is among the chief causes of disrespect for
democracy and of danger to peace. Hostile opinion
in Europe thinks for the most part that the main
object of British popular sentiment is to protect the
right to shirk as a means of escape for individuals
who talk loudest about democracy but do not dream
of risking their own skins.
An Ex-soldier’s Caustic Comment.
[Viscount Castlerosse, writer of the article here
condensed from London “Evening Standard,” has full
qualifications for barging into this free-for-all discussion.
He served and was wounded in the 1914-18 war, and,
like those he most bitingly attacks, he is a journalist.]
The writers of those impressive columns the
newspaper leading articles have been giving Hitler
a rare scolding. The Left Wingers are particularly
insistent on “a firm line,” and Conservative news-
papers are mighty indignant, too. In fact, about a
million words have been fired at Hitler, and the
further we get to the Left the hotter those words are.
Mr. Chamberlain has been told emphatically that the
time for action has come.
Now this warrior attitude is very noble of these
leader writers, because it will probably lead to war,
and they must know that the Government has pub-
lished a little book which exempts from fighting the
whole male population of Britain with the exception
of journalists. [A dig at the British National Service
Handbook, of which 20,000,000 were distributed. It
does make a huge number of exemptions from ser-
vice.]
It will be a fine sight when the expeditionary
force falls in in Fleet-street in threes. I shall be
luckier than most, because I at least know where
Rumania is.
But what is worrying me is what is going to
happen when all the journalists are killed. Their ex-
tinction will not take long because, though the pen
may be mightier than the sword, even the most ex-
pensive fountain-pens cannot stand up long against
machine-guns. Without doubt, almost before the
cheering has died down, somebody will have to take
our place, and then the squabbling will start.
Unfortunately I see all the same old trouble as
last time when the good fellows went out and got
shot and the scum stayed behind and got the good
jobs. 1 do hope there are enough warriors left over
from the last war to stop that.
It is time the fellows who served in the trenches
during the last war had their say and everybody else
kept quiet over the matter. After all, it was not the
general nor the politician who won the last war, but
the poor, unfortunate footslogger, who, as often as
not, when by some odd chance he did return, found
his job and his wife gone to some perfumed peacock
who had been exempted because he was indispen-
sable to some incompetent.
It is quite all right by me to abuse Hitler —you
can call him every name you like as far as I am con-
cerned —but I tell you this, those who have been oppos-
ing compulsory National Service, which is a pretty
name for conscription, were equally to blame for that
move against the Czechs.
I am convinced that Hitler would not have been
so bold if we had had conscription six months ago.
Nobody in Germany believes Britain is in earnest.
After all, if you were a German, would you? In
Germany there are 70 million men and women work-
ing night and day to strengthen the military situation.
Everybody in Germany has a job in the military
machine —but what has been happening in Britain?
You can answer that yourself. What is your job?
Do you give up your time to it? Also the fellow
next door, what about him? Do you believe that the
whole might of your country is being used for defen-
sive purposes? You know it is not.
And now I will tell you something else. The
next war is going to be won or lost by the infantry
soldier with a rifle in his hand. Yes, your Tom and
your Harry, and it will go on for a very long time
because the defensive power of modern weapons is
greater than the offensive. Who can estimate the
casualties? Well, nobody, but it is difficult to think
that we shall lose less than a million. There is
nothing so terrible about that —men are mortal and
they are going to die anyhow.
Unexpurgated “Mein Kampf.”
[An unexpurgated translation of Hitler’s Mein
Kampf has at last been published in England, and this
(condensed) review, pointing to important passages
hitherto omitted, was written for London “Daily Tele-
graph” by J. C. Johnstone.]
The “abridged” English version dealt with all
the most offensive passages either by omitting them
altogether or by so watering them down in transla-
tion as to leave a comparatively innocuous impres-
sion on the mind of the unsuspecting reader.
As a single example out of a thousand that could
be cited, there is the exclusion of a passage which de-
clared that the ultimatum of the Vienna Govern-
ment to Serbia in July, 1914, was “in the eyes of the
great masses too moderate and certainly not excessive
or brutal” ; that “the war of 1914 was certainly not
forced on the masses: it was even desired by the
whole people,” and that “I am not ashamed to
acknowledge to-day that I was carried away by the
enthusiasm of the moment and that I sank down
upon my knees and thanked Heaven out of the full-
ness of my heart for the favor of having been per-
mitted to live in such a time.”
What is to be said of a so-called “abridgment”
which ignores so palpable a clue to the mind and
temper of the author?
Is not the passage about the annihilation* of
France a direct incitement to the masses to believe
that this annihilation is an indispensable necessity of
German existence? And what becomes of the argu-
ment that, as Chancellor, Herr Hitler is not impli-
cated by the programme of Mein Kampf when we
see every single item of that programme being ful-
filled before our eyes with the most astonishing
pertinacity?
Until recently there had been a tendency to
assume that Herr Hitler would stop at territorial ex-
pansion when he reached the limits of the territory
inhabited by the German race. That illusion is now
utterly exploded, but if the world was deceived it
was not for want of warning in Mein Kampf. For
“the necessity of bringing our territorial area into
just proportion with the number of our population”
is one of the most persistently reiterated themes in
the whole book, and is described as the “supreme
objective of every foreign policy.” What he calls
the “Political Testament of the German nation” ends
with the following exhortation:
Never consider the Reich secure unless, for cen-
turies to come, it is in a position to give every descendant
of our race a piece of ground and soil that he can call
his own. Never forget that the most sacred of all rights
in the world is man’s right to the earth he wishes to
cultivate for himself and that the holiest of all sacri-
fices is that of the blood poured out for it.
The order of magnitude of his expansionist
ambitions may be measured by his estimate that, a
century hence, there will be 250,000,000 Germans in
Europe, who must not be “packed like coolies,” but
have abundant soil they can call their own. To
ensure the provision of this space —presumably thrice
the existing area of Greater Germany—is the busi-
ness of a properly conducted German foreign policy.
In general terms the east is marked out as the
direction of this colonising activity: “When we speak
of new territory in Europe to-day we must think of
Russia and the border States subject her. Destiny
itself seems to wish to point out the way for us here.”
Bohemia and Moravia, though not mentioned in this
connection in Mein Kampf, are clearly designated as
the first fragmentary instalment in the process of
conquest there outlined.
The role assigned to England is that of friend
and ally whose benevolent neutrality towards the
eastern programme is to be assured by German
abstention from rivalry in the colonial sphere.
England is also to look on while the destruction of
France removes the last possible source of challenge
to the German domination of the Continent.
As a commentary on Herr Hitler’s propagandist
exploitation of anti-Bolshevism it may be remarked


that he roundly castigates his Imperial predecessors
for not having adopted a similar course before the
war against Tsarist Russia. Tsarism or Bolshevism
difference, except that in the circumstances
of to-day Bolshevism happens to provide a convenient
propaganda handle.
The Versailles Treaty was almost generosity
itself by the side of the fate held out in Mein Kampf
for those nations finding themselves within the area
scheduled as “German living space.” But when a
fraction of what he would inflict on others is inflicted
on Germans it becomes what he calls “sadist cruelty”
and “indescribable oppression,” such that “they
should send up to heaven the glowing prayer:
Almighty God, bless our arms when the hour comes.
Be just, as Thou hast always been just. Judge now
if we deserve our freedom. Lord, bless our struggle.”
Herr Hitler’s flaming moral indignation, over
the alleged “injustices” of Versailles would be more
easily intelligible if his pages did not make it abun-
dantly plain that, in his view, justice consists in the
ruthless exercise of the power of the stronger, and
that it only becomes injustice when this power is not
being exercised by Germany. In a curiously reveal-
ing passage he remarks:
I shall never believe that France will of herself
alter her intentions, towards us, because, in the last
analysis, they are only the expression of the French
instinct of self-preservation. Were I a Frenchman and
were the greatness of France so dear to me as that of
Germany actually is, in the final reckoning I could
not and would not act otherwise than a Clemenceau.
Nature red in tooth and claw is a constantly
recurring theme throughout the book. In “the world
of everlasting struggle, where one creature feeds on
the other, and where the death of the weaker implies
the life of the stronger,” international solidarity is just
an idle dream. He declares:
Nobody can doubt that this world will one day be
the scene of dreadful struggles for existence on the part
of mankind. In the end the instinct of self-preservation
alone will triumph. Before its consuming fire this so-
called humanitarianism, which connotes only a mixture
of fatuous timidity and conceit, will melt away like
snow under the March sunshine. Man has become
great in perpetual struggle. In perpetual peace he will
go to destruction.
As to Herr Hitler’s conception of the character
and role of National-Socialism, it may suffice to
quote the following single passage:
The conviction of the right to employ even the most
brutal weapons is always associated with fanatical faith
in the necessity for a new and revolutionary transforma-
tion of the world. A movement which does not fight
for such high aims and ideals will never have recourse
to extreme means.
Such is the mental pabulum on which the German
masses are being compulsorily fed, such the religion
which it is the holy duty of every German to accept
without question as his credo, and such the innermost
conviction of the founder of that religion himself.
Germans Solid for Hitler.
[The writer of the Manchester “Guardian letter
here condensed had until very recently been teaching
in Germany for eight years past.]
Hitler, whatever his faults or even crimes, stands
out as an embodiment of the ideals, aims and aspira-
tions of the great majority of the German people. In
short, the truth of the old adage that “every country
gets the Government it deserves” was never more ex-
emplified than in the case of Germany. Whatever
may be said for or against him, he understands the
psychology of his own people to perfection and plays
upon their feelings as a pianist upon his keys.
It would be too much to say that conscription
and other restrictions upon freedom of speech or
movement and upon economic activity are accepted
with enthusiasm by the great mass of the German
people, but they are accepted, generally speaking,
“with a good heart” as necessary evils. There is no
such widespread revolt against them as is suggested
by some writers, and it is a tribute to the power of
the Nazi propaganda machine that, incredible as it
may sound to English ears, an overwhelming majority
of the German people are firmly convinced of Hitler’s
love of peace, and, when war comes, will be as firmly
convinced that it is an unprovoked attack upon
Germany by jealous and envious rivals.
Germans do not “envy” Britain’s voluntary
system. The exact contrary is the truth. Articles
appearing in the British press opposing conscription
are quoted gleefully throughout the length and
breadth of Germany as clinching evidence that there
is no need to be afraid of us or to worry about what
we think ; we are a degenerate lot destined to share
the fate of Carthage and to be swallowed up by a
militant and world-conquering Germany! That this
hardly squares with the picture of a peace-loving
Hitler does not occur to the writers. There is no
logic about German propaganda.
At all events, to imagine that there will be any
breakdown in Germany until she sustains shattering
defeats in the field is to live in a world of illusions.
And if we continue our present easygoing system of
voluntary effort and endless talk, and nothing ever
done worth talking about, then the future will see
France smashed and partitioned, as was Czecho-
slovakia, and ourselves as powerless to help her as we
were to help the Czechs.
Japan’s New Navy.
[Manchester “Guardian,” which has all along been
prominent on the moral crusading front, would seem,
like its leading Australian counterpart, to have some-
what belatedly realised that all is not to be easy going
in the direction it has so long favored. At all events,
it published this (condensed) article, which should be
even more of a steadier hereabouts.]
We have two officially admitted figures: Japan
is spending £120,500,000 on building a new fleet, and
the programme is to be carried through in six years.
The first of these figures provides a yardstick for
measuring the material size of the building pro-
gramme. It is certainly not sufficient to provide
Japan with a navy “equal to that of the strongest
naval Power,” in the phrase originally attributed to
Admiral Yonai. The size of Britain’s Navy Esti-
mates is sufficient evidence that either the figure
quoted for Japan’s rebuilding programme is wrong
or Admiral Yonai’s statement was misinterpreted.
The second explanation appears to be the correct
one, because a day or two later a Tokio message
quoted Rear-Admiral Kanazawa as saying that Japan
had no intention of aiming at parity with the British
or United States fleet. She “planned to maintain
a naval strength sufficient to meet the largest naval
force which any single foreign Power would be able
to send to the Far East.” The significance of that
message appears to have been generally overlooked.
It fits in with the announced total to be spent on
the six-year plan. For that sum Japan could build
a fleet which would, broadly speaking, be superior
to any force that could be detached from European
waters to the Far East within the next 10 years. And
it would be equal to any force of modern ships likely
to be available to the United States by 1943. It
would give Japan an entirely up-to-date battle fleet
in all classes, comprising five battleships, eight 10,000-
ton cruisers, 16 light cruisers, two aircraft-carriers,
32 destroyers, 12 submarines.
The second of the officially admitted figures —the
six years in which the building is to be completed —
raises the query: What is the six-year period? Does
it begin now? Or did it start in 1937? We know
now that in that year Japan began construction of
her 42,000-ton battleships. It was the definite estab-
lishment of that move which brought about the re-
vision of the London Treaty last year to enable
Britain and the United States to exceed the 35,000-
ton limit. The indications are that Japan’s six-year
programme was started as a reply to the British re-
armament programme as soon as it was evident Jhat
by about 1943 Britain would be in a position to begin
the creation of that Far Eastern fleet which strategists
have indicated must ultimately become an essential
feature of Imperial defence.
A six-year plan started in 1937 would be com-
pleted just about the vital date. A fleet of the size
suggested would be sufficiently powerful to hold in
check any overseas expeditions by possible antago-
nists of Japan, and would be sufficient to afford cover
for the operations of her own commerce raiders on
the thickly-populated trade routes in the ocean tri-
angle between New Zealand, Hong Kong and Ceylon.
There are approximately 400 British merchant
ships moving in that area every day of the year, apart
from the mercantile traffic of other nations. The
safety of that traffic is one of the vital problems of
to-day and one which has weighed heavily in all
Cabinet meetings of the past tragic months. The in-
fluence of sea power has, strange though it may seem
at first sight, played a great part in the fate of so
markedly inland a State as Czechoslovakia. For
Britain had not, in the past year, such a preponder-
ance at sea as would enable us to face that “direct
challenge in battle by any probable combination of
foes.” A combination of the Axis Powers with
Japan would provide naval problems of ,* extreme
seriousness.
Burning of a Chinese City.
[Though the burning, in ironic circumstances, of the
city of Changsha occurred last November, this (con-
densed) eyewitness account of the tragedy was only
recently published in London “Times.”]
Under what proved to be the mistaken impression
that it was about to be swamped by the Japanese
advance, the city of Changsha, with its population
swollen by war conditions to a million, was burnt
out by the Chinese themselves. I witnessed all the
phases of this gigantic tragedy. The story may be
taken as typical of the sufferings of China in the war.
In spite of bombing and the inconveniences of
air-raid alarms people had adjusted their lives to
the situation and were carrying on. “Resist the
enemy and reconstruct the country” was the double
slogan put about by the authorities, and it is charac-
teristic of the Chinese that more people were inter-
ested in the second part of it than in the first.
The fall of Hankow and Canton caused a change
in the people’s attitude. There were 30,000 refugees
in the city, and these were driven out, to walk per-
haps 500 miles. An attempt was made to organise
this trek, and camp managers were supposed to go
with it. Each refugee was given food money for 10
days, and some arrangement had been made for
shelter on the way. But even so it was almost large-
scale homicide. On the two possible routes there
was not the food to buy. Women with a child or two
to carry could not get very far, and if they lost touch
with the group they starved. The aged, the sick and
the pregnant women were clearly incapable of such
a walk.
Most pitiful of all were the very numerous
wounded soldiers. The military moved more than
half, some by car, some by train. But the trains on
several occasions did not come or were delayed, and
the men lay on the station without food or water.
The worst cases were left, among the dead, to starve.
One wondered how many people would remain
io receive the invader. But “the day of doom” came
sooner than was thought, and from an unexpected
quarter.
It had been rumored that the Government had
made plans to destroy the city before it left, and
the fire was duly started at night. At 3 a.m. a great
cloud all over the city looked as if it were ablaze
from end to end. A north-west wind blew the fire
towards the South Gate. People coming out of the
burning streets met parties of soldiers breaking open
houses, pouring in paraffin and firewood. It was all
well planned and systematic.
It seemed a devilish plan —to fire a sleeping city
with no warning. If it was a matter of political or
military necessity, then it was successful at great cost
to the life and property of the poorest.
The next morning, a clear bright day, showed a
heavy pall of black smoke hanging over the whole
place. A ride round the city on a bicycle revealed
that destruction was complete in many places. All
day Sunday fires constantly' broke out and explosions
of ammunition kept up a continual series of reports.
Who fired the city? As after another famous fire,
there were several different parties and cliques who
blamed the other. One thing is certain —that this great
town and many of its townspeople were destroyed by
the deliberate action of responsible people.
Later we realised that the Japanese advance was
a myth. The front had not moved from where it had
been for the last five weeks, about 100 miles away.
America’s Father Coughlin.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Express” article
by Michael Foot .)
Anti-Semitjsm has found a congenial home with
America’s Political Barker Number One, Father
Charles Coughlin.
Sooner or later it was bound to come. In the
10 years in which he has won his position as the
most successful radio politician in the United States,
he has looted from all his demagogic rivals the world
over. He is the master of what Disraeli called the
art of political petty larceny. This last addition
makes the patter complete. The wicked financiers,
sharing the wealth, down and out with the
foreigners, the Bolshevist menace, and now the evil
machinations of the international Jew.
This same recipe has convulsed half America.
Its sponsor has never quite regained the place of
power which he held so assuredly in 1935. His latest
line of sales talk is likely to make or break him. He
has the power to spread racial feeling far and wide
throughout the land. He can buy his way to the
microphone, as his recent offer of £160,000 to an
important broadcasting company proves. And every
week he speaks across a network which covers 45
stations. The flow of Jewish refugees across the
Atlantic at the rate of 100,000 a year gives him his
opportunity.
He started, of course, in a small way. In 1926
in a small parish near Detroit he built a little church
in the shape of a barn. He wanted money for his
church. Permission was granted for him to speak
on the radio. The money came in in nickels and half-
dollars until the day he discovered that Americans
were more interested in the slump than salvation.
He mixed the Sermon on the Mount with a
guarded reference to the devaluation of the dollar.
America pricked up her ears. The response was
encouraging. He was now getting quite a fan mail,
and at the microphone he groped his way to a suit-
able style of oratory. A growing band of listeners
heard less and less of the Sadducees and the Pharisees
and more and more of the Morgans and the War-
burgs. Each week the “dressed-up gangsters” of
Wall-street were hit a little harder until a great day
came when he described Morgan, Mellon, Ogden
Mills and Eugene Meyer as the Four Horsemen of
the Apocalypse.
Now full in his stride, he formed his League for
Social Justice and claimed to have eight million
members. He went to Madison-square Garden and
22,000 people paid 50 cents to hear him. They
cheered his fierce sallies, applauded in turn his thrusts
at the bankers, the foreigners and the Communists,
and went away with tears in their eyes or seething
fury in their breasts.
For a while he backed Roosevelt. “Roosevelt or
Ruin” was his slogan. But soon the Democratic
President had fallen from grace. The 1936 fight
between Roosevelt and Landon he described as “a
sham battle between the Left and Right Wing of
the same bird of prey—the international banker.”
Now again the two hundred secretaries are hard
at work, and he returns to the forefront of the poli-
tical scene in full panoply. Anti-Semitism provides
his chief talking point. He denounces those who de-
claim against the dictators. He pictures before Ameri-
can eyes the spectacle of more of her sons recruited
to fight in Europe’s wars. He seeks to unmask those
who would undermine the traditional policy of isola-
tion. And underneath the surface, working ceaselessly
against the *true interest of America, he discovers the
hand of the international Jew.
Obviously he has personality and presence —tall,
broad-shouldered, weighing 13 stone and with the
manners and fluency of a football coach. He has
mastered the art of radio oratory. A golden voice
and a rasping invective.
Obviously, too, he has the right policy. Wall-
street is unpopular, and he will flay the bankers with
a fine _ disregard of the libel laws. European entangle-
ment is a good horse to flog, and he is an isolationist,
a fierce enemy of internationalism, with a sneaking
regard for Hitler and Mussolini. He declaims against
Britain, telling America that the British would make
her the cat’s-paw of the bankers.
Half America laughs at him, just as half Ger-
many laughed at Hitler. He has failed so far because
he has had a strong man against him. Yet he has
had his triumphs. He . has seen so many others rise
and sink again—Huey Long, Gerald Smith.
Townshend and a score more. He survives them all.
A greater destiny may await him. Or perhaps his
crack may soon come. Whatever happens, for in-
spired political stunting he can make fair claim for
an all-time record.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Ajax’s Doncaster weight was 10.6,
Gold Rod’s 9.2 ; and if Heroic’s best son
had been kept for the race without a
previous start in Sydney he would have
been favorite. Because he was beaten
in the Rawson Stakes at Rosehill in
much the same way as Carbine was once
beaten by a moderate, Penance, and be-
cause newspapers had reported dismally
on his subsequent track gallops, Ajax,
receiving a pound from Gold Rod, was
quoted at 6 to 4 on in the betting on
the All-Aged Plate at Randwick, Gold
Rod at 6 to 4 against. Presently it was
“I’ll take five to four,” and “evens” was
called here and there, though it was 6
to 4 on again when bags were closed.
Gold Rod had gone to threes with the
backing of St. Constant from tens to
fours. King’s Head Was not in demand
at any price.
There looked nothing wrong with Ajax
as he was walked round the weighing-in
enclosure. He was eager to move, and
thrust his head forward with an energy
that, as an old-timer said, is an indication
of a horse being in good nick ; but on-
lookers were heard to mutter that he had
trained off —“wasn’t as light as that in
Melbourne.”
In the compass of 1.35 f, Ajax made
the Doubting Thomases and the boomed
brotherhood of Big Punters ridiculous.
He wasn’t exactly first out of the
machine, but when he had gone a fur-
long he was two lengths ahead of Gold
Rod, and the bigger chestnut could never
reduce the gap. Gold Rod grew tired
chasing him, and over the last furlong
was caught and passed by St. Constant;
but, with Badger dropping his hands 20
yards or so from the judge’s box, St.
Constant finished a length and a quarter
to the bad, Gold Rod being another
length and a half away. Ajax’s three
owners, who looked pictures of misery
at Rosehill, led the cheering for the
champion. Why they didn’t run him in
the Autumn Plate they alone know;
it was throwing away easy money.
St. Constant was rather a mean-looking
fellow when Alan Cooper sold him for
a pound. He has grown into a fine
horse and will probably go on improving.
Cooper must have watched his excellent
performance with mixed emotions. His
return to Sydney was in no way happy,
for Talking caught a cold and had to be
withdrawn from the Showground
parade; he bought Micawber before the
Bronte Handicap came on, only to see
his new purchase downed by Mildura,
and he heard Papworth, Talking’s old
trainer, say that as a two-year-old Talk-
ing was inferior to Papworth’s present
pride and joy, Bonny Loch.
Like Gold Rod, Mildura is trained by
Price for E. J. Watt, the A.J.C. com-
mitteeman. Last in the Doncaster, he
was solid at fours in the Bronte, and he
fairly outstayed Micawber at the end of
a mile run in 1.36 f. It was a much
more startling reversal of form than that
which prompted the stewards to put ques-
tions to the Reading party after the Sires’
Produce Stakes; but here there was no
inquiry. The omission made people talk,
although no one seriously believed there
was anything sinister in the sudden im-
provement.
With a ten-pound penalty, Reading
(8 to 1) ran a grand race in the Cham-
pagne Stakes, and would have beaten
High Caste (5 to 2) again if he had not
tried to savage the big colt, who also
was penalised ten pounds. But Bonny
Loch (9 to 4) would have beaten the
pair if he had not lost so much ground
at the start that he was at least 10 lengths
behind the leader, Waireka, with only
half a mile to go. As it was, Penthides
just pipped him for third place. On
breeding, appearance and form Reading
is the colt most likely to develop into a
Derby winner.
There were only three starters in
the Cumberland Plate. L’Aiglon was
manoeuvred into making the running, and
after his exacting Sydney Cup effort two
days before, it proved too much for him.
Allunga settled him; then Spear Chief
(5 to 4 on) came along and settled
Allunga—so decisively as to demonstrate
that with an unhampered run he would
have defeated Defaulter and Allunga too
in the Autumn Plate.
At the beginning of the autumn,
Herarde couldn’t run out a mile and a
quarter. Racing has made him solid. In
the City Handicap he finished much the
best of a field of ten, running a mile and
a half in 2min. 30|sec. Behind him were
two lightweights, Ripley and Hilarious.
The result was rather a facer for the
handicapper who let Herarde in with 7st.
81b., as well as for punters who, in spite
of his Tocal Handicap success with 10
pounds more, allowed the consequence of
the union of Heroic and Bavarde to go
out at twelves.
Sedunum is a big horse, and evidently
big fields don’t suit him. With only a
dozen starters in the Coogee Handicap,
nine furlongs, he had plenty of room,
and Billy Cook, not long back from
India, landed him an easy winner from
Fakenham and Cherry Bar. As tens
could be had, C. O. Battye and his friends
must have got back more than their losses
on the bay on the first day at Randwick
and at Warwick Farm. But, declaring
that Cook had “allowed his mount to
come in and interfere with Cherry Bar
and Bobby,” the stewards suspended the
young man for two months. Cook is
appealing.
Ajax retires for his winter spell un-
questionably the best horse in Australasia,
up to a mile and a quarter, anyway. His
victory in the C. W. Cropper Plate on
Saturday was never in doubt after the
first furlong, and on a day when morn-
ing rain had taken the sting out of the
track he ran seven furlongs in 1.23} —•
only half a second outside the record.
And he was conceding 101 b. to Gold Rod
(second), 211 b. to Amiable (third), 161 b.
to King’s Head and 251 b. to Creditor.
Ajax started at 3 to 1 on, King’s Head
(6 to 1) being the only other runner
backed with any spirit. Beginning with
all his old dash, Ajax immediately went
to the front. Creditor, on the inside,
momentarily joined him, but the cham-
pion was clear at the half mile and led
for home by three lengths from Gold
Rod and Amiable. Approaching the final
furlong Gold Rod threw out a challenge,
but Badger kept the favorite going, and
—not all out —Ajax beat Gold Rod by
two lengths. Amiable, who looked de-
cidedly better than on Doncaster Day,
ran on strongly and finished a neck be-
hind Gold Rod ; King’s Head was fourth.
When Badger had weighed in it was found
that Ajax’s off hind shoe had spread. It
must have happened about a furlong-
from home, when Ajax faltered for an
instant. He was cut slightly and had to
receive treatment.
It is now clear that Ajax can’t be
allowed to loaf in his races, and he is
not likely to be ridden again as he was
ridden at Rosehill when defeated by
Spear Chief. He has now won 20 races
in 21 starts, and his prizemoney totals
£31,000.
Defaulter is returning to Maoriland on
Friday after a profitable trip—four starts
for three wins, all at weight-for-age. He
is a good horse and very game, but great-
ness cannot yet be claimed for him. In
the A.J.C, Plate, of 2| miles, he led
throughout, Ellis again setting a slow
pace. His Sydney racing and a five days'
rest had done the colt good, and he beat
Spear Chief and Mosaic —they dead-
heated for second —fairly and squarely by
a couple of lengths. St. Constant, tried
as a stayer, whipped in the field, and
Allunga beat only St. Constant.
Defaulter’s time was 3.58|. He ran his
last half-mile in 41}. He’ll be back here
for the spring racing, and, if the weight
is not too severe, will tackle the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Mosaic is to be spelled at Richmond
(N.S.W.) and trained for the Melbourne
Cup. There is no doubting his ability as
a stayer, but being a delicate feeder is
against him. Abbs hopes to improve him
at the manger by administering tonics.
After he won the Leger he went off his
tucker. He won the Sydney Cup on
apples (a dozen) and water.
This Page tipped Feminist for the Syd-
ney Cup, and is still wondering why she
only ran fourth. Her form in the Dangar
Handicap on Saturday was heaps better.
Laid at 5 to 2, she started at twos, trailed
the leaders to the home turn, and then
came away. Will Rogers and Ripley,
the place-getters, were made to look
cheap. Marauder was backed and well
beaten. Young Crusader was Another
failure. Feminist ran the “mile and five”
in 2.43 J-, and could evidently have made
it 2.42. This when it took Malagigi, third
in the Cup, 2.6} to traverse 10 furlongs
in the Final Handicap.
Tel Asur, a good type of Marconigram
gelding, won the Fernhill Handicap, the
mile race for two-year-olds, but had only
inches to spare, Dagmar, a mere pony,
finishing with great dash. Dashing Cava-
lier was third, and would have been closer
but for interference, Tel Asur was turned
out in capital trim by former jockey Jim
Munro, and Jim and his friends must
have collected a bit at 12 to 1.
The Rous Handicap was a still better
race for the Ring. It was easy for
Aureus (20 to 1), whose owner-trainer,
Walker, had grown tired of backing him.
Red Thespian and June chased Aureus
home; at the home turn Bradford
looked like taking part in the finish, but
he weakened. Another Newcastle-trained
horse, Merton, ran fourth after having
been a long way back.
Knight Folly, a big gelding by Knight
Corban, who was just a plater, took the
Woollahra Handicap, at 12 to 1. He
races in the colors of Mrs. F. M. Chap-
man, of Rose Bay, Sydney. Gilltown
looked the winner in the straight, but
Knight Folly wore him down; Vestal
was a fast-finishing third.
Malagigi (5 to 1) was a trifle lucky to
beat Cooranga (9 to 2) in the Final Han-
dicap. The mare’s run was delayed too
long ; and, though catching Malagigi with
every stride, she lost by a head. Silent
Tip was third. The favorite, Fakenham,
beat two home, and Limulet did little
better. The three-year-old, however, Was
badly handicapped, having to concede
weight and age to every runner except
Malagigi. And he only carried a pound
more.
* * * *
Lieut.-Colonel H. Pape, secretary of
Royal Calcutta, was among the A.J.C.
committee’s guests at Randwick. He was
greatly impressed with Ajax, and would
like to see him meet Realist, the English-
bred champion of India. And the Colonel
has a high opinion of Australian jockeys.
* * * *
High Caste, Reading and Bonny Loch,
the outstanding two-year-olds at Rand-
wick, have gone into the equivalent of
winter quarters. Reading outstayed High
Caste at seven furlongs, and High Caste
turned the tables at six. Bonny Loch
shapes like a stayer, but his sire, Ram-
pion, was never thoroughly tested in that
department, and the dam, Bonny Valerie,
was a sprinter.
* * * *
With the exception of Ajax, Mel-
bourne-trained horses had no successes
at Randwick. Panax was fourth in the
Woollahra Handicap on Saturday. He
may do better if kept in Sydney.
* * * *
Jack Fryer was much in the limelight
at Mentone on Saturday. Horses trained
by the Maorilander nearly won a treble
—the last three. Pantoon failed by half
a head in the Powerscourt Handicap.
Larissa won the Tinamba Handicap and
Namakla the Boisdale Welter.
Pantoon, favorite at 5 to 2, was un-
lucky to lose. He fought Gladiolious for
the lead until that rival began to drop
after covering several furlongs.
Gladiolious knocked up and finished last.
Pantoon battled on splendidly, and it was
in the final stride only that Great Eastern
(tens) pipped him.
Time for 1| miles —2min. 4|sec. —
closely verged on the course record so
recently established by Gladiolious. Now
that Fryer has “nicked” Pantoon the
gelding ought to be profitable to follow.
In the autumn of 1938 Pantoon revealed
high promise by finishing second to Hua
in the V.R.C. St. Leger.
Larissa, with whom Fryer captured the
Tinamba Handicap, caused a sensation
last season by running away with the
Rawson Stakes at Williamstown. He
then Was trained by Frank Godby. On
several occasions since entering Fryer’s
stable Larissa has shown speed, unac-
companied by ability to stick it out.
Skidmore, who used to be at the top
of the ladder as a lightweight jockey,
rode Larissa for all he was worth from
post to finish. Challenged in the straight,
Skidmore used the whip incessantly and
squeezed his mount home by a neck
from Lord Windburra, with Trowsdale
an eyebrow farther off.
Maldevon, the 2-to-l favorite, never
got near the firing line. Larissa figured
at 11 to 4, Lord Windburra at sevens and
Trowsdale at 12 to 1. Earlier in the
afternoon Fred Hoysted had stated that
Lord Windburra’s form this autumn did
not justify his being taken across to
Adelaide next month, but that opinion
may be amended. Hoysted announced
also that Pageant will not make the trip
to S.A. The Australian Cup hero, who
did not come up to expectations at Rand-
wick, has done enough travelling for the
time being and will be treated to a spell.
Much money was taken out of the
Ring over Namakia (Gay Shield-Quin-
kama) in the Boisdale Welter, The race
looked open, and bookies offered “fives
the field,” with Hautboy first choice and
Namakia at sixes. Finally the M.L.-bred
mare was favorite at 7 to 2.
Namakia had nothing to spare.
Apprentice Hooton rode her right out to
score by half a head from Fancifort,
with the pacemaker, Lalmoni, a close
third. Fancifort is trained by Fred Hoy-
sted, who had the unenviable experience
of supplying the runner-up in four events,
his beaten prads being Heroic Chief, Old
Red, Lord Windburra and Fancifort.
Hoysted’s first setback was in the
Hurdle Race, for which he saddled-up
Heroic Chief, owned by Archie Crofts.
Despite the effort of his jockey to ride
a waiting race, Heroic Chief opened up
a gap of 12 or 15 lengths. He tired badly,
allowing Bridge of Dee (threes) to win
by seven lengths.
Bought cheap in Sydney by Jack Holt
and raced on lease by H. R. McCor-
mick, the Winooka filly Quite True en-
hanced her already high reputation by
lumping 9st. 41b. to victory in the Avon
Handicap. Quite True divided favorit-
ism with Girella at 9 to 4. Latter was
left at the post. Old Red flattered until
a furlong from home, but Quite True
wore him down.
(Continued on page 32.)
“Bumpkin”: Lajos Steiner, the Hun-
garian chess professional, is back in
Australia, after two years’ absence,
with faculties so unimpaired that he
played 15 eminent Victorians simul-
taneously at the Melbourne Chess
Club as the jump-off to a fort-
night’s exhibitionising and lecturing on
his art or science. Steiner is one of
those extraordinary individuals whom
Bernard Shaw explains by saying that
they are the result of centuries of evo-
lution and are born, like mathematical
prodigies, with the necessary brain tissue
already developed. Another explanation
is that the part of Hungary he comes
from is as prolific of chess players as
Australia is of batsmen. Steiner started
learning gambits at five, and at 20 was
an international champion. On one
occasion he played 100 Hungarians
simultaneously. The keenest players he
found in Java, among the Bataks, who
have a variety of the game which goes
back to Mahomet. A game among
the Bataks lasts for anything up to three
days, two hours’ meditation is nothing to
a player before a move, a knife in one
hand is a necessary adjunct, and wives
are the stakes as often as money.
FOR RANDWICK.
Denman Stakes: June; next,
Bodley Head.
Trial Handicap: Sigh or Vestal;
next, Silent Tip.
Gold Cup: Bristol; next, Coo-
ranga.
Club Welter: Sigh or Arabia;
next, Tuckiar.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Glenhuntly Handicap: Judean;
next, Pantoon.
Brighton Welter: Ramdin ; next.
Temple Coyn.
Katandra Two-year-old: Quite
True ; next, Gem.


A LIGHT TOUCH.


r
ass
5^
HU
MBS
««<B
mvmmwmwmy.
-
, « I S*X*?ZCC*?W^^
mxx
at
njo U
tan
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
/a-GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Your car will give cheaper and
better service if you install new
Champions at regular intervals.
These plugs of improved design
will preserve power and speed
throughout your car’s life. And
they quickly pay for themselves
in the fuel they save.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE*OIL
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray S * re **’ , '
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, A ' '
VICTORIA: Starting: Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsda
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst ree s,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elpliinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf * nd '
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and C
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAU&tIAXUJL^^^
Under the Whip
“T.”: I can’t see how the A.J.C. han-
dicapper was justified in awarding Early
Bird 8.9 in the Doncaster. Certainly
Valicare won with the same weight at
three years; but that Doncaster Handi-
cap was on a scale so high that Top Gal-
lant had 10.7, The Night Patrol 10.3,
Heroic 10.2, Whittier 9.13 and The
Hawk 9.11. When Valicare called for
attention, she had four races to her
credit without a defeat, her trophies in-
cluding the Carrington (Early Bird was
second in that, with 8.2, to Delmestor,
8.13). In the Rawson Stakes at Rose-
hill, Valicare’s fifth race, the great little
filly defeated Windbag by seven lengths
at w.f.a., running “nine” in 1.50 f. With
one exception, the Newmarket Trial at
Mentone, Early Bird’s seven successes
were gained over two-year-olds and
three-year-old fillies; and in not one
case was the company select. If Early
Bird was entitled to 8.9 in the Doncaster,
Gold Rod —at three years winner of the
Futurity with 9.3, and conqueror of
Cuddle at w.f.a. before she won the Don-
caster with 9.6, and at four years winner
of the Epsom, also with 9.3 —was thrown
in as a five-year-old with 9.2.
* * * *
Autumn seems the best season for
sons of The Buzzard —some, anyway.
In the autumn of 1938 Marauder won
the Australian Cup ; in the autumn of
1939 the King’s Cup. L’Aiglon came to
light in the season of mist and mellow
fruitfulness; witness his first and second
in two Sydney Cups. In the intervening
spring he was a failure. In the spring
of 1937, Old Rowley was just a fair
stayer, weighted among the seven-
stoners; in the succeeding autumn he
carried off two long-distance weight-for-
age races at Randwick. He had filled
out into an impressive-looking horse, in
appearance not distantly reminiscent of
his great ancestor Carbine, when he went
wrong.
* * * *
“Bolloween”: In a Sunday paper 18
trainers, nine jockeys, one punter and
one race-club secretary had a stab at
tipping the winner of the Sydney Cup.
Two trainers, one jockey and the secre-
tary were successful. None placed the
second horse. From now on I’m look-
ing on the good oil with a jaundiced eye.
* * * *
Badger’s absence in Sydney enabled
Elliot and Arthur Dewhurst to threaten
his position at the head of the winning
jockeys’ list in the metropolitan area of
Melbourne.
So far Badger has had successful
mounts, Elliot 33| and Dewhurst 33. On
minor placings Elliot is well ahead of
his rivals, with 30 seconds and 33 thirds.
If the little man had not been under
suspension for a month at the beginning
of the year he would have been in an
almost unassailable position. When the
season ends Elliot probably will be
premier jockey again.
Elliot had a perilous experience at
Mentone on Easter Tuesday. He weighed
out for Judy Burn for the Surrey Plate.
While being mounted the mare burst
into a gallop before Billy had his feet
in the stirrups. She had traversed a
round of the course when Elliot threw
his arms around her neck and plunged
from the saddle. He held on for a few
strides and then fell to the ground, escap-
ing with bruised thighs.
“ I’ve never known it rain so hard”
Melbourne punters were smitten hip
and thigh at Williamstown on Easter
Saturday, but they got some of their own
back at Mentone (Tuesday) and Morning-
ton (Wednesday). Three favorites in a
row scored at Mornington and two other
winners were heavily supported.
Only turnup for pencillers at Morning-
ton was in the last event, the Osborne
Trial Handicap, Lady Marcia (tens) beat-
ing Bookaar (11 to 8) by half a neck.
Bookaar belongs to Bert Foulsham, son
of the veteran Randwick trainer, Ike
Foulsham.
George Maxham, for many years fore-
man to the late Adam Skirving, has
brought off a couple of betting coups for
P. G. Hay, the Richmond brewer, in the
past week or so. As private trainer to
Hay he landed the Easter Steeple at
Williamstown with King’s Warden and
the Rye Maiden Plate at Mornington
with Lord Tolgus. The plunge on Lord
Tolgus was spectacular. In parts of the
ring 20 to 1 was secured. He firmed
to favoritism at fours and won hand-
somely from Message Boy (9 to 2) and
Rosslyn (eights). Lord Tolgus is by
Ronsard, a Son-in-Law stallion imported
from England by the late L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon.
On breeding lines Ronsard ought to
have been a stud success in Australia,
but he wasn’t. The best of his progeny
may have been Rondeletia, a stable-com-
panion of The Trump when that game
little gelding distinguished himself at the
1937 spring meetings in Melbourne
“Darcy” Eccles sold Rondeletia for ex-
port to India.
There ought to be little doubt of Hall
Mark yearlings making good when tested
next spring. Bravia, who, like Hall Mark,
is a son of Heroic, has sired a more-
than-useful galloper in Brave Mark, win-
ner of the Flinders Welter at Morning-
ton. Having been narrowly beaten at
Mentone on the previous day, Brave
was made a 2-to-l favorite. He
carried 9st. to victory by half a neck
Tom Wnirry, who was in receipt of
151 b. In color and conformation Brave
Mark has the Heroic characteristics.
Alex. Fullarton, like many other Aus-
tralian jockeys, is airminded. After riding
Turf Boy, third to Grantley in the Great
Eastern Steeple at Oakbank (S.A.), he
flew back to Melbourne to saddle-up
Dolphin for the Trial Hurdle at Mentone
next day. Though Fullarton trains
Dolphin he entrusted the mount to H.
Hawkins, who rode an excellent race but
had to be content with second honors.
A similar experience befell Fullarton at
Mornington, when, on Great Legend, he
was beaten by Point Sturt in the High-
weight Handicap, confined to jumping
jockeys.
In a first-up effort over hurdles last
year Point Sturt scored at Ascot. He
was not persevered with in that capacity,
but may reappear in the role of jumper
when the Grand Nationals come round.
Point Sturt (Amalfi-Solar Star) is a
brother to Yultewirra, an Adelaide Derby
winner who was runner-up to Hall Mark
at weight-for-age in the V.R.C. October
Stakes a few years ago.
;Jc He
Adios could not fulfil his engagements
at Randwick, having gone lame. He has
been blistered and will be away from the
tracks for some months. His owner, who
is in the wool business, has bought several
yearlings who will be trained by George
Price.
*
Having brought off the Leger-and-
Sydney-Cup double, which even Wind-
bag failed to do in 1925 (certainly Wind-
bag was unlucky not to beat Lilypond),
Mosaic is regarded in Sydney as the best
Australian three-year-old of his year. In
Melbourne that distinction is still claimed
for Nuffield. Pity the pair couldn’t meet;
and the chances are they never will. In
the spring, when Nuffield was at his top,
Mosaic was kept for minor races. In
September he won a Novice Handicap
at Randwick; in October, the A.J.C.
Members’ Handicap. In that race he
finished fast at the end of a mile and a
quarter, run in 2.4}, but he didn’t tackle
the distance again until he made up
one of the field in the Chipping Norton
Plate at Warwick Farm, a week before
the Leger; then he went out at 25 to 1
and finished sixth in a field of eight.
On that form, you could scarcely have
him for the Sydney Cup. Old-time
trainers would have scoffed at the notion
of a colt that had never run even a mile
and a half in public winning the Sydney


K
✓
m
m
m*
\
Men of authority and decision —men who are entrusted
with important work. Builders of bridges and builders
of industry. Look at them when you chance to meet
them. They know that outward appearance counts for
a lot. And that goes for big and small things alike.
Take this matter of the daily shave for instance. Why
is it that so many of these men use the Gillette system
in preference to any other ? The answer is simple
enough. They find that Gillette gives them the quickest,
smoothest and, in the long run, most economical
shaving it is possible to get. And so will you!
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
Cup and cutting the Randwick record
to 3 211; but training methods have
changed, ’though stayers don’t last as
long as they did when they had to work
solidly for their oats.
♦ * * *
Chiefly because of the international
situation, as expansively reported by
newspaper and radio alarmists, the Syd-
ney yearling sales were unsatisfactory to
most breeders. It wasn’t the fault of Reg
Inglis, who strove manfully to get bids,
and sometimes salted with wit his re-
marks to reluctant buyers. Top price,
1300 guineas, was realised by a half-
brother to Royal Chief by Phaleron Bay,
and a brother to Beaucaire, by Beau
Pere-Timid, brought 1000 guineas, but
432 yearlings sold (many were left on
their owners’ hands) brought only
78,155 guineas, averaging 181 guineas,
whereas last year 444 realised 98,4121-
guineas, averaging 221 - Apart from the
Phaleron Bays (three at 626 2-3 guineas),
Spearfelts (five at 575 guineas) and The
Buzzards (six at 500 guineas) had much
the best averages. A fine tribute to the
quality of Queensland stock and to the
wisdom shown by Queensland breeders
in going in for the good old Carbine
blood.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Velasco Disqualified
Sharman, with his booth at the Show-
ground, provided pretty well ail the
stoush Sydney witnessed last week, the
solitary exception being the Wilson-
Velasco return bout at the Rushcutter
Bay Stadium.
It was Wilson’s eighth scrap since in-
vading these parts, and he’s won the lot.
An extra-neat little scrapper, he was giv-
ing the Filipino a boxing lesson when a
couple of returning biffs caught him low.
That was in the seventh, and Joe Wallis
had a word with Velasco about it; but
more low stuff being delivered in the
eighth Mr. Wallis abruptly gave it to
Wilson on a foul. It was a one-sided
scrap, anyway—certainly nothing like the
show the pair of ’em were reported to
have put up in Brisbane.
Tommy Farr has won a fight at last.
Back in his own country he beat an
American, Red Burman, on points,
punishing him severely with the left.
Burman came out of Jack Dempsey’s
stable.
* * * *
“Double Blue”: A Sydney brain
specialist was engaged to fly to the bed-
side of Jimmy Moore, a 17-year-old
amateur boxer, of Gladstone (Q.), who
was dangerously ill. Fee and expenses
were found in one afternoon ; Gladstone
tradesmen guaranteed the amount imme-
diately it was decided to send for the
specialist, and within 12 hours nearly
£2OO was in hand. Unfortunately the
effort was useless. Moore died before
the doctor was due to enter the ’plane.
Nineteenth Hole
“Follow Through”: Norman von
Nida’s capture of the A.C.T. champion-
ship must have dispelled any ideas people
may have had of his lacking the will to
win. Though he had looked to be out
of the running, he came home in brilliant
style, and had a shot to spare from the
early leader, Teddy Naismith, and Eric
Cremin, other professionals. Naismith
was the unfortunate member of the
party; after his first round of 69
his left thumb split and became infected
—not an uncommon happening at Can-
berra. For 13 holes Teddy played with an
altered grip. On cousin George’s advice
he returned to orthodoxy, and came with
a dazzling burst on the homeward run.
Two blades of grass on the last green
kept him from tying with “The Von”
and collecting £5O.
“Follow Through”: Jack Barkel con-
founded the critics at Canberra by taking
the amateur championship from a strong
field of Victorians and Cornstalks.
Barkel, a painstaking player, appreciates
the Canberra course, which has never
looked better. Frank Hughes let down
his supporters in the first round, but a
69 took him within a shot of the winner.
* * * *
“Head Down”: Bobby Locke made
hacks of the opposition in the South
African open at Durban. His rounds
were 69, 69, 74 and 67. The Afrikander
vainly challenged Cotton for £5OO a side.
Reg Whitcombe has taken him up.
* * * *
“Duffer”: Watched a novel “four-ball
best-ball” at Mittagong (N.S.W.): two
archers versus two golfers. The bowmen
were outdriven off the tees, but their
arrows were seldom off the line, and they
generally made the green with their
“seconds” on par four holes. Their
“putts” consisted of shooting at a sponge
stuck up near the hole. Where they had
an advantage was on bunkered greens,
for while the golfer had to play his ball
out the archer simply stood up in the
trap and shot at the sponge. The bowmen
were three up at the ninth, at which stage
I lost interest. The senior archer, a cer-
tain Taylor, challenges any golfer to a
match, but even a champion would need
a stroke a hole. You can’t very well slice
or hook an arrow.
Miscellaneous
As a rule, matches between old-timers
are dull where they are not pathetic—
and that goes for nearly every sport ex-
cept bowls but A.I.F. v. Ex-Inter-
nationals on the Melbourne Cricket
Ground provided some good cricket, as
well as good fun for all concerned,
and for 8000 spectators. Among the
Diggers, Pellew, Murray, Taylor, Collins
and Love —he, of course, turns out
regularly for Mosman, the premier Syd-
ney club —Trenerry and Winning have
worn,very well. Jack Murray didn’t get
going, but Pellew, opening with Kelleway
(14), made a sparkling 77 out of 191,
Collins’s contribution being 18 n.o. The
bowlers were Ironmonger (3 for 51),
Blackie (3 for 32), Grimmett (3 for 28),
Macartney (1 for 16) and Mailey (1 for
50). Mailey’s average summoned up
memories of a colleague and close friend
who used to write, “Mailey bowled splen-
didly—he took 2 for 279.”
Ex-Internationals began with a hot lot
—Vic Richardson (47), Ponsford (44),
Macartney (35) and Kippax (15). Clem
Hill—having, like Collins, a day off from
the races —showed himself astonishingly
active for 63, but Jack Murray (2 for 20),
got a loose one past him. Jack Gregory
and Kelleway failed to get wickets, but
Collins (2 for 6), Winning (2 for 37), Stir-
ling (1 for 26), and Eric Bull were on
the spot —sometimes. Ex-Internationals
won by four runs. They could have made
it more, but that didn’t matter; it was
a very happy reunion.
* * *
“Balaclava”: There is no more diffi-
cult job in the sporting line than that of
the man who handicaps the peds. for the
Stawell (Vic.) Easter Gift. He has to
bring together, as far as he can, scores
of lads he never saw, and all he has to
go on are written performances and
times which are apt to conceal even
more than they reveal. For when it is
set down that a youth won “a hundred”
in, say, ten-and-a-fifth, how is the.han-
dicapper to know whether the winner
was all out or had a bit in hand pr
whether or not the runner-up looked in
dead earnest.
Because of complaints that back-
markers never win Gifts, the handi-
capper brought the front-markets a bit
closer this year. No use ; the £5OO (plus
gold medal) offered for first prize was
collected by a Great Unknown on 9i
yards, and a young man with the same
start was second. The winner, Sprague,
is a railway clerk at Ballarat. In his
heat he beat the early favorite, Auswild,
from Leeton (N.S.W.), by two yards, and
after that bookmakers didn’t want to lay
him. They wouldn’t bet on the semi-
final, in which Sprague cleared out from
his opponents, defeating the second man
by four yards in 11 14-16 sec., the same
time as in his heat—it’s a yard and three-
quarters inside evens. In the final it was
4 to 1 on Sprague, 5 to 1 against Dunn,
who comes from Ormond (Vic.), 12 to
1 Kelly (St. Kilda) and 20 to 1 Wilson
(Collingwood). Dunn made Sprague put
his best foot foremost, but was beaten
by a yard, Davis (Dookie) being another
foot away. The time was again 11
14-16 sec. Sprague went back to Bal-
larat nearly £2OOO better off.
* * * *
A band of missionaries from Sydney,
led by Ray Stehr, has been playing a
series of League Rugby matches against
Maorilanders who cleave to that code.
The first encounter, against Marist
Brothers at Auckland, was rough, a
Sydneian being slugged out and a Marist
Brother sent off; the second, was
rougher, play being stopped by mutual
consent in the second half to admit of
missionaries putting heads on Richmond
and vice versa. Order was restored and
Richmond won by a point. The number
of points that stopped punches in the
Donnybrook was not counted. Stehr,
who conducted the mission, is a copper.
Crawford, whose cool head never be-
trays him into cocksureness or bad court
manners, has issued a timely warning
against overconfidence as to the Davis
Cup result. He knows by experience
that Americans are very hard to beat in
their own country, and knows also that
any exhibition of “temperament” or any
return to footfaulting might ruin all.
Footfaulting can and should be over-
come, but “temperament” is another
matter. Previous generations gave it a
harsher name ; but even racehorses, it
seems, get it nowadays. A track reporter
caught Marauder in a “temperamental”
mood when that honest old horse was
out for a winding-up gallop before the
Sydney Cup.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: All the efforts
of squeamish old ladies of both sexes
have failed to suppress cockfighting, and
extensive Easter tournaments were held
in the North of England. In the
eighteenth century it was the universal
sport with adherents ranging from Prime
Ministers to pitmen. Some of the most
distinguished breeders were clergymen,
the usual place for holding rural cockings
was the village churchyard, and the
church bells were rung in honor of any
local bird who won a big event. It has
left plenty of traces in vernacular Eng-
lish- “cockpit,” “cut out for, pit
against ’ and scoot are a few. Fight-
ing cocks arrived in Sydney with the
F leet, i and Cockfighters p °' n ’'
Middle Harbor perpetuates the memories
of man / a fam ° us mam #
* * _ * . ,
Calliungal : These coastal
think they can swim, do they? Well, let
them take a good look at the recent
Queensland Central Western mee , in S-
The Central Western four-laps champion-
ship went to the local (Longreach) man,
E. Hamilton, with a Rockhampton man
(C. Butcher) second and a Longreach
man third. And in the ladies junior
championship the crack coastal visitors
were nowhere. The Longreach pool is
equal to anything along the sea coast
north of Brisbane,
* * * *
Athol Stubbs, who has been cleaning
up N.S.W. walking championships this
season, won the 10,000-metres champion-
ship at Rushcutter Bay, Sydney, but found
the heavy ground against him, and took
49min. 20 2-ssec., nearly 3min. behind
the record he expected to smash. Ex-
perts have been questioning his action,
“Magic-eye” photos, show a clear heel-
and-toe style.


A -tKjg, rvct>-yv
I.'.HtMUrHI
Twice. Daily-2’30-Q
II
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-Q
“THE liAUGH ROUND-UP,”
featuring
WILL MAHONEY.
And 10 Other Acts.
“IOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY,"
featuring
BUSTER WEST and LUCILLE PAGE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artists’ Ball.
For a show that never happened Syd-
ney Artists’ Ball did very well indeed.
“S. M. Herald” solemnly reported it as a
“Gay Parade” and the “Sunday Sun,”
breaking out into dots like measles . . .
gave ... it ... a review . . . that must
have made the simplest . . . socialite . . .
suspect that a ball . . . had been held.
These authorities were glanced at to
confirm a horrible feeling that Something
Believe it or not, this is Ted Scorfield
at the Artists’ Ball.
had happened on Friday night; but they
still can’t prove there was any normal
human activity at the Trocadero.
For one thing, there’s no such thing
as a bunyip, but there was a bunyip
there. And there’s no such thing as a
dingbat, but the dolorous dingbat was
there. And if there is a bunyip (and
there isn’t) it doesn’t lay square eggs
(which it did), and if it does lay square
eggs the chicken of the bunyip isn’t a
dingbat (and that’s what they said it
was). Also, after giving the matter the
most favorable consideration, it’s ex-
tremely doubtful that there’s any such
thing as Unk White—unless one does
believe in dingbats.
Frith, too. He was supposed to have
emerged from the revellers when Unk
and co. were staging the bunyip business
and explained to present inquirer what it
was all about. Something like a cross
between Lawrence of Arabia and Flor-
ence Nightingale came up and shrieked
and vanished. There’s only one possible
explanation, and that is (if it did happen)
And this (perhaps more credibly ) is
Unk White.
that it was surrealism. That would ac-
count for Scorfield’s trousers.
It would account for anything, even
Stan Cross as a Victorian gent., some-
body else as Solomon in all his glory, a
“cardsharper” who looked like a ding-
bat’s draughtboard and Lahm completely
disguised as a diplomat in a shrubbery.
Surrealism, too, for the culinary Cleo-
patra, whose gown had come not from
the haberdashery but the pantry: a metal
pot-cleaner for a hat and a couple of
soup-strainers put to the strangest use.
There were some of the trappings of
reality. A crowd waiting outside in the
rain to see the animals go in two by
two, and taxis afterwards for anyone
who came out on all fours. A couple
of aspidistras in the foyer having the
time of their lives'. An orchestra, mak-
ing sounds of delight and pain. A really
excellent floor for sitting on. And the
balloons. There may or may not have
been the greenery and the streamers that
have been encountered on other occa-
sions of stress and that always make such
a pleasant salad at about 2 a.m., but there
certainly were balloons.
About the second dance after the time
the girl with the flaxen hair turned out
to be a horse of the wrong color, so to
speak, somebody let all the balloons go,
arid all round the room you could hear
the artists eating them. They’re all right,
they may be quite attractive boiled, but
there’s something disappointing about a
raw balloon. Like floss candy, one bite
and they’re gone.
Approximately one million attended,
and two million went home.
That was about the hour when the
first milkmen were crowing to their
mates, and then the party started. With
the state Europe was in on Friday, it
felt a bit like going to the famous ball
on the eve of Waterloo. But it wasn’t
the ball, but the battle. And Sydney is
strewn with the dead.
“Cannibal Carnival.”
Herbert Hodge’s “Cannibal Carnival,”
with its bishop, policeman and big busi-
nessman in the irreverent trouserlessness
of vaudeville, its impossible natives and
its broad, blunt, obvious satire, is the
sort of show that could be expected to
make an uproarious five minutes at the
Tiv.
Hodge himself indicated that he
thought so by calling it a theatrical “car-
toon”—the essentials of which are broad
strokes and brevity. Yet it fills an entire
evening, and, excellently handled by Syd-
ney New Theatre League, held through-
out to the hilarity of a vaudeville “flash.”
Hodge did the trick by stringing to-
gether a series of cartoons; the play is
an animated comic-strip, a series of inci-
dents complete in themselves but linked
by the story.
The bishop, the businessman and the
cop, shipwrecked on a cannibal isle (how
is it that comic characters always man-
age to lose their trousers and save their
hats in a shipwreck?), decide to civilise
the natives. First step is to put a fence
and “Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted”
notice round the local bread and hot-dog
palm; then the natives are offered jobs
picking the fruit for the businessman.
There’s a slump, unemployment is in-
vented, the businessman has to provide
a dole. When that fails, he sets up King
Boko for the natives to cheer ; that fail-
ing, too, he decides to give the natives
a vote, so that “iThey can blame the Gov-
ernment instead of me.”
The bishop stands as Conservative, the
businessman as Liberal, and the natives
are enthusing about democracy when
Egbert the Socialist appears, and, despite
the forming of a coalition by Con. and
Lib., gets himself elected. Lib. and Con.
promptly declare a “state of emergency,”
Egbert is carried off to jug, and the
natives learn to shout “Hail, Crabbe!”
and to blame the Jews for all their
troubles. Bishop has just whispered to
Crabbe the dreadful news that there
aren’t any Jews on the island when the
counter-revolution begins, and the busi-
nessman and the bish. are popped into a
large iron pot under the eyes of a trium-
phant Egbert.
All of which, in an ordinary setting,
would be very bitter or very dull. But
among the palm-trees it is extremely
funny.
One of the neatest touches was the in-
dicating of the march of civilisation by
lifting the curtain on rocks and trees plas-
tered with “Get it at Crabbe’s!”
The dialogue, if it lacked subtlety and
didn’t shun stock jokes, was in keeping
with the plot; there was Big Business’s
slumber-song, “Something attempted,
someone done, has earned a night’s
repose.” The cop figured in some first-
class miming and first-class satire when
Egbert was being tried for sedition;
Egbert gave his evidence, then darted
round to the bench, complimented him-
self on the very fair way he had given
it, complimented the jury (Crabbe and
the bishop) on their verdict of guilty, and
sentenced Egbert; and then, as cop again,
sympathetically led him to the block.
Obviously it’s a controversial play
from the political viewpoint. But it’s a
most amusing one, and it’s told with the
greatest good humor. If the directness
of the satire made things easy for the
players, the thinness of the disguise and
the necessity for crowd scenes of natives
made it a piece that could easily have
flopped. That it didn’t was due to the
light-hearted enthusiasm of the cannibals.
Frank Callanan was the bishop, Kenyon
McCarron the businessman, Edmund
Allison the cop, and Les Wiggins a lovely
King Boko.
Lehmann in Melbourne .
Lotte Lehmann, with her impressive
presence, her versatile Vocal equipment
and her voice in even better condition
than on her previous visit, reappeared
at Melbourne Town Hall last week. The
Lehmann led off with the “Lascia Chio
Pianga” of Handel, in which her in-
sistent “E” was predominant, but no
The Francois Troupe of French-Italian Clowns —an extra-bright item in Wirth’s
Circus on its present Sydney visit.
doubt was left in anybody’s mind that
her art was more rounded than ever.
She took three of the most difficult songs
of Beethoven, including “In Questa
Tomba,” with such consummate ease
that the audience sat back and let itself
go in an orgy of musical self-indulgence.
The songs of Wolf which followed
contain some of the stillest hurdles any
composer has set for a singer, but she
cleared the four fences in succession with
the ease of an old campaigner, and com-
pleted the conquest of her hearers with
Schumann and Schubert encores which
are as popular as may be but which are
a fresh and unique experience when sung
by the Lehmann.
Pianist Ulanowsky scored a minor
success with his solo panel, and then
Madame Lotte sailed back and floored
her audience completely with an aria
from Thomas. It was just struggling to
its feet when she floored it again with
an air from Alfano of such exquisite
texture that there was nothing to be done
but take the remainder of her generous
programme in a recumbent posture.
Amongst the last-named was a ditty
by the local William James called
“Covent Garden.” It was as pretty a
thing as anything in the singer’s lighter
repertoire. More recitals were billed for
this week, and presumably Melbourne
will not let the lady go until all who
heard her of yore renew the acquaint-
ance.
A red-nosed, flat-foot comedian with
false whiskers and pants three sizes too
large for him waddled on to the plat-
form at the first celebrity concert of the
season at Melbourne Town Hall on
Saturday.
His name was Shastakowitch. But,
unlike the Lehmann, Shast. was only
present musically speaking. Whatever
significance this Soviet composer’s “Age
of Gold” (performed by the orchestra
for the first, and probably the last, time)
may have had for the composer, the loud
grunts, squeals, whistles and howls of
the Introduction were apparently taken
by both audience and orchestrions to
mean a pigsty.
A pigsty may be just as worthy sub-
ject-matter for a Russian composer as
a spring morning, but it was unexpected.
’Cellist Sisserman was seen to be shak-
ing with laughter, there were broad grins
on the faces of the others, and conductor
Heinze himself joined in the general
merriment. A pleasant-enough Adagio
was followed by a Polka and a Dance
which the house received with titters, but
Mo never got more applause than Shast.
did for his elaborate wisecrack at the
finish.
After this knockabout artist had
departed the Schubert “Unfinished”
came almost as an anti-climax, although
it was as fine a piece of conducting as
Heinze, who has special affection for the
Work, has provided.
The Lehmann sang “Lascia Ch’io
Panga,” Gluck’s “Divinite du Styx” and
the “Liebestod” from “Tristan and
Isolde,” and the audience never wanted
to hear the last of her.
Goluboff in Sydney.
Grisha Goluboff (aged 16) made his
bow to Sydney at the Town Hall on
Thursday night as soloist, with the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra, in Tschaikowsky’s
D Major Violin Concerto.
He gets a heavenly tone from his much-
advertised Strad., and has evidently ac-
quired the technical equipment necessary
to cope with almost anything written for
the instrument. His youth and confidence
help the effect, and if, even in the sugary
periods of Tschaikowsky, the perform-
ance suggests the slightly gauche gambols
of a lamb rather than the grace and poise
of a swallow, it has the charm of fresh-
ness. The lad has music in his soul and
quick wits in his fingers, and he’s worth
listening to.
A sideline on the programme was a
performance, claimed to be the first in
Sydney, of the Fifth Symphony of Sibe-
lius. Conductor Dr. Edgar Bainton, of
Sydney Con., steered the orchestra
through the zephyrs, gales and heart-
throbs of this remarkable work with
a great deal of firmness and justness ; but
what Sibelius would have thought about
this interpretation is, perhaps, one of
those things it would be better not to
speculate upon. Like most modern sym-
phonies, the work must be heard by the
average big-city audience at least a dozen
times before more than a glimmering of
its purport can seep its way into the minds
of the listeners.
Very comical therefore was a series of
gushing testimonials from members of
the audience broadcast by the A.B.C.
during the interval that followed the
Sibelius outpouring.
At his solo recital at the Town Hall
on Saturday night the youngster added


SHIRT FITTERS
PRECISION TAILORED, a
true expression of the creative
talents of our designers, and
a refreshing relief from mass
production apparel—
Shirts to measure from 18/6.
isislii
*1 i 1
11
A PHOTO LIKE THIS
MAY WIN
1/rtL
A
K
4jr/* X%.W
. . . AND £2O TO SPEND!
THAT is the magnificent FIRST PRIZE in the “AGFA” PHOTO-
GRAPHIC COMPETITION ... a Luxury Cruise to the South Seas
plus £2O to spend—£so value in all! Why shouldn’t YOU win it?
Only amateurs can enter . . . and remember there are no less than
77 OTHER PRIZES
The SECOND is an “AGFA” HOME MOVIE OUTFIT valued at £35;
THIRD, an “AGFA” SPEEDEX COMPUR CAMERA valued at
£lO/2/6, and 75 CONSOLATION PRIZES. ASK YOUR CHEMIST
for folder giving full particulars, or write “AGFA PHOTO-
COMPETITION, 62 Clarence Street (Box 395 7V, G.P.0.),
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE COMPETITION CLOSES MAY 31, 1939.
W
FILMS t-CAMERAS
"For Better Photography
Agfa Distributors:
VICTORIA —Herbert Small Pty., Ltd.,
308-310 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
NEW SOUTH WALES —Herbert Small
Pty., Ltd., 243 Pitt St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND—Herbert Small Pty.,
Ltd., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA—AsIi Bester & Co., 102
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—F. H. Faulding
and Co., Ltd., James Place, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. E. Sains-
bury & Co., 27 London Court, Perth.
to the earlier impression respect for his
musicianship. Vitali’s Chaconne, Beet-
hoven’s “Spring” Sonata and the Max
Bruch Concerto were played npt only
with the facility which is the heritage of
musical prodigies, but with insight well
beyond the lad’s years. And he rollicked
through Bazzini’s “Rondedes Lutins” in
wholly enjoyable fashion.
John Crown, Goluboff’s accompanist,
in a solo interlude gave a fine reading of
Liszt’s “Sixth Rhapsody,” and two pre-
ludes by a contemporary Russian com-
poser, Shastakowitch. Of these all that
can be said is that Sovietism hasn’t cured
the Russ of his melancholy.
Nicola .
Nicola has resumed business with
Melbourne at the Princess, where the
amiable illusionist transports his audience
to China, India, U.S.A. and a railway
station at Daffeyville, South America,
for the usual prices of admission.
He put a girl in a sack and the sack
in a box and the box in a portmanteau
and the portmanteau in a bathing box,
and it turned out after all that he had
put himself in the sack and the girl was
nowhere, or possibly in her dressing-room
changing for the next act.
When he names his own conditions he
touches, to use his own words, the abso-
lute limit of magical ingenuity, and the
liberties he takes with handkerchiefs and
rabbits are just as remarkable as the
liberties he takes with human beings.
He can make girls appear and disappear
at will, so there is no reason in the world
why he shouldn’t be able in a national
emergency to double the strength of the
Australian army, if he was allowed to
name his own conditions. It is a pity
the Defence Department is so old-
fashioned in its recruiting methods.
“The Three Musketeers ”
Don Ameche, the Ritz Brothers.
After witnessing Dahn as D’Artagnan
and the Ritz trio deputising as his off-
siders at Sydney Embassy, Dumaresque
addicts would be justified in wishing Mr.
Zanuck to perdition; but, taken as a
Hollywooden superficiality, the fillum has
its moments.
It kicks off with Dahn riding Paris-
wards on a decrepit nag and singing his
head off in a light ditty or two. If that
atmosphere had prevailed throughout, the
film might have been a topnotch bur-
lesque, but the adventuring and heart-
interest sides of it are taken too seriously,
while Dahn’s giving character or serious-
ness to the part of D’Artagnan is a frank
impossibility.
The Ritz trio keep up their end of the
lighthearted business without much
trouble. Their damnfoolery can be guar-
anteed at pretty well any time ; here, if
not right at the top of their form, they
al least evoke a fair volume of guffaw.
They enter as three tavern spud-peelers
who drink the legit, musketeers under the
table, and thereafter become embroiled
with Dahn in rescuing the bauble which
the Queen gave to Buckingham, and
which she had to have back again in
time to allay the suspicions of Richelieu.
Film is a twentieth-century Fox pro-
duction, and if that concern is some-
times guilty of featuring second- and
lower-grade players as “stars,” it is at
least pretty consistent with excellent sup-
porting casts. In this instance there are
Binnie Barnes as Milady de Winter,
Lionel Atwill as De Rochefort, Joseph
Schildkraut as Louis XIII., Douglas Dum-
brille appearing briefly as one of the
musketeers and John Carradine still more
briefly in a minor role —all of them cap-
able of much more than they are called
upon to do. Feminine etceteras are pro-
vided by Gloria Stewart and Pauline
Moore.
“Women in the Wind ”
Kay Francis, William Gorgan.
Sydney Mayfair recently exhibited a
distressing opus about a clutch of females
taking to the air ; possibly by way of
reply, Sydney Capitol weighs in with this
offering on much the same lines, but not
so dreadful.
It has to do with a trans-Amurrican
air-race for females only which the
Francis lady is bent on winning so that
the several thousand dahlars prizemoney
can be devoted to repairing her ailing
brother or somebody. With that worthy
motive under her belt the lady forthwith
vamps crack-pilot Mr. Gargan (who, in-
cidentally, doesn’t need much vamping),
and borrows his ’plane for the race.
There are complications, of course—
Mr. Gargan’s erstwhile missus; doity
doings all along the line; insurmount-
able obstacles which are duly surmounted
—before the fillum winds up with Miss
Francis landing the trophy while Mr.
Qargan waits near by to perform the
fadeout clinch.
“The Strange Case of Dr.
Meade”
Jack Holt.
Dr. Meade, in this offering at Sydney
Cameo and Civic, is a famous N’Yark
speshulist who becomes fed up to his
hind molars after ten years of delving
into people’s gizzards, and goes out back
o’ beyond for a holiday away from the
adulation of the crowds.
In the remote hamlet where he finally
lands himself surgery is practically un-
heard of; typhoid is treated with bi-
carbonate of soda, and bullet wounds
with plasters of herbs. The doc. sets out
to remedy this state of affairs by estab'
lishing a free and up-to-date clinic at his
own expense, but is thwarted in his
object by mulish obstinacy of villagers,
who refuse to depart from old customs,
and by doity subterfuge on the part of
the local quack. A large-scale outbreak
of typhoid brings all and sundry around
to his way of thinking.
A pretty incredible stretch, but, being
briskly handled and reasonably well acted
by Holt, Noah Beery, junior, Beverly
Roberts and others, it adds up to an
f.a.q. time-killer.
Walt Disney “Originals”
What is described as an “exhibition of
the original paintings for ‘Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs,’ by Walt Disney,”
occupies the walls of the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney.
The drawings, priced at from four to
15 guineas apiece, are on celluloid,
superimposed upon harmonising plain
backgrounds. They include a full selec-
tion of portraits of Snow White, the
Dwarfs and the wicked Queen, together
with animal groupings.
As the drawings are on transparent
material it seems probable that they
formed part of the material from which
Disney’s color-film was photographed,
in which sense they certainly are originals,
though Mr. Disney’s connection with
them may be more that of designer than
actual executant. They aren’t signed.
ARTBURSTS.
Sydney
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
is a show of half a hundred water-colors,
all travel-pieces, by John D. Moore.
Of Moore’s mastery of the technique
of both oil and water-color there has
never been any doubt; and he is one of
the most conscientious and intellectual
painters in Australia. But he will paint
his skies so heavily that unless the scene
beneath is painted almost in solid black
(as in “From the Art Gallery, Stock-
holm”) the effect is as strange as a photo-
graph taken through an ultra-red filter.
However, not all the pictures exhibit
this peculiarity. The Avalon studies
are delightful pieces of composition ; the
treatment of rushing, foaming, broken
water in “Falls at Lochinver” and
“Cluanie Bridge” is original, clever and
effective ; the London sketches, particu-
larly “Hammersmith Bridge” and “St.
Paul’s from Greenwich Park,” reflect ad-
mirably the spirit of such scenes. The
pictures of boskage, such as “Ken Wood,
London,” “Near Chippenham” and
“Kensington Gardens,” have , charm and
character.
New York set Mr. Moore problems he
could not solve, but his experiments with
that fabulous city are interesting.
* * * *
Melbourne
Max Meldrum’s portrait of himself in
a scarlet dressing-gown struck present
reviewer as easily the most outstanding
picture in the Australian Academy of Art
show at Melbourne National Gallery.
A. D. Colquhoun has a large study of
himself, his model and the picture he has
been working on which is photographic
in quality. John Farmer has a nice im-
pression * of a grey day, and Dorothy
Whitehead an unpretentious one of a
mountain road. A. D. Colquhoun’s “The
Surf Road, Lome,” tends to be factual
like his portrait group. William _ A.
Dargie’s “The Horses and the Sea” is a
nice, fresh impression, if a trifle formular-
ised and wrong in key. Noel Wood sends
from Queensland a “Peach Mango Tree”
which has some of the qualities of light
and shade.
Whether he likes it or not, Arnold
Shore, the Melbourne modernist, to
whom Nature is anathema, in “Mount
Towrong” has painted a bushscape which
looks more like Nature than nine-tenths
of the landscapes of his academic friends.
His “Still-Life” is another admirable pic-
ture which contradicts his artistic prin-
ciples. W. Frater, his brother modernist,
has a landscape which doesn’t look
like Nature ; but it doesn’t look like an
academy picture either, which is some-
thing.
Probably the most academic picture in
the show is the portrait of Madame Elink
Schuurman by Nora Heysen, which has
attached to it the statement that it won
the Archibald Prize for 1938.
A dozen sculptors have been tussling
with their reluctant clay, and their re-
suits for the most part are as tired and
conventionalised as the majority of the
canvases. One item in the plastic division
which seemed worth an approving ad-
jective was a little model of an aboriginal
fisherman by Orlando Dutton, of Vic-
toria. The sculptors ought to take a walk
through the National Gallery and look
at the Minerva of Rodin and the Greek
Aphrodite,
Taking this show as a whole, one can-
not say that anything has been done to
raise the standards of Australian art by
the formation of an academy. The
A.A.A. is simply a midget Royal
Academy, no better and no worse, than
its invincible prototype. To quote Mr.
George Bell, “They are the same old
painters, even though academicians.”


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
.
N,
■<*!*«,**,
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 134771,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Horses are still snickering a bit (no
pun meant) over the one or two surprises
they managed to slip in among the win-
ners at this Easter’s Randwick. The cynic
is smiling a bit wryly over the contor-
tions of felt and flower that women stuck
on their heads for hats. But if you are
just the ordinary man or woman you
greeted this bright and giddy head-gar-
nishing as a relief to radio ravings on
affairs in Europe. One woman whose
horses all lost told me she cheered her-
self up by imagining some of the hats
she met on the craniums of European
dictators. A tiny plaque of fat pink rose-
buds with a posy of violets fixed to its
backstrap and drooping coyly over an
ear might, she thought, just become the
Mussolini cast of face. It didn’t become
the face of her it crowned last Saturday.
But what’s the odds? Hardly any of
these hats suit anybody, anyway. They’re
just crazy. You know it. They know it.
But, gosh, you’re not going to acknow-
ledge you can’t wear what the other
women think they can.
The warm and sultry days made dress-
ing a mixed grill. Sheers, woollens,
taffetas, printed silks and furs milled
about the entrance to the stands and the
bookmakers’ choir stalls. Furs featured
were silver fox, mink and Persian lamb.
Mrs. Reg Stafford carried a chunky little
coat of this last in black. Likeable was
Mrs. Dundas Allen’s flat beret, swathed
in pale blue. It was worn with a violet-
toned frock that had its quilted belt of
the same blue. Mrs. David Maughan can
wear her feathers. Her black hat sprouted
almost adult (in contrast to the baby
plumes of many) beige feathers across
its crown. Mrs. Roger Forrest Hughes
smiled over Cherry Bar’s divvy.
The Hon. Patrick Hore-Ruthvens came
out on Wednesday, the only touch of
vice-royalty present. Her fair slimness
was clothed in emerald green, very short
as to sleeve. Her sandal shoes and bag
were also green. Harry Budge’s lady was
in mulberry. Daughter Sadie was sleek
and smart in black. Miss Kate Egan was
enthusiasm in black-and-white sheers.
Three blackbirds had lighted on the Mc-
Kelvey lady’s large, flat black felt. The
skirt of her black sheer frock was all
pleated. Its belt was of deep gold links,
and a large oid-fashioned gold brooch
was a neat finish. Judith Lawry’s hat
had its float bowl brim filled with flowers
laid flat. Her flowered silk was so gay
it might have been the skirt of departing
summer.
The Greg McGirr couple came to-
gether and stayed together. She pinned
a white camellia on her black frock, and
her Suzy hat showed the coyest bit of
green quill. Watching the army of
punters around her who kept studying
their newspaper clippings intently, she
exclaimed, “Journalism has come into its
own!” Betty Munro’s navy jersey silk
had its skirt tucked. Her blue hat had
a very high pointed crown, and Was
swathed in red. Thomas Gordon’s lady
had red coin spots on her navy ensemble.
Black and white suited Mrs. Lionel Dare.
Rich blues and burgundy were mingled
in Mrs. W. Parsons’s ensemble. Heather
Macleod, Mollie Cox and Mrs. Charles
Macleod were a bright-faced trio who
featured blue in their smart wear. All
white was Mrs. C. V. Walker except her
sandals, which were delf blue and white.
Jacaranda-blue was Mrs. Walter Burfitt’s
dress. Her little hat was pictorial and
plumy with blue and amethyst feathers.
Mrs. Bill Owen’s frock was black and
swinging. Mrs. Peter Meagher and Mrs.
Michael Meagher were together. Mrs:
Stewart Jamieson’s white hat was high
and peaked, and its front was trimmed
with tight little bunches of red-, blue- and
purple-toned flowers. Mrs. Philip Wil-
son, who was Shirley Dent, had all the
world before her. She had a map of
the world appliqued in white pique on
the front of her brown woollen dress.
With this she wore a white topper lined
with brown. Last word in tailoring was
Sandra Baillieu’s hem-length cameo-pink
coat. Over the flat crown of Mrs. J. L.
Wardlaw’s grey felt hat two grey quills
projected from back to front. Mrs. Mal-
colm Mackellar’s black velvet hat was
opulent with feathers. Navy and white
were Mayoress Nock’s choice, and black
and white Mrs. H. Aldritt’s. Margaret
Dovey was one of the prettiest. A gold
true-love’s knot was caught in the veil
of Mrs. C. H. R. Miller’s black-and-gold
hat. Mrs. Anderson Stuart’s smart suit
was of black taffeta. Mrs. A. C. God-
hard and Mrs. Graham Body were two
notables on Ladies’ Day.
Everybody loved the roses round the
door leading to the arbor like greeny
deeps that was just a step or two between
cocktails at the New South Wales Club
party last Saturday. The dining-room
was overlooked by a tall windmill of
cream and gold roses. The buffet tables
were lush with garden treasure. Tawny
and deep wine beauties burning with
autumn impressed themselves till you
could have murmured, like the English
writer of old did of some luscious straw-
berries: “It is possible that God could
have made better. It is probable He
never did.” If that quotation is not
quite perfect, the club’s white ladies
were.
There wasn’t a dull moment at this
party. From the welcoming smile of
president T. S. Douglas and his wife the
incomer walked a few paces, and was
there held in pause by a pretty girl (there
were several of them) in Tyrolean
peasant costume who pinned violets in
the furs or frocks of the women guests.
After that you became an ardent listener-
in or broadcaster at the cocktail hour.
Mrs. Douglas’s dahlia-red frock was worn
with a matching off-the-face hat. Touches
of jade-green appeared on the smart suit
worn by Mrs. Harry Dransfield. Mrs.
J. O. Meeks’s burgundy crepes had a
bright front panel of red and gold lame.
The L. W. Chamberlain couple were
greeted by many, and Mrs. Harold Bott’s
saucy little burgundy hat was worn with
an afternoon frock of black marocain.
The Norman McLeods were there. Her
smart shiny hat looked as though
she’d got into it with a shoehorn. The
Maurice Gulsons were in the throng ; so
were Mrs. Allen and daughter. Mrs.
Franz von Schilling was another of the
smart. She went off to the cocktail-
shaking in H.M.S. Leander, which was
another of the day’s “yo, hos, let us
merry be!”
Last Saturday at the Little Theatre in
Phillip-street Bobby Goulston gave
impetus to Sydney’s somewhat languish-
ing art of child entertainment. Her
programme, titled “Animal Antics,”
was attractive and entirely animal-
minded. Bobby did the whole bill her-
self, and had written many of the little
acts. This versatile girl is just back from
London, where she studied music with
Marchesi and dramatic art at the Royal
Academy with Ena Grossmith, daughter
of the notable George.
Young Grisha Goluboff in his “tux,”
giving a giant-size programme in the
Town Hall, drew a crowded house on
Saturday night. There are no affecta-
tions about this youngster ; the only fear,
felt by at least one of his listeners, is
that he may overwork. He and asso-
ciate artist John Crown make a pair
that will be responsible for flapper en-
thusiasm in the season. From the out-
set they have had the ear of the musi-
cians. Lady Gowrie, with daughter-in-
law Mrs. Hore Ruthven, and Mrs. Fred
Payne, of Melbourne, were front-rankers.
Thelma Houston, her shiny black hair
in nice contrast to her turquoise frock-
ing, was there. After seven years she is
giving up her secretaryship of the Queen
Victoria Music Club. Mrs. Florence
Taylor, just arrived from a watery
journey up from Melbourne, was in the
audience. Violet Roche, her broken
ankle now mending, came with a friend
and a friendly stick. Mrs. Hope Gibson
was an attentive listener.
Ella and Pat O’Shea, down from Bris-
bane for the racing and other Easter
gaieties, have been seen everywhere from
yearling sales to vice-regal dinner par-
ties. Every day they went to the races,
Miss O’Shea’s straight little figure show-
ing off to advantage her American and
French model ensembles. Some men
friends gave Pat a dinner at the Union
Club, and Miss O’Shea gave lunches and
was lunched in the Australia, which is
always her home away from Brisbane.
One of her axioms is “A woman’s as
old as her waistline!” Particularly ad-
mired was the ice-blue trained frock of
heavy crepe she wore to last week’s
Admiralty House dinner party.
One of the keen workers for the Hos-
pice for the Dying is Mrs. Duncan, wife
of Dr. George Duncan, of Randwick.
The current effort for the institution
that stands, as it were, with bated breath
amidst the surge of life that is Darling-
hurst, is an afternoon party in the Nieuw
Holland. This is dated for Friday, June
23, and Mrs. Duncan is among the com-
mittee’s vice-presidents. The general man-
ager of the K.P.M., Anton Bakker, is
sending to The Hague for a real Dutch
doll, and this will be one of the many
prizes. The K.P.M. co. is not only lend-
ing the ship but giving the tea. Bridge,
a mannequin parade, folk dancing, music
and dancing on the deck are some of the
joys listed. Photograph from Falk.
A new idea in entertainment put a
sparkle into Sydney last Saturday morn-
ing. Marie Houston in a bewildering
and becoming array of costumes (a crino-
line affair of powder-blue with gold
baskets of roses embroidered on it was
one) sang English, French, German and
Italian songs, ancient and modern, in the
Assembly Hall. There was quite a
crowded house —many schoolgirls, many
fashionably-dressed women and quite a
smattering of men.
A camp for 150 boys has been opened
at Furlough House, Narrabeen. The
boys were drawn from the areas of
N.S.W. ravaged by the recent fires, from
the police clubs of Sydney and else-
where, Sixty-four are sons of Maoriland
returned soldiers. Mrs. I. Johnston,
organising secretary of the Furlough
House committee, is appealing for
funds to help the scheme. Five pounds
is the cost of maintaining each boy for
the fortnight, and help will be gratefully
received by the secretary, 88 Pitt-street.
Grisha Goluboff was the star of last
week’s symphony concert. The violinist,
who looks as young as he is, and that’s
16, seemed to enjoy his own music,
though the heat of the night did make
him wilt a bit. Everybody in the audi-
ence felt it, and women discarded their
long white gloves and pushed back even
the lightest wrap. These celebrity con-
certs are certainly the place to meet the
people you know, and in the interval it’s
the fashion to wriggle and gently crush
your way to the coffee bar. One of the
prettiest pale-pink frocks was worn by
Mrs. J. C. Windeyer, who was squired
by son Spencer. Mrs. Pao, wife of
China’s Consul-General, sprayed her black
romaine with flame feathers. Mrs. Erik
Fischer was there ; so were the Bertie
Kellys, Mrs. M. Irvine and Mrs. W. J.
Cleary. Lots of young things, too,
came, showing appreciation of the
Sibelius work, among them tall Rosa-
mund Stephen, Jean Murray, with the
dark bob and straight fringe, Jessica
Chard, in silver and blue, Elizabeth
Adams and the just-out Barbara Glasgow,
her cape geranium red. Admiral Feakes
and his lady, the Charles Moses couple
and the Alexander Gordon lady were in
the thousands.
Just three months ahead of the date
the Red Cross is holding its jubilee year
conference. This was officially opened
last Thursday in the Blaxland Galleries.
It seemed, after listening to Deputy-
Premier Bruxner and other speakers, that
if and when the next war bursts like a
high explosive on the world the Red
Cross will need all hands at the pumps.
One speaker said that the State would
need 10 hospitals, each to hold a thou-
sand beds—that’s 10 hospitals about the
size of Prince Alfred’s. But looking
around at the intent faces of 800 or
more women present you felt that the
Red Cross would more than shoulder
any task. Mrs. John Moore, just back
from Europe, told of France and Eng-
land previous to and during the crisis
of last September. Dame Mary Cook
handed out Long Service Medals. These
are gained only after 20 years’ devotion
to duty.
The 25th and the 27th of this month
are going to be big nights in Bowral
and Moss Vale. Annette Kellerman is
taking 150 of her costumes up for
the pageant which she is producing.
Annette was asked to do this for the
Berrima Hospital. Seventy local belles
are taking part. Hope the Moss Vale
air does not blow too chill, for Annette
is taking up advance models of what
Americans call “swim suits”—the sort
the gilded heiresses of Florida will be
wearing round about June.
Gwen Taylor, one of the few singers
Lotte Lehmann has given audition to
this present tour, lifted her voice in
farewell song at the Conservatorium last
week. Gwen had her mind set to study
in Europe, but is wondering if she would
not find more harmony now in U.S.A.
Her mezzo-soprano rang out clear and
unblemished, and was very heartening to
her admirers who thronged the concert
hall. Fellow-students floated around in
multicolored and diaphanous frocking
selling programmes. Teacher Lute Drum-
mond brought a great party, and well-
knowns were everywhere in the audience.
Mrs.. Fred Payne, of Melbourne, Mrs.
David Gillespie, the Drysdale couple and
the Harry Twigdens were noted. Mrs.
Fossati and Mrs. Hickey listened with
the ear of the professional singer. Alice
Prowse, so soon to give her own fare-
well, Mrs. Rex Bennett and Mitchell
Librarian Ida Leeson were others. Ida
Leeson had unearthed from the archives
of the Mitchell the song composed by
Henry Handel Richardson which Gwen
sang.
Parties have raged throughout the
Easter season. The Osborne rally at
Elizabeth Bay House was the social
achievement of the week. The Lawrence
Osbornes, of Sunset Hill, Adaminaby,
and Miss Stephanie Osborne gave the
party, and this was preceded by innumer-
able dinners. Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones
and Phillipa Stephen were two hostesses.
There were over 300 guests at the dance
itself, and Elizabeth Bay House was a
blaze of red and white dahlias, gladioli
and roses. The flower arrangements were
really beautiful. With this vividness and
the black velvet of her frock Mrs.
Osborne’s fairness made effective con-
trast. Miss Stephanie Osborne trailed
coronation-blue chiffons sparkling with
diamente. Every third guest seemed to be
an Osborne or an Osborne connection.
Daisie Osborne, of Jugiong, came with
her affianced Griff Tait, and during the
evening the engagement of Peggy
Buchanan, of Pokataroo, to Pat Osborne,
of Harden, was announced.
Kaspar leaping twenty feet into the air,
doing double spread-eagles and landing
safe and sound on his little skates was a
feature of the reopening of theGlaciarium.
To-night members of the Danish Society
set will gaze down on Hans Johnsen’s neat
footwork from the balcony of the cosy
red Swiss chalet set at the end of the rink.
The Glassy opened last week, and the
display of costumes was better and
brighter than any previous year’s. Two
who attracted the gaze were Rene and
Ellie Jenkins, of Maoriland, who have
skated (or so it seems) in every land
that grows ice. Their costumes of white
sharkskin, white skating boots, white
gloves seemed the right snow-white
touch. One girl had a tassel of little
bells on her black skating cap. Mrs.
Rainbow, Mrs. Herbert Douglass and
Mrs. Sid Croll again made early entry
to the rink.
For the G.P.S. Regatta Dance at the
Lapstone Hotel on April 22 large parties
have already been arranged by crews
from the schools competing in the Heaa-
of-the-River contests. The crews from
Shore, Riverview and Scots College v\>
be staying at the Lapstone for four da>s
while training for the regatta.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND, ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
No. 55 of 1938.
BETWEEN EDITH MYRTLE WHITFIELD
AndWILLIAM WHITFIELD Defendant.
TO WILLIAM WHITFIELD formerly of
Bourke in the State of New South Wales
and whose present whereabouts are un-
known. , ,
TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 55 9!
1938 has been commenced against you the said
WILLIAM WHITFIELD as Defendant in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton
by petition filed therein and writ of summons
issued thereout on.the Ninth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight by
EDITH MYRTLE WHITFIELD of Blackall
in the State of Queensland wife of you the said
William Whitfield claiming
(1) A dissolution of her marriage with you
(2) The custody of the issue of her marriage
with you
(3) Such further or other relief as to the
Court may seem meet
And that it. has been ordered that service of
the said writ of summons and of the said peti-
tion on you the said William Whitfield by
filing and sticking up on the notice board in
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Rockhampton a copy of the said writ
of summons an office copy of the said peti-
tion and the affidavit verifying the same and a
copy of such order together with a copy of
the notice of the commencement of this action
and by inserting the said notice of the com-
mencement of this action once in the Sydney
Bulletin a newspaper published at Sydney in
the State of New South Wales shall be good
and sufficient service on you of the said writ
of summons and of the said petition If you
desire to defend the said action you must
within Thirty days from the date of the inser-
tion of the said notice in the said Sydney
Bulletin as aforesaid cause an appearance to
be entered for you at the said Registry and
in default thereof the said Edith Myrtle Whit-
field may by leave of the Court or a Judge
proceed therein and judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
DATED this Sixth day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
The writ of summons and petition in this
action were respectively issued and filed by
MESSIEURS REES R. & SYDNEY JONES,
of 178 Quay Street, Rockhampton, in the
State of Queensland, Town Agents for
ARTHUR E. SYMES, of Blackall, Solicitor for
the Plaintiff, who resides at Blackall afore-
said. The address for service of the said
MESSIEURS REES R. & SYDNEY JONES
is at 178 Quay Street, Rockhampton.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1558 of 1938.
BETWEEN BESSIE EDITH FULLER Peti-
tioner
And VERNON BRAND FULLER Re-
spondent.
TO VERNON BRAND FULLER late of Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
BESSIE EDITH FULLER has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for dissolution of her marriage with
you on the grounds that you wilfully and
without just cause or excuse deserted her and
left her continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Fifth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. Copy of petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of April, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. W. JOYCE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 110 of 1939.
BETWEEN LYDIA ELIZA FOWNES-
LUTTRELL Petitioner
And RALPH MOHAN FOWNES-
LUTTRELL Respondent.
TO RALPH MOHAN FOWNES-LUTTRELL
(also known as Ralph James) late of Dar-
linghurst near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LYDIA ELIZA
FOWNES-LUTTRELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
adultery AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fifth day of July next and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
And to DOREEN NELLIE FLORENCE
HART late of Darlinghurst aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the Petitioner has
alleged that the Respondent did commit adul-
tery with you and this notice is given to you
so that you may have an opportunity to apply
to the Court to be let in to defend the charge
if you so desire.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fifth day of April, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. S. MADDEN & STOKES, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friend.
DUFFY. —Anyone knowing whereabouts of
BEN (BENJAMIN) DUFFY, born Tapanui,
New Zealand, about 1883, construction worker
and miner, who left Queensland for South in
1923, please communicate with EDWARD
J. W. ASHTON, 17a Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for Public Trustee of South Australia,
Administrator of Intestate Estate of DANIEL
DUFFY, deceased.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 406 of 1938.
BETWEEN DOREEN THELMA FRANCES
GARTLAN Petitioner
And WILLIAM GEORGE GARTLAN
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE GARTLAN the
abovenamed respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOREEN
THELMA FRANCES GARTLAN has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse And take
notice that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or v before the Third day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine, and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Third day of April, a.d. 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE, CRAGG & COHEN, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Bolton Street, Newcastle; by
their Agents, BRAYE & MALCOMSON,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 134 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY ELLEN WILLSON Peti-
tioner
And JOHN ALFRED WILLSON Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN ALFRED WILLSON late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed MARY
ELLEN WILLSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for dissolution of her marriage with
you on the grounds that-you wilfully and with-
out just cause or excuse deserted her and left
her continuously so deserted during three years
and upwards AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before Fifth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. Copy of petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of April, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. W. JOYCE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 7 of 1939.
BETWEEN DORIS ANNIE WOODS Petitioner
And WALTER EDWARD WOODS Re-
spondent.
TO WALTER EDWARD WOODS late of
Moree.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS
ANNIE WOODS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifth day of
July One thousand none hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not so doing the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of April, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN K. CUTLER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
SCOGGINS or FREEMAN.
Information is wanted regarding CHARLES
JOHN SCOGGINS and ALFRED THOMAS
SCOGGINS (believed latter sometime went
under name of Freeman), who both went to
Australia many years ago, sons of JOHN
SCOGGINS, Corn Dealer, London, and MRS.
HARRIET FREEMAN or SCOGGINS. They
or their heirs will hear of something to their
advantage if they will communicate with the
undersigned, who will also be glad to hear
from anyone who can give information.
MACKAY & BOYD, Solicitors, 50 Welling-
ton Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
Personal and Missing Friends.
MEWTON.
IF ALBERT HAROLD MEWTON, formerly
of Wellington, New Zealand, but last heard of
in Sydney in 1927, will communicate with MR.
S. A. WIREN, Solicitor, Wellington, New
Zealand, he will hear something to his advan-
tage.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Mrs. Ivy Watt.
THE abovenamed, who witnessed the Will of
SARAH ANN WHITLOCK, late of Sandgate
and of Lugg Street, Red Hill, Brisbane, de-
ceased, or any person knowing Mrs. Watt’s
address is kindly requested to communicate
immediately with
MACNISH, MACROSSAN & DOWLING,
Solicitors,
„ A.M.P. Building (Box 1098, G.P.0.),
Brisbane.
Spare a Thought for Mother!
The Woman’s Mirror Cookery Book
Is The Ideal Gift for Mother’s Day
Mother will appreciate such a splendid gift
on May 14. This valuable cookery book,
together with greetings card, will convey
your regards for Mother as no other
present can. Over 10,000 copies of the
“Mirror Cookery Book” were sold last
year.
Well bound with a stiff cover of washable
Fab rex Leather-cloth, this book has been
made possible by the accumulated experi-
ence of “Mirror” cooks. Every recipe in
the book has been tested and in most
cases the food value of the dishes has been
calculated by a well-known Woman
Doctor and is shown alongside the recipe.
Thus, in addition to being the most
complete and reliable cookery book ever
offered to the housewives of Australia and
New Zealand, it is also invaluable to those
whose health demands a measured or
balanced diet.
All newsagents, or from the
Publishers: —
“The Australian Woman’s Mirror,’
Box 2521 8.8., G.P.0., Sydney.
400 Pages
3000 Recipes
PRICE,
36
Post Free,
3/8
■
V mm
a m
*
tm
■<
ms* iMI
,.**■ i f
rftiifsii
iBHi
m


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
|F you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly. eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chropic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
V
AUST KALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN COLENSO NAYLOR a practi-
tioner of the Supreme Court of South
Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the Law Society of
South Australia Incorporated has pursuant to
The Legal Practitioners Act 1936 referrred to
the Statutory Committee questions as to your
conduct which appear to the Council of the
said Society to require investigation to wit
charges that you did:
1. Fraudulently convert to your own use
moneys to the value of £946 4s. lOd. the
property of one Nellie Evelyn Hall.
2. Fail to obey orders of the Supreme Court
of South Australia made respectively on the
22nd day of December 1938 and the 25th
day of January 1939.
The Statutory Committee will sit at the Supreme
Court House Adelaide on the sth day of June
1939 at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon to in-
quire into these matters and should you fan
to attend the Committee may proceed in your
absence. A copy of the Questions and Charge*
referred to the Statutory Committee may ne
had on application to the undersigned.
DATED this sth day of April, 1939.
J. H. PORTUS,
Secretary to the Law Society of South Australia
Incorporated.
Melbourne
Chatter
When Mrs. W. A. Agar sought co-
operation from Dr. Deborah Buffer
Murphy for the Chinese Relief, on
which mission Doris Chen is now in
Melbourne, she approached the right
person. To propagate interest in the
approaching Rice Festival on May 5 Dr.
Deborah gave a Chinese party at her
home which was a tremendous success.
The food, which included a wide variety
of Chinese dishes cooked by the Eastern
Cafe, met with praise on all sides from
those who used chopsticks and others,
the majority, who chose more familiar
implements. It was served, after an up-
stairs preliminary of dim sims handed
around with drinks, in the dining-room
downstairs, transposed for the evening
from “Queen Anne” to “Oriental.”
Afterwards there were a sequence of old
port and an interlude of music and
magicians’ sleight-of-hand by some
young Chinese.
Prof. A. F. Barker, who has lived five
years in China, was, as might have been
expected, an expert with chopsticks, but
no one suspected J. D. G. Medley of
such skiff with these slippery appliances.
Among others present were the Consul
for Peru and Mrs. C. M. Mackenzie,
the headmaster of Melbourne Grammar
School and Mrs. Sutcliffe, and Prof, and
Mrs. Young, who are already looking for-
ward to November and a visit from their
clever daughter, Dr. Sylvia Young, whose
British Colonial appointment keeps her
busy as a health officer among the Arabs
in Jerusalem. Miss Chen, who comes
from Canton, was at the party. She’s an
attractive Chinese girl with a slight
American accent, for she was educated
in the U.S.A. She wore national cos-
tume, a gown of vivid green silk, with
a touch of the West about her shoulders
in the shape of a white fox fur.
Although guests never expect to see
presents at wedding receptions that are
not held in private houses, bride and
’groom Margaret Wright and Ron Mar-
riott and their parents decided that such
lovely gifts as were showered upon this
young couple should be seen as well as
believed—with the result that the veran-
dah at No. 9 on the date of the marriage
was a very rich portion of the earth,
guarded by several detectives. Among
the presents were all manner of things
from crystal and silver, radio sets and
satin cushions to a Crown Derby dinner
service from Ron’s parents, the Clarence
Marriotts, and a coffee service to match
it from his sister Lollitta.
The late-afternoon wedding party, very
friendly and informal, with everybody
knowing everybody else and glasses filled
with champagne, provided an opportunity
for dancing for those who were so
minded and for the wearing of newest
autumn apparel in spite of the discom-
fort encountered therein from the sultry
humidity in the air. Among young
girls present who looked particularly
beauteous were the bride’s sister Rose-
mary, in sky-blue velvet, with pink birds
resting upon her little blue headpiece,
and Jean Gillespie, of Wahroonga,
N.S.W., in black, with pink roses massed
upon the flat surface of her transparent
hat.
. When Val and Yvonne Frankel Cohen
entertained a few of their friends last
week someone suggested playing a game
of mystery drawings. As Noel Wood,
Alan and Wilfred McCulloch were
present, there were a number of abstrac-
tions that came to life without any trouble
(with a reward of chocolate frogs for
those who guessed what the objects were
in the shortest time). Noel Wood, who
recently held an exhibition of his paint-
ings in Sydney, will exhibit at Riddell’s
Galleries at the end of May.
He is a young man entirely without
gregarious instincts, and hasn’t even a
radio on his lonely Barrier Reef island,
Bedarra, which is a few hours’ sail from
Dunk Island. He didn’t know of the
abdication of Edward VIII. until that
event was history of several weeks. He
spends his time painting, gardening, re-
pairing his house, etc. He grows prac-
tically all his own food, and owns a
flock of goats, but they are not good
milkers, have gone bush, and are eating
his bananas —so their fate is to be sealed
with a rifle and a cooking pot.
In the E. H. Turnor photograph is
Cynthia Parsons, propagandist for air
travel and first of her sex to be given
such a job by Australian National Air-
ways. She is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Langdon Parsons, of Adelaide.
After leaving Girton she completed
a • course at the Adelaide School
of Fine Arts, afterwards took up
broadcasting, and more recently had use-
ful experience in advertising and sales-
manship. Her new duties call for per-
sonal contacts with passengers, particu-
larly women, with the object of placing
before them the advantages of air travel.
The new appointment for Miss Parsons
coincides with the completion of the co.’s
new hangars at Essendon. Waiting for
’planes or buses in cold and draughty
sheds is now no longer an unpleasant
necessity. There are spacious and com-
fortable lounges full of large glass win-
dows, easy chairs and steam-heaters for
winter days. Upstairs is a well-lighted
restaurant, cheerfully furnished in prim-
rose and green. There are also bed-
rooms for emergencies (illness or broken
’plane schedules), new offices and staff
quarters. The pilots also share in the
expansion plan, and now have shower-
rooms and a gymnasium at their disposal.
Three very young people, Jeremy,
Belinda and Priscilla, the children of
Mrs. Wallis Kendall (who returned to
England sooner than she expected on
account of the illness of her husband),
were present at their first cocktail party
last week, when their grandmother, Dr.
Deborah Buffer Murphy, entertained
friends at Lordello in honor of young
singer Mollie Hislop. The children were
paragons of virtue, the two elder ones
greeting the guests with conventional
“How-do-you-dos,” while Priscilla was
a great success on her own account, she
being stiff at the age when plump and
wobbly legs are apt to give way without
warning.
Miss Hislop, whose concert takes place
to-night in the Town Hall, will leave
on May 2 for London and Paris, where
she will study with Madame Dinh Gillv
(the teacher of John Brownlee, Marjorie
Lawrence, Rita Miller and many other
noted Australian singers). A couple who
have worked hard on the committee for
to-night’s concert are the Kevin Hume
Cooks, old friends of Miss Hislop. It
is just five years since Hume Cook pro-
duced the musical show “The Whole
Town’s Talking,” which was also an
occasion for a wedding celebration. He
and his wife, who was Babs Leane, and
who had a part in the show, were quietly
married on the first morning of its season.
They kept their news a secret until it
was time for flowers and general con-
gratulation backstage after the final cur-
tain. Miss Hislop was also in the cast
of the production.
The most-talked-of item at Saturday
night’s Symphony Orchestra concert was
Shastakowitch’s soul’s frustration which
he has called “The Age of Gold.” Perhaps
it was supposed to mean what Bolshe-
vism thinks of capitalism (or vice versa).
One instrument made peculiar noises in
the third movement which most of the
audience recognised as what is generally
known as the raspberry. Maybe the com-
poser gave birth to his brainstorm in
deadly earnestness, biting his pen as he
crouched over his samovar, and perhaps
Saturday’s conductor, Bernard Heinze,
produced it with his tongue in his cheek.
But, whatever its demerits, the noisy piece
introduced a sense of humor into the
Town Hall, the audience sharing in the
grins of the instrumentalists, who produced
the discords with much vigor and occa-
sional signs of little devils poking them
on to further pranks.
The evening’s soloist was Lotte Leh-
mann, wearing black and diamonds, and
carrying a little black book of words.
A visitor from Sydney was Mrs. Rudolph
Himmer. Also within the “House-Full”-
inscribed doors were Dr. and Mrs. Ivan
Maxwell, she in a lace gown of the color
of old ivory. Jule Kiddle and Dora
Lush were among those who wore full-
length coats printed in a joyous medley
of coloring. Mrs. Russell Grimwade wore
an individual style of swathed coiffure
and a wrap of leaf-green velvet. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, who can still stand up
to more of an ordeal than “The Age of
Gold” and show no signs of quitting,
wore her diamonds, ermine wrap and
Brussels lace kerchief. Jessie Brookes
had white fringes dangling beneath her
geranium velvet coat, and Freda Latham's
shoulders were among the many orna-
mented with feathers, her little cape of
turquoise being an echo of the pastel
blues and greens in her striped taffeta
frock.
Good wishes are being offered to Mar-
gery Nicholas and Bill Gluth, who have
recently announced their engagement.
Margery, whose portrait is by Broothorn,
is the only daughter of the late A. M.
Nicholas and of Mrs. Nicholas, of Burn-
ham Beeches, Sherbrooke, and her fiance
is the only son of G. G. Gluth and of
Mrs. H. M. Summers. No date has yet
been fixed for the wedding.
The concession from the A.B.C. and
the Symphony Orchestra of 15 minutes’
grace, so that concerts now officially com-
mence at 8.15 p.m. instead of 8 o’clock,
is much appreciated. There are late-
comers, of course. There always would
be, if performances started at nine, ten
or midnight, but now the majority of
listeners arrive with a comfortable few
minutes to spare for a look at one an-
other in the foyer instead of running up
the steps to be hustled through the door
with the warning bell ringing as if for
the fire brigade. *
Lotte Lehmann’s popularity endures
whatever the muddled state of European
politics. For her first concert she wore
a white chiffon gown lightly sprinkled
with a pattern of silver sequins. Since
her visit here two years ago she has,
of course, changed her style of hairdress-
ing, but she still holds tenaciously to a
series of chiffon handkerchiefs dangling
from her finger, and to bare arms un-
adorned with the elegance of long gloves.
Madame is generous with her encores
and with her applause, which she shares
after every song through a handclasp
with her pale-faced pianist, Paul Ulanow-
sky. In the foyer at her concerts all
languages were spoken, and many new
faces were seen, there being in the audi-
ence many refugees from Central Europe
anxious to hear the kind of music that
many of them appreciate. Among them
was a tall young man in glasses, Martin
Krutsch, lately “discovered” by the
A.B.C. For some years he was a bari-
tone at the Berlin State Opera House.
In the same audience were noticed a
variety of the professions, including Prof,
and Mrs. Ernest Scott and Prof, and Mrs.
A. F. Barker (until two years ago he
was in China lecturing on the science of
textile industries and exercising per-
suasion on the Chinese to buy Australian
wool). Mollie and Tony Hartigan, who
are friends of Madame Lehmann, were
also present; so were the Lance Cunning-
hams, Mrs. Cunningham tall and dis-
tinguished in black velvet, with an accent
of color at her waist achieved through
scarlet flowers tucked into a green sash.
Kathleen Goodall decorated her shoulder
with a hedgerow of white irises, and
Louise Lovely emphasised her platinum
blonde hair with a black velvet bow. Dr.
and Mrs. H. V. Mattingley were noticed
upstairs, she in a fur cape and figured
frock. Aylene Conway had a hip-length
luxury wrap of white fox. Mrs. John
Shaw, who was with her medico husband,
wore a little white ermine cape, and her
hair was lightly finger-waved and un-
adorned with either curls or combs.
A New Guinea visitor who alighted in
Melbourne from the air for a few days
last week was “Blue” (otherwise H. T.)
Allan, who represents the Miners’ Assoc,
in the Territory, and had come to Aus-
tralia to have a few words in the ear
(quite a good ear when the voice is
pitched correctly) of W. M. Hughes. Mr.
Allan stated his case in such an adept
manner that a meeting of those interested
took place in Sydney on Saturday morn-
ing. Mr. Hughes was then presented with
an illuminated address from the New
Guinea gold industry, whereupon he
promised to turn the first sod of the
new road, the Hughes Highway, from
Salamaua to Wau, construction on which
is soon to be commenced.
Mr. Allan and his fellow-miners esti-
mate that the road, irrespective of its
value for defence and other purposes,
will save many of them up to £lOO per
month in freights. There will be a toll
upon it of something like 30s. per ton.
Mr. Allan hails originally from Sydney,
and has numerous relatives scattered
around Warrnambool. He and his wife
left this week on their return journey
by air to Wau.


Position Vacant.
MARRIED MAN, general station hand. Must
have experience rabbiting, stockwork and
fencing. Wife do laundry and part duties in
house. Cottage close homestead. Wages £4 7s.
Apply with references, No. 293, Advt. Dept.,
Bulletin, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
m
£650+£250=5200
%
m
\
K
'n\
He bought the out dated house for £650. He spent £250
in modernisation, and furniture. Now the home is worth
£1,200 of anyone's money!
How did he do the modernisation so economically?
Masonitel Look at the room in the picture. Smart,
attractive modern walls which will never warp, chip or
crack . . . built with splinterless, grainless, durable Masonite.
The Living Room, Dining-Room and Bedrooms were trans-
formed with Masonite Presdwood and Tempered Presdwood;
for the Kitchen, Bathroom and Laundry, Masonite Temprtile
,Cv
jh
~>j)
\s.
( 7 \
\C
wrought the transformation. That is why —in the
case of this house £650 plus £250 equalled
£1,200. And that is why, by using Masonite, you
too could make two and two equal six.
IS YOUR HOME INSULATED?
No home is truly modern unless it’s insulated against
summer’s heat and winter’s cold. Send for details of
Cane-ite, the new cane fibre insulating board.
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE •
S A M-P
gdf
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)*.
Please send me free sample and details of Q MASONITE Q CANE-ITE
NAME
ADDRESS...
*Write to your nearest branch: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth 3-19-4- MA-18-9
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane Hospital
did a job of scientific sleuthing when a
sealed plate containing £lOO worth of
radium chloride went missing. Evidence
suggested that it had been picked up in
some waste cottonwool and dumped into
the incinerator. Hoses were turned on
the fire and the ashes raked carefully out
while a radiologist held a neon tube over
them. When it glowed, showing the
presence of radium emanations, the last
batch was carefully sorted, and the miss-
ing plate found. The solder holding to-
gether its surfaces had run, but a rubber
band which secured cottonwool round it
had melted and held the parts sufficiently
close to prevent loss of the precious
contents.
“Narine”: Wonder what some of our
old stagers would think of the conquest
of Queensland-N.S.W. border bog?
They used to sing a song out along the
border:
Up to your neck in Cunnamulla mud,
Up to your neck in slaughter!
Whenever you travel on the Paroo track,
It’s a devil of a place for water.
It was no uncommon thing a few years
ago for floods to catch the wagons in
the night with a clear sky overhead. And
anybody who got into the mud west of
Mungindi stayed there. Now, some
graziers having acquired tractors, a mes-
sage will bring a pull out over a road
which used to be impassable. I often
think that on the main blacksoil tracks
the Government or the shires might
maintain some system of helping to keep
the roads open as the snow-ploughs do
in U.S.A. With the right kind of plant,
it’s not impossible by a long chalk.
* * * *
“Duyfkhen”: So they’ve discovered
gold on the Lockhart abo. reserve in
Cape York Peninsula. Well, they can
have it, with my compliments. It’s not
a nice place. The new field is south of
Cape Direction and the finders are Binghi
and party. The Anglican mission has
pegged out the claims, which ordinary
miners cannot approach because the reefs
are on an abo. reserve. I hope the
finders will be looked after. Though
Binghis have found a lot of the gold in
Australia few have benefited by their
finds beyond a stick of tobacco.
* * * *
“Dip”: After 15 abo. witnesses had
given evidence against him in the Darwin
Supreme Court, Victor, the native who
killed his wife and another chap of his
own breed at Maranboy (N.T.) some
weeks ago, was sentenced to 10 years’
hard. There was evidence that he had
said “That one George him bin humbug
my wife, Brumby. I bin kill him stone
dead.” Judging by the pressure of busi-
ness in southern divorce courts, there
would be wholesale slaughter if Victor’s
reasoning prevailed among whites.
* * » *
“N.T.”: Babinda, where Queensland
Labor put up a pub, has plenty of water
for the whisky. Its record for three
months to March 31 was five points short
of 180 inches in 90 days. This is
peculiarly interesting. further
south, is almost the exact monoclime of
Calcutta in mean and seasonal tempera-
tures and in rainfall —Townsville is the
wetter. Yet the annual rainfall of Cal-
cutta is only one-third of the Babinda
total for three months; and, in India, it
is believed that Calcutta is about the limit
of tropicality which white men can stand.
Eh? The coastal district of Queensland
further north than Townsville breeds
Anglo-Saxons equal to any in the world.
Have a look at the 51st Battalion. Some
British Territorial regiments would jump
at the rejects.
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: Townsville takes its
medical precautions seriously. The City
Council in the last two years has had its
medical man hard at work in the schools
immunising against diphtheria. The
record so far is 3500 youngsters treated
without a single subsequent case. The
organisers now are getting to work on
youngsters below school age.
He % *
“X.T.”: J. W. Fletcher, one of the
two Commissioners who reported on the
N.T. last year, is get-
ting slightly restive
and sarcastic. He
gave a gathering in
Brisbane a few in-
stances of N.T. civil-
service methods. A
Centralian asked for
help to sink a well—
it was drought-time.
The Centralian Ad-
ministration coil -
suited Darwin. Dar-
win sent the appli-
cation to Canberra.
Canberra wrote to
Darwip for informa-
tion. Darwin wrote
to Alice Springs.
Alice Springs wrote
to the applicant. By
that time the rains
had arrived —no welt
needed. I know a
better one than that.
A Darwinian asked
Administrator
Urquhart to lease
him a shed for his
car. Urquhart asked
Pearce. Pearce aslced
a clerk. The clerk
completed the circle
by demanding of
Urquhart whether
the applicant was a person oi good
morals, able to find the rent, and whether
there was danger of his absconding ; also
whether he could find guarantors,
and was a Presbytprian and married.
Urquhart communicated with the appli-
cant, who, tired of waiting, had
leased a shed from a Chinaman.
Sadly Urquhart strolled round to look
at his shed to see if he could put it to
other use. It had been a good but un-
painted iron shed. It wasn’t there. He had
a look at the Chinaman’s shed. It also
was a good iron shed but newly painted.
A meditative look used to come into the
Administrator’s eye whenever he passed
it, but he said nothing, hoping that the
Chinaman was an honest man, and that
the Interior Department would forget
that there ever had been a shed. Which
it did.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Twenty-seven years ago,
riding in from a meeting out at Kin Kin
“Are y' SURE this is the bank , Alf?”
(Q.) with Andy Fisher and some other
politicians, somebody remarked that
“Gympie [a goldmining town since 1868]
was finished.” Andy scouted the idea,
This would be one of Australia’s best
farm districts, he said. For four conse-
cutive months the Gympie butter fac-
tory now has turned out over 1,000,0001 b.
of butter a month, which is said to be
a world’s record for a single factory.
* * * *
“Rosie’s Boy”: Talking of this alien
immigration reminds me of Ikey, one of
the best. Ikey served with a crack bat-
talion in France. He had barely achieved
his “six months’ British” qualification
when the (late) compulsory scheme came
in. He had just about learnt some Eng-
lish when the Great War broke out, and
Ikey found himself one night a.w.l. in
the vicinity of a certain suburb of an
Australian island outpost —anybody ever
heard the name Wanetta? Ikey’s prob-
lem was to get home in the tropic dark
unnoticed, in the train of several other
adventurers who were dribbling in one
by one, and who had left him to carry
the fish, a distinct handicap. Ikey might
have been a son of Daniel Boone as he
inched towards safety past a sentry who
was about equally experienced, and who
expected the Germans to arrive at any
minute from Rabaul. Suddenly this guar-
dian of the Empire heard a loud clang.
“Who goes there?” he thundered. Dead
silence. “Who goes there?” he repeated.
Then a voice split the darkness: “Ith only
me! But I lothth me fish.”
* * * m
“Nagheer”: The Darling Downs (Q.)
centenary has resurrected the old argu-
ment as to how Toowoomba derived its
name, a subject of well-moistened debate
in many a Downs pub these 30 years and
more. One school holds that when
Josiah Dent pitched the first tent beside
The Swamp in 1849, the nearest that
local abos. could get to white-man pro-
nunciation of his name for it was Te
Wompa; another, that Thomas Alford
and Thomas Mathewson in 1857
christened the new township Too-
woomba from a local abo. word mean-
ing “great in the future,” but as “cobon”
was the real word for great, and abos.
never gave a thought to futures, it seems
far-fetched. A third quotes the late Mrs.
Alford’s statement that the native name
for that part of the country was Woomba
Woomba, which she simplified to Two
Woombas. It seems to me the most
reasonable of the lot. The original settle-
ment was at Drayton, before Surveyor
J. C. Burnett laid out the present site in
1851.
* * * *
“Ellerslie”: Longreach graziers, who
have the pick district of Mitchell-grass
Queensland when there is rain, are still
going through a dry time, though they
had isolated storms in the first week in
April. Adjacent districts —Aramac and
Barcaldine—are well grassed, and Winton
district, only 100 to 120 miles away, has
done well. There, Longreach graziers are
paying 4d. to 6d. per sheep per month for
agistment. It doesn’t sound much, but
a good sheep produces about two-thirds
of a pound of wool per month under
decent conditions, worth, say, 6fd. aver-
age. Yet there are people who pooh-
pooh the Bradfield scheme of irrigation
for the central-west as a joke without
examining it. The cost of that scheme
is placed at £30,000,000. It may or may
not be practicable—l’m no civil engineer
and no advocate of it. But if it is prac-
ticable, it could have found its own capi-
tal within the past decade. Losses of
sheep, born and unborn, alone tot up to
nearly 12,000,000 head. Add agistment,
feeding and other expenses and loss of
wool quality. The Bradfield idea is at
least worth investigating.


fOB W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
cm
GL-fiND
TONIC
THBLfTS
88% OF THE TOTAL
LICENCES IN THE WEST
are within 50 miles of
6PM
6KG
6AM
Perth .. . 500 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
St. George's House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
0
y
3.. H
The most perfect
PATENTED
TOOL-
HAMMER
with borins appara-
tus and drill chuck
for drills up to
sm/m.
Good article for
propaganda and
presents.
Indispensable for
anybody.
Very practicable for
Radio-set amateurs, for
car-owners and cyclists,
decorators and en-
gineers, for travel,
hunting, sport an d
household. Entirely
made of steel, all the
tools are of steel and
hardened, finely polished
and nickelplated.
The tube of the tool-
hammer contains 7
tools with sm/m shank: 1 drill, 1 square
reamer, 1 countersink, 1 ripping chisel, l
awl. 1 broad and narrow screwdriver each.
Hammer which can be screwed off, hammer-
hole and nail-lifter. Tool hammer without
drill chuck ‘ /6
With drill chuck 10 0
WILLIS, BARRETT & DUNCAN, Ltd.
Indent Buyers, Shippers, Exporters and
Importers,
Masons Buildings, Sugden Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
VK2NO 56MC. CRYSTAL EXCITER UNIT.
This quartz-crystal-controlled exciter-transmitter is an effective solution
of the five-metre crystal-control problem. It is used in the new transmitter
for this band at the writer’s experimental station VK2NO. Construction
is simple, and incorporates the Reinartz “reinforced harmonic” scheme.
Output is in the vicinity of 20 watts, and valves used are types 42, 6L6G
and 807.
The business of planning a crystal-
controlled 56mc. transmitter looks simple
enough, but in most instances practical
tests are likely to give disappointing
results where R.F. output is concerned,
Theoretically it looks a straightforward
scheme to start off with a 7mc. doubling
crystal oscillator of the Tritet variety,
followed at the 20-metre output by a
28mc. doubler, and then another doubler
to 56mc. Up to 28mc. things are usually
apparently in order, but the 56mc.
doubler stage throws a snag in the matter
of obtaining enough 28mc. grid drive,
In most cases two or three more 56mc.
stages are needed to build up the R.F.
at this frequency to a reasonable value,
which means that a 56mc. transmitter is
likely to run to too many stages, and
the complications scare the would-be ex-
perimenter back to lower frequencies.
The exciter described here, which can
also be used as a ’phone or C.W. trans-
Fig. 1. —Circuit diagram, with values, of the crystal exciter for five metres, using a 40-metre crystal. This unit itself
comprises a useful medium, power transmitter.
mitter itself, is the outcome of many
months of trial-and-error experimenting
by the writer. It provides an efficient
means of getting to 56mc. on crystal
control, with a minimum of stages and
without recourse to fragile and expen-
sive 10-metre crystals.
Because it has R.F. output to spare,
this exciter can be used to drive a
medium-powered final push-pull stage.
First attempts with an exciter of this
nature were along the lines of one re-
cently described in “Radio,” in which a
6L6G was used as a plain high mu
triode quadrupler. In this arrangement,
preceded by a 42 7mc. crystal oscillator,
the 6L6G certainly quadrupled, but the
amount of R.F. available was hardly
enough to excite the grid of an 807
doubler, even with 500 volts applied.
Next the 6L6G was tried as a tetrode
quadrupler, with slightly improved re-
sults, but still well below par. As it
was essential to start off with the 40-
metre crystal oscillator, and chassis space
did not permit alteration of the oscillator
to a Tritet, something else had to be
done. A scheme by Reinartz in “QST”
was recalled, wherein he reinforced the
harmonic content in a quadrupler by
inductively coupling the quadrupler plate
coil back to the oscillator plate coil. It
was a matter of a few minutes to make
these alterations, and the results more
than justified the idea.
The circuit diagram of Fig. 1 is self-
explanatory. The 42 oscillator is capacity-
coupled to the 6L6G quadrupler grid
in the usual way through a .OOOlmfd.
mica condenser, and the plate coils are
arranged end-to-end for inductive
coupling. Where previously a pea-lamp
indicator in a 28mc. absorption meter
showed only a little glow, the ampli-
fication of the 28mc. harmonic by re-
inforcing in this manner was such that
the lamp burned out as the 6L6G tank
was tuned through resonance,
An important point is that the R.F.
chokes in the plate feed to the oscillator
and quadrupler must not be omitted or
the scheme won’t work. The 807 is
used, capacity-coupled to the 6L6G quad-
rupler, as a series-tuned doubler to
56mc. ; and the output, as stated before,
is around 20 watts to 25 watts at this
-frequency, with 500 volts applied,
With the exception of the coil details
all resistor and capacity values are shown
in Fig. 1. Tuning condensers are high-
grade ceramic insulation types, and all
valve sockets are ceramic. Figs. 2 and 3
show the lay-out of the complete exciter
unit, and the method of construction is
clearly indicated.
Coil details a!re: LI (oscillator plate),
20 turns 14 B and S enamelled copper
wire close wound, lin. internal diameter ;
L 2 (quadrupler plate), six turns 14 B and
Fig. 2. —Showing the layout of the 56mc. crystal exciter. The 807 doubler
is placed horizontally at the left. At the right foreground is the six-volt
filament transformer for the heaters.
S enamelled copper wire, lin. internal
diameter, l|in. long; L 3 (series-tuned
doubler plate), 10 turns 12 S.W.G.
enamelled copper wire, close wound, lin.
internal diameter. All coils are wound
“on air,” and are made rigid by cement-
Fig. 3. —Panel view of the exciter. From left to right: Plug-in 40-metre
crystal, oscillator control, oscillator plate meter, quadrupler control, 807
plate meter, 807 doubler control.
ing strips of celluloid along after com-
pletion. For coupling the exciter to an-
other stage or antenna, a two-turn link is
wound over the “cold” end of L 3.
As the 25mmfd. tuning condenser in
this circuit has the rotor at earth poten-
tial, this condenser is of the fairly close-
spaced receiving variety, and is of Eddy-
stone make. The lOOmmfd. condenser
tuning the oscillator plate circuit is an
ordinary ceramic-insulated receiving type,
and the 15mmfd. condenser tuning the
quadrupler is a double-spaced Raymart.
Series tuning in the 807 circuit is a
method not previously tried by the writer,
and proves to be highly efficient. It will
be obvious to the 28mc. experimenter
that this exciter can be used with very
high efficiency on 10 metres by using the
807 as a buffer, or by doubling in the
same reinforcement method in the 6L6G
and then doubling to “ten” in the 807,
Perhaps the latter is the better method,
owing to absence of possible neutralisa-
tion troubles with the 807.
The plate meters for oscillator and
doubler are shown in the plate feed to
these stages, but can be connected in the
cathode circuits in the usual manner if
so desired. Meters are less likelv to be
damaged in cathode circuits during
tuning adjustments.
The three R.F. chokes are Eddystone
four-section pie-wound types, that in the
feed to the 807 doubler being the 250-
milliampere type. With a power supply
at 500 volts from an 83V pack the 42
oscillator runs perfectly cool and steady
at only 35 milliamperes. This is because
a low screen voltage is used through the
100,000-ohm series resistor. For this
reason alone, this form of exciter, even
for lower frequencies, is desirable. The
function of a crystal oscillator is to pro-
vide a frequency control only. Far too
many experimenters try to push oscilla-
tors too hard, and this is usually the case
with the Tritet type. At 56mc. particu-
larly, stability and absence of frequency
drift are important, and it is for this
reason that the straight pentode oscil-
lator is employed at a reasonably low
frequency.
This exciter has been in constant use
for many weeks now, and shows no signs
of crystal heating or trouble of any kind.
Valves that can be used in place of the
42 are the 6F6 (metal) and the ever-
useful 6P6. The latter'valve is probably
more suitable than the 42 and the 6F6.
The exciter is used in the writer’s experi-
mental 56mc. station to drive two 801’s
in push-pull. These in turn drive two
35Ts, which would, if power ratings and
facilities permitted, handle about 500
watts at five metres without any trouble.
The push-pull 801 stage in itself comprises
an excellent modern five-metre transmitter
in only four stages, and this from a 40-
metre crystal. With the introduction of
this exciter, which has no snags, and
which can be easily duplicated, there is
henceforth no difficulty at all in the way
of the Australian amateur desirous of
putting a crystal-controlled 56mc. trans-
mitter on the air.
D. B. K.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
“D.8.K.”: After a few sessions of
listening to the news items in English
from Berlin s.-w. broadcasters at 10 p.m.
E.A.T., one begins to realise how power-
ful a weapon of propaganda short-wave
broadcasting has become. It is amusing
to hear Teuton-Oxfordian accents calling
“our dear friends and listeners in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and the Far East,”
followed at length by a verbal trouncing
of British tradition, with an account of
how the British Empire was built up by
“brutal force.” Daventry’s news at 6
p.m. has always impressed me by its
impartiality, the news announcer being,
to Australian ears, free from bias. But
an editorial in an English wireless pub-
lication condemns the 8.8. C. for foster-
ing “jitters” in the news bulletins. Writers


“Radio
Technical Digest’
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A .).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount* of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/ per year
through Thk Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, apceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio" is published monthly in L,os
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read "Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
MB
m
m
Everyone likes listening when
there's something that pleases
the ear. If your radio is dull
and lacks sparkle, worn valves
may be the cause. Make listen-
ing the pleasure it should be ...
Revalve
with
m
Z
THE WORLD'S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
to the “Times” complain that the
news bulletins are non-representative,
emotional and warmongering, sending
listeners to bed with “palpitating hearts
and incipient nightmares.”
What's What in Radio.
Reports from some British Dominions
assume that deliberate jamming is noticed
on certain 8.8. C. wave-lengths, presum-
ably to prevent reception of the Empire
programmes. No definite information is
available, but the trouble is stated to be
most severe in South Africa. The
Daventry transmitters appear to be under
strong interference at times in the 19-
metre band, but usually the interference
—whatever the source—is not acute
enough, as observed in Sydney, to have
much effect.
* * * *
Europe is suffering from a plague of
illegal short-wave broadcasters—evidently
of a mobile nature and opposed to
regimes of one kind or another. In
Russia and Germany the secret police
have for months attempted to locate
stations of the “God Save the Tsar” and
“Down with Hitler” breed, and now
France reports the presence of an illicit
station. This calls itself “Radio Free
Corsica,” with announcements in French
every evening in the 31-metre band.
* * * *
Both the Tatler Theatre and the Marble
Arch Pavilion in London are now wired
for television with screens measuring
15ft. by 12ft. Many other theatres are
equipped for large-screen television, and
the cinema industry is working in co-
operation with the 8.8. C. in placing tele-
vision well before the public in this
manner. It is not expected that public
television of this nature will affect the
sales of home receivers or cause any
loss of attendance when events such as
boxing and wrestling matches are tele-
vised.
Amateur Chatter.
/he man who spends hours tuning a
superhet or good tuned R.F. receiver
over the five-metre band in search of
possible DX signals is likely in a popu-
lated district to run across spurious sig-
nals that can be mystifying until the
origin is realised. First there are the
spluttering parasitics often radiated by
10-j 20- and 40-metre ’phone stations,
sounding for all the world like 56mc.
modulated oscillator DX, but really an
indication of how putrid the transmission
is on the fundamental. By their five-
metre harmonics can lower-frequency
phone stations be judged. Many who
imagine that their 20-metre ’phones are
all they should be would do well to get
an oscilloscope check. Those with high-
quality transmissions on lower frequen-
cies can be understood with clarity in
their five-metre harmonics the others
are just a noise. Harmonics are a
nuisance, anyway, and should not be
radiated, but the spluttering ones can
lead the five-metre DX searcher to
despair. Another source of queer radia-
tions on five metres is the presence of
harmonics from the oscillator of near-by
broadcast or dual-wave superhets. These
signals often show traces of modulation
on the harmonics, and can be most mis-
leading for the reason that in most cases
the modulation just can’t be identified.
During the Easter holidays amateur
radio went mobile and portable, particu-
larly on 40 metres. Many Victorians
were heard with portables, and in N.S.W.
the brothers VK2AFQ and VK2IQ were
abroad by car with excellent mobile
speech transmissions. VK2NO worked
this car station when at Lochinvar and
Werris Creek, and signal strength was
always comparable to a fixed station.
This car also contained 56mc. equipment
which was left with VK2VU at Singleton
for a day. Tests between VK2VU and
a portable outfit at Lochinvar were com-
pletely unsuccessful, evidently because of
hill screening. An interesting QSO was
had by VK2NO on the afternoon of
10/4/’39 on 40-metre ’phone with
VK4JL. This station is used by Nimmo
Love, of Brisbane, aboard his yacht
Sweetheart, and his voice from a little
outfit using a 6P6 plate modulated final
at the mouth of the Brisbane River
reached R 9 on occasions. Portable 56mc.
gear was taken by VK2AEE, of Bur-
"I swapped me 'orse for this. She's faster !”
wood, N.S.W., to a location near Wyong,
but nothing was heard of.this station in
Sydney.
An old 56mc. enthusiast has appeared
on the band again in Sydney, for on
9/4/’39 VK2PS was audible from Croy-
don at R 6, with tone-modulated signal
from a small transceiver and indoor aerial.
VK2LZ, who operates mobile from his
car as VK2AKM, ran a special test with
VK2NO by motoring to a location near
Katoomba, Blue Mountains. His signal
from this spot was full strength in Syd-
ney, and 2LZ considers this to be the
ideal place for tests in all directions over
N.S.W. The logical conclusion after con-
sideration of the R 9 plus strength of the
signal from the five-watt transmitter on
board VK2AKM is that this spot should
be ideal for a television station to cover
large portions of N.S.W.
VK2YE, who used to be in Glebe,
Sydney, has moved recently to Ashfield,
and his signal strength has increased very
considerably. This station is on low-
power crystal control, and an excellent
example of what can be done with stable
equipment as against power-wasting
modulated oscillators. Frequent listen-
ing and calling periods on 56mc. at
VK2NO during the holidays indicated
very little activity on the band. On
40 metres the Archbold Expedition
station PK6XX in Dutch New Guinea
was heard at 8 p.m. on the evening of
10/4/’39 with an R 9 ’phone signal, work-
ing with VK4HN, of Port Moresby. The
operator mentioned that 250 watts was
the power input, and the signal was in
every way comparable to PK6XX on 20
metres. Periods of listening around the
international s.-w. broadcasting channels
showed the new San Francisco Exposi-
tion station fairly strong on 31 metres
around 11 p.m., but the transmission
suffered from a fluttery thin sound. Call-
sign was given as W6XCE. On 20
metres English amateurs are strong in
the afternoons now, and the 10-metre
band is wide open for Americans,
Hawaiians and ZLs from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
On nine metres a new Tokio u.-s.-w.
broadcaster is heard well from 4 p.m. to
5 p.m. Sydney time.
That the use of phonetics is overdone
by amateur transmitters when using
Q and other abbreviations per micro-
phone is more than evident. Frequently
one hears reference to “QR Nelly” or
“QR Emma” in order to distinguish be-
tween two similarly-sounding letters. But
why use abbreviations at all with speech?
QRN represents atmospheric interference
and QRM inter-station or other inter-
ference, so why not come out in the open
and say plainly “static” or “inter-
ference”? Worst of all is the infliction
of “Hi Hi” as a gross misuse of the
amateur-born telegraphic HI to indicate
amusement. Those that verbally go into
strings of “Hi Hi’s” forcibly indicate the
“loud laugh that speaks the vacant
mind.”
“QST,” in the review of the Cairo
rulings last year, seemed to treat the
annexation of the H.F. end of the
7000kc. band as being neither here nor
there. It is now obviously a case of the
broadcasters being well and truly here
and devil take the poor amateur. In
the early mornings in Eastern Australia
it is evident that the broadcasters are
on the job in full force. Paris Coloniale
on 7220kc. has a kick like a mule, and
with others, including two B.B.C. lOOkw.
stations on the way, it’s a foregone con-
clusion that 7200kc. to 7300kc. is non-
amateur territory, however the situation
is examined. As for the rest of the
band, commercial telegraphy stations are
scattered around anywhere, and the com-
mercial station logging bee of three years
or so ago now seems to have been a
farcical waste of time. Looks as if all
amateur channels except some u.-h.-f.
allocations will be gone for ever unless
some weight is pulled somewhere in
future.
The 160-metre band is put to good use
in Europe and U.S.A., a recent DX con-
test there producing rather surprising
results with transatlantic contacts on
low power. An English listener with
a good receiving score says that he is
“worried because he has not heard W6,
W7 and VK on 160 metres.” It is like
listening for signals from Mars to expect
to find VKs active on that band. There
have been brief contests run between VK
and ZL in midwinter, and that is about
the only time the band is usable. Nine-
tenths of the year 160 metres in Aus-
tralia is a crescendo of static. It is a
band that is hardly ever used, but that
doesn’t say it isn’t useful for short-dis-
tance working, say between two coun-
try stations in the same township. An-
other reason why the band is shunned
is that anything over 10 watts is likely
to arouse the ire of B.C.Ls., and most
VKs don’t use 10 watts.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“R.N.”: Although listeners in the
United States pay no license fees (the
stations there are all run on the lines
of our “commercials”) the broadcasting
studios do not seem to suffer from any
shortage of revenue. Figures for 1938
show that national advertisers in America
spent £13,761,615 for radio time on the
two largest networks—the National
Broadcasting Co. and the Columbia sys-
tem —while the Mutual Broadcasting sys-
tem billings for the year were £584,064.
About £8,000,000 was spent on talent and
programme material. Five advertising
agencies in the United States placed no
less than £5,728,525 of business, the
organsiation which topped the list handling
£1,791,126 of this amount. On each of
the two main networks most money was
spent on advertising foods and food bev-
erages, this section totalling £4,231,320.
Makers of drugs and toilet preparations
were runners-up with £3,691,905. A well-
known firm of soapmakers headed the
Columbia clients with an expenditure of
£558,028 on time alone, and a nation-
wide canned-food organisation handed
over £534,093. One company which turns
out tinned soup spent £455,882 in croon-
ing its virtues.
The Question Box.
(1) Would it be practicable for people in
out-of-the-way places to use the old-time wet
primary cells in place of the Air Cells or six-
volt accumulators? The Air Cell is a good
proposition, but something of a low-voltage
chargeable nature appeals to me. (2) Are suit-
able wet primary cells that can be readily
charged obtainable in Australia? —766.
(1) Wet primary cells of suitable capacity
are particularly applicable to the 1.4-volt
valves. (2) The “Carboncell” has been on the
Australian market since 1927, and is obtainable
from Amplion (A/sia), Ltd., 66 Clarence-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
Is your instructional course by a “world-
wide technical authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio,” at 18s. 6 d. sub-
scription per year, obtainable here, with dia-
grams accompanying descriptions? —76s.
The phrase “world-wide technical authority
of amateur, short-wave and experimental radio”
is used by the publishers of the American
magazine “Radio” to describe the type of
material contained therein. The subscription of
18s. 6d., which can be sent to this office, is for
a year’s supply of this publication, which
appears monthly. Copies are mailed direct
from U.S.A. This Page does not conduct a
radio instructional course.


J
m
fa
miv
W'
WATtR.
AN INVESTMENT MAT
SHOWS A SPIEND/D
RETURN
WATER, next to air, is the first necessity of life, and SEWERAGE
is a prime necessity for health.
What could any great city do without them?
The Water Board is in the midst of the greatest Programme of
WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE WORK undertaken in the
history of Australia to extend these facilities throughout the
Metropolis of Sydney. For this purpose it needs MONEY.
The Loan of £1,000,000, now open for subscription, which will
complete the Board’s loan requirements to 30th June, 1939, gives
YOU the chance to assist in this. It also provides you with a sound
opportunity for investment, guaranteed not only by the revenues
of the Board but also by the Government of New South Wales.
Prospectuses and Application Forms obtainable at any branch of
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
Interest
TERMS
44%, payable half-
Price of issue—par.
Repayable 1949.
INVEST NOW!
I
a
>
ui O 111
z
<
111
Q
<
<
V)
tfOV 3 /')
P O / / -;
ft 111
l
A
uiui
\\A.i
bl
o\
o
VI
,/ -
Kj
Jt
I


w?
LYS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
-v . ■ r—■ v~ ;
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
l ' ' iXtog******"**^
. . »••*• v • - ' .-pf^^r
" / :
,-A *s& *■ •
• »
a .-:■
iiiU
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
' • , v \ . , ■ . ...... . -
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and Its Worries.
“Ghanam”: There is still nothing very
cheering about the wool position. Maori-
land sales at Napier before Easter showed
a firm market at ruling prices for good
wools; seedy and faulty lines Id. to |d.
per pound weaker. Geelong sales showed
little change.
Wooltops are reported “steady”—that
is, all lines from 60’s upwards are
cheaper than on March 16. Crossbreds
are unchanged.
Wool sold for the first nine months of
the season totalled 2,476,000 bales, which,
a; 10.7 d. per pound, yielded £33,047,000.
The previous season 2,147,000 bales, at
13.2 d. per pound, yielded £35,133,000.
The price is Id. per pound above the
disastrous 1934-35 level for the nine
months’ period.
It would not be as high were it not for
the steady demand for crossbreds. This
is bad, rather than good, news for Aus-
tralia. It means that the stability of Aus-
tralia’s market depends not on this coun-
try’s perquisite and monopoly sheep—the
merino—but on types that non-Australian
pastures and climates can very well grow
—especially some countries which receive
large droves of Corriedales from gener-
ous Australian and Maoriland breeders.
The Sydney market for wool has been
dead, but sales are now being resumed
with 101,000 bales. In Brisbane 54,000
bales will be offered in May.
There were 92,156 bales in stores in
Sydney, 39,700 in Brisbane, 80,000 in
Victoria and under 10,000 in the other
capitals total, 213,000 bales —on
March 31.
To quote the Imperial Economic Com-
mittee: “All wool markets have con-
tinued to record large clearances, with
unsold stocks well below those of Janu-
ary, 1938, in Australia, N.Z., S. Africa
and Argentina, and aggregate shipments
from those producing countries well
above the monthly corresponding aggre-
gates for the previous three seasons.”
The grower is told that the average
price of wool in the world market for
Australia is 2.5 d. per pound less than
last year, 6d. less than in 1937. The
teason given him is “European unrest”
and decline in general wholesale prices
on disturbed markets.
Then, what do the oracles say about
the “greater aggregate shipments” —
greater than when wool was 16.7 d. per
pound instead of 10.7 d. per pound—the
well-cleared-up sales, the steady request
for wool? Has the law of supply and
demand just abrogated itself, or is it an
Albanian abrogation with united forces
of persuasion in the background?
In the face of the obvious complete
sag, growers are treated every week to
yards of blither from daily newspapers.
Listen to “S. M. Herald” (8/4/’39):
Purchased wool has been delivered
freely for shipment this week. That is one
encouraging aspect of the current situation.
Its presence, however, will not produce
the advance in values necessary to restore
prosperity to growers by providing them
with profitable returns for their clips. It
only gives an indication that manufacturers
when they bought considered that prices
did not carry any appreciable risk of
losses, and that the wool is likely to be
safely unloaded at the ports to which it is
consigned.
We are told that wool has been
bought with “notable activity throughout
the season,” and “millmen on past experi-
ence are justified in believing that, pro-
vided peaceful circumstances prevail, the
cheapness of goods will encourage wool
consumption.” The low prices of the de-
pression years, “S.M.H.” says, did so, and
If European conditions improve, price
prospects will brighten, but reverse con-
ditions would have adverse results.
And it appears that the heavy buying
was caused this year, possibly, because
“merinos may have been acquired to
build up reserve stocks.”
The position as thus presented seems
to boil down to this: When the inter-
national situation clears so that it will
not be necessary for countries to build
up reserve stocks, the market, too, will
be glutted with reserves already bought.
Demand will fall off. And prices will
brighten!
Advice from England shows that the
International Wool Secretariat is plod-
ding along sternly, trying to wheedle the
Europeans to “wear more wool.” A
magazine has been founded with the help
of Australian money, and the editor has
hopes that it will “lead to a better un-
derstanding between the manufacturer,
the Secretariat and the ultimate cus-
“ This'll be a change from mutton, Peter!”
tomer” ; also that the I.W.S. cry for “co-
operation” will not be met with “tongue-
tied silence.” The LW.S., however, is not
unmindful of a “certain opposition to its
operations in the manipulative section of
the trade.” , , ... ....
While the buy-more-wool movement
does its little best, a Bradford authority
remarks: “Wool is moving from most
primary markets at a rate not exceeded
for some years.”
The end of the present season is near.
Somebody should make a vigorous effort
before the next begins to find out exactly
why, with a demand which ate up one-
seventh more wool in the last nine
months than in the corresponding period
last season, prices should have fallen £3
per bale in an apparently eager and not-
well-stocked world market.
There must be an artificial reason. No
doubt uneasiness in the international
situation, so much stimulated by news-
papers, has helped. But has anybody
noticed any remarkable improvement of
prices at those periods of the season when
the world has felt relatively easy about
war ,and Lloyd’s have been almost pre-
pared to give away war insurance?
Does Hand Mating Pay?
“K.Mc.”: With paddock mating rams
may starve themselves and lose vigor.
Some paddock breeders advise using
2} p.c. One per cent, is ample for hand
mating.
On this basis, with flock rams at
lOgns., and resold, when aged, for 3gns.,
less 10 p.c. deaths, a si re-requirement
summary for 1000 ewes easily favors
hand mating:
Rams Gross Sale, Net
Needed. Cost. Less Deaths. Cost.
Paddock
mating .. 25 £262 10s. £7l £l9l 10s.
Hand
mating .. 10 £lO5 £2B 10s. £76 10s.
Gross saving .. .. .. .. £ll5
From this deduct the wages of two men
for two hours morning and evening dur-
ing six weeks. A total of £3O would be
more than most station employees now
receive, leaving a net saving of £B5.
Thus a breeder could use PBgn. sires
with hand mating as cheaply as lOgn.
ones with paddock mating, and reap the
benefit of better lambs.
Yard the ewes at daylight and 4 p.m.
—if the yards are clean or the mob can
be housed they could be left in over-
night. Ewes showing heat are put into
pens. Twelve hours later they are bailed
for mating.
Served ewes are raddled, kept sepa-
rate, and are yarded and tested daily in
case some have failed at the first service.
T?. ran ] s , ar< 4 "^ e< u d r ng < he
night and hand-fed during the day. They
are not allowed to run with the ewes.
The system helps in selective mating,
When classing for mating a distinguish-
ing mark is made on each ewe to cor-
respond with the sire chosen.
Sydney Show Wool Exhibit.
“Murrawong”: A belated attempt was
made to stage a Sydney R.A.S. wool
exhibit. Graziers’ organisations believed
there was not enough time, but when
manufacturers decided to go on sheep-
men subscribed cash and fleeces.
The result gave the general impression
that Australia’s interest in wool is chiefly
confined to the secondary industries.
Samples were arranged along a wall to
show the results of the various processes
from greasy to scoured, carding, comb-
ing, dyeing and spinning.
Different types were shown in the
grease and scoured. There were red
wools from the N.S.W. west, robust 64’s
from the black soil and a sample labelled
“74/B’s Northern and Southern Table-
lands” which drew scathing comment
from New Englanders. It was nothing
like the bright, clean wools of N.E.
Ranged around were individual ex-
hibits by makers of wool hats, felts,
woollens and worsteds in all colors and
for a diversity of purposes. As exhibits
they were completely static. People
drifted past, their minds full of glitter-
ing motor-cars, rich-toned radios and
electrical gadgets.
A little farther down the building,
crowds gathered round a machine clean-
ing Java kapok. The soft, downy fibre
floated from the machine and collected
like a snowdrift. People watched the
mechanical process with interest. There
was movement, and the eye could follow
the processes, leaving nothing obscure
or baffling.
i n the wool exhibit there was a small
pyramid of pigeonholed fleeces leaning
against the manufacturers’ stall,
There are 55 million sheep in N. S.
Wales, and the only tangible proof of
t heir existence to the hundreds of thou-
sands of people who visited the Show
was a handful of fleeces behind a net-
ting screen arranged in the stereotyped
fashion of last century. There was not
a placard, not an explanatory ticket


NEW MODEL
Brings famous LANZ Economy
to Small Holdings!!
This new Model "J" Lanz is the power unit eagerly
awaited for light and medium farm work by smaller
holders, orchardists, pastoralists and dairy farmers!
The "J" is a "pocket Hercules!" Its tremendous power,
proverbial LANZ economy in fuel and upkeep, and
amazingly long working life make it the cheapest tractor
power ever offered. The LANZ "J" comfortably does
six good farm horses' work!
Here is the lowest-priced crude oil tractor ever introduced to
Australia—a tractor worthy of the great name LANZ.
£375
Price of Model “J”
on steel wheels
complete.
n
LANZ "BULLDOGS"—
A MODEL FOR EVERY
TYPE OF FARM:—
Model "J" 10-20 H.P.
Model "L" 12-25 H.P.
Model "N" 18-35 H.P.
Model "P" 22-45 H.P.
Model "T" 35-55 H.P.
(Crawler)
mm.
• •
m
n
i m
Buy your implements from
countries who reciprocate
by buying your products! Australian wool sent
to Germany pays for every tractor that comes
to Australia!
A
BULLDOG
C*aaJ& QiL
D I S T R I B U T O R-S
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria:
K.L. Engines & Tractors
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited,
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Lid.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William 4 Forbes Streets,
Perth
T^e'^ttUeS/TL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
attached to the entire exhibit to indicate
any single point of interest or to attract
the passer-by.
To the experienced woolman, they had
a certain interest, but no woolman ever
looked at good wool without wanting to
handle it, so the wire-netted exhibit was
unsatisfactory even from the woolman’s
point of view. Had there even been a
card on each fleece to show what stud
or flock it came from or what type or
spinning count it represented, it would
have been an improvement.
One single fleece from a good-sized
merino wether or ram thrown out on a
table would have constituted a better
attraction. People who have never seen
a sheep shorn or the extent of a spread-
out fleece find in it something astonish-
ing. They have been looking at the same
old mounds of expressionless wool for
generations.
Before the Show opened, the wool sec-
tion got a lot of press publicity, and
hopes were expressed that the exhibit
would be sent as a whole to the New
York Exhibition. For Australia’s sake
it is to be hoped that no such absurd
step will be taken.
One Meat Brand for Australia.
“Kyamba”: Some confusion is caused
overseas by Victorian, N.S.W., W.A.,
Queensland and Tasmanian products
being marketed under State labels. All
States’ lamb, mutton or beef should
primarily bear the brand “Australia,”
although the individual marks could still
exist. We could follow Maoriland and
the Argentine in this way, preference for
individual brands being left to the efforts
of each State’s salesman.
Zinc Sulphate and Wheat.
“Zedo”: The Victorian Agricultural
Department seems to have stumbled on
something good in the way of wheat fer-
tiliser —at least for the Wimmera. Ex-
perimenting with eel-worm disease, a
farm near Nhill was given a zinc sulph.
dressing in 1936—301 b. z.s. and lcwt.
super, per acre. The improvement in
yield was 9.4 bushels.
In 1938 the fertiliser was tried out at
20 centres, on varying types of red and
black and Mallee marginal land soil. At
Longerenong, unmanured control plots
gave 16.9 bushels p.a. ; straight super.,
20.5 bushels; and lcwt. super, plus 201 b.
zinc sulph., 22.3 bushels. At Salisbury,
the control performance of 27.7 bushels
was increased to 28.2 bushels with lcwt.
super, and 31.2 bushels with the z.s.
dressing. On red, sandy loams, there
was little difference between straight
super, and the mixture.
Clovers, particularly sub. clover, as
well as a number of other crops, seem
to be responsive to z.s. dressings. Any-
body had any experience outside Vic-
toria?
Saffron Thistle.
“Gumblegubbin”: Saffron thistle
(Carthanus lanatus ), an introduced plant
that has long been listed as a noxious
weed, is a nuisance in wheat fields, and
wheat that shows any trace of the thistle
is refused at silos ; but it can be got rid
of by fallowing.
In grazing paddocks it is useful; many
settlers who have had to rely on it for
stock feed have protested against the
thistle being declared noxious. They
claim that, in addition to being of great
feed value, it prevents soil erosion, and
that those who have it on their properties
can carry double the number of sheep.
Its virtues and vices largely depend oil
district and rainfall.
It is easily spread, as the small seeds'
are carried by the wind and by birds.
Though a wheat farm may be cleaned of
it, it will come again if growing in an
adjoining grazing paddock.
Away from farming areas it does no
harm, and is a standby in bad times.
Hints for the Farm.
“Disdain”: When cocksfoot is broad-
cast in mixed pasture, young plants gen-
erally are “worried” out by sheep before
they have a chance to become firmly
rooted. Try drilling in the cocksfoot —
81b.- 101 b per acre mixed with 1001 b.
super. The seedbed must be firm, and
the seed-super, mixture must be drilled
shallowly. The rest of the mixture —
rye grass and clovers —should be broad-
cast by a seedbox on the drill and covered
by trailing chain-harrows.
“O. W. Waireki”: A piece of pumice-
stone, one end well soaked in kerosene,
makes a good burning-off torch. A strip
of old motor-tyre also makes a handy
firestick.
“Kyamba”: When pulling out stumps
with chain and team, hook the chain
round the bottom of the stump, not on
the top, placing the hook on the opposite
side to the team, and passing the chain
over the top of the stump. Increased
leverage is thus obtained. A good way
is to put the chain round a big root.
“Mullengah”: Barrel clover {Medicago
tribuloides ) is worth a trial in districts
with an average annual rainfall of Min.
to 20in., such as much of the wheatbelt.
In S.A. some barrel-clover areas carry
from three to ten sheep per acre. Like
other clovers, it builds up the nitrogen
content of the soil, and works well with
rotational cropping and grazing. Broad-
cast the seed and harrow in lightly.
Barrel clover does well in country with
a good lime content, and responds vigor-
ously to super, topdressing.
“Kyamba”: Blindness in sheep
appears to be common at this time of
the year, particularly in travelling stock.
Where numbers are affected the disease
is probably “pink-eye” (contagious
ophthalmia). Loss of condition is rapid
and feeding becomes difficult. I’ve found
the best treatment consists in isolating
all affected sheep and providing good
feeding and ample water and shade. A
few drops of a 5 p.c. solution of zinc
sulphate in the affected eyes daily for
a few days helps. At any rate, it is a
good first-try cure.
“Jayem”: Run the milk over an effi-
cient cooler straight from the cow,
especially in hot weather. When milk is
supplied to cheese factories it is difficult
to prevent development of high acidity
in the evening’s milk, which is kept for
delivery next day. Use of a cooler is the
only remedy.
“Bundalinga”: Pasture improvement
has enabled Salway Bros., Bega (N.S.W.),
to eradicate blackberries. Land infested
with the pest is ploughed, sown with per-
ennial rye, sub. and red clover, top-
dressed with lcwt. of super, per acre
annually. As the blackberries appear the
sward is mown. The treatment is con-
tinuous.
“Yeno Ham”: In trials at Wollongbar
Experiment Farm, Alstonville (N.S.W.),
maize which received 2cwt. of super, and
icwt. of amm. sulph. per acre yielded
24.79 p.c. more green feed than did un-
manured crops. Broadcasting gave results
13.72 p.c. better than when it was drilled
in. Fitzroy maize, which yielded 22 tons
of green feed per acre, gave 4 p.c. more
green feed than did Ulmarra Whitecap
and 4j p.c. more than Pride of Hawkes-
bury. Rate of sowing was 201 b. of seed
per acre in 3ft. drills.
“Walkabout”: I’m a bit with “Valerin”
fB. 22/3/’39) as to the worth of the
“handy” sheep-dog for station work, but
it’s the early education that makes or
mars a dog, whether bred in the purple
or just plain dog. The best station worker
I ever saw was a half-bred dingo, its
owner having salvaged it as a pup after
poisoning its mother. It never was known
to bite, and to see it working a mob of
stubborn or knocked-up old ewes was
enough to make any sheepman envious.
I’ve seen dogs that had shown up well
at show trials not worth a curse with big
mobs of paddock sheep, the same apply-
ing to those that might be worth a dozen
men at yard work or penning-up. A
dog’s ability is governed by what he was
broken-in to do. But whether his tyke
be well- or mongrel-bred, a barker or a
silent worker, I’ve yet to meet the boun-
dary-rider or station-hand who didn’t own
the “best dawg in the back country.”
“Mulgo”: Not many have a love for
the mule, but as a general-utility animal
for farm work in rough and poor coun-
try the “half-caste horse,” as I heard a
blackfellow describe him, is always worth
while. On a selection in bad times a
couple are handy to save the horses. I
have seen mules and horses worked to-
gether, and where they were not stable-
fed the mules lasted longer. The mule
thrives in the same hard country as the
goat and the donkey, and for rough work
on rough fare one mule is worth two
horses. When feed is scarce or dear any
kind of roughage about the place will
keep a mule in working nick.
“L.J.W.”; Few bulls in the Argentine
to-day are worth less than £5O a head—
the cause is careful supervision of quality.
In England and Wales, since 1934, bulls
over 10 months can be kept only with
a license. Before this is granted the bull
must be passed by livestock officers
who can reject for any of the following
faults: Defective or inferior conforma-
tion or likely to beget inferior progeny,
permanent infection with any contagious
or infectious disease or by any other
disease rendering the bull unsuitable for
breeding. Bulls passing inspection are
tattooed with a crown and registered
number in the ear. Rejects are branded
“R.” These must be slaughtered or
castrated except where permission is given
to fatten.
“Disdain”: Maoriland is now produc-
ing enough malting barley for home
needs. The price for No. 1 grade has
been agreed on with maltsters at 4s. 7jd.
per bushel on trucks for stook-threshed
grain. Since yields on better-class soils
average over 40 bushels per acre, buyers
have no difficulty in placing contracts.
For pig- and poultry-raising in North
Island, large quantities of feed barley are
being imported from S.A., where low
prices have ruled this season.


iPH°M u ! fßOiuiouoog
m
mg.
m
ii
m
sSSs;
as?
!@§S
I&lfi
ili
8S8»i
.
■
3AIMG ISIHM-ilfOHd
AUTO
UNION
• 40-50 MILES PER GALLON
• INDEPENDENT DOUBLE FRONT SPRINGS
• ONLY 5 MOVING ENGINE PARTS
• FLOATING REAR AXLE
• 103 INCH WHEELBASE
• 6/60 M. P. H. IN TOP GEAR
PRICES FROM
CARS,
£245
UTILITIES ,
£255
Plus Sales Tax
'HIS sounds like an extravagant claim—
* but it’s TRUE. Facts have proved it.
Away beyond all other cars can this car claim
to have big car qualities, with small car cost.
Its simplicity in construction and handling is
unique. The D.K.W. is just the type of car
for doctors and commercial travellers whose
daily rounds involve frequent stopping and
starting, whose circumstances demand that
their cars shall always be “on the job.”
And for family use, nothing could be simpler
to run, easier to drive, cheaper to maintain.
Only FIVE moving parts in the engine. No
valves to worry about. No tappets to adjust.
What could be simpler?
The D.K.W. has proved a phenomenal suc-
cess everywhere. Call and see it. Take a
trial run in it. And you’ll understand the
reason for its popularity.
SEDANS, TOURERS, ROADSTERS, PANEL
VANS, ROADSTER AND COUPE TYPE
UTILITIES
Made by the makers of the famous Auto Union Racing Cars
D.K.W. IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL CAR IN THE WORLD
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Inc. in England)
Sir John Young Crescent (Behind the Art Gallery)
WOOLLOOMOOLOO :: ’Phone BO 524


CORNS .
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.• Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
with offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Jffices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also represents ■
uon through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
sure, .quicker.
more accurate calculations by the use of the sh
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering ami
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propm
tions, square and cube roots. Our simp e
enables you to master the use of thei slide rate qmcty
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with cour
Write for details to Kmgsford Smth Colleges, ue»
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
™ e . selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or To Let ’ notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
requires typing work; used to handling manu-
scripts; neat and accurate. —3074.
Married man (29), Tas., 14 years’ practical
farming exp., expert tractors, windmills, etc.,
wife qualified bookkeeper, also good house-
keeper, no family, wants position on farm or
station anywhere. Refs. —3089.
Youth (19), N.S.W., G.P.S., one year’s wool
exp. (Sydney Tech, and practical), three years’
military training (mounted unit), sound rider,
seeks position as jackeroo on large sheep station
(N.5.W.).—3090.
Ex-regular officer Imperial army, aged 41,
educated English public school and Sandhurst,
seeks engagement as tutor on country station.
Teach all subjects to intermediate standard.
Refs—3oB3.
To purchase some quandong and sandal-
wood nuts for planting, meteoric stone and
fossils and aboriginal curios. Or would give
in exchange books, etc. —3069.
Owner of two standard typewriters wants
to exchange good No. 10 Barlock for a
machine with “Elite” or other very small
type.—3olB.
To buy Literature in New South Wales and
The Poets and Prose Writers of New South
Wales, by G. B. Barton, Australian Writers, by
Desmond Byrne, and The Development of Aus-
tralian Literature, by Turner and Sutherland.
—3105.
Will W. Miller, who left Sutton, Surrey, Eng-
land, to work for his father-in-law, W. Adams,
ironmoulder, Sydney, in June, 1923, write to
R. Self, 33 Nightingale-road, Carshalton,
Surrey, England?—3o4B.
Information Sought.
(1) Price of a seat on the Sydney Stock Ex-
change ? (2) Would it be possible to buy a
partnership in a broker’s business, and how
much would one have to pay? (3) Do brokers
have to serve as clerks first? —2951.
(1) No set schedule price. Recent purchases
have been slightly in excess of £5OOO. Each
applicant (as well as the price) must be
approved by the committee as to character
and financial resources. These latter should
be at least another £5OOO in liquid assets;
in the case of a partnership a guarantee by
the remaining partner or partners may
perhaps be substituted to compensate for
an applicant’s lack of liquid trading capital.
(2) It is necessary for each partner to hold
a seat. No answer possible regarding partner-
ship price, as so much must depend on the
business of the firm in which a partnership is
sought, and on the prospective ability of the
applicant himself to induce business. (3) Usual
procedure is to gain experience in a broker’s
office, starting from a junior position at a
clerk’s wage, but a partnership rarely results
through the ordinary routine of promotion.
* * * *
(1) Was H.M.S. Calliope built at Devonport ?
(2) How many years was she on the Australian
station? (3) Was she in M.L. waters in 1847?
(4) Is the old ship a coal hulk in Geelong
harbor ? —2910.
(1) No. She was built at Sheerness in 1837.
(2) From 1851 to 1855. (3) No. During 1847
she was attached to the East Indies station.
(4) No. Latest available record is dated March,
1858, when she was at Devonport, England.
* * * *
(1) How much money must one have to
enter South Africa ? (2) Is it necessary to have
a guarantee of employment before entering that
country? (3) Other particulars or formalities
necessary ? —2654.
(1) At least £lOO in South African currency.
This, of course, does not guarantee admission
into the country, but provided that the pas-
sengers are in good health and are respectable
citizens little difficulty should be experienced
in their landing. (2) No. (3) If the passenger
is unable to lodge £lOO he has two alternatives:
Firstly, to apply direct to the Minister for
Immigration and Asiatic Affairs at Pretoria for
a permit to land or to arrange with a resi-
dent of South Africa to communicate with the
Minister and to arrange the necessary guaran-
tees.
* * * *
What happens to a prisoner who becomes
insane while undergoing sentence in a N.S.W.
gaol?— 3lls.
Such cases are, in the first instance, placed
in the observation ward of the State Peniten-
tiary, Long Bay, for treatment and observa-
tion. In many cases they improve under treat-
ment and are able to return to gaol discipline.
When, however, it is found that the insanity is
definite, they are certified and, removed to the
Criminal Mental Hospital, Parramatta.
* * * *
(1) What is the origin of the “Lorelei” song?
(2) Why was the singing of it by German
citizens banned by the French? —2918.
(I) Lorelei (or Lurlei) is the name given to a
rock which rises almost perpendicularly from
the Rhine near St. Goar, to a height of over
400 ft. According to legend, a siren sits there,
combing her hair and tempting fishermen to
their doom by the surpassing sweetness of her
song. Heine composed a ballad on the sub-
ject. The music is by Philipp Friedrich Silcher
(1789-1860), a Swabian who was for over 40
years conductor at the University of Tubingen.
Liszt and other composers also composed art
songs round the story, but none has been
more effective than Silcher’s simple little
strophic tune. (2) Can’t say. There is no evi-
dence that the song ever was banned.
* * * *
When does summer time begin and end in
England ?—3117.
By the Act passed in 1925, summer time starts
at 2 a.m. on the morning of the day following
the third Saturday in April (or, if that day be
Easter Day, the day after the second Saturday
in April), and ends at 2 a.m. on the morning
of the day next following the first Saturday
in October.
* * * *
In a cable message concerning the election
of the French President I read: “Neither
M. Herriot nor M. Bouisson were officially
candidates.” Isn’t that sentence grammatically
incorrect ? —3106.
Decidedly incorrect, yet the mistake is often
met with in print. When a subject consists
of two or more singular words connected by
“either... .or,” “neither... .nor,” the verb is
singular, so that the last three words of the
quoted sentence should read “was officially
a candidate.”
* * * *
(1) Was the cemetery located on the site of
the Sydney Town Hall the first in Sydney?
(2) If not, where was the first? (3) Where is
the oldest existing cemetery in Australia? —
3121.
(1) and (2) No, the first cemetery was located
in George-street North, in the vicinity of
Globe-street; the second was at the corner of
Margaret and Clarence streets; the Town Hall
or Druitt-street cemetery was the third, and
was in use between 1793 and 1820. The site
was finally handed over to the City Council in
1869. The last in the city was the Devonshire-
street cemetery, located on the site of the
Central railway station. (3) St. John’s, Parra-
matta, the oldest grave being dated “1791.”
It contains the graves of two Governor’s wives,
Lady Fitzroy and Lady Bourke, besides those
of other well-known persons as Samuel Mars-
den, Baron Alt and Robert Campbell.
* * * *
(1) Total State and Federal taxes, including
wages tax, on an unearned income of £416
p.a. (Australian currency ) received from
England wider a legacy by a bachelor with no
dependants in N.S.W.? (2) Can income tax
or wages tax be paid quarterly instead of
annually? (3) In what month should tax
assessment be delivered to me ? (4) What
power have taxation officials to search bank
books or records or to extract information
from banks about a private income? —2987.
(1) State income tax, £6 13s. 3d.; Federal
income tax, £5 17s. lid.; special income
tax, £l3 10s. 4d. (2) No, but discretionary
power is granted to allow extensions of time
for payment where a taxpayer’s financial
position warrants this course. (3) Period of
issue extends over several months. (4)
Section 263 of the Income Tax Assessment Act,
1936, provides as follows: “The Commissioner,
or any officer authorised by him in that behalf,
shall at all times have full and free access to
all buildings, places, books, documents and
other papers for any of the purposes of this
Act, and for that purpose may make extracts
from or copies of any such books, documents
or papers.”
* * * *
Text of Ritskin’s gibe that Whistler had
thrown “a pot of paint in the public's face,”
and result of libel action that followed 3112.
Ruskin’s reference to Whistler was in these
words: “For Mr. Whistler’s own sake no less
than for the protection of the purchaser, Sir
Coutts Lindsay ought not to have admitted
works into the gallery in Which the ill-educated
conceit of the artist so nearly approached the
aspect of wilful imposture. I have seen and
heard much of Cockney impudence before now,
but never expected to hear a coxcomb ask 200
guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the
public’s face.” These remarks were the sub-
ject of a libel action Which resulted in a
verdict for one farthing damage to Whistler.
V V
Origin of the phrase ‘‘a bridge for a re-
treating enemy,” attributed to Aristides? —3loB.
Plutarch in his Life of Themistocles states
that in order to sound Aristides, after the
battle of Salamis, Themistocles pretended to
think it advisable to go to the Hellespont and
break down Xerxes’s bridge of ships. To
which Aristides replied: “Instead of breaking
the bridge, we should, if possible, provide
another, that he may retire the sooner out of
Europe.”
* * * *
A few particulars concerning authoress Nettie
Palmer, with a list of her publications? —3lo4.
The daughter of John Higgins, accountant, of
Melbourne, she was born at Bendigo (Vic.),
and educated at the P.L.C., Melbourne, and
Melbourne Uni. She also attended lectures at
London Uni., Berlin and Paris, and took
diplomas of the International Phonetic Associa-
tion in England, France and Germany. Pub-
lications include the following: Poems, The
South Wind (1914), Shadowy Paths (1915);
prose, Modern Australian Literature (1924),
An Australian Story Book (1928), Henry
Bourne Higgins, A Memoir (1931), Talking It
Over (1932). In 1914 she married Vance
Palmer, novelist, dramatist, essayist and poet.
* * * *
I reside in Queensland. Is there a Common-
wealth department which deals with the grant-
ing of internal combustion enginedrivers’ certifi-
cates ? —2950.
No Commonwealth Government Department
grants internal combustion enginedrivers’ cer-
tificates. The Commonwealth Navigation De-
partment issues engineers’ certificates covering
internal combustion (Diesel) marine engines.
Internal combustion certificates of competency,
second- and first-class, are issued in Queens-
land, which certificates have tecognition and
appropriate reciprocity value throughout the
Commonwealth. Full particulars in connection
with such certificates may be had from the
Chairman, Board of Examiners, Box 166 c,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
* * * *
(1) What is the gauge of the Port Augusta
to Alice Springs railway? (2) Gauge of the
transcontinental railway, Adelaide to Perth ?
(3) Gauge of the railway, Darwin to Birdum ?
(4) Probable cost of completing the railway
from Alice Springs to Birdum ? —2986.
(1) 3ft. 6in. (2) Adelaide-Port Pirie Junction,
sft. 3in., Port Pirie Junction-Kalgoorlie, 4ft.
and Kalgoorlie-Perth, 3ft. 6in. (3) 3ft.
6in. (4) Except for the short section from
Birdum to Daly Waters (43 miles), a working
survey has not been made, and, in the absence
of survey data, a reliable estimate cannot be
furnished. The distance between Alice Springs
and Birdum could be accepted as approximately
600 miles. The distance by road, which closely
follows the route of the Overland Telegraph
line, is 650 miles.
* * * *
A few details concerning the nankeen
kestrel ? —3124.
The Australian representative of the kestrels,
the nankeen kestrel ( Cerchneis cenchroides)
is the commonest of all hawks throughout Aus-
tralia and Tasmania. It is often called
“sparrow-hawk,” but this name gives an
erroneous idea of its habits, and belongs to a
very different, species. Its food consists almost
entirely of mice, lizards and large insects; while
watching for them it hangs poised and
stationary in the air, with rapidly-beating wings.
In power of hovering it is surpassed only by
the tiny humming birds of America.
* * * «
Correct method of washing a car? —3l29.
Whenever possible wash the car before the
mud has had time to dry, when it comes off
easily. If allowed to dry it may cause stains
and dull the finish. Soak the body thoroughly
with running water, then rub lightly, using a
sponge in one direction only, with the water
running lightly on sponge. When clean, dry off
with a chamois. Do not use warm water, nor
should the car be washed while standing in the
sun, as this may dull the finish.
* * * *
To what family does the poison-bush belong?
—3140.
For the heads, chlorate of potash 60 parts,
of several families, sometimes inaccurately,
sometimes because at certain seasons they are
toxic though normally harmless. The bloom
poison-bush is an Oxylobium, as is the box
poison-plant; the Candyup poison-bush is a
Stypandra; the dogwood and Ellangowan
poison-bushes are species of Myoporum; the
peach-leaved poison-bush (which is not toxic,
but so fibrous in texture as to produce indi-
gestion) is a Trema; the river poison-tree is an
Exccecaria. Many species of Gastrolobium
have, and nearly all species deserve, the same
name; and other leguminous plants, such as
the Darling pea, have similar qualities.
m= * * *
Recipe for making safety matches? —3133.
For the splints, chlorate of potash 60 parts,
sulphide of antimony 23 parts, glue 10 parts.
The ingredients are mixed and stirred in the
melted glue. The splints are then dipped into
the mixture. For the friction surface, amorphous
phosphorus 50 parts, sulphide of antimony
40 parts, glue 18 parts. The mixture is spread
evenly on the surface, which has previously
been made rough by coating with glass and
sand.
* * * *
Method of removing olive oil from the pages
of a book ? —2868.
If there is much oil, or the pages have been
saturated with oil, you might try dipping them
one by one into pure petrol and drying with
sheets of blotting-paper. This, however, might
affect the printing. For spots, pour benzol
(not benzine) on to calcined magnesia until it
becomes a crumbling mass; apply this to the
spots, rubbing in lightly with the tip of a
finger. When the benzol evaporates, brush off
and clean up with a piece of art-gum eraser.
* m= * *
How to put transfers on wood or iron ?
2782.
A specially-prepared transfer varnish is pro-
curable from paint stores, but any quick-drying
spirit varnish will serve. It is painted on to
the surface where the transfer is required,
and while still moist the transfer is laid down
on the varnished patch and left till the varnish
is dry. The paper is then removed with a wet
cloth.
Me M= Me M=
How to make a canvas waterproof apron ?
—2849.
Canvas should be clean and dry, all wrinkles
smoothed out with a hot iron if necessary. Lay
it out on a table, and brush over with clean
cold water, so that the surface is slightly and
evenly dampened but not soaked. Have ready
the following mixture: 4oz. yellow soap dis-
solved in hot water to a jelly and 1 dessert-
spoon powdered alum, both well whisked into
one quart boiled oil which has been made very
hot over a closed fire—it is inflammable. Stir
well, and while very hot paint on to the damp
canvas smoothly; let dry thoroughly, probably
for several days; then give a second coating
of hot oil and dry again. A third coating may
be necessary, but two are usually sufficient.
Complete drying between coatings is most
essential to avoid stickiness, which is difficult
to cure later.
Me Me Me Me
Results of the “Springbok” (S. Africa) R.U.
team’s tour in Australia in 1937 ? —3028.
Defeated Westralia (47-8), S. Australia
(55-3), Victoria (45-11), Western N.S.W.
Unions (63-0); lost to N.S.W. (17-6); defeated
Australia (9-5), Newcastle (58-8), an Aus-
tralian XV (36-3), Toowoomba (60-0), Queens-
land (39-4), Australia (26-17). Matches played,
9; won 8, lost 1; points for 342, against 65.
Brief Answers.
N.FLG.N.: Too many to enumerate. They
are set out in full in Section 14 of the N.S.W.
Trustee Act, 1925.... W.W.: Know of no such
exemption... .F.L; Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Lands, Sydney... .N.A.: See Clark
and Crawford’s National Income of Aus-
tralia. .. .L.F.D.C.: Write Chinese Consulate-
General Sydney... .I.M.H. and N.M.S.:
Write Commandant, 2nd District Base, Vic-
toria Barracks, Sydney... .A.8.C.: (1) Soya
beans are grown to some extent in most
countries of the world, but on a large scale
only m those countries where sub-tropical con-
ditions obtain and where the populations are
dense and the people poor. (2) A crop has
t , m States of Australia, and, as
could be expected, can be grown fairly well in
j an< ?, P arts °f N.S.W. (3) Although an
adaptable crop which grows fairly well in all
sorts of natural conditions, the soya bean does
best near the tropics. The crop is a summer
grower, and as a consequence is seeded in the
spring. (4) The larger firms of seedsmen in
Brisbane and Sydney should be able to pro-
vide seed in time for planting in the spring.
K.J.8.; Details are at present under con-
sideration. Keep in touch with Headquarters,
2nd District Base, Victoria Barracks, Sydney,
and watch the press for general information.
... .G.W.: With a limited amount of capital and
without knowledge of farming you would be
very severely handicapped under existing con-
ditions... .L.S.: Outside scope of Service
Department. Consult Hobart and Launceston
furniture dealers.. . .S.T.: Watson’s Bay (Syd-
ney) was named after Robert Watson, master’s
mate of the Sirius, who piloted the First Fleet
from Botany Bay to Sydney Cove. Watson
was the first to receive the appointment of
Colonial Pilot, and was stationed at South
Head W.G.: Get in touch with the chief
librarian, W.A. Public Library, Perth T.J.H.:
The word “hurst,” used as part of a place-
name, such as Hurstville or Penshurst, means
a wood, grove, copse, wooded hill or hillock.
It also means a piece of rising ground, a knoll
or bank, especially a sandy one; specifically,
a sandbank in the sea or in a river P.H.:
“Poetry Review,” 36 Russell-square, London
(quarterly, Is. 6d.). Any bookseller could ar-
range subscription F.M.M.: Write Regis-
trar, University of Sydney, Sydney E.H.T.:
Spray with any commercial insecticide, sprinkle
with insect powder or sprinkle freely with
powdered naphthaline, the last being the
cheapest method.... A. 8.: Your Diet and Your
Health, by Fishbein, obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, 15s N.W.M.C.: Write
Under-Secretary, Department of Territories,
Canberra, A.C.T M.T.L.: Eothen was
written by A. W. Kinglake J.H.C.: The
Arts of Mankind, by Van Loon (18s. 4d.,
posted), from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
. ...G.K.A.: Teach Yourself Good English
(2s. 6d.) and Pitman’s Bookkeeping Simplified
(ss. 3d.)... .R.K.N.; The Methods of Modern
Navigation, by Edward J. Willis (95.) H.W.:
From N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney; 2s. 2d.
posted... .D.D.: Try any of the Adelaide bone-
dealers... .R. 8.: Get in touch with art depart-
ment, East Sydney Technical College, Darling-
hurst, Sydney R.W.8.: So far as can be
traced, no publisher is offering a prize for a
religious novel T.D.S.: The address of the
Consul-General for Paraguay is 5 Bond-street,
Sydney... .L. 8.: (1) Julius Caesar was born on
July 12, 102 b.c. (2) 1940 will be a leap year.
. ...E.J.P.: The two four-masted sailing vessels
which left Port Victoria on March 20, 1939,
with full cargoes of wheat were the Olivebank
and the Pommern... .E.H.N.: See W. Lee’s
Cobb and Co., Ltd., and Will Lawson’s When
Cobb and Co. Was King L.R.: The s.s.
Fortunatus (3426 tons), of Melbourne, while
from Calcutta to Melbourne in July, 1907,
took fire when four days from Colombo and
was abandoned. All her people in boats were
picked up by s.s. Forth and landed at
Mauritius... .J.H.: The crested bellbird
(Oreoica cristata ) is to be found in the drier
inland regions of the continent. It is reddish-
brown, with white face and underparts and a
black erectile crest, and must not be con-
fused with the green bellbird or bell-miner
found in the forest country in the south-east,
which belongs to the honeyeaters E.H.8.:
Cambalup (“bulrush swamp”), Carbanup (“place
of large flag rushes”), Da.ndajup (“a watering-
place”), Dugalup (“a gully with running
water”), Gabeegong (“fresh water close to the
sea”), Goodalup (“a wallaby thicket”), Jeel-
jarrup (“three jarrah-trees together”), Man-
jiri (“a gum forest”), Mooldup (“a shady
place”), and Morgyup (“a hill where natives
get stones for tomahawks”). All are W.A.
aboriginal place-names... .A.M.: Rose Leaves
from an Australian Garden was written by John
Howell, one time governor of the Adelaide
ga01... .T.F.: John Bromwich, the tennis
player, was born on November 14, 1918, at
Kogarah (N.S.W.). Address: Care Lawn
Tennis Association of N. S. Wales, Rushcutter
Bay, Sydney K.A.: W. Forgan Smith,
Premier of Q’land, was bom April 15, 1887,
in Perthshire, Scotland. A painter by trade,
he arrived in Queensland in 1911, and has been
M.L.A. for Mackay since 1915... .C.T.: The
Order of the Indian Empire was instituted by
Queen Victoria in 1877, and is conferred for
services rendered to the Indian Empire. It con-
sists of the Sovereign, a Grand Master, 40
Knights Grand Commanders (G.C.1.E.), 120
Knights Commanders and an indefinite number
of Companions not exceeding 40 nominations
in one year... .J.8.A.: The No Conscription
Fellowship was formed in May, 1915, in Eng-
land, as “a fellowship of common counsel and
action of men of enlistment age who are not
prepared to bear arms in the event of conscrip-
tion, whatever the penalties for refusal. ’ It
was a pacifist subsidiary society of the Inde-
pendent Labor party. Officials included A.
Fenner Brockway, Clifford Allen, Percy Red-
fern, Rev. Leyton Richards, C. H. Norman
and J. H. Hudson... .G.M.: Correct version
is “Mundus scena, vita transit us; vensiti, vicnsti,
abiisti.” Translated it reads, “The world is a
stage, life is a walk across it; you have come,
you have seen, you have departed' ... .J.L.-
The phrase is one of La Rochefoucauld s
“Maxims,” and translated reads, The surest
way to be cheated is to think oneself cleverer
than other people” S.SU.: “Boyd Cab e
is the nom de plume of Col. E. A. Ewa ■


NEW
THE
"Porthed
Somerset"
Poley
Saddle
£l5/3/9
(Mounted).
The seat is
of hogskin and
the flaps of best
qual. kip.
N.S.W. Rail Freight Paid for Cash
with Order.
WALTHER fc STEVEHSOH US: ,
395 CEORCE ST. SYDKEY
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
( Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
X
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI,HONOLULU
CAN AD A. USA-
A
A
CAN AD lAN AUSTRALASIAN LIN E
:
C Tor Safety and Convenience
//
'JS&
W
Sj
#v
w.
OPEN A CHEQUE ACCOUNT
A current account will enable
you to make payments by
cheque, thus doing away with the
need for carrying large sums of
money, and reducing risk of loss
to a minimum.
The pass-book and cheque butts
are a complete record of trans-
actions.
The account brings you into con-
tact with an expert organization
whose duty it would be to give
you every assistance and advice
on financial matters.
It is easy to arrange for a bank-
ing account to be opened at any
of the Bank of New South Wales'
branches.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED
IN THE TEAR 1817
446 A. 193*5
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
• ' • x
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability Is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.S.R.: Both off our beat D.C.: Not
up R.H.W.: Nothing to it E.D.: Wasn’t
far away F.H.: And we very near took
over “The Legacy”... .D.F.: “Pieces”....
D. Pretty-pretty F.C.8.: “What boots
it?” Its own heavy feet L.G.K.: Shak-
speare couldn’t have bettered the lyric cry of
the last line: —
We moastly look like harf-stavved rats
our bones protrood like grapperling hooks
but it’s more or less grand to be a poit
with a heigh and two (2) Bonnies!
J.B.M.: Notion of love as “something
bright that will temporally shine” might seem
better if “temporally” didn’t look so much like
“temporarily” H. 8.: That “lovely Eastern
slave” did a long flip to Australia... .J.D.W.:
“Bloom-June” as a rhyme is blooming awful.
O.S.G.: Try it in prose R. 8.8.:
Rambling 8.J.R.: “The Perfect Parliament”
seems to slouch along in the same old way.
K.A.R.: “The Fountain” might suit the
children’s page of a daily Anonymous: An
old and honored signature, anyhow
E. : A set piece M.R.L.: Doubt
whether Hitler reads nursery rhymes
M.V.S.: Better order a coffin for “Cheering Up
the Undertaker” E.8.W.: An idea, but the
treatment’s very tame P. 8.: “Waste Beer”
flat E.E.: Last stanza something like it....
E.C.C.: Can’t permit your fleas to bite our
readers J.D.C.: Pretty titbits, but not yarns.
. ..K.T.S.: No use at that length H.8.E.:
An addled Easter egg J.8.E.: A chuckle
here and there, but not enough per page....
8.R.W.: Piffle... .8.E.: One six times better
would be better than six like those E.W.8.:
Might sound all right from a soapbox
J.T.N.: Presume they are some of the things
that are sent to try us R.D.S.: Tottie re-
penting in the w.p.b 1.D.E.: Cut it to one-
third and try a daily G.T.C.: Nothing in
any of those... .'D.E.L.: Your “literary
cannons” seem to have been spiked F.T.S.:
We did receive a' contribution almost as dis-
tressing as that about two years ago L.S.A.:
“Boring” just so K.T.: “Homeless Harry”
hurrying home J.T.S.: Earned a second
reading H.R.S.: Call for it, quickly
N.E.W.: Just missed; you’re improving
F.E.M.: Murder season closed until further
notice G.R.L.: Detest suicides who win the
lottery a couple of minutes too late 8.E.A.:
They’d stand a better chance overseas
N.E.E.: Where did you hear a swaggie speak
like that? H.P.McK.: Or an abo. like
that? C.V.C.: All off our beat H.R.:
“Must We Always Love?” Try Dorothy Dix.
C.E.B.: The title frightened us, and the
yarn justified our fears... .D.W.P.: A. C.
Headley does it better D.G.S.: No, no,
NO! T.P.C.: Might make a par. for Smoke-
oh D.L.8.: Steady, there, steady 8.F.1.:
Make your next effort as unlike that as pos-
sible T.R.E.: Suspicious of idylls... .T.S.:
And “Interludes” E. 0.: No, “a series of
tales of the frozen north” would not interest
us M.F.W.: Keep trying F.F.: The
basket is brimful of that sort of stuff... .E.N.:
You have some funny ideas about the police
force G.V.Y.: Don’t know where you’d
publish it except in a volume of short stories.
B.T. and F.R.O’N.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.C.: You’re still in the kindergarten class.
. ...A.8.: Drawings require a lot more polish-
ing; gags are hopelessly out of date....
F.T.H.: Pay us a call when you have com-
pleted your studies P.H.: It might look
like a horse to you, but it looks like a pre-
historic animal to us R.D.: Crayon draw-
ing is pick of the bunch, but even that is un-
shapely E.D.: Oswald Pryor turned in that
gag over 30 years ago W.H.: Caricature
shows you can draw; subject not important
enough M. 8.: A lot of ink splashed about
to no purpose... .K.M.Sending the abos.
back to their gunyahs... .A.E.T.: You need
more than patience to reach publication stand-
ard H.T.: They are the kind that fill the
w.p.b C.D.: Unevenly balanced, and there’s
indecision in your penmanship.,. .W.R.T.:
Charlady gazing at bust of tramp failed to
please 8.A.: It has a multitude of weak-
nesses, and the gag is old S.S.: There’s
an idea buried there, but you didn’t bring it
to light C.M.H.: Why did you cut off the
gent.’s left arm? P.M.D.; We preferred the
fellow in the Wellington boots to the matron
in the bathing costume, but can get along
without either P.P.: Idea as confused as the
picture M.T.: If you could get more action
into your work you would begin to command
space F. 8.; That drunk has. shed too many
tears on our doorstep... .P.C.S.: Hard and
jagged linework linked to gags as stale as last
year’s hot cross buns... .M.8.C.: What makes
you think that item laughable? P.K.: Try
to be more cheerful... .J.8.F.: No affection
at all for sketches which appear to have been
copied from overseas magazines E.L.:
More suited for a trade paper S.G.: The
lad shows promise, but needs lessons M.T.:
As a designer of headstones you might earn a
crust J.P.: Impossible to judge from
copies; send something original A.M.L.:
Seven people, all looking as if they had been
suddenly paralysed... .G.C.: Not interested in
the sketches that won you the certificate. Send
something specially drawn for us C. 8.:
Most of it looks as if it were dashed off to
fill up space M.G.M.: “Bush Picnic” did a
quick gallop to the w.p.b W.H.: You
couldn’t have looked at it before sending to
us... .F.C.: Artistic barbarisms... .N.A-: That
gag has been a regular visitor since the week
after our first issue....R.A.C.: No.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“D.F.”: As we grind up coffee, why
not tea? The Dutch traveller Caron
mentions that the Japanese used to grind
the tea leaves to a fine powder in a little
mill. This, if the men of Nippon
then: tea full-flavored, meant economy,
for he says that they put into the pot
as much of the tea-dust as would lie on
the point of a knife. To preserve the
strength and fragrancy of the tea the
Japanese kept the mouths of the vases
in which it was stored well covered.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Dogs have had other
influences on the Inky Way than getting
bitten by men to provide real news, pr
furnishing hairs on droughty mornings
after payday. When James Gordon
Bennett directed his “New York Herald”
from Paris he left the selection of appli-
cants for jobs to his Pekinese dogs. The
aspirant would be shown into a room
at the gaudy Champs Elysees mansion
with some of the potentate’s pet Pekes,
while their owner observed from behind
a curtain. If they were friendly he got
the job; if not, he was just unlucky,
Bennett said his Pekes were better judges
of a sound man that he was. But they
made one colossal mistake which eventu-
ally landed the “Herald” in a peck of
troubles. It was not altogether their fault,
A wily jobseeker, learning the method of
selection, had secured a strip of juicy
steak round the top of each sock, thus
acquiring intense but unjustified merit
in the noses of Bennett’s canine psycholo-
gist's.
* * * *
Fred Carpenter, who recently scored a
success in London as a solo dancer and
ballet director, is an old pupil of Sydney
Grammar. His first appearance as a solo
dancer in Sydney was with the Railway
and Tramway Musical Society in “The
Dancing Mistress,” and his first profes-
sional engagement was with Elsie Prince
and Jimmy Godden in Melbourne in
“No No Nanette.” He danced in the
U.S.A. a few years back, and more re-
cently, after cabaret appearances, under-
took the production side of ballets, and
in “The Dancing Years” (featuring Ivor
Novello), at Drury Lane, was credited
with a fine achievement. Fred created
and directed several ballets for C. B.
Cochran, and was choreographer for Jack
Waller Bobby Get Your Gun.
« Rokko „. Me * nt i on (B*. 5/4/’39) of the
cook who was asked to color the table
d j sbes patriotic shades recalls the tale
an elderl Dane told me when j was
a y oUn g S t e r. He was born in southern
Denmark) and at the age of 12 saw the
G ermans j n possession of his home terri-
{orv One day in an eating-house hp
not iced a young Dane pouring cream
over the red jelly he had ordered ; a
moment later the Danish youth was ar-
rested by German police. Charge—that
be had "flaunted the forbidden Danish
co lors of scarlet and white in public!
Sounds incredible, but my Danish friend
assured me it made him resolve to leave
Denmark. At 14 he worked his passage
| () Sydney as a cabin-boy, and stayed
there.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The fuss about
cleaning the Elgin Marbles in the British
Museum seems a trifle ridiculous when
one realises that they were originally
painted to resemble living people, and
that the “glorious golden patina” is
mainly the result of 128 years of London
fog. When a Turkish powder magazine
blew up the Parthenon in 1687 during a
scrap with the Venetian Republic, Jacko,
being a Moslem, didn’t worry, because
he regarded statues as idolatrous and for-
bidden things, even if they did date back
to 440 b.c. More than a century later
Lord Elgin, British Ambassador at Con-
stantinople, bought what he could of the
re mains, and had no luck afterwards.
marbles were wrecked in the ABgean
Sea> and ha d to be recovered by divers
at g rea t cost. Byron attacked Elgin in
“ C hilde Harold” for vandalism, and, to
top things off, Napoleon detained him for
three years as a prisoner of war in
France. When he was freed he had to
se n the sculptures at heavy loss to repair
his ruine d fortunes.
* * * *
“Wai-lok-see”: “Lao-dah” (B. 29/3/’39)
is unnecessarily scathing concerning the
failure of Englishmen in China to learn
the language. Shortly after the outbreak
of the Great War the Hong Kong
Chamber of Commerce started a Lan-
guage School, to which the local British
firms sent their assistants. The course
of studies lasted two years, and each stu-
dent had a Chinese teacher at his com-
mand for one hour’s individual tuition
each week day, usually before breakfast,
followed by an hour of collective in-
struction in the schoolroom three times
a week. Reward, after a long and difficult
course of study—for there is no alphabet
and “tone” is the main essential—was
a certificate that the successful candidate
“is competent to transact through the
medium of Cantonese all ordinary mer-
cantile business.” Given opportunity, the
Englishman is as keen as anyone else to
take up foreign languages.
* * * *
Figures compiled by Union Corp.,
London, show that the British Empire
produced 57.4 p.c. of the world’s gold
output in 1938. Total production was
36,750,000 fine ounces, of which
21,080,0000 z. came from Empire sources.
Of this aggregate S. Africa produced
12,157,000, Canada 4,680,000 and Aus-
tralia 1,570,000 ounces. Russia, with
5,000,0000 z., and United States, with
4,244,0000 z., were the two outstanding
contributors for the rest of the world.


AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
VIA AMERICA
Travel across the Atlantic
by the Giant Vessels of the
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSLANTIQUE
(French Line)
From NEW YORK TO ENGLAND.
Travel from Australia to England via America
—book your reservations before leaving.
Accommodation and full particulars :
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
Travel Department - 7 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 87901
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane, Auckland, N.Z., Wellington, N.Z.
EL
*1
TH
Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
24-hour hot water service and telephones.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
SYDNEY
At Ye Olde Laundry
BY “EK DUM.”
ON a recent quiet Sabbath I sought
to stimulate my patriotism by a
visit to the home of the founder
of Australian ideals William
Charles Wentworth, Vaucluse House,
Sydney.
It is now a Government institution.
You approach the tropical garden which
has been built round it through stucco
gateways in the “Emoh Ruo” style. On
one gateway is the date “1803” ; on the
other “1911.” Neither has anything to
do with Wentworth. The first, appar-
ently, is meant to recall the “original
owner,” Sir Henry Browne Hayes, the
joyous Irish lad who abducted a Quaker
and was settled for his country’s good
at Parsley Bay that year in a hut sur-
rounded by an imported strip of the Ould
Sod. Good idea —but he never lived on
Vaucluse and never owned it. Went-
worth bought his estate certainly ; but
Wentworth bought another 40 acres from
another owner. In 1803, that was un-
granted land. That is where Vaucluse
House stands.
Passing up a highly-botanical avenue
which Wentworth never saw, you enter
the hall after paying. A glass case con-
fronts you. In it is a “ring given to a
lady-in-waiting at Government House,
Sydney, in 1807, by Mrs. Bligh.”
This is surely one of the finest female
acrobatic feats in history. Mrs. Bligh
was never within 10,000 miles of Aus-
tralia. She never had a lady-in-waiting—
neither had any other Governor’s wife of
those days.
We pass on to “the Constitution Room,”
so named “at the suggestion of the Presi-
dent of the Royal Historical Society.” I
offer a solid pound to anybody who can
prove that this shrine ever had anything
to do with the Constitution. Here is one
of the home’s noblest bits of furniture,
a sideboard which, a notice informs us,
was made in the fifteenth century. If it
was, it is the best preserved bit of
fifteenth-century dining-room furniture in
existence.
Proceeding, we’discover a photograph
of the “remains of the room in Norfolk
Island in which W. C. Wentworth was
born.” The Trust must have private in-
formation about this. No ordinary inves-
tigator has ever been sure where Went-
worth was born, or when. A book by
the president of the Royal Historical
Society (price one shilling) says he was
born on October 26, 1793. If that is
so, Governor Macquarie appointed him
Provost Marshal, with all the duties of
sheriff, including the execution of crimi-
nals, on his eighteenth birthday.
In the second storey of the national
shrine we come upon a passage, un-
guarded, open to the sun and the flies,
which have made sad use of one of the
large oil-paintings that hang in it.
“Portrait by Titian.” “Maddalena by
Raphael.” “Attributed to Michael
Angelo.” They conjure up the memory of
a thousand seedy and ham-fisted students
perched on ladders in a hundred Euro-
pean galleries copying the works of de-
funct old masters for dear life.
Only one “old master” in that gallery
is worth wall space—a new picture of
the . Duke of Wellington. Wonder where
that came from? It might have belonged
to Governor Brisbane, one of Welling-
ton’s officers, or to Mitchell, his trusted
mapmaker. In its present surroundings
it will cease to be a picture in a few
years.
The door is open and the way is clear.
The vast garden stands empty ; nothing
in it but the great N. S. Wales elm which
Wentworth planted to shame the sponsors
of Macquarie-street Mediterranean elms,
the vast native figs and the muddle of
trustee-tropic-jungle.
The “boys’ room” of Vaucluse was fur-
nished with two large and ornate double
bridal beds.
Part of the coach-house stable is a damp
passage turned into a sort of fowlhouse
by a screen of wire-netting. In one corner
dumped on the ground and reduced to
a tenuous and rotten sheet of neglected
rust is the iron boat used by Mitchell
in his tropical coastal expedition, the
forerunner of Kennedy’s jaunt to Cape
York in 1849. It won’t be there long—
the weather will finish it. Next door is
the stump of Macquarie’s furthest-south
tree marked on the Lake George trip in
1821. It was carved on the fringes of
Canberra territory on that historic pil-
grimage a diary of which is quoted in
detail in Wentworth’s Account of N. S.
Wales.
It has more significance than any tree
marked by Burke and Wills. The proper
place for it is in King’s Hall in Canberra,
not rotting with damp in a backblock
stable in a Sydney suburb. There are
some other relics in the same receptacle
which need attention.
Continuing to wander, you come to a
small building forninst the drain. Drop-
ping into bold tearoom Old English, the
Trust has labelled this “Ye Olde
Laundry.”
It is an interesting building, obviously
older than Vaucluse—l suspect it of hav-
ing been the castle of Mr. McGlynn, who
owned that particular bit of land before
Mr. Wentworth. Anyway, it is so precious
to the custodians that they have covered
the wood shingles which roof it with a
tin sheeting. Nature in turn has covered
the tin sheeting with holes through which
the water drips when it rains. And if
ye trustees wish to retain possession of
Ye Olde Mangelle which reposes in Ye
Olde Laundry and which is one of a very
few remaining of the type in Australia,
one of them had better reeche for ye
olde solder potte and hastene thithere
withoute delaiye.
While Ye Trustee is out there he might
get a firearms expert to have a couple
of glances at the pair of duelling pistols
which lie in the entrance hall near the
mid-Victorian ring that the non-resident
Mrs. Bligh gave the non-existent lady-in-
waiting in 1808. Their stocks have been
burnt.
The interesting thing about them is
that they are eighteenth-century pistols ;
they belonged to Captain Piper. Piper
was second to John Macarthur in the
duel in 1801 when Macarthur nearly
killed Colonel Paterson and was sent to
England and rewarded by being given
5000 acres of land and becoming the
father of the wool industry.
The pistols had defects which were well
marked and which got both Macarthur
and Piper into severe trouble with Gover-
nor King. Contrary to the rules of
duelling, Macarthur was allowed to load
them himself. So many consequences
arose from that duel that the pistols used
may almost be said to be pivot-pins of
Australian history. Their defects are
clearly known and of such a nature that
it is unlikely they could have been fully
remedied.
It would be worth while finding out if
those at Vaucluse House have the same
defects.
A MIXED GRILL.
“F.S.”: Like Norman Lindsay, knight
Arthur Streeton has remained resolutely
faithful to his belief that academies are
bad for art. He wrote a grave denuncia-
tion of the idea in the “Argus” when it
was first mooted, and has since kept
severely aloof. But as I was hurrying
through the ceramics gallery, which is
below the Mac Allan, on the day of the
official opening of the Academy’s first
Melbourne exhibition at the Nat. Gal-
lery, I saw a soldierly figure with yellow
military moustaches bending over a case.
It was Streeton. But he didn’t attend
the ceremony.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The Schwerdt family of S.A.
continue to farm the sheaf-tossing record
between them, as they have done for the
past dozen years. J. Schwerdt’s 52ft. at
the Melbourne Show last year was then
said to be a world’s record; but his
brother, G.R., an Adelaide constable, has
now put it up to 53ft. (with an 81b. sheaf)
at Alberton (S.A.) sports.
** s * *
Alderman Bartley Bartholomew Deve-
ney, who collapsed and died in harness
at the Melbourne Town Hall recently,
was the first Labor representative elected
to the City Council. He was also the last
Labor alderman, the aldermanic body
being due for abolition in August.
* * * *
“Ologist”: I agree with “Dick
Tafone” (B. 29/3/’39) that the Great
Dailies are very careless in their English.
But it’s not only carelessness that is rep-
resented in many grosser errors than
those cited by “Dick T.” From the
frequent repetition of the errors I have
in mind, absolute ignorance of correct
English would seem to be betrayed by
many journalists. A particular pain in
the neck to me is the use of such plurals
as “data” and “strata” as singulars. Even
the “S. M. Herald” is not guiltless of
singularising “data,” and the literary
pages of a recent Sydney “Sunday Sun”
contained: “It is given to few men.... to
excel in each strata of literature, yet this
can be claimed for Richard Church.” I
have also seen the plurals “phenomena”
and “larvae” used with singular verbs.
“Due to” where “owing to” should be
used strikes the eye with irritating fre-
quency, as does the omission of the
second “as” in “as good as, if not better
than.”
* * * *
“Matje”: The shape of the bows would
have no effect whatever on a ship’s be-
havior in waves 55ft. to 70ft. high, as
described by “Rumberg” (B. 22/3/’39k
Were the sea broken on top a small ship
would either be swamped or foundered,
just as we see surfboats swamped and
foundered on the beaches. If the vessel
were big it might ship some of the briny,
but it would just go through the broken
part none the worse other than perhaps
parting company with some of the deck
fittings. If the sea were unbroken the
small ship would fare the best, riding
securely over the top and down the other
side. In this connection the Norsemen
had all the details at heart when they
designed their ancient craft, survival of
which is to be seen in the lug-sail boats
of the Moray Firth (Scotland) and the
steam trawlers which in turn were de-
signed after them: high in the stem and
low in the stern, duckwise.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Ideas, above all, are needed, and there is a good one in the winning contribution,
which comes from South Australia.
The Need for Quietness
Few people understand the drain on
the nervous system which is caused by
the noises of modern life. There have
come into our world a greater variety
of sound and a greater volume than
assailed the ears of our ancestors.
To preserve one’s peace of mind there
ought to be a zone of silence around
every human being during some part of
every day. It is significant that the great
religions of the world have come out
of silence and not out of noise, and that
the finest creative work is done, as a
rule, in seclusion ; not necessarily apart
from men, nor in solitary places, but
away from the tumult and away from
distracting sounds.
It is in silence alone that we come
into possession of ourselves. There ought
to be a league for the practice of silence
—a body of men and women pledged to
the culture of the habit of quietness.
If we said less and thought more there
would be far fewer things to explain
away, many sources of irritation would
be dried up, and the prime cause of
disputes, which is nervous exhaustion or
excitement, would be removed. J.
Arthur (S.A.).
J. Arthur, of 25 Park-street, Hackney,
is the winner.
The Cry for Leaders
Where? 1 haven’t heard it. The only
cries I’ve heard are: “What won the
2.30?” “D’ye knaow a gud dorg?” and
“Kin ye git a pot after hours at
Mooney’s?”
I see no one about who I could
honestly say appears to be looking for
leaders, so I doubt if there is anything
to lead.
Until the average Australian manages
to emancipate himself from ( a ) the com-
mercialised sports racket, ( b ) the booze
racket, (c) the patent-medicine racket,
and (d) the press-dope racket, I see no
hope of his being led advantageously in
any direction. It’s a great big emanci-
pation movement we want. Adolf
Hayseedini (N.S.W.).
Dead-end Jobs
Living in a remote country district, I
have to take most of my news from the
radio, and lately I have heard too much
of “dead-end jobs.” Young people have
wailed at me through the microphone
that they had to leave school at 14 and
take whatever work offered, only to be
dismissed at 21 to make way for other
cheaply-paid youngsters.
If these young people are telling the
truth I want to ask them did they pass
from school-leaving age to full age and
a state of unemployment without know-
ing that their jobs had no future? No!
Then what did they do in the seven years
between to improve their chances of per-
manent employment?
There are dozens of trades to choose
from, and any number of them do
not need expensive apprenticeship; and
there are night classes for young people
willing to sacrifice a little of their present
leisure time in the hope of future security.
I do feel sorry for those young people,
but if they had done something at the
right time they would not be asking for
sympathy now. — Robina Sherwood (Q.).
Birth-control and War
“N. 8.” (B. 5/4/’39), in putting up a
theoretical case for birth-control, has re-
futed his own argument, for life deals
with facts. In almost every country the
“Germanic” stock (to which we belong)
has ceased to replace itself —that is, the
number of females who are now
approaching maturity is not sufficient
to maintain the numerical strength of the
population in the near future.
Contrary to most people’s ideas, there
will later on be a chronic shortage of
labor in these countries, and the effect
will be an influx from the more fecund
countries. This fact is already estab-
lished by the experience of France, whose
native population has declined by about
2,000,000, and has been replaced by
aliens, mostly Poles.
We are prepared to go to war to fight
for our existence as a nation, but at the
same time we are committing national
suicide by means of birth-control, which
is sheer lunacy. “N. 8.” paints a pretty
picture of future politicians holding con-
ferences to persuade the kind-hearted
Japs, Slavs, negroes or what have you
not to overwhelm us with their numbers.
It’s a beautiful thought, but not true to
life.
Why has Nature provided fishes and
octopuses with large families? For one
reason only—to enable the race to survive
in its ceaseless warfare with others ; and
“Whales first , Olsen—practical jokes after!”
yet “The answer to war is birth-
control.” No! War, plus birth-control,
equals Australia minus the white man.
Quality and quantity is the one sen-
sible aim—unless you think the shark
is a better fellow than the octopus; but
that’s only a theory! Willy Nilly
(N.S.W.).
Effective Advertising
May I compliment Seppelt’s Wines on
the series of interesting advertisements
appearing in The Bulletin during the
past few months? The nicely reproduced
photographs and informative letterpress
are a joy to look at after the blatant,
extravagantly-worded efforts of so many
other types of advertisers, especially those
“on the air.” I hope such artistic and
effective ads. as Seppelt’s will have many
imitators. —O. W. Wadham (M.L.).
Success and Failure
H. A. Lindsay (B. 29/3/’39) is right.
Adulation for the successful is carried
to absurd extremes, out of all proportion
to the real worth of the achievement.
After all, the line of demarcation be-
tween complete success and utter failure
is often fine indeed. An erratic watch,
a late train, a traffic holdup, a sudden
downpour of rain—all these and a thou-
sand more seemingly trivial happenings
can alter the whole course of a man’s
life. They may take him from the rut
of mediocrity to the heights of distinction
or just as easily dash him from those
heights. . .
And it doesn’t happen only in fiction.
Most successful men, the “self-made
ones at any rate, can, if they try, remem-
ber some circumstance which seemed un-
important at the time but was actually
the spring in which their river of pros-
perity originated. If they do not ascribe
it to some such lucky chance but to
“just good hard work, my boy,” they
should fool nobody. And unless they
have entirely lost their sense of humor
there should be telltale bulges in their
cheeks. They certainly had the ability
to take advantage of their luck, but prob-
ably no more than a thousand others
who failed from lack of opportunity.
In our worship of success, and by
“success” we invariably mean the accu-
mulation of wealth in good plain £ s. d.,
we * refuse to see the cynical smile of
Fortune peering over our idol’s shoulder.
We love our illusions and we cling to
them.—T. L. W. (Vic.).
Diggers’ Pensions
Not being pension-interested I’ve no
axe to grind ; but a case I encountered
makes one wonder. The Digger in ques-
tion, a neurotic since shellshock, incapable
of doing even light work—if he could
get it —is receiving from his grateful
country the amount of 16 shillings fort-
nightly. Under the Act he’s not eligible
for dole rations when on the track, and,
although game enough to try, his under-
mined constitution won’t permit of his
hanging on to any job for more than a
day or two at a stretch. He neither
drinks nor smokes.
On the other hand, I know of a man,
who, through the medium of a bullet
wound in the foot, which doesn’t pre-
vent him from indulging in most sports
or from interviewing clients or carrying
out the bank’s routine, receives in pen-
sion for himself, wife and family almost
as much per day as the unfortunate
shellshock case receives in a fortnight.
Of course, I know there’s an Appeal
Tribunal before which the shellshocked
Digger could appear and possibly get a
rise ; but why should there have been any
need for the institution of an Appeal
Board at all?—Ex-A.I.F. (N.S.W.).
Racing and Happiness
Went to a small race meeting the other
day. lam not a racing man. Gambling
is one of the vices that seem to have
missed me. But I was struck by the
happiness that could be sensed around
me on the course. Admittedly it was a
day of glorious sunshine and the favorites
were winning, but nevertheless those
things did not wholly account for the
way everyone seemed to be enjoying the
outing.
People were dressed in their best
clothes, chatting, laughing, meeting
acquaintances they had not seen for some
time. Some of them were no doubt
gambling with money they could ill afford
to lose, but they were getting value for it.
They were buying more or less harmless
thrills and an escape from the drab
monotony that is the daily lot of many.
Therefore, I thought, races must be
Good. There can be nothing very
“wicked,” as the Comstockians would try
to tell us, about something which makes
people so happy.
And so it must be with nearly all
pleasures which are condemned by puri-
tanical killjoys. Anything that brings
happiness to people, without resultant
pain to themselves or to others, must be
counted as Good, and therefore not dis-
couraged.—W. J. H. (M.L.).
Eye-exercises
“L.F.G.” (B. 15/3/’39) says that thou-
sands would join the military forces but
for weak eyesight. He says that, like
muscles, eyes respond to exercise. So far
so good. Now, “L.F.G.,” up to what
degree of, say, short sight and astigmatism
are your exercises good? Will they do
any good to a person of 35 who cannot
recognise a face ten yards away and who
has worn glasses for 28 years? If they
will do, let us have a joyful session with
waddies on the optometrists; if not,
please do not raise vain hopes in people’s
hearts.—C. L. D. (W.A.).
Mass Production
Education of children cannot be
organised on a mass-production basis, as
is the case in many N.S.W. elementary
schools to-day. The examination system
invokes a widespread demand for
results. This necessarily involves much
collective classwork and very little of
the personal touch.
“Successful” children tend to become
automatons, spitting out dates and figures
with more or less mechanical precision—
a necessary condition to success at exam,
time. In these circumstances there can
be no individual cultural training what-
ever.
In a mass-production factory, the
“too-fast” worker is apt to be as big a
menace as the “too-slow”; for either
type interferes with the smooth func-
tioning of the organisation. In the class-
room it is not convenient to have
“clever” pupils, since much time and
labor have to be expended in keeping
them down to the general level. On the
other hand, as a teacher recently con-
fessed to the writer, the progress of the
class as a whole must be, and is, deter-
mined by the aptitude of its
dullest pupil.
No teacher can impart
conscientious individual in-
struction to a class of more
than 15 in an elementary
grade, nor more than 20 in the
secondary grade. Yet classes
of more than double these
figures are quite common.
The teachers are themselves judged
by the successes or failures of their
classes at exams, which unfortunate state
of affairs compels them to strive for the
one goal—more and better exam, passes.
—Pedagogue (N.S.W.).
Australia for Australians
There are among the wealthier class
of people in Australia a tendency to send
their children to England to be educated.
They seem to think it gives the young-
sters a “tone” that our own schools can-
not give. It’s all bunkum, of course, for
we have many fine schools, and I can see
no wisdom in educating children in one
country when they have to live in an-
other. While it may be wise to know
the other fellow’s view from childhood,
it’s as well to have a view for one’s self
first. — Kara (Q.).
Do the Job Thoroughly
It’s a pity that international jitters
should be the sole reason for the com-
pilation of a National Register—it should
be as natural to us as the electoral roll.
Now that it is to be made, let it be
as complete as possible. To stop short
at “John Blank, unemployed” would be
to leave the job part done, and until
John ? s last work, his qualifications and
whether or not he is an “unemployable”
are set down the register will fall short
of its purpose.
The same applies to those in uncon-
genial jobs holding qualifications for


other work they’d prefer if given the
chance of it, and to those with hobbies
of a scientific or technical nature. So
many people are either in uncongenial
work or totally unemployed that two
National Registers—the one compiled on
purely superficial facts and the other
based on real values of active and re-
serve activity would offer astonishing
comparison.—R. H. A. (W.A.).
A Voice from India
Your constant attack on Australian
railway departments is, for a self-styled
national paper, little short of remarkable.
Other papers may, and do, mention rail
deficits. They even run articles, with the
same disregard for facts as shown in The
Bulletin, on such things as slow trains
or high fares, but they don’t fill a lot
of space in every issue with them, and
they do give credit where it is due. Not
so The Bulletin.
The truth is that many improvements
have been made. In N.S.W., among
other things, the maximum speed has
been raised 20 m.p.h. at tremendous cost,
and all main-line trains have been
speeded up. In Victoria the splendid
Spirit of Progress has been instituted,
and on the Trans line a short extension,
bitterly opposed by The Bulletin, has
been built, and owing to the use of new
locomotives built in Queensland a day
has been cut off the trip. I read about
the Victorian train in a London weekly,
but as I receive only The Bulletin from
Australia knew nothing about the rest
til! I visited the country last September.
I fully expected to find something extra-
ordinarily bad about the services when I
had a 600-mile trip to do. Instead, I
found that in every way, bar sheer speed,
there was little to criticise. On that rail-
way nightmare the Sydney-Newcastle
section, where the rails are welded, I
found the smoothest riding I had ever
experienced, and the fare, something
under a penny a mile first-class, remark-
ably cheap.
As an Australian I hate to see my
own institutions run down in the way
The Bulletin does it.— lrvine Brown
(Calcutta).
“State Salary”
' All this talk and propaganda about
“our unemployed youth” doesn’t ring so
true to the man in the street when he
sees the advertisements in the morning
newspaper, “Youth required”- for such
and such a job ; “state salary required.”
No doubt if the youth did state what he
required or needed there would be heart-
attacks and swoonings in many quarters.
Do these advertisers want to take ad-
vantage of the sorry state of the labor
market to-day by taking the lowest sug-
gestion of a wage which in desperation
is often submitted by these unfortunates?
Or is it just that they don’t like to put
in cold print the miserly salary they
intend to give?
It’s an ill wind blows no one any good,
and these ads. are a means of revenue
to the Governments through stamps sales.
—G. L. (N.S.W.).
Italians in the North
The increasing number of foreigners
in North Queensland is daily becoming
more of a menace as the international
situation grows worse. What will we
do with them if war, breaks out? Few
people living in the south have any idea
of the numbers of Italians in towns in
the sugar districts.
Many of these Italians cannot speak
English, and they are at no pains to
learn. Why should they? There is an
Italian newspaper published in Innisfail.
Public signs and notices on banks and
post offices are all written in Italian as
well as English. Commercial travellers
in the sugar districts of North Queens-
land cannot be successful unless they
speak Italian.
Apart from the war aspect, why should
some of the best agricultural land in Aus-
tralia go to foreigners when hundreds
of our own farmers are on the bread-
line? — Optimist (N.Q.).
Our Wooden Walls
J. F. Shine, the Cessnock (N.S.W.) shire
engineer, has thrown a lurid light on Aus-
tralia’s timber problems. He quoted one
area of 120,000 acres which once carried
first-class hardwoods and now serves no
useful purpose except to yield a few sap-
lings for props and poles. There are
many such areas, some of them within
what are called “forest reserves.” Even
so, our dedicated forests are under
17,000,000 acres for the whole of Aus-
tralia, while as far back as 1920 an inter-
state Forestry Conference decided that
24,500,000 acres of forest was needed to
provide for the Commonwealth’s needs.
This view was endorsed by the Premiers’
Conference. Our output of timber is fall-
ing and the imports are rising, as the
following figures show: —•
Home Production. Exports. Imports.
—Super. Feet <
{922-23 .. 587,500,000 87,500,000 364,500,000
1935-36 .. 563,000,000 77,000,000 380,000,000
These figures take no account of the huge
imports of “disguised” wood products to
the value of nearly £8,000,000 a year,
made up as follows: Newsprint,
£3,250,000; stationery, £2,250,000 ; paper-
pulp, £425,000; rayon, £2,000,000. In
1925 C. E. Lane-Poole, Commonwealth
forestry adviser, stated that we were im-
porting 43 p.c. of our timber require-
ments. The proportion to-day, allowing
for these secondary products, is higher
still. We are overproducing many things
and frantically trying to sell them to
people who don’t want to take them, but
there is a lamentable underproduction
of timber and no sign of the adoption of
any real long-range policy. Trees have
no votes. — Madera (N.S.W.).
The Recruiting Muddle
The splendid response to the recruit-
ing campaign cannot be attributed to the
efficiency and organisation of authorities
as much as to the spirit of our Aussie
breed.
A railway employee and a first-class
telegraphist of 15 years’ experience I
know decided to join up. He visited the
local unit headquarters for registration
in a signalling division, and it took the
officers in charge four hours to complete
his “swearing in.” Measuring him and
a squad of applicants for uniforms was
done haphazardly with string.
That was the first blow to his enthu-
siasm, and others followed. He soon dis-
covered that most of the very junior ser-
geants training his unit know less about
drill commands than he does. One
junior officer took half an hour to dis-
miss his men from a drill-hall because
he couldn’t get them through the door.
Another wasted just as much time parad-
ing a squad up and down a street before
he could decide how to get them round
a corner.
My friend’s experience as a class tele-
graphist and his practical knowledge are
not put to use in training others who are
struggling along learning Morse code at
from three to four words per minute
while he can do 40. Chosen to repre-
sent his unit in a competition among
inter-divisional units he was told by the
Railway Commissioner that he was
already employed in essential public ser-
vice and, if he had the day off, he would
lose his pay.
It is no wonder that many young
recruits lose their enthusiasm almost
before they have commenced their train-
ing—L. M. (N.S.W.).
Start Outside the Schools
Before these political- and social-
minded writers go any further in their
persistent efforts to show that the schools
must be made the starting-point for de-
veloping the critical faculty, for train-
ing in citizenship, for the study of eco-
nomics and the like, let me point out
that the start has to be made outside
the schools. To carry out these writers’
schemes would entail:
(1) Raising the school-leaving age to
at least 18.
(2) Better-built and better-equipped
schools.
(3) Reducing the size of classes to at
the most 35.
(4) Raising the status of teachers by
paying higher salaries and providing a
longer period of training in order to
attract the best men and women to the.
profession.
That will cost a lot of money; and
the Victorian State education system now
runs away with the whole amount re-
ceived per annum in income tax. We
shall have to remain a partially-educated
democracy until a scheme is devised
whereby the taxpayer can be separated
from his money for educational pur-
poses as easily as he is for the building
up of armies and the making of bombing
’planes and battleships.— Country Ped
(Vic.).
Butter Prices
Butter prices on the London market
keep on falling, Australian salted being
quoted at 114 s. per cwt. and unsalted at
Ills. Meanwhile the Primary Producers’
Union in Australia keeps on wailing that
margarine interests are conducting “in-
sidious propaganda” to the detriment of
the dairying industry.
What the P.P. Union fails to grasp is
that the general public is up in arms
against a system that enables Londoners
to spread their daily bread with Austra-
lian butter which costs them Is. per
pound while Australians pay Is. 7d. The
production of butter in the Common-
wealth for January, 1939, shows a fall-
ing off compared with January, 1938, due
of course to drought, but this failing off,
while it has added a penny per pound
to home-consumption price, is reflected
in a decrease of Is. per hundredweight on
the London market.
If the Primary Producers’ Union
wishes to K.O. the margarine menace, it
is up to it to shape its butter price in
conformity with London. —• Lactis
(N.S.W.).
Australian Workmen
One is continually reading and hear-
ing about the lazy tendencies of the
Australian workman. It’s time some-
body put in a good word for him. I
have worked beside men from all parts
of the world, and I would back our men
against any of the imported variety.
Where are the men who could beat the
tallies of our native-born “gun”
shearers and cane-cutters?
True, we have had some senseless
strikes in the past; but what country
hasn’t? When the Italian immigrants
first started to pour into North Queens-
land I remember reading in certain
papers that the Italian was a far superior
worker to the Australian. He was
depicted as a peace-loving, hard-work-
ing fellow who never thought of strik-
ing ; who never hung around the pubs
drinking and fighting and “doing-in” his
wages on two-up. On the other hand
the Australian was described as a shift-
less bloke who thrived on strikes, beer,
fights and two-up. Anyone who has
been north will agree with me that the
Australian worker can hold his own
with any other foreign worker who
likes to come along.
These “patriotic” papers, while ad-
mitting that we should do our utmost to
attract British and foreign capital to
Australia, are continually making state-
ments to the effect that the Australian
worker, by his penchant for striking, is
doing his best to frighten the investor
away.
A representative of a British firm that
built a famous Australian bridge de-
clared that the Australian workman was
the best in the world. It’s quite true.—
H. Blackwell (Q.).
Overcrowding
I live in Sydney in a house originally
erected for one family. It is now occu-
pied by 10 adults, six children, two dogs,
one cat, one parrot, one canary and two
goats.
In the room separated from mine by
a sort of tissue-paper wall live a mar-
ried couple and one child. The bread-
winner goes to work every day and pre-
sumably gets the basic wage, but appar-
ently he cannot afford more ample
quarters. The wife and child spend at
least 18 of the 24 hours in this one room,
in which, of course, they sleep, eat, keep
food and cook.
Upstairs, folk are segregated in com-
partments grandiosely referred to.'as
“flats.” I don’t know how they divide
themselves up, but they appear more
prosperous, as the noise of a radio comes
from somewhere up there.
The married couple and child in the
next room are young folk. The husband
will surely be wanted for the next war,
and he’ll be expected to go and fight
for the right to continued existence in
that room.
There is, of course, a Local Govern-
ment Act against overcrowding, but it
has never been put into force. I believe
Mr. Stevens was supposed to be inter-
ested in the housing question at one
time, but probably he gave it up in dis-
gust. — Unemployee (N.S.W.).
Jobs for Boys
“I would rather give a job to a boy
than a girl if they have equal qualifica-
tions,” said Councillor T. Page at a meet-
ing of the Coolangatta Water Authority
recently. A start in a career was neces-
sary. for a boy, whereas 99 girls out of
100 merely took a job as a stopgap until
they married. “Women have taken a
permanent place in industry,” said a
trade-union leader in Brisbane when it
was decided to apply to the Arbitration
Court for equal pay for both sexes doing
equal work.
Little need be added to the foregoing
except, perhaps, that Australia, from a
national standpoint, cannot afford to have
her manhood idle while her womanhood
is at work. If “Business” claims, as it
does frequently, that women are just as
capable and more reliable than men, then
there can be no argument against paying
equal wages;— Platman (Q.).
Soil Erosion
Wanton destruction of timber has
been one of the primary causes of soil
erosion in Australia. Hills on which all
trees have been killed are lined with
gullies caused by water run-off, and
every fall of rain means that more
soil is lost. In many districts hills and
slopes are used for grazing, but their
value is depreciating because of erosion.
Loss of soil can be checked if quick-
growing trees are planted in clumps on
the summits and on parts of the slopes.
It will be a few years before any great
improvement is made, but while the trees
are growing a system of pasture im-
provement will check erosion on all but
the steepest hills, provided the grasses
are sown in strips around the slope, and
given adequate dressings of fertilisers.
It is fatal to plough the whole of a
slope to sow grasses or anything else.
Strip cropping is the best, and its value
is greater if contour furrows are
ploughed.— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Post the Pensions
It seems unnecessarily inconsiderate
that old-age pensioners should have to
queue up every time they go to, collect
their pensions. Often they are kept wait-
ing quite a long time. Many are ill and
frail, all are old or they wouldn't be
getting the pension, yet they have to
stand and wait until a busy official de-
cides to attend to them.
Of course, if they are absolutely too
ill to be able to collect the pension, they
can, after a lot of applications, signing
of papers and red-tape formula, get some-
one else to collect for them, but then
quite a number have no one who finds
it convenient to collect at a given hour
on a given day. Surely it could be
arranged to post the pensions to the old
people and thus save them what is often
a tiresome journey and a wearisome wait.
—M. A. B. (Q.).
World Patriotism
Although I have striven to cultivate an
anti-jingoistic mind, the strains of “Rule
Britannia” and “Sons of the Sea” duly in-
flate my English ego. That, presumably,
is the natural result of early environment,
culture, tradition and, in these days, care-
. fully planned national propaganda.
Trouble is that long residence in Aus-
tralia has made me just as susceptible to
the strains of “Advance, Australia Fair.”
Had I proceeded to Germany or Japan
a similar result could have been expected.
The masses of the world are affected in
the same way by similar means; hence,
race and national self-love, the corollary
to which is hatred of those professing
similar sentiments but not for the same
nation.
I was not born to the sentiment of the
average patriotic Australian ; it has been
grafted upon me, and surely the teeming
millions of the world could be subjected
just as easily to the-consciousness of a
world ideology. Surely there are
musicians who can sing just as magnifi-
cently of “The World” as they can of
“Rule Britannia,” “Deutschland Über
Alles” or “The Star-spangled Banner”?
Art has always been international, and
should achieve its highest possible expres-
sion if really expressed with the vision
of world consciousness. Literature has
already taken up the fight, mere journal-
ism is conscious of the movement, and
some statesmen are achieving to world
vision—though no politicians have been
noted ,as yet.
By ceaseless planned thought and work
of individuals in positions to make their
voices heard or their work known,
national patriotism could gradually be
sublimated to the peace-making con-
sciousness of world patriotism—provided
that the Reds are prevented from seizing
the opportunity to take control. —T. J.
Palmer (N.S.W.).
Population Problem
If Australia honestly wants native-born
population, its only hope of acquiring it
is by a nation-wide reversal of attitude
towards the child-bearing mother, who
in justice ought to be allowed at least
a tithe of the adulation and indulgence
afforded other public servants. She
should, in all circumstances:
Be given a yearly bonus on each child, *
some encouragement to have more, and a
fillip of self-respect which would help to
lessen the penance of never having a penny
of one’s own to spend— working
mother will understand.
Be given free private medical attention
and treatment whenever necessary—really
free, not hampered by a cordon of embar-
rassing conditions.
Be given an annual holiday free from
financial responsibility and family encum-
brance.
Be given, when distant from a centre,
free travel, accommodation and assistance
before and after confinement.
Be given a confinement happy in the
knowledge that her other children are
being well looked after during her absence.
And she should be given, most import-
ant point of all, acceptance by her world
as the most necessary, secure and honor-
able economic member of society, and
not, as at present, as the poor silly fool
who does not know enough to avoid such
unpleasant (if natural and moral) obliga-
tions. — Would-Be (Vic.).


Mainly Mail-Order
The King
Stockwhip
Hand-plaited with
Best Kangaroo
Thong. 8-plait, with
plaited handle to
match 19/6
Others from ... 10/6
Write for free illus-
trated catalogue.
g
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18 20 WILSON S r NEW TOWN
W. H WILLIAMS FOR. SAFER SADDLES
n
GOLF IRONS
Complete Your Set.
Autographed by leading Prof.
Best quality stainless steel heads
with weighted backs, best Tru-
Temper shafts, new stock.
Guaranteed 35/- quality, to
clear, 23/11.
Men’s R.H. Irons, No. 1,5, 8,
9, and Putters.
Men’s L.H. Irons, No. 2,4, 5,
6,9, and Putters.
Ladies’ R.II. Irons, No. 1,2,
3,4, 3, 6, 9, and Putters.
Ladies’ L.H. Irons, No. 1,2,
3,4, 5,6, 7,9, and Putters.
Also woods in No. 1,2, 3, 4.
N.S.W. SPORTS STORE
PTY., LTD.,
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
Post 1/3 extra.
Alan Kippax
Jack Crawford
Directors
“SENATOR”
THE BEST ACCORDEON
fitted with special
hand-tuned reeds.
Single and double
row models from
£1 c
Post free for cash
with order. Terms
can be arranged
if so desired.
Write for illus-
trated catalogue.
dfg
NAYLOR, Musical Instruments,
137 and 154
The “THERMWEIL"
KEROSENE
HEATER
and SHOWER
A
r
Provides sufficient hot water
for a plunge bath for a little
more than id. Provides won-
derful comfort in any home.
Easy to instal. Copper, chroine-
plated, with shower attached.
Price, £B/15/6
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS:
Write for illustrated Leaflets.
OIL APPLIANCES Pty., Ltd.,
134 CASTLE REACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
MANCHESTER BALE
21/- 21/- 21/-
2 Heavy Genuine “OSHKOSH” Hygienically
Wraipped Winter-weight SHEETS, guaranteed
5 years. Size, 54 x 90, and no seams.
2 English Colored Towels, absorbent and soft.
2 Full-sized Quality White Pillow Cases.
2 Single Bed BLANKETS'.
1 Erin—art Guest Towel, traced, with 2 skeins
of cottons.
THE ABOVE BALE 21/- (Post Free)
FREE with this Bale—l Gorgeous Silk
Interwoven Eastern Design Brocade Bed
Spread, 50 x 70, in shades of Vieux Rose,
Cream, Gold, or Blue, to tone with your
color scheme.
STERNS STERNS
200 Z GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR HARD FINGER and
TOE NAILS .... ... 6/6
0
POSTED FREE FOR CASH.
W. JNO. BAKER III:,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Cutlery Specialists.
dfg
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
YOUR RAZOR-
IS IT GIVING YOU COMPLETE
SATISFACTION ?
If not you may trade in your old one
for the celebrated
ROLLS RAZOR
A very liberal allowance will be made
on blade, all types of safety and electric
razors irrespective of condition. Write
or call to-day.
F. S. HODGE
(late Hotel Australia ).
Hairdresser, Tobacconist and Bolls
Razor Specialist,
221 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
Opposite Sydney Hospital. ’Phone: 8W5287.
CREAM DOUBLE BED BLANKETS in a
very soft quality. Send a deposit to secure
yours for the cold winter months ahead.
SPECIAL PRICE 10/11 __ POST
it,/n pr. free.
Single Bed Size, 7/11 pair.
Mail Your Order at Once to Desk W,
SALVAGE STORES
36 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
dfg
Earmak Electric Eencer
cuts fencing- costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle.,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD.
188 GEORGE STREET..SYDNEY. N.S.W.
A Real i
Comfort
to Smokers
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “Levy sown” Quality
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, CO leaves packet, 2/1 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/C; Honest Value, 30/-.
df
SOL LEVY.
Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired .
DIESEL
TRACTOR
gdf
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
343 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Kedfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vie.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
u
.The Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work —cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Te^MVHtotdk
£
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing: aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting: rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write For Booklet Buite 60]K; city Mutual
Building, cur. Hunter & Bligli Sts v Sydney ;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“BIG SIX”
CBE3E*
Q <D ©
TV
BATTERY
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
ENGLISH POLO BOOTS
Guaranteed made in England
by the World Famous Firm
of G. T. Hawkins.
Made from Super-grade
Feathers, exceptionally
smart and will wear for
years.
LADIES’
GENTS’
£5/15/.
£6/6/
Freight Free in N.S.W.
GOLDMAN’S,
429 George Street (Cnr.
Market Street), Sydney.
’Phone: MA2096.
gd
BATTERIES
NEW HEAVY DUTY.
Made by E. DOHERTY, Battery
Specialist, of 25 years’ practical experi-
ence, SUNFITE BRAND—A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE OF 2 YEARS IS GIVEN
WITH b-i 3 plate, 30/-; 6-15 plate, 36/-;
12-9, 40/-.
AECO BRAND, guaranteed 18 months,
6-13 plate, 25/-; 6-15 plate, 27/6; 12-volt,
32/6.
Country and Suburban Orders delivered
C.O.D.
Batteries for Home Fighting Plants,
Radio and Motor Cycles.
SUNLITE BATTERY CO., Est. 1917,
57 Liverpool Street (near Sussex Street);
MA2309. Night, Ryde 411.
AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
NEW EVER-BEARING CLIMBING TOMATO!
Sensational importation! Grows 20ft., trellis
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR, yielding TWO BUSHELS large, red fruit
PER PLANT. Sow all seasons. 2/6 packet.
PURE
WHITE
HEALTH
TOMATO!
“white
BEAUTY*
100 PER
CENT.
NON-
ACED.
VASTLY IMPROVED FLAVOUR. Large. PURE
WHITE siflooth fruit, DISEASE AND
DROUGHT PROOF. 2/6 packet. SOW NOW
Exclusive Distributors: N.S.W. SEED CO.
17A PITT STREET. SYDNEY
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
„ cO< -
,1 S® " e
\\«V '
~<£>>
fio^ r
A 6>
e
#•’
# s ‘
o t
.-•** .••* ..-•* **
a> sS •• * .• * A ot
.*• ..*’ , <A<
AUSTRA*L>*tS» D
WOMANS MIRROR O
KNITTING BOOK FOR 1935
Over 20 exclusive and useful gar-
ments in this 36-page Knitting
Book—the cheapest and
best in Australia.
NOW
READY


m
DO WOMEN’S GLANCES
ADMIRE YOU ?
AS THEY PASS YOU in the street or on the beach?
Do people remark on what a splendid build you present?
Or are you one of those undersized, half-developed, shrinking
chaps whom people only look upon with ridicule? Take yourself
aside, and ask yourself that question!
I BUILD STRONG, HANDSOME
BODIES
ALFRED J. BRITON,
I’oimder of Health and Physical Culture
$3BBB
H. H. I..EE (K., Q.).
When this pupil started he
weighed only seven stone.
To-day he weighs thirteen
stone, and is as strong as a
f fi;
f •
HUE
W:
DAN NOONAN (8., N.S.W.).
Who has acquired a. powerful
muscular physique. When he
started he was a weakling. He
gained seven inches around the
chest.
J. M. CHAPMAN
(K., S.A.).
This fellow was a
thin stripling three
months ago. Look
at him to-day.
Note those powerful
muscles.
J. ROSENBERG
(Vic.).
Now strong - man
wrestler and
weight - lifter, an-
other example of
the thousands that
ONLY course.'
dfg
know the Briton course is the
dfg
dfg
J. P. GII.ES (M., Q.).
This hefty, muscular speci-
men breaks horseshoes
and tears packs of cards.
The result of getting- the
amazing FREE book you
should get to-day !
C. W. J. PBEECB
(G.j N.S.W.).
Look at those great
broad shoulders, that
deep chest; this chap
bends iron bars and lifts
marvellous weights.
THIS GREAT BOOK IS
FOR MEN ONLY!
Is the greatest book ever published on the subject.
Crammed full of amazing photos, it will show you
the short-cut' to great strength and development.
You don’t want to remain in the ORDINARY class
now. Get this book and be a superman! For a
limited time you may get this wonder book free, i*
you act quickly. Its message and its many illustra-
tions will amaze you. It' contains matter of vital
information that you should know at once. Rip the
coupon out and post TO-DAY!
RIP THIS OUT AND MA't NCu*
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt St., Sydney.
' ' ( ■; J ) 1 Z ** I
Dear Sir, —Send me, FREE, and
under plain wrapper, your latest
df
book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength.
NAME
ADDRESS
l9 / 4 /’ 3 9
J3EOPLE call me the Musclemaker.
I make men’s bodies strong and
healthy. My list of over 30,000 won-
derful successes includes doctors and
lawyers, bookkeepers and clerks,
grandfathers and grandsons, fat men
and skinny men, weaklings and
nervous wrecks. By a method of
scientific body-building I go all over
your body, strengthening your
internal organs, broadening your
shoulders, cutting off fat and gener-
ally turning you inside out until
you’re a healthy, handsome fighting
he-man any woman will be proud of.
| WILL add one whole inch of live,
flexible, steely muscle to each of
your arms, and two full inches of
rippling muscular strength across
your chest. Your legs will become
straight and strong, your head snap
back erect, and large lumps of red-
blooded muscle will begin to stand
out on your broadening shoulders.
What a hit you are going to make
with that girl of yours! How proud
and happy she will be!
IT TAKES JUST 95 DAYS
gUT I' m not through with you yet.
I don’t make men by halves. Give
me just 95 days, and then look your-
self over. Now you sure are some-
body. The pathway to happiness and
success is easy!
People will ask to meet you. Success-
ful business men will realise that here
is another man to accept as one of
their own group. Your boss will
treat you with a new respect, and
that girl of yours will have that look
of love and affection in her eyes that
in itself will more than repay you.
I DO MORE THAN
I GUARAN
W ITH a body like that, the thrill of
living is as great as the thrill
you get when you fall in love. It’s
wonderful! Just check off on your
fingers what such a body gives you—
pep, vitality, health, strength, love,
affection —‘-everything a man desires.
What a picture you’ll he in a bathing
suit! What a sight in a gymnasium,!
You’ll be a magnet for all women’s
eyes. That healthy, aggressive, erect
stride of the man who knows what he
wants, and is going to get it, just com-
mands attention.
Read this Positive
Proof!
CHEST INCREASED THREE
INCHES IN TWO WEEKS.
“In only a fortnight, my chest
has expanded three inches. 1
think your system is marvellous.”
—D. LEAHY, M.J., W.A.
NOTHING BUT PRAISE
FOR IT!
“I would like to thank you for
the amount of good it has done
me. I have improved wonder-
fully since 1 became acquainted
w'itii your Excelding system, and
have nothing but praise for it. 1 ’
—W. EDTON, Trans. Line, W.A.
SYSTEM EASY TO FOLLOW.
“1 must say I am delighted
with my measurements. There
is nothing that I can’t understand
about the system, as it is all very
plain and easy to follow.”
—D. J. K„ H., N.Z.
FAR SUPERIOR TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am convinced your system
is the pick of them all.”
—J. T. HALL. T„ N.S.W.
GAINED SEVEN INCHES
ROUND THE CHEST.
“Before I started the course,
my chest, normal, was 27 inches,
but now it is 34 inches, and 36
expanded; truly a marvellous dif-
ference.”-—J. MILNER, C., Nor-
folk Island.
PUT OK EIA’E INCHES ON
CHEST!
“I have put on five inches
around the chest and one inch
on the upper arms. I am very
fit and well also, and thank you
for the interest taken in me.”
—F. WOOD, W.
COURSE MARVELLOUS!
“I don’t think there is a more
pleased man in this State than
myself, and I am more than
proud of my body every _ time I
see its reflection in the mirror. I
can only say it is marvellous.”
—W. TIMBLETT, P., W.A.
GAINS ONE STONE!
“I am writing you these few
lines to congratulate you and vour
wonderful system on the way it
has developed my body. My
weight has increased nearly a
stone, and my height nearly an
inch.”—G. SWAIN SON, M. Est.,
N.S.W.
GAINED 3 INCHES ON
CHEST.
‘‘l have just completed] two
months of Excelding, and am glad
to say that I have already made
a marked development, both in
muscles and appetite. Since 1
have started I ha ve gained 3 inches
on the chest, and my thighs and
calves are each one inch bigger.”
—JOHN WOLF, T., South Africa.
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
1). DAVIES (ATasmania).
Throughout the length and breadth of
Australia and New Zealand are pupils who
have developed wonderful physiques. Now
it is your chance!
m
5
m
V. R. LUCAS
(N., N.8.W.).
Who
a splendid
physique
through first
reading this
Free Book.
H. WILLIAMS,
(8., TAS.).
Just look at
that chest.
I
I
SEND FOR
YOUR
FREE
BOOK
NOW!
||Kj |
* I mko& ' iHßjj
>% II
imSiWmMm
