

A/VWVNA/r
4P\A.- A/^-A^T'vA. /, A'** A/▼sA/ , r^A/▼\A/▼^A^^A/ , •^A/1^A/▼\A/▼^A/T\A/▼^A/*f^A/
**
u* 1
• 9
f*
if*
X
A
'A
X
A
\
X
X
v\
■
i
K
7
Ui
1
AUSTRALIAN
WIRELESS MANUFACTURE
The manufacture of wireless equipment in Australia has attained a very high degree of efficiency. Every type of
apparatus for use at sea, on land and in the air is now produced at the A.W.A. Radio-Electric Works.
■, ; ; . V A. AYvA'A'-'.
Over 50 Broadcasting Stations have been made by A.W.A. for all parts of Australia, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji.
The largest of all, a 60 k.w. station, was manufactured for the New Zealand Broadcasting Board, and is the most
powerful broadcasting station in the Southern Hemisphere.
Australian manufactured wireless equipment has been installed in over 470 ships, and A.W.A. regularly exports to
Great Britain wireless equipment for vessels building there for Australian and New Zealand shipping companies.
The A.W.A. works are the largest for the manufacture of broadcasting receivers, as well as for communication equip-
ment used in the Commonwealth Lighthouse Service, Police Departments, N.S.W. Hydro-electric networks, Sydney
Ambulance, Sydney County Council, and many others.
The design and manufacture of radio-telephone transmitting and receiving equipment for use in aeroplanes, and
wireless equipment for ground communication with aircraft, constitutes still another phase of A.W.A. manufacture.
Over 1,500 Australians are normally employed at the A.W.A. Radio-electric Works in this great national industry.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
AN AUSTRALIAN
FACTORY IN AN
AUSTRALIAN
GARDEN
The Bulletin
Limerick No. / 0: The Prizewinners
Vol. 60.—N0. 3074.
Wednesday, January 11, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY,
Learn
at HOME
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
The Red Page
FORGER OF SHAKSPEARE.
If William Ireland had had the sense to perish
romantically in a garret his fame as a youthful genius
and a forger might well have eclipsed Chatterton’s.
To have had forged Shakspearean papers accepted as
genuine by Boswell, Pitt and Burke and to have had
a forged Shakspearean play presented at Drury-lane
by Sheridan was an achievement really more remark-
able than Chatterton’s imitation of Chaucer.
Young, handsome, fantastic, Ireland had most of
the qualities of Chatterton, who was, indeed, his
model, but, instead of committing suicide as he threat-
ened, he lived past the exposure of his forgeries to
become a literary hack. So he is forgotten. In The
Fourth Forger (Cobden-Sanderson), a swift-moving
and witty book, John Mair has resurrected the extra-
ordinary story.
Ireland pere, a most pathetic figure in the comedy,
was a dealer in antiques, and an earnest believer in
the genuineness of the manuscripts. From William’s
earliest infancy Samuel regarded him as an idiot;
William seems to have begun forging at the age of
19 mainly to impress his sire with his brilliance as a
seeker-out of antiques, and if he had been content to
satisfy filial ambition with a few spurious legal docu-
ments, notes to and from Queen Elizabeth and love
poems to “Anna Hatherrewaye,” his “discoveries”
might not have been challenged for years. Even when
he produced a manuscript of “King Lear,” with all
the bawdy bits judiciously left out to please the
eighteenth-century taste, he was successful. But his
growing belief in his own genius, the limelight that
beat upon him when he forged a complete new play,
brought him to disaster.
“William’s,” says Mair, “was a highly romantic
and introspective nature. At first, influenced by
Chaucer and the Percy ‘Reliques,’ he was obsessed by
the Medieval, and longed to be a knight-errant, doing
terrible deeds on gloomy heaths.” But Samuel, a
booklover and above all a worshipper of Shakspeare,
used to read to the family by night, and, having fired
William with enthusiasm for the Bard, made the tragic
error one evening of reading extracts from Sir Her-
bert Croft’s Love and Madness —choosing the letters
relating to Chatterton. “The fate of Chatterton,”
wrote William years later, “so strongly interested me
that I used frequently to envy his fate, and desire
nothing so ardently as the termination of my existence
in a similar cause.”
Papa took him for a tour of Warwickshire, and
in Stratford-on-Avon (which, Mair notes exquisitely,
“had already assumed the air of commercial rever-
ence it wears to-day”) the Irelands met a spurious
rustic who made a very genuine living out of retailing
spurious Shakspeariana to the credulous. Ireland,
senior, bought the very chair in which Shakspeare had
sat with Ann Hathaway on his knee. A squire given
to practical joking broke Samuel’s heart by telling
him he had recently burned a whole pile of Shaks-
peare’s papers. William, never as nitwitted as his
father thought him, took note.
Articled to a lawyer and left alone in the office
most of the time, William amused himself one day
with a volume of prayers dedicated to Queen Elizabeth,
which he had picked up at a bookstall; since it was
stamped with the Queen’s arms it occurred to him
that it might well have been a presentation copy from
the author to Elizabeth. By the time he had finished
with it, it was. Weakening his ink with water to give
the appearance of age, he wrote on an old piece of
parchment a letter of presentation from author to
Queen and trotted home with the treasure. Father
was delighted. William was flattered. But a letter
from an obscure prayer-writer was nothing very much
out of the way ; how splendid it would be, cried
Samuel to William, if only they could discover a
manuscript of the immortal Shakspeare’s.
William did:
The surest means of establishing a signature was to
affix it to a legal document; and William, copying the
heads of the Blackfriars mortgage deed from a fac-
simile in Johnson’s Shakspeare, drew up a lease between
William Shakspeare and John Heming, and Michael
Fraser and Elizabeth, his wife.
William took great care; ink, parchment, seal
and forged signatures were all most carefully attended
to. It was done solely to please his father. But the
satisfactory forgery in itself wasn’t enough. William
would have to say where he found it, and so he in-
vented a mysterious Gent, who had given it to him,
on condition that his name was never to be revealed.
Later, when this mythical Gent, began to shower
notes of hand, love lyrics, legal documents, “King
Lear” and even a lock of Shakspeare’s hair upon his
young friend, people demanded that he should be
produced. But for a long time they accepted Wil-
liam’s word for him, because it was a perfectly natural
thing at that time for a Gent, so distinguished to refuse
to have anything to do with sordid commerce, as
represented by Ireland, senior, and the antique shop.
Delighted with his own cleverness when the first
forgery succeeded, and still more delighted with his
father’s recognition of his possession of at least some
measure of gumption, William started to forge in
earnest. There were a few more legal documents and
oddments from the Gent., and then the first big effort,
a letter from Shakspeare to Lord Southampton:
I knowe notte what toe saye Prose Verse alle all is
naughte gratitude is alle I have toe utter and that is
tooe greate and tooe sublyme a feeling for poore mortalls
toe expresse O my Lord itte is a Budde which bllossommes
bllooms butte never dyes itte cherishes sweete Nature and
lulls the calme Breaste toe softe softe repose Butte mye
goode Lorde forgive thys mye departure fromme mye
Subjecte which was toe retturne thankes and thankes
I Doe retturne O excuse mee mye Lorde more at presente
I cannotte
Yours devotedlye and with due respecte
Wm. Shakspeare.
One would have thought the colde winde of crit-
ticismme would have nipped this in the budde long
before the blloome, especially since fabulous ortho-
graphy was Chatterton’s downfall, but William got
away with it, and it was some time before anyone
seriously began to scoff even at such monstrosities as
“dymennesyonnes,” “innetennecyonne,” “gennetelle-
manne,” “perrepennedycularely” or “glosterre exitte.”
The eighteenth century was inclined to disapprove
of Shakspeare, because it always had a sneaking sus-
picion that he wasn’t an eighteenth-century gentleman.
William resolved to improve the moral and literary
tone of the Bard whenever possible. He followed the
Southampton letter with a Profession of Faith, a rather
woolly document which was supposed to prove that
Shakspeare could not have been a Roman Catholic.
Two great critics, Dr. Warton and Dr. Parr, invited by
the ecstatic Samuel to inspect the latest gift from his
son’s pet Gent., were overwhelmed by it. “Sir,” said
Dr. Warton solemnly, “we have many beautiful pas-
sages in our Litany, and in many parts of the New
Testament, but this great man has distanced them all.”
What could William do, knowing the miraculous
prose was not Shakspeare’s but his? According to
Mair: “Excusing himself from the company, William
went into the back dining-room, and laid his head
against the window-frame to think, while vanity and
ambition consumed him like a furnace. He was not
20 years old.”
Forgeries poured from his pen, and every day he
promised Samuel new treasures from the chest of the
generous Gent. With the lock of Shakspeare’s hair
came the love song in the poet’s own handwriting:
Is there inne heavenne aught more rare
Thanne thou sweete Nymphe of Avon fayre
Is there onne Earthe a Manne more trewe
Thanne Willy Shakspeare is toe you?
There was a chatty little note from Queen Eliza-
beth, expressing thanks for “youre prettye Verses
goode Masterre William.” Forger William and his
sire were famous by this time; a critic wrote in the
“Oracle,” after seeing the Queen Elizabeth letter, “We
think it clearly proves that all this degrading nonsense
of Shakspeare holding horses, etc., will be found
utterly fictitious.” William produced his manuscript
of “Lear.” Its surprising gentility endeared both
Ireland and Shakspeare to all. Obviously, the critics
said, all the obscenities and obscurities of the known
versions were the work of actors and producers, vile
fellows.
But there were murmurs. The camp of the Un-
believers was forming. While William was preparing
the world for his most ambitious effort, Shakspeare’s
unknown tragedy “Vortigern,” a scoffer was parodying
the letters in the “Telegraph”:
Too Misstere Joonnesse, Cheessemongerree.
Siree
Thee cheesesse youe sennte mee werre tooe sweattie
ande tooe rankee in fiavourre, butte thee redde herringges
weere addmirabblee. Mye dearre friendde Johnn
O’Coombee is particcullarriee fonde of neatesse tonn-
gueesse soe praie sendde mee a dozzene offe them
andde a ferrkenne off freshee buttere fore mie loovlie
misse Annee Haathawaye.
Dr. Parr and the Believers countered these scur-
rilities with a Certificate of Belief, with Boswell, Poet
Laureate Pye and a host of eminent persons among
the signatories. Sheridan developed the symptoms of
suspicion, and shilly-shallied about putting on “Vorti-
gern” until the controversy had become so fierce that
the play had no chance of success. It seems to have
been quite a passable melodrama of the ranting type,
but the mob howled it from the stage. The actor
Kemble, who had made the infamous suggestion that
it should open on April the First, is supposed to have
made matters worse by burlesquing his part. Pye
had become a doubter, and a substitute had had to
be found for the apologetic prologue he had written.
In the confusion of subsequent events, during
which William had the good sense to disappear, Ireland,
senior, is seen in the most pathetic light, trying to prove
the manuscripts genuine, firmly refusing to believe
they were not, and begging his son to produce the
mysterious Gent. Even when William wrote a full
confession, the father declined to believe him. There
were distressing family scenes.
The story is a good deal more complicated than
outlined in this review. A friend of William was
in the know, and there were sub-plots by the score.
So rich was the whole affair, indeed, that Mair’s 240
pages are practically without padding, and the story
moves with the pace and excitement of a good detec-
tive story —which, after all, is what it amounts to.
A Note on Wells.
Two broken legs brought H. G. Wells to Aus-
tralia as the distinguished guest of the jubilee science
congress. At any rate, Wells himself attributes his
interest in writing to the breaking of two legs.
The first limb belonged to Wells’s father, a pro-
fessional coach in county cricket. When Wells, senior,
broke his leg the care of his family descended on his
son’s shoulders.
The family kept a china shop in London. Mrs.
Wells read romantic novels and kept a journal. After
each baby arrived a prayer of thanksgiving would
appear, but as these blessings multiplied the prayer
became more and more conventional. Wells at that time
had no ambition other than to be a cricket coach like
his father. Then he broke his own leg and was
forced to stay in bed. Boredom compelled him to
read, and he devoured every book he could lay his
hands on.
It was the great age of Reason; Darwin and
Huxley were in the air, and most thinking men be-
lieved, like Rousseau, that if everybody could be
taught to read and write the Millennium would be
round the corner. Private schools were being run up
all over the country, Governments and councils were
establishing board schools, and there was an enor-
mous boom in secular education.
Wells became a schoolmaster, and after drifting
from one little seminary to another fell in with Dr.
Briggs, who had discovered an ingenious method of
cashing in on the boom. He had observed that
examiners invariably copied the questions of their
predecessors, and by making a list of these questions
he found he could cover every subject, from history
to physics.
He started a university-correspondence school at
Oxford, employed forty graduates to supply his clients
with the answers to the questions and made a for-
tune. Wells became his biology professor, and be-
tween them they coached hundreds of students, many
of whom subsequently became leading professional
men. In some years they got 100 p.c. of passes.
Just as individuals in history have dreamed of a
world church or a world State, Wells became obsessed
with the idea of a world mind. This world mind was
sadly misinformed as to current culture. To prepare
himself for the great intellectual uplift he dimly
envisaged as coming in the future, he studied biology,
chemistry, history, philosophy, economics and every
other subject he could lay his hands on.
What made him into a writer was as much an
accident as his broken extremity. A line in a play by
J. M. Barrie gave him the notion of becoming a free-
lance writer. Previously he had written nothing but
scientific textbooks, but now he began writing an
entirely new kind of fiction, in which popular science,
socialism and a good deal of observation were mixed
with a skill that entranced his generation. How many
boys could withstand the charm of The War of the
Worlds when it first appeared as a magazine serial
and aroused emotions in isolated individuals which
were repeated in mass with remarkable results when
the story was recently broadcast in America?
Everything he wrote was lapped up like cream
by the editors of the periodicals which were then
rushing into existence as popular education got going.
Wells’s literary production has only been exceeded in
quantity by Dumas pere, and Dumas had a regiment
of unsuccessful authors to do his writing for him.
The quality of Wells’s production can be left to
the judgment of posterity. Tono-B ungay suggests
that he might have written another Way of
All Flesh. But his restless mind was not content with
fiction. He took his world State seriously and saw
himself as the typical world citizen of the future.
He went from crude materialistic socialism to the
conception of a dictatorship of intellectual supermen,
invented a new religion or two and then forgot
them, and was the editor or author of a number of
encyclopredias on economics, science and history ; and
in between he has indulged in such amusing larks as
Kipps and Mr. Polly. In The Shape of Things to
Come he envisaged a world State brought about by
groups of aviators in control of world communication
when civilisation has crumbled into barbarism. But his
original conception of a world State based on a world
mind has never ceased to be his obsession.
F.S.
An lrish Playwright.
Three Homes (Michael Joseph), by Tom and
Lennox Robinson and their sister, Nora Dorman, is
something new in biography. Its title may refer to
the three aspects of the Robinson home as shown in
the memories of its three children or it may, more
simply, indicate the three houses in which they grew
up, the country house, Westgrove, in County Cork, the
curate’s house at Kinsale and the rectory at Bally-
money.
The brothers and sister speak in turn, very simply
and naturally, giving each his and her own version of
their childhood and youth, their parents, friends and
neighbors, their entry into and early struggles with the
world. The method reads like some outsize nursery
game touched with genius.
Lennox, the youngest and the only one destined
for fame, is the leader in the enterprise, and his contri-
butions are the most interesting. He prefaces the book
with a brief explanation: “Whatever value the book
has will be that it paints a picture of society, a manner
of living which has gone for ever from Ireland. In
point of time, it lies between 1885 and 1922.”
The children began life in spacious circumstances,
for their father was a well-to-do stockbroker in Cork
and their mother a very sweet-natured woman devoted
{Continued, on page 7.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —always
"THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
m
: m
gl
M
ill
& m
' -V'
11
llllli
mm
mm
>. 1 11 i :
Hlifl
1
HI
■■
■ .
■ll
. S
f
£7os'- LOWBOY
5419 6
A beautifully constructed Lowboy in seasoned and
selected oak, finished a medium Oak colour.
Panelled Oak doors, 4 sliding trays and 2 shelves,
balance hanging space. Other convenient fittings are
the Trouser rail and mirror. Stands sft. 4ins. high,
49 inches wide and 20 inches deep. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, each - £7/15/-
SALE PRICE, EACH , £4/19/6
EASY TERMS: 6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF
15/4d. DEPOSIT 10/-.
II
i: 1!
w*
' 1
m
K
W'.'
prJMI
mm
«
«r
an
■
mV
'
■
M
an
W
fl
K
Jl ■ ■:
m
mm
m
u
M
i
■
1
Si
;
'X. j
£26'lo'- 3-PIECE LOUNGE SUITE, NOW
A fine product of Anthony Horderns' own factory. First class materials only
used. Suite consists of a full length settee and two large easy chairs.
Shaped and fully sprung platforms and comfortable shaped sprung backs.
Sprung and fitted loose cushions. Covered with good quality, long wearing
Tapestry. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £26/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS' SALE PRICE £18/18/-
/
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £1/17/0. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £1/0/11.
Hattf yearly (jentfihe
l
■
1
,
m
BB's'- Writing Bureau
5510'
Highly figured Walnut. Modern design soundly
constructed. Finished a medium Walnut colour.
Bureau is conveniently fitted with open shelves at
each end, two door cupboard and pigeon holes for
writing materials. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price .... £B/5/-
SALE PRICE, EACH £5/10/-
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 11/-.
6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 16/lld.
7
SAlt
pRgE
\ i
v
*m
tlllrfJuv
Hi ! 1 1 1111
:ll 1 | lif 1 Ilf
ii? /1 \ll
■IIP
I ' X *• §
ft feuatv,
S
£3O Walnut Bedroom Suite
Four-piece Suite, in figured Walnut polished a medium
Walnut shade. 4ft 6ins. wardrobe (all hanging space and
hat receptacle). 3ft. 6ins. dressing table fitted with three
long drawers and modern bevelled mirror with side reflec-
Ho,d"n,- B li“ g 5 £ p t ?? e ‘° wb ° y “ d «'■ «“• b «<-
ANTHONY HORDERNS' SALE "PRICE ZZZZIZZ'£24/10/- _ _
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/9/-. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/6/4.
• Furniture—Third and Fourth Floors —Delivery free only within our delivery area.
£24


The
TYCOON
They call Brander the Tycoon. To tell
the truth, I’ve never known exactly what
the nickname means or who gave it to
him. All I know is, it fits.
BY OSMAR. E. WHITE
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
WHEN Gerribald first joined Brander’s, he was
a sharp-looking little chap with silky-brown
hair and pince-nez glasses. From the day
he came he worked like a beaver, and never
really let up the whole 23 years he was on the payroll.
About the time Gerribald came, Brander’s busi-
ness was starting to grow. He kept putting all his
profits into the mail-order branch, and the profits
kept getting bigger and bigger.
Gerribald got the feel of the office, and he fitted
in. In under three years Brander made him second-
clerk, and we all reckoned he was set to rise because
he had a way of looking after details everybody else
forgot. There should have been room in Brander’s for
a man like that. If he’d forced himself into old Miles
Tozer’s job when Miles retired, there’s no telling where
he might have ended up.
But things didn’t turn out that way. Gerribald
had brains under his hair, but no bluff. He let a
youngster shoulder him out, and I don’t think the
Tycoon ever quite forgot.
They call Brander the Tycoon. To tell you the truth,
I’ve never known exactly what the nickname means
or who gave it to him. All I know is, it fits. To my
mind, a tycoon ought to wear a shaggy fur cap and
grin when he’s up against it, and tramp over people
who get in his way when he moves. Brander qualifies,
even without the fur cap. *
You see, the Tycoon and Gerribald were so com-
pletely different. The Tycoon never really finished
anything—he just set things going and backed his un-
canny judgment of human nature, and hired other
people to keep the job alive—but Gerribald was a
born finisher, down to the last halfpenny in the ledger.
When he missed Miles Tozer’s job, Gerribald
took a hard knock. That was the year he got married,
and he was counting on the extra money. His wife
was a smart girl, and Gerribald was crazy about her,
but he took the disappointment quietly and put his
nose to the grindstone again. He believed if he only
kept his nose to the grindstone hard enough and long
enough his turn would come/
For nearly twenty years Gerribald went on believ-
ing in doggedness as another man would believe in a
religion. If he had gone to the Tycoon only once in
all that time and said: “Look here, Mr. Brander, I’ve
been keeping your books for years now without one
single auditor’s tag. What the hell are you going to
do about it?” the Tycoon would have pushed him
ahead gladly. But Gerribald didn’t. He went on
being the perfect clerk, the perfect bookkeeper.
He was never late. He never left early. He was
never sick. He never required correction. He never
required direction. He was the most silent, most
perfectly-fitting cog in the Tycoon’s whole machine.
When his wife left him, Gerribald must have
been amazed how a lifetime had just slipped away
second-clerking. I said his wife was smart, and I
don’t think I was much surprised when the break
came. She was an ambitious woman. When she
walked out, he realised for the first time that he was
a failure, that his life was half-wasted. It shook him
—shook him out of the comfort he’d found in routine
into errors, flashes of temper, clock-watching. It
humiliated him when the hatshop she started made
more money in a day than he did in a week.
Yes, it shook him all right. He went to the
Tycoon and asked for promotion, and the Tycoon
remembered the pencil-marks in the books and
roared: “You’ve got a damned hide, Gerribald, after
your showing with the auditors this year! Get to
hell out of here.”
Poor Gerry had made his bite ten years too late.
I saw him when he came out from that interview. His
face was a dirty-ash color, and he was shaking; but
all he said was, “The Tycoon was right, Jim. I’ve
been slipping. Maybe I’d better get out.” But he
knew as well as 1 did that people don’t hire second-
clerks aged forty-four.
T UST where Gerribald got his Idea from is hard
to say. It must have come to him when he was
brooding over his failure. Not long after the Tycoon
killed his last hope of working out of the rut, an
uncle died and left Gerry a little money that probably
helped, but it didn’t seem to mean much to him.
Well, however he came by it, Gerribald did get
his Idea, and, with his usual thoroughness, worked
out all the details. First, with part of the money he’d
been left, he bought a small house and section in an
outer suburb where nobody knew him. Second, he
worked out a disguise that completely altered his
appearance. Third, he set himself to create the iden-
tity of Reginald Hogg, a commercial traveller with
a taste for classical gramophone music.
It took Gerry more than two years to build up
Reginald Hogg to his own satisfaction. He did it
well. In two years Hogg’s comings and goings were
unquestioned. He was known to the policemen and
school-teachers and the parsons ; known and avoided
as a tiresome man who told long, pointless stories
about himself and his achievements. Every Saturday
Hogg’s gramophone blared out symphony and grand-
opera music, and the near neighbors pulled down the
windows.
At the office no one noticed any real change in
Gerribald. If he was quieter, greyer, more preoccu-
pied, fussy about his job, who was to wonder? Every-
one knew Gerry was getting on in years, poor blighter!
And then the planning was finished. Reginald
Hogg, the commercial traveller, told his neighbors
he was going to retire. Gerribald, the second-clerk,
waited until the Tycoon bought new diamond stocks
from Haskluyt’s.
I remember that night he left Brander’s for the
last time. When the clock struck half-past five he
took off his alpaca coat and set his hat on his head
at a jaunty angle, waved us good-bye with a queer,
bright smile. We remembered it. One of the juniors
looked after his grey, bent figure and said: “Gee, I’ve
never seen old Gerry so spry since I came here.
Maybe the boss has given him a rise!”
Gerry must have heard the guffaw of laughter,
and smiled between his teeth.
He was far too methodical to be spectacular. He
waited until 10 o’clock, came back to the office, said
“Good evening” to Richardson, the nightwatchman,
and stopped for a minute or two to talk about the
afternoon’s winners. It was no unusual thing for
Gerribald to look in at the office before going home.
He had been doing it twice a week for more than two
years. Richardson went off on his rounds of the
building.
Though the lights in the main office were full
on, Gerribald produced his home-made key without
any attempt at concealment, opened the door of the
Tycoon’s private office, nicked the burglar alarm on
the safe with a pair of wire-clippers, and twisted the
combination lock of the big safe with steady fingers.
Richardson didn’t see him leave. Half an hour
later he found the outer door still open, looked in
and saw something was wrong. The safe was open,
so he ’phoned the Tycoon and told him what had
happened. Ten minutes later the identity of Gerri-
bald was lost in a public lavatory. Gerribald walked
in, and, less than quarter of an hour afterwards,
Reginald Hogg walked out.
NOW here is the first queer part of the story. When
he’d satisfied himself that he was not being fol-
lowed, Reginald Hogg took a tramcar to the water-
front, walked rapidly to the end of a pier, made cer-
tain there were no small craft moored near by, and
hurled the black case containing the diamonds as
far out into the darkness as his thin right arm could
throw. Then he lit a cigarette and caught the last
tram home. The final link between Gerribald and
Hogg was severed.
The second queer part of the story was the end.
It was queer that Gerribald should throw the diamonds
off the pier, but at least it made his motive clear.
What happened after he had thrown the diamonds off
the pier explains why the Tycoon was the Tycoon
and why Gerribald was —well, just Gerribald.
Gerribald staged his robbery on Saturday night.
On Sunday morning Reginald Hogg wakened early
and lay in bed comfortably, thinking things over. As
far as he could see, nothing had been overlooked. In
six or seven months he could realise on his property
and go elsewhere to live. During the past year he had
( Continued, on page 6.)


"A Matter of Sediment”: Mrs . Parsley
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRAWING BY ARIA.
““T"WO minds with but a single thought, two hearts
I that beat the band sounds a very beautiful
I sediment,” said Mrs. Parsley, pausing as she
dusted the ornaments on my bookcase ; “but
it can be very awkward, especially when the single
thought is over one flat, as it happened over Number
17. Such an upset I wouldn’t have in my place again
for all the tea in China, or anywhere else, for the
matter of that.”
Mrs. Parsley had spoken tentatively, turning back
from dusting the ornaments on top of my bookshelf;
she decided that she had seen in me sufficient encour-
agement for the exercise of her boasted “conver-
sational debility,” and definitely abandoned the
shelves.
“Of course, I shouldn’t have listened to that Mrs.
Fulton. I told her I was full, but she seemed to be
one of those people who are dull of misunderstanding.
“‘Oh, dear me, Mrs. Parsley!’ she cries, just like
that —surprised like. ‘I take a glass or so myself now
and again, but Well, what you do is your own
business, and I’m sure nobody would expect that you
had had more than sufficient. It makes no difference
with me about wanting to have one of your flats.’
“I was nearly shutting the door in her face, and
afterwards I wished I had ; but I was so flappergasted,
her taking me up like that, that I couldn’t say any-
thing. And so she went on telling me that she had
lived in these flats when they was only a terrace of
houses, before they was turned into a residential. It
was when she was first married.
“‘You spent your honeymoon here?’ I says. A
feller-feeling makes us knocked all of a heap, as the
saying is.
“‘I know you understand, dear Mrs. Parsley,’
she says with a sort of sob in her voice, ‘I have been
all over the world, and I’ve had a great many of its
enjoyments, but the greatest happiness of my life was
when I was living in that little room.
“ ‘lf you’d known my dear husband,’ she goes on,
‘you would know what it means to me. He was such
a fine man, so tall and strong, but gentle with it all.
Humorous, but as brave as a lion. My first husband
—the first man I loved. A woman never forgets the
first man she loves.’
“She went on talking about that husband as if
he was a paradox of virtue, and saying she didn’t care
what she paid as long as she could live on a spot that
had so many harrowed memories, until at last, think-
ing of some people who’d probably have to go before
they broke all the furniture, that being one of their
bad habits when they had an argument, I said that
I might be able to fix her up in a few days, full though
I was.
“She looked from her dress as if she was a sort
of Crisis, and there shouldn’t be any worry about her
rent if I put her in Number 20 where those people was.
“ ‘Oh, but it’s Number 17 I want,’ she says. ‘I
took the liberty of going upstairs. You see, I know
where the old house used to be by the number on the
shop below, and I measured out the position.’
“It knocked me all of a heap, Number 17 being
such a small flat for a woman who looked as well-off
as she did. And then there was that poor Harris who
had lived there ever since I took the place. The way
he got tight was all I had against him, though he
didn’t pay as much as he should. Still he was a
Permanent, if ever there was one ; and it was a matter
of sediment with him, too, about having that flat.
“ ‘But I would be a Permanent, too, Mrs. Parsley,’
she says. ‘And I’m ready to pay twice what he’s
paying.’
“ ‘You wouldn’t want to
disturb the poor feller, I’m sure,’
I says. ‘You wasn’t the only
one to live here in the long ago,
Mrs. Fulton. This gentleman
is always talking of his little
girl that lived here with him.’
“ ‘But men never feel as
deeply as women on these
matters,’ sighs Mrs. Fulton, ‘an
you have to consider your own
interests, Mrs. Parsley.’
‘‘""THAT’S what Mr. Slom-
* pack said, too, when I told
him about it. It upset me, the
idea of upsetting Mr. Harris,
with his talk of that dear little
girl of his, especially when he
got drunk, but actually because
I wanted to put Mrs. Fulton off.
I’d told her he was paying two
shillings more than he was, and
she was willing to pay twice
that. It was tempting. Although
it seemed to me like them dirty pieces of silver
that Ananias took when the cock crowed thrice,
Mr. Slompack said I ought not to be foolish. I could
give Mr. Harris a better flat at the same rent and
it shouldn’t matter to him much. Mr. Slompack said
he would speak to him himself ; and when I said I
didn’t like it he said something about a sand fairy
named Ann, which surprised me, never having thought
Mr. Slompack believed in fairies.
“The way Mr. Harris took it when Mr. Slom-
pack spoke to him, all about me having let him off
very easily, and not being able to afford to stand in
my own light, and how I was going to let him have
the flat right over Number 17, which was much the
same, surprised me. He looked a little pained, like
a flower that’s been nipped in the bud, but he agreed
to move. So 1 told Mrs Fulton when she called that
she could have Number 17, and she paid up just like
the Crisis she looked.
But you never know what’s going to happen
until the numbers are up, as the Bible says. That Mr.
Harris started drinking, and, though he made no
objection when I got the odd-job man to shift his
things directly the people had gone from the other
flat, he must have been nursing some dissentment.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mrs. Wassail, speaking stiff
like, ‘l’m surprised to hear you are turning that poor
little Harris out of his flat. I don’t mind telling you,’
she says. ‘The poor feller is very hurt about it. And
Wassail has taken the excuse to go drinking with him
all day.’ Which it didn’t take much for that Mr.
Wassail to find an excuse.
“ ‘I was sorry to have to disturb him,’ I says,
‘but he will be quite happy in the other flat.’
“‘I wouldn’t be too sure,’ she says. ‘He said
he’d be damned if he would give up his old flat.’
“Sure enough, when I went up to see if Number
17 was ready I couldn’t get in. The door was locked
on the inside. Listening against the door, I could
hear deep breathing, like someone in the arms of
Morphia, as the saying is.
“ ‘Mr. Harris! Open the door at once! ’ I says,
rattling the handle. But all the answer I got was
snores. By-and-bye I got Mr. Slompack to help me,
and Mr. Snodgrass, and we made as much noise out-
side that flat as if we was a couple of married couples
having an argument. But if there was anything but
snores it was only Mr. Harris telling us to go away
as he had made up his mind not to shift from where
he was —in bed, it seemed.
“It was a pretty kettle of frying fish, with that
Mrs. Fulton due to come that night.
“ ‘You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Harris!’
shouts Mr. Slompack through the door. ‘You’re un-
grateful.’
The door opened suddenly, and there was Mr.
Harris in his pyjamas, standing like that fellow, A.
Jackson, defiling the lightning, as they talk about.
“‘Ungrateful, am I? You can all go to hell!’
he says. ‘This flat is mine, and here I’m going to
stick. It’s damnable cheek to want to turn me out
after all the years I’ve been here. Wassail says it is.’
“I could see how he’d been worked up. But I
kept thinking about them dirty pieces of silver, and
I couldn’t give Mr. Harris notice as I would have any
other tenant who went on like that. Besides, giving
him notice was no good, with that flat wanted that
night.
“ ‘Oh, Mr. Harris, I thought you were a man
whose word is hi,s bondage,’ I says. ‘And it’s not like
you to make a disturbance —such a quiet gentleman
you’ve always been!’
“‘I can’t help it, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says. ‘I feel
I’ve got to be loyal to my little girl. Am I going to
let that woman come in here, spilling her sloppy sedi-
ment? Why, it’s sacrilege!’
“ ‘Mr. Harris, I’ve always done my best for you.
If you’d only said you dejected so strongly you could
have stayed on, money or no money; but now it’s
going to make all sorts of troubles which never come
singly,’ I says; and somehow I burst into tears. I
was sorry for him and his royalty about his little girl,
as well as the fix he had put us in.
“ ‘Never mind, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, quiet all
of a sudden. ‘l’ll go back to my other flat.’
“Them tears had done it. They say a woman’s
tears can wash the hardest socks, though I’ve never
tried that myself. Howsoever, he went upstairs as
quiet as that little lamb with fleas as white as snow,
which is a fairy tale, of course, and I tidied up the
flat again, which he had unmade all the bed sleeping
in it; and as this time I’d got the key, which he had
kept, from him I thought the trouble was over.
‘‘ I ITTLE did I expect that Mr. Harris’d go out
*— drinking again and get talking with Wassail
and them others who told him he’d given away too
easily. When he came back, as Miss Perry said,
shamefully intoxicated, though I called it drunk, it
was the row he made trying to break into Number 17
was the first I knew of it. And when I demonstrated
with him he wanted me to bring Mr. Slompack so that
he could punch his head. But when Mr. Slompack
took him by the arm he thought he was a policeman.
With Mr. Snodgrass and some others, he got him up
to his flat and locked him in, putting a padlock on
the door.
“All upset I was, feeling sorry for the poor little
man, who, even if he wasn’t what you would call as
sober as a jug, wanted to fight for that little girl of his,
like one of the knights of old who used to bite the dust,
according to the books. Though what good doing
that was I don’t know.
“But never did I expect for one moment that
Mr. Harris should climb out of the window and drop
“ ‘Love him! That worm!’
Mrs. Fulton grabbed what came
nearest and one of my vases
went crack against the wall the
other side of Mr. Harris’s head."


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for "The Bulletin s Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Seccnd . . £l5
Third . £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS., which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
methodically sold everything Gerribald had owned.
If he lived quietly and economically there was every
chance of his enjoying reasonable comfort until the
end of his days. Twenty-three years of provident living
and the unexpected legacy had taken care of that . . .
Gerribald was dead —and the Tycoon was £25,000
poorer. Yes, everything was arranged.
Reginald Hogg’s early-morning ruminations were
disturbed by the charwoman who cleaned and cooked
for him in the week-ends. She brought him breakfast
on a tray. Alongside the teapot and the toast-rack
and the clutch of boiled eggs was a neatly-rolled
Sunday paper.
He could barely wait until she had left the room
to search the headlines. There was no sensational
diamond theft. He lay back and smiled. He had
not expected it. But to-morrow morning’s papers
would have it —under screaming black type, with a
photograph and a description of Eliot Gerribald!
He imagined it luxuriously. The Tycoon, so
calm and cool and grinning on the surface, inwardly
raging; the detectives and policemen coming and
going ; the inquiries in his own neighborhood ; the
questioning of his wife, of the gaping clerks, the
typists, the salesmen. Reporters, photographers —the
whole cumbersome machinery of the law grinding on
after Eliot Gerribald, who no longer existed!
As the weeks and months passed, the Tycoon
would realise gradually that he was beaten, realise
that he had really been paying Gerribald the book-
keeper fourteen hundred pounds a year for twenty-
three years.
The day seemed unconscionably long, the night
interminable. He dug, that afternoon, in the garden,
and when dusk fell played the gramophone and read ;
read anything that gave promise of distracting his
mind. He was up at the crack of dawn. The morning
newspaper was thrown over the fence at half past five.
He fell on it like a hungry dog, tearing the wrapper
and the outside page in his eagerness. Only the
report of a royal commission’s findings sprawled dully
over the front page.
At midday Reginald Hogg bought the first of the
afternoon papers from the newsagents, and came
back at half past three for the later edition. At six
he scanned the sporting final feverishly. Not even the
stop-press column contained a paragraph about a
diamond theft.
That night Reginald Hogg slept but fitfully until
the thought struck him that the Tycoon hated pub-
licity. He would conceal his loss as long as he could.
But for all the relief that thought brought,
Reginald Hogg was waiting in the garden at five-thirty
next morning.
P OR a week he waited —waited until his nerves
* were thrumming fiddlestrings of impatience;
waited until he was red-eyed and hollow-cheeked with
waiting ; waited until he believed that if he had to
wait as much as a day longer for his triumph he would
go mad. The papers did not carry even a paragraph
recording the disappearance of Eliot Gerribald, clerk,
aged forty-seven.
At night he dreamed ; dreamed of staring head-
lines, of arrest, triumphant and defiant, of trial and
silence, of the long, cool corridors of prison and his
sealed lips, of the Tycoon, grinning. In a month it
was apparent even to disinterested neighbors that
Reginald Hogg was going off his head. He would
play his gramophone until three o’clock in the morn-
ing and waylay the paper-runners at five. He would
follow the early-afternoon editions from the railway
station to the news-stands like a starved cat following
a fish cart.
He lost weight. Never robust, he became a walk-
ing skeleton on which his clothes flapped weirdly.
The charwoman called a doctor. Summoning the last
shreds of his self-control, he explained that he was
worried about family matters, but he did not need
attention. He accepted the prescription of a sleeping
draught gracefully —and at five the next morning
snatched the papers violently from the hands of a
startled runner-boy.
It could not last. Nearly three years of careful
planning, the shattering of twenty-three years of habit,
could not end like this —in nothing . . .
ONE morning, eight weeks and four days after he
had stolen the diamonds, Reginald Hogg did not
collect the papers. Instead he rose at seven, shaved
the moustache he had grown to replace the carefully-
attached false one, changed his large round spectacles
for his prim pince-nez, took the false insoles from
his shoes, dressed in a plain blue business suit and
caught the 8.50 to town.
No one recognised the ashen-faced, thin old man
in the strange clothes who walked so purposefully
through the office. The Tycoon’s door was ajar. He
was checking stock sheets with me. He looked up
and recognised Gerribald before I did, but his smooth,
heavy face did not betray surprise by so much as the
flicker of an eyelid.
“Sit down, Gerribald,” he said quietly. “I was
expecting you.”
Old Gerry was panting slightly between parted
lips. When I saw his eyes I knew what had hap-
pened.
His voice came, shrill and thin like a whistle in
his throat. “They’re gone, Brander,” he gibbered;
“gone, see? You thought you’d beat me, but I took
care of that. Oh, I took care of that all right. They’re
gone, Brander, where you’ll never lay a hand on them.
Why don’t you call the police, Brander —arrest me,
eh? Throw me into prison, eh? God damn and blast
you, why don’t you call them?”
The Tycoon smiled the tight, mirthless smile he
smiles when he’s up against it.
“Sit down, Gerribald,” he said gently. “Let’s
talk this over like sensible men. I knew you’d be
back. Why, man, you’ve worked for me for twenty-
three years. I knew you’d think better of it, because
I knew you. But why did you go at all? What’s all
this nonsense about the police?”
For a moment, a film of puzzlement and doubt
dulled old Gerry’s shining eyes, then he giggled help-
lessly. “Twenty-five thousand pounds, Brander,” he
whispered. “Slung to glory off the end of the Matson
Pier, and you still try to bluff me!”
The Tycoon’s jaws snapped like a rabbit trap. He
saw the slip quicker than I did. So did Gerribald.
When they took him out in the ambulance
stretcher, the Tycoon turned to me. “You’d better
anange with the Harbor Board for divers to-day,
Jamieson,” he said. “And remember, this is a con-
fidential matter.”
down to the window of Number 17 like one of the
acolytes in the circus. I didn’t know anything about
it, and when the noise stopped in the flat above I
thought he had gone to sleep. So when Mrs. Fulton
arrived 1 took her straight up to Number 17.
She seemed all of a-tremble, like one of them
aspic leafs.
“ ‘Now it’s come to the point, Mrs. Parsley,’ she
says, ‘I fee] almost afraid. I’ve been married three
times, Mrs. Parsley, and for years I’ve had the idea
of coming back here, where my happiest days were
spent. My first husband and I were very poor, but
oh, so happy!’
“ ‘Money ain’t everything,’ I says, and it made
me think of them dirty pieces of silver which I’d sold
poor Mr. Harris for.
“ ‘And now I’m frightened,’ says that Mrs. Fulton.
“ ‘But you’ll like being there when you’ve got
over that,’ I says.
“ ‘I almost feel,’ says Mrs. Fulton as I began to
open the door, ‘as if I might come face to face with
my dear husband again.’
“The first I knew about Mr. Harris having got
back in the flat was after I heard Mrs. Fulton’s shriek
when she came rushing back from the bedroom, all
pale-faced.
“ ‘There’s a man in that room! In the bed! ’ she
says.
“For a moment I thought she was seeing ghosts
of her husband, but when I looked into the room
there was Mr. Harris sitting up on the bed, looking
stupid with just been wakened from sleep with the
noise of that scream.
“Just as I was recovering myself to give him a
piece of my mind, I saw him wake up with a funny
startled look on his face and jump out of bed.
“‘Maria, it’s you!’ he shouts.
“And ‘My God, Jack!’ she cries.
“IT made me gasp like a codfish out of the water
* that passes under the bridge. Here was him had
been talking for years of his dear little girl, and she
was really Mrs. Fulton, who was a regular mammal of
a woman ; and the big handsome man she had talked
to me about was the one everybody spoke of as ‘poor
little Mr. Harris.’ No wonder I felt like I was, stand-
ing on one of them giddy Ikes, as they say.
“Anyway, it seemed to me that everything had
come all right. I could easily let Mr. Harris’s flat
for more rent than I’d been able to ask him for it
under the circumstances ; so it seemed like the un-
screwable ways of improvidence again.
“So, thinks I, everybody’s happy now, like the
clerks in May, as the saying is ; and the best thing
is to get out and leave thepi alone. I’d been too dazed
to notice what they had been saying, but, just as I
was turning to go, I heard Harris say, ‘To think we
should meet after all these years! And in my room.’
“ ‘lt’s my room,’ says Mrs. Fulton. ‘l’ve paid
for this flat.’
“ ‘lt’s my flat,’ roars Harris. ‘For the last six
years’
“ ‘Yes, I heard! Of all the hypocrisy!’ cries that
Mrs. Fulton. ‘Pretending to be so fond of the memory
of the woman you married —pretending she was dead.
You worm! Do you remember how you treated the
dear little girl, as you used to call me? Do you
remember that—you beast?’
“He put on one of them laughs that married
people use to make one another angry.
“ ‘My dear little girl!’ he says, mocking like. ‘Yes,
I remember the misery you made of my life. It served
that blackguard Brown right when you divorced me
and married him!’
“ ‘Don’t you dare speak like that about a better
man than you never knew how to be! ’
“And there was me, so flappergasted that 1
couldn’t say nothing, standing there while they called
each other everything under the sun. Then I tried
to throw some oil on the tumbled Walters, as they
say.
“ ‘Remember you have found one another again
and should be loving and happy,’ I says. ‘You told
me, Mrs. Fulton, what a fine man your husband was
and how you loved him’
“‘Love him! That worm!’ she cries. And Mr.
Harris put in a ‘Ha, ha, ha! ’ like the bad men do
in the plays, and says ‘Dear little girl! That!’
“Mrs. Fulton grabbed what came nearest to her,
and one of my vases went crack against the wall the
other side of Mr. Harris’s head. He slid off the bed,
but looked up and repeated what he said, with the
laugh. He dodged down as another of them vases
went.
“It was terrible. I have had to deal with married
couples, but these was an unmarried couple, and I
couldn’t stop them. All the tenants were gathered
outside the door in the corridor, and I could see
people in the windows across the street.
“It was not until I brought the police, which I
didn’t like doing, that they quietened down what had
been a regular Bethlehem let loose.
< i J T was old Sergeant Kelly, who has been in the
' district for twenty years, who come up.
“ ‘Now, one speak at a time,’ he says when both
of them started talking as madly as they had been
going for the last half-hour. He got them quietened
down by-and-bye, and heard all about it.
“‘Well, you’re a bright pair!’ says he. ‘Go on
like that, and then behave like this when you meet.
It’s twenty-four years since you lived here, is it? Are
you sure it was here you lived?’
“ ‘Yes. Number 324 ; it’s on the shop down below.
I remember the number well,’ says Mrs. Fulton.
“ ‘l’ve still got old letters with “324” on them,’
says Mr. Harris.
“ ‘Well, that’s where you’re both wrong,’ says the
sergeant. ‘The numbers in this street were reallotted
twenty years ago, and what was 324 in those days is
now eleven places further down the street.’
“Well, did you ever hear the likes of that? Harris
walked out, laughing one of them horse-laughs. And
then that Mrs. Fulton, without unpacking, went away
behaving as if she thought I’d got her here by forged
pretences.
“I heard later she’d taken a place down at Num-
ber 302, which you know how dingy it is; and the
way she talkslaughhli-s^ock^ 1 *
ine . , , M „
whether jt was , he right room or
he ha<J mad . i( hjs own> and he could still dream
dgar little girl he i mag j ne d his wife to
be when he first marr i e d her.
« ‘j’ b be a bj e t 0 forget that fat old tart by-and-
bye; he says,
“j t seemed to me that the course of true love,
which they say runs to smoodge, shouldn’t be treated
b ke that; and I told him so.
“ ‘You shouldn’t speak of her like that,’ I tells
b im. ‘You loved each other once. You’re living close
by, and you’ll meet and’
“ ‘l’m damned if we will,’ he says. ‘l’m going to
g 0 in and out by the back gate.’ ”
Mrs. Parsley purposefully grabbed her duster once
more,
“So there you are,” she concluded. “Two minds
with but a single thought when it’s about a flat is not
what I want in my establishment.”


OF
tST?
183?
here
banking facilities
are transformed
into
specific, individual
services .
The Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England)
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
Plan your
EUROPEAN TOUR
climatically
yvA\
V 'M9HBM
DOLOMITES
S*. X
warasna
eSS
fA
n
?nf
i!
L^
V?U
i.boa£tfua7S
FLORENCt
rw> -
mmK:.'''']
Bit®* 1 "
*4 4
sz
mR
When do you
sail?
In February?
Then you will arrive in
Europe when climatic
conditions in the north
are notoriously unstable.'
Here is a suggestion ...
disembark at Naples
and spend a few weeks
in SUNNY ITALY. You
will see “Europe’s Touring Country No.
1” at its best.
Italy is one of the most economical
countries in which to travel. The special
Tourist Rate of Exchange greatly enhances
the buying power
of your currency;
Hotel Coupons! are
available at 5 to
18 shillings (ster-
ling) per day abso-
lutely inclusive;
motorists benefit
by rebates in the
cost of petrol, and
rail tickets are
reduced by 50%
to 70%.
For information and
descriptive booklets
apply to Any Travel
Agency or to:
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret
Street, SYDNEY
(Australia).
to her children, her garden and music ; but at the age
of 50 the father gave up his business and entered
holy orders. His first charge was a curacy at Kinsale,
his income £l5O a year. All his reserves went to edu-
cate his five children. The sudden change bore cruelly
on his wife, but the family survived it without bitter-
ness or disruption. After seven difficult years he re-
ceived the living at Ballymoney —pronounced with a
moan —and circumstances were much happier.
The bulk of the story is taken up with small hap-
penings and portraits of local characters —John Tobin,
the shepherd who brought up 10 children in respecta-
bility on ten shillings a week; Mary Collins, the
dirtiest woman and best cook in County Cork, whose
omelets rose to perfection when she held a red-hot
shovel over the pan, and so on. It is a picture of a
quiet world, companion piece to Sassoon’s The Old
Country.
In the latter part of the book Lennox takes up
the story of his career. A delicate child, he had little
schooling, and when he got a job teaching in an
English school he was promptly sacked for incom-
petence. Visits to the theatre were rare and greatly
prized. When he was 20 he went to see the Abbey
Players in “Kathleen ni Houlihan.” The play made a
Nationalist of him and inspired him with the will to
write. His first one-act play, “The Clancey Name,” was
put on by the Abbey Players. It pleased the audience
but awakened anger in the breasts of numerous
Clanceys throughout Ireland, for the leading character
was a murderer.
He wrote other plays and attracted the attention
of Yeats and Lady Gregory. Lennox also became
secretary to Bernard Shaw, a post which carried neither
duties nor salary, but gave him the entry anywhere in
theatrical Dublin and brought him many kindnesses
from Shaw and Mrs. Shaw. He had unrivalled oppor-
tunities for looking about him. In one paragraph he
compares the methods of three famous producers,
Boucicault, Shaw and Granville-Barker:
Boucicault was sane and practical, perhaps not very
inspired, but he seemed to evoke the best from his
players. Mr. Shaw thought more of his play than of
his actors. His main idea seemed to be that everyone
should speak very loudly and very slowly so that no
word could be missed even at the back of the gallery.
The result was a very slow performance... .But Mr.
Granville-Barker completely captured my imagination.
For rehearsal he had devised a stagecloth painted with
squares a foot each way like a gigantic chessboard.
When you moved you veered three squares across—the
bishop’s move—or two or three to the right Or left, or
at very critical occasions you might even make the
knight’s move; but woe betide you if you landed on the
wrong square. Every move was part of a pattern,
so was every gesture. It was fascinating to watch,
the work of a genius, but each player was expected
to imitate every intonation of Granville-Barker’s, and
in the end “The Madras House” came on the stage a
dead thing.
"The Bridegroom Cometh."
Waldo Frank’s new novel, The Bridegroom
Cometh (Gollancz), is a large and complex piece of
work. The setting is New York and a small provin-
cial town, Lake Loomis; the time is from America’s
entry into the war until to-day. The theme is the pil-
grimage of twin Ulsters, Mary and Martha Donald,
toward the secret and inevitable goal hidden in the
blood of each. For each it is love, but love of a
very different kind.
Their father was a man who shirked life and fed
himself the sweet narcotic of an excessive emotional
piety. It provided him with an answer to every diffi-
culty. Did the children’s teeth need attention he
asked with sweet reasonableness what was the use
of going to the dentist when the Lord would come
any lt would be a foolish waste of money. So
they were told to go on suffering. Their stepmother
had her heart as rigidly set on material ends as her
husband on spiritual, so that between them Mary
and Martha had a very lean girlhood. Each reacted
differently.
Mary’s girlhood passed in a trance of excitement
preparing for and expecting the second coming of the
Lord; A sense of sin weighed her to the earth, and
yet, fighting painfully against all her beliefs, was the
will to live a normal life. Martha rebelled and escaped.
She found her goal, which was marriage to a gang-
ster. She lived, a semi-prisoner, in a luxurious hotel
suite, asking her husband no questions but suspecting,
without distress, the source of their wealth. One day
he did not return to her. Presently she received a
suitcase containing ten thousand dollars. Sid had been
shot dead on the job ; this was his share of the loot.
After a few weeks of fretting Martha drowned her-
self. Her life had shot past its goal.
For Mary life was not so simple. With many
heartburnings she went to college, and there, through
friendship with one of the professors, she met and
married a well-to-do Dutchman, William Taess. It
was the sort of fairy-tale marriage that ends a romantic
novel. It gave Mary everything, but it was not her
life’s goal. Soon the luxury in which she lived, the
tenderness with which she was surrounded, became
insupportable. Her conscience rebelled. She must
prepare her soul for the bridegroom, but now she no
longer believed in a spectacular second coming.
She was impelled toward a life of service. She
left her husband and sought work, first with charitable
institutions, where she was a failure, and then in fac-
tories and mills. Here she found comradeship and a
measure of peace, and here she found David Markand,
who was, both in an earthly and spiritual sense, the
bridegroom she had so long sought.
This story is told very fully. It is a companion
piece to an earlier novel by the same author, The
Death and Birth of David Markand. Together they
show two lives rushing together from widely different
points. There are many characters in The. Bridegroom
Cometh, many discussions and scenes, many side
issues. The prose is often abrupt, always very much
to the point, the characterisation clever. The forth-
right style is far from being a sign that Frank lacks
subtlety. In telling his story the author works back-
wards and forwards in time, an involved narrative
method that will delight some readers and repel others.
A Tichborne Recollection.
Curses, Lucks and Talismans, by J. G. Lockhart
(Bles), describes the curses suffered, the lucks and
talismans cherished by famous old families of Great
Britain.
One of the finest of the curses has a remote
Australian association, in being connected with the
Tichborne family. The story is that in the time of
Henry 11. Lady Mabell lay a-dying and begged the
flinty-hearted Sir Roger to give her. the wherewithal
to endow an annual dole of bread for poor people.
Sir Roger told her she could have as much land as
she could personally travel over or around, which
looked a safe bet, seeing that she had been bedridden
for years. But the gentle Lady Mabell undertook it
and crawled round some 20 acres, known to this day
as The Crawls. Returned to bed, she put a curse on
the family in the grand manner, to come into effect if
and when the annual dole of bread wasn’t handed
out.
For some 600 years the dole was duly given, but
every gipsy and vagabond in the country began to
converge on the estate at the due time. The neighbors
complained, overworked magistrates murmured, and
reluctantly the ruling head of the house suspended the
dole, playing safe, however, by giving an equivalent
sum of money. No good to Lady Mabell. The curse
—to the effect that the male line would die out —
landed the estate with a family of seven daughters ;
and then there was the Wagga Wagga butcher claim-
ing to be the eleventh baronet, failing to make good
the claim, but costing the estate some £BO,OOO, whereat,
no doubt, Lady Mabell laughed satirically in the back-
ground.
The present Tichborne, Sir Anthony, is tak-
ing no risks. The dole has been reintroduced, and on
March 25 every year 1900 loaves of bread are dis-
tributed among the poor of the neighborhood.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
IfeiSl
l ■
111
■
m
m
mm
m
mi®
■
w
■
■
' i ■i/-'*' >■ ,\ v i
m
n
m
; .
B
■
■
mi
l&M-
-■
B
': % [
H
■
?£
m
J!
fi
■
SM
M
t
■
4
mm
I
*
• 2* ;*
■m
■
i
J
1
l 5
•ur
■j
i
31
Hi
R
sx
1
I
Hi
K
14
SHi
Touier BeacA in Front of Tower of London—the Only City Beach on the Thames.
vme


TOO FAT TO FIGHT OR RUN.
“The population of Sydney and suburbs has reached 1,279,000; adding 51,600, ‘balance of County of Cumberland,’ it almost equals that of the rest of N.S.W. Thoughts
of what a deathtrap the place would be if attacked in force are disturbing the minds of supporters of the congestion policy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch {Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
MR. HUGHES'S JOB.
Many who admire Mr. Hughes personally for his
showing as a recruiter also have sympathy for him
in what strikes them as one of the most unsatisfactory
roles of his career. In their view he is being used,
and he deserves better. If the campaign fails it will
he his personal failure ; if it succeeds the political
benefits will be distributed round the Government.
Further, nobody has yet demonstrated convincingly
that a militia force of 70,000, if it can be raised and
established, will constitute an adequate defence for
an Australia menaced as Mr. Hughes, Mr. Lyons and
others have declared it to be menaced.
A month back The Bulletin seriously asked Mr.
Lyons if he would tell Australia whether or not the
extraordinary warnings given out by himself and his
responsible Ministers represented the absolute truth
of the situation. The doubt in the matter —shared by
many—was that the warnings of impending calamity
represented either an overpessimistic outlook based on
scaremongering newspaper interpretations of world
affairs, or else a mere political expedient to try to
make the volunteer system work.
Since then there has been nothing from Mr.
Lyons, Mr. Hughes or anybody else to resolve this
doubt. Pronouncements have been much more
restrained. There has been nothing like Mr. Lyons’s
“Would that you knew while there is yet time on
what a slender thread peace in Australia depends.”
On the other hand, there has been nothing from any
of these responsible gentlemen to refute or mitigate
that message of impending doom. Yet with that hang-
ing over Australia the Commonwealth Parliament is
enjoying four months’ holiday. The field has been
left to Mr. Hughes; and it is not much wonder he
shows signs of peevishness under the strain of the job
he is trying with characteristic courage and tenacity
to carry through.
Last week Mr. Hughes was feeling the strain
badly, as was evident in one of his outbursts. He
apologised for the apparent unsuccess of his campaign
on the astonishing ground that it was launched when
the holiday season was approaching, with “an unusual
number of counter-attractions.” This merely confirmed
the opinion of those who believe that the whole matter,
and especially the Government’s performance in it,
is comic-opera, “Counter-attractions” in this text
would have been surprising even in Mr. Stevens’s
choice of phrase. Those whose ideas it helped to con-
firm would include many eligibles who show no interest
in the campaign because they think it is a false appeal.
Mr. Lyons, Mr. Hughes and the Government may
have to consider one or two things before they are
through.
Australians have been so long misled by false
report and mendacious scaremongering that it will take
more than the mere statement to convince them that
Mr. Lyons’s “slender-thread” pronouncement is not
of the same category. In the average man’s view, this
gets extra weight from two significant facts attaching
to it: ( a ) Mr. Lyons was supporting the campaign
to make the volunteer system work — i.e., frankly
recruiting ; (b) he nullified its force with such a larding
of qualification that nobody knew for certain what
was in his mind or what he was driving at, and many
doubted if he knew himself.
On top of this came the months of holiday for
Parliament. This seems in the average view a com-
plete contradiction of Mr. Lyons’s warning. The
thought widely held is that if Parliament could per-
form so normally things could not be so very abnor-
mal. Additionally, there is the influence of example.
The men to whom Mr. Hughes is appealing are not
such noodles as to imagine they will not have to make
some personal sacrifices. To most who volunteer that
is one of the attractions. They have the feeling, not
only that they are there to fight for their country if
necessary, but also that in the meantime they are
making a certain personal sacrifice in its interest. They
see Parliament doing what, if the representations made
to them are true, can be described only as loafing •
declining to make even a sign of like sacrifice. It has
a false ring.
If they have taken Mr. Lyons’s “slender-thread”
warning literally, it seems to them that the Govern-
ment is shamefully leaving the country in the lurch.
With all its faults, however, they probably think more
highly of the Government than that, and also of its
individual members. But this merely brings them by
another road to the former conclusion —that Mr.
Lyons, Mr. Hughes and others have been overstating
the case to support their declared preference for the
volunteer system.
Nobody would suggest that if Australia was actu-
ally threatened the response to a call for recruits would
be as limping as at present. Mr. Hughes has stated
that “there are grave administrative difficulties in the
way of providing training centres in remote areas”
to cope with the rush of volunteers in country dis-
tricts. Whatever the rush is, it would be vastly outdone
by the rush that would occur if the appeal carried
conviction to every man.
The plain truth is that, for all Mr. Lyons’s weighty
warning and Mr. Hughes’s fiery rhetoric, the appeal
is regarded by many as false. It is useless for Mr.
Hughes to rail peevishly at critics of the whole cam-
paigning business. They are not all inspired by a
hope that he will fail, so that compulsory service will
then be inevitable. They say good luck to him in his
difficult and thankless job. But they decline to accept
that Mr. Hughes has a corner in patriotism, and the
interest they seek to serve is identical with his. They
criticise this campaigning business on the evidence
before their eyes, some of it provided by Mr. Hughes
himself.
Mr. Hughes declared that the success of the recruit-
ing campaign to raise the strength of the militia to
70,000 was certain. No limit had been set on the
duration of the campaign. He did not anticipate getting
the full number by June.
That carries no heartening conviction to those
who take Mr. Lyons’s “slender-thread” pronouncement
as representing the truth of the situation. Accepting
Mr. Lyons, what Mr. Hughes professes to be happy
about must strike most people as inexcusable dawd-
ling. Either we are not pressingly threatened —in which
case Mr. Lyons should clear up the doubt—or else
a campaign whose active director does not “anticipate
getting the full number by June” is a disgraceful sub-
stitute for national service, not by the people, but by
the country’s leaders.
But those who insist that national service should
be reintroduced have still a case against the present
stunting, even if it is successful by as late as June, or
whatever indefinite date may be considered proof of
success. They hold that, in the situation as represented
by Mr. Lyons, Australia would still be shamefully
undefended. All these people, political and otherwise,
who insist that Australia’s position is direful, and who
persist in shaking up alarms and scares to support that
view, can have it one way or the other. If they are
stating a false case, they are behaving shamefully ;
if what they insist is true, they are behaving as
shamefully in not seeing to it that every able man
and woman in Australia is trained and ready to defend
their country.
This does not nearly exhaust the case against Mr.
Hughes’s present job. Yet another important con-
sideration is whether or not what it produces will last.
A falling off of recruits and of recruited strength as
well is as good as certain when the present scare-
mongering hullabaloo dies down; and it will either
die down or lead to war, in which event the mustered
forces will be hopelessly inadequate. To anyone taking
a long view it must seem therefore that if Australian
defence is to be put, as it should be put, on a sound
and permanent basis national service will have to be
reintroduced. One other thing will then be needed.
It will have to be established beyond the reach of
expedient political hands, liable to pull it down, as they
have done in the past.
Now the New Year . . .
In beginning the New Year purveyors of provocative
fiction which, embedded in masses of other matter,
sells in Australian editions at three ha’pence the copy
ran true to 1938 form.
London “Times,” which belongs to the old school
of facts-gatherers, is satisfied that recent additions to
the Italian forces in Spain, from which 10,000 Italians
were withdrawn by way of bringing into force the
Anglo-Italian Agreement, have been “negligible.” Had
there been any considerable reinforcement in contempt
of that agreement, the active British naval and air
forces based on Gibraltar —geographically, of course,
part of Spain—would assuredly have spotted it and
reported it to their Government, which traditionally
keeps the “Times” in touch with what is going on.
Nevertheless bellicose fictionists have found six Italian
divisions fighting for Franco in Catalonia. And “on
the ninth day of the offensive, the Littorio division,
at Signor Mussolini’s request, led the assault.”
While Mussolini was thus revealing his perfidy
to the world Goebbels was at the microphone. To a
reporter in Copenhagen, “his voice lacked its usual
vigor” ; and if there is a Stunt Press in Denmark the
Danes will have known the reason why. Goebbels had
been “beaten up.”
He is said to have been paying attention to a
beautiful Czech film star, Lida Barova. Her husband,
Gustav Froelich, challenged Goebbels to a duel and
next day found himself in a concentration camp.
Froelich’s friends are said to have burst into a fiat
which Goebbels was visiting and manhandled him.
He is said, they are said, it is said, it is believed, it
is understood, it is reliably reported, it is learned on
unimpeachable authority in other days no cub
reporter would have been allowed to use such expres-
sions in the sort of paragraphs that cub reporters write.
He would have been told, with insulting expletives,
and probably a chastening boot, that facts were ascer-
tainable, and that his job was to ascertain them and
set them down honestly. But such expressions and a
hundred variants stalk insolently through the foreign
news.
London “Spectator’s” way of greeting the New
Year was to visualise “a German invasion of France by
a shock flank attack via Holland.” It explained that
“a jump through Holland tempts the German General
Staff, as France and Germany have reached a stale-
mate behind the Maginot and Siegfried lines.” They
have also “reached” a No-more-war declaration, which
was signed in Paris, with every appearance of earnest-
ness, by the German Foreign Minister and the French
Foreign Minister. The old “Spectator” would have
given their Governments credit for being in earnest,
but the “new” “Spectator” is different.
Enter the “Sunday Pictorial,” also published in
London. The “Sunday Pictorial” “gives prominence
to a report that Hitler has instructed his General Staff
to be ready early in the spring for another move that
will plunge the world into a state of acute crisis.”
The writer states that the nature of the move will
remain a mystery, but says that the broad fact is known
at Whitehall.
“The nature of the move will remain a mystery.” It
recalls the genius who, during the South Sea Bubble,
invited the mugs of England to finance “a project
hereafter to be disclosed.” All the same it breaks
new ground for the Stunt Press, and we may see a
lot of this “mystery” journalism in 1939. Explicit
statements in which names and places and dates and
designs are given are so apt to be embarrassing.
This must have occurred to “Reynolds’s News,” it
there is anything in its composition remotely re-
sembling the old “Reynolds’s Newspaper,” which, like
the “Spectator,” was a good paper once. While the
“Sunday Pictorial” was achieving its mystery,
“Reynolds’s” came out with a story that Pius XI., who
is 81 and has been very ill, might have to leave the
Vatican City, and the palace in which Popes have
dwelt for 700 years, and the Sistine Chapel, with its
Michelangelo ceilings, its Raphael frescoes, its Leon-
ardo da Vincis and its Titians, and look for the last
time on the glories of St. Peter’s. Not to seek refuge
for a few sad months in some secure part of his native
Italy, in which 99.6 p.c. of 41,014,000 people (census
of 1931) are Catholics, but to undertake what would,
for him, be a perilous voyage to Australia, in which
17.5 p.c. of 6,629,800 people (census of 1933) are
Catholics.
The yarn was cabled to Australia, as all such
yarns are, and Melbourne “Argus” served it up in
this fashion:
London, Sunday.
“Reynolds’s News” published on its front page
to-day a report that the Pope may transfer his head-
quarters to Australia.
It bases this claim firstly on reports that increasing
hostility by Fascists in Italy may force the Pope to leave
Rome, and secondly on a story from its Australian
correspondent that the Apostolic Delegate and the
Coadjutor Archbishop of Sydney had attended a secret
meeting in Sydney to discuss this possibility.
Underneath there were printed denials by the Inter-
national News Service in Rome and by “Catholic
authorities” in Melbourne and Sydney.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” gets the same cable
service as the “Argus.” Sceptical for once, it shifted
the lie from its cable columns and presented the
refutation first —“Catholic authorities in Sydney ridi-
cule a London Sunday newspaper’s report that the
Pope may take up headquarters in Australia.” “S. M.
Herald” came along a day behind the fair. In its
account (heading, “Home for Pope in Australia”)
it is mentioned that “ ‘Reynolds’s’ quotes a promi-
nent English Catholic .as saying there was no
doctrinal reason why the Pope should remain in Rome,
and expressing the opinion that Australia would be
a wise choice if circumstances compelled his removal.”
Below were denials of the sort that had appeared in
the “Argus” and the “Daily Telegraph.” For a
wonder, Granny did not drag the thing into its next
indictment of Mussolini, whom it believes capable of
almost anything.
To the “Daily News,” which Granny has quoted
appreciatively, he is capable of anything.
Mussolini, to mask the mass discontent in Italy, has
followed Hitler in making the Jews a scapegoat. He
may yet follow Hitler in the wave of terrorism now
being planned against the Catholics.
So the “Daily News,” while allowing that “the
Vatican is a sovereign State,” whatever that may mean,
and that exodus to Australia —presumably with all
papers and portable treasures —is “unlikely.... in the
immediate future,” does not reject the “Reynolds”
effort. Far from it:
London, Monday.
The suggestion is reported to have been discussed
unofficially by high officials. “Reynolds’s News” is the
official organ of the British Co-operative party with
7,000,000 members.
It is no secret that leading Catholics throughout
the world are alarmed at the militant paganism now
openly preached by Fascism.
If the Vatican were transferred from Italy it would
clearly be too great a cause of friction with Mussolini
to be established elsewhere in Europe.
America and Australia would appear the obvious
choice, and in this connection it is suggested that Mr.
Lyons is one of the men most likely to be able to
soothe an infuriated Mussolini on a matter of this kind.
As for “the militant paganism now openly
preached by Fascism”:
No Catholic to-day is safe from violent assault,
or even murder, at an hour’s notice in Germany or
Austria.
In 1933 the census-takers found 21,171,900
Catholics (32.5 p.c. of the population) in the German
Reich, and “in 1934 there were 6,116,250 Catholics
(90.57 p.c.)” in Austria {Statesman’s Year-Book ).
Since then at least 2,000,000 Sudetenland Catholics
have been incorporated in the Reich. So, allowing
for increase of population, there must be at least
30 000,000 Catholics in the new Germany. And not
one person in the 30,000,000 “is safe from violent
assault, or even murder, at an hour’s notice”!
The “Daily News” is published in Sydney by the
crowd that controls broadcasting station 2K.Y, re-
cently suspended for the publication of blatant un-
truths for which it apologised. Moscow must be proud
of both.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Washington's Warnings.
Everyone likes Mr. Roosevelt and enjoys listening to
or reading his speeches. In his latest, without men-
tioning names, countries or systems, he gave the dic-
tators beans.
“Since 1931,” he said, “world events of thun-
derous import have moved with lightning speed.”
Where freedom of religion has been attacked the
attack has come from sources opposed to Democracy.
Where Democracy has been overthrown, the spirit
of free worship has disappeared. Where religion and
Democracy have vanished, good faith and reason in
international affairs have given way to strident ambition
and brute force.
And what can be done about it? Now, as always, the
President is ready to “take counsel” with the rest of
the world, “to the end that aggression be terminated,
that the race for armaments cease and that commerce
be renewed.” But what if aggressors won’t “take
counsel”?
The mere fact that we rightly decline to intervene with
arms to prevent acts of aggression does not mean that
we must act as if there were no aggression at all.
Words may be futile, but war is not the only means
of commanding a decent respect for the opinion of
mankind... .There are many methods short of war, but
stronger and more effective than mere words, of bring-
ing home to aggressive Governments the aggregate
sentiments of our own people.
Having said which, he demanded “armed forces and
defences strong enough to ward off any attack.” A
rather lame conclusion, and the Manchester
“Guardian,” sadly agreeing with the “Daily Mail,” ac-
knowledges that “there is nothing in the speech to
suggest that American policy towards association with
Europe has seriously changed” or that the American
people have weakened on their resolve “to keep clear
of Europe.”
Our own Mr. Hughes sees in the reference to
“many methods short of war” a threat of sanctions
meant for Japan. He repeats what he said while the
first lamentable experiment of the kind was in pro-
gress, that sanctions is a form of war, and that “the
nation against whom the policy is directed will natu-
rally express her resentment by any means she may
possess.” In other words, sanctions is a game which
130,000,000 isolationist Americans may play without
risking the fate of their country. It might be different
in the case of a small and remote associated nation
stampeded into sanctions by a flapper press.
Mr. Roosevelt is a very astute politician, and his
attack on aggressors may signify little more than an
attempt to divert attention from domestic affairs.
They are in bad shape. The public debt, which
amounted to $19,487,000,000 in 1932, the last Hoover
year, has reached $39,427,000,000, and “the sixth con-
secutive deficit” is estimated at $3,326,000,000. The
unemployed are still numbered by the million, and the
distress among farmers exceeds anything ever imagined
in this country. For two years whole populations of
ruined farmers have been on the move. So many thou-
sands have reached California, mostly to find that they
have gone from bad to worse, that “No-Work-in-
California” advertisements have become a feature of
the American press.
Missionaries from Britain.
A British mission, composed of technical experts, is
to visit Australia to discuss the building of aircraft.
Good. Lord Nuffield is coming on another private
visit. Better. For Lord Nuffield is the one man in
the British Commonwealth who has the means and
capacity to give Australia a motor-aircraft industry
on a modern scale, and his nobly practical interest in
the Australian invention of a “wooden lung” suggests
that the desire may easily be implanted in his breast,
if it is not there already. ®
Lord Nuffield is the most versatile of car manu-
facturers. He has captured the bulk of the British
Empire market for light cars. He has made a heavy
car which competes in price and efficiency with U.S.A.
products of the same size and power. His racing M.G.
engines, produced in the last few months, have knocked
all ideas of road-racing speeds endways. After
a few hours’ conference last year he entered into an
arrangement with the British Government to open a
factory, in which 30,000 men were to be employed, to
manufacture, in the first place, 1000 of the fastest and
deadliest fighter-aeroplanes in the world —Supermarine
Spitfires.
To suggest to Lord Nuffield the establishment of
factories in Australia would not be asking for charity.
He has already an excellent Australian market, and
it is capable of vast expansion. Preference in Gov-
ernment orders might be offered, especially if he were
to enter the heavy-truck field and provide defence land
transport.
The equipment of the R.A.A.F. with standard
types of machine as the pith of the defensive force
would not be a big job, and if those types were
approximated to fast commercial types they should
be marketable on a large scale in a country in which
air traffic has doubled in a single year. Moreover,
given the right machines, the Dutch in the East Indies
might help with orders for whole aeroplanes or parts.
And there should be a market for Australian aircraft
of suitable military and commercial types in Malaya
and Ceylon. The Malay States are always ready
to help with defence. They have contributed to the
construction of Singapore Base, besides providing a
battleship for the navy.
The British Government might be ready to agree,
at least in principle, that construction of aircraft and
motor transport for India, Hong Kong, Ceylon,
Malaya and other possessions and protectorates should
be undertaken in Australia and Maoriland —for Maori-
land, of course, should be brought into the scheme.
This would add greatly to Empire security, relieve
British factories and make it considerably harder for
enemies to break communications and menace supplies.
All these matters should be discussed with the
British mission and with Lord Nuffield.
Is the Wool Market "Fixed"?
The wool market has sellers bewildered.
The statistical position is all in favor of prices
higher by at least 3d. per pound than the present aver-
age. Drought has reduced the amount of wool avail-
able for the season, and next season also seems likely
to see short deliveries. Stocks are generally a bit less
than normal. Countries which make wool substitutes
are buying more wool than last year, and all London,
Bradford and European correspondents agree that
army and navy activities have stimulated demand.
Every sale sees supplies sold out, demand keen
and the market firm —at figures which somehow won’t
move upward. Prices are below cost of production
in many districts.
For the first six months of 1937-38 540,000 bales
were sold in Sydney for an average of £l7 17s. Id. a
bale, 14.3 d. per pound. This season buyers took
624,245 bales, but paid only £l3 Bs. lOd. a bale, 10.8 d.
per pound. There was not sufficient falling-off in
average quality of the clip to account for the discrep-
ancy, which meant a decline in Sydney wool returns
from £9,651,409 to £8,391,031, although 84,000 more
bales were sold.
Last week’s Sydney sale saw “good general com-
petition from all sections.... the market very firm.”
“Very firm” at 10.6 d. per pound, with buyers for prac-
tically every bale offered, and the prospect that by the
middle of March there will be little wool to sell. Also,
Bradford’s opinion—expressed by the well-informed
Yorkshire “Post” —is that “confidence in wool has
been restored.”
The “Post” thinks that “countries.... have pur-
sued a generous buying policy.” Australian wool-
growers disagree. Many of them are muttering that
there must be a world organisation of buyers to hold
prices down.
There is no evidence of a “fixed” market other
than the strange refusal of prices to rise in response
to steady demand. And even if the suspicion is war-
ranted price-fixing is an expedient which might con-
ceivably keep prices down instead of up.
But those countries which depend on Australian
wool to clothe their people and keep many of their
biggest industrial towns in existence might be taught
that they have an interest in seeing that the woolgrower
gets a payable price. Even if growing costs were cut
to the bone, a few years of present levels would
destroy Australian wool standards, bankrupt the busi-
ness in most districts and deprive buying countries
of the raw material of vast industries.
The Byshottle Spirit.
Few Australians know where Byshottle is, but its
name is immortalised, with that of one of its citizens,
in an edition of Burke’s Knightage and Companion-
age prepared after the war to enshrine the list of
members of the Order of the British Empire. The
citizen had been awarded the M.B.E. His biography
gave the reason:
War Services: Hon. Sec. Brandon and Byshottle War
Savings and Food Economy Committee.
The Byshottle spirit was so strong in the time of
the Lloyd George Government and like-minded Ad-
ministrations, chiefly Australian, that in four years
there shot up 67 Grand Cross Knights of the Empire,
33 Grand Cross Dames, 484 K.B.Es., 61 D.B.Es.,
3215 C.B.Es., 12,068 0.8.E5. and 10,479 M.B.Es., be-
sides new peers, baronets, knights and companions of
older orders, and a host of recipients of civilian medals.
In 1908 there were in Australia 55 knights and 57
C.M.Gs. In 1935 there were 149 knights and 800
companions and the like, while 0.8.E5. and M.B.Es.
were numbered as sands of the desert. And 131 of
the knighthoods were post-war creations, 66 having
been added to the list since 1927. Since 1935 56
knighthoods have been gazetted. Since Mr. Lyons
became P.M. the fountain of honor has sprayed 85
knights, just on three hundred “other ranks” and thou-
sands of proud wearers of Coronation and Jubilee
medals.
Canberra and Sydney are the great fastnesses of
the Byshottle spirit. The present Brisbane and Perth
Governments, like those of Canada and S’Africa,
have no use for the “honors” system.
Canberra’s New Year list (four knights, 34
others) is a fair average sample. Those who receive
the higher decorations, from C.B.E. upwards, are, with
three exceptions, all in the employ of public authori-
ties. The only C.M.G. goes to a public servant. Of four
C.B.Es., three draw public salaries. The three exceptions,
are a Tasmanian doctor and a Sydney draper, who
have been knighted, and A. B. Paterson, a writer with
an Empire reputation which has secured him a C.B.E.
On a long list of 0.8.E5. and M.B.Es., 60 per cent, in
Government pay, is the name of Mrs. TEneas Gunn,
whose We of the Never Never has immortalised the
old bush life. Mrs. Gunn gets an 0.8. E., the same as
“the reception officer of the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment.”
Byshottle has even wormed its way into the Aus-
tralian Who’s Who. That useful publication now con-
tains an “Australian Knightage and Companionage,”
with a preface which instructs the lower orders how
to show a proper respect for the great.
Shakspeare, Milton, Pope, Burns, Dickens,
Thackeray, the younger Pitt, Gladstone, Bright,
Cobbett, John Macarthur, Macquarie, Wentworth,
Deakin, Marcus Clarke and Henry Lawson never
figured in any “honors” list. Posterity will never-
theless remember them when the last K.B.E. badge has
been melted down.
Brickbats and Brick Prices.
From J. A. Burke, chairman of Associated Building
Societies (N.S.W.):
In B. 14/12/’3B you state: “To June 30 it [the N.S.W.
Government] had guaranteed £8,998,900, £7,922,300 being to
enable co-operative societies to make loans to borrowers up
to 90 per cent, of valuations of properties. These operations
have been amplified since June 30, and among the fruits are
two thumping rises in the price of bricks.” There are other
unmentioned fruits, such as 8000 families now in homes that
they are acquiring on such terms as would never have been
available by private finance; the briskness in the building
trade, which has been held to be a big factor in a community’s
prosperity, and a perceptible raising of the standard of housing.
As to bricks, here is the present position:
Award Rates —
Price Per Average
1000 at Kiln. Per Employee.
Sydney .. .. 68/- 111/-
Melbourne .. .. 68/- 88/-
Adelaide .. .. 75/- 83/-
Brisbane .. .. 75/- 89/-
In Brisbane, 755. per 1000 was the sum fixed by the Price-
fixing Commissioner. We of the building societies hold
no brief for the brick-masters, but we resist the statement
that our operations are responsible for the rises in price.
It is early to forecast the result of the N.S.W. Premier’s
action, but unless there is an unheard-of economic disaster
we are certain that not one penny-piece will be lost through
the guarantee of the overdrafts of co-operative building
societies.
Nothing published in B. 14/12/’3B is here with-
drawn. Bricks were 50s. per 1000 in Sydney in 1932.
The last increase of 3s. “will add £5 to £7 to the cost
of erecting the average cottage under the co-operative
building societies’ scheme” —so “S. M. Herald”
announced on November 29, and no denial was
noticed. In the previous June the Rural Bank’s
Economist, Mr. Cooper, reported that building costs
had been rising rapidly, and had in that month almost
reached those of “the peak period of 1929.” And in
this situation the Sydney Government was blithely
guaranteeing 90 p.c. of advances, as if slumps had
never happened or would never happen again. It
didn’t bother its head about building costs until it
appointed a new Judge to inquire into them ; and by
that time the money had given out.
Newspapers Across Europe.
From “Theo Doubter,” who has made a study of the
subject:
Gresham’s law, by which bad currency ousts good, is
working overtime in the case of daily newspapers both in
London (where Earl Baldwin quietly tipped off the Press
Club the other day that the Government might have to do
something about one bad example) and in Australia. Moronism
is infecting more and more even journals of long descent and
high reputation. It is saddening to come back from a turn
abroad and to find dames of ancient days, both in Melbourne
and in Sydney, trying to outkick and outjazz the bright
young things.
Why is the law so much less effective elsewhere? For a
good while it has been my business (and often a pleasure) to
read newspapers from several Western European countries.
Those countries no doubt have bad newspapers, but most of
their journals go on being intelligent, and looking it too. One
outstanding difference is that only in English-speaking countries
has it been discovered, broadly speaking, that it pays to adver-
tise in daily newspapers. French, German and other news-
papers have advertisements all right, but they do not swamp
and surround the reading matter in the same way. Presumably
the advertisers have much less say, but that does not seem
to account for the difference. Some of the worst features of
our new sensationalism tell against, not in favor of, the
advertisers, and surely do not represent any attempt to please
them.
The French journals are largely viewspapers, but the
views are those of expert publicists, not of professors. They
are clearly and brightly written, and usually show intelligence
as well as knowledge. It is a pity that the vaporings of a
couple of careless sensation-mongers are given with madden-
ing repetition by the London newspapers and so get cabled
to Australia. Every now and then, as in the recent case of
Jibuti, you get two of them on the same day flatly contra-
dicting each other in our cables. You take your choice.
Some of the big German newspapers are solid to the
point of stolidity. One week’s reading of them is enough
to destroy that impression of savage fanaticism and bitter-
ness which one gets from the cabled titbits. For a time I
turned hopefully day by day to the staring black-and-red
front-page headings of the “Volkischer Beobachter” for the
“slaverings of the mad dogs of Nazidom,” as one of our
critics put it. But it almost always proved heavy going, and
I gave up the search. As Joseph Goebbels has just explained,
German newspapers do not exist to spice the breakfasts of
their readers, but are organs of German nationalism. As
Goebbels has also shown, you can prove nearly anything if
you pick the right quotations from the press of any country
and handle them well. Goebbels is not the only one who
knows that. Like the French, if not to the same extent,
the German dailies give much attention to literature, the arts,
science, history and imponderable things of that kind. They
do not make you wish, as some of our great dailies do when
they try, that they would let it alone.
Dutch newspapers have a more direct appeal to us.
They are more like what some of our great dailies used to be.
Some of them flatteringly make you feel that London is the
capital of Holland. Such a newspaper as the Amsterdam
“Telegraaf” implies in countless ways that the English lan-
guage, ways of life and ideas are familiar to its readers.
No French or German newspaper would make such assump-
tions. The “Telegraaf” even gives a column a day to Test
cricket.
Italian newspapers have a certain liveliness and shout
at times, if they seldom shriek as shrilly as our more modern
dailies. And they show more sense of values and of pro-
portion. They kept their heads admirably in the September
“crisis,” when it was a pleasure to read them. They run a
good deal, especially on Sundays, to comic strips, sometimes
nearly as inane as ours, though not so machine-made. Their
Sunday issues love wild stuff, such as the old Sydney “World’s
News” throve upon.
Spain used to have good newspapers, bright and well-
written. Most are dead and others frankly propaganda sheets
for one side or the other, though they are still well-written.
One of them, the “A.8.C.,” is said to have tried issuing two
editions, one on each side, but that did not last long. Neither
bombing nor the censorship can keep the Barcelona news-
papers from being bright, bold, variegated and sometimes ;
violent. Curiously enough, the best-produced sheet in Madrid
is issued in Gallegan for the benefit of anti-Franco exiles from
Galicia. And a Francoist journal, with the motto, “For
God and Caesar,” is printed in Rome.
The Greek newspapers kept even cooler than the Italians
during the crisis. There was a detached sanity about the news
as presented in Athens. You did not expect detachment in
the London journals, but some of them were so far from sane.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Craiser”: A friend became the pos-
sessor of a dog with jet-black hair, long,
pendant ears and the mournful expression
of an undertaker, but its most charac-
teristic feature was a pair of front legs
which incurved like a dentist's forceps.
The family developed an inordinate affec-
tion for the creature, and somehow or
other got it into their heads that he
was a cocker spaniel of extraordinarily
exalted lineage, and would point to the
bow legs as a special thing in his favor.
So great was their pride that they
contemplated showing the animal, and
invited a dog expert, to come and look
at it. He arrived one Sunday morning
full of expectation, but the moment his
eye lighted o.n the melancholy creature
his face fell. Then he looked amused
and embarrassed in equal proportions.
“It’s a nice dog,” he said, “a very nice
dog. And it’s got some of the points of
a good cocker. But its forelegs are
broken!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A Vic. country town is the
home of an artists’ colony which is
situated in a paddock on a hill overlook-
ing the local cemetery. On the day after
New Year’s Eve one of its members was
walking through the village when she was
accosted by a townsman. “Are you one
of the artists?” he asked. “Yes,” said
the young lady. “Are things all right
up there?” the townsman went on
anxiously. “Quite. Why, what has hap-
pened?” “Wasn’t there a fight up there
or something?” “Not as far as I know,”
said the young lady. “Well, what were
“Zedo”: A Brisbane daily which be-
fore the war wrote a solemn protest
about the corrupting influence of two
English hussies who had smoked cigar-
ettes on the deck of an Orient liner at
Pinkenba, only 14 miles from the city,
has certainly changed its spots. It began
its holiday season (Dec. 26) by devoting
its whole picture- page to portraits of
young women which, if published a few
years ago, would have brought to the
office parents frothing at the mouth and
bloods bearing horsewhips. The title
was “Sea and Surf Are Calling.” There
was no sea or surf; just yards of bare
female carapace mitigated by a minimum
of bathing suit. Next day there were
seven pictures of girls (“Glamor of Sea-
side Holiday”), with one of a small boy.
The Dec. 28 issue featured one beach
scene, one mournful crowd going back to
work and six sets of girls, younger and
with a little more clothing; a second
page was thrown in for good measure:
more girls (one evidently attired in a
colored handkerchief), sand castles and
miscellaneous. Dec. 29 brought forth
larger pictures and a lot more female
flesh. January 2 (“Holiday Happiness”)
gave us 300 square inches of girl and
beach again. It was quite a relief to
find a ship and a jockey and other mun-
dane objects pictured on Jan. 3.
“Hope they're still there , Prendergast—I love Watching porpoises!”
those frightful yells round about mid-
night? We thought that somebody was
being strangled. The Boy Scouts are
camped on one side of the township
and the Girl Guides on the other, and
when the boys heard it they got out of
bed and rushed off to see if the girls
were being murdered.” The girl thought
for a moment and then her face lightened.
“Oh, yes,” she said. “Now I remember.
There was a bit of music on the terrace.
That must have been Miss X singing
‘Brunnhilde’s Battlecry.’ ” Miss X is a
Wagnerian singer who was booked for
the grand opera season mooted last year
in Melbourne which, for some reason or
other, didn’t happen.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The Christmas heat-spell was
certainly enough to fray tempers some-
what in my S.Q. locality, but there really
wasn’t any need for my old friend Bill
to punch my even older friend Jim over
a matter of 10 degrees difference in their
respective thermometers. Both were right
in a way, but really both were wrong.
Bill’s 115 was registered in the shade, just
as he claimed, but the iron roof of a
near-by porch was at the exact angle for
reflecting heat on to the innocent instru-
ment for some hours daily. Jim’s regis-
tered its 105 with complete correctness
in i(s shady corner where no air-current
could reach it. Mine, slung from a ver-
andah rafter, out of direct or indirect
sun’s rays, and with air circulating freely
round it, read a maximum of 98. Natur-
ally, I didn’t mention it. Anyhow, it
isn’t ordinary thermometer figures that
measure discomfort from any given tem-
perature, but the relative amount of
moisture in the air.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: On January 3 the earth
was at its nearest point to the sun for
the year, but that was not the whole
reason for warm New Year weather.
Europe is just as near as Australia, and
it is having the coldest winter for many
years. The tilt of the earth’s axis does
the' job by bringing the sun overhead
at noon, from the latitude of Rock-
hampton northward, so that the rays
impinge on most parts of Australia at
relatively little divergence from the per-
pendicular. In Europe the rays travel
a much more oblique course, and have
to pass through a far greater atmos-
pheric distance before reaching the sur-
face. Heat is absorbed from them in
the passage, and the long winter nights
cause loss of local ground warmth as
well. Were it not for the warm current
of the Gulf Stream, Britain and northern
Europe would be as frozen up as Lab-
rador is.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: The tiny fungus which
causes athlete’s foot, surfer’s foot,
bather’s itch, or whatever the local nick-
name may be, is not a creature to be
fooled with. If roughened, waterlogged,
whitish spots show up between toes or
fingers, or small blisters on fronts of
feet or toes, leaving cracks or raw sur-
faces, surfing or pool-bathing had better
be left alone until it is got under control.
Otherwise the result may be a very nasty,
troublesome mess indeed, spreading or
being transferred to other parts of the
body, including head or face. Floors of
bathing- or dressing-sheds are a common
source of infection, and it is wise to wash
the feet daily in warm fresh water, dry
them very carefully, and dust with anti-
septic powder, especially between toes.
For actual infections, if they do not clear
up, or promptly and continuously im-
prove from use of one of the advertised
preparations, it is wise to lose no time
in seeing a doctor about it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Whether driving with a de-
fective car is (legally) dangerous to other
people has been thoroughly discussed in
S.A. Supreme Court. A youth of 18
was teaching a girl of 17 to drive, and
a girl pedestrian was killed. The foot-
brake was admittedly ineffective. In a
Children’s Court the driver was fined £lO
and appealed; the charge against the
teacher was dismissed—and the Crown
appealed. In the Supreme Court Judges
were unanimous that her conviction was
correct, and by a majority held that the
man was equally to blame.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: I can’t swallow that Fox
Smith suggestion that the disappearance
of the Blue Anchor liner Waratan in
1909 was due to the carpenter having
neglected to see that the coal-ports were
made fast after leaving Durban. If Chips
did neglect one of his most essential
duties, the mate would have quickly
picked it up on the duty report. If the
mate, too, failed, any substantial leakage
through a coal-port would have shown
up in the bunkers and stokehold in full
time for effective measures to be taken.
If the engine-room watch didn’t happen
to notice a few feet of water surging
about on the plates—and firemen are
very sensitive about such matters —the
altered feel and trim of the ship would
long before have become obvious to the
bridge. Evidence at the inquiry showed
that the Waratah was a cranky ship in a
beam sea, and the most natural explana-
tion is that she capsized in the tremen-
dous waves so frequently encountered off
s.-e. African coasts.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Fate played a grim hand in
the Vic. holiday holocaust when a motor-
cyclist was travelling along the Hume
Highway with a passenger in the pillion.
As he passed a car travelling in the oppo-
site direction he was struck a terrific
blow on the head and was dead before he
could be got to hospital. The rear axle
of the car had broken, and the wheel,
coming off, bounced on the road and
crashed down on the motor-cyclist. No-
body in the car that had lost its wheel
was injured.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Australia’s most resolute
gourmet has been found in Melbourne.
He was demolishing a grill in the dining-
room of Phair’s Hotel, Collins-street,
when an alarm of fire was given. The
room began to fill with smoke, the guests
started to leave, and the feet of the fire-
men were heard in the passage. The
epicurean whistled over a waiter and told
him to let him know when the fire had
reached the floor on which he was dining.
Presently the guests began to return, the
fire having been extinguished. The gour-
met was still meditatively appreciating
each mouthful.
* * * *
“Ysbrantsz”: The vessels of the
round-America goodwill squadron will be
the first United States warships to round
Cape Horn for 15 years. The Sydney
Public Library has a souvenir of the
Pacific voyage of the first U.S.A. war-
ship that ever rounded the Horn —the
Essex, under Captain David Porter. It
is an Arrowsmith map of the Pacific, on
the back of which is a rough log of the
first part of the voyage of the British
whaler Seringapatam from Nukahiva, in
the Marquesas, to Port Jackson, via Tahiti,
in 1814. Captured, like 16 other British
vessels, by the Essex, the Seringapatam
was being fitted out at Nukahiva as an
auxiliary cruiser when the 14 British
prisoners, aided by discontented Ameri-
cans, seized her, spiked the guns of
Porter’s fort and steered for Sydney. The
Essex ran into the British warships Phoebe
and Cherub off Valparaiso, and was de-
stroyed after'a fierce fight.
* * * *
“E.A.8.”: Walking into our rural post
office on Christmas Eve, a resident
handed the postmaster a huge bouquet
of seasonable blooms. “For the exchange
girls,” he said. “Very good of you, Mr.
Blank,” quoth the postmaster beaming.
“I’m sure the girls will appreciate this
compliment to our efficient service.”
“Efficient service, be blowed!” exploded
Mr. Blank. “I thought they were all
dead!”
* * * *
H. R. McDuffie looks back over his
freelance career: —
This week I complete 33 years of con-
tributing to The Bulletin. I wonder how
many of the contributors in 1906 are left.
Of the short-story writers only two seem to be
still on deck —J. H. M. Abbott and Harold
Mercer. Henry Lawson was contributing then,
Steele Rudd’s “On Our Selection” stories were
booming, and amongst others no longer with us
were Ernest o‘Farrell (“Kodak”), Ernie Emer-
son (“Milky White”), Jeffries, who wrote
the “Cattle Kings of Canterbury” and “By Rail
and Semaphore” series (great tales, those), Alf
Brash (“Mr. Barnes”), Laurence Jupp, Dowell
O’Reilly and Edward Dyson. The par.-
writers seem to have died out, too. “Hamer”
(Harold Mercer) seems to be the only one left.
I myself must be regarded as fairly ancient.
Regular contributors to the Abo. columns in
those days were “Eddyson,” “Cict,” “Silas
Snell” (all three pen-names of the late Edward
Dyson, I believe), “Kodak,” “Milky White,”
“The Prooshan,” “Paul Cupid,” “Bill Bow-
yang,” “Dandalup,” “A. William Can,”
“Tommy the Rager” and E. S. Sorenson, also a
good short-story writer. The artists included
“Hop,” B. E. Minns, Alf Vincent, Tom Shields,
Ted Colles, Jack Somers, Ashton Murphy,
Ambrose and Will Dyson and, of course, the
Lindsays, Norman, Lionel, Percy and Ruby.
Among the poets were Victor Daley, McCrae,
Brady and Dennis. It is a long time to
look back over, and one regrets the passing
of old friends, though we have never met each
other. The real pleasing thing to an old-timer
like myself is that The Bulletin is still going
strong. Good luck and brighter and better
New Years.
CRAZY HATS.
“Hat styles at Rand wick were more topsy-turvy
than ever. Big or small, with upturned brim or no
brim at all, they seemed to have no straight lines
and to be perched on the head at a crazy angle.”
—“ S. M. Herald.”
Oh, feminine fashions are rich in change,
Bizarre and gaudy and quaint and strange,
And no man knoweth what new surprise
Will next impinge on his startled eyes.
But this is the era of crazy hats, lazy hats, hazy
hats,
This is the latest hit to make, the latest bait
to dangle
And for admiring looks to bid —a rickety-
rackety sort of lid,
Worn at a crazy angle!
It really doesn’t matter a rap
Whether it’s trim as a fez or cap
Or wide and shady the face to screen—
Or any confection in between.
But whether they’re big or puny hats, it’s
moony hats and loony hats
That make the grade where bets are made
’mid racecourse roar and wrangle,
Curvy hats and swervy hats and regular topsy-
turvy hats,
Worn at a crazy, angle.
One needn’t worry a scrap or jot
Whether the brim turns up or not,
Or feel the minimum of concern
If there isn’t the ghost of a brim to turn.
For now’s the time all batty hats and ratty hats
are natty hats,
The further they’re removed from straight, the
nearer twist and tangle,
When fresh from millinery shop some prepos-
sessing face they top,
Worn at a crazy angle.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Lao-dah”: A quaint situation has
arisen over the question of the Kents’
accommodation in Melbourne. The
Federal Ministry has given up the idea
of providing a special residence in the
Vic. capital, and the only alternative is
for Sir Winston Dugan, Vic. Governor-
elect, to move out of Government House
when the Duke and Duchess move in.
As Cup week is obviously the occasion
when they would be most likely to visit
Melbourne, Sir Winston will have to
manifest a burning desire to go and look
at the dried-fruit industry at Mildura or
something, instead of donning his grey
belltopper. Being an ex-polo player and
a sporting gentleman, Sir Winston may
not be very happy about it. The reason
given by Ministers for their decision Is
that expenses have to be cut owing to
the diseased defence position. This view
is said to be shared by the royal couple.
Naturally. When a host spins a hard-up
tale to a prospective guest politeness re-
quires the guest to make sympathetic
noises, though his private opinion may
be anything but complimentary.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne will shortly
have the longest fire-escape ladder in the
Southern Hemisphere. It is 120 ft. long,
made of steel tubing, weighs two tons
and will be extended by hydraulic power
from a turntable mounted on a ten-ton
chassis. A fire has never yet broken out
in the new edifices which reach the city’s
building limit of 132 ft. The next longest
ladder is in Sydney. It is 20ft. shorter.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Maurice Hankey, born in
South Australia on April 1, 1877, is the
second Australian by birth to be raised
to the peerage, and, as he has three
sons, the Hankey barony should endure,
for some generations at least. John For-
rest, the first Australian-born peer, died
childless. He was a doomed man when
he got his distinction, and it brought him
nothing but the privilege of listening to
congratulations which he was too ill and
weary to appreciate, and of writing the
word “Forrest” at the foot of a few
letters. Hoping that his strength would
last until he could attend at least one
sitting of the House of Lords, John set
out for London in a troopship, but died
in West African
waters. The hope of
the Forrest clan when
John was denied an
heir was Kimberley
Forrest, son of
Alick, John’s brother
and partner in ex-
ploration and busi-
ness. But Kim had
no bent for public
life.
* *
“K. 57”: The Sun-
dry Showman’s ref-
erence to the West-
ralian Government’s
scholarship school
(B 21/12/’3B) re-
minds me as an ex-
student of one “wide
latitude” of which I
sometimes took ad-
vantage. I don’t
suppose there is in
Australia another school where leave or
absence is granted or excused on a
student’s word. Similarly, I doubt if
there is another Australian school where
there is neither corporal punishment nor
detention. The Westralian seminary seems
to get along nicely without them. An-
other point: on the annual opening day
the headmaster delivers an address in the
hall mentioning, among other things,
desks —surfaces which usually have a
fatal fascination for a schoolboy’s pen-
knife. They were, he will say, installed
when the school was opened in 1911, and
have always been treated with the respect
due to a decent stick of furniture. To-
day, or when I was there a few years
ago, they were still decent furniture —a
few inkstains here and there perhaps, but
otherwise smooth, polished and unmarked
Australian timber which is subjected to
a voluntary face-lifting with furniture-
polish, etc., at the end of every term.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Even closer than the
ban upon chewing-gum on board one of
his Majesty’s ships of war is the ban
upon the possession or use of an in-
delible pencil (B. 21/12/’3B). The reason?
Well, pencils must be sharpened, and
wherever the tiniest fragment of indelible-
pencil lead falls upon planking a purple
blotch appears. Ratings can wear out
hearts and holystones, but nothing
short of replacing a section of decking
will eradicate those hideous stains from
the sacred deck.
¥
“T.”: Having read “The Debunking
of Errol Flynn,” by Frank Clune, in
B. 13/4/’3B, I was interested to read
in Brisbane “Courier-Mail” that “the
young Scotch-Irishman” has made his
fortune, “partly in Californian real estate,
partly in stocks and bonds* partly in
endowed insurance and partly in yachts.”
As soon as his latest picture was com-
pleted he hurried to Miami, Fla., to board
his new 78ft. ketch Sirocco. Flynn also
owns a 50ft. yawl, Cheerio 11., and he
drives a 19ft. speedboat.
The engaging youth is also a writer, and
“is quite professional about it.” He
aspires to be a “gentleman adventurer,”
and everyone who read Clune’s article
will agree he draws a longer bow than
the fabled archer drew at Hastings. But
why does Flynn repudiate Tasmania as
his birthplace? Better men than he —
eight V.Cs., for instance —were born in
Tasmania, and they never disowned it,
“ I'm beginning to believe you're right, Ebsicorth."
“With a coupla chaps on the 'andle, she'll spray a good three 'undred
yards 'n' kill anythin' up to fifty crows."
nor do they go about skiting that they
won an Olympic boxing championship
or anything like that. Harry Murray,
the A.l.F.’s Ney, “the bravest of the
brave,” was born in Tasmania, though
he worked and enlisted in Westralia.
Strange that Hollywood can so de-
nationalise and swell the head of a pretty
boy who is making easy money as to
cause him to forget that he is a com-
patriot of Murray.
“Brix”: One of the landmarks on an
un-country road in N.S.W. is an ancient
brick chimney, standing alone on a de-
serted flat. About 50 years ago a farmer
commissioned a neighbor to build him
a two-roomed house with a brick chim-
ney. When the dwelling was finished the
owner took great exception to the chim-
ney, which, he asserted, was a poor job,
liable to give way any moment and kill
somebody. He and the builder fell out
over the matter, and never spoke after-
wards, and when the account was settled
no payment for the allegedly unsafe
chimney was included. To-day both dis-
putants are long gone and forgotten,
the dwelling was burnt or fell to pieces
long ago, and the only link with the past
is the lone chimney, still standing, used
by wayfarers, and reckoned by modern
experts stout enough to stand until
forcibly rent asunder.
* * * *
“Feddup”: To quote a short-lived Cen-
tralian newspaper, “the season of big-
heartedness and fat-headedness” has
passed. I have 30 articles of apparel and
otherwise and a score or more cards,
none of which I will use, want or am
game to destroy, and in return for which
I gave 30 articles of apparel and other-
wise and a score or more cards, none
of which anyone will use, want, or be
game to destroy. I have eaten, drunk
and slept like a python and enjoyed none
of it; I have a thick head, indigestion
and a sore throat from smoking cigarettes
and cigars other people have forced upon
me ; my hand has been wrung to pulp
and my back pounded black and blue. I
have kissed and been kissed and mauled
by innumerable nephews, nieces and
babies, and the drums of my ears feel
as though a horse has galloped through
them. Lastly, I’m flat broke and wonder-
ing if I can pay off all I’ve borrowed and
be paid back all I’ve lent in time to
prepare for and to suffer next Christmas
and 1940.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Jubilating Victorians
had their New Year ushered in with a
nice little reminder of the existence of
the policeman. As far as public dance
halls and hotels were concerned festivi-
ties had to close at midnight under an
English Act 150 years old, which pro-
hibits any place of amusement which
people pay to enter being open after
midnight on Saturday. Any member of the
public can proceed against the offenders
and make a handsome profit, since the
penalties can be recovered by the person
who lays the information. The Act was
amended six years ago in England but
remains in its original form in Victoria.
Poor old democracy suffers another out-
rage, inasmuch as private dance halls are
exempted.
*r* -t*
“Lorryeate”: Parkes’s lines on “Ragged
Jane” (B. 28 /12/’3B) suggest similar
efforts by better-known bards:
Dust to dust, ashes to ashes,
Into her grave the great Queen dashes.
was included in Alfred Austin’s effort
“On the Death of Queen Victoria.” Even
Wordsworth had his comic moments, as
witness:
And straight in sorrow, not in dread,
He turned the eyeball in his head.
And Keats wasn’t exempt. In his ode
to Fanny Brawne he perpetrated:
Who can forget her half-retiring sweets?
God! she is like a milk-white lamb that bleats.
“Ente Marid”: I love my Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” ; it is so majestically
oblivious of everything which interferes
with the picturesqueness of its copy. Take
that delightfully homely picture it pub-
lished on January 3:
British Premier Chamberlain and his wife
were the only strollers in Green Park,
London, when this picture was taken early
on December 20. Little wonder; the hour
was early, the temperature well helow zero
and the lake ice-covered. Chamberlain
walks here daily with his wife.
Firstly, there is no lake in Green Park for
the Prime Minister to stroll by, but per-
haps a gang of navvies from the “D.T.”
shifted it in the night from St. James’s
Park, to which it appears to belong.
Secondly, I have never seen water flow
before at a temperature below zero—it
starts freezing 32 degrees above; but
from the picture the “D.T.” has kept some
of it liquid. Thirdly, if Mr. C. can stroll
around in cold “well below zero” in the
costume which he seems to be wearing
—no scarf and the whole of his face
exposed—he must own the toughest dial
between Camden Hill and Coronel.
A WARNING.
“Mr. G. Williams, dhairman of stipendiary
stewards, in a five minutes’ address to jockeys at
Ascot, sounded a warning of trouble for any rider
who took it on himself to give his mount an
‘easy race.’ ”
Take warning, you silken-clad fliers
Who loaf till you’re nearing the straight
And firmly refuse to be triers
Till you know very well it’s too late!
You may reckon it easy your wiles to disguise,
But it takes a fly jockey to diddle the “sties.”
You may harbor implicit reliance
You’ve been playing your hand from the
start
With quite unsurpassable science
And thoroughly competent art,
But never forget those binoculared eyes
That are watching you lynx-like—the lamps of
the “sties.”
You needn’t for punters be caring,
’Tis seldom they grasp it’s a case
Of your mount being “out for an airing*’
Instead of a win or a place;
But there’s little to which they’re not wakefully
wise
In the matter of gentle deception, the “sties.”
Though you know that your measure’s been
taken
You should never, well up or behind,
Behave as if landing the bacon
Were the very last thing in your mind,
Or you’re likely to get an unpleasant surprise
From those guardian angels of turfdom, the
“sties.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


10 for 9d...20 for 1 / 6
F.1869
CRAVENA
IjoiiU appimate tiuit
•m
*»**%/
:*
m
m
MADE S PE Cl A LL Y TO PREVENT
POLITICAL Points
Australians have been rather astonished
at the poor quality of the chin-music paid
out by British politicians, Ministerial and
Opposition, who have visited this country
the last year or so, but when they try
to “come it over us” —as H. G. Wells
once accused W. M. Hughes of attempt-
ing at their first meeting—it is too much.
Listen to Lord Strabolgi:
Fifty per cent, of British political
opinion is against Mr. Chamberlain’s
foreign policy. Half of the Conservatives
disagree with him.
Then why don’t Conservative members
vote against him? And why did the anti-
Chamberlain Duchess lose the Kinross
seat, held by her as a Conservative since
1923, when she resigned and made
foreign policy the issue? His Lordship
is “interested in a company which hopes
WHO’S PLAYING?
“Ask for two cards, Mr. Chamberlain! No, three cards! No, five cards! No, call his bluff!”
to build in Australia the largest and
fastest Big Dipper south of the Equator.”
He should stick to Big Dippers.
H G Wells has a low oninion of
Mussolini and “Hitler I regard as a
certifiable’ lunatic” Australians dislike
dictators and their svstems but they
know that “freaks” 7 and ’“certifiable
lunatics” couldn’t command the devotion
of millions Wells has been rebuked
somewhat nonderouslv bv Lvons and he
should really leave mudslmging to papers
like the “Daily News” and the “Daily
Mirror”
It has been suggested to Lord
Strabolgi that “the Commonwealth
should sell its surplus wheat to Spanish
Republicans” and his Lordship thinks it
“a good idea” But it is oart of the
••Me!” though his* doesn’t
mention it, that the Commonwealth
should take Spanish Republican lOUs,
and that isn’t so good. A better idea
would be for the Britons who have
bought huge consignments of Ameri-
can and Rumanian wheat, getting
Rumanian wheat carried in Greek
bottoms, to send what they can spare to
Spain. Australia would be charmed to
dispatch the equivalent to Britain in
British bottoms and to take British Gov-
ernment securities in payment.
New Deals and 40-hour weeks have
played the very devil in countries that
have adopted them. The U.S.A. was
first; then came France and then Maori-
land. Like Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Blum,
Mr. Savage, though at present somewhat
dazed, predicts that things will turn out
all right in the end.
The flow of news from the U.S.S.R.,
which stopped suddenly in September —
when something evidently happened to
the Mighty Soviet War Machine has
been resumed, but on one point there
is complete silence. Although there is
incessant clamor for all the Dominions
and colonies to open their gates to Euro-
pean Jews, and Australia is admitting
15,000, it is never mentioned that the
U.S.S.R. is taking any. Yet its dominions
are more than four times the size of
the U.S.A., and the population is not
much greater. Moreover, there is (or
was) a Jewish Autonomous Republic
in what used to be called Siberia, which,
in area and resources, is said to be a
combination of the U.S.A. and Canada.
Can it be true, as Walter Duranty de-
clares, that Stalin has shot more Jews
in a few months than the Nazis have
shot in six years?
Tom Mooney, who has served 22
years in Californian gaols on a. bomb-
throwing charge, has been released by a
Democratic Governor. Mooney is only
a name to Australians, and periodically
the nation learned, with mild astonish-
ment, that it was on fire with indignation
at what Sydney “D.T.” pronounces “one
of the most shameful frame-ups in Ameri-
can history.” On this point the Reds of
the Sydney Labor Council and the
“D.T.” are in full agreement. The
“D.T.” even alleges that “the Attorney-
General conspired with witnesses to give,
false evidence” against Mooney. The
fact remains that the U.S. Supreme Court
—the equivalent of our High Court —
dismissed the latest of many Mooney
appeals.
Some of the fiercest stuff that sees type
in London appears in financial papers.
For example, the “Financial News” thun-
ders that “if China were closer public
opinion would have forced the British
public to intervene.” Australians are very
glad that China is not closer. In fact, they
would be relieved if some genius could
find a way of shifting China and other
countries morbidly attractive to elderly
interventionists, avengers and crusaders
somewhere near the North Pole.
Tipsters are now off the air, and broad-
casting of the odds is prohibited until
after The Last. This is Archie Cameron’s
doing, and he has this much warrant—
it was a shabby misuse of Marconi’s
noble invention to let it become an in-
strument of s.p. parasitism. N.S.W. Chief
Secretary Gollan now complains that
s.p. parasites are getting round the broad-
casting ban by sending telegrams from
racecourses, and Cameron has been asked
to stop this too. Probably the only cure
for punters who believe they can “beat
the books” is to lose their money ; but,
as ex-Governor Game put it in Lang’s
case, it is not for any representative of
the Crown to make the Crown a party
to illegality.
With a characteristic flourish, Can-
berra is “assisting Australian literature”
to the extent of quite one-fourth of the
money it is showering on the “National”
Travel Association, the show that wanted
to grab some of our few remaining koalas
and exhibit them to trippers in ’Frisco
in the very unlikely event of their surviv-
ing the voyage. Commonwealth Literary
Fund pensions granted during the past
six months —about half a dozen alto-
gether—have reached a whole pound a
week, the amount of the old-age pension.
The difference is that the names of the
recipients are published. Parading the
poverty of old writers and widows of
writing men is a shabby business.
If you can believe the cables, Hitler
takes the representatives of hostile foreign
newspapers into his confidence, and
Roosevelt —unlike all previous Presidents
—supplies foreign rulers with advance
copies of his speeches to Congress. Any-
way, the Berlin correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Argus” and Sydney “D.T.”
warned Poland’s Foreign Minister that
he was “due for a lecture” when he
met Hitler —a lecture on Polish foreign
policy “and the position of Memel, of
Danzig and of the Ukraine.” And the
Associated Press group reports that
Roosevelt “refused to modify the text of
his challenging Message, despite last-
minute threats from Berlin.” If Hitler
knew what our Great Dailies think about
him, he wouldn’t give them foreknow-
ledge of his “threats.”
It is a rotten business to send a Minis-
ter rising 75 round the country recruiting
in midsummer while colleagues half his
age are “resting,” and Billy is not suffer-
ing it gladly. A printed report that
some of the “resting” fraternity expected
him to fail drove him to retaliate in
a fashion unusual for even Canberra:
These statements and opinions of certain
Ministers are let loose from time to time,
and everybody knows where they come
from. Unless they cease I will give them
something to talk about. The trouble with
these gentlemen is that the voluntary re-
cruiting drive is succeeding, although they
pray to whatever god they recognise that
it may fail.
That appeared in Sydney “Sun.” In next
morning’s “S.M.H.” Billy repeated that
“suggestions that the campaign is doomed
to failure (it is, in fact, succeeding) and
that compulsory training is inevitable
are all hatched by the same hen.” Mel-
bourne hens and Warwick eggs! Billy’s
political career seems fated to have barn-
door associations.
A thing that puzzles Australian Labor
is Maoriland Labor’s tolerance of titles.
It has been the means of giving its
country two more knights—Ostler, J.,
and C. M. Luke. The only Australian
Labor Premier known to have recom-
mended a knighthood was John Storey,
of N.S.W., who got one for his doctor*
A grand new Government chalet is
rising from the ruins of the one burnt
at Kosciusko last August. It is to have
central heating, “a spacious lounge,” and
accommodation for 100 guests, each bed-
room being “equipped with its own hot
and cold showers and lavatory.” Nothing
is said about charging more so that the
Government chalet and the Government
pub. will contribute something to tax-
revenue instead of steadily eating into it.
In a country where, because of boards
and savage taxes, working men have to
pay 6d. the 21b. loaf, 7d. a quart for milk
and 9d. a pint for beer, losing public
money in ministering to the pleasure of a
very small section is sinful.
The Japanese have offered peace terms,
and Wang Ching-wei, deputy-leader of
the Kuomintang, was for accepting them,
“as a basis of discussion.” Acceptance
would probably be a good thing for the
Chinese, even at the risk of passing under
a despotism tempered by the boycott—a
weapon which, as Hong Kong can testify,
they can wield with a skill unknown to
Communists on Australian waterfronts.
But the terms have been refused, and
Wang Ching-wei has been expelled from
the party, “the famous Communist leader
Chou En-lai” describing him as a quitter.
The Bulletin confesses that it never be-
fore heard of “the famous Communist
leader Chou En-lai,” but to a certain type
of newspaper correspondent and news-
paper every Moscow blatherskite, what-
ever his color, is “famous.”


DRESS PARADE.
“In New South Wales, at least, there will be a shortage of uniforms for the new recruits."—“S.M.H."


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, *
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colm A. binciair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETTBWG
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS*
FREE SETTING^
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 217-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit I and J blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, 654 George St.^ydney
PERfONAL ITEM S
Victoria’s new knight, George Louis
Goudie, is one of those hard-working
political draught-horses who get there by
sheer plodding. He was interested in the
municipal affairs of Homebush, his native
town, as an adolescent, and served vari-
ous shires for quarter of a century.
Storekeeper, grazier and farmer, he was
sent to the Leg. Council in 1920. That
other plodder, Allan, gave him the Public
Works portfolio in two composite Minis-
tries, and Goudie was Minister for Water
Supply and Labor in the Argyle Cabinet.
Dunstan made him responsible for Works
again in 1935. He will be 63 in March
next.
The Betting Board in S.A. has been
stood on its head by the Playford Gov-
ernment. Of its three members, P. J.
Flannagan and W. A. Piper, who repre-
sented city and country racing clubs, are
dropped, the Government explaining that
it thinks members should be entirely in-
dependent of any particular interest.
Jelley, chairman for the past five years,
remains, but not in the chair, which is
taken by Tom Cleland, a lawyer with
war service and son of the S.A. Judge.
Hanson, accountant and prominent muni-
cipal worker, is the other new member.
Ted Scorfield, whose drawings have
amused so many and whose signature still
baffles some, has been on the Bulletin
staff for 14 of his 55 years. Born at
North Shields and educated at Newcastle-
E. S. SCORFIELD.
(Modelled by Frith.)
on-Tyne, his gifts as a limner first earned
him a job in the draughting office of one
of the great Tyneside shipbuilders, but
in addition to designing ships he sup-
plied many humorous and fanciful draw-
ings to North of England journals. Played
Rugby Union football, too, as full-back
and captain of Percy Park, and repre-
sented England in several matches. Some
sporting scribe nicknamed him “the
coarse Christian” when he threw an op-
posing back right off the field with one
mighty heave. August 4, 1914, found
Ted in a recruiting office. He was at
Suvla Bay with the Royal Engineers and
afterwards at Salonika and in Palestine.
As mementoes he privately treasures two
mentions in dispatches and the Russian
Order of St. George, but never talks
about his war service. When he came to
Sydney in 1925 he had had a few lessons
from Hatton, but since then has been his
own teacher and has continually im-
proved under that tuition. By the way,
his initials, E.S., stand for Edward Scafe.
He’s married, and his hobbies are (1)
drawing, (2) swimming.
Justice Draper, who recently retired
from W.A.’s Supreme Court Bench,
assumed the Judge’s wig when, as
Mitchell’s Attorney-General, he was de-
feated for the West Perth Assembly seat
by Mrs. Edith Cowan in 1921. Mrs.
Cowan, to whom a monument has been
erected at the entrance to King’s Park,
was in turn defeated by T. A. L. Davy,
tipped by many as a future Premier of
the State. Like Draper, Davy became
Attorney-General in a Mitchell Adminis-
tration. He died suddenly in his early
forties.
Passed through Sydney last week,
N. H. M. Bowden, who apparently in-
herited roving characteristics from his
great-grandfather Matthew Bowden,
Principal Medical Officer to
Governor Collins at the
time of the founding of
Hobart. N.H.M. left West-
ralia for Papua in 1907, and
was one of J. H. P. Mur-
ray’s young men for four
years, holding the job of
R.M., Mambare Division,
when he resigned and went
to Ceylon to plant rubber.
From there to India to look
after the transfer of Tamil
labor to Ceylon was a short
step, and he has just retired
after 25 years in Trichi-
nopoly, where he has beep
Emigration Commissioner
for the Government of Cey-
lon since 1927. A C.B.E.
came to him in the latest
New Year honors.
“Nakhoda”: The press-
men who thronged to inter-
view Wells on his arrival in
Melbourne found a quiet
little man with a penetrating
eye and complete suavity of
manner who was quite
ready to listen to questions
but evaded them in his
answers, though he supplied
plenty of copy. When Kip-
ling was in Melbourne he
turned the tables on interviewers. Instead
of getting his views on anything they
found themselves unconsciously expound-
ing their own and providing the author
of Plain Tales with detailed information
on everything from wombats to willy-
willies. Masefield was of a different kid-
ney. He had commonplace ideas, but if
a reviewer knew how to touch his sen-
timental side he got a whole spate of
romantic reminiscence. Wells is a hearty
liver who knows how to mix with men
on his own terms; Kipling observed
without mixing ; Masefield proved a with-
drawn dreamer.
Prof. Ernest Scott, who delivers the in-
augural address at the Science Congress
at Canberra, of which he is president, is
a professor who never went to a univer-
sity until he was asked to warm a chair
in one. He was educated in an English
church school, became a pupil teacher in
it, fell out with the church’s views on
history, left to become a reporter on the
London “Globe,” gravitated to the
“Herald,” Melbourne, in 1892,
then to the Vic. and Federal “Han-
sard,” and finally, on account of his
knowledge of Australian history,
got the relevant chair at Melbourne
University in 1914. There he trained
a whole regiment of historical
savants, three of them enjoying
Australian professorships simul-
taneously until recently, when clever
young Hancock left the Adelaide
Uni. for Cambridge. Prof. Scott
is the author of a long list of
works, mainly on Australian
origins. He retired in 1936.
An inventor who made his mark
on the technology of both cine-
matography and photography was
Robert T. Haines, of Sydney, who
died in Manly Hospital at the turn
of the year. He patented talking
films as far back as 1907, and about
the same time gained a Fellowship
of the Royal Photographic Society
for a color-photography process
which is the basis of some present
methods. Born in Belfast, Ireland,
75 years ago, Haines migrated first
to Maoriland and then to Australia.
Here he studied law, but gave that
up in favor of research in the
photographic and sound-recording
fields. He was working on the applica-
tion of stereoscopic principles to the
cinema when death overtook him.
The intellect got short measure in the
Vic. New Year honors, but an 0.8. E.
came the way of Professor Agar and a
C.M.G. to Gordon Scholes. Agar was
born and educated in England, served in
the Great War in a Highland regiment,
has contributed to various scientific
works on biological subjects, and fills
the chair of zoology at Melb. University,
where he has occupied himself for a long
time with experiments on rats to eluci-
date the mysteries of the transmission of
acquired characteristics. In 1907 he went
on an expedition to South America to
find a close relation of the Queensland
lung fish—the lepidosiren. He has a
Royal Society Fellowship, the highest
award of science, and is 57. Scholes is
Victorian by birth, aftd is known all over
the world as an authority on infectious
diseases. He was in charge of the great
Fairfield institution during the infantile
paralysis epidemic, and is publishing a
book on nursing and infectious diseases.
He is 53.
The Dana-street State school, Ballarat,
will lose a distinguished headmaster when
Nathan Spielvogel retires shortly. Writer
of short stories for the “Lone Hand” and
The Bulletin, he has a long tale of
books to his credit, The Gumsucker on
the Tramp and The Gumsucker at
Home being among the best known of
them. Austrian-born, Spielvogel 60 years
ago entered as a pupil the school from
which he now retires as headmaster.
Reuter’s Australasian head office, in
Sydney, saw some changes on January 1.
General manager A. E. Wearne has re-
tired, making way for C. D. Thomas,
formerly Sydney manager. Gilbert
Mant, an old Bulletin contributor, lat-
terly Reuter’s chief Canadian correspon-
dent, comes to Sydney as chief news
editor for Australasia.
S.A.’s latest knight, Walter Duncan, is
a cheerful soul who is also a worker. At
53 he has been M.L.C. for 20 years, and
is leader for the Government in that
House. Coming of a great pastoral family,
WALTER DUNCAN.
he is president of the Agricultural Society
and chairman of Goldsbrough Mort
in Adelaide, as also of the A.M.P., and
Bagot’s Executors Trustee Co.; a direc-
tor also of B.H. Proprietary and Adel-
aide Steamship. He is a younger brother
of Duncan-Hughes, Senator till recently,
who took the double name on succeeding
to the lands of Walter Watson Hughes,
of old-time Wallaroo and Moonta fame.
The delegation coming from Britain to
consider Australian air defence consists of
three first-class men. Hardman Lever, first
baronet and married to a Canadian, is
a trusted adviser of the Treasury, of
which he was Financial Secretary during
the war. Donald Banks has been called
the ablest administrator in the British
civil service. He is 47, and, apart from
being permanent head of the Air Min-
istry, has an expert knowledge of mails
and money. At 40 he was Controller
of the U.K. Savings Bank systems, and
at 43 Director-General of the British
Post Office. In the war, at 26, he was
one of the youngest battalion com-
manders in France, and came home with
a D. 5.0., M.C. and French Croix de
Guerre. The flying member of the party,
Sir Arthur Longmore, one of the R.A.F.’s
six air-marshals, was born at St.
Leonards, Sydney, was formerly in the
R.N., fought at Jutland, won the D.S.O.
during the war, has commanded the Air
College, Cranwell, both the inland and
coastal commands of the R.A.F. and the
Imperial Defence College, where many
Australians have been under his eye.


THE SURE WAY TO BIG PAY
Learn Draftsmanship at Home
MEN WANTED
with a Knowledge of
DRAWING & DESIGN
in EVERY Industry
=£
IN FACTORIES.
In addition to full-time positions; in the drawing
offices of factories everywhere, countless other execu-
tive jobs become open every year for practical men
with a knowledge of drawing and design.
tp
a
IN ENGINEERING.
Before anything can be made, plans must be drawn!
If you have ideas for machinery design or im-
provement. you must be able to put them on paper
to reap the benefit. The Kingsford Smith Course
shows how.
JOHN SMIT
DRAFTSM
IN PRIVATE PRACTICE
The services of qualified draftsmen are continuously
being- needed in every part of Australia. Opportuni-
ties for trained men to commence practice as drafts-
men on their own account exist in hundreds of
districts. Quite, likely your own district offers
such an opening at this moment.
Never before was there such activity in Australian industry. As a result, the
demand for men trained in mechanical drawing and design is rapidly
outgrowing the supply. Here, then, is YOUR opportunity to get into an
uncrowded profession with a wonderful future. Draftsmanship is a dignified
calling with good hours and pleasant working conditions. Men with a
knowledge of mechanical drawing and design are wanted in every field
NOW. Send the coupon below to-day for free booklet explaining how
YOU can learn mechanical drawing and design in your spare time at home
by this new simplified home-study method.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGE COURSE IN
MECHANICAL DRAWING
AND DESIGN
A SHORT CUT TO PROMOTION
FOR EVERY MAN IN INDUSTRY
To every man in industry who wants to progress to a
foreman’s or works manager’s job, a knowledge of
mechanical drawing and design provides a short cut. If
YOU want to get out of the rut you MUST have this
knowledge. For no matter how high a mechanic may go
in his particular job, he must first master paper work
before he can reach the top. Though promotion for
the manual worker is usually slow and arduous, the work
of draftsmen and others with a knowledge of drawing
and design is continually under the notice of those who
control the pay envelope. The Kingsford Smith College
Course has been specially prepared so that men without
any previous training in drawing can acquire this
necessary knowledge of mechanical drawing and design.
No special educational qualifications are necessary.
Individual Tuition to All Students
The Kingsford Smith College courses in mechanical
drawing and design have been prepared by highly
qualified draftsmen with years of experience in all branches
of Australian practice. The course is essentially
practical. Every student is individually coached and
his personal problems are studied by the college staff.
Send the coupon below and the free booklet describing
the course in detail will be sent you by return.
THE K.S. COURSE IS COMPLETE—NO EXTRAS
Subjects covered by Course No. I include: The Use of
Instruments Drawing Plates Simplified Mathematics—
Practical Projection Production of Blue Prints Repre-
sentation of Objects—Materials—Gearing—Drawing
Exercises —Properties of Materials, etc., etc. No. 2
Course includes, in addition to the foregoing, lessons in
drawing steam stop valves, electric wincKes, shaft hangers,
etc., element's of algebra, logarithms, trigonometry,
development of surfaces, the use of Slide Rule, elements
of mechanics, strength of materials, machine design,
etc., etc.
ENROL NOW AND GET THIS COMPLETE
MECHANICAL DRAWING OUTFIT
FREE/
Immediately upon enrolment you receive, free and post free, a full outfit of drawing instruments (valued at
over £2) specially selected by practical draftsmen on the college staff. This set includes complete set of
mathematical instruments, including compasses, drawing-board, T-square, set squares, French curve and all
materials necessary for the course. Students of Course No. 2 also receive free a full-size Slide Rule when they
commence the lesson dealing with this subject. These instruments are of the highest grade, suitable for use
both during the course and in your work as a draftsman on its completion. Decide to enrol to-day, and
your outfit will be forwarded you Free and Post Free!
\
H
FREE BOOKLET
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES
DEPT. 14. 255 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me the free booklet with particulars of your courses in
Mechanical Drawing and Design.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
B. 11/1/’39.
KMNGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES PTY. LTD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“ How d'you expect him to jump with you standing there ?”
c . . .
Vulagi : He obviously hailed from
parts where concrete is not, and he was
gazing in the city showroom window at
a baby tractor which pulls a one-horse
plough, yTo my “not too bad,” he re-
plied, No flamin’ good ter me. When
you re working a horse y’ve got ter spell
him now ’n’ agin ’n’ you get a spell
y’rself, but that blankard would go all
* * * *
“Noisy Ned”: From daylight to dark
Bung and myself were the only occupants
of the bar of his pubbery in a one-dog
s.w. Q. township—the deadest place out-
side Collins-street on a Sunday morning
that I’ve ever existed in. “Doesn’t any-
thing happen in this dorp—isn’t there any
amusement to be had?” I asked him.
“Wash wrong wish place?” de-
manded Bung. “Every Saturshy night
they shunt trucksh down at (hie) railway
yardsh!”
\“Dominic”: The friendliest bird that
dwells on the southern Indian Ocean is
the mollyhawk. Midway between a duck
and a goose in size and shape, dark
brown in color, and of a distinctly kindly
appearance, the molly will cobber-up with
anybody in a small boat, either at
anchor or drifting. The object, of
course, is a cheap feed, but that doesn’t
prevent the bird’s company being appre-
ciated. Have known old-timers out from
W.A. fishing ports to be met regularly
by a mollyhawk, which the said 0.-ts.
declared was the same one, the bird
knowing them and keeping a lookout for
their coming. But friendly as the molly
is—and it will come up within a few
yards of a boat —it is quick to resent any
attempt at injury or capture. Anything
in that line and the bird is off. Nor will
it take a baited hook, as shipwrecked
mariners have learned, to their disgust.
* * * *
“J.T.M.”: When the plough-hand com-
plained of the flies the boss admitted that
“they were crook this season,” and told
him he’d get used to them. When two
days later the hand skied the towel, say-
ing he simply couldn’t stand it as there
were “millions of ’em round the plough,”
the boss decided to investigate. There were
“millions of ’em,” and for a very good
reason. The hand had been “oiling” the
P lou «h out of a barrel of molasses that
was standing beside the oil, and he was
a dinkum Aussie, too.
* * * *
“Prude”: Nextdoor kept leghorns of
, TX . • i i ,1
a prize strain. His neighbor on the other
side had mongrel chooks of assorted
ancestry, including one small rooster
whose great-grandparent might have been
3 , ban t?™- The 1311I 311 ! 1 bird having de-
veloped the annoying habit of excavating
on the wrong side of its owner’s fence,
the leghorn-fancier, fed up, gave his big-
gest rooster the freedom of the yard and
diplomatically went for a walk. He re-
turned later, to find the pride of his heart
staggering about punch-drunk, while
banty, fresh as a daisy, was still bog-
gjng j n>
* * * *
« o ld Bill”: Having been much inter-
ested in stamp batteries I am still puzzling
over that “queerest battery” worked by
a motor-bike and seen by “Hopalong”
in Queensland (B. 7/12/’3B). I have seen
stamps driven by a horse-works, but the
said h.-ws. were well away to one side,
power being transmitted by a pulley
shaft. Incidentally, the queerest battery
I ever saw was one built outside Cool-
gardie by a “hatter.” Constructed of
oddments from any scrapheap that could
be pillaged, deficiencies made good with
handy gimlet saplings, its proud engineer
designed that it should be driven by the
wind. (“God knows it blows often
enough and strong enough.”) But although
immense wings of battered corrugatcd-
iron made a landmark for miles, the
only time that the stamps dropped was
on the advent of a cyclone. Then for a
hectic ten seconds all the wheels went
round —after which the wings and most
of the “plant” started across the land-
scape. When last seen the owner, com-
fortably drunk (the heavy rain had re-
vealed quite a bit of gold to be won by
“specking”), was sturdily announcing his
resolve to build again. “She was a suc-
cess, there’s no denying it; the only
fault was that the construction wasn’t
strong enough.”
* * * *
“T.T.”: These days Long George, who
inhabits my part of the Speck, Ts only
a moderate drinker, limiting himself to
about 15 or 20. But in the days when
beer was beer, and could be got in
pewter, he put up a fine performance.
He got 34 down, but in trying for the
thirty-fifth, with the aid of his belt in
the left hand and someone to lift the
pot for him, even he found it was too
much. Leaning on the bar he took off
his hat and asked Bung to pour it over
his head, as he still liked the smell of it.
* * * *
“Devil’s Poker”: Grandad, well over
80, lives in the bush, and in spite of
the wireless his ideas about modern pro-
gress are somewhat hazy. When the
Italo-Abyssinia scrap was on he listened-
in to details every day and staunchly
backed the nigs. Then at the most critical
time the wireless broke down. For three
days Grandad could not follow events,
and he was therefore not surprised at the
resulting collapse of his champions.
Later he followed the Czech crisis with
even greater interest, taking his meals
alongside the wireless so as not to miss
anything. This time the battery went
flat. There was no time to have it
recharged. A boy was sent post haste
to town and another was installed.
When the news came through that war
was averted Grandad rubbed his hands
in satisfaction. “I only just got that
battery in time,” he said, firmly con-
vinced that he had had a share in Cham-
berlain’s success.
* * * *
“Carlo”: One of the chief pests
farmers have to put up with, in addition
to rabbits, foxes and grasshoppers, is the
tractor-bird. This fowl, related to the
lyrebird, may often be found in the
vicinity of homesteads. Its coat ranges
from light grey to navy blue or brown,
and it has two distinct cries—“lcanguar-
anteeit’llsaveyousevenandsixanacre” and
“Fiftyquiddow nandthebalanceoneasy-
terms.” Any Aboliar recognise it?
* * *
“Old-timer”: Carrying the knot
through southern Vic. I made camp one
cold night in an abandoned farmhouse
not far from Seymour. The place was
on a bare hillside and had an eerie look
in the fitful moonlight. What disturbed
me was the absolute silence within. Most
old houses groan and whistle in the
wind, but this gave forth no sound ; the
silence could almost be seen, and where
the moon shone through paneless win-
dows on floor and walls the old grey
timber took on a tenuous, living quality.
A bit jumpy, I made the bunk, wrapped,
myself in an overcoat, and turned in.
The place wouldn’t let me sleep ; it hung
over and around me in the moon-slashed
dark, silent, grim, waiting. Cursing, I
got out, lit a smoke, and went outside to
collect myself. As I stepped over the
broken doorstep something snapped a
grip like steel on my trailing overcoat
and tried to pull me back. As I sprang
desperately away I distinctly heard the
rattle of chains. Madly I raced down
the hillside, that something bounding
along behind—almost on me —and the
chains ringing on the stones. Then I
fell over a sleeping cow, got my breath
and senses, removed the rabbit-trap from
the tail of my overcoat, and went back
to bunk.
* * *
“Huglow”: So “Celer” (B. 21/12/’3B)
claims that no human being can walk up
to a hare within grabbing distance.
Doubtless this cannot be done when the
hare is on the alert. But when he is
resting under the lee of a clod or clump
of grass, bunny is apt to gamble his
camouflage and immobility against the
observation powers of the hunter. When
trailing cows on foot or working in
standing crops I have often walked right
on to puss and prodded him with my
boot just to admire his exhibition of
speed.
“Puffinus”: I am no defender of the
crow in respect of moral turpitude, as
expressed in egg-stealing, chick-raiding
and the rest, but it certainly is among
the brainiest of birds. Each summer in
this S.Q. coastal part, a gang of about a
dozen gathers in a patch of scrub on a
hillside from which a dead tree towers
up for 100 feet and affords a clear view
over 20 square miles of bush and plain.
These crows go out to feed in the cool
of morning and evening, returning to
doze away the hottest hours among the
leafy shades. But one is always posted
then on the lofty treetop as a lookout,
and regularly relieved. Repeatedly I’ve
tried to sneak across the surrounding
open ground, but always a harsh
“Ka-arr” has brought them whirling out
and away. A softer “Kah-kah” seems
to be a signal to investigate something
in the food line, as it always brings out
two or three to join the sentry. If satis-
factory, there are more “Kah-kahs,” and
the whole party heads for it.
* * * *
“Dusty Bob”: As the surveyor was
measuring up for the new abo. reserve
he invited the mob of coons who fol-
lowed him to look through the theodolite.
Tommy Roe did and, of course, saw
everything upside down. He peeked
round the instrument and through it
again. Then he spoke. “Mr. Jones, this
reserve you makum no good to us at all.”
When the surveyor asked him why,
Tommy answered, “Well, us old fellows
might stop on it by catching hold of the
trees, but the gins and piccaninnies would
all fall off it.”
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: If “Nor’-west” (B.
21/12 / ’3B) never uses floating lines, why
in the name of commonsense is he so art-
lessly surprised about never catching flat-
head or snapper on them? His skipper
who ordered lines to the bottom under
all conditions didn’t know the begin-
nings of his job. I, too, have fished
those mighty North Westralian tide-
passes, but all the best fish were caught
at or near slack water, either without
sinker or just enough to take the bait well
below the surface. From quarter-flood to
well-slacking ebb, one sought a lee of
reef or rock or island, clear of the tidal
race. So did the fish. Essentially prac-
tical creatures in the job of getting food,
they wait in such quiet places for what
the swift passing water brings them, and
only venture out when it slacks enough
for easy swimming. And, as my par.
pointed out, they keep a lookout above
and around them, as well as below. It’s
only sense. Fish have no theories.
* * * *
“Pac”: My dog specialises in goannas.
Here’s his modus operandi of laying ’em
low. He hangs back till his quarry makes
for a tree. Then when the go.’s tail
is between two and three feet off the
ground, the tyke grabs the tip and
swings the reptile in a circle, bringing
its head hard to the ground. Then he’s
on to its neck, just for’ard of the legs,
and proceeds to belt the daylights out
of its head. To finish the thing off
he moves down the backbone to the tail,
driving his tusks in about every two
inches. He’ll make a corpse of the
biggest in a quarter of a minute.
LOVE ON DINGO CREEK.
“I tell yer, lad,” the old man said, “it pains
me more than I can say,
Each time I stop an’ contemplate the young
blokes kickin’ round to-day.
A milk-an’-water mob they are, a weak-kneed
namby-pamby lot;
It’s my opinion—straight it is—the flamin’ race
has gone to pot.
“I often wander round the park an’ watch the
couples passin’ by,
An’ honest, lad, the way they act’s enough to
make a feller cry.
This holdin’ hands an’ whisperin’ stuff —to
me their technique’s pretty weak;
They should’ve seen how we made love, in ’56
on Dingo Creek.
“We had no time to play around or woo our
loves with gentle ways,
But even now I call to mind long thrillin’
rides on bullick drays
Down bush-lined tracks with laughin’ girls who
thought it quite a bonser lark
To come along an’ help us strip a ton or two
of wattle bark.
“An’ even though, as ladies should, they held
their feelin’s well in check,
A hug from them, as like .as not, would dis-
locate a feller’s neck.
And as for whisperin’ words of love —fair
dinkum, every time they’d speak,
They’d fairly make the rafters ring, in ’56 on
Dingo Creek.
“An’ we was men —reel men we was—as hard
an’ tough as any file,
With flowin’ beards —them days, of course,
long whiskers was the latest style.
They helped a bloke in courtin’, too, for no
one passin’ by could see
If you was sittin’ by yourself or had your
sheilah on your knee.
“Ar, what’s the use of harkin’ back —the reel
romantic days are done,
While all that’s left is memories of girls we
wooed an’ never won.
But what annoys me most of all—these young
coves now (it’s like their cheek)
Still spin the tales that we thought up, in ’56
on Dingo Creek.”
VICTOR lA.
ELLENTALE.


“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow, driving
a timber trailer down the mountain road
from Granite Flat to Tallangatta (Vic.),
struck a chap in a sedan car who, in-
stead of backing down until he found a
siding in order to let Mat (who couldn’t
back) pass, stuck up and said he’d be
demmed first. Mat took him easy and,
after carefully pointing out that unless
the sedan owner did back down he (Mat)
would be compelled to come on anyhow,
persuaded the chap to do the right thing,
albeit he did so with bad grace. As
Mat’s juggernaut rumbled past him on
the siding the motorist got in a passing
shot, “I’ll buy you a ruddy road of your
own!” he shouted. “Buy one for your
ruddy self—l’ve got one,” floated back
Mat’s slow drawl.
, * * :js *
“Tar-boy”: Yes, it was in an English
journal that I saw the photo. It de-
picted two lads operating a two-stand
shearing plant, with a woman clad in
gum-boots, long white coat and white
hat “picking-up.” Underneath readers
were informed that the speed merchants
could shear two sheep in 16 minutes,
whereas an expert doing the job by hand
required 80 minutes. This should put
some of our 200-a-day snaggers on their
mettle.
* * * *
“Nap”: Old Dan, who in his reading
finds much that isn’t there and misses
plenty that is, flung my, Bulletin down
in disgust and snorted, “Lot o’ mugs
arguin’ about trees carryin’ fences up in
the air. Flamin’ Abos., too ; yer’d reckon
they’d know better, but I s’pose fences
is noo to them. Take that grocery box
o’ mine down at the road: bin there 30
year an’ built between two trees. Never
shifted a blasted inch in all that time.”
He got quite huffy when, in defence of
the Abos., I pointed out that his two trees
were dead ’uns.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Had to come ashore
to land a chap who’d had his first sight
of a 6ft. grey nurse shark swimming
round the 24ft. boat—he got really ill
with scare, although ashamed of himself.
It must have been some sort of uncon-
trollable phobia. But Mr. Zane Grey,
who ought to have seen plenty of sharks,
chilled the blood of his readers with his
description of the devilish malevolence of
an Bft. grey nurse which glared hungrily
at him somewhere near Bermagui (N.S. W.).
To our ignorant professional eye that’s a
handy size for crab-pot bait, and takes
about 10 minutes to get aboard and cut
up. Anything over 10ft. needs a bit of
handling with two men in the boat, and,
without a gun or spear, is better left
alone by the single-handed if he isn’t
"Give 'em back, sis-I gotter go to the jamboree!"
“The little bloke used to be the other cove's fag at Eton."
looking for adventure. Over 12ft. a shark
is a powerful creature in the water, and
I prefer to cut him loose if there is no
gun handy, if only to avoid waste of time
and work.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The gumleaf can be
added to the jew’s-harp as a bush musical
instrument that’s outdated. Just an
ordinary young gumleaf, with the flesh
carefully stripped off, leaving a thin film,
which was placed on the tongue and
blown through. At one time every pros-
pecting camp in Westralia had its ex-
ponents, and some of them weren’t too
dusty. Best hand I ever struck at it
was Carr-Boyd, the explorer, who added
it to the long list of accomplishments
which made him popular around camp-
fires. In fact, there was more than a
trace of truth in the remark, attributed
to some scribe whose name has escaped
me, that “Carr-Boyd could play a tune
on a gumleaf that would bring tears to
the eyes of a string of camels, but his
masterpiece was the flute.”
* * * *
“Ren Tamms”- Becoming benighted
•mm u ' aT 8 rn mC
with the mob some miles from the stock-
vards the rmisterers derided that thev
yards, the musteiers decided that hey
would TOteh *he cattle tor the n,gh
rather than let them go again. A meal
f t £ ? cam J was ft
lowed by their offer to stand a watch
which was gratefully accepted. During
heir watch the head-stockman, unable
o s eep decided to go out to see how
fe rob eX he a couM re hea 0 ; ng o„e R o a t Ch ; n ht
watchers singing softly as he approached.
When the other was just discernible in
the weak moonlight, the head-stockman
crouched low over his horse’s neck and
slowly rode away from the mob. The
watcher, seeing the “beast” making off,
endeavored to ride round it; but the
faster he went the faster went the “beast,”
until at last the practical joker heard,
“All right, go then, you red blankard ;
they won’t miss vou f ”
y „
“0.E.W.”: Sheepfarmers in the Whan-
gamomona (M.L.) district recently ap-
pealed for Government help to put down
a plague of wild porkers which, sallying
from the surrounding hills at night, made
short work of scores of young lambs,
Pig-hunting parties from near-by towns
bagged some record tusks, but the
queerest experience of the big strafe fell
to the lot of three New Plymouth men.
After a hard run through rough country
the dogs bailed up an old boar in a
ravine. They could do nothing with him.
One veteran dog was killed and another
badly ripped. Not one of the “holders”
could stay with the pig. When an un-
sporting rifle bullet ended the argument
the hunters discovered the reason—the
boar had no ears for the “holders” to
grip.
* * * *
“Hanko”: My array of gift ties and
hankies makes me think back to a gift I
made that was original, unique—and
appreciated. On a country tour I came
upon the bleached skeleton of a long-
defunct ram. I souvenired the head,
boxed it up and forwarded it (with
seasonal greetings and unsigned) to a
city friend. Months afterwards, I paid
him a visit. He grabbed my hat and
wrung it quoit-wise on the point of one of
a magnificently-mounted pair of horns
i n the hallway. As I goggled at the
9£ na ! e hatrack he slapped my ac ■
t ,^t n kes the eye, eh. he enthuse .
'Those horns are from a great mountain
sheep that I shot m the Canadian
Rockies. Well, well, I sneere ,
comeback, was it. No, dog, he
ha-ha d. A takeback, I should thin .
R cost me a few deeners to freight a
darn skull, but lm glad it was appr -
cia ted now.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A cavalry sword, stand-
ing point up in a bathing-pool, sounds a
most unpleasant affair to go in swimming
with, but lots of lads and lasses have
been doing it, all unwittingly, during the
last 18 months at the Ramornie Falls
pool, near Grafton (N.S.W.). The lethal
weapon was lost by a Light Horse ser-
geant when he and his horse were swept
over the falls during heavy winter rains
in 1937 while returning from a practice
‘ • t i,_
turnout. The horse caught a leg in the
and its rider had a lively turie
freeing f, n the swi£t current . His sword
came fe out of its Gabbard, a nd the hilt
was caught in a crack between two under-
£ A swimmer noticed the up-
blade during the recent spell of
| f J M the sur{
* iecovel 4 d it rusty bu t still capable
*
* *
. “Broad-axe-man : Razors would treat
V no ' anc * Wl^e s , corr l s wlt J? contempt
if were made of stuff like the
makers put into a new broad-axe I tried
out l ast week. After squaring two faces
°f a 19in. ironbark girder 33ft. long it
shaved hairs off my leg. I m now waiting
*9 ear w^at old-timers, who still
g* ve us th e °ld chorus about the axes
these d&ys not being 3 p3tcri on those
we swung when our beards were black,
ave 2 ot to t 0
* * * *
“Cooee-Bird”: “Trigger was the most
sociable dorg in the world till I’d that
row with ole Jones, me neighbor,” re-
marked old Ben. “Then I couldn’t keep
’im from fightin’. Every day, reg’lar, he’d
go acrost an’ tear hell out o’ Jones’s big
blue cattle-dorg, ole Sam. 1 wouldn’t lm
cared, only ole Jones got so mad at seein
his dorg always gettin’ licked that he d
come acrost an’ want ter fight me. I
thought Trigger must ’ave hydrophobia
or somethin’, an’ called in a vet. But it
only made Trigger worse. Instead of
once he got to fightin’ ole Sam twice a
day. This went on till Jonesy threatened
to shoot me an’ my dorg, to. I thought
an’ thought but couldn’t make out what
had come over Trigger. Then one day
when I see him havin’ a look at a coupla
young calves belongin to ole Jones I
took a tumble. He was mad at their
owner for not payin me the ten bob
he owed for bull service (that s what
we had the row about), an he was takm
it out of his mong s hide.
QUIDS PRO QUO.
“Farmer, prosperous, widower, would correspond
and exchange photos, with comely widow, middle
forties, of affectionate nature, with children foi
preference. View mat.” —Melbourne agony advt.
He has, it’s obvious, a predilection
Not for some flapper, rouged and rabbit-
brained,
Who’d spend less time on toil than her com-
plexion,
But one who has to matronhood attained
Yet who can still inspire a strong affection;
Whose comeliness, moreover, hasn’t waned.
He’d dash a letter off to one like
Agog for a reply to his “view-mat.”
To make sure that the lady’s application
Is dinkum, and that she —like him —means
biz.,
He’d like to see, to speed negotiation,
A faithful reproduction of her phiz.
With courage that will merit admiration
He’ll even let her get a screw at his.
Everything’s fair; no beating round the bush
When there’s a preview of each other’s moosh.
Bereft of Number One, it’s his ambition
To wed again. For Number Two he bids
She’ll find it an attractive proposition:
A spouse who on his say-so lacks no quids.
Although he doesn’t make it a condition,
He’d much prefer a bride who’s got some
kids.
The number that he’d like he doesn’t state —
Maybe it’s seventeen, or few as eight.
Perhaps he longs to hear the lisping prattle
From childish lips; or dandle on his knees
Another’s offspring, confident that that’ll
Bring happiness. Or possibly he sees
In them some future valets for his cattle.
For, after all, that’s not a dusty whseze.
What cocky, anyway, would be dismayed
To get a working fam’ly ready-made?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


tmM.
s
ave t/ott
Ytuids ci (fell*?
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a will
because it is regarded as a final and irrevocable
step. But a will may be altered or changed com-
pletely any number of times during the life of its
maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage> the‘serves
of a solicitor, and in appointing THE TRUblhbb
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY LTD. as
Executor, you avail yourself of the services of
Australia's oldest trustee company. It has more
than 60 years' practical experience in estate
administration
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
and Undivided Profits# £959,810.
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
THE
and Agency Company Ltd
1.5 BLIGH STREET# SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS. 401 & 403 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
a Blackwood sir a J; %SJFS3**. F " < ‘ y “
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading# K.C.M.G. (Chairman) r ffilder
W. D. stewart N Sw- Manager: J. W. Russell French
Cen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
W.R. 2-16-38
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day ? Breakfast, Table d Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner *«»”> p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone, M 4601.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (M.L.)
AVrit-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. __ Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1928.. 22,963 10 p.c. = 9,538 11,000 2425 48,951
Profit on sale of assets, £875 .. 49,826
1929.. 15,990 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 1452 51,278
1930.. 16,172 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1634 62,912
1931.. 16,415 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1877 54,789
1932.. 16,825 i 0 „ „ 9,538 5,000 2287 57,076
1933.. 17,305 19.3„ „ 18,470 5,000 50,901
1934.. 16,204 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2666 53,567
1935.. 15,636 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 2098 55,665
1936.. 18,121 10 „ ~ 9,538 4,000 4583 60,248
1937.. 17,203 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 3665 63,913
1938.. 14,898 10 „ „ 9,538 4,000 1360 65,273
The slip in last year’s earnings is due
chiefly to increased production costs.
Each is a symptom of the economic
malaise produced by the Government’s
quasi-Utopian policy of lavish spending
on public works, guaranteed prices for
dairy produce, shorter hours and higher
wages, to be followed during the current
year by a costly extension of .social ser-
vices, including pensions, medical bene-
fits, etc. Another and more obvious
result of the Government’s activities has
been a run on the Dominion’s London
funds, owing partly to excessive imports
and partly to what is commonly called
flight of capital. To prevent default in
service of its overseas debt, rocketing of
the exchange rate, and the critical de-
velopments in trade and industry that
would inevitably follow, the Government
recently took complete control of Lon-
don funds by (1) licensing exports, (2)
controlling imports and (3) suspending
the obligation of the central bank to pay
sterling, when demanded, in exchange for
its notes. These measures look effective
enough for the purposes for which they
are designed; but what is likely to
happen to the Dominion’s currency and
trade in the future will depend largely
upon what the Government does to in-
crease or decrease the burden of costs.
If the continued climb of costs puts
Maoriland too far out of step with the
rest of the world, further depreciation of
the currency might become inevitable,
because a large section of the community
depends upon exports for a living. Until
the position in this respect becomes clear,
the profit-earning capacity of traders
remains obscure, and lack of confidence
will likely produce trade methods and
technique not conducive to expansion of
business on sound lines. Meanwhile
sound manufacturing concerns like Mos-
giel, well equipped technically and other-
wise, should continue to give a good
account of themselves.
The co. turns out woollens, including
rugs and blankets, that have won awards
all over the world. Divs. have averaged
over 8| p.c. since the beginning (1871),
and only once, in 1876, has the co. failed
to make an annual distribution. The
strength lies not only in technical skill,
as expressed in the quality of the pro-
ducts, but also in the earning power of
plant in relation to capital. Over the
last 15 years £82,603 has been spent on
additions, renewals and replacements,
etc., and the lot and £15,492 besides has
been written off out of earnings over the
same period ; it all means much so far
as quality, costs and profit-earning are
concerned.
During the last term gross earnings
(£39,824) fell away £5804, of which £3499
was offset by savings in exes. (£24,924).
After striking off the usual £4OOO for
depreciation, the net result (down £2305)
was 11.4 p.c. on capital as against 13.8,
14.8, 12.2, 12.7, 12.9, 12.4, 11.9, 11.7,
11.5 and 18.8 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and that rate may
not prove to be beyond reach at next
balance, provided, of course, the Gov-
ernment does nothing too foolish mean-
while. As for the lay-by, there is more
wheat in the ear than the eye can see,
as already indicated.
Here is the position so far as the pub-
lished accounts show it:
1930 1936. 1937 1938
Paid capital.. £95,380 £95,380 £95,380 £95,380
Liabilities . . 13,011 16,293 19,561 19,577
Plant & property 44,006 31,043 35,071 35,461
S'tocks. . . . 49,341 34,677 36,024 44,631
Book debts, etc. 26,281 18,071 22,410 16,676
Cash and in-
vestments . . 61,813 109,000 106,280 104,492
On fixed assets £390 more was spent than
was written off. Stocks (up £8067) are
still lighter than they were two years
ago. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£146,222)
was £1069.
On the market the £5 shares paid to
£4 fetch £9 10s. as against £lO a year
ago. At the lower figure the return is
4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the net tangible cover per pound of paid
capital is 335. Bd.
Felt and Textiles of Australia
r~> Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1937.. 44,521 2400 10 p.c. = 21,410 1 . .
Underwriting- exes, w. 0., £6799 J 4A >*<>o
1938.. 68,756 2400 10 p.c. = 47,464 18,892 60,327
* After deducting goodwill, etc., £40,000.
This co., which pioneered the manufac-
ture of felted piecegoods in Australia, has
what looks like a promising future. It
is now the centre of a group which makes
felt and felt products, carpets, wool tops,
cotton-wool, wadding and allied materials
in the Commonwealth, Maoriland and S.
Africa. All phases of manufacture, from
treatment of raw materials (some are pro-
cessed in the co.’s own factories in India)
to production of the finished articles, are
undertaken.
The co. was formed in 1921, the public
became interested early in 1937, and there
has been a very quick development since.
From the end of 1936 to June 30 last
paid capital advanced from £119,930 to
£600,035, and there then was another
£21,246 to be gathered. Of the growth
of £501,347 in subscribed capital,
£135,500 represented bonus scrip, the
public took up £288,927, and the balance
was issued mainly in connection with the
purchase of subsidiary interests. Chief
of these are:—■
Parent’s
Company. Activities. Interest.
Federal Felters Woollen- and
(Melbourne) hair-felt 100 p.c.
N.Z. Slippers Slippers and
(Wellington) ...... shoes I 100 p.c.*
S. African 'Slippers Slippers and |
(Durban) ......... shoes 100 p.c.
Botany Wools Wool carbon-
(Sydney) isers, etc. 100 p.c.
Pacific Wools | Wool carbon-
fMelbourne) ....... I isers, etc. 100 p.c.
Felt Industries | F e 11 and
(S. Africa) I slippers I 100 p.c.t
Jas. Seymour and Co. I ] . -
(Melbourne) Wool tops | 100 p.c.t
Baldwin and Grant
(Melbourne) Carpets, etc. | 100 p.c.t
Australian Hair Treaters of I
(Sydney) hair | 50 p.c.
J. Grant and Co. Flock and |
(Maoriland) Waddings I S 3 J p.c.
Cotton Dressings Cotton wool |
(Melbourne) & waddings | 25 p.c.t
* All the ords. and therefore control. (Held by
S. African Slippers, t Held by Federal Felters.
The co.’s five wholly-owned slipper-
making subsidiaries in Australia, the prin-
cipal one in Maoriland and another in S.
Africa are all reported to be doing well,
and should do better still, thanks to the
board’s enterprise in securing withdrawal
from the Commonwealth, Dominion and
Union markets of an old English slipper-
manufacturing firm. Two small concerns
recently acquired in the Dominion are
“overcoming establishment difficulties,”
and a second factory has been erected in
S. Africa. The carpet and wool-tops ven-
tures didn’t commence production till
February, 1937. Progress is slower than
was expected in top-making, but the
difficulties have been overcome; the
carpet plant is profitable, the motor rrade
being a large buyer. The two wool-
carbonising cos. were not in operation
for the full 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. However, the Sydney
plant, which has secured a lot of com-
mission work on account of overseas in-
terests, has since been extended, and the
board is thinking about marketing the
co.’s treated wools overseas.
The introductory table shows earnings,
etc., as the parent co.’s accounts disclose
them. Last year’s profit included an un-
specified distribution by a subsidiary out
of earnings prior to 1937. A truer idea
of the position is provided by the follow-
ing combined p. and 1. figures, etc., of
the parent and all subsidiaries: —-
AGGREGATE P. AND L. FIGURES.
Net Parent’s Towards
June, Profit.* Divs. Reserves. Ddfieit.f
1937.. 54,894 23,810 ]
Underwriting exes, w. 0., j- 24,285 28,505
£6799
Added goodwill, etc., £11,954 .. 40,459
Reserves new subsidiaries, £3301 .. 37,158
Unexplained addition res. £1419..' 35,739
1938.. 60-,376 49,864 10,512 25,227
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest,
t Goodwill ( £199,552 in 1937, now £211,506)
not treated as an asset.
After allowing £20,594 for depreciation,
the £60,376 (up £5482) of profit claimed
last year was sufficient to pay the parent’s
pref. div. and show 12.2 p.c. on its
average ord. capital, and there was a lot
of capital represented by assets that did
not contribute to the pool, but which
promise to do so during the current
term. The year’s addition to goodwill,
etc., is because of the purchase of the'
remaining shares (the co. previously held
a 75 p.c. interest) in James Seymour and
Co. and Baldwin and Grant. The amount
of capital unrepresented by tangibles
when the books closed was £25,227.
Here are the combined balance-sheet
figures of the parent, its subsidiaries and
cos. in which the offshoots own more
than a 50 p.c. share interest:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £119,930 £397,854 £600,035
Outside interests .. 1,000 3,100 3,’100
Overdraft . . .. 110,984 169,083 295,182
Sundry creditors, etc... 194,396 183,793 171,141
Freeholds .. .. 82,017 112,615 171 273
Plant 149,068 229,131 288^102
Shares other cos. .. 18,849 20,016 21 599
Stock 133,269 231,484 40(U06
Debtors, etc 128,495 141,024 190,886
During the year £58,658 was added to
freeholds, £58,971 to plant, £1583 to
shares in other cos., £168,622 to stocks,
£49,862 to debtors’ balances, etc., and
£12,652 was chipped off the amount
' coming to sundry creditors. To do all
this the board went to its bankers for
an extra £126,099, and added £202,181
to paid capital—44,soo f.-p. ords. were
issued in connection with the purchase
of scrip in two subsidiaries, and the
balance was put up by shareholders,
from whom there was £21,246 still to
come when the books closed. More or
less liquids then exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £146,268. During the year a free-
hold at the corner of George and Jamie-
son streets, Sydney, was bought, and a
fine new showrooms and headquarters
building is now going up. No harm
would be done if a little more capital
was got in.
At 31s. (365. a year ago) the f.-p. pound
ords. return 6.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. have sold
privately at 23s 6d., at which figure the
return is 5.1 p.c. Including issued but
unpaid capital, the net tangible backing
is £l4 18s. prefs. and 19s. Id. ords.
Goliath Portland Cement Co., Ltd.
Towards
Net , Dividends Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Old. serves. Deficit.
£* ■£, £ £ £
1929.. 4,423 Nil Nil ' 4,423 17,774
8 p.c.
1930.. 15,261 5,292 Nil 9,969 7,805
1931.. 12,806 9,383 Nil 3,423 4,382
Loss on sale of assets, £28,534 .. .. 32,916
1932.. 20,258 11,447 Nil 8,811 24,105
1933.. 28,264 22,894 2$ p.c. = 6,396 25,131
Tangible assets written down, £40,752.. 65,883
Reserves.
Capital written off, £85,285 .. .. 19,402
7 p.c.
1934.. 37,543 10,016 10 p.c. =17,057 10,470 29,872
1935.. 45,102 10,016 15 „ ~ 25,586 9,500 39,372
1936.. 48,204 10,016 124 „ ~ 21.321 16,867 56,239
1937. . 69,063 10,016 15 ~ „ 25,586 33,461 89,700
Reserves capitalised, £85,263 .. .. 4,437
Reserves disappear, £24 .. .. .. 4,413
1938.. 51,794 10,016 11.8 p.c.=30,381 11,397 15,810
This is one of Australia’s low-cost pro-
ducers of cement. The works are along-
side good shale, clay and limestone de-
posits at Railton, near Devonport
(Tas.), where cheap power is drawn from
the State hydro-electric service. Besides
supplying practically all the cement re-
quirements of its home State, the co.
shares the big market in Vic. with Aus-
tralian Cement, and has growing connec-
tions in N. S. Wales, where it competes
with half a dozen other producers for
whatever business is available. Early in
the piece it met with trouble in a com-
mendable effort to develop the shale-oil
business, and £85,286 of capital (6s. Bd.
per share) was jettisoned in 1933. With
the deadwood out of the accounts and
the economic barometer rising, the
cement plant, whose capacity was lifted
from 85,000 tons to 100,000 tons p.a. in
1936, got a chance to show what it could
do. For the four years to the close of
accounts in 1937, profits averaged £49,978,
or enough to pay the pref. div. and show
23.4 p.c. on the written-down ord. capital.
The ords. received an average of 13.1
p.c., and £70,298 was added to reserves,
raising them to £89,700. All that was
after liberal allowance had been made
for depreciation.
Early in the last term a one-for-two
gift to the ords. restored the capital writ-
ten off five years ago, reserves being
tapped for the purpose, reducing them to
what looks like a very slender prop for
capital. But reserves are not always
what they look in a manufacturing con-
cern. Much depends upon what has been
spent on additions, replacements and re-
newals to plant and charged to earnings.
By liberal allowances for depreciation an
extraordinary degree of plant efficiency
and capacity in relation to the share
capital can be developed. Last year
£30,000 (same as for the previous term,


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL... .
But even with approx, £2o ' you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . , .
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V,V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
■mimmiitm
AMERICA
AN ADVENTURE IN
WELL-ORDERED LIVING!
m
it
it
i
f - -
Today’s rail travel in America dex-
terously combines the conveniences
and luxuries of home and club and
office. Swifter, safer trains, paced by
the graceful Streamliners, add to long-
established standards of service, the
most modern developments in equip-
ment . . . and a wholly new considera-
tion for beauty and style.
Exquisitely furnished, each car is re-
plete with devices to free travel of every
care and effort. A turn of the wrist even
regulates the weather, “conditions” the
air to your desire. Living quarters, in-
cluding bedrooms and compartments,
are exceptionally varied. The cuisine is
better than excellent. Hours speed by
in the library, by the radio, at games or
gay companionship. Every need is
promptly gratified by a competent staff,
valet, ladies’ maid, barber, and on many
trains a stewardess-registered nurse.
The scenic beauty of your route (you
have a wide choice) is accentuated by
generous window-space and observation
platforms. Time is reduced to a mini-
mum: as little as 60 hours from Coast to
Coast, 3000 miles with only one change
of cars. Low fares and stopovers without
extra charge tempt wider exploration:
Salt Lake City, gateway to 62 National
Parks and Monuments; Yellowstone,
Nature’s playground; New Orleans and
the Delta country; Chicago and the
Northern lakes; Washington, D. C., the
graceful, sweeping capital.
Finally, another choice of transport
from the Atlantic Coast . . . completing
the shortest and most satisfying route
from the Antipodes to England! A bril-
liant travelogue introduced by the lux-
urious Matson-Oceanic liners Mariposa
and Monterey.. .calling at New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii, arriving at
California in 18 glorious days.
Every detail of this fascinating journey in "England Across America’’...our illustrated booklet.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated in U. S. A. Limited Liability)
12 Bridge Street • Sydney <
Phone B-7981-3
IR-1A
and double the allowance in ’34) was
set aside for depreciation; it was 11.6
p.c. of the book value of freehold and
plant combined at the end of Sept., 1937.
Although business held well, there was
a contraction of £17,269 in net earnings,
mainly owing to higher costs, following
a lift in wages and reduction in hours.
Still, the £51,794 of profit claimed was
enough to hand the prefs. their 7 p.c.
and show 16.3 p.c. on ord. capital as
it now stands. The div. was lowered
from 15 p.c. to 11.8 p.c., but 11.8 p.c.
was equal to 17.8 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the gift.
With a little benefit from increasing
expenditure on defence, and, so far, no
slackening of expenditure on public
works by the States, prospects of the
co. being able to repeat last year’s dis-
tributions for the current term appear
to be bright enough.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1932. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £367,918 £295,266 £313,663 £398,926
Overdraft . . 39,184 2,896
Sundry creditors 4,263 8,250 9,346 8,384
Freehold, leases,
plant, etc... 358,437 300,390 256,915 236,552
Stocks .. 18,460 22,179 23,010 44,348
Book debts . . 9,666 42,833 79,755 72,362
Cash, etc. .. 145 45 83,830 86,356
Shares in other
cos 14,000 1,900 2,000 17,000
The growth in capital reflects the issue
of gift scrip already referred to. Includ-
ing the allowance for depreciation, the
year’s surplus earnings, together with a
reduction of £7393 in debtors’ balances,
enabled £21,338 to be added to stocks,
£2526 to cash, etc., and £15,000 to shares
in other cos. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£211,682) was £32,433.
The market now prices the ords. at
265. as against 245. 6d. on an ex-rights
basis a year ago. The return at 265. is
4.2 p.c. on an 11.8 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 28s. yield 5 p.c. The book value
of the net tangible cover is £2 17s lid.
prefs. and 14s. 2d. ords.
Westralia’s gold yield for 1938 topped
1,150,000 fine ounces, compared with just
over 1,000,000 in 1937. Omens for a
further jump to 1,200,0000 z. this year
are excellent. Last year’s increase was
mainly due to additional output from
Lake View and Great Boulder, helped by
returns from the Big Bell and assisted by
yields from new treatment plants at
Paringa and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
as well as spectacular outputs from
Blue Bird and several rich dabs located
at different points on the northern fields.
Bullion extracted from more numerous
prospectors’ parcels treated at State bat-
teries also gave a hand. Dividends were
bigger in the aggregate last year than the
year before, although Wiluna failed to
return to the distributing fold. In all
£1,114,089 in divs. was handed out in
1938, compared with £1,107,501 in 1937
and £996,788 in 1936. In the past eight
years investors in Westralian goldmining
have received more than £6,000,000 in
dividends. One of last year’s chief con-
tributors to the increase was Blue Bird.
Newcomers were Paringa and Hill 50.
Lake View, with payment of £5280,000,
again topped the list; it also paid out
over £500,000 in wages and £400,000 in
stores during the year. Employment
showed no diminution during 1938, and a
nse i n the basic wage increased the aver-
age rate of pay by Bs. 2d. a week per
man. Speaking generally, the industry
wa s free from industrial disturbance, ex-
“P‘ for a dispute at Lancefield in May
>“'• T he Government continued to pro-
Vlde valuable assistance to the industry,
a n d money distributed under the Mining
Development Act and on additions to
5$L 0 batterles was ,n ,he vicinll >' o£
’** * *
Meekatharra Central, formed in Mel-
bourne by H. E. Sizer and others to work
the Lady Central goldmine at Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), reports that £7BB was re-
ceived from tributes last year. The co.
is selling its plant as opportunity offers.
Cash in hand at the date of last balance
(August 31, 1938) was £833. Other assets
were plant, £1344; property, at cost,
£27,046 ; interest in a block at Hampton
Plains, £2OO. If it came to an auction it
is doubtful whether the co. would re-
ceive a bid for either of the two last-
mentioned lots.
* * * *
Big Bell is now milling 1200 tons a
day, and ranks next to Lake View and
Wiluna, being the third-largest gold-ore-
treater in Westralia. Since milling began
in October, 1937, over 74,0000 z. have
been produced from 450,000 tons. The
co. is at present investigating the pros-
pects of other auriferous ventures, which
have been represented by their owners
as something worth having.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) expects a
further working profit of £327,700 Aust.
on joint account from the Great Boulder
dumps, of which 1,196,040 tons of
I.6sdwt. stuff (now being handled) and
1,014,552 tons going 1.035dwt. remained
at June 30. On the estimated 3\ years’
life, that represents an average £A93,620
p.a. Then the half-million of Lake
View’s old Ivanhoe tailings will be
tackled. Extraction last term averaged
47.3 p.c. as against 39.9 p.c. in ’37, and
recent utilisation of salt water for sluic-
ing has helped restrain the upward ten-
dency in costs (2s. 4d. stg. a ton). At
Sept. 30 market value of the co.’s invest-
ments was £536,104. They comprise
holdings in Wiluna and its neighbor,
Moonlight Wiluna, the latter expected to
make an early appearance on the div. list.
* * * *
Three consecutive monthly calls are
expected to put about £17,000 in Freney
Oil Co.’s till, and this will be subsidised
pound for pound by both State and Com-
monwealth Governments. Operations,
which are expected to commence about
the middle of 1939, will include test
boring at Nerrima Ridge, about 100 miles
inland from Derby (W.A.).


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE •.... 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
“Beards are frowned upon in Moscow.”
— “World’s News.”
Instead of being frowned over, as
formerly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Australian sportswomen can look back with
complete satisfaction on the past 12 months.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Particularly the girl-cricketer who got
married and now has someone she never
fails to bowl out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The spread of greyhound racing is having
unexpected reactions on the meat industry.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
. Owners refuse to feed their dogs on
pork in case they turn into trotters.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dame Nature stands out as the greatest
efficiency expert known to mankind.”
— Seedsmen’s journal.
Yet her loose-leaf system after
cyclones isn’t admired by gardeners.
4* 4* 4*
“Songwriter composes his songs whilst playing
golf.”— Musical item.
Presumably “swing” numbers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There are more than 500,000 professional
saxophone players in America.” — News item.
It doesn’t matter to us as long as they
stop there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Brevity Needed.
The reporter had just returned from
interviewing the Prime Minister.
“Well,” said the editor. “What did he
have to say about the defence question?”
“Nothing,” replied the reporter.
“Righto, then,” said the editor. “Keep
it down to half a column.”
J. F. H.
4* . 4* 4* 4*
What’s In a Name?
“He was charged with having been in a
street, to wit, the s.s. Koompartoo, a vessel
used in navigation on the harbor of Port Jack-
son, for the purpose of betting.”— “Sun.”
Which reminds me of the time I went
through a tunnel in an airliner flying at
fifteen thousand feet. I got booked for
obstructing pedestrians and driving the
wrong way in a one-way traffic street.
Even when I took to travelling by sub-
marine the law wouldn’t let me alone.
I was pinched for loitering in a public
park, to wit, on the bed of the Pacific
Ocean.
Eureka.
It’s very hard to credit that man is
made from dust when we all know how
hard it is to get some of them to dry up.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“There was practically no change in the
positions of the leaders after the fifth round
of the Australian chess championship.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
No doubt they were so cramped they
couldn’t make a move.
•f*
“On the morning of "May 31, 1915, the sun
setting behind the Zeppelin sheds smeared the
sky with crimson streaks.” — “S.M.H.”
The polychromatic effect was even
more vivid during sunrise that evening.
Wheat a Shame!
“Wheat Idle in Sydney.”
— Melb. “Sun News-Pictorial.”
“You maize me idling like this,”
cracked Corn. “Why don’t you hop oat
and do something?”
“Are you trying to bran me as a
loafer?” gristed Wheat.
“Yes,” popped Corn, “even though it
might go against your grain.”
“Look ear,” rolled Wheat, “it’s easily
seed you don’t want peas, all rye. Cob
this! ”
“Wheat a millet,” husked Corn. “I
don’t want a tossel with you, but why
must you idle?”
“ ’Cos I barley well like to! ” puffed
Wheat.
Hanko.
“The Duke of Kent enjoys a game of
chance.” — “Argus.”
His brother tossed up a crown.
4< *Ji 4*
“Treacle Lures Colt from Ship.”
It sometimes takes soft soap to get the
crew aboard.
4* 4* 4*
“Racing motor-cycles in America are often
powered with alcohol.” — “World's News.”
The cycles which don’t win are known
as the chasers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For instance, how do ghosts get through
locked doors?” — “World’s News.”
By using skeleton keys, perhaps.
Sun Piece.
In shameless attitudes around me sprawl
Innumerable maidens, clad in al-
Most nothing; and the sun beats blazing
down,
Burning their backs to blotchy red and
brown.
This is no place for poets. Honey dews
Are not found here; no flowers per-
fume the air;
No trees, no crags, no torrents tempt the
Muse;
No sweet birds sing. Instead, loud-
speakers blare.
But I, the poet —do / sit and dream
Of nightingales, of cool, pellucid stream ?
Not much ! I feast appreciative eyes
On all the beauty that around me lies.
ABEL.
Warned.
“This steak is tender as a woman’s heart,”
My butcher said. That wm enough
for me.
There’s never any warning I ignore,
And so I took home sausages for tea.
H.M.
Fits Over Fitness.
With all our politicians throwing fits
about national fitness, it is only fitting
that I fit in a remark about my new
booklet titled How to Be Fitter, Fit by
Fit.
It is impossible for a nation to grow
fit fitfully. Fitness can be achieved only
by nursing your reserve strength. The
respective merits of blonde and brunette
nurses are discussed on p. 5.
In stressing the avoidance of over-
exertion I give on p. 20 an illustration
of my patent combination armchair-bed-
sleeping-bag-cocktail-bar.
Vatimins are important. I have de-
voted two chapters to cover all the new
brews and some of the more potent old
ones.
I help the muscle-bound in 10 easy
lessons or five hard ones. These entail
brisk walks to the corner pub. and you’ll
“This thing leaks."
be surprised how your muscles will un-
wind on the return journey.
My brochure will shortly be on sale
at all crematoriums.
D. McM.
The Rolling Stone.
“He came home drunk after an absence
of 10 days and told her he had lost his money
on Roley’s Choice.”— Divorce evidence.
His role was as a sport. His voice
Rolled out his tip, “A dead cert this
is!”
He did his roll on Roley’s Choice
And rolled home, roll-less, to his
missus.
M.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XVII.
Many were the startling adventures that
befel us in the terrible Sahara after we
deserted.
On one occasion, nearly dead from
thirst, we reached an oasis, only to find
it had dried up. We were waiting for
nigthfall before killing our camels, so as
to get a cooler drink of blood, when we
were rescued by a great caravan making
for Mecca. It was obviously useless try-
ing to pretend to be holy men with that
bunch of pious fanatics, so, as by this
time we had picked up a fair smattering
of patois Arabic, I decided to become a
high-pressure salesman. It speaks
volumes for my persuasive powers that
before we completed a day’s trek I had
sold—and collected for in advance of
delivery—72 electric razors. My pro-
found knowledge of business seemed to
overawe them, for they put in with
charming simplicity. After replenishing
our supplies we left them to pick up the
goods at Timbuktu and deliver them
when we met them in Mecca, as I
promised.
Then there was the time when, sur-
prised as we slept, we were captured by
Senussi returning from raiding salt cara-
vans. They had sharpened the trunks of
two young palms and were about to im-
pale us on them when, seemingly issuing
from my camel’s mouth, a sepulchral
voice boomed, “May the bayonet of a
hated infidel pierce the entrails of him
who harms my holy master!” At this
apparent miracle the band fell on their
knees and implored me to become their
Grand Vizier. I accepted, and learned
later from Septimus, whom I appointed
my Grand Dingbat, that he had worked
the oracle by throwing his voice, he hav-
ing once been an amateur ventriloquist
of note.
For months I led that band, and, though
I don’t wish to blow my own trumpet, I
must say that I certainly tuned some of
our victims up. Septimus and I eventu-
ally escaped when, on the pretext that I
had advance information that the salt
market would drop when the thaler in-
evitably collapsed and that it would pay
us to start raiding pepper mines,'! prom-
ised to lead them against the great mine
at El Rah Zberi. As only my Grand
Dingbat and myself knew its location, I
told them we two would reconnoitre it
first. v
Our most terrible experience, however,
was when our camels ate some poisonous
shrubs and sickened gravely. I could
tell by the sun’s position and the fact that
Sagittarius was then in conjunction with
Uranus that we were still 780 miles from
Nigeria. Without camels we must as-
suredly die, and it was imperative that we
quickly get them to where they could be
given expert attention. There was only
one thing for it—the gallant animals had
carried us, now we would carry them!
Had it not been that they were weak
and emaciated I doubt if we could have
done it.
Struggling up a sandhill one day, and
trying to prevent my camel from slipping
down into the small of my back, I saw
the battlemented towers of a great yellow
building in the distance. At first I thought
it was a mirage, but as we drew nearer
I realised it was real. We were saved!
With a glad cry, I bounded forward,
giving little heed to poor Mustapha as
he bumped up and down on my bowed
shoulders ; then soldiers rushed towards
us, dressed in familiar uniforms, and
suddenly I became aware that the build-
ing was the barracks we had escaped
from months before! Later I was to find
that the hour hand was missing from my
watch ; it was this that had thrown my
navigating out of plumb, causing me to
work on latitudes instead of longitudes.
Dressed in Touareg clothes and bushy
beards, with the rest of our faces burnt
black by the pitiless desert sun, we re-
mained unrecognised as the two deserters
for whom the goums were still combing
Africa. But as tribesmen who are the
hereditary enemies of
the Legion, we were
cast into prison.
I informed Sergent
Vinblanc, who interro-
gated us, that in ex-
change for our free-
dom I would give im-
portant secrets of
Touareg tribe move-
ments, but that they
were for the ears of the
Generalissimo alone.
That brasshat came
eagerly, as I had anti-
cipated, and at night, as
I had stipulated. As he
entered our dimly-lit
cell he sank to the floor
as my iron grip closed
on his windpipe.
“One word and you
die, sir,” I hissed as,
with memories of
Legion discipline surg-
ing back on me, I
clicked my heels with
military precision. I
was just on the point of
saluting also when I
thought of his wind-
pipe.
In a trice he was trussed up and
gagged, and I was in his uniform. In
the uniform of a Generalissimo at long
last! Unfortunately he wore an Im-
perial beard, whereas mine was long
enough to tuck in my pants. Thanking
my lucky stars it wasn’t the other way
round, I did the only possible thing.
Lighting some dispatches I found in his
pocket, I ran the improvised torch around
my face, hoping the smell of burnt
whisker wouldn’t be too noticeable.
Thd sentry outside was similarly bound
and gagged, and, with Septimus in his
clothes, we locked them both in the cell,
tossing the keys up on the roof as we
made for the powerful Mercedes-Benz
standing outside the Generalissimo’s hut.
Of our all-night drive to Oran, of my
imperious commandeering there of a fast
French cruiser to take us to Algiers,
where I was to commence urgent opera-
tions against a great uprising of Tebu
tribesmen that threatened the entire Afri-
can colonies, of our escape from there in
a military ’plane and our daring para-
chute to safety in Bucharest, I will say
nothing—all may be found in the
archives of the French Foreign Legion.
I might add, in passing, that on Septi-
mus’s failure to find the half-million he
had “planted” (he said, during our last
argument, that he must have forgotten
where he put it), I murdered him. I
need now only to commit two more mur-
ders to make me eligible, if ever I desire
to, to rejoin the Legion, though under a
different name, of course.
And that is how I became the 3213th
Foreign Legionnaire to escape from the
Legion, after enduring awful hardships,
and to write of his adventures.
S.W.K.


Public Notices.
The Producers’ Co-operative
Distributing Society, Limited.
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the THIR-
TEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
of Shareholders in THE PRODUCERS’ CO-
OPERATIVE DISTRIBUTING SOCIETY
LIMITED will be held at the SOCIETY’S
HEAD OFFICE, QUAY & VALENTINE
STREETS, SYDNEY, on WEDNESDAY,
25th JANUARY, 1939, at 2.15 p.m. sharp.
BUSINESS:
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet as at 30th September, 1938.
To elect Directors.
To elect Auditors.'
To transact any other business that may be
brought forward in accordance with the Rules
of the Society.
DATED at Sydney the 15th day of Decem-
ber, 1938.
By Order of the Board,
R. BLACKET, F.C.1.5.,
Secretary.
The Producers’ Co-operative
Distributing Society, Limited.
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that a SPECIAL
GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders in
this Society will be held at the registered
office of the Society, QUAY & VALENTINE
STREETS, SYDNEY, immediately at the con-
clusion of the Thirteenth Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders to be held at the
same place on the TWENTY-FIFTH day of
JANUARY, 1939, at 2.15 of the clock in the
afternoon, when the following Special Resolu-
tion will be submitted:
‘THAT Rule 87 of the Society’s Rules be
amended by adding after the word ‘sixteen’
in the fifth line of the said Rule the follow-
ing words, namely, ‘Provided that four of
the Directors shall be members of the Society
who are ordinarily resident in the State of
Queensland.’
“1 HAT Rule 109 Sub-clause (a) be amended
by adding after the word ‘committee’ in the
third line of the said sub-clause -the words:
‘Provided that at least two of such members
shall be Directors of the Society who are
ordinarily resident in the State of Queens-
land.’ ”
DATED the Fifteenth day of December,
1938.
By Order of the Board,
R. BLACKET, F.C.1.5.,
Secretary.
United Provisions, 6s. lOd.
A small parcel of U.P. ords. at
last week’s price may show worth-
while market improvement later on,
as there is undoubtedly a good,
solid business behind this over-
capitalised concern.
Are You About to Travel?
TF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
* absence, you cannot, do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS■
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T.‘ A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District, and
every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1938.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1939; subject
to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1938, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies ; less any part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurances to
any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1939; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
A Brightening
With prices of most things showing
rises overseas, and with a feeling becom-
ing general that the “recession,” which
first belonged to Roosevelt, of the U.S.A.
(later attaching itself to nearly every
country in the world), has plumbed the
depths for the time being, Australian
investors are taking heart again. Those
buying shares now are of a more rugged
type than the ones who became promi-
nent during the 1934-37 “recovery” boom.
They are buying on a basis of reason
rather than emotion, and whether their
reasons prove right or wrong they repre-
sent a much solider prop to investment
prices. A mob guided by emotion is a
danger to order and stability at any time.
After the inevitable mix-up following
booms and slumps it takes cool heads
and hard work to straighten things out.
This page could never see why pos-
sibilities of war made equity shares less
valuable than pound notes —that is what
the lower prices for Stock Exchange
securities during the 1938 panics repre-
sented. Economic factors, such as lower
prices for our exports, might have a
depreciating effect on share values, but
it seemed illogical to believe that a war
would depreciate the value of equity
shares any more than it would affect
the value of paper money itself. The
emotional view, however, was taken last
September, and share prices were slaugh-
tered. They showed sharp recovery soon
after the “crisis” passed, then weakened
again, Australian seasonal and other con-
ditions on the land being difficult. Just
now recovery is slight but general.
The outlook now has a good deal of
hope in it, and prospects may brighten
still further if general rains come.
The New Year opened in a hopeful
manner from the financial (and eco-
nomic) view. Metal prices strengthened
in London, the New York sharemarket
showed decided firmness after a period
of steadiness, and London investors were
more active, paying higher prices than
before the holidays. John Simon, Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, spoke of “defi-
nite signs of better trade” in Britain last
week, and mentioned that the United
States index of industrial production,'
which had been up to 118 in the first
quarter of 1937 and down to 76 in May,
1938, now stood at 103. “We may be
confident that this rise in levels will show
itself in Britain also,” was his comment,
which is reasonable, in view of the in-
creased buying in the world’s markets that
usually follows an American trade re-
vival. In Australia, even wheat has
shown signs of firming the last few days.
Nothing much in the way of recovery is
expected in the price of this commodity,
but a firming is plainly more heartening
than the continual slide evident in the last
half of 1938.
* * * *
The wool sales reopened in Sydney
on Jan. 3 with rates around the December
average of lid. a pound. Clearances were
of a sweeping nature, the week’s aver-
age for all types being 10.7 d. Though
very quiet as regards volume of
business, the Australian Stock Ex-
changes resumed activity the same
day with a price-hardening tendency
in both industrial and mining shares;
bonds were also firmer. In Sydney
F.R.S. Ideal Spring, a newly-listed
stock, lifted a further 7|d., to 255. 6d.
(later to 255. 9d.), and B.H.P. fully-paids
went up 6d., to 565. 9d. (then to 575. 6d.).
Ormonoid Roofing, another recent
addition to the list, opened strongly at
245. 9d., then lifted to 255. 3d. Aus-
tralian Gas shares, both A and B issues,
hardened to £7 11s. 6d., highest quote
for some months, and comparing with
£6 12s. paid for the new issue of A
scrip last September.
* * * *
Although the prices of most shares on
Australian Exchanges keep steady, with
investors preferring to hold on in the be-
lief that present doubts and uncertainty
will blow away in the long run, it is a
dull period for sharebrokers. They rely
on turnover of stocks for their income,
and an active, even if erratic, market is
more profitable from their point of view
than an inactive stable one. It is pos-
sible, however, that in a week or two’s
time interest in investments will get more
of a swing to it, though support from
Maoriland has been lost owing to the
Savage Government’s eleventh-hour re-
strictions on export of capital. There
is a promising bubbling-up of interest in
things overseas that may be the begin-
ning of a trade revival. Opposing poli-
tical policies in the U.S.A. and France
show signs of wearing each other out,
with hopes of more unity of purpose in
the future. That should mean more har-
mony in industry and employment, and
a greater consumption of goods. /
* * * *
Zinc Corp.’s production for 1938
should be about 7 p.c. higher in lead
and 14 p.c. higher in spelter than for
1937. It has been putting through some
ore very high' in lead content, and the
outlook of this Barrier mine looks par-
ticularly promising. On the basis on
which Barrier stocks closed last week the
sharemarket valued the three leading
mines as follows:
North B.H £7,000,000
Zinc Corp 5,225,000
B.H. South . . .. .. 4,480,000
Not so long ago the market valued
South at a considerably higher figure
than Zinc Corp. The time isn’t far dis-
tant when Zinc Corp. will take leading
place in mining and milling as well as
sharemarket favor.
* * * *
Sulphide Corp.’s ore reserves at
Broken Hill as at June 30 last amounted
to 221,000 tons —considerably less than
two years’ supply. “As there appears to
be little hope of any very substantial
increase in the ore reserves,” chairman Sir
John Anderson says, the board is giving
earnest consideration to the question of
closing down the Central mine. Such
action would entail the part-repayment of
capital, but the Cockle Creek (N.S.W.)
cement and acid works were still profit-
able, and were well worth carrying on.
Sulphide Corp.’s paid capital is £1,050,000
in 600,000 each of 10 p.c. non-cum. £1
prefs. and 600,000 15s. ords. Its net
liquid assets, if they all became avail-
able, would be enough to repay the prefs.
in full and nearly 7s. 6d. per ord. share.
Such a complete return, however, would
cramp trading operations, and something
not so extreme is more likely. The co.,
incidentally, owns 24,668 out of the
500,000 shares issued in Lysaght Bros.
(Newcastle); it takes them in at cost, but
the holding is worth considerably more
than par. There may be hidden strength
in some of the other assets also.
* * * *
Tin was the most resilient base metal
in the markets during December’s set-
back —it is subject to close control, and
has been for some months, following in-
troduction of the buffer-pool scheme.
Lead and spelter are the sick ones, as
this comparison of monthly averages for
the last seven months of 1938 shows:
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June .. £39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 1475. 7d.
Dec... 49.4 15.1 13.7 214.6 148 s. lOd.
Jan. 6.. 50.5 14.8 13.6 217.2 1495. 6d.
The New Year opened with prices gener-
ally firmer all round than before Christ-
mas, but lead and spelter quotes on
January 6, as shown in the table, still
didn’t come up to December averages.
Copper (also restricted) and tin showed
up best. Tin is now at the highest level
since October, 1937. Australian tinmines
aren't subject to restriction of output.
* * * *
Just completed its financial year —Mt.
Kasi Mines (Fiji). Millings and re-
coveries were remarkably steady, 6400 z.
per month being an average that was
never fallen short of or exceeded by
much. From 38,420 tons (up about 5000
tons) 8329 fine oz. (up 1400 oz.) was re-
covered over the plates ; slags should add
about 500 oz. to this. Revenue, on a
conservative estimate, should exceed
£75,000 Australian. The co. had a good
chance during the year of reducing its
costs to 255. (Aust.) a ton of ore, in-
cluding royalty charges and income tax.
In 1936 its all-in costs (excluding royalty)
were 445. 9d. (Fiji) a ton ; in 1937 they
averaged 275. 7d., and should have been
much lower at the close of that year
than they were at its beginning. Fiji
currency is £lOO to £ll2 10s. (Aust.). If
255. (Aust.) a ton is achieved for the
term just closed, a profit in the vicinity
of £27,000 (Aust.) is quite on, the cards.
Kasi’s 396,008 3s. shares are around
4s. 3d. in Sydney. In April, 1938, three
to four years’ life seemed to be proved,
with two to three years’ further ore
probable, grade about last year’s average.
The balance-sheet and report for 1938,
when published, should clarify the posi-
tion of Mt. Kasi, considerably ; 1938 was
the first term in which the new man-
agement has had a fair go, and develop-
ment operations should throw further
light on the ore position.
* * * *
As interim-div. time approaches (dis-
tributions are usually made in January
and September) the shares in Howard
Auto-Cliltivators, which manufactures
rotary-hoes and other farming imple-
ments and sells them through Rotary
Hoe Cultivators, have fallen to below
par on Sydney ’Change. In the three
years to June 30 last a regular 9 p.c.
was paid, with about 2 p.c. on average
capital remaining for reserves last term.
There are 100,000 f.-p. £1 shares issued,
with another 50,000, called to 7s. 6d.,
which were issued a little over 12 months
ago. A good deal of factory reorganisa-
tion has been going on; the directors
say “an analysis of the market for the
co.’s products and a thorough investiga-
tion into our methods of manufacture
have amply justified the continuance of
the reorganisation programme.” When
all this is to be over and done with it
is hard to say, but it is “nearing
maturity” ; while it remains unfinished
it is likely to drag on earnings. A dry
season in many parts of the Common-
wealth, coupled with very low wheat
prices, has made investors dubious about
farm-implement concerns ; hence the re-
cent waning in support for Howard
shares. Howard products have been
very popular in recent years, and an off-
shoot has been formed in England to
manufacture and market outside Aus-
tralasia.
* * * *
The No. 1 dredge of Tableland Tin,
at Mt. Garnet (Q.), was scheduled to start
on Jan. 3. The management is pleased
with this reconstructed dredge, and no
difficulty is anticipated in digging
1,000,000 c.y. a year. A year’s ground
bored ahead of the machine is expected
to yield over a pound to the yard, and
40 tons of concentrate a month is looked
for, worth £7500 on the field at present
prices—£9o,ooo a year. Installation of
pipelines, pumps, etc., to conserve water
for the dry season is now being carried
out. A call of Is. a share (making 13s.
6d. paid), payable to-day (11th), has been
made to carry operations over the open-
ing-out period.
* * * *
Shipping coming to Australia via Suez
now pays ss. 9d. per net ton for loaded
vessels, as against 6s. prior to Dec. 15 last
and 7s. a ton before May 1. 1937. The
British Government owns 286,000 of the
800,000 ord. shares ; the parcel brings in
an income of about £1,500,000 a year, and
the £4,000,000 paid for the Khedive’s
176,602 shares in 1875 by Disraeli (not
George Arliss) has already been returned
fifteenfold in divs. France and Holland
own a large portion of the capital. In
1968 the Suez Canal Co.’s concession
comes to an end, and the canal becomes
the absolute property of Egypt. Canal
receipts for 1938 were £9,664,500, com-
pared with £10,806,500 in 1937.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
A “snap” sale of 550 ord. shares in Aus-
tralasian Paper at 28s. 3d. was followed by
further dealings at that price later in the week.
The shares were good buying.
Associated Pulp ords. were active at 235.
9d., following the starting-up of the pulp mill
late at the end of 1938. The deferred scrip
(deferred as to the first div. of 6 p.c. only)
was done at 225.
Australian Glass reached the record figure
of £5 10s., with details of the bonus issue still
to come.
Holeproof ords. were sought at 235., no
sellers offering. A final div. is due in March.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
France’s Future Policy.
[For many years a warm admirer of France and
close student of French policy, Sisley Fluddleston, in
the article here condensed from London “Evening
Standard,” suggests that the fundamental problem of
rranee is similar to that of Britain—whether to pursue
a Continental or an Imperial policy. He favors for
France what an increasing number advocate for Britain.]
Obviously France cannot detach herself alto-
gether from Europe, but she can secure herself within
her boundaries, make friends if possible with her two
great neighbors, and refuse to take engagements in
Central and Eastern Europe, concentrating on de-
velopment of herself and her immense overseas pos-
sessions.
Geographically France is almost self-contained
and separated from the mainland. On three sides is
the sea ; the Rhine, the mountains and the Maginot
line render her land frontiers easily defensible. France
should now be impregnable from land assault; but
France cannot, in future, hope to fight victoriously
outside her frontiers.
The challenge came on Czechoslovakia. What-
ever the merits of the dispute, France then surren-
dered all pretence to dictate, or even greatly influence,
events in Central Europe. Since Munich the Ligne
Maginot marks the eastern limit of France.
A Continental policy, as pursued by France since
1919, requires superior military strength and an un-
breakable system of alliances. But France no longer
enjoys an unquestionable superiority of military
strength, and her system of alliances has been shat-
tered.
Internally, years of demagogy and disorder, the
wild agitation and the absurd legislation of the Com-
munist-Socialist-Radical Front Populaire, have so
weakened France that there is not a serious politician
who does not proclaim to-day the need of a complete
change of methods. There have been three devalua-
tions, and national economy cannot be founded on a
perpetually shrinking money. The gospel of idleness
was preached. The mentality of non-production was
encouraged. Parliamentary incompetence and in-
stability are plainly visible to the most purblind ob-
server. What chance has such a regime against the
highly organised and efficient regimes of totalitarian
countries?
Statesmen are now trying to undo the mischief
wrought by previous Governments, to save the franc,
to set the wheels of industry running, to re-establish
sound economic conditions, to rally the misguided
workers, to rebuild an air force which has been
allowed to fall far behind. But when the greatest
national efforts have been made, it is still asked: How
can a population of 40,000,000, relatively undis-
ciplined, compete with a population of 80,000,000,
absolutely disciplined?
Even to effect a moderate recovery, the strictest
discipline, the readiest obedience, are necessary. There
must be abandonment of laissez-faire and liberalism.
There must be an intensive five or ten years’ plan.
And that supposes a chief or a Cabinet with an assured
tenure of office, with continuity of purpose. And that
means —horrid thought—the acceptance of authori-
tarianism.
Wifi France do all that? Would not the grim
organisation of France be the negation of “demo-
cracy”? Why admit a tempo which will destroy the
leisure, the liberty, the smiling philosophy, the essen-
tial morality of France? Is it to be a happy (perhaps
one should say a happy-go-lucky) France or a power-
ful France?
The assumption is that we cannot have both. But
this is putting the case too crudely. The real solution
is surely to restrict the objective of France. France
must, of course, work, must produce, must set her
house in order ; but she has no need to imitate the
totalitarian countries provided she chooses between
incompatible ambitions.
France must turn her back to the mainland and
her face to the sea. She must not aspire to be the
gendarme of Europe, but the guardian of her Empire.
France, that was the greatest Military Power of the
Continent, must become a Western Power, a Sea Power,
an Imperial Power.
Third Term for Roosevelt?
[This penetrating study of President Roosevelt’s
aspirations and political methods and acumen—this last
familiar enough from speeches which are high-sounding
and lofty in sentiment, while committing himself and his
country to exactly nothing—is condensed from a
“Saturday Evening Post” article by Hugh S. Johnson.]
Mr. Roosevelt has gone farther to the radical Left
than he can carry one great wing of his party, and
farther than he can carry the country. If he continues
in that direction, there wifi be a Democratic split, and
there will be no third term for him.
Since he wants a third term more than he wants
these radical extremes, there will be no split. Much
has been said about the Presidents Dutch stubborn-
ness. But it is not so stubborn as his political judg-
ment is acute. He wifi temper his course to keep his
highly diverse following together. There wifi, there-
fore, be no third party. A third term is much more
likely.
Every fact points to Mr. Roosevelt wanting a
third term, and none points the other way. If, as the
time approaches, he is quite sure he could get away
with it, nothing in the world could stop his trying it.
But if, as the time approaches, there is as much as
a fifty-fifty chance of his getting licked, “nothing in
the world would induce me to break this sacred tradi-
tion of all our immortal Presidents since Washington.”
This seems certain. Beyond all others, the Presi-
dent’s dearest ambition is to go down in history as
one of our few great Presidents. With only reason-
able recovery and no repudiation by personal defeat,
he could do that. But if he tried to break that “sacred
tradition,” and failed, or if he won and his programme
failed in a third term as dismally as it is failing now,
he could be written down as a rash incompetent who
had been entrusted with unusual power and had used
it blunderingly to destroy the work of his predecessors
for one hundred and fifty years.
He is, politically,, at least as smart as Coolidge. If
he saw any such catastrophe approaching, he would
get out of the White House with dignity to lie down
with Washington, Jefferson, Jackson, Lincoln, Cleve-
land, T. R. and Wilson as a great President, rather
than to repose with Grant and Harding as a great flop.
He needs nobody’s advice on that. His is the keenest
judgment of the popular temper in our day.
But, on the other hand, Mr. Roosevelt likes his
job. He is on top of it more effectively than any
other President. Whereas it has killed others, he
thrives on it. Like all great leaders, he honestly
believes that Divine Providence had something to do
with putting him where he is. Remembering the
triumphs and the popular plaudits of his earlier Presi-
dency, he breathes the theme of high-school orations:
“When it is dark enough, the eternal stars shine out.”
Napoleon had that idea. Caesar had it, and so did
Alexander. It is inevitable for any man in such
universal acclaim to believe that the voice of the
people is the voice of God and to be sure that the
finger of Destiny has touched his brow. ivu.
velt has this idea.
Furthermore, he cares nothing for precedents. He
has taken his greatest delight in breaking them. If
he could get away with it overwhelmingly, it would
be his supreme joy to break this, the greatest of all
precedents. There is no question about it. If he
could surely carry the country with him, he would
plug for a third term with all his might.
He has kept the road open. He has shaped all
his conduct towards that goal. There is no fair-
haired boy in training as heir-apparent, notwithstand-
ing that this is the most difficult time in the history
of the modern world and that our leadership depends
on a single heartbeat of a middle-aged and overworked
man. There is no second in command to take over
should the captain fall. There is only Jack Garner —
and I do not say this in derogation of the veteran
Texan. If he became President there would be the
greatest exodus of crackpots out of Washington since
the Pied Piper led the rats out of Hamelin, and I
believe prosperity would return in an overwhelming
flood in three weeks.
The truth remains that, so far as Mr. Roosevelt’s
planning goes, there is no understudy. If any head
begins to show refulgence in this Administration, it
somehow gets cracked. Secretary Hull’s self-efface-
ment, in spite of his brilliant record, explains his per-
manency. It is significant above all things that, in
the reorganisation bill, which proposes an obvious
necessity of six Assistant Presidents, all must have “a
passion for anonymity.” There can be no figure in
this Administration that is more than knee-high to
the President. Aspirants for the Assistant President
job must be what Arthur Krock called “six selfless
synthesists.” No others need apply— not for this job
or for any other in this Administration. There must
be no figure luminous save the figure of the Boss.
Because he is the best political wind-vane, the
next President is pretty apt to be Mr. Franklin Delano
Roosevelt, elected on a distinct revision of recent
Third New Deal policy to the Rightward.
Baldwin Speaks for Refugees.
[The speech here condensed from a London “Times”
report was made by Lord Baldwin when launching an
appeal on behalf of the victims of religious and racial
persecution. The speech was simultaneously broadcast
in Britain and the U.S.A.]
I have to ask you to come to the aid of the victims
not of any catastrophe in the natural world, not of
earthquake nor of flood, nor of a famine, but of an
explosion of man’s inhumanity to men.
Thousands of men, women and children, despoiled
of their goods, driven from their homes, are seeking
asylum and sanctuary on our doorsteps. I am shocked
and distressed by the plight of those despised and
rejected people and their innocent children. They may
not be our fellow-subjects, but they are our fellow-
men.
To-night I plead for the victims who turn to Eng-
land for help, the first time in their long and troubled
history that they have asked us in this way for finan-
cial aid. Heroic as their own efforts are, the disaster
which has fallen upon them is too great for their un-
aided contribution. Thousands of every degree of
education, industry, wealth, position have been made
equal in misery.
Nothing has been more remarkable among the
Jews than the way in which the well-to-do and the
wealthy look after their poorer neighbors. They have
always been self-contained, and often, without com-
plaint, have met great disasters. The response that
has been made by the Jewish community outside Ger-
many to the needs of their own people in the Reich
has been magnificent. They have already found between
£5,000,000 and £6,000,000. The greater part of this
money has, of course, been devoted to the needs of
their own people, but they have generously contri-
buted also to the cause of the non-Aryan Christians.
It cannot be too strongly stressed that among the
victims are large numbers of persons of the Christian
faith, born and bred Christians, who, because of one
Jewish parent or grandparent, are classed as non-
Aryan and suffer the same humiliation and deprivation
which has afflicted Jews who profess the religion of
Judaism. The number of these so-called non-Aryan
Christians who, according to German law, are regarded
as Jews certainly exceeds 100,000 ; in addition, there
are some half a million professing Jews, and no words
can describe the pitiable plight of these 600,000 human
souls.
Our minds turn naturally and instinctively to the
young children, thousands of whom have been sepa-
rated from their parents after having witnessed scenes
and suffered experiences the terrible effects of which
can be undone only by much human care and human
kindness. There are at least 50,000 Jewish children,
as well as many thousands of Christian children, who
must be brought out of Germany as soon as the money
is available to transport them and to feed, clothe,
house and educate them until they are ready for emi-
gration to countries of settlement all over the world.
Thousands of parents are appealing to the Refugee
Committee to take their children out of Germany even
though they may never see them again. The scenes
which have taken place on the quays when small par-
ties of children were about to embark on their journey
to a new land can only be described as heartbreaking.
That is the first task —to rescue these unfortunate
children with the utmost speed, and to care for and
to train them while awaiting transit to the countries of
settlement. Time is the essence of the contract and
delay may prove literally fatal. Mass emigration to
any sparsely inhabited territory is difficult and costly
and must demand preliminary spadework, and that
must take time ; but the good will of many nations
has been roused. Offers to assist are now being care-
fully examined, and though I am a private citizen I
cannot help feeling there is much matter here for the
Governments of the world to consult together upon
and see what they may accomplish in the way of
settling these unhappy people.
We have also to deal with another class of heart-
breaking appeals, appeals from Christian husbands
and fathers who have married women of the Jewish
faith or women of Jewish descent, and who have
refused to abandon their wives and their children, but
know that, unless they can leave Germany, the future
for themselves and their loved ones is utterly without
hope.
In China and Japan To-day.
[Last week Sydney dailies astonished their readers
with the surprising, headline “China Winning the War,”
this remarkable news having been conveyed to them
by one lately “attached to the staff of Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek.” Here in condensed articles are other
views, presented by observers on the spot—the first, by
Norman Stockton, a London “Daily Express” corre-
spondent in China, dealing with conditions as he knows
them in the war-afflicted country, touching on the ter-
rible exodus to the inland and describing peculiar Chinese
reactions to the invasion; the other by a London
“Times” correspondent in Japan, showing how calmly
the war is being taken there.]
In China, cities and villages which have stood
intact through centuries of internecine wars and strife
have disappeared in dust.
Gone are the days when, as opponents fought,
the industrious peasant tilled his soil in no-man’s-
land. Not only the areas where fighting takes place
but vast areas in front of and behind the lines have
been reduced to desolation and waste, either from the
guns or airplanes of the invaders or by the “scorched
earth” policy—the destruction by fire of all crops
before the advance of the invader.
The tillers and the reapers of the twice-a-year
harvests themselves have disappeared to join the
greatest mass-migration of people the world has
known. War has displaced 250,000,000 people in
China —more than half the total population. Most of
them have joined the great westward trek that has
taken them to the remote hinterland of the west
country.
Millions have perished. Twenty million died in
the first twelve months of war —more than were in
the death-roll of the great war in Europe.
No one dares estimate how many will die this
year, even if hostilities end now. The soil is no
longer tilled. The entire coast is blockaded and there
is insufficient food for China’s multitudes. A tenth of
the population of the world will, before the end of
1938, be on the verge of starvation. An area equalling
that of the United Kingdom, Eire, Belgium, Czecho-
slovakia, Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy
and the Netherlands has been reduced to waste or
denuded of its people.
Add to the populations of these countries the
peoples of Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Rumania
and some conception can be gained of the number
affected by China’s mass migration. Nothing the world
has ever known has approached this tragedy. Its
astronomical magnitude does not, however, horrify the
Chinese people. Too often in their history droughts,
famines and wars have forced them to leave their
homes.
The looting and pillaging of towns and cities, the
desecration of monasteries and temples, have been
part of the price of warfare for centuries. The death
of countless babies cannot awaken horror in the hearts
of a race which countenances the dumping of newly-
born female babies into the rivers and sea as the only
method of eliminating unwanted large families.
The breaching of the Yellow River dykes, which
laid waste thousands of square miles of country, and
drowned, killed by starvation, or rendered homeless
more than 20,000,000 people, was hailed as a feat that
completely halted the war in the north. Centuries of
warfare have created an apathy that regards man-
made sudden death and violence, however brutal it
may be, as nothing more extraordinary than the epi-
demics of diseases that sweep the nation almost as
regularly.
But something new has been introduced in the
present conflict. A people with more acumen than the
Japanese would have studied deeply the psychological
effect of violating tenets which mean more than life
itself to their mainland neighbors. “Kill me, but
leave my body for my sons to worship,” sums up one


The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
B
SB
£
JV
KS--
8
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
of these tenets. “Take my goods, but leave me my
sons and my lands, so that my sons may worship my
ancestors and my lands provide food for my
descendants,” is the other. With rich and poor alike,
the cult of ancestor worship is a dominant feature
of Chinese life. It has been scrupulously respected by
all invaders —until this invasion began.
The death from the air introduced in this invasion
claimed not only your soul but your body. It came,
and nothing remained. The body disappeared in the
awful cataclysm of sound and fury. It was the begin-
ning of a mass terror that sickened the soul of a
nation ; that foredoomed all hopes of peace and friend-
ship between the two yellow races. It doomed its
victims to perpetual torment . . . and damned their
souls to everlasting search for the Valhalla of the
Chinese—the tombs of their ancestors.
* * * * *
Japan has been at war with China for 15 months,
a period sufficient for a settled war atmosphere to
develop. Yet visitors to Japan —and there are still
many —invariably observe that Japan is not like a
country at war.
The resident finds himself obliged to concur. The
present writer has spent the greater part of the war
period in Tokio, but he has also travelled in various
parts of the country and talked with some intimacy
with Japanese in many stations of life. And he is
forced to the conclusion that the war is by no means
a constant preoccupation for the large majority of
these people and that they are certainly not conscious
that war life is a new life for them.
The war gestures, dialectics, hardships and efforts
exist. But they exist as a part rather than the whole
of the national life. That would seem to describe the
essential character of Japan’s war atmosphere.
One striking feature of Japan’s war atmosphere
is the absence of any hostile demonstrations against
resident Chinese. There are some 30,000 in the country,
and they go about their business entirely unmolested.
Towards the Chinese there is' no sense of either fear
or rivalry ; at worst they are seen as a nuisance, a
temporary impediment to the nation’s purpose, but
never as a national foe.
Indeed, already the xenophobia as applied to
third-party nationals is more deeply felt. The specific
subjects of this have been the Soviet Union per-
manently and Britain and France one after the other
in that order. Again one must stress that this phobia
has been national and not personal.
The war period has seen an increasing number
of economic restrictions, but nothing is easier than to
exaggerate the impact of these restrictions on the life
of the ordinary civilian. The majority of the people
have no concern with the foreign exchange market
whatever. It is very much the same with restrictions
on consumption. The businessman has grown gradu-
ally accustomed to feeling the hand of authority
on his business, and, although he may grumble a little
and elude the regulations when he can, he creates no
serious disturbance. As to the consumer, he is the
heir of centuries of sumptuary legislation. Atavistically
conscious of the close association between material
discomfort and moral worth, he as such presents no
difficulty at all.
Franco’s Case for Belligerent Rights.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times” Burgos
correspondent.)
As far back as 18 months ago General Franco
outlined the reasons why Nationalist Spain regarded
the recognition of belligerency as a simple right. These
reasons, which have since grown rather than dimin-
ished in validity, were:
The Nationalist Government controls the greater
part of the Spanish mainland, nearly all the islands,
and all the colonies. An efficient administration main-
tains law and order throughout the length and breadth
of Nationalist territory. The Burgos Government has
been recognised by three of the Great Powers as the
only legitimate Government in Spain ; and many other
Governments, including that of Great Britain, have
seen fit to maintain representatives in the Nationalist
capital. Meanwhile the Barcelona Government, in the
Nationalist view, has robbed itself, by sins of omis-
sion and commission, of all title to legitimacy.
Great Britain, it is insisted, is incurring a grave
responsibility. By withholding from the Nationalists
the right to blockade their enemies, she is prolonging
the war and thus making herself responsible, not only
for the shedding of blood on the battlefields, but also
for the continued starvation of women and children
in Republican Spain. It is wondered whether the
British public grasps the implications of this strange
by-product of its humanitarianism.
It is not understood at Burgos why the granting
of belligerent rights should be made dependent on the
withdrawal from Spain of foreign combatants. The
German and Italian contingents in the peninsula repre-
sent an important asset which General Franco is doubt-
less unwilling to lose, especially as he is by no means
convinced that the withdrawal of the International
Brigades from Republican Spain is to be a permanent
feature of Dr. Negrin’s policy. But Nationalists main-
tain that the presence of their foreign allies is decisive
neither in determining the outcome of the war nor as a
guarantee of the authority and continuity of National-
ist administration. Many neutral witnesses could be
found to support their view. Therefore it is not under-
stood why the presence of Germans and Italians in
Spain should invalidate the titles to legitimacy claimed
by the Burgos Government, and it is unwilling to
allow what it regards as an elementary right to
become the object of diplomatic barter.
It is realised that the presence of the Germans
and Italians contributes to British hesitation ; but
British fears on this score are regarded as greatly exag-
gerated. General Franco does not intend to have his
policy dictated to him from abroad, and the indepen-
dence which he has shown on certain occasions has
disconcerted his closest friends. Long association in
war-time usually leads to friction between allies, and
the relations between Spain and her totalitarian part-
ners afford no exception to the rule.
Chamberlain and His Enemies.
[The case for Mr. Chamberlain, stated by Lord
Elton in this condensed London “Fortnightly Review”
article, is very much to the point in Australia, where,
especially in cable columns, the outpourings of Chamber-
lain opponents are a staple feature.]
Munich meant more than the liquidation, by a
miracle, without war, of a disastrous series of injus-
tices and mistakes. If Mr. Chamberlain has his chance,
it will yet prove the point of departure of a new,
humaner and more realistic diplomacy, and of an era
of gradually relaxing tension.
This will seem perhaps an exaggeration of optim-
ism to those whose ears are deafened by the despair-
ing outcries of the ideologues. Let it be remembered,
however, that for a decade now these ideologues have
been, almost gloatingly, prophesying the end of civili-
sation, in the alternative guises of a death-struggle of
ideologies or a catastrophic revolution. And, though
there are powerful currents in British opinion which
probably desire war—currents particularly conspicu :
ous within thfe Labor party, which in recent years has
fought so many elections as the self-chosen, indeed
the self-righteous, champion of peace—l have too
much faith in the good sense of the British people to
suppose that the warmongers will prevail.
Do those who greet with cries of execration the
joint pledge of Munich to attempt to settle grievances
without war really speak for the friendly, peace-
loving, realistic British nation? Let us examine for a
moment the case, and, it must be added, the com-
plexes, of those who are determined that Mr. Cham-
berlain shall not, if they can help it, bring peace to
Europe.
At the basis of the whole unstable structure lie
two deep-seated illusions: the obsession of the old-
fashioned ideologies—that sooner or later despotisms
and democracies must, and indeed ought, to plunge
into a death-grapple, the democracies, oddly enough,
in close alliance with liberty-loving Russia ; and the
obsession of the old-fashioned Imperialists—that the
same universe cannot contain a powerful Germany
and a powerful Britain, and that, consequently, to
restrain German ambitions, a world war must be
fought approximately every 25 years,
The illusion that it is possible to extend demo-
cratic principles by the sword has a long ancestry, and
will die hard. It must not be forgotten that Mr.
Churchill, its most eloquent present exponent, pursued
the same ignis fatuus in Russia at the close of the last
war; nor that the one incontestable consequence of
the various White Russian adventures was to ensure
the permanence of Bolshevism. All through history
dictators have thrived on threats. Italy and Germany
are military dictatorships, and their peoples welcome,
or submit to, their full rigors primarily because they
believe that they must be strong to resist their
enemies. Every warlike menace flung at Hitler or
Mussolini by our peace-loving Labor democrats
strengthens despotism in Germany and Italy. Only
in the milder European climate which will follow
Mr. Chamberlain’s policy of appeasement can demo-
cratic principles again become contagious,
Are the old-fashioned Imperialists any wiser than
the old-fashioned ideologues? Is no accommodation
ever to be possible between German ambitions and
the British Empire? Must there always be a new
world war as soon as Germany begins to look for-
midable?
A realist must recognise that Germany is bound
to be the strongest European Power, as we are the
strongest world Power. If France and we had ex-
ploited the advantage of Versailles consistently and
to the full, we might have postponed German resur-
gence for another 10 or 20 years, at the cost, eventu-
ally, of an infinitely more dangerous explosion. The
real significance of what happened at Munich is not
so much that territory was ceded to Germany as that
she snapped the weakest link in the chains with which
France had sought to restrict her growth ; if President
Benes had been willing a year ago to renounce the
French and Russian alliances and pass into the Ger-
man orbit, he might well have avoided any cession
of territory.
Germany is now well on the way to become poli-
tically and economically paramount over a vast aren
of Mittel-Europa, an area economically comparable
with the British Empire. Need that mean war? In
hi s jqaval Treaty with us Herr Hitler abandoned all
idea of rivalry at sea. It may be that Germany will
be content with this great Danubian hegemony ; it
may be that she will become entangled in the prob-
lems of its nationalities and minorities, as others have
become entangled before her ; it is conceivable that
she may choose to lead Danubia against Soviet Russia.
For all these possibilities there is evidence in Mein
Kampf and elsewhere. What is least likely is that she
should turn on the West. Always provided that we
are on friendly terms with Italy, there is no neces-
sary conflict between our imperial interests and a
German hegemony in Danubia.
It goes without saying that there are awkward
corners still to be rounded—colonies among them,
Perhaps, in the long perspective of history, the
most influential new forces which emerged from the
episode of Munich will appear to be the horrified
aversion of all peoples from the prospects of modern
warfare on the grand scale. With this profound
psychological factor all Governments will henceforth
have to reckon,
This universal horror of war is the foundation on
which Mr. Chamberlain must build. He builds against
persistent obstruction not only from the domestic
savagery of the Nazi regime, but from Labor, Liberal
and Churchillian warmongers. If he succeeds in
launching a process of disarmament—and I imagine
that he would be willing that the success of his policy
should be tested by its effects upon the armament race
—and if the consequent economies begin to release.,
funds for further social development, not only will it
become still harder for the enemies of appeasement
to protest, but democracy itself will resume the
intellectual initiative.


INVINCIBLE
since
1906.
INVINCIBLE
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
fi B o m JL r ,? V 193 v ¥° del ? : 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
O-Dcl Li cylinder sizes i nil 4-cycle tVDes Promnt
Guarantee' % E « nglnes al ™ Year?
truaiantee. _ All Spares Available.
rm Write for Illustrated Catalogues To—day.
G»rv U danv S u°s f e 5} 1 Tlnclbl e Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
Fen™ nVm H^ le Marine Engines bold a record for
! an ,l Pliability; they are, size for
the wo?ld-s markeT tT-day!* loWSt ' priced Engines on
¥? t f p re f / Q OU <!i eci . de .<”} a new En g in e for your Boat, investi-
selected e one lnVinClble ’ y ° U will never regret having
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established m 1906,
Sporting
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
O. F. Triggs, a Sydney businessman
who is interested in margarine, has been
lucky in his purchases of horseflesh.
Since October Eastern Maid and Gill-
town have won seven races in the Triggs
colors. Eastern Maid failed in the Peter
Moore Cup at Moorefield on Saturday,
but Gilltown, a model of consistency, ran
away with the Moorefield Handicap.
Backed from threes to 6 to 4, Gilltown
took charge half a mile from home, and
beat Improvement and Carinya with ease.
Bartle usually rides him, but had been
engaged for Improvement, so McMena-
min, who is riding in great form, got the
mount on Gilltown. That chestnut is
trained by L. O’Sullivan, a young man
who won races with Mirrio and
“strapped ” Heroic.
Handicapper Jim Tanner received con-
gratulations from owners and trainers
on his Peter Moore Cup weights, a very
fine job. Four horses, Nebraska, Bramol,
Sedunum and Loombah, finished almost
in line. Nebraska, who was on the
rails, got the verdict by a head from
Bramol; Sedunum —on the outside —was
a similar distance away.
Nebraska was ridden by Andy Knox,
who showed that his hand has not lost
its cunning. When Easter Maid was
beaten at the three furlongs, Knox sent
Nebraska away with a commanding lead,
and the Rossendale mare, who is trained
at Warwick Farm, lasted just long
enough. She went out at tens.
But Bramol and Sedunum were un-
lucky. The latter, who had been backed
from sixes to twos, was checked at the
turn and forced wide at the top of the
straight. Then near the finish he lugged
in on Bramol, whose rider could not use
his whip. Geebung was in a hopeless
position early, being evidently troubled
by the track. He finished fast in fifth
place, a performance worth keeping in
mind. Only a little fellow, he evidently
prefers a small field and lots of room.
Running his last race in Australia —he
is booked for Ceylon—Leander (9 to 2)
won the Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap on his home track, but backers of
the favorite, Activity, swore that he
should have won by lengths. A run on
the rails at the half-mile gave Activity
an advantage, but his rider did not avail
himself of it, and Leander streaked away.
Activity made his move at the home turn.
Leander’s rider, Ashmore, chopped him
off quickly—an offence for which Ash-
more was afterwards suspended for a
month. Activity became unbalanced, and
Constant beat him for second place ; had
Activity run second a protest might have
been successful.
Pentheus could gallop, and the mating
of that stallion with Bonnie Marjorie,
herself a smart sprinter, has produced in
Penthides a galloper above the ordinary.
Favorite —at 10 to 9 on —for the colts and
geldings’ division of the Juvenile,
Penthides cantered home from Wimble-
don and Wingfoot. Penthides is raced
and trained by W. J. Bryan, who had
Bonnie Marjorie. He is a well-grown
brown gelding, and in conformation re-
sembles his dam.
Richard Wootton gave Fly her first
race in the fillies’ division of the Juvenile,
and he and his friends backed her at
twelves and tens, the price shortening to
fives. The Wootton filly behaved like an
old-stager qt the barrier and during the
race. First away, she gave nothing else
a chance, and won by three lengths from
Climax, with Mohave third, but beaten
off. Fly, who is by Irish Prince-Vanished,
ran the five furlongs in lmin. 3sec., equal-
ling a track record held by Renowned
since 1931.
Beau Cheval (6 to 4) was never obliged
to gallop in earnest in the first division
of the Flying Welter. Scratchings reduced
the field to a poor lot outside of the
Queenslander, and he won on the bit
from Salutation and Some Boy.
The second division gave the bookies
a skinner. Fernclove, owned and trained
by an old chap named Smedhurst, jumped
away smartly—he is usually bad at the
barrier —and won by lengths from Kurra-
wid and the pony Conasau. Fernclove is
trained at Moorefield, and he had not
previously won since April, 1937. His
owner let him run for the stake. The
ring price was 33 to 1 ; the tote —three
divs. —paid £2O 19s. 3d. for 10s.
* * * *
The last has been seen of Milantheon
on a Sydney racecourse. Before the Ascot
Handicap at the Sydney course of that
name, Milantheon exhausted the patience
of starter Gaxieu, and was left a dozen
lengths. Great as this disadvantage was
in a mile race, he wound up a good
second to Beau Cheval. Like Beau C,
Milantheon was to have run at Moorefield
on Saturday, but in consequence of the
starter’s report the club refused to let him
race. Strange that Milantheon should
have shown his best form in Sydney as
an aged stallion who has done stud duty.
* * * *
It was unusual to see five-year-olds
running first, second and third in the
Peter Moore Cup. Horses of that age
have on the whole fared badly this season
in competition with four-year-olds—
Buzalong is an outstanding exception.
Taking recent events only, Red Sails
(Summer Cup), Delmestor (Carrington
Stakes), Bristol (Tatt.’s Club Cup), Man-
rico (Standish), Beaustone (Bagot), Gill-
town and Eastern Maid are four-year-
olds, and so, also, of course, is Ajax, the
best horse in the land. Six-year-olds are
also winning a lot of races. The season
that produced Talking, Gold Rod, Mala
and co. was not exactly a vintage year
for foals.
* * * *
Recent race meetings in Sydney and
Melbourne have been conducted without
the active assistance of Mr. Woolcott-
Forbes, known in the world of finance
for his association with Producers and
General, and known on racecourses as
“The Bullfighter.” Early last week Mr.
Woolcott-Forbes was reported missing
from his usual haunts, and it says much
for human nature that no section seemed
more concerned for his safety than the
Ring, the vast sums he has won from it
(see a Sunday paper for details) not-
withstanding. When the news came from
Perth that Mr. Woolcott-Forbes had
called there on his way to England, the
heart of the Ring ceased to be depressed
with cares. Mr. Woolcott-Forbes is
familiar with Perth; he spent some time
in that city before he descended on the
effete East to become a dazzling finan-
cier and a dashing punter. Private affairs,
it seems, have summoned him to Eng-
land, where, it is conjectured, he will stay
long enough to back the Derby winner
for a fabulous amount, and then come
back to Sydney and square up all round.
* * * *
Papworth, who had Talking, has
rubbed salt into Alan Cooper’s wounds
by telling a “D.T.” horse-reporter that
“Bonnie Loch is the best horse I’ve ever
trained.” And Cooper gave £19,000 for
Talking. If that animal had been a first-
class racehorse, he would have won one
of the Cups in a year so bad that the
double was carried off by Northwind and
Wotan —each has been a disappointment
since. Of course, the son of Magpie may
do well at the stud, as Windbag has done
and as Chatham and Winooka are doing.
* * * *
Epsom (Vic.) grandstand, burnt to
the ground on the night of December
28, was erected during the land boom
period in Melbourne. Original owner of
the course, a city fishmonger, gave in-
structions that it was to be more
capacious than the stand at Flemington;
but this ambitious plan wasn’t carried
into effect. When the land boom col-
lapsed Epsom racecourse fell into the
late J. L. Reilly’s hands at an “old song”
price.
* * * *
First prize of £5OO for the January
Steeplechase at Flemington on New
Year’s Day went to a horse that was
picked up at the bargain price of £2O.
Owner is R. Hughes, a young man em-
ployed in the engineering branch of
General Motors at Fishermen’s Bend.
Hughes saw Royal Demon grazing at a
Bundoora poultry farm, took a fancy to
him and got into touch with the breeder
at Yarram.
* * * *
Sensation of the Mornington (Vic.)
meeting on Wednesday was the disquali-
fication for 12 months of H. Grant
(owner-trainer), J. Regan (jockey) and the
horse Sachem over the animal’s perform-
ance in the Trial Hurdle. Appeals will
be lodged.
Sachem started an even-money favorite,
but never looked like figuring in the
finish. Race went to the Gippsland-
trained Exmoor, a 15-to-l chance.
Regan, who rode Sachem, won a Grand
National Steeple on Santa Casa and the
Australian Steeple twice on Tongala.
Colors borne to victory by Fancifort
(Simeon’s Fort-Fleeting Fancy) in the
Mornington Cup were the “green, orange
armbands and cap” carried by Salitros
when he captured the A.J.C. Derby and
Victoria Derby of 1920. W. V. Manton,
who then resided in Sydney, dropped out
of racing for a lengthy period, but now
patronises the Mentone stable of F. W.
Hoysted.
Fancifort shared favoritism with Vital
at 7 to 2in a good betting race. Since
his meritorious win with 9st. 51b. in
the Kalgoorlie Cup of 1936 Vital has
turned roguish. He was left at the post
in the Yarra Glen Cup. Getting away
badly at Mornington, he cut an in-
glorious figure.
Harold Badger had no difficulty in get-
ting Fancifort home by nearly a length
from Poldean, with Monford a moderate
third. Simeon’s Fort (imp.), winner of
the Doncaster Handicap of 1928, has
sired some useful performers. A better
one than Fancifort was Hostile, who
credited J. E. Smedley with the Cantala
Stakes of 1935.
Badger and Fred Hoysted were asso-
ciated in a winning double at Morning-
ton. The success of Fancifort was fol-
lowed by that of Centaurus (The Night
Patrol-Sweet Innocence) in the Peninsula
Novice at the nice odds of 7 to 1.
Blankenough, who ran Centaurus to a
head, has recently raced over hurdles.
Sweet Innocence, dam of Centaurus,
was in the stud which the late G. L.
Buckley conducted at Kyneton. Imported
from England, she was by Roi Herode
(sire of The Tetrarch) from Sweet Ver-
nal (half-sister to an Oaks winner), by
Sainfoin from Musa (winner of the
Oaks). Buckley expected big things of
Sweet Innocence as a brood mare, but
her best progeny were King’s Pardon
(by Comedy King) and Herodius (by
Woorak).
Epigram’s win in the Mt. Eliza Handi-
cap was as welcome to ringmen as that
of Exmoor in the jumping event. Three
years ago Epigram dead-heated for first
with Journal in the Toorak Handicap,
carrying Bst 21b. This was his exact
impost at Mornington in poor company,
but 15 to 1 could be readily obtained.
Ridden by Nichols, son of a Ballarat
trainer, Epigram struggled home in front
of Glodomar and Cheque, between whom
there was little to choose in favoritism.
Epigram, who was bred in New Zealand,
is a handsome stallion and ought to be
useful at the stud.
Rumelia, 5-to-2 favorite for the Beleura
Welter, reached the judge half a neck
in advance of Welcome Home, whose
half-brother, Beaustone, won the Bagot
Handicap on New Year’s Day. Rumelia,
trained and owned by H. W. Gabell,
is by Thracian (brother to Heroic).
* * * *
First past the post in the Terang Cup
on New Year’s Day but disqualified for
interference, Keeping Watch was the star
performer on Saturday at Moonee Valley,
where a (delicensed courses) compensa-
tion meeting was held.
Nine started. Keeping Watch (eights)
was only fifth in order of favoritism.
Punters “went nap” on Jakin, best odds
against Roy Shaw’s candidate being 2 to
1 when the tapes lifted. Demotic, who
had vanquished Donaster and Avenger
in the V.A.T.C. Hopetoun Handicap on
Boxing Day, receded to fives after touch-
ing 7 to 2.
Taking control nearly half a mile from
home, Keeping Watch led into the
straight from Jakin and gamely stalled
off the favorite to score by three-quarters
of a length. El Bruno, a moody customer,
pipped Mutable on the post for third
money.
Fact of the 1| miles being run in
2min. 3fsec., which verges on a course
record, was due to Mukama setting up
a 10 lengths’ lead along the back stretch.
Field spread out, with Demotic tailed
off even more than the unsupported
Barametric. Stipes held an inquiry into
Demotic’s running; explanation accep-
ted.
Steve Murphy has won 17 events for
Eddie O’Brien, the paddock bookmaker,
with Keeping Watch, a six-year-old son
of The Night Patrol. These successes
included a hurdle race. Keeping Watch
failed signally over the battens during a
visit to Sydney two seasons ago, but it
would not surprise if he returned to the
role of jumper next winter.
Apart from Jakin, hot favorites to
suffer defeat were Kanuri in the Dun-
alister Handicap (six furlongs) and Brave
Mark in the Coburg Welter (one mile).
Kanuri knocked up after following Spray
into the straight, and finished a poor
third, Bankshaw (sixes) beating Spray by
half a neck with a whirlwind rush.
An improving three-year-old, Bank-
shaw belongs to W. R. Kemball, and is
by Siegfried, sire of Wotan. He ran the
eight furlongs in lmin. 37|sec. only
half a second outside the course record.
Brave Mark (5 to 2) gave an unaccount-
ably bad display in the Coburg Welter,
which went to Fred Hoysted’s candidate,
Forthaven, a son of Simeon’s Fort, who
set the pace and shook off Sir Robin by
nearly two lengths. Caeira’s effort in
coming from last to third, half a neck
behind Sir Robin, was most impressive.
Punters did not profit much over Giant
Killer’s victory in the Banyule Hurdle.
In a miserable field of three he started
at 7 to 4 on. Then came a succession
of good results for the odds-merchants.
Romany Chief (9 to 4) lost 10 lengths at
the start of the Seafield Handicap for
juveniles. He finished fourth and, with
ordinary luck, couldn’t have been beaten.
Golden Corn (sixes) registered a post-
to-finish victory, but he narrowly escaped
being collared by Harina, a stablemate
of Giant Killer. More will be heard of
Macedonia (Great Star-Dorsal), third at
20 to 1. He carries the same colors as
Bankshaw, who scored later in the after-
noon.
Following up his win at Mentone a
few days before, Pakeha (Beau Pere-
Dominant) easily annexed the Glenbervie
Trial at 7 to 1. The unlucky Prince
Pardon (3 to 1, favorite) came from the
clouds to beat every rival but the winner,
thus repeating his Mentone display.
* * * *
Avenger’s fall in the Bagot Handicap
was fatal; he dislocated a fetlock joint so
badly that he had to be destroyed. He
looked a first-class colt the day he beat
Ajax and Hua in the A.J.C. Derby, but
he did nothing much afterwards, and now
racegoers are left wondering whether or
not that performance was a fluke. Holt
did not think so, and Holt’s opinion is
entitled to the utmost respect.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Sef t o n Handicap: Hammer
Head ; next, Grand Boy.
Farm Encourage: Tartanus;
next, High Dividend.
January Handicap: Highborn ;
next, Braidwood Boy.
Berala Handicap: Bramol; next,
Miss Linbul.
FOR ASCOT.
Eclipse Handicap: Plymouth
Hoe ; next, Finch.
Grafton Welter: Sir Harold;
next, Beau Spear.
Belhaven Handicap: Elmdale;
next, Bell Buoy.


Sheffield Shield Cricket
SOUTH AUSTRALIA v. N.S.W.
N.S.W. CRICKET GROUND, JANUARY 14, 16, 17 and 18.
Play Commences 11.30 a.m.
ADMISSION: Outer Ground —Adults 1/6; Children 6d. Grandstand—Adults 2/6; Children 1/-.
Half Price to all parts after 1 p.m.
H. HEYDON, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
***r,
you can dependon p
uHAMPWN SS P;
toREDUCETHE COST c
OF MOTORING
Incomplete combustion results k in
wasted fuel,carbon formation and un-
satisfactory engine performance. Put
in a new set of Champions ahd enjoy
the power, speed, acceleration and ftiel
savings that cortie from complete
combustion. They will soon pay for
themselves.
An Empireproducl—made
in Windsor, Can.
pi jiipi
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
m
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK P&JGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Tasmanian
Aquatic
Attractions
im
t /
? i
In addition to its scenic attractions and old world charm, Tasmania is famed
for its Regattas held on the Derwent' and other coastal havens of the lovely
Island State. The following aquatic attractions will appeal to all lovers of
yachting, power boating and rowing:—
Jan. 1 4—Royal Yacht Club of Tas-
mania Harbour Races.
Jan. 21 Regatta Council Regatta
on the Derwent.
Jan. 28 Sandy Bay Regatta, Hobart.
Feb. 4 Kingston Regatta.
Feb. 1 1 Royal Yacht Club of
Tasmania Races, Hobart.
Feb. I B—Lindisfarne Regatta.
Feb. 21 The 101st Royal Hobart
Regatta. Innumerable events
afloat and ashore.
Feb. 25 Bellerive Regatta.
March 1 I—Royal Yacht Club of
Tasmania “All In” Races.
ALL-INCLUSIVE SCENIC TOURS.
The Tasmanian Government Tourist Department offers a wide range of
itineraries short or lengthy periods covering sea voyage from port of
embarkation and return, also tours, accommodation, etc., whilst in Tasmania
at all-inclusive cost. Booklets and sailing dates promptly supplied on
personal or written application.
The Department’s officers will afford every assistance in planning your
Tasmanian holiday . . . and you will know exactly what your tours will cost
before you leave.
TASMANIAN GOVT. TOURIST DEPT.
SYDNEY .. 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
BRISBANE 196 Adelaide Street
PERTH .. A.M.P. Building, William St.
MELBOURNE . . The Block, Collins St.
ADELAIDE 12 Pirie Street
HOBART .... Macquarie & Murray Sts.
Ins and Outs
The young Queensland team made a
most favorable impression on those —not
many—who saw anything of its Sydney
match against N.S.W. On a wicket that
played tricks for the first two days, it
dismissed N.S.W. for 214. Slow-bowler
White was the highest scorer with 44, and
there were one or two thirties.
Ellis, who bowls fast-medium and has
a nice style, claimed 3-42, Dixon 4-61
and Christ 3-60. Don Tallon, behind the
wickets, helped in the dismissal of half
a dozen.
Brown and Rogers opened the batting
for Queensland. Brown, whose methods
were sedate, though interesting, was
bowled by Cheetham for 95 when the
total was 184. The only other decent
score for Queensland was Don Tallon’s
28, and the knock ended at the level 200.
N.S.W. replied with 264 (Barnes 51,
McCaffrey 40, Gulliver 40 and James
42; Ellis 5-61, Dixon 2-59 and W.
Tallon 2-32). Don Tallon caught and
stumped another half-dozen, thus equal-
ling the world’s record of 12 for a first-
class match—it was made by an English
professional, Pooley, in 1868. Batting
again, Queensland had made a leisurely
112 for no wickets at stumps on Tues-
day. Brown and Cook were the batsmen,
and they were never in difficulties. Next
day, with rain threatening, they had
nearly knocked off the runs when Cook
left, run out for 93. Then Brown was
caught by Cheetham off Murphy, having
hoisted 168, another splendid innings,
and Don Tallon and Allen finished it.
Queensland by 8 wickets.
Brown has had a splendid trip south
with scores of 84 r.o. (against N.S.W.):
Centenary match, 67 ; Victoria, 61 and
99; South Aus., 12 and 174; N.S.W., 95
and 168. He’s done well as a leader also.
As for Tallon, he completed a most
successful week with a bright century
knock (115) for Queensland v. S.A. in
Brisbane. After the Bananalanders had
lost three for 28, he and Cook put on
135, to which the opener contributed 22.
At stumps the board read seven for 325 ;
Baker (80), Stibe (59).
* * * *
Having reduced the Queenslanders at
Adelaide to chewing-gum consistency, the
Wheatfielders tried the same game on the
Victorians at Melbourne. The Vies, took
first hit, and before they were satisfied
had 499 up—a tally partly accounted for
by the failure of the Grimmett menace
to function. He developed a “leg.”
Rigg and Lee left early, but Gregory
put up an obstinate 71, and Hassett
began to bat like “W.G.” and Trumper
rolled into one. Meanwhile Sides con-
tributed a bright 44 before being run
out, Barnett backed this with a good 50,
Ring obliged with 51, and that dashing
willow-wielder F.-Smith came to light
with 43. Hassett’s share was 211 n.o. —
his second double century, and one of
the finest innings ever seen on the
ground.
Waite (3-123) and Ward (4-125) took
what wickets were ayailable.
Not at all put out, the touring team,
headed by Whitington and K. Ridings,
began on the Victorian bowling. The
score was 70 when Ridings went for
27. Bradman improved the shining hour
with Whitington, who had reached the
century when Sievers bowled him.
McCormick sent back Badcock, c. and
b., 1. But Ward handed in 62, Hamence
made a confident 84, and Bradman
got into three figures again before
being dismissed by Sievers for 107.
P. Ridings (33) and Grimmett (34)
batted grimly in an effort to secure a
first-innings lead. Both found Ring too
good, and the total was 488. Sievers
bowled splendidly, 6-95.
Batting again with no hope of winning
or losing, Victoria ran to 283 (Lee 51,
Barnett 54, Hassett 54, and Sides 61 ;
Ward, 5-126), declaring with 7 down.
S.A. knocked up 50 without loss before
stumps. A most interesting match, leav?
ing Victoria at the head of the Sheffield
list.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Queensland’s defeat of
N.S.W. at Sydney puts Ma at the bottom
of the Sheffield table, her solitary point
coming from Queensland’s failure to win
the Brisbane match outright. Ma has
suffered from casualties (White is the
latest), and from the refusal of O’Reilly
and Fingleton to play in Sheffield
matches, even in their own city, a thing
which should result in their being struck
off the list of future N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian cricketers. Chipperfield has
thought better of his determination not
to play.
* * * *
“K.R.”: Not only batting needs to be
livened up if Shield cricket is to attract
“gates” again. Dilatoriness of umpires
and players in taking the field, protracted
intervals and the general atmosphere of
genteel leisureliness are other public griev-
ances. On the first day of the match at
Sydney the last two N.S.W. batsmen were
at the wicket at the four-o’clock adjourn-
ment. As usual, it was prolonged for
several minutes. Soon after play was
resumed the last batsman was dismissed,
and the players adjourned for another
rest. On the second day, which was
warm, quite half a dozen drops of rain
fell. The umpires whipped off the bails,
and the whole crowd bolted to the pavi-
lion. The “rain” had stopped before they
reached it, and there was not another
drop during the ten minutes they were
away or for the rest of the day.
* * * *
“S.C.G.”: Brown’s aggregate in big
cricket for Queensland to the end of the
Sydney match with Ma is 760, and with
a bit of luck he should strike the 1000.
Bradman (593) is on the way, and, since
he has three more games to play and
makes a practice of scoring a double cen-
tury in Brisbane, it should be a tight
finish between him and the Queens-
lander.
* * * *
“Sabreur”: Old soldiers may never die
but they get creaky in the joints. This
suggests that Oldfield’s idea of gathering
the old A.I.Fi XI together for a match is
a bit overdone. Nevertheless a rollcall
shows that after 18 years only one mem-
ber of the team has passed over, Carl
Willis, the Victorian.
* * * *
On present indications the England-
South Africa Tests will be a drawn
series. The second match at Cape Town
saw the tourists score 559 and dismiss
the home side for 286. The Afrikanders
followed on, and played out time with
a leisurely 201 for 2. Verity took 5-70
in the English first innings, but, as in
previous matches, the English fast
bowlers were singularly ineffective.
* * * *
All hands will hear with pleasure that
Warwick Armstrong, who has been bat-
ting on a very sticky wicket in Sydney —
pneumonia—has carried his bat and
expects to leave hospital this week. Arm-
strong was a great all-round cricketer,
and his personality made him a popular
figure wherever he went.
Nineteenth Hole
Manila must suit Von Nida’s brand of
golf. Last week he took the Philippine
Islands Open for the second time. Par is
72, and the little Queenslander’s rounds
were 72, 72, 72 and 76. He finished two
strokes ahead of the field, which num-
bered 83. Two Japanese divided second
place. The other Australian, Cremin,
finished tenth.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Ferrier has told an
interviewer that reducing the number of
his clubs to the 14 demanded after the
New Year by St. Andrews has given him
no trouble, which is what one would
expect. The experiment has convinced
him that players will change their clubs
to suit different courses. But that has
been done by knowledgeable players for
years.
Miscellaneous.
“Top Spin”: Ginger for pluck! Red-
headed Donald Budge downed Ellsworth
Vines in their first meeting as profes-
sionals, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2. There was a £lO,OOO
gate, and the only hitch was that Alice
Marble kissed both competitors. Budge
was at no time troubled, but the other
chap claimed lack of tennis. It began
a series. Budge took the next also, 6-3,
8-6, 6-4; then Vines had a turn, 6-3,
6-3, 6-4, and evened the score in the
fourth match, 6-3, 6-2, 0-6, 3-6, 6-3. Like
the music, the money has to go round
and round in these affairs.
Not yet distressed by an itinerary
which, if insisted on, will compel the
youth to travel thousands of miles in
Australian Government trains during the
hottest summer on record, and that with-
out a companion, Kiyoshi Nakama,
the Japanese-American swimmer from
Hawaii, won the 440 yards championship
of N.S.W. in North Sydney pool. His
time equalled Medica’s Australian record,
4min. 52sec. But he beat Robin Bid-
dulph by a mere second, and in Bid-
dulph Manly seems to have produced a
new star. He is a big lad for 18, a
fourteen-stoner and a six-footer —the
Japanese is about sst. lighter. Big fellow
and little fellow are already excellent
friends.
N= * *
First of the season’s England-Aus-
tral ia motor-cycle “Tests” at Sydney
Sports Ground went to the Englishmen
—32 points to 22. They rode well and
determinedly, and they whacked the
points up among them —Statham and
Atkinson, seven each; J. Parker and
Lloyd, five each; N. Parker and
Pymar, four each. But the Australian
captain, “Bluey” Wilkinson, got the “pos-
sible” —nine points. Before the match
began there was a spot of bother. The
Australian Auto-Cycle Council had
ordered that “Tests” must be raced for
over a mile (four laps) instead of the usual
three laps. The riders said their bikes
weren’t prepared for the extra distance,
and before they’d go on the crowd con-
ducting the show (the N.S.W. Auto-Cycle
Union) had to climb down.
* * * *
In an uncommonly interesting series
played at Anthony Horderns’, Gregory
Koshnitsky, of Sydney, recaptured the
Australian chess championship from
C. J. S. Purdy. C. G. Watson, the Vic-
torian, was second. Watson has been
playing chess for half a century or so —
certainly he started very young—but the
rest of the capital field were young fel-
lows. “Kosh” didn’t lose a game.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Obit at 80, in Brisbane,
F. W. de Little, in his youth an athlete,
in later years one of Queensland’s
strongest supporters of amateur sport, and
all his life as white a man as Australia
ever bred. Born in Geelong, De Little
won swimming championships at Gee-
long and St. Kilda, and in 1882 defeated
Walter Mclndoe, then swimming cham-
pion of Australia. He played football
for Geelong, then Victorian premiers;
he won, in 1889, the middleweight box-
ing championship of the Melbourne
National Gymnasium, and, the same
evening, was runner-up for the wrestling ;
he rowed for Queensland in 1891’s in-
tercolonial winning eight-oar crew at
Melbourne. For many years he was
patron of the Queensland Amateur Swim-
ming Association and of the Commercial
Rowing Club, also president of the
Queensland Rowing Council. He had
retired in 1929 from the Qld. manager-
ship of the N.Z. Loan and M.H. Co.


Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
tgg1
rrm
■ AT THE_ ”
TIVOILI
d
“SNOW WHITE” in the Flesh.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
“SWING IT"
with Larry Adler
and Big New Company of Stars.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M6835.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Lichine in the Ballet.
Antnn Dnlin snid in a rerent hrnadract
Anton Dolin said in a recent broadcas
that members of the Ballet would rather
dance m the heat than in the cold
and from them rendering of the current
programme looks as if they can dance
perfectly well in an oven. Sydney Royal
itself is cool enough, but the stage during
the heat-wave must have been like the
hot bricks on which the legendary cat
danced. ,
Wedding" seemed even livelier than the
first presentation in Sydney, with each
of the divertissements that comprise it
clear-cut and sparkling. Riabouchinska,
ably partnered by Jasinsky, won pro-
longed applause for the “Blue Bird”
number.
David Lichine made his first appear-
ance on the Australian stage in “Chorear-
tium,” a long, rather dull ballet giving
“Greta Garbo! Myrna Loy! Norma Shearer! P'raps now you'll talk about me for a change!"
an “interpretation” of Brahms’s Fourth
Symphony. Lichine is very much him-
self, an individual dancer of great, if
slightly too obvious, power. He is almost
like an “Apache”—he dances as if he had
a knife in his hand. For the suave line
of Dolin’s dancing he substitutes a
stabbing violence ; almost all his effects
—and they were impressive—came from
piston-like movements of the forearms.
Music and ballet in “Choreartium”
seemed to be having a war, from which
neither emerged victorious. Brahms was
subdued to the exigencies of the dance,
and the ballet suffered a sympathetic loss
of fire. The number was remarkable for
one of the best effects of costuming that
Sydney has seen, and also for one of
the worst.
In the andante movement, against a
background of slaty blue, a long pro-
cession of danseuses in rich maroon made
a moving drama of resignation and sor-
row with the shuffle of feet, the swan-
like rippling of arms; Tamara Grigori-
eva, in scarlet, wove a pattern of flame
about them. The thing was simply done,
and the costuming made it striking. But
in the first movement, when the dancers
in shorts and big boots looked like a
flock of cubmasters at their gymnastics,
the costuming spoilt any merits the dance
may have had.
“Les Dieux Mendiants,” music by
Handel and choreography by Lichine, a
much less ambitious ballet than “Chorear-
tium,” was much more effective. The
stor y is as old as primitive religion—the
a PP earance of B ods in disguise on earth,
their su ff er j ngs at t he hands of mortals
d their sud fe den shini , rans f o rmation.
charmingly presented, with Ria-
bouchinska and 6 j’ si £ sky as the divinities.
Riabouchinska made a ’ ad iant ddess .
f( . A . „
*\.lng OT Alcatraz.
At Sydney Cameo and Civic, and
“““"S best stretches of gun-totin,
blood-spilling and general derring-do seen
in these parts for some time,
It’s badly named. Present film-taster
dropped in prepared for a prison drama
of sorts, and was agreeably surprised
to find there wasn’t a stone wall in
the whole film. It kicks off brightly
with a brace of wireless operators quarrel-
ling and bickering over this minx and
that and causing considerable public nui-
sance in so doing. Their exploits finally
bring about their demotion from luxury
liners to a dirty coastal tramp.
That much, carried out on a breezy
note of humor which lingers through the
film, serves two purposes: the buoyancy
of it is an excellent opening for more
serious matters that follow and, in intro-
ducing two of the main features as a
couple of likeable and humdrum, if
slightly irrational, persons, it makes them
much more human and easy to follow
in the ensuing embroilment. Lloyd
Nolan and Robert Preston barge along
in fine style, suggesting that they would
have been quite satisfied to occupy the
complete footage with their amorous ad-
venturing and damnfoolery.
Then the filmsmiths clap on the pace.
The figure of the title (J. Carroll Naish),
having broken gaol, boards the ship in
disguise with a dozen or so accomplices,
intending to escape to somewhere around
Panama. Not far out they are forced to
show their hand, and they take over the
ship, setting her course to suit their own
purposes.
Plot development centres in the wire-
less cabin when port authorities radio
that the gangsters may have boarded
some steamer and threaten to investigate
any ship which does not furnish a satis-
factory reply within a certain time limit.
The operators being the only two on
board who can handle the radio or who
have any inkling of Morse, Mr. Naish
is faced with the problem of forcing
them to send what he wants without
being able to read their transmission.
How he manages it is as neatly worked
out as the rest of the yarn.
Tension increases further when one of
the operators is shot and the other re-
fuses to handle the radio unless Mr.
Naish first permits him to call for medi-
cal assistance. There is no doctor on
board, and the operation is performed
by a nurse acting under instructions re-
ceived by radio.
The film gains much from astute use
of contrast —the easy knockabout ,nature
of its opening, the swift action that fol-
lows. Even photography is used to
further that end; with such changes as,
for instance, the camera flashing between
the emergency operation in the wireless
cabin and the sweaty, grimy stokehold
there is little need for dialogue to add
to any of the “strong” scenes.
Apart from Gail Patrick, who seems
to move in a trance, the cast is capable,
with Mr. Naish turning in a very nice
job along with Harry Carey as ship’s
captain. Photography also good, and
general atmosphere of ships, wharfs,
etc., well purveyed.
“Five of a Kind.”
Dionne Quintuplets.
Witnessed this Dionne phenomenon
for the first time at Sydney Embassy and
fancied them in advance on the ground
that parents who deck their children out
in distressing imitations of the Breen,
the Temple and other screen oddities
will not likely attempt to emulate Mrs.
Dionne.
Beyond that, the fact that they are
quintuplets matters little. They are five
natural kiddies, and those parts of the
film in which they appear are delightful
child studies. Apparently they have
been caught by a concealed camera or
else they are supremely unaware of the
photographer and his trappings. Cer-
tainly they are not acting ; they are five
little toddlers up to their usual everyday
pranks without demonstrating any par-
ticular cleverness and unhampered by any
Hollywooden appurtenances.
They play with dolls and puppies,
dance and sing a bit, clamber over Jean
Hersholt, bounce about on five rocking-
horses, make a good deal of noise and
behave generally like any normal
youngsters. For that much alone they
are screen rarities and good entertain-
ment.
The excuse for showing them is not
unbearable. It concerns Claire Trevor
as goil-reporter-cwm-radio announcer
and her rivalry with Cesar Romero of
the same vocation. Their attempts to
scoop each other lead to some mildly
amusing situations, with Slim Summer-
ville wandering throughout, and wind
up with the inevitable clinch.
“Gangster’s Boy.”
Jackie Cooper.
Main offering at Sydney Capitol, this
is a weepful length of melodrama about
a father who didn’t come up to his son’s
expectations.
Young Cooper is a capable actor, as
he shows in a current Sydney State
offering. This opus slings him back into
a poor, suffering cheild role which,
although he gives it some sincerity, hangs
too much on maudlin sentiment to pos-
sess any character.
As bright boy of his school and an
aspirant to Uncle Sam’s West Point col-
lege, he suddenly finds himself out in
the cold and his chances of a career
pretty slim when his father returns to
take an interest in him after five years’
absence. His parent, it turns out, is a
retired gangster with notions of settling
down in a select suburb and living on the
profits of his racketeering.
How Cooper and his parents find their
way into the bosom of sassiety is a too-
obvious resort to makeshift fiction, and
any chances of it gaining credence are
lost in Robert Warwick’s deplorable por-
trayal of a retired racketeer.
Reviving Legit.
Hal Percy and Brett Randall have
moved in from the suburban outskirts
and are presenting a series of plays at
the Apollo, Melbourne, in an endeavor
to resuscitate legit.
Their first offering, “It’s You I Want,”
belongs in the category of farce-comedy,
and its bright, particular star is Frank
Bradley. This seasoned and experienced
actor plays the part of a middle-aged
Great Lover after the Seymour Hicks
manner, the English actor having been
the creator of the role.
A former generation of theatregoers
split their sides at Hicks, but his machine-
gun style does not sit so well on Brad-
ley’s shoulders, who is a quieter, more
restrained histrion. But it is adequate
for the purposes of the piece in question,
which is good for an evening’s entertain-
ment for a jaded public. None of the
others specially call for mention.
Melbourne Panto.
“The Old Woman Who Lived in a
Shoe,” the panto, at Melbourne Apollo,
is one of those unsophisticated affairs
which do well where more pretentious
efforts often do ill.
The ballet, composed of children, may
be inexpensive, but it puts the mainly
juvenile audiences on a friendly footing
with the producers. Its dancing is
clever, if unpolished, and there was spon-
taneous enthusiasm in the house on the
occasion of The Bulletin’s visit.
Myrtle Roberts as the principal boy,
Allister Phiddian as the Demon King,
and Dame Joy Youlden satisfy the tra-
ditional panto, requirements. A laconic
gent, with the bored and blase manner
of a horsebreaker presents a troupe of
mathematically-minded cockatoos whose
feats of mental arithmetic are rapturously
applauded by a house of school-children.
A Portrait Painter.
Percy White, Melbourne’s most fre-
quently commissioned portrait painter, is
holding an exhibition at the top of Howie
Court in Collins-street. It explains why
he is in such request when city councils
and other concerns want the features of
some retiring or departed colleague im-
mortalised in pigment.
Nobody would fail to recognise the late
A.I.F. commander and chairman of the
Electricity Commission in the carefully-
catalogued collection of features of
General Monash in the picture commis-
sioned for Yallourn ; and the one-time
rabbi of the St. Kilda synagogue, the late
Dr. Abrahams, is presented in another
with the same attention to detail.
Warren Kerr, of the State Savings
Bank, the Rev. Cain, one-time of Wesley
College, and Justice Gavan Dulfy hang
cheek-by-jowl with Crosby, of the
Y.M.C.A., and the still busy “Little
Doctor” Maloney. As factual mementoes
they are as complete as brush could
make them.
White is a sort of Menuhin of paint-
ing. He painted a portrait of the late
Tsar of all the Russias when he was
15i, and he painted the late King and
Queen in 1920.


A NEW
£5O COMPETITION.
On Page 35 of this issue a new
£5O Sentence Competition is
announced. On the same page, the
advertisement of the Eleventh (and
final) Limerick Competition is
repeated.
An explanation of the new com-
petition is given on this page.
. —'
' €l§> 'HHli
f jFunchboibtslI
V BAR N tY s ■ >w
%_IIM FULL. STRENGTH
*«5
r n Kjt
Ml
1
•••••:■
n
055?
J
JIB
<s5s
\<S
§
TM
E
A
D
E
I
s.
ACCO
TO
B
m
. . . THE FRIENDLY
SATISFYING CHARM OF BARNEYS
Men talk about Barneys almost as if it were human, as though it had being ... “friendliest
of all Tobaccos,” one smoker called it. One enthusiast got close to the heart of things
when he said: “There are times when a man needs not exactly a companion but a
sense of companionship . . . and Barneys supplies this need.”
How true this is can only be realised fully by those to whom the need is greatest . . .
amongst them those Barneys smokers in the lonely places of the earth! Just ponder this
. . . from a Barneys smoker exiled in the Arctic: “Up here in the far North comforts
are few and far between, and for me at least Tobacco ranks ‘number one’—and only
the best is good enough.”
If you have found the Tobacco which takes
the place of friends—and sometimes, if needs
be, of food and drink ... be thankful . . .
don’t think of changing. But if you are still
seeking the Tobacco which measures up, in
goodness and smoking satisfaction, to all that
a good Tobacco can . . . try cheery, chummy,
honest Barneys. There are three strengths,
all equally good. No other Tobacco has won
such praise from smokers well qualified to judge.
oAt all good tobacconists . . . ask for
Barneys
(medium)
Parsons Pleasure
(mild)
Punchbowle
(full strength)
jßarttejis
The Ideal Tobacco
Bach is sold in
the patent “Everfresh”
tin. 2 ozs. for 2/7.
2203
NEW £50 COMPETITION.
The Limerick Competitions to date
have scattered £5OO of prize-money to
gladden the hearts of competitors, but
apart from the prize-winners there must
have been hundreds of entrants who, if
they failed to score a cash reward, got
plenty of amusement out of brooding on
Mr. Hughes, racehorses, surfers m
peculiar attire, motorists up gum-trees,
nervous cricketers and other such oddi-
ties. Further than that, readers who
didn’t compete no doubt enjoyed the
many brilliant, comic or lunatic lines
that were published.
The Limerick series will conclude when
the Eleventh Competition closes on
January 18, but the new Sentence Com-
petition that replaces it should give every
bit as much satisfaction—with the addi-
tional advantage that it will be even easier
to do than composing the last line ol a
Limerick.
Its first attraction is the prize-money,
which is £5O, divided up as lor the
Limericks into first prize of £2O, second
prize of £lO and twenty other prizes of £l.
Since the prizes are going to the most
humorous sentences constructed out of
the Aboriginalities pages of the current
issue of The Bulletin— in themselves a
profitable fossicking ground for enter-
tainment—both competitors and readers
should find it amusing. For instance,
the specimen sentence that is quoted
in the announcement of the com-
petition on page 35 (Radio page) of this
issue reads:
When Bung admitted his turpitude the
mob with uncontrollable malevolence
souvenired his corns.
That —in a general way —is the sort of
thing that is wanted. The sentence can
be ordinarily humorous or as far-fetched
as that, but it must, grammatically at
least, make sense, and it must be amus-
ing. With the crows, dingoes, goats,
wild boars and wild men that frequent
the Abo. pages, there should be no diffi-
culty in finding humorous subjects.
The construction of a prize-winning
sentence will require some ingenuity, but
the rules are simple. The sentence, of
not less than 12 and not more than 20
words, is to be made up from pages 18
and 19 of the present issue. Not more
than one word from any line is to be
used, and each word must come from a
later line than the one before it, though
not necessarily from the next line. As
long as you work downwards through
the pages it isn’t necessary to begin the
sentence with a word from the first para-
graph on page 18, but obviously it will
give more scope to begin fairly early
down the page. Begin where you like,
but work down towards the end of
page 19.
In the sentence quoted above, the
words have been chosen as follows:
“When” from page 18, paragraph 1, line
6 ; “Bung,” par. 2, line 2 ; “admitted,”
par. 4, line 2; “his” from par. 11, line
7 ; “turpitude,” par. 12, line 2 ; “the,”
pqr. 12, line 4 ; “mob,” par. 13, line 3 ;
“with” from the first par. on page 19,
line 13 ; and so on to “corns” in line 2
of the second to last par. on page 19.
There is no need in sending in an entry
to state from which paragraphs and lines
the words have been taken ; the above
enumeration is given merely to show the
method to be used.
Words may not be taken from the
verses on either page, nor from the gags
to the joke-blocks.
Entry is free, and there is no limit to
the number of entries any competitor
may send in, but every entry must be
filled in on a coupon from the advertise-
ment on page 35. Entries, addressed as
indicated in the advertisement, must reach
The Bulletin not later than January 25,
and results will be announced in the issue
of February 1. The winning sentences
will be published.
Tenth Limericks.
The first prize of £2O in the tenth
Limerick competition went to J. E.
Cameron, c/o D. Hughes, Wentworth,
River Darling (N.S.W.). The complete
Limerick, with Mr. Cameron’s touching
note of resignation for the new year,
reads:—
An eccentric old person named Deare
Remarked, “I will start the new year
By giving up shaving
And cycling and saving
But the wife is a fixture, I fear!”
The second prize of £lO went to K.
Matthew, of 138 Curlewis-street, Bondi
(N.S.W.), for a line at once fan-
tastic and ingeniously topical. He said
that the old person was giving up shav-
ing, and cycling and saving,
And creating myself a new Peer.
Some of the true New Year spirit crept
into the entries , so much, in fact, that
the official taster had the grim task, when
the festivities were over, of reading some-
where around 500 Limericks all about
beer. From that harrowing experience
three £l-prize winners emerged. James
Sheehan, of Tabbita (N.S.W.), had the
old person poised on the brink of really
"A fixture, I fear!”
certifiable eccentricity with
Why, dammit, I nearly said beer!
Two competitors from the sturdy North
sent in almost identical lines; Patrick
Casey, of Julia Creek (Q.), said the old
boy was giving up shaving, cycling,
saving,
And stifling the craving for beer,
and the version from A. W. Gregory, of
the Flying Boat Base, Pinkenba, Bris-
bane, was:
And stifling my craving for beer.
Among the other £l-prize winners,
Arthur W. Arnold, of 12 Court-street,
Parkes (N.S.W.), had the really kindly
notion of giving up saving
And socking my wife on the ear.
Miss Nan Bauld, of 12 Taylor-street,
Dubbo (N.S.W.), added a resolution with
a basis of sound commonsense:
And sliding downstairs on my ear,
and there was something of the same
precautionary touch in a motoring note
from Thos. Dwyer, of 395 Glenferrie-
road, Hawthorn, E. 2 (Vic.):
And garaging the car in third gear.
The true note of eccentricity crept in
with a line from J. W. Roberts, of 35
Bancroft-avenue, Roseville (N.S.W.); Mr.
Roberts said the gentleman would give
up saving,
And spending—l’d hate to be queer!
I. Westcott, of Wunda-road, Mosman
(N.S.W.), worked a neat double meaning
into:
But my reason escapes me that’s queer!
Things went a stage further with the
contribution from D. O. Negus, Rain-
worth-road, Rainworth, W. 2, Brisbane:
And live in a crate on the pier,
and the impossible picture from H. G.
Treverrow, 30 Hunter-street, East Mait-
land (N.S.W.)—
And trying to sail Coogee pier
prepared the way for the exquisite vague-
ness of lines from P. A. Cox, of Swann-
road, Taringa, Brisbane:
My duty’s undoubtedly clear,
A. L. Raff, c/o Q.N. Bank, Ltd., Queen-
street, Brisbane:
In fact I’ll just fail to appear,
and from J. A. Keating, of 85 Wood-
stock-street, Mayfield (N.S.W.):
Then no one will know I am here.
The remaining £l-prize winners, with
their lines, are: H. C. Caswell, Eurah,
Brewarrina (N.S.W.):
But life will be lonely, I fear.
Mrs. E. D. Collins, College-road, Stan-
thorpe (Q.):
Then recklessly walked off the pier.
G. F. Sangster, Yerong Creek (N.S.W.):
And I’ll greet all I meet with a sneer.
R. P. Crooks, 81 Clarence-street, Caul-
field, S.E.B (Vic.):
And live in a loftier sphere.
Mrs. H. Brown, 20 Harrison-street, Cre-
morne, Sydney:
And no one must dare interfere^
Mrs. E. Hay, Upper Beaconsfield (Vic.):
And wearing my hat on one ear.
Mrs. B. H. Brown, Sackville-street, Bal-
moral, N.E.I (Q.): —•
And paddling at night in the weir.


LONDON
THACKERAY HOTEL
OPPOSITE THE BRITISH MUSEUM GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.I
Centrally situated for sight-seeing, entertainments and business. Hot and cold water,
telephones and free electric heating in all bedrooms. Numerous private bathrooms.
Spacious quiet public rooms.
Bedroom, Bath and Breakfast from 9/6 per night. Luncheon 2/6. Dinner 3/6.
Inclusive Terms and Illustrated Booklet, “LONDON OLD AND NEW,” on application.
j i
■
.
01/t
W°*
SIZE 72x60
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Quite positively this Letter does not
place “Choreartium” in her list of
favorite ballets; and the young person
in scarlet and her companions in the slow
movement lowered at least one on-
looker’s spirits to the grave. That isn’t
saying it isn’t a fine work. Many women
in the audience seemed to adore it ; and,
of course, you had to admire the danc-
ing of Lichine, Baronova and Tamara
Grigorieva. Lichine was responsible for
the choreography of last Friday’s open-
ing work, “Les Dieux Mendiants,” a
sparkling something that might have
happened at Versailles.
The first-night audience was smart,
and many of the frocks were new. Lady
Wakehurst—pale coral-pink and silver
her brocades —was in the dress-circle, and
in the interval, just like all the girls and
boys, talked the ballet over with friends
at the back of the circle. In her group
part of the time were the Bertie Kellys.
They are making an entente gesture by
having the French Boy Scouts to a swim-
ming party at their Darling Point home,
and, after that, to such a tea as should
consolidate the tricolor and Australia’s
flag for ever. Secretary Morna Mackenzie
and Captain Harding were with Lady
Wakehurst, Morna was sleek as to hair
and lavender as to chiffons.
Green and silver were Mrs. Walter
Burfitt’s lames. There was a flash of
sequins from the box where Mrs. Larry
Adler sat with her husband and Victor
Dandre. Anton Dolin’s profile domi-
nated one box. Arnold Haskell was
there ; so were Mary Hordern and Mrs.
Ellis Fielding Jones. Silver brocade
gleamed on Mrs. Leon Lyons. With her
white frock Ruby Adams wore a wide
white lace scarf of incredible fineness.
Mrs. E. Baume and Mrs. Hocken were
two admirers of “Choreartium.” Mrs.
Wunderlich was there with son Theo.
Mrs. Farley’s feather cape was sapphire.
Barbara Knox and Mrs. W. S. Bennett
were among the black-frocked. Mrs. Roy
Buckland, in Parma violet chiffons, was
one of the evening’s decorative effects.
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet and
Chief of the French Scout group at the
Jamboree, M. Arnette, gave a late-
afternoon party at Elizabeth Bay House.
There was a very Jamboree-ish flavor
about the gathering, to which came offi-
cials of the Bradfield army and many
who had busied themselves with enter-
taining visiting Scouts. The highlight
was the investing of Sir Hugh Poynter
with the order of Chevalier of the Legion
of Honor. Sir Hugh’s father, Sir Ed-
ward Poynter, was also one of the
Legion’s chevaliers.
Captain the Hon. Alexander Hore-
Ruthven, son of the Governor-General,
and his bride, Pamela Fletcher (her
father is the Rev. A. H. Fletcher, of
London), were married in the King
Henry VII. Chapel at Westminster
Abbey on January 5. The wedding
garment was ivory and gold, and
a topaz cross, the gift of the ’groom’s
mother, Lady Gowrie, was worn. The
best man was the Earl of Ranfurly. After
a honeymoon at St. Moritz, the Captain
and Mrs. Hore-Ruthven will come to
Australia.
Dr. Sterling Levis, with wife and
daughter, will set off for England on
January 28. The Vaucluse home has
been let, the new tenants being France’s
Trade Commissioner, Felix Faure, and
his wife. Son Miles, now doing a
course in obstetrics, will join the family
later. Mrs. Sterling Levis, whose last
broadcast talk was on the • origin of
playing-cards, will hold a farewell
tea-drinking at the Forum Club on
January 27. Perhaps while she is in
London this authoress wi)l have the
chance to see some of her Celtic plays
produced.
From the Belgian Legation at Bangkok
comes greeting from the Consul-General
Segaert couple. They are very happy in
Bangkok, where they find the life most
interesting. They expect to be holidaying
in Sydney this year, and look forward
to seeing their old friends. The picture
on their greeting card is a stately street
scene in Bangkok. This is a reproduction
of a photograph taken by Mr. Segaert
from the gardens of the Royal Palace
and the Throne Hall. When the note
left, Bangkok was preparing lots of
functions for the visit of the young King
Ananda, whom Mr. Segaert reports as “a
Prince Charming from the nicest fairy
tale!”
Poetry and fancy go dancing hand in
hand in Hugh McCrae’s “Mimshi
Maiden.” This is something that all
children, as well as grown-ups, must love.
The story concerns a tiger that runs off
with a princess and lives happy with
her ever after. There’s real poetry in it
too:
Fled he with the Mimshi maiden
Through the amber bending bamboo
Past the temple where she prayed in,
Past the Forty-Singing-Fountains
Where the ring-throats fly in millions,
Golden from the golden mountains,
Through the seventeen pavilions.
The poem is dedicated to Viscountess
Stonehaven. There are seven pages of
it, and it has a most attractive Eastern
maid in a wide-sleeved hibiscus red gown
kneeling on its ivory paper cover.
Jean Cheriton has lighted in this city
once again after 15 months in England,
'but may be off on her travels again be-
fore our winter brews. One or two sets
of parents are anxious for her to do an-
other tour chaperoning their pretty fledg-
lings. While in London Jean lived in
Dolphin Square, that enormous colony of
flat buildings on the Thames. Each block
of the building is named after a cele-
brated admiral. Her particular address
was Rodney House.
Sir Philip and Lady Game, both well,
were most hospitable to their Sydney
friend, and gave lunches and dinner
parties for her. Rosemary Game, who
left here a schoolgirl, has developed into
a slender and bright-faced undergrad, of
London University—social service her
special study. Lord Gifford (once “Giff”
to hundreds of Australians) and his
mother, Mrs. Rayner, made Jean’s last
night in London a pleasant memory by
taking her to the Players’ Club, near
Covent Garden.
The last gift handed to Jean as her
train left London was a doll dressed in
the uniform of the district messengers, of
whom our former Government House
aide-de-camp is now the commander-in-
chief. Anne Gordon, very busy with
invitations, sent greetings to all her
friends. Isobel Crowdy is still doing an
enormous job of publicity for Australia
in the Orient Co.’s head office.
Singer Gertrude Concannon came back
to Australia recently after achieving
success overseas. She is now in Queens-
land, her native State, but intends return-
ing to Sydney. In addition to the French,
German and Italian which all singers
acquire, Gertrude can sing songs in Japa-
nese and Burmese. Her personality is as
bright as her smile. Peter Pan photo-
graph.
A sad homecoming awaited Mrs. H. V.
Evatt. She and her husband, Mr. Justice
Evatt, had returned from their travels
only a few days before the death of
Mrs. Sheffer, Mrs. Evatt’s mother. This
gentle little lady, who was a great lover
of books, was the widow of Samuel
Sheffer, and they were a few years ago
two of the most popular residents on
Bradlev’s Head-road. Besides Mrs. Evatt
there is a son, Mel Sheffer, in mourning,
Dr. and Mrs. S. Dattilo-Rubbo of Mel-
a°s U o ne ’ Mrs w'il be
remembered in Sydney as artist Ellen
Grav and Dr S. Rubbo is the son of
Cav A Dattilo-Rubbo, the Sydney
P T n his r is Mrs Ivor Hall, of Nutwood
Downs station (it is a Holme estate) in the
Northern Territory. The station got its
tide from a tree that grows there, but its
other name is hospitality. There are hun-
oxner name is n P .Jnnertv and on it
gSze S fas?ferdf * cat Kho “are (he
fegaf tenants, bu, sometimes the buffalo
asserts his hereditary claim and marches
within iTs bounds. Nutwood is 66 miles by
the track’ the Halls pioneered through un-
trodden bush to Daly Waters. That road
has sfnce been flre-phaughed by the Gov-
iidiMßicuwiiiu it 6 RirHnm the
ernment. It is 70 miles to Birdum, tne
nearest mail town. A mail drops by
every six weeks. But if things are busy
on the station it may be eight weeks be-
fore the mail reaches thl homestead,
‘ , u i 7 iu
Cabbages grow here that weigh 171 b
and tomatoes tip the scale a < over Mb.
The Northern Territory, and a 1
garden! Thats unlike the things you v
heard about that part of the lan . u
the subject of this photograph has proved
that the soil will bring forth like the
Valley of Sharon, like the plantations of
a king in ancient Babylon. Pawpaws,
custard-apples, oranges, lemons, dates,
loganberries, radish and lettuce, potatoes,
swede turnips, peaches and plums grow
in the acres of garden planted and grown
by Mrs. Hall, with the help of aborigines,
in. the space of six years. When she
arrived at Nutwood there was no garden
at all; great stones had to be removed,
paths made —there’s a 100-yard-long one
now done in crazy pavement. There’s
even a bit of symbolism picked out in
border plants surrounding the wireless
mast. Its outer corners are marked by
buggy wheels, then comes a pattern of
almost wafer-thin old horseshoes, then
come motor tyres. In between violas and
other such fragrance blow.
The trees are magnificent cedar,
oleander, pink and white, the poinciana
and, of course, the gum tree. Frangi-
panni here grows, both cream and
pink, and there’s hibiscus. In the even-
ing when a sea breeze blows from the
coast, 77 miles away, you can sit in the
fern houses watching the trembling of
the maidenhair, hearing the rustle of the
palms, and breathing in such perfumes
as would have made the senses of Omar
reel. The dews are pretty heavy on Nut-
wood Downs, and when Mrs. Hall returns
this untiring good Australian is planning
to make a dew pond. Somebody asks
“Where do they get the water for the
garden?” There are three natural springs
on the holding—incidentally, this splen-
did gardener has had little canals dug,
and here grow watercress and mustard
cress. Every now and then the canal
is deepened into holes, and from these
the water —clear as gin—can be taken for
the washing. This water is warm in
winter and cold in summer.
A Chinaman cook and aborigine maids
comprise Mrs. Hall’s domestic staff. She
has trained the girls into efficient house-
maids and parlormaids —white starched
frock, cap, apron and all. What with
petrified trees, and caves covered with
rock paintings and carvings, the Terri-
tory sounds a place of enchantment as
Mrs. Hall talks. How did she reach
Sydney? By car, by ’plane, by train, by
boat. In her time in the inside of the
continent this remarkable woman has
known every form of transport —camel,
mule, Cobb’s coach, horse—and now she
travels by ’plane and likes it. Photo-
graph by Peter Pan.
The library of the French Alliance
will, after the end of this month, cease
to be a background for Mrs. Ivy Moore’s
warm personality. Mrs. Moore has re-
signed from her position as librarian, but
this does not mean that French circles
will see less of her. She has been elected
to the Alliance committee, and will
continue her activity in the course of
the entente cordiale. Who knows, for
instance, how many hospital calls she
makes on sick and lonely French people?
At the request of many Australian
and French friends Mrs. Moore is now
launching a French social club, and
already there is quite a list of members.
This is going to be a fount of French
with cheers. Sixty or so French and
French-speaking friends made merry at
Mrs. Moore’s Mosman home last week,
and a group of her young students pre-
sented her with a staggeringly handsome
gold vanity case. This carries not only
make-up, but cigarettes, lighter an’ every-
thing. Other gifts from the Alliance
younger members were a spray of frangi-
panni, two or three feet long, and a
pencil and fountain-pen.
Mrs. Alec-Tweedie sends a greeting to
Sydney. It is a painting by her own
brush of a corner of her drawing-room,
its high, wide window overlooking Picca-
dilly, in the distance the towers of West-
minster. Mrs. Alec-Tweedie’s flat is on
the roof of Devonshire House, Mayfair,
and in the spring there is nothing lovelier
than to look down on the trees of the
green park.
Mrs. Foott, who was Bethia Ander-
son, writes to say that her father, General
Anderson, and not Masefield, was the
“poet laureate” responsible for the verse
on the outer cover of Lord and Lady
Gowrie’s Christmas card. This Letter
had been informed that the lines were
by “our poet laureate,” and never sus-
pected there was a Canberra as well as
an English one.
American violinist Leona Flood and
her mother didn’t forget Sydney friends
in their Christmas-New Year mail.
Leona, it will be remembered, gave some
recitals at the Con. under Freddie Ship-
man’s management. From the Hotel
Vanderbilt, New York, they sent out
their goodwill cards a little, spindly-
legged lamb or deer (fauna not quite
decided on in this office) in the midst of
a fir forest, standing in innocent amaze
before a tree blazing with golden stars.
Mrs. Flood also sends a copy of her
latest song composition, “Bowl of Jade”
the title.
The girls and boys of the Fresh Food
and Ice Company are going to float along
blithely on January 21. They and their
friends plan to fill every one of the three
decks of the showboat Kalang. This is
their effort to place their nominee on the
Queen of the Waves throne. Gloria
Stockley is the girl to whom they have
sworn allegiance. This Queen of the
Waves competition is to raise funds to
build a new School for Crippled Children
at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Children.
Pianist Miriam Hyde, with the grace-
ful head and the slender hands, has be-
come engaged to Marcus Bruce Edwards.
His father is Padre J. Edwards, of Rose
Bay. Miriam, who won her way to study
in London with the Elder scholarship—
she was a student at the Adelaide Con. —
is also known as a very up-and-coming
young composer.
How far was Sydney from Michael
Fokine, of the Imperial Theatres, St.
Petersburg, in 1909? How far from the
Michael Fokine who introduced Nijinsky
to the ballet stage in “Le Pavillion
d’Armide”? One supposes if he heard
of it at all it seemed more like some
dream place, just as now that St. Peters-
burg of pre-war years must seem more
like a dream. In the years since the war
the Theatre Royal seems the only thing
that has remained practically the same.
Now Fokine is busy on its stage rehears-
ing the new ballet he is creating. This is
based on the life of Nicolo Paganini. The
Fokines arrived last week. They come
from America, where they have made
their home for the last 16 years.


Personal and Missing Friends.
William Gearon.
WILL any person knowing anything of the
whereabouts of WILLIAM GEARON, for-
merly of Mauku, and later of Taranaki and
Christchurch, in New Zealand, who was last
heard of in the vicinity of Christchurch in
1904, when he was 31 years of age and a
shearer by occupation, and who then expressed
an intention of going to Australia, or any
person knowing whether the said William
Gearon had any issue, and, if so, the where-
abouts of such issue, please supply such infor-
mation to the undersigned, who wish to com-
municate with the said William Gearon or his
issue upon matters to their advantage? The
information should be supplied by not later than
the 28th day of February, 1939.
STEWART, JOHNSTON, HOUGH &
CAMPBELL,
Solicitors, Box 88, Auckland, New Zealand.
RE JAMES NELSON late of Albury in the
State of New South Wales Undertaker
believed to be deceased.
ANY person having any knowledge of the
whereabouts of the abovenamed JAMES
NELSON last heard of at Albury in the State
of New South Wales about 35 years ago is
requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
TIETYENS & ANGEL, Solicitors,
Kiewa Street, Albury.
M (KEROSENE)
refrigerator
Works by Kerosene. Simple to Use.
We especially the “Top Opening” Type
in preference to the upright models, as the
“Top Opening” ejisures the COLD BEING
KEPT IN during: use. Tins ensures minimum
running eost and maximum efficiency.
Costs lid. per day to run.
Five Cubic Feet Storage Capacity.
Price £29/10/-
f.o.b. Sydney.
This chest will do the same work as models
twice its price.
ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
PTY. LTD.
57 NORTH GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
ass
Melbourne
Chatter
Those privileged people who are the
owners of launches, yachts, outboards or
just plain dinghies are a race apart
from the swarming crowds upon hot
holiday-afternoon beaches. They just
pick their way among the knots of sun-
baking bathers down to the water’s edge,
step into their boats and away they go
bound for the open sea, or at least the
wide spaces of the bay. A much-
congratulated young man is Bill Nodrum,
21 and the owner of a 40ft. yacht. For
years it has been his dream and ambition
to own such a craft. Among his ex-
periences of sailing a boat are several
trips to Tasmania with popular Gram-
mar master “Spuddo” Giles and with
several other lads who are keen about
a fresh wind and an open sea.
The Cyril Steeles, whose hospitality
and whose seaside home have made
Shoreham a popular drive from town or
from the nearer bay beaches, are often
seen with their yacht Criss-Craft cutting
across the blue water at Portsea or at
Mornington. In the same vicinity is the
cheeky little outboard belonging to Jack
Edgar, maximum accommodation four,
with an aquaplane attached for the use
of everyone in turn. Jack’s aquaplaning
specialty is done on his head, but he’ll
only oblige alongside a very quiet beach
or far from the shore, with no audience
to mistake him for a performing seal.
The Warren Begg couple own surf skis
upon which Warren is proficient. Mrs.
Begg is finding that they have a few of
the tricks of their kindred snow skis, but
spreadeagled feet upon the water don’t
mean bruises, as they do on a cold, hard
snow slope. Another lad who is having
fun with his water skis is Bennie Strauss.
Trumpeter Grace Adams East spent a
week in Melbourne on her way through
from Sydney to Adelaide. She had no
chance of being homesick during the
holidays, for she was a Christmas holi-
days’ guest of the American Trade Com-
missioner and Mrs. George Howard at
their Palm Beach home, where she had
her first experience of Australian surf
(and thought it fine and dandy). Miss
East also saw a lot of Sydney Harbor
from the glassed-in decks of the Boom-
erang.
Since she was last in Melbourne Miss
East and her golden trumpet have been
to Queensland (where Gabrielle, minus
the trumpet for once, did some flying
with friends up as far as Rockhampton)
and to M.L. for a two months’ broad-
casting engagement. She loved the
scenery, has a vivid memory of the
glowworm caves, and although she has
visited various hot springs in her own
U.S.A. she thinks Rotorua has many
points of originality and interest which
other such resorts lack altogether. Her
only criticism of the country (and that
a gentle one) is of the Maoris. She
thinks that perhaps their exploitation has
come about too rapidly.
The tour ahead of Miss East looks
interesting. After a few days in Adelaide
and Perth come seasons in Colombo,
Madras, Calcutta and Bombay, com-
mencing on February 1, which will take
three months to complete. In Ceylon
Miss East is broadcasting, but in India
her principal engagements are at the
Taj Mahal Hotel and at the Saturday
Club. As a preliminary to her broad-
casts she has sent annotations of her
repertoire on ahead so that they can be
translated into Cingalese. Miss East,
who with her black plaits unpinned
(only seen thus on the way to the bath
or at a fancy-dress ball) looks like a
decorative Minnehaha, means to try her
luck with the 8.8. C. later in the year.
She will be this way again, for she has
a contract to return for three months to
M.L. in 1940.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
to-day’s bride, Joan, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Fussell, who is
marrying Dr. Lister Catchlove, son of
Mr. and Mrs. S. G. L. Catchlove, of
Elwood. Best man is the ’groom’s
brother, also in the medical picture, Dr.
John Catchlove, and the bridesmaids are
Noel Fussell and Leila Catchlove. The
young couple met at Melbourne Univer-
sity and have kindred interests, for Noel
did a massage course, which she com-
pleted a couple of years ago. The honey-
moon overseas upon which they leave
this week will be extended into two years’
absence from Melbourne so that Dr.
Catchlove can do post-graduate work.
Mrs. Aineas Gunn lives so quietly out
at Hawthorn that only her intimate
friends knew her whereabouts and were
able to offer immediate congratulations
upon her New Year honor, an 0.8. E.
She has never been to the Territory since
she left in 1903, but has kept in touch
through the years with her friends of
We of the Never Never and The Little
Black Princess (which books, incidentally,
are prescribed as readers for Victorian
State schools for 1939). Of the brave
spirits of the North only “The Quiet
Stockman” and “Mine Host of the Kath-
erine” are still alive. The latter, otherwise
Thomas Pearce, who at one time was in
partnership with Sidney Kidman at
Crown Point, N.T., lives at Aldgate,
S.A.
“The Quiet Stockman,” Jack McLeod
(several of whose children and grand-
children bear the name of Gunn), lives at
Angaston, S.A. It was at Angaston that
“The Dandy” (H. H. Bryant) died on
November 17 last. He and his friend,
“The Quiet Stockman,” married two
sisters. “Dan, the Head Stockman”
(David Suttie), found a last resting-place
on the Wyndham-Ord River road. It was
Dan who drove Mrs. Gunn 300 miles in
a buckboard to Darwin. “The Fizzer” (H.
V. Peckham) lost his life doing his job
of getting mails across a flooded river.
Mrs. Gunn hasn’t heard from “Cheong”
since 1923, but he achieved two wives,
twin daughters (much to his fury at the
time of their birth) and several. trips to
China. “Little Bett-Bett” is now the
mother of several piccaninnies.
Mrs. Gunn remembers the animals as
if they were with her only yesterday.
Roper, the old bay horse, was drowned
wnile swimming a swollen creek when
well up in his twenties. Fox-terrier
Robinson passed out of this life through
eating too much bush turkey at one meal.
A tale hangs to the other two foxies,
Brown and Jones. When only a pup
dog Jones was a gift to “Neaves’s
Mate” (Jack Brown, of Yeovil, N.S.W.),
who passed through the Elsey in 1902,
man Brown and dog Jones sticking to-
gether till, with their horses, they perished
of thirst in 1909 out from Hall’s
Creek.
“The Sick Traveller” (Enoch Jones) was
a saddler, 70 and weak with malaria when
he went through Elsey in 1903. The
siation gave him puppy Brown, and no
one noticed the coincidence of names.
In 1904 Brown and Jones and their dogs
met in a camp on the Tanami-Hall’s
Creek road. Neither man had ever heard
of the other, but the dogs were all over
one another with joy and excitement.
Shouts to them from their respective
owners of “Brown” and “Jones soon
brought about a hearty handshake and
a long yarn about the old days of the
Elsey.
Little Mrs. Gunn —she’s small but full
of energy and interest in life—has plenty
of things to keep her busy. She has done
a lot of riding since leaving the Territory,
and she swims regularly through the
summer and looks after the garden she
and her sister are so fond of. Her prac-
tical work among returned soldiers has
endeared her to hundreds of men and to
their wives and children.
H. G. Wells does his own washing,
or at least some of it, for when several
newspapermen in search of an interview
called upon him he said he had his “wash-
ing and other things to do.” Their sug-
gestion of another more convenient time
brought no response. The meeting didn’t
move happily, the Wellsian manner being
hostile, while the mind of Things to
Come moved among soap flakes and
plenty of rinsing water, gleefully run off
before drought restrictions. Wells
wouldn’t sit down and talk, but wandered
restlessly about the lounge of Menzies,
where the “interview” took place, causing
mild interest among the general public
but discomfort to the journalists on the
job. They would have had more regard
for their subject if he’d said in the
beginning, “Go away, I hate the sight
of you.” Now they are not quite so
sure, and they’re up a tree about his
sense of humor.
Recent mails have brought news to
Melbourne friends of Mrs. Ernest
Cohen and her daughter Merri, who
left Australia a couple of years ago
for a visit to England. On closer
acquaintance they found the Old
Dart so much to their liking that
they have never returned. After a holi-
day to Ireland 'towards the end of 1938
they accompanied a cousin and her
adopted daughter to America, and are
now a foursome in Hollywood, where
they have taken for six months a large
and attractive flat which among its other
virtues abounds in bathrooms. There’s
one for every bedroom. Its tenants have
bought a car for sightseeing, and a coal-
black mammy cooks all their meals and
has so climbed into their affections that
Merri never wants to part with her.
Among the recently engaged is Juliet
(“Jule”), daughter of the Rupert Kiddle
couple, of Glenferrie-road, Malvern, and
of Carabost, Wagga, whose fiance is Ken-
neth, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. W.
Ranger, of Wimbledon, Surrey, England—
an Englishman by birth but an Australian
by adoption, for he’s been here since he
was a small boy. Jule, who recently re-
turned from a holiday to Carabost, where
she had a lot of riding, her favorite sport,
hopes to finish her course in massage
before the end of the year. Her future
home will be up Echuca way. Portrait
by Spencer Shier.
Melbourne friends had an opportunity
last week to offer felicitations to Peggy
Marshall, of Adelaide and Magetta,
Comaun, S.A., and Pat Thornley, who
recently announced their engagement.
One party for the couple was given with
cocktails at the Oriental by another en-
gaged pair, Bill Harrison and Pat White-
head, and Pat’s brother, Robin White-
head, of Goodwood, Minhamite. Pat
Thornley is of the well-known Western
District Thornley clan of Gnotuk, Cam-
perdown. His popular sister, Mrs. Paddy
Gaussen, was at the party. (His second
sister, the decorative Mrs. Roger Hen-
derson, went off to England some time
ago.)
Mrs. Barry Thomson stayed home
from the Moonee Valley races (races
being her favorite sport and the Valley
her pet course) on Saturday to answer
letters of congratulation on her 0.8. E.
Sybil Irving, who received a M.8.E., has
also been busy with her pen at home in
the evenings and after hours at head-
quarters of the Girl Guides’ Association,
of which she has been secretary since
1934. Her good works include a prac-
tical interest in the Society for Crippled
Children, and her recreation is the exer-
cise of a talent for histrionics for Lauris-
ton Old Girls’ Dram. Soc. and for the
University Union. Mrs. Barry Thomson
is for the second time president of the
Alfred Hospital Auxiliaries, and for 17
years has been president of the hospi-
tal’s entertainment committee.
She’s a very active worker, and keeps
half a dozen engagements a week
at functions and meetings arranged
by suburban and country auxiliaries.
She stays in Melbourne just before
Christmas, and can remember 20
Alfred Christmas-trees in a row, for
18 of which Wallace Mitchell has
been Father Christmas. She and her
husband are to have a trip to the
U.S.A., son Jack Barry Thomson being
the No. 1 attraction in that part of the
world. He must be numbered among
successful Australians abroad, for he’s
been playing big parts with the Lunt-
Fontanne Co. for several years. “Amphy-
trion 38,” which has been running for
months (Jack is Amphytrion), is now on
tour. His Christmas letters came from
Boston and Pittsburg.
1939 hasn’t opened as a good betting
year for Eric Erickson, a well-known
Melbourne bachelor, of things commer-
cial. He had a treble bet about the date
of arrival of certain expected Christmas-
time gifts addressed to his friends Bill
Ralph, Ken Landy and Reg Greer, and
has already lost two “legs,” for Bill and
Ken have safely and satisfactorily re-
ceived their presents. Only one hope re-
mains, Reg Greer, .whose time limit is
January 31. If his presentation isn’t pro-
ducible by that date he has to make good
with his chequebook. But he’s quite sure
it will be, and has already ordered the
rounds of drinks that will be on him in
celebration.
City folk don’t have to go to the
beaches to see bronzed torsos. A couple
of examples of excellent color and build
may be admired any warm afternoon in
the gardens of the National Gallery.
They are the property of sustenance
workers, who, with no appearances to
keep up like the white-collar brigade dr
the policemen melting in their blue-serge
uniforms, look the picture of health in
the minimum of apparel. Their work
at present resembles an earthquake of
uprooted lawns around the bronze feet
of St. George and the Dragon and Joan
of Arc and her charger. It is proposed
that the lawns shall give way to flower-
beds. After a wordy war and general
protests it seems that the steps, with
knight Redmond Barry prominently upon
them, are not to be demolished, and it
is hoped that the consciences of the
governing bodies will extend mercy to
the fine old elms at the side of the
building. To some officials of this city
the sight of a tree means the itch for
an axe.


CHOOSE THE
FOR EVERY
JOB
W/'/
a
*yy//
L
HI
*nr
*r
11
ALUS CHALMERS
MAKE TIME..on the
TURNS..OH STEEP HILLS
....OH THE STRAIGHT AWAY
MODEL
M
Model “M” Crawlers for Sure-footed Traction . . .
goes where you cannot follow it .. . Ideal for
moderate-sized Farms, Tank Sinking, etc.
ONE Q’LAND OWNER OF 9 “M” TRACTORS STATES t
For sheer dependability, robust construction and 1010- operating
and maintenance costs the ALLIS CHALMERS ‘M’
TRACTOR is unsurpassed. My Fleet average under one
gallon of fuel per hour on all operations
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
sad
NQBranch
STURT ST
TOWNSVILLE
ENGINEERING Supply C9Cf AUSTRALIA L ¥D
MORE RAILWAY EXCURSIONS
IN JANUARY
For various reasons many people could not take advantage
of the extensive series of Railway Excursions prior to
and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.
But —there are others
About the last week of January there will be a further
State-wide series of Excursions.
GREATLY REDUCED FARES
For Travel—
FROM AND TO THE COUNTRY
rf'
am
A
l—
ONE-THIRD REDUCTION ON ALL RETURN TICKETS
ANYWHERE IN N.S.W.
(except as stated below).
Return tickets at single fare and one-third (minimum 2/8
first-class, 2/- second-class) are issued daily from any
station in the State to any other station in the State (except
for journeys wholly within the Metropolitan Area or
wholly within the Newcastle Suburban Area).
Handbills obtainable at Railway Stations
and at Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
contain full information about these oppor-
tunities for travel at greatly reduced fares.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways.
(50)
fft
6SRW ftl "
for vounmr
; ijtSfilg
&
S*”!
■ - V- V
: v
>7
B§fp;||||
«£ aE*.* 9
a*
■
* .
Tyrolean ChatSt
BECAUSE
No country in Europe has the same wealth
of varied natural beauty, such fascinating
contrasts between Past and Present, or a
like profusion of entertainment and recre-
ation ’ to show her visitors. Austria and
Bavaria afford the finest winter sports facili-
ties there are. Rothenburg and Nuremberg
are the only flawless specimens of mediaeval
cities yet extant. Dresden’s Zwinger gallery
contains master works from every school of
European painting. The history of Opera
would be a slender volume without the
contributions made by Vienna, Berlin,
Leipzig, Salzburg and Bayreuth. Modern
Germany is nationally addicted to every
form of sport, game and exercise. The
opportunities for engaging in them arc,
accordingly, manifold but inexpensive.
The castles of the Rhine, the cities of the
Hansa League,<the Baltic coast resorts and
the majestic Alps in the South arc, one and
all, linked up by a system of motor roads
which has ho equal in any continent. There
are spas of every kind whose waters allevi-'
ate and cure suffering humanity from all
over the world. The recluse will find peace
in the solitudes of the mountains. The
gregarious will find delight in watching the
ebb and flow of the human tide surging
past the cafe' tables on the gaily lighted
streets. Whatever your personal tastes
may be, they will find new gratification
and new stimulus in a German holiday.
The White Horse Inn
60% REDUCTION
IN RAIL FARES
40% T0 50% SAVING
BY PURCHASE OF
TRAVEL MARKS
For full information and descriptive matter apply :—
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
19, REGENT STREET, LONDON, S.W.I. or recognised Travel Agencies
EXTRACTS FROM THE
69th ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
Showing the Progressive Results of the Associotion
for the year ended 30th September, 1938.
NEW BUSINESS:
31,263 New Policies Issued, assuring .". ..£11,518,813
New Annual Premiums 421,800
Single Premiums 21,451
Consideration for Annuities 63,350
Total Income for Year .. .. £ 5,944,932
Payments to Policy-holders .. 3,602,889
Added to Assurance Fund .. 1,583,604
Assurance Fund at 30/9/38 .. .. 44,158,325
The above figures relate to ordinary Assurance Business only.
The Association does not transact Industrial Assurance Business.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION A/ASIA. LTD.
(Inc. in Victoria)
Established 1869.
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY


X,'6iwva’
W T4)€P£fif€CT
STOCK Wfll-P
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14—16-plait Handle, 6ft.
x 12-plait Thong . . 34/6
No. 15—16-plait Handle, 7ft.
x 12-plait Thong . .
No. 16—16-plait Handle, 8ft.
x 12-plait Thong . .
Etc.
Post 1/3 each.
FLY
VEILS.
36/9
39/-
No. 4 Headstall Fly Veil, Leather
Lace Veil, §i n ., 3 / 6 . a Jn 4/6
4 a A He c a / d o taI1 Fly VeiI > l* n ->
4/3; *in., 5/3. Post 9d. M-h.
ALTHERiSTEVEKSOH
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY ,
Tobacco Stains
easily removed with
t -IN-ONE
If DENTAL CREAM
Seeds for Sale.
WORLD SENSATION! Remarkable New
“ALL SEASONS” CLIMBING TOMATO.
The only Tomato in existence that CLIMBS
and can be SOWN AT ALL SEASONS (sow
now). Amazing imported Tomato that CLIMBS
TO 20 FEET on trellis, fence, netting. The
life of this plant is 12 MONTHS, and it
BEARS HEAVILY, yielding TWO BUSHELS
large, red, SMOOTH, perfect Tomatoes during
the year (52 weeks). 2/6 packet posted.
Sole Australasian Distributors: N.S.W. SEED
CO., 17a Pitt Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
RACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature's chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don't work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
c * e “ lst for DOAN ’ S backache
KtD.NLI PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people They <uve
quick relief and will help to flush out the 0 15
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure vou cet
«OAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Dulacca, in s.-w. Queensland,
reports a duststorm which did £3OOO or
£4OOO of damage in a few minutes. The
last time I was in the neighborhood there
was so much prickly-pear about, and its
encroachments were so swift, that I doubt
whether it would have been possible to
raise enough dust for a storm. Also, the
inhabitants were so despondent about
their future that if any speculator
had arrived with an offer of £4OOO for
Dulacca, move in, move out, he might
have been rushed. Thanks to Cacto-
blastis, things are very different now.
* * * ;Jc
“Castle Hill”: Effete North, is it?
Townsville last year shipped 120,000 tons
of sugar valued at £1,800,000, Mt. Isa
produce valued at £1,000,000, and other
items, including meat and wool, will
bring the total to £7,000,000 worth. And
it is only one northern port Cairns,
Bowen, Mackay are all busy, and a few
others are coming on. Pity N. S. Wales
won’t decentralise the same way.
* * * *
“Scat”: It’s hot up Darwin way just
now. The sturdy fellows dismantling the
flying-boat which was blown ashore a
few weeks ago have been compelled to
work mainly at night because the boat
has been too hot to handle during the
day. One wing has been sent to Singa-
pore and the other is waiting to go ;
motors have been shipped to Sydney as
spares for other boats, but the hull is
causing a spot of worry. If the cargo
steamer can’t take it a special boat will
have to be chartered.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Scarness, the seaside
resort on Hervey Bay, east of Mary-
borough (Q.), has its own private and
particular League of Nations. Every fine
day a dozen veterans of from 65 to 92
settle world affairs round a table in the
shade of the cypress trees which border
the breezy esplanade. One was once a
lecturer at a university ; another gained
his international outlook as a railway
construction ganger. An ex-Salvation
Army officer, the man who drove Mary-
borough’s first motor-van, an old sailor-
man who knew the Pacific labor-trade in
its palmy days, a retired farmer, a former
miner and prospector on many a far-
northern goldfield, and an ex-journalist
who reported ’Enery Parkes in ’is most
haitchless flights of fancy are other
leaguers. One member is blind. Charac-
teristically, he is charged with the duty
of keeping order at all meetings, a truly
subtle joke on Geneva.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Thus recent dynastic
history as summarised by a Papuan
police interpreter for the benefit of a
village councillor: “King George he
dead. Number one son, Edward, he no
want him clothes. Number two son he
like. Bishop he make plenty talk along
new King. He say, ‘You savvy taravatu?
You look out good along all the people?’
King he talk ‘Yes.’ Then bishop and
plenty Government taubadas, and store-
keeper, and soldier, and bank manager,
and policeman, all he stand up and sing
out and blow him plenty trumpet.
Finish. And, after all, could it have
been better stated?
* * * *
Dick Tafone”: Brisbane claims Aus-
tralia’s champion river-rescuer in Chris
Christie, who has just made his fortieth
successful effort of the kind. Residence
since 1920 in a shop under the Victoria
Bridge and the occupation of a prawner
have afforded special opportunities for
practice. The latest salvagee was a
gentleman who, when met in the middle
of the river, stated that he didn’t want
to be rescued. The imperturbable
Christie suggested that if he felt that
way about it he might swim behind
the boat until he felt disposed to come
aboard—which was not very long. On
landing they were met by an obliging
individual who had thoughtfully brought
the swimmer’s clothes across the bridge
after he had jumped in—also by a police-
man who took the rescued one in charge
for drunkenness. But Chris’s rescues
haven’t all been like that —they include
some very plucky performances, includ-
ing a desperate struggle in the water
with a suicidal lunatic. *
“We must've put the propellers back the Wrong way!"
“Devil’s Poker”: The gigantic scheme
that engineer Dr. Bradfield has submitted
to the Queensland Government for water-
ing the inland areas of the State by
utilising the water from the Tully, Her-
bert, Burdekin and Clark rivers makes
one wonder if the centre of Australia will
be for ever desert. Most of the so-called
desert country is composed of very fer-
tile soil which requires only water to
become richly agricultural. For example,
at Henbury station on the Fink River,
near Alice Springs, I found a stray plant
of wheat growing in the sand where it
was watered by drainage from the home-
stead. It had stooled well, and as a mat-
ter of curiosity I counted the grains—372.
The yield is interesting because of the
location of the seedling.
* * * *
Pine : The move to give Sandgate,
Brisbane’s nearest seaside suburb, a boat
harbor should alter the complexion of
the city’s small-class yachting. Sandgate
is a queer spot. Its open, shelving
and unattractive-looking sands provide
the safest and most extensive paddling
that I know anywhere in the world. But,
except in the narrow Cabbage Tree
Creek, it at times is suicidal to bring any
boat larger than a rowing-boat nearer
than half a mile from shore.
* * * *
“Zedo”: A Mackay (N.Q.) 12-year-old
awoke to find his well-painted and -oiled
and thoroughly ventilated home being
fanned into a blaze. He escorted his
grandfather to safety down the back
stairs. Returning to rescue a maid
and three young children, he found
retreat cut off. He jumped off a 7ft.-high
verandah, told the maid to throw down
the children and follow. He carried the
operation through with the calmness of
a veteran. When his parents returned
from an evening out they found the
family safe but the house and everything
in it demolished.
* * * *
“J. Want”: If the R.A.N. continues to
turn out captains of the grade of Queens-
land’s George Moore, who reached the
rank in December, 1935, and has just
taken over H.M.S. Curacoa, a 4300-ton
cruiser of the Ceres class attached to the
Portsmouth gunnery and torpedo school,
there soon won’t be much excuse for
R.N. men to come to Australia to captain
our ships. I remember George as a
bright Brisbane Grammar School boy
with marine obsessions. From school he
went to England to join the Conway as
a beginning to a career in the mercantile
marine. There he won the King’s Gold
Medal and the Mercantile Marine Asso-
ciation’s Gold Medal, and was steered
toward the R.N. He topped the R.N.
entrance exam., with gold medal and a
gigful of prizes, including the Trinity
House prize, was posted to Duke of
Edinburgh, came to Australia as a mid-
shipman as soon as the R.A.N. ships
were in commission in 1913, became a
sub-lieutenant in 1914, served on
H.M.A.S. Melbourne most of the war,
and rose to be a captain at 42. In the
R.N. he would be the kind of man who
might easily become a first Sea Lord. He
was son of a former Queensland Health
Commissioner. On Curacoa he succeeded
Capt. vShelley, a member of the poet’s
family, who was in Australia on H.M.S.
Hood.
* * * *
“Creswell”: We get our “Hansards” late
in the N.T., but we read ’em thoroughly
all the same. In the latest to hand I
see that on December 8 Senator Cooper,
who came up this way with the McEwen
Ministerial party, inquired whether the
Government intended to ask for advice
from any member of the party. That
same day Minister McEwen explained the
Government’s policy and wound up with
“I have been greatly helped by the advice
of Senator Cooper.” It must have been
hurried advice.
* * * *
“Wingella”: A Darwin pubkeeper
had a brainwave at Christmas. The
bar crowd was getting a trifle out of
hand, so he whispered a word to a mate
ol his, and the talk suddenly swung
round to woodchopping contests. Soon
half the crowd in the bar were aching
to show off their accomplishments, so
axes were provided, and they all sallied
out to the woodheap to try out their
muscle. Bung made a few stimulating
bets and paid up his losses gallantly (it
all came back over the bar), and the day
finished up with a crowd of happy Terri-
torians who had proved they could chop
wood with any man living. The pub
cook now has enough chopped wood on
hand to keep him going for three months.
* * * *
“Battler”: Tommy Laffin has gone to
his Last Camp. As a youngster Tommy
was a horseman of a type honored in
poetry and rarely seen in real life. Even
when he was well over the half-century
Tommy could fork ’em with ease. Like
others of his time and generation, Tommy
was a circus athlete running bush. He
was a tumbler, an acrobat, a field fighter,
a good swimmer and a runner so smart
that, trained on corned beef and damper,
black tea and a rub down, he landed
many prizes on bush tracks. For 30 years
or so Tommy had been a drover. Every
year he drifted down the Georgina from
Rocklands to Gilpippy, handling his cattle
in the manner of a master. He knew
every ant-pad, every bend in the river,
every bent gidya-tree, almost every blade
of grass. He took ’em as they came—
cattle, seasons, horses, men, hard times
and good. He had a welcome smile and
a firm grip for an honest man ; a quick
shunt for those who were dirty.
* * * *
“Phildee”: The Franconia, a luxury
liner leaving New York for a world-
cruise this month, will make Darwin its
only Australian port of call. Blurb-
artists describe the projected visit as a
“return to the primitive—unspoilt and
fabulous beauty Sydney and Mel-
bourne are cities like our own —but who
knows the real, the dark, the aboriginal
Australia?’ I can’t help but prophesy
some early remarks from the visitors:
“Gee, what a large tribe! Are they
all Australian natives?”
“No, madam ; they’re Australian civil
servants.”
“Dear me, do they bite?”
“No, madam. Only the taxation
species bites.”


T/i#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
m WEAN MEN
AND
WOMEN
Loss, of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
81l
GLAND
TONIC
TABLETS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Five- and Ten-metre Superhet
Converter.
Superhet receivers using valves such as
the new 6KB and 6JBG do much to pro-
vide the looked-for efficiency at frequen-
cies of from 56mc. to 28mc. So efficient
is the conversion gain with such mixer
valves that it is possible to design a super-
het converter for use with an existing
lower-frequency receiver with results
fully equal to those obtainable from a
self-contained u.-h.-f. superhet. A con-
verter of this type was described in
“Radio” for December, 1938, by Ray
Dawley, W6DHG. It is claimed that
results are excellent even when used with
an average receiver.
As the circuit diagram shows, the 6JBG
introduced by Jones in his 56mc. Super-
Gainer (B. 29/6/’3B and 16/11/’3B) is
again used, and this time with the added
advantage of an 1851 R.F. amplifier.
Both these valves are now available in
Australia. The converter can be used
even with a good T.R.F. broadcast re-
ceiver, though some trouble with image
interference may be encountered on five
Circuit diagram with component values of the new five- and 10-metre superhet
converter.
and 10 metres. If used with a superhet
receiver it brings about the virtual elimi-
nation of images because of the double
superhet operation. The power supply is
self-contained, making the converter in-
dependent of the receiver with which it
operates. A low impedance link is pro-
vided from the plate circuit of the mixer
valve for connection to the aerial circuit
of the receiver.
1851 R.F. Stage.
Application of this valve, was dealt
with in B. 21/12/’3B. Used in the pre-
selector R.F. stage maximum gain is avail-
able at all times to improve the signal-
to-noise ratio. Regeneration is unneces-
sary owing to the high gain of the stage,
The aerial is coupled to the grid coil
by a small air-supported coil of hookup
wire wound on a pencil and inserted into
the grid coil. The grid coil itself has a
small 3-30mmfd. mica trimmer connected
in shunt with the regular tuning con-
denser. To match the high impedance
of the coil to the lower grid impedance
of the 1851, the tap for the grid of the
valve is taken off one turn above the
centre of the coil on both 28mc. and 56mc.
bands. The plate of the 1851 is indue-
tively coupled to the grid circuit of the
mixer by another small coil of hookup
wire. The plate coupling coil is changed
at the same time as the succeeding grid
coil.
A 300-ohm cathode biasing resistor is
employed on the R.F. stage. It is im-
portant that all the by-passing returns for
this stage (cathode, screen-grid and plate)
be made at a common point if oscillation
in the 1851 is to be prevented. A heavy
wire is run from the tuning condenser
for the grid circuit of the mixer down
toward the 1851, and all by-pass returns
are made to this point.
Coil Table.
Coil. • 1 Band
28mc. 56mc.
LI, Antenna coupling 7 turns hookup, fin. diameter 7 turns hookup, fin. diameter
L 2, R.F. stage grid ....... 14 turns No. 14, fin. diameter 7 turns No. 14, fin. diameter
L 3, Detector coupling 14 turns hookup, fin. diameter 7 turns hookup, fin. diameter
L 4, Detector grid 14 turns No. 14, fin. diameter 7 turns No. 14, fin. diameter
L 5, Oscillator grid 7 turns No. 14, fin. diameter 6 turns No. 14, fin. diameter
L 6, Oscillator plate 7 turns No. 14, fin. diameter Same coil as for 28mc.
L 7, Mixer output 34 turns No. 24 D.C.C., lin. diameter form
LB, Output link 5 turns hookup wire wound over L 7
The Combined Oscillator-mixer.
A 6JBG is employed as a combined
high-frequency oscillator and mixer. As
in the grid circuit of the R.F. stage, the
grid of the 6JBG is taken one turn above
centre of its associated grid coil. Although
this is not essential for impedance-match-
ing, the practice makes tracking easier.
The oscillator section employs a con-
ventional tuned grid tickler-plate arrange-
ment, thus putting one side of the tuning
and trimmer condensers at earth poten-
tial. Whilst only a three-plate tuning
condenser is used on R.F. and mixer
grid circuits, a five-plate condenser is
used on the oscillator. This allows higher
C in the oscillator for stability and still
permits the band to be covered.
The padder condenser on the oscillator
circuit is an air-dielectric type. When
operating in the 56mc. band the oscil-
lator is used lower in frequency than the
R.F. and detector by the amount of
I.F. This contributes to stability, as the
oscillator is operating around 49mc. when
the receiver is tuning a signal on 56mc.
On 28mc., however, the oscillator is used
in the conventional manner, higher in
frequency by I.F. than the detector.
Since there is very lit'tle difference
in frequency of the oscillator when
operating on five or 10 metres, only the
grid coil of the oscillator need be
changed, the same tickler being used on
both bands. The plate of the mixer sec-
tion of the 6JBG is connected to an
output circuit tuned to the same fre-
quency as the receiver into which the
converter is to operate. The tank circuit
specified will tune to any frequency
within the range of approximately
5500 kc. to 8000 kc., hence the receiver
may be tuned anywhere within this
range.
Best operation and most accurate
tracking were obtained with the output
circuit of the converter tuned to around
6500 kc. A five-turn link wound over the
output coil serves to couple the converter
output to the receiver. The power supply
is conventional, using a 5W4 (an 80 in
metal) with a resistor-input filter sys-
tem. The 3000-ohm 10-watt resistor be-
tween rectifier filament and first filter
condenser drops the voltage to the plates
of the valves to 275 volts. It is suggested
that the layout should be such that the
oscillator compartment is at the front
(immediately behind the panel) in order
to avoid any backlash in the drive of the
oscillator tuning condenser.
As the individual reader will be in-
terested mainly in one band or the other,
the converter can be made up with the
specified coils for the desired range
soldered in position on the tuning con-
densers. If the two bands are wanted,
then a simple plug and jack system in
trolitul or WT/22 can be made up.
Tuning-up procedure is similar to that
for the 56mc. Super-Gainer (B.
16/11/38).
As the performance of the best re-
ceiver can be improved with a good
aerial, so with this converter. The aerial
should preferably resonate near the
frequency of operation and have a bal-
anced low-loss feeder system.
D. B. K.
Radio Progress in Australia
During 1938.
Radio development in Australia —in
broadcasting, in communications by land,
sea and air, in scientific research,
in manufacture and in improvement
of equipment—was more marked
during 1938 than in any previous
year.
Eleven new broadcasting stations
went on the air, an increase from
110 to 121. Several were recon-
structed on improved lines, and
some increased in power.
Perhaps the most significant de-
velopment was in connection with aircraft.
Ten ’planes flying over the main routes
were radio-equipped, bringing the num-
ber to 31. To keep them in touch with
the ground, a chain of stations, operated
and maintained by A.W.A., has been
built for the Civil Aviation Board —at
Sydney, Kempsey, Brisbane, Cooktown,
Port Moresby, Salamaua, Canberra,
Albury, Melbourne, Launceston, Adel-
aide, Forrest, Perth ; others will be in
operation within the next month or two
at Hobart, Nhill, Ceduna and Kalgoorlie.
Stations have also been set up at the flying
bases at Karumba and Groote Island in
the Gulf of Carpentaria for the benefit
of flying-boats carrying Empire mails.
Aeradio services are being conducted
for the Civil Aviation Board from the
coastal stations of A.W.A. Darwin,
Townsville and Rockhampton stations
serve the flying-boats and the N.Q. ser-
vice traversing that route. Darwin,
Wyndham, Broome and Geraldton main-
tain contact with aircraft on the Darwin-
Perth line. King Island, Flinders Island
and Hobart coast stations are used by
Bass Strait fliers.
There was activity, too, in the provision
of radio beacons, homing devices and
direction-finding facilities for aircraft.
Beacons have been installed or are under
construction for aerodromes at Brisbane,
Kempsey, Sydney, Canberra, Holbrook,
Melbourne, Nhill, Adelaide, Launceston
and Hobart. Direction-finding stations
have been built at most of the aero-
dromes where radio beacons are not
located. This service has been found
especially useful on the routes between
Melbourne and Tasmania. When the
present programme of radio aids to avia-
tion is completed during 1939, Australia
will have the most efficient facilities of
this kind in the world.
Bound up with the expansion of avia-
tion, the Commonwealth Government’s
svstem of weather reports and forecasts
has been enormously extended. The eight
A.W.A. stations in New Guinea and the
three in Papua, in addition to others
on the Australian coast, now handle
meteorological data which are available
to pilots on the course between Sydney
and Rabaul.
The Australian mercantile marine has
been well served. At Cape Otway, Aus-
tralia’s first maritime wireless beacon was
installed. Increasing numbers of ships
are being fitted with direction-finders
which will work with the beacon, five
having added this facility during the year.
More and more ships now carry long-
range wireless. Recently A.W.A. added
a new short-wave and long-distance trans-
mitter to the company’s equipment at
Pennant Hills transmitting station, and
corresponding receiving plant at La
Perouse receiving station to facilitate
communication with shipping so fitted.
Apart from main radiotelegraphy
plant fitted to 24 Australian ships during
the year, seven ships have been provided
with radiotelephony and seven with echo-
meters (or radio depth-sounders). Eleven
have been fitted with automatic distress-
signal receivers, three with music- and
speech-amplifying systems. Five small
coastal vessels have been fitted this year
with the new automatic distress-signal
transmitters.
Oversea radio services of Australia
have been marked during 1938 in four
respects. On December 21 a direct radio-
telephone service was established be-
tween Australia and America. In April
last a considerable reduction was made
in Beam Wireless rates within the British
Empire: in July the rates for radio-
telephone calls between Australia, New
Zealand, New Guinea and the trans-
Tasman motor-ship Awatea were cut
by one-third ; a substantial extension of
the wireless channels in the Pacific
Islands has been made by the introduc-
tion of about 80 additional “teleradios”
—small portable wireless telephone out-
fits.
All these activities have led to further
expansion in radio manufacturing, which
is now capable of supplying the whole
of Australia’s requirements. In the works
of Amalgamated Wireless alone, during
1938, about 50,000 broadcast receivers
were produced, besides transmitting and
receiving equipment of many kinds. Two
5000-watt transmitting stations were built
for Maoriland Broadcasting Service. The
valve works had an output of more than
a million valves. As many as 47 types
of valves are being made, which is
nearly double the number of types pro-
duced in 1937.
Amateur Chatter.
Compulsory membership for ZLs in
N.Z.A.R.T.L. is aimed at in Maoriland.
It is considered that by this means only
can the league speak for and control all
the amateurs in the country. There is a
great deal to be said for such an arrange-
ment: 100 p.c. membership would be to
the advantage of both regulating authori-
ties and amateurs. Automatic member-
ship of VKs in the W.I.A. has often been
suggested, and the question should be
taken up with renewed vigor. M.L. sug-
gests the establishment of monitor sta-
tions to warn, and if necessary discipline,
those who flagrantly break regulations.
This self-policing of amateur bands is
well taken care of in Australia by the
vigilance officers jointly appointed by
the P.M.G. and the W.I.A. There should
be no reason why M.L. should not follow
suit. Certainly there are some T 3 ZL
signals that irk VK vigilance men.
The English R.S.G.B. is opposed to
elimination of the “Artificial Aerial” per-
mit which is at present the stepping-stone
to a full license ip Britain, and counters
a suggestion that amateur licenses should
be granted on a quantity basis with refer-
ence to the naval and R.A.F. civilian
wireless reserves. Amateur frequencies
are already sadly overpopulated, and it
is paradoxical that the authorities should
comb amateur ranks for proficient tele-
graphists when international conferences i
have done their utmost to restrict ama-
teur communication facilities. There are


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Limerick Competitions
Eleventh Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 18.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the purpose, cut out
the whole coupon, and post to reach
“LIMERICKS No. 11,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 18.
Results of this Eleventh Limerick Competition will be announced in The Bulletin
of January 25.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she wishes, but each
entry must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete.
This will be the final Limerick Competition, but a popular Sentence Competi-
tion for the same prize-money (£5O) is announced in the adjoining column.
ELEVENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
(In block letters)
A militia recruit had a craze
For manoeuvring in curious ways.
At “Form Fours!” shouted tartly,
He’d somersault smartly
The Tenth Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 29.
Ui
w
A NEW £5O
COMPETITION
First Prize £2O
Second Prize . £lO
Twenty Other Prizes . . £1
Closing Date January 25.
There is no Entrance Charge.
To replace the Limerick Competition, which
will conclude when the Eleventh Competition
closes on January 18, “The Bulletin” is
offering £5O, to be awarded as stated above,
for the Best Humorous Sentence made up of
words from the Aboriginalities pages (pages
1 8 and 1 9) in the current issue (January 11).
How to Compete.
Make up a sentence of not less than 12 and
not more than 20 words, using words from
pages 1 8 and 1 9 of this issue.
Write your sentence on the coupon below in
BLOCK letters, cut out the coupon and post
to reach
"Sentence Competition No. 1,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 25.
Rules.
1— Not more than one word from any one line to be used.
2 Each word must come from a later line than the one before
it (not necessarily the next line).
3 Compound, hyphenated and abbreviated words may be
used.
4 The sentence must be one that could conceivably be used
in ordinary conversation. It can be absurd, but gram-
matically it must make sense.
5 No limit to the number of entries, but every entry must be
filled in on a coupon.
6 The prizes will be awarded to the sentences considered
the most amusing, and the Editor’s decision is final.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., is
eligible to compete. Otherwise this competition is open to all,
free of any entrance charge.
SPECIMEN SENTENCE
(Words from pages 18 and 19.)
When Bung admitted his turpitude the mob with uncontrollable
malevolence souvenired his corns.
First Sentence Competition
NAME
ADDRESS
SENTENCE.
Results of this First Sentence Competition will be announced in
“The Bulletin” of February 1.
schemes afoot in Australia to inaugurate
semi-civilian defence schemes, using ama-
teurs for the radio communication work.
Such schemes will not be welcomed by
amateurs if the already overcrowded
amateur bands are to be used for the
purpose. Arrangements should be made
with the naval, military and air force ser-
vices to permit operation within channels
set aside for such communication. An-
other reason why amateur bands should
be avoided for defence purposes is that
service traffic would suffer severely from
interference. In the 80-, 40- and 20-metre
amateur bands, telegraphic communica-
tion now occupies a minor place, and
mobile defence stations would be
swamped by telephony transmissions.
The Federal Communications Com-
mission of U.S.A. has assigned new pre-
fixes for the Pacific islands: K 4 Puerto
Rico, KB4 Virgin Islands, K 5 Canal
zone, K 6 Territory of Hawaii, KB6
Guam, K£6 Wake group, KD6 Midway
Islands, KE6 Johnstone Island, KF6
Baker Island, Howland Island and
American Phoenix Islands, KG6 Jarvis
Island (Palmyra group), KH6 American
Samoa, K 7 Alaska, including Pribilof
Island.
A new amateur band superhet for 10-,
20-, 40- and 80-metres recently completed
by the writer is giving excellent results.
Valves used are 6K7 R.F., EK2G mixer,
6JSG oscillator, 6K7 1.F., 6C6 second
detector, 76 BFO, 6V6G output to
speaker and 80 rectifier. There are two
departures from usual practice. The os-
cillator bandspread dial controls the os-
cillator separately from the mixer and
R.F. controls, and the EK2G octode is
used as mixer with the oscillator plate
connected to the pentode screen grid, and
the oscillator grid used as mixer grid to ffie
oscillator. The conversion gain is excel-
lent. Despite the separate dial for the
mixer, this is seldom touched in tuning.
The R.F. stage is switched and regenera-
tive, this also being an independent con-
trol. Plug-in coils are used in the mixer
and oscillator for the sake of simplicity
and efficiency. The receiver will be fully
described in the near future.
VK2NO.
1939 Handbook by "Radio."
The fifth edition of the Radio Hand-
book is in revised and enlarged form.
Practically all the constructional material
shown has been newly built. There are
592 pages of technical radio information,
and almost every page carries diagrams
or illustrations. The 20 chapters cover
fundamental theory, vacuum tubes, deci-
bels and logarithms, antennas, workshop
advice, Morse code instruction, radio
receiver theory, radio receiver con-
struction, receiver tube characteristics,
transmitting tubes, transmitter theory,
exciter construction, C.W. transmitter
construction, radiotelephony theory,
radiotelephone transmitter construction,
ultra - high - frequency communication,
power supplies, test equipment, radio
therapy and international radio laws.
The editors of “Radio,” in collaboration
with Frank Jones, have in this Hand-
book kept up with rapid developments
in commercial equipment, and the great
majority of items shown in the con-
structional pages have been tried in
actual practice. There are new methods
for applying exciters, buffers and final
amplifiers, and the u.-h.-f. section is
replete with new material. Copy from
McGill’s Newsagency, 183 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, C.l, Victoria; price
95., plus 9d. postage.
D.B.K.
British Expert for Vesta
Batteries.
Following a world-wide advertisement
for a works manager for the Vesta Bat-
tery Co., applications from Australia,
England, Germany, Austria, U.S.A. and
India resulted in the appointment of
R. H. Pryor, at present works manager
in Enfield, England, of Edison Swan
Accumulator Co. A highly qualified
metallurgical chemist, battery and elec-
trical engineer, he will bring with him 25
years of battery experience, including
periods with Exide and the Oldham Co.
His investigations have taken him to
U.S.A., France and Germany, and the
Vesta Co. will benefit by the acquisition
of such wide experience. Due to take
ovqr in February.


KT
LYS
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
-tit Jp’ *
~ —
rr:--y-
-m.
m
M
m
m
iva
m
■
■ ■
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Don’t WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
The Australian Meat Year.
The report of the Australian Meat
Board for 1937-38 shows a steady, though
small, progress in export trade.
There has been distinct increase in the
consignment of chilled beef and veal, and
an even greater comparative advance in
the last six months of the year in frozen
lines. Chilled export grew from
171,000 cwt. in the second half of 1937 to
243,000 quarters in the second half of
1938, and frozen from 608,673 cwt. to
733,660 cwt. Only 21.6 p.c. of exported
meat was chilled, and only 24.74 p.c. of
four months’ mid-season loadings were
delivered at their destinations under 45
days. That figure was increased over
comparative 1937 figures by only 0.22 p.c.,
though the deliveries between 45 and 50
days rose from 25.83 p.c. to 36.02 p.c.
Some chilled meat takes from 55 to 65
days to reach London, though ordinary
fast cargo steamers engaged in the wool
trade take only 30-odd days. Consider-
ing that the Argentine time of shipment
is about 20 days and that chilled meat
must be constantly watched, since the
slightest variations in temperature affect
it, the ambition of the A.M.B. to achieve
a maximum of 45 days seems unduly
modest. Grading at the exporting end
is little use when the damaging factors
of an unduly long voyage—mould and
bloom failure —may intervene.
According to board grading, 65.73 p.c.
of chilled meat sent overseas in Jan.-
June, 1938, was first grade, and 34.27 pc.
second grade. Of frozen, only 35.86 p.c.
was first grade, 53.24 p.c. second grade
and 10.9 p.c. third grade. Thus, only
about 42 p.c. of all beef and veal frozen
and chilled is first quality.
Comparison with a graph of Argentine
prices shows how lenient Australian grad-
ing is. Argentine chilled hinds started
in July, 1937, at soared to in
August, reached lowest average in April,
1938, at sfd. and finished in June from
6|d. to 6yd. Australian started the year
at 5d. —fd. below Argentine’s worst
figure for the year —reached the year’s
peak price at 6fd. in August and made
a slide in June, 1938, from syd. to 4yd.
Consistently, prices were about Id. below
Argentine—often more. In slump months
Australian chilled beef also consistently
fell further and with a harder thud than
River Plate supplies. Maoriland was a
little better off than the Commonwealth
but not much. In Sept., 1937, when
Argentine hinds slid from 7|d. to 6|d.,
M.L. average fell from 6fd. to syd. and
Australian from 6fd. to 4yd.
Maoriland lambs are regularly superior
to Australian in London, but the differ-
ence is not marked. It is significant that,
while our beef hind chilled prices have
gone to the bad in relation to average
Argentine prices during the year, the
margin between Australian and M.L.
lamb averages was closed by a farthing,
though there is considerably more varia-
tion and patchiness from month to
month.
During the whole export year, Maori-
land lamb varied from the 7yd. per
pound average by a fd. maximum up or
down, which shows what can be done by
standardised breeding and grading. Aus-
tralia, which started the year yd. below
M.L. (7yd.), ended only yd. average below
the monthly figure (again 7yd.), and in
Dec., 1937, hit the Bd. mark. Shipments
of lamb, however, grade -37.22 p.c.
prime, and over 20.7 p.c. is third quality.
Still, as export mutton grades 10.14 p.c.
first, 37.75 p.c. second and 52.11 p.c.
third, there is reason to be thankful even
for those proportions.
There has been no great increase in the
export of mutton and lamb —only 4 p.c.
advance over 1935 figures. Neither does
the hope of “capturing the beef market”
seem to be within measurable distance of
achievement. In 1934, when Australia
first sent abroad an appreciable quantity
of chilled beef (55,000 cwt.), the Argen-
tine’s quota of the British chilled trade
was 6,942,000 cwt. and that of other
foreign countries 1,070,000 cwt. ; last year
the Argentine figure was 6,987,000 cwt.
and other foreign countries l,oBo,ooocwt.
Australia —which supplies about 5 p.c.
of the U.K.’s chilled beef and other
Dominion countries have merely divided
a few per cent, increase in the usage of
“What about us and the kids going away to some quiet spot for a holiday ?”
inferior an(j fair qua ]| ty types wor th Id.
P er P ou nd less than Argentine average.
In frozen beef, the Australian export
to the U.K. has increased in the three
years from 1,599,000 cwt. to 1,938,000 cwt„
Argentine supplies have increased from
544,000 cwt. to 618,000 cwt. and other
foreign countries from 266,000cwt. v to
287,000 cwt. Maoriland shows a distinct
decrease.
The liu le Dominion, starting from
scratch in the year in which Australia
entered the chilled-beef trade, has switched
over enough of her frozen-beef business
to chilled to export two-thirds as much
as the Commonwealth—and get an
almost consistently higher London price
for it. Already one-third of her export
chilled against only 18 p.c. of
. u 5 °
In lamb and mutton Australia and
M.L. already have four-fifths of the total
U.K. import trade, and the total world
trade in those lines with Britain is about
650,000 cwt. less than in 1931-32, a de-
pression year. There are available not
many more than 1,000,000 carcasses of
foreign quota per annum to be taken
over. An increase of 20 p.c. in existing
Australian supplies would put the others
out of the U.K. market.
The A.M.B. is doing good work in
promoting stock improvement and in
bringing knowledge of types and market
needs tc meatgrowers. If it had done
nothing else but produce the exhaustive
Coleman report and reorganise grading
during the year, it would have justified
its existence, but beefgrowers need to
pay greater attention to its advice.
Another Hornless Victory.
“Mookau”: It is a long time since any
breed other than Aberdeen Angus has
had a look in at Smithfield fat stock
show. Six purebreds and one cross on
Shorthorn won the seven December
championships, including the King s Per-
petual Cup, which went to Lady Robin-
son’s two-year-old heifer, Magnolia of
Kirklington, whose picture all breeders
of chillers might paste in their hats.
It is difficult to understand why the
hornless Angus has not made better head-
way in Australia. Leading breeders have
advocated them since the 1840’s. When
the U.S.A. meat companies established
themselves here just before the war, they
spent a good deal of money advertising
the breed. Agricultural Departments have
followed suit, and the British Aberdeen
Society has sent emissaries here several
times. The Australian Meat Board now
reports that “perhaps the most obvious
contributing cause of bruising is the re-
tention of horns.”
Wholesale dehorning may be all right,
but the naturally hornless breed should
be a better bet. The only thing that might
be urged against the Angus is its tempera-
ment. It is a good feeder, stands up
well to trucking, and matures early. Pos-
sibly lack of standardisation of sire types
has something to do with its failure here.
Searing-iron v. Knife.
“Bungaree”: There have been experi-
ments in Victoria recently to decide the
merits or demerits of searing lambs’ tails
at marking time. It was claimed that
bleeding which follows the use of the
knife weakens the lamb and may cause
mismothering, may check lamb growth
and promote fly strike ; conversely, that
searing is slow and heals slowly, retards
lamb growth and helps strike.
The test was carried out on two proper-
ties, one with improved pastures and one
with natural grasses. Ewe and ram lambs
were treated separately and were weighed
at marking and a fortnight later. There
was little difference in weight—the bal-
ance slightly in favor of ram lambs tailed
with the knife.
Wounds of those lambs which had
been tailed with an iron took longer to
heal. When knifed lambs were healed,
the seared tails were still covered with
a scab with pus. The test was made in
cool weather and there were no flies.
Wheat and Dennis.
“Pappamosca”: Wheat yields every-
where are surprising the prophets. In
mid-November, when harvesting was at
a very early stage, the N. S. Wales Wheat
Marketing Director placed the probable
State yield at 47,000,000 bushels odd. To
December 31, 53,476,000 bushels had
turned up. And there is still a great
deal of stacked grain to be counted in.
Victorian calculations were upset by
drought, and it was thought a couple of
months ago that 13,000,000 bushels would
be harvested, against a normal 37,000,000
to 42,000,000. Though the yield is likely
to be well under seven bushels per acre,
against a 10-year average of 12.68, the
crop will now certainly go to 18,000,000
and perhaps even 20,000,000 bushels.
S. Australia will have up to 32,000,000,
Queensland find Tasmania about
8,000,000 and W.A. 35,000,000 bushels—
probably 145,000,000 bushels the lot,
against an estimated 135,000,000.
Competitors, however, have crops and
new conditions which offset the improve-
ment. The Argentine crop is likely to
be 320,000,000 bushels—Bo,ooo,ooo above
the annual average for the last 10 years
—and the biggest carryover in history.
The new Indian duty of Is. per
bushel is another worry, especially as it
applies to standing contracts.
It seems time attention was given
in Australia to a much larger use of
wheat for stock feeding. Australia now
supplies the U.K. with only 22.1 p.c. of
frozen pork imports, and the meagre
14,829 cwt. of bacon and ham exported
went mainly to foreign countries or
British colonies in 1937-38. The U.K.
imported last year about 7,600,000 cwt.
of bacon and hams, 5,400,000 cwt. from
foreign countries and almost all the rest
from Canada and Eire. Marketing a


r#
kk
/
sffPB*
ff
plume
sad
For Starting, Getaway, Power and Mileage
proportion of surplus wheat as bacon
seems to be worth concentrating on.
M.L. experiments last year gave maxi-
mum results with grain-meal feeding, in
which the earning power of milk for pig-
raising was at its best when combined
with a ration of lib. meal to sgal. milk,
which meant 0.851 b. meal to every lib.
pig meat produced. It would be interesting
to know exactly how wheat-milk and
wheat-milk-root combinations would
work out here in large-scale operation.
Not Up to Standard.
“A.A.D.”: The new rust-immune
wheat Fedweb 3 has given promising
field results this season in the N.S.W.
north-west. Yields of good millers’
samples of up to 40 bushels per acre have
been recorded.
A cross between Hard Federation
(evolved at Cowra Farm) and Webster,
an American variety, it has proved com-
pletely resistant to all forms of rust, and
thus promised to be of special value in
the northern rust-liable areas.
The grain showed very well in milling
tests, with dry gluten content as high
as 18 p.c., but in baking tests conducted
by the Agricultural Department Fedweb
3 failed owing to poor gluten quality.
It lacked elasticity and stability, reducing
it below an acceptable minimum standard
as a bread wheat. It will carry no recom-
mendation for the coming season.
Fertilisers and Fertility.
“Yarrunga”: The field service of the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department reports
that for the maintenance of soil fertility
in the wheatbelt something more is
needed than super.
A review of the series of sulphate of
ammonia trials conducted independently
by the department and fertiliser interests
in co-operation with farmers reveals
benefit in yields of cereal hay but no
advantage with grain crops. Nitrogen
in this form stimulated more vigorous
growth of stem and leaf, especially with
oats or stubble, but, the fertiliser being
relatively costly, the margin of profit is
insufficient to encourage its general use.
The official advice to wheatgrowers
accordingly is to practise a rotation of
wheat, oats or stubble for grazing, and
fallow. Then, after a period, allow the
land to go back into grass, sowing suit-
able mixtures if necessary, and stimulat-
ing the growth of clovers and other
legumes and the choking out of rough
grasses by topdressing with super.
Milk Tube for Difficult Milking.
“Kyamba”: Rough milking often
bruises teats, thickening the lining of the
canal and making milking painful and
difficult. Sometimes the whole teat swells
and hardens, or else a distinct ring of
thickening can be felt when handling the
teat.
The best treatment is to subdue in-
flammation by soaking the teat in hot
water three times daily, rub gently with
olive oil and insert soluble antiseptic teat
bougies into the teat canal a couple of
times daily.
In bad cases use a milk tube for draw-
ing off milk without injuring the teat.
But remember: Sterilise the tube in boil-
ing water for 20 minutes ; wipe the end
of teat clean with cotton-wool soaked in
methylated spirit; avoid handling tube
after sterilising by wrapping in a piece
of clean cloth before boiling, and allow
the tube to remain in the water while
cooling off.
Australian Honey.
“Bogaduck”: Maoriland honey (B.
21/12/’3B) is gathered from a few species
of ground flora, mainly clover; Aus-
tralian comes from flowering trees,
mainly eucalypts, every one of which pro-
duces a distinctive honey. It is easy for
M.L. to standardise blends, but before
we can do the same we must make suit-
{Continued on page 38.)


1308.
There’s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 27/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
—l-WEAR FLOORING
EVER WEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
y
or Adding a NEW ROOM
FOR A FEW POUNDS
Mother: ”1 know it's rather hot, but Bob
is old enough to have a room all his
own. Don't you think we could do some-
thing about this old lumber-room?"
Mother: "Heavens!!! Walls and ceilings
both finished. You HAVE been quick. It
looks beautiful, too .. . and cool-
est room in the house just now."
0 CANE-ITE, the economical, easily-
worked, all-cane insulation, is avail-
able in natural colour or ivory-white
boards in various lengths up to 12 ft., in
suitable thicknesses up to three inches.
Remember. .. CANE-ITE is strong, white
ant-proof, and rot-proof.
For exterior work, for Kitchens, Bathrooms
and Laundries, for furniture and a
hundred and one uses in the modern home
—there is a special MASONITE board .
Ask for full details.
Cs.
-J
-V
Father: "I think Cane-ite, the new insulat-
ing and decorating board will_ do the
trick easily and inexpensively. I'll get a
quote from the builder to-morrow."
3f
I *
i
\
Bob: "Gee! It looks fine. And Dad says
it will be cool in summer and warm in
winter and that now we can make all the
noise we like."
I MAIL THIS COUPON for interesting
| facts to your nearest branch of the Colonial
| Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. (Building Materials
I Division).
NAME
ADDRESS
I Please send me full literature on C 3 5-8
I □ Cane-ite Boards. □ Masonite Boards 3. H.9.
caii-KTE
THE 100% CANE-FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
iTuTj^'ctlleizrrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
■ \ Ah I
TOBACCO, TOBACCO, TOBACCO
Smokers, Look —
No Increase in Prices.
DO YOU WANT GOOD VALUE
AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW 1 Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild . .
Normandie, medium . .
Winning Post, medium . .
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only . .
White Lodge, medium . .
White Lodge, light . .
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium . .
Tender Leaf, medium . .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/9
8/-
8/-
8/-
10/-
10/-
11/-
8/6
10/9
11/-
H/-
8/-
6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild .. -• 7/6
“Skipper,” medium .. •• 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” .. •• 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks • • 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . • • 6/6
Zig Zags . . • • 5 for 1/-
Postage paid in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
ft
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD- King St., Sydney,
able clovers grow over areas large enough
to produce big crops.
We have our good honey. Pure samples
of S.A. bluegum and sugargum, Victorian
redgum and the yellow box of Victoria
and N.S.W. are equal to any in the world,
but distributors have made no serious
attempt to introduce them to consumers
under distinctive names. That and the
use of cheap lines —often coarse-flavored
banksia honey, sold by beekeepers for
about 2d. per pound, and put through a
decolorising and deflavoring process —
come against the Australian stuff.
“Mellifluous”: In referring to the
anomaly of shop-window displays of
M. honey in Sydney, JW. (B-
-21 /12/’3B) is right on the maik. It «
another instance of the M.L. push which
established standardised M.L. hone y in
the U.K. market more than 20 yeais ago
N. has made fitful efforts in the last
decade to follow suit.
The position here is not so despairing
as “J.W.’s” shopkeeper pictured ; in tact,
it promises a new era. The Commer-
cial Apiarists’ Association is well organ-
ised, and with its support 80 p.c. ot the
honey produced in the State is so
through one co-operative channel, attei
the best of it has been graded and
blended. , , „
Export is being placed on a sounder
basis, financed on an |d. per pound levy
on all local sales. Within the last tew
months a depot has been established in
London, to which honey is shipped m
bulk to be blended, standardised, bottled
and sold as “Australian.” Already it has
gained many more customers, including
multiple stores.
The distributing agents on the other
side are Empire Dairies, a M.L.-Austra-
lian dairymen’s co-operative that last
year had a turnover of £10,000,000 in
the produce of the two Dominions. Con-
tinuity of supply to London has been
provided for.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: When treating pasture
land, don’t mix lime with sulphate ot
ammonia or any fertiliser which includes
it. Amm. sulph. causes the lime to be
leached from the soil by rain or irrigation
water. Use lime a month to six weeks
before or after the sulphate.
“Karaway”: Tree lucerne flourishes in
dry areas. Flowering profusely in winter,
it will help bees. The seed-pods feed
fowls, and the foliage makes good fodder
for sheep and cattle.
“Mulyan”: When kurrajongs or other
native trees are transplanted from a seed-
bed the growth is checked and many ot
the plants die. The best way to propa-
gate is to place each seed in a bamboo
tube or tin about Bin. long filled with
soil and sunk in the ground. When the
young plant is a few inches high, and
before the roots reach below the bottom
of the tube, it can be taken up and
placed in the ground again in. the tree’s
permanent position. Thus the shifting
does not disturb the plant, and as it grows
the tube rots. In paddocks a good place
to sow seeds is a hollow stump, high
enough to be out of reach of stock.
“Bull-ant Bill”: When putting up a
g.-i. roof or wall, paint the under-surface
and the tops of all laps with boiled oil
and cement, mixed to brushing consis-
tency and kept well stirred while apply-
ing. It will lengthen the life of the iron,
especially when exposed to sea air, and
protects it from acid sap from unseasoned
battens. Two coats outside, after the iron
has weathered for a few weeks, will pre-
serve it indefinitely. A first-rate green
paint (non-poisonous) is 81b. of fresh
cement mixed with 1-jlb. of chromium
oxide (about 2s. 9d. a pound, city price)
and boiled linseed oil to a gallon or so
of suitable brushing consistency. A little
gold size speeds up drying. First coat
may run a bit, but the second, after a
week or so, gives a neat finish. It also
gives good results on outside hardwoods.
Pick fine weather for the job.
“T.R.”: Having tried rabbit-extermi-
nators, I gave ferrets and dogs a go.
Two ferrets and six hounds cleaned out
32 bunnies in a couple of hours in
country which is heavily trapped and
well poisoned each year. I have 60
traps which will rust in the shed next
winter.
“Bundalinga”: W. J. Rankin, Bunga-
low (N.S.W.), gets good results from
natural paspalum-white clover pasture by
renovating, harrowing and topdressing
with lime and super. Growth is kept
short by mowing. Super, is applied annu-
ally and lime every three years. The
treatment maintains soil fertility and
carrying capacity. The 192 acres carries
112 dairy head, and is divided into 27
paddocks, and there is 85 acres of sown
pasture —rye grasses, prairie grass, Phal-
aris tuberosa, red, white and Berseem
clover in various mixtures.
“Maui”: Lambing estimates for Maori-
land show a decline of 4 p.c. for 1938.
About 8,000,000 have been produced in
S. Island and 8,600,000 in N. Island.
The S. Island quota is a record for num-
bers, and represents over 90 p.c. average
of breeding ewes ; but North Island seems
to be 800,000 below the figures for the
past two years, when the output reached
its top. However, estimates are not yet
final. The results of facial eczema may
show them to be considerably out.
“J. Want’ 4 ’: As usual, Bencubbin was
almost universal in the Westralian wheat
competitions. The R.A.S. judging gave it
the first five places in No. 3 zone. The
winner was D. J. Edmonds, of Calcarra,
with 38 bushels and 84 points, with H. H.
Wilmot, of Dowerin, 28 bushels and 73
points, second. In Nos. 4 and 5 zones —
the dry Nungarin-Mt. Marshall area —it
took every first and second prize, with
yields up to 25 bushels. Only in Zone 7
—Kukerin, Kulin, Karlgarlin and Lake
Grace —did the Glucub variation rise to
first place, winner being R. G. Bennett,
Dumbleyung, 38 bushels, 81 points.
“Kyamba”: An analysis comparing
Californian Cape barley and English
malting barley for feeding ifigs is
enlightening:
Malting Cape
Barley, p.c. Barley, p.c.
Mineral matter .. 2.6 4.6
Crude protein .. 12.0 5.4
Crude fat .. • • 2.4 0.6
Fibre 5.0 19.3
Carbohydrate .. .. 63.7 56.5
Take the malting barley any time.
“Billy See”: Snail-catching in the
garden, is it? Better than any tortoise
or turtle either is the Indian-runner duck.
Wouldn’t trust a pair too much in the
kitchen garden among the cabbages, but
anywhere else these poultry do the job
most efficiently, their appetite for the
molluscs being insatiable. And, better
than any tortoise or seagull, they turn
the snails to profit, for they are fattening,
and a well-fed Indian-runner isn’t to be
despised as a menu item.


%
oO
■'V
t'
mi
C>2
s»
d*
os^
v\
$cP
u
j*-0
ItOM*
«*■
38—3
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
°°" EKSi/JS # ri &e L,d " Syd " ey ’ LioMl Sam “" & Son -- - Fremantle
Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -- - - Hobart
NURSE WHO BEGAN
TO GET FAT
Worried Because it
Spoiled Her “Figure.”
This nurse was proud of her figure, and
when she began to put on weight she was
naturally worried about it. She started taking
Kruschen, and in a few months she got rid of
18 lbs. of unwanted fat. Delighted with the
results, Nurse writes:
“I am a hospital nurse, 38 years of age.
I am 5 feet 8 inches tall and always had a
good figure. But about two years ago I began
to get very fat, especially round the abdomen.
This worried me very much, not only because
it spoiled my figure, but because it made me
look much older. A few months ago 1 started
taking Kruschen Salts and soon found I was
getting slimmer. I did not weigh myself until
last week, and found to my delight that I had
lost 18 lbs. of excess fat, and I feel so well.”
—(Nurse) M.E.C.
Before the first bottle of Kruschen is
finished the fat starts to go. Then, month
after month, the scales tell the same story—
a few pounds less of superfluous fat to burden
the body and endanger the health.
BRANDAUER’S
RSS
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRl.MDA.DiCR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
VI
*
s
✓v-s
Jst
Ws
*
Deposits with the Bank of New South Wales have
grown steadily until to-day they stand at over
£100,000,000. These funds have played an im-
portant part in the development of Australia and
now, as in the past, any money placed on deposit
with the Bank of New South Wales will be wisely
used to further Australia's interests.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE LARGEST BANK IN
THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
422 C 1938
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.S.: Not here J.H.: Misses Z.V.W.:
It dwindles away... .M.M.: Bellerdrammer.
....A.B.McD.: Close, but it’s got nothing new.
SC • “Rmoc” mirrUt „ r, Qr
CFV Cf u 8 rfcS flu '‘ ‘
G.F.Y.. Stodgy....F.S.H.: Neither,of those.
....J.N.N.: Came very near; pruned, it might
fit in. .. .S.H.C.: Not that one... .A.J.P.:
Couldn’t smell “the blended fragrance of the
flowers growing among the white headstones,”
but we heard “the deep note of the organ and
the sweet trilling of boys’ voices” H.G.:
Nothing to it T. 8.: “The Pinnacle” doesn’t
exactly soar... .J.R.H.: “Half-cooked in
parts D.L.: You seem to sleep very well,
.... R.p.: Too “multiplex” M B.: “In-
dustry will have to be its own reward
R.S.: Youthful... .M.A.P.: Fair, if it’s a first
effort. Read “Banjo” Paterson F.S.L.:
Sentimental C.F.S.: Try a women’s
paper.... R.L.: Too late... .R.8.M.: They
are far from meeting with our “complete
approval ... .L.W.: The Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook might help y0u....
E. 1.: Mechanical... .E.C.: Flat... .H.L.:
“Fire” out... J.F.: Send it to Grace... .R.P.:
Cheer up... .Penelope: Nothing new in that
list.. ..R.M.: Leave it to Brady... .J.McK.:
Loth to note your rhyme of “loth” and “note.”
....J.8.8.: “Storm Wind” raging 0n... .D. 8.:
Unsuitable... .E.P.: Only one stanza sizzles
in “Sausages”.. . .M.G.: “Bellbird Electric
Power Supply” fails... .V.C.D.: Make a par.
e''' ■TW.: Should click elsewhere....
RG-S.; They never leave the ground
J.M.: Avast there 8.D.: Feeling, without
• • •L-8.P.: It’s the devil, all right
E.E.W.: “Lines to our Lizzie” sent to scrap-
heap... .L.McC.: Too many tags... .P.H.,
{*•"• a nd E.D.: Close... .T.R.: Thin....
W.W. (Launceston): Always glad to hear from
a generous critic... .E.T.F.: Too much padding,
too little p10t.... R.C.8.: Neatly worked out,
but why make it gloomy?... .J.A.: Couldn’t
get interested... .W. 8.: At Stanley’s 313th
anguished cry of “Daddy!” our religious editor
w e ht looking lor a meat-chopper....
G.F.P.: If ever there was such an
indulgent station manager we’ll eat his saddle,
... .R.R.: Not meaty enough... .W.M.S.:
Bereft condition of callow hoofer might interest
a flapper magazine... .S.H.: We like stories
with settings about 10,000 miles closer than
that... .F.M.: “‘Blast it!’ said the bishop fer-
vently. That s the stuff! C.V.H.: Much
ado about little... .Pendleton: Welcome to
our tried old friend the jackeroo who turns
o ’ on S'l° s t h e ' r to 3 peerage....
M.R.W.L.: Starts off well, then tails away to
nothing.. ..F.S.: Track-sports story just
boring.. . .K.W.-C.: Now find a p10t... .E.L.:
A gentle little incident, no more... .G. 8.:
Very slight Jess Duff: Girlish enthusiasm
left guardian of cashbox stonyhearted
: N ° lau B hs -• • P.S.W.: It would
make juicy reading for the P.M.G. s telegraph
branch.... J.N.: Both well below standard.. .
G.E.: More suitable for scientific paper....
W.A.M.: Serpent spoils it L.V.S.: Only
a fragment... .C.M.D.: Write of things you
know, and have a story to tell before you corn-
mence J.M.C.: An idea, but it needs better
handling S.W.: No 8.W.D.: “No Blame
Attachable to Anyone.” Then who wrote it?
....K.C.R. and J.T.: None of those....
P.S.D.: “Faithful Hound” barking up the
wrong tree H.F.T.: Thanks, and the same
to you, but the yarn’s not up S.W.C.:
Let’s hear from you when you’ve had a bit
more practice N.T.C.: Try a daily
M.D.A.: Interest too local H.S.C.: And
those are of no interest 8.T.: Not funny.
. ...W.L.P.: Much too long for what’s in it.
C.S.J.: Your verbosity smothers the yarn.
__ .
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: No audience for your soapbox orator
here.... W.P.: The wild waves have washed up
few stranger objects than that figure on the
beach... .W.D.: Merely a slight variation of
a well-known Phil May joke A.S.: Obvi-
ously drawn in a hurry, and the gag has seen
better days... .8.W.: Among this week’s untidy
specimens C.K.: The nautical expert
couldn’t discover the point in your jest about
the gunboats G.J.: Why crowd all the
figures into one small corner of the picture?
. ...M.M.: You’re improving slowly... .S.C.:
Corpses—every one of them.... W.H.M.:
Scratchy linework and obsolete joke... .N.C.:
Try a comic paper... .G.R.H.: What’s the use
of sending a Santa Claus drawing along a week
after Christmas?... .N.R.: Sorry, but you’ll
have no “proceeds”... .H.S.H.: Linework is
becoming smoother, but the ideas are getting
no fresher... .P.W.: You’d probably do well
as a wallpaper designer, but you’re no comic
artist H. 8.: We want to make our readers
laugh... .E.C.: Joke is as old as the camel.
. ...N.T.: You need a lot of training....
C.A.C.: “Fastest-bitch-on-the-course” gag again,
That’s the first time this year.... W.C.: The
youngster shows promise. Take him to an
art teacher G.S.: Drawing looks like a
battle between two inebriated porcupines....
D.F.: No room for gent, with two right hands
and minus ears and nose.... A.A.: Signature
is all right... .R.F.: Washwork too muddy for
reproduction... .T.P.R.: Take up some other
hobby... .G. 8.: You’re no master and they’re
no masterpieces.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Eric Malpas, of Melbourne, has found
a quaint method of seeing the world,
Seven years ago he set out to sing and
cycle his way around it. He has sung
to coolies in China, Nazis in Germany
and to the gaping street crowds of up-
wards of 20 other countries. Refuting
the popular opinion about Scotchmen, he
made the biggest collection of his trip in
an Aberdeen street. He has returned to
his home town.
“Vic”: The latest authority to say a
few kind words for Australian leadership
in the Great War is Captain Liddell Hart,
who acclaims John Monash- as having
had “the greatest capacity for command
in modern war among all who held corn-
mands.” He adds that if the war had
lasted a year longer Monash would have
risen to the command of an army and
might have become C.-in-C. But had
Monash been born 20 years later the
Australian Defence Ministry would
assuredly have given command of the
C.M.F. to an Englishman.
* * * *
“Lever de Rideau”: A man without a
country turned up at King’s Cross police
station, London, recently. He gave his
name as Logona, and said he was
brought up, if not born, in a Hawaiian
island. A Victorian farmer adopted him
and sent him to a Melbourne school.
After his benefactor died, Logona went
to New York, was held at Ellis Island,
sent to Tokio on the assumption that he
was a Japanese-Hawaiian, imprisoned
there for three months, then deported as
a Briton to Shanghai, shooed off to Nan-
king as a possible Chinese, dispatched
to Moscow and gaoled there for a while,
and then posted to Paris because he
talked English like a Frenchman. Get-
ting sick of officialdom, he tried to lose
himself, but was arrested, and after the
usual term of imprisonment was deported
to Germany. The Nazis allowed him to
do housework for a year, and then passed
him on to Naples, whence he was chiv-
vied through Czechoslovakia, Switzerland
and Spain, where he fell under suspicion
as a spy. He escaped to U.S.A., was run
in for working without a permit, and
deported to the U.K. Seems fantastic,
but anyone who has had to travel with-
out credentials in this mad post-war
world will know it is not only possible,
but probable.
* * * *
The silver medal awarded by the Wor-
shipful Company of Woolmen for the
best thesis in any field of inquiry relating
to wool, woolgrowing or processing of
wool was won this year by an Australian —
23-year-old R. B. E. Henville, of Epping
(N.S.W.). Young Henville was educated
at Newington College, Stanmore, and
worked for a while with the Globe
Worsted Mills of Sydney. In 1935 he
entered Leeds University to further his
knowledge of textiles. His thesis had to
do with cloth shrinkage.


The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
1937
Hand. Forged
by craftsmen
with a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALL BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes., Jin., Sin., “in., Black Handle .... 12/6
M „ „ „ Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.H.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and, the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Information Sought.
What was the rig of H.M.S. Sirius, the
2C2A ISIl ‘ P t 0 First Fleet to Australia ?
Her rig was the usual rig for vessels of her
class, three square sails on the fore- and three
on the mainmast; on the mizzenmast only
one square sail, a topsail. She did not carry
royals, the long pole at the head of each mast
being merely a flagstaff, not strong enough to
carry a sail. No royal sails or yards were
supplied.
* * * *
Titles of books dealing with the history of
and early life in South Australia? —2o3l.
J. W. Bull’s Early Experiences in South Aus-
tralia (1878), E. Hodder’s History of South
Australia (1893) and Founding of South Aus-
tralia (1898), G. W. Rusden’s History of
Australia (1897), J. E. Heere’s The Part Borne
by the Dutch in the Discovery of Australia
(1899), J. Blacket’s History of South Australia
(1911) and A. G. Price’s Foundation and Settle-
ment of South Australia (1924).
* * :lc *
When was the frigate-built ship Vernon
launched? To what line did she belong, and
what was her fate ? —2028.
The Vernon (1200 tons) was a Green’s
Blackwall line ship and was launched in 1839,
with paddlewheels, which were removed before
proceeding to sea. She was an East Indiaman
until she was placed on Australian trade from
1863 to 1870, when she was sold to the British
Government for a reformatory ship. As such
she lay in Port Jackson until destroyed by fire
as she was being dismantled alongside the ship
Golden South in Kerosene Bay on May 29,
1893.
❖ * * *
When the Australian forces landed in
German New Guinea at the outbreak of the
Great War, an Australian officer ordered a
captured German sergeant-major, under a threat
that otherwise he would be shot, to walk up
the middle of a road and call out to his com-
rades to surrender. Was not this action a
breach of the rules of war? —2036.
In the employment of a prisoner in this
manner, under a threat, a breach of the rules
of war appears to- have been unwittingly com-
mitted. This was more liable •to happen,
through ignorance, in the early days of the
war than later, when the Australian military
authorities had supplied all officers with pam-
phlets defining the rules with regard to prisoners,
etc., and when lectures had been given and
orders issued on these subjects. The considera-
tion that loss of life to both sides was thus
almost certainly avoided does not alter the legal
position.
* * * ❖
From what early monarchs does the House of
Windsor descend? —2030.
The House of Windsor is in direct descent
(inter alios ) from Egbert, King of Wessex,
Alfred the Great and William'the Conqueror;
also from the Emperor Charlemagne (742-814),
Rodrigo the Cid (1030-1099), the Emperor Bar-
barossa (1123-1190), and St. Louis, King of
France (1215-1270).
* * * *
What is (1) a geographical mile and (2) a
nautical mile ? —2040.
(1) A geographical mile is the length of one
minute of latitude. If the earth were a per-
fect sphere, every minute of latitude would be
of the same length; but as it is a spheroid the
length of a minute increases from 6046 feet at
the Equator to 6108 feet at the Poles. The
mean length of the geographical mile is
6076.8 feet. (2) The nautical mile is (strictly
speaking) the length of a minute of the meri-
dian, and is thus identical with the geographi-
cal mile. In practice, however, it is taken as
the Admiralty knot of 6080 feet.
* * * *
• What was collected by the N.S.W. State Gov-
ernment for the year ending June 30, 1938, by
way of taxation, stamp duties, probates, regis-
tration fees, licenses, etc. ? —2047.
Land tax £2237, income tax £6,367,046, wages
tax £3,389,603, special income tax £3,559,680,
family endowment tax £13,671; stamp and
probate duties —stamps £1,368,919, betting
tickets £52,474, probate £2,233,144; motor tax
£1,925,772, motor registrations, licenses, etc.,
£561,132, motor fees (Transport Act, 1930)
£23,198, motor fees (Transport Co-ordination,
1931) £26,271, motor charges £50,438, betting
taxes £202,208, totalisator tax £97,082, race-
course admission tax £48,933, entertainments
tax £120,882, dog licenses £25,780, other
licenses £436,112. Total State taxation
£20,504,582; per head of population £7 11s. sd.
* * * *
(1) What kind of willow is used for cricket
bats? I propose to grow willows on swampy
ground. (2) How long do they take to grow
to maturity ? (3) Where are slips obtain-
able? (4) Any further information? —1890.
(1) Salix ccerulea. Swampy ground is not
conducive to the production of good-quality
timber. (2) No definite information available;
probably about 20 years. (3) Any firm of
nurserymen should be able to arrange supplies.
(4) A publication (Bulletin No. 17) issued by
the British Forestry Commission, London,
gives full details. This could be obtained on
application to the publishers.
Is there a law regulating the admission into
the Commonwealth of workers brought under
contract ? —2004.
Yes, in the case of manual labQrers the Con-
tract Immigrants Act 1905, which requires that
before the contract immigrant lands in Aus-
tralia the Minister shall approve the terms of
the contract, which otherwise would be null
and void.
* * *
What procedure would be necessary to bring
out an immigrant from England? 1 can find
him a job. What money is necessary for him
to have to land? —2010.
Nominations for assisted passages from per-
sons in Vic. in favor of British residents in the
United Kingdom should be addressed to the
Secretary, Department of Public Works, State
Public Offices, Treasury-place, Melbourne. No
landing money is required.
* * * *
The word “amateur” is invariably pronounced
by wireless announcers as “ammeter.” People
of my generation were taught at school that the
word was pronounced as the spelling indicated,
and my reading of “Fowler’s English Usage”
bears that out also. Is Fowler still a recognised
authority on English ? —2037.
The people who refer to dilettantes as if
they were instruments for measuring electrical
current have warrant from the highest and latest
authorities. To cite only one, Webster’s Inter-
national Dictionary, 1937 edition, gives the
pronunciation as either amatur, with the u
as in “urn” or “furl,” or amatur, with the
u as in “unite” or “musician.” This office’s
oldest Webster, however, the 1874 edition, is
emphatic about the u being given its full value,
as in “rude,” “rumor,” “rural,” with no alterna-
tive. Fowler is a widely-recognised authority,
and his dictums in matters of taste (where there
is a choice, as modernly in this case) are
usually sound. “Ammeter” is evidently an
American clipped pronunciation, used so per-
sistently as to give it valid currency in the
ears of modern lexicographer^.
* * * *
(1) Can 1 claim compensation from a N.S.W.
shire council for the value of land used for a
new road? (2) Is there any fixed rate of com-
pensation or does it depend on value of land?
(3) Can I compel the shire to erect fencing?
(4) Can I claim for depreciation of the value
of land owing to division of a paddock the
cut-off portion of which will be fenced off
from water? —2026.
(1) Under the N.S.W. Public Roads Act,
1902, compensation is payable in money or in
land or partly in land and partly in money.
Compensation in land is only made where un-
necessary road or other Crown land is avail-
able for the purpose. Compensation in money
.is offered to a landowner as soon as resumption
has been carried into effect. (2) There is no
fixed rate of compensation, the amount being
- one for agreement between the landowner and
the Minister for Lands, or, failing such
agreement, then as determined by the Land
Board. (3) A claim for a grant of money
towards the cost of fencing can be made where
any fenced enclosure of land is broken by the
road. (4) Yes, unless the land is of such a
tenure that a road reservation is implied.
* * * *
If a man weighing 10v. on the earth were
weighed on the planet Mars with the same
scales, would he still weigh 10.57. ? —2014.
This will depend upon the type of scales
used. With scales employing weights
still weigh 10st., but with a spring scale he
would weigh less than 4st. The reason is that
in the first case the weights would also be
affected by the reduction of gravity to the same
extent as the man, whereas in the second there
would be a greatly reduced pull upon the
springs of the scale.
* * * *
How to distinguish a tiger-snake from other
species such as black, brown, etc.? —lBs6.
As there are 150 sorts of snakes in Australia,
the question, with the addition of the “etc.,”
would take too much space to answer here,
but it is assumed that the differences between
the tiger, brown, copperhead and black snakes
and the death adder will suffice. Black snakes
(even brown-colored relatives) have the scales
under the tail, at first single—as on the belly—
for a few inches, then in pairs to the tip of
the tail. True brown snakes have all the scales
under the tail in pairs. Some young brown
snakes are banded, and can be distinguished
from tiger-snakes by this character and the fact
that the scales under the forepart of the body
are spotted or blotched. Tiger-snakes are
always banded; the undersurface is unspotted,
and the undertail scales are single. The
copperhead is not banded; the undertail scales
are single, body scales somewhat rounded, and
the lips marked black and white. The death
adder is short and thick, with narrow neck and
distinctly broad head, with rough keeled scales,
and thorn on end of tail. This thorn is harm-
less.
* * * *
Is the kingfisher protected in N.S.W. ? What
does it feed upon ? —1798.
The kingfisher is a protected bird under the
N.S.W. Birds and Animals’ Protection Act,
1918. It feeds mainly upon beetles, crickets
and suchlike insects, with an occasional small
lizard. The kingfishers of the mangrove swamps
feed mainly upon fish and Crustacea.
Best pruning-time for hibiscus, and how
should they be cut ? —2051.
When the shrubs are dormant in August is
the most suitable time. Cut the limbs back to
within four “eyes” of the old wood in light
soils and leave six eyes on shrubs in heavy
soil. A topdressing of rotted manure when the
bracts show will be a decided help to the
shrubs.
* * * *
How to grow warn tabs? —2022.
Waratah seeds must be sown while fresh,
preferably in March and April. Make a com-
post of leaf mould, charcoal and sand and pack
it into a box at least 6in. deep, making holes
for drainage. Sow seeds 6in. apart, and cover
them with of sand. Keep the boxes moist
until the young plants appear, then restrict the
watering to once a week. Waratah seedlings
damp off quickly if given too much moisture.
The plants will be ready for the open garden in
about two years. Slaters are a destructive
pest to the waratah seedlings, and a mixture of
blood and bone fertiliser (10 parts) and Paris
green (one part) is an effective bait.
* * * *
Method of cultivation of rock-lilies? —2021.
Cover broad slabs of freestone (not concrete)
with spagnum moss or rotted bush-leaves and
sand, spread out the roots of the rock-lilies
and embed them in the filling. Bind the rock-
lilies with covered wire to keep them from
slipping, and keep them damp. Rock-lilies caff
also be grown in hanging-baskets filled with
spagnum moss and a little soil or bush-leaves.
An .easterly position free from strong winds is
most suitable.
■r * * *
Translation of the following phrase ascribed
to Voltaire: “La recherche du vrai et la pratique
du bien sont les deux objets les plus importants
de la philosophic” ? —2024.
The phrase reads: “The research for what is
true and the practice of what is good are the
two most important objects of philosophy.”
* * * *
Where can I obtain a copy of "Australian
Nursery Rhymes” published in 1917, which com-
prised a selection of rhymes submitted to a
Bulletin Red Page competition ? — 1977.
The book has been out of print for many
years, but if you forward a stamped and
addressed envelope to the Service Department
a printed sheet containing all the verses in
the book will be sent to you.
* * * *
Way of preventing mildew or fungus from
attacking clothing in a N. Q’land coastal dis-
trict ? —1952.
Sunshine and complete dryness are the only
ways of preventing mildew in clothing. See
that used articles are quite dry before being
put in wardrobes, and that things not often
in use are taken out and aired as often as
possible. Constant vigilance is necessary ; and
in your climate it is not possible to avoid
some small loss owing to damp and heat.
When the weather is too wet to dry clothing
properly a hot iron run over the garments is
helpful.
* * .* *
(1) Method of dry-cleaning men’s suits? (2)
Felt hats? (3) Sweatbands of hats? (4) Chemi-
cals generally used? (5) Any books on the
subject; if so, where procurable? —l92s.
(1), (2), (3) and (4) For amateur work at
home petrol is the most commonly-used
cleaner. Clothing, hats, etc., may be dipped in
a petrol bath and hung out to dry; small hard
things such, as leather bands may be sponged.
Petrol ignites easily by friction in hot weather
and is particularly dangerous with real silk
materials. More elaborate dry-cleaning methods
are much too complicated to describe here. (5)
See The Practical Dry Cleaner, Scourer and
Garment Dyer, by Wm. T. Brannt, from the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., Sydney; 275. 6d.,
postage Is. 6d.
* * * *
(1) Method of polishing small articles turned
from mulga wood? (2) Method of polishing
and shaping tortoiseshell? (3) Method of
polishing pearlshell after grinding smooth ? (4)
Any books available on wood-turning and lathe
work, or on the fashioning of articles from
tortoise- and pearlshell? —lB47.
(1) They can be hand-rubbed with a mixture
made by dissolving 6oz. orange shellac in one
pint methylated spirit. After each rubbing the
work is rubbed down with fine glasspaper, and
polished again, but this is very laborious.
Most workers paint on the shellac and spirit
mixture, using Boz. shellac to the pint of spirit.
Several coatings give a good gloss. (2) Shaped
by the application of heat, usually in hot water,
or by gentle baking until the shell is soft
enough to handle. Polishing is done by hand-
rubbing with olive or similar sweet oil and a
cloth; commercial work is done by cotton
buffers. (3) Power-driven buffers are applied to
the shell, which is kept wet, whiting or similar
fine abradent being used. (4) Have made ex-
tensive inquiries, and can drop on nothing
with reference to tortoiseshell or pearl, but
there is a vast literature on wood-tufning and
allied work. Write to the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Ltd., Sydney, for list.
* * * *
(1) Pay for cooks in Permanent Military
Forces at Darwin ? (2) Must cooks be medi-
cally fit? (3) Are married men invited to join
up as well as single, and is their pay the same ?
(4) Period of enlistment ? (5) Pay of private ?
—lBl9.
(1) Gunner cook £197 p.a., bombardier cook
£2lO p.a., sergeant cook £236 p.a. (2) Yes, on
enlistment. (3) Enlistments are restricted to un-
married men between 18 and 30 years of age,
with the exception of cooks, who may be en-
listed from 18 to 40 years of age, whether
married or single. The pay of married men is
the same as that for single men. Child en-
dowment of £l3 per annum is payable for
each child up to 14 years of age. (4) Five
years, after which re-engagements are for three-
yearly periods. (5) £l9O p.a. In addition to
pay, an allowance of £BO p.a. is paid to single
men and £lOO p.a. to married men whilst serv-
ing at Darwin. All pay is subject to variations
in accordance with cost of living determina-
tions.
Brief Answers.
T.W.: (1) Bradford Cotton Mills, 77 York-
street, Sydney; Pacific Cotton Tweed Mills,
159 Parramatta-road, Homebush (N.S.W-)- (2)
C. Fulham, 6 Glebe-street, Glebe (N.S.W.);
Malleys, Ltd., 50 Mountain-street, Sydney
E.D.: Write J. K. Moir, Box 1663, G.P.0.,
Melbourne... .K.M.: Simoleon is American
slang for a dollar... .R.M.: Write Secretary,
Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne.
D.L-: Employees engaged as domestics in
public hospitals in the country (N.S.W.) with
no nursing duties are not covered by the terms
of any State industrial award C.D.N.:
■Webster’s pronounces says as “sez” J.P.0.:
Try Chambers of Commerce in Sydney and
Melbourne... .K.L.: See The Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook (35.)... .K.E.M.: (1)
and (2) Ye5....V.M.: Correctly, all countries
not paying allegiance to King George VI. are
classed as “foreign countries.” Most reference
books pay the U.S.A. the courtesy of not in-
cluding it among the “foreign countries”
R.C.: Write Chief Secretary’s Department,
Sydney, for pamphlet ‘‘The Smoking and Salt-
ing of N.S.W. Fish”... .W.R.R.: Cannot un-
dertake a patents search. Consult a
patent attorney. Cost of patenting, in-
cluding patent attorney’s fees, is from £25
to £3O. Provisional protection for nine months
is obtainable for £5 5s F.F.: Stockholm
or any other wood tar has no virtue not pos-
sessed by coal tar in the treatment of the
skin complaint you name. It may be used in
ointment form (strength, 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. in
vaseline or other suitable base), and there are also
numerous tar soaps on the market G.D.:
Condition most probably due to chronic inflam-
matory changes in the nose, nasal sinuses and
throat, leading to a persistent catarrh. Be-
fore adopting any treatment, the site of the
trouble must be determined. Catarrh is only
a sign that something is wrong, not a disease
of itself... . M.C.: Write Secretary, Air Board,
Defence Department, Melbourne... .W.1.L.:
From F. T. Wimble and Co., 35 Clarence-
street, Sydney... .M.J.T.: Lloyd’s Register of
1888-89 contains the name of the ship Glad-
stone (ex Francisco Calderon), which was built
at Dumbarton in 1873 by A. McMillan and
Sons, net tonnage 1048, gross tonnage 1209,
length 237 ft., beam 34ft., owner F. H. Dangar,
of Sydney. The Gladstone was a full-rigged
ship, and not rigged as stated by you. If the
vessel was rigged as suggested she would be
termed a three-masted barque... .F. 8.: The
young man appears to be suited for either news-
paper or advertising work. Canvass newspaper
offices and advertising agencies... .F.8.M.W.:
Write J. Castle-Harris, 42 Newcastle-street, Rose
Bay (N.5.W.)... .C. 0.5.: Section 288 of the Vic.
Licensing Act, 1928, provides that the number
of such licenses in a district shall not exceed
the number in force on January 1, 1917, so
that there is no power to grant a new license
except in a case where one has been surrendered
or lapsed since that date... .R. 0.8.: Get in
touch with the Secretary, Queensland Surveyors’
Board, Survey Office, Brisbane... .J.T.: (1)
Cresswell and Co., Elizabeth-street, Hobart;
■ Walker and Son, Brisbane-street, Launceston
(Tas.). (2) Make inquiries in Brisbane... .W.S.:
Write Consul-General for U.S.A., Bank of
N. S. Wales Building, 7 Wynyard-street, Syd-
ney A.G.: An old Act (James I.), still
operative, provided that an action for words
spoken (slander) must be taken within two
years after the utterance of the words. If
a libel (written words) the action will have to
be commenced within six years after the com-
mission of the alleged offence, and in the case
of a criminal prosecution within six months.
. ...J.F.C.: See the “Australasian Leather
Trades Review” for July 14, 1928... .C.M.:
Know of no club, golf or otherwise, which
exercises such a prohibition L.J.G.: Write
Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Syd-
ney V.S.: (1) Stanford and Pilley, Ltd.,
Maddox-street, Alexandria (N.S.W.). (2) Prices
fluctuate from day to day... .W.L.P.: She
sued the Bishop of Wagga in 1921 for
•wrongful arrest and detention in the
Reception House. The verdict was for
the Bishop. The Judge was Judge
Ferguson... .A.A.: According to Chambers’s
Book of Days (Volt 1, page 129), at Basle, in
1474, a cock was tried for having laid an egg.
The prosecution proved that cocks’ eggs were
of inestimable value if mixed in certain prepa-
rations. The cock and the egg were condemned
to death and burned at the stake. Account
is taken from a report of the affair by Ham-
merlein... .H.J.M.: Red ink or ink weed
(Phytolacca octandra) and Paddy’s lucerne (Sida
rhombifolia) are noxious plants under Section
472 of the N.S.W. Local Government Act, and
must be eradicated. Failure to do so incurs
a penalty not exceeding £2O Alan R.: A
batsman would be out if caught off a ball
which first struck an umpire. In cricket law
an umpire is not an obstruction in the field
nor a boundary Rosarian: Malar Ros is
a deep crimson rose, with large pointed and
well-shaped buds. It is strongly perfumed,
and the growth upright and vigorous. Quite
suitable for deep, loamy soil in coastal area....
A.M.: Write Technological Museum, Harris-
street, Sydney... .H.J.M.N.: Afraid your only
course is to place the matter in the hands of
a solicitor... .A.H.8.: (1) No registration neces-
sary except for transmission through post.
Apply P.M.G.’s Department, Perth, for par-
ticulars. (2) Permission should be sought and
source of material acknowledged. (3) Through
a wholesale agent, such as Gordon and Gotch.
(4) From 25 p.c. to 33 1-3 p.c. retailer, from
12| p.c. to 16 2-3 p.c. wholesaler W.C.: (1)
Try N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Market and Castle-
reagh streets, Sydney. (2) Government tourist
agencies in each of the State capitals might
oblige. Also, Sun Features Bureau, 60 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney, and Australian National
Travel Association, Melbourne. (3) You would
need to make direct approach. Opportunities are
fair for good material. (4) No E.K.: (1)
Typewritten matter preferred, but will read
legible handwriting. (2) Yes W.J.R.: (1)
Rates vary from 2|d. to per line, accord-
ing to section of paper, size of type and width
of column. (2) Payment for paragraphs is
made upon publication and must be claimed
for by forwarding statement to accountant
showing column, page and date of issue.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
According to Census Bulletin No. 25, Talleban (N.S.W.) possesses 16 occupied
dwellings. In one of them lives a lady who wins this week’s first prize of £3 3s. (plus
space rates, per line) for an uncommonly interesting account of a day in the
life of a country mother. It explains with simple realism why women who have
children don’t want more.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Children—and Mothers
Many theories have been advanced to
account for the low birthrate, but women
do not want more than two or three
children, and will do all in their power to
prevent the birth of more.
Take a day in the life of ,a country
woman who hasn’t gas or e.l. but who
has a baby and two other small children
aged 18 months and three years:
5.30 a.m. —Rise and prepare baby’s bottle.
6- —Feed baby, change napkin, and
put back to bed comfortably.
6.45- —Dress toddlers and wash them,
clean up mess made whilst one was busy
with baby.
7- —Prepare breakfast, sweep kitchen,
set table, referee fights between John and
Sue.
8- —Breakfast for children, husband
• and self. Jump up from table about
every two minutes to attend to children,
wipe up spilt milk and food on floor,
eating between times.
8.30- —Replenish fire, clear away,
wash-up, prepare baby’s milk, gather up
children’s soiled clothes and take to
laundry. Sweep floor, prepare baby’s
bath, baby yelling meanwhile, children
howling and fighting or getting into mis-
chief.
9.30- —Bath baby, feed him, pre-
pare bed again and put him down for
morning sleep—if noise will permit him to
sleep.
10.30- —Bath toddlers and put to bed.
11-1 p.m.—Rush like mad trying to do
housework and cook dinner.
1- —Dress toddlers, dinner for husband,
self and children, wiping up milk and food
and jumping up every few minutes.
2- —Feed baby, change him, pre-
pare bed and put down again.
2.45- —Wash-up dishes —by now will
be caked hard with food; fire perhaps out.
3.30- —Wash baby’s and children’s
clothes, rushing to get them done.
4-4.ls.—Afternoon-tea for husband and
self.
4.15-4.3o.—Orange-juice for baby; sweep
kitchen again.
5.30- —Bath baby, feed, undress and
put to bed.
6.30- —Bath toddlers, undress, give
tea and put to bed.
7.30- —Tea for husband and self;
various interruptions by howling children.
8-8.30. —Washing up.,
10-10.30 —Feed baby and change; make
up bed again.
10.30- Read.
This is an ordinary day. There are
washing-day, ironing-day, house-cleaning
day and cake-baking day to be fitted in
somehow between 4.30-5.30 a.m. and
8.30-10.30 p.m., and it is a seven-day-a-
week job, well or ill, wet or fine, hot
or cold, with never a holiday or a break
away from the three yelling children. All
through the day there will be at least
one child crying.
Is it any wonder women’s nerves go,
and that after the third they vow that
there will be no more? Eurydice
(N.S.W.).
“Eurydice” is Mrs. T. A. Hall, Talle-
ban, N.S.W. She wins the £3 35., plus
2|d. per line.
Military Training
An ex-sergeant-major, I say the best
method of training recruits is to
make them like that training. Despite
the fulminations of the late R. Kip-
ling and others, there is quite a
lot to the wheeze that “the battles
of England were won on the play-
ing fields of Eton.” Some men are fight-
ing-soldiers by instinct; others can be
converted into efficient fighting units if
sympathetically handled. To rope in a
recruit and then proceed to cram him
with routine drill and instruction is about
the speediest way to discourage that re-
cruit. His opinion of the business is
quickly passed on to his unenlisted
cobbers. A comprehensive sports pro-
gramme should be included in the train-
ing. Apart from the improvement in
physique, it would assist in the cultivat-
ing of esprit de corps . —Nowra Bill
(N.S.W.).
Make It Attractive
The active recruiting campaign
launched by the Government may fill
the bill as far as getting recruits goes,
but the trouble will be to hold them.
The fault lies in the fact that the whole
business is not made attractive enough
for the average youngster. What youth
with any ambition is content to waste
a night a week doing drill which after
three months becomes mechanical?
Moreover, equipment in specialised
units is antiquated, many recruits in
the Signal Corps using wireless re-
ceivers and the like that are inferior
to the ones they have at home. In
"I remember when We'd get three , sometimes four, in the one day's shoot."
view of this, wouldn’t it be preferable
to spend the cash on equipment and then
enlist the men to use it, thus enabling
them to gain experience which would
stand them in some stead in modern
mechanised warfare? —F. A. Burke
(N.S.W.).
Democracy and the Pinks
A namesake of mine, T. Palmer, has
something to say about Bulletin policy
in B. 28/12/’3B. He objects to what he
terms an “undue hardening towards the
extreme Right,” guarded criticism of
totalitarianism and undue criticism of
Pinks.
Defending The Bulletin’s policy is
no concern of mine ; no doubt it can do
that well enough for itself. What does
concern me is that his ideas might be
taken for mine—my name has appeared
in the O.F.M. pages a couple of times.
His implication that democracy itself
must be pale pink does not bear exami-
nation. Mr. Chamberlain is a champion
of democracy if ever there was one, but
could hardly be described as a Pink of
any shade. Indeed, it is the pink element
in democracy which threatens its exist-
ence more than any outside force.
Democracy may have grown in the
past with little guidance or leadership, but
ii is equally certain it cannot exist with-
out them in the future. Life under its
aegis has become so complicated and in-
volved that the essentials are too often
mistaken for the non-essentials —a lot of
dead wood must be cut out to restore the
tree to health. This requires courage and
leadership, a task beyond the rail-sitting
politicians who wait until they are
prodded from behind by a manufactured
crisis in the stunt press. Yet when any
evidence of real leadership is seen, the
Pinks and their press friends howl like
dingoes.
Without being unfaithful to the prin-
ciples of democracy, some aspects of life
in modern Germany might repay the
closest examination ; for instance, Hitler’s
crude but successful simplification, and
the return there to many of the essen-
tials.
Even if my namesake does not agree
with the politics of The Bulletin —and
who does, all the time, or with any
paper?—he should be thankful that it is
possible to get the other point of view.
Let him keep the grudge for those who
deal in distortion and lies.— T. E. Palmer
(N.S.W.).
Motoring Safety
As a precautionary measure to reduce
the great number of road accidents in
Australia it would be a good plan if each
time a motorist applied for a renewal of
license, the holder were put to an ability
test.
This examination might include driv-
ing skill, knowledge of traffic regulations,
sight and hearing tests.
An annual overhaul of every motor
vehicle ori the road would also help to
make motoring safe. — Paton (Vic.).
What Shall We Read?
“Bookworm” (B. 21 /12/’3B) asks,
“What shall we read?” Reading, of
course, is governed by capacity and in-
clination. Unfortunately, compulsion is
necessary in educational reading. Few
of us have such wide interests that we
do not have to force ourselves to read
certain works to lay a foundation of
culture. Almost any book, however, can
be read with advantage if we approach
reading in the proper frame of mind.
Following is a choice of eight books
named by Leo Chiozza Money, who adds
his “reasons for thinking why each would
help a young Englishman”:
(1) Shakspeare: To enjoy and worthily
to employ his own beautiful language
in fine thought and expression.
(2) Darwin’s Descent of Man: To
understand his relation to the organic
world.
(3) Robert Ball’s Story of the
Heavens: To comprehend what is known
of the cosmos.
(4) Carlyle’s Past and Present: To
ponder the meaning of progress.
(5) Ruskin’s Unto This Last and (6)
Munera Pulveris: To know that a true
economy cannot be unmoral.
(7) Wells’s Outline of History: To view
broadly the march of humanity towards
an unknown but hopeful horizon.
(8) Riches and Poverty: To realise the
struggle with poverty.
To these I myself would add both the
essays of Emerson and Bacon. Emerson’s
Essays are in themselves a complete
course of educational reading. His essay
on books discusses fully the present
question.
Perhaps “Bookworm” himself has read
many of these works. If so, however,
he should not find himself mentally
starved. The reader, having read or
attempted to read them with interest, will
have tested both his capacity and in-
clination, and he should then find little
difficulty in selecting for cultural pur-
poses.—R. Pearce (N.S.W.).
Thinking English
Can’t we ever give up thinking of
things in the terms of the colder coun-
tries? I have just received a pleasant
Christmas card reminding one of the
obvious fact that our lives are made up
of shadow and sunshine ; with a firm
recommendation to dwell on the feature
(cheering to England, of course) “How
great the sun! How small the shade!”
And I received that hint on a day when
the thermometer, in the little shade there
was, stood at 103, and the sun one was
told to long for was literally intolerable.
—S. Talbot Smith (S.A.).
Too Many Thrills
It seems to me that in all this chatter
about “road safety,” “speed limits” and
“drunken driving,” the main point has
been overlooked. I’m a young chap, and
I’ll admit that at times I’m a reckless
driver myself. Why? Because in these
times everyone is thirsting for thrills of
some sort. Witness the large crowds flock-
ing to the big dipper at Luna Park and
to stunt-flying exhibitions, both on the
screen and off it.
The old common or garden thrills ex-
perienced by our fathers have been worn
out, and in these times of “super”-thrills
none except doddering old men and
women are content to proceed in a
normal dull way. The young ’uns have
had too many thrills, and now must have
them all the time and, if possible, with
an element of danger. Thirty miles an
hour for miles and miles is too dull, and
thus we get risks such as cutting-in,
speeding and flash driving—something to
add spice to thirsty systems. Isn’t it a
fact that, drunks and bad drivers ex-
cepted, most accidents are caused by
young chaps who are good drivers, but
who are looking for something to give
them a kick out of life? Can’t some-
thing be done to stop this desire for too
many thrills? It would lessen our road
toll. — John B. Fuller (N.S.W.).
Why Not Some Americans?
Australia is losing British people by
excess of departures over arrivals. The
United States has around 10,000,000 un-
employed. European migration has ever
flowed westward. Why not assist the
migration tide to resume its westward
flow? — Leslie F. Gill (Solomon
Islands).
Positive or Negative Statesmanship?
We are told by psychology experts
that children should be trained by posi-
tive rather than negative methods. “Do
this” and “do that” are ? preferable to
“you mustn’t” and “don’t.”
This principle might well be adopted
in legislation. For instance, our con-
scientious Mr. Stevens says, “You must
not waste your money on slow horses.”


He would achieve better results by intro-
ducing organised sport on Saturday after-
noons. Young people in destitute cir-
cumstances living in the poorer suburbs
have nothing to occupy themselves. They
cannot afford the regular expense of
tennis subs., gymnasium fees or fares to
one of the few parks for cricket or foot-
ball. If they happen to have sixpence
there’s always the chance of turning it
into a pound by betting - .
Organised and free sport, more parks
and playgrounds, free libraries and craft
centres would act as a deterrent from
drunkenness, betting and worse social
vices.—C. Leonard (N.S.W.).
The “All Female” Policy
“Cubberlie” (B. 21/12/’3B) attacks The
Bulletin’s leader “This All-Female
Policy” ; I’m all with The B. Matured
women may wear the items “C.” men-
tions, but the modern girls I know shun
woollens, as they are too bulky and spoil
the look of their figgah—and they shun
a darned good feed for the same reason.
They wear a lot of milanese and silken
finery and take to imported fashion fads
like ducks to water. And as for bathing
. costumes, don’t young men pay high
prices for theirs, too? They also buy
woollen overcoats, scarves, socks and
underwear. If any of these bright young
things do tapestry and rug work I have
never seen it, and, although the young
man wears his suit much longer than
the girl wears her frock, he pays con-
siderably more for it in the first place.
I am delighted to see The Bulletin
shattering the silly glamor created by
magazines and dailies around the modern
woiking goil, who has been steadily pur-
loining men’s jobs since the war, refusing
to believe her real place is, and always
will be, in the home. Delighted, also,
to see it striking a blow in the cause of
the legions of unfortunate youths who
left school during the depression and
have never had a real chance since.
Some have turned to Communism, a
few embarked on a criminal career,
whilst others have been bumped from
pillar to post and taken all sorts of un-
congenial jobs varying from s.p. bookie
to pantryboy and suchlike, and haven’t
been above humping the bluey. I should
know—l’m one of ’em! — Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Beating Brain-fag
Yes, I think that O.F.M. contributor
(B. 30/11/’3B) is right about manual
work as a relief from brain fag. He is in
good company anyway. Gladstone used
to chop wood between translation of the
classics and interference in the affairs of
Europe, while G.B.S. writes: “My own
sedentary occupation makes me long to
be a half-time navvy. I find myself beg-
ging my gardener, who is a glutton for
work, to leave me a few rough jobs to
do when I have written myself to a stand-
still.”—V. D. (Tas.).
“Thundering at Our Gates”
On the day that Billy Hughes spent in
Brisbane informing the youth there that
“War is thundering at our gates,” and
telling them that it was their duty to
enlist in the militia, I witnessed a fair-
dinkum war almost within earshot of
Billy’s thunder.
It was up one of those cow- and
banana-growing valleys just south of
Brisbane. On the hillside was a recently-
abandoned banana patch. Continued low
prices had caused the planter to walk out.
I was talking to him when along came a
dairyman, and a dialogue ensued :
Dairyman: “Hello, Alf. See you’ve
dug your bananas out. Expect you’ll go
on relief now?”
Banana-grower: “I won’t be a parasite
on my wife and kids, anyway.”
D.: “What d’ye mean?”
B.: “I mean that cowyard of yours ;
your wife and kids slaving for you, pull-
ing teats instead of having a decent
schooling. Strong in the wrists and weak
in their heads —that’s what the poor little
coots will be when they grow up, like
most of the other cow-cockies’ kids about
here.”
The cow-cocky dismounted from his
horse. Conversation became hotter and
louder. Fists flew.
It is a pity, I reflected, that somebody
could not drag Billy Hughes away from
his big drum for just a shake and show
him conditions for which he and his
fellow-politicans are largely responsible,
conditions which he and Lyons and Fog-
horn Smith and the rest of them are
calling upon young Australians to take
up arms to protect. — Lad (Q.).
Education in the Holidays
As I write a horde of young males has
been let loose all over Australia for five
or six weeks’ holidays from school, their
ages ranging from 12 to 16 in State
schools and up to 20 in private schools.
The great majority of them will spend the
time knocking about their home areas,
bathing, cricketing, fishing, skylarking.
For once a big crowd of them has con-
gregated in Sydney at the Boy Sprouts’
shivoo. Others will go with their elders
to the seaside, on tour, etc.; country lads
able to do so will visit the cities, some
city lads will visit the country. A very
small proportion will go to stay on farms
and stations.
These boys are at an age most im-
pressionable. In a year or two they will
be looking for jobs, blindly groping for
careers, or settling down in the slough
of disappointment and futility.
I would like to see a movement started
that would provide what I consider would
be an important first step in national
education—that would provide that
Willie Suburbs went on to a farm or a
station, while Ray Rural went into a
factory, shop, office, etc. The lads not
to work, but to spend their holiday study-
ing the new, strange environment about
them, at the same time enjoying their
leisure. If sufficient men on the land,
factory owners, business nabobs, news-
paper executives, sea captains, transport
bosses and so on could be found pre-
pared to take one such lad as his guest,
give him a good time and at the same
time show him what went on in his par-
ticular sphere I feel sure it would result
in a large percentage of the boys return-
ing to school with new conceptions of
their country, new and clear-cut ideas of
their future, and an enlargement of their
present limited youthful vision.—Old-
timer (N.S.W.).
Reporting “Incidents”
History is always repeating itself.
When the Commonwealth Minister “spat
out” the Opposition-leader at a press
interview, the latter stormed “Whaffor?”
The Cabinet, from top to bottom, collec-
tively and singly, styled him the only
pebble on the beach —the ptean of
brotherly love being headed by the
“spitter.”
Let’s go back a bit. When the southern
colony didn’t love its mother, Lord
Brassey explained to a Melbourne
“Herald” mate o’ mine that, though Gov-
ernor of Vic., he had stabled his yacht
Sunbeam in a Sydney (ye gods!) dock
for grooming, because of cheapness —his
salary was small, and half went to the
Acting-Governor during absences, etc.
Fireworks at once spluttered. Chief
Justice Madden got busy on the ’phone,
and the Government House instrument
fairly smoked. The aide-de-camp rang
up the “Herald” to express his Ex.’s dis-
gust, and to demand withdrawal, apolo-
gies and other things. Veteran Winter
stood the tirade for a while ; then he
spoke: “The news was offered with no
stipulations. Governor Hopetoun gave
none of this trouble. Let your master find
out why, and follow his example. You
are impertinent. I ring you off!”
The diplomatic and genial Hopetoun’s
plan, so my friend explained, was to trust
pressmen as decent fellows, see they were
comfortably seated, remember they had
“mouths,” and before yarning generally
—“Shut up your notebooks.” Before
leaving his job, he said, “Never during
my career have I been let down by a
pressman.” —T. P. (Vic.).
Learn Something About Japan
Every phase of education has lately
been coming under a hot fusillade of
criticism in all States of the Common-
wealth —deservedly or not. The burden
of the songs has been that there is too
wide a gap between the technique and
ideals of the schoolroom and the stern
facts of everyday life ; and that young
Australia is bewildered, not educated, be-
tween these two opposites. But there is
one aspect of this national “fault” that I
have not seen mentioned, and it ought
to be shouted through a loudspeaker.
Why are none of our bright young uni-
versity students being sent to Japan to
study and digest what is taking place in
those fecund and crowded islands?
Relays of our brightest youths continue
to be sent to Europe.
We know all that we need to know
about life and culture in Europe. We know
nothing at first hand of the greatest mili-
tary and commercial nation in the Pacific,
which is our next-door neighbor. An in-
side knowledge of the Japanese mentality
—a knowledge that can be obtained only
by a thorough acquaintance with its lan-
guage —is the most urgent necessity in
advanced education to-day. The Japanese
speech and literature are among the most
difficult to learn in the world. It takes
years of patient toil to be able to read a
Japanese newspaper with ease and under-
standing, and probably there are not a
dozen Australians able to perform this
feat to-day. What a disadvantage com-
mercially and politically, and what a
disaster in the extreme event of war!
I suggest that the Federal Govern-
ment, as part of its defence scheme, send
one student from each university to live
in Japan to observe and to absorb life,
and above all to acquire a complete mas-
tery of the language. Heg Gordon
(W.A.).
Discipline
“R.S.H.” (B. 21 /12/’3B) advocates
more obedience to authority, more dis-
cipline. But why not more work, so that
these things may follow naturally?
Before we have instilled in us “the
instinct of obedience to authority," give
us the grounds for respect for authority.
It takes the decent unemployed person,
branded with a dole ticket or relief-work
as an outcast, all his time to maintain
a respect for self. There is certainly
none bred out of this for authority.—
Raymond (N.S.W.).
Defence and Development
Population is our greatest need. Until
we have 20 million people the voice of
Australia will not be heard in the coun-
cils of the world. We must populate
North Australia. How is it to be done?
The Government proposes to spend
£60,000,000 on defence in three years. The
way we are going we will have nothing
more at the end of three years than we
have to-day, except the debt!
In addition to a large Air Force, it is
now generally conceded that, to repel in-
vasion, we must have a swift-striking,
motorised, mechanised standing army of
at least 20,000 men, behind which the
militia or universal trainees could be
mobilised and made fit. But this force
would not serve its purpose if it were
scattered from Brisbane to Perth. It
must be centred in one place and kept
on a war footing for immediate action.
We can afford to pay the men well, and
should do so.
Well, then, if this body were assembled
at the railhead, Cloncurry (N.Q.), it could
trek slowly towards Darwin (via the rich
Barkly Tableland and the deep - water
Port McArthur) doing what an enemy
invading force would do, namely, occupy-
ing the areas, arranging for supply and
conservation of water, constructing roads
and bridges, and preparing the country
for settlement. A force of 20,000 would
provide markets. Settlement and popu-
lation would follow automatically. We
would open up more and better avenues
for the employment of our youth. We
would also get additional population in
the south by the extra markets for our
secondary industries. This policy of
settlement by military occupation is being
carried out with great success by other
countries.
Thus we would have a mobile defence
force on a war footing where it is most
needed, and at the end of three years we
would also have a great national asset
for our colossal expenditure, by begin-
ning to turn our North Australian areas
from failure into success. — Aloa (Vic.).
Constitutional Reform
Some Federal members would like to
see one Parliament, with full control over
the whole of Australia; while many
members of State Parliaments, jealous of
State rights, wish to recall powers already
granted.
The one point on which they are
agreed is that some reform of the Con-
stitution is necessary ; and in view of this
fact it is regrettable that any conference
to discuss the position is likely to fail
because of the divergent views of the
delegates on other questions.
The present position is an anomalous
one. We are a Commonwealth, and yet
we have six separate sovereign States.
We have a Federal Parliament, ostensibly
speaking for Australia as a whole, and
yet we have six State Parliaments.
The effect was seen in the recent Wheat
Bill, which had to be passed in each
State before it could become effective.
Other State matters, such as divorce,
commercial law, transport, etc., have to
be constantly revised for the sake of
uniformity.
On the other hand, Federation has
meant the loss to the States of vast sums
of State-produced revenue, resulting in
serious financial disabilities. Although this
was recognised at the time of Federation,
when provision was made for per capita
payments to the States as their share of
the revenue collected by the Common-
wealth, the States now have to beg, cap
in hand, for grants which they consider
are theirs by right.
Theoretically, with a fully-powered
Commonwealth Parliament these dis-
abilities would be overcome. Australia
would be one whole, just as the various
parts of a State are one whole under
the existing system.
But would the result be quite so happy
in actual fact? Members of the “weaker"
States are sceptical. And unless some
more equitable method of representation
is instituted it would seem that they have
good grounds for their scepticism.
Therefore, if a conference is held it
should be of laymen, elected by the
people, with equal representation from
each State.
The need for a revision of the Con-
stitution is obvious. The Commonwealth
Parliament has too little power, and at
the same time too much. It has too
little power to pass uniform legislation
for the whole of Australia, and too much
power to give preference to the numeri-
cally-stronger States. —E. Muirhead
Giles (S.A.).
The Stalin Menu
Continental Europe’s Main-street is
lined with high-class restaurants. On
the right stands the Deutschland (A.
Hitler, Prop. Try our Anschluss), and,
next door, Benito’s Fascismo. Both
cater mainly for their own people. Over
the road is the Democracy, a flash-look-
ing joint where a plausible cosmopolite
extends a moist palm to all-comers,
confiding that the new chef’s name is
M. Liberte. But those customers who
wander into the kitchen find that this
genius is none other than Joe Stalin, The
Man who Cooked the Kulaks. The menu
reads well:
Geneva Cocktail.
Spanish Olives.
Turtle Soup au Rhin.
Poached Salmon, Tokio Sauce.
Cassolettes of Lobster, Nyon.
French Cutlets with Tabouis Peas.
Larded Tenderloin of Beef Prague.
Mexican Jumping Beans. Potatoes Canton.
Heart of Madrid Lettuce, Russian Dressing.
Old English Plum Pudding.
Bombe Panay.
Valencia Oranges. Barcelona Nuts.
Brazil Coffee.
There isn’t a price on this table d’hote
banquet. The oily gentleman smiles and
says: “Oh, we leave that to you’’—and
he means exactly what he says.— Blur-
TINAXE (N.S.W.).
“Our” Railways
Not a dog-spike or truck-wheel is ours,
because the bondholder owns the lot, and
we have guaranteed him about 5 p.c. per
annum for his money ; few of the world’s
railways earn over 3 p.c. The Union
Pacific in California reduced fares and
increased takings last year by £500,000 ;
Victoria is offering week-end concessions
for children, 25 miles to the seaside for
6d. return, with very attractive rates for
parents. The only way to improve our
at present deplorable figures is by reduc-
tions in fares in order that trains may
be filled. Full trains cost no more to
run than empty ones, and the running of
full carriages causes passengers to con-
tinue in the habit.
A huge portion of Australia’s national
debt is represented by railways, and if we
can encourage travel the enormous
annual loss should be diminishable in
the ratio of the travel encouragement. —
F. T. C. (W.A.).
The Erskineville Flats
The flats at Erskineville (Sydney) for
which the Government was blamed at
the beginning are really an eye-opener.
Just imagine a block of flats where
children are no hindrance, and in which
there will be located about 158 when
finished and fully tenanted! And all
for people who had begun to be looked
upon as slum-dwellers!
Some are against flats in any shape or
form. They ought to go to Erskineville.
Give me flats every time where space
is confined and wages are low. — Fieldash
(N.S.W.).
Let’s Build a Battle-cruiser
If any ship of war has proved its worth
in the stern test of action it is the battle-
cruiser. Only a battle-cruiser kept Von
Spee from raiding our coasts in 1914.
A capital ship takes years to build and
costs millions of pounds, but if the build-
ing was done in Australia a high pro-
portion of the money would be spent
here. Newcastle could supply most of
the steel required, we have the men
who could do the job and the building
of a vessel of this size would give us an
added asset in the establishment of a
big shipbuilding yard. Britain would
aid us by providing us with her most
modern plans and with the technical ex-
perts necessary to supervise the job.
With a battle-cruiser on guard, aided by
modem cruisers and destroyers, we would
have little to fear unless an enemy sent
a battle-squadron against us. — Carrick,
A.B. (S.A.).


— ■" '' k ''^v WwvW ,y
Ml
S' ,:W5
f <€f9..
<F)
!
r
ii»
Si
Qg
V
%FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—to a
slowing down of physical activity— to altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or 1
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
Dr.MORSES
1
A\AD£ IN AUSTRALIA
tor Simple Constipation
i
l
PILLS
and Attendant Ills.
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculai
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack ol
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot" Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
tree.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
s
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
No. 2 BOOK NOW ON SALE
The PHANTOM
A PICTURE-SERIAL FULL
OF ADVENTURE,
MYSTERY AND
THRILLS.
68 Pages for 6d-
(Postage 2d.
extra.)
<y
K'
y
o°
,<:•
yr
\S S
# s '
.••‘Vt>s*
y&#
of \0 \^S^V
;»,^w> v ' , °


More men are wearing TOP
DOG Pyjamas than ever before.
TOP DOG has introduced in
Pyjamas a new smartness —a
new comfort—and a standard
of quality unsurpassed.
TOP DOG
Every Garment Guaranteed
FOR HARD WEAR
’C
TOP DOG
WORKS HIRTS
■
—unequalled for rough
heavy work.
Cut on generous pro-
portions—giving absolute
freedom.
TOP DOG
Every Garment Guaranteed
When it’s
MEN’S WEAR
MEN SWEAR
by
cfi.Po
Q
D
V
%
wk
it
x
%
(5^
FULL WEIGHT
STRIPED NAP
TROUSERS
FOR
HARD WEAR
Your Local Store will
be pleased to show
you the latest in
TOP DOG
PRODUCTIONS
m
i.S
to
■ V
' \' vl ',l
Ml
m
'll
WJ M
W mmmrnm
Wt**3^
Knitted
UuteJuveal
•—Combine fashion with popularify-
There's a TOP DOG Garment for
every occasion
TOP DOG
Every Garment Guaranteed.
n-
m
Sltirfs efj
Distinction
that make you feel
well-dressed
And you are —too, in
the TOP DOG Tailored
Shirt-
Available in an endless
variety of new and
exclusive patterns.
TOP DOG
The Shirt That Satisfies
Every Garment Guaranteed.
Obtainable Everywhere
