

m
i ■
1
/I BOVE is depicted an actual Tested Tool Chest. You see
Yi ONLY the top layer of tools in their special section.
UNDERNEATH this is yet another section of specially tested
and guaranteed tools.
HUNDREDS OF DELIGHTED AND SATISFIED
USERS OF "T.T." CHESTS.
r I *HE splendid results that greeted the Tested Tool Chest when
announced so extensively in the Press last year were abso-
lutely phenomenal. Orders from every part of Australia teemed
in. The reception of this compact and useful chest' was really
amazing.
Thousands of letters from grateful customers gave written testi-
mony praising the high-grade quality and money-making oppor-
tunities presented by the “T.T.” Chest.
A FREE BOOK OF PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION is included with
each order, so that even the man who has never used a tool in
his life before can make a certain success of this wonderful
investment.
THERE'S SPLENDID PROFITS IN THIS
IDEAL HOBBY.
start saving mo..ey right from the word “Go” through
the medium of the “T.T.” Chest. There are literally
hundreds of household jobs that' previously you have had to pay to
have done that can now be accomplished right away, quickly and
easily. The possession of a “T.T.” Chest opens up wonderful
opportunities for you, whether you use it for household repairs,
etc., or as a hobby that can bring you in good £s. d. and these
high-grade tools will last you a lifetime! Take advantage of this
opportunity. Post the coupon alongside TO-DAY!
A TOOL FOR EVERY PURPOSE IS INCLUDED.
A TOOL (or every purpose is included in this outfit. There is
practically nothing that you cannot' make to aid the beauty
and value of your home and garden for your loved ones and
close friends. The moment a T.T. Chest is installed in your
home you will have made an investment you will never regret.
TESTED TOOLS CO.
Dept. 19,
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MAKE EXTRA MONEY
IN YOUR SPARE TIME WITH THIS
WONDERFUL TESTED
TOOL CHEST!
-DAY, as never before, in Australia there is a
demand for high-grade quality tools. Both the man
who has a general knowledge of tools and the man who
has no knowledge at all have convinced us that there is
a ready and willing market for the Tested Tool Chest
dome Repairing Outfit.
The “T.T.” Chest was devised many years ago, and
has been improved and added to from year to year,
until to-day it comprises every necessary article that
yo-
the
landy man could possibly require—and each
tool guaranteeed to be of the highest quality.
Each tool is neatly placed in its own section,
and, together with the extra strong lock chest,
combines t o
give a lasting
asset that any
man would be
proud of for
many years to
come
7 DAYS’
FREE
APPROVAL
Combine
Pleasure
with
Profits .
XT." Chest Can Do
Just check up and see if any
of these aggravating little
(and sometimes big)
repairs have been wanted in
your home at some time: —
—Doors and windows that
won’t close and lock
properly.
—Drawers which are hard
to open and just as diffi-
cult’ to shut.
—Faulty door handles.
—Rickety furniture.
-—Numerous examples of
broken woodwork.
—Cracked window-panes,
etc., etc.
No doubt you have found it
far from easy, and sometimes
extremely difficult, to fix up
towel racks, hooks, shelves,
lattice work, etc., without
proper tools and instruction.
Your garden also probably
requires attention how
about repairs to fences,
sheds, trellis work, seats and
similar things?
The Tested Tool Outfit is
something you cannot afford
to be without.
€t
Si
irh
T
dfs
f
ds
fs
df
dsf
ds
r
fd
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
COUPON—POST NOW!
TESTED TOOLS CO., Dept. 19,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me by return, free of all cost, full particulars
and literature of your 7 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL OFFER of the
"T t „ Chest and Home Repairing Outfit.
NAME
ADDRESS
l7/5/’39.
(Enclose stamp tor postage.)
The Bulletin
Hitler’s Speech Uncabled Additions
Vol. 60.—N0. 3092.
Wednesday, May 17, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
.£3OO
The Prize is open this year to any
prose work —fiction, biography, autobiography,
history, etc.
Authors will assist if they will forward
entries as soon as they are ready and not wait
until the last few days. The earlier MSS. are
forwarded the earlier the judges will be able
to announce their decision.
Each MS. must be entered with author’s
pen-name attached; full name and address to
accompany it in a sealed envelope, which will
not be opened until after the judges have
reached their decision.
Intending competitors have now only three
weeks to complete and enter MSS.
RARE AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE!
Kingsley—Geoffrey Hamlyn: Ist ed., 3 vols., 63/-
“Australasian Sketcher,” 1873-1881, in 4 vols., 105/-
Poetry, Fiction, Magazines, Art, etc.
List on application.
H. A. EVANS & SON, 358 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
Learn
freclcmce
Journalism
°<it HOME
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised m the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name . • •
My Address .
S.B. 239 '
The Red Page
IRISHMEN AT LARGE.
When a doctor decides to “tell” it is always
news; and when, as in the case of Sydney’s Herbert
Moran and Dublin’s Oliver St. John Gogarty, the two
surgeons are Irish, the telling is likely to be exciting.
The publishers of Gogarty’s Tumbling in the Hay
(Constable; per Angus and Robertson) hail him as
another Rabelais, and Dr. Moran’s Viewless Winds
(Peter Davies ; per Angus and Robertson) may evoke
a very audible storm from the persons and institutions
he flails.
Both writers have gone to Shakspeare for their
titles, and the quotations indicate the profound dif-
ference between the two books and the minds from
which they sprang. Though both are concerned with
medicine, literature, the Catholic church and the poor,
Gogarty is in the meadows
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
and Dr. Moran prefers to see humanity
....imprisoned in the viewless winds,
And blown with restless violence round about
The pendent world.
Gogarty, in one of his more serious moments,
observes:
Dublin is a slum, an extensive and terrible slum.
There are many reasons but no excuse for this state of
things... .Arthur says it will take 20 years before Sinn
Fein comes into its own and the country shall be free.
Meanwhile, I will light a cigarette. Where did I put
the Irish “Times” —the paper that puts the births before
the marriages?
Dr. Moran can’t puff the world away so airily:
In 1910 I took a post-graduate course in obstetrics
in Dublin, living in a grimy hospital amidst kindly and
unhygienic surroundings. Slums were all around us; the
drunkenness was horrible. Poverty was everywhere
The more I saw of Ireland in those years the more
I realised how deeply the people had become sub-
merged. They had no social conscience. They were
serfs, petulantly resenting their serfdom.
To Gogarty, the medical student on the spree
and the doctor drunk on the job are figures for up-
roarious comedy ; in Dr. Moran’s book, the one is
watched with anxious tolerance, the other bitterly con-
demned. Each book is good on its own plane.
Gogarty, of course, is a man of the pubs and
clubs rather than the operating theatre, a wit who
seems to have something the same sort of place in
Dublin that Chesterton had in London. He likes
beer and Rabelais and cultivates the fantastic. In
spite of As I Was Going Down Sackville Street and
a volume of poems including some good epigrams
and fine lyrics, his output so far isn’t nearly as im-
posing as his reputation, and Tumbling in the Hay
is absurdly overboomed by the publishers. Rabelais
endures because of his solidity; Gogarty’s charm is
his slightness. James Joyce, beyond doubt, owes a
debt to Rabelais, and Tumbling in the Hay is froth
skimmed off Ulysses.
Even in presentation, though not in style, it
owes something to Joyce. There are digressions long
enough to have warmed the heart of the author of
Tristram Shandy, and at other times Gogarty’s mind
jumps from pub to hospital, from brothel to univer-
sity with an agility that would baffle a flea. The story,
such as it is, describes the doings of a group of
medical students for six years. It begins with a
pint of beer and ends with a dozen of stout. Float-
ing in the interim are Weary and Barney, the Citizen
and Piano Mary, literary small-talk and alcoholic
large talk, cycle races and failed examinations, medi-
cal japes and medical jokes by the score. “The Hay”
is a pub, the tumbling is entertaining, and if Gogarty
wrote the book mainly to see how many unprintable
words are printable when the spelling is slightly
altered, that in itself is not without interest.
Dublin, London, Edinburgh, Gallipoli and Meso-
potamia all appear in Dr. Moran’s autobiography,
but the greater part of it is set in Sydney, and should
be of exceptional interest to many Australians. Besides
his own history it embodies the history of Catholics
in Australia —the early days, conscription, the present
position; there is Suvla Bay and later an excellent
account of the disastrous Kut campaign; early chap-
ters describing the tour of the first Australian Rugby
team to visit England (he was captain); and, towards
the end, an account of the war against cancer in
Australia in which he played a leading part. It is
a powerful book, sometimes persuasive with argument,
sometimes challenging With indignation, sometimes
compelling with tragedy. At all times, in the discus-
sion of friends, acquaintances or patients as well as
in self-analysis, it is a vivid self-portrait. The re-
counting of cases he met —“The Woman of the Mani-
fold Amours,” “The Artifice of a Novice,” “Portrait
of an Invert” —gives the book curious if not “light”
relief.
At the “Darlington Superior Public School,” and
at St. Aloysius’ School, then in Surry Hills, Dr. Moran
was early aware of poverty and the diseases and vices
that attended it. Going to the second school he
touched Chinatown, “the home of laundries, fan-tan
schools, of the opium traffic and of the lower orders
in prostitution. In a single insanitary building at
this time 300 Chinese were once shown to be living.”
There were the two-up schools and the “pushes.”
Stung by “a momentary resentment” in his third year
at Sydney University, he began to play Rugby, first
for the Rose Bay Football Club, and later for the
University. He recalls notable games and players. In
football, as in life, it is the rough play that interests
him, but it doesn’t arouse his ire on the field "to the
extent it does in Macquarie-street. On the English
tour, which is told in detail, he objected most to the
scandal-mongering of the dailies.
Back in Sydney after study abroad, Dr. Moran
has stories to tell of giving soda-mint tablets to a
trainer who had a pug who wouldn’t fight; and of
an occasion when he thought a colleague was giving
vaccine injections to a patient, and the colleague
thought that Dr. Moran was, and the patient got
well in spite of the fact that neither of them was. An
old sister caused the muddle.
11l from his war service, Dr. Moran was in Aus-
tralia again in 1916,
to meet the full gale of the sectarian strife which
raged around the Conscription campaign. I voted Yes
on both occasions, holding still, in spite of the disillusion-
ment of later years, that those who share the privileges
of peace in a State should bear equally the burden of
war The acrid fumes of those last two years of the war
period still smart in my memory Each day brought
for us “Irish Catholics,” as we were labelled, a fresh
abrasion.
Dr. Moran nowhere shirks controversy. He
brings the religious mind to medicine, a doctor’s mind
to the consideration of religion, with the result that
he advocates a married priesthood, regards medical
bungling as a crime and bitterly resents instances
of commercialism both in the church and in his pro-
fession. Viewless Winds is a book with which many
readers, both with justice and without it, will quarrel,
but undeniably it is a fascinating piece of writing.
A Novel from Tibet.
Mipam: The Lama of the Five Wisdoms (John
Lane; English version by Percy Lloyd and Bernard
Miall) is by a Tibetan lama and the first of its kind
to be written for Western consumption. Lama Young-
den was so shocked by foreign ignorance of his native
land that, encouraged by the illustrious explorer and
scholar Alexandra David-Neel, his “mother by
adoption,” he decided to write a novel that would be
a guide to the Tibetan outlook and an object-lesson
to the West.
Didactic intention is not a very good basis for
a novel, but Mipam is more spirited than might be
expected. It has, not unnaturally, a strong religious
flavor.
Mipam was the third son of Puntsog, a village
headman, and portents accompanied his birth. Rain
fell from a cloudless sky and angels—or their Tibetan
equivalent—sang. The child must, they thought, be
a reincarnation of a saint.
He was not taught to speak. This is not the custom
in Tibet. Man, so the Tibetans think, comes to pro-
nounce the words of his mother-tongue as naturally
as the animals utter the cries appropriate to the species
to which they belong. And experience goes to prove
that, without being taught, all Tibetans do talk. Only
it is a long time before they do so. When he was three
years old Mipam could only cry.
About this time the dignitaries of the Chos Khor
monastery were looking for a reincarnation of their
abbot. Mipam was one of the candidates, but to the
great disappointment of his father —to whom it would
have meant affluence for life —he was not selected.
After that the parents lost interest in their son’s
sanctity and treated him like any other little boy.
But now and then queer things happened. Once
he met a leopard in the forest and the animal adored
him. It was decided when he was nine years old
to make him an astrologer. As a first step he became
a monk, then he was apprenticed to a master
astrologer. His education consisted in learning to
read books in the sacred language, of which neither
he nor his master knew the meaning. When he was
13 he met a little girl of 10 called Dolma, a merchant’s
only child. The two children fell in love, and Dolma
promised to marry Mipam when she was grown up,
unaware that her father had already betrothed
her to Mipam’s elder brother, who consented to be
adopted into the family in order to carry on the name.
Soon after this Mipam went with his master to
the palace of the local chieftain, where there was to
be a ceremonial reading of the scriptures. Mipam,
who was very handsome and brighter than the other
boys, attracted the attention of the prince’s wife, who
straightway took him into her service. It was boring
work acting as page, but Mipam often saw Dolma,
who came to play with the princess’s children. One
day Mipam quarrelled with the eldest son, a domineer-
ing boy, and knocked him down. He had to flee.
Dolma and he got away under cover of darkness and
she hid him with an uncle.
The affair might have blown over had not other
events developed at the palace. The prince had lent
a favorite horse to a visiting magician. The magician
pretended to believe it was a gift and refused to give
it up. The prince called in the local soothsayer to
put a spell on the thief, but the thief was too clever
and the spell miscarried. The prince called in a Bon,
a more powerful magician, and now demanded the
death of the man who had taken his horse. The
Bon, after the proper ceremonies, took a garment
that had belonged to the magician and hung it on
a tree. At the right moment he would shoot an
arrow through it and the magician would die.
The eldest son saw a chance to wipe off his
score against Mipam, and behind the magician’s
garment hung one that had belonged to Mipam. Both
would be transfixed and both victims would die. He
crouched in the bushes to see it happen. The wind
carried the arrow wide; it pierced his own throat,
and the Bon, at the same moment, was strangled by
ghostly hands. The prince blamed Mipam for this,
and his friends had to smuggle him out of the country
in a caravan going to China.
He was now 17. He took a sad farewell of
Dolma, and promised to return and claim her as soon
as he had made some money. He had a little money
that he was going to invest in trade, but when, during
the journey to China, he learned that some yaks were
to be slaughtered he spent it all buying them in. He
was apparently quite normal, but every now and then
he met and was consoled by an old lama whom no
one else could see.
Heaven guided him and he was successful in
trade. In a couple of years he was able to return for
Dolma. It was then that he learned to his despair
that she was betrothed to his brother. Her father
couldn’t understand why he made such a fuss, for
he was willing to add Mipam’s name to the marriage
contract. It was quite usual in parts of Tibet for
two brothers to marry the same girl. Mipam was
revolted at the idea of sharing Dolma. He tried to
persuade her to run away with him to China. At
the last moment she refused. She didn’t know why.
He was heartbroken and wandered about the
country. He consulted a soothsayer, who bade him
go to the monastery at Ngarong, a very famous foun-
dation that had not been built by hands but had
miraculously appeared in a night. When he arrived
the monks acclaimed him as their new abbot, the
latest reincarnation in the saintly line. While he
hesitated news came that Dolma was dead. Before
her death she had had a vision. In many reincar-
nations she had been Mipam’s wife and had always
stood between him and his sainthood. This was her
last reincarnation as a woman. Soon she would be
born again and come to him as his disciple. Filled
with light and joy Mipam accepted the office towards
which Heaven had been drawing him all his life.
Human values are not absent from this contem-
porary morsel of magic and medievalism, and it is
well written. The Tibetan mind is revealed by in-
ference. From a stiff beginning it develops fluency,
and despite its didactic premises it has both sophis-
tication and humor.
An Englishman Faces War.
Peter Corbett was as ordinary a young man, in a
pleasant sort of way, as you could find anywhere.
He was 34 years old, and lived in a suburb of
Southampton in a semi-detached house with a garden.
He had a wife of fair intelligence, three children under
six, a second-hand car and a small boat, full of years
and leaks, that was the apple of his eye. He was
reasonably happy and expected so to continue, when
one wet night in spring he was awakened by a great
crash. Southampton was being bombed from the air.
Subsequent events are the burden of What Happened
to the Corbetts, by Nevil Shute (Heinemann), a very
wide-awake book.
A thousand bombs were dropped on the town
that night, and something like it happened in every
other town in the south of England. It was a surprise
raid before the declaration of war. In the morning
the damage was found to be less than anyone expected.
But gas, electricity and water were off, and soon it
appeared that something had gone wrong with the
sewers. Repair gangs got to work at once, and by
night the light was on again. It was a clear night,
and there was no raid. “Business as Usual” notices
began to spring up everywhere.
There was a rather self-conscious absence of
panic, but all the details of life were interrupted.
The milkman didn’t call, people began to hoard food,
the shops were emptied. Then came a wet night and
another raid. Peter Corbett had dug a trench in the
('Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act. 1823 — "WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW — 1939 "THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Jumbuk Quality Underwear
We guarantee and recommend "JUMBUK" Underwear. It is made of a selected long staple pure woollen
yarn, and its excellent quality ensures long and satisfactory wear. Its soft, downlike surface will not
irritate the tenderest skin. It is guaranteed preshrunk, and is stocked in a wide range of sizes, enabling
every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
w
mm
L..
m
■ <■ s
s m
m
mi
m
..yyiytfQOC*
Reg. Trade Mark.
• Men’s Mercery-+-Ground Floor —George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0..
SYDNEY. 'Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)
220 X NATURAL ALL WOOL LIGHT WEIGHT
Sizes 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 46in. 48in. 50in.
Shirts, short sleeves 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/- 11/- 12/3 13/6 14/9
Underpants 8/6 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/- 12/- 13/3 14/6 15/9
Trunk Drawers 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/9 14/-
330 X NATURAL ALL WOOL MEDIUM WINTER WEIGHT
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 11/9 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/9 17/- 18/6 20/- 21/6
Shirts, long sleeves 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6 21/-
Underpants 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6 21/-
Underpants, f leg... 12/6 13/- 14/- 15/ 16/6 17/9 19/3
Trunk Drawers ... 12/3 12/9 13/9 14/9 16/3 17/6
440 NATURAL ALL WOOL HEAVY WINTER WEIGHT
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 14/3 15/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/6 21/9 23/3
Shirts, long sleeves 15/9 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 22/-
Underpants 15/3 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/- 21/6 22/9 24/3
All JUMBUK ATHLETIC SINGLETS
In cream all wool, sleeveless style, sell bound neck and armholes. Size 34 to
44 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns', each 5/11
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON LIGHT WEIGHT
42 44 46 48 50
40
9/- 10/- 11/3 12/6 13/9 15/-
9/- 9/9 10/9 12/- 13/3 14/6
8/6 9/3 10/3 11/6
AND COTTON WINTER WEIGHT
40 42 44 46 48 50
9/9 10/9 11/9 12/9 13/9 15/-
9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6
9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/9
MEN'S NATURAL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Soft finish Undershirts with Short Sleeves, or Underpants to ankle, size
34 to 44 inch chest or waist.
At Anthony Horderns', in light weight all wool 5/6
At Anthony Horderns', in winter weight all wool 7/6
At Anthony Horderns', in super quality heavy all wool 8/11
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON UNDERWEAR
Soft finish, sizes 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. Undershirts with short
sleeves, or Underpants to ankle. At Anthony Horderns', in medium
weight wool and cotton, 5/6; heavy winter weight wool and cotton, 7/6
FLEECY LINED UNDERWEAR
Warm winter weight Undershirts with short sleeves, Underpants to
ankle Size 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. At Anthony Horderns , in
natural shade, medium weight, 3/6; in fawn shade, heavy winter
weight, 4/9.


VAUDEVILLE
by A.C. Headley
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
40 RDS.
Boxing and Vaudeville.
40 RDS.
TWO shillings and a shilling it was, and way up
on the balcony at the back of the stadium
sixpence. At eight o’clock it started. It was
almost eight now. The tinny piano played
through a number as depressing as the fat, sweating
bulk of the pianist. It was hot, and the perspiration
from her fingers was running on to the keys and mak-
ing them slip. About her hung a blue pall of cigar-
ette smoke from a hundred cigarettes.
She was tired, and occasionally her fingers
prodded a depressing discord. It made no difference.
No one ever listened to her. They were too full of
talk. She could hear the mill of it mounting above
the music. Ten bob a night—half an hour before
the opening and then between the fights.
From the end of one tune she played into
another, waiting for the lights in the ring. At the
end of the number she dabbed at her face with the
handkerchief poking from the neck of her dress.
Women scattered around the stadium were fanning
themselves with pieces of paper. Most of the men
had their coats off. She tucked the handkerchief away
and prodded her fingers almost savagely at the piano.
The lights dimmed suddenly, the arcs over the
ring came on. Relievedly she tailed off the tune in the
middle and climbed down to her seat by the ringside.
Behind her the clatter of buckets heralded the seconds
and the fighters. She looked up and read the names
on the boards swinging at the corners: Art Levy—
nine-eight. Joe Pier —nine-three.
Mid-week massacre, she decided without interest.
Last week Art Levy had been ten-two and Joe Pier
eight-eleven. The weights always amused her. The
boards never had a big discrepancy, but you could
see it when the boys climbed into the ring together,
and a stone makes a lot of difference in the prelims.,
where it means stand and slug for four rounds.
She was right about the massacre. Joe Pier
managed to weather the first round. In the second,
a right took him behind the ear and he hit the canvas.
He got up slowly. It was harder to climb to his feet
the second time, and after that, when a punch landed
flush on his chin, he made* no attempt. They wasted
no time. A sponge, and a few slaps for his face, and
they were dragging him from the ring.
Wearily the piano-player climbed back to her
rostrum. While she was playing she could feel the
excitement from the knockout fading. It was some-
thin» in the crowd noise like the beat of a heart.
Now it was gone, and the boys were climbing into the
ring for the next fight.
From her seat she watched them. She had no
interest in the fights. They were rests between her
piano-playing—that was all. It was a good fight, but
all of these fights were alike. It was like reading a
book over and over. The same thing. The same
thing. Points decision this time.
Vaudeville.
LJE came running down the aisle. She watched
' 1 him from the piano, wondering what the act was.
He wore no coat, and his black shirt was buttoned
high round his thin neck. In the light of the ring
she could see the white, unhealthy look of his face.
His hair was sleek with grease, and the side-levers,
black against his skin, reached almost to the lobes
of his ears. She recognised him vaguely, searching
her memory, but without using it she knew the act —
a bit of step-dancing and whatever you call what a
contortionist does.
He wasn’t young. He smiled and bowed around
the ring while an attendant fixed a sheet of three-
ply board in the centre. He leaned over to the piano,
then: “Electric Girl,” he said, “two chorus, the
second fast.”
She nodded and started the music, watching his
feet. But the timing was wrong, and after half a
dozen steps he stopped and leaned over to the piano.
“Make it quicker.”
She saw the sweat rolling on his face, and thudded
into the music again. This time it was better. But,
like her piano-playing, there was no interest in it for
the audience. They were talking and watching, dis-
satisfied with the break from the fighting. The second
chorus died to a finish, and half a dozen people
clapped without interest. The dancer bowed, and,
motioning the piano to silence, dropped to the mat.
She could hear him gasping as he fixed his legs
at the back of his head. She felt vaguely sorry for
him. He had unknotted himself someway now and
was sweeping his legs in circles under his body. She
sat dully at the piano, watching the sweat on his shirt,
the screwed-up, mechanical smile on his face. Some-
one in the crowd yelled: “Take ’im orf.” The laughs
jangled on her nerves. They were counting him out
now, enjoying themselves. It was funny to see him
going through with it with the smile clapped on his
face.
Then it was finished, the ring empty of
seconds, the crowd moving in the seats. She
played a heavy “God Save the King.”
He concluded the contortions, waved for the
piano, and resumed his dance. The music stopped
them from counting again, but they were laughing.
He was finished at last, bowing and slipping out
under the ropes. Five shillings, she reflected, he got
for that, and she sat here all night for ten.
OHE was wrong about his age. He was not old.
It was just that sometimes he got very tired and
the look of it stayed in his face—that, and the scarcity
of five-bobs. After to-night, and the crowd, there
was no hope of a repeat here. He came back to the
dressing-room dispiritedly. The place was full, and
he felt lost. His cap and coat were on a nail on the
wall, and he put them on over his black shirt. All he
wanted to do was to get his money and go home.
But Ferguson was moving around, and when he asked
for the money he was told to come back later.
“Listen, Mr. Ferguson, it was the piano-player.
She was all outa time.” But Ferguson waved him
away. “I got things to attend to. I can’t muck about
with you now. Go an’ see the fights. Do anything.
Get out of my way.”
He went out into the stadium and slipped into
a back seat. He had been dancing and twisting him-
self into knots for people for a long time now. When
he was seven his mother had taken him to learn danc-
ing. They called it step-dancing in those days, clog-
dancing if you wore the wooden shoes. He was a
thin kid, his face long and pointed, his mouth always
loose, ready to smile. He remembered his mother as
a blowsy kind of woman, always seeing justification
in the men’s strikes and railing against everything in
general. She had ambition all right, but it was of the
thin, stunted kind, always finding opportunities for
things that led to nowhere.
But he was glad of the dancing, in a way. Six-
pence a lesson with a dozen other kids three nights a
week: tapping the floor with your feet, slapping your
hands, while a middle-aged “miss” gave the count —
one, two, three-and-four. And when he was eighteen
he had lost his job, but there was the dancing to fall
back on and the way he twisted his body. There
were engagements, and they weren’t like this. His
gaze travelled around the stadium. People at the
vaudeville shows weren’t always impatient for some-
thing else. Besides there were “smoke-ohs.” It was hard
to find now that they didn’t want him twice. At one
time it had been all right, but nowadays there was
no money in it. He sat back in the chair and thought
of the five bob.
THE piano-player was glad when he had gone and
the boys for the next fight were in the ring. It
was a slow six-rounder. She felt like closing her
eyes and sleeping through it. The boys in the ring
edged at each other until the referee told them to
fight. Even then it made little difference—a few hur-
ried punches and a relapse to wariness. She leaned
forward on to the keyboard breathing heavily. They
were out of the ring at last, and she played through
a number.
Snowy Jones and Art Fallon —four rounds. This
was the fighting the crowd liked. They were standing


toe to toe, swapping punches as fast as arms could be
unleashed. There was blood and sweat mixing some-
where in the flurry of it. The crowd rose. Above the
clamor she could hear the hissed nose-breathing of
the fighters. A flood of applause came at the end,
and a few coins were tossed into the ring.
Vaudeville.
THE vaudeville was unnecessary, but it gave her
a sense of status. It was different from her other
occupation, not vastly different, but different all the
same, and something to put on papers that wanted
to know your occupation. The money it brought in
was little enough, but she liked doing it. She was
twenty-five and had been that age for three years,
but her figure was good. She had been dancing since
she was a kid, chorus work, and not bad money, but
the talkies had broken into that. Sure, there were
factory jobs and respectability —slaving out your guts
for a few bob a week. There were easier days.
An attendant held the ropes open and the piano-
player watched her climb into the ring. Her body
was full and round. She wore a costume, short-
skirted, halved with black and white, a white and
black stocking, a black and white shoe and even the
abbreviated cap on her head was halved with black
and white. None of it was particularly clean. She
was carrying a ukulele hung with black and white
ribbons. There was a brief burst of applause from
the crowd, and then she was strumming and singing
a popular song.
Her voice, the piano-player decided glumly, was
lousy. But the crowd were not interested in the voice.
The song was catchy and their feet were beginning
to take it up. This was better than someone twisting
legs around his neck. The piano-player was used
to the little bursts of laughter shat followed some
obscene remark. Sometimes she could hear the re-
marks herself and they made her conscious of the
fat ugliness of her own body.
The crowd was singing with her at the end, and
applause followed her along the aisle. She did not
go into the dressing-room, but turned into the bare
office at the side. Ferguson was there.
“You done orright, Kath. You can ’ave it every
Wednesday, if y’ like.”
She was tired and she sat down on the chair.
“Thanks, Fergy.”
He was leaning over her, so close that she could
feel the fresh, wet heat of his breath. She wiped
the perspiration from her forehead with her arm.
“Listen, Fergy, you can gimme the dough now
an’ I’ll trot along.”
Ferguson perched himself on the table. “Look,
Kath, I got a coupla bottles of beer we could split
after the show. It won’t be long. What say?”
“Sure, Fergy, sure,” she said wearily. “Now
I gotter git dressed.”
CORTY rounds of fighting. Eighteen gone, and
* the boys in a six-round pummelling each other.
Twenty-four. The piano-player saw one of the boys
drop to the canvas without being hit and lie there still.
The referee was counting, the crowd hooting its dis-
satisfaction. It was funny the way a whole crowd
could become angry at once. She had seen them
go down before without being hit, and they never
went on again. She watched them half-carrying him
from the ring. His eyes were shut, but she knew
that he was aware of everything going on around him.
Her fingers travelled over the keyboard of the piano.
There was one thing about it. It made the night
shorter —the forty rounds of fighting was provisional
on each fight going the full distance.
There were a couple of kids coming into the
ring now for an act. They wore puffed up tights,
and once in the ring they dashed around in a series of
somersaults. They were no different from the thou-
sand other kids recruited from Miss So-and-so’s
School of Theatrical Dancing. She had seen the act
a hundred times, knew almost the moment when a
chair would be thrust into the ring for a back-bending
exhibition of drinking a glass of water. But it always
pleased the crowd.
She watched the kids. They were powdered, had
a circle of rouge on each cheek and the inevitable
Shirley Temple curls. They were so sure of themselves,
grown up, that she had a sudden queer desire to
slap their faces to see if they cried. They finished
at last, bowing and posing with a foot out in front
and hands crooked at the wrist.
No more vaudeville now. Just the fights to make
up the rest of the programme. Then it was finished,
the ring empty of seconds, the crowd moving in the
seats. She played a heavy “God Save the King” and
shut the piano.
T HROUGH the half-open door she could see the
contortionist, and when she came closer she heard
his voice in dispirited protest.
“You said it was a dollar, an’ a dollar it oughter
be. It was the pianner-player, I tell y\ She mucked
it up. ’Ow could I ’elp it? I arst y\”
‘ ’Alf a dollar ; y’ can take it or leave it, an’ don’t
come back.” Ferguson’s voice was a sneer. “You
t°l me h was orright. I don’t pay no one to be
counted out. Orright—like hell you was orright.
Alf a dollar s all I go, an’ that’s too much.”
She watched the contortionist take the money
and vanish through the outer door. She -came into
the room, not showing any surprise at the ukulele-
player perched on the table, her legs crossed so that
silk stockings showed above her knees. Ferguson
looked up
"There's yours, Sadie.” He indicated a pile of
, j « c i, „
shillings on the window ledge See y next week.
The woman on the table was looking at her, smiling.
Hot, she said, am t it?
It was cooler outside, and she had not far to
walk. Out of the road she turned into the main
street, and for a couple of blocks she followed the
tramline.
She had a room not far from the tramline, and
as she turned into the house the force of her weari-
ness met her. She was so tired that she wanted to
climb the stairs and fall into bed without undressing.
There was no movement, no circulation of air in the
stunted room. The flame of the candle, burning
was undisturbed she was lad when it was
ou( » nd she was in the s|ow darkness . She lay on
ber s j dCj brea thing heavily, uncomfortably. She was
thinking of forty rounds of boxing and vaudeville,
the heat. From the top of the street she could hear
the jangling piano of Miss Elsie Evans’s School of
Theatrical Dancing.
DEBIT AND CREDIT
BY C. W. LE PAGE.
HE opened his eyes and just as quickly shut
them again, trying to remember what he had
been dreaming about, but it was no good.
Suddenly he was actively awake and realising
that he wasn’t going to work that day. The thought
made him stare rather perplexedly at the square of
blue sky framed by Mary’s new curtains, and to
wonder how she was going to take it. When she first
knew they were going to strike she’d said nothing,
but had screwed up her mouth in the way he knew.
Later, he’d seen her talking to Jim Connor’s missus
with a look on her face that made him vaguely uneasy
and set him to thinking about a system that wouldn’t
let him work when he wanted to.
Even now he couldn’t get the hang of this strike
business. He’d attended a lot of meetings, and after
they were over and he’d shouted with the rest, there
had been only a vague dread of days with nothing
to do and Mary’s long silences.
He turned on his side and looked at her. Look-
ing older, he thought. Her hair was straight and
grey-streaked, and her mouth was drawn down at
the corners so that she looked as though she was
going to cry. This strike was pretty tough on her.
A man could get outside and talk things over, but a
woman was in the house all day. Still, she was dead
keen on the house. It was more than his life was
worth to come inside before he’d had a wash in the
bathroom off the verandah. She’d taken this house
because the bathroom was off the verandah. And
after he’d washed and the coal-dust had come off him
like ink she’d go and look in the bath and say: “D’ye
’ave to get that dirty?”
On Friday nights she’d say, “C’mon, ’and over.”
’Struth! was she careful? They’d only got the wire-
less after a struggle on his part. Oh, well, he sup-
posed that would have to go. Still, you never knew.
Mary might have a bob or two tucked away some-
where. Wonder what there was in the bank. He’d
opened an account years before, and it was years
since he’d seen the book. Mary had taken charge
of that. He couldn’t very well ask for a look at it.
Couldn’t put much over Mary, bless her heart. He
suddenly felt tender towards her, and leaned over
and kissed her cheek. He was hurt at her bewilder-
ment when she found his face near hers.
“What’s the matter?” she said.
“Nothin’s the matter.”
“Well, what’s the time then?”
He found his watch under the pillow. “Twenty
t’ seven.”
“Twenty t’ seven! Not often I’m in bed at this
time. Oh, I was forgettin’. Gentleman o’ leisure.
Well, it must be nice not to ’ave to work.”
He flared out, “Anyone ’ud think it was my
fault.”
“Better not talk about it.”
“Orright—well, don’t talk about it. What d’ye
’ave to start first thing in the mornin’?”
She got out of bed and dressed quickly. A
moment afterwards he heard her calling out to the
boys. “C’mon, you two. Seven o’clock. School for
you. No lyin’ in bed all day like your father.”
AFTER breakfast and a doze in the sun, he had a
look for the bankbook. He kept telling himself
that he only wanted to have a look at it. Mary was
in the kitchen, and it was pretty certain that the book
was there, too, but he had a look through the drawer
where she kept a lot of papers, tied up with a blue
ribbon, and he had a look in the clock and between
the covers of the Bible. She found him at it and
inquired “What’re you up to?”
When she went to make the beds he looked on
the mantelshelf and amongst the crockery. He found
the book in the knife-drawer. There was £5 15s. in
it. Wonder how she did it, he thought, and got in
such a panic when he heard her moving outside that
he put the book in his pocket. Then he went outside
to talk to Jim Connor.
“Races to-day,” said Jim. “How’d you be with
a roll an’ the day off?”
“Well, I got the day off,” said Tom and started
thinking.
He might be lucky. He could draw out a couple
of quid and put the book back. And even if he did
lose they’d be back in the pits before long and he
could shove the two quid back somehow. Mary
would never notice it. The book had been right
under the paper in the knife-drawer. And anyway
the account was in his name. It was his money. He
didn’t feel like arguing the rights and wrongs of the
case. Once he got down to thinking about it, he
wouldn’t have the nerve.
HE got into the Leger just before the first race.
The papers were tipping Gibraltar —to run third.
His distrust of favorites was the result of a life in
which nothing had seemed to “run true to form.”
When he’d married Mary she’d been the snub-nosed,
round-faced youngster he remembered. Sometime
since then she’d turned into the efficient, silent woman
he was afraid of. Nothing had seemed to run “true
to form.” So he backed the horse which was picked
to run third.
He had five bob on it, and there was a hollow
feeling in the pit of his stomach as Gibraltar
went to the front coming into the straight, and the
pounding of his heart was louder than the hoof-
beats as she went past the post a good length in front
As he collected thirty-five bob, he kept saying “You
beauty! You little beauty!”
He lit a cigarette and went off to have a beer.
He had three beers, and the feeling of exultation in-
creased. The man standing next to him said, “ ’Ow
you goin’?”
Tom was casual. “Backed the last all right.”
“You did, eh? . Nice pickin’. I’m. waitin’ fer the
third.”
“Got somethin’ good?”
“My oath. She’s a moral, boy.”
“ ’Ave a drink,” said Tom.
“O.K. Don’t mind if I do. Name’s ’Eenan.”
“Mine’s Evans,” said Tom.
“ ’Owya?” said Heenan.
“ ’Owya?” said Tom. He gulped beer and smoke
and felt himself grow bigger. Somewhere at the back
of his befuddled thoughts stood Mary. She was look-
ing disapproving but not unkindly. When she saw
the money in his hands she smiled. He’d go if he
had a good win. He must see that look on Mary’s
face when he put the roll of notes in her hand.
Heenan was spitting on the floor and saying,
“Yes, boy. You can save your chips fer the third.
Shove a quid each way on ’Air Oil. She’ll be jake.”
Tom didn’t bet on the second. Heenan and he
were still at the bar while it was being run. Heenan’s
face was shifting through the smoke, its mouth say-
ing something about the instant liking some coves
took to each other.
“Wot’s the time?” asked Tom.
He got sevens on Hair Oil and had two quid
straight.
The proceedings had a vague unreality for him.
Curiously detached, he found himself watching for
Hair Oil’s colors. Somewhere out in front was a
blurring streak of white and red. He knew that he
was yelling “C’mon, you little beauty. C mon, you
little beauty.” His legs were trembling so that he
could hardly stand. It seemed a minute afterwards
and he clutched a wad of notes. He kept saying to
himself “You little beauty,” and all the time he could
see the tears well from Mary’s grateful eyes.
SHE was for him at the door, and her
eyes were red but bone-dry. Her mouth had the
ugly twist to it. She said, “’Ave you been to the
knife-drawer? ’Ave you?”
He chuckled, “Just you wait un”
Her voice rose to a yell, “ ’Ave you been to thet
drawer?”
He laughed outright and produced the roll of
notes. She seemed not to see it. Her voice was low,
“Give me thet book. Give me thet book.”
He laughed again.
“All in good time, me lady. Can’t you see”
He got a stinging blow across the mouth. The
joy died. She was pushing him violently in the chest.
“Give me thet book. You’re drunk, you beast. Give
me thet book”
He felt her hand in his pocket. She was yelling at
him, “You dirty beast. You drew somethin’ out.”
He opened his mouth to speak and dumbly
thrust the wad of notes in front of her. She grabbed
it and thrust it down the front of her dress.
“Races! Races!” she yelled. “Races, ’n’ beer,
’n’ no work. You good-fer-nothing.”
He felt a lump in his throat and savagely told
himself that beer was responsible for the tears run-
ning down his cheeks.


It Had To Be
PEACE WITH RANGI
by Isobel Andrews
DRAWING BY SHELLEY.
I WAS sitting in the sunshine down by the Wairoa
River, writing a letter to Sue Pringle. I wasn’t
due on patrol for another couple of hours, so I
thought I’d better start and tell Sue all about it.
I hadn’t seen her for six years, but one of these days
she was coming out and we were going to settle. I
had landed on the East Coast from a Sydney schooner
five years before, partly for trade, partly for the whales,
and partly just to see what the place was like. And
I had stayed. I thought I could see Sue and me
settling down quite nicely further back the valley
and growing fruit and maize and kids in the sunshine,
and growing old fairly peaceably.
There’s no one in the world quite like Sue, but
once a man married her he would be hers for life,
and just now
I got the date on the top, and began:
Dec. 24, 1865.
Dear Sue,
I wish you were here. There is no other
girl I want to.look at. There are a few Maori
girls, but of course either very fat or very dark
and none of any attraction to me who am
always thinking of you, dear Sue. . . .
Little Rere White passed. She is slim and straight
and not too dark, because her father is old Bill
White the whaler, even though her mother was old
Pawharo’s daughter. Rere gave me a look out of
the corner of her eye that could mean a whole lot of
things and went swaying down the street, but I kept
on with the letter.
Although I think of you every minute of the
day and wish you were here with me, perhaps
it is all for the best, because there is quite a bit
of trouble just now with the Maoris. A new
kind of religion has been formed, and it has
made them all mad at the whites; though, mind
you, some of the things they have had done to
them in the way of taking land that’s been
theirs for generations, and selling them short
weight and old muskets that wouldn’t shoot a
cab-horse, are enough to make anybody see red.
But on our side there’s the fact that we’re here
anyway, and we’re going to stay; and that being
the case we must make sure of some sort of
security for the women and children, if for
nothing else. So I’m a brave soldier now, my
dear.
Major Fraser and Captain Hussey have-
come up from Napier with what’s left of the
Military Settlers, and there’s now about a hun-
dred and fifty of us here in Wairoa ready to
do or die if needs be. But do not be alarmed,
dear Sue, I will take care of myself, and per-
haps when all this is settled I will be able to
find a place for us and you can come 0ut ....
She had been seventeen when I left. Now she
would be twenty-three. She’s getting on, but she
said she would wait. I’d better send for her. She’s
strong and good and there’s no nonsense in her.
Well, after all this is over maybe I will.
They say that the Maoris at Marumaru, a
place about twelve miles from here, are giving
trouble, and I wouldn’t be surprised if we were
sent there fairly 500 n....
“Hullo, soldier,” someone called, and it’s Rere
passing back again and smiling. So I wave and put
Sue’s letter away. After all there wouldn’t be a
boat for another week, and then I might have more
to say to her.
N A OTHER BRADY was out in her yard as we
' ’ 1 passed, and her two hens were clucking and
gobbling round her black braided skirts.
“How about a hen for my Christmas dinner?”
I called out.
She looked at me and then at Rere and her eyes
snapped. “Christmas dimier’d be wasted on the likes
o’ you,” she said.
“Better be careful; you mightn’t be able to eat
it yourself.”
“What d’yuh mean, young man?”
“I mean there might be fighting by then.”
“A fight? I’d like to see the fight as’d stop me
havin’ me bit o’ fowl at Christmas. Y’re only trying
to be funny. Off ye go. And off yi go, too, miss, ye
brown-eyed besom, ye.”
This last to Rere, who stood laughing at her in
the sun. So we went off and left her muttering. We
were quite a bit away before we lost the sound of it.
“The idea! No Christmas dinner, he says. There
might be a fight. Well, even if there might, we’ve
still got to eat, ain’t we?”
WELL, the next day was Christmas, and sure
enough we had orders to be up and doing. None
of us knew exactly where we were bound for, though
most of us guessed Marumaru. The day was fine,
bright and sunny, and who cared anyway? None of
us had horses, and there were Major Fraser and Cap-
tain Hussey and Major Biggs and Captain St. George.
Some of the mob had been soldiers all their lives, and
some, like me, had never yet seen a man killed, but
that was all right. We were on our way to defend
our homes and our security and peace, and we all
felt very noble as we started on up river.
As I passed Mother Brady’s, her fowls were still
scrambling round her yard, and I saw her sitting on
her porch with a pan of peas on her lap, shelling
them for dear life and not bothering to look up as
we passed. We called out to her, but she just pursed
her lips all the tighter and went on with her job.
Soon we forgot about her and went on, and at Te
Kapu some more Maoris joined us, and they seemed
to think it was as good a joke as we did and joined
in our songs.
There was an old diehard Imperial army soldier
marching alongside me, and he growled when he
saw them. “What do we want with darkies to help
us? We’re good enough for twice their number.”
“Don’t you be too sure,” I sdsd. “You don’t
know the Maoris. They’re the toughest fighters you’ve
ever met, I’m willing to bet. And what they don’t
know about military strategy isn’t worth knowing.”
But he only said tcha, and spat into the manuka
bushes as we passed, and said if I was so blamed fond
of them why didn’t I join them, and if this was my
idea of fighting, crashing through scrub and falling
over this blamed lawyer vine instead of marching in
formation like human beings and not a lot of blamed
monkeys, it wasn’t his, and life was hell anyway.
It didn’t strike me that way. There was a high
sun shining down on us, and the rivei was silver
under its touch. The
going was rough, but not
too bad, and we pushed
through flax and toitoi in
fine style. I suppose
there would be about
two hundred of us all
told, Maori and pakeha,
and when we had breath
we sang, and when we
hadn’t we blew hard and
swore amiably enough at
each other.
The officers were as
chirpy as the men. Cap-
tain Hussey was a fine
chap. He wore a white sun helmet and carried a
drawn sword, and he twirled and whisked it round
his head like a drummer boy, laughing and joking
all the time. We’d have gone with him anywhere,
and he knew it, and so did we.
When we had gone about twelve miles the bugle
gave a call, and we all started off at the double. We
came out of the scrub and saw we had reached our
destination.
The Maoris had deserted their settlement and
were now on the opposite bank of the river. Their
nui, the sacred flagstaff of the hauhaus, was adorned
with the Union Jack, of all things. I found out after-
wards that Captain Fraser had been parleying for
quite a while before we came up. He had first put
up a flag of truce on the flagstaff and called on the
Maoris to surrender, but he couldn’t really have ex-
pected them to do that. Then he got a bit hot under
the collar and he hoisted up our flag instead.
The Maoris were in a high state of excitement.
They lined the bank of the river, and their derisive
shouts and hideous attitudes of defiance showed pretty
plainly that they weren’t a bit impressed with our
display. There were some among them that I knew.
All the old soldiers like the one at my side looked
on them as the enemy, but I couldn’t think of them
like that. They were too friendly and too fine. 1
thought I saw Rangi Puata among them. Rangi and
I had gone eeling many nights up the river when the
moon was high and the wind was just enough of a
breeze to make the flax fingers click together like old
ladies at their knitting. He and little Rere White
liked each other a lot.
I thought of Rere and the way she looked at you,
and then I thought of Sue and of the way she would
have looked at me if she’d seen Rere. Then there
wasn’t much time for any more thinking. There
were queer whining noises over us, and firing had
begun, and St. George and Biggs started to ford the
river and we all followed like so many sheep.
I don’t know what it is that gets into a mans
bones when he starts fighting. I didn’t want to kill
anyone, but as soon as things started, what with the
noise of the rifles and the voices of the Maoris on
the one side and our own boys on the other, I forgot
all about anything and rushed and yelled with the
rest. The powder fumes were so dense at times that
we couldn’t see much in front of us. I dropped
behind a toitoi bush and thought it was pretty frail
to stop a bullet if one should come my way, and then
I was loading and firing and cursing with the blood in
my veins running twice as fast and three times as
fiery as it had ever done before.
When I could for the smoke I aimed as well as
I knew how at any brown body that came within my
range, and I can’t tell you to-day whether I scored a
hit or not. I wanted to, then, but now I like to think
that maybe my aim was pretty bad, and all I did was
get myself hoarse through shouting, and waste some
of the ammunition provided by the Government.
I got tired of the toitoi bush after a while, and
ran forward a few hundred yards and ciouched
behind a log, and then I fired, again, and again
changed my position. I wasn’t conscious of any fear,
like I thought I might be, only exhilaration and a wild
singing excitement.
I heard Captain Fraser yell to someone, and
looked round and there was Captain Hussey ymg
on the grass. His brave white topee had fallen a e\v
feet away from him and his shining sword was ying
useless on the tussock. Fraser’s face was
like he Was a small boy wanting to cry, but no
ing to because it wouldn’t be the thing. Husse)


to say something but couldn’t. He just died there
in the sunshine, with the sound of bullets screaming
past him and the flax leaves bending over him.
By this time all our men had come up, panting
and blowing from their long run. The Maoris’ fire
lessened for a while when they saw what strength we
were, and they retreated behind their fences and
whares. Then Fraser yelled out something and we
all went at it, bull at a gate, and were over the
fences and inside with a rush. Then, instead of ex-
changing riflefire, it was hand-to-hand. Bayonet and
clubbed rifle, and, if you felt like it, stark bare
hands. One man went down before me, and I can’t
remember lifting my hand against him or trying to
hit him, but the look he gave me when he went down
was something personal, meant for me, so I suppose
I killed him.
We were too many for them, and before long
they started to go. But they fought all the time as
they went, and not one of them surrendered. Pres-
ently we were left with the slowly-clearing smoke
and the flames and the terrible stiffening bodies of
the dead, and I for one was suddenly limp and lost
in a wave of lassitude and depression, and it was
getting dark and we still had to get home.
When I started to pull myself together I heard
someone call me. I looked round, and it was Rangi.
He was lying with his head tucked into a clump of
tough tussock grass like a child who buries his head
on a pillow when he’s going off to sleep. I knelt
down beside him.
“Rangi, Rangi, what can I say? This shouldn’t
have happened, ever.”
But all he said was “E taea te aha ?” and his
eyes were looking far away as though he saw some-
thing clear and bright that was hidden from me, and
the nearest I can get to what he meant was “What
does it avail?” Then he burrowed his face still
further into the ground as though he couldn’t get
too near to the earth.
\WHEN we got back again we were greeted as the
saviours of the district, and when the dead were
buried and all the talk over I was free to sit again
by the river, and I remembered I hadn’t finished Sue’s
letter. I read what I had written and couldn’t feel the
way I had when I started it, so I tore it up and was
going to begin again when Rere came and sat down
beside me. I didn’t want to see her. I felt guilty
about something and I wasn’t sure quite what it was,
but I didn’t want to see Rere or have her look at me.
But she did.
“Did you see Rangi?” she asked without anything
else, and she looked at me straight like a man would,
and there wasn’t a giggle in her eye like I usually
saw there. I twiddled my pencil through my fingers,
dropped it and picked it up again.
She repeated her question.
“Yes. I saw him.”
“Where is he now?”
“I think you know, Rere.”
“Yes. I know.”
“Rere, it’s all wrong. I didn’t know before I
went what it could be like. But it shouldn’t have
been. There should have been some other way.”
“Would the pakehas have stopped coming?
Would they have left us to ourselves as we were
before?”
“No.”
“Would the Maoris ever submit without a fight?”
“No.”
“It had to be.”
“I suppose so.”
And for a little while longer we looked out over
the river, and then Rere got up and went away. I
knew her well enough to know that she wouldn’t
mourn Rangi all her life, but she was sad for Rangi
just now and, God knows, so was I.
I suppose Rere was right. It just had to be.
When a new civilisation impinges on an old one, or
when one race brings its way of living into a land that
has not known it, there couldn’t be anything else.
All that had gone before between us and the Maoris
was just the melting-pot. The birth throes and the
struggle of a land that is striving to bring forth a new
people. Whatever happened there was to be change.
I drew out a piece of paper and started to write
my letter to Sue. I thought I would ask her to
come out anyway. We’d find a place somewhere.
We’d get on. If we could .start a family and let them
grow up here in the sunshine, beside the river, and
get to know Rangi’s folk, Marumaru and the rest
would not have been too much in vain.
Dear Sue,
You are the only girl I love. Sue, what
about coming out and getting married
straight away ?....
When I had finished I sealed it up and put the
letter in my pocket. I felt I had made my peace with
Rangi and that it was all right.
When I strolled back to camp I noticed that Old
Mother Brady’s yard was white with feathers and
the hens were no longer clucking round the door.
She had been able to have her Christmas dinner
after all, so I suppose that was all right, too.
POINT OF VIEW
BY JULIUS WANT.
THE billabong was bone-dry, and ragged cracks
scored its bed. Around its rim, where the
water had formerly found its limit, the cray-
fish holes showed naked and empty. Even
the sedge and reeds had gone from along the margin,
and fire had laid a black carpet round the line where
the dry mud began. The gum-trees round about
had a deathly pallor, their scorched leaves hanging
withered, their trunks having a look of tortured writh-
ing, bred by years of effort to push their roots down
through the drought-hardened surface of the earth
to water. The largest of them seemed about to suc-
cumb altogether to the onslaught of the seasons;
its trunk had spread, as if melting, into a curious
fluid bulge which surrounded it at ground level.
On the plain, outside the tree circle, the mirage
was at play, filling with trickling pools the double
track which ran precariously between charred tufts
of old-man Mitchell grass, and setting in a shining
sea the haze of smokebush which clothed an undu-
lating ridge on the horizon.
Towards noon, one behind another, three men
danced into the picture, playthings of the haze. One,
nearly naked, black, led with a curious, loping,
methodical gait, his head low, his wide jaws working
on a pebble, his lean shoulders drooping under a
well-balanced load, his arms swinging low and rhyth-
mically across his body. He undulated rather than
walked, scarcely lifting his feet as they passed over
the ground. Behind him came a long dark man and
a yellow-haired and shortish nondescript, both middle-
aged and both obviously at variance with their sur-
roundings. They were moving with a look of fright-
ened haste, heel and toe, with feet too high lifted, in
strong contrast to the leisured effort of their leader.
They advanced with craning necks until the
mirage tricked them, filling the billabong with a mer-
curic grey sheet, of cool water, at sight of which the
tall man choked suddenly and began to run, his
companion stumbling after him. They had rushed,
panting, half-way to the trees when the mirage wiped
it out and left them gasping in the welter of the
dancing sunlight.
“At it again—that bloody thing,” the tall man
blubbered.
His companion made a queer, hopeless gesture,
and they sat down, crouched there, swaying, their
loads strewn about them, while the blackfellow, who
had not broken his gait, passed them and came to
rest in the shade.
“No good here,” said the tall man at length,
“Let’s finish it in the shade.”
They staggered slowly to the trees and huddled
in the short, midday shadow of the gum with the
melting bole, against which the blackfellow already
stood balanced in the queer manner of his race when
resting —on one leg with the sole of his right foot
against his left knee.
For minutes they sat there, saying no word, while
the sun shot long arrows through the branches at
them. Then, “How much left?” asked the small man
timidly.
“Not much —not enough to wet a decent, nip.”
“In God’s name, let us have it,” whispered the
small man with intensity.
The tall man drew back his lips and laughed.
“It’s a lovely comedy,” he chuckled tauntingly. “You
and God!”
He put his hands upon his knees and laughed
croakingly as he reached for a flaccid waterbag in
which the contents sloshed from one end to the
other with a derisive “ouch.”
“You and God!” he cried thinly, weak tears
rolling down his cheeks. “Science and the Universe!
Nature says to her master, the Great Scientist, go and
view my wide, open spaces! Arrogant little pro-
fessor goes. I go. Mother Nature burns our whole
caboodle of transport with her bushfire and here
we are!”
“Let’s”
“Isn’t that so?” asked the tall man. “Nature
don’t seem to want her neutrons harnessed or broken
up, eh? Or else she don’t give a button whether
they are or not?”
“Boss,” said the black boy. suddenly and
earnestly, pointing to the twisted bole of the big
gum beside him, “you savee this pfeller tree?”
The tall man regarded him with tolerant eyes.
“Hullo,” he chuckled, “he’s going ratty like the rest
of us. Tree? Oh, yes. I savee tree. Very nice tree,
and it’ll be a nice tree still when we’re only lime and
nitrogen.”
He canted the waterbag perilously. With a snarl,
the Professor shot out a lean hand which came back
with, the waterbag grasped in it, leaving the tall man
blankly staring at his empty fingers.
“You’re not going to be dirty? he whined,
rising urgently. “Even, Steven just you and me.
He watched the half-filling of two pannikins with
intentness. There was still water in the bag when the
pouring was done. Not much —half as much as had
gone out of it.
“We’ll keep that,” whispered the tall man
greedily; “you never know. Only eighty miles . . .
with a tiny drink or two we might’
They glanced at the blackfellow with one
accord.
“No, not worth it,” said the tall man. “Save it —
two have a chance. If you give him any, three of
us have none.”
They sipped gingerly.
“He,” droned the tall man, justifying himself,
“is a damn’ sight nearer Nature than we are, and he
won’t mind going back to her so much. In fact, I
believe they don’t mind pegging out at all —just lie
down and snuff out for no more cause than a cut
finger.”
“You’re quite right,” assented the Professor,
rapidly recovering under the influence of his water.
“Look at his childishness just now? Fancy a mind
playing with a tree at a moment like this. Just
children —primitive children, these fellows ; no con-
centration of feeling in them deep enough for real
suffering.”
“True,” said the tall man. “Quite true. Scarcely
human.”
“These things really have to be looked at imper-
sonally,” said the Professor, justifying himself aloud
a little further. “You are a useful citizen and I flatter
myself that I should really be a loss to human know-
ledge. I should leave threads in research that no-
body could pick up. I don’t mind going out —not a
bit. But I agree with you that I have no right to
deprive the world of somebody who may be a useful
citizen for the sake of a brute beast, a primitive,
devoid of the first elements of knowledge useful to
civilised progress.”
The tall man sighed contentedly. “That settles
that,” he said. “Wonderful what a difference a
little drink makes.” Yawning, he firmly corked the
waterbag.
PRESENTLY the shadows lengthened out and the
two white men slept. When they awoke the
mirage had gone and the sun was sinking, enormous,
beyond the edges of the bare earth. The blackfellow
had followed their example. He lay against the tree
trunk, curled up like a wild animal. He did not seem
to hear their soft-footed preparations for departure.
And when they tiptoed away, he looked so much a
part of the landscape that they felt scarcely a qualm
at thus deserting him.
Had they been able to see his eyes as they padded
out into the twilight, they might have noticed them
open cautiously for a moment; but they did not
look back until they had reached the nearest rise.
Twice then, the Professor turned, but the wall of the
evening dusk was between him and the billabong,
and the night wind had begun to rise under a be-
wildering spangle of stars.
The blackfellow rose from the ground and shook
himself as the first tip of a frightening moon climbed
over the edge of the beyond. His face did not betray
either disturbance or resentment at the desertion of
his companions. Though he had been several hours
more than they without water, he showed no sign
of extremity. Everything around him was normal,
familiar, reassuring.
He stood silhouetted, raising his hand and find-
ing with satisfaction that the wind came from the
direction in which his two fellow travellers had gone,
so that he knew his movements would not be heard.
Then he found in the dark a keen little tomahawk
among his belongings, and began to cut into the dis-
torted bole of the big tree. Presently, his blade broke
through into a hollow full of cool, slightly eucalyptus-
tasting water —enough to nourish three men for a
couple of days’ quiet rest and carry them through for
eighty miles under a burning sun.
While he drank sparingly he did not think of
those two staggering, pathetic figures out on the plain.
He held no grievance. He had not acted in malice in
not further inviting their notice of the gum-tree. He
had not understood their stupid chatter. He believed
in letting his neighbors go their own gait, according
to native etiquette.
He could have given no reason why he had failed
to save the two white men’s lives ; nor did any seem
to him necessary to justify his actions. He had
spoken. They did not wish to listen. And he was
a well-bred man, not intrusive in his habits. If he
had been called upon to defend his own survival at
their expense, his simple apologia would have been
based upon his instinctive scorn for the uselessness
of beings who could not recognise that common,
phenomenon of the bushland a water gum, which
every native child would know on sight.
Presently a little fire, infinitely lonely, lit the
ghostly boles of the trees. A curious song, mono-
tonous, mellow, contented, based on three notes only,
with something in it of the ancient tunes that shep-
herds play on their pan pipes in the snow-clad valleys
of the Taurus, went up to the stars.
"THREE days later a loping figure crossing the
' plain did not deviate to investigate the two
crumpled heaps of clothing that lay so pitifully in
the sun, looking much larger in the dry air than ever
they had appeared in life. To him, they were merely
the remains of a couple of primitives—ignorant,
savage and therefore negligible by ordinary human
reckoning.


lawn. It was hard to sacrifice that lawn, for it had
taken him years to get it into good shape. He and
Joan crouched there with their three children between
them until the raid was over. Every window in the
house was smashed, and now the rain poured in.
Peter couldn’t think of enlisting until he had pro-
vided some sort of safety for his wife and children.
He decided to get them out of Southampton, and
camp in his boat at Hamble. It was too late ; cholera
and typhoid had broken out from water contamina-
tion. There was a cordon round the city to prevent
anyone leaving it and carrying contagion into the
country. That night the raiders came again. There
was no light or water in the city and very little food.
The repair gangs broke down because the men
deserted to look after their families. The cordon was
broken and the people streamed out into the country.
Peter got Joan and the children to Hamble, but
there were hundreds before him. They covered the
ground like grasshoppers. The worst difficulty lay
in getting milk for the baby. At last the desperate
father went out with his automatic and brought back
15 tins of it.
The bombing went on. The secret of the
raiders’ success was an improved sextant that enabled
them, flying blind in the clouds, to get as close to
their objective as if it were visible. Water was low
at Hamble, and cholera appeared. Corbett decided
to sail to the Isle of Wight. Coming from an infected
area they were prevented from landing. They head
for Plymouth, hoping it is beyond the war zone.
Beaten out of their course by a storm they pick up
the pilot and observer of a wrecked ’plane and bring
them after much difficulty to Portsmouth. Here they
are informed that all the southern ports of England
are closed to shipping, and they are advised to go to
Brest in France.
At Brest Peter puts his family on a ship for
Canada, where his sister will take care of them, and
remains himself to volunteer for the navy. The book
ends on a note of hope. Britain has won a naval
victory in the Channel; the ends of the earth are
rushing to her assistance; despite everything her
people are rallying. All is not lost; the navy is still
the nation’s bulwark.
What Happened to the Corbetts is a rather phleg-
matic book. It is not imaginative in a large way, but
the author sees detail very clearly. All the minor
happenings are excellently portrayed. The treatment
throughout is objective. The reader’s feelings are never
harrowed. In fact there is an element of Swiss Family
Robinson about the whole affair that is encouraging
in itself. This is a first novel ; and it is good value.
Village in Europe.
Noah Pandre’s Village, by Salman Schneour
(Chatto and Windus ; translated by Joseph Leftwich),
has something of the form of Barrie’s A Window in
Thrums, but the content is different and the spirit
in which it is written runs to realism touched with
folklore rather than to romance touched with senti-
mentality.
The scene is a small Russian-Polish village on the
banks of the Dnieper. The time might be to-day,
yesterday or the day before. Life in the peasant
community, boiled down to its essentials, conforming
to ancient traditions, does not change.
The book begins with a group scene —the annual
feast of the burial society:
Everybody was busy eating in his own fashion,
according to his trade. The plasterer laid bricks, the
water carrier groaned under the weight of his burden,
the blacksmith hammered his food, like hot iron, and
the sparks flew from his eyes. The harnessmaker cut
his food into strips, the shoemaker thrust his food into
his mouth quickly, like little nails. And the carpenter
planed it into his mouth. Each in his own way, by
force of daily habit.... Melach’s mouth could not be
seen. But the frizzy hair round it moved like waves
whipped by a storm. Elis two eyes were visible, but
soon they would grow smaller and vanish, like fast-
fading stars extinguished by a storm of gluttony.
The feasters go back to their daily lives, the story-
teller following them. There is Zundel, the old man
who sells the rolls and dyed eggs to the passengers
who come off the river boats, honest as the day him-
self, but his hut open to every thief and wanderer
in trouble; his daughter Mousha, with her unex-
plained child, and his son who has “horse klepto-
mania” and through lack of official understanding
goes to Siberia for it.
There is Zimmel, the itinerant bookseller who car-
ried a pack and was always panting, “like a man run-
ning to catch up with his own life.” He fell ill, and
the elders of the village found him an old broken cart
and clubbed together to buy him a horse. After all
it would be cheaper than keeping his wife and
children. But he couldn’t get along without his
pack. He found it difficult to keep his balance,
“like a camel deprived of its hump.” Also, he was
changed to his customers; no longer familiar, they
suspected him of overcharging now he was so grand.
There is Anshel, the good-natured ferryman who
is still, after 10 years, in love with his wife.
Anshel’s ferry cable is in itself one of the charac-
ters of the village. The people see it in terms of the
material and labor that went into its making. “It
flings itself on the grass like a dying python. It
writhes and twists its head, and leers balefully with
one eye, the hole by which it had been hitched to the
boat —until finally it calms down.”
Yoshe, the knacker, is like death itself. To him
at last come two old horses that have worked in the
village for many years and are now past use. The
death of the trusting beasts in the snow is an unfor-
gettable passage. A shudder of something like
superstitious fear runs through the village as if
murder had been done or some submerged memory
of ancient sacrifice stirred again. There are many
similar stories of people and things, the threads all
drawn together when the river steamer fouls Anshel’s
new cable and he is killed. Pagan memories are
involved here also ; it is the river god taking his
sacrifice
Outside the story of the village, but intimately
linked to it, is the story of the young giant Noah
Pandre. He is in prison, It was dll a misunder-
standing, but somehow he couldn’t explain himself.
The story of his return, walking all the way, is
rather like Christian’s journey. At every turn he is
tried and tempted—a drowning man, a gift from a
thief, an enraged bull and pretty Katinka whom he
saves from it —a temptation he didn’t resist a forest
fire, all waylay him as he tries to beat his way home
to his wife and child. The book ends with his return
and the death of his child.
Grim Blossoms.
A first novel, Flowers without Sun, by Jean Ross
(Thornton Butterworth), is the spiritual offspring of
Squeers’s Academy and Children in Uniform trans-
planted to a beautiful Hampshire countryside and
given the benefit of all the latest literary devices.
It deals with a school for delicate and backward
children run by a Mrs. Cuff. She is a sinister figure,
avaricious, heartless, greedy, and she has two assistants,
Butters, the nurse who acquiesces, and Ruth Sargent,
who doesn’t.
The children are a pathetic lot of neurotics and
imbeciles. The housework is done by three deranged
girls and a handsome subnormal boy, who have all
been stowed there out of sight by their families. It is
all very ugly and painful. Against this background
the crisis works up like a thunderstorm. A little boy
dies of neglect and one of the maids, Yvonne, goes
screaming mad in the night.
Hilary and Michael sat laughing in a corner. They
were playing knock knock. A happy, jolly party in the
school. A sweet sight for parents. Harmony. Two
doctors come to see Yvonne. In the schoolroom nobody
knows. Put more coke on the fire. It’s Saturday. We
shall have sweets after lunch. Goody. Mrs. Cuff sits
doing her accounts. Bills overdue. Save on the meat.
Nobody knows. In the schoolroom we are painting and
hammering for dear life. Who is that hurrying down
the garden path waving his arms?
That is the style. The story piles one bedlamitic
horror on another. Life is off key in every direction.
Even Ruth Sargent has a twisted affair with the
school doctor. The one cheering incident is when Mrs.
Cuff falls over the bannisters while being pursued by
a youth with an axe. It is characteristic that the last
part of the story is told by Ruth in the consulting
room of a psychoanalyst.
Flowers without Sun is overloaded. It has force,
but the force is often misdirected. There are pas-
sages of murky splendor, and the love interest, though
it is as distorted as the rest, is handled with delicacy
and conviction. As the style, indicates, the madness
of the story has been externalised, a method that tends
to choke the narrative. In its way this is an
ambitious book, and successful enough to raise interest
in the writer’s next.
"All Mod. Con."
Writers in other sections of The Bulletin have
been murmuring about flats and Stevens villas, and
I’d intended to follow suit with something statistical
about Maoriland’s State Houses. But if it’s a matter
of concern that M.L. has to finance the building of
5000 houses a year, it’s also of some moment that a
house should be a house, not a barn or a box or a
hutch ; so the Red Page is the place and Art the
subject.
Primarly a house should be a place to live in ;
and then a place in which one can live with some
degree of culture. Maoriland’s houses have the
requisite four walls and a roof, and for mod. cons,
they’re a housewife’s delight. All the taps turn on
and off, there’s a business like a Christmas-tree for
drying clothes on, and the plug for the radio lurks
in the sitting-room corner like a burglar under a bed.
But for civilised life they lack one essential —space.
Not enough rooms, no verandahs, not enough ground.
The majority of the houses are so small it seems that
the Government, pleading for population, is resigned
to a falling birthrate, or else, trying to eliminate over-
crowding, is resigned to overcrowding in the future.
The high cost of labor, materials and land is no
doubt responsible for the general skimpiness. But the
Government always seems to have plenty of money.
Passing by in “delicate, opulent silence” the
kitchen I saw painted lingerie pink with mauve
stripes, and admitting that the spectacle of Mr. Jones,
Mr. Smith and Mr. Robinson all in a row putting in
their lawns on Saturday afternoons will be almost
pleasant enough to be Art, one can still plead for a
verandah and a hedge, neither of which would have
cost a fortune. I was told that all there will be
between the boxes will be a low picket fence.
How is the modest Maorilander to prance on the
lawn, sleep on the lawn, or even mow the confounded
lawn with only a picket fence to shield him from the
vulgar stare of Jones to left and Robinson to right?
Sleeping on the lawn is Art.
In the cities the absence of trees and hedges
could be forgiven, although the State houses in Auck-
land and Wellington are far enough into the country
for hedge-space to be allowed. But the row I’m
talking of was in a country town, and country
dwellers have learned to value space, and greenery,
and privacy. By the same token, the construction
of double houses in the country is a major crime ;
city people have to put up with living like a crate of
eggs, but it’s certainly not necessary in rural Maori-
land. Sharing houses or living under the eyes of the
neighbors doesn’t mean democracy; it means
standardisation.
The Missing Verandah is a weighty count. The
need for it is obvious. Just as Sydney flat-dwellers need
a harbor view or at least a squiz at the sunset over the
chimney-pots, Maorilanders need to be able to sit
on the verandah and listen to the last thrush. That
is Art, that is very nearly Arty, but it is also perfectly
true. What, anyhow, is the use of being able to
watch the Joneses larking on the front lawn if you
can’t do it in comfort on the verandah?
Further than that, though, the absence of
verandahs does spoil the look of the houses. As they
are, they vary from little brick boxes or little wood
boxes to quite pleasing houses. A row of them in a
small town looks hideous ; at Auckland, where the
Government has made a complete village of them
on a hillside (it’s known as “the State Forest”), they
look very much more attractive than the average
subbub. But in small town and city alike, merely
from the point of view of design, they’d have been
vastly improved by verandahs. There was the long,
low, “colonial” house surrounded by verandahs, more
familiar to Australians than Maorilanders, but not
unknown across the Tasman, that would have made
an excellent model; and the “bungalow” that Maori-
landers know well-—cream walls, green roof, verandah
in front —would have served splendidly. Or the new
Napier could have been studied.
Apart from questions of Socialism, finance and
so on, one can’t quarrel with a Socialist Government
which, finding that 50,000 “surplus persons” were
cluttering up the existing accommodation, set about
building them houses with the energy which Mr.
Savage and his colleagues have displayed. Nor, on
the whole, are they making a bad job of them. But
when they were prepared to do so much they might
have done a little more and made the homes beautiful
as well as useful.
KOURA.
Hilary Lofting.
Hilary Lofting, English by birth, educated at
St. Edmund’s College, Hertfordshire, came to Aus-
tralia in 1915, after having been twice rejected for
military service. He used the Old-World cultural
tradition of which he was a product for the benefit of
the country of his adoption.
Australian poetry was a special interest with
him, and he was an intimate of a number of the
leading poets of his earlier Australian days, among
others of Christopher Brennan, whom he befriended
and whom he regarded as a genius of the first order.
His own work comprised book reviews, literary
articles and short stories, a large proportion of it
appearing in The Bulletin. His gift was not robust
but it was real. His reviews and articles were well-
informed, and, above all, he had grace of style, a wel-
come quality at any time. This was as much a feature
of his occasional public addresses on literary topics
as of his articles. There was the feeling that if he
turned to talk of his fountain-pen or any object
within view he would carry his audience with him, an
engaging manner and a discriminating eclecticism fur-
nishing interest equally with his topic. Perhaps both
in writing and speaking he was by nature a shade
too preoccupied with the niceties of style, but it was
a pleasing fault in a world in which a study of ele-
gance is rather rare.
In the short-story field his best-known work was
probably a series dealing with life in Woolloomooloo,
a curious locale for a man of Lofting’s background.
By comparison with the work of uncompromising
realists who had preceded him in more or less the
same field it was a strangely gentle ’Loo that he pre-
sented. He also wrote a number of other short stories
of distinction, one of which, in the late ’twenties,
was included in O’Brien’s Best Short Stories of the
year. A light novel, The Happy Vagabond, by
Lofting in collaboration with Margaret Fane was
published by Angus and Robertson in 1929. His
preface to the same firm’s complete edition of Marcus
Clarke’s For the Term of His Natural Life is typical
of him as a literary essayist.
A more secure and leisurely age would have
suited Hilary Lofting better than the one into which
he was born. The exigencies of earning a livelihood
pressed him hard at times, causing him to overlay
his more carefully-considered work with much that
was of purely commercial intent. His best work might
well be worth recovering. A strong insistent note
was as much beyond his capacities as it might well
have been beyond his desires, but the note he struck
was individual and of value.
D.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Towards Sex Freedom : Irene Clephane (Bodley
Head). First cheap edition (English price, 55.) of this
graphic story of the women’s movement, frankly dis-
cussed, with particularly interesting chapters on the
extraordinary war period and the subsequent
readjustments.
The Making of a Gentleman: Esme Wingfield-
Stratford (Williams and Norgate). Mainly by means
of an engaging discursive style the author turns out
a fairly long book tracing the evolution of various
shades of meaning that have belonged to the word
“gentleman” through the centuries, to its present still
somewhat varied application. The author draws his
references from a wide range of reading, and his
book reads as if it was first done as an anthology
and all the bits then expanded at leisure for personal
entertainment.
Week-end Wants of a Guest and Week-end Wor-
ries of a Hostess: Nicolas Bentley (Cobden-Sander-
son). Each of these oddities has pages of truncated
statements with ruled lines following, so that the
person amusing himself or herself by keeping it can
fill in what’s left unsaid, thus having a reminder of
past visiting experience for future reference. ih e
guest then knows when going to visit the -s again
what he suffered there last time, while Mrs. - >
through her hostess book, would know what the par-
ticular guest had made them suffer. Kept honest F
they could be engaging private documents, thoug
they’d need locking up.


PHILIPS
y.v : ...
I
mm
.
m
y '
❖
■
. '
■i
— rpr* ~TF?.
A A • fy-'i > & '• a < > ■' $? >'y-'<s , jt - <■ X i
sm*£m >1 : >, ' < ' n * t * k t U y £
tmmmammmmmamßmamHmmmMmmmxmmi
*
» §m l& * • .« -// v *
m
f
*
fc
>»WPI?PP
4* i s •*•7 -V' *f> ■- > • '<z
m \
\
IT'S AMAZING! BRILLIANT BEYOND BELIEF!
Everybody's talking about it! Only Philips, the
World's Largest Radio Manufacturers, could have
made "New Listening" possible.
Why not buy a new Philips Radioplayer and give
yourself and your family the thrill of Philips "NEW
LISTENING"? It makes the most of every minute in
every radio programme . . . both from Australian
and Overseas stations.
What technicolor is to motion pictures, Philips "New Listening
is to radio. "New Listening" is the result of a combination of
outstanding new features . . . new circuits ... a new reproduc- |
tion system . . . new highs in
selectivity and sensitivity . . .
new tuning efficiency and
operating ease ... all these,
and more, go to make radio's
greatest achievement.
Remember—Radioplayers are
backed by the biggest name
in radio PHILIPS.
\ COMPLETE I
RANGE
MODELS FROM
■
EASY
TERMS
{Prices slightly higher in W. Aust.)
Model 1941, "The Wonder Set
of To-Day," for Australian broadcast
reception, comes to you in the attractive
gleaming "Philite" cabinet illustrated above. This
brilliant performer, which incorporates many new and
exclusive Philips features, is priced at only 13 guineas cash or
easy terms. In cabinets of identical design are Model 1949 (battery
operated), priced at 19 gns„ and Model 1952 for A.C. world wide reception,
price 17 gns.
OBTAINABLE FROM PHILIPS ACCREDITED RETAILERS IN CITIES, SUBURBS & COUNTRY TOWNS
(I
fs
FOR BETTER
LIGHTING
Always use
PHILIPS
LAMPS
*
Over 100,000,000
Philips Lamps
have been sold
in Australia.
ra
FOR
BETTER
RADIO
Always
PHILIPS
VALVES
1
The Symbol
of Quality!
A SELECTION FROM THE
LARGE RANGE OF PHILIPS
"NEW LISTENING" RADIO-
PLAYERS
MODEL 1852: For
World Wide Re-
ception. FIVE
VALVES A.C.
OPERATED.
Price 25 GNS.
Also available in
a cabinet of
similar design
Model 1840, for
battery operation.
Price 28 GNS.
And Model 1868,
for A.C. / D.C.
operation.
28 GNS.
df
MODEL 1754: For
World Wide Re-
ception. FIVE
VALVES BAT-
TERY OPERATED.
Price 35 GNS.
Or Yibrator Op-
erated—4o GNS.
mm®
CHAIRSIDE
MODEL 1362
For World Wide
Reception.
6 VALVES —A.C.
OPERATED
Price
88383
MODEL 1052, for World Wide Reception
5 VALVES A.C. OPERATED
Price
18 GNS.
Also available in
cabinet of simi-
lar design—Model
1044 for Battery
operation.
23 GNS.
or Vibrator oper-
ation 28 GNS.
dsf
-
MODEL 2240: For
World Wide Re-
ception. BAT-
TERY OPERATED.
24 GNS.
Or Vibrator oper-
ated 29 GNS.
Also available in
a cabinet of
similar design
Model 2268, for
A.C./D.C. opera-
tion 21 GNS.
If you are in doubt as to the name of your
nearest Philips Accredited Retailer, write
care G.P.0., SYDNEY (Box 2703 C)
BRISBANE (Box 44SF) MELBOURNE
(Box 4326) ADELAIDE (Box H 1377)
PERTH (Box J 748) HOBART (Box 617 E).
Name
Address
9R-] 4
MAKERS OF LAMPS, VALVES, RADIOPLAYERS, X-RAY AND TRANSMITTING EQUIPMENT, DISCHARGE LAMPS, AMPLIFIERS, CYCLE SETS, ETC., ETC.
KXYI. vj Philips Lamps (si/sta) tty., ua, tleaa Office: 0 9-7i Clarence Street,


Sfyyteltt
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
t/HPclt I'tyme'cfWie
In 1891 this magnificent building, bear-
ing a name that is a household one
throughout the civilised world, was
erected, and here was established in a
truly dignified home the headquarters of
the Metropolitan Police. Overlooking
the western end of the Thames Embank-
ment, and almost casting its shadow on
the northern abutment of Westminster
Bridge and the lower portion of “Big
Ben’s Tower,” at the eastern “corner” of
the Houses of Parliament, it is visited by
most people who go to London. It pos-
sesses a fascination, thanks in part to
writers of crime and other mystery stories,
understandable enough. Here is the
centre of the great Criminal Investigation
Department, a section of the Metro-
politan Police it is true, but, like that
body, covering a far more extensive area
than its name implies. For example, the
Metropolitan Police are a national as well
as municipal force. A part of the duty
allotted to this body is to guard the King,
the royal dockyards and State-owned
buildings such as the Houses of Parlia-
ment and the British Museum. This
implies a far greater area than municipal
or metropolitan London ; hence the title
of the force may convey to the stranger
a much too limited conception of the
character and extent of its functions.
Scotland Yard has been likened to an
octopus whose tentacles encircle the earth.
By this simile is doubtless intended to be
conveyed the fact that every land, at
some time or another, has been visited
by representatives of the Yard “on busi-
ness bent.” While the functions of Scot-
land Yard are in the main popularly
associated with crime, adopting the
ordinary interpretation of that word, they
are not infrequently engaged in matters
far removed from it. In its own particular
sphere “The Yard” represents one of the
most amazing and “perfectly machined”
institutions the wit of man has ever de-
vised. The name Scotland Yard is derived
from a place bearing this title which
stood behind Whitehall Palace, and was
anciently a palace given by King Edgar
(952-975) to Kenneth 11. for the humiliat-
ing purpose of his making to this place
an annual journey to do homage for his
SCOYLAND YARD.
kingdom. Henry VIII. made it a residence for his sister Margaret, widow of James V. When the crowns of England and Scotland were united
in the person of James 1., the palace was deserted for those of St. James and Whitehall, and eventually demolished, but the name remained,
and the ground covered with “mean dwellings” and a beer tavern where men engaged in transporting coal in bags from below London Bridge
made merry. All these too have passed, and with “New Scotland Yard” even the name has gone from the old locale, though the old name is
to-day invariably employed for the splendid structure, a portion of which is depicted above.


LOCKED OUT.
“B.B.C. boycotted the Duke of Windsor’s speech appealing for peace among the nations.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.O.),
, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 rhonths, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
CRUSADERS AND CONSCRIPTION.
For years J. Bull’s voluble crusaders have been de-
manding an aggressive front towards selected other
nations. They gave unanimous support to the “col-
lective security” and “sanctions” experiment which
ended a traditional and valuable friendship, with un-
pleasant results already. They worked long and
openly to drag the Empire in on the losing side in
Spain’s civil war. They have done their utmost to
get it dragged into the China butchery. All along they
have opposed any attempt to reach a peaceful under-
standing with Germany.
Towards Germany, especially, they have main-
tained an attitude of unbending hostility. All attempts
at peaceful negotiation with either that country or
Italy they have represented as “cringing before the
dictators.” Outside these nations that they have
taken it on themselves to outlaw, they have urged the
pledging of the Empire to the defence of every acre
of the Mad Continent.
Reluctance to follow the advocacy of these
crusaders was “craven cowardice.” They fathered
and fostered the conception of J. Bull as the world’s
busybody and policeman. They insisted —showing
a most unexpected concern —that the Flag had become
a jest to the nations. Pulfed up with their belligerence,
they demanded “a stronger line in foreign policy” ;
they insisted on “action.” They have been mighty
buglers of such slogans and catchcries. In a word,
over and over again they have asked for war.
Adoption of any part of the programme must
have meant long before this the slaughter of another
generation of young manhood. Presumably the cru-
saders were prepared for this. Most of them are old ;
some of the most belligerent of them are women ;
few of them could be sent to the front line. If there
were realistic thinkers among them, they might have
realised that the horrors in the war they ask for are
likely to be more equitably distributed than in any
past war ; but funk-holes and steel shelters may be
obstacles to realistic thinking.
The first and certain sacrifice, anyway, would be
the young hot blood of the nation —the men already
in the Army, Navy and Air Force; the volunteers.
For these adoption of any item of the crusaders’ pro-
gramme must have spelt their death sentence. Within
a matter of months in any war that breaks out this
sentence is going to be executed. This approved sac-
rificial portion bore the brunt of the first onslaught
in the last war, and their casualties were appalling.
Presumably the sword-rattlers had faced up to the
probability of this happening again, and had gladly
accepted on behalf of those who would be sacrificed
while the nation was being “got ready.”
The crusaders’ programme has now been in part
adopted. Certainly other elements apart from their
constant urging have entered into this adoption. Hitler
and Mussolini by their actions in March and April
shattered faith in their fair words, and made it neces-
sary to prepare for the worst they might yet have
in mind to do. But this element of compulsion does
not alter the fact that it is the crusaders’ own pro-
gramme that has now been in part adopted, giving
an entirely new direction, with hitherto unheard-of
commitments, to British foreign policy. This is, with-
out any question, the one thing above all others that
they have asked for all along—the committing of
J. Bull in advance to an active part in any and every
war that may happen to get going on the Mad Con-
tinent.
Whatever may be thought of this pledging of the
Empire in advance to fight the wars of Poland,
Rumania, Greece and other odd bits of the European
hotchpotch, it stands for the present as Empire foreign
policy. The direction has been taken and there is no
immediate escaping it. But just as there can be no
question that this is the direction the crusaders have
advocated, there can be no question, either, that its
adoption rendered conscription in Britain also ines-
capable.
On this test —now imposed —the crusaders are at
last shown up in their true shabby colors. They
now become more than ever a laughing-stock to the
world. It must be savage laughter in France and
Poland; even in Russia. The squealing opposition
to conscription by the very people who have all along
been urging the “stand against the aggressors” must
strike potential allies and enemies alike as plumbing
new depths in despicable shabbiness.
Put to the test these same crusaders who have
been bellowing for war for years demand for them-
selves the right to shirk the fighting. French, Poles,
Russians, Rumanians, Greeks, all having conscription
already, can provide the cannon fodder; Britons —
apart from such as care to volunteer —will make the
munitions, with steel shelters handy, and be well paid
for it. The one great value placed on the Russians
is their inexhaustible supply of man-power. The con-
ception that the British can best fight by not fighting
on land, while the countries they now stand pledged
to fight for spill out the lifeblood of their manhood,
must be singularly disgusting and revolting to the
nations concerned. J. Bull’s home-front warriors have
given him plenty to blush for in the past couple of
decades, but nothing quite so shameful as this.
To carry out the pledges to France alone —to say
nothing of the pledges to all the others now joined in
—Britain, as R.A.F. Marshal Salmond points out,
would have to “make use of every man and woman,
gun, aeroplane and ship which its resources and those
offered by the Dominions can make available.”
France and Belgium, with a population of little more
than 50,000,000 together, “face a possible attack by
a combination containing 140,000,000 people, all
organised for war.” They would have the job of
holding out against those crushing odds; they could
be defeated before Britain could be got ready to
assist them, and their losses of men, in any case, would
be terrible.
People faced with this outlook would need a
remarkable sense of humor to laugh other than sav-
agely at Britain’s funk-hole crusaders. Last week
the Commons, by a large majority, overrode these
shabby objectors and approved of a first instalment of
conscription. Now at the instigation of these same
people there are anti-conscription processions and
the threat of anti-conscription strikes to further inspire
J.B.’s critics and cause even his friends misgiving.
In every way it is a shabby business, in none
more than in the evident readiness to let somebody
else do the fighting. Mr. Attlee, on conscription:
We shall not defeat the menace of aggression by
adopting the method and attitude of our enemies. On
the contrary, we should develop to the utmost the
spirit of voluntary service.
Or Senator Sheehan (Vic.), at the inter-State Labor
conference which threw out the Tasmanian proposals
for compulsory training for home service in Australia:
In war Australia would have to depend upon her
Navy and Air Force.
These utterances, with the entire stand against
compulsory national service, amount to this. Let us
crouch down behind the gallant—if few—voluntary
defenders, and let them be the sacrifice. When they
are slaughtered—it will not take long—let us offer
next the volunteer raw and untrained troops for an
even more criminal butchery. The historical record
is there to show that in given instances —at Neuve
Chapelle, Loos and elsewhere —raw troops suffered
casualties higher by as much as 50 p.c. than those
suffered by experienced troops fighting beside them.
By no means, therefore, let there be any mitigation
of the prospective slaughter by training in time of
peace.
It is time Australia, like Britain, lost patience
with these miserable advocates and found enough
plain commonsense to face up to stark realities. .The
time when wars could be fought by small numbers of
professional soldiers on remote battlefields are over.
In the sort of war that must now be envisaged the
lid will be off and civilisation suspended. It will
be all in for every man or woman in the community;
none in a nation will escape the issue, for all the funk-
holes, and only those nations in which everybody is
trained and prepared can hope to survive.
The performance of the funk-hole crusaders,
despicable as it is, holds out one sign that cynics, at
least, may reckon to the good. It suggests that in
the long run it may be no bad thing that war hence-
forth will strike all sections of communities equally,
not merely sacrificial portions. Once they have had
such an experience of it, people everywhere will be
not only less eager for it, but less patient with its advo-
cates, and less patient, too, with timeserving poli-
ticians who place a safe seat before a safe country.
Conscription alone might well have a much-
needed steadying effect. In Britain it will now bring
the personal element of war into hundreds of thou-
sands of homes that hitherto have been able to take
a somewhat abstract view of all the war-ranting. Apart
from being vital to Australia’s survival as a people if
the test should come any time in the next half-dozen
years, its reintroduction here could not fail to have
the same steadying effect on many of the local crop
of hotheads. Tom and Jack in uniform are all right
when they are somebody else’s Tom and Jack.
Australia Speaks at Last.
The House of Representatives has had a full-dress
debate on foreign affairs, the first for a very long
time. Because of that it wasn’t so impressive as it
might have been if the speakers were tackling a
familiar subject and knowing pretty well how far
they should go ; but it was interesting and it was
necessary.
The late Prime Minister, with all his good quali-
ties, never properly realised what Canadian and South
African Prime Ministers realised long ago, that de-
liberations on foreign affairs are an essential part of
Parliament’s functions. He was always too much in-
clined to regard the House of Representatives as a
provincial assembly, the first among equals. Mr.
Menzies has recalled the House to a higher destiny.
One significant fact emerges from last week’s
discussion: and let the Edens, Churchills, Attlees,
Daltons and Sinclairs make the most of it. The
“Follow Britain” business, which in practice meant
meek acceptance of whatever the British Foreign
Secretary of the day chose to prescribe for us, has
been abandoned, at least in principle.
The Minister of External Affairs quoted his Prime
Minister’s first broadcast speech, laying stress on the
words “the British countries of the world must stand or
fall together,” and said that these words and ante-
cedent sentences “are not to be interpreted to mean that
in any and every set of circumstances the foreign policy
of a United Kingdom Government, if it leads to war,
shall, or will automatically, commit Australia to par-
ticipation in that war.” Expressing approval of this
statement, the leader of the Opposition repeated it in
his own language, saying “our membership of the
British Commonwealth does not automatically com-
mit us to war” ; and to that the Minister said “Hear,
hear!” Thereupon Mr. Curtin:
The Governments of the Dominions must themselves
decide how, and to what extent, they would be par-
ticipators in a war. We and the Government have
qualified, in the most decisive way, what is the position
of this Parliament and this country towards war. The
decision rests with us.
Neither gentleman, however, suggested that Australia
could contract out of a British war, nor would this
ever be proposed by any responsible section of the
people.
Reviewing the present situation, Mr. Gullett inti-
mated that his Government had been “advised of
every step taken by the Government of the United
Kingdom,” and was “satisfied beyond any doubt that
the United Kingdom and the democracies associated
with it have no intention other than one that is purely
defensive against aggression”:
If, therefore, in pursuance of this policy the Gov-
ernment of Great Britain is at any moment plunged
into war, this Government will, on behalf of the Aus-
tralian people, make common cause with the Mother
Country in that war.
Again there can be no arguing against this attitude.
But British politicians, whoever they are, should not
be allowed to infer that Australia regards with any
enthusiasm the one-sided pledges to Rumania and
Greece, or the possibility of being involved in a war
to prevent Danzig becoming German again, or, above
all, any arrangement with the U.S.S.R. that might
bring Australia into conflict with Japan.
Of Japan Mr. Gullett spoke a great deal, mostly
in a eulogistic strain. He invited the Japanese to
prefer their old friends of the British Empire to their
new friends of the Anti-Comintern Pact, and assured
them that “Australians will never cease to honor
Japan for the wholehearted way in which she honored
her partnership in the Anglo-Japanese Treaty during
the World War.” Trade-diversion Mr. Gullett did not
mention. To Hitler he gave credit for “a great and
shining record of service to his people,” including
Mussolini in the tribute with interest added (“genius,
patriotism, irresistible stimulus and almost super-
human capacity”) —this after he had declared that
“both these dictators, especially Hitler, will take all
they can by bloodless mobilisation and demonstration
against any weak neighboring country which they
have previously fomented by insidious influences into
a state of unrest,” and had referred to the Germans
as “the slaves of a dictatorship as absolute as any that
Asia has ever known.” “Provocative and contradic-
tory,” was Mr. Curtin’s comment on this point of
the speech, and the comment was just.
It would be better if there had been less from
the Minister and more from the P.M. Mr. Menzies
proposed “a peace axis resting on London, Washing-
ton and Canberra.” He said there had been “errors
in Britain’s foreign policy in the past 20 years, but
in the last year or so she has given a magnificent
example of forbearance.” He insisted —as did Mr.
Curtin —that other countries had a perfect right to
choose their own forms of government, and rejected
“the idea that we are to drift inevitably into war
because we have here democracy and over there
totalitarian States.”
The change in Britain’s foreign policy was the
theme of Mr. Cameron’s contribution to the debate.
Germany, he stated, has “just grievances against
Poland,” and he asked “whether a move by Germany
to have its grievances redressed is something upon
which British lives and money should be squandered.”
Going further, he said “the present British alliances do
not comply with the three main principles which should
govern all alliances : community of interests, identity
of objects, geographical and strategical ability to
render mutual aid.”
Where are the community of interests and identity
of objects so far as Russia is concerned? And in regard
to Rumania and Poland, where are the geographical
and strategical considerations which would make it pos-
sible for the allied countries to assist each other? How
could Britain send troops to Poland?
Nobody answered the member for Barker, probably
because nobody could answer him.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Mystery of the Duke.
The most moving and memorable of all broadcast
speeches was that made by the man who is now Duke
of Windsor in taking farewell of his crown and his
country. Nothing like it was ever heard before and
nothing like it may ever be heard again. Millions of
people in all the continents listened intently, and the
women with emotion, to that simple statement of the
speaker’s conflict between his private affection and
his public duty, and of his surrender to the lesser
loyalty. If he failed to convince, he did not lose the
interest and good wishes of the toiling millions among
those who had been his subjects when he became one
with them and went into voluntary exile.
Last week that remembered voice was heard
again—by foreigners. The silence which had been
imposed on him or which he had imposed upon him-
self was broken by an appeal for peace, addressed
in particular to the leaders of the nations, and de-
livered from the field of Verdun. He spoke “as a
soldier of the last war,” in words evidently deeply
felt and fitting to the time and place. “Reception in
America,” it is reported, was excellent; “the voice
was clear, firm and youthful,” and there was nothing
strident in it, even when he referred to “harmful propa-
ganda, tending to poison the minds of the peoples of
the world.” But his former subjects in his native
country were not listening. 8.8. C. had boycotted him.
It is alleged that “the British Government, tak-
ing the view that the broadcast was inopportune,”
advised 8.8. C. not to relay it, “because a relay would
give it undue importance.” If Mr. Chamberlain was a
party to this stupid denial of what was the British
people’s right and what most of them would have
considered a privilege, the less Chamberlain he.
What is at the bottom of this persistent cold-
shouldering of the Duke, this attitude of “Oh, no, we
never mention him, his voice must never be heard”?
The “Daily Express” suggested, in vain, that the Prime
Minister should invite the Duke and his Duchess to
return and greet the King and Queen before their
Majesties left for North America. It referred sig-
nificantly to “this family breach.” It is equally sig-
nificant that Mr. Hector Bolitho, the tame Court
biographer, who, in the spirit of the toady turned
censor of morals, altered his book Edward VIII., His
Life and Reign, which chanced to be going through
the press during the abdication period, is still em-
ployed as tame Court biographer. Since he turned
on his former patron, Mr. Bolitho has pub-
lished at least three volumes with Court approval:
George VI., Victoria and Albert and Further Letters
of Queen Victoria.
--
Home Thoughts of Mr. Bruxner.
Australians are indebted to Lieut.-Col. Bruxner for
an elaborate account of what they will be expected
to do if war should come. The lieut.-colonel is merely
a State Minister —when the statistician last counted
them there were 59 State Ministers, and more may
have been added since—but he has been named Min-
ister in Charge of National Emergency Services in
N. S. Wales, and the fruits of his researches have been
placed at the service of the nation. The nation is
adjured to read Mr. Bruxner’s notes “carefully,” and
to be ready to provide against “the effects of explosive
bombs, incendiary bombs and poison gas.”
To meet the emergency, you must darken every
window, skylight, glass door or exterior opening;
darken the lot with dark blankets, carpets or thick
sheets of brown paper. Every house, shop, office or
other place of work or business should have a refuge
—a place with as few windows as possible, prefer-
ably facing a building or a narrow lane.
Doors must be screened with blankets. Windows
must be sealed with gummed paper. Keyholes and
waste pipes must be plugged, and fireplaces packed
with old newspapers.
Windows again? They are to be sandbagged, and
panes pasted inside with paper so that the glass will
not fly. Also, if the refuge room is on the ground floor
the ceiling must be supported with wooden props,
resting on thick planks on the floor.
Having made these preliminary preparations, clear
top floors of furniture, have spare buckets of water
ready, and keep the bath filled in case the mains burst.
Sand will be needed to deal with incendiary bombs.
Keep it in a special hopper. Coat all woodwork with
whitewash, provide firefighting appliances, protect
upper storeys with asbestos board or sheet iron, and
wait for the spark from heaven to fall —no, for the
Government to warn you that there are hostile ’planes
about. The warning given, climb into the refuge room.
For raids which come without a Government
warning, there is no technique outlined. Mr. Bruxner
apparently cannot envisage even an enemy doing any-
thing in N. S. Wales except under Government super-
vision.
When you have called the roll, see that the frig,
has been moved, and that emergency sanitary arrange-
ments are in working order. Have on hand a supply
of spare blankets or rugs “for resealing if windows
should be blown in.” And all these things will be
necessary: tinned food, soap, towels, long-handled
shovels, cards, toys, a screen for privacy, a tin-opener,
a writing-pad, a gumpot, overcoats, mattresses, wire-
less set, gramophone, gumboots, goloshes, an electric
kettle and, of course, a copy of “Bruxner on Raids.”
You are now ready to put out the lights when
the siren blows. Be careful to turn off the gas-ring
before the bombing begins. It uses up air, and Mr.
Bruxner says it is better to “rely on coats and blankets
for warmth.”
All that remains is for Mr. Bruxner to explain
what country is likely to sacrifice aircraft in civilian
raids on a scale which justifies such precautions in
an isolated country like Australia.
Mr. Fairbairn at Work.
“E.V.”: Mr. Fairbairn, now Minister for Civil
Aviation, is a practical flying man, and is already giv-
ing evidence of the fact. He has ditched a proposal
to move headquarters from Melbourne to Canberra
because the money can be better spent on improving
services.
His general views are a refreshing change. He
strongly believes in night flying, and intends to con-
sider it in conjunction with rationalisation of internal
services. Night flying is the only kind of flying for
mail purposes. There is no reason whatever why the
mail posted in every big city and town when offices
close should not be delivered next morning. Even
Perth, with machines now available, can be brought
within a night flight of Adelaide or, at a pinch, Mel-
bourne, and Darwin is only 12 hours from Sydney by
Lockheed or Douglas. Mail has for years been carried
across the American continent by night.
Rationalisation is also needed, but care should
be taken that it does not unduly interfere with com-
petition. Many existing inland aerodromes are little
more than landing-paddocks, and, where there is no
competition, ’planes are slower than they might be,
and do not meet all local requirements. At Long-
reach (C.Q.), the home town of commercial flying in
East Australia, there is an agitation on foot to per-
suade the Government to allow Dutch overseas liners
to pick up mails and parcels. This should not be
necessary, although Dutch ’planes make faster time to
the southern capitals.
Under the recommendations of the committee
which investigated the proceedings of the Civil Aviation
Board, it has been agreed that the functions of the
department will be divided into three —administration
and finance, the flying section and ground organisation.
The flying section will control schedules and types
of machine and regulate traffic, radio, licensing—of
pilots and aircraft —and general supervision of services.
There is plenty for this section to do. Though
months have elapsed since the committee made its
report there is still not a reasonably effective flying
map of main routes. There is not even in existence a
model -conception of what should constitute the full
facilities of an Australian aerodrome. Flying manuals
are imperfect and the technique of flying control out
of date. And out of date it must remain until radio
and beacon facilities, combined with proper weather
reports and weather maps, can place every commer-
cial machine in the air under the direct control of a
traffic officer at headquarters.
Mr. Fairbairn has a big job ahead. One of the
first tasks which need tackling is a general survey of
the air from a commercial viewpoint. With given
freights, it should be possible to estimate —even to
guarantee —the bulk of business likely from particular
centres.
Where the survey shows a likelihood that there
will be permanent and growing business, aerodrome-
construction should go forward on a scale in keeping
with likely development.
Every aerodrome put down is a national asset,
both commercially and for defence. But aerodromes
will need to be constructed with a realisation of the
rapid expansion in the size of machines which is likely
in the next few years.
Already Mascot, Sydney, has reached the point
at which it can be scarcely expected to handle the
biggest land machines now available. Until it is
expanded, the 40-passenger Douglases, which even now
might be justified by the traffic, are out of the question.
These Topsy-turvy Times l
“The refugee worker is no different from the ordinary
migrant worker who comes here from England, Ire-
land or Scotland, except that he is. fleeing from
Fascist terrorism.” So said Mr. J. R. Hughes, of
Sydney, as reported by the “Daily News,” and in
Mr. R. A. King, M.L.C., also of Sydney, the refugee
worker has another champion:
Many of these refugees were good unionists in
the countries from which they are exiled. Why should
they not be good Australian unionists? It is a good
thing to admit them as members. They are here,
and likely to stay here; so why not accept them on
equal footing with our own workers?
Mr. A. McAlpine has been heard to much the
same effect (“the unions should admit refugees with
open arms if the refugees are prepared to carry out
the ideals of unionism”), and Mr. J. Kilburn has testi-
fied that “bricklayer refugees have proved excellent
unionists.” Mr. Kilburn has warned the unions that
“if they boycotted refugees these people might prove
a danger: there is a possibility that they would be ex-
ploited by unprincipled employers; there is a possi-
bility of their being employed as strike-breakers.”
This chorus of approbation had hardly begun
echoing down the corridors of time when a harshly
dissentient voice uplifted itself in Melbourne:
Australia may soon be faced with the problem
of a five-foot, twenty-inch-chested, rat-faced, slinking
race Unintelligent people of inferior physique are
being freely admitted under the quota of 15,000 refugees
that Australia has agreed to take. They are employed
in backyard factories in Carlton and other quarters.
The law says a factory is a place in which four
persons are employed; controllers of backyard factories
carefully import only three persons, and the nominal
£5O the immigrant must have to enter the country is fre-
quently returned overseas and used to bring out another.
The roughest living accommodation is provided for
such people. Their employers feed them, and for a
week’s work they may receive only pocket money, two
or three shillings.
One of these groups tendered for a supply of 100,000
artificial-silk undergarments at 7Jd. each. No Australian
factory could do that and pay award wages.
More factory inspectors should be appointed, and the
law should be amended so that where one alien of less
than 12 months’ residence is working for a man, that
constitutes a factory.
Labor politician? Trade-union secretary? No;
Frank Clarke, Knight of the British Empire and
President of the Legislative Council, addressing the
Malvern branch of the Women’s National League.
The other gentlemen are brisk boys of the Sydney
Labor Council, which wants a Russian alliance, and
which “carried by an overwhelming majority” a recom-
mendation that “the trade-unions,” some of which
are dreadfully short of Reds, “should admit European
worker refugees to union membership.”
Extremes meet, they say. They don’t in the case of
Comrade Clarke and the Tories of the Labor Council.
—♦
Naturalisation.
“Ek Dum” : The A.N.A. has taken “strong exception”
to a half-baked suggestion that refugees should be
granted naturalisation in three years, instead of five years,
because some of them are prepared to serve in the
A.M.F. The association has written to the Common-
wealth Government condemning the formation of
foreign communities, the establishment of schools for
aliens and the publication of newspapers in foreign
languages, and asking that all aliens should be com-
pelled to learn English within three years of arrival.
There is justification for all the A.N.A. pro-
gramme, except perhaps the abolition of newspapers
published in foreign languages. The term for naturali-
sation must not be reduced.
Nobody who has. not been to the Middle East
or the Far East can realise what a precious thing
British nationality is in the eyes of foreigners. Greeks,
Turks, Syrians, Armenians, polyglot Jews, Kurds —
you will find them in streams at every available
vantage point intriguing for a British passport. Half
the British Consulate staffs in the Eastern Mediter-
ranean could be sacked were it not for Tony and
Vitzky who stand on their doorsteps crying “Pleasa,
sir, lam British subject; my oncle have done beesness
mit Leedss dventee yeerss.”
In the case of the current crop of refugees there
are other considerations. Can anybody imagine any
Australian wanting to give up his nationality instantly
because some Government had made the place too
hot for him? His inclination would be rather to hang
on, hoping and working for the downfall of the Gov-
ernment and for the chance to return to his own good
earth.
It is much the same with the best of the immi-
grants. Those I have talked with long to return to
their native country. The section that wants naturali-
sation is the section that talks to the press about its
sorrows, the chief of which is shrinkage of bank
balances.
Those refugees for whom it might be worth while
to shorten the probation period are not the kind to
wish to become naturalised till all hope of repatriation
is gone.
Relative Importance of Things.
For parts of two days last week an alleged Parlia-
ment in Macquarie-street, Sydney, was the scene of
melodramatic championship of a newspaper photo-
grapher who says his nose was pulled by Air Force
men while he was trying to take pictures of a wrecked
’plane in which the overwrought lads had seen four
of their companions fall to a dreadful death. The
Stunt Press has given this trumpery affair far more
space than it spared for the loss of two R.A.A.F.
machines with seven valuable lives. That is just like
the Stunt Press. But it was thought that even mem-
bers of an alleged Parliament would have some sense
of the relative importance of events.
After all, the R.A.A.F. is doing a necessary and
hazardous job for Australia. This is more than can
be said for the Stunt Press, or for an alleged Par-
liament which has set up despotic commissions and
heaped up a huge debt, which levies extortionate taxes,
partly to meet the losses on the bankrupt “works” it
lightheartedly authorised, and which in October last,
with the financial position bad and getting worse,
raised its own salaries by £14,000 p.a. and dated the
increase back to the first of July.
Hitler.
“Lord Luvus,” his study:-
The inability of individuals like Professor Roberts to
anticipate the behavior of a man like Hitler is due to their
complete misunderstanding of his character. Hitler isn’t in
the least the sort of man they think he is.
His ideas may be below par and theirs may be above par,
but if he were the sort of man they think he is he couldn’t
possibly do the things he does. He can lose himself in an idea
and people can lose themselves in him, and this is quite apart
from whether his idea is a good one or a bad one.
They think he is not a man of honor because he promised
certain things at Munich and didn’t keep his promise. But
if Hitler aims at the creation of a great and powerful
Germany, uniting all the Germans and annexing all former
German possessions, he wouldn’t mind making promises ta
Chamberlain and then breaking them if he thought it served
his purpose. Chamberlain, no doubt, would believe in keep-
ing his word as an English gentleman, and he would naturally
think that Hitler would keep his word as a German gentle-
man.
I saw the other day under a picture in an English paper
the following estimate of Hitler and one of his lieutenants:
“Goebbels, master manipulator of mass hysteria and Prince
of Propagandists—the real power behind the pinchbeck throne
of Nazi Germany. Adolf Hitler, as the Premier and many
writers with intimate personal knowledge of him have testified,
is fanatically sincere in his patriotism and in his belief in his
mission. The Fiihrer thus unhappily constitutes the perfect
weapon in the hands of the ruthless type of political adven-
turer such as Goring and the subject of our picture. Goebbels,
warped in mind and body, has endeavored through a con-
trolled press and an equally strictly controlled radio to lead
a brave and misguided people to their destruction.”
This is the sort of opinion that most professors would
subscribe to, but it has one fatal flaw in it. If Goebbels
gets his ideas from Hitler, how can Hitler be his puppet? If
Hitler is his puppet he must know what Hitler is going to do.
How does he know what Hitler is going to do if Hitler has
the ideas and he hasn’t? Tf there were no Hitler believing in
something what would Goebbels have to believe in? He
would be like a thousand other clever, talented and ambitious
men and would have to attach himself to another leader. If
he had the belief he would be in the place of Hitler just
as somebody else would have been in the place of Mahomet
if he had the belief that Mahomet had.
The ideas which Hitler believes in may be quite impos-
sible of fulfilment, in which case the forces arrayed against
him will eventually prove too strong for him, as they did
in the case of Napoleon. But if that happened it wouldn’t
be possible for a man like Hitler to shift over to another
party. He would have to go to some St. Helena. But a
Goebbels could shift over quite easily and think no more
about it.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“When I bought this place five year ago it Was in a nawful state of negleck .”
“Cauboy": Nicola, now appearing at
Melbourne Apollo, was practising magi-
cal arts in pre-war days in the same
locality—in fact, his supernatural powers
were in full flower in 1911. No doubt
to his pained astonishment, the mature
prestidigitator was the recipient the other
day of. a writ launched by a fellow-
magician in a Melbourne suburb, re-
questing him to show cause and reason
why he should use the title of the Great
Nicola when deponent had already duly
registered and patented the moniker
under the laws of the State of Victoria.
The rivals would go up in the estimation
of the public if they settled their griev-
ance out of court, using the weapons of
their profession. A duel in which the
Great Nicola was turned into a rabbit
by his suburban namesake or the Melb.
Nicola was made to vanish by his exotic
colleague would put up the prestige of
their art or science and help to increase
attendances at shows of magic,
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Of the 12 Prime
Ministers to hold office during 38 years
and five months since the creation of
the Australian Commonwealth, seven are
living. Three of them headed three,
and one four, of the 21 Administrations,
but only two retained power in consecu-
tive Governments. Eight were Australian-
born, three in N.S.W., three in Victoria,
one in S.A. and one. in Tasmania. Five
were graduates of Australian universities
in Arts and/or Law, one in Medicine,
and one an Australian-born graduate of
Cambridge Six qualified as barristers,
four attaining high professional reputa-
tion as pleaders. Two worked as miners,
two at other manual trades. Five were
men of portly figure, one obese, one
skinny, and five of fair average con-
dition. Three were bearded, three mous-
tachio’d, and six, including the first and
the last five, clean-shaven. Only three
were noticeably bald, and seven owned
better-than-average head thatches.
H= * * *
“T.”: There was a piece in the paper
about a Sydney loafer who made a blind
woman beg, collared the alms and let
her live in squalor and sleep in parks.
The police-sergeant couldn’t find words
in which to do justice to the case, and
it will be allowed that the ruffian pollutes
the earth. But “respectable” people who
are in no danger of figuring in the dock
deserve to be placed in the same cate-
gory. A pleasant-faced blind lad who
ni•n.l c * *
sells smokes in all weathers from a toot-
path stand in Pitt-street tells me that last
year the equivalent of £5 was planted
on him in bad silver. No doubt there
were cases m which stumers were passed
innocently—some of those cronk 1936
florins deceived me until knowledgeable
barmaids and tram conductors coldly re .
jected them—but in the vast majority the
victim must have been defrauded in cold
fli ooc j. And, saving the proceedings of
the loafer aforesaid, I can’t think of any-
thing lower than to take in a sightless
youngster who is trying to make himself
independent of charity,
**. * *
•’ doubt if the Commonwealth
Mint . "'J 1 start ISSUI ?S double-headed
P, e " mes f ° r m l 7"
11 , b ? s ; r: onc J l,c , ji, m f . ® , horse
f le, y £or * e be , neflt o£ do f
£anclers - N ? bod y eve . r P“ ta \ c t°™ ”
my pay envelope no shopkeeper has ever
£ “ d “ ed ™ e .?f
vinced that if I ottered one to a shopman
"T . u r* u ;r
or a trammie he d be as suspicious as it
; doubtful two bob The only
(ime j ever han(J|e , he thi is whe „ low
acquaintan ces persuade me into five-
shS}|j transactions with the tote. Is
, h iss 6 ui of a coin solel £or use as a
gambling b token a world record?
° * * * *
“p ort Arthur”: Hobart was involved
recently in all the throes of kerbstone
preparations for war-time, notices stating
that Germany had invaded Poland and
a general war was expected to break out
at any moment having been posted on
city buildings. Radio rebuttals failed to
stop the panic. It was Uni. commem.
day, and suspicion naturally pointed to
undergrad, exuberance. Premier Ogilvie
announced that every effort would be
taken to find the offenders and have them
punished; but who are the offenders?
There is not a newspaper in the Speck
that does not publish almost daily news
which is interpreted in precisely as alarm-
ing a fashion, and there isn’t a bar in
Hobart where newspaper readers don’t
pass on to one another as gospel truth
versions of what they have read. Chan-
cellor Stops, of the Uni., resents the
assumption that his lads were the perpe-
trators of the silly business, and rightly :
but it is no assumption that the Tas.
dailies have printed “news” which has
hoaxed the public just as completely as
the posters in question.
* He * *
“Nakhoda”: There are still a few
about who don’t understand the
phenomena of the exchanges which the
Depression brought forcibly home to
most people. Met an old colleague in a
Melbourne street recently and we started
reminiscencing. He invited me to have
a pot, and while we were surrounding
the liquid he mentioned a pension he
was drawing for long and arduous ser-
vice in the tropics. A British firm had
employed him, and he was getting his
monthly instalments paid to him in Mel-
bourne —in Australian currency. I told
him to his astonishment that if he asked
(and could manage to induce) his firm to
pay the money into an account in Lon-
don and instructed the bank to remit it
monthly he would give himself a rise of
approximately 25 p.c. p.a. He could
hardly wait to wipe his whiskers before
hurrying off to confirm a chance bit of
information which promised to give him
the handsome return of £l2O a year on a
sixpenny pot of Foster’s.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Dispute over a will has aired
a strange case of family dissension in
Melbourne. A woman inserted an “In
Memoriam” notice in a paper:
“Rest on, dear Oswald, rest on;
A parent’s love you never knew.”
The newspaper could hardly be blamed
for not seeing anything untoward in this
innocent-seeming couplet, which might
have applied to a child whose parents
had died in his infancy. But actually it
had been inserted by a sister on the death
of her brother, who she considered had
been hardly done by at the hands of his
mother. The result was a threat from
the mother, aged 84, to sue her daughter
for libel.
* * * *
“Ologist”: These possessives! Here’s
another that seems to call for some
elucidation. A Sydney Sunday paper
of recent date had a cable com-
mencing “Denmark, Sweden and Fin-
land’s replies to Herr Hitler that they
do not feel menaced by him ” The
rule is that when joint ownership of a
book, house, business, etc., is attributed
to two or more persons the sign of the
possessive should be placed after the last
name only ; but when separate owner-
ship is denoted the sign should be
attached to each name. Ergo, if the
three countries named in the cable had
submitted a joint reply, the one posses-
sive as printed would have been quite in
order. But it was not a joint reply;
each of the three countries made a
separate reply, and so, to be correct,
Denmark and Sweden should also have
carried the possessive sign. Consider
the advertisement “Men, women and
children’s shoes for sale.” This means
that men and women are for sale as well
as children’s shoes. Men’s shoes and
women’s shoes are distinct from those
of children, and, separate possession being
thus indicated, both “men” and “women”
should also be in the possessive.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I always thought that
housemaid’s knee was a variety of rheu-
matics which affected the joints of both
legs, and that the singular number was
purely another anomaly of the English
language, but a remark our charlady
made the other day has thrown my ideas
on the subject into the melting-pot. She
informed me that she had fallen on the
stairs and had been in a very bad way
indeed, but was now progressing as well
as could be expected. “But I was lucky
not to fall on the housemaid’s knee,” she
added. “Which is the housemaid’s
knee?” I asked her. “The left one, of
course,” she answered. Can any medi-
cal contributor throw any light on the
matter?
* * * *
“Avanzado”: Picking up the morning
journal in my Sydney suburb at 7 a.m.
the other day I found a cable message
dated from London the same day stating
that it was officially announced from
Berlin that the Italo-German military
pact had been signed that day (Monday).
Allowing for summer time in England
it was at that moment 10 p.m. on Sunday
in London. It was also 10 p.m. on Sun-
day in Berlin, as Germany does not
have summer time. As the pact was
allegedly signed on Monday the news
was a good deal more than the two hours
ahead of itself unless Von Ribbentrop
and Ciano sat up till midnight in order
to sign it as soon as Sunday passed into
Monday. A little more of this and we
shall be getting messages from the middle
of next week. Metaphysicians tell us
that the past and the future are all one,
and that time, like Litvinov’s conception
of peace, is indivisible. Their theory re-
ceives some confirmation from such
messages.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A Great Public School in
Melbourne has a magazine whose editor
takes pride in the section which keeps
touch with what old boys are doing, and
he has correspondents in each capital to
keep him posted. His representative in
one of the States west of Victoria sent
him a monthly budget in which the
doings of sundry old boys were duly
recorded, but they were all so well estab-
lished in business, politics or society
that they made the pages of the maga-
zine so dull as to be unreadable. The
editor wrote to his correspondent and
expostulated, remarking that surely some
old boy in his district had done some-
thing unusual. The correspondent’s next
instalment started off: “In the Court of
General Sessions, before Judge X, Wil-
liam John Blank, of Blankville, was
charged with breaking and stealing, and,
alternatively, with receiving. He was
found guilty and sentenced to six months’
imprisonment.”
* * * *
“Tovarish”: If it does nothing else, the
election of Molotov as Foreign Secre-
tary should add to the social gaiety of
Europe. “Bullet” Molotov yes, that’s
his Russian nickname —is “a disciple of
Tolstoy, and a vegetarian and total ab-
stainer.” “His only passion is for cut-
throat bridge.” Bessedovsky vouches for
it. Mr. Litvinov, according to Mr. 8.,
was the son of a Warsaw tradesman,
and, improving on pa, graduated to
the business of “buying and selling
stolen firearms, which he smuggled into
Russia”; thus, “surrounded by com-
mon criminals, he became coarse and un-
couth.” Also, in private life he was
“thoroughly bourgeois,” so much so that
he “adores his children,” but he compro-
mises by seeing that Mrs. L. travels third-
class when she roams abroad. Perhaps,
however, Mr. Bessedovsky is prejudiced.
While acting-ambassador in Paris in 1929
his Government sent an Ogpu man to
invite him to spend his annual leave in
the U.S.S.R. Mr. Bessedovsky put a
loaded Colt in each trouser pocket, 10
extra rounds in his hat, slithered over the
back fence like a carpet snake, collected
a gendarme and rescued Mrs. B. and
child. Unorthodox, but a few days
before Mr. B. had observed two diplo-
matic couriers with an Ogpu escort carry-
ing into the Embassy “an enormous black
trunk in which three corpses might -
Well, anyway, Mr. B. resigned as a
diplomat and took a job as a chauffeur.
NOW YOU KNOW.
“A woman’s curtsy to the Duke and Duchess of
Kent should be made with the body erect, the left
knee going' down to a point half-way between the
calf and ankle of the right leg. A man should bow
from the waist, as nearly at an angle of forty-five
degrees as circumstances permit.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
Do you want to know how
To curtsy and bow
With the requisite elegant touches
When your devoirs you pay,
As you possibly may,
To a real Royal Duke and his Duchess?
If you’re feminine, please
Don’t drop them “a cheese,”
A pose so plebeian might rankle.
Lower your left knee, I beg,
Till it hits the right leg
Midway ’tween the calf and the ankle.
And all of you gents
Who to meeting the Kents
Look forward with airy complacence,
Just keep it in sight
There’s a wrong and a right
Procedure for making obeisance.
To show breeding and taste,
You should bend from the waist
At an angle which shouldn’t be shifty.
A true forty-five
Is the thing to contrive —
Keep clear of a forty or fifty.
Yet, suppose you’re in doubt
Where your calf peters out
(Let’s say) and your ankle’s arriving—
Or a stately incline
From the base of your spine
Is something beyond your contriving,
Loyal madam and man
Try the best that you can
To follow the code that is fitting;
Spare naught you can do
To give royalty its due—
Your frame and your figure permitting.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


“How much a pint are you charging for this property?”
“Qwert Yuiop”: The free beam-wire-
less messages on May 1 included the
result of some hard thinking on how to
compress a soul-message into 12 words.
Bible text references were strong favor-
ites, particularly Proverbs xxv, verse 25:
“As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is
good news from a far country.” An
exile from north of the Tweed sought to
propitiate an elderly maiden aunt in Glas-
gow from whom he has —or had —expec-
tations. Unfortunately his memory,
sapped by Brisbane’s humid summer and
the refreshment needed to cope with it,
slipped a cog, and his message referred
to verse 24: “It is better to dwell in the
corner of the housetop than with a con-
tentious woman in a wide house.” Astro-
nomical time allowed the indignant old
lady, who had brought him up, to get in
with her, also free, reply, Proverbs xxi,
verse 20. Turning it up next day, he
read sadly: “There is precious treasure
and oil in the dwelling of the wise, but
a foolish man swalloweth it up.” Either
she has married or he is to be cut out
of the will, and he’s considering which
is worse.
* * * *
“K.P.”: An unusual physiological con-
dition has caused much suffering to a
Brisbane police constable. He was badly
crushed by a skidding car, and a com-
pound fracture of his right leg, subse-
quently amputated, caused dangerous
bleeding. An appeal for blood-donors
brought offers from 55 fellow-officers and
nine other persons, all healthy people.
Tests showed that transfusion from any
of them would be fatal, although they in-
cluded amongst them three of the four
known blood groups. The policeman has
the bad luck to belong to the relatively,
rare group 4, which can give blood safely
to anyone but to whom all other bloods
than that from another group-4 indi-
vidual are poisonous.
* * * *
“Craiser”: There used to be a busy
traffic in Melbourne for films of a porno-
graphic nature which evaded the Customs
somehow and found their way into
suburban homes where the requisite
apparatus was available, and bachelor
parties to attend the screenings were a
feature of the local Bohemia. Of recent
years gramophone records of a similar
flavor have supplanted them. A well-
known businessman was giving his
friends a seance of this order recently
when a rich aunt of whom he has expec-
tations turned up unheralded. Her un-
regenerate nephew did not seem in the
least embarrassed at the arrival of the
old-fashioned creature, introduced her all
round, deferentially led her to a chair
and went on with the entertainment.
The other guests gradually got used to
her presence, and soon their laughter
pose again, but in a softer cadence ; then
they' were electrified to see that the
old lady, too, was shaking with un-
affected merriment. “It’s all right,”
shouted their host, seeing their astonish-
ment ; “the old girl’s as deaf as a post,
but hates people to know it.”
* * * *
“Selma”: On my way home after the
middle of eclipse night, I came upon a
party of youths on a corner gazing at the
phenomenon and making noisy com-
ment thereon. As I passed a window
went up in a near-by flat, and an elderly
lady, out of the line of vision for sight-
seeing, asked indignantly “What are you
boys making all that noise about? Is
anything the matter?” “No, there’s no-
thing the matter, lady,” one of the youths
assured her soothingly. “It’s just the col-
lapse of the moon.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: With the invasion of the
typewriter came the decline of journal-
ism. When Sydney was a much smaller
town it ran to a much larger number of
journals, all lively and readable, A group
of the worst calligraphists in Australia
raised the “Daily Telegraph” to an equal
rank with the “Morning Herald” ; for
“A man feels such a goat pushin' a pram.”
its literary superiority it was pre-
ferred by many. A special boy main-
tained a line of communication between
the typesetting department and one editor
to ascertain what he had written.
“D.T.,” then still in a strong position,
was the first paper to demand that the
members of its staff should arm them-
selves with typewriters. From that date
the “D.T.” went downhill, to my way of
thinking. The state of mind that prefers
typewritten script is responsible for much
of the decline. The bright journals of
yore were built up on the idea that no
trouble in reading was too great to find
the best material, and in my experience
most of the best stuff was untyped and
came in the untidiest MS.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: An English magazine
which specialises in “true-life” stories
commissioned a Melbourne journalist to
go to North Westralia. He led off with
an account of his first evening in a little
town. Having struck up an acquaint-
ance with the police sergeant, he was
given an invitation to stay to dinner.
After dinner he was invited to sit down
to a game of bridge with the sergeant,
his subordinate and a courteous gentle-
man who was introduced to him as Mr.
Skinner. The beer flowed, the game was
pleasant, and after accounts had been
settled the courteous stranger rose and
remarked to the sergeant: “Good-night,
all. I’ll lock myself in, sergeant; you
needn’.t bother.” “He’s been doing four
months for passing a bad cheque,” ex-
plained the sergeant as his prisoner de-
parted. A couple of days later the scribe
happened to call at the station and was
accosted by the urbane Mr. Skinner. “I’ve
just heard,” Mr. Skinner remarked, “that
you’re going round to the hospital. Be
a good fellow and ask the matron if she
has a job for me yet; I’m anxious to be
going.” “Is your sentence finished? ’
asked the astonished journalist. “Oh,
yes,” replied the prisoner, “a couple of
weeks ago, but the sefgeant said I could
stay until I got a job.” In due course
the reporter’s story reached London.
By return mail came an indignant
letter from the editor pointing out that
he was being paid to collect facts, not
invent fiction.
* * * *
“Scalpel”: If “General Prac.” (B.
19/4/’39) were doing his course again
and faced with an exam, in medical juris-
prudence, as the writer is, he would know
that in one State in Australia at least
a medico can legally refuse to give in-
formation in a court of law. Section 28
of the Vic. Evidence Act, 1915, states that
“no physician or surgeon shall, without
the consent of his patient, divulge in any
civil suit, action or proceeding—unless
the sanity of the patient is the matter
in dispute—any information which he has
acquired in attending the patient, and
which was necessary for him to prescribe
or act for the patient.” Interesting to note
that, in civil cases, if the medico is doubt-
ful about receiving his fee, he can, be-
fore being sworn in, refuse to give evi-
dence, non-payment or non-guarantee of
fee being a lawful excuse.
* * * *
“Bumber”: The other day a Melbourne
woman painter set up her easel on a
wharf and began to paint a ship. Pres-
ently a long line of trucks loaded with
harvesters moved across her field of
vision, completely changing her subject
matter. Seeing the wharfies starting to
unload she began to pack her easel,
thinking that an interruption to the flow
of our overseas trade was too much to
ask on behalf of Art. But a fore-
man spotted what she was doing and
came across. “What are you painting?”
he asked. “I was starting to paint the
ship.” “That’s all right, lady ; we’ll shift
the trucks.” They did ; and at smoke-oh
she had a large and appreciative audience.
*"* * *
“vShep”: Stretcher-bearers humping the
drunk over rough country (B. 29 / 3 /’39)
brings memories. The morning the Divvy
took Retaliation Farm, at the start of
Passchendaele, we found a youthful Fritz
with bandaged leg lolling against the
sheltered side of a pillbox. Believing he
could not walk we made him understand
that if he stayed there we would pick
him up later. All that day we dragged
out our casualties, through hundreds of
yards of bog and tangled wire, slithering
into waterlogged shellholes, plastered
from head to foot in mud ; it was one
of our hardest days. Just before dusk
we remembered the Fritz and found him
out to it. We thought he’d stopped an-
other issue, and started off with him for
the casualty clearing station. Each time we
slipped he’d roll off into the mud, till in
desperation we tied him to the stretcher
with my muddy puttees. The doc. was
also a weary man, and loudly abused us
for dropping a well-boozed Fritz in front
of him. He had only the slightest scratch
under the bandage on his leg. The four
of us dived at his water-bottle, but there
remained only the fragrance of cognac
that unknowingly we had let him guzzle
all day whilst we toiled.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: An indignant member of
the Society of Genealogists is com-
plaining of the abuses of heraldic signs
and symbols rampant in Victoria.
Schools, colleges, sporting bodies and
other organisations use heraldic insignia
with disregard for all the rules of
propriety, and a suburban council has
gone so far as to appropriate a device of
an English nobleman, no longer extant,
without permission of the College of
Heralds. Business firms arc the worst
offenders, one of them using arms which
are the legal property of
a great English city and
another displaying those of
a bishop. This state of
affairs may bring grey
hairs to a dyed-in-the-wool
genealogist, but it isn’t
likely to disturb the sleep
of the average Australian.
Anyhow, the College of
Heralds itself is not im-
mune from criticism. A
couple of years ago it wept
tears of fury because the
City of Melbourne’s arms
displayed a ship in water
above a whale in water,
which is as contrary to all
heraldic rules and regu-
lations as it is unnatural.
But for a solatium of £6B
it permitted the council to
continue to offend its
finest susceptibilities, and
the arms remain unaltered.
“Selma”: In a suburban school a
teacher was giving a junior class a lesson
on the coinage. She had provided herself
with specimens of all coins in circula-
tion, plus a couple of notes and such
antiques as a sovereign and a half-
sovereign. After the lesson the children
were asked to tell in grammatical
sentences what they knew about the
country’s currency. They started off, “I
have some silver money —a sixpence. My
father has some paper money—a pound
note. I have some copper money —two
pennies,” soon exhausting the list. Then
a small girl at the back shot up a hand.
“My mother has some allermony—she gits
it every Friday.” That ended the lesson.
OVER THE ODDS.
“A wrestler at the Rusheutter Bay Stadium was
disqualified for seizing the referee and hurling him
into the front seats.”
There’s little that’s barred, one may venture to
say,
When wrestlers get going at Rusheutter Bay,
Two menacing mountains of muscle and meat,
Each equally bent on averting defeat.
The grips and the holds that are known to the
art
Make quite an imposing array, for a start,
And they’re far from exhausting the methods
let loose
In combat for cooking the other chap’s goose.
You may use for attack any weapon you can
That Nature bestowed upon primitive man.
From maulers to molars, all rank as O.K.
With the huskies who grapple at Rusheutter
Bay.
You may biff, you may bite, you may hug like
a bear,
Or butt like a ram, and it’s perfectly fair.
But please to remember it isn’t the thing
To heave, like a cornsack, the ref. from the
ring.
The chap has his feelings, it’s safe to assert,
And, as well as his carcass, his dignity’s hurt
When he’s shot in this unceremonious way
From the scene of his labors at Rusheutter Bay.
Lesser breaches of rules he might well overlook,
Nor bother to call the delinquent to book,
But to seize him and hurl him aloft is to try
The umpire’s indulgence a little too high.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■was i
m
-:-?s
: -
m
<m
■ v.
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
v
10 for 9d...20 for t'6
E:iB6»_
PREVENT
T 0
SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
Some of the members at Canberra,
while willing to vote an annuity of £5OO
to Mrs. Lyons, “provided she does not
marry again,” boggled at distributing the
same amount among the children until
the youngest of the 10 minors reaches
21. So the children’s annuities are to be
reduced by £B5 a year, disappearing when
the youngest is 16. The saving was not
worth arguing about. After deducting
election expenses and calls on his purse
which no P.M. can escape, Lyons received
less than half the pay of Mr. Brown, of
the Post Office, and Mr. Hartigan, of the
N.S.W. Railway Department, and carried
an infinitely greater burden of worry.
The worry undoubtedly cut short a life
that might in other circumstances have
lasted another 20 years.
The sudden regard for the public purse
shown in the reduction of the grant to
the Lyons family contrasts oddly with
the complaisance with which the alleged
National Travel Associa-
tion is subsidised. That ex-
crescence on the pyramid
of High Commissioner’s
and Trade Commissioners’
and General Agents’
.offices and Government
Tourist Bureaux gets
£20,000 a year, and more
when there is an exhibi-
tion somewhere. The
£20,000 p.a. provides cushy
jobs and glorious trips for persons who
have no claim on the Commonwealth.
Yet this waste of public money has never
once been challenged.
The foreign-affairs debate at Canberra
furnished one pleasant surprise. It re-
vealed that some politicians are thinking
of Australia and viewing developments
in the Mad Continent through Aus-
tralian eyes. Some newspapers and radio
stations give the impression that they are
run from London or Geneva or New York
or Moscow. -
Bills providing for a compulsory
national register and for a census of
material resources were introduced on
the same day. The census measure con-
tains a clause limiting private profits on
armaments manufacture. In the other
Cameron spotted an omission that will
have to be rectified: information as to
military service is not required. But the
timing was good.
A receiver has taken control of the
Sydney paper which was the “Labor
Daily” when Lang had it and changed
to the “Daily News” after Heffron’s
Labor Council’s patrons bought out the
Big Fellow. The financial gentleman
says it will be run on “broad Labor
principles.” If Lang and Heffron are to
subscribe to them they will need to be
broader than a whale’s back.
Turkey, which was Britain’s enemy for
four years, has become one of its allies,
and Australians, who fought the Turk
for three years and a half, are expected
by Great Dailies to rejoice. So far the
rejoicings are confined to newspaper
offices and “national” radio stations;
but it is expected in these quarters that
there will be real popular enthusiasm
when (or if) Russia is added to the list
of allies. Meanwhile Moscow is pro-
testing that it yearns to risk All for the
protection of the little nations, which
hate it like poison. It finds no diffi-
culty in bluffing American reporters and
novelists, Australian editors and British
Labor and Liberal politicians, but
Neville, the son of Joseph, is not so easy.
Page has retired from Canberra for a
fortnight’s rest. His worries have accu-
mulated since he delivered his attack on
Menzies, but for the political part of
them he has only himself to blame. He
suggested that “Hansard” would show
that in making it he was consulting only
the interests of the country, but actually
“Hansard” shows just where he went
wrong:—
Some 24 years ago the right hon.
member for Kooyong was a member of the
Australian military forces, and held the
King’s commission. In 1915 he resigned
his commission and did not go overseas.
The sting was in the words “he resigned
his commission.” Menzies having denied
the allegation, the onus was on the doctor
to prove it or withdraw it and apologise.
He has done neither.
Mr. Mair, who became N.S.W. Treas-
urer when Mr. Stevens announced his
Drive for National Efficiency and Advance
on All Fronts, has been negotiating with
“representatives of British financial in-
terests” for a loan of £5,000,000 Austra-
lian to finance the co-op. building societies
“Swap? Certainly not — King’s regs . forbid it!”
his Government guarantees. Mr. Mair
says he was “hopeful of being able to
secure that money at 4f p.c. to 5 p.c,”
and the “representatives of British finan-
cial interests” were willing to accept the
higher figure; but they “wanted repay-
ment of principal and interest in sterling ”
This has shaken Mr. Mair’s faith in
“British financial interests.”
Sydney “Sunday Sun,” whose motto
is “Above All, for Australia” (it means
“Above All, for Belgravia”), ridiculed the
notion that the Anglo-German Naval
Agreement was of some value. It dis-
missed the naval agreement as “an
illusion,” something that “from the
German point of view never existed” ;
and said “the democracies always regarded
it as such.” Well, the thing was at least
some check on any German attempt to
regain New Guinea by naval action.
Chamberlain values it so highly that he
pronounces Hitler’s denunciation of it
“a very serious matter,” and has vir-
tually invited him to renew it “as
symbolic of the desire of the British and
German peoples not to wage war against
each other.” And unless its “policy” has
been altered again, the “Sun” ought to
have some respect for Chamberlain’s
opinions. It twisted to Chamberlain even
before it twisted to the Japanese.
Imitating France and Maoriland on a
small scale, the Glebe (Sydney) Council
gave its employees a 40-hour week and
more money. After two years its banker
icily mentioned that the overdraft had
soared from £2OOO to £15,000, and a
chartered accountant reported that for
street-cleaning, indifferently done, the
council was paying nearly three times
as much as a neighboring municipality
with more than twice the mileage. Last
week the harassed aldermen decided
to get their streets cleaned and their
garbage shifted under contract for £6OOO
p.a. less than the 40-hour-week lads were
doing it for. They have been suspended
from membership of the Heffron Labor
“party.”
Justice De Baun, who was commis-
sioned by the shiftless Sydney Govern-
ment to go into the price of bricks, and
who did his job with unusual prompti-
tude and forthrightness, has reported
that the trade is controlled by a virtual
monopoly and that the current price
(68s. a thousand) is at least ss. a thou-
sand too much. The shiftless Govern-
ment is going to get him to fix prices
of building materials. It will be another
development of that craven shirking of
responsibility which is a greater threat
to democracy than any of the “isms.”
The shiftless Government has been guar-
anteeing building-society overdrafts on
a vast scale, and it could have prevented
profiteering in building materials merely
by saying, “Here you, if there is any
profiteering there will be no guaranteeing
of overdrafts.” But it was too thick-
headed to think of it.
Australia has a Primary Producers’
Federation now, and its Wool Section is
after “a bonus to increase the average
price of wool to a shilling a pound.” It
is Gullett’s trade-diversion roosting on
his new Government’s doorstep.
As the Auditor-General works it out,
the P.M.G.’s department made a profit
of £2,788,600 for the year to June 30,
after meeting interest and sinking fund
and spending £3,171,500 on “additions,
new works, buildings, etc.” A.B.C.
showed a profit of £50,000, and in six
years has accumulated a surplus of
£302,100. It gets 12s. of the guinea
charged for a listener’s license, the P.O.
taking 9s. Obviously both concerns
could stand a reduction to 155.; the other
6s. represents cold-blooded extortion.
Reported during the same week: (1)
The vS.A. Governor-elect is bringing a
staff of fourteen with him from Britain;
(2) the S.A. Government has applied to
Canberra for a special grant of £1,500,000
for 1939-40 out of Commonwealth
taxes. Taken together they constitute a
telling argument for national union, with
the extinction of unnecessary Legislatures
and imitation Courts, such as Maoriland
and South Africa have achieved.
Premier Dunstan has told a deputation
that Victorian hospitals have been starved
financially and will have to be assured
of a permanent income out of con-
solidated revenue. A deficit of a million
being not outside the realm of possibi-
lities, it is to be assumed that Dunstan
will now make a gigantic effort which
will completely transform the finances of
the State within a twelvemonth.
Phil Collier, the old Westralian Labor
leader, has said a few generous words in
praise of Menzies, “while hoping that
he will be succeeded in due time by my
friend John Curtin.”
Having met him at conferences and
Loan Council meetings, I am convinced
that he is the most capable and forceful
leader that could be drawn from his party.
I do not doubt his wisdom and courage if
Australia should be involved in a major
crisis. Until the next election there can
be no better leader.
Collier won three elections as Labor
leader, and there is no better judge of
contemporary politicians.
How quickly men forget! In the first
year of the Boer War the French pro-
posed an alliance with Germany and
Russia against England. One of the
Massinghams recalls the fact in an article
on Lord Salisbury, published in one of
the Penguin books, and records this ex-
change of letters:
Queen Victoria: Isolation is dangerous.
Lord Salisbury: Isolation is much less a
danger than the danger of being dragged
into wars which do not concern us.
Isn’t it as true to-day as it was in 1899?
Archie Cameron obviously thinks so.
Of the scores of Labor conscriptionists
who turned Nationalist in 1917, only
Hughes and Jimmy Cornell, the West-
ralian M.L.C., are now in politics; and
it isn’t because they were Labor conscrip-
tionists that they remain. Most of the
others were defeated long ago, and in
Westralia last March one of the best of
them all, Lynch, standing against
Premier Willcock, lost his deposit. Fen-
ton and Guy, who left the A.L.P. with
Lyons, lasted one Parliament. In the first
flush of enthusiasm the Labor politician
who has turned may be a polling-booth
asset to his new party. Defeat makes
him a liability.
From Molongloside:
An Australian company gave its N.S.W.
manager £30,000 when he retired after meeting
with a serious accident. J. A. Lyons, placed
at the head of our biggest business when it
was in a bad way, saw it through its trouble,
ran it for upwards of seven years, and died
poor, leaving a widow and 11 children. Yet
when it was proposed to allow the widow £5OO
a year and distribute the same amount among
the children until the youngest reached 21 there
was so much opposition that the Government
would have been beaten had it put the pro-
posal to a vote. U.A.P. members insisted that
it should be “amended” to provide for can-
cellation Of the mother’s annuity in the event of
remarriage, and for the termination of the
annuities to the children when the youngest
is 16. Labor members wanted the total reduced
to £5OO p.a.
It is to be hoped that Australia will never
see any repetition of these rather shabby pro-
ceedings. Prime Ministers should get more pay
and adequate “cover.” Few hold office for
any length of time without suffering in health
and pocket. The country would certainly not
object to insuring Ministers of State and their
families against death in poverty or premature
collapse.


REUNION.
“A welt-known racing man, commenting on L'Aiglon’s recognition of a former owner—which earned the horse a luxurious holiday—said that such sagacty was by no
means rare.”


TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
U n ion I nsurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V,V, G.P’O, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
HOW FAR WILL PRICES RISE?
CAN N.Z. AVOID INFLATION?
DEFENCE EXPENDITURE AND COSTS.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
May Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the Wor
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
W. F. Dunn, father of the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly since the death of Mark Mor-
ton last year, beat J. T. Lang for the
honor by only about five weeks. Dunn
dates from 1910, when he replaced
Robert Jones for Mudgee, but has had
two spells—three weeks in 1911, when he
resigned and was re-elected, and three
years (1932-35).
Seaforth Mackenzie, awarded the
1938 Australian Literature Society’s Gold
Medal for his novel The Young Desire
It, is also known to Bulletin readers
as Kenneth Mackenzie, writer of poetry
and author of Our Earth, a long blank-
verse poem which was published in a
limited edition with illustrations by
Norman Lindsay. Mackenzie’s pub-
lisher, Jonathan Cape, who has pub-
lished his two novels (the other is Chosen
People ), already had a Kenneth Mac-
kenzie ( Been Places and Seen Things
and Living Rough ) writing for him,
which is why the Australian novelist and
poet was obliged to use his second
Christian name for his fiction. Only 26,
he was born in Perth. In Melbourne he
was kitchenman in a boarding-house.
Coming to Sydney, he has since been
knocking a crust out of journalism.
There was little about grass and
fodder-conservation that was not known
to Stephen Messman Osborne, of Bolaro
station, Adaminaby, N. S. Wales, who
passed over last week at 67. By putting
his theories into practice he soon doubled
the carrying capacity of Bolaro when
he went in there many years ago, and
after a few years no drought found the
bottom of his silo pits. He was a son
of Pat Hill Osborne, of Currandooley.
Howard Watson Lloyd, chairman of
the Bank of Adelaide, and a director
of the A.M.P., Goldsbrough Mort,
Adelaide Steamship, Adelaide Gas,
Alliance Assurance and other cos., in-
herited his financial aptitude, being a
descendant of one of the founders of
Lloyds Bank, London. He was born in
Adelaide 70 years ago, and started to
HOWARD WATSON LLOYD.
earn a living as a clerk in the A.M.P.
office in his home town. His years
sit lightly on him, and he can still
play a vigorous game of tennis and
enjoy a day on the links. He’s senior
partner of the financial firm of H. L.
and A. E. Ayers, and was knighted two
years ago.
CANADIAN TRADE COMMISSIONER
COSGRAVE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Ellis Troughton, mammalogist at
the Australian Museum, Sydney, is
leaving for the U.S.A. on May 26 on
the first leg of a six months’ study tour
round the world. After a look at the
’Frisco show he will go to Washington
in order to find out how Uncle Sam goes
about his biological survey. It is a sub-
ject in which, as secretary of the com-
mittee on the biological survey of the
Commonwealth, he has a special interest.
So far the Australian survey is mostly
an aspiration.
A Victorian to make good on the
boards in England is Ken Tuckfield, who,
like the Junoesque Coral Brown, came
from Gregan McMahon’s theatrical
studio in Melbourne. Before he was 20
the young man made a hit at the King’s
in “Richard of Bordeaux,” a play in
which he is taking the leading part now
at Perth in Scotland. He gave up a law
course to go to London and promptly
got a shop at Drury Lane, appearing with
Lewis Casson in “Henry V.” He has two
assets —he is an actor of intelligence and
has the good looks of a Clark Gable,
After close on half a century’s service
with the bank, Camden Garrett, chief
inspector of the ’Wales for N. S.. Wales,
will retire this year. Joining the head
office staff as a cadet, he became man-
ager at Casino, N. S. Wales, after 15
years’ service. Since then he has managed
the Christchurch and Auckland offices
in M.L. and Sydney branches. He be-
came manager of the main Sydney office
in 1935, and two years ago was appointed
to his present position. S. J. Gandon,
chief inspector for Victoria, will succeed
him in Sydney.
Passed over in Melbourne, untimely,
John Austin Gray, M.L.A., a potential
leader of the U.A.P. in the Vic. Par-
liament. He was born in Warracknabeal
in 1892, began life in a bank, served in
France in a motor battery and finished
with a captaincy and an M.C. As mem-
ber for Hawthorn since 1930 he was a
foundation member of the party and one
of its most energetic members. His chief
private interest was League football, and
the Hawthorn team wore black armbands
in his honor in their match against Gee-
long. He was mayor of Hawthorn last
year.
Lieut.-Col. L. Moore Cosgrave, who
for the last four years has been Senior
Canadian Government Trade Commis-
sioner to Australia, with
headquarters in Sydney, is
one of the few of that
city’s notabilities who can
wear clothes that say
Bond-street with just the
right degree of indifference.
Born in Toronto 48 years
ago, Col. Cosgrave was
marked out for a military
career, and his promotion
from lieut. to lieut.-col.
occurred between 1914
and 1918, on active ser-
vice. He went into civvies
and became a trade com-
missioner shortly after the
war, and commished in
London and Shanghai be-
fore coming to Australia.
Plays golf, takes a strong
interest in the Legacy-
Club, and is a pillar of the
Royal Empire and Im-
perial Service clubs. He’s
a cousin of Irish Free State
Cosgrave, leader of the
Opposition against De
Valera.
“B r i an”: “Uramao’s”
reference to European
refugees being absorbed
75 years ago in Australia
and M.L. (B. 10/5/’39)
recalls that Elioth Griiner,
father of the landscape
painter of the same name, and a Nor-
wegian by birth, arrived in M.L. in the
’sixties and had charge of both Danish
refugees and Norwegian settlers in M.L.,
being at that time under contract to both
Governments. The elder Griiner was a
talented linguist, and before journeying
to M.L. looked after Scandinavian
settlers in S. Africa, where all but one
child of the family were born. The
younger Elioth is a native of Gisborne,
M.L.
The remodelling of Paradise is shortly
due, for old Tom (Thomas William)
Henderson will regard the place as im-
perfect without a reproduction of
Coogee. Although born at Gundagai
practically his whole life was spent in
the Sydney seaside resort, for his dad
was one of the first to establish a holi-
day home there. Old Tom was a founder
of practically everything in the district
from surf-club to the ambulance which
now serves the whole of the eastern
suburbs, and right to the curtain, in his
75th year, he was the moving spirit of
the Coogee Advancement League. His
collection of photographs of Coogee
when it was merely a village cut off by a
long expanse of bush from Randwick
was a remarkable one. Living in a sport-
ing district he was naturally a sportsman
—a good chap, for whom none had an
ill word.
One of the best-known skippers in the
coastal service was Capt. C. E. Egan,
who hauled his flag down at 78 last week
in Melbourne. He was the doyen of the
masters in the Howard Smith line, join-
ing that service in 1895. During the
World War he commanded the Cycle,
carrying war supplies to various fronts
from London, and his ship had so many
adventures typical of her class that Bean
devoted a whole chapter to her exploits
in his History. Egan was born at
Maroona, in the Vic. Western District.
“Cauboy”: The first appearance in
Australia since her departure abroad of
soprano Marjorie Lawrence will be at
her birthplace, Winchelsea, Vic., and the
venue will be the little wooden Globe
Theatre in that township. There will be
no regular first-nighters and no metro-
politan critics present; in fact, the
presence of a stranger to the district is
unlikely, since the 500 seats were booked
up months ago when the town heard
that its world-famous daughter was
approaching.
Frank W. Dawson, g.m. of the Bank
of New Zealand, has just retired after
47 years’ service with the bank in Maori-
land. F.W.D. was the first Maoriland-
born to hold down the job. Henry
Buckleton, his predecessor, was born
in Sydney. Dawson’s successor, H. R. H.
Chalmers, assistant g.m., is a Maori-
lander with a good record of military
service in the Great War.
“Norfolk”: Of the 194 Pitcairn
Islanders who were moved to Norfolk
Island in 1856 only George Parkin Chris-
tian (85) and Marianne Selina Buffet
(82) now remain on Norfolk Island.
Christian is a great-grandson of Fletcher
Christian, and his father, Reuben Deni-
son Christian, was born during the
voyage which took the Pitcairners to
their new home in 1856. Marianne
descends from John Buffet, a British
sailor who remained behind at Pitcairn
when his ship touched there in 1823.
Harold J. Finnis, whose collar is per-
haps just a teeny-weeny bit exaggerated
by Coventry, is the new president of
Adelaide’s Rotary. He was born in S.A.
40 years ago, grandson of Capt. John
Finnis, one of the State’s pioneers. H.J.
is now well over 6ft., and he has culti-
H. J. FINNIS.
vated calmness and diplomacy as secre-
tary for the last 13 years of the S.A.
Royal Ag. and Hort. Society. He was
also sec. for many years of the S.A.
Agricultural Bureau, and had a term as
sec. of the Australian Wine Board. A
great worker for charitable and philan-
thropic causes, his services in this respect
last year earned him an M.B.E.


. ■. j 0 .
m
"4
m
<**!
mmmm
WmMmk
REAL WORKER’S
COMPENSATION . .
& o-000, the knock-off whistle blows,
And down the thirsty worker goes
To “have a few ’’
Ah, here’s a man who knows his drinks,
For every foaming pot he sinks
Is TOOHEYS BREW!
/
/
r A
m
i
'I&C, 'v
/
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun*
ceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer*’: The local bank manager,
advised by his heads to make personal
contact with his clients, took a run round
the district, interviewing farmers. When
he drove up to old Mac’s place Mac
greeted him from behind a barrage of
bandage across his nose. “Hullo, miss
your step? Or did a piece of wood fly
up?” asked the b.m. facetiously. “No,”
“ Whassamatter? Ain't this a campin' area?"
said old Mac in that dry tone which
would have warned one who knew him
better. “No, this beak o’ mine has been
causing me a lot o’ trouble lately. Now
it’s broke down altogether.” “What’s the
trouble?” asked the visitor, now sym-
pathetic. “Well,” said Mac, “the trouble
is I’ve been paying through it too long.
It couldn’t stand the strain!”
* * *
“P. I. Sees”: Some of you fellows who
reckon you’ve seen fish should have been
in a ’plane that flew out over the Pacific
near Narooma (N.S.W.) recently. The
chaps in it, looking for fish for some
scientific stunt or other, saw more fish
than some of you will ever see! Portion
of the shoal of salmon photographed was
estimated to contain about 12,000 tons
of fish! At lib. a head that would feed
more than 26,000,000 people one meal
of fish. And yet some people will tell
you Australia couldn’t develop a fishing
industry!
“Salmon Gums”: J. H. M. Abbott,
who is seldom wrong, says that in West-
ralia “Dampier dug unavailingly for
water” (B. 26/4/’39). Then the pirate
must have tried too far from the ocean,
because almost anywhere along the coast
a well sunk into the beach sand clear
of the ocean will yield fresh water. In
fact, there are numerous wells sunk and
bricked up at different points along the
beaches. They’re where the newchum
would least expect them, and are sub-
merged during heavy winter weather, but
after being baled out are as fresh as
ever. Inland it’s different. You’ll strike
water anywhere if you sink deep enough
—up to about 200 feet but it isn’t
always fresh. The generally-accepted
theory amongst old hands is that the
lime content in the ground is the deciding
factor between fresh and salt (or mag-
nesia) ; but on the surface there is no
reliable indication. You’ve got to find
out for yourself.
* * * *
“Oi”: “I can do as good a day’s yakka
as the next one,” grumbled the new hand
as he stumbled home down the hill in the
half-dark from the burning-off, “but I’m
hanged if I am going to see possums
twice a day for any man.” “Orl right,”
said the boss. “You can come in for your
time in the morning, but you needn’t
think you’ve got a week’s pay coming
to you. So far, you’ve only worked five
days and sixteen hours.”
* * * *
“Towser”: That “Valerin’s” dog got
a bait instead of the worse end of a
snake fB. 3/5/’39) doesn’t dispute my
statement that, if a dog keeps at the
game of snake-killing, invariably he .gets
the worst of it. As for a mong coming
good that doesn’t prove a thing other
than that flukes will happen. If that bait
hadn’t got the bloke with the Bolshie’s
dial “V.” ought to have bred from him
and seen what sort of gun-dogs his pro-
geny were. That’s the test of breeding:
apart from doing the work for which
they’re bred, that they also perpetuate the
ability. No mong can do that. A pure-
bred sport is always likely to do it. Take
two instances: President, the ram —a real
sport —and Carbine, the horse, to whom
sportsmen still refer reverently.
* * * *
“Eureka”: In the distance it looked
as if the swaggie was carrying another
man slung around his shoulders, but as
he came closer I could see it was really
his swag. His clothes and blankets were
stuffed into the leg of a pair of moles-
skin trousers, while the food and cooking
gear were packed into the other leg. The
ends were tied and the stuffed trouseis
carried over one shoulder and fastened
round his waist.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: “Nor’-west” (B.
5/3/’39) must be with a rum sort of fish-
ing crew if none of them had ever learned
how to catch squid with a jig until a
Chinaman showed them. Usual pattern
is a wooden meat-skewer with a dozen
or so stout draper’s pins whipped on to
one end, and the points turned back to
form a circle of an inch or so diameter.
Push it through a small fish from vent
to mouth —Ah Mat reversed the usual
custom of his country apparently —bend
on a few fathoms of line, tow it slowly
near rocks, and you’ll have a bucketful
in half an hour if they are about. Japs
use carved wooden fish, with feathers at
the head, a lead keel and the usual
arrangement of pins in the tail. Squid
is a Jap sea delicacy, and of late years
the catch has been enormously increased
by using luminous jigs at night. They
can have it for me —a lifelike imitation
of squid au Nippon can be got by cut-
ting white rubber tube into short lengths
and garnishing with tepid office paste
that has gone bad.
* * *
“Col. B.”: I fail to see the need for
these expensive surveying expeditions
which measure and grade every yard of
rough unoccupied country for new roads.
All that is really needed is a cargo ’plane,
suitably fitted, and a few cows which have
been comfortably housed for a month
or two at any spot within 30 miles of the
next point to the desired objective. Para-
chute them into any clear patch, and
within a fortnight at most they will have
returned to starting-point, leaving tracks
over the easiest grades and firmest ground
which even a city bushman could follow.
Cows possess a natural genius for select-
ing the easiest and most solid route to
anywhere they wish to reach over un-
known country, and do not need salaries,
staff or equipment. If it is a rush job
it is only necessary to select mother-cows,
keep the calves at the base and send out
men to selected positions within hearing
range of the objective to bawl like hungry
calves. Mother will do a month’s survey
job in a day under such, conditions, but
the S.P.C.A. might object.
V * * *
“Reele Studd”: Saturday night at
Shingle Hut. Dave had been upcountry
ringbarking. “How did you like bach-
ing, Dave?” asked Norah. “Not too
good,” said Dave. “You didn’t like cook-
ing, did you, Dave?” cooed Mother.
“Oh, yairs.” “You didn’t like living on
saltjunk and damper, did you, Dave?”
cross-examined Sarah. “Oh, yairs.”
“What was it you didn’t like, Dave?”
pursued Norah sweetly. “The waitress?”
Dad brought the handle of his fork
down on the festive slab with a force
that sent one-half the potato splashing
gravy and the other half over Cranky
Jack. “Let the boy alone,” he stormed.
“ ’Asn’t ’e told yer? ’E’d ha’ liked eatin’
it if ’e ’adn’t ’ad ter cook it, and ’e’d
ha’ liked cookin’ it if ’e ’adn’t ’ad ter eat
the damn’ tucker! Now, d’yer see?”
They did see —very clearly. Mother cut
the two ends off the roly-poly and gave
the middle to Dave.
* * * *
“W.R.D.”: Old Bill loved his dog, but
Rover chased a car too many and
breathed his last in the old man’s arms.
Bill tried to drown his sorrow at the local
pub, but only partially succeeded, and
with his last quid bought a thick grey
blanket to bury Rover in. Boko Charlie,
his one-eyed drinking partner, helped him
dig the grave and inter the departed.
One bitterly cold night a few months later
I espied a solitary figure digging in the
moonlight. It was Boko. “Well, yer
see,” he said in answer to my query, “I
reckoned as old Rover ’ud be finished
with that blanket b’ now.”
* * * *
“D.F.”: Australia has a number of
living fossils, creatures belonging to
families which have long been extinct
elsewhere. Such are the Anaspides, or
mountain shrimp, of Tasmania and of
a few streams in Victoria, the shellfish
Trigonia, and the Ceratodus, or lungfish,
of Queensland, which once lived in the
Devonian seas of the northern hemi-
sphere. South Africa has just produced
near East London a fish belonging to the
Collacanth group, which scientists sup-
posed to have been extinct for fifty mil-
lion years or so. It is a rather wooden-
looking fish with a big head and a square
snout.
!)! * # *
“Lyndo”: Nature isn’t more wasteful
of life than the poultry-farmer who
specialises in day-old chicks. I called
a: a chook-farm recently when a batch
of some thousands of eggs was about to
hatch, and walked down the incubator
lanes as the downy mites dropped in
scores into the trays below. It was a
hectic hour or so, and then the unbroken
eggs were placed in buckets for destruc-
tion. In another half-hour those buckets
were full of cheeping life, and any neigh-
bor who had a broody hen could take a
ready-hatched clutch as a gift. When f
inquired why those chicks weren’t packed
for consignment with the others I was
told firmly that it was a case of the
marketing of the fittest. The later arri-
vals had, by being dilatory in hatching,
proved themselves a trifle below stand-
ard, and as the farm had a great repu-
tation they never risked it by shipping
chicks that might not stand the journey
well. So scores of chicks went west in
the cause of survival of the hardiest only.
* * * *
“Devil Fish”: One can —or could—
walk on the soil, or rather rock, of
South America without the fag of cross-
ing the Pacific ; a short stretch of road
at Stockton (N.S.W.) was made of the
stone brought as ballast by vessels com-
ing from the coast of Chile and dis-
charged when they were preparing to
load coal for the West Coast. As the
trans-Pacific coal trade is a thing of
the past, Australia has ceased to gain in
size at the expense of her neighbor.
* * * *
“Runa”: Maoriland eels, which up to
the present have enjoyed immunity from
commercialisation, are about to be made
to pay their way like the snake and the
crocodile. It has been discovered that
eelskins make super-quality gloves, and
M.L. tanners are looking with interest
into the possibilities of a new industry.
If any protest against wholesale catching
of the wrigglers is made it will come
from Henare and co., who have from
time immemorial looked on them as a
good standby when sea-fish were not
available.
* * * *
“Anti-tannin”: Being a confirmed tea-
guzzler. and medically advised to “cut it
out,” I decided to give the South Ameri-
can tea substitute yerba mate a go. Found
this weird collection of dried leaves re-
tailed at pharmacies at just double the
price of good tea. In S. America it is
regarded as the cheapest possible sub-
stitute for the real thing, and no peon
would hesitate a moment in swapping
half a bushel for half a pound of real
pekoe. Anyway, if a non-tannin bever-
age is required, why not try out some of
our own tea-trees? Back in early W.A.
it was common, when supplies ran short,
for settlers to collect and oven-dry the
leaves of the local tea-trees. One species,
now much in favor as a hedge plant, was
especially favored. A non-tannin decoc-
tion of the mate type is supposed to be
of value to diabetics. Australia abounds
in shrubs capable of yielding such leaves,
and it only requires a little scientific in-
vestigation to put the seal of certainty
on just which are the best kinds. There
might even be scope for an industry m
the matter.
A POLISHED “HAND.”
“European landworkev, earnest, refined, seeks posi-
tion on farm with nice people.”— Advt.
From out the Dotty Continent, whose region
He deems unhealthy, he has come to seek
His fortunes. Is he squarehead or Scowegian,
Levantine, Porkanbean, or Czech or Greek?
Uneducated, or some bright collegian
Who set himself the Eenglish tongue to speak?
Whate’er he is, this chap, who’s got some
“push,”
Intends to bring refinement to the bush.
That well-bred savoir faire of urban places
To rural parts his coming will transplant;
Upon our wide and somewhat open spaces
He’ll soon descend, with manners to enchant.
He’ll hoe the spuds with cultivated graces,
Drain Daisy’s udder, suave and elegant;
A cert, he’ll hum some operatic air
While feeding pigs or harnessing the mare.
If he can wield such influence aesthetic
What possibilities will open up!
No more will Dave be clad in his “athletic”
And moleskins when he’s sitting down to sup;
The table talk will be of things poetic,
Not crops or cows or Callaghan’s new pup —
That is, if in the meantime he’s not brained
By some long-suffering cocky not “retained.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Bull-ant Bill”: Now I understand why
the new police sergeant is so pleasant to
Old Joe. “Reckon he don’t want me ter
let out about old Fleaskinner’s bullick,”
the old chap chuckled. “Y’see, Bill, w’en
I wus out West I knoo a bloke wot wus
a terror fer a bit o’ cheap beef. The
cops tried all ways ter get ’im, but ’e
wus too clever. The Sarge wus just outa
the police deepot then, so they clobbers
’im up like a stockman outa a job, an’
sends ’im over ter the bloke’s place.
Stringy gets ’im yarnin’, an’ after a bit
’e asts ’im if ’e’s a good shot. ‘Too
right I am,’ ses the young cop. So
Stringy ses ’is eyes is crook an’ there’s a
roan bullick in the yard wot ’e wants fer
meat, an’ gives ’im the rifle while
’e gets the knives sharped. There’s two
roans there, one uv ’em dog-poor, so,
bein’ bush-bred, the cop nat’rally
downs the fat ’un. ’Long comes Stringy.
‘Cripes,’ ’e ses, ‘that’s one uv old Flea-
skinner’s wot I wus just goin’ ter take
over to ’im. We’re fur it if ’e knows,
and you done it,’ ’e ses. Y’ never see
a ’ide got quicker orf a beast an’ burnt
than wot that young cop ’ad it. ’E wus
bush-bred orl right, Stringy reckoned.”
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The good ship Matilda,
captain unknown, two days out from the
snug little haven of Bell (Q.), or Maida
Vale as it was named in the ’seventies,
lay adrift and beset by a school of pink
sea-serpents. Groping for salvage from
a sunken cheque, trembling fingers
clutched something hard and round. A
gold piece, belike! Stowed away from
the pirate Bung against just such a ship-
wreck as this! The derelict blinked,
cursed and flung the useless coin to the
shimmering heat-waves, Down it sank
to the bottom of a sun-crack. With the
monsoonal rains the ground swelled and
closed. And the other day a farmhand,
digging postholes, found the halfpenny
embedded in solid earth, 18 inches below
the surface.
sH * * *
“Wippegong”: It isn’t only among
men that the quiet, unassuming sort seem
to spread and survive in places too tough
for the swaggerers. On a midsummer
excursion from the edge to the middle
of this continent the only birds I saw
every day, all the way, were the common
ground-lark, the nankeen kestrel and
Willie Wagtail. The ground-lark
skimmed the grass just as plentifully over
Sydney parks as beside the ’Bidgee, but
out along the grassy watercourses that
twist among the gibbers in the Lake Eyre
basin its numbers amounted to flocks —
and this in the alleged stronghold of birds
of prey. The kestrel I have watched
poised over terraces within sight of Syd-
ney’s Central railway station ; the same
exquisite flight may be seen above the
Divide and beyond to the long, lonely
valleys of the MacDonnells. In the Red
Centre the bird is a bit bigger and de-
cidedly darker ; but so are the men. Billy
the Wag, while hardly unassuming,
showed true pioneering quality, sticking
it out where water was too scarce for
many a sturdy fowl, and usually cheering
the camp with his chatter. The glint in
his eye suggested that sometimes things
could have been better, but he was always
able to give his rump that peculiar twist
which must be the envy of mony a braw
lad learning to swing a kilt.
* * * *
Wandi”: In places that are fre-
quented by satin bower-birds there is
often an acrimonious hunt for the blue-
bag when it has been left on a bench
outside or in a partly-closed washhouse,
these birds have a penchant for blue
bungs, the tub article being irresistible.
t has been carried off when left for only
a tew minutes, the thief having probably
“You silly coot — you’ve covered up me lunch!"
watched unseen from a near-by tree. As
many as 20 blue-bags have been found
in one bower, reposing among various
other articles of a blue color, such as
bits of glass, flowers, marbles, match-
boxes, berries, feathers, ribbons and
pieces of cloth. Hair ribbons have been
taken off the clothesline, and a child’s
necklet of blue beads was taken from
a verandah chair.
* # * *
“Naturala”: One of the oddest sights
in Nature is to watch a dragonfly dining
on a cloud of midges after a summer
shower. The air will be literally swarm-
ing with these pests; then the dragon
arrives. Like a flash the big insect snaps ;
the small, dark body of the midge van-
ishes, and two tiny wings flutter to the
ground. Again and again this will be
repeated, always with the same perfec-
tion of technique. Never does the aimed-
for midge escape, and never are the tiny
•wings injured in the slightest as they
flutter downwards like parts of a broken
fairy aeroplane.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Old-timers of the
Riverina and Darling country will be in-
terested in an item in the latest report
of the C.S. and 1.R., which, in conjunc-
tion with the Victorian Fisheries Depart-
ment, has been studying the life historv
of that fish which is as traditionally Aus-
tralian as the ’Bidgee whalers themselves
—the Murray cod. The C.S. and I.R.
sought to gauge the chances of restock-
ing the rivers by artificial propagation,
More than 200 cod were examined, and
data for assessing age and growth rate
were accumulated. Drought had reduced
the river, so that Barmah Lakes, scene of
“ Gor, Mawther , Wouldn' un make brave fine poppet ’ ead !”
the experiments, were much below nor-
mal level. These swamps are a great
natural spawning-ground for cod, but
only four out of 72 female cod showed
ripe ova, though 118 out of 130 male
fish had ripe milt. Maturation of the
ova was, it is suspected, retarded by the
restricted area of warm shoal water avail-
able to the fish, or maybe females mature
at a greater size and age than males. So
far the observations show that not a
great many female cod would be avail-
able for stripping for artificial fertilisa-
tion, except perhaps in selected parts of
the rivers, but as more than 20,000 eggs
are carried by each Mrs. Fish enough
would be on hand for operations on a
reasonable scale. Keeping the fry alive
after hatching-out needs care, and to
avoid development of fungus it might be
necessary to use deep pools of fairly even
temperature. Here’s hoping the tests
lead to restocking of the rivers with a
vanishing fish that is second only to
snapper in flavor.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: How’s this for bush-
lore from a bushman bred a lawyer? In
the middle of the night he donned his
slippers and reached for his gun. A
thunderous explosion under the house
followed. Investigation by the less pre-
carious light of day led to the discovery
of a speck of blood on the spot mentally
marked X. A snake, observed my
learned colleague, always dies of his
wounds if but the skin be broken. Also,
that a peculiar plaintive croak can never
be mistaken for anything but what it is,
to wit, Froggie’s swansong in the jaws of
Joe.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: The termite, or white-ant,
isn’t an ant at all, but is really a member
of the cockroach family. Nor is the
formic ant —black, blue or red—the
slightest relation, but is rather closely
connected with the bee. Again, the sweet-
scented stock of the flower garden is
obviously inedible —yet who would place
it as a close relation of the highly-edible
cabbage? Nature delights in such rela-
tionships and contradictions. So, while
“Cooralco” (B. 5/4/’39) quite correctly
describes nardoo as being a clover-like
plant, it nevertheless belongs to the fungi
family. The test in the vegetable world
is in the method of reproduction. True
plants cast seeds, fungi cast spores. Nar-
doo reproduces by spores. It is the dry
spore-case that the abo. grinds to make
nardoo flour. And being a spore it, like
the rest of the fungi family, is deficient
in starch. As for the rest of my “mis-
statements,” Burke and Wills died from
undernourishment at one of the most
favored spots of the Centre. Yet they
couldn’t have been too “dumb” in battling
with an alien environment, seeing that
they had journeyed right to the Gulf and
were on their way back. And I have yet
to hear of any white able to survive on
the abo. diet of the true Centre. Note the
skinny, birdlike legs of the abos., gins
especially, of the central deserts. Hardly
any flesh, merely bone and sinew—
Nature’s method of conforming to a lack
of vitamins. Long before any white could
reach such emaciation death would ensue.
THE HAUNTED VALLEY.
The haunted valley lies deep held
Between the steep, blue hills,
Where sudden springs gush from the elms
And froth of blossom spills;
The dark trees hang from jutting crags
Along the mountain-side,
And black above the sunny spurs
The questing eagles glide.
The sound of many waters comes
From depths of waving green;
Like some fair haven lies the vale,
Bright-blossomed and serene;
But winds that sing across the plain
With voice of revelry
Are muted in the haunted glen
To sigh a threnody.
And none will ride the bridle-track
That winds far down the vale
While night is on the silent land
And stars are cold and pale;
The trembling horses quake and turn,
The dogs in terror whine,
The winds of darkness cry and moan
About a lonely shrine,
A crumbling cairn that stands above
The grave of one unknown,
Where, through the day, each passer-by
Adds tribute of a stone;
A lonely traveller slain for gold
(So runs the old-time tale),
Whose restless spirit through the night
Still roams the haunted vale.
N.S.W.
LYNDO.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone. M 4601.
A
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor. Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon : K.8.E., LI.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which ia amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND • • 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL •• 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
James
Directors:
Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E.
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Friend,
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
r Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.!
’29 207,952 15,750 124 p.c. = 116,310 418,656
Staff fund, £2500 416,156
’3O 187.254 15,750 12* p.c. = 116,310 471,350
’3l 76,768 15,750 6" ~ „ 55,828 476,540
’32 92,137 15,750 7* „ .. 69,786 . 483,141
’33 122,439 15,750 9 „ ~ 83,743 506,087
’34 129,602 15,750 9 ~ „ 83,743 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO . . 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,962 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 620,177
’37 231,199 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 828,360
Surplus sale assets, £4,331.718 . . 5,160,078
Bonus scrip issued, £2,558,814 . . 2,601,264
’39 324,512 15,750 6.861 p.c. = 239,598 2,670,428
t Subject to goodwill, £114,500. 1 On enlarged
capital.
With extensive plant—the co. has fac-
tories of one kind and another in all
the Australian States, except Tas., and
at Auckland, M.L. —paid for largely out
of earnings, and then from the same
source severely written down, and with
virtually a monopoly of some sections
of the trade—thanks to the tariff and
technical and other efficiency—it had
become difficult to avoid earning juicy
returns on original share capital. Recog-
nising this, the market had begun to
dream dreams when slump altered the
outlook, for a while at any rate. But
as the economic barometer rose again
turnover bounded along; earnings re-
sponded, and so did the market for the
scrip, which has fluctuated according to
international and other developments.
The price of the pound ords. rose
from 475. to 61s. in 1929; then fell
precipitously in the following year,
touching 225. 3d. After that the figure
rose steadily, reaching 98s. in 19*36 ; it
dropped to 91s. 6d. in the middle of
1938, fell sharply to 83s. following in-
ternational developments in September,
and then shot up to 112 s. 6d. in January
last, just before the board changed the
nameplate and announced that it would
hand out 11 bonus shares for every four
ords. held on March 14.
Early in March it was decided to
sectionalise the business and expand the
capital structure in order to “assist the
management to meet the position which
arose as a result of the rationalisation
of the industry in recent years.” An-
other and perhaps more practical con-
sideration was the problem of taxation
in connection with the bonus issue. To
begin with the name was changed from
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd., to the present title, and then the
various sections of the business were
sold to eight new subsidiaries:
A.C.I. Engineering Pty., Ltd., took over
engineering activities in Melbourne and Sydney.
A.C.I. Metal Stamping and Spinning Pty.,
Ltd., will handle the metal-spinning and cap-
making sections of the Sydney works.
A.C.I. Plastics Pty., Ltd., incorporated the
plastics section of the Melbourne works.
A.C.I. Fibre Packages Pty., Ltd., assumed
the carton-making and printing activities in
Sydney.
A.C.I. Investments Pty., Ltd., took over
shares in subsidiary and associated cos., etc.
Queensland Glass Manufacturers Pty.,
Ltd., acquired the Brisbane branch glassworks.
New Zealand Glass Manufacturers Pty.,
Ltd., took over the New Zealand glassworks.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.,
Pty., Ltd., is to look after glass-making activi-
ties in the Commonwealth, other than in
Queensland.
Most important of the group are the
four last named.
The price paid for the various sec-
tions is not mentioned, but the difference
between net assets of the: new co. at
March 31 and those of the old co. a
year earlier show a net gain or surplus
of £4,331,718. How much of this was
on account of goodwill (valued at
£114,500 in the old co.’s books) and
how much on account of revaluation of
tangible assets is not ascertainable from
the published accounts. After capitalis-
ing £2,558,814, reserves benefited by
£1,772,905, which, together with the
year’s surplus earnings, lifted the total
lay-by to £2,670,428, subject to good-
will in the subsidiaries’ accounts.
This Consolidated co. is now 'mainly
a holding concern. When the books
closed paid capital was £3,664,292 in
175,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and 3,489,292
ords. Including an unspecified provision
for taxation, there was £240,380 coming
to sundry creditors, and £498,660 to the
subsidiaries. Assets were shares in sub-
sidiaries £7,043,017, freehold and fittings
£78,810, debtors’ balances £123,597, and
cash £10,677.
The old co. sold its assets as from
the end of 1938, and nothing was re-
ceived from subsidiaries aforementioned
before the end of March. So earnings
for the year comprise profits from manu-
facture for only nine months, plus a
full year’s divs., etc., from previously
existing subsidiaries and other outside in-
vestments. Still, gross earnings (£800,638)
sprang £20,111, while exes. (£476,126)
were reduced by £16,773, leaving the
declared net result £36,884 better at
£324,512. That was enough to 'pay the
pref. div. and show 8.8 p.c. on ord.
capital as it now stands; and 6.86 p.c.
was distributed. But 6.86 p.c. is equal
to 25.7 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the issue of bonus scrip.
Although the splitting of the business
will probably increase overhead, pros-
pects of a better showing at next balance
seem bright enough, considering that last
year’s figures got no benefit from the
last three months’ trading in manufac-
ture, and healthy expansion of the
business can be expected to continue. It
seems unlikely, however, that there will
be any change of policy in connection
with allowance for contingencies.
Last week-end the market priced the
ords. at 345. lOd. ; a few weeks previously
they had sold at 28s. 3d. At 345. lOd.
the return is 3.9 p.c. on a 6.8 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 4.6
p.c. on his money counts on an 8 p.c.
distribution, which was within reach last
term. The prefs. at 41s. yield 4.4 p.c.
Subject to intangibles in the subsidiaries,
the net asset backing is £36 3s. lid.
prefs. and 355. 3d. ords.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 244,381 10 p.c. = 150,060 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247,946 10 „ ~ 150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10 „ „ 150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~ 150.000 35,973 1,447.098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ „ 150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. ..1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544.502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000. . 1,556,864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84,474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,616.338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1.710,487
1938.. 261,725 10 ~,, 156,250 ]. ? - g O5 962
To Staff Fund, £lO,OOO j 95,475
1939.. 290,286 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
This big shipping and merchandising
organisation, with headquarters at Syd-
ney, extends round the Australian coast,
out over the Pacific and north to Java,
Singapore, Hong Kong and elsewhere ;
and the business —soundly established
and snugly financed —keeps on expand-
ing. Before the close of accounts in 1938,
500,000 new £1 ords. were issued, one
for five, at par, making issued capital
£2,000,000, of which £1,875,000 (up
£250.000) had been paid at the end of
March. The other £125,000, or ss. per
share, was gathered last month. Since
the scrip commanded a high premium
on the market, as it always has, the issue
was in the nature of a bonus to share-
holders. The following brief history of
the co.’s capital account shows what has
happened in this connection since 1911:
t Share Issue —s
Bonus. Cash. Paid Capital.
1911 .. £50,000 £350,000
1912 . 350,000 700,000
1913 52,500 £47,500 800,000
1914 ' ' 40,000 160,000 1,000,000
1916 50,000 1,050,000
1919 100,000 100,000 1,250,000
1927 ’ ' 125,000 1,375,000
1928 125,000 1,500,000
1938 500,000 2,000,000
Of the £1,650,000 added to capital since
1910, £592,500 has been provided from
reserves, and the balance has been put
up by shareholders at par.
The £250,000 of fresh capital gathered
last term, together with £146,892 added
to liabilities and £235,298 that became
available from reduction of stocks and
debtors’ balances, went into properties
and shipping (up £434,530 net), invest-
ments (up £277,763) and cash (up
£31,432):
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,625,000 £1,875,000
Liabilities . . 1,717,049 1,845,897 1,992,789
Properties and
shipping . . 1.326,770 1,323,610 1,758,140
Investments, etc... 1,693,218 1,482,610 1.760,373
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,060,015 1,398,415 1,185.302
Book debts .. 823,716 1,026,496 1,004,311
Cash .. . . 98,816 136,978 168,410
When the books closed, more or less
liquids, including stocks and investments,
exceeded liabilities by £2,125,607, which
was only £72,995 less than at the previous
balance, despite heavy outlay on fixed
assets, many of which are worth a lot
more than their book value.
The addition to fixed assets was largely
on account of the new 6000-ton passen-
ger-and-cargo motor-vessel Bulolo, which
replaced the Montoro in the Papua and
New Guinea trade, and another new but
smaller vessel, placed on the inter-island
run in June last. Also, plans are now
being prepared for replacement of one of
the older cargo boats by a larger, modern
vessel. Investments comprise “shares in
other cos., also Government loans,"
£997,367 (up £245,439), and “shares in
subsidiary cos.” £763,005 (up £32,323).
Details of the portfolio are not disclosed,
but it includes unchanged holdings of
about two-thirds and one-half respec-
tively in Burns Philp (South Seas) and
Queensland Insurance, a substantial in-
terest in Penneys (Q.), together with par-
cels in a number of other good-dividend-
paying concerns.
Last term further progress in the mer-
chandising section resulted in sales reach-
ing a new high level, while shipping in-
terests were “satisfactorily maintained,
but the steadily-increasing cost of running
the vessels has a tendency to reduce net
earnings.” The spring in gross earnings
was £134,278, and exes, took £119,216 of
the increase:—
1930. 1932. 1938. 1939.
Gross
earnings. . £780.855 £700.915 £1,111,950 £1,246.228
Exes. . . 412,907 392,761 707,943 827,159
Balance . . £367,948 £308,154 £404,007 £419,069
Depreciation,
etc. . . 136,017 105,747 163,575 167,925
Profit
claimed . £231,931 £202,407 £240,575 £251,144
Reserve
movements* + 16,015 —16,434 +21,150 +39,142
Net per
table .. £247,946 £185,973 £261,725 £290.286
* Unexplained additions (+ ) and reductions ( —)
to reserves.
The allowance for depreciation (up £4350)
makes the total provision since 1920 over
£2,230,000. Including the unexplained
addition of £39,142 to reserves, the net
profit (up £28,561) was 16 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 16.7 p.c. and 16.2
p.c. for the two preceding terms and
an average’of 14.2 p.c. for the half-dozen
years before that. The cautious board
keeps the div. at 10 p.c.
Since the beginning of 1938 the pound
shares have fluctuated between 575. 3d.
and 48s. 6d. in the market. Last week-
end the figure was 505., at which the


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Gr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors, of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt, .
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
hfts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Ilm'ding, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers.
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgabj” Melbourne,
Rheumatism
and
Neuritis
MANY NEVER SUSPECT REAL CAUSE
Rheumatism and Neuritis are now being
successfully combated by a new, scien-
tific method. Specialists have at last
traced the cause of these torturing ail-
ments to self-poisoning, i.e., a clogged
colon. As a result of inactivity of the
colon (large intestine) unevacuated frag-
ments of food waste encrust on the
colon wails—much as rust incrusts on a
water pipe—and there decay. Virulent
poisons and acids develop, seep into
the bloodstream and overthrow its nor-
mal "alkaline reserve." Once the blood
becomes excessively acid due to circu-
lating poisons in the form of urates,
rheumatic afflictions are bound to result.
The razor-edged uric acid crystals de-
posit in different parts of the body and
lacerate the nerves at every movement,
causing the torturing pains of rheuma-
tism, neuritis and sciatica.
To overcome Rheumatism and Neuritis you
must first clear away the encrustations of
poisonous waste on the colon. Ordinary
bowel movements do not do this—the walls
of the colon have become weak and inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower end
of the bowel. So drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This cleanses the
colon of all food waste and tones up the
walls giving them back their power of nor-
mal movement. ‘Coloseptic’ overcomes all im-
pure conditions in the blood. Uric acid de-
posits are dissolved away as the blood re-
gains its normal alkaline reserve under the
influence of ‘Coloseptic.’ It also stimulates
the action of the kidneys, pores of the skin
and the lungs other vital organs which
eliminate acids and poisons from the sys-
tem. ‘Coloseptic’ checks self-poisoning, com-
bats acidity, aids nutrition and establishes
better internal cleanness. By its concerted
action it overcomes the real cause of rheu-
matism and builds new, better health. At
all chemists. Individual size 2/9, Economy
size 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE. A liberal Free Trial
Sample and interesting, intimate book will
be sent you. Send 3d. stamps for postage.
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
LANZ Pulled S.A. Farmer through
Depression Reduced his mortgage
Turned worry into Prosperity!
REUD HIS LETTER!
10th March, 1939
Waymouth Motor Company Limited. 42 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE
D “u S t S Tiittle history of my fifteen^,«»” tractor, a well-
r„rn'".tCwhi b rso't W me over E 750 and . L
tractor, as i though, then, for four d sco« , decided cat
running costs were breaking down my hank ng out „ thc o ,d track type
something would have to be done » kMp P deposit on a new Unt
1930, when the depression *** "J
,*
months working tmpenses w«h' * * wo rking expenses are only costing
on \ne s „ric y . o a f n one r on as you are.”
you the price ot one g everybody knows
1928 and 1929 were dr, years iySO began the depress.o ,
what happened during the next few years. Howev . , could „„t
“l effected big savings, wherea .w th the nts „„ my farm,
ha ante ihe budget. During these years 1 for cash more than
I paid the remaining i “ stalme "* S “ *'d [educmf m, mortgage. At tbeb‘gj»mr«
new Lent W^the
new Lanz (on pneumatics) and a yu g y
job with ease in four days. that a t present
SlT^Z°Z:"^ having crowded out,.
other makes. (Signed) - (Original on request)
mm
mi
A Lanz Bulldog
Tractor has got
many a farmer
out of trouble—
it can do the
same for you.
Lanz uses less
lubricating and
fuel oil than any
other tractor.
Fuel oil costs 6d.
per gallon.
PETTH
M 7
soanna
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria:
K.L. Engines & Tractors
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
DISTRIBUTORS:—
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited,
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd..
William & Forbes Streets.
Perth
return is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is visibly 395. Id. in net
tangibles.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.!
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ „ 22,400 368 25.551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ ~ 22.400 21,601
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 6* „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 7i„ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ „ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 Si„ „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
t Not including depreciation reserve.
This Bundaberg miller and grower put
a record 176,100 tons (up 33,454 tons)
of cane through the rollers last season —
thanks to a mild winter and total absence
of frosts —and its output of raws was
5781 tons (up 3681 tons) in excess of the
peak allowance for the mill. This excess
production, paid for at the export price,
together with a contraction of 13s. per
ton in the anticipated return of £l6 18s.
for No. 1 pool sugar, and a shrinkage
of 6s. 6d. per ton in the expected average
return (£7 25.) from exports, is reflected
in a slight contraction of £628 in de-
clared net earnings. These were equal
to 10.9 p.c. on capital, compared with
11.1, 11, 10, 7.6, 6.1, a loss, 8.8, 6.7
and 8.1 p.c. back to 1929. But the out-
look for the industry has improved, so
half a point was added to the div.,
making 8£ p.c. for the year, the final
being at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a. That
was after allowing £11,921 (down £175)
for depreciation, making the total allow-
ance £155,139, equal to 34.7 p.c. of the
book value of fixed assets at the end
of 1938.
During the year heavy expenditure was
entailed in erecting a large boiler with
modern equipment, two la test-type crys-
tallisers, a set of high-speed electrically-
driven centrifugals and an electrically-
driven centrifugal irrigation pump—the
co.’s irrigation scheme has proved excel-
lent insurance against adverse seasonal
conditions. These installations, which are
supplementary to the present steam equip-
ment, should mean much in the manage-
ment’s incessant war against costs. The
year’s addition to the book value of plant,
freeholds, etc., was £38,377:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 26,463 24,516 29,283 35,147
Freeholds,
mac hinery,
plant, etc... 369,657 396,574 407,877 446,254
Stocks.. . . 30,277 36,717 38,729 34,661
Govern ment
securities, etc. 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Sundry debtors 33,861 34,708 29,678 43,185
Cash, etc. .. 22,068 7,205 23,123 1,202
* Including provision for taxation.
To meet the outlay and carry an extra
£13,507 of debtors’ balances, cash was
reduced by £21,921 and stocks by £4068,
while £5864 was added to liabilities,
which include an unspecified provision
for taxation ; surplus earnings, including
the allowance for depreciation, provided
the balance. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£58,901) was
£18,346.
Owing to continued growth of out-
put, following improved production
methods, the industry in Australia is up
against the question of overproduction
and its related problem of mill quotas,
etc. The position in this respect, how-
ever, has lately eased a little, because
Germany hasn’t released Czechoslovakia’s
international quota since it seized that
country. One result has been a lift in
the London price of raws from £4 18s. 4d.
per ton in June, 1938, to £8 Bs. 4d. per
ton last week ; another is that the Inter-
national Sugar Council, which had
lowered the Australian export quota from
400,000 tons to 396,000 tons, has lifted
the figure to 408,000 tons for the current
season, and hopes are that a further in-
crease will be granted later in the year.
At 31s. the pound shares return 5.5
p.c. on an 8.5 p.c. div. basis. The back-
ing is 245. Id. in net tangibles, and there
is another 11s. Id. per share in the depre-
ciation reserve.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
, ——Dividends >, To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
£> £,£>£>
1928.. 14,683 12 p.c. = 13,626 1,057 130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 „ „ 13,626 17 130,124
1930.. 11,394 11 „ „ 12,490 129,028
Unexplained additions to reserves, £30,000.. 159,028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159,765
1932.. 14,522 12 „ „ 13,626 896 160,661
Unexplained additions to reserves, £20,000.. 180,661
1933.. 51,085 38|fp.c.=43,716 7,369 188,030
1934.. 22,058 16 „ ~ 18.168 3,890 191,920
1935.. 18.117 16 „ „ 18,168 191,869
1936.. 13,386 16 „ „ 18,168 187,087
Bonus scrip issued, £227,227 ; from inner
reserves, £147,228 107,088
1937.. 30,985 6* p.c. =20,585 10,400 117,488
1938.. 21,934 6.6„ ~ 22,718 116,704
*On capital as at Dec. 31, 1937. t Includes special
25 p.c. cash bonus.
No other Maoriland freezer has put up
such consistently attractive performances
as this one, whose works are at Inver-
cargill, Mataura and Makarewa, at the
extreme southern end of the South Island.
Appearances are that for the last 20 years
or more the verra careful board has made
substantial additions to plant, equipment,
etc., paid for them out of earnings, and
then from the same source severely writ-
ten them down. Shortly before the close
of accounts in 1937 those on the register
were handed £227,227 of bonus scrip,
making paid capital £340,777 in 26,160
5 p.c. cum. prefs. (they advance with the
ords. beyond that rate, enjoy priority as
to capital and share in new issues) and
314,617 ords. Previous bonus issues were
£45,522 in 1919 and £22,761 in 1912.
So, of capital as it now stands, 17s. 4d.
in the pound has been provided out of
surplus earnings, and the balance has
been more than covered by special cash
distributions (£28,388 in 1933 and £22,761
in 1919), which were in addition to an
uninterrupted flow of good divs.
During the last few years wages in the
industry have increased by from 10 p.c.
to \l\ p.c. or more, while the cost of
freezing has gone up by over 3 p.c. and
of killing by more than 6 p.c. Last year
export prices for mutton and lamb fluctu-
ated, with a tendency to ease as the year
advanced, which means that, for the most
part, growers, not freezers, got the best
returns. Also, returns from wool, hides,
tallow and other by-products were much
lighter, owing to the fall in prices. So,
after making whatever provision was con-
sidered necessary for depreciation and
other contingencies, the board wrote net
earnings £9051 less than the previous
year’s at £21,934, equal to 6.4 p.c. on
capital as it now stands, or 19.3 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the last gift
scrip issue. Still, the div. was lifted from
6 p.c. to 6.6 p.c., which suggests that
there might have been more wheat in
the ear than the eye could see ; and the
6.6 p.c. div. called for £4550 more than
16 p.c. did two years ago.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares as follows:
IQ3J. iQqfl i Qq7 IQ'QS
Paid capital.. £113,547 £113,550 £340,777 £340,777
Liabilities* .. 222,418 200,368 141,506 175,233
Works.. .. 198,318 244,411 272,993 321,030
Stocks.. .. 60,645 82,053 91,823 112,341
Book debts, etc. 25,622 48,607 47,903 36,270
Investments . . 167,589 101,565 126,955 122,865
Cash 85,362 33,454 71.456 51,567
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Last year £48,037 more was spent on
fixed assets than was written off. To do
this and carry an extra £20,518 of stocks,
debtors’ balances were reduced by
£11,633, investments by £4090 and cash
by £19,889, while £33,727 was added to
liabilities, which include an unspecified
provision for contingencies. The year’s
reduction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£147,810) was £48,821.
What the future holds for the business
it is difficult to say. One danger lies in
the possible disappearance of the margin
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 24.)


DO YOU FEEL ->
WASHED OUT •
OUR CRUISES
WILL PUT STARCH
INTO YOU
Winter Programme:
EARLY JUNE — “ORONSAY” f FIJI (Suva)
LATE JU N E—“ORONTES” RABAUL
LATE JU L Y—“OR AM A” f NOUMEA
By way of Barrier Reef; returns by way of Lord Howe
and Norfolk Islands.
LATE AUG.—“OTRANTO” f — PAPUA
By way of Barrier Reef.
f First Saloon and Tourist ‘B\ J First Saloon and Tourist.
ORIENT
LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd., Incorporated in England
Position Vacant.
Mine Section Superintendent.
MINING GRADUATE having had few years’
practical experience since completing tech-
nical course required for the above position
with an important Gold Mining Company
in Malay States (healthy locality). Salary to
commence £5OO Sterling, with prospects de-
pendent upon ability displayed. Furnished
quarters provided and passage paid. Reply,
giving full particulars, qualifications, age,
references, etc., to “Underground,” c/o
Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
between costs, which are still being
pushed up by legislation and otherwise,
and the overseas price for lamb and
mutton, etc. All that can be said
definitely is that in the past this co. has
been able to show satisfactory profits
during difficult periods, when many of
its competitors balanced on the wrong
side. The business is not affected by con-
trol of exchange and imports.
The market prices both classes of scrip
at 275. 6d., at which figure the return is
4.8 p.c. on a 6.6 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible backing is visibly £l7 9s. lOd.
prefs. and 275. sd. ords.
_ '
Tongkah Compound No. 2, N.L.
Fostered by Tongkah Compound,
N.L., which owns 40 p.c. of the capital,
this Malayan producer has paid divs.
aggregating £127,341 on its paid capital of
r 01 -ten 4c nnn r 1 t „ 1
£81,250—25,000 £1 shares fully paid and
75,000 shares paid to 15s.
L, f. • . c, , ,
The property is at Seremban, two
dredges being owned. Neither is now
operating; the Ampangan unit, reported
in fair condition but for the pontoon,
was beached last term, following the
working out of that section of the
property, while the Rahang plant has
also been laid up since September, owing
to restriction. At last term’s rate of
digging, remaining yardage (approx. 9f
million c.y., which there are possi-
bilities of increasing by purchase) would
provide eight years’ work for the latter
plant, rated capacity 140,000 c.y.
monthly. Then there is several years’
digging in Ampangan tailings if the
price of tin keeps up.
Shareholders had a 10 years’ drought,
during five of which operations were
discontinued, to the close of accounts
j n ’36. They got back into the picture
j n ’37 anc j stayed there last term, despite
substantially-reduced earnings:
,—Net Profit-^-—-oivs.—,
D °c., Revenue. Exes.* Amt Share. Shave. Amt.
1935.. £13,936 £7,404 £6,532 1/3 Nil Nil
1936.. 39,130 38,400 730 -/2 Nil Nil
i»s7.. 88,550 50, 367 38,183 7/7 5/- £25,000
1938.. 39,958 25,882 14,076 2/10 4/- 20,000
* Includes depreciation—l93s, nil; 1936, £23,000;
1937, £22,000; 1938, £340.
After allowing only a nominal £340
(down £21,660) for depreciation, latest
net earnings at £14,076 Aust. were £5924
less than the 4s. a share div. called for.
Here are results over the last three
years from another viewpoint:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic vards .. 786,000 1,882,000 1,566,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 298.4 512.8 356.3
Av. per c.y., 1b... 0.85 0.61 0.51
All-in costs, c.y... 4.70 d. 3.62 d. 3.88 d.
To date ground dug has averaged o.Blb.
or so per c.y., as against values of
0.41 b. contained in remaining dredging
reserves. With a nominal assessment of
only 205 tons t.o. p.a., output restric-
tion falls heavily on the co.
For the co.’s shares the market pays
£1 apiece. At Dec. 30, taking buffer-
pool contributions in at cost, more or
less liquids amounted to £29,452 ; there
was then £27,332 coming to outsiders,
including £25,000, repayable £6250 annu-
ally, owing to the parent in respect of No.
2 plant. That some profitable employ-
ment will be found for the Ampangan
unit is considered “not unreasonable.”
Within the next few months Sungei
Bidor Tin’s 300,000 - c.y. - per - month
dredge, designed by G. H. Watson
and equipped with the latest tim
saving devices, is expected to begin dig-
ging in its 510-acre ,paddock on the
Bidor River, Kampar (F.M.S.). Formed
by the Prattens early in 1937, the co.
has a paid capital of £157,500 in f.-p.
15s. shares. A. C. Perry selected 420
acres, which he estimated to contain
29,000,000 c.y., averaging o.Bllb. to.,
with traces of gold. W. F. McKenzie
rebored the entire property, putting the
workable content at 32,000,000 c.y., aver-
aging 0.5171 b. t.o. Taking tin at £220
per ton in London, yardage at the higher
figure, values. at, say, 0.621 b. per
yard, and allowing 72 p.c. assay value of
the oxide, 15 p.c. for royalties, etc., and
3|d. for costs, the property should
return the current market price of the
shares (165.), and show a surplus of
about 6s. 9d. per share, or about 45 p.c.
p.a., over nine years. But the market
notes that this makes no allowance
for contingencies, while the co.’s quota
has been assessed at only 225 tons
p.a., which is on the basis of a monthly
turnover of 150,000 c.y., and that would
mean, among other things, a big jump
in costs. The management, however,
expects the quota to be substantially in-
creased after digging begins. Much de-
pends upon this, upon how the dredge
behaves and upon the course of the tin
market.
* * * *•
In a report on Great Boulder (W.A.)
dated Oct. 5, 1934, the late Frnest wil-
liams, a former general manager of the
co., said in regard to the tributing system
introduced by a previous management:
“It is not clear to me, with such a quantity
of high-grade ore and/or medium-grade
ore in the mine already developed and
ready to be won, why it was not worked
on the co.’s account. Had there been a
proper assay plan of the workings, the
management may have been expected to
know of the existence of much of this
good ore. Certainly some of the friends
of the administration were fortunate in
finding out where some of it was, and
in securing tributes in exceedingly good
blocks containing already developed ore.
The administration cannot be held to
have served the co.’s interests well in
leaving such valuable ore unworked dur-
ing the lean years.” Writing to Great
Boulder management on April 15, 1939,
as a private shareholder in that co., Joe
Thorn, who is general manager of the
adjoining Lake View group, and a vice-
president of the Westralian Chamber of
Mines, says: “I do not believe in tribut-
ing. Soon after I arrived in Kalgoorlie
I discovered that most of the good blocks
in our mines had been turned over to
tributors, who, in some cases, were being
backed by members of the staff of our
co. Tributing has been the cause of
companies not being able to pay divi-
dends that would have been paid had the
property been operated on company
account.”
* * * *
Chamber of Mines states that a record
quantity of 3,759,720 tons of gold-bear-
ing ore was treated in Westralia last
year. The grade at 6.24dwt. was o.3Bdwt.
below that for 1937, but diamond-drill-
ing, which has reached a depth of over
2500 ft. in several mines, indicates that
for the time being there isn’t likely to
be any further fall in grade. Lake View
headed the list of producers last year
with 172,073 fine ounces; Wiluna fol-
lowed with 105,3070 z., and Great
Boulder came next with 97,2320 z. The
best of 30 other leading contributors
were Big Bell 70,537, North Kalgurli
52,340, Sons of Gwalia 45,692, Boulder
Perseverance 40,000, Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie 36,059, Moonlight Wiluna
35,972, Triton 34,437, Yellowdine 30,041,
Lancefield 29,611, Norseman 27,692,
Golden Horse Shoe (old sands re-treated)
25,436, South Kalgurli 25,194 and You-
anmi 20,396 ounces. In Australian cur-
rency the price of gold during the year
ranged from £8 12s. lOd. to £9 ss. 2d., the
lower figure ruling in April and the
higher in December. The average for the
12 months was £8 17s. Id. Dividends
totalled £1,103,244, a decrease of £110,285
from the aggregate figure for 1937. The
average number of men engaged in the
industry in 1938 was 15,083, the biggest
employers being Lake View, with 1258
names on the payroll, Great Boulder
(1051) and Wiluna (927).
* •i’
Western Gold Mines (W.A.) made a
profit of £14,317 last year. Main item
of revenue was three sixpenny divs. from
Triton, aggregating £15,000. Western's
own distributions totalled 3s. 9d. a share
(£18,750), reducing the balance at credit
of appropriation account from £13,901
to £9467. Deposits and cash amounted
to £2913, and the book value of 200,000
Triton shares was £31,035. There was
£1793 coming to sundry creditors. For
the convenience of English shareholders,
the co. proposes to establish a branch
register in London. Triton, which has a
.heavy development programme on hand,
passed its last March quarterly div., and
it is doubtful what the current year’s
distribution will amount to. Both cos.,
however, have a working interest in the
Rand leases, which are owned by
Western Gold and are about three-
quarters of a mile north of Triton work-
ings. Original arrangement for develop-
ment of these leases was for Triton to
put up 90 p.c. of the capital and take
80 p.c. of any profits until Western Gold
gets £lOO,OOO, thereafter 90 p.c.
* * * *
Final div. of the Gwalia, at Leonora
(W.A.), is 2s. per share, making a total
of ss. for 1938, or a shilling less than for
each of the two preceding terms. Full
distribution calls for £581,250, as against
£97,500 in ’36 and ’37, making the aver-
age handout over the last half-dozen
years 54 p.c. After charging develop-
ment, operating results indicate that mine
profits, thanks to an enhanced gold price,
should have been somewhere near the ’37
level, despite fractional decrease in re-
coveries and increase in costs. Two years’
figures (Aust. currency):
Year, Treated, Yield, Working Costs, Develop-
Dec., Tons. Ton. Costs. Ton. ment.
1967.. 152,908 O.Odwt. £200,060 20/2 £34,022
1938.. 154,794 5.9 „ 205,745 26/7 28,072
1939 f . 37,694 6.0 ~ 50,664 26/11 7,586
t Three months.
Exes, continue to be difficult to re-
strain, but there has been a slightly better
gold yield for the first quarter of the
current term.
% * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) an-
nounces receipt of a report from geologist
K. Finucane, recommending purchase of
the Mayfield mine, Yilgarn, which the
co. has been working under option for
some months. Since inspection of the
property, one or two small gold-carriers
have been exposed at a shallow depth.
The co. is now considering the question
of ore treatment at the nearest public
battery. The crushing of the first and so
far only lot of ore at Kalgoorlie was
expensive.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans, once among
the biggest gold-producers in the State,
is again on the contributing list. This
time some of the old original plant is
being used for tailings treatment, and
a fair-sized tonnage is being handled
monthly. The late A. E. Morgans,
mining man of world-wide experience
and an ex-Premier of the State, took a
fortune out of this show, but lost nearly
the whole of it backing other ventures.
* * * *
Swan Bitter’s cyanide clean-up of 790 z.
15dwt, gold from 480 tons ore for April
was disappointing —about lOOoz. was ex-
pected. Plant absorption was blamed.
May returns are expected to come up
to estimates. The battery throughput for
April was 498 tons for 141 oz. 18dwt.
Head value of the ore and costs are not
mentioned. There is talk of another five-
head of stamps being installed, and a
new 65-h.p. gas engine is on its way to
the mine.
* * * *
Western Queen (W.A.), which left
Warda Warra* with some plant and a
little cash to seek its fortune at Norse-
man, proposes to do further develop-
ment before deciding whether its option
on the May Belle mine there is worth
exercising. So far the reef has proved
narrow and values low.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ii
ill
111
mm
IiWI
Ilf
it
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“There's somethin' Wrong, Bert—she ain't pullin'."
Is the British Empire now at Poland’s
Beck and call?
“The planet Mars, god of war, influences
the growth of carrots and other plants.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Noticeably munition plants.
* 'l* -I-* -s"
When a woman says she can keep a
secret she means that she can keep it in
circulation.
•F »I*
“Man fishing at Lakes Entrance (Vic.) with
seven mussels caught six snapper.”
One of the mussels couldn’t have been
trying.
•F *l* *F *F
“Rabbits dull in London.” — Market report.
They were probably entertained at
Australia House.
+
“Scientists have discovered a substance that
is harder than any known rock.” — News item.
Probably in a railway refreshment-
room.
+ 4* •J'
When a woman steps into matrimony
she doesn’t mind a trip.
•F *F *F *F
“He visualised marriage as being a glorious
dream.” — Women’s mag.
It turned out to be one long buy buy.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Farmers to repair roads.” — “S. M. Herald.”
At present it’s the motorists who have
to plough through them.
4 t *l*
“Is slight deafness a handicap to a girl’s
business career?” asks a correspondent.
No, she can become a telephonist.
tIT . *F *F
the wife who is reputed to be a real angel
?P ows hide sportsmanship to her
husband. — Women’s paper.
She is actually a nark-angel.
, .4' *F *F »F
to the air traveller, the world appears to
be standing still. —Aviation journal.
Those below, of course, know that it’s
slipping backwards.
To all Europe it seems a case of
“Danzig with tears in their eyes.”
•f- A"
“The open doorway seemed to look out
on the world with a blank, unseeing stare.”
—Short story.
And there was the window blind, too.
“Lemurians settled Australia 20,000 years
ago.”— “World’s News.”
Our politicians aren’t to blame after
all.
A q. q* A
“As he watched the gleaming halo formed
by the cruel teeth of the giant circular saw,
and listened to the strident screech it emitted,
Harold suddenly felt that there was something
missing.” —Extract from novel.
Probably one of his fingers.
The only time some women use their
heads is when they put their hats on.
•J* .
“The shilling-a-visit doctor has
arrived.” —“Sunday Sun.”
That’s one cut doctors will admit is
painful.
•I* r 5* •1* . .
“What does the average woman want most
of all?” — Women’s mag.
The things her husband can’t afford to
buy her. . _ .
Strange Case.
“Some players obtain practice by playing
themselves.” —Article on auction bridge.
This method is not to be recommended
for everyone. To a friend of mine i
proved calamitous. .
Being a rather poor sport, he aroused
ill-feeling every time he beat himselt,
and whenever himself won he would be-
come quite irate, sometimes going for
days without speaking to himself.
He became thoroughly morbid, and
used to scowl every time he passed a
mirror. The climax came one night when
he accused himself of cheating. Imme-
diately there were fierce insults and recri-
minations, followed by a gunshot.
An unimaginative coroner merely
called it suicide.
T. W. N.
•j« /
“Never do for a child what he can do for
himself.” — “Sun.”
Besides it’s so embarrassing to have
Him say he wishes you’d buy a train of
your own to wind up.
*r -i* q* *l*
“Knitting does for women what smoking
does for men.” — Women’s mag.
But dropped stitches don’t mark the
carpet.
“Vegetables inhale and exhale like human
beings.” —Science lecturer.
Someone should try to discover how
to make the onion holds its breath.
Change.
Charms had Maria in her youth
That held my heart in thrall;
But I discover now, in truth,
A strange change in them all.
Her little hands, so small they oft
Held admiration dumb,
Seem now (it was myself was soft )
To run a lot to thumb.
“Her voice is like an angel’s breath,”
l thought—and paid the price.
These days, when l am talked to death,
I find it is a vice. s
Of all youth’s blindness now bereft
I wish that I was free.
All of Maria that is left
Is much too much for me.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
Broadminded.
“Mind you, I’m not narrow-minded.
Don’t think that for a moment. I like to
see a man have his bit of pleasure. But
it seems to me that this Sunday football
is going too far. I’m the last to want
people to go round with gloomy expres-
sions and not enjoy themselves. Toler-
ance is my motto. Just the same we have
to draw the line somewhere.
“I wouldn’t try to force my opinions on
anyone: we all have our own views on
these matters, but I think it’s disgraceful
that these blasphemous hooligans can
make mock of the day of rest with their
rowdy football.
“Nobody can say I’m a sport-hating
wowser, because, although I don’t know
anything about football, I play golf and
tennis on Sundays myself (there’s not
much other time really), so you’ll see I’m
quite a broadminded man.
“Why not football then? . . . Well,
really, my dear chap, that’s quite dif-
ferent !”
HOOTS AWA'.
Too Right.
It’s nice to know that someone knows
Just what you’re doing every day.
To feel that there is one who shows
An interest in you, every way.
It’s nice to feel you’re being watched
By guardians strong who will not fail.
But how much nicer it would be
To know that you were out of gaol!
TREVDEE.
Necking.
He grumbled, “Marriage is a tie /”
She nodded, looking prim ;
But when he tried to dodge the knot
He found she’d collared him.
ELM.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
V.
It is in the mixing that the secret of
really good paint lies, and it therefore
behoves the amateur housepainter to be
thorough.
For the fellow blessed with a Heath
Robinson-like imagination in inventing
mechanical gadgets, the job can be
speedily done. He could, for instance,
fashion a rough windmill by glueing half
a dozen ping-pong bats on to the sieve,
this contraption being connected by the
clothesline and pulleys on to the fan
from the car lowered into the oil and
lead. This would be practicable only if
the mixing coincided with a cyclone’s
arrival.
An egg-whisk connected by lashing sisal
to the rubber band on the vacuum-
cleaner could also be tried. An equally
effective but slightly slower method
would be to construct a barrier a dog’s
length out from and all round the mix-
ing keg and then borrow sufficient dogs
to fill up the circle between the keg and
the barrier, putting them stern-in to the
keg, with an implement suitable for stir-
ring fastened to each tail. Then walk
around them, giving each hound in turn
a boiled lolly. The canine gratitude will
be expressed in vigorous horizontal tail-
wagging.
For the man who lacks the gift of in-
vention many hours of hard manual work
will be unavoidable, but a timely hint
will minimise this considerably: To
render the whitelead more quickly soluble
he can stand in the mixture in his bare
feet and practise some dancing steps for
an hour or so. When dry the lead can
easily be removed from between the toes
with a three-cornered file.
In all of these methods it must be
borne in mind that paint, like a sponge
cake, must always be stirred the same
way—clockwise—otherwise the colors
will go streaky. Of course, if a striped
paint is desired, it must be stirred anti-
clockwise.
After having been mixed until there
are no blowholes, bubbles, knots, splits,
shakes, heart or knobs left in it, the paint
must then be strained.
The bedroom lace curtains usually have
a foot or so to spare below the window-
sill. Snip this off evenly and pin up the
ragged end so that the wife won’t notice
it. Should all the curtains in the house
be of cottage-weave or heavy Madras, use
either mosquito net (punch every second
hole out to make it a coarser mesh) or
a veil off one of the wife’s hats. If
neither of these is available you’ll have
to fall back on her spare foundation gar-
ment and punch some holes in it with the
brace-and-bit. About twenty to the
square inch will be ample.
The actual straining of paint abounds
in tricky points for the unwary. First
you must have a container big enough
to take the strained paint. As you already
have in use the two halves of the beer
keg you may have to take the
baby’s bath, the jam pan, the washing-up
dish or the big jardiniere that Uncle
Claude sprang for a wedding present.
Put the material through which the
paint has to be strained (if the corsets,
they will first have to be de-boned) across
the clean receptacle and shove the keg
alongside it.
You can either tip it in gradually, in
which case most of the paint will cascade
down the side of the keg to run off on
to the floor, or you can tip it in quickly.
In the latter case either the straining
material will sag with the sudden weight
of paint and disappear under the messy
avalanche or, if you’ve had the foresight
to keep it taut with your knee the paint
will come in faster than it can get out
through the strainer and the overflow
will finish up also on the floor.
For this reason it is a good plan to do
the job on the iinoleumed kitchen floor,
where the overflow can be taken up
cleanly with the carving-knife. Patience
as well as paint will be strained by this
work, but perseverance will see it at last
accomplished.
With the paint all ready to be slapped
on, the next thing to see to is the brush.
Ignore the boneheaded advice to use
more than one brush —it isn’t necessary.
A general-purpose brush, say a 3in.
one, will be suitable for everything from
eaves to window slats.
It is patently extravagant to buy a new
brush every time you want to paint
your house. Dig up the old one you used
last time. You will find it on the shelf
in the woodshed, as hard as petrified
ironbark.
To soak it out into a sufficiently pliable
state will take too long. Get your ham-
mer, put the brush on the concrete path,
and as you keep turning the brush around
hit it with increasing severity. This will
loosen it considerably.
Before commencing the actual painting
take a look over the woodwork. All
“blisters” should be belted out with a
blunt instrument and the edges finished
off neatly. They will then look, after
being painted over, like knots in the
wood —a very natty effect.
S. W. K.


FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PROBLEMS
to
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
You may need information about currencies subject to exchange
restrictions. You may wish to make payments abroad or transfer
foreign exchange into Australian currency. The Bank's specialized
Foreign Exchange Departments are always glad to advise and help
clients and the public. Their services are available through any
branch of the Bank where your exchange transactions, however
small, will receive immediate attention.
the
I'.' 1
rr..rr»
451 A. 1939
m
in less than a minute . • • without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Globite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
GLOBITE
AEROPLANE
CASE
.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Scottish Loan and Finance
A “crisis” (real this time) occurred last
week—in the affairs of the Scottish Loan
and Finance Co., Sydney. Because its
books and records had been taken by the
police, its employees’ wages were in
arrears, and the landlord had asked it
to find another place of business, the co.
petitioned to have itself wound up. And
Long Innes, J., after listening to the co.’s
barrister, E. S. Miller, and reading an
affidavit, made the order asked for with-
out delay. A. E. Campbell, Official Re-
ceiver, was appointed provisional liqui-
dator.
The Scottish Loan and Finance Co.
was formed in Sydney about the end of
February, 1931, and it took over a co.
of similar name. That was before the
heyday of John Woolcott-Forbes. The
Bulletin’s “Smoke-oh!” page noted the
happening with the following par.
(11 /3/’31): -
From “Company Registrations” in “S. M.
Herald”:
The Scottish Loan and Finance Co.,
Ltd., capital £15,000, divided into 10,000
fixed cumulative preference and 5000 ord.
shares, financial and monetary agents, capi-
talists and promoters. Subscribers: .R. H.
Tobias, N. T. H. Bergman, Sara E. Berg-
man, Rebe Bessie Bergman, Isaac Bergman,
L. Rosengarten, Doris F. Rosengarten.
Scottish? Hoots, mon, mein gootness, yes!
Apparently about this period the Scot-
tish Loan was a modest, profitable
moneylending business. But in the full-
ness of time John Woolcott-Forbes (now
wanted by the police on a charge con-
nected with another finance co. —the P.
and G.—and as an absconder from bail
in Bombay) became associated with it.
It has been said by a member of the
company-promoting fraternity that the
Scottish Loan eventually became pos-
sessed of a quantity of the late Primary
Producers’ Bank “assets.” Whether that
is so or not, it is a fact that its shares
were hawked far and wide during 193/
and 1938, and that Scott, Elder and Co.
(formerly David Provan and Co.), _a
Woolcott-Forbes show, was interested in-
disposing of the shares.
It was in connection with these share-
selling operations that The Bulletin
made its second . mention of Scottish
Loan. From the issue of 29/9/’37: ——
Copies of a single sheet of stout, important-
looking paper with a bluish tint, printed_with
the name of, and figures relating to, the Scot-
tish Loan and Finance Co., Ltd., have been
seen in Sydney lately. The shares in this con-
cern fiave been offered by salesmen from time
to time to .people in various parts of the
Commonwealth (some of whom have got m
touch with The Bulletin), sometimes for cash
and sometimes in exchange for other scrip.
This selling campaign may actually be none
of the Scottish Loan Co.’s business. But the
publication of the document mentioned seems
to be. It purports to be signed by “L. Coleman
Einfeld, Secretary,” who might be Scottish or
he mightn’t. No other officers of the Cale-
donian firm are mentioned. No auditors’
names appear.
Some unusual things are noticeable in the
figures published. A setting-out of “capital
and liabilities” and “assets” is described as
“Interim Statement of Affairs as at June 30,
1937.” A. E. Barton, in his Australasian Ad-
vanced Accountancy, says: “In a balance sheet
the assets are stated at their value to the busi-
ness as a going concern, but in a statement
of affairs the assets are stated at the amount
which they might be expected to bring on a
forced realisation.” It is difficult to understand
(unless the books have been kept by single-
entry) the reason in the Scottish Loan’s case
for describing as a “statement of affairs” what
is obviously in form a balance sheet. The
N. S. Wales Companies Act provides that
balance sheets issued to shareholders must be
audited. The thing put out under the name
of Scottish Loan and Finance Co. may not
have been issued to shareholders; but in any
case it has been printed, and it carries no
auditors’ report at its f00t....
This remarkable document showed paid
capital at £114,565. Among the assets
were - “sundry debtors and • mortgages”
(£153,186, less reserve £57,624) £95,562,
and investments £24,216. “Interim p.
and 1. account for the six months ended
June 30, 1937,” showed and
commission earnings at £6254, “profit
on sale of shares, £1250,” expenses at
£1353, net profit at £6151. An “interim
div.” of £770 was paid in April, 1937 —
it represented a decimal of 1 p.c. flat on
the capital as at June 30 that year.
A year and ten months after date of
this “statement of affairs,” which showed
net tangible “assets” of over £lOO,OOO,
the N. S. Wales Equity Court was told
that (though “capital” had more than
doubled meanwhile) the co. was unable to
pay its debts. It-was also informed that
on April 29 this year Albert Levitus, then
manager of the concern, gave directions
that a cheque for £5OO which had been
sent to the co. frormC. J. Green, Ltd.,
Maoriland brokers, should be paid into
his private account. The cheque (marked
“Not negotiable”) represented proceeds of
the sale of pref. shares. As a result of
investigations made by the directors, Mr.
Levitus was relieved of his duties, and
chairman R. Bruce Walker, M.L.A.,
T. C. Trautwein, M.L.C., and Dr. Sen-
der, directors, interviewed the Police
Commissioner. On May 9 the C. 1.8.
took possession of the co.’s books and
papers. Affidavit evidence (by Clive
Airey, secretary) was tendered that there
was an overdraft of £lOOO, that employees
hadn’t been paid on May 5, and that
office rent was £l2O in arrears.
“I am instructed,” said Mr. Miller,
“that the application for a winding-up
arises from the fact that a gentleman who
is now missing from Australia is believed
to have received large sums of the com-
pany’s money.” He added that after the
suspension of Mr. Levitus as manager
the locks on the doors were changed.
The next thing the directors heard was
that Mr. Levitus had broken a fanlight
and “sought to obtain various records.”
The police were then called.
At date of winding-up Scottish Loan’s
paid capital was said to be about
£250,000. It also held an interest in
Australian Glove Industries Pty., the
liquidation of which was also ordered
by the Judge.
Better prices for ordinary shares were
evident during the whole of last week.
Outstandingly firm were B.H.P. and
A.C.I. The bond market was generally
weaker, talk of a new loan depressing
quotations for present issues. Gold
shares, on the whole, were stronger —
Placer Development recovered to 705., and
Bulolo was up at £6 10s. 6d. Emperor
stepped up to Bs. 7d., and even Golden
Plateau (Q.) showed strength at Bs. sd„
Loloma appreciating to 225. 3d. Kanieri
and Arahura, both of Maoriland, were
steady at 335. and 255. 6d. respectively,
and there was demand for Ngahere scrip
above par. These three issues are among
the most-dealt-in gold stocks on Sydney
’Change, and Kanieri’s returns are re-
ceiving a lot of attention. All three
shows are dredging near to each other,
and they have similar equipment.
Sydney Ferries ss. shares continued
weak at 4s. lid., earning-power, costs
and depreciation continuing to worry
holders. United Provisions ords., though
possessing attractions, were dull at
around 7s. Australasian Paper ords., a
sound stock yielding 5.7 p.c., were bought
by Melbourne investors at the attractive
price of 285., which shows little appre-
ciation compared with recent lows. The
brown-paper and cardboard business is
a key industry, and it will grow to greater
importance when the Gippsland pulp
mill starts operations. Though Wool-
worth shares were stale at under 225.,
G. J. Coles ords., cum rights to the
new issue, stepped up to 80s. at one
stage. ' A new building in Brisbane has
been acquired. In Sydney, Kandos
Cement fully-paid shares were sought at
28s. 3d., no sellers. The contribs. con-
sequently found a more active market
at 13s. lOd. Gibson and Howes scrip
was much stronger following a lift in
the div., and Fairymead and Millaquin
improved in sympathy, the prospect of
a better market in Britain also having
some effect. The world price has been
more stable lately, with a firming ten-
dency.
In ‘ Melbourne, “Herald” shares con-
tinued firm at 625. 6d;, maintaining but
not improving upon the better quotations
established before the present general
market recovery. In Sydney the diffi-
culties of the “Daily News” were made
public on tfie appointment of a receiver,
who is carrying-on and endeavoring to
sell this publication,, which used to be the
“Labor Daily .’’.“Truth,” which publishes
in all States and M.L., has reduced its
ord. interim from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c. It
recently lifted the price of. its principal
publication. Associated. Newspapers,
proprietor of Sydney “Sun,” etc., had
an improved market of 19s. 9d. for its
£1 ords., but this is still much lower
than quotes earlier this year. Consoli-
dated Press 6i p.c. prefs. last changed
hands at 9d. below par, and Smith’s
Newspapers 5 p.c. cum. par prefs. sold
at 4s. Smith’s has called an extraordi-
nary general meeting for to-day (17th)
to “hear a report by the directors con-
cerning the co.’s publications and future
activities,” “to consider the future of
the co. generally,” and “to consider....
the aonointment of additional directors.”
Australian Consolidated Industries
ords. reached a high-water mark of 355.
early last week in Melbourne and Sydney.
The stock ran second to B.H.P. in volume
of turnover. The 355. was equal to
£6 11s. for each old Australian Glass
share. On a 7 p.c. div. basis the new
shares would return 4 p.c.; on al\ p.c.
basis, 4.3 p.c. The stock was picked in
B. 22/3/’39 at 305., and it later sold
down to near 28s. The enlarged share-
register has resulted in a much wider
market for the scrip.
* * * *
Minerva Centre (King’s Cross, Sydney)
opens its theatre to-morrow (18th). The
house was booked out at 10s. 9d. a ticket
before advertising of the show, “Idiot’s
Delight,” started last week. Aust. and
N.Z. Theatres (successors to J.C.W.) are
the lessees, and David N. Martin looks
after Tvlinerva interests. Ordinary nights
the highest price will be 6s. 6d., and there
isn’t a bad seat in the house.
* * * *
Yarra Falls shares were back to 375.
again last week in Melbourne, which
compares with 355. when the scrip was
pointed out here a fortnight ago. There
had previously been sales down to
335. 6d. Accounts close on June 30. On
a 10 p.c. div. basis the scrip returned
5.4 p.c at last week’s quotation.
* * * *
Shipping shares generally showed no
particular animation in last week’s re-
covery on the Australian sharemarkets,
but Howard Smith, partly by reason
of its interest in 8.H.P., lifted to 195., as
against 17s. 9d. when attention was
drawn to the ord. shares in B. 26/4/’39.
At last week’s quote and current div.
(5 p.c.) the scrip returns above 5.2 p.c.
* sr * *
Though British Tobacco ords. lifted to
48s. last week, and other market leaders
(like Henry Jones, G. J. Coles, David
Jones and Aust. Gypsum, not to men-
tion B.H.P. and A.C.1.) were generally
firmer, brewery issues remained dull.
Tooth (Sydney) shares sold at 535. 3d.
notwithstanding an interim of 12 p.c. p.a.
(payable 18th); the scrip has been as
high as 555. this year. Castlemaine Per-
kins 12s. 6d. shares changed hands at
225., which is near the lowest quote of
recent years. Tooheys shares were a
trifle firmer, but the upward movement
in Carlton (Melbourne) was trifling.
* * * *
The sharemarket chased B.H.P. fully-
paids up to 625. 6d. at one stage last
week, as against 555. in B. 29/3/’39.
They have been as low as 525. 6d. this
year, and sank to 50s. during the Sep-
tember scare. The 1938 “high” was
655. 3d. A fortnight or so ago the shares
were still obtainable at 555. The spec-
tacular rise (the f.-ps. steadied at 61s.
on Saturday) has been prompted by
the orders received from Britain, the
prospects of more, and the generally
better appearance of the sharemarket.
Another factor has been the hope that
the tinplate industry is now about to
come into being, and that B.H.P. share-
holders will be asked to put up some of
the £2,000,000 said to be required. A
final call on the present contrib. shares
is payable on July 31. If no new issue is
made, the fully-paids at 625. yield just
over 4 p.c. on a 12! P- c - div. basis.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Myer ords didn’t respond to the improved
feeling in the sharemarket, and continued to be
sold at 28s. This was in contrast to the sup-
port given to Sydney retail stocks, and to
Finney, Isles in Brisbane. There have been
several parcels of Myer scrip on the market in
recent months, and, in spite of a return ot
7.1 p.c. offering at last week’s price, dealings
remain at a depressed level. The directors
anticipate that 9 p.c. will be paid again this
year.
The directors of the Melbourne Investment
Trust, which took over the share and bond
holdings of the old Melbourne Electric Supply
Co., recommended a winding-up of the co.
They said that “there seems to be no reason-
able prospect of such a material improvement
in the international situation as would remove
or greatly minimise the uncertainties and specu-
lative character of any investment policy that
the board might conceivably adopt.’’ The
co.’s scrip continued to change hands at
10s 9d alter the announcement. The shares
are paid to 10s., and last full div. was 2\ p.c.,
with an interim of 2 p.c. this year.


Australasian Paper, 28s.
The ords. in Australasian Paper
at last week’s quote, which showed
little or no appreciation in the
generally-firmer market, gave an
attractive yield of 5.7 p.c.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest .Current Rates.
The United”
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
is an Australian Institution.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
0 PERFECT BASIS
POfi /
0 PERFECT COCKTAn
V
/■>
ft,
A Whisky with
Many Qualities
By Appointment
1929
y/$/y
Canadian Club Whisky—bottled in bond at pre-war
strength—has a delightful mildness and softness with
a noticeably clean taste to the palate. It is the pro-
duct of over 70 years' experience, and sets a standard
of perfection that is seldom equalled and ■ never
excelled. The age of every bottle of Canadian Club
Whisky is certified by a stamp affixed round the neck
of the bottle.
Agents
John Woods & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney
DISTILLED BY HIRAM WALKER & SONS LTD.,
WALKERVILLE. ONTARIO. CANADA. SINCE
1858.
j< &
M C/3
vCi
ds
- r-
m
iKi
m
mm
m
NOT WORTH A GENT
Armco-Lysaght metallurgists may have made experiments yesterday which you wouldn't give a
cent for to-day. Yet, to-morrow, this work may be of incalculable worth to users of planished
sheets. It is the policy of Armco-Lysaght, backed by the vast research facilities of their parent com-
panies, to deal in long-range benefits to iron and steel fabricators. You'll find that dealings with
the Commonwealth Rolling Mills mean more than just quick deliveries of high quality steel and
iron sheets. Their interest carries through to successful APPLICATION of the metal and to the profitable
achievement of YOUR objectives.
P T Y. LTD.
( THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION )
ARMCO-LYSAGHT STEEL
fs
KEMBLA ** ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
CR6-9.
BORN OF RESEARCH
The orders from Britain for B.H.P.
iron and steel —about 60,000 tons of ste&l
plates and galvanised iron, or a month’s
output from Newcastle, has been asked
for already—follow a reduction in the
home price by British mills. That B.H.P.
can compete in such circumstances is
especially flattering to its management.
Part of the Newcastle works is likely to
be closed temporarily for an overhaul
shortly—a more or less regular procedure
—but the A.I. and S. plant at Kembla
should take up the additional load with-
out difficulty. B.H.P.’s Newcastle pro-
duction for the financial term ending
with this month should slightly exceed
output for 1937-38, notwithstanding some
slackening in general construction
activity. The steel-sheet output of Com-
monwealth Rolling Mills should absorb
about 30,000 tons of B.H.P. steel a year,
and the tinplate subsidiary will later
on help to provide entirely new outlets
for Australian iron and steel. It is only
by spreading its activities thus that B.H.P.
can do anything worth while to stabilise
its profits. While it made only rails, rods,
bars, etc., the co. was entirely dependent
on construction trades—which are often
of a volatile nature. By stretching out
into tinplates, steel sheets, wire, nails,
galvanised iron, efc., the enterprise manu-
factures for a much wider and more con-
sistent demand. The mainstay of the
business, however, will be the require-
ments of the heavy industries for many
years to come.
* * * *
Commonwealth Rolling Mills Pty.,
representing an alliance between the
Armco concern in U.S.A. and Lysaghts,
of Newcastle and Port Kembla N.S.W.),
started up its sheet-steel plant at Kembla
on April 24, W. M. Hughes officiating.
Initial plant capacity is 30,000 tons p.a.
About 80 p.c. of the plant and equip-
ment is Australian, and more than 400
people are being employed from the
kick-off.
* * if:
Australians will need to see more than
recovery in overseas stock markets if any
real basis for higher share and other
prices is to endure. Quite possibly, and
in some cases certainly, the “international
situation” has unwarrantably depressed
the general level of Commonwealth share
prices. But changes in the “situation,”
which at present happens to be regarded
in a more favorable light, may bring
about dullness again. This page has fre-
quently expressed its opinion about the
possible effect of war on share and other
security prices, and the verdict has in-
variably been in favor of ord. shares.
However, war is not the only factor to
which regard should be given. Prices for
most of our exports are very low just
now, while the taxation burden is in-
creasing, with Parliamentary Budgets
somewhat precarious and the loan mar-
ket reluctant. Also, the cost of living
has been rising. This inflationary effect
may yet be checked, and if it is any
improvement in prices for our staple ex-
ports would be of immediate benefit to
the internal economy of the country. It
is in regard to improved world prices
following a more settled state of affairs
in Europe that hopes of any real im-
provement in trading conditions within
Australia depend.
The Bulletin was the first in Aus-
tralia to voice its distrust of the craze
for following Dow-Jones indexes. Even-
tually the truth of this became apparent,
and in the interlude of comparative buoy-
ancy overseas early this year Australian
’Changes were slow to respond. They
also fell less heavily when Hitler swal-
lowed the rest of Czechoslovakia (on
March 15). For this evidence of stability
of temperament in comparison with New
York and London Australian investors
deserve congratulation.
The 14s. 6d.-paid £1 shares in Table-
land Tin Dredging (Return Creek, Mt.
Garnet, Q.) have been weak lately,
though there is no regular market for
the shares. Apparently some holders have
grown tired of waiting. However, it is
a big proposition, and the co. has been
on the job a bare two years. No. 1
dredge, with a capacity of about 75,000
c.y. a month, is a reconditioned unit, and
the old steam plant on it, which was
retained, has been found incapable of
dealing with the yardage in the required
time. As a result, though recoveries are
averaging about a pound of concentrate
(75 p.c. tin) to the yard, the small yardage
(about a third or a quarter of what it
should be) has not returned any profit
as yet, though it has just about covered
working exes. If the dredge were digging
to capacity, most of the additional tin
recovered would represent profit. Elec-
trification of the bucket band should be
completed early in June, and, with some
other adjustments working satisfactorily,
full yardage and much better results are
looked for. It is disappointing that the
small dredge didn’t kick-off efficiently,
but it has shown the values to be there.
To the No. 2 dredge (4,000,000 c.y. p.a.)
that is contemplated, and for which a
large part of the mine’s power, water and
other equipment has been designed, the
ground to be dealt with should be like
apple-pie. But it will make the co.’s
path a lot easier if electrification of the
No. 1 unit is successful to begin with.
There is a very big area of payable
ground on the property. B.H.P. is in-
terested near by, and hopes to obtain its
tin requirements for the projected Why-
alla (S.A.) enterprise from this area.
* * * *
Just before the annual accounts (to
Dec. 31) were published last week, there
was substantial selling of Mt. Kasi
shares, a parcel of 1000 changing hands
at from 4s. 6d. down to 4s. 2d. The
shares are paid to 35., and there are
396,008 of them issued. Results weren't
quite up to expectations.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Hitler on Czechs and Poland.
(Condensed from the complete text of Herr Hitler’s
Reichstag speech on 28/4/’39, referred to more fully in
the panel item headed “Hiller Explains.’’)
As late as March, 1938, I believed that by means
of a gradual evolution it might prove possible to
solve the problem of minorities in Czechoslovakia and
achieve a common platform which would be advan-
tageous to all interests concerned, politically as well
as economically. It was not until M. Benes un-
leashed a wave of suppression over the Germans,
at the same time attempting by mobilisation to inflict
an international defeat upon the German State, that
it became clear to me that a solution by these means
was no longer possible.
I for my part was prepared to attempt peaceful
development with patience and, if need be, in a pro-
cess lasting some years. However, it was exactly this
peaceful solution which was a thorn in the flesh of
the agitators in the democracies. They hate us Ger-
mans, and would prefer to eradicate us completely.
According to their view there remained only two
alternatives for Germany: either to accept the Czech
mobilisation, and with it a disgraceful blow to her
prestige, or the settling of accounts with Czecho-
slovakia, a bloody war.
If the cry of “Never another Munich!” is raised
in the world to-day, this simply confirms the fact that
the peaceful solution of the problem appeared to be
the most fatal thing that ever happened in the eyes
of those warmongers. They are sorry no blood was
shed —not their blood, of course, but the blood of
many nameless soldiers.
The decision of Munich still left open the follow-
ing problems: (a) the return of the Magyar districts
to Hungary; ( b ) the return of the Polish districts to
Poland ; (c) the solution of the Slovak question; ( d)
the solution of the Ukrainian question.
The negotiations between Hungary and Czecho-
slovakia had scarcely begun when both the Czecho-
slovak and the Hungarian negotiators requested Ger-
many and Italy to act as arbitrators in defining the
new frontiers between Slovakia, the Carpatho-Ukraine
and Hungary. The countries concerned made no use
of the possibility of appealing to the four Powers.
And this was only natural. All the people living
in this territory desired peace and quiet. Italy and
Germany were prepared to answer the call. Neither
England nor France raised any objection to this
arrangement, which actually constituted a formal de-
parture from the Munich Agreement, nor was it pos-
sible for them to do so ; it would have been madness
for Paris or London to have protested against an
action on the part of Germany or Italy which had
been undertaken solely at the request of the countries
concerned.
The decision arrived at by Germany and Italy
proved—as always in such cases —entirely satisfactory
to neither party. From the very beginning the diffi-
culty was that it had to be voluntarily accepted by
both parties. Thus, when the decision came to be put
into effect, violent protests were raised immediately
following on the acceptance by two States. Hungary,
prompted by general and particular interests, demanded
the Carpatho-Ukraine, while Poland demanded a direct
means of communication with Hungary.
It was clear that in such circumstances even the
remnant of the State which Versailles brought into
being was predestined to extinction. It was a fact that
perhaps only one single State was interested in the
preservation of the status quo, and that was Rumania ;
the man best authorised to speak on behalf of that
country told me personally how desirable it would
be to have a direct line of communication with Ger-
many perhaps via the Ukraine and Slovakia. I men-
tion this as an illustration of the feeling of being
menaced by Germany from which the Rumanian Gov-
ernment —according to the American clairvoyants—
is supposed to be suffering.
The stage was thus reached at which, in the name
of the German Government, I decided to make a de-
claration to the effect that we had no intention of any
longer incurring the reprobation of opposing the
common wishes of Poland and Hungary as regards
their frontiers, simply in order to keep open a road
of approach for Germany to Rumania.
Since, moreover, the Czech Government resorted
once more to its old methods, and Slovakia also gave
expression to its desire for independence, the further
existence of the State was out of the question. The
construction of Czechoslovakia worked out at Ver-
sailles had had its day. It broke up, not because
Germany desired its break-up, but because in the long
run it is impossible to construct and uphold around
the conference table artificial States which are incap-
able of survival.
Consequently, in reply to a question regarding the
guarantee which was submitted by England and France
a few days before the dissolution of this State, Ger-
many refused this guarantee, since all the conditions
for it laid down at Munich were lacking. On the con-
trary, when —after the whole structure of the State
had begun to break up and, practically speaking, had
already dissolved itself —the German Government
finally decided also to intervene, it did this only in
fulfilment of an obvious duty.
On the occasion of the first visit of the Czech
Foreign Minister, M. Chvalkovsky, in Munich, I
assured him that, provided loyal treatment was meted
out to the large German minorities remaining in the
Czech territory, and provided a general appeasement
of the whole State was attained, we would place
no obstacles in the way of the State. But I also made
it clear beyond all doubt that if the Czechs were to
undertake any steps in line with the political tenden-
cies of Dr. Benes, the former President, Germany
would not put up with any development along such
lines, but would stifle it in its earliest stages. 1 also
pointed out at that time that the maintenance of such
a tremendous military arsenal in Central Europe for
no reason or purpose could only be regarded as a
focus of danger.
Later developments proved how justified my
warning had been. A continuous and rising tide of
underground propaganda, and a gradual tendency on
the part of Czech newspapers to relapse into the old
style of writing, made it finally clear even to the
greatest simpleton that the old state of affairs would
soon be restored. The danger of a military conflict
was all the greater as there was always the possibility
that some madman or other might get control of the
vast stores of munitions. This involved the danger
of immense explosions.
I believe that it is a good thing for millions and
millions of people that I, thanks to the last-minute
insight of responsible men on the other side, succeeded
in averting such an explosion, and found a solution
which I am convinced has finally abolished this prob-
lem of a source of danger in Central Europe.
The contention that this solution is contrary to
the Munich Agreement can neither be supported nor
confirmed. This Agreement could in no circum-
stances be regarded as final, because it admitted that
other problems required and remained to be solved.
We cannot really be reproached for the fact that the
parties concerned —and this is the deciding factor —
did not turn to the four Powers but only to Italy and
Germany, nor yet for the fact that the State as such
finally split up of its own accord.
I entirely fail to understand how the agreement
reached between Mr. Chamberlain and myself at
Munich can refer to this case, for the case of Czecho-
slovakia was settled in the Munich protocol of the
four Powers as far as it could be settled at all at that
time. Apart from this, provision was merely made
that if the interested parties should fail to come to an
agreement they should be entitled to appeal to the four
Powers, who had agreed in such a case to meet for
further consultation after the expiration of three
months. However, these interested parties did not
appeal to the four Powers at all, but only to Germany
and Italy.
If Mr. Chamberlain concludes from these de-
velopments that the Munich Agreement is annulled,
as if we had broken it, I shall take cognisance of the
fact and proceed accordingly.
I have heard the statement of the British Prime
Minister to the effect that he is not able to put any
trust in German assurances. When Germany became
National-Socialist and thus paved the way for her
national resurrection, in pursuance of my unswerving
policy of friendship with England, of my own accord
I made the proposal for a voluntary restriction of
German naval armaments. That restriction was, how-
ever, based on one condition —namely, the will and
the conviction that a war between England and Ger-
many would never again be possible. This wish and
this conviction are alive in me to-day.
I am, however, now compelled to state that the
policy of England is both unofficially and officially
leaving no doubt about the fact that such a convic-
tion is no longer shared in London, and that, on the
contrary, the opinion prevails there that, no matter
in what conflict Germany should some day be en-
tangled, Great Britain would always have to take her
stand against Germany. Thus a war against Germany
is taken for granted in that country. I most pro-
foundly regret such a development, for the only claim
I have ever made, and shall continue to make, on
England is that for a return of our colonies. But I
always made it very clear that this would never become
the cause of a military conflict.
Since England to-day, both by the press and offi-
cially, upholds the view that Germany should be
opposed in all circumstances, and confirms this by the
policy of encirclement known to us, the basis for the
Naval Treaty has been removed. 1 have therefore
resolved to send a communication to this effect to
the British Government. This is to us not a matter
of practical material importance—for I still hope that
we shall be able to avoid an armaments race with
England—but an action of self-respect. Should the
British Government, however, wish to enter once more
into negotiations with Germany on this problem, no
one would be happier than I at the prospect of still
being able to come to a straightforward understanding.
I am happy that we have been able to dispose of
the point of dispute between Lithuania and Germany
[Memel], The democratic world was once more sorry
there was no bloodshed —that 175,000 Germans were
able to return to the homeland which they loved above
everything else without a few hundred thousand others
having to be shot for it! This grieved the apostles
of humanitarianism deeply. It was therefore no wonder
that they immediately began to look out for new
possibilities of bringing about a thorough disturbance
of the European atmosphere after all. And so, as
in the case of Czechoslovakia, they again resorted to
the assertion that Germany was taking military steps
—that is, was supposedly mobilising. This mobilisa-
tion was said to be directed against Poland.
As regards German-Polish relations, here, too, the
Peace Treaty of Versailles —of course, intentionally-
inflicted a most severe wound on Germany. The
strange way in which the Corridor giving Poland
access to the sea was marked out was meant, above
all, to prevent for all time the establishment of an
understanding between Poland and Germany. This
problem is perhaps the most painful of all problems
for Germany. Nevertheless,.! have never ceased to
uphold the view that the necessity of a free access
to the sea for the Polish State cannot be ignored.
After Danzig had been discussed several times
some months ago, I made a concrete offer to the
Polish Government. I now make this offer known to
you, and you yourselves will judge whether this offer
did not represent the greatest imaginable concession
in the interests of European peace.
I considered it necessary to make clear to the
Government in Warsaw that just as they desire access
to the sea, so Germany needs access to her province
in the east. Now these are all difficult problems. It
is not Germany who is responsible for them, how-
ever, but rather the jugglers of Versailles, who either
in their maliciousness or their thoughtlessness placed
100 powder barrels round about in Europe, all
equipped with hardly extinguishable lighted fuses.
Poland’s access to the sea by way of the Corridor
and a German route through the Corridor have ex-
clusively psychological and economic importance. To
accord military importance to a traffic route of this
kind would be to show oneself completely ignorant
of military affairs. Consequently I have had the
following proposal submitted to the Polish Govern-
ment :
1. Danzig returns as a Free State into the frame-
work of the German Reich.
2. Germany receives a route through the Corridor
and a railway line at her own disposal possessing the
same extra-territorial status for Germany as the Corridor
itself has for Poland.
In return Germany is prepared:
1. To recognise all Polish economic rights in Danzig.
2. To ensure for Poland a Free Harbor in Danzig
of any size desired which would have completely free
access to the sea.
3. To accept at the same time the present boundaries
between Germany and Poland, arid to regard them as
ultimate.
4. To conclude a 25-year non-aggression treaty with
Poland, a treaty therefore which would extend far
beyond the duration of my own life; and
5. To guarantee the independence of the Slovak
State by Germany, Poland and Hungary jointly —which
means in practice the renunciation of any unilateral
German hegemony in this territory.
The Polish Government has rejected my offer
and has only declared that it is prepared to
(1) negotiate concerning the question of a substitute
for .the Commissioner of the League of Nations and
(2) to consider facilities for the transit traffic through
the Corridor.
I have regretted greatly this incomprehensible atti-
tude of the Polish Government, but that alone is not
the decisive fact; the worst is that now Poland, like
Czechoslovakia a year ago, believes that it must
call up troops, although Germany on her part has not
called up a single man, and had not thought of pro-
ceeding in any way against Poland.
Posterity will one day decide whether it was really
right to refuse this suggestion made this once by me.
This —as I have said —was an endeavor on my part
to solve a question which intimately affects the Ger-
man people by a truly unique compromise, and to
solve it to the advantage of both countries. Accord-
ing to my conviction, Poland was not a giving party
in this solution, but only a receiving party, because
it should be beyond all doubt that Danzig will never
become Polish.
The intention to attack on the part of Germany,
which was merely invented by the international press,
led to the so-called guarantee offer and to an obli-
gation on the part of the Polish Government for
mutual assistance, which would also, in certain
circumstances, compel Poland to take military action
against Germany in the event of a conflict between
Germany and any other Power, and in which Eng-
land, in her turn, would be involved. This obligation
is contradictory to the agreement which. I made with
Marshal Pilsudski. I therefore look upon that agree-
ment as having been infringed by Poland and thereby
no longer in existence. However, should the Polish
Government wish to come to fresh contractual
arrangements governing its relations with Germany,
I can but welcome such an idea, provided, of course,
that these arrangements are based on an absolutely
clear obligation binding both parties in equal measure.
Germany is perfectly willing at any time to undertake
such obligations, and also to fulfil them.
Hitler Explains .
How inadequately Herr Hitler’s Reichstag speech
in reply to President Roosevelt was presented in
cables can be grasped from the fact that, whereas the
longest cable version text ran to about a column
and a half of type, the complete text from which
the digest here given has been condensed filled two
closely-printed pages in London “Times” —that is,
14 columns.
As a reading of this “Uncabled Additions” digest
will make abundantly clear, cabled versions, being
intent on presenting Herr Hitler’s specific replies
to President Roosevelt, had therefore to leave out
actually far more important parts of the speech.
The explanation of the Czech affair —whatever
readers may individually make of it —is especially
one that all who try to keep themselves enlightened
on foreign affairs must have hoped one day to read,
it being vital to an intelligent understanding of what
has lately been happening in Europe.
Some portion of the explanation on Poland was
given in cables, but the text is well worth perusing
in the adjoining more complete version, because this
contains significant details not included in cables,
and also because there can be no doubt that Herr
Hitler here means what he says, and thus indicates
that the Polish problem can very easily become, with
Britain’s present commitment there, very dangerous
indeed.
Cable versions having been mainly concerned with
featuring Herr Hitler’s debating points in reply to
President Roosevelt, these are excluded from the
adjoining article altogether, as is the■ prelude of Nazi
struggle to power, which is by now somewhat familiar.
Herr Hitler’s references to the ending of the Anglo-
German Naval Pact and the Polish Treaty, though
also featured in cable versions, are, however, included,
because they are most vital items of the speech; but
the intention in this “Uncabled Additions” digest is
mainly to provide readers with the very significant
contents of the solid body of the speech.


J. Bull as a Have-not.
[ln the article here condensed from London “Times”
Trade and Engineering supplement, Barnard Ellinger
makes very clear J. Bull’s extraordinary dependence on
outside supplies —one of the realities eager war-seekers
persistently overlook.]
Herr Hitler recently said that Germany must
export or die. It would be at least as true to say that
the United Kingdom must import to live.
Of the total world exports of wheat in 1937, the
United Kingdom purchased 35 per cent, which came
from various countries, but about a third from
Canada, about a quarter from Australia, a sixth from
Argentina, and smaller quantities from British India,
the United States and Rumania. Nearly half of the
whole of the wheat export from Canada and over
half of that of Australia were consumed in Britain.
In addition to this supply of wheat, the United King-
dom took approximately one-fifth of the world’s ex-
ports of wheat flour. All the figures in this article
refer to 1937 ; in that year Italy, Germany and Bel-
gium were the next largest consumers of imported
wheat, but the three countries together bought less
from abroad than the United Kingdom.
Of maize, the United Kingdom was the greatest
importer, consuming about one-quarter of the world’s
exportable surplus. Nearly the whole of this maize
came from Argentina, Britain buying about one-third
of Argentina’s exports. The two next largest im-
porters were the U.S.A. and Germany.
The United Kingdom consumed about one-quarter
of all the beet and cane sugar shipped abroad by all
exporting countries. Of Australian sugar, 80 per cent,
was exported to Britain. Altogether Britain drew its
sugar supplies from 27 different countries.
Supplies of tea came mainly from British India
and Ceylon, in both cases about two-thirds of their
total exports. In fact, Britain imported 40 per cent,
of the world’s exports of tea, and of it was by far
the largest consumer of any country.
In imported meat and canned foods the United
Kingdom is a customer of outstanding importance to
all exporting countries. Also, the world’s largest cus-
tomer for tobacco, Germany coming next. Britain
purchased about a quarter of the world’s exportable
surplus.
Britain imported about 40 per cent, of the world’s
exports of wool; nearly 80 per cent, of New Zealand’s
wool and 40 per cent, of Australia’s exports. In raw
cotton, nearly one-quarter of the quantity exported
by all countries, supplies being drawn from 24 dif-
ferent sources.
Of petrol Britain bought about 40 per cent, of
the world’s exports, of copper about one-quarter, r.nd
in this mineral purchased more than one-third of the
Chilean supply, 80 per cent, of the Canadian and 60
per cent, of that of Northern Rhodesia. Britain con-
sumed nearly a quarter of the pig-iron exported from
all countries of the world, taking two-thirds of the
exportable supply both of British India and of the
United States,, while of iron and steel unworked pur-
chases amounted to 30 per cent, of the world’s exports,
France sending Britain nearly half and Belgium about
one-third of their shipments abroad of this semi-raw
material.
For many other foodstuffs and raw materials, if
comparative figures were available, the importance of
the United Kingdom as a customer to the exporting
countries would be still further emphasised.
The imports of foodstuffs and raw materials into
the United Kingdom average about £2,000,000 each
working day. In the sense that a “Have Not” nation
is one which does not possess within its own borders
the necessary raw materials and foodstuffs to sustain
the life of its people, Britain is the greatest “Have
Not” nation in the world. This situation renders it
necessary to realise the supreme importance of main-
taining shipping in such a state of efficiency that
in all conditions and all circumstances the vast
requirements in food and raw materials can be freely
brought into Britain’s ports from overseas.
The General Soviet Scene.
{Condensed from a London “Daily Express” article by
C. A. Lyon.)
Soviet Russia. Always an unknown quantity.
Isn’t there just a little grain of solid truth to be had
about the place?
The first truth about the internal state of Russia
is that it is a country of migrants. A migration as
mighty as that which built the United States is going
on —within the borders of Russia itself. In the period
1929 to 1933 13,000,000 people came from the country
to the town. Thirteen millions in four years! Thirteen
million medieval peasants more backward than any-
one we can conceive, leaving the immemorial soil
for civilisation, the conveyor belt, the cinema, the
furnace, the flat and the powder puff.
In 1929 there were but 28,000,000 town-dwellers
in Russia; in 1933, 40,300,000. These people are in
a new world. Great new towns are built for them.
The old ones are overcrowded to bursting point, so
that quite important officials must live for months in
cellars for lack of anything better.
The erstwhile peasant women parade the puddly
new streets with their faces painted like a circus
clown. They are glorying in their first intoxicating
discovery of rouge and lipstick.
The inpouring of peasants still continues even
to-day. All round the Kazan railway station, which
is the gate of Moscow to the south, there can be seen
tattered multitudes. They sit on the pavement in
their stinking rags, clutching what is for them an
important possession, the metal teapot. These are the
new arrivals of peasants who are to be transformed
in a few months into regular townies. They are
superstitious, terribly unsophisticated, full of quaint
ideas and beliefs.
These peasants start at the very beginning. The
first contingents learned their ABC as they built their
factory. Then they worked in it. One fact gives the
key to the sort of people the Russians have got work-
ing their machines. When Britain built machinery
for Russia it was a usual instruction that the machines
should be marked with no written directions, only
arrows and very clear diagrams.
There is so much mystery about Russia that I did
not realise official Russian figures for industrial pro-
duction existed until I dug them out. It is always pos-
sible that these figures are false, but statisticians hold
the view that statistics in totalitarian countries, which
are so much run on figures, are usually true, but often
misinterpreted for political purposes.
The making of machines has been multiplied
more than 30 times in 24 years; the amount of coal
dug in Russia since Tsarist times has more than
quadrupled; 18 times the electricity is produced.
Nearly four times as much pig-iron, more than four
times as much steel, more than three times as much
cement, more than three times as much oil and twice
as much cotton cloth are now being produced.
Motor-cars and tractors are the most striking of
all: 1913, nil; 1937, 300,000.
Agriculture has gone up, but far less strikingly.
The grain production has gone up 25 per cent, since
pre-war days: 1908-13 average yearly harvest
70,000,000,000 tons; 1933-37 average yearly harvest
88,000,000,000 tons.
Altogether, the facts are these: Since the revolu-
tion, industry has gone down and then shot up again.
After the war, industry was so paralysed that it sank
to a tiny fraction of what it was even in Tsarist days.
Now it is six to seven times what it was in Tsarist
days.
Has the worker received the fruits of his toil?
Received an enormous rise in the standard of living?
The standard of living of the industrial worker, which
was very low before the war, has not more than
doubled, while the peasant’s standard has not risen
so much as that.
Wages in Russia have increased steeply in the
last few years. But it can no longer be concealed
that in 1930, with the pressure of the industrial pro-
gramme which it is hoped will bear results in the
future, the Russian worker was as badly off as he had
been before the revolution. At the same time, it is
true that the average Russian citizen has complete
faith in his leaders. He feels he has received an instal-
ment of the good times they predict and that the rest
will come.
The Russians say also that the full results of the
increased production —the great share-out, in other
words—can never take place until the war menace
passes. The Russians spent as much on arms in the
year 1937 as they intended to spend in the five years
1933-37. Since 1934 the Russian Army has been in-
creased by 203 per cent., and now stands at 1,800,000.
Against this burden the Russian sets the fact that un-
employment scarcely exists.
Very few people understand on what terms a
Russian worker is engaged. Some think he is a kind
of civil servant who can’t be sacked. A Russian
worker can be sacked like anyone else, and he has to
look for a new job. The trouble is that there is such a
shortage of labor that he soon gets one, and this makes
it difficult to discipline the bad worker.
How does all this compare with other countries?
Allowing for the splendid progress, not very well as
yet. For instance, the United States worker is prob-
ably the best off in the world. The Russian industrial
worker, it is calculated, receives only one-third of
the amount of manufactured goods an American
worker receives.
The best Russian housing is somewhat below the
standard of municipal housing in Britain. The worst
overcrowding is so terrible that it would not be
tolerated for a moment in Britain. What can you
expect when 13,000,000 people move in? The floor
space which a Russian worker gets in his home is
half or three-quarters what he gets in Britain. It is
also about equal in the towns to what it was in
Tsarist days, though of a better quality.
Russia has done great things in electricity, but
Britain uses three times as much per head ; U.S. uses
five times as much per head.
So there is as clear a picture as I can give: mil-
lions beginning a strange new life ; enormous increase
in production ; very moderate returns, as yet, to the
worker.
Is the Rock in Danger?
{Condensed from a London “Daily Mail” article by
Sir Anthony Jenkinson.)
For more than 200 years the Rock has guarded
the Straits of Gibraltar in Britain’s interest. Because
of its geographical position, it has remained impreg-
nable.
The peninsula, running north and south between
Spain and Spanish Morocco, is two and three-quarter
miles long, three-quarters of a mile wide and 1400
feet high. Twelve miles of water lie between it and
the African coast, and it is separated from Spain
by a low sandy peninsula a mile wide and about a
mile long.
In its history the Rock has withstood 14 sieges—
including the Great Siege of 1779-1783, when the com-
bined French and Spanish fleets and land forces un-
successfully attacked a British garrison equipped with
only 96 cannon. Another siege, despite its modern
character, is unlikely to be more effective than the
others.
Whatever contrary rumors there may be, the
Rock is exceedingly well-equipped with up-to-date
guns. These are in well-protected positions and natu-
rally have'the range of the enemy batteries on the
Spanish and African coasts. Using Gibraltar Harbor
(now protected by a boom) as their base, warships of
the British and French fleets can protect the Rock
from seawards and supplement its batteries with their
own gunfire.
Enemy land forces attacking across the flat mile-
long peninsula would have to come across an ex-
posed expanse in face of blasting fire from the Rock
batteries and machine-gun posts. Then they would
have to break through a tall, stoutly-built, barbed-
wire fence. Lastly, before they reached the ancient
Rock battlements (themselves as formidable to-day as
ever), they would have to cross a wide moat, which
can be flooded at will. The bridge over this moat
has already been mined.
Gibraltar is an exceedingly difficult place to
attack from the air. Apart from its anti-aircraft gun
batteries, which are numerous and can deal with both
low-flying and high-flying attacks, its geographical
formation gives it good protection. ’Planes attack-
ing from the east have either to power-dive abruptly
over the Rock (in which case they cannot see their
target until they are almost upon it, while they them-
selves can be seen from a long way off), or else to fly
at a great height and so allow themselves only a brief
second in which to aim at their target.
They cannot attack from the west —except at a
great and, because of the narrowness of the town, in-
effective height—without flying straight into the Rock.
If they attack north and south, up and down the
populated area, they have only a narrow strip to
aim at, and are within full range of the defence bat-
teries.
At the most, enemy raiders can destroy civilian
lives and property and a certain amount of dockyard
equipment. They cannot reach the fortifications and
vital sections of the Rock.
Islam and the Axis.
[Effects on Islam of the Italian invasion of Albania,
as recorded in the London publication “Great Britain
and the East,” 27/4/’39.]
If the Axis Powers hoped that the fluttering ol
the dovecotes caused by the annexation of Albania
would be confined to Europe they must have had a
rude shock. For the Islamic world in Africa and in
Asia has reacted with the utmost vigor to this assault
on the independence of a predominantly Muslim State.
When such countries as Syria and Palestine,
which have their own grievances against Mandatory
Powers, and in which Axis agents have assuredly not
been idle during recent months, can join in the storm
of indignation against the extinguishing of Albania’s
independence, it is sufficiently obvious that Islam,
whatever its treatment at the hands of the democ-
racies, will not look to the Axis for redress. On the
contrary, indeed, far rather would that part of the
Islamic world which is not fully independent have as
rulers or collaborators those whom it now knows
than any self-styled protectors.
The actual forces at the disposal of Islamic coun-
tries may not be powerful, when judged by the stan-
dards of the arming West, but the moral force of its
united voice is undeniably impressive. Nor should
it be supposed that this unity is an artificially created
affair. Quite spontaneously has this outburst of in-
dignation issued from hosts of Muslims in Africa and
in Asia: to suppose that they would now range them-
selves against Great Britain and France is puerile.
The Muslim may be temporarily misled, especially if
appeal be made to fanaticism ; but he is no fool.
Arabic Press Comment
{From the Jaffa Arabic daily “Al Jihad.”)
In a few days the young and independent State
of Albania fell a prey to Fascist principles and ambi-
tions. The Italian forces swept over the land. The
conquest is a strong blow to the susceptibilities of
the Arab and Muslim worlds.
The subjugation of 800,000 Muslims who have
for many years lived in Albania brings in its wake
far-reaching repercussions. Signor Mussolini has now
removed the mask which never escaped the notice of
the most simple-minded in all the Arab and Muslim
worlds. Italy, which sprang upon the world the in-
vasion of Albania, is the same Power which invaded
Abyssinia in an unforgettable manner, and invaded
Tripolitania in a heinous way. This is the Imperial-
ism which disguises itself in the cloak of civilisation
and the alleged enlightenment of backward peoples.
It is ridiculous that the man who bears the title
of “Protector of Islam” should cause the Muslims
the deepest grief for the subjugation of 800,000-odd
Muslims. But there are statesmen with brains unlike
those of human beings. Britons can rest assured that
the allegations of Fascist Italy will have no influence
upon the Arab East and Muslim world, and will not
alienate them.
Terrorism Collapsing
{From “Great Britain and the East.”)
With the flight into Syria of Arif Abdul Razzik
and the death of Abdul Rahim at Haj Muhammad,
a stage nearer has been reached in the collapse of
gang warfare in Palestine. Any terrorist who attempts
to assume the leadership in succession to these two
departed and deceased “commanders” will inevitably
find himself in the same position.
Abdul Razzik, who for the past fifteen months
had terrorised the peasantry, was placed in an increas-
ingly desperate plight not only by the vigilance of the
Crown forces, although that has become a formidable
factor in the subsidence of the lawless campaign, but
also by the growing confidence among the villagers in
the regime of law and order, and their steadfast refusal
to further blackmailing methods. Whilst it might have
been with truth said, of Abdul Rahim that he was
actuated by patriotic motives, Abdul Razzik was a
gangster pure and simple.
The removal of the pressure exerted by violence
and intimidation must in large measure be attributed
to the methods steadily maintained by the army and
police authorities. They have taught the defiant
elements that, sooner or later, every wrongdoer meets
his doom, and the salutary lessons of the past eight
or nine months of the military regime have had then
effect.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Autumn is prolonging its stay in Syd-
ney, and Tattersall’s Club got the bene-
fit at Randwick on Saturday. The
attendance was 25,000, an improvement
on the last May meeting. The going
was not fast, but times were fair, and
bookmaker-members of the club must
have shown substantial profits.
One of the good races for them was
the Flying Handicap. They had Trim-
mer favorite at fours, but punters, big
and little, didn’t like the look of him, and
let him go out at eights. Those who
went off him regretted it, for he jumped
out in the lead and nothing could extend
him. Desert King, whose recent racing
had been done in Melbourne, made
an attempt to run him down in the
straight, but it was a hopeless chase.
Eased up by Coutts Trimmer won by a
length and a quarter, with Diamond
Wedding a fast-finishing third. The filly
looked as poor as a crow, and Trimmer
was audibly likened to a ploughhorse.
Appearances were deceptive.
Arabia was favorite again. Third to
the home turn, the grey cracked up in
the straight—that seems to be his habit
nowadays—and beat three home, Captain
Oates whipping in the field. Trimmer
may tackle the Doomben Newmarket at
Brisbane on July 1.
The James Barnes Plate wasn’t so
good for the Ring, though Hilarious, the
winner, wasn’t favorite. Owned by a
Moree pastoralist, B. H. Crowley, and
trained at Randwick by Dan Lewis,
Hilarious is a five-year-old Baralong-
Jubilant mare who did not begin racing
until she was a late three-year-old. She
ran past Plutus at the top of the straight
and, served by her light weight, held off
Hope (3 to 1) and Cathartes (9 to 2),
who came on the scene too late. Fours
was the price.
Former jockey Jim Munro had another
win with Tel Asur, the big Marconigram
gelding he trains for Sydney hotelkeeper
Brown, who bought the nag for 100
guineas. Tel Asur’s race was the colts
and geldings’ division of the Two-year-
old. Backed from 9 to 2 to threes, he
carried 9st., and never flinched when
Darby Munro drove him along with
whip and spur. El Valor took some
catching, but Tel Asur, thus urged by
the trainer’s brother, beat him by a neck.
Opportunist, finishing very wide, was
third. Binnia Hero, the favorite, re-
ceived a rough passage ; he had to be
checked at the half-mile, and dropped
back to last. His fifth in the circum-
stances was no mean performance. Tel
Asur started at 3 to 1 and has now won
four races.
So confident was owner-trainer Skel-
ton that his Veilmond-Monastery filly
Novice would win the fillies’ division that
he said he would hand in his license if
Novice lost. He wasn’t put to the test.
Backed from threes to 6 to 4, Novice
waited on Merry Smile and Plassey until
the Leger was in sight. The rest was
merely an exercise gallop for her.
Aren’t We All and Daledon, a chest-
nut from Newcastle, ran a dead-heat in
the Novice. The former started at sevens
and Daledon at 12 to 1. Aren’t We All
made all the running and hung on
gamely when Daledon came with the
last run. Adonis, the favorite, ridden by
an apprentice, was third. The boy was
of little use to the son of Pantheon,
whose dam is Frank McGrath’s mare
Parfait Amour.
George Price saddled up Normandy
and Palarang in the Welter. Normandy
was favorite at 5 to 2 ; Palarang was 12
to I—in1 —in a field of eight. The outsider
finished six lengths ahead of the favorite,
who was fourth, and three lengths ahead
of the second horse, Tony; Light Dragoon
was third. In his previous start, at
Moorefield, Palarang had run last.
Forestage (5 to 2) finished a poor sixth.
It was a bad race for the public, and
many went away wondering whether the
stewards would ask questions, especially
as bookmakers had seemed anxious to
lay Normandy at 9 to 4 and better, after
6 to 4 had been the general offer. No
questions were asked.
After the Corinthian Handicap, with
which the programme began, the stewards
had resorted to very unusual action. Heroic
Faith looked the winner for six of the
seven furlongs ; then Sir Land, an old
Promised Land gelding, owned by P. W.
Powell, trained by E. Weber and ridden
by Weber’s 16-year-old nephew, cut him
down and beat him easily. There was
very little money for Sir Land, who went
out at 20 to 1 (tote divs. for ss. were
£6 12s. 9d. and £1 18s. 9d.), and when,
being unsaddled, he pranced round and
lashed out with his heels, the feeling
among watchers was that his party —
especially the jockey—had done well to get
such a race out of so excitable a beggar.
But at the instance of the chairman of
stipendiaries, swabs of Sir Land’s saliva
were taken. One was offered to the
trainer, who refused to take it. It was
a very uncommon sequel to a Corinthian
Handicap.
* * * *
Gold Rod is doing steady work at
Randwick, and may be taken north for
the Doomben Newmarket. Hamurah is
another being kept in training with a
view to racing in Brisbane in July.
* * * *
Tel Asur is to have his winter spell
at Jim Munro’s stables. He will then
be trained for the Melbourne Cup, but
will, of course, tackle something easier
beforehand. A bit of weight won’t
trouble Tel Asur, who is named after a
horse that Munro rode with success in
India.
* * * *
Dr. G. A. Vivers is hopeful that Mes-
toravon will stand another preparation.
The 1937 Sydney Cup winner has been
spelling at Burren Junction for 12 months.
The fetlock joint, seat of the previous
trouble, seems to be sound again.
* * * *
Jim Pike’s luck as trainer is turning.
He landed the Tamworth Cup with the
roan gelding Grey Derby, previously suc-
cessful at Warwick Farm. It was a popu-
lar win, as Grey Derby is owned by a
Tamworth pastoralist, N. McLeod. He
is to be kept in training for winter racing.
* * * *
Every first favorite suffered defeat at
Ascot (Vic.). The biggest surprise oc-
curred in the £5OO Imperial Handicap,
won by The Decoration (Great Star-
Loveliness). This three-year-old filly
started at 33 to 1, and her tote div. for
ss. was £lO 7s.
The third horse, Mooramong, also
was a 100-to-3 shot. To complete the
disaster from a punter’s angle, Rex Felt
(9 to 4) finished “outside the money.”
The Decoration hails from Ballarat. Her
dam was bred in that district by the late
Agar Wynne, for whom Tom Payten pre-
pared many great performers.
Her second to Lady Montague in the
Edward Manifold Stakes last November
gave metropolitan punters an indication
of The Decoration’s calibre, but that
display faded from memory. On Satur-
day she had to go out wide at the turn,
yet scored by a length from Kanuri,
who is getting back to his best.
The Decoration is trained by O. N.
Marshall, a former trotting reinsman.
Earlier in the afternoon Roy Roach won
a division of the Charlemont Trial. Roach
used to be as well known as Marshall in
connection with light-harness sport. Prob-
ably these men would not have gone
over to gallopers if Victorian trotting
hadn’t fallen into the doldrums.
This Page selected Dignitary and High
Commissioner for the Granville Handi-
cap. High Commissioner (5 to 2, favor-
ite) led from barrier rise, but Dignitary
(9 to 2) finished too strongly and scored
by a neck, with Desert Chief a very close
third.
Dignitary is one of five horses nom-
inated by Bill Burke for the Grand
National Hurdle. He belongs to Alan
Currie, V.R.C. chairman, now on his
way to Europe. Though bought specially
with a view to the National it will prob-
ably be thought more profitable to con-
fine him to the flat.
Country Party, who suffered disquali-
fication for inconsistent running after
winning the V.R.C. Batman Stakes as a
three-year-old, is now rising seven. The
new owner-trainer, C. T. Godby, gave
him a run in the Trial Hurdle. With
Fullarton up he met with solid support,
backers being influenced by Godby
having entered him for the National
Hurdle.
On his Ascot showing Country Party
has a lot to learn about jumping. He
cleared several obstacles with feet to
spare, but almost went through others.
Peerie, winner at fives, isn’t in the
National, but the minor placegetters,
Trafalgar Bay and In Arms, are aspirants.
Pooley Bridge, who swept everything
before him as a hurdler in 1936, is again
seeking National honors. Looking fairly
fit already, he competed in the 7i-fur-
longs Jeffcott Welter, but 100 to 1 was
laid and he ran accordingly. “Pooley”
isn’t a sprinter.
Strategy (7 to 4) finished a disappoint-
ing third to Considerate (fives) and
Clovis (eights) in the juvenile event. On
the tracks Strategy had been galloping
like a champion, but he lacked real vim
in the race. Considerate (Constant Son-
Ellais) may score in better company for
J. S. Dunbar, the Victorian Club chair-
man.
Revealing the best form of his career
to date, Keelie (imp.) appropriated the
Jeffcott Welter at sevens, beating Bonuna
on the post, with Lalmoni a moderate
third. In view of her wretched display
at Moonee Valley a week before the
heavy support accorded Lalmoni caused
surprise. A. Breasley rode her; W.
Elliot had the “Valley” mount.
* * * *
V.R.C. Grand National entries were
of satisfactory, though not of record,
proportions. Six N.S.W. horses are
engaged in the Hurdle, but only one in
the Steeple. From S.A. five nominations
were received for the Hurdle and six
for the crosscountry event. Four for
the Hurdle and three for the Steeple
are from M.L., and Tasmania has two
in each race.
* * * *
Roy Higgins, who trains in Bombay
for the Aga Khan, told a Melbourne in-
terviewer that Finalist, India’s champion,
would beat Ajax over a mile and a
quarter. But this opinion is disputed
by Ernie Morris, the jockey, who, like
Higgins, is back in Australia for a brief
holiday. E. L. Baillieu, one of the
owners, returned to Melbourne after the
A. autumn meeting thoroughly satis-
fied that the son of Heroic is as good
as ever. “Ajax,” he says, “wasn’t off-
color when defeated by Spear Chief. The
simple fact is that the first half of the
journey was run at too slow a pace.
Ajax normally jumps into stride and sets
up a lead that can’t be bridged. It is a
different matter when rivals like Spear
Chief are afforded time to get balanced.”
* * * *
“High Horse”: The aptest of all names
for a horse (B. 10/5/’39)? Eclipse.
Colonel O’Kelly’s Eclipse; “first, and
the rest nowhere.” Foaled in the
year of the Great Eclipse, he wasn’t
raced until he was a five-year-old (in
1769); he retired unbeaten. Whenever
he ran the betting was usually 10 to 1
bar one. Eclipse never saw a whip, nor
ever felt a spur. So superb was his
frame, so perfect his development, so
balanced his proportions that his skele-
ton was sent to the South Kensington
Museum, where you can see it to-day.
jjr $ ♦
“F.B.” (Papua): Listening to the
B. broadcast of the Grand National
at Aintree, I was thrilled when the an-
nouncer told us it was going to be an
Irish finish. It was, too, and the an-
nouncer made the most of it until he
wound up with “the race was won by
three lengths, and the second was fifteen
lengths away third.” That sounded more
like a Double Dutch finish to me.
* * * *
“T.”: Having vivid memories of Ami-
able, a bonny black mare who won the
1898 Newmarket (the Fielders had her),
I am interested in the mare of the same
name who figured in the Doncaster at
Randwick. She is also a black mare, but
of the lean greyhound type; the original
Amiable had a much more beautiful
shape. The contemporary Amiable is,
however, good, and, I should say, likely to
do better. She arrived in Sydney rather
poor after her racing in Melbourne, and,
though she improved a bit in appearance,
she was probably not at her top when,
at a difference of 91b., she nearly cut
Gold Rod out of second place in the
Cropper Plate, won, of course, by Ajax.
Gold Rod was in perfect condition that
day, so it wasn’t a bad performance on
Amiable’s part. Apropos, another mare
from Melbourne that went off in Sydney
was Ortelle’s Star. Her two long races
at Flemington had taken all the go out
of her, and her failures at Randwick are
best forgotten.
(<Continued on page 32.)
Footferawl
“O.T.”: Nowadays it is nothing un-
usual for both sides in a Melbourne foot-
ball match to run up three-figure scores;
for example, Richmond kicked 16.15 to
Essendon’s 16.8, and Carlton 16.21 to
North’s 16.10. One of the football-mad
dailies gives it as evidence that the game
is much more interesting than it used
to be in the days of comparatively low
scoring. I say it is the other way about.
The paper in question recently quoted
the long service to Australian football of
Billy Windley, who played centre for
“Sowth” in the days when Peter Burns
and Sonny Elms were mighty footballers,
and Skinner and Monteath backed
“Sowth” for big money, and employed
most of the team, and sacked them if
they lost too often; it ought to get
Windley’s opinion. Thirty-two goals
and 31 behinds in one match! Consider
how much that accumulation of mostly
unnecessary points takes out of actual
play, with the procedure as leisurely as
it is. These are some of the rules laid
down for umpires: —
When a goal is scored, the goal umpire
shall proceed first to the flag on his right,
and in the case of a behind he shall obtain
the flag on his left. Boundary umpires
must watch the movements of the goal
umpires in order that they may immedi-
ately take up their correct position when
a behind is scored When a goal is
scored, the boundary umpires will take it
turn for turn to obtain the ball [gener-
ally from over the fence], and their col-
league shall wait half-way between the goal
and the centre ring to receive it by throw,
and he shall then proceed and throw it
to the field umpire for the following
bounce.
There is more of it, but that is enough.
The comparative difficulty of scoring is
one of the things that make Soccer so
attractive. Anyway, devotees of Soccer
see far more actual play for their money
than the Melbourne barracker gets for
his bob —and it will be a bob at ah
grounds presently, Collingwood, which
stuck out for tenpence, having yielded to
V.F.L. force majeure.
(Continued on page 32.)
In Brisbane for the boatrace, delegates
to the A.R.C. decided to send a sculler
to the Olympic Games in Finland next
year, but not to send an eight unless
the money is in sight. But if £1000 could
be collected from a small number of
city people to finance the Sydney crews
trip to Henley regatta, surely enough can
be got for an Australian eight for Fin-
land, with a year to operate in and the
whole Commonwealth for a field. Aus-
tralia should always be represented rn
Olympiads by oarsmen. Their rowing
standards are nearly always high and
there are no manlier fellows anywhere.
* * * *
“The Bluff”: Anglers and devotees of
other sports and pastimes are affected b\
the new Maoriland restrictions on im-
ports. There is to be an enforced
reduction of 33 1-3 p.c. of sup-
plies from Britain and Crown colo-
nies, and of 80 p.c. from other
British countries (Australia is one o
them), of “sporting, gaming and ath.etic
requisites not elsewhere incluaed, inciu
ing billiard requisites n.e.i. and fishing
tackle n.e.i., including artificial flies anu
other baited hooks, but not mcludm 3
hockey sticks and cricket bats the manu-
facture of India.” For “hockey sticks
and cricket bats the manufacture o
India,” the specified reduction is
p.c. Seeing that Indians are tne
world champions at hockey, it is nmm
that hockey sticks should be made in
country, but how many knew betorena
that cricket bats are an Indian expoi .
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Tony or Adonis; next,
Baveon.
Rockdale Mile: Strathisla ; next,
Hope.
Moorefield Handicap: Plutus;
next, Tony or Baveon.
Flying Welter: Grey Derby;
next, Desert King.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Bay View Handicap: Pantoon ;
next, Pooley Bridge.
Autumn Steeple: Turf Boy ; next,
Bully Hayes.
Gellibrand Handicap: Finch;
next, Rex Felt.
Beach Welter: Ramdin; next,
Panax.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 884 of 1939.
BETWEEN FRANCES ANN SIMPSON Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM JAMES SIMPSON Re-
spondent.
TO WILLIAM JAMES SIMPSON formerly
of Merrie Creek Wau in the Territory of
New Guinea.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRANCES
ANN SIMPSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court for dissolution of her mar-
riage with you on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the eighth day of September next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Eighth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. LAURENCE AND SON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 794 of 1939.
BETWEEN RAYMOND WADE CULLEN
Petitioner
And VALERIE MERCIA CULLEN Re-
pondent.
TO VALERIE MERCIA CULLEN late of
Swanston Street Melbourne in the State
of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RAYMOND
WADE CULLEN has • commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Ninth day of August 1939 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of May, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
L. G. B. CADDEN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the DIRECTORS’ REPORT to be presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
To be held Wednesday, 17th May, 1939, at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
RECORD SURPLUS.
RECORD INCREASE IN FUNDS.
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
New Business excluding Term Assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies 15,584 Policies,
assuring £10,561,415 13 8
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £17,861,271/ 8/8) 1,650,837 13 9
Total Income for the Year • 3,652,463 1 4
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL, AND ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS.
New Policies issued during the year 70,290
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies, and Accident and
Sickness Benefits) £12,765,998 16 8
Total Income for the year 1938 4,763,226 18 10
Interest Income 972,454 0 10
Total Surpluses for year 836,318 18 11
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1938 23,435,172 11 8
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policyholders only.
CONTINGENCY RESERVES OF £560,428/19/9. INTEREST EARNED, ALL DEPARTMENTS, £4/8/9%
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION
£28,744,926/10/4
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional service to the assuring public.
PURELY MUTUAL—NO SHAREHOLDERS. PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE.
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G.,
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P.
General Sir HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G.,
Sir DALZIEI, KELLY, LLB.
ALEX. COOCH, J.P.
Chairman.
K.C.B.
General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, F.C.I.S.
Secretary: A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A.
Actuary: D. DIIYBROUGH, M.A., F.F.A.
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D., B.S.
LOCAL* BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS:
NEW SOUTH WALES, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman; Sir
KELSO KING; ALLEN C. LEWIS, Assoc. lust. C.E.; Sir
GRAHAM WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.C.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON.
Consulting Medical Officer: A. MAITLAND GLEDDEN,
M.D. (Brux.), F.R.C.S. (Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: 11. B. JACKSON, K.C.. Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND; D. M. McWHAE, M.D., M.R.C.P., Medical
Director. J. A. EDWARDS, Manager.
QUEENSLAND, 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Director; JOHN E. TRUDE; Dr. S.' F. McDONALD, M.D.,
M.R.C.P., Medical Director.
F. H. IRONSIDE, A.C.1.5., Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Director: Brig.-General G. H. DEAN, C.8.E., Y.D.;
C. T. C. de CRESPIGNY, F.R.C.P., Medical Director.
A. J. CROSS, Manager.
TASMANIA, IS-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 91 Cameron
Street. Launceston.
Director: Hon. Sir JOHN McPHEE, K.C.M.G.
BRANCHES IN NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA, AND GREAT BRITAIN.
JM C 8S
f l I
Hand-ground
Stainless Steel
Knives, curved
blades, xylonite
handles.
Tables .... 28/6
Desserts . . 26/6
per half dozen.
00
Embroidery
Scissor,
overall, 2/9 each.
You Can Depend on Baker’s Cutlery — It’s the Best Quality!
“Chatsworth” Cabinet, fitted with
42 pieces Baker’s A 1 quality Stain-
less Knives and Silverware, £B/9/6
In B Quality £6/9/6
Baker’s Standard fin. Razor, with
xylonite handle, 13/6 each.
Voyager Manicure Set, fitted with
Nail Clipper, Nail Scissor, Tweezer
and File, 21/6.
3326
7in. Cutting-out
Scissor, 7/6 each.
Bread Saw, with coloured duco
handle, 5/- each.
The Senator Pocket Knife,
haft, 7/6 each.
ivory
WRITE FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Six Solid Silver Teaspoons with
coloured enamel tops, 35/- per case.
Nail Clipper, for hard finger and toe
nails, 6/6 each.
Three best quality blades, stag haft,
10/- each.
W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PTY.
LTD.
Pickaback Sheath
with one 4Jin.
and one
blade knife, 11/6
complete.
Ordinary Steel
Carvers, square
xylonite handles,
27/6 per pair.


Three new floors of
bedrooms, all with
private bathrooms—24-
hour hot water service
and telephones.
In
Sydney
Stay
at the
EL
f i
if
vm
m
L*
; '
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated in an elevated position away from trams,
trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bath-
rooms—24-hour hot water service and telephones.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
Kh i
Ink'll"
&
SK
nks
NSSi
-O'-S
An Empire
Product —
made in
Windsor,Can.
df
you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
for
SMOOTH MOTORING
The smooth and even pull of
your car’s engine can be kept at
its peak of efficiency only by pro-
viding strong hot sparks. Install
new Champions at regular in-
tervals. These improved
plugs reduce carbon for-
)mation,andpayfor them-
selves in fuel savings.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Under the Whip
Methuen, a Spearfelt gelding that
Fullarton acquired in Brisbane for one
of his clients, may have to be reckoned
with in the National Hurdle. This fellow
shows a natural aptitude for jumping,
and has won at his two starts over the
battens in Victoria, the most recent being
at Bendigo last Wednesday. Favorite at
7 to 4, he romped home.
# He * is
Eli Phillips, the Melbourne publican,
who won the Grand National Hurdle
in 1916 with Jullundur, sent the Mel-
bourne dailies a circular letter complain-
ing of the weight allotted Conandale
(The Buzzard-Bambina) in the Hurdle
Race at Ascot. Conandale was imme-
diately withdrawn from his V.T. and
R. engagement, and Phillips an-
nounced that all his horses, in the hands
of various trainers, were for private sale.
Then Conandale sprang a tendon and
was scratched for both Nationals.
Owners who cross swords with handi-
cappers in the public press rarely come
out on top. Nearly half a century ago
S. G. Cook, owner of The Admiral and
other equine celebrities, had an itch for
such writing. Often when Cook told the
v/orld that one of his prads had been
given too much “pudding” it won next
start. On the day following Phillips’s
lamentation regarding Conandale he
landed the President’s Handicap at Ben-
digo with Ellison.
Ellison (Constant Son-Farfadet) is
trained by Steve Murphy. Starting at
the nice odds of 5 to 1, he squeezed
home by a head from Conwardil (tens),
with the favorite, Peggy O’Neil, less than
a length farther off. Carry On, a half-
sister to Ellison, won an Australian Cup
for the late J. S. Brunton.
Divisions of the Novice Handicap at
Bendigo went to outsiders in Dustyman
(sevens) and Variable (tens) respectively.
Dustyman (Manfred-Wilkurra) was bred
by J. H. Lienhop, M.L.C., president of
the Bendigo Jockey Club. Variable
(Drake-Varium) is a sister to the 1937
Australian Cup winner Mutable.
* * * *
Melbourne bookmakers cannot com-
plain of their luck as racehorse owners.
J. A. Phillips in 1933 captured the Caul-
field Cup with Gaine Carrington and
the Moonee Valley Cup with Peter Jack-
son. Last year Wallace Mitchell had
his colors carried to victory in the Aus-
tralian Cup with Marauder. Now the
Adelaide Cup has fallen to Lou Sluice
through the agency of Son of Aurous.
In boyhood Sluice was a jockey and
actually rode in an Adelaide Cup. A
cousin served his apprenticeship wilth
S. G. Cook at Sandringham. There was
diversity of tastes in the Sluice family.
One of Lou’s brothers is “Mo,” the
music-hall comedian.
Tempest was favorite for the Adelaide
Cup, and the Windbag colt ran his usual
good race, but the task of giving 121 b.
and a year to Son of Aurous (firm at
sixes) proved too much for him, though
he finished second. Rotex was third, and
Prince Sion fourth. Earl Sion, after
giving trouble at the barrier, dislocated
a fetlock and was destroyed.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards v. Stewart
Appearing full of promise from when
the matching was announced, this en-
gagement packed the Rushcutter Bay
Stadium to capacity, and the outcome
stirred the 12,000-odd excited addicts
throughout the full 12 rounds.
The Australian champion, by the grace
of Turkish baths or some other potent
aid, had performed the near-miracle of
getting his weight down to list. 3jlb.
In the name of Larry, why? He’s at his
fighting best at list. 81b. and upwards,
and there was supposed to be some
arrangement for them both to make
about that figure. Stewart turned up
weighing list. Bflb,, and when he had
been divested of his white-towelling
dressing-gown and Richards had shed his
lustrous black-velvet-with-burgundy-tfac-
ings ditto, the Australian looked lean,
“Now, ref., don't let me 'ave to caution you again!"
very much so compared with his
appearance when he last stripped for
action.
At any rate, he removed all doubt
about being able to make the middle-
weight grade —and what a good thing
he’d be to bet on in that division! But
in these present circumstances it looked
unnecessary and like asking for trouble.
However, Stewart carries a lot of his
weight where it would be of more use
to a bike-rider than a boxer ; his thighs
are bulky, his calves look like cannon-
balls.
Getting the gloves on, Ron looked
nervy and keyed up. His second was
too strong for the laces, and there was
a delay while Mr. Dent went off and
returned with a tougher tan one. Joe
Wallis clambered into the ring, remind-
ing the old hand who sat beside present
scribe that one of the finest fights he’d
ever seen was put up by the same Joe
at an address in Castlereagh-street where
they used to hold afternoon scraps in
the years the locusts have long since
chewed away. Since then Mr. Wallis
has refereed upwards of 28,000 scraps.
He now called ’em together to hear his
ritualistic powwow.
As they came to mid-ring at the bell
the Australian still looked keyed up.
Save for some beads of sweat showing
up on his forehead, the American negro
was his accustomed statuesque ebony
self, and so looked calm and collected
by comparison. There was further con-
trast in the coloring, Richards being a
light-lemon hue, and in stance —Stewart
upright and balanced back, with gloves
high about his face and forearms upright
in front of the body; the Australian
crouched, weaving, and at once sending
out nervy-looking feelers. Stewart mak-
ing no response, save to watch these
sparring efforts closely, Richards leapt in
and let loose a right. Up went Stewart’s
shoulder and it passed over, as a score
at least of similar punches were fated to
do from time to time. The Australian’s
leads, nervily delivered, continued to go
astray. He led a couple of times with
his right, and after one of these lament-
able deliveries lost his balance and
nearly pitched headlong through the
ropes.
This was not Ron Richards, as he was
shortly to prove. Unless Ron’s tentative
nibbling could be counted as making
the fight, Stewart took the first round,
while missing enough opportunities to
deserve to lose it. But at least he looked
the part, and this Ron certainly didn’t,
neither in this round nor the next. The
third was a clinker, and those present
who had not seen the real Ron before
saw him now.
He came out with his jaw set, looking
controlled and confident. He opened
the leading with his left, scoring lightly
but very sweetly with it. He was surer
on his feet, backmoving easily from
Stewart’s ever-menacing right, and com-
ing back to rap in swift light lefts to
body and jaw. Then, suddenly, the fight
expanded into what was expected.
Stewart forced the attack, driving
Richards into a corner with a battery of
heavy and splendid punches. His punch-
ing all through was cleaner than Ron’s,
but never half so frequent. One of this
battery—a potent right cross —took the
Australian flush on the jaw; another
found Stewart’s favored Mecca —the left
optic region.
But now, as suddenly again, Richards
counter-fought himself out of this
desperate trouble. Through the rain of
solid blows beating at him he ripped a
left into the body, then a right cross to
the jaw. Stewart went down to the
canvas and part through the ropes. He
was up instantly, but that punch had
hurt. The whites of his eyes showed
through his smothered defence as
Richards, now every bit himself, fairly
tracked him down across the ring, de-
liberately set himself and let go another
staggering right.
The Australian had got himself out of
a serious position to win that round
easily. He moved out for the fourth now
the completely-controlled Ron, and
there’s no question he’s a dandy fighter
in this state. Even so, Stewart had com-
pletely recovered, and his defence was
as safe as ever. Each made the other
miss with swift movement and nice head
work. Their punches were travelling too
far to be very effective. Still, not a bad
round to watch, somewhat in Ron’s
favor.
The fifth, save for one fine exchange
against the ropes, in which Stewart had
the better of it, was mostly sparring,


ds
The “ARIZONA”
COWBOY SADDLE
£ll/5/-
(COMPLETE).
eina ulge ’ high cantle, and the rig-
sng is Cord cincha and wood stirrups.
Freight paid for cash with order.
WALTHER * STEVENSON C«:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDMEY
3S#j^
li
1 .
£v : :? , » rf: :
WMiM-M
•'
n
v
;-xoooc:ooooo<yw-v
m
n
&
K
XX
Why not take a 1.4 volt Portable Radio to
your next tennis party for “between sets”?
r,V
\
vr
Make your week-end ten times more enjoy-
able with a 1.4 volt Portable Radio.
1.4 volt Radio offers you everything in radio entertainment |
for as little as Id. per hour. Uses the new 1.4 volt economy is
valves and operates entirely from dependable, trouble-free
dry batteries. You can carry and use it anywhere. Many
makes, many models to choose from.
EVER READY
RADIO BATTERIES
For complete details of the new 1.4 volt Portable Radio
receivers write to-day to Box 37, Mascot, N.S.W.
and fairly even. The sixth saw it again
expanded to a stirring engagement. It
was a willing round all the way ; each of
them full of proper respect for the other,
tense, but keen to attack, splendid in
defence and speedy in countering.
Amongst fine boxing, there were plenti-
ful real fighting punches, particularly
Stewart’s inside rights. Richards landed
one peach of a right a trifle back of the
jaw, used his straight and hooked left
pretty cleanly, though twice a trifle low,
and tried out the right uppercut, at
which he’s a master, though he used it
curiously seldom in this affray. Stewart’s
best was a heavy right which looked to
land high, but was better than it seemed.
It sent the Australian back to his corner
with a distinct puff under his left eye.
Stewart had won two of his Sydney
fights by inflicting just that damage, so
it was no real comfort to the Australian
corner that their man was a bit in front.
Stewart won the next three rounds, the
Australian slackening in attack and hav-
ing to undergo drastic treatment between
rounds to his eye, which was cut by an-
other right in the ninth and bled blind-
ingly. A left hook into the mouth had
Ron showing scarlet there also, but he
evened this a bit in the torrid ninth with
two vicious lefts, one straight and abrupt
full in the face, the other a hook that
made Stewart’s right eye bleed from
above. Stewart, however, had a good
deal the better of this stage, and if Ron
had gone on permitting it he must have
won.
But it was now, handicapped by an
eye bleeding so blindingly that Mr.
Wallis went to the Australian corner on
mercy bent, that Richards chose to prove
himself well worthy of the sundry titles
that attach to him.
He fought through every moment of
the concluding three rounds right at his
top. He fought for the body, going in
full of confidence, timing and directing
his punches now to perfection ; hitting
fast and short, instead of the nervy stuff
he had let go earlier. In the tenth he
placed a left rip that took Stewart’s wind
and would have dropped him had he not
hung on long enough to recover. He
never properly recovered. From here to
the end Richards outboxed and outfought
him, and shattering cheers from the
massed multitude endorsed the decision
when Mr. Wallis’s hand went on to the
Australian champion’s head.
Footbrawl
In Melbourne the footbrawl prophets
are hiding their heads, the s.p. men are
taking their winter rums in double doses,
and there is gloom in Collingwood.
Thousands of ’Woodmen went to St.
Kilda on Saturday confident that the
Magpies would give the Saints an object
lesson in how the national game should
be played. But it was the Saints who
were the teachers. They outmarked and
outpaced the Magpies, and never looked
like losing. It is a tradition that St.
Kilda is hard to beat on its own ground,
but never before had Collingwood been
so unmercifully trounced there. The
board told the dreadful story: 20-11 to
13-16 ; 131 points to 94.
The other games faded into insignifi-
cance alongside that rout at St. Kilda.
Because of it Richmond, victorious over
“Sowth,” 14-24 to 12-7, though its direc-
tion was often astray, went alone to the
top of the table. Even Carlton’s pol-
ished display in notching the bare 100
points (14-16) against Footscray’s 42
(5-12) did not last long as a topic of
conversation ; and the Hawthorn-Fitzroy
draw (11-11 to 10-17) —a rare occurrence
in the Australian game nowadays—re-
ceived little of the attention it deserved.
No other team notched so many points
for the day as did Saints against ’Wood.
Geelong was the next best (129 ; 19-15)
in downing Essendon (81 ; 11-15). Mel-
bourne, still improving, found North
easy—ls-20 to 11-8.
* * * *
Randwick’s clever backs and solid for-
wards failed against Eastern Suburbs
in their Sydney Rugby Union meeting.
The Eastern pack was weightier, played
with more devil, and gave its backs
greater opportunities. Randwick was,
beaten 21-11 (four tries to two), after
East had led 16-nil at lemons. For East
young Sefton, on the wing, scored three
tries.
The result put East on top, one point
above Randwick. West shares the next
position with North. They had mixed
fortunes on Saturday. West galloped
away from St. George in the first half,
rattling up 18 points (three tries) to nil;
but afterwards, with Saints’ forwards
battling in lineouts and rucks, the West-
erners could do nothing, and at the final
whistle it was 18-14 (one try). North
was handed a lacing by Drummoyne—
-25-11 (four tries to two) —another case
of lively forwards winning the day;
the North backs were bottled up most
of the time. Gordon overwhelmed Parra-
matta, 29-3 (six tries). The ex-St. Joseph’s
centre, Carrick, had his first first-grade
run of the season with Gordon. Uni-
versity put on eight tries to Manly’s four
-32-20.
• • ' •
The N.S.W. selectors plumped for
youth in choosing the team to go to
Queensland. Sefton (18) and Porter (22)
are the wingers and Carrick (19) outside
centre. Next him is Richards, again cap-
tain. Ramalli, still feeling the effects of
the drubbing he got against North, has
been omitted, and Gibbons gets another
chance to work the scrum.
In the N.S.W. State Soccer League
Goodyear drew away to a competition
lead of three points over Wallsend by
beating the northern team 1-0 in a game
notable for the exhibitions of the goalies.
The Adamstown lads made their Leich-
hardt opponents look hacks in a 5-0 win ;
by a similar margin Weston walloped St.
George. Metters pipped Cessnock 3-2 ;
Gladesville-Ryde shaded Newcastle simi-
larly, and Woonona-Bulli downed Gran-
ville 4-1.
*
Sixty thousand Italians, Bruno and
Vittorio Mussolini among them, saw
English and Italian teams play a Soccer
match at Milan. Tickets were the Italian
equivalent of ss. to £1 Is., and specu-
lators got as much as £5. That was bad
enough for the Stunt Press to report, but
it was a bagatelle compared with an-
other incident which had to be recorded
—when the Italian National Anthem was
played the Englishmen gave the Fascist
salute. Perhaps if the international
situation were turned over to the
brotherhood of sportsmen the world
would have peace for a generation. A
fast game, played in a friendly spirit,
resulted in a draw —two goals apiece.
* * * *
Balmain remains the only unbeaten
team in the Sydney Rugby League com-
petition. Ground conditions at head-
quarters were perfect when ’Main met
Eastern Suburbs, and McMahon didn’t
unduly crab the efforts of both teams to
throw the ball about. “Beg pardons” and
such pleasantries had no place in the
scheme of things ; tackling was tough.
The tricolors held the black-and-golds
well until the breather, and even man-
aged to hoist a slight lead on the re-
sumption, but thereafter ’Main, answer-
ing Goodwin’s call, tore in, to finish
up 16-7. Canterbury-Bankstown hacked
its way to a hard-fought 9-4 victory over
South ; St. George trounced West 26-8
and North held Newtown down 13-7.
Another stage in the decline of League
Rugby, as controlled in Sydney since the
original converts were bought on the
hoof, was reached when the Country
League gave notice of secession. Its
president, A. C. Elliott, said that with
500 clubs and 15,000 players it wanted
more representation than one-eighth on
the alleged “N.S.W.” League. The pre-
dominant city chdps couldn’t see it, and
Elliott retired. His only supporter was
H. F. Benning, who said truly that
“N.S.W. League” was a misnomer; “this
is a metropolitan league with four
countrymen in it.” Poor Benning! His
heart is in the game—it is a splendid
game when played, as it used to be
played, by Burges, Horders, Gormans,
Thompsons and Armbrusters —but in the
space of 12 months or so he has lived
to see his University League club fade
out and the Country League raise the
flag of freedom.
Miscellaneous
Spurting splendidly when their sup-
porters had almost given up hope, the
Queenslanders won the inter-State eight-
oar race, and in doing so equalled
record time —14.30. The Victorians, who
had done most of the leading, finished
second, half a length behind the win-
ners, but were disqualified for going out-
side a buoy, and N. S. Wales, a length
behind the unlucky Vies., was placed
second, with S.A. third. Tasmania was
next; W.A. was not represented.
C. A. Pearce remains sculling cham-
pion—his fourth success. His two oppo-
nents were not in his class, and the Syd-
neysider cut the record to 14.5. The
races were rowed on the Hamilton Reach,
Brisbane River.
* * * *
“Second Bounce”: England eliminated
Maoriland from the Davis Cup, but only
by three matches to two. The home team
lost one of the opening singles and the
doubles, but Hare and Shayes came to
light in the concluding singles.


THE.
AT
L
I
Twice. Daily-230-6
Big New Company Overseas Stars featuring
THE FOUR FRANKS,
SENATOR MURPHY
In Broadway Hot Shots.
“The Laugh Round-up.” featuring
WILL MAHONEY
and 10 Other New Arts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Willie the Wombat.
This interesting character makes his
too-brief appearance in Australia’s first
colored animated cartoon, “Waste Not,
Want Not.” It was screened at Grace
Bros.’ Auditorium, Sydney, on Sunday
night, and the artist, Eric Porter, was
there in person to explain its making.
So that it would not invite comparison
with overseas cartoons, it was purposely
made on original and different lines. For
one thing, it was made on model back-
grounds, designed to capture the spirit
of the Australian bush, and these are
remarkably effective—not so much in
being Australian as in having depth and
quite unusual naturalness.
The characters the artist decided on
were Wombat, Koala, Kangaroo, Squir-
rel, Jackass, Platypus and Emu. He
managed to give these not only individual
character, but both human and Australian
character also.
Therefore it seems a thousand pities
that he decided to kill off one of the best
of them —Willie himself —in this first pro-
duction. This sacrifice is part of the plan
to be different, the deliberate aim being
to make the film, as Mr. Porter himself
put it, not the usual purely comic affair,
but sad. This idea might perhaps be
praiseworthy, especially as it would seem
that the intention was really to be seri-
ous rather than to be sad, which is a
purely sentimental state. But Mr. Porter,
being a young man with imagination, will
probably learn that it is possible to con-
vey the most serious of ideas in the guise
of comedy, and also that the presentment
of death is not the saddest of conceptions.
The theme he has worked out is that
of the simple truism stated in the title.
The other creatures in spring, summer
and autumn deposit in the bank the fruits
* of the earth against the dearth of winter.
Willie takes the good things at hand and
waives the rest. In this he probably
represents a distinct trait in Australian
character —certainly of the original
native, and probably of the original’s
successor, too.
At all events, Willie takes no heed of
the morrow, and when a most surpris-
ing Old-World winter strikes him he
feels the pinch. Meeting Benny Bear —
where have we heard that name before?
—coming home from the bank with a
barrowload of fruits, he also goes to the
bank, where Squirrel tells him the worst.
Poor old Willie has no deposit. He wan-
ders, therefore, off into the snow, and
finally collapses in it; the snow falls and
makes his mound ; R.I.P. this poor thrift-
less old Wombat.
If the intention were to impress Aus-
tralians with the moral it would prob-
ably fail. They do not in the main regard
thrift as a virtue —rather the contrary.
Their sympathy would be all with Willie,
but certainly not with the moral.
Perhaps that is the idea ; if so, it would
have been better not to have the old
codger thus die in the public view. That
writes finis to him, and this in turn estab-
lishes finality, and finality leaves the on-
looker with the feeling that there’s now
nothing he or anybody else can do about
it. That being so, it is futile to sustain
sympathy any further. The inevitable
having happened to him, there can be
no further real feeling lingering for old
Willie.
In present viewer’s opinion, the effect
would have been increased out of reckon-
ing by having the old boy wander away
into the receding distance, with all the
circumstances of his misery about him.
That would have had the quality of
dramatic sadness; the audience would
have retained the picture of him in the
fell grip of circumstance. His death in
the snow is conclusive and melodramatic.
However, Mr. Porter should send out
a rescue party without delay. Willie
looked a goner to present onlooker, out
he also looked tough, and it might be
possible, with all Mr. Porter’s staff work-
ing hard, to thaw the old boy out. It is
on record that wombats, transported to
England, have survived the rigors of
winter over there; and, anyway, if it
comes to that, there are always the prece-
dents established by Sherlock Holmes
and Frankenstein.
Despite defects of inexperience in the
film —mainly an inability to keep the
characters on the earth, so that they ap-
pear to be walking always just a little
above ground level —Willie is far too im-
portant a character to be sacrificed to
the otherwise admirable intention of
being different from Walt Disney. If
Mr. Porter can rescue him, the spectacle
of Willie one day walking home from the
races would be sad enough to move the
stoniest heart.
Anyway, Mr. Porter has made an ex-
cellent start. Movement in his film has
a marionette jerkiness that experience
and, perhaps, considerably more draw-
ings will overcome. As it is, no fewer
than 16,000 drawings went into the mak-
ing of its 1000 ft., and the painting alone
occupied 14 artists working at top speed
for seven months!
Filmed Lyrebird.
Present viewer, in a pretty extensive
experience, has never yet seen a better
nature film than the Littlejohns produc-
Ferdinand, in the role of a non-resister, stung into unseemly violence by
force of circumstances, in the shape of a bee —taken for the sake of
comparison from the original book drawings by Robert Lawson, on
which the latest Walt Disney at Sydney Century is based.
tion of lyrebirds in the Dandenongs
screened in support of Willie the Wom-
bat.
The male bird’s dancing performance,
with song included, must be one of the
very finest bits of film ever made. The
depiction of the shimmering performer
is clearly photographed in the natural
surroundings; his song comes out with
extraordinary natural clearness, a beau-
tiful anthology of memorable items from
the repertoires of other bush birds.
The filming works up to this lovely
passage through a close-up depiction of
the mother bird gathering food and with
it feeding her chick in the nest, and
after that the little chap’s awkward
waddling about in his native haunts. In
every way it is a most exquisite pro-
duction.
“Ferdinand the Bull ”
In 1937 Hamish Hamilton published
in the form of a children’s book the
unimpeachable moral story for non-
resisters, Ferdinand, written by Munro
Leaf, with drawings by Robert Lawson.
Children’s books have long been notable
for the excellent drawing that gets into
them ; even so, the drawings in Ferdinand
were something right out of the box.
Now the Disney people have made a
colored cartoon of this most promising
material; it is showing at Sydney Cen-
tury in support of “Yes, My Dajrling
Daughter.” It is an excellent production,
even though the original drawings leave
its drawings in the shade.
The story is of Ferdinand the Bull,
who as a little fellow, instead of butting
heads as all the other young bulls were
doing, used to go away alone and sit
under a cork-tree and smell the flowers.
His mother, who was a cow, was at first
troubled over Ferdinand, but, because
she was an understanding mother, even
though she was a cow, she let him just
sit there and be happy.
Ferdinand grew and grew until he was
big and strong, but he still liked to sit
just quietly under the cork-tree and smell
the flowers. One day five men came to
pick the biggest and fiercest bull to
fight in the bullfights in Madrid, and all
the other bulls ran around butting each
other to show what great fighters they
were. But not Ferdinand, who still sat
under the cork-tree until a bee stung him.
At that he gave such a performance that
the five men carted him off to Madrid.
Flags were flying, the lovely ladies
were there with flowers in their hair,
the banderilleros and picadors and the
matador entered the arena, and behind
them Ferdinand.
But he would not fight. He saw the
lovely flowers and he just sat down
quietly and smelled. So they had to take
Ferdinand home, and for all we know
he is still sitting there, under his favorite
cork-tree, smelling the flowers just
quietly.
Non-resisters would not hope for a
better moral story, which is, of course,
that if only you won’t fight nothing will
happen to you. Moral or not, this Disney
version of it filled the house with hearty
uproar.
“This Man Is News .”
Barry Barnes, Valerie Hobson, Alastair Sims.
In this Sydney Prince Edward offering
English filmsmiths have turned out.
entertainment in which the pace is a
cracker through a series of novel twists
and surprises without a suggestion of
disjointedness.
With a “Thin Man”-ish flavor, the piece
is typically English in its persons, diction,
wit (of which it is chockablock) and
characterisation. A better crew would
be difficult to round up, attention given
to minor parts being not the least satis-
fying feature —an inane flatfoot libelled
with the name of Bright is a genius of
imbecility, and there’s a tousled two-by-
four copyboy calculated in one or two
fleeting appearances to win more affec-
tion than a whole battalion of the sort
of youngsters Hollywood favors.
Atmosphere and photography also
have been handled with the maximum
effectiveness. A swarm of white mice
playing around the arms and shoulders
of the leader of gangsterdom provides but
one grim excursion into the region of
the macabre.
The man with the news value is Barry
Barnes —he has figured on the Australian
legit., and will be more recently remem-
bered for his work in “The Scarlet Pim-
pernel.” Here he is ace Fleet-street re-
porter, whose chief occupation between
being alternately sacked and monopolis-
ing front pages is avoiding the prospect
of pushing up daisies owing to the designs
of an underworld which suspects he
knows too much.
Then there is Valerie Hobson, the
film’s only wench, to whom Barnes is
spliced, and who presents as charming
a piece of casual femininity and noncha-
lant purposiveness as could be wished
for. The scene where these two get blith-
ered on champagne and then ’phone a
“bedtime story” to Barnes’s late news
editor is a delicious piece of nonsense.
“MacGregor says he wouldn’t believe
Brown was dead if he was,” is Barnes's
psychology. “Well, he’s not, but let’s
tell MacGregor Brown is, and he will.”
Spoofed, MacGregor believes, publishes
the highly-spiced story, and the cauldron
begins to bubble in earnest.
It is to Alastair Sims’s hand as Mac-
Gregor that most of the rib-tickling is en-
trusted, and his dour, rawboned Scots-
man with a tongue like the edge of a
scimitar, one minute as forbidding as a
hungry rhino, the next cajoling with
childish glee, almost shades the Barnes-
Hobson combination. Australians will
also remember David Warwick, of Mel-
bourne, doing good work in a subordi-
nate role.
“Yes, My Darling Daughter”
Roland. Young, lan Hunter, Genevieve Tobin,
May Robson.
A good modern comedy plot on the old
eternal topic, excellent laugh lines which
Roland Young, particularly, drops into
the audience like undestructive bombs,
and capital acting, especially by the Aus-
tralian May Robson, combine to make
this Sydney Century film a very amusing
entertainer.
The plot turns on whether or not the
lass Miss Tobin represents should go off
and spend a week-end alone with her
fiance. As one of the characters discuss-
ing this issue recalls, there is such an
institution as marriage, but this does not
at the moment suit either of the principal
parties. The young chap is going of! to
a two years’ job in Belgium, hasn’t the
means yet to marry, and draws the line
at having a wife foisted on the charity
of her family. The girl thinks she might
lose him altogether, and the week-end
is her idea, the young chap going reluc-
tantly all the way.
It should, perhaps, be said here that,
despite that plot basis and the billing of
the film as for “broadminded adults only,”
it is presented with restraint, its morals
almost conventional, and quite so at the
conclusion.
The comedy element enters on the
feminine side, the mother of the lass hav-
ing a past which puts her in a singularly
awkward position. As a leading femi-
nist in her own young womanhood, she
had, it seems, been in the hatch some 19
times before she was 20 for furthering
advanced feminist ideas. Her mother,
who was thus put through the maternal
hoop pretty severely, is in the present
household as a drily and humorously
sophisticated old lady tasting poetic jus-
tice in the present affair.
There is also an outdoor sort of father,
as conventional as they make ’em under
his boisterous exterior. He is well man-
aged by lan Hunter. Roland Young is
merely a visitor over the important day
or two, but his being an old flame of the
young girl’s mother doesn’t make the
latter’s position any easier.
A good deal of the amusement arises
from capital dialogue lines, with the situa-
tion altogether quite funny, especially
when Father lights out to save his daugh-
ter from iniquity, another party sets out
to aid her, and Gran takes action to
spoke the wheels of the lot of them. As
Gran, May Robson steals the show, giving
a comedy character portrayal which must
rank as one of her very finest.
“I Married an Angel.”
It’s not certain that the best part of
“I Married an Angel” at Sydney Royal
wasn’t the turn the company put on
when it was over. Don Nicol, intro-
ducing everybody, was at his funniest,


T
JL HE SUCCESSFUL
CAR MANUFACTURERS
HAVE ALWAYS APPROVED
Mob o
From the time quaint "horseless carriages" first appeared upon
the streets, the makers of Mobiloil have planned and worked
with the makers of cars. The successful motor manufacturers
have always given their unqualified approval to Mobiloil
"The World's Quality Oil"-and they do so today wherever
motors are made in England, America and Europe.
They told us what they needed and
we made this oil for them . . . and
for YOU. Follow the advice of the
maker of your car-use the correct
grade of Mobiloil, "The World's
Quality Oil/' and you'll enjoy the
performance your car was made
to give.
itn
PP
-«t~f *
I
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in Australia)
M 96
Katrin Rosselle managed to make just
the right slip of the tongue to confirm
the charm her Viennese accent had given
to her performance; and Bernice Claire
said “You Australians are so wonder-
ful!” t tl J
Katrin Rosselle, as a shy blonde angel,
was attractive throughout the show. It’s
a pity she doesn’t sing, because Melton
Moore, who weds the lady from a better
world, had to mate his pleasing baritone
with the wrong female at sentimental
moments. Bernice Claire, Don Nicol
and the entertaining Kathryn Crawford,
whose singing of “A Charity Bazaar”
was one of the brightest moments, were
the comedy team, making the most of
thinnish material.
A French Revolution interlude with
Melton Moore singing the “Sons of Toil
and Sorrow” piece is fairly effective ;
Jan Kowsky, rotating his impressive
torso, gives a Russian Ballet touch. A
ballet with the company disguised as
aeroplanes is ingenious, and there are good
costuming and dancing in a ski-ground
number.
A Dodie Smith Play.
Dodie Smith’s “Bonnet over the Wind-
mill,” put on by Sydney Thirty-eight
Theatre at St. James Hall, is all about
the woes of a playwright and the prob-
lems of an actress, an insignificant addi-
tion to a thousand backstage dramas
that have been turned out by English
playwrights and Hollywood filmsmiths.
There is no situation of any real
strength; the big scene, where the
actress, after a very easy start on what
promises to be a brilliant career, spends
a night with a playwright and feels bad
about it, is, on the author’s own admis-
sion, a little scene: there is a stormy
future suggested, but the action ends
before the playwright is forced to cope
with any sizable gales. There is a clean
young man who gets jealous in a clean
sort of way, and the playwright, a tragic
enough figure if he didn’t come out of
stock, is troubled about the drying up of
his talent.
The play doesn’t finish. A famous
actor-manager who has begun an affair
that may or may not distress his wife
does or doesn’t go on with it; the play-
wright, whom the actress has tried to
save from the final degradation of going
to Hollywood, goes there, but it’s sug-
gested that he may have received fresh
inspiration from the girl. The jealous
young man says he’ll hang around in a
sensible way because he “may be of
some use,” and the actress, having learnt
that she did mean something 'to the
playwright, feels considerably better.
Such an ending is better than having
the stage littered with brides or corpses,
but it’s unsatisfactory here because the
preceding struggle isn’t important
enough to linger in the mind after the
curtain falls. The dialogue, though
bright, lacks real wit.
So slight a play calls for prodigious
efforts on the part of the players if it is
to hold attention at all. And the Thirty-
eight Theatre did it so well that the piece
gripped for two hours, and even during
the appalling first act attention only wan-
dered to admire the quality of Brian
Wright’s acting. He did everything that
could possibly have been done to create
the illusion of action and fun when the
author had provided neither.
In the succeeding acts, the author did
get down to business, and the various
emotional tangles created some slight
interest, which the players, each one
working splendidly, made greater than it
deserved to be. The casting (and, inci-
dentally, the set) was a credit to the pro-
ducer, and the show as a whole showed
how remarkably a flat play can be
“lifted” by enthusiasm and genuine talent.
Joan Hastie, having to depict a mix-
ture of complete unsophistication and
smouldering emotional intensity as the
young genius, moved through her diffi-
culties with great skill; Hylton Read had
the sort of character he always depicts
well in the harassed playwright.
Each of the minor parts was played
with intelligence, and with the most wel-
come humor: Mary Rook as a bright
battler, Cecily Milne as a divinely dumb
blonde, Mollie Ramsay with just the
right amount of squeak for something
very young, Alfred Race and Noelle
Brennan as a credible distinguished
person and distinguished person’s much
too “sensible” wife, Tom Vary highly
amusing as the male edition of the per-
fect blonde.
Melbourne Audience Cheers «
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra’s third
concert of the season brought Prof. Szell
back into the rostrum at the Town Hall.
A permanent orchestra in Melbourne
is still a dream, and what a visiting con-
ductor has to handle is a fixed nucleus
of performers, plus a collection of others
just as skilled no doubt as they are, but
only in temporary alliance.
Dr. Szell used this material in an even
more than usually forceful manner. The
outstanding event of the evening was the
Prokofieff concerto, with its strange allur-
ing harmonies and angular contours. The
orchestrions flung themselves at this work
with abandon, while soloist Ernest
Llewelyn, of Sydney, sawed away at his
fiddle. Sometimes the sounds he pro-
duced seemed to be as void of musical
meaning as if he were filing steel, but the
general effect was so stimulating to the
audience that he got an ovation.
The conductor then manoeuvred his
cohorts through the Fifth Symphony. The
blazing finale, which somebody has
likened to General Booth entering
Heaven, was contrasted with pianissimos
so delicate that they hardly reached the
back-benchers. But there was no doubt
about the vigor and enthusiasm of the
performance, and at the conclusion a
sound was heard which is seldom known
to come from a Melbourne audience —
excited cheering.
“Heat-wave in the West ”
Last week’s contributions to Sydney’s
month of Australian plays included Dr.
Mac Luker’s “Heat-wave in the West,”
which, presented by the Sydney Players’
Club, went over as a good stretch of
fiction treated simply on its own fictional
plane and set in scenes and conditions
recognisably Australian.
Setting is a station somewhere out
west where drought is playing merry hell
with sheep and finance, and where sheep-
man Alan Medway brings his sister from
college and liis barrister brother from a
clientless practice to help keep the
station on its feet. The Allerdons —
father and daughter—have the adjoining
property, which is in worse straits than
the Medways’ place. Enter as the Med-
, , J . * .. , , „ „ -.i, „
murky pas/aTtheVy evolves into a
straightforward yarn of two las f after
the same man and two men after the
same wench. , ,
Characterisation was good, though
rather than a n° of Them" to
‘‘ Edward Avm
SUlt in e P n hk no
as Allerdon ™ s an exception h s por-
trayal of a she pm V . s
any pastoral country in Austrain,. lames
Flanagan and Charles Kilburn, as tne
Medway brothers, wavered from fair to
excellent, though Flanagan’s clothing
could have been a little more rough and
ready. Ruby Gray and Nina Badham,
as the Allerdon and Medway girls respec-
tively, offered direct and pleasing per-
formances. Joan Hall was an impossible
but very amusing abo. servant.
The most difficult ™.e and o
which the play leans considerably is that
of the housekeeper. It ca s f p
°(u a W ?"T «f„ f rt,v m a ° S
bad w.th a streak of good to mosdy good
°f bad Zelma Newton-
Tabrett had the role and, after fait g
once or twice, took it with easy con-
fidence and made a very sound job of it.
A _ ,
Art society S show.
This is at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney-a show, the keynotes
competence and intelligence.
President William Oates, for the first
time for many years, is not represented,
nor is Rupert Woodman, but the other
stalwarts of the Council give the show
most of its backbone,
Garret Kingsley’s nude figure studies
are outstanding; “Harem Favorite” is a
fi ne hit of flesh painting. W. M. Whit-
rs numerous sketches have the real
water-color technique, and some of them,
Bay. Middle “^are^geant^of
Qf his oJd skiU as a portra itist in “Jill,”
and his “Apples and Petunias” is a good
sdd j de
Rhys' Williams is-painting landscape
better than ever before; the style firm
and crisp. “Sunlit Pastures" and “Grose
Wo]d „ attention Jerrold Nathan
shows many portraits, of which only one,
„ M *& in his ’ best vein . .. Asters ”
® f , f h >
an f ssay {J S p jrfdWs work has a
delicate quality all its own.
Other notable exhibitors are A. C. Mc-
Donnell who shows some dainty water-
colors ; F. S Davis, whose beach scene
Cast ® R<^ k ’ n IS . a a f amst ' ,ght
study; D M. Brookes, who shows some
s(rength . Salvana> who soars out
0 £ b j s usua j q U j e t rut to achieve snap
and sparkle in “Bush Sentinel” ; Edgar
P who has done some nice flower
pieces y ; and Alan Moorej who is coming
d figure painter and por-
cJohn AUeot> hardly ever an exhibitor,
shows a dashing marine piece (in tem-
pera apparently), “The Figurehead,” and
“Fifty Years Ago,” an oil which would
t> e worth six times the price set on it
,hr “ 0f £ ° Ur
Portraitist Arnold Zimmerman shows
a good self-portrait and a character-
study, “Jack,” which is stiff where it
should be easy.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
%
0
ft
HA
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
GOING TO LONDON?
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
GLOUCESTER RD., LONDON, 5.W.7
This renowned London Family Hotel
offers everything the overseas visitor
requires. Close to Tube and Underground
stations, yet quiet and undisturbed by
traffic noise. Within ten minutes of
London’s famous West End and theatres,
and convenient for Earl’s Court, Olympia,
Kensington Gardens, Hyde Park and
the Museums and Institutes of South
Kensington. Inclusive terms or room with
breakfast only. All types of accommodation
from single rooms to suites, including
private bathrooms and sitting rooms.
Illustrated brochure free from
Bulletin, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There’s only one touch of reality in
“I Married an Angel,” and that is a
run on the bank, so you see it’s good
fun. Crackers of laughter kept popping
at the opening performance in the Royal
on Saturday. Why an angel should fly
down from heaven to marry a banker
can probably be connected with the
matter of inflation and soaring prices ;
anyhow, the angel arrived early in the
day, lost her wings, and ended up a
satisfactory musical-comedy wife. The
escalator stage with the sets sliding past
was a novelty. The sets were restrained
in color and equipment, especially the
Angel’s dressing-room with its bluey-grey
velvet hangings, against which her palely-
pink frock and the wings of her sister
angels were particularly effective.
The vestibule was all stir and rustle
as first-nighters edged their ways to
stalls and circle. There was the usual
broadcast, and Marie Bremner, very trig
in taffetas, said her piece. When Lina
Basquette stepped into her box every-
body looked that way. Lina’s white
frock was very full and spreading—white
tulle over white taffeta. A cape of rose-
red chiffon and a red flower in the hair
were bits of glory. Later she and Henry
Mollison represented “Idiot’s Delight,”
and Katrin Rosselle and Melton Moore
were the angel chorus at the K. W.
Aspreys’ supper party in Prince’s.
The Bertie Kellys brought a party.
With Mrs. A. E. Grace, Miss Grose and
Mrs. E. Wunderlich was Mrs. Waka-
matsu. The Salenger girls and Margaret
Dovey were attractive ; so was tall Diana
Baume with her black satin plaits. She
was with mother, whose silver fox caped
turquoise chiffons. Mrs. Schartl’s frock
of burgundy velvet was caped in mink.
Mrs. Sep Levy’s fuchsia-toned chiffons
were noted. At the end there was the
usual round of presentations from the
stage and rounds of applause for Bernice
Claire, Kathryn Crawford, Melton
Moore and George Dobbs, all from
Broadway, and for Katrin Rosselle,
from Vienna. Australia was to the fore
in the person of Don Nicol. The play
is set in Budapest. The National Anthem
was English.
This Letter went to a welcome party
for Dr. and Mrs. Poliak (she was Mim
Weigall, of Melbourne, and one of the
widely-spreading Weigall clan). Dr. and
Mrs. Poliak have just arrived from
Vienna, where he was attached to the
university. He’s a doctor of philology,
by the way, one of those authorities who
get lent to other universities. It was one
of these expeditions that took them to
Sweden. They are full of interesting side-
lights on the ways of home life in all
quarters of Northern Europe, and Mrs.
Poliak will probably broadcast some of
them. Of course, they were questioned
about Mayerling, which is in the hills
outside Vienna. It was, at the time of
the tragedy, one of the royal shooting-
boxes. Now in its wide and spreading
grounds stand a Trappist monastery and
a convent, and it is one of the favorite
excursion places, especially in the spring,
when the' place is blazing with flowers.
The last time the Poliaks strolled about
its ways they saw a nun from the con-
vent driving a plough. The happy seren-
ity of her face, the patient strength of
the horse and the furrowed field are still
a vivid memory.
Mrs. Lul Gardo, author of Cossack
Fury, was , lunched by the Society of
Women Writers last week. Numerous
pairs of Cossack boots are packed in
the lady’s bag when she goes travelling.
They are the only type she can wear
since her fighting days with the White
Russians. They vary in material from
the softest Russian leather to black satin.
She wore a pair of them at the opening
of the show of her own tapestries and
her collection of shawls gathered in the
Caucasus, the Andes, China, Mexico and
the Ukraine. Her portrait, painted by
Rupert Bunny, striking and colorful, was
hung in this exhibition, which was to
aid the Industrial Blind funds. The cos-
tume and jewelled headdress in which
she is painted are Russian of the Boris
Godounov period. The soldier’s uniform
which she wore when fighting with
General Korniloff’s “Battalion of Death”
is of black woven material, and the
coat sleeve has five stripes, indicating
five times wounded. This was one of
the most interesting exhibits.
Pretty Mrs. Charles Donohoe was
Helen Bowker, of Point Piper. Her hus-
band in 1931 shared the Australian tennis
doubles title with Ray Dunlop. He is
also vice-president of the N. S. Wales
L.T.A. Both Mr. and Mrs. Donohoe
are on the ground management com-
mittee of the N.S.W.L.T.A. In between
arranging tennis tournaments Mrs.
Donohoe works for the R.S.P.C.A. and
makes her own clothes. And she always
looks Paris-turned-out. Photograph by
Falk.
What connection Sydney’s new theatre,
the Minerva, has with the Etrurian god-
dess of that name is rather vague, save
that among her portfolios was that of
“the liberal arts.” The theatre, now in
its last throes of getting ready for its
opening to-morrow night, is in Orwell-
street, Potts Point, on a site that was
even a few years ago a pleasant garden
spot. It is terribly up to date with its
lighting and subsidiary stages, and it
seems to have as much rubber about its
furnishing as a smart liner. There’s
rubber under the carpet, so that the
instep has almost a Pannish spring when
you step into the foyer. The carpet,
which is proudly stated to have been
specially woven in England, is beige of
ground, and its design is of black scrolls,
and of red birds flying. They have put
it down very neatly, so that all the birds
seem to be winging their way up the
circle stairs.
The indirect lighting in the entrance
is a cunning mixture of red, gold and
green, and this shines out white. The
chairs are full of ease. They are real
lounge chairs, all rubber, covered with
beige repp. They have footrests, and
there’s plenty of space for the pas-
sage of even the plump patron. The
rows are short, and are divided by four
aisles. The stage curtain is orange-gold,
and late last Friday men were busy ad-
justing yellow velvet hangings on the side
sets. The theatre is air-conditioned from
cloakroom to ceiling, and the stalls are
sufficiently tiered up to give a view of the
full sweep of the stage.
The circle is like those usually seen in
picture theatres, with the last row of
seats very matey with the ceiling. There’s
a room to leave your cloaks and a room
to retire to with baby when it cries.
There’s what the Georgians would have
called a powder-closet but which some-
body termed a cosmetic bar —in other
words, a dressing-room. Then there s a
cheery-looking bar where you can im-
bibe an orange drink in the intervals.
It’s all very clean and glittering and new,
and it opens to-morrow with Idiot s
Delight.”
A note from London tells of the wed-
ding of the Hon. Greville Baird, son of
Viscount Stonehaven, once our Gover-
nor-General, and his lady. His bride is
Gelda MacGregor, and the blessing was
given at St. Mark’s, of North Audley-
street. Lady Stonehaven had flown back
from her Australian travels only the day
before, but the Stonehaven home in
Bryanston-square was all banked with
spring flowers for :ception. Princess
Marie Louise w? • present at both the
church md th<* p; . that followed, and
the ’go >m s si c '~r, the Hon. Ariel Baird,
was ort- ol .n bridesmaids. Wedding
garmi ■ ; vo! old Brussels lace. Prin-
cess M uic Louise s gift was a set of
ony. ashtrays.
Even Rudyard Kipling can’t withstand
a dauntless concern like Anthony Hor-
derns’. “Anthony’s” of Brickfield Hill
arranged a meeting between the East
and West when the store mingled
its fashions with those of China.
This was at the Trocadero, and
the money taken will augment the
funds of the Dragon Festival Ball at
the same address on June 20. The stage
was set alluringly. A long gold curtain
fell down in stiff folds from a handsome
cornice. When this was drawn, panels
done in Chinese shawls provided rich
color. Against a red background peacocks
strutted. Against pink stood out the
figure of a Chinese ancient symbolising
Long Life. There were white shawis
and a luscious golden one that fell from
the back of a chair and trailed on the
stage. The set was emblazoned with
characters that meant “Welcome All
Good People.”
The place was packed. The women of
the Chinese community entertained large
parties. Many of them brought their
children. A small girl and boy, round-
faced and smiling, played blithely as
kittens. The wife of China’s Consul-
General hostessed a Consular group.
Mrs. Pao’s flaring white coat was worn
over a black dress. Her round white
Cossack hat wore a saucy black pom-
pom. Mrs. Tsao, wife of China’s Vice-
Consul, Mrs. Claude Plowman, Mrs.
Host and the wife of Chief Justice Jor-
dan were in this group. Pretty Chinese
girls sold lucky numbers, many numbers
modestly priced at one penny. The man-
nequins walked around three sides of the
stage and wore the very latest winter
garb.
Coats were long and fascinatingly
buttoned from neck to hem. Little Peter
Pan collars of fur alternated with a
sort of modified Medici. Some coats
had their shoulders furred, others had
fur running from shoulder to wrist.
One even had a yoke of fur at the back.
A stone-grey coat had fur twisted
like a snake from wrist to elbow. Was
there a woman there with soul so dead
that she didn’t want the hand-loomed
black satin two-piece pyjama set? This
showed no trouser effect at all at back,
but looked like a skirt with a short
peacock train. What pretty figures were
the young girls of China who were
helping show the clothes! Many of
them wore a flower in the hair. Most
of them carried fans. One waved a
treasure edged with peacock feathers.
One held in the most sophisticated way
a long cigarette holder. None of them
had been mannequins previously.
The pinnacle of the afternoon’s dis-
play was achieved by the bride. First
the bride of the East, then the bride of
the West, was shown on the revolving
stage. Mrs. Charles Ma, young and
vivid, was shown seated ’mid a
group of attendants; two tiny flower-
girls in pink satin frocks, topped by
flowing scarlet capes (Mrs. Ma’s own
twins), and with flowers in their hair were
behind the bride. On each side of her
was a woman, her robes brightly em-
broidered. The bridal gown itself was
all gold, red, black and silver embroid-
eries, and had gold fringe on the hem
of the skirt. A red flower was worn
in the hair. Audray Connell, of
the just-about-perfect contours, was an
ivory lace and satin Western bride. Her
coronet was of feathers, her veil of
Honiton lace.
Sydney’s ordinary citizens as well as
the French in our midst are going in
steady streams to “Mayerling” in spite
of the fact that the dialogue is in French.
“Mayerling” is the story of the unhappy
love affair of Marie Vetsera and the
Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria, who
was the son of Francis Joseph and the
beautiful Empress Elizabeth. Elizabeth
was as weight-conscious, apparently, as
any film star of to-day. She knew all
about the use of fruits in keeping the
figure slim, and she walked and rode
for hours on end, even in the pouring
rain. Some of these walks lasted for
seven and eight hours, one for even 10.
The pace set by the Empress was terrific.
She fenced, too, like an expert. Even-
tually these strenuous exertions set up a
sciatic condition. But in 1897 she
observed to her doctor, when he found
that she often ate nothing but half a
dozen oranges a day, “yet my weight
is increasing” ; and was surprised when
he told her this was because of under-
nourishment. Poor, ill-starred family!
Mrs. F. J. Davy, who has been up
to Canberra attending the National
Physical Fitness conference, reports the
Federal capital as looking its best.
Hockey girls in Canberra didn t forget
their popular secretary, and the hand-
somest flowers that came to any guest
at the Hotel Canberra were those sent
by them to Mrs. Davy. Gladioli nearly
as tall as herself topped the box, and
even hardened politicians in the lounge
uttered the “Ooh!” of surprised admira-
tion as the page boy handed over the
treasure.
Back in Sydney are Mrs. Hugh Poate
and daughter Marcelle. The two went
off on their travels some time ago. The
idea was to visit some of Mrs. Poate’s
relations who live in Cairo, and then to
go to Europe. But owing to the distress-
ful times they compromised with a gor-
geous three weeks’ cruise on the Nile.
On Saturday, June 3, the Sydney Town
Hall should resound like an aviary of
angels. The Vienna Mozart Boys’ choir,
20 sopranos and 20 altos in its ranks,
will be in full song. The conductor,
Dr. George Gruber, was formerly prin-
cipal conductor of the Wiener Saenger-
knaben and of the Vienna Male Choir
of 500 voices. He is also well known
as an orchestral conductor in the U.S.A.
and South America.
One of the smartest lunchers at
Prince’s last week was Mary Baillieu,
of Melbourne. Her suit of plum color
had its slimly-cut coat pleated at the
back. Her hostess was Mrs. Percy Mills-
Alien.
Mavis Dearman will raise her dramatic
soprano in the Forum Club on Monday
evening. May 29. An interesting pro-
gramme will include Schubert’s haunting
“Shepherd on the Rock.” This will be
sung to a clarinet obbligato played by
Crosby Browne. Freda Franks, noted
for her accompaniments, will be at the
piano. Photograph from Peter Pan.
Absolutely no negatives about the
wedding of Patricia Kathleen Tebbutt
and Gus M. Bagnard, who were married
in St. Mary’s Cathedral last week. The
bride, known to her friends as “Paddy,”
is the second daughter of the H. L.
Tebbutts, of Boggabri and Potts Point,
and Gus is the director of photography
for Zane Grey. Zane left off being an
author or a deep-sea fisherman for the
afternoon, and was at the ceremony and
the party after. A frock of white silk
jersey, a white felt hat from which fell
a waist-length veil of ninon, and orchids
and lily-of-the-valley were worn by the
bride. Sister Mrs. David Barclay was
her support, and brother Lyle Bagnard
attended the ’groom. Reception was at
Manar, Potts Point. And what do you
think ornamented the cake? Right first
time —fish and fishing gear. After a
motoring honeymoon the Bagnards will
sail for California.
The Ormonde brought back two of
the musical young McCleans: Georgina
and Hugh. The brother and sister are
both violinists, and in addition Georgina
plays the viola. They have come back
under contract to the A.B.C. The
McClean family has been in England for
several years, and has made a place for
itself in the music world overseas. An-
other sister, Dorcas, is also a violin
virtuoso.


ANOTHER OF THOSE CELEBRATIONS.


Don't Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan’s Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
A U S T KALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A "Bulletin" production -
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Personal and Missing Friend.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
ARTHUR JAMES, formerly of Montrose,
Victoria, please communicate with GEO. J.
WISE, Solicitor, 418 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
FORBES.—MISS ELSIE LINDA (daughter of
Mrs. Rose Alice Forbes, of 201 Victoria Parade,
Fitzroy, Victoria, who died on the 28th June,
1936 —sometimes known as Mrs. Rose Hughes).
Please communicate with THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY,
LIMITED, 401 and 403 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT TO DIRECTIONS given by Mr.
Justice Crossman in an action in the Chan-
cery Division of the High Court of Justice re
MARGARET ELLEN DAINTON deceased
Public Trustee v. Featherstone 1938 D. 1839
Frand Gordon Horne and Ernest Stanley Horne
(the children of a sister of the said Margaret
Ellen Dainton) if living at the date of her
death on the 31st May 1937 or if they have
since died their personal representatives and
if they died prior to the 31st May 1937 their
issue living at the 31st May 1937 and if any
of such issue have since died entitled to any
vested share or interest their personal repre-
sentatives is or are as the case may be to send
by post prepaid to LEIGHTON KESLAKE
VEALE of 2 Duke Street Adelphi London
W.C.2 England so as to reach that address m
the ordinary course of post on or before tne
24th July 1939 his or their full Christian and
surnames addresses and descriptions or m de-
fault thereof he or they will be excluded fro
participating in the distribution of the PJ°P c ) r >
the subject of the above action. Thursday the
27th day of July 1939 at 2.30 o clock ini the
afternoon is the time appointed for adjudicating
upon the said claims before Master Newman
at the Chambers of the Judge Roorn No. 16-
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London Eng-
land. A claimant not residing in England or
Wales must send with particulars of his c aim
the name and address of a person in Engfend
or Wales to whom notices to the Claimant can
bC NoTE: The said Frank Gordon Horne and
Ernest Stanley Horne were last heard of m tng
land about 1919, and it is stated that they m
tended going to Australia.
DATED the 25th day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) TREVOR C. NEWMAN,^
R. HAMILTON TWYFORD AND CO., ?
Duke Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.2, douci
tors for the Plaintiff.
Melbourne
Chatter
When Dr. and Mrs. C. H. Dickson
offered their home, Tudor Court, in Har-
court-street, Auburn, for a dance in aid
of St. George’s Hospital Building
Fund the committee didn’t even pause
for consideration before accepting the
favor, for this house, built in days when
ceilings were lofty and walls were thick,
simply begs to be used for parties. In
the ballroom of stained-glass windows
there lingers a quality of magnificence
of other decades. On a raised platform
there was once a pipe-organ. To-day it
is a dais particularly suitable for the
orchestral makers of swing music.
Dr. Dickson proved himself the perfect
host to over 100 guests, but managed
nevertheless to admire his wife’s presen-
tation spray of Lorraine Lee roses which
she wore as an accessory to a gown of
black tulle. Mrs. Ken Hardy also chose
black tulle, with a skirt of bouffant pro-
portions. Bands of turquoise ribbon gave
a perpendicular emphasis to Mrs. Keith
Hallam’s black frock. Mrs. Walter Sum-
mons, who is president of the auxiliaries,
was in Parma violet, with a moonstone
glitter upon her little jacket. Mrs. Bryan
Keon-Cohen’s choice for the evening
fell upon green. John McCahon
auctioned a doll which fell under the
hammer for a five-pound note. Mrs.
McCahon and Mrs. E. F. Billson, who
organised the dance, are members of the
St. George’s Auxiliary, which works suc-
cessfully if quietly ; it has raised £6OOO
in six years.
As American women are good cooks,
so are they good organisers. The Ameri-
can Women’s Auxiliary started bright
and early in the year on the job of their
American Ball, work for which is pro-
gressing smoothly along with a good dose
of co-operative spirit. This year the ball
will be held on June 30, and will be called
“The Golden Gate Fiesta.” It will pos-
sibly be one of the largest dances ever
held at the Palais, for the management of
that institution, being also of Uncle Sam’s
dominion, has risen to the occasion with
a piece of lawn which is to be sheltered
under a marquee and known for the even-
ing as “The Gayway.” Its appurtenances
are so far a secret, but it is suspected
that it will be a little piece of the ’Frisco
Exhibition.
A spot of fun in the hatching of plans
was a luncheon given last week by Mrs.
M. Luigi Luiggi and Earl Moser at Mrs.
Luiggi’s home in Glen Iris. Members of
the ball committee were present at this
pleasant variation of an alfresco meal,
at which guests were invited to help them-
selves to salads, mushroom gumbo and
American cookies in the dining-room,
and to carry their plates to the sun porch,
where small tables were arranged with
knives and forks around decorations of
autumn berries and log cabins of maple
syrup.
One long table was reserved for
a pair well practised in waffle irons, Mrs.
Douglas Jeppe and Mrs. Jud Holt, who
made hot cakes to order on half a dozen
irons. They were a fetching pair of
cooks in their cocktail aprons. Printed
on the material was a wide range of
recipes for pick-me-ups, from a before-
dinner pink lady to a planter’s punch
recommended for the morning after-
wards. As the aprons were such a suc-
cess Mrs. Luiggi arrayed herself in her
smock of New York City, wherein with
an artful display of make-up the bridges,
the skyscrapers and the automats were
printed as if by photography upon the
material.
In addition to the good wishes of
many friends A. C. Pratt carried with
him to Sydney at the week-end presenta-
tions from fellow-workers at the Mutual
Stores, which gifts he values particularly
for their associations. There is a pig-
skin suitcase fitted with all the usual
gadgets, a clock and a couplet of foun-
tain-pen and pencil—this last from the
Mutual van drivers, all men on the basic
wage. Mr. Pratt, who hails from Aber-
deen (though he left that part of the
world many years ago), will unpack his
suitcase at Usher’s, where he will live
for the present. His new position in
Sydney is that of managing director of
Murdoch’s.
John Eldershaw, whose exhibition of
oils and water-colors is now being held
at the Sedon Galleries, has a new pos-
session of which he is naturally very
proud—a caravan made to order to ac-
commodate without a cricked neck his
six feet one inch of height. It con-
tains a studio as well as wherewithal for
sleeping and cooking. When not roam-
ing the country on wheels Mr. Eldershaw
lives quietly at his home in Richmond,
Tasmania, painting and growing vege-
tables. His potatoes, particularly, are
considered first-rate. Cr. Nettlefold, de-
claring the exhibition open, mentioned
them in connection with a former exhi-
bition some years ago at Hadley’s Hotel
in Hobart. Instead of paying cash down
for the rent of the room the enterprising
Mr. Eldershaw suggested that the account
might be forwarded in potatoes. The
hotel management accepted, quite satis-
fied with its end of the bargain.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Georg Szell, wife of the conductor,
now in Australia for the second year in
succession for a series of concerts.
Madame Szell, who like her husband is
a Czech and a good linguist, is a pianist
and has a deep appreciation of music and
a keen critical faculty. Her home is in
Glasgow, where she finds that the warmth
of Scottish hearts compensates for the
climate of that particular part of Scot-
land. She loves Holland, where she
spends as much time as she does in
Scotland, for Professor Szell, who is the
permanent conductor of the Scottish
National Orchestra, holds a similar posi-
tion in relation to The Hague Orchestra.
Madame has a sense of humor and takes
a keen interest in life generally. She is
domesticated, and enjoyed three months’
housekeeping during her husband’s recent
season in Holland (which domesticity
she admits was somewhat of a test, as
in all housewifely acts every Dutch
woman is a paragon of efficiency). Pro-
fessor and Madame Szell are at present
at Cliveden, which large stone structure
reminds them of old homes in Europe
which they have visited during their
years of travelling.
In the history of Melbourne’s Town
Hall there have been many occasions
when the rafters echoed with prolonged
applause, but the first Szell orchestral
concert of the season was one of the
first water in the matter of appreciation.
Szell’s remarkable memory was once
more the cause for comment, for his
music stand was untenanted by script dur-
ing the “Die Meistersinger” overture and
the Fifth Symphony. At the conclusion
of the concert the conductor’s laurel
wreath had to be forced into his hand ;
his thoughts were exalted upwards, and
his eye was never lowered below the plat-
form to the -attendant who in vain waved
green leaves and red ribbons,
Madame Szell, forgetting for the
moment she was in Australia, stood, as
is the custom on the Continent, to em-
phasise her applause. J. D. G. Medley,
sitting alongside her, not to be outdone
in chivalry, rose also. The night was
warm, but the time of year has set the
fashions, and numbers of women wore
fur capes and wraps. Mrs. Raymond
Lambert removed her squirrel coat to
divulge a charming frock of sweetpea-
pink chiffon attached to turquoise velvet
shoulder straps. A cloud of orchid-pink
feathers lay lightly upon Mrs. Ronald
Gordon’s shoulders. Phyllis and Bever-
ley Balfour both wore long coats of
figured boucle with accentuated nipped-
in waists and high-shouldered sleeves.
Mrs. Basil Hart’s coiffure was of two
minds, sausage curls on the top of the
head and a short, sleek scissors-grooming
round the nape of the neck.
A newly-qualified young barrister is
Mollie Winter (Ronald Esler photo-
graph), who was admitted to the Bar
early in April. Mollie, who is the daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Winter, of
East Malvern, is continuing her work
with the firm of Norman Shankly. She
has a University degree in Arts as well as
in Law. Her old school is Mary’s
Mount, Ballarat.
Whatever his other talents, W. Kent-
Hughes is no fisherman. He gave him-
self away when making a speech at the
opening of the Borovansky Academy
of Russian Ballet when he credited M.
Borovansky with catching a baker’s
dozen of trout off the sea beach at Rye.
Monsieur is, however, a fisherman of
■ skill. He has outwitted the nervous
trout in many European streams, and
recently at Makara Beach, near Welling-
ton (M.L.), had a very satisfactory day,
catching 17 groper, five kingfish and one
conger eel.
The Borovanskys’ new studio, in which
Eunice Weston’s school is incorporated,
occupies two roomy studios in Roma
House, which were decorated for the
party with tropical groves of ferns and
plants arranged by Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay
and Mrs. Keith Fairley, who had spent
the morning in a landscape-gardening
mood. Madame Borovansky wore black
and a bit of perfection in hats, purchased
in Paris, though its genus was Welsh.
Among others present was artist Rupert
Bunny, who enjoyed an absorbing dis-
cussion on the arts with Mrs. Douglas
Stephens. Her choice for the afternoon
was black, with a couple of flighty swal-
lows taking off from their landing ground
of a tiny hat.
Mrs. Harry Rosenthal’s ideas in mil-
linery also ran towards birds of the air,
her soupqon of hat being ornamented
with blue, green and purple wings. Col-
lette Reddin, with her smooth dark head,
a rose behind her ear and her gypsy
frock of scarlet and black, found that
she was being taken for one of the Rus-
sian Ballet. Genuine members present
of the little band which has stayed be-
hind to put on ballet divertissements
were Tamara Tchinarova and M. Bous-
loff and his wife Mile. Abrikossova. This
couple hope to open a business of mak-
ing ballet shoes.
Jack Wiltshire had his “big chance”
last week in the leading part in “Black
Limelight,” for Henry Mollison that
evening was a victim of much sym-
pathy on account of a painful boil. The
co. had' several send-offs before leaving
for Sydney during the week-end, where
it is due to open to-morrow (Thursday)
with “Idiot’s Delight” at the new
Minerva at King’s Cross. Melbourne
will miss Henry Mollison and his decora-
tive wife Lina Basquette, who can wear
the most exotic clothes with a well-
deserved air of self-confidence.
Beauties, like roses, come and go, for
each year another batch of lovely young
things is around and about challenging
the right of elder sisters to be the only
pearls within the oyster. Another beauty
quest is being planned, and another Miss
Victoria gets a trip at the end of the year
—to California for the Pasadena Tourna-
ment of Flowers. Doubtless an intro-
duction to Hollywood will follow, which
(for the queens who can persuade the
powers that be that they are possessed of
genius in embryo) will be the first door
opened in the hundred or so that lead
to the" stratosphere of Garbos and Diet-
riches.
Even for the young women who have
no urge for a destiny of movies there are
other chances of jobs and careers. The
Miss Victoria competition is being held
in connection with the floral pageant
from October 21 to November 14. Can-
didates, who must be worthy represen-
tatives of the State in more qualities than
appearance, will be nominated by busi-
ness firms, charitable organisations or
other public bodies, which will also pro-
vide floats for the pageant. E. J. Grave-
stock is on the job of organisation and
is giving plenty of publicity to the cause
of prospective queens who are hoping
for sponsors.
Mrs. Frank Andrew has gone to Perth,
where her son, Dr. Rod Andrew, will
for another six months carry out the
duties of medical superintendent of the
Children’s Hospital. Mrs. Andrew re-
mained in Melbourne long enough to
make the acquaintance of her fourth
grandchild, the newly-arrived second son
of Mrs. Andy Chirnside. Her visit to the
West will revive old associations of a
home of over 20 years ago in a St.
George’s-terrace that was not the busy
thoroughfare it is to-day.


lugga
• •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
ore made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
ond Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
So/MxiLa^
TYRES
STURDY and TOUGH
in the best
Australian Tradition
Olympic tyres give service . . . long,
trouble-free resistance to the hard
usage which motoring conditions im-
pose on a tyre. In fitting Olympic
tyres you give yourself a personal
advantage and do a National service,
for Olympic tyres are Australian
through and through.
Fit Olympics—what you save stays
in your own pocket, what you spend
stays in your own country.
Refit with Olympic
AUSTRALIA’S
REST TYRE
The Choice of 90% of
Australia’s Racing Drivers
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
PTY. LTD.
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts.
Sydney
Olympic Tyres
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Australia’s Crown Colonies
“Kaloa”: In his 1937-38 report on
Papua, Hubert Murray writes another
charming mixture of statistics, fairy
story, demonology and modern progress.
Progress in Papua has been gradual,
but in quarter of a century what looked
like an incipient West African sub-
station at Moresby has been turned into
a fine town, and there has been opened
up an area bigger than Tasmania, diffi-
cult of approach as it was, because of
high mountains, heavy rainfall and some-
times jagged limestone terrain. When
Murray retires, he will leave behind one
of the best small colonial civil services in
the world.
Papua’s figures are not imposing on
the surface. Exports were down about
£90,000 last year, falling to £435,000,
chiefly as a result of the fall in copra
prices. Imports increased, mainly owing
to oil activity and defence. Papua bought
£631,000 worth of other people’s goods,
principally Australia.
The native section speaks for itself —
native relations with the Government are
about the happiest in the world.
Less heartening is the condition of the
Northern Territory. Mr. Abbott’s report
is full of enthusiasm and “expectation.”
Production last year was valued at
£1,000,000 —£2 per square mile —an in-
crease of about £90,000 on the previous
year. This was represented by an in-
crease of “£73,000 in pastoral produc-
tion” and £102,000 in mining production,
less some declines.
The pastoral figures are pure guess-
work. Who can make an estimate of
“production” in cattle- spread over
523,000 miles of isolated country except
by guessing?
Pearlshell, buffalo hides and agricul-
tural production all showed a decline —
the last in spite of an increased market
owing to the installing of a garrison at
Darwin and extra traffic and demand
caused by the development of aerial
services.
Mr. Abbott, however, thinks that Gov-
ernment development plans based on
the Payne report will take the “white
elephant” label off the Territory, and
he envisages a production of £4,000,000
per annum, which is Mr. Payne’s figure.
It is possible, if Payne’s ideas are fol-
lowed.
The Administrator has discovered that
there are large tracts of untouched and
unsettled country capable of carrying
sheep and cattle, given water and access
to market. He “expects” that about
80,000 square miles of new land will
eventually be brought into production.
.Settlement will follow the “establishment
of more roads and stock routes, with a
clear and progressive policy of laying
down water at progressive distances.”
Time will tell —in the meantime it
would be interesting to hear the details
of the “clear and progressive policy,”
which seems to be a State secret. What
is the generalised plan? Where are these
stock routes and roads going? What are
they to cost? How long will it take
to build them? Where is the water, and
where the 80,000 square miles?
Pearlshelling Japanese, of course,
occupy the attention of the Administra-
tor. “The gathering by Japanese is
“ Quick! Help! Do something!”
“We no savvy, mister.”
estimated to be 4000 to 5000 tons a
year.” How estimated? In dozens of
cases all the patrol vessels have been
able to see was the tail-end of the sam-
pans. In any case, it takes a bit of
work to “estimate” the output of 150
inaccessible foreign vessels scattered
round a thousand miles or so of coast
outside territorial waters.
The Japanese say they are cutting
their operations down this year because
of the world slump in pearlshell prices
and the wiping out of the Czecho-
slovakian market. They are actually
hawking shell in Darwin. But Mr.
Abbott says that there will be a reduc-
tion because shell beds in the vicinity
of the Arnhem Coast are “exhausted”
and the ones further away “will not
stand up to the demands of so many
vessels.”
The aboriginal, of course, is being
dealt with. Mr. Abbott says:—
I see the Australian aboriginal as a
tracker, a Government messenger, a stock-
man, a handy man in domestic service and
in the patrol service.
..
In anything except his natural tribal
surroundings, in fact. The Government
intends to try to turn Binghi into a
“peasant,” laborer, driver and domestic
servant. Macquarie was the first man
to try it. The result has always been
the same.
Other news from the North is that
millions are being spent on rebuilding
Darwin and providing it with extra de-
fences ; that wharf-laborers welcome the
extra work by dealing with only one-
third the hourly cargo that is handled per
man at southern ports; and that despite
a large white influx to the goldfields
the percentage of children of pure Euro-
pean blood has dropped from 42.3 p.c.
to 37.5 p.c. In the schools there are 520
youngsters of polyglot blood, including
150 half-castes the mixture includes
several races, Asiatic and European —
and 98 pure Chinese.
It is evident that the N.T. is a big
job ; too big for those who are at present
handling it. There is a good deal to be
said for the application to it of the old,
early Australian gubernatorial system.
Pick a good man. Cut him off from con-
tact with the red-tape of Canberra, give
him a free hand to go ahead and do the
job, raising money as best he can, sub-
ject to the provision of a civil service
and some generalised instructions.
That’s the way the early Australian
colonies were built. Such a system gradu-
ally merges into a system of local self-
government. And on the economic side
there is nothing better for a colony than
to stand on its own feet, even if it does
go without luxuries.
Defence expenditure is, of course, a
separate question.
“Lid”; Another strike in Darwin!
Work on the flying-boat base, the air-
force station, Manton Gap dam and pipe-
line, barracks, abo. compound, officials’
quarters and the N.S.W. Bank building
has been at a standstill. The strikers
demanded 255. a day, with margins and
allowances; the contractors refused to
pay more than the basic wage of £4 13s.
9d., plus margins and allowances. Strikes
are a rotten business at any time, but
£4 13s. 9d. doesn’t go far in Darwin.
“X.T.”: The Anglican Bishop of North
Australia is on his annual trek. His
cathedral (a memorial to the wrecked
Quetta) is in Thursday Island. His diocese
begins three miles from the Papuan
coast and includes 15 Torres Strait
islands and the whole of Cape York
Peninsula and the Northern Territory.
Just a mere 620,000 square mites in all,
but touring it is easier than it used to
be. Air services and motors help these
days.
* * * *
“Zedo”: When the new. Director of
Native Affairs turned up in Darwin it
was discovered that nobody had thought
about a home or office for him. He has
commandeered Crown Law’s front ver-
andah as an office and Crown Law’s
dining-room table as a desk.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Nakashiba, the Japa-
nese pearling fleet’s representative at
Darwin, confirms the information (B.
10/5/’39) about the vicissitudes of his
country’s luggers in Australian waters.
He says the Germanisation of Czecho-
slovakia has closed the biggest shell
market, and Japanese owners are com-
pelled to reduce their fleets. Last year
returns did not pay wages; and if con-
ditions don’t improve the fleets will have
difficulty in continuing. At present there
are half a dozen Japanese boats round
the northern ports trying to sell shell
locally in order to buy stores. There
will be 80 Japanese vessels operating this
year in Australian waters —considerably
fewer than last year.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Estimates of defence works
now in hand —exclusive of works for
civil aviation show £373,000 is being
laid out in N. S. Wales, £190,000 in W.A.,
£BO,OOO round Canberra, £40,000 in
Darwin, and in Queensland only £30,000.
No wonder Minister Hanlon exploded at
the inter-State Labor conference.
*** , *
“East Point”: In recent N.T. “Govern-
ment Gazettes” Francis Xavier Gsell and
William Michael Henshke give notice that
from April 17 the name of the Catholic
Church of the Diocese of Victoria and
Palmerston Incorporated has been
changed to Catholic Church of the
Diocese of Darwin Incorporated. Thus
Darwin becomes the seat of a bishopric.


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” {U.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
THE WEST
IS YOURS !
THROUGH . . .
6PM Perth ...
Northam. .
6KG Kalgoorlie
6AM
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s House, St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
0* fO BKBi/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality ami
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES CO., ,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney
fds
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Ultra-sensitive 56mc.
Receiver.
A recent American 56mc. receiver is
described by W. M. Conklin, W9BNX,
associate editor of “Radio.” It has been
aptly termed the “organ-pipe” receiver,
since it uses concentric lines instead of
lumped inductances in the form of coils.
Such high Q circuits have been applied
from time to time, chiefly in receivers for
higher frequencies than 56mc., and this
Fig. 1.—The new concentric line tuned
"acorn” superheterodyne receiver for
56mc.
is the first practical application of a
modern superhet for 56mc. employing the
principle.
Built by W9IUJ, with no antenna con-
nected, resonance in the first tuned circuit
is obvious in the way that the electric eye
closes as the mixer frequency is crossed.
The high Q of the lines is apparent from
the selectivity. With separate R.F., mixer
and oscillator controls it takes several
minutes to run across the band. It is
necessary to gang at least the R.F. and
mixer tuning, so only two controls re-
main.
The receiver was tested against an
American commercial u.-h.-f. set, on
the same antennas and signals. The
commercial job on the W9CLH vertical
WBJK brought in WBCVQ (135 miles).
At another location with a much less
efficient antenna, the “organ-pipe” set
could bring in 10 p.c. modulation on a
signal 30 miles away, but not even the
carrier could be found on the commercial
job. There is no doubt that the new
receiver uses design principles that should
be incorporated into the front end of
every u.-h.-f. converter or receiver
worthy of the name.
Pipe Construction.
Most amateurs avoid building any-
thing so radically different as this re-
ceiver, unless design data are readily
available. Constructional difficulties are
easily overcome if details and probable
results are known in advance.
The receiver uses a pair of lines 28|in.
long and 2in. in diameter made of
copper-plated brass 0.020 in. thick. The
inner conductor is jin. copper tubing ;
it can be made an inch longer
than the outer pipe for convenience
in making connections. These lines
just reach 55 megacycles with acorn
valves, a 17.5mmfd. condenser and a
small (3mmfd.) trimmer, on the first one.
which has no valve-plate capacity hung
across it.
These dimensions can be altered con-
siderably. The diameter can be increased
to 3in. or more, which will increase the
gain but will not alter the tuning capa-
city if the same ratio of conductors is
used. The gain can be increased also by
lengthening the pipes, which will reduce
the necessary tuning capacity and im-
prove the bandspread. Some improve-
ment in gain and bandspread can also be
obtained while reducing the tuning capa-
city, by making the inner conductor
smaller —say one-tenth of the outer con-
ductor diameter instead of one-quarter.
The outer conductor was slotted on a
metal circular saw from about 6in. to
15in. from the shorted end, to pass an
insulated wire fastened to a clip sliding
on the inner conductor (put in before
the insulator was doped in place). This
provided a means of matching and coup-
ling the inner conductor of a concentric
line feeder. With a balanced feeder,
holes drilled in the outer pipe, to pass
long machine screws threaded into the
inner conductor, would have served to
connect a balanced-to-unbalanced an-
tenna coupling unit.
The inner conductor can be mounted
in the outer pipe by any of several
methods. A spacer or insulator will be
necessary near the open end, and a short-
ing disk at the closed end (away from the
acorn tube and tuning condenser).
While squares could have been used,
the trolitul insulator and metal shorting
disk on the receiver were cut out slightly
oversize with a circle cutter to fit the
inside of the outer pipe, then drilled to
pass the inner pipe. With the insulator
in place, the shorting disk was soldered
with hard solder. Then the insulator was
fastened with a liberal amount of in-
sulating cement. At the open end, the
Fig. 2. —Underneath view of the concentric line “acorn” 56mc. superhet.
large pipes were soldered into holes
drilled in a 3in. x sin. piece of the chassis
material so that this could be bolted to
the chassis. Actually, the pieces cut out
were used as the shorting disks.
At the shorted end the pipes could
have been fastened to a flat plate, but
even with the simple construction used
the arrangement is strong enough to lift
the whole receiver, not including the
separate power supply. It should not be
hard to arrange to remove the pipes to
change bands, if desired.
It is suggested that the pipes be
mounted between centres to give enough
room in the chassis compartments.
Chassis Layout.
The complete receiver, minus the sepa-
rate voltage regulated power supply, is
pictured in Fig. 1. The two pipes are
distinguished rising up out of the pic-
ture from the top of the chassis at the
left. The black wire half-way up is the
antenna connection. These pipes should
be lined up the other way—-fore and aft
—or a flexible connection should be
provided for the R.F. and mixer tuning
condensers so that these circuits can be
ganged. The photograph shows separate
knobs for each circuit.
The knob with the dial is the variable
ratio drive for the oscillator. This is not
at present provided with a concentric
line tuned circuit. Behind the lines is
the first I.F. transformer. The balance
of the I.F. circuit progresses to the right
across the back of the chassis. When
the picture was taken, a 6H6 diode de-
tector and 6C5 first audio were used, but
these have been replaced with a 6R7,
combining both valves. This made room
for a 6SK7 single-ended pentode beat
oscillator, for which a shielded tuned
circuit was mounted next to the tube
socket, just behind and to the left of the
audio transformer which appears at the
right. The 6F6 pentode second audio
tube is seen between the transformer and
the 6E5 electric eye.
The R.F. End.
It is surprising how little actual wiring
is necessary in an R.F. stage of this
type. By-pass condensers can be built
into the sockets, in which case they
should have a substantial capacity. The
small tube clips are insufficient for this
purpose. As far as is known, there is
no entirely satisfactory acorn socket
available. Ordinary condensers do not
by-pass effectively above 56mc. The
underside photograph, Fig. 2, shows
sockets on the wrong sides of the shields ;
it is the grid end that should project from
the bottom of the sockets into the next
compartment. The sockets, or the sockets
and the compartment walls to which they
are attached, are best made removable
to facilitate mounting the valves with-
out chipping out the seals.
More complete details, with circuit
diagram, will appear in a future issue of
“Radio” (U.S.A.).
The mixer has been tried only with
suppressor injection. R.C.A.-954 valves
were found to give better gain both here
and in the R.F. stage than 956’5. They
operate very well as mixers at this fre-
quency, and have been recommended
by R.C.A. for the purpose. With sup-
pressor injection and a 955 triode oscil-
lator, there is a slight amount of “pull-
ing” of the oscillator frequency when the
mixer is tuned through resonance ; this
amounts to about It is notice-
able only when using the beat oscil-
lator, but probably not even then if the
oscillator is ganged with the other cir-
cuits. A pentode oscillator of the elec-
tron-coupled variety, or better isolation
and decoupling than was used, may be
sufficient to eliminate the slight pulling
that is present.
Any oscillator valve can be used, pre-
sumably,' although stability is better
with the acorns, which do not load the
tuned circuit heavily.
Other features of the receiver include
an I.F. channel at 3500 kc., using 6SK7
(single-ended) valves, diode detection and
A.V.C., beat oscillator for C.W. using a
6SK7, adequate R.F. and audio decoup-
ling, and voltage-regulated power supply.
It is not the kind of job for the average
56mc. experimenter to tackle without
considerable experience previously in the
construction and adjustment of u.-h.-f.
superhets, but it is extremely interesting
as an indication of the future trend of
design.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: America’s N.B.C. is out in
front in the matter of speedy short-wave
relays. From 8.30 p.m. on 5/5/’39 I lis-
tened to* Polish Foreign Minister Beck’s
speech through WQV, just outside the 19-
metre band. This was apparently taken
from Geneva (Radio Nations), which
centre was connected by land line with
Warsaw. As Beck spoke, his major
phrases were immediately translated into
English, the commentator getting in his
translations during the bursts of cheer-
ing. A complete summary from a New
York studio wound up the broadcast.
* * * *
“Ixion”: Many dual-wave receivers
using the 6A7 type of converter appear
to be “dead” at the H.F. end of the
short-wave range. The trouble can be
simply rectified. A small condenser is
made by twisting together two pieces of
hook-up wire, one lead being soldered
to the detector grid end, and the other
to the oscillator grid end of the short-
wave coils, preferably at the switch. An-
other way is to solder two pieces of bus-
bar to detector and oscillator stator sec-
tions of the condenser gang, with a por-
tion running parallel to form a small
capacity. Effect in both methods is to
provide more coupling between detector
and oscillator, this being apparently
needed in valves of this type at higher
frequencies.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: Dynamic-speaker trans-
formers, particularly those matching pen-
todes, make excellent input couplers for
single-button microphones of the P.M.G.
pattern. The high step-up ratio is use-
ful, and if a metal shrouded type can be
secured so much the better, as the case
can then be earthed to prevent trouble-
some R.F. getting into audio circuits.
Amateur Chatter.
A start has been made to reorganise
the u.-h.-f. section of the N.S.W. division
of W.1.A., one of the main objects being
the populating of the 56mc. band. There
has been some talk, too, of attracting
attention to the 112mc. band. It must be
realised that there is no 112mc. band in
Australia. Australian u.-h.-f. allocations
stop at 60mc. Special permission is granted
by the authorities where circumstances
warrant it for the conducting of experi-
ments on higher frequencies, but such
permission is only temporary. Those who
may be tempted to skip 56mc. with the
idea that higher frequencies are a play-
ground for antiquated gear have no place
in the plans for 56mc. development.
On 18/5/’39 VK2NO will deliver a
lecture at the W.I.A. general meeting in
Sydney dealing with present-day applica-
tions of 56mc. transmitting and receiving
equipment. This, if a projector is avail-
able, will be illustrated.
D. B. Knock was elected president of
the u.-h.-f. section of W.1.A., N.S.W.
division, on 4/ 5 / ’39, and W. McGowan,
VK2MQ, was appointed assistant to sec-
retary C. Horne, VK2AIK. It is proposed
to commence a roster of 56mc. stations
in Sydney, to have one station on the air
for at least an hour every night in the
week. First half-hour will probably con-
sist of a talk on u.-h.-f. section news and
plans, with latest overseas news, followed
by a half-hour of C.W. telegraphy trans-
mission. U.-h.-f. listeners will be wel-
comed in this new section of the W.I.A.
The W.I.A. may give attention to the
establishment of student classes for the
Amateur Operator’s Certificate of Pro-
ficiency. A large number of short-wave
listeners wish to graduate to licensed
experimental rank. If undertaken, the tele-
graphy side of the courses will be in the
capable hands of A. G. Henry, VK2ZK.
outright winner of the W. T. S. Crawford
Trophy for the most proficient amateur


Ql
Every Radiotron valve
undergoes extensive tests
before it is sealed in its
carton >-> sealed for your
protection. It will repay
you to . . .
Revolve
with
fm
m
x
THE W 0 R L D’S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
telegraphist in N.S.W. Another matter
which may receive attention in the near
future is resumption of the popular
public exhibitions of amateur equipment.
VK6WZ sends details from Westralia
of the recent 56mc. test. A new record
was established when VK6GB (Bulls-
brook portable-mobile) worked VK6GM
(Safety Bay ; a portable, running from
A.C. power line) with an intervening air-
line distance of 47 miles. The last three
months has seen W.A.’s five-metre dis-
tance record go from five miles, where
it remained for many years, in stages to
19 miles on the field day of 2/4/’39.
VK6BB held that record. VK6LW re-
peated the record later with crystal-
control and superhet gear by working
from his car in the Darling Ranges to
city stations.
During the recent test week-end,
stations on the job were VKs 688, 6BW,
6GB, 6GM and 6LW, all crystal-
controlled and with varying power in-
puts from a few watts to 50. VK6ZX
(ex-VK4LX) rushed together a stabilised
type of MOPA capable of reception by
superhet and worked with several stations
of the network from his home in West
Perth, before going on the Sunday to
Reabold Hill, that being about the
highest point in the Perth suburban area.
VK6WZ assisted VK6BB during the
Saturday afternoon and evening and Sun-
day morning, returning home to leave
VKs 6KW, 6RU and 6EI to carry on
with 688. Location was Scarborough,
with VK6BW at Kalamunda in the hills,
VK6GB abroad in a car, and VK6GM
at Safety Bay. VK6LW was operated
by 6AF and 6RB, who erected the gear
at Red Hill. No directive aerials were
used, except the vertical two half-waves
in phase of 6BW, and the Westralians
consider that, even though results were
good, only the surface has been scratched.
It is concluded that the job couldn’t
have been done on transceivers. The
next step is the use of existing advanced
transmitting-receiving gear and equally
modern radiating equipment.
Two operators of unlicensed radio-
transmitting apparatus were fined £lO
The five-metre superhet converter used at VK2VU, Singleton, N.S.W.,
to receive telephony transmissions from VK2LZ, Wentworth Falls.
This was described in B. 11/1/'39, and is an excellent medium for
five-metre reception in the modern manner when applied to almost
any form of receiver.
each, with costs, in the Adelaide
Police Court recently. In both cases
transmissions had been conducted on the
experimental 56-60mc. band. Maximum
penalty for illegal operation of radio-
transmitting apparatus is five years’ im-
prisonment or a fine of £5OO. It is much
easier to locate the whereabouts of an
unknown station on ultra-short waves
than on lower frequencies because of
the limited range.
“Pirates” are strongly resented by most
radio amateurs. Occasionally through
misunderstanding a perfectly legitimate
station may be branded as a “pirate”—•
changes of address and callsign where
an experimenter moves to another State
are sometimes confusing. The P.M.G.’s
lists do not appear immediately, and
V.Os. and others scanning the lists for
location of an unfamiliar call may con-
clude that the station is illegal. VK2ALU,
of Wentworth, N.S.W., was recently the
subject of discussion between two
stations on 7mc. VK2ALU is the station
of L. H. (“Tubby”) Vale, ex-VK3MK
and ex-VK2AER. He has been a licensed
amateur since 1933, is a licensed broad-
cast operator and an electrician-radio
engineer by occupation.
The French broadcasting station which
subject of editorial comment in
QST” was noted in full force on 7280 kc.,
signal strength being comparable to the
Daventry transmitters. This station, re-
ferred to in “QST” as Radio Mobile, is
actually a French Government station
signing Radio Mondial.” A news session
was given in faultless English, at the
conclusion of which reception reports
were solicited and the station call and
address in Paris given.
Another broadcaster on this band, but
in a place where it has no right to be—
namely, inside the low-frequency limit —
is XGOA in China. This station is fairly
strong in Eastern Australia nightly and
brings much hostile comment from VKs.
Apart from broadcasters, the continued
presence of powerful commercial tele-
graphy stations scattered throughout the
band is something that the I.A.R.U. will
also need to tackle if anything of this
valuable band is to remain ultimately to
amateur radio. The day seems not far
distant when concerted action by amateur
organisations throughout the world in
defence of their rights will be needed. ,
The situation is rapidly becoming intoler-
able, considering that short-wave radio
was definitely pioneered by early-day
amateurs.
VK2NO.
New 56mc. Contact in N.S.W.
On the evening of 7/5/’39 Geoff
Partridge, of experimental station
VK2VU, received five-metre telephony
transmissions strongly at his Singleton
location from the station of Con Bischoff,
VK2LZ, located at Wentworth Falls,
Blue Mountains. The distance is just
over 100 miles. This alone is interesting
enough, but more important is the nature
of the country covered by the signal—
mountainous, and without any suggestion
of an “optical path.”
The receiver at VK2VU consists of
a superhet converter, as illustrated,
identical with that described in B.
11/1/ ’39. It is used, in Partridge’s case,
with a Radiotron eight amateur-band
superhet, tuned around 46 metres for the
I.F. channel. This converter, duplicates
of which have been made for VK2EM
and VK2NS, employs the 1851 television
R.F. pentode as R.F. amplifier, with a
6JBG mixer-oscillator. It is a very sen-
sitive combination. Transmitter at
VK2LZ is a modern type, with four
stages and 40 watts input to the final.
Success of this kind repays the hours of
work undertaken by the group of ex-
perimenters on 56mc. around Sydney,
and brings much closer the objective of
a chain of relay stations covering a con-
siderable distance from and around Syd-
ney.
D. B. K.
"Australian Official Radio
Service Manual."
The Australian Official Radio Service
Manual, giving circuit diagrams and full
particulars of all Australian radio re-
ceivers turned out during 1938, should
be invaluable to radio dealers. There
’ are 428 pages of information which
could otherwise be had only after delay in
writing to factories. Most of the volume
is taken up with circuit diagrams of A.C.,
A.C./D.C., car, battery and vibrator re-
ceivers. Makes include Airzone, Aristo-
crat, Astor, Beale, Breville, Briton, Cal-
stan, Columbus, Eclipse-Croyden, Gena-
lex, Healing, H.M.V., Bandmaster,
Kreisler, Lekmek, Mullard, National,
Philips, Philco, Radiola, Stromberg-
Carlson, S.T.C., Tasma, Ultimate, Wel-
don and Westinghouse. Other sections
deal with radio-inductive interference,
air-cell installation, installation regula-
tions, valve data, charts, service informa-
tion and a complete list of types of
power supply throughout Australia.
Editor is A. G. Brayne, M.I.R.E. (Aust.),
president of Australian Trained Radio
Servicemen’s Institute. The manual
comes from the Strand Press, Brisbane,
Queensland. Price is 12s. 6d. (limp
covers) and 15s. (stiff covers).
"Bulletin" Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Philips Model 1852 Dual-wave Superhet.
The 1852 A.C.-operated dual-wave re-
ceiver in the Philips 1939 series has an
unusually compact chassis, but the
designers have packed very high per-
formance into such small space. The
sensitivity on both broadcast and short-
Philips Model 1852.
wave ranges is so high that for all normal
purposes an elaborate aerial system is
quite unnecessary.
The Daventry transmitters on 25, 19
and 16 metres were tuned in with such
ease at more than comfortable volume
on a few feet of indoor aerial that the
presence of a tuned R.F. stage ahead of
the mixer valve was suspected. How-
ever, the valve line-up is EK2G mixer-
oscillator input, 6U7G I.F. amplifier,
686 G demodulator and A.V.C. and EL3
output pentode. Rectifier is a SY3G.
Such is the gain on the short-wave band
for stations far and wide that the volume
control never needs to be more than a
third “open.”
On the broadcast band considerable
care was taken to check up the indicated
positions of the smaller B stations in all
States, and calibration was found to be
dead accurate in every case.
Tuning ranges are eight to 22 mega-
cycles on short waves (13 to 33 metres)
and 1550 kc. to 540 kc. on the broadcast
band. There are four controls under the
inclined dial, these being, from left to
right, tone, volume, tuning and wave-
change. The tuning dial is of the wide-
vision type, with frequency and wave-
length indications incorporating an
“escalator” system of calibration. Stations
can be logged for future reference with
fine accuracy by this method.
Technical points include air trimming
throughout, I.F. transformers sealed
against moist air, power consumption of
only 50 watts. Price of the model is 25
guineas, and there is a brother to it,
the 1840, supplied at 28 guineas for
straight battery operation, 29\ guineas
for Air Cell use, and 33 guineas for
vibrator power. The 1852 model tested
can be operated from 220-, 240- or 260-
volt A.C. lines, and from 110-volt supply
if specially ordered. Further particulars
can be obtained from the manufacturer,
Philips Radio, Philips House, Clarence-
street, Sydney.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1)' Occasionally the Cairns ( N.Q .) B station
relays a programme from a station in Sydney,
and the announcement indicates that a number
of stations are receiving the programme simul-
taneously. Some are as far distant as Tasmania.
Is such a relay done by radio reception between
stations? (2) When a programme is broadcast
from a dance hall how is this connected to the
stations ? —775.
(1) No. Stations in a relay chain are con-
nected by landlines specially selected by the
Post Office engineers. Repeater stations at
many points boost up the impulses over long
distances, and the system is of the carrier type,
whereby several transmissions can be conducted
on one File. (2) Mostly by landline from the
nearest point, fcu* on some occasions a radio
link is used to the nearest line point. Ultra-
short waves are used where the distance is
reasonably short.
* * *
My four-valve battery-operated receiver gave
good reception until power mains were run
close by. About 150 yards distant is a 200KVA
transformer, fed from 44,000-volt lines. My
aerial is about 60 ft. long, 40 ft. high and a
single wire, running in a direction at right-
angles to the power lines. Can anything be
done?—111.
There may be trouble in the insulating bush-
ings of the transformer, but that seems un-
likely with a recent installation. Only possible
remedy seems to be the erection of one of the
special noise-reducing aerial systems as far as
possible from the power lines. A.W.A. markets
such an aerial. As yours is a battery-operated
receiver there is a fair chance that the radio-
inductive interference would be suppressed suffi-
ciently for trouble-free reception.
* * * *
(1) I intend making up the 9- to 1000 -metre
tuned R.F. receiver (B. 22/3/’39) and am
doubtful about winding the coils. Is any
further information necessary? (2) Are these
coils available ready-made from a manufac-
turer? —776.
(1) No. (2) No. This receiver is purely
experimental, and no manufacturer in Australia
makes coil units such as the one around which
the receiver is designed.
* * * *
I need a stand-by C.W. transmitter for the
line, amateur band. Several unused 41 pen-
todes are on hand. What would be a suit-
able circuit arrangement? —77B.
The circuit diagram shows a 15-watt push-
pull transmitter employing 47’s, with crystal
control from a 40-metre crystal. Coil LI should
be wound of 12-gauge bare copper wire, with
16 turns 2} inches in diameter. The coil L 2
depends upon the type of coupling to the aerial
circuit. Keying is in the centre tap, and the
tiansmitter can be used on 80 metres with a
crystal for that band and suitable coil for LI.
Values are: Cl, ,002mfd. mica condenser; C 2,
.002mfd. mica condenser; C 3, lOOmmfd. vari-
able condenser; C 4, 250mmfd. variable con-
denser; C 5, ,002mfd. mica condenser; C 6,
.002mfd. mica condenser; C 7, Bmfd. electro-
lytic condenser; CB, Bmfd. electrolytic con-
denser; Rl, 50,000-ohm 2-watt resistor; R 2,
25,000-ohm 25-watt resistor; R 3, 100-ohm
c.t. resistor; SW, A.C. toggle switch; T, power
Circuit diagram of the C.W. transmitter.
transformer, 400 v. D.C. from filter; RFC,
2.5mh. R.F. choke at lOOma.; MA, milliam-
meter, 0-100 ma. range. The switch across the
milliammeter shorts this out whilst keying the
transmitter.
Ever Ready Co. (Australia) has
changed its title to Eveready (Australia)
Pty., Ltd. Address of the company is
P.O. Box 37, Mascot, Rosebery, N.S.W.


WHAT WOm
'APPEN TO ¥Ol/.
/f^sussssSSSSSbl
SAFER WITH_ ” qNTRO L
YOU D aUTO -POISE cu bu . u in feature -
o * u to-Poise control co urse • on
Why’ Because keep wheels on blows
W y . „allv helps to K ee P tC } ie n a tyre
automation? MV „ inds , e»e»
rove' l *°“ ,ter car h«» «W> WnS '
out! No other ca
»«r ■ ■**?, ff
i
mm
EXCiusi«
YOU’D BE SA F HRW safe le-Safe Brakes
why? Thanks «,
'Te«- Brahe, are
S-r
ctnndard on all
Don t worry about us THIS trip
■i
m
mmm
mSi
iw&x*t
\m
mwmmm
m
'«***»
mrnm*
1
**w**S»8»
m
NEW
1939
HUDSON
For extra protection you don’t
have, and can’t get in any other _
car, drive a new Hudson. Thrill
to championship performance,
proved by official tests in every
part of the world.
Enjoy the roominess unmatched
in other cars. Profit from
sturdiness that mocks the miles
and makes light of the roughest
going.
See new beauty, new luxury, new
features. Come in to-day and
drive the new Hudsons and see
i
for yourself the extra built-in
value which only Hudson
provides.
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON
COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
Hudson Motor-car
Company.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C. 1.
i' j ,
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors: r- '
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.


LYS
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
OMBUS
* v>. 'v’ - ’ h
.... ; :;
- -&
mm
5^
*
.
HHK
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON’T WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Still Going Strong.
“Ghanam”: The apparent panic of the
daily press and politicians and the for-
mation of a Wool Secretariat which
has set out to teach Europe and
the U.S.A. the advantages of wool by
mannequin displays and press stunts like
the gift to Mrs. Roosevelt of a woollen
dress notwithstanding, if appears that
artificial fibre is not such a menace after
all.
Courtaulds, the biggest firm in the arti-
ficial fabric business, sold 30 p.c. less
rayon yarn for export from Britain in
1938 than in 1937. It got rid of the same
amount of staple fibre as in 1937. In
U.S.A. the company made a loss. Its
world profits fell for the year from
£2,374,000 to £352,000 the worst year
since the company had any footing at
all.
“S. M. Herald’s” Bradford writer
now asks “If cotton at cannot
displace wool, what chance has staple
fibre at 12d. per pound? The biggest
guarantee,” he says, “that any wool-
grower can have of security in the
economic scheme is the provision of
adequate wool supplies at a reasonable
price.” The strength of wool “lies in its
own inherent qualities.” Bradford appears
to be converted to The Bulletin’s be-
lief that wool and fibre will be “com-
plementary” and not competitive.
Germany and Italy may turn to fibres
under stress of circumstance, but offer
them an adequate supply of wool at the
same price and on the same terms on
which it is available to other countries
and the staple fibre business would soon
slump.
The one difficulty is the insistence of
Bradford in all its propaganda on a
“moderate” wool price. Agreed that a
moderate price, as opposed to the in-
flated prices of a decade and a half ago,
is a safeguard to the industry. But
present prices are not moderate except
from Bradford’s viewpoint. In Queens :
land the graziers have told the Govern-
ment that many districts will not be able
to carry on without subsidies.
Australia should tackle the problem
herself. The Wool Secretariat in Lon-
don is operating as an Empire affair.
Australia is large enough to dictate her
own terms in the wool business. The
Australian section of the secretariat
should withdraw from the organisation,
sack its share of the mannequins and hire
a few journalists to make it plain to
Bradford and other manufacturing
centres the world over exactly what the
position is.
They must be told that, if Australian
wool output deblines, British, French and
other wool manufacture declines, too. It
must be made plain that a “moderate”
price is a price which pays the wool-
grower a decent living, leaves him a
margin for insurance against droughts
and a further margin to keep up the
quality of those types of wool which he
alone can grow. The manufacturer and
retailer can do all the advertising of
woollen fabrics which is necessary—it is
their business and they have always car-
ried the load. The grower’s business is
growing wool; and the Australian grower
has enough work in front of him to keep
him occupied without dipping into the
retail trade.
He has his responsibilities: to increase
the yield per sheep, to improve yield per
pound through elimination of rubbish,
and to increase the carrying capacity of
his land. Governments must help grazier
and manufacturer alike at the grower’s
end by making moderate demands on
them, since Australia lives on wool.
In the meantime, no notice should be
taken of new price scares. Wool can
rise in price and compete with rayon
and artificial fibres just as well as it
has been doing this year, in which wool
purchases have increased all round.
Mules on Mules—and Others.
From J. H. W. Mules, inventor of the
Mules operation:—
“Peppin” writes (B. 26/4/’39) that he
has wondered why I did not confine
my activities to my own State, and claims
“Let Auntie carve, Ma; I've been handlin' poison baits.”
that the Riverina sheep have been bred
to a plain tail for 70 years. He states
that the Riverina would have no use
for me.
I am prepared to try to arrange a test
to prove that the plain-bodied Riverina
sheep do need the Mules treatment..
I agree. with “Peppin” as to the virtue
of Riverina studs, but I expect him to be
equally candid and agree with me that
as a centre for the distribution of
wrinkles the Riverina ranks high.
“Peppin,” if I am any judge, will be
as well pleased with wrinkle cutting as
many men who, though now practising
it, were much more “one-eyed” than
“Peppin” before they knew any more
about it than “Peppin” apparently does.
“Ghanam” says that so long as flock-
men fail to think for themselves, so long
will there be work for the Mules process
and the C.S. and I.R.
It is pleasing to note that flockowners
are starting to think for themselves, and
the trend of thought is towards retain-
ing density.
One man who has bred plain sheep
by rams from a breeder of years’ stand-
ing renowned for the size and plainness
of his rams writes only this week: “If
there were never any flies round my
sheep I would continue to make the
Mules treatment part of my routine.”
About Jetting Mixtures.
“Ghanam”: Much of the success in
jetting depends upon the care taken in
making up the mixture.
Place four four-gallon tins full of water
on the fire. Weigh |lb. caustic soda and
41b. white arsenic into each of four other
tins. Weigh out four 41b. lots of calcium
oxide —stone lime —and set them aside.
As soon as a tin of water boils, pour
two gallons of the water into one of the
soda-and-arsenic tins. Keep this boiling
to melt the arsenic. Put a 41b. lot of
lime into the remaining two gallons of
water for slaking —lib. at a time, stirring
meanwhile.
When the arsenic-soda mixture is clear
and boiling hard, take it off the fire and
pour into the milk of lime — slowly, or
it will rise at you like a geyser. Let the
completed mixture simmer.
Four tins will make 40 gallons of 1 p.c.
arsenic jetting mixture. This will dilute
to 160 gallons of effective jetting fluid,
and cost works out, including labor, at
about Bs. per 100 gallons. Mixture can
be made at any time. Corked in tins,
drums or tanks, it will keep for six
months. . '
With calcium arsenite, do not try to be
economical by using the mixture too
often. Use immediately weakens the
solution, as a deposit of arsenic is left
on the Sheep—up to 20 p.c. in some tests.
Begin with a . tank of new mixture.
Catch the waste below the race and
return to jetter tank with engine running.
Keep the mixture at constant level by
the inflow of new calcium arsenite from
a reserve tank.
The mixture should not be kept in use
after it becomes obviously dirty. About
20 gallons were discarded in N.S.W.
Agricultural Department tests of a “re-
using” method after 400 to 600 sheep
had been done. Quantity varies, of
course, according to the type and condi-
tion of the sheep.
The jet is poisonous. Rubber gloves
should be worn when using it, and a face
shield is a good idea.
Worms in Sheep.
“J.R.D.”: It’s impossible for the grazier
to determine the type of worm parasite
by microscopic examination of sheep
droppings. Even with the latest and most
expensive instruments and advanced tech-
nique there is possibly one type which
can be thus identified—the thin-necked
intestinal worm (Nematodirus spp.),
whose eggs are twice as large as those
of other worms.
The number of worm eggs to be found
in one pellet of droppings from sheep
with only moderate infestation is stagger-
ing. Under scientific methods, two grams
of droppings are selected as a sample.
These are broken up and mixed with
water. A certain quantity of the resultant
mixture is placed on a slide, and the
number of eggs shown is used as a basis
of computation of numbers. Figures for
the large stomach worm (Hamonchus
contortus ) are:
Light infestation, fewer than 400 eggs
per gram.
Medium infestation, up to 3000 or 4000
eggs per gram.
Heavy infestation, up to 100,000 eggs
per gram.
And one gram represents roughly one
pellet of droppings.
Unless the worm eggs are thoroughly
identified and their relative proportions
known the drenching of sheep is guess-
work.
o Continued on page 44.)


V#
L\
a
2933.
Ideal for Hard Country Wear
A full brogued Shoe made with imported Scotch Zebu Leather. Heavy
double sole and welted heel with good quality leather back linings.
Stocked in full and half sizes in medium fittings. PRICE 37/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’
m
■Si!
"SSSSIS
SsS
5»“S?!
>Esa
•sSS
SSSSS3S
iliiu
*"■55885
SSSssS
Six*
>
:
H
<l,
lt
X
HH
it
4i
*
IT used to be "just a kitchen": a
place where food was prepared
but guests were not encouraged.
There was not over-much money to
effect the transformation . . . but
here's what happened. They laid
a durable, steel-strong floor of Mas-
onite Tempered Presdwood. Mason-
ite Temprtile was used for the walls
immediately above sink and work-
ing surfaces giving the effect of
glossy ceramic tiles (and just as
easy to keep clean). The working
surfaces and the rest of the walls
are in steel-strong Masonite Tem-
pered Presdwood with silk-smooth,
non-denting Masonite Presdwood
for those handy in-built shelves
and cupboards! The kitchen has
become a guest room thanks to
Masonite . . . “the wonder boards
of 1000 uses." Go Modern Go
Masonite!
Cane-ite, the new insulating and acoustical
board works wonders when laid under floors
of Masonite, linoleum, rubber—even carpets.
Ml lllill
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD
E SAMPLE
NAME..
i'HE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)*
jjjJ Please send me free sample and details of [H MASONITE Q CANE-ITE
3-17-5
ADDRESS
*Write to your nearest branch: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. MA-23-9
lleiz/rt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
How to keep
False Teeth
REALLY clean
m e
SSSSSbK
m
Pour a capful of 'Steradent’ into a
glass containing sufficient warm water
(not hot) to cover the dentures. Stir
well. Put in your dentures and leave
them while you dress or overnight.
Take them out and rinse thoroughly
under the tap.
Every stain vanishes. Mucin film is
removed. Dingy, yellow teeth become
'live,’ lustrous, natural-looking. 'Stera-
dent' is harmless to Dentures. It is
sold at all chemists, 2/- and 3/6.
TRIAL OFFER: Send 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515 8.8., G.P.0., Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
£550311
6V ,AN «
St eri liz £S
V SE
Fly-strike Control.
“Homebush”: Complaints of dirty and
daggy sheep consigned to Flemington
(N.S.W.) saleyards (B. 26/4/’39) have be-
come more insistent.
Fly-blown sheep have been rejected at
the yards and sold at discount prices;
the cleansing of others has cost owners
a disproportionate penalty.
Humid conditions and abundance of
lush feed have favored the fly pest, which
is active in most N.S.W. districts. The
N.S.W. Agricultural Department claim?
that its experiments have proved that
crutching in the autumn, followed six
weeks later by one or two jettings with
calcium arsenite while the fly is busy,
prevents any appreciable strike and prac-
tically eliminates losses. Cost for labor
and material runs out at less than 4d. per
sheep for the combined Ueatment.
Meat Grading.
“True Blue”: The grading and tag-
marking of mutton and lamb at Home-
bush abattoirs (N.S.W.) for the local
market are being pioneered by the Borth-
wick firm, which for more than 30 years
has been engaged exclusively in the
export side of the trade.
Independent grading and marking are
being done by the M.M.I. Commission,
the classification being: Prime, good,
medium and fair. This is for the benefit
of the retail butchers.
The move for compulsory grading at
the abattoirs and in retail shops, which
is gaining ground, originated with the
Retail Butchers’ Association, and is being
actively supported by the Graziers’ Asso-
ciation. The carcass butchers have not
favored the idea, and the smaller men
in their ranks are perturbed at the
appearance of the English company as
competitors in the meat halls at Home-
bush. Producers want to see the scheme
carried right through to the protection
of the consumer.
The U.K. Needs Our Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Australian wheat —N.S.W.
in particular —has enhanced its reputa-
tion in the U.K. this season. Dry weather
finishing and harvesting conditions con-
tributed to the improvement. This State’s
f.a.q. also included a larger proportion
of medium strong types, and was higher
in gluten than ever before.
A report on a sample of bagged f.a.q.
from Sydney by Dr. D. W. Kent-Jones,
consultant cereal chemist to the British
Flourmillers’ Association, mentioned:
A good sample and distinctly above the
average Australian imported into England.
The gluten characteristics are reasonably
balanced. It would make a useful “filler”
wheat, and while not strong enough to
carry any weaker wheats it would not need
any real support from the stronger types.
It is also much above the normal standard
in protein content.
The U.K. market needs a dry white
wheat of good flavor, which Australia
alone is able to supply.
“Romney”: Maoriland isn’t exactly
paradise for sheep-farmers. On a farm
carrying 3400 sheep the year’s expenses
totalled £1554 —wages for shearing £240,
other wages £624, drainage rates £3O, and
other rates and taxes £660. With a drop
for the year ended March of £351,788
in the value of wool sold at Otago, sheep-
farming is apparently not a poor man’s
game in M.L.
“Zedo”: Commonwealth wool returns
show an increase of 255,000 bales sold
luly 1, 1938, to April 30, 1939 ; total,
2,601,000 bales. The wool cheque was
only £34,545,000, a falling off of
£3,296,000. Average price has been
10.7 d. against 13.07 d., which means
£2 17s. per bale. Sales at Sydney showed
an increase of about 5 p.c. for some
types. Even faulty wools are on a better
footing.
“Ghanam”: The action of the Sydney
R.A.S. in selecting only judges from
States other than N.S.W. for this year’s
Sheep Show has raised something of a
shindy. The chief danger is that varying
ideas will produce several basic standards.
Astonishing as it may seem) there is no
definite merino standard. Each man
makes his own. This to a certain extent
is inevitable in a country in which climatic
conditions vary so much and in which
sheep fashions differ every few hundred
miles. Obviously a sheepman from S.A.
does not share the ideals of a New
Englander. What is to be gained by
applying the judgment of strangers to
N. S. Wales sheep it is hard to say. The
ideals of any judge from another State
are not likely to be followed except by
his own immediate neighbors.
“Q.C.R.”: The Show Society and the
A.W.U. at Longreach (C.Q.) this year
worked together in celebrating Labor
Day. The Central Queensland shearing
championship, the biggest draw of the
show, was won by N. Johnston with 94
points out of a possible 100. In the wool
section no fewer than six studs showed for
the Edkins Cup. Strathdarr carried off
the best of the trophies.
“Narine”: Moree (N.S.W.) had an odd
sheep-poisoning case the other day.
Leaves were blown into a sheep dip,
soaked in the poison, dried off and then
blown into a paddock, where they were
eaten by rams.
“Neap”: M.L. experiments with
several varieties of swedes resulted in a
win for Sensation and Wilhelmsburger
types. Sheep themselves were the judges,
with 11 varieties to choose from. Both
the types show round 10 p.c. dry matter
on analysis, and Sensation showed a very
high nitrogen d.m. content —over 2 p.c.
In the colder parts of Australia a lot
more swedes should be grown for stock
feed. The Wilhelmsburger result is a
surprise—it is a hard, round, short-
necked fellow, and not easy for a sheep
to deal with.
“Ghanam”: The land pages of the
dailies present a picture of gloom calcu-
lated to give one the willies. My Vic-
torian paper one day last week reported
a fight at Mildura as to whether suspen-
sion of interest by the Lands Depart-
ment should not reward the spending of
money on irrigation area improve-
ments, and an item, “Bean Grower’s
Return —Twopenny Stamp for 16 Bags.
Prices, it seems, are often under Is. a
bag, and it costs 4s. a bag to pick beans,
get them to market and suitably reward
the agent. Next was: “Payable Price for
Wheat —Amending Legislation Sought.
It seems that the inhabitants of the
Birchip district are “concerned with
the present position of wheat and the
imperative need for the immediate guar-
antee of necessary safeguards to assure
the future of the industry.” Then came
“Meat Exports Down,” “Dairymen Dis-
cuss Problems —Canberra Attitude.” The
Canberra attitude, of course, is all wrong.
Finally, “Apple Industry—Plight of the
Growers.” They have been sacrificed “in
the interests of the U.S.A. trade agree-
ment.” Export has fallen off to a mere
nothing. It is “rare to find a soldier
settler who does not owe more than his
property is worth.” In fact, the apple
industry is in a “deplorable state.” That
was all for one day—except for the grubs.
Small black fellows, they cover square
miles of country around Sealake, and
are eating everything they can get their
teeth into. Farmers are “hoping for a
heavy frost.”
“Mookau”: Prices at Perth (Scotland)
sales for Shorthorns were not up to boom
levels this year, but were still high enough
to make the mouths of Australian stud
breeders water. Calrossie, the MacGilli-
vray Stud which has given Australia
many good animals, sent its Inverness
champion to U.S.A. for 1550 guineas,
but the reserve, Cluny Chancellor Com-
mand, by Calrossie Command, topped the
market at 2100 guineas. He goes to join
the Stonelands herd, which has been
transferred to Strathallan Castle. The
prices for 194 bulls totalled £24,900
against £30,600 paid for 238 head last
year.
“Gumblegubbin”: A N.S.W. North
Coast dairyman, tired of bucket-feeding
calves, selected a number of his worst
cows and gave each one twins to rear.
He coupled a calf from a good cow with
one belonging to a cull. The cows
objected at first, but after about a week
they accepted the infliction, and within
a fortnight the coupling could be taken
off.
“Huglow”: The danger of pigs con-
tracting tuberculosis from unpasteurised
skim-milk (B. 12/4/’39) is overstressed.
Milk from tubercular cows can infect
pigs only when those cows have definite
t.b. lesions in their lacteal organs. The
worst infection sources are pigs rooting
among the droppings of diseased animals.
Where the pigs are shut away from other
animal droppings the risk of infection is
slight.


*•
I*
mi
' : \ . . .■
m
■
m
M
m
: :■
*
am l H
Hi
m
m
■
m
: : i
i
m
W
m
mm
l
, \ '
p
I
I i
1
m
a
n
HI
HI
mm
im
■ s %.
■
m
|g||g||
8
PS
m
Mi\ Mr\
I
LL
“Sheaf” Stout is my health tonic!
I drink it regularly because I know
it is the sure and pleasant road to good health.
TO IT HI
"SHIJIF'STOIIT
// lIOTTLES. HALF BOTTLES ASH BABY BOTTLES
SS-109-FP


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directoks —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa -
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executive?
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
sure quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering ana
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, USP'%
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
readers' 8 aS apaf t i° r the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, senior typist, general office
assistant, can work telephone switchboard, seeks
position in city office. —3384.
Competent man wants work furniture repair-
ing, french polishing. Colors altered at own
home, Sydney or suburbs. —3410.
Mining engineer, Tas., wants work in N. S.
Wales.—337s.
Militia recruit (m.g. platoon) wishes to buy
or borrow copy of handbook for .303 Vickers
m.g. and tripod, Mark IV (1930), or later
edition, if any.—3367.
To buy Wild Notes from the Lyre of a Native
Minstrel, by Charles Tompson.—33Bs.
To buy Far-North Memories, by J. S. Litch-
field, also Brewer’s Readers’ Handbook. —3400.
To buy The First Fruits of Australian Poetry,
by Barron Field, published in 1819; also any
books published by the Howe Press, Sydney.—•
3383.
To obtain newspapers or clippings contain-
ing an account of the rescue of the s.s. Mono-
wai by s.s. Mokoia, about Sept., 1907. —3371.
Whereabouts of Cecil Daniels and J.
(“Bunny”) Mathews, late sth Division (A.1.F.)
Salvage Company. (Reply direct to Geoff
Turner, Scotch-street, Bellerive, Tas.)
Information Sought.
(1) Who was Brown, whose name appears on
the monument for those who were killed during
the Eureka Stockade riot at Ballarat? (2) Was
he killed in the actual riot? (2) Did he leave
any family, and was a son of his adopted by a
family named Huxley living at Portland, Vic. ?
—3333.
(1) and (2) James Brown, aged 29, a native
of Ireland, was killed at Eureka on December
3, 1854, during the fight led by Peter Lalor.
(3) No record.
■f- * * *
Rent required to show 6 p.c. net return on
an £BOO brick cottage in a Sydney suburb ?
What outgoing annual expenses would owner
have to meet? —32oo.
You would require 30s. per week. Expenses
would work out approximately as follows:
Municipal rates (6d. in the £1 average rate
on land value, say £200) £5, water and sewer-
age rate (Is. 6d. in the £1 on rental value)
£5 175., insurance £l, upkeep and depreciation
£lO, vacancies (say 5 p.c. on gross rentals)
£3 18s., collection of rents £3 18s., making a
total of £3O, leaving a return of £4B, or 6 p.c.
on £BOO.
* * * *
Two cars of equal weight and each travelling
at a speed of 50 m.p.h. collide head on. Is
the impact equal to one of the cars colliding
with an immovable object at 50 m.p.h. or one
of the cars colliding with an immovable object
at 100 m.p.h. ? —3316.
The impact is the same as if one of the cars
were stationary and the other car travelling at
100 m.p.h.
* * * *
What is the meaning of right ascension when
used in connection with the position of a star?
—3296.
Right ascension is the measurement of a
star’s position which corresponds to longitude
on the earth’s surface. It is measured from a
certain point in the sky towards the east in
much the same way as longitude is measured
from the longitude ‘of Greenwich.
* * * *
What are the ingredients and method of pre-
paring a Dickensian rum punch? —32lB.
2oz. rum, three tablespoons sugar, one or
two tablespoons freshly-expressed lemon juice,
enough very hot water to make the whole to
Boz. Mix quickly and sprinkle the top with
nutmeg or cinnamon. The quantities of the
ingredients are very variable, and may be
altered to taste, but rum and hot water are the
essentials. Lemons are a luxury touch, and the
sugar is a mellowing addition.
* * * *
(1) What is a solvent? (2) Some of the
more important solvents and their applications ?
(3) Any books on the subject? —33sl.
(1) The term came into popular use in con-
nection with the cellulose lacquer industry to
denote those substances which dissolve cellu-
lose nitrate and cellulose acetate. It has now
become much wider in meaning. (2) Ethyl
alcohol is a solvent for shellac and a number
of resins and gums; ether for fats; acetone for
cellulose acetate and cellulose nitrate and a
number of resins, gums and waxes; carbon
tetrachloride for fats, oils, resins, rubber, etc.
Owing to its high fat and oil solubility it is
used as a cleaner in the clothing trade. Benzine
is used for fats, oils, rubber, etc. There are
many others. (3) Technology of Solvents, by
Dr. Otto Jordan (Leonard Hill, Ltd., London).
* * * *
(1) How many different arrangements can I
make of 12 letters of the alphabet; every
letter must be in every arrangement? (2)
(2) What formula is used in finding the
answer to this question? —336s.
(1) 684,288,000. (2) The number of things
to be arranged is multiplied by one less than
that number, then by two less, then by three
less, and so on until the last multiplier is one.
* * * *
Is the use of “either” correct in such a
sentence as “Trees grew on either side of the
road” ? —3417.
Fowler says that the use of “either” in the
sense of each of the two, as in The room has
a fireplace at either end, “is archaic, and should
be avoided except in verse or special contexts.”
On the other hand, “John o’ London” claims
that “The word ‘either’ in the sense of both
is a natural development of ‘either’ in the
sense of one or the other,” and quotes example
lines from the Bible and “Paradise Lost.”
The Bulletin, however, agrees with other
authorities that the use of “either” as in the
sentence submitted is erroneous. In strictly
correct usage to-day “either” means “one or
the other,” and it is restricted to two subjects.
“Grew on either side” is equivalent to saying
on one side or the other, whereas what is
meant is “grew on each side (or both sides).”
The correct use of “either” is illustrated in the
injunction “Stand on either side”; i.e., stand
on one side or the other —in other words, take
your choice.
* * * *
How many referendums have been held by
the Commonwealth Government, dates,
questions submitted and results? —3393.
With the exception of the two conscription
referendums, the 20 referendums held were
submissions to the electors of proposed laws
for the alteration of the Constitution. Dates,
voting, etc., are as follows: Dec. 12, 1906,
Senate Elections, for 774,011, against 162,470;
April 13, 1910, Finance, for 645,514, against
670,838; April 13, 1910, State Debts, for
715,053, against 586,271; April 26, 1911, Legis-
lative Powers, for 483,356, against 742,704; April
26, 1911, Monopolies, for 488,668, against
736,392; May 31, 1913, Corporations, for
960,711, against 986,824; May 31, 1913, Indus-
trial Matters, for 961,601, against 987,611; May
31, 1913, Nationalisation of Monopolies, for
917,165, against 941,947; May 31, 1913, Trade
and Commerce, for 958,419, against 982,615;
May 31, 1913, Railway Disputes, for 956,358,
against 990,046 ; May 31,1913, Trusts,for 967,331,
against 975,943; Oct. 28, 1916, Conscription,
for 1,087,557, against 1,160,033; Dec. 20, 1917,
Conscription, for 1,015,159, against 1,181,747;
Dec. 13, 1919, Legislative Powers, for 911,357,
against 924,160; Dec. 13, 1919, Nationalisation
of Monopolies, for 813,880, against 859,451;
Sept. 4, 1926, Industry and Commerce, for
1,247,088, against 1,619,655; Sept. 4, 1926,
Essential Services, for 1,195,202, against
1,597,793; Nov. 17, 1928, State Debts, for
2,237,391, against 773,852; March 6, 1937,
Aviation, for 1,924,946, against 1,669,062;
March 6, 1937, Marketing, for 1,259,808,
against 2,214,388.
* * * *
Commonwealth and States public debts as at
June 30, 1938, showing where redeemable in
each case ? —3423.
Commonwealth: Redeemable Australia
£216,400,462, London £158,363,627, New York
£16,080,972, total £390,845,061. States—N. S.
Wales: Redeemable Australia £181,800,821,
London £159,446,470, New York £12,919,963,
total £354,167,254. Vic.: Redeemable Aus-
tralia £110,021,483, London £62,689,805, New
York £4,517,208, total £177,228,496. Q’land:
Redeemable Australia £55,651,981, London
£63,011,171, New York £7,118,412, total
£125,781,564. South Aust.: Redeemable Aus-
tralia £62,535,351, London £43,174,156, New
York £1,741,132, total £107,450,639. West
Aust.: Redeemable Australia £47,529,533,
London £44,158,404, New York £2,024,005,
total £93,711,942. Tas.: Redeemable Australia
£12.203,079, London £13,408,987, New York
£228,741, total £25,840,807. Total, State debts,
£884,180,702. Total, Commonwealth and States,
£1,275,025,763. The figures represent the total
“face” or “book” value of the debts, leaving
out of account currency changes since the loans
were floated.
* * * *
Last week I planted out two dozen car-
nations, all being good strong plants. Most of
them have turned a straw color. What shall I
do to prevent my carnations dying young?—
3283.
Judging by the meagre particulars it seems
that the soil caused the plants to wither. To
grow carnations successfully the soil must be
well drained, contain a good helping of lime
and rotted cow manure, and be built up
higher than surrounding pathways. Lift any of
the surviving plants, then dig the plot over
at least 2ft. deep, mixing lime into it; after
10 days add the manure and then reset out the
plants. Carnation plants revel in soil of a
sandy nature.
* * * *
Last year / purchased some tuberous begonias,
which have just died down. How shall I treat
them ? —3409.
Tilt the pots on their sides to dry out the
tubers thoroughly. In a fortnight remove the
tubers and lay them in a tray for a week to
harden their surface; then store in sand. In
August repot the tubers in sterilised loamy soil
and leaf-mould, leaving the tips of the crowns
just through the top of the soil. Water the
plants every evening until growth appears, then
place them in a semi-shaded position. When
the first buds show, apply liquid manure once
a week. With care in keeping them from the
hot sun’s rays, tuberous begonias will flower
for at least two months. Tubers will retain
their vitality for years if treated in this manner.
Method of growing chionodoxa bulbs? —
3420.
Commonly known as “glory-of-the-snow,”
these dwarf-growing, spring-flowering bulbs
thrive in a cool, shaded position in well-drained
soil containing plenty of sand. Plant the
bulbs 4in. apart in sets of four as soon as
convenient. Flowering-time is September. The
bulbs should be lifted every four years for
subdivision and replanted after the soil has
been thoroughly manured.
* * * *
(1) What were the bowling figures of Iron-
monger and Blackie (Vic.), Grimmett and Scott
(S. Aus.) and Mailey ( N.S.W.) in Sheffield
Shield matches in 1927-28 ? (2) When are their
birthdays ? —3300.
(1) Balls. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Av.
Ironmonger .. 2166 57 732 25 29.28
Blackie .. 2091 54 694 31 22.38
Grimmett ..2338 27 1151 42 27.40
Scott .. .. 1299 20 670 21 31.90
Mailey 1920 21 915 17 53.82
(2) Wisden gives these dates: Ironmonger,
April 7, 1887; Blackie, April 5, 1882; Grimmett,
Dec. 25, 1892; Scott, Jan. 24, 1890; and
Mailey, Jan. 3, 1888.
**. * *
(1) What were the bowling figures of “Bobby”
Peel (1884-85) and A. Shaw (1876-77) with
English teams in Australia ? (2) What English
teams in Australia were composed of only 12
players ? —3040.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Av.
(1) Peel ..1992.3 987 2039 353 5.77
Shaw.. 1295.1 816 883 231 3.82
(2) The teams of 1862, 1864, 1873-74, 1876-77,
1881-82 and 1882-83 (in this tour fast bowler
Morley and captain Ivo Bligh played in matches
although injured) and Shrewsbury’s team in
1887-88 comprised only 12 players.
* * * *
(1) How old was Ambrose Palmer when he
retired, and when did he retire? (2) How many
Australian championships did Palmer win during
his career? (3) Was he still an Australian
champion when he retired? —3313.
(1) He was 27 when he retired after Gus
Lesnevich outpointed him on December 8,
1938. (2) Palmer won the Australian middle-
weight championship from Jack Haines in 1930;
lost it to and regained it from Bob Thornton
in 1931, and Fred Henneberry beat him for the
11.6 title in 1932. By defeating Jack O’Malley
in 1932, Palmer became recognised as light-
heavy and heavyweight champion of Australia,
which titles he held on retiring in 1936.
Palmer returned to the ring, and won the Aus-
tralian light-heavyweight championship by
knocking out Ron Richards in 13 rounds on
April 12, 1938. (3) Yes.
* * * *
Was Billy McCoy, the old-time boxer, re-
garded very highly ? Was he dark or fair, and
what were his measurements ? —3147.
McCoy, who was nicknamed “The Poet,”
was regarded as one of this country’s best
welterweights 40 years ago, and he twice
fought George Johns (the first contest was a
draw, and Johns won the second on points) for
the Australian welterweight championship in
1900. McCoy was dark. His measurements
were: Height sft. 9in., weight lOst. 61b.,
reach 684 in. An accident gave McCoy a stiff
left leg, but despite this handicap he fought a
draw with Otto Cribb and defeated Tom Mit-
chell.
* * * *
(1) When did former world’s heavyweight
champion Jack Dempsey commence boxing,
and when did he finish ? (2) Who was his
first opponent? (3) What is Dempsey’s real
name ? (4) Where and when was he born?
(5) What does Dempsey do now? —3o7l.
(1) Early in 1915; he had no more
contests after Gene Tunney defeated him in
Chicago on September 23, 1927, although he
afterwards “barnstormed” the nor’-western
United States. (2) Kid Hancock. (3) William
Harrison Dempsey. (4) Manassa, Colo., on
June 24, 1895. (5) Runs a cocktail-bar and
restaurant at the corner of Eighth-avenue and
Fiftieth-street, New York.
* * * *
(1) Did Bob Olin ever fight Tommy Farr?
If so, who won? (2) Whom did Farr defeat
before he fought Joe Louis for the world's
heavyweight championship ? —3406.
Olin fought Farr in London a little over three
years ago, when Farr won on points in 10
rounds. (2) Farr defeated Tommy Loughran
(also .a former light-heavyweight champion of
the world) before winning over Olin. The next
year (1937), Farr won the British heavyweight
championship from Ben Foord. He then out-
pointed Max Baer and knocked out Walter
Neusel before fighting Louis for the world title
in New York on August 30, 1937.
* * * *
Members of the A.I.F. Rugby Union team
of 1919, and results of their matches? —3310.
Watson (captain), Beith, Cody, Carroll,
Pountney, Ryan, Buchanan, Bond, See, Murray,
Bradley, Suttor, Stenning, Hickey, Dunn,
darken, Thompson, Egan, Bosward, Robert-
son, Flanagan, Lyons, Watkins, Quinn and
Matthews (manager). The team played 16
matches abroad (12 won, 4 lost), scoring 181
points to 77; in Australia eight matches were
played (all won), scoring 281 points to 76.
* * * *
(1) Names of Springbok players who played
in Test matches only against 1933 Wallabies?
(2) Results of Tests? (3) Captain of Spring-
boks?—3l43.
(1) Brand, Reid, White, Gage, Waring, Turner,
Lister., Venter, Craven, Gray, Osier and De
Villiers (backs); M. Louw, S. Louw, Kipling,
Froneman, Geere, Nel, D’Alton, Bergh, Hat-
tingh, Smollan, Visser, Nykamp, Clarke, Apsley
(forwards). (2) First Test, S. Africa won 17-3;
second Test, Australia won 21-6; third Test,
S.A. won 12-3; fourth Test, S.A. won 11-0;
fifth Test, Australia won 15-14. (3) P. J.
Nel was captain in first, third, fourth and fifth
Tests; B. L- Osier in the second.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin and author of the phrase “I had
no shoes, and I murmured, till I met a man
who had no feet”?—333B.
* * * *
Author of the phrase “The world is my
country; to do good is my religion.”—3373.
Brief Answers.
A.R.T.: Address of Will H. Ogilvie is
Kirklea, Selkirk, Scotland W.S.H.: Write
H. E. C. Robinson, Ltd., 221 George-street,
Sydney G.J.: Would want to know name
of author, title, or a few lines of the verse
before beginning to search N.G.: “The
Watchman” is Edward Alexander Mann, former
M.H.R. for Perth. He was born August 11,
1874, at Mt. Gambier (S.A.), educated privately
and .at Melbourne University. He was Govern-
ment Analyst, Chief Inspector of Explosives
and Agricultural Chemist in West Australia for
27 years... .R.H.W.: Sir Leslie Orme Wilson,
Governor of Q’land, was A.D.C. to the Gover-
nor of N. S. Wales from 1903 to 1909....
E.D.: (1) Proverb does not appear in any
standard reference book. (2) Can trace no
authority for statement. Write to the paper
which printed the story B.B.: (1) H.M.S.
Hood. Her correct designation is “battle
cruiser.” (2) Nelson, 33,500 tons; Rodney,
33,900 tons: Hood, 42,100 tons. (3) N 0....
S.A.D.: Get in touch with either the Queens-
land Canegrowers’ Council or the Australian
Producers’ Association—both Brisbane
R.V.D.: Write to the Department of Public
Health, Sydney.... .C.W.G.: A company is
about to be formed. For particulars apply to
A. F. 'Gorman, c/o Wilson Publishing Co.,
56 Hunter-street, Sydney... .C.G.: It is neces-
sary to know what type of grass is causing the
trouble before advising. Such types as couch,
paspalum, etc., can easily be removed by con-
tinual chipping, but nut grass is very difficult.
The most effective method is the use of a weed-
killer. Coopers’ Weedicide can be recommended.
Atlacide is another preparation that has proved
very efficient. Use them at the highest concen-
trated rate as recommended by the manufac-
turers... .C.D.: On the annual income stated
you are not liable to taxation. You have
nothing to do with the financier; your claim is
against the master who employed you, and
should be made within six months from the
date the wages accrued due... .C.H.M.: Write
W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street,
Sydney... .A.J.H.: If the £lOO was expressed
in the lease as the consideration for giving it
he would be entitled to claim, but not if made
subsequently... .8.P.: Where there is no will
one of the next-of-kin, not necessarily the eldest,
may apply for letters of administration. In
the case you refer to, as the property is in
Sydney it would obviously be more convenient
and less expensive for the sister residing there
to do so. If the sister in Brisbane declines to
renounce any claim on the estate she may have
she cannot be compelled to do so. As taking
out letters involves a number of details such
as filing affidavits, inserting advertisements and
so on it would be advistble to have legal assist-
ance. If the applicant is “in indigent circum-
stances and quite unable to afford legal fees”
she might consult the Legal Aid Office, Queen's-
square, Sydney, and seek assistance... .T. 0.:
In early cricket matches the over consisted of
four balls; in May, 1889, it was increased to
five balls; in May, 1900, it was further in-
creased to six balls. The eight-ball over came
into force in Australia in December, 1918
Tony M.: In both Rugby codes when the ball
touches the referee or a player runs into the
referee a scrum is the proper ruling... .8.U.T.:
The locust-tree (or St. John’s Bread of Scrip-
ture) is evergreen, and grows to 15ft. It is
botanically listed as Ceratonia siliqua....
G.N.T.: As far as can be ascertained Australia,
with a desert area of approximately 1,200,000
sq. miles, has the greater arid area... .R.G.M.1.:
The tank should be scraped clean of all loose
scale, swept clean and painted with cement oil
paint gauged 241 b. of cement to one pint of raw
linseed oil. The cement tends to settle quickly
on the bottom of the can, and must be kept well
stirred whilst it is being applied. Allow to
dry hard before filling tank with water. For
exterior walls one pint of raw linseed oil, lib.
cement and 3oz. of chromium-green oxide.
Keep well stirred. This paint dries hard with
a color that is pleasing and durable... .J.L.:
No, he may put it up again for auction sale.
... .M.M.D.: The best method of storing sugar
is to keep it in a cool, dry place in an airtight
container, the size depending on the quantity
of sugar to be stored A.E.K.: The jeweller’s
method would be to wash the nugget with
sulphuric acid, then scratch-brush it on a
spinning lathe with running water. It could
then be cleaned with cyanide. A simple treat-
ment that can be carried out in the home is
to use ordinary household whiting, brush the
nugget with cold water with a toothbrush, and
then soak it in methylated spirits... .E.M.: (1)
and (3) An idea itself cannot be patented, but,
if the idea is new broad protection can be
obtained for the means of putting such idea
into practice. Patent protection could be
obtained for the contrivance itself. It is essen-
tial to obtain such protection before disclosing
the invention. (2) After having obtained pro-
tection it would be quite in order to place
the invention before manufacturers in the par-
ticular line with a view to outright purchase
or manufacture on a royalty basis. You could
try British Patent Perforated Paper Co.,
Brougham-street, and Paper Products, Ltd.,
Reservoir-street —both Sydney... .C.G.C.: The
control of immigration into Australia is vested
in the Department of the Interior. Under the
provisions of the Immigration A.ct 1901-35 that
department has power to prohibit the admis-
sion of any immigrant into Australia... .H.M.:
Various bodies throughout the Common-
wealth are interested in the introduction of
refugee domestic servants into Australia. It is
suggested that you get into touch with the
president, New Settlers’ League of Australia,
Box 47a, G.P.0., Brisbane, or Rev. J. Wolman,
Australian Jewish Welfare Society, Commerce
House, Adelaide-street, Brisbane W.M.:
Neither the Defence Department nor the Civil
Aviation Department has any information con-
cerning the organisation mentioned... .P.S.C.:
Write Vic. Government Statistician, Melbourne.
E.A.W.: (1) Try Kookaburra Bronze Cast
Flux, price Is. 9d. per f\b. tin. (2) Kookaburra
liquid flux or paste. Liquid flux, Is. 3d. per
4-pint; paste, 9d. per l|oz. tin. Before solder-
ing, surfaces must be clean and free from tpease
and oil. (3) Kookaburra Products, Ltd., 69
Renwick-street, Redfern, Sydney.


FIRST
STEPS
A CHILD taking its first steps moves carefully to avoid
falling. This is one of life's earliest lessons—to
undertake new ventures cautiously.
A man or woman investing for the first time must move
with the same care and caution. In the investment world
all is not gold that glitters. A safe, first investment is one
which offers sound security with reasonable returns on the
.money invested.
To the person making first steps in investment, an interest-
bearing Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank is highly recom-
mended. The security is unquestioned and current bank-
ing rates of interest are paid on sums of from £5 upwards
deposited for 3,6, 12 or 24 months. The investment is
easy to make in the first instance and requires no atten-
tion afterwards.
Fixed Deposits may be made at all branches of the Rural
Bank. Also, you may open a Current Account which
enables you to make payments conveniently by cheque.
Ewialßank
OF nEUJ SOUTH WALES'.
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you—Serving
the State.
Ai II |#C'JVlotW
VAN n 9
FOR EVERT TYPE OF FIAT t, DWELLING !
am
mm
Hot Water
Supply
throughout
by “White
Rose” C.i.
Sectional
Boiler at ap-
proximate
cost of two
hot baths for
one penny.
mm
m
mi
HI
■
wm
m
m
Rebated In-
terior plated
door furniture
(above).
Antique Bronze
knocker com-
bination with
Etas Mortice
Night Latch
(left).
“Neo-Chrome” streamlined
Kitchen Cocks for hot and
cold water .
“Eazifold” window openers
on large windows.
HERE ARE FITTINGS
SUPPLIED TO
MACLEAY REGIS
MODERN FLATS (87),
POTTS POINT, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect or write
for catalogue of “Modern
Home Fittings.”
it.
ARCHITECTS:
Mr. E. C. Pitt (deceased)
and Mr. C. C. Phillips,
BUILDERS:
Messrs. Alex. Speers and
Sons Pty., Ltd.
ilililllif if >ll' iii'l; I
Crane (Eng.) “Pall Mall” Radiators
provide central heating with circulating
hot water from, “White Rose” Boiler.
An average size room is heated for 24
hours for about twopence.
Call and inspect or write for catalogue of “Modern Home
Fittings.’'
8
1
“Acme-” Window Sprintj Sash
balances dispense with box
frames and weights.
f
For Entrance Doors Brass
Chromium Plated Crash
Bars and heavy brass C.P.
Door Kicks.
HI
“Hush" Silent Chrome
Plated Pedestal Pan
P lushers and “Neo-
Chrome" Bath Sets,
showing compactness
and absence of urn-
necessary fittings.
PHONE M 6505 (15 LINE’S) LATE SHOPPING. FRIDAY. 830 PM.
JOHN DANKS SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED (incorporatem victoria*
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
’PHONE: M 6505.
’PHONE: M 2381.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.G.L.: Not that one....J.McK.H.: It’s
ctnHev WN : Doesn’t get by E.8.H.:
Sf —. V = women in
London tubes R.E.. Its old stuff. And
please get the typewriter a new ribbon....
J.K.: Just another of the “concentration-camp”
school ...G.8.G.: No G.8.N.: Not up
, , r-> A* r> \t. wtf.l- then
to standard D.McC.. No better than
the half-dozen other bushfire stories which came
in the same mail H.P.W.: Try it on a
flapper magazine... .G.F.: Doesn’t break any
new ground.... D.C.H.: Not up... .W.F.W.:
Nearly found.hanging space for the portrait....
W.L.: Nothing to it ...H.S.R.. The Swing
ing Rope is too thin to carry the weight.
—N.A.M.: “Dream and “green,” “this
and “grist”!... .1.M.M.: “Meat Diet needs salt
and pepper... .D.C.D.: “Labor On” laboring
on C.P.: Certainly not... .D.R.L.: Not a
bad song, but we haven’t a brass band....
1.G.P.: This is no place for “The Kiddies.
H.C.D.: Still archaic... .K.H.: Tennyson
beat you to the bar R.S.H.: It’s a blame-
less pastime 1.G.: Not much use kicking
off with “If I were a poet” J.R.H.: It
rhymes with “destroyed”... .E.D.: Not this
time... .D.S.J.: Merely a pun....N.H.: No
wonder she was wrecked with her ‘towering
spread of cotton”... .E.H.: The covering
letter was eloquent, anyhow... .H.J.R.H.: Just
a jingle... .E.W.K.: Not very close, but it’s the
right idea... .C.E.P.: An “evil brew” of mixed
metaphors.. . .N.C.: Slight, but there s promise
in their prettiness... .J.T.: It amounts to one
rather ordinary sentence of prose... .R.E.R.:
Merely descriptive... .P.K.: They’re buzzing
back P.C.S.: Worse than usual... .H.N.D.:
Can’t you think of something a little less de-
pressing? ... .J.T.8.: At least it will add to your
collection of rejection slips... .8.J.D.: Hasn’t
even the distinction of being this year’s worst,
R.8.E.: You sent only half the yarn and
that half no g00d... .J.8.D.: Much too long.
R.P.E.: Reformed the office bore by read-
ing it to him... .J.R.8.: Shows some promise
for his age... .C.L.R.: “I will be indebted to
you for reading this,” and for a stamp to return
it J.T.C.: “Gone Forever,” thank goodness,
H.S.D.: You’d probably be more pro-
ficient if you were less prolific L.D.G.:
“Cream” sour N.R.A.: Not bad, but off
our beat... .H.C.R.: Humor not in your line,
but come again... .C. 8.5.: Seen ’em all be-
fore... .8.T.N.: And that’s a well-worn track,
. ...C.D.0.: Love-making over the stile might
have thrilled grandmother P.H.R.: They
might make half a dozen pars T.R.D.:
“What’s the use of me writing yarns if you re-
ject them?” Dunno, d’you? ... .N.D.L.: Send
your haunted castles to Scotland... .8.A.8.,
D.C.S., J.A., P.W.V.: Missed... .H.C.8.: Not
lively enough for snakes... .E.R.N.: It’s been
done before... .J.D.: As you say... .G.0’8.:
Nearly.... .D.8.0’C.: The refrain’s the best
part of it M.E.R.: Never fully realised the
evils of gambling till you sent that in “for a
bet” C.G.S.: Came near; cut solidly it
might d0....H.M.: You’re striving too much
for fine writing... .E.L.: Not enough laughs....
A.J.Q.: We can’t have you ker-lomp, ker-lomp,
ker-lomping along mountain tracks K J.M.:
Still oft the track... .E.W.: Long-winded.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.C.: Gent, with outsize paunch couldn’t get
through our doorway T.L.: There’s hope
for you if you’re prepared to study hard for
a few years J.W.: Same rider was tossed
from same nag many months ago J.Y.:
Little to laugh at in the antics of those drowsy
deadbeats K.N.: You’ve been gazing at too
many dummies in shop windows E.L.: With
the sun in that position the shadows should
be falling in the opposite direction A.W.M.:
Too much of the ruler-and-set-square look
about it N. 8.: Don’t want translations of
gags from foreign newspapers... .EJ.F.: Neat
and tidy, but they need more action S.S.:
Niggling little pen-strokes and gag with
whiskers a yard long R.A.: You managed
the drum but made a mess of the drum-major.
....C.8.: Crockery-throwing wife now cooling
off in the w.p.b P.C.: That stage-door
Johnny was warned off about the beginning
of this century C.L.: Your jesting grave-
diggers are a little too grisly for us J.T.:
Knowledge of anatomy, nil; sense of humor,
ditto 8.5.: Illustrations for Kipling poem
are fair; also, they are off our beat HJ.:
If you must draw with a brush don’t use one
so thick... .N.C.8.: Gag is out of season. Try
us in the summer, by which time you may have
learned how to draw a bathing beauty....
D.T.: Declared the soapbox Derby “no race.”
J.W.: Suppose it does represent a bush-
fire, but it looks more like a fog over a man-
grove swamp A.G.D.: You might as well
try to draw in ink on blotting-paper 5.T.8.:
An excellent sample of what is not wanted
F.J.: “Rough-outs” from unknown artists are
not considered; let us see some completed
works P.D.: Small-boy humor and small-
boy art... .N.R.M.: Grandmother who stayed
out late was let off with a caution... .W.E.:
You belong to the hit-and-run school of
artists... .L.F.: It won’t'help to buy the Sunday
roast.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“V.”: Under a half-column of ‘'news”
about the negotiations for a Russian
alliance some May Day remarks of Mr.
Voroshilov were reported. Mr. Voro-
shilov, who is Commissar for Defence,
and whose head is still intact, genially
observed that “intrigues, blackmail and
treachery are rampant in capitalist coun-
tries.” As a capitalistic country, Britain
is expected to be humble and swallow
Mr. Voroshilov’s invectives.
£ ._. * _ * _ * , * ..
Dick Tafone : The unknown evil
genius who invented braces destroyed
thereby most of the sartorial picturesque-
ness of the European male. The woollen
tights of medieval times, Francis Drake s
padded knickers, the knee breeches and
stockings of the eighteenth century buck,
were all designed on the primary basis
of making them stay up after their
wearers had grown a trine of bingey.
Rubber had not been discovered, and
leather belts were liable to slip down in
the stress of a daily life in which horses
provided the only alternative to walking,
and forthright scraps by sword or other-
wise were an ordinary item in social
intercourse. If the inventor of braces had
managed to. patent them he would have
made a bigger fortune than Harvey
Kennedy’s half million for the tag on
the shoe lace, Hyman Lipman s £600,000
fer sticking a bit of rubber on the end
of a lead pencil, or the £2,250,000 brought
in by the glass ball in fizzy-drink bottles.
The actual inventor sold that last notion
for £2O.
* „ * . *. . ..
EI V : Foreign-affairs information
under a Sydney Sun P*f ur ;
J£S2%£L a SZ'ttZ£?Z
that vicinity.
“Grenze” is the German word for border,
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland also has a
castle, “Larnach’s Castle,” near Dunedin,
Modelled on a Scottish keep, it was com-
menced in 1871 by W. J. M. Larnach
(son of a N.S.W. squatter), who went to
M.L. to represent Australian banking in-
terests. Later he became a member of
Grey’s Administration. Woodcarvers from
Switzerland were on the job for five
years. Rolled plate-glass in tne vinery,
French tiles in the stables, a ballroom
on a scale of Continental grandeur, and
carved lions, eagles and griffins guarding
the entrance are a few of the features of
a mansion that, with its extensive
grounds, is said to have cost £120,000.
When auctioned a few years ago it failed
to fetch £4OOO.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The strangest craft
in the British Navy is the R.R.S.
Research, recently launched at Dart-
mouth —a wooden brigantine of 770 tons,
carrying 1200 sq. ft. of sail. The R.N.
hasn’t built the like since grappling-irons
and boarding-pikes were regular naval
issues. Wherever possible, her fastenings
are wooden treenails ; anchors and chains
are bronze ; the crew will be issued with
non-ferrous razors and special shoes con-
taining no nails. Even cigarette-tins must
be of non-ferrous metal; also paint-drums
and food-bins. Her auxiliary Diesel
engines, driving the bronze shaft and
propeller, contain the absolute minimum
of steel. Her commander is doing tem-
porary duty in a South Australian grain-
windjammer to gain experience in hand-
ling sail, and she will carry international
letters of marque to except her from war
risks. Her special job is to continue re-
searches into terrestrial magnetism, in-
terrupted by the burning of the U.S.S.
Carnegie 10 years ago.
* * * *
“C.H.”: Albert Wetjen’s Australian-
flavored romances in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post” and the illustrations full of
Zulus and Hollywood’s idea of Congo
feminine loveliness raised my ire too,
so I wrote to the editor about it. He
replied: “Albert Wetjen was a sailor
before he was a writer; he saw much
of Australia, though more of its ports
than of its bush. Every Australian story
he writes for us, however, first is passed
upon by P. A. Giles, Superintendent of the
South Australian Mounties. Unfortu-
nately we know of no first-class illus-
trator who knows Australia at first-hand.
We have been conscious that these illus-
trations would not be likely to pass
muster Down Under.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition will be continued until further notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning, contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Candid friends have been saying for half a century that “The Bulletin” is hard
to please; but “The Bulletin” is frankly pleased with the quality of the matter it is
getting from these Other Fellows, many of whom are new and, for the most part,
young. To encourage all and sundry, it is adding a page this week, and this may
be done again occasionally.
For putting the case for a free press in a few cogent sentences, a West Ryde
(N.S.W.) man wins this week’s prize.
A Free Press
We may not agree with everything our
newspapers publish, but we should defend
their right to express opinions indepen-
dent of control or censorship. The pub-
lic exercises all the censorship it needs
by refusing to buy newspapers with which
it does not agree.
Control would ultimately rest with the
Government, the views of which the
entire press would be forced to publish,'
ignoring anything with which those in
power disagreed.
Independent newspapers are not per-
fect, but a controlled press would lack
vigor, it would be prevented from criticis-
ing Governments, and it would not be
permitted to reflect public opinion hostile
to those who exercised the control.
We must, in our own interests, oppose
anything that may lead to control of the
press by Governments. — James Mahoney
(N.S.W.).
The winner’s address is 35 James-street,
West Ryde (N.S.W.).
A Challenge from Youth
About this howl for a leader. What’s
wrong with doing a little leading our-
selves? There has crept into Australian
life a deplorable tendency to consider
that, once an elector has chosen a repre-
sentative for the national Parliament, his
obligations are at an end. They aren’t.
Coincidently with the call for a leader,
there is a cry, “Train the youth of the
country.” Yet how many “youth move-
ments” are calling for leaders!
Scout Week was held in Australia from
May 7 to May 14, with one of its objec-
tives the attraction of men willing to
lead. The boys are waiting. Founded
by a man of vision who saw service in
almost all parts of the Empire, the move-
ment has as its motto “Be prepared,” its
ideal “Service” and its aims decent citi-
zenship and peace through understanding.
There’s a challenge from youth here.
What about it? — Macah (Vic.).
Where to Enlist?
In the event of war the youth of the
world will know where to enlist all right
—that is, if not conscripted first. But
where does youth enlist for the fight for
peace?—R. C. (Q.).
The War of Words
The story in “Uncabled Additions” (B.
3/5/’39) of poor Hans, who is so con-
fused with conflicting news, is not excep-
tional. Here is an experience of my own.
I heard Hitler’s recent speech rebroad-
cast through an American station, with
a running commentary in English, which
I checked up with the English summary
from Berlin. The impression from each
was identical. Next day I heard the
8.8.C.’s translation, which was slightly
different.
Then I listened to an A.B.C.’s expert’s
effort. Here the abbreviations and in-
terpretations were such that other impres-
sions were conveyed.
You can hear the war won every night
by the Chinese speaking in English from
near Tibet, and if you are sceptical the
Japs will tell you, also in English, that
they have won it.
From France and England comes the
news that a pact with Russia is almost
completed, followed by a snort of de-
rision from Berlin and an appeal from
Moscow (if you can beat the bloke who
is jamming it) for the Proletariat to rise
in defence of the Workers’ Fatherland.
So I turn in despair to my own national
station and get the worst blast of rub-
bish to date. lam told that the war is
already on, and that, compared with the
present terrible uncertainty and expendi-
ture on armaments, the actual fighting will
be a lesser evil. Speaking as a disabled
ex-fighter, who does know what he is
talking about, a viler assertion I never
heard.
Followed a singularly humorless state-
ment that the broadcasting of poisonous
lies is driving the world to war. —D. E.
Bunk (N.S.W.).
Wheat Prices “Per Bus”!
The chief requirement for A.B.C. an-
nouncers seems to be an ability to speak
loudly, plum in mouth, with the so-called
“Oxford accent.” Apparently a know-
ledge of ordinary terms, place-names,
etc., is not needed. The river Namoi
gets some awful labels. Yass is usually
rhymed with the very English way of
saying ass. One gets used to hearing
“Mahnley” for Sydney’s own village of
Manly, but when the radio nabob gets
“Murrumbidgee” and “Narrandera” in
a mess it is too hot even for the poor
coot who pays the exorbitant listening-fee
which keeps the “announcahs” in toil.
The last straw came to-day. Wild
stabs at foreign proper names might be
forgiven, but when a so-called expert
doesn’t know the meaning of the abbre-
viation “bus.” when used in juxtaposi-
tion with wheat prices, it seems time to
buck. Apparently the announcer’s script
showed “bus.” He was not even sure
that it was an abbreviation. He suggested
maybe it was, and then continued to
give prices at so much per “bus”' —the
vehicle that has been ousting the trams.
He educated us at the finish by announc-
ing that he had just been told that “bus.”
was an abbreviation, and meant bushel.
A “back to the pick” movement for
such “announcers” seems indicated. —
Jarvie (N.S.W.).
Cocktail Parties
“F.A.N.” blames newspapers for print-
ing pictures of us drinking our cocktails,
and adds that it is neither inspiring nor
healthful (B. 3/5/’39).
Perhaps there is something both in-
spiring and healthful in the sight of a
thirsty mob swarming over a beer-swilled
counter, drinking from half-washed
glasses, with the eagerness of those who
are bent upon consuming a certain
amount of liquor within a certain limited
time. Personally, I prefer to take my
drink in comfort and at my leisure.
Why blame us for that? After all,
we did not frame the liquor laws in this
country, nor the social system for that
matter.
“F.A.N.” should know that it is a
newspaper’s job to present news. When
the Honorable Somebody - or - other
“throws a cocktail party,” that’s news;
when “Smithy” shouts a few cobbers,
that’s plain booze.
I would further remind “F.A.N.” that
his so-called degenerate sassiety dames
rendered valuable service in the Great
War on the nursing side, even if they did
it with a cigarette hanging from the
corner of their mouth. And I think they
will be there again when the whips are.
cracking.— Janet Nelson (N.S.W.).
The suggestion that “any long-estab-
lished and respectable paper would boost
the liquor trade in the interests of its
sales” (B. 3/5/’39) has left me absolutely
speechless.
How could anyone imagine that adver-
tisers of any sort would be “boosted” in
any newspaper! Read the ads. and
sample the goods, and you’d know that
that fine old slogan “Truth in Advertis-
ing” really does mean what it says very
often.
No. These cocktail parties are featured
because it’s so interesting to study the
society ladies and gents, particularly when
they are half-sozzled. I mean, it brings
back to one the truth of Shakspeare’s
words that “the Colonel’s baby and Judy
O’Grady are blisters when they’ve got
a skinful.”
These society people, you see, need
some relaxation after all their hard work.
Many of them are props of the Church :
many others are props of this, that and
the other charity. And many of them
are props of the press. So why grudge
them an occasional binge?
After all, if some housewives haven’t
got potatoes enough, whose fault is that?
Is it suggested that potatoes are being
used in cocktails? Prairie Oyster
(N.S.W.). .
Suicide Publicity
Publicity for suicides (B. 3/5/’39) has
been costly in N.S.W. When the Sydney
Bridge was first opened in 1932, its foot-
ways were open to the sky, and people of
average height had an unimpeded view
to the Heads. Now the pedestrian has
only a chequered view through stout
wire-netting, and the netting screen curves
over to block his heavenward view with
strands of barbed wire.
A few months after the Bridge was
opened, a man destroyed himself by
climbing over the rail. His example
was duly publicised and was soon
followed by others. Sydney became
used to seeing “Bridge Suicide” on
the newspaper posters, and to hear-
ing the newsboys yelling “Another
one over the Bridge.” In response to
public clamor the Government put the
expensive “suicide guard” along both
sides of the Bridge. It would have been
far cheaper and just as effective if the
press had “soft-pedalled,” as “P.R.” sug-
gests. —A. C. C. (Vic.).
Why Stop at State Governors?
R. Howie’s par. on abolishing State
Governors (B. 3/5/’39) doesn’t go far
enough.
Mr. Menzies must know of the grow-
ing discontent and lack of confidence in
Federal politicians owing to their not
taking steps to abolish State Governors
and State Parliaments, which was really
the main issue responsible for the es-
tablishment of a Commonwealth Parlia-
ment about 40 years ago. Now is the
opportunity to restore that confidence
and keep faith with the people by abol-
ishing one of Australia’s curses —the
State politician. It’s up to you, Mr.
Menzies! —G. E. H. (N.S.W.).
Debating a Lost Art?
What has happened to the art of debate
in our country? Years ago it was a poor
town that did not boast a flourishing
society of young njen who debated with
earnestness and conviction the many
pressing national problems of the day.
These societies carried a considerable
cultural and educational value, as mem-
bers were obliged to undertake research
work in collecting and classifying infor-
mation necessary for their respective
sides. All this was of appreciable value
in developing the power of discrimi-
nation, analysis and tolerance, as it was
always assumed that the opposing team
had, and would present, a case demand-
ing a high effort of refutation.
But all that is changed. Even in the
larger cities the few debating societies
there are eke out a precarious existence
and fail to arouse any enthusiasm, and
most of their members are people of
middle age.
Those who deplore the passing of the
art agree that it is impossible to arouse
interest in the younger generation, as they
can’t or won’t think about the many
problems surrounding them. — Skribisto
(W.A.).
“Consult the Stars”
“Ichabod” (B. 8/3/’39) and “Rabbits-
foot” (B. 22/3/’39) deplore the present
silly craze for astrology, and the latter
states that the best remedy for astrology
is a knowledge of astronomy, “but the
press which makes money out of horo-
scopes has no room in its columns for
the stellar spaces.”
I can confirm that from personal ex-
perience. As an amateur astronomer,
plus working journalist, I hawked the
idea of a popular astronomy corner round
Sydney. My plan was to bring in not
only those with a general interest in the
science, but the hobbyists who make their
own telescopes and those engaged in ama-
teur observing—there are any number of
these in metropolis and country —giving
them a “forum” where they could dis-
cuss gadgets, air their theories and argue
matters generally.
Every editor I approached turned the
idea down. “Astronomy is a back
number,” one told me. (This from a
man whose existence is run by a clock
regulated by the Observatory!) Another
wanted me to run an astrology column
instead —“Make it as sensational as you
like ; the women lap it up.” His paper
has since inaugurated the usual column
professing to reveal what the “stars”
prescribe for the week.
What the public should clearly under-
stand is that the stars do not enter into
astrology at all. Astrology is a mumbo-
jqmbo based on the relative positions of
the planets (not the stars) and of the
zodiacal signs (imaginary divisions of the
ecliptic). Biggest joke of all, the con-
stellations have slipped east of these
signs, owing to precession, so that, for
instance, constellation Pisces is in sign
Aries ; yet astrologers blindly follow the
signs, and not the stars they so glibly
talk about.
Fortune-telling is amusing and harm-
less enough as a pastime ; but it is an-
other matter when dressed up in impos-
ing guise and paraded as a science. Aus-
tralian newspaper editors who foster this
hoary superstition are simply deluding
the public ; and under a more enlight-
ened civilisation would stand in the dock
side by side with the humble fortune-
teller from cards. — Altair (N.S.W.).
The Legation at Tokio
Now that Australia is about to embark
upon a Legation at Tokio it is to be
hoped that no politician or ex-politician
will be appointed to fill this important
post. No greater mistake could be made
than to send one of our politicians or ex-
politicians.
We have the right man for the position
in Colonel Longfield Lloyd, a gentle-
man who is highly respected, not only
in Japanese official circles, but also in
unofficial circles, as well as throughout
the Corps Diplomatique in Tokio.
The colonel and his wife have done
a great deal for Australia in Japan. They
are both very hard workers, and both
have a sympathetic knowledge and under-
standing of the Japanese, of their history
and of their religion, all so very essential
to-day.
Australians have to remember that
geographically we are an Eastern conti-
nent, and it is for us to live, from an
economic point of view if from no other,
in friendly co-operation with our Eastern
neighbors. Rupert W. Hornabrook
(Vic.).
Fifty Years Ago
I often wonder, with all the hygienic
humbug that is attached to the sale of
foodstuffs to-day, how people ever es-
caped the grave before they were 21 in
the good old bad days.
A butcher hung his wares on rusty
iron hooks all round his shop, where
Mrs. Housekeeper could jab a thumb,
topped with a dirty nail, into them oi
pass a caressing paw over the salt-junk.
The grocer was extra obliging. A
large earthenware dish filled with butter
always stood on the counter, and every
dame was invited to test its age. They
did it by plunging in a finger and lubri-
cating their tongues with it, returning to
the attack with the same finger, if in
doubt. A jar of honey and other food-
stuffs met with the same treatment.
Yet in those days the deathrate from
contaminated foodstuffs was lower than
it is to-day. Everything now is so de-
bauched with vitamins and preservatives
that one can start his lunch at 1 p.m.
and finish up in a coffin an hour later
Microbe (N.S.W.).
Union Pay for All Writers
The need for A.J.A. action is not con-
fined to the poor rates paid to writers
of plays and short stories by broadcast-
ing companies (B. 19/4/’39). Women’s
papers (“Mirror” excluded) contain a
section to which readers are asked to
write. The first prize generally works
out above A.J.A. rates, but the others
used, “at 2s. 6d. each,” are considerably
less. Why not standard union pay for
everything published? — General (Q.).
Credit and Cash
In B. 26/4/’39 “W.H.W.” asks, “If
we stopped using a credit system for, say,
20 years, saved during that time and
then made all our purchases for cash,
would there be any difference between
the state of the community then and
now?”
There certainly would be a vast dif-
ference. Not only would the people
have no money with which to pay cash
for articles now sold on credit, but there
would be no such goods offered for sale
on any terms, as manufacturers of them
would have been out of business for
years.
Firms no\v making goods for sale on
credit would sack their hands; they
would be unable to meet their payments
to the banks, which, not receiving in-
terest themselves, would have to reduce
their own interest payments. Firms sell-
ing for cash would suffer through re-
duced buying power following unem-
ployment, and they in turn would put
off hands, further increasing unemploy-
ment, and eventually they would be un-
able to meet bank payments.
Then banks would be unable to pa>
interest on deposits, and those dependent
on such would have to live on capital—
but not for long. Banks, being unable
to call in their money, would have o
suspend payment, and there would


another huge addition to the unem-
ployed.
Actually, our present standard of liv-
ing and everything considered necessary
for life as we know it have been made
possible largely through credit. Those
who boast of always paying cash should
remember that the man who buys a car,
wireless or what not on terms is as use-
ful to the community as he who saves
his money, and that the latter gets in-
terest on his savings only because others
are willing to do things and buy things
on credit. — Jesmond (Vic.).
Birth Control
, ~. , x , , ..
Anti-birth-contiol people are actlv
agam. Can anyone tell me why almost
mvariably these are men and usua y
iinmarned ones.
What can any man who has never mar-
ned know of the worry an
expense associated with the having and
rearing of a family?
The poor have the largest families. As
the old song says:
The rich get richer,
The poor get—children.
Why? As I see it there are two out-
standing reasons, namely, (1) an entire lack
of ambition, and (2) the knowledge that
“And what happened after you donged the third copper ?”
the cost of having, feeding and clothing
their children will be met by the other
chap.
Speaking to a man who had done odd
jobs for me, I found he was the father of
eight—soon to be nine. He was on sus-
tenance, did a bit of gardening, etc., had
two youngsters selling papers and re-
ceived food, fuel and all their clothing
for nothing. Thinking I could possibly
do something for him in the way of
regular employment, I asked what kind
of work he understood. “Oh,” was the
lazy reply, “I’d want well over a fiver
a week to get off the ‘sus.’ ”
It makes one shudder to think that such
a man is producing Australians at the
rate of almost one a year—and how
many more are there of a similar type?
Small wonder we are hearing more and
more about quality coming before quan-
tity.
Our family has reluctantly been re-
stricted to two because, per medium of
taxation, we are forced to maintain the
children of such “sus.” men instead of
having, maintaining and educating more
of our own.—Unto Gesar (Vic.).
. #
Marx, People and Logic
The article by Chamberlin on Marx
in “Uncabled Additions” (B. 3/5/’39) gets
pretty near the bone by pointing out
Marx’s error in asserting that revolution
would first arrive in the most highly in-
dustrialised countries. The fundamental
error, however, which disposes once and
for all of the whole system, lies in the
simple fact that it is nothing more than
a “logical” argument.
Admittedly it was brilliant logic, but if
one single statement in a logical argu-
ment is proved to be incorrect the whole
case collapses.
bven had his logic been correct, Marx
« lnto th e simple trap that catches all
professors,” although his profound study
of history should surely have saved him.
He held the mistaken belief that people
act logically and not through the dictates
of their feelings as humans, whereas
everything in history and everyday ex-
perience proves the contrary. The Ger-
man and Italian dictators seem to know
this, and that is the secret of their suc-
cess.
The French people, above all, pin their
faith to logic ; they worked out their
post-war security plan by treating Ger-
many logically, and as the result of a
false step in their logic created the neces-
sary conditions for the Nazi revolution.
Speaking generally, all worth-while
baman be ; n S s ha ™ ° ne , basic n ? otive -
Ihey want, as individuals, to advance
themselves by their own efforts in their
community an( j they want that commu-
n j ty to be ahead of all others. No sys-
tern w hich leaves these desires out of
account can succeedj andj though Henry
p or£ i sa j d “bistory is bunk,” his own
ex p er j ence proved the contrary.— Logical
(NSW)
• • • • .
Longer Blankets, Please!
No, this is not a purely feminine ques-
tion ; it is raised by the grumbles of a
six-footer who tries to sleep in a single
bed. Why do manufacturers make single
beds, sheets and blankets shorter than
double ones? I cannot quite see the
sense of it, for a tall person is as likely
to sleep in a single bed (if only it’s long
enough) as he is in a double one, and
when he pulls the blankets up under his
chin he doesn’t want to have his feet
exposed to the cold air. I know long
single beds and blankets can sometimes
be obtained, but they are a rarity— not
“stock sizes,” I have frequently been told,
— Coll (Q.).
„ T .»
nonest 1 oil
People who boast about their honest
toil annoy me. It is no virtue that they
were born with greater capacity for prac-
tical manual work than those of us who
more suited to using a pen, a pencil
or a typewriter.
Because I do clerical work and because
I have such anaemic as writing,
reading, photography and drawing, in-
stead of such robust, manly ones as
Siding, surfing or motor mechanics, am
I to be despised •
There is a stupid idea about that any
work far removed from greasy finger-
nails and a dirty face is pretty useless
and pretty effeminate. In fact, if one
reads anything else to-day but comic
strips, and fails to regard newspaper
news as truthful or newspaper views as
sensible, he is regarded as being slightly
crazy.
Nobody more than I do the
true craftsman with his hands, but I’m
hopeless with mine, so if I do what I
can why should I be regarded as de-
cadent? — C. W. B. (N.S.W.).
TT
The Standard of Living
It is a cry echoing through the air
nowadays—-“ Raise the standard of
living.”
Seemingly one of the chief ways of
doing this is to raise the wages of the
working man. This is done. The em-
ployer then finds that his profits are
diminishing, so he raises the price of his
goods. The wage-earner has to buy these
goods at the increased price, and away
goes his increase in wages —the means of
raising the standard of living.
I have no solution to offer, but just
one point to which to draw attention.
Money is only valuable to the extent of
what it can buy. People in other coun-
tries may be no worse off with their small
wage than we are with our larger one, for
the variation in the cost of living may
enable them to buy as much as we can.
The standard of living can be judged, not
by the extent of a wage, but by the
buying-power of a wage. —C. (Q.).
An Australian Outlook
Australian writers and artists don’t
need protection if they are given a fair
go, but they are not getting it from most
Australian papers. Australian writers can
produce material equal to the best over-
seas writers. Compare The Bulletin’s
Australian stories and articles with im-
ported stuff printed in other papers and
they lose nothing by comparison.
Bulletin cartoons rank with the best
in the world and are produced by Aus-
tralians. Papers import photographs
which are inferior in quality and news
value to photographs that can be pro-
duced here. They print scenes of other
countries and neglect our own scenery.
But this business is not confined to the
newspaper world either. We import
foodstuffs and material that could be
produced better here; we import radio
artists of inferior quality to local talent,
which has to go abroad to earn a living.
It is time steps were taken to compel
newspapers, radio stations, etc., to use
local material. Maoriland seems to be
leading the way. —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
The Wool Market
Don’t scrap wages tax (B. 3/5/’39). It’s
easy to collect, and ensures employment
for a large number of persons whose
earnings go towards buying the out-
put of local woollen mills. These mills
provide over 90 p.c. of the clothing re-
quirements of the Commonwealth, and
this is in itself of considerable benefit to
woolgrowers in keeping up prices.
Wool troubles are too deep-seated to
be remedied by purely local palliatives,
though, I admit, they might be helpful.
The absence of Japanese, German, Bel-
gian and other foreign competition
brought about by political stupidity and
obstinacy has given Yorkshire an oppor-
tunity to enforce its traditional policy
of “bearing” our wool markets.
We are confidently looking to the new
P.M. to win back some of our “best cus-
tomers.” — Valerin (N.S.W.).
Be Vigilant!
It has been written that the price of
liberty is eternal vigilance: if we relax
despotism arises and the elemental free-
doms which we take for granted go by
the board immediately.
The privilege of “the other fellows” to
assemble and debate the issue and freely
criticise the views and actions of every
citizen is an elemental freedom of democ-
racy ; but it has taken centuries of time
to achieve, and has been paid for by in-
tense human suffering and sacrifice.
In totalitarian countries freedom of
speech and action has been trampled
underfoot: in the great democracies free-
dom of speech and assembly has been
seriously challenged. Challenged for no
other reason than the apathy of the
people.
With the object of vividly portraying
to the rising generation the fight for free-
dom staged by the masses, and inciden-
tally to teach them that the other fellow
has and is entitled to a mind of his own,
school history periods should be copiously
illustrated by plays and pictures of his-
torical events dealing with the struggle
of democracy. Furthermore, these
periods should deal largely with the wave
of political philosophies sweeping over
the world to-day.
In tracing the evolution of each form
of government children would learn that
the principles of democracy have been
built up only by great sacrifices on the
part of people whose zeal and urge for
justice have made the democratic system
of government what it is to-day.
A knowledge of the agonising path trod
and sacrifices made must surely impress
upon coming generations the need for
vigilance, and inspire them to great
things in the cause of democracy.—
R. H. M. (W.A.).
Car Insurance
Can’t agree with “W.P.T.” (B.
29/3/’39) that the proposed compulsory
annual inspection of all cars should re-
duce the claims on insurance companies
for damage and third-party risk, and that
the Government should see that premiums
are reduced also.
M.L. has, perhaps, the most advanced
motor legislation in the world, and among
many other safeguards includes brake in-
spection, yet claims in the Dominion are
more frequent than ever. In fact, with
the consent of the Government the pre-
mium for third-party insurance on cars
has just been increased.
What about the huge verdicts given
these days and the high cost of repairs
on a modern high-powered car? If
there was some limitation of liability
such as that enjoyed by the Railway Com-
missioners and the Road Transport De-
partment, which do not pay more than
£2OOO for damages, there might be some
argument for reduction. —J. K. (N.S.W.).
Intelligent Taxation?
A gallon of 90 p.c. alcohol costs a
retail chemist about 505.; a gallon of
the same strength, denatured with a Cus-
toms-approved essential oil, costs him
about 4s. Difference is made up by
excise charged on the natural spirit, which
would be used for medicinal purposes;
the denatured spirit is used for perfumes,
cosmetics and methylated spirit.
As far as it applies to medicines, the
duty is simply a tax on ill-health. That
an ingredient in a perfume can be bought
for one-twelfth of the cost of the same
ingredient in a bottle of medicine seems
more than unreasonable. There’s no
excuse for it.
The Customs Departments exercise a
strict check on all drugs listed in the
Dangerous Drugs Act, and could do the
same with the spirit used in dispensing.
In fact, they sometimes do. Some of the
State departments handling bulk medi-
cines for distribution to public hospitals
are allowed duty-free spirit for use in
dispensing, the quantity allowed being
governed by their legitimate require-
ments.
The scheme presents no unusual diffi-
culties in operation, and any breach which
it did make possible would be infinitely
less serious than a breach of the laws
governing the disposal of dangerous
drugs.—T. L. W. (Vic.).
House Numbers
The size of house numbers becomes a
serious matter when one considers the
time lost and the inconvenience suffered
by tradesmen, doctors, and others in try-
ing to locate a particular residence.
Municipal authorities should insist on
house numbers being large enough and
in a position to be easily read from the
roadside. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
Birthrate Blurb
History books 500 years hence will
have much to say of the great bloodless
revolution that we call the Emancipation
of Women. Present-day politicians regard
it more as a direct cause of declining
birthrate, male unemployment and what-
not. It has worried dictators into offer-
ing bribes to the “weaker sex” to return
to home and babies.
Caesar forbade the childless female to
wear jewellery, and offered substantial
rewards to Romans with many children.
To Augustus goes the honor of first


applying a bachelor tax; his mother-
hood endowment of 1000 sesterces per
child was a happy afterthought. Con-
stantine relieved too-often-blessed couples
of unwanted children by providing State
orphanages.
These brilliant ideas have been worn
threadbare. To the student of a.d. 2439
I suggest erecting a pyramid or two to
the memory of “J.McC.” for the follow-
ing original idea:
The only way to effect an overwhelm-
ing rise in the birthrate is to forbid
women to have children. —J. McC. (Q.).
On R. H. Gordon and Leaders
R. H. Gordon (B. 12/4/’39) answers
his own question when he asks “What
is wrong with the brains of the world
when the average man can predict with
fair accuracy what is going to happen
next, but the so-called leaders seem to
be blind?” That is just what is wrong.
The average man, on information
gained from a biased press, has set him-
self up as a well-nigh indisputable
authority. He has sought out those in
his community whose views coincide
with his own, and together they have
gone along the highways and byways
convincing others. Thus we have a large
proportion of the population, whose
ignorance has hardened their convictions,
working in opposition to their better-in-
formed leaders.
This provides the vulnerable spot in
our armor. When the average man is
quite sure something is going to happen —
that is, when support for the leader is
weakest —an audacious leader in a foreign
country steps in and takes what he wants,
and then something has happened—the
average man was right. This brings a
torrent of abuse on the head of the one
man; he is held responsible for the
lack of faith in the rest. It is not his
fault that the press casts a jaundiced eye
on two totalitarian States and flutters an
eyelid ingratiatingly at a third—l mean
U.S.S.R.
It comes easy to one type of person
to refer to a Government as doddering,
but had that Government involved us in
war there are terms, and less printable
ones, of which I can think that the same
class would have used even more freely.
There is only one way in which the
average man can use his influence for
good, and that is by giving his leader
his wholehearted support. For, after
all, he is the leader ; he has gained that
through his own ability, and that is
something the average man has not been
able to do. Therefore, he must be a
little better than that individual, a little
more capable of leadership.— Martin
Brady (Vic.).
In B. 12/4/’39 there was some criti-
cism of your paper’s past comments on
European affairs. 1 commend your poli-
tical leader-writer on his rare good brains
and good judgment, free from bias and
one-eyed sentiments when nearly all other
journals and “political authorities” show
very little commonsense.
I venture to say that Mr. Chamber-
lain’s new aggressive policy will aggra-
vate the strained relations in Europe. His
“collective security” aims at the creation
of a stronger power, and is a threat of
force which Mr. Chamberlain so scorn-
fully condemns when used by Hitler or
Mussolini. But has anything else but
force ever achieved conquests or the right-
ing of wrongs? Has not the British
Empire been created by force, and are
not her Dominions held by force and the
threat of force? For instance, Britain
did not ask the consent or permission
of the Arabs in Palestine to occupy their
country ; and at present Britain uses
force to keep the rebellious Arabs subju-
gated.
And did not Britain conquer the Boer
republics by force to protect the interests
of a few British nationals? Surely a hos-
tile Tranvaal was not nearly such a vital
danger to Britain as a hostile Czecho-
slovakia was to Germany!
I believe that if Ireland showed a
desire to enter into a pact with Germany
against Britain the British Prime Min-
ister would not hesitate a minute to “pro-
tect” Ireland against her own folly.
It is hypocritical for a person to con-
demn the methods of others while he
uses the same methods. The attitude now
proclaimed by Mr. Chamberlain can be
compared with the lion who expresses
disgust at the carnivorous habits of the
tiger. A collective-security policy which
aims to preserve the status quo as decreed
by the Versailles “Spoils” treaty—and
refuses to rectify the mistakes of that
most vindictive of peace treaties —must
lead to collective madness and bloody
war.
Of course, the breaking of solemn
pledges by Hitler and Mussolini is re-
sponsible for the present distrust in inter-
national affairs ; but, unpleasant as it is
to remember, we must admit that for
the convenient breaking of pledges the
Allied statesmen of 1919 set a callous
example when they repudiated the
Fourteen Points. And only last year
Russia and France broke their contracted
pledge of assistance to Czechoslovakia.
There is no hope for peace if states-
men of the world stubbornly persist in
conducting diplomacy and propaganda
from the exacerbating principle of the
pot calling the kettle black—F. J. (Q.).
“Safe for Democracy”
Under Fascism, Nazism and Com-
munism individual liberty is suppressed or
rigidly curtailed. That does not bring out
the best in the individual, nor does it tend
to develop a sense of responsibility.
There are, however, certain lessons we
can learn from the dictator countries.
Take Germany as an example. If we are
to believe our press, there are no idle
persons there. In particular there are
no idle youths. If they are not occupied
in. or learning useful trades, professions,
etc., they are in military camps and—a
very big and —they are fed and clothed.
Compare their lot with that of many
youths in Australia who left school dur-
ing the depression. They were left in en-
forced idleness with empty pockets at an
age when they were most susceptible to
outside influences —some of them unedi-
fying, to put it mildly. Our legislators,
who are among the highest-paid in the
world, did nothing until thousands of
youngsters were in despair or in dead-
end occupations.
Now, liberty entails certain responsi-
bilities. One of these is to see that the
people are fed and clothed. Another is to
see that living conditions are such that
they will fight to retain them. Then the
remark that he has “only the dole to fight
for” will not be' made by any youth. Since
the start of the recruiting campaign that
remark has been all too common.
If we refuse to shoulder these respon-
sibilities we open the door to Communism,
Fascism, Nazism and crime. If the dic-
tator countries can feed and clothe their
people and find work for them, surely
the democracies can do so too. If we can-
not, or will not, then we admit all the
defects in our system which the dic-
tators allege against it.
Personally, I think democracy is cap-
able of building a society that the people
will fight to retain. By all means have a
register of the man-power of the nation
and let us have a register of its wealth
also. When the people as a whole accept
the responsibilities which our liberty en-
tails, we shall have made a start to make
the world safe for democracy.—Van-
duara (N.S.W.).
Under Their Skins
“U. Kad” (B. 29 / 3 / ’39) suggests a
conclave of elderly blokes to warn young
men that “there is something pretty close
to a nightmare” beneath the get-up and
make-up of modern girls. Well, well,
well! Experience tells. Ftere’s a cull
from “Pasquin,” an Adelaide paper, of
June 15, 1867: “....their pagan belief
in chignons and crinolines ; and I must
say, what with their marvellous garments,
saucy hats, and hair frizzed out behind
like New Zealand savages, they do look
very wicked and seducing—fit objects for
the howling wilderness and the wrath
to come of defrauded suitors.” O
Grandma (S.A.).
Is Woman’s Place the Throne?
What do men say of women? Well,
everybody knows that they say good and
bad, nasty and insulting things about
women, but there are enthusiasts who de-
clare tjiat women’s place is the throne.
They mean that, as men have allowed
women to rival and often to displace
them in all functions except that of
fatherhood, we should elect women to
ruling positions in all or nearly all de-
partments of life. I do not go as far as
that, but usually you would find me on
the side of the angels. I said “angels,”
for I believe that most women make little
heavens where there might be little hells.
Every home is a heaven if there be a good
woman living in it with a manageable
man.
Women have recently faced up to life
as it really is, and not as imagined for
them by conquering males. But being
women and human they are still willing
to be companionable and they are
anxious to marry, because marriage for
women still spells security and achieve-
ment. No intelligent woman wishes to
become a slave of the ring, but the ring
places her in the strongest position in the
community and elects her a member of
the most privileged social union.
Personally, I regard women as being
more practical than men, more concerned
with, facts than with less com-
plaining, less selfish and generally more
considerate of others. Of course, to use
a sporting phrase, they run in all shapes,
and I do not subscribe to the romantic
statement that the worst woman is a finer
creature than the best man. That’s all
nonsense, and of a piece with the flattery
of the troubadours in the Middle Ages
when pretty and sentimental and fre-
quently bored women in castles were
serenaded as ladies of quality.
I do not say that so far woman has
proved herself capable of successfully
rivalling man in every department of
human affairs. But there are not many
places, if indeed any place, to which she
may not attain in the near future. One
thing is certain, and it is that the real
home of a man is in the heart of his
wife. To a decent home-loving man
there is nothing in the world to compare
with the love and companionship of a
good woman. I should like to feel sure
that we are all agreed upon that. The
deepest hell can hold no terrors for the
unfortunate man who is married to a bad
woman. — Hugh Bett (Vic.).
Manufacturing a Nation
The advance of secondary industry as
exemplified by our ever-growing manu-
facturing concerns is a beacon light in
Australia’s destiny which few seem able
to get into true focus. They see its
beams but know not where they lead.
Those who understand know that the
country which sells its raw materials will
always be comparatively poor, just as the
farmer who sells his grain, and not pigs,
sheep or cattle, rarely ever lifts the
mortgage. Another thing, the man who
owns a forest and can work it up into
chairs, tables, bookcases and other
articles of furniture makes a darned sight
more money than if he sells it for fire-
wood.
When Captain Cook landed on these
shores the aborigine had then, and for
centuries before, a vast treasure-house of
natural wealth at hand, but the trouble
was he didn’t know how to utilise it.
We have been paddling the same boat, to
a great extent, ever since. Same thing
applied to the Indians of North America
when the white man first came along.
Incidentally, the American people appear
to have been about the first to
demonstrate how the natural wealth of
a country should be utilised to full ad-
vantage. It doesn’t seem to have taken
them long to have sized up the position
and set about converting their raw
materials, such as coal, iron-ore, other
minerals, forests, etc., into motor-cars,
machinery, and a million other kinds of
manufactured commodities, for which
other nations gladly paid them 50 times
more than could have been obtained for
the raw products.
When Australia sets about a similar
task with her wool, metals and other
natural products she is moving along
the pathway leading to real national
progress, prosperity and greatness. In
the past we have more or less been con-
tent to play the farmer-grain game, but
it’s encouraging to. find that at last, some
attention is being .paid to the other side
of the business. When things get going
properly we can look forward with con-
fidence to a new era. of development in
this sadly undeveloped country of ours.
—A. S. Spencer (N.S.W.).
Time Payment
Australians are casual enough at any
time, and these “easy payment” systems
(B. 12/4/’39) have not improved the
natural character. People, even young-
sters, mortgage their futures to pander
to present-day decrees. There is no self-
discipline ; time payment tempts, and
weakly we fall, making life an eternal
struggle of paying back debts. —K. J. Q.
(Q-). ___
Petrol Production
While Australia is staggering along
casually stabbing the ground here and
there for oil for a mechanised army and
navy, America is busily conserving her
huge petroleum supplies. At present ten
plants are under construction < for the
production of petrol by the Houdry syn-
thetic principle. Their estimated capacity
will be for treating 400,000 barrels of
crude oil daily. This synthetic process
guarantees a high-grade, 80-octane petrol
from any crude oil, irrespective of type
or quality, and goes further in permit-
ting a ready adjustment in the output of
petrol and domestic fuel oil, according
to summer and winter demands for each.
The Federal Government is apparently
oblivious of the fact that, in the event
of war, Australia’s industrial and military
lifeblood would suffer national throm-
bosis. Despite the failure of the search
for oil in New Guinea, Australia sleeps
on, its only concern being the “dinkum
oil” for the horses and dogs, etc. — Rif
Van Winkle (N.S.W.).
Moulding 92,000,000 Minds
Since this section is devoted to what
the other fellow thinks, it is a fitting
place to record what a high German
official thinks of Australians.
The thinker in this case is Professor
Ewald Banse, Professor of Military
Science at Brunswick Technical College.
Germany. The view is expressed in his
book, Germany, Prepare for War. Speak-
ing of the “white part” of the British
Empire he says: “These people [of Canada
Australia, South Africa] naturally con-
sider themselves the complete equals of
the English at home ; and some of them
show not the smallest concern for the
honor of Britain, the desire to break
away from the Empire gradually gather-
ing force in proportion to the increase in
their economic strength. This tendency
is probably strongest in South Africa,
where only 37 p.c. of the white popula-
tion are British; in Australia the tie
with the Mother Country has been
loosened through the universal preva-
lence of Marxism.”
This is a striking example of the in-
sidiousness of the German propaganda
machine, and an indication of the poison
which is being pumped into German
youths’ minds. Professor Banse is the
chief teacher in the military matters of
modern Germany and the man who, “if,
as many well-informed observers think,
another European war of German origin
is inevitable, will have done more than
anyone to give it the proportion and
character it is bound to attain” (pub-
lishers’ preface).
Peace can never be attained “round a
table” while 92,000,000 people believe
that their “natural” enemy’s empire
is rapidly disintegrating and only waiting
to be pushed over. What a different tale
to tell if only we had access to the other
fellow’s mind!—-W. (N.S.W.).
The Art of Driving
One of the underlying and overlooked
causes of the toll of the road is that few
motorists are, or strive to be, really good
drivers.
To drive a car skilfully and with regard
for the engine is a definite art. Most
learners, however, after a few lessons
from a'friend, consider themselves com-
petent. When their early enthusiasm has
worn off they regard driving with some-
thing akin to boredom and become care-
less.
If authorities issued a booklet con-
taining sound driving and elementary
mechanical hints instead of a confusing
mass of traffic regulations which few
bother to read, there would be fewer acci-
dents—Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Fix the Blame
Why not change the habit of crediting
or blaming the Government for Acts good
and bad that are passed?
Governments form only part of the
-Parliaments elected “by the people for the
people,” and more realisation of respon-
sibility should be shown by Oppositions,
so that , bills before the House that are
for ; the' general good should receive
vigorous support by the Opposition, as
they are the country’s lawmakers just
as much as Government members. Con-
versely, doubtful bills should be dealt
with appropriately.
More talk of the doings of Parliament
and less of the Government may possibly
have a good effect psychologically both on
members of Parliament and their sup-
porters.—E. F. H; (N.S.W.).
Romance, and Where You Find It
The reason why Australian novelists
do not write stories of city life is sup-
plied by “Den” (B. 12/4/’39) himself:
•Most of the'people dwell in the cities and
naturally wish to read novels dealing
with an aspect of life unfamiliar to them.
:In addition to this, tradition plays a
large part, country life being always con-
sidered romantic, while the city is stai
and prosaic.
Help us keep up the romance illusion
“Den,” for without it I am afraid t
supply of jackeroos and station book-
keepers might fall a little short of he
demand. For, despite the disgrunt ed
old codgers who maintain that the aus
tralian youth is no good, very few tu
back after setting out as l a^ e ™° s ’
after they discover the dearth of romance
among flies, mosquitoes, _sheep and
. boundary-riders.-
CAS (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
The "VICTORY"
Self-Heating IRON
Price,
39/6
S'ave - time and
trouble in the
Laundry. The
“Victory” Self-
Heating Iron
weighs only
61b. when filled
with a half-
pint of benzine;
lights in less
than half a
minute; and
costs less than one halfpenny per hour to use.
Send for literature on Benzine Table Lamps,
Cookers and Irons l
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Goods
Sent
C.O.D.
desired
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making Machine and
Combination Tobacco Box. Usual Price, 6/C.
“Bulletin” Readers 3/9
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.—
worth 10/- lb.—for Cigarette or Pipe.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6 Honest Value, 30/-
Qrtl 1 Tobacconist, fost. 38 Years.
>JUi L|CV J' > 713 Oeorge Street, Sydney.
SAM RICHARDSON
Professional Golf
Champion of Australia,
1933-35, for
De Luxe Handmade
Clubs.
Woods, Steel-shafted,
25/-, 28/6, 32/6 and 35/-
Irons, Steel-shafted,
22/6, 25/-, 32/6, 35/-
Watertight Moccasin
Golf Shoes, 50/-
Bert Oldfield’s
Golf School,
54 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
dsf
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35 / - only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post office,
for only 35/-. COMPLETE CORRES-
PONDENCE COURSE IS GIVEN FREE,
and we guarantee that you will be able
to play within seven days, otherwise we
will refund your money in full. This
offer cannot be repeated. Goods can be
sent C.O.D. if you wish.
TALKERIES,
Q.V. Buildings, 451 George St., Sydney.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT,
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
ds
Jack Crawford's
Special Restring
Offer
With orange or orange and black
spiral gut made by the leading
gut manufacturer in Australia.
25/- Championship restring, 20/-
20/- Tournament restring, 15/-
15/- Match restring for . . 10/-
White gut restrings, 8/6, 12/6, 15/
20/-, 25/-.
Fully Guaranteed.
Write for illustrated catalogue with
special article on “The Service,”
by Jack Crawford.
N.S.W. Sports Store Pty., Ltd.
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
ALAN KIPP AX I Director .
JACK CRAWFORD j ulrectors -
’Phones: 87788-89.
BLANKET BALE #£H
See what Salvage Stores now offer: —
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
2 Heavy-quality Linen-finished
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONLY 35/-
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT,
SALVAGE STORES, 36 s |^j Y ST
i SALVAGE STORES '
SYDNEY
um
YOUR RAZOR-
IS IT GIVING YOU COMPLETE
SATISFACTION?
If not you may trade in your old one
for the celebrated
ROLLS RAZOR
A very liberal allowance will be made
on blade, all types of safety and electric
razors irrespective of condition. Write
or call to-day.
F. S. HODGE
(late Hotel Australia),
Hairdresser, Tobacconist and Rolls
Razor Specialist,
221 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
Opposite Sydney Hospital. ’Phone: 8W5287.
HORSE RUGS
Made from first-quality cotto
duck with adjustable leather
leg strap, grey wool lined and
water resisting.
Waterproof Green De
sft. Gin. sft. Din.
33/- 34/-
Gft. 6ft. Gin.
35/- 37/-
COTTON DUCK
28/3 29/-
30/6 32/6
Felt Lined 4/6 Extra
Freight Free in N.S.W
NEWMARKET
SADDLERY,
18-20 WIESON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
CK
for
Saddlery
Cata-
logue.
MANCHESTER BALE
21/- 21/- 21/-
2 Heavy Genuine “OSHKOSH” Hygienically-
wrapped Winter-weight SHEETS, guaranteed
5 years. Size, 54 x 90, and no seams.
2 English Colored Towels, absorbent and soft.
2 Full-size Quality White Pillow Cases.
2 Single Bed BLANKETS, thick and warm.
1 Beautifully Colored BUNGALOW CLOTH.
THE ABOVE BALE 21/-, POST FREE.
FREE! WITH THIS BALE.
To every client mentioning “The Bulletin” we
will give absolutely FREE: —
1 Gorgeous SILK INTERWOVEN Eastern design
Brocade Bedspread, 50 x 70, in shades of vieux
rose, cream, green, gold or blue. (State color).
STERNS STERNS
200 Z GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR HARD FINGER and
TOE NAILS 6/6
fds
POSTED FREE FOR CASH.
W. JNO. BAKER LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Cutlery Specialists.
MUSHROOMS
Start Now and Use “Pei
100 per cent. Pure
Culture Spawn.
20 sq. ft. costs 4/6
(posted anywhere).
Sufficient to grow
401bs. of mushrooms.
It is made in Aus-
tralia and is developed
under skilled super-
vision.
Extracts from letters.
H. A. POPE, Dee Why: " Gathered over 5016.
from 20 sq. ft. Please repeat order.”
P. S. HUGHES, Collinswood, S.A.: “Amazed at
success of Perfection spawn.”
Send 2d. for Instruction Booklet and Price List to
J. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
f
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
dsf
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Redfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEOL, L.1.8.5.T.. Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
ds
AN Y WH E RE
ANYTIME
AMPLI
HOME POWER UNITS
By BRIGGS ft STRATTON
A small, compact
Petrol Electric. Generator, with
everything a car engine has.”
300 watts 12 volts
PRICE, £35/15/-
fds
MODEL 300
• Fit Home Lighting.
• Bettery Charging.
• Will operate twelve 25 vfeft tempt.
• Runt 12 hours on I gel. of petrol.
Write for comprehensive Bulletin No. 73
|AMPLION Ptg.Ud. 66 Clarence 5t-Sqdnei|j
TeAt toil Month
(Eft!
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Su ; te 601 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
s
i
STOpYounßupture
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/ 38
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
eomiort. To prove this we offer
•14 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
: :
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines art
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
____[ MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
TILLEY LAMPS
f
300 Candle Power. British Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on li pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXI All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 50/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and Other
Lamps.
Obtainable from your local a gent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
70 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CLIMBING
“TRIP-L-CROP” TOMATO
m
NOTHING EVER LIKE IT
BEFORE! In a growing
period of A YEAR it climbs
to 20 feet on trellis or fence,
etc. Produces TWO BUSHELS
choice large red Tomatoes
PER PLANT. Being an “ALL-
SEASONS” Variety, it can be
sown NOW. 2/6 packet,
posted.
Also AMAZING NEW 100 PER
CENT. “NON-ACID” PURE
WHITE HEALTH TOMATO! “White Beauty.”
Disease and Drought-proof! 2/6 packet, posted.
TIMBER KILLER! Kills largest trees, ROOTS
TO TOP, IN 15 DAYS'. 5/6 tin, posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dsfd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
A BOOK BARGAIN!
“JUNGFRAU”
A Romance of Modern
City Life by Dymphna
Cusack.
A 5/- NOVEL FOR
1/6
Post Free.
0*
G*
0^
0^
c°
A*'
6
/
<«
/
c°
s®
<?
\S*^
#
1\
i\e
s*
,o v
#
/
it
4*
#•
• •‘a S^ 6 «0 0


BE A DIESEL ENGINEE
Diesel Expert
Let Our Chief Engineer
Show You The Way!
diesel
DAY
a
■
IT TELLS YOU HOW YOU CAN
LEARN DIESEL ENGINEERING
N YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME
SCHOOt
The Australian Technical Schools
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson Street, Sydney (established 1923), are offering a
COMPLETE DIESEL ENGINEERING Home Study Course of Training at reduced
rates, under a very easy enrolment plan—Pay As You Leam! Ihe course is
under the guidance of experienced and highly qualified engineers. We deal with the
practical applications. The actual work is illustrated with hundreds of diagrams arid charts.
A student has not to wade through lesson after lesson of theory or higher mathematics.
The first lesson is on the itself.
THE JOB AND THE PAY
Many Australian and New Zealand students have
written and thanked us for what we have done for
them. Here are a few extracts from letters: —
(1) “I must thank you for helping me. Since getting
my Diesel Certificate my wages have been over
£8 per week.”
(2) “The Course has made a difference of £4 per
month in my wages. ,,
(3) “I am pleased with the Course and recommend
it to anyone wishing to learn Engine-driving.”
(4) “I thank you for putting me where I am to-day.
I am receiving £6/6/- per week.”
(5) “I have a thorough knowledge of the Diesel,
and am pleased I chose your Diesel Engineering
Course.”
(6) “Since gaining my Diploma, I have done well
on mechanical work. I am now in charge of
twelve oil engines and three motor trucks.”
A GIFT PRICE
FOR ONE MONTH!
Each student is supplied with Instruction Papers,
Lessons and Diagrams and Illustrated Reference
Books. We are, however, making a wonderful special
concession in fee for one month. You owe it to your
future to get full particulars . . . NOW.
One grateful student wrote: “It was a lucky day for
me when I chanced upon your advertisement.
POST THE COUPON and get the facts for yourself.
This may also prove to be the turning point in your
career.
POST THIS COUPON AND GET
FREE BOOKLET!
THE CHIEF ENGINEER, (B.D.MAY)
AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson Street, Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your Free Booklet, “Diesel, the
Power of To-day,” and tell me all about your special offer of Home
Study Training and how I can qualify.
NAME
Occupation A 33
Address
(Write Plainly)
IMPORTANT!
The ILLUSTRATION Method of Teaching
DIESEL ENGINEERING !!
Instruction Books issued with Motor Cars with their illustrations
and explanatory diagrams of the various parts, accompanied by
practical advice on adjustments, maintenance, servicing, etc.,
show you exactly what to do and how to do it. In the same
way, our Diesel Course of training has been prepared by our
Diesel Engineers to purposely cover the practical applications,
and our students have NOT to wade through lesson after lesson
on abstruse theory or higher mathematics, because our Engineers
know from experience the kind of knowledge that is needed for
success. The hundreds of diagrams and. illustrations and the
instructions and advice on Overhauls, Repairs, Servicing, etc., the
Trouble Tracing Charts, and the Blue Prints are particularly
valuable to students.
BOOKS—LESSONS—SERVICE. Do not confuse the lesson
books with our Diesel Text (Reference) Books. The latter are
printed. They measure Sin. x Sin. and 7in. x Sin. respectively,
are bound in stiff covers, and comprise 460 pages. They are
profusely illustrated with hundreds of diagrams. Quite distinct
from these are the Diesel lessons and instruction papers with the
blue prints all prepared by our Diesel Engineers. These are done
up in sections in convenient sizes for study purposes. Each
section is bound up in a semi-stiff cover (9oin. x 7in.) and can
be folded to fit the pocket if necessary.
In addition, Service Sheets are prepared from time to time by
our Diesel Engineers on recent Diesel developments of importance
in Australia and overseas. These Service Sheets are forwarded
to students and form an extremely valuable adjunct to the Diesel
Course of training.
ALL THESE BOOKS ARE
GIVEN FREE to Students
in Our Diesel Engineering
Course of Training.
mm
wm
m
■ 1 '( • 4*>
W
■ 53
\l
\S'/A
'W
„AV
S\\A
f|
\ to
