

r
RHEUMATISM
In bed with MUSCULAR. RHEUMATISM
now gets about and does own work and
washing.
BRUNSWICK, MELBOURNE, NlO, VIC.,
26th September, 1938.
Dear Sirs, . ,
I lost mv appetite and could not sleep at night. 1 took
to bed with MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM in my back. Since
taking Hutuwai I can get about and do my own work and
washing, and can eat and sleep well. I NEVER FELT BETTE
FOR YEARS THAN 1 DO TO-DAY. I meet friends, who tell
me how well 1 look, and I tell them all it is due to HUTUWAI.
(Signed) (Mrs.) L. KENNEDY.
ŕ
beneficial results
HUTUWAI CONTAINS THE JUICE OF
HERBAL PLANTS
Hutuwai helps the system to expel the injurious
acids and' poisons and to eradicate aches and pains,
Hutuwai can give you steady nerves and an excellent
appetite and you will sleep well. Headaches soon
disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your
friends will tell you how well you look and you will
take a renewed interest in life. Hutuwai is prepared
under the supervision of a skilled chemist and under
ideal hygienic conditions. Hutuwai is different .. .
it is genuine.
NERVES
“Nerves were so bad S was afraid to stop
on my own. Now l feel a new woman .. «
thanks to Hutuwai.
NEWTOWN, N.S.W., 13th March, 1939.
Dear Sirs, ,
About seven months ago, just after my baby was born,
I was so ill, NERVES were so bad, I was afraid to stop on
my own. I could not eat or sleep, and would sit down
and cry. A friend of mine told me about Hutuwai, so 1
tried three bottles. Now, after taking ten bottles I feel a
new woman. I am so pleased with your wonderful lonic
I intend to keep a bottle in the house for all time.
(Signed) (Mrs.) A. BACON.
These are all true
reports . . . not made-
up stories.
ŗ
ARTHRITIS
"It’s great stuff, this Hutmvcu”
PADDINGTON, N.S.W.,
Bth March, 1939.
Dear Sirs, . ,
For thirty-two years I have been suffering with
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS and used to suffer agonies.
During this time I had many other treatments but nothing
did me any good or gave me relief until I started to take
your Hutuwai Tonic about a year ago; since then 1 have
been very pleased with my improvement. . ,
I have recommended Hutuwai to many of my friends
with pleasing results also.
Yours gratefully,
(Signed) L. MOORE.
■>*V .v kM
x ':w ;
k K '' ~'-% k
GET RID OF YOUR ACHES AND PAINS!
Join the ever-growing army of Australians marching to RADIANT HEALTH with
Large Bottle,
4'6
(Including Valuable
DIET CHART
FREE.)
Also in 3/- size.
If unobtainable locally,
direct from Hutuwai
Distributing Co., 310
Oeorgc St., Sydney.
Postage 1/- extra per
bottle.
HOO-TOO-WY)
( Pronounce
Sold and recommended by Chemists
and Stores throughout Australia.
NATURAL TONIC
The Bulletin
Deakjri to Menzies
Vol. 60.—N0. 3090.
Wednesday, May 3, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY,
“story Writing
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
iUS. 339
The Red Page
GERMANS AT JUTLAND.
Franz Schauwecker’s descriptive novel The
Armored Cruiser (Massie), translated from the Ger-
man, is the story of a ship and a man in the Battle
of Jutland.
. Between Kiel Harbor and the scene of battle a
little group of officers off duty are yarning in a cabin,
and into the mouth of one of them, Commander von
Kmckow, the ship’s navigating officer, Schauwecker,
puts the following:
We are not a seafaring nation—not yet!....And
under these conditions we are sailing against England.
Mark my words, Gerrits, we are sailing alone. The
German nation stands behind the land army, which
must be a glorious feeling for every infantryman,
gunner or sapper in the mud of the trenches. But we
are sailing alone. Over there are the finest seafaring
people in the world If you want splendid sailors,
men who understand the sea, you must look for them
behind the white cliffs of Dover. Also, they have the
people behind them.”
However naval experts may disagree as to the
battle sense of the British commander, and they have
worn the subject to tatters, it cannot be denied that
when the smoke cleared away the Germans were
headed for Kiel Harbor and the British were still in
command of the sea. Schauwecker gets around this
by ignoring it. He confines himself to an engagement
r squadrons in which the British—as a matter
of history—-lost two ships and the Germans only one.
Back m Kiel Harbor he goes for proof of German
valor British sources, quoting a British Admiralty
report, “The German armored cruiser fought to the
last with extreme determination and courage, and
went down with flying colors.”
. u story Kiplingesque in style—deals first
with the long period of deadening inactivity, when
the view of the German Admiralty that the fleet must
not be allowed to risk an encounter with an enemy
that appeared always to have the advantage, began
to seep through the personnel of the fleet itself until
it became noticeable “like the smell of stagnant
water in the harbor,” and it began to find open ex-
pression.
Follows a description of the fleet steaming nose
to tail through Kiel Canal—the banks black with
watching crowds —toward a destination unknown but
guessed at. The sea passage, with its glimpses of dif-
ferent parts of the ship and snatches of conversation
between different ratings, gives the author a chance to
build up the feeling of the cruiser as a living entity. He
does it well, as instanced by the reader sharing in the
tense moment when a British scouting ’plane is glimpsed
through a small rift in the clouds. There are, too,
those little incongruities indicative of the ordinary
current of life persisting despite great purposes of
the moment. An hour before battle the hospital staff
is tense in anticipation of casualties, but the first
claim on medical skill comes in the shape of a sea-
man suffering from acute appendicitis.
The battle is equally well done; the courage of
firemen, six feet below the water line, to whom a
staggering shock may mean a broadside from their
own guns or a direct hit from the enemy; the holo-
caust in a gun turret when a British shell ignites
10,0001 b. of powder and 150 men “melt away like
wax” ; at the last, the cruiser, shattered and sinking,
her rudder jammed, steaming in circles and answering
a rain of British shells with her one remaining gun
before she turns turtle and goes down.
Hans Gerrits, gunnery lieutenant, is one of the
26 survivors picked up by a British ship. Among his
peace-time reflections are a few thoughts on the shift-
ing focus of romance. “Future generations would
visit a present-day battleship lying somewhere at
anchor and sentimentalise over the engine-room or
the canteen, on a moonlight night when blue flowers
would be growing out of the gaping mouths of the
guns.”
There is nothing “foreign” about the characters,
and the strangeness of the names is forgotten after
the first page or two. For Rossentrup read Prender-
gast, and there you are.
Comedy in Wales.
The Welsh actor and dramatist Emlyn Williams
made a name with a melodrama, Night Must Fall,
screened recently and professionally staged in Aus-
tralian capitals a year or two back. He follows it up
with a comedy, The Corn Is Green (Heinemann).
It is also a melodrama —transposed into another
key. The talent that made Night Must Fall at times
genuinely horrific has been poured into a smaller
mould, but it is still the same talent. Life is subdued
to the purposes of the theatre, theme and audience
are expertly exploited, and the result is a good but not
memorable stage play. It is bounded by the pro-
scenium arch.
The period is toward the end of last century,
when Miss Moffat, a middle-aged spinster, inherited
a house in a remote Welsh village and felt it her duty
and pleasure to bring enlightenment to the villagers.
Few of them could speak English. Only the post-
mistress could read or write, and that did her little
good because she only handled a letter about once
a week. At 13 years the local boys went to the col-
liery, and that was all they had to expect in the world.
It was a golden opportunity for a reforming female.
Miss Moffat opened a school and got boys out
of the pit to attend it. She commandeered two assis-
tants, Mr. John Goronwy Jones, “a shabby Welsh-
man of 40, bespectacled, gloomy and intense; a vol-
cano harmless even in eruption,” and Miss Ronberry,
a disappointed spinster of 30 who is rather surprised
to find that five times six and six times five amount
to the same.
The school was decidedly opera bouffe, but the
village was not amused. The squire thought it would
demoralise the district, the publican thought it would
be bad for trade, the chapel looked on Miss Moffat
as a “foreign adventuress with cloven feet,” the lady
next door said the noise gave her headaches and the
boys themselves thought they were being made ridi-
culous. Miss Moffat, worn down with a hundred
annoyances, was on the point of abandoning the enter-
prise when she discovered a touch of genius in one
of the lads, Morgan Evans. He justified everything.
For two years she pushed him along the road of
scholarship.
The village, now used to the school, took to the
fount of learning with avidity. They all flocked to
the singing classes till they were like “a jungle of
parakeets.” Morgan, in a moment of rebellion against
this tutelage, allowed himself to be seduced by Bessie,
daughter of Miss Moffat’s comic cook. Miss Moffat
smuggled Bessie away and Morgan concentrated on
winning an Oxford scholarship. The audience is here
treated to a large dose of suspense. Will he win it?
He does, but in the hour of triumph discovers that
Bessie has borne him a most inconvenient son.
He insists on giving up his career to marry her,
although Bessie herself has very different ideas. At
last, by adopting the baby herself, Miss Moffat dis-
suades him from his quixotry. She realised that she
could do no more for Morgan, and that in future he
must be free of her and the baby. She sent him out
into the world to fulfil his destiny, she hopes, as a
statesman.
The end is happy in a sadly noble way. The
feast is plentifully garnished with witticisms and
comic characters —the squire, who is devastatingly
stupid ; Mr. Jones, who sings “The wicked shall burn
in hell” to cheer himself up ; and the cook, who com-
bines immorality and piety in hilarious proportions.
The characterisation is far from subtle. It would
have been interesting to see what Sybil Thorndike,
who created the role, made of Miss Moffat.
France's Byron.
Against the tempestuous background of revolu-
tionary and Napoleonic France, Chateaubriand, “the
original of which Byron was so often a copy,” led a
life so much in keeping with the times that it passed
from drama into melodrama. In pose, in literature,
in politics and in his innumerable love affairs his
career ran to such extremes that now, resurrected by
Andre Maurois in Chateaubriand (Cape ; per Angus
and Robertson), he seems an almost impossible figure,
like one of Ouida’s Guardsmen.
How much his unreality is due to his own pos-
turing, how much to Maurois and how much to the
translator, Vera Fraser, is difficult to say. The trans-
lator has had a good deal to do with it; instead of
using a contemporary language that might have
brought Chateaubriand up to date and would cer-
tainly have given her prose some vitality, she has
adopted a watery archaism of style that weakens the
whole story. If Rafael Sabatini had done the job
his oaths and swords would at least have been color-
ful ; but the throwing in of a “hapless wight” when
Chateaubriand, in refuge from the Terror, was starv-
ing in London is very pallid decoration. It’s hard to
believe that Maurois sank to such prim fol-de-
rollery, yet there must have been some justification in
the original for Miss Fraser’s flights.
If Chateaubriand remains ghostly under the faded
elegance of the writing, and if the revolutions and
counter-revolutions, London and Paris, Napoleon and
Chateaubriand’s ladies all need dusting, there’s enough
drama in the mere recording of events to make the
book interesting. Chateaubriand jumped from the top
of the world to the bottom of the pit, and back again,
with amazing frequency.
His childhood and early youth were spent in the
security of his father’s castle, where the only alarms
were the owls outside his tower windows and the
footsteps of Chateaubriand, senior, a gloomy, terrify-
ing old man who prowled about the corridors all
night. The young Chateaubriand was to have been
first a sailor and then a monk, but was settling down
contentedly to be nothing when the fall of the Bas-
tille and the sight of “two maimed and dishevelled
heads carried by on pikes” made him hastily decide
to visit America.
Five months there, during which he wrote some
good descriptions of places he had seen, and a glow-
ing account of the Upper Mississippi, which he hadn’t;
then back to France; to marriage; service with
French aristocrats and the Prussians against the
Republicans; a wound; and a flight to England,
“pale, thin, badly-dressed and racked by coughing.”
Schoolmastering in a country town he fell in love with
the vicar’s daughter, and one day Mother told him
that she approved:
“Of all the griefs I had endured,” writes Chateau-
briand, “that was the keenest and touched me most
nearly. I flung myself at Mrs. Ives’s knees, covering
her hands with kisses and tears. She thought I was
weeping for joy and iegan to sob with happiness.
She stretched out a hand for the bell-cord and called
her husband and daughter. ‘Stop!’ cried I, ‘I am
married!’ She fell in a dead faint.”
Back in London he wrote an Essai sur les Revolu-
tions, which, alternately deist and atheistic, royalist
and revolutionary, failed to please anyone. But on
his return to France after 10 years of exile he pleased
almost everyone with a timely defence of Christianity.
Napoleon was in power, religion was reviving, and
Chateaubriand, by linking the revival and the First
Consul in his preface, put himself, as he intended, in
high favor. In a second edition he went further:
“Citizen First Consul, none can fail to see in your
destiny the hand of that Providence which marked
you from the first for the accomplishment of its vast
designs.” Napoleon, feeling he had “never been
better praised,” appointed him secretary to the Rome
legation.
Three times in the years of climbing that fol-
lowed —by a resignation, by an article, by a speech
—Chateaubriand managed to insult his master, but
he survived to hold office and join in the intrigues
under Louis XVIII. during the Restoration. He sup-
ported Louis so fervently that he dared not re-
encounter Napoleon and fled to Ghent with the Court.
He saw “the hand of Providence” in Waterloo, as
earlier he had seen it in Napoleon’s victories. Dis-
graced again under Louis, he came back to favor
under Charles X. and touched the peak of triumph
when he was able to return to London as ambassador.
The Government of the July revolution offered him
honors, but he refused them in his grandest style:
“An unprofitable Cassandra, I have wearied the
throne and the country with my unheeded warnings long
enough. Nothing is left to me but to take my seat
amid the ruins of the shipwreck I have so often
foretold. I ought also to make my life consistent. After
all I have done, said and written for the Bourbons,
I should be the vilest of the vile were I to deny them
at the moment when for the third and last time they
are on their way to exile.”
He was quickly back in politics again. Of his
life, and of the memoirs he wrote in his retirement,
Maurois says: “A vain attempt to make of his life
a work of art, then another —this time successful —to
make a work of art on his life.” To have survived
so stormy a public career, when the guillotine was
always waiting for the unlucky, and to have led so
colorful a private life as well —his conquests included
“the most beautiful and sphinx-like woman of the
age”—Chateaubriand must have been an extraordi-
nary personality. There’s a novel as rich as Jew Suss
in his life, and without any romantic additions a
biography should have been far more vivid than is
the present one.
The Truth About Joshua.
Walter J. Beasley, F.R.G.S., Director of the Bib-
lical Exhibition, Melbourne, spent a holiday with
Prof. John Garstang, the archaeologist who is delving
amid the ruins of Jericho and other Palestinian cities
prominent in Old Testament records.
In the form of a series of letters to a friend
Mr. Beasley, in Jericho’s Judgment (Marshall, Morgan
and Scott), demonstrates that the Garstang researches
have settled earlier doubts about the accuracy of the
Biblical account of Joshua’s wars.
Concerning the fall of Jericho several weighty
critics have suggested that Jericho was too big a
place for Joshua’s troops to have marched round it
seven times, blowing trumpets, just before an attack in
force; they have explained the fall of the walls
variously, as (1) they didn’t fall; (2) if they did it was
because of the work of Joshua’s sappers.
Garstang’s excavations show that the walled city
was of not more than 12 acres in area, and seven
times round was not an inordinately long tramp ;
furthermore, the walls toppled over as the result of
an earthquake. Mr. Beasley gives various Biblical quo-
tations to show that the notion of an earthquake as
the method of Jehovah in this as in other so-called
miracles is implicit in the Old Testament text. So,
if the Garstang researches have said the last word,
the trumpets of Joshua blew, and lo! along came a
providential earthquake and toppled over the mighty
walls of the defenders. The stopping of the waters
of the Jordan in another phase of Joshua’s campaign
is similarly ascribed to seismic agency.
Mr. Beasley’s book is brightly written and attrac-
tively illustrated, and is about as good a popular
introduction to the very fascinating subject of
archaeology as has come in this critic’s way.
"Night Flight."
Some of the great flights that have captured the
imagination of the world have been merely “stunts”;
others have been pioneering efforts of the first im-
portance ; but, foolish or necessary, the endeavors of
the solitary pilots or the little groups of men have
had qualities that could evoke great literature—cour-
age, conflict with the elements, the romance of ex-
ploration, the inescapable bonds of human relation-
ships. So far there has been little writing about the
air of permanent value. An “anthology of flight”
recently reviewed on the Red Page had, with one
exception, nothing that could even be called fairly
good. Biographies of prominent flyers have generally
been spoilt by cheap ballyhoo.
One of the few books that have really caught
the spirit of aviation is Night Flight, by Antoine de
Saint-Exupcry, a long short-story recently republished
as a Penguin. The author, who won the Prix Femiria
de Paris with it, writes with first-hand knowledge. He
was one of the pilots who helped to build the Air
France line from Europe to South America, and
Night Flight, centred in Buenos Ayres, deals chiefly
with the flight of the Patagonia mail to the airport
there.
It differs from most of the Penguin novels, which
have had a bias towards the charming but rather
{Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—*/*^.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Chdiunn SALE tßa/iacdn&
m
i
r
il
9'6 MEN'S PYJAMA SUITS
Made in our own workrooms from a reliable British material
. . Striped Ceylonette in medium weight. Sizes:. Small,
Medium and Outsizes. Regular Price, pair 9/6
SALE PRICE, pair 7/6
7/6
42'- TWEED DRESS. GOWNS
All wool Tweed Dressing Gowns in warm winter
weight. Smart overcheck designs in Greys, Brown-
Blues and Fawns. 36 to 44 inch chests. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price, 42/-. SALE PRICE, each, 29/6
29/6
7'6 KHAKI DRILL SHIRTS
Men's Khaki Drill Work Shirts made in our own workrooms.
Reliable British weave. Double sewn seams. Size 14£ to
18 inches with collar attached. Regular Price, each 7/6
SALE PRICE, each 6/11
6n
12/6 MEN'S PYJAMA SUITS
A product of our own workrooms. Made from
from the renowned Horrockses' English Mills,
fabric in smart, colourful designs. Small Men's
Aphony Horderns' Regular Price, pair
SALE PRICE, pair
material which comes
Double warp "Ideal"
. . Medium and Out-
..:... 12/6
ll/6
e
&
Si
h *Ts
E ' JCe ' «>=4 o, W * I%A* 5*4
*£ir
15^6
~9 ' 6 *en
s3®> B 4s Mb *64*.
19/6
17/6
/7fi
•2K
B ? ul°* Zb l'
ch~- ■ ' -°J
*
S%f ul *r e p r 36 to 4Q
S 4«
in
z,Pp f«
J «ch
eacij
3 te.
p IJUo
Anth ‘
to:
• 2j a
i?/s
I7 6
•2'n
■Men' s
a ls° y 'tf sh
Meh s
a n ?* d 5? e
f *Ncy
ttslf IT
T e *l, A »
10 «ie
£ai r to 12
MALF
Mrool .
£* e sf desf^ g
Wo*,
■ 2/if
2/6
Itlc hes. - X es !9n s
2g
7 '6
U }
nde:
I°°‘ '«'Sd r
> sfce J°"°a .
C^e Sf<? _ e S r r
Meh'§
win
in
L.**®**
& Q r p r; &n kle. o. fe r ,
s^fjn
e^f
, .
r,ce - .*»
y&r tilery 44 ln ,
NOty
/
•*'6
A/a
N
Qf Ur Q i
W,
J-Cf' »oo; a
00/
34 f in n ■> »■»,„
H,V° « Jn S i or < 4e"/ e '«ii„L r
ft '«. c* 9<!( e *>s. a nd 7£ ?n<i
Und en, ear
Bet h ° 5 %
S's
• M ercery—Ground Floor—George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


Scientific Electioneering
A SPOT OF POLITICS
by J. B. BLAIR
IMPRESSIONS
by
UNK WHITE
RUMPELMAYER was the last man I would ever
have expected to take a sudden interest in
politics. I remember having lunch with him
once in a popular fish cafe in Pitt-street, to-
wards the end of a bitterly fought election campaign.
“That’s Jack Lang,” I whispered, pointing to a
massive figure at the next table.
“Who’s he?” asked Rumpy in perfect innocence.
“Anyone I ought to know?”
Another time on general-election day a friend
stuck him up in the street and reminded him that voting
was compulsory.
“Thanks,” said Rumpy. “I’ll go along now and
get it over.”
He straightway rushed round to the headquarters
of the Geosogical Allotropic Society, where it took the
doorkeeper, the honorary secretary and two typists
half an hour to convince him that that was not the
day for the annual election of officers.
Imagine my surprise, therefore, when I found he
had suddenly gone all political.
I had called round at his Aunt Lucy’s to see if he
had come to his senses in the matter of using the
Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer for the purpose for
which it was obviously intended by Providence,
namely, for the commercial benefit of its inventor,
Eddie Rumpelmayer, and his manager, myself.
“Look here,” I said. “I’ve got a marvellous idea.
We'll hire the Royal and put on the greatest theatrical
show of all times. All the great singers and actors of
the past on the same programme. Melba, Caruso and
Jenny Lind ; Paderewski at the piano and Paganini
with his violin; Henry Irving as Henry the Fifth and
Garrick as Hamlet. We’ll throw in Falstaff and “The
Merry Wives of Windsor” with the original cast, and
finish up with a few old musical-comedy gems and
song hits from the talkies. Variety to suit all tastes.
Come on, Eddie, old man, be a sport and give the
public a treat —an intellectual entertainment presented
in a palatable manner.”
“No,” replied Rumpy. “My invention is not
available for base mercenary uses. And, besides, I’ll
be very busy with it for the next few weeks. I’m help-
ing Partiman in his election campaign.”
“Electioneering!” I gasped. “What’s come over
you?”
“Oh, I think every citizen should take an interest
in the affairs of his country. There’s too much apathy.
That’s the whole trouble. Half the people don’t care
whether they have a vote or not, and the other half
don’t care who they vote for.”
“Wait a bit,” I interrupted. “I’m not in Parti-
man’s constituency, and I don’t know that I’d vote
for him if I was.”
Rumpy turned on me in amazement. “You don’t
mean to tell me you’d vote for that rat Corkus!” he
said.
“Why not? Partiman’s held the seat for years,
and these fellows get stale and lazy after a while.
P’raps a new member’d be a good idea.”
“Perhaps so, but not Corkus!”
“What’s wrong with him?”
“He’s an extremist. He wants to nationalise the
banks.”
“Just where does that hit you ?”
“It’s a matter of principle,” returned Rumpy.
“It’s immaterial to me what happens to my own money,
but I shudder to think of the fount of the nation’s
credit being fouled at the source by a scoundrel of
the calibre of Corkus.”
“That’s pretty strong language to use about a
man,” I said, “even if he is on the other side. For all
you know he might be quite a decent bloke. I don’t
suppose you’ve ever met him.”
“Met him,” spluttered Rumpelmayer. “I shared a
room with him once.”
He looked at me hesitantly as though doubtful
whether to reveal all he knew to his late room-mate’s
discredit. Then he leant towards me and whispered,
“I caught him once scraping the mud off his boots
with one of my microscope slides.”
Knowing Rumpy as I did I realised it would be
just as futile to try to convince him that an action of
this sort did not necessarily brand the man as a totally
depraved villain as it would be to attempt to dissuade
him from supporting the campaign of Corkus’s
opponent. I gave in.
“How are you going to use the Reacher-Outer
in your campaign?” I asked.
“Partiman thinks it would be a good plan to have
his own speeches supported by extracts from speeches
of famous politicians of the past —their actual voices,
of course, brought back by Robbie.”
“Partiman thought of that!”
“Yes.”
Partiman immediately rose several points in my
esteem. He had never in his life done anything to
reveal the possession of either great brains or
originality of thought. The chief distinguishing
feature of his career had been the astuteness which
had impelled him to leave his old party when its
fortunes were on the wane and switch to the banner
of his former opponents just as it was about to be
unfurled over the Treasury benches.
“We’re opening our campaign in the Wavehurst
Town Hall next Tuesday,” said Rumpy. “You ought
to come along.”
“Good!” I told him. “I will.”
D EALISING it was no use suggesting other avenues
*■ of employment for the Reacher-Outer until its
inventor had finished his crusade and the forces of
evil as personified by Corkus were trampled in the
dust, I offered to assist in the research work for the
Partiman campaign. Rumpelmayer eagerly accepted ;
he was never keen on this part of the job.
And what a job it was! If you can imagine a
duller way of spending an afternoon than browsing
through volume after volume of “Hansard,” selecting
from the meanderings of inspirationless politicians
slices of platitudinous eyewash calculated to fit in
with and support the further meanderings of another
inspirationless politician, then your imagination is
wasting its time and should be immediately diverted
to some more profitable use.
The evenings were spent in the back room at
Aunt Lucy’s with the Reacher-Outer groping about
the ether searching for the sound vestiges of the
speeches I had been reading during the afternoon.
They had been dull enough in cold print, but to
listen to as Robbie brought them back, delivered in
their original flat monotones, they were simply torture.
For the first time I began to doubt whether we
were doing the right thing in trying to exploit the
Reacher-Outer. There must, I mused, be millions of
these dull speeches which the world had thought
safely lost in space, and here were we diligently setting
out to bring them back. This was a terrible weapon
we had in our hands. I thought of all the incredibly
boring stories that must have been told since people
became too civilised and polite to tell a bore to shut
up, and 1 shuddered. Robbie could bring them all
back and keep on repeating them for ever and ever.
Still, I reflected, science must march on, and we must
accept its burdens as well as its benefits.
Rumpy made notes of the readings on the spatial-
positioner whenever we did come across anything
bearing on our subject so that they would be ready
on tap when required.
j WAS in the body of the hall when Tuesday night
‘ arrived. For these days the muster was phenomenal.
The news that the Reacher-Outer was to be used had
got around, and although Partiman, on the platform,
beamed with gratification, the roll-up was, of course,
more a tribute to Rumpelmayer and myself.
“What’s it goin’t’ be?” asked one honest elector
sitting near me. “Television?”
“No,” replied his neighbor rather scornfully.
“S’pose it’ll only be gramophone records. Another of
those stunts to get people along.”
The chairman rose to introduce Partiman. His
speech was much the same as all chairmen make on
such occasions, and almost exactly the same as he had
delivered at election meetings at regular intervals over
the last twenty-five years. The fact that for fifteen
of those years the speech had been in favor of various
opponents of Partiman in their efforts to unseat that
honest member did not worry him in the least. When
the great swing-over came he saw no reason why a
perfectly good speech which had done service for a
decade and a half should be scrapped merely because
an erstwhile unbeliever had at last seen the light.
During the chairman’s eulogy Partiman sat with
complacent smile, shaking his head deprecatingly when
the praise was being laid on too thickly. The intro-
duction over, he rose to his feet, and in a few moments
was, by a recital of his achievements for the electorate
during the preceding three years, endeavoring to
show that the chairman had not been guilty of over-
statements.
“Likes himself,” murmured a voice behind me.
“Never mind! The television thing’ll come on
soon,” replied another.
Partiman finished his personal reminiscences,
plodded on through various political fields, and then
plunged eagerly into the troubled waters of the main
issue of the campaign.
He attacked his opponents in general, and Corkus
in particular, for advocating nationalisation of the
banks. He spoke darkly of the ruination of the
country’s credit, the depreciation of currency, the eco-
nomic chaos and other dire things that would follow
quickly in the wake of such an action.
The audience had heard this sort of talk scores
of times before, and that section that was not one
hundred per cent. pro-Partiman began to get a bit
restive. Sensing this, Partiman decided that it was
time to play his trump. He broke off in the middle of
a sentence and said with a change of tone:
“But why should I insult you intelligent people
with my poor eloquence when some of the greatest
minds of the past have condemned the proposals in
words more convincing by far than mine could ever
be? Science has come to our aid in this great fight,
and through a marvellous invention of my friend Mr.
Edward Rumpelmayer I am able to bring back to
you the speeches of some of our greatest statesmen —
not merely records, mind you, but their actual voices.”
He glanced anxiously at his watch. The business
called for very careful timing as Rumpy was home in
his workshop, and Partiman had to switch the ampli-
fier on at just the right moment.
He filled in time with a brief explanation of the
origin and workings of the Reacher-Outer-Bringer-
Backer, consulted his notes and his watch and an-
nounced that the audience would now be privileged to
hear “that great statesman Lord Passbooke making
his famous speech in defence of private banking which
he delivered in the House of Lords in 1892.”
He crossed to the amplifier and struck an atti-
tude.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he said. “Grave silence
for my Lord Passbooke.”
He switched on the amplifier, and immediately a
voice came through. “You foolish boy, you must
come and have a cup of tea. You’ve been working all
the evening.”
Partiman’s face was a study. Goodness knows
what the audience thought. I was probably the only
person in the hall who recognised the voice of
Rumpelmayer’s Aunt Lucy.
“I haven’t time, Aunt. I’m too busy.”
“One’s never too busy for a cup of tea.”
“I am, I tell you. Oh, gosh!” (click!) “ and
so I say, my lords, that this proposal to
nationalise the banks, which are the backbone of the
financial structure of this country, is one that strikes
at the very foundation of liberty and freedom, and
which must be resisted with all the forces at our dis-
posal. Let me describe to you in a few words ’
Lord Passbooke was now well under way. I sat
back prepared for half an hour’s boredom. I had
recognised the speech as one of the dullest in our whole
collection. Partiman was smiling complacently, and
his supporters on the platform gazed at the amplifier
with the expressions of rapt interest with which they
were accustomed to honor their party speakers.
For a start the audience took it well. Many of
them were staunch party men prepared to sit through


any speech, however boring. Quite a number, however,
had been attracted solely by Partiman’s advertisement
of the Reacher-Outer, and these soon began to mur-
mur. After all, in this radio age a speech from an
amplifier is a commonplace ; and, despite Partiman’s
introduction, to an audience which had never seen the
Reacher-Outer and couldn’t visualise Rumpy hard at
it in his workshop Lord Passbooke’s resurrected elo-
quence was just another broadcast speech, and a very
dull one at that.
The dissatisfied voice behind me was heard again.
“Thought y’ said it’d be television.”
“Don’t blame me. It was your idea coming here.”
This was all I could hear in my part of the hall,
but I felt it was a pretty good indication of how the
act was going. If only Partiman would have the sense
to switch it off half-way!
“Private banking,” droned Lord Passbooke, “is
the keystone holding together the mighty arch of
national prosperity, and if there is anyone in this
House who dares deny that then all I can say is”
You’d look sweet upon the seat
Of a bicycle built for two.
Although this extraordinary remark came from
the amplifier, it could hardly be attributed to Lord
Passbooke. In the first place it was sung, and in the
second it was followed by enthusiastic applause such
as would never have disturbed the calm dignity of the
House of Lords. The applause was echoed by the
audience in our hall, although Partiman and his hench-
men gazed disapprovingly at the amplifier, which as
though in defiance announced:
“Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on our
programme will be a song by our old friend Charlie
Coborn entitled ‘The Man Who Broke the Bank at
Monte Carlo.’ ”
Our own audience joined in the cheers and ap-
applause. It was obviously all in favor of the diver-
sion. This was something new in political meetings.
Partiman did not share the audience’s feeling. He
gazed anxiously at the amplifier, hoping that this was
only a temporary aberration on the part of the
Reacher-Outer.
Coborn was now well into his song.
“Real old music-hall show,” said someone in
front of me.
“Yes. Takes y’ back, doesn’t it?”
Apparently Mr. Partiman had no wish to be taken
back. He rose and switched off the amplifier.
“Er —ladies and gentlemen,” he began. “I regret
that a slight hitch has occurred in our proceedings.
The—er —instrument is—er —not quite”
“Switch it on,” came a challenge from the body
of the hall.
“Let’s hear old Charlie.”
“We want more music.”
Partiman dithered a little. “The mistake will
not take long to rectify, and you will now hear the
remainder of Lord Passbooke’s speech.”
“We don’t want Lord Passbooke! We want
Coborn.”
“Yes. Give us good old Charlie.”
The chairman rapped and pleaded for order and
fair play, but the audience was no longer interested in
order, fair play, the chairman, Partiman or politics.
All they wanted was “The Man Who Broke the Bank
at Monte Carlo.”
Partiman had not been riding the wave of popular
opinion for half a lifetime without learning when to
trim his sails. He switched Charlie on again.
"THE meeting closed an hour later with Partiman
' receiving one of the heartiest ovations of his
career, and he had wit enough to see the possibilities
that chance had thrown his way.
I found out later just how Chance had worked.
Shortly after Lord Passbooke’s speech had begun,
Rumpelmayer had yielded to Aunt Lucy’s persuasion,
and had gone into the parlor for a cup of tea.
“Drat this teapot,” complained Aunt Lucy as
she poured out his second cup. “It just will dribble.”
This remark was sufficient to set the Rumpel-
mayer inventor-complex in action, and for the next
two hours he pondered ways and means of solving
this simple domestic problem. He was still pondering
when I arrived anxious to find the reason for the
change-over in the programme.
“Gosh, the meeting!” he gasped. “I’d clean for-
gotten it.” He rushed back to the workroom with
myself in close tow. We were just in time to hear the
closing bars of a rollicking chorus followed by hearty
applause.
“I can’t make it out,” said Eddie, carefully ex-
amining his instruments. “Lord Passbooke was speak-
ing from the House of Lords when I left the room.”
“This has been going on for two hours,” I told
him.
“Two hours! That means ever since I left it!
Someone must have No, wait a bit. I’ve got it!”
He peered closely at his instruments again. “The
temporal-eliminator’s 0.K., but the spatial-positioner’s
a bit out.” He examined a map of London. “Yes,
that’s it!”
“What?”
“It’s quite simple. When I left the room I was
annoyed with Aunt Lucy for disturbing me, so I
slammed the door rather hard. Robbie is very deli-
cate, and the slam must have upset him a bit. The
spatial-positioner is just a fraction out, just sufficient
to shift the range of the Reacher-Outer from the
position in space of the House of Lords speech of
April 27, 1892, to that of the Empire Music Hall pro-
gramme of the same night.”
j T was a lucky break, anyhow, and Partiman took
* full advantage of it. Instead of filling his audience
up to the teeth with speeches from the past he decided
to soothe them into a good humor with music-hall
programmes, and just sandwich a few short speeches
in among the items.
It worked like a charm. Night after night his
meetings were packed to the doors with audiences
that went home happy and well disposed towards
Partiman.
Then the opposition struck back. Its reply to
these new electioneering tactics was to supply free
talkies at its meetings. Our audiences dwindled
nightly. It was a case of history repeating itself. Our
music-hall programmes could hold the older folk, but
the youngsters flocked after Corkus and his more up-
to-date talkies.
This didn’t worry me much, of course, as I was
only taking what you might call an academic interest
in the campaign. Nevertheless, I suggested to Parti-
man through Rumpy that it might be wise to curtail the
half-hour speech with which he opened his meetings.
Corkus had cut his down to a couple of minutes with
wonderful results. Partiman refused to reduce his
time by one second.
“Well,” I said to Rumpy, “he’s like all poli-
ticians. Rather go down talking than win the seat
with his mouth shut.”
Polling day drew near, and the night of Parti-
man’s final rally arrived. It was late in the afternoon
when I bumped into Rumpy hurrying down the street
for his life.
“Partiman’s sick!” he announced. “In bed with
laryngitis. Can’t speak above a whisper, and won’t
be able to get to his meeting to-night.”
“He might win after all, then.”
“What? Oh, you’re assuming he won’t speak to-
night?”
“Well, he can’t, can he?”
“You’re forgetting the Reacher-Outer. Parti-
man’s remembered a speech he made on this subject a
few years ago, and I’ve got to bring it back. Don’t
stop me. I’ll have to hurry.”
J TURNED up at the rally that night. Partiman’s
* whippers-in had been working hard, and there
was a fairly good muster —nothing like the crowd on
the opening night of the campaign, but much better
than recent meetings had attracted.
In due course the chairman gave tongue: “.... in-
disposed and is unavoidably absent this evening....
join with me in expressing our regret.... miss the
privilege of hearing him in person, but through the co-
operation of Mr. Rumpelmayer and his wonderful
invention we shall be privileged to hear a speech he
made in this very hall some years ago, let me see, yes,
on the 25th of February, 1932....” He drooled on
for a few minutes, then switched on the amplifier.
He (and Rumpy) had timed it to a nicety. Cries
of “Good old Partiman!” and loud applause came
from the amplifier, gradually fading away into com-
parative silence. Then came Partiman’s voice, familiar
and recognisable yet not quite the same: —•
“Comrades, I am here to tell you as I have told
you before that there can be no hope of freedom
from economic serfdom until the financial octopus
has been overcome once and for all and the means
for the creation of credit are in the hands of the
people. (Cheers.) We must nationalise the banks!”
The consternation of the chairman and committee
and the bewilderment of the audience at hearing their
candidate warmly advocating the very measures he
had strenuously opposed throughout the campaign can
be well imagined. 1 was rather amazed myself, though
I soon tumbled to the fact that Rumpelmayer had
brought back the wrong speech —a hangover from the
days before Partiman’s conversion.
I hurried to Rumpy’s workshop as quickly as I
could. He was looking very pleased with himself.
“Smart work, eh?” he gloated. “The old Reacher-
Outer did a nice job, don’t you think? Ought to
clinch things for Partiman, eh?”
I wasn’t sure whether he was joking or barmy,
but I soon discovered he was dead serious. The poor
coot hadn’t realised there was anything wrong with
the speech!
After hearing my explanation his face fell. “That
can’t be,” he said. “Everything was set right. Wave-
hurst Town Hall, the 25th February, 1932.”
He examined his apparatus. “Spatial-positioner’s
O.K. Temporal-eliminator? Gee! It’s ten years out!
I can’t understand it. I’m sure I had everything set
right.”
“You couldn’t have. Something must”
“I’ve got it. It was Aunt Lucy and her blasted
tea again. She came in just as I was about to switch
on. Because I refused supper she went out in a huff
and let the door slam. If only I’d checked up! ”
“Well,” I consoled, “she’s probably cost Parti-
man his seat. Not that it worries me.”
“Me either.”
I started. “What about Corkus and your micro-
scope slides?”
“Oh, I meant to tell you. I was wrong about that.
It wasn’t Corkus at all. It was a fellow called Whitney.
He roomed with us too. A red-
headed chap.”
“And you don’t care if Corkus
tries to nationalise the banks?”
“That’s something else I’ve
been going to ask you. When they
talk about nationalising the banks,
what do they mean?”
“We want
more music."


The "Bligh Rebellion ”
OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M- ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
é
Two soldiers of the guard had my retreat
cut off before I knew what was happening.
very well indeed, when Captain Bligh came out to
relieve Captain King in the Governorship, in 1806.
“Captain Bligh and my father were old ship-
mates and very good friends, and whenever the
Governor came to the Hawkesbury he would stay
with us. Bligh was popular in the country districts —
mainly, I think, because he stood up against the
officers of the New South Wales Corps, who had
degenerated, most of ’em, into the most rapacious set
of traders and fortune-hunters that ever afflicted a
young country.
“Out on the banks of the old river we didn’t
know very much about the caballing and plotting that
was going on down in Sydney, but we knew well
enough that the officers were not in love with the
Governor, and that there might be trouble at any time.
We youngsters, of course, didn’t pay much attention
to the political situation, but when my father handed
me a letter one afternoon —it was the 25th of January,
1808 —which was addressed to Governor Bligh, and
told me to ride to Sydney with it, and to be sure that
1 gave it to him personally, I knew that there was
something serious in the wind. My father was a
reserved man, so I asked no questions, took my horse
out of the stables, and started off along the Sydney
road about sunset. I slept that night at James Larra’s
inn at Parramatta, and rode on into Sydney in the
morning.
“I rode into the town, past the Brickfields, about
nine o’clock, and was turning out of High-street
down towards the bridge across the Tank Stream
when I heard my name called and looked round.
A young ensign of the Corps, Dick Foster, a lad
about my own age, was waving to me, so I pulled
up and he hurried over. He was a friend of ours,
and had often been out to Sackville Reach to stay
with us.
“ ‘Hullo, Tommy,’ he cried, ‘where to?’
“ ‘l’m bound for Government House with a letter
from my father to his Excellency,’ I told him. ‘ ’Tis
important, I fancy. I must hurry along with it. I’ll
come and see you at the Mess afterwards.’
“His face seemed to lengthen a bit, and a troubled
look came into his eyes. ‘By George,’ he says, ‘I
don’t envy you your interview with him, then. He’ll
be in a devil of a stew this morning.’
“ ‘Why, what’s the matter?’ I asked.
“ ‘D’ye mean to say ye’ve heard nothing of the
goings-on here these last few days?’ he says.
“ ‘There’s not been a stranger out our way this
week past,’ I told him. ‘ls there any trouble?’
“ ‘Trouble ! There’s a proper rumpus on. Come,
I’ll walk with you as far as the bridge, and tell you
what I can of it. Damme,’ he says, ‘we’re on the
brink of a revolution, I do believe.’
“00 he came with me, and told me all he knew
v of the state of affairs. He was a good sort
of young fellow, Dick Foster, and inclined to be a
little disgusted with the doings of some of his brother
officers.
“It seemed that many troubles had come to a
head over a row between the Governor and John
Macarthur, who had resigned from the military some
time before and gone in for woolgrowing and trading.
He and Bligh never hit it off. They were both men
of strong character and imperious temper.
“ ‘Macarthur,’ says Dick Foster, ‘wants every-
thing done to suit his sheep-farming, and Billy Bligh
swears he’ll be damned if Macarthur shall have it
all his own way. You know the kind of language he
uses. Macarthur’s very bitter, and is all for turning
Bligh out of his government and putting him under
arrest. And things have come to a head. We’re on
the edge of a volcano.’
“I was astounded and begged him to explain the
present situation.
“ ‘Well, you see that schooner over there in the
Cove?’ he says, pointing. ‘She’s Macarthur’s vessel,
the Parramatta. He’s imported a still in her, and Bligh
won’t let him land it. Macarthur has played up over
the matter, and the Governor committed him for trial
before the Criminal Court. Six of our officers, pre-
sided over by the Judge-Advocate—that drunken swine
Dick Atkins. Macarthur protested against Atkins
trying him, since the fellow owed him money and had
never paid it back. Atkins wouldn’t listen to him,
and threatened to commit Macarthur to gaol—but
the others wouldn’t hear of this. So Atkins left the
court in a rage —and forgot to take his papers with
him. They didn’t scruple to overhaul them, and then
they found that the whole trial was a put-up job
between the Governor and Atkins, under the advice
of that convict attorney George Crossley. That made
’em mad.
“ ‘There was an exchange of compliments
between the Court and Government House —and then
the Court adjourned itself. An hour or so after, each
of them received a summons to appear before Bligh
this morning to answer to a charge of high treason.
Well, they’re not going, that’s all —and there’ll be
the devil’s own fun directly. Here we are,’ said Dick,
as we came to the bridge. ‘I won’t go any further.
Come to the Mess when you leave Government House.
You’ll hear the latest there.’
“AT Government House, I sent my name in to his
Excellency. Mr. Griffin, the secretary, came
out on to the verandah almost immediately, and told
me that Governor Bligh desired me to go into him
at once. I was shown into his private office, and
found him walking up and down like a caged lion. I
could see that he was in an ill mood—but he shook
hands with me warmly, and bade me sit down, and
asked me what my business was.
“ ‘Well, now, Tommy Clydesdale, what d’ye want
with me?’ says Bligh.
“I handed him my father’s letter, and he took it
and broke its seal, going over to the window to read
it. When he had finished he stared out of the window,
down at the town, for a while, and then began to
walk up and down thoughtfully, frowning at the
carpet and muttering to himself, with his hands behind
his back, the letter clutched in one of them. After
half a dozen turns or so, he halted and looked at me.
“ ‘How old are you, Tommy?’ he asked sud-
denly.
“ ‘Just turned twenty, your Excellency,’ I informed
him.
“‘Humph!’ he grunted. ‘Well, you’re a big
enough fellow to have some sense. D’ye think I can
trust ye with a matter of importance?’
“I murmured diffidently that my father trusted
me with a good many important affairs.
“ ‘Well, well,’ he grunts. ‘lf he reposes confidence
in you, I suppose I may do so also. D’ye know what
your father writes to me about?’
“ ‘No, your Excellency.’ I shook my head.
“ ‘Well, then, read this letter of his.’
“I have not got that letter, doctor, but I can well
remember the purport of what was in it. My father
mentioned that he had learned from Mr. Andrew
Thompson, of the Green Hills, who was the Gov-
ernor’s agent at the Hawkesbury, that the officers of
the Corps were prepared to go to any lengths against
Bligh. So he begged him to leave Sydney and to come
to the Hawkesbury, where the settlers were all on his
side. His best plan would be to sail in H.M.S. Por-
poise to Broken Bay, and go up the river in the ships
boats, taking with him all the muskets available and,
if possible, a couple of guns. He urged Bligh strongly
to do this, and to send him word by me that he
intended to adopt his suggestion, when he would im-
mediately set about preparing a defensive position
at the Green Hills.
“When I’d read the letter I handed it back. For
a while the Governor said nothing, staring out the
window. When he spoke, it was with the air of one
who’d arrived at a momentous decision.
“ ‘Wait a moment,’ he said. ‘I will give you a
note to your father. You will take it to him at your
best speed—and, damme, see that you swallow it,
rather than that it should fall into the hands of the
enemy. Damn it, it has come to that—that I’ve go
to regard the very men from whom I should expect
every assistance in my government as enemies.
“I have that letter, doctor, and you shall read it.
You shall hear why it did not arrive.


Mr. Clydesdale got up
and went to his desk. Un-
locking a drawer, he took out
a faded document, and
handed it to his guest. It
read as follows: —-
“Government House,
“Sydney,
“January 26, 1808.
“My dear Clydesdale,
“A thousand thanks. 1
will sail for Broken Bay
in the Porpoise to-morrow,
and will join you at the
Green Hills. I will bring
arms and ammunition. —
Yours, Wm. Bligh.”
“And this did not reach
your father, Mr. Clydes-
dale?” observed the doctor
as he handed the paper back.
“No. Not until two
days too late. His Excel-
lency’s unhappy dispatch
rider was captured by the
rebels— most ridiculously. I
can laugh about it now, and
see the humor of it,” smiled
the old man, “but it was
many a long day before I was able to do so. I for-
gave Dick Foster afterwards —he married my step-
sister—but, Lord, I’d have had his blood in those
days if I could have.
‘‘ J WAS outgeneralled, deluded, fooled —turned
1 into a complete ass.
“I rode away from Government House with
Bligh’s parting injunction to be careful of the letter
ringing in my ears, crossed the Tank Stream and
turned out of Bridge-street into Sergeant-Major’s Row
to take the road to Parramatta. I intended to water
my horse at the half-way house, thinking I had best
make my way back to the Hawkesbury as soon as
possible. On the corner, waiting for me, was Ensign
Foster. He hailed me with great enthusiasm.
“ ‘Hullo, Tommy! ’ he cried cheerily. ‘Bless my
soul, you seem to be in a hurry.- Don’t tell me you
were blackguard enough to think of riding off without
looking a fellow up. Come into the Mess, I’ve a hun-
dred things to talk to you about.’
“ ‘I must get home as soon as I can, Dick,’ I told
him. ‘l’ve a message from the Governor for my
father.’
“ ‘The devil you have! Well, half an hour won’t
delay you. Come and have a drink and a bite of
something to eat. You’ll have to refresh yourself
along the road, so it might as well be here.’
“I had breakfasted at six o’clock at Larra’s inn,
and was ravenously hungry, and I knew that the horse
wanted a drink, at least. So I allowed myself to be
persuaded, dismounted and led my horse through
the entrance to the Barrack Square—and so did my
father’s great plan for saving the Governor come to
naught.
“Inside the gate stood Lieutenant Minchin, the
Adjutant. I knew him, and he saluted me courteously,
but a little amused smile hovered round his mouth.
Immediately we were past him ‘Shut that gate! ’ he
roared, and two soldiers of the guard had my retreat
cut off before I realised what was happening.
“ ‘Now then, Mr. Clydesdale,’ the Adjutant
laughed, ‘I fear you must regard yourself as —er —
as a prisoner of war. We can’t afford to let you go
home to the Hawkesbury just yet awhile. Our friend
Foster will look after you. Pray treat our guest suit-
ably, Ensign Foster. We would not wish him to enter-
tain a grudge against the Corps, you know. Take
him to the ante-room for some refreshment. I’ll be
with you in a few minutes. You will find most excel-
lent company in the Mess, Mr. Clydesdale—the very
salt of the earth, so far as this settlement is concerned.
Much better than you have lately been enjoying at
Government House, I’ll go bail on’t.’
“I was so furious I would not speak to Dick
Foster, but I went with him to the Mess, and in the
ante-room saw all that I was to see of that day’s
strange doings. Dick was full of apologies—but I
was a prisoner.
< ‘ HE ante-room was thronged with officers ex-
* citedly discussing the all-absorbing topic of Mr.
Macarthur’s trial. We had not been there five minutes
when the conversation rose from a buzz to an uproar,
and culminated in a burst of cheering as a pale and
bilious-looking but very determined gentleman
walked in with Captain Brabyn and Lieutenant
Minchin.
“ ‘Gentlemen—three cheers for Captain Mac-
arthur and the liberties of Britain,’ shouted Mr.
Minchin. They responded with a roar, whilst Mr.
Macarthur stood still, bowing to right and left.
“When the cheering subsided he addressed them.
I have never forgotten his words.
“ ‘Well, gentlemen’—he spoke in a harsh, some-
what unpleasant voice—‘the sands are nearly run out.
I know not if there be any here who can face the
prospect of losing the liberties for which our fathers
fought and died, but I know that I cannot do so. A
just and impartial trial is the right of every freeborn
Briton. But what do we see here in Sydney? A pros-
titution of justice and the dearly-bought rights of
British citizenship. Before God, I protest, solemnly,
that the freedom and the very life of this community
are at stake to-day. If you permit this arrogant naval
Mr. Macarthur spoke in a harsh, somewhat unpleasant voice.
officer to inflict the harsh usages of the quarter-deck
upon the free men of this young country, then, I
say, New South Wales is no place for me. Better
the desert of the Sahara and freedom than Eden and
tyranny. I’d rather suffer a hundred deaths —aye, with
all the tortures known to barbarism —than submit to
such a state of things as Captain Bligh is seeking to
impose upon us.’
“Damnable claptrap, of course —but impressive.
John Macarthur had personality. A selfish man, I
think, but one who could do things.
. “That was all I saw of January the 26th, 1808 —
the twentieth anniversary of the founding of the
colony. I did not see —though I could hear —the
battalion parade at sunset, or watch them march
across to Government House with Colonel Johnston
at their head. I was locked in a room, with a sentry
at the door, all the afternoon, and it was only on the
following morning that I was released and permitted
to return home. I heard the drums and fifes rattling
and squealing ‘The British Grenadiers’ as they
marched out through the gateway, but that was all.
And I only had my own infernal silliness to thank
for having fallen into such a trap.
“My father was very angry with me—though,
of course, my capture made no difference. They did
not give the Governor time to get aboard the Por-
poise. They forestalled our plan by arresting him that
evening.”
“And his letter to your father?”
“Oh, they never even asked for it. They had
nabbed the bearer. That was enough.”
'CROSS DESERT SANDS
BY HERBERT HORNE.
ATKINS told me about his Aunt Jane.
He asked did I ever listen to radio thrillers.
I replied that on the one occasion I had
attempted to follow one of the epics offering,
I had left the hero, gunless, defending the girl he
loved against a yellow horde on Wednesday night,
and found him, after I had missed a few instalments,
with his engine cut out over the South Atlantic on
Monday night the following week.
“Aunt Jane is different,” said Atkins. “She can
give you, at a moment’s notice, the latest bulletin on
any current epic. She could tell you how the hero
and the girl he loved escaped the yellow horde by
his imitating the mating call of the male typhus
germ, causing his enemies to flee in terror. Also
how he came to be over the South Atlantic with
his engine cut out.
“She has a short-wave set, and occasionally she
gets the stories overlapped, but I doubt if many
people can tell a story with such sympathy as Aunt
Jane. Perhaps if you’re not doing anything to-night
you might come round to find out what did happen
over the South Atlantic.”
“As a matter of fact,” I said, “I had intended
listening to see if the favorite won the Woop Creek
Cup in spite of the doped chaff, but no doubt your
aunt will be able to enlighten me.”
“Of course,” said Atkins with pride. “I’ll call
for you later.”
A UNT JANE told us all about it.
** “The one that begins at eight from 3AA—
no, WOG. That’s in America, I think ; anyhow their
voices sound American. It’s every Tuesday, Thursday
and Saturday. The man is really awfully good. He’s
one of those people who don’t tell their names ; you
know, they go about not telling their names, nobody
knows who they are.”
“Secret Service men, Aunt Jane?” inquired
Atkins helpfully.
“Yes, that’s it. Well, the girl is helping him to
find the plans that were stolen by the other two.
That man —the leader of the foreign gang, I mean —
he has the wickedest voice I’ve ever heard. Anyhow,
when they come into the room —you can just see
them sneaking through the window —the girl is try-
ing to revive the man. She was just too late to stop
him taking the doped drink, you know, though you
can’t be certain if he was, he’s so clever. Then you
can see he’s only pretending, and then he throws the
other drink right in their faces and snatches the
revolver out of his hand.
“Then he’s on an island. They’ve captured him,
and a submarine that the mysterious man with the
scar has stolen —I don’t quite know what he is yet,
but I think it’s probably that man from India who
was disgraced, or under a cloud, or something. It
may not be, though. But, anyhow, it comes up and
they talk together. You should hear them; they
have to mention numbers —you know, ‘Twenty-five.’
No, I don’t think it can be the man from India. He
is in another one.
“The other night when I thought I was listening
to this story I suddenly realised that it turned to the
one about the man from India. That’s exciting, too.
I don’t know whether the maid interferes with it or
not. I think she does. One of the knobs is loose,
and I’m certain it wasn’t a little while ago. But it’s
terribly exciting. His aeroplane breaks down over
Arabia, you know, and all the others are miles ahead
of him, but the Sheik recognises him. It was in the
war, you know ; and he did the Sheik a good turn.
One of the foreign aeroplanes had done something
to him and you can almost see him trying to fix it
up. The Sheik has a beautiful voice—so deep—and
then you hear him start and he roars away. Of course
you know he’ll win, but it’s terribly exciting. The
girl’s nice, too. She was so brave helping him to get
the horse out of the burning stable. Oh no —that’s
not right. That’s the other one, but she’s nice, too.
“You could hear the flames crackling, and if the
horse won it would clear her father. He was in their
hands, you see. Of course, he didn’t really do it,
but it looked like it, and they were going to hand
him over to the police. Of course, the horse won
and they were able to pay the mortgage. It’s near
the 120. It was so crackly last night that I couldn’t
hear if he had to sell the champion pig or not, so I
turned to one near the 250”
“Excuse me, Aunt Jane,” interrupted Atkins,
“but do you know that one where the hero is over
the South Atlantic with his engine cut out? What
happened to him?”
Aunt Jane snapped: “I was just going to listen
to see when Miss Smith rang up to tell me to be sure
to listen to some absurd thing she has been hearing.
She tried to explain the story so that I could pick up
the thread, but she rambles so, and by the time she’d
finished I’d missed hearing what happened to him.
So annoying.”
“Yes, indeed,” agreed Atkins.
I nodded too.


TO-DAY’S MYSTERY STORY VIDE CAPT. PETERS
“JERICHO’S JUDGMENT”
Walter J. Beasley,
F.R.G.S.
A fascinating and enthralling work on modern archaeology. First edition exhausted; second edition ready.
In “Jericho’s Judgment” is presented, in an entrancing manner, the recent discoveries by archaeologists on the site of
ancient Jericho. A dramatic reconstruction and confirmation of the Fall of Jericho that grips the rea er more
powerfully than any modern mystery story.
FASCINATING, SENSATIONAL AND YET LIVING!
9 .. . ... »Ann A M XL CTATT ITT
ORDER NOW FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS, 5/3.
MARSHALL, MORGAN & SCOTT, LTD., PUBLISHERS.
e
suspect rusticity of the English mangel-wurzel
school, by the modernity of its atmosphere. But it is
not gutter modernity after the manner of Hemingway
or the “proletarian” novelists ; Dreiser’s treatment of
The Titan, the romanticising of Big Business, is its-
forerunner, and the approach is unmistakably Ameri-
can rather than French. Without its saying so, it is
a twentieth-century comment on older methods of
travel, on the accepted romance of the sea. It feels
harder and colder, and one wonders what Conrad
would have produced if he had had to dip his brush
in the air instead of the rich mass of the ocean, but
its accuracy is impressive. Saint-Exupery exploits
the anthropomorphism that makes the ’plane % liv-
ing thing to the pilot exactly as Kipling used the ship
in “McAndrew’s Hymn”:
He bent down into the cockpit; the luminous dial-
hands were beginning to show up. The pilot read their
figures one by one; all was going well. He felt at ease
up here, snugly ensconced. He passed his fingers along
a steel, rib and felt the stream of life that flowed in it;
the metal did not vibrate, yet it was alive. The
engine’s five-hundred horse-power bred in its texture a
very gentle current, fraying its ice-cold rind into a
velvety bloom. Once again the pilot in full flight
experienced neither giddiness nor any thrill; only the
mystery of metal turned to living flesh.
If the drama of a ’plane lost in a cyclone did not
follow the tranquillity of the opening, Night Flight
would still be outstanding merely as a piece of de-
scriptive writing. Wyndham Lewis once perpetrated
some of his most devastating bombardiering by quot-
ing the first pages of various novels, showing that the
opening of Point Counter Point was peevish and
shoddy. No fault, except perhaps a sentimentalising
of landscape which is necessary for contrast with the
storm later, can be found with the first page of Night
Flight. The translator, Stuart Gilbert, can write
prose: —-
Already, beneath him, through the golden evening,
the shadowed hills had dug their furrows and the plains
grew luminous with long-enduring light. For in these
lands the ground gives off this golden glow persistently,
just as, even when winter goes, the whiteness of the
snow persists.
Fabien, the pilot bringing the Patagonia airmail from
the far south to Buenos Ayres, could mark night coming
on by certain signs that called to mind the waters of a
harbor—a calm expanse beneath, faintly rippled by the
lazy clouds; and he seemed to be entering a vast anchor-
age, an immensity of blessedness.
Or else he might have fancied he was taking a quiet
walk in the calm of evening, almost like a shepherd.
The Patagonian shepherds move, unhurried, from one
flock to another; and he, too, moved from one town to
another, the shepherd of those little towns. Every two
hours he met another of them, drinking at its riverside
or browsing on its plain.
As a story, the book lacks actuality. The ’plane
is real, the calm night-sky and the horror of the storm
are real, but the protagonists are symbols rather than
people. Fabien is not a Fabien recognisable by the
thousand twists and quirks that make up a person-
ality ; he is the Pilot at the controls, the Pilot
struggling in the storm, the Pilot whose last radio
said “Coming down. Entering the clouds.” His wife,
who waits for him in mounting terror at Buenos
Ayres, is any wife.
With Riviere, the manager at Buenos Ayres, on
whose controlled anxieties the story focuses more
compellingly than on the lost pilot, Saint-Exupery
has made an attempt to create a personality. Serene,
terrifyingly efficient, bearing the responsibility for
night-flying in the company and exalted by the mysti-
cal feeling that he bears the responsibility for the
weather, the stars and the on-rushing cyclone, Riviere
dominates the book. The twinge of pain in his right
side, his momentary weariness at the futility of en-
deavor because his own death, heralded in the pain,
will some day bring all his work to nothing; his soft-
ening after the ruthless dismissal of an employee ; his
reluctance to meet the pilot’s wife in her distress —•
these are attempts to endow him with “character.”
But he remains impersonal. He is larger than life,
and as a symbol he is larger than Commerce. He
stands for Time, or Progress, or The Twentieth
Century:
With folded arms Riviere passed among the clerks
and halted at a window to muse and listen. If he had
held up even one departure that would be an end of
night flights: But by launching this other mail into the
darkness Riviere had forestalled the weaklings who to-
morrow would disclaim him.
Victory, defeat —the words were meaningless. Life
lies behind these symbols and life is ever bringing
new symbols into being The work in progress was
all that mattered. ,
Perhaps it is only because flying is new that such
a story as this, without real people, can seem so power-
ful. There are not even the advantages of closely-
observed landscape, hills and beasts and vegetation
that can give actuality to a non-human story of the
countryside. But because flying is new, Night Flight’s
poetic method is justified. Sometimes a phrase illu-
mines the whole scene, like lightning: during the early
calm, the ’plane passed high over a dozen storms,
“like lands at war.” After a nerve-racking battle in
the darkness of the cyclone, Fabien sees a rift and
climbs into the starlight; lost, running out of petrol,
he knows his death is certain, but is overwhelmingly
grateful to be out of the dark: “Below him still the
storm was fashioning another world, thridded with
squalls and cloudbursts and lightnings, but turning to
the stars a face of crystal snow.”
Saint-Exupery leaves the ’plane there. Wireless
messages tell the rest of the story, and the atmosphere
of the office saves the book from ending with too wild
a burst of poetics. There is no feeling of personal
tragedy ; the characters are all too remote; but, here,
told as vividly as it can be told, is the drama one
glimpses when the newspapers headline one of the
new shipwrecks—a ’plane crash.
Study of Japan.
Professor G. C. Allen, now of the University of
Liverpool, was for years attached to the Government
College at Nagoya, and in 1936 visited Japan again
at the request of the Bureau of International Research
of Harvard University and Radcliffe College. Japan :
The Hungry Guest (Allen and Unwin) is the fruit of
his research and of his everyday knowledge. It is a
substantial book, and its survey of Japanese history,
institutions and character have all the appearance of
impartiality.
Allen recalls the opening-up of Japan by the
Western Powers, and the industrial and territorial
problems that ensued. Of the people he says they are
slow to move but very emotional in their political life.
Their leaders never bother to appeal to their reason,
so that their speeches seem incredibly childish to the
Western onlooker. The doctrine of nationalism
flourishes in this atmosphere. The people look upon
themselves as the heirs of the failing Western democ-
racies.
Apart from the worship of the Emperor, no
strong religious or moral code gives continuity to
national life. New religions are for ever springing up
and attracting great numbers of adherents. Generally
they are put down by the police, who have almost
absolute power, without any trouble.
In business methods Western efficiency and
Japanese paternalism exist side by side. A modern
firm engaged in pearl culture sees nothing incon-
gruous in giving its employees three days’ holiday a
year to pray for the souls of the oysters killed in the
course of business. Naturalness of behavior has not
yet been wiped out by alien influences. On one occa-
sion during Allen’s professorship at Nagoya there
was a heavy shower of rain just before a lecture, and
he arrived at his classroom to find all the students sit-
ting on their cushions stark naked, gravely preparing
to take down the lecture. Their clothes were hung
round the room to dry.
To the problem of Japanese aggression to-day
Allen can offer no solution. He traces its rise and
appeals for understanding of the character and prob-
lems of the Japanese.
Two Books of Stories.
One of the curiosities of the present day is .the
steady persistence of the literary short story in book
form at a time when periodicals devoted to this branch
of art have practically disappeared in both Britain
and America. Two recent books are V. S. Pritchett’s
You Make Your Own Life (Chatto and Windus) and
The Money’s All Right, by Leslie Halward (Michael
Joseph). Neither is worth top marks in its entirety
but each is of interest.
At his best, Pritchett commands a flashing brevity
and sets a standard that he has never reached in his
novels. In three of his stories in particular he turns
off something real and very much of the modern
world. In “Sense of Humor” grief plays a grim joke.
“Main Road” shows a couple of hungry jobless men
on the tramp. At nightfall they come to a poverty-
stricken settlement of smallholders and pass, begging
without much hope, from door to door, in imagina-
tion “grazing off everything they see.” They meet and
despoil a petty thief more helpless than themselves,
then each, out of the dark limbo where he was Any-
man, reverts to his own personality. The third is a
very short tale, “Eleven O’clock,” in which a milk-
man’s cow munches a hedge, her progress telling the
tale by inference.
There are 11 other stories, all good but none
quite so good, and they range in length from a novel-
ette about a woman who tries to catch a young man’s
attention and, failing, annexes his act of bravery to
her despised husband, to an anecdote about a con-
fidence trick in a bar. Perhaps Pritchett’s power is in
being able to show, and with perfect compatibility, a
shady and a kind side of life simultaneously.
There are 26 stories in Halward’s The Money’s
All Right, all short and of the kind that would have
been considered revolutionary once, but to-day are
acceptable in the most conventional quarters. Most
of them are pathetic in tone —a little girl humiliated
by the gift of a pair of boots, a man reduced by
poverty to petty crime, a man’s home life broken up
by a joke in a pub.
An occasional touch of the macabre creeps in, or
a touch of sentiment, as in “Event,” where two young
people too poor to marry buy an engagement ring.
Everything in these stories is done small, but it is
done with facility.
Mess Observation.
As Gertrude Stein might have observed, “Mass
Observation” is mess observation, which is much
better than the usual mis-observation, but you get
such a mass of observation that you miss everything
but the mess. Or, to be more precise than Britain
by Mass Observation (Penguin Special) deserves,
Charles Madge and Tom Harrisson have put together
a dreadful jumble of facts, adding up to no more
startling conclusion than that Britain is a large, con-
fused country.
The book is a portrait of the British people in
the days of crisis—from September last year to
March, 1939. All it does is to remind everybody of
what everybody knows: that the ordinary man doesn’t
believe the dailies, yet can’t help forming his opinions
from them ; that he isn’t vastly interested in politics
except in moments of crisis; that he has no real say
in matters of high policy, yet when sufficiently
aroused he can force the Government’s hand; that
normally it is meaningless for a newspaper to say
“England is calm” or “England is aroused,” but that
in exceptional times it is true to say those things.
The observers believe “The whole crisis between
Godesberg and Munich was only forced on the Gov-
ernment by public opinion so outraged that it uniquely
stormed the intellectual barriers and got through to
the big shots before the leaders could settle any-
thing.” That is very likely true —Sydney talkie audi-
ences have booed the celluloid shadow of Hitler. The
observers leave the reader to draw for himself the
conclusion that if the masses have this power in
emergencies they should surely receive accurate in-
formation from the dailies before the emergency
arises.
If Mass Observation had co-ordinated and sum-
marised its information there might be some value
in it. One might even be able to draw useful con-
clusions from their chapters on a folk-custom and
on the Lambeth Walk. As it is, Britain merely makes
the very confused statement that Britain is inhabited
by British people doing the sort of things they do.
It may conceivably be of use to the politician to
know that one man’s solution for the troubles of the
world was “Stop whiffle-whoffiing,” but it probably
isn’t. The book’s most interesting statement (by
implication) is that the British “masses” don’t mind
being mass-observed by M.O.’s two thousand volun-
tary rubbernecks.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . * .
The Brandons: Angela Thirkell (Hamish Hamil-
ton). Light English comedy-romance. The leading
character, in spite of having grown-up children, “can’t
help attracting men.” A prize vegetable-marrow
plays an important role.
Hoax Millions: F. E. Mills Young. Devon and
London. Unexpected wealth suddenly descends upon
an obscure family. Socialist-capitalist discussion en-
twined on an eternal triangle. Happy ending.
Slack Water: A. D. Divine (Collins). Thriller,
with good local color, strong characters and a pro-
letarian bias thrown in. Setting, Port of London.
Verse . . .
The King’s Chamberlain: “Bartimaeus” (H.
Pudney and Co., Ltd., Melbourne). Blurb, reflecting
the style of the contents, says it’s his “latest book of
vital Empire verse: it Praises, Dispraises, Bites,
Bewails, Beseeches Australia!”
General . . .
Buddhism, Its Doctrines and Methods : Alexander
David-Neel (Bodley Head). Unlike many such
treatises, this manages to inculcate in the reader
some respect for the Oriental philosophy expounded,
and to suggest that just possibly the thinkers of Ind
have evolved a brand of wisdom that owes nothing
to and need fear nothing from Planch’s quantum
theory and the relativists.
Beyond Politics: Christopher Dawson (Sheed
and Ward). The author discusses modern political
developments, incidentally separating Liberalism
(“aristocratic individualism”) from democracy, and
arguing from the apparent success of propaganda in
dictator-ruled communities that the democratic States
need some agency for the propagation of Christian
culture if they are to survive.


10
THAT USES NO MORI
CURRENT THAN THIS*
//
as
fin?*
VUa'.'k
o
K
?SS
ii
i
t&* tE
■-:■
ni
SSPI
to
iPXI*
0
rM>'°
yOV3"
*SK
YOU'VE heard of a man run-
ning a business on a shoe-
string. Well, here is a country
radio set that operates on a current
consumption equal to that of an
ordinary torch bulb! Think of it!
Economy of operation never before
approached in country radio set
construction a truly amazing
achievement brought about by the
perfection of the wonderful new
1.4 volt valve, latest development
in the field of radio science.
Make sure that you see and hear
one of these new 1.4 volt radio re-
ceivers demonstrated before you
even consider the purchase of a
new radio this year.
1.4 volt radio is designed to operate exclusively
on dry batteries, the smoothest, most efficient
and most dependable source of power supply
for country radio. Uses only two Superdyne
Radio "B" Batteries and one of the new X 250
1.5 volt "A" Batteries that offer almost un-
believably long periods of service with the
new 1.4 volt valves. Entirely eliminates the
expense, worry and inconvenience ol recharg-
ing accumulators, thus making 1.4 volt radio
as simple and trouble-free as the most modern
A.C. set. ....
EQUIPPED WITH
▼
I— l
MANY MAKES,
MANY MODELS TO
CHOOSE FROM
Practically every radio set manu-
facturer in Australia has enthusias-
tically adopted 1.4 volt radio and
is now producing special models
for use in country districts. Ask
your local radio dealer to arrange
a demonstration before you decide
on any new set for 1939. If you
have any difficulty simply write to
Box 37, Mascot, N.S.W. for com-
plete information.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
é
Steppe's
The Escort of the Keys in the Tower.
There are, in such a vast world as London, many curious ceremonies associated with some phase of its multiple life the visitor never
sees or possibly ever hears of. Many of these are of decidedly “ancient foundation.” One, assuredly not the least interesting, is
gone through every night at the Tower, and is directly associated with the safe custody of that fortress and the priceless wealth there
reposed. The ceremony may be called “The Escort of the Keys,” and for obvious reasons is not witnessed by one out of every hundred
thousand, or even more, visitors who come to the Metropolis each year. The ceremony is old, going back to 1485, the year Henry VII.
became King. The procedure may be briefly described. At 10 p.m. immediately after curfew, the chief warder, in his medieval uniform,
proceeds to the guardroom, carrying a somewhat formidable bunch of keys. He asks for an escort, with “a lantern lit,” to accompany
him on his gate-locking rounds. An escort consisting of an n.c.o. and four men is detailed, and accompanies the chief warder, with
bayonets fixed and the lantern duly lighted. On leaving the guardroom the bearer of “the King’s Keys,” as they are called, is saluted
by the office-in-charge, and when departing the Spur Guard turns out and presents arms as the Keys pass. At the Outer Barrier the
chief warder and escort are joined by a second warder, who assists in locking the gates. The procession returns to the Middle Tower,
built by Edward I. (1272-1327), but entirely refaced, and marches back over the moat to the Byward Tower, built by Edward I. and
Richard 11. (1377-1390), which is really the great Gatehouse of the Outer Ward. The gates being locked, the assistant warder remains
here throughout the night on duty. The escort, passing the Bell Tower, of tragic memory, turns towards the Traitor’s Gate, where a
sentry on main guard is posted. Observing the escort approach he lowers his bayonet and calls tf\e challenge, “Who goes there?”
The chief warder replies “The Keys.” “Whose Keys?” again challenges the sentry. “King George’s Keys,” replies the chief warder,
whereupon the sentry, raising his bayonet and saluting, says “Pass King George’s Keys ; all’s well; God save King George. Arriving
at the King’s or Governor’s House, after all the gates have been securely locked, and the Tower fortress made “safe,” the Keys are
handed into the custody of the Constable of the Tower for the night ; the escort returns to the guardroom and the ceremonial is over.


A COMPLETE CHANGE, IF NECESSARY.
"By 376 votes to 145 House of Commons passed a bill intrducing conscription, which is to begin with mon in their twenty-first year."
" I don't want to fight; but, by thunder, if I do"-


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotcli ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
DEAKIN TO MENZIES.
Mr. Menzies has formed his U.A.P. Ministry, and,
with the material available, has done a pretty good
job. It would look better if Mr. Cameron, Mr.
McEwen and Mr. Fadden had been included instead
of three of the gentlemen who have been given port-
folios, but Dr. Page’s attack on his destined successor
when Parliament reassembled made that impossible ;
nor will it be desirable while Dr. Page retains a
shadow of authority over the Country party.
Dr. Page has made a sort of apology for his ill-
conditioned outburst, not to the new Prime Minister,
but to “all non-returned-soldier members of the
various parties.” He had the face to assert that his
“remarks in Parliament were directed solely at the
present international situation in relation to the guid-
ance of Australian affairs” and were aimed at “secur-
ing a well-directed and unified effort from all sections
of men in Australia.” But his pose of indignant
patriot having been rejected, he will not be accepted
in the part of injured patriot.
In some quarters it is expected that Dr. Page will
take an early opportunity of challenging the new Gov-
ernment on a no-confidence motion. This would force
at least seven Country-party members—Messrs.
Thorby, Nock, Collins (N.S.W.), McEwen, Rankin,
Paterson (Vic.) and Hunter (Q.) —to choose between
abandoning his leadership, as Mr. Corser and Mr.
Fadden have done, and committing political suicide ;
and they are not at all likely to do that. Neither will
Mr. Badman (S.A.) vote for an immediate election, and
Mr. Prowse and Mr. Gregory (W.A.) will remember
that their 1937 majorities were uncomfortably small.
Even if Dr. Page is allowed to retaifi his position—
which, of course, will mean that there will be no C.P.
Ministers, though under other leadership there would
be C.P. Ministers very prompriy—the Government
looks safe enough for/16 months; and in 16 months
an energetic Government can do a lot.
Realising for energy, Mr. Menzies has
given youth There are 16 Ministers, 11 of
whom are of State ; nine of the sixteen, in-
cluding the P.M., are in the forties and two are in
the early thirties. The only real veteran is Mr.
Hughes. He is Attorney-General and Minister of
Industry. Mr. Lawson, one of the young fellows, is
Minister of Trade and Customs. Mr. Stewart’s pas-
sion for national fitness and paternalism has been
gratified by his being named Minister of Health and
Social Services. Senator McLeay succeeds Dr. Page
as Minister of Commerce.
The late Prime Minister was P.M. only. Mr.
Menzies has taken over the Treasury from Mr. Casey,
though not, it is explained, for long. Mr. Gullett is
to look after External Affairs. It is to be hoped that
this doesn’t mean more essays in trade-diversion or
more tuning-in to Britain. The time has come, as
the Canadian Prime Minister hinted very forcibly,
when Britain should do some tuning-in to the
Dominions.
Some of those British politicians should be in-
formed very plainly that, while Australia will never
turn Father Bull down, it doesn’t want to be in a
war for Greeks, Rumanians, Yugoslavs, Poles or Rus-
sians. Peace is Australia’s greatest need —such a peace
as Sweden, broken by crazy Continental wars, has
had for upwards of a century, with a vast increase in
national wealth, reputation and happiness—and Aus-
tralia’s interests require, and always will require, the
maintenance of open sea routes. The sea routes
might be all closed if Spain and Portugal were need-
lessly alienated, and if Italy and Japan were need-
lessly antagonised, by an alliance with the one dic-
tator country which is without sea-power in the
Atlantic, the Mediterranean and the Pacific —Russia.
These elementary but supremely important truths
are ignored by British politicians of all parties. They
should be reminded of them without loss of time, and
no one could do it in pithier language, as well as with
greater authority, than Mr. Menzies. Australia would
feel happier if he took External Affairs himself and
got one of his young men to do the routine work.
On the administrative side, defence is to get sys-
tematic attention at last. Mr. Street remains the
Minister, but there is to be a new department of
Supply and Development, with Mr. Casey in charge
and Mr. Holt to help. Mr. Street, for his part, will
be assisted by Mr. Fairbairn, who was a Great War
aviator, and Mr. Fairbairn will also be Minister of
Civil Aviation (he flies his own machine from his Vic-
torian home to Canberra) and Vice-President of the
Executive Council. Diligence may be expected of
all these gentlemen, and of Senator Collett, who com-
manded a distinguished A.I.F. battalion, the 28th, and
whose experience will be available to all. On the face
of it, this division of essential duties is vastly superior
to the arrangement—or lack of arrangement —it super-
sedes. But administration is not everything.
In May, 1907, an Australian Prime Minister was
in London. He spoke there on the defence of Aus-
tralia—in a strain which, never before heard in
Britain, has been all too rare in his own Common-
wealth. Some of his ringing sentences were preserved.
I believe that with little delay you will see universal
service compulsory throughout Australia. If it serves
only to direct the attention of our people upon the
questions involved in national defence, upon a study of
our obligations abroad to other communities, to the
obligations of the Empire, to the civilised world in
which it moves—if it only served to do this the time
of compulsory training spent by every man would be
well spent.
If you want a community sober, if you want a com-
munity placable and reasonable, if you want a com-
munity which realises what war is, and what war means,
you must go to the community in which every man and
every household shares the risk of war. While you
only pay for your defence you can afford to be inter-
ested in reading about the spectacles that war presents.
When you share the responsibility, you will read that
story with quite other eyes and other sympathies.
And surely this is the nation we desire to see: slow
to anger, and not subject to passion, not played upon
by individuals or individual interests, but moving calmly,
solidly and unitedly when it is called upon to move
at all.
Such a nation commands the respect of the would-be
aggressor, because he realises what the action of such a
people means when they are unduly provoked, when
the conscience of the nation is awakened, and the judg-
ment of the nation responds, and the resort is to the
dread arbitrament of war.
The nation from which the aggressor will shrink is
the nation which has prepared itself in peace, and
faces, unmoved, all the sacrifices and risks of war.
The speaker was Alfred Deakin. He was a native
of Victoria, a graduate of Melbourne University and
a barrister, as Mr. Menzies is. He lived to see the
good work done, but not to see it undone as —in a
false spirit of economy and in fatuous reliance on the
League—it was undone nearly 10 years ago. Mr.
Menzies believes in universal training and liability to
service, as Deakin believed. In these more doubtful
days, it is his duty as leader of the nation to take up
the task that others laid down —to enforce the truly
democratic measure that was not repealed, though its
operation was suspended, in 1929. Defeat might be
his portion at the polls, but—to quote his own words
on the national-insurance issue—“defeat in such a
cause would be honorable,” and he would have some-
thing great to show for it.
Britain Faces Compulsion.
By the inescapable force of circumstances Britain has
been driven to face the introduction of compulsory
national service. It is a necessary consequence of the
foreign policy of protective commitments entered into
after the Czechoslovakia grab; logically, it should
have preceded them.
In every other department of defence except the
training and control of man-power Britain has made
enormous strides forward. Even in man-power there
has been a vast improvement since September. By
voluntary effort A.R.P. and other civilian defence
organisation has been greatly improved, and recruit-
ing for the Army has been more than doubled. But
recruiting would have to be multiplied nearly six
times this year to provide the force that was given
out as necessary when the new foreign policy, with
its hitherto unheard-of commitments, was announced.
At the present time Britain is actually worse off
for trained man-power than are insignificant coun-
tries of the prospective line-up. A recent estimate of
the trained soldiers who could be effective at once
in the event of war credits Germany with 6,000,000;
Italy with 3,500,000; Hungary with 700,000. The
trained man-power of France that could be at once
effective is put at 5,000,000; Poland, 2,500,000;
Rumania, 1,500,000; Turkey, 1,000,000; Yugoslavia,
1,000,000 ; Greece, 600,000. Russia, if any reliance
is to be put on its statistics, the likelihood of its fully
co-operating, or the quality of its troops, would enter
the lists with 11,000,000 trained men. Britain’s figure
is put at 500,000.
In Britain, as in Australia in the brief period
during which any real attempt has been made to
recover a dangerously weak position, the main effort
has been towards organising and improving the
strength of the home front, both defensively and for
the supply of war materials and machines. This is
all to the good, but it would be better to face up to
the fact, without any further evasion, that if war
comes it will once again be fought out between men.
There are other factors; but there is still no
substitute for men. And untrained men are a sui-
cidal substitute for trained soldiers.
Despite that, if Australia again faces up to com-
pulsory national service there will be, as in Britain,
powerful opposition—powerful enough, possibly, to
defeat the Government nationally courageous enough
to introduce it. That this opposition will come here,
as in Britain, mostly from the strongest advocates of
a firm (pronounced aggressive) foreign policy is only
in accord with the complete incapacity of these people
to face plain realities, and when they advocate a
policy to be able to consider its consequences and
be prepared to pay the price.
The fact that the strongest opposition in Britain
comes now from the very people who all along have
advocated policies that must have led directly to
wars against Italy and in Spain, in China and in Central
Europe must make extraordinary reading in Euro-
pean countries, both for those who have been brought
to count on Tommy Atkins fighting their wars for
them, and those who very reasonably criticise Britain
as the country that has everything for fighting a war
except an army. It needs no pointing out that this
present stand of Britain’s furious interventionists and
war-policy advocates is shabbily in keeping with their
shabby record. Compulsory national service comes
to them as a just retribution.
Compulsory national service continues to be
anathema to others besides those shabby people. Its
opponents include some whose patriotism, good sense
and ability to face realities cannot be questioned. One
of these, Sir lan Hamilton, referred in an Anzac Day
message to a matter about which nobody could have
the slightest doubt —the splendid quality of the volun-
tary forces of Britain and Dominions who did the
early fighting in the last war:
I. wonder if by compulsory service we could have
produced a force of quite that calibre. Looking back
at our wonderful Imperial military successes under the
voluntary system, I think it might denote some weakness
on our part if we now changed to the compulsory
system.
As far as this message referred to the Australians
to whom it was specially addressed, its argument
comes up against the hard fact that a notable propor-
tion of those first Diggers had been compulsory
trainees. This did not prevent their volunteering, and
the fact that they were products of Australia’s uni-
versal-training system certainly did no harm to their
calibre as soldiers. Without that backing and stiffen-
ing of trained men provided by the universal service
system, the Diggers could never have been licked
into such shape as they were in for Gallipoli. As it
was, that licking into shape took more than six
months’ intensive training, and experts have blamed
the fact that, even then, the men were not properly
trained, for what was, after all, a serious military
failure.
Much the same sentiments are advanced by other
good soldiers, among them Major-General J. F. C.
Fuller, who made the trip to Berlin for Herr Hitler’s
birthday party, and should there have seen a com-
plete enough refutation of his belief that “the volun-
teer soldier is morally superior to the conscript.”
Another good soldier lately heard on the same theme
from Britain is Lieut.-Col. T. A. Lowe: “I believe
that one volunteer is worth 10 pressed men.” It is
only an old idea in another shape—that one Briton
is worth 10 foreigners. The performance of the con-
script German and conscript French armies in the
last war ought to have been enough to make nonsense
of such notions for all time. What voluntary soldiers
did in the name of Britain early in the war, and in
the name of Australia and Maoriland throughout, is
beyond criticism ; it is also beyond question that the
greatest British successes in the war were obtained in
the last four months of 1918, by which time the
British Army had become a conscript force.
The most shallow of all arguments advanced
against universal national service is that it is incom-
patible with democracy; a step towards Fascism. It
has not been found so in France, or in any other of
the democracies or near-democracies of Europe. It is
no more undemocratic than is compulsory education
or taxation. On the contrary, it is in the very essence
of democracy, which can only be upheld as a system
under which all citizens enjoy equal rights and fulfil
equally whatever obligations to the State are neces-
sary. It does not mean that everybody would be
stuck into a uniform to go goosestepping over the
country. It means that, in the event of war, every-
body needed could be called up immediately as a
trained man to help defend his country, while, at the
same time, those needed to carry on essential services
and productive work —including munitions, equip-
ment, and the like —would be kept to their necessary
jobs.
It is the one way that a democracy can adequately
prepare to answer a call to defend itself. Anything
short of it in Australia is criminal evasion. The whole
fault with the present arrangement is that it is the
negation of any system. It precludes concerted plan-
ning and preparation; it prevents the proper train-
ing of the available man-power (the proper training
of a private takes about three years, and of an officer
up to seven); it has the directly undemocratic result
of leaving to the willing and most unselfish young
citizens the sacrificing of their time and leisure and
the unfair duty of preparing themselves to defend
the shirking rest. Under this arrangement, the militia
force represents a positive aristocracy of the coun-
try’s youth ; under compulsory military service the
duty of defending Australia would be as democrati-
cally imposed and distributed as are all other privi-
leges of serving this democracy.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hitler to Roosevelt.
The President invited the Fiihrer, in effect, to give
pledges that he would not make war on specific coun-
tries, naming 31 in Europe, North Africa and Asia
Minor. His answer to that is that “nations to which
we have given promises that we have no claims
against them have declared that they do not feel
themselves threatened,” and that “Holland, Belgium,
Switzerland and other countries have expressed their
intention of maintaining absolute neutrality.” For
the rest,
I am ready to give assurances to each State that
President Roosevelt has named on the condition of
absolute reciprocity—provided each State addresses to
Germany a request for such assurances, together with
appropriate proposals,
He does not absolutely reject but he sneers at
the President’s proposals for conferences, saying
“German representatives will never again enter a con-
ference which is a tribunal for them, for who will be
the judge?” Obviously he is to be the judge of
whether “proposals,” if any, are “appropriate.”
The President expressed the fear that “further
acts of aggression are contemplated against indepen-
dent States.” Herr Hitler replies that “If Mr. Roose-
velt really has a specific instance in mind, I would
ask him to name the threatened States and the
aggressor.” He adds: “I have not conducted a war,
for years I have expressed abhorrence of war and
warmongers, and I am not aware for what purpose I
should wage war at all.”
The reply to Mr. Roosevelt is expressed in 18
points, four more than President Wilson’s. The tone
is often sarcastic, for in his way Herr Hitler has much
in common with Bret Harte’s Mr. Brown; but now
and then a passionate note is struck:
The reason for fear of war lies solely in unbridled
press agitation, as mendacious as it is base; in the cir-
culation of vile pamphlets about the heads of foreign
States, and in the artificial spreading of panic.
It is not wholly true, nor is his own press guiltless of
“unbridled agitation,” but there is truth in it. Too
much.
There are many references to the United States,
its war President’s part in the shaping of the Ver-
sailles treaties, its attitude to the League of Nations
and its relations with South America, which can in
no way mollify the Americans. The references to
the British Empire and to Poland are of far greater
interest to us, and they are not reassuring.
Claiming that the British guarantee to Poland
and the British “policy of encirclement” have altered
the situation materially, the German leader declares
“the basis for the Anglo-German Naval Agreement”
removed and his non-aggression pact with Poland
at an end. He insists, however, that he is still willing
to be friends with Britain.
I have never left room for doubt about my belief
that the existence of the British Empire is an inestimably
valuable factor in the whole of human cultural and
economic life. There is no doubt that the Anglo-Saxon
people have accomplished immeasurable colonising work,
which I sincerely admire. The only claim I have ever
made and shall continue to make of England is the
return of our colonies. But I have always made it very
clear that this was never to become a cause of military
conflict.
To Poland, he says, he offered “a twenty-five-
year non-aggression treaty,” with “final acceptance
of existing boundaries” (and, incidentally, a joint
guarantee of the independence of Slovakia), condi-
tionally on Danzig becoming “a Free City within the
framework of the Reich,” the Poles to retain all rights
and a free harbor, and on Germany receiving “a route
across the Corridor, with a railway.” He avers that
he is willing to negotiate with the Poles “should
Poland wish to reach fresh arrangements governing
her relations with Germany,” just as he is willing to
avoid “an armaments race with England.”
Should Britain ever again be in negotiation with
Germany on this subject no one will be happier than
I at the prospect that we may still be able to reach a
clear and straightforward understanding... .1 of my own
accord, in pursuance of my unswerving policy of friend-
ship with England, proposed the voluntary restriction
of German armaments, a restriction based on one con-
dition —that a war between Britain and Germany would
never again be possible. This wish, this conviction, is
alive in me to-day. However war against Germany
is taken for granted in England.
Another strange speech, in parts very able, with
striking passages and uncomfortable reminders. It
leaves the position no better on the whole, and in
respect of the denunciation of the Anglo-German
Naval Agreement and the non-aggression pact with
Poland less secure than ever, but not without hope.
Another Innocent Abroad.
Mr. FitzSimons, the N.S.W. Health Minister, who
is doing the Grand Tour as politicians know it, has
turned up in London with the report that he has been
“a month on the Continent studying hospital design
and the treatment of cancer and tuberculosis.”
When medicoes have done a six years’ student
course, spent three or four years in general practice,
put in another year or so at an overseas university,
taking a special diploma, and added more hospital
experience, they usually think they know enough to
decide what is and what is not good in cancer treat-
ment, hospital clinic organisaton and equipment. Then
they go to a conference and find out that nobody
else believes they know anything.
Mr. FitzSimons, however, has achieved judg-
ment and omniscience merely by becoming a Minister.
He finds that the Italians deal with t.b. with “in-
tensity” and that “the French cancer clinics co-ordi-
nate surgery and radium and X-ray treatments exten-
sively.” When the young gentleman brings that impor-
tant news home to the closely-organised and highly
co-ordinated cancer-treatment clinics of Australia,
there will be real excitement, though the profession
will be even more excited if Mr. FitzSimons can dis-
cover even one modern country in which these activi-
ties are not “co-ordinated extensively.”
It seems a great pity to leave a Minister of such
keen perception wandering round foreign lands at a
time when brains are badly needed in N. S. Wales.
Anxious taxpayers will be relieved to hear that they
will not have long to wait for his presence.
After Mr. FitzSimons has “investigated physical
education, slum-clearance, mother and child welfare,
dairy-control, milk-distribution and -grading and the
supply of milk to school-children in Scandinavia,
Holland, Germany, U.S.A. and Canada,” he will come
home.
Unity for Ever!
Canberra has received a temporary addition to its
population, delegates to the Federal Labor Confer-
ence having descended on it from all the States. The
Bulletin goes to press too early for it to learn the
result of their deliberations on foreign policy and
defence, but if they arrive at decisions which all sec-
tions of “the movement” will accept they will have
done wonders.
For 10 years at least “the movement” gave a
general support to national military training on the
principle which trade-unions apply to trade-union
affairs, and in 1911 a Labor Government introduced
it. After 1916, general opposition was the “policy.”
In March last, the A.C.T.U. repeated its opposition
on the ground that national military training “in-
cludes the element of compulsion and infringement of
personal liberty.” But in April the Tasmanian section
of the A.L.P., at the instance of Premier Ogilvie,
declared for the second time that it is for “universal
military training for home defence,” emphasising that
“such resolution does not mean conscription for either
home or overseas military service, but does mean
compulsory military and physical training to provide
for preparedness in the event of invasion.”
These Tasmanians went on to demand “a com-
pulsory national register for both men and women.”
The brisk boys of the Sydney Labor Council won’t
have a compulsory national register, and call upon
the workers to “refuse to supply information.” The
A.W.U.’s Federal executive has also issued a mani-
festo denouncing the register.
Mr. Curtin, the Federal Labor leader, has notions
about a standing army. The A.C.T.U. rejected “a
standing army as being an unjustifiable burden upon
the working-class in maintaining an extra load of
non-producers and against the best interests of this
democracy.” Mr. Curtin and his party supported the
Lyons Government’s defence votes. The A.C.T.U.
resolved that “there can be no collaboration by the
trade-union movement with the scheme of defence
laid down by the Lyons Administration,” giving eight
“reasons.” One “reason” was that the Lyons Gov-
ernment had “allied itself with the appeasement
policy of the Chamberlain Government which allied
itself with Fascist imperialists, resulting in the sup-
pression of Austria and Czechoslovakia, intervention
by Germany and Italy in Spain and Japanese aggres-
sion in China.”
Collective security? To the leader of Heffron
Labor, which is committed to the A.C.T.U. “defence”
programme, “collective security” is “as vital a part
of Labor’s policy as is Labor’s opposition to conscrip-
tion.” To the leader of Lang Labor it is “a formula
under which small nations have been compelled by
their more powerful allies to surrender to aggressor
nations,” and support for it carries “obligations of
participation in, and conscription for, overseas ser-
vice in a war against the totalitarian Powers.” Inci-
dentally, Mr. Heffron is clearly of opinion that the
arrangements with France, Greece, Rumania and
Poland, such as they are, constitute “collective
security,” never having learned that collective security
has been abandoned for neutrality by a lot of the
little nations that were in the 1935-36 line-up against
Italy, notably Sweden, Denmark, Norway and even
Belgium and Switzerland.
Mr. Heffron, while bound by the A.C.T.U.’s
declaration of non-co-operation in the Australian
Government’s defence policy, says a good word for
the A.C.T.U.’s aversion, “the Chamberlain Govern-
ment which allied itself with Fascist imperialists.”
“Hitler,” he wrote in a Sydney “Herald” article, “has
been halted at the very frontiers of Poland by Mr.
Chamberlain’s reversal of foreign policy.” This
implies that he approves of the pledge to Poland.
Mr. Ogilvie disapproves.
Beyond all doubt Mr. Chamberlain is pro-Fascist....
He turns round and assists Fascist Poland.
The “Worker,” mouthpiece of the A.W.U. in N.S.W.,
is also against the pledge to Poland. The brisk boys
of the Sydney Labor Council —they dominate the
A.C.T.U.—want a Russian alliance, though the immi-
nence of the Waverley by-election obliged them to
put the soft pedal down ; and apparently the A.C.T.U.
would like to. have a go at Nationalist Spain. Any-
way, a resolution standing in its name reads: “We
demand the withdrawal of the recognition of Franco
and the lifting of the arms embargo against the
Spanish Government” —that is to say, the very late
and very scattered Spanish Government. On this
matter, as well as others, the A.C.T.U. is out of step
with Mr. Curtin, whose statement of policy, made
in October, is quoted with warm approval by Mr.
Lang: —
Whatever we may do as a dominion, no man must
be sent out of Australia to participate in another war
overseas.
Reporters are not admitted to A.L.P. conferences, but
it is improbable that the delegates at Canberra began
by giving three cheers for the United Front.
The Affair of the Flag.
On Anzac Day the flag of Nazi Germany was flown
from the office of the Consul-General (now abroad)
in Sydney—at half-mast. When the ceremonies were
over it was flown at full mast. This was correct pro-
cedure and general practice.
In the afternoon men who were refreshing them-
selves in a bar on the other side of the street saw the
full-masted flag through an open window, and
imagined that a studied insult was intended. Soon
there was a crowd in front of the building, and there
was staged one of those demonstrations with which
Communists have made the neighborhood familiar.
Shouts that the flag must be pulled down arose from
returned soldiers, saunterers, youths out for “fun” and
no doubt the usual sprinkling of Reds.
Police hurried up. Firemen arrived with engines
and ladders. A distinguished A.I.F. officer addressed
the mob, counselling it to be “reasonable.” In the end
a caretaker shoved out his arm and hauled in the flag ;
police' persuasion and application of the “move-on”
clause, where necessary, did the rest.
The incident was a stupid effect of beer, ignor-
ance, sportiveness and hate propaganda in news-
papers, magazines, films and radio broadcasts, but it
was not of itself serious. The sequel gave it that
twist. Had the distinguished A.I.F. officer had his
way the newspapers would have ignored the thing,
or, at most, dismissed it in a few lines. “S. M.
Herald” and the “Daily News” chose to publish exag-
gerated accounts with sensational headlines. That
kind of thing is expected of the “Daily News,” with
its Red associations; but it is not expected of the
Fairfax paper.
The “Herald” quoted “four men, who said they
had served in the Great War with the New Zealand
forces,” as having “declared that the swastika flag
had been flown at full mast during the march in the
morning.” Not till the following day did it publish
the Acting Consul-General’s denial:
The flag was flown as a gesture of respect for Anzac
Day. During the whole of the morning it was at
half-mast, in the afternoon, when other flags were at
full mast, our flag was also hoisted at full mast....
Our feelings in the matter were ones of respect and
observance of a sacred day. For that reason, and that
reason only, our flag was unfurled.
There followed a “Herald” admission that “police
investigating the matter stated that the flag was flown
at half-mast when the ceremonies were held and
raised to the masthead at noon, when other flags were
raised.”
On the third day came a “Herald” subleader in
which “the courtesy observance of the day by the
German Consulate, and the dignified and understand-
ing attitude of the Acting Consul-General,” were con-
trasted with “the excited action of those responsible
for a demonstration that was indefensible.”
There remains to be expressed also the hope that the 1
very considerable privilege allowed returned soldiers on
Anzac Day will not be .allowed by unit leaders and
association officials to become abused, to the menace
of public order.
This very superior reproof was resented by returned
soldiers as much as the “Herald’s” first report was
resented by all people who realise that in difficult and
delicate times responsible newspapers should weigh
their words. There are asses in all great organisations,
but the vast majority of Diggers need no lesson in
manners from “Granny.”
One Academy and Another.
“F.S.” has a go at both: —•
A bitter controversy is raging in Melbourne over the
birth of the Academy of Australian Art, and the interested
layman has been presented with the spectacle of artists
hurling bricks at one another in the columns of the papers.
Knight Frank Clarke inadvertently handed the contestants
some fresh ammunition by proposing an annual prize of 1000
guineas for the best Australian painting, the money to be
coughed up by the Felton Bequest.
Non-members of the academy want the 1000-guinea prize
to be an open go for all. Members want it to be confined to
the academy’s annual show, although distinguished artists like
Norman Lindsay and Streeton have conscientious objections
to exhibiting. In short, an unedifying brawl is proceeding
around the baby’s cradle and Art is forgotten.
The Royal Academy was founded with the best inteh-
tions by Sir Joshua Reynolds, a very great artist. During
his presidentship there were a few good artists in the body,
as well as a lot of numskulls; but after his death the insti-
tution went the way of all academies. It became the preserve
of the mediocre, the stodgy and the hopelessly conservative.
Not just one or two, but every great British artist, from
Constable to Whistler and Turner, has been excluded from its
precincts, has been bitterly assailed by members and has been
grudgingly admitted only when his prestige outside had
grown so great that it was impossible for the academy to
ignore him without making a complete fool of itself.
Every academy, from the Royal in London to the Salon
in Paris, has been the ruin of the art it set out to foster.
Why should the Australian academy be any different? It was
started by a politician and organised by a former public servant.
So it hasn’t even the initial advantages of its grandmother.
There is nothing surer than that this academy will eventu-
ally become merely a social'and commercial asset, like the
Royal Academy, whose annual exhibition is made ridiculous
by the attendance in morning coats and belltoppers of hard-
working painters who are looked down on by the gentlemen
and duchesses for trying to ape the aristocracy.
A much more sensible society is the Independents in
Paris, which holds its show at the same time as the Salon.
There is no selection committee of conservative old fogeys.
Any painter, homegrown or imported, can buy space at it, and
he can hang in his allotment anything he wants to. Old
ladies who have never held a brush in their hands send along
pictures of pussycats, and futurists send real buckets of white-
wash with frames around them. But, in addition, artists of
real talent are allowed to hang their pictures without let or
hindrance from a committee. The result is that there are.
always more good pictures at the unofficial Independents than
at the Salon; and at least it is amusing, which the Australian
academy isn’t.
The first exhibition of the Australian academy in Mel-
bourne was so like its prototype in London that observers
who knew the elder institution only too well rubbed their eyes
and thought they must be dreaming.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“ 'Sail right, lady — l'll he nickin' orf in another five minutes .”
“Norge”: I found my friend the Nor-
wegian captain in the cabin of his bright,
new ship. He was shaving philosophi-
cally and whistling a song about
bridal bells. “Well, how about the war?”
I said. “Vot var?” says the captain.
“The war with Germany,” says I. “Is
dere a var vith Germany?” says the
captain, who has come straight from
Hamburg at 18 knots. “Veil, veil! Dey
vill hav to fight it vithoutd butter. In
Hamburg, they are shortd ov butter.”
“Aren’t you afraid you’ll be dragged
in?” “Dragged in? Vere?” says the
captain. “Let anyvun try to drag us in
and see vot he gets.” Putting a torso
like a pine trunk round the door, he
yelled yes, it’s good Norwegian—
“ Steward! To viskee soda.” There
doesn’t seem to be much fear of impend-
ing carnage in Scandinavia.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Dear old Granny
“Herald”! Side by side and cheek by
jowl she lumped them the other day, in
adjoining columns: “Shirley Temple’s
Tenth Birthday—‘Jungle’ Built for Party”;
“The Birthday of Shakspeare—Strat-
ford-on-Avon’s Pageantry.” It’s only
fair to say Bill won by a couple of points
in the size of the headings. But he was
a Warwickshire man, same as the Fair-
faxes, and there were 17 flags shown for
him by worshipping nations, while many
Cabinet Ministers and Ambassadors
attended his show and thousands of
people lined the Stratford streets. Shirley,
to entertain the sons and daughters of 250
newspaper reporters, merely had a jungle,
complete with wild animals, built in her
studio. Next time, she should make a
note to hold the festival at the Carl
Thomas Club, and then William of Strai-
ford will have to take a back seat in
Sydney journalism.
* * *
“Quary”: The Probate Court in Syd-
ney was invited last week to travel back
more than 70 years in time and as far
as Peru geographically to determine the
ownership of a little block of land in
Castlereagh-street near Bathurst-street,
now used as a parking place for motor-
cars. One Edward Foulkes had a cottage
on that land when he died in 1855. He
left it to two daughters. One enjoyed
her half-interest till 1934; then sold it
for £lOO. The other sister was more dif-
ficult to trace. She married a civil en-
gineer called Monger (whose right name
it turned out afterwards was Melville),
and he, in 1870, migrated to Peru, where
he had a railway construction job. His
wife and two children joined him there
a few months later, and the last directly
heard of them in Sydney was a letter
from Callao in 1871. Researches went
to show that Mrs. Melville died intestate
in 1878, and that a surviving daughter is
a married lady residing in Lima. The
case is an interesting reminder of the
fact that in the sixties, seventies and
eighties of last century and later there
was considerable intercourse between
Australia and South America. Migrations
one way or the other were frequent,
and there was a fair volume of trade.
When William Lane looked abroad for
a site for his Utopia, South America was
his first and last thought. It is long since
Australian eyes turned eastward, but
The Bulletin is reminded of the old
association by the retention on its sub-
scribers’ list of many South American
addresses.
“Hacksaw”: One of the Speck’s lead-
ing airmen, J. Meehan, recently achieved
a remarkable feat of aviation. A mes-
sage reached Hobart that a boy was lying
desperately ill with meningitis at Zeehan,
and that only a dose of serum could save
him. In cloudy weather Meehan started
off, and under two hours was circling
over Zeehan. The serum was dropped
by parachute. Part of the journey was
over the central plateau and the cele-
brated West Coast. It is, next to one
spot in Java, the world’s wettest and
wildest region.
* * * *
“The Dansant”: If the decline in the
use of tea in Australia continues this
continent will follow North America.
Australians have long since lost their
place as the greatest consumers of tea
per head in the world. They are more
than a pound a head per year behind the
United Kingdom, which in 1936-37
reached a record high level by absorbing
463,300,0001 b., or over 91b. a head.
Before the Boston tea-party of 1773 the
citizens of the North American colonies
were great tea-drinkers. The Indians,
especially the Iroquois, had learned to
drink it. It does not appear that the
decline in the use of tea, of which the
colonies before the Revolution took over
5,000,0001 b. a year, was due altogether
to politics, for in the early days of the
United States the import of tea con-
tinued to be fairly extensive. Still, the
cutting down of tea during the Revolu-
tion probably played its part.
# $ * *
“D.F.”: Port Jackson’s islands have
drifted outside in Bernard Frank’s book
about deepsea sailors, The Barque Magel-
lan. Frank makes the captain bring the
barque in without a pilot “through a
narrow channel between the islands with
the surf breaking round them.” Having
passed through the islands he ran down
a channel 100 fathoms wide “between
reefs.” - That brought the barque into
the roadstead, “where pines grew on the
rocks and flying-fish flew.” The Magellan
was in Port Jackson in August, 1907,
according to* the dates given, and then
loaded coal at Newcastle for ’Frisco.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: After more
than a century a Brisbane doctor has suc-
cessfully diagnosed the case of the Fat
Boy in Pickwick Papers. It appears that
his habits of falling asleep whilst going
on errands, of snoring whilst waiting at
table, his apparent trance during the love-
making of Mr. Jingle and the maiden
aunt, the hoarse voice in which he an-
nounced to the alarmed Mrs. Wardle,
senior, his intention to make her flesh
creep, his flabby fatness too, were all
symptoms of pituitary deficiency, easily
remediable by modern gland treatment.
I hope that such newfangled inventions
have not reached the Elysian Fields
(Dickens section), and that Mr. Wardle
still shouts: “Joe—damn that boy, he’s
asleep again!” Anyhow, his trouble
caused much less public inconvenience
than pituitary overactivity, which, doc-
tors are telling us, is really responsible
for the fuss and flurry kicked up by
totalitarian dictators.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: An extensive and profit-
able cash-and-carry business is done by
Chinese crews of ships on the Australia-
China-Japan runs. It is all fair and
aboveboard; they pay freight to the
owners, declare the goods and meet Cus-
toms charges. Duties often run to over
£4OO for one ship. A recent list from
the Nankin comprised 90 camphorwood
chests, 77 dozen wicker baskets, 53601 b.
of Chinese medicines, fish, preserved fish
and lily roots, 30 cane tables, five cane
chairs, 180 dozen preserved eggs, 4000
finches and 15,000 cigarettes and cigaril-
los. Most is sold to Chinese residents in
Australia. White officers, too, are not
above taking a lead from the world’s
smartest small-traders, and bring in silk
apparel, lampshades, carved woodwork
and furniture and cigars in the same way.
It recalls the days of the East Indiamen,
when a share of cargo space proportioned
to rank was an officer’s perquisite. Many
a snug fortune came from a few years’
trading activities.
♦ * —'Vfl* *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne firemen have had
a chance to display their new extension
ladder, reputed to be the longest in the
Southern Hemisphere. A fire broke out
in the upper storey of a cafe building,
and the erection unwound itself until the
firemen were pouring water down on
the blaze instead of up. The liquid cas-
caded through the building down to the
ground floor, where a fishshop continued
calmly to serve customers throughout the
conflagration. But the ladder missed its
opportunity to perform
its real function and
save life. There was a
cat with four kittens in
a box in the fourth
storey, and they were
found among the
charred timbers as
lively as ever ; not even
singed.
* *
“M.D.”: My barris-
ter friend is fond of
explaining that the
whole corpus and in-
tention of British law
is based on the clarified
commonsense of the
British people. Is it?
For months past I have
had to help a fine old
Australian pioneer of
83 through the ghastly
business of achieving a
greatly - desired and
wholly-certain death by
his own unaided self.
“Can’t you give me a
quiet finish?” he
wheezed after an un-
controllable fit of sick-
ness. “If I let any of
my animals suffer like
I’m suffering the
S. P. C. A. would
prosecute me.” I have
told him that British
clarified commonsense’s
interpreter, the British
Parliament, rejected the
Euthanasia Act two
years or so ago in spite
of strong medical, legal
and ecclesiastical sup-
port. Even if it had
passed it would probably not yet have
been adopted into our queer Australian
assortment of laws which “punish” one
attempt at slaughter with eight months’
imprisonment and another with 20 years’,
while classing in the same category an
act of professional mercy which could
be controlled by completely effective legal
safeguards.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A visiting virtuoso had finished
his recital at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
and, packing his Strad., repaired to the
back exit, where his taxi was waiting. He
found a girl in it, to his amazement. She
explained that she had become so enam-
ored of his art that she had escaped from
the convent in which she was being
educated, and was fully determined to
spend the rest of her life in his distin-
guished service. The virtuoso though t
for a moment, then stepped into the car
and told the driver to drive to a confec-
tioner’s. He bought his admirer a large
box of chocolates, handed it to her
through the window, and then whispered
to the chauffeur: “Drive the lady to X
Convent.”
TUT’S TRUMPETS.
‘Wind instruments from King Tut—ankh—Amen’s
tomb have been found to be in excellent preserva-
tion^”
Belike they sounded battle-calls,
Or blew to herald welcome peace,
Ere infant Rome was ringed with walls
Or Jason hit the breeze from Greece
To prospect for the Golden Fleece,
Or valiant Hector’s comb was cut,
Or jilted Dido sought decease,
The trumpets from the tomb of Tut.
Mayhap they blared at festivals
Impressive music to release
Ere priests enthroned in temple stalls
In unctuous tones, from necks obese,
Proclaimed Osiris masterpiece
Of all the gods aloft that strut,
Whose shadow never would decrease,
The trumpets from the tomb of Tut.
The world rolls on, through broils and brawls
Mixed with the hiss of long-necked geese,
Until the twentieth century crawls
Across the chronologic crease.
Now once again they wake police
And thrill the flapper and the knut
With strains one deemed for aye would cease,
The trumpets from the tomb of Tut.
The harp that once from Tara’s halls
Its message sent has long gone phut;
But no such doom unkindly falls
On foot from buried Pharaohs’ palls.
Hark! Once again the sound enthrals
Of trumpets from the tomb of Tut.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“You may serve ME now, chef."
“Spooks”: An Anzac Day reminis-
cencer told how, when he was in France,
his company commander informed him
that he was the left-hand man of the
extreme left of the British line. This
stupendous piece of information left the
Digger unimpressed, so he said, till in
the evening a sergeant took upon himself
to explain the implications. “You ’eard
what he said? Well, it
means that if we got
the order ‘left wheel’
you’d go on marking
time for the rest of
your blinking life.”
* *
“C.R.”: A young
Melbourne soprano,
well known in oratorio,
who accompanied a
Bohemian party on a
tour of the underworld,
ended up in the small
hours of the morning
at a night club at the
west end of Latrobe-
street. It was.full of
characters that might
have associated with
Villon, and they were
indulging in a
bacchanal compounded
of bad liquor, bad
language and bad sing-
ing. Suddenly above the
uproar rose the sound
of the visitor’s beautiful
soprano. The girl was
singing an aria from
the “Messiah.” In the
silence that ensued she
followed with some
Schubert lyrics and ex-
cerpts from grand
opera. After she had
finished a battered
female sidled up to her,
took a chair and, bend-
ing a rheumy but sym-
pathetic eye upon her,
whispered : “You
oughtn’t to be here, kid ; you’re too good
for this place. You’ve got a beautiful
voice, but this life will be your ruin.”
**• * *
“C.Q.”: One of the items cabled about
the exiled king of Albania is the pleasant
domestic detail that he always walked
about the streets of his capital in the
company of his sisters. An Albanian
refugee who has reached Victoria and
now digs the garden for a country doctor
threw some light on this touching story.
It appears that the Albanians are noted
for their chivalrous attitude towards
women, which dates back to the Romance
period of the Middle Ages. To shoot
a man when he is walking on his lone-
some or with a male friend is of no great
moment in Albanian society; but to
shoot at him when he has a girl friend
on his arm is the dastardliest crime in
the local calendar. There’s an O. Henry
story based on a similar convention in
Tennessee. According to my informant,
this was the raison d’Etat for King Zog’s
enthusiasm for the company of his
sisters. So long as one was with him
both she and her royal escort were safer
than if they had been surrounded by a
posse of detectives.
* * * *
“L. 1.”: Lone Pine, Gallipoli, has pro-
geny in Australia. In 1935 G. A. Rad-
nell, a returned soldier, visited the Penin-
sula and brought away a cone from the
original tree. A Hawthorn (Vic.) nursery-
man fostered and reared three infants
from it. One of them is to be planted
in the Anderson-street park as a
memorial.
* * * *
“Craiser”: There is a bit of history
behind the presence in the Queen’s Hall
at Parliament House, Melbourne, of the
busts of Nelson and the Duke of Wel-
lington. Alex. Isaacson, manager of
3KZ, found them in London, and, learn-
ing they were authentic portraits, bought
them and presented them to his friend
Hugh D. Mclntosh to adorn Broome
Park. When that mansion fell into other
hands they vanished. Years later Isaac-
son found the busts in the shop of an
antique dealer in Little Collins-street.
He promptly bought them a second time,
and on this occasion decided that it was
safer to present them to the people.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The habit of the A.B.C.
of underestimating the intelligence of its
public got it into a predicament in Mel-
bourne recently. The Commission en-
gaged Roy Fox, a local danse-pallay con-
ductor, with the assistance of 15 of his
peculiar instrumentalists, to put over his
own arrangement of Ravel’s “Bolero,”
previously assaulted by a mouth-organist.
The recital brought 150 demands, some
more in anger than in sorrow, asking for
a repeat performance, in conjunction with
a performance of Ravel’s own score by
the Commission’s symphony orchestra,
for purposes of comparison. The studio
complied, and the result was 300 letters,
50 p.c. of which were in favor of Mr.
Fox and 50 p.c. in favor of Ravel.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Scene: A high-class
Sydney bar. Time: 6.17 p.m., April
25, 1939. Dramatis personae: Door-
keeper and remnants’ friends tactfully
removing remnants — “Time, gentlemen,
please !” —“Come orn ! Come orn !
We’ll ’ave another with Molly up ther
road.” Barmaid is serving last “perpen-
diculars,” who look as if they may be
obedient at the limit hour of 6.20. Large
Digger entertaining bloke from British
Legion in one corner —both jingling like
London cart-horses. Two large Diggers
ringing with medals like Bow Bells de-
bating in another corner. Cart-horse
Digger glances at largest church-bell
Digger, puts down his glass decisively
and begins to drag British Legionary hur-
riedly round bar. From impact of glass,
bar rattles, chandelier rattles, barmaid
rattles, doorkeeper (sth Division) rolls
an extra 17 degrees. Source of all this
movement seizes cart-horse Digger by
ear and clips him a blacksmith-clout on
back of neck, at the same time shout-
ing: “Tommy! Tommy! Bill, meet
Tommy! GorblimestarvetherflaminT'har-
gomindahcrows, he’s a something illegiti-
mate! Carn’t yer pick ’em?” Well,
carn’t yer? Don’t ask me to finish the
yarn by saying that the British Legion-
ary “greeted the performance with a
haughty stare.” He didn’t. He picked
up somebody else’s glass and murmured
in salute: “Tommy —hie —carn’t yer
pick ’em?” An impartial onlooker might
have felt, all the same, that the occa-
sion was too much for him.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Three men set on a fourth the
other Saturday evening at a Melbourne
street-crossing. The place they selected
was fitted with a fire alarm, and a friend
of the victim summoned the brigade,
which turned up and bundled attackers
and attacked into the firecart with the
intention of taking them to the Russell-
street police station. En route the least
alcoholic of the captured party suddenly
discovered that he was on the hands,
not of the Johns but of firefighters. “They
can’t arrest us,” he shouted, and aimed
a blow at his nearest captor. He was
unfortunate in his selection. His antag-
onist was fireman Mather, one-time
wrestling partner to Ted Thye, world
heavyweight champion.
* * * *
“Ologist”: The “S.M.H.” is correct in
adding ’s to make the possessive of
Menzies (B. 26/4/’39). Authorities are
agreed on the point. To quote one such,
in “Rules for Compositors and Readers
at the University Press, Oxford,” the in-
struction is: “Use 's for the possessive
case in English names and surnames
whenever possible.” Among examples
given are “Hicks’s,” “Cousins’s,” “Nico-
demus’s” and “Augustus’s.” Certain ex-
ceptions to ’5 are noted, but they apply
only to ancient names. Thus, it is stated,
one writes “Moses’ law,” but “I used
to alight at Moses’s for the British
Museum.” Moses, the tailor, it is ex-
plained, “was a modern man, and in
using his name we follow modern Eng-
lish usage.” But even in such cases as
“Moses’ law” and “Aristophanes’
comedies,” according to another
authority, the modern tendency, except
in verse, is to use the ’s. Moses’s, like
Menzies’s (as the name is pronounced
by most Australians), has three sibilants,
and each word is something of a mouth-
ful ; but if we were not so slipshod in
speech and writing we could without
much difficulty accustom ourselves to
their utterance and formation. Any-
way, I fervently wish that writers and
lino, operators would learn to add the
’5 to names. Then we should be
spared seeing so often not only “those
possessive abominations,” as “John o’
London” styles them, “Wells’ novels”
(for Wells’s), “Keats’ poems” (for Keats’s)
and the like, but also so many examples
of the misplaced “pos.”—Lyon’s for
Lyons’s, Peter’s for Peters’s, Tower’s for
Towers’s, Parke’s for Parkes’s, and so on.
“I ain't takin no chances with them joyrider coves!"
WHEN WINTER COMES.
(After Swinburne.)
"‘For the publican winter begins when the demand
for beer slackens.”—
When winter’s hounds are on autumn’s traces,
There are various signs to show it plain;
Where seats in parks are the trysting-places
You may glimpse Jack edging closer to Jane;
But Boniface the übiquitous
Fixes the turn of the seasons thus:
It comes when the call for grog outpaces
That for the juice of the hops and grain.
When elbows bent for the emptying of pewters
Are crooked for nips with a bit more bite,
When Hebe’s patrons (and maybe suitors)
In foaming schooners find less delight,
When the merry beer-pump’s rhythmic beat
Slows down in many a snug retreat,
Bung needs no Mares and his tribe for tutors
To wise him winter is here—too right!
For autumn’s aids to revel are over
At the grand hotel or the wayside inn;
Those pots that heartened the tired drover,
Those pints that wetted the punter’s win,
Their magic fades and their spell’s forgotten
When the wind blows bleak and the weather’s
rotten,
And many a thirsty soul discovers
An urge to whisky or rum or gin.
From towered cities to goldfields rushes,
Wherever glasses o’er bars are slid,
The faint white froth of the new beer brushes
Fewer and fewer lips than it did;
For the chill conditions promote desire
For something nearer to liquid fire.
The day is gone for the long cool lushes,
The time has come for the tot and tid.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


2#
o
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
r
MADE
SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
“No Australian troops will be com-
pelled to go to a foreign battlefield.” —
Menzies. It fairly took the wind out of
Curtin’s sails. When speech came to the
Labor leader, he demanded a guarantee
that the Government will not reintroduce
the thing that Labor introduced in its
great days, universal military training;
and he didn’t get it.
“Germany,” Professor Roberts dis-
covers, “has sent ten ships and fifteen
submarines to the Spanish coast”—as “a
threat to Gibraltar,” he surmises, “or
to the French lines of communication
in the western Mediterranean.” Another
guess, not a bit sillier, is that the idea
is to capture King George and his Queen.
In serene contempt of Roberts, Madame
Tabouis and the rest, their Majesties are
leaving for Canada on Saturday without
even a pinnace to protect them.
Let 'em go — l'm STILL right , and I Won't resign!"
A little over three years ago Archdale
Parkhill was competing with Menzies
for the deputy-leadership of the U.A.P.
and the right of succession to Lyons. A
little over 18 months ago he was pro-
claiming in street cries and posters that
he was the only genuine U.A.P. candi-
date. for Warringah, Spender being
bogus. Now Menzies is P.M. and
Spender is a Minister. . Archie would
wear those spats.
It is J. A. Guy’s right to nominate for
Wilmot as a supporter of the Govern-
ment, but the U.A.P.—or what corre-
sponds to it in the Speck—will be very
stupid if it gives him undivided support.
He lost Bass to Barnard when a Lyons
Minister, and at the last election Barnard
beat him by 12,583 to 9760—a third can-
didate, Watson, scored 2621. If Guy
couldn’t regain Bass he can’t win Wilmot.
Townsville (N.Q.), which was repre-
sented by late Minister “Mossy” Hynes,
is to have a queer Assembly by-election
on May 27. Paterson, the Communist,
now a Townsville councillor, is opposing
the winner of the A.L.P. ballot, and
so is Webb, the Protestant Labor
man, whose appeal against the election
of Minister Hanlon in Ithaca, allowed by
the Supreme Court, was dismissed by the
Full Court and the High Court. Pater-
son and Webb are barristers.
For two years, 1932-34, Tasmania had
two Commonwealth Ministers, Lyons
and Guy. It has none in the Menzies
Administration, there being only two
U.A.P. Senators to pick from. Still, with
Hayes President and Bell Speaker, the
Speck isn’t doing badly.
The Lang Caucus, obsequious for a
decade, revolted last Thursday to the
extent of carrying a motion for the send-
ing of two members to Canberra to ask
the Federal Labor Conference to “restore
unity.” The majority against Lang was
four (15 to 11), and it emboldened one
of the gentlemen who were meek for so
many years to shout “Why don’t you get
out?” Lang says he won’t get out.
Why I Fight was the title of Lang’s
contribution to contemporary letters. The
first post-revolt article in his “Century”
was “Why I Will Not Resign!” In the
closing paragraph, summarising three or
four columns, the explanation is that “to
resign would be the most sordid and pur-
poseless of compromises ; I will not do
it.” Somehow it recalls the reply of the
sailor who lighted a foul pipe in an
almost-empty theatre gallery. “Chuck
me out, eh? ’Adn’t you better go down-
stairs and chuck a few more in?”
Protestant Labor is making a big bid
for support in Queensland. It is running
men for Federal Griffith (May 20), and
for Townsville, Charters Towers and
Gregory (May 27). Its candidate for
Griffith is E. H. Graham, son of a Kel-
vin Grove alderman, and himself a Bris-
bane City Council costs-clerk. As the
A.L.P. champion is Alderman Conelan,
the by-election will be quite a City Coun-
cil affair.
Menzies is obviously mindful of the
fact that, while the “gentle” Lord Hali-
fax (Bruce Lockhart’s adjective) is
Foreign Secretary to-day, Anthony Eden
was Foreign Secretary yesterday, and Dr.
Dalton may be Foreign Secretary to-
morrow. Just as obviously, he has been
reading those cabled suggestions that
Britain should guarantee the U.S.S.R.’s
immense Asiatic territories against Japan.
Witness this very unusual but very re-
freshing language.
What Great Britain calls the Far East is
to us the Near North In the Pacific,
Australia must regard herself as a principal,
providing herself with her own information
and maintaining her own diplomatic con-
tacts We must have full consultation
and co-operation with Great Britain, South
Africa, New Zealand and Canada, but all
those consultations must be on the basis
that the primary risk in the Pacific is
borne by New Zealand and ourselves
I see no reason why we should not play
not only an adult but an effective part
in the affairs of the Pacific.
No part of his broadcast to the nation
has had a better reception from it, and
North Pacific reactions are encouraging.
Lloyd George pronounces the Cham-
berlain Government “the worst for half
a century.” But surely that bad eminence
belongs to the Government which won
the 1918 election on the cries of “We’ll
hang the Kaiser!” and “We’ll squeeze
the Germans until they squeak”; the
Government which supported Denikin,
Kolchak and Wrangel against the Reds,
and which backed the Greeks against the
Turks, and then crawled to the
Dominions for succor. In a word, the
Lloyd George Government which was
kicked out in 1922.
Lloyd George met Deakin at the Im-
perial Conference of 1907. In his latest
book he dismisses Deakin as a windbag
who “spoke for hours at a time” in “a
torrent of sonorous commonplace which
is so often mistaken for eloquence.” An
example of the “sonorous commonplace”
is given in the “Deakin to Menzies”
leader. Had the feckless Liberal Govern-
ment of the period had the pluck to do
for Britain what Deakin was doing for
Australia, there would have been no war
in 1914, nor would the world now be
saying that conscription has been forced
on proud England by the French.
Although there is no increase in the
standard rate of British income tax, sur-
taxes on big incomes are up, and so are
tobacco, sugar, film and death duties and
car and motor-cycle registration fees. In
the Simon Budget, defence expenditure
for 1939-40 was reckoned at £630,000,000,
of which £380,000,000 is to be borrowed ;
that was before the first instalment of
conscription was announced. The
national debt increased last year by
£137,000,000.
Mussolini once gave an interview to
the “Saturday Evening Post.” In his
verbal reply to Roosevelt (April 20) he
referred to “Messianic messages” and to
“certain individuals with a rudimentary
knowledge of European affairs.” A
“Post” article of Feb. 18 mentioned “the
gradual development in the minds of
some of our influential politicians of a
Messianic complex.”
A notion is gaining ground in Washing-
ton that the American people are destined
to inspire and assist one group of Euro-
pean nations to fight with another group.
Messianic complexes can gain a powerful
hold upon nations as well as upon indi-
viduals.
Obviously the Italian gentleman still
reads the “Post.”
Inside 13 months the U.A.P. vote has
fallen in Hurstville from 11,493 to 8626,
and in Waverley from 10,210 to 6359 —
increased to 7939 by Lang Labor prefer-
ences. Stevens’s ill-wishers must be sorry
he didn't stand for a Federal seat.
Menzies left Allan MacDonald out of
his Ministry, substituting fellow-Senator
Collett, and did not invite Tommy White,
his colleague for four years, to join.
MacDonald took it in such good part
that, in announcing the composition of
the team through the newspapers, the
P.M. specially thanked the Westralian.
Tommy he didn’t mention.
Because the London-funds position is
getting no better fast, Maoriland Labor
is making huge additions to the list of
prohibited imports. One item was “spirits,
wine, beer and all other alcoholic
liquors.” In a country with so many
Scots, and so many more sons and grand-
sons of Scots, it would have been taking
a terrible risk. Realisation came early,
and the whusky ban is off.
Just when things were looking
brighter in the Australian coal trade, the
M.L. Labor Government put coal on
its imports index. It is a blow to N. S.
Wales, for in the last year for which
there are complete figures coal exports
to Maoriland were valued at just on
£113,000. A dazed Newcastle estimate
is that “nearly 1000” men have been en-
gaged in mining and transporting it, but
this figure is obviously extravagant.
From Molongloside:
It is no disrespect to the memory of a
decent man to say that Lyons’s radio talks
were not impressive. Those of Menzies will
help his Government if he maintains the form
he showed last Wednesday night. In manner
and matter his speech was uncommonly good
—miles above the national-station average,
although that is not high. Singularly happy
were his references to his beginnings (“Apart
from having parents of great character, intelli-
gence and fortitude, I was not born to the
purple”) and to his schooling as a Jeparit boy
(“I was educated at a country State school,
a Ballarat State school and then, by scholar-
ships, at a secondary school, a public school
and Melbourne University”).
The parents to whom that tribute was paid
were not the sort to encourage slacking in the
family. The fact is that among their sons
and kinsmen there were 10 eligibles; and nine
saw Great War service. Page and the public
know the tenth, but Page doesn’t know, or he
wouldn’t have said what he said on April 20,
that the tenth begged his soldier-brothers
to release him from the pledge which was ex-
acted in those days from many thousands of
youngsters who wanted to be in the A.I.F.
themselves.
The new P.M. promises “increased diplo-
matic contact between ourselves and the United
States.” By some this is taken to mean that,
when the weather breaks, Gullett will be sent
to Washington with a higher status than
previous Australian representatives have had in
Roosevelt’s country. Gullett’s tenure of External
Affairs will probably be brief; it is question-
able whether his health would stand the strain
of high Ministerial office. But Washington is
sure to recall, with grins, that he was the trade-
diversionist to which it retaliated by putting
Australia on its black list, along with Germany.


THE DOCTOR WHO TOLD.
“Complete frankness is not always advisable when a doctor announces to his patient the result, of his diasnosis.”


SALE OF SHARES
The Australian Gas Light Company
Offers for sale by Public Auction in the Rooms of Richardson & Wrench, Ltd.,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on
MONDAY, 22nd MAY, 1939
Commencing at 10 a.m.,
“A” SHARES OF £6 EACH
TO A NUMBER NOT EXCEEDING 15,000.
The Directors of the Company reserve the right to discontinue the sale at any time
without offering the full number of J 5,000 shares.
Terms and Conditions announced at the sale or obtainable on application to the
Auctioneers, Members of the Stock Exchange, or The Australian Gas Light Company.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.,
Auctioneers,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(333)
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
HOW FAR WILL PRICES RISE?
CAN N.Z. AVOID INFLATION?
DEFENCE EXPENDITURE AND COSTS.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
May Issue On Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
PERSONAL ITEMS!
Justice Edward Milner Stephen, of the
N. S. Wales Supreme Court, who was
stricken down on Friday while summing-
up to a jury and died in his chambers a
few minutes later, came of a family which
has been supplying Judges to the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench for 115 years. His
great-great-grandfather, John Stephen,
was the second Judge appointed after the
State got its Charter of Justice in 1824 ;
his paternal grandfather was Chief Jus-
tice ; his uncle on his father’s side was
for a while Acting-Chief Justice. His
father was Official Assignee in Sydney
for many years. Edward Milner Stephen
the younger was educated at Sydney
Grammar and Sydney Uni., was ad-
mitted to the Bar at the age of 26, prac-
tised with distinction for 33 years, and
attained the Bench in June, 1929. He
served as an alderman on the Sydney
City Council, took a keen interest in
town-planning, loved literature and music,
and had by heart the witty jingles Gilbert
wrote for Sullivan’s music. He was a
good Judge—patient, clear-minded and
scrupulously unprejudiced ; his sole aim
to see justice done.
Exactly how people come to be Gov-
ernment Statisticians is one of those mys-
teries. Stanley Roy Carver, who com-
putes and collates for N. S. Wales,
probably had no notion that that was to
be his destiny when he entered the public
service in 1916, to leave it again after a
year or so because he was old enough to
enlist, and the Great War called him.
Returning, he settled down to civil ser-
vanting, studied at Sydney Uni., gradu-
ated with honors in economics and Eng-
lish, and presently found himself secre-
tarying commissions and accompanying
politicians on foreign missions. He was
appointed Assistant Statistician in 1933,
and became head of the department last
year. He loves life in the bush, and prob-
S. R. CARVER.
ably would be happier on the land, but
he’s an excellent statistician for a’ that.
Queensland-born Judge H. H. Hench-
man, of the Queensland Supreme Court,
who died the other day, was a Brisbane
Grammar School boy. At school he won
the Bowen and Cockle prizes—the first
for diligent work, the second for mathe-
matics ; and, going to Melbourne Uni.
on an exhibition, won the University
prize for Greek and every exhibition and
scholarship in sight. He finished with
first-class honors in his M.A., LL.M. and
final Bar examinations. He had been on
the Bench for several years. 111-health
struck him several months ago, and he
died soon after returning from a con-
valescent holiday in M.L.
CYRIL DOCKER, AIR WARDEN
OF SYDNEY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
The Judge to take Justice Henchman’s
place will be Ross Philp, son of The
Bulletin’s one-time versifier and sub-
editor Jim Philp, friend of Archi-
bald and Daley and their circle. Philp, J.,
went from Brisbane Grammar School
to the A.1.F., passed high at the Bar
examinations in 1923, and developed
a large and varied practice. He is 43.
Harold Holt, the youngest Minister in
the Menzies Cabinet, is a son of Tommy
Holt, now in London, who has had a
long connection with the theatrical busi-
ness and was the late F. W. Thring’s
offsider in endeavors to make feature
films in Australia. There is often a re-
markable camaraderie amongst theatrical
people, and when Holt, sen., went to
London he left his son under the guar-
dianship of Alex. Isaacson, then of the
Tivoli, Melbourne. Isaacson believed
the lad was destined to be a future
Prime Minister. Young Holt was edu-
cated at Wesley, had a successful career
at the University, became assistant to
Maxwell, the blind barrister, and at 26
was taken to London by R. G. Menzies
to help him before the Privy Council
in the dried-fruit case. He has just
touched 30.
Hugh Paton, doyen of advertising
executives in Australia, will celebrate his
sixty-eighth birthday next month. Born
in Paisley, Scotland, his father a wool-
man, he went into the printing trade at
13, worked from six to six except on
Fridays, when his firm doubled the issue,
and he would go home staggering from
lack of sleep on Saturday mornings. A
breakdown at 19 sent him on a sea
voyage to Australia. Landing at Bris-
bane with a tenner in his pocket, he
decided to stay, and later set up his
shingle in Melbourne as the first man to
invite businessmen to let him write their
ads. for them. He got his first ad. into
the “Argus” in 1904, and two years later
that paper bowed to his enthusiasm
and printed a block. The “Herald” re-
luctantly fell into line, but the “Age” was
stubborn, although Paton argued with
Herbert Syme for years about it. It
finally capitulated by taking trademarks
the size of postage stamps. Now there
are upwards of 400 advertising artists
and writers in Melbourne. At 68 Paton
retains unspoiled his native Doric.
This model purports to be a portrait
of Cyril Docker, Sydney’s answer to
Field-Marshal Goring. Appointed to the
new job of City Air Warden,
he happens to be a Digger
and a jolly good fellow ;
otherwise, Frith might
run some risk of being
issued with a gas-mask
with a hole in it. Even so,
it must be admitted that
the victim has bulked out
a little since he used to
rock ’em down with the
A.I.F. cricket team. His
present job has to do with
air raids and all that. It
carries the inestimable
screw of nothing per week,
or even per annum, for
which remuneration its
holder proposes to
organise the whole prac-
tical business of Air Raid
Precautions in Sydney, co-
ordinating the sundry ser-
vices—fire brigades, special
police, Red Cross, ambu-
lances, voluntary A.R.P.
workers, decontamination
squads, demolition gangs
and the like —that would
have tough and messy,
and very necessary, jobs
to do in the event of air
raids. A retired chief in-
spector of the E., S. and
A., he got into the job as
he got into the A.I.F. —
by volunteering. At present he is quar-
tered at the Town Hall with a staff of
one, and enough work ahead to get him
into fast-bowling condition before it’s
all over.
“C.R.”: There was one red tie in the
Anzac procession in Melbourne. It was
worn in conjunction with a blue shirt by
Professor Giblin. The Ritchie professor
of economics is a kindly soul as well as
the most picturesque savant at the Uni-
versity. His specially-tailored lapelless
coat is another of his symbols of earlier
tendencies towards radicalism which are
not taken overseriously at Melbourne’s
Alma Mater. Son of a one-time Premier
of the Speck, he served before the mast,
went mining in Alaska, grew bananas in
the Solomons and in the midway of life
found he had a natural flair for mathe-
matics which eventually landed him jobs
as Tasmanian and later Commonwealth
Statistician. He served with the A.I.F.
for three years, was wounded several
times and mentioned in dispatches and
ended up with the rank of major. He is 67.
An exhibit of 4500-years-old pottery
from Cyprus now on show in Angus and
Robertson’s windows in Sydney was dug
out by Sydney archaeologist James A.
Stewart, a graduate of Cambridge Uni.
who served under Prof. Sir Flinders
Petrie at excavations in Gaza in Pales-
tine. Stewart’s excavations in Cyprus
were undertaken for the British School
of Archaeology. It is almost certain that
this pottery dates back to the first civilisa-
tion in Cyprus known after the Deluge
mentioned in Genesis. It belongs to a
special exhibition in Melbourne, and it
is the ambition of Walter Beasley, Direc-
tor of the Melbourne Biblical Exhibition,
to have a similar show in Sydney.
Some May birthdays:
Vic. Crown Prosecutor C. H. Book, 44, on
Ist; former N.S.W. Senator Charles Cox, 76,
and Prof. J. R. Wilton (Adel.), 55, on 2nd;
Gerald Lightfoot (sec. C.S. and 1.R.), 62,
Justice Rich (High Court), 76, and Prof. T. H.
Laby (Melb.), 59, on 3rd; C. L. A. Abbott
(Administrator, North Australia), 53, Prof. John
McKellar Stewart (Adel.), 61, on 4th; Justice
Bavin (N.S.W.), 65, and Douglas Mawson, 57,
on sth; Bishop Fox (Wilcannia-Forbes), 46, on
6th; Harold Clapp (Vic. Railways Commis-
sioner), 64, on 7th; Vic. Gov. elect Sir Winston
Dugan, 62, and James Ashton (Syd.), 75, on
Bth; Dr. George Mackaness (Syd.), 57, T. H.
Scholfield, M.H.R. (Wannon), 45, Bishop
Burgmann (Goulburn), 54, and S.A. Senator
Oliver Uppill, 63, on 9th; knight Claude H.
Reading, 65, and author Nathan F. Spielvogel
(Vic.), 65, on 10th; Q’land Senator "Codings,
74, on 11th; Bishop Johnson (Ballarat), 50,
on 12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 62, on
13th; former S.A. Premier Lionel Hill, 58,
and Prof. J. T. Stable (Q.), 56, on 14th; Q.
Chief Justice Blair, 68, and Ernest Wunderlich
(Syd.), 80, on 16th; poet Leon Gellert, 47, and
Q. Min. for Works and Education H. A.
Bruce, 54, on 17th; Dr. P. R. Cole (Syd.
Teachers’ Coll.), 60, artist W. B. Mclnnes, 50,
Assistant Federal Minister J. A. Perkins, 61,
and authoress Zora Cross, on 18th; A. H.
Stuart (ex-gen. manager “S. M. Herald”), 46, on
19th; Vic. Senator Gibson, 70, F. J. Rae
(Director Melb. Botanical Gardens), 56, and
H. E. Boote (editor “Aust. Worker”), 71, on
20th; Justice Parsons (S.A.), 67, Judge Beeby,
70, and former N.S.W. Min. for Lands Butten-
shaw, 63, on 23rd; Justice Pike (Federal Terri-
tory Land Commissioner), 73, on 25th; knight
Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 77, Brig.-Gen. MlcNicoll
(Administrator of New Guinea), 62, and ex-
Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 88, on 28th; W.A.
Min for Agric. F. J. S. Wise, 42, on 30th; Q.
Senator and Min. for Interior Foil, 49, on 31st.
The benevolent spectacles and fine
Roman nose of Rupert John Hatherleigh
Pedler keep watch and ward over the
rainy-day accumulations of South Aus-
tralia’s thrifty, for he’s the newly-
appointed manager of the Savings Bank
of S.A. He comes of a naval line —his
great-granddad commanded frigates
under Nelson, and his father was also
a naval officer. R.J.H., who was born
at Queenstown, S.A., 58 years ago, was
intended for the same sort of career, but
his application was left just a little too
late, so he entered the bank of which
he is now chief executive. Country man-
agerships, the chief accountant’s chair
and a tour abroad to study foreign bank-
ing methods were steps in his upward
climb. Sunny winter evenings find him
R. J. H. PEDLER.
on the bowling green, where his skill in
trundling touchers and burning heads is
so vast that he has many times repre-
sented S.A. in tourneys with other States.


f
ITS ALL A MATTER OF BALANCE
Johnnie Walker has the gift of making finely-balanced whisky
by skilful blending, and all the many whiskies in the blend are
fully matured in the wood. That is why, when entertaining
friends, you should make sure of having some Johnnie Walker
in the house... and why, when at the club or bar, you should
always ask for Johnnie Walker by name.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable in the famous
square bottle and in handy flasks of smaller size
c>
$?, JCnqrK
■
■
■
Lv«2
JOHNNIE
WAbKER
BORN 1820—STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW94-FP.


ABORIHINALITIES
“Col. B.”: Those observation platforms
built by the M.L. pukeko (B. 12/4/’39)
remind me of the remarkable New'
Guinea birds of which I was the dis-
coverer during my expedition to the Da
Mnliah country, called by the natives
Deetees. Several times as big as' a cas-
sowary, and colored bright pink with
green stripes, they fly by rotating the tail,
shaped something like an aeroplane pro-
peller and connected to the body by a
ball-and-socket joint. At the breeding
season huge flocks assemble amid the
forest tops, form in line and, holding
firmly by their beaks to stout branches,
rotate their tails at- terrific speed in re-
verse. The hurricane draught from thou-
sands of tails flattens the dense leafy
growth and weaves the twigs into a
smooth, springy floor 50 yards wide and
anything up to a mile long. On this they
lay their eggs, which are square to pro-
tect them from being swallowed by the
tree crocodiles, whose gullets are round.
One of the most remarkable sights in my
career was that of the young Deetees
being trained to take off and land on the
runway, the parent birds pouring bill-
fuls of water on their little tail-sockets
whenever they ran hot.
sf: * * *
“R.H.P.”: We met Uncle from Out-
back wandering about the city. He
looked a bit hectic, and we asked him
how he was enjoying his holiday. “Not
too good,” he growled. “I nearly cracked
me blasted neck on one of these new-
fangled emasculators just now. I’m
stickin’ to the stairs after this.”
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Why do nearly all birds,
and all successful incubator poultry-
farmers too, turn their eggs frequently
during the incubation period? If they
do not, or not sufficiently often, the eggs
either don’t hatch or produce deformed
chicks. The scientific explanation is that
the germinal disk on the yolk needs con-
stant changes of position relatively to the
albuminous white during the early stage
of development. Later, if the layers of
the developing embryo are allowed to
remain in constant contact they will
adhere, with resultant death or deformity
of the chick. Chief amongst the very
few exceptions are the Australian scrub
turkey, scrub fowl and Mallee fowl:
all Jbury their eggs in mounds, never
turn them, and yet achieve healthy and
particularly active chicks. Science sug-
gests that they are closest to the near-
reptilian ancestors of all birds. Reptiles
also bury their eggs and never turn
them.
* * * *
“Devil Fish”: The abos. in the tropics
are stronger than they used to be in the
temperate regions, if one may judge by
a message from Darwin alleging that the
native spearsmen pierced small targets
at a distance of 200 yards, to the very
natural admiration of the Franconia tour-
ists. Collins, who saw a good deal of the
Port Jackson natives in their primitive
state, says that he had seen them strike
with certainty at a distance of 70 yards.
Darwin notes that the natives whom he
saw near Parramatta in 1836 transfixed
a cap at 30 yards, but probably they were
not overexerting themselves. Mundy saw
a noted spearsman at Wellington
(N.S.W.) transfix a piece of bark with a
spear at 60 yards. But 200 yards was a
flight far beyond the southern abos.
* * * *
“Valerin”: Just let me tell “Towser”
(B. 12/4/’39) that I did have a mong
that was a first-class gun dog—a small,
yellow, stumpy-tailed cuss with a face
like a Bulletin artist’s idea of a Bol-
shie’s dial. When out shooting quail
over a pointer I used to let him come
along, and he soon acquired the tech-
nique of the game. But it was as a
snake-killer that he excelled —with a
quick rush he grabbed the serpent and
shook him till he almost fell to pieces.
Contrary to all rules, a bait got him in
the end —not a snake.
* * * *
“Calypso”: Well, perhaps I can ex-
plain, since “The 0.D.” still doubts (B.
5/4/’39). What the bronco was to
America’s Wild West the bike was to
Australia’s Golden West. And just as
W.W. youth, always on horseback,
learnt tricks that seemed almost in-
credible to the outsider, so did youth of
the G.W., always on the bike, learn
tricks and acquire a skill in riding
“Did I pull ’ im? 'E couldn't 'a won if 'e'd bin pushed."
that might have qualified for a
vaudeville show. With a score of entic-
ing mining townships all within pedal
distance, with endless miles of level plain,
with hills in the far distance that might
hold Eldorado, one’s spare time was spent
almost entirely on the bike. So the
machine became like another pair of legs.
But there was nothing distinctive or re-
markable about such ability or agility.
Practically every afternoon saw a hun-
dred champions trying themselves out on
the Kalgoorlie cycle track, training for
events like the Westral (£500) or the
Caledonian Wheel Race (£100), not to
mention the Night-Like-Day fixtures that
ran every week. And what those lads
could do with a bicycle made this writer
feel as if he was still being wheeled in a
pram. As for keeping on Bunny’s tail
as he doubled and dodged—well, he cer-
tainly gained a little at each turn, but
the bike soon came round and picked
the loss up.
* * * *
“Asdfg”: Now pseudo workers have
finished submitting their sissy jobs as
examples of hard yakka, let me weigh in
with the only really hard job I have
known. It was in the bad old days of
mining, and the job was to swing a 121 b.
spawler to belt the rocks which were too
big to go through the Gates breaker,
and rocks so hard that the revolving
eccentric breaker-bell would not bite on
them. Hours: 7.30 to 5, less three-
quarters of an hour for crib, with two
spells of 10 minutes each pinched from
the boss to spend in a reflective attitude.
Pay: 7s. 6d. a day. It was hard psycho-
logically, too, for no matter how hard a
man worked the heap never grew less.
* * * *
“D. 0.” (Noumea): Some Melanesians
have reasoning power, anyway. Intro-
duced Indian minahs were causing havoc
to island garden products such as
bananas and soft fruits. One day I saw
Sale, one of the natives who owned the
gardens, chipping an inch-wide, inch-deep,
thirty-yard-long trench. When finished
he filled it with corn and lay down be-
hind a shrub which' was on a direct line
with the trench. Half an hour later a
shattering roar from Sale’s old blunder-
buss and 31 minahs were kicking and
flapping along the line of the trench.
Not only did Sale rid his garden of a
number of the pests, but that night he
had the native equivalent of quails on
toast, for the birds’ carcasses, entire ex-
cept for feathers, appeared like currants
in a cake in his yam pudding.
* * * jp
“Langshan”: Scorfield’s judge who
stood directly in front of a Clydesdale
to inspect its teeth (B. 12/4/’39) deserved
the kick he subsequently got for his dam-
foolishness in not emulating real judges,
who stand at the side and a little to the
back of the horse’s mouth, the better to
get a comprehensive view of the teeth
and make certain they’ll not be in range
should the animal plunge or endeavor to
bite.
* * # *
“Lespy”: “I’ve ’ad a bit o’ trouble,
one way an’ another, with borers,” said
old Ben the handyman. “But nothin’ like
what ’appened up at Crippled Creek.
We’re runnin’ a euchre party an’ dance,
an’ we’re just grabbin’ our skirts for the
first ’op when the pianist sits down to
sort o’ get tuned up. ’E’s a ’eavy-’anded
sort o’ bloke, and no sooner does ’e
bring ’is fives down on the keys when
there’s a terrific crash inside the pianner.
’E opens the lid and we all crowds
around and ’as a look inside. Now y’
might say I’m a liar, but there’s nothin’
inside except a heap o’-dust an’ wires.
The only thing left standin’ up is the
French polish!”
* * * *
“Togo”: He was a town bumpkin in
his ways even after a year or so at a
cushy job in the bush. We kidded him
on a rabbiting expedition and set him
to guard one exit from a burrow while
we rooted at the other. He poked a stick
in and dropped into his usual semi-coma.
The rabbit sensed his man, took a line
up stick and arm, and finished with a
leap to liberty from his sentry’s shoulder.
We hadn’t the heart to pursue that rabbit
further.
* s£ * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: So “Mat’s Mate
believes the old furphy, beloved of office
toilers, that, because some granite has a
grain, you don’t have to strike hard to
crack it (B. 12/4/’39). To follow his
analogy further than mallee-roots, West-
ralian river-gum also has a grain—you
can discern it after it’s split—but you’ll
bruise hands and blunt wedges follow-
ing it. And just as timbers vary in
toughness, so you’ll strike granite that
you can’t kick to pieces. Westralian
granite is sometimes studded with diorite,
which doesn’t split, but chips. In that
stuff I’ll defy the granddaddy of all
stone-nappers to detect the grain. At
Waael (W.A.) the carters, who were on
contract, took everything as it came,
and the boss, having paid for the diorite,
wouldn ’ t see it thrown out, as we, also
on contract, were only paid for what we
na pped. After a couple of months of
that, under our tuition, “Mat’s Mate”
m ight have got used to it and proved
himself the best man Qn job but
ru take a shade of odds he wou ldn’t
h ]; , } - t
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Line-fishing was good,
Attracted by the particles of bait thrown
over tbe sjd a 4ft id came lazily
up the flow of the sea . H with visions G f
unlimited bait, we essayed a capture. But
that cuttlefish was educated; with the
debcac y 0 f a suburban duchess selecting
an a fternoon-tea sandwich, it removed
the bait from the hook, time after time,
Then Ah Mat watching our efforts wit h
smil pro duced the apparatus. A long
skewer ’£ th an eye en d, at the
other four bi h ' oks sweated on with
sizable mas B s o£ soldel , Se i ect j ng a
, ti mulletj he thr ust the skewer
. . F . t 6
into its mouth, right down till it emerged
at the tail—the four hooks forming a
steel Hinge around the mouth. With a
strong line fastened through the skewer-
eye the ijait went overboard, drifting
slowly downwards. Leisurely the squid
took hold—at the head. And as its ten
tentacles closed on the hooks Ah Mat
jagged. No breaking away from that
lot. But not too quick inboard ; a little
play led to the discharge of clouds of
ink. Then as the squid finally left its
element it shot its last bolt—two terrific
jets of water that momentarily drowned
its captor. Almost grudgingly Ah Mat
allowed us a supply of bait. “Makes the
best soup out of the sea,” he explained.
And it certainly did take some beating.
* * * *
“Mei”: I knew him as John, the
youngest of eight brothers, and was
aware that he was sometimes, in the
family circle, called Mary Ann. It was
not until he had occasion to sign some
papers as witness for me that I dis-
covered that he had really been regis-
tered as Mary Ann. He told me how
it happened. After three boys had been
born in the family the father wished
ardently for a daughter. “Ah, this will
be Mary Ann,” he would say preparatory
to the coming of another. But still boys
were born. When the seventh, too, was
a boy, the disappointed father declared
that the next would be christened Mary
Ann, regardless of its sex. Even this did
not make the Fates relent; a boy was
born and duly christened Mary Ann.
VERSES FOR THE BULLETIN.
The years have come as they come to all,
With their heavy white hands on heart and
head;
1 can but wait and in quiet recall
How slowly they came, how swiftly they
sped;
Or I turn the pages and read once more,
Thumbed and faded and pasted within
An old-world scrapbook of treasured lore,
The verses I wrote for The Bulletin.
They were born in the glow of the sunset track
When we rode on the shining western plains,
They echoed the rhymes of the lands outback,
The long red droughts and the bushland rainfs,
The beating of hoofs on the dusty roads,
The cracking of whips down the droving
ways,
The teams that strained to the mighty loads,
And the horses we loved in those happier
days.
They were songs of my mates with the hearts
of gold,
Of the nights we yarned by the campfire’s
glow,
Of the pipes we 1 smoked and the tales we told
In that hard old life of the long ago—
That hard old life, that is now a dream,
When the blood was red and the heart was
young, i
And never a day too long would seem
From dawn till the stars in the darkness
hung.
How calm is the life I am living now
As I sit in my chair that is padded and warm
And dream of the years when we recked not
how
Dark fate might meet us, or drought or
storm:
But glad would I live those years again
When I turn the pages and, pasted within,
I read in this book, with a longing vain,
The verses I wrote for The Bulletin.
VICTORIA.
OP.


“Ex-Cavalryman”: I have met many
bushmen in Australia who habitually
wore but one spur, and never could
fathom the true inwardness of this form
of eccentricity until I came across an
Austral-Scot who explained that a single
spur was quite sufficient, since if one
side of the horse were goaded into
quicker action the other side was sure
to follow.
* * * *
“Flight”: Two bad pests in the cane-
fields in N.Q. are the bald coot, known
occasionally as the “waggy,” and the
scrub turkey. When those fellows get
into young and growing cane they play
the devil. pull the central shoot
out of the cane, nip the soft end off
that, swallow it, dive into the heart of
the shoot for some more. That shoot
of cane isn’t much further use. Though
both birds are protected, the law turns
its head the other way when a man gets
out to defend his hearth and home. The
waggy, luckily, needs but little frighten-
ing. A shot or two, an odd bald coot
kicking on the ground, and they leave,
not to return for a year or more. The
turk., though, isn’t overgifted with brains.
He keeps coming on out of the scrub,
no matter what happens/
* * * *
“Colonel B.”: A shower of rain near
Ewingdale (N.S.W.) that plastered pass-
ing motor-cars with hundreds of inch-
long black-and-cream frogs is another
item in a long record of living gifts from
the skies. Casino had a similar experi-
ence in 1917, and in 1936 the steamer
Goondi received a shower of frogs whilst
three miles off the N.Q. coast between
Mourilyan and Cairns. The same year
a shower of small freshwater fish fell at
Billinudgel, on the North Coast of
N.S.W. Small sea whiting are registered
as having fallen at Roma (s'.-w. Q.), more
than 300 miles from the coast. The
record queer happening of the kind was
in Central India in 1933, when a shower
of oysters descended over dry country
hundreds of miles from the nearest
oyster-bed, and a pearl worth 150 rupees
was found in one of them. Most re-
corded cases have been during the
autumnal change, and the scientific ex-
planation is that the contents are picked
up by small Whirlwinds and carried aloft
to rising rain-clouds.
* * * *
“Galley”: “Seaman” Sam had bought
a new chaffcutter, to which he coupled
an old steam engine
for power, and he got
the new hand to help
him with the pipe-work
from the boiler. When
there was sufficient
head up to operate the
engine he opened the
outlet valve, and hiss-
ing steam came from
every pipe joint. Sam
beamed. “Jove!” he
said. “That new hand’s
a marvel. He’s gone
and fitted a safety
valve every three feet.
I didn’t know he had
it in him.”
* *
“Wippegong”: After
a rain-enforced spell a
team of roadmakers re-
turned to find a pair of
flame-breasted robins
building beneath the
crusher. The nest was
placed on a large beam
supporting the hopper
and within a yard of
the elevator buckets, so
when the wheels began
to spin it was a very
distressed pair of birds
that dashed for the
open. After an hour
or two, however, the
hen resumed work;
but not so the old man.
Greatly disturbed, he
fluttered around for
the two days the missus
took to finish the job ;
but after the eggs were
laid he did his darned-
est to atone by slaving
to feed the little mate.
Even then he’d only
come to within a few
yards o,f the crusher,
when a call would
bring the hen. As in-
cubation progressed he
gained confidence to the extent of taking
a turn on the eggs when the machinery
was idle, but beyond that he would not
go. It was the same when the chicks
arrived ; he gathered most of the grub,
but during crushing hours the mother
took it from him to the nest. In due
course the young ’uns learnt to fly and
to recognise the sound of Long Harry’s
axe as he split wood for the engine,
though at the woodheap they and their
parents and all the rest of the small fry
had to acknowledge the domination of
a smug yellow-bob, who often aired his
superiority by surveying the lesser fowl
from the knee of Long Harry’s dun-
garees.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The Nomenclator Zoologicus
—between ourselves just a zoological dic-
tionary —will be out in June, with three
volumes to follow at six-monthly inter-
vals. Anyone who likes interesting read-
ing with frequent changes of subject will
"If I dedden know ’was Cap’n all dressed up, I should take un for a
gintleman.”
“Speak up, man! Did you say you Were calling for help ?”
welcome it. It will contain the full and
correct scientific names of some 225,000
animals, birds and insects, and* will be
kept up to date by the regular addition
of the 2000 or so new names which are
the annual average. Scientifically, every
creature, including the joke, Homo
sapiens, has two names, one indicating
genus, the other species, just as in in-
come tax returns. For complete identi-
fication, the name of the original dis-
coverer and date and place of discovery
are needed. Thus, our.gamesome little
bedroom friend will appeal as “Pulex
irritans, Linn., 1758, Sw.” “Linn.,” of
course, stands for Linnaeus.
* * * *
“L.S.D.” (Noumea): Shades of Cap-
tain Cook! One bright navigator in the
islands set out for a night run to an
island 64 miles N.N.E. of where he was
anchored. The engine needing some
adjustment, he fixed it up, then came on
deck to set the sails.
He laid a large span-
ner alongside the com-
pass on the cabin-top
and forgot all about it.
As his objective was a
very small island he
spent the night watch-
ing alternate native
steersmen carefully to
see they kept the
proper course. Day-
light failed to bring
that island or any other
in sight, but at least it
did reveal the “spanner
in the works.” After
much fruitless cruising
fuel ran out. He spent
15 days sailing over the
Pacific without seeing
land and living on raw
fish and rainwater
caught from passing
showers. Early on the
sixteenth morning he
made a large island,
500 miles due south of
where he started from.
Nowadays he doesn’t
like fish, and won’t
drink water, even
diluted with whisky; and to wave a
spanner at him is tantamount to com-
mitting suicide.
“Zackly”: “G’day, boss,” said old
Bill as I rode up to his camp. “There’s
fresh tea in the billy and some brownie
in the camp oven. Help y’self; I gotter
go an’ fill me troughs.” I had nearly
finished my tea when he returned, and
I could almost feel his eyes on the Colt
on my belt. “What’s that for?” he
demanded. “Pigs,” said I. “Huh,” he
grunted. “Youse young blokes can’t use
them things. Now, when I was a young
’un I really could shoot with a revolver.
Can’t do it now, o’ course ; me eyes ain’t
good enough. I remember one time
old Tom was shooting at a board a
hundred yards away, using a .44 rifle.
When he’s finished I ups with me .32
Colt and puts one bullet through each
of the holes he’d made, and I never
touched the edge of the hole once.”
Raising my hat to him, I silently mounted
my horse and rode away.
H= * * *
“Naturala”: From a human, and there-
fore a logical, standpoint, it does seem
sheer insanity that Nature should hatch
out baby turtles in broad daylight and
so compel them to run a deadly gauntlet
down the beach. But that long-experi-
enced dame has method in her madness.
Always is she willing to sacrifice the indi-
vidual for the ultimate benefit of the
species. With the baby turtles’ mara-
thon down to the water edge, it is really
a case of “devil take the hindmost,” the
devil in the case being half a thousand
hungry seafowl. Thus the weaklings of
every hatching are inevitably weeded out,
or, to put it in the converse form, only
the strongest are able to survive. Fac-
tors of survival, too, may in infant turtles
take several forms —activity in dodging
the seagull’s thrust; toughness of shell,
thus turning the gull’s beak as it tries
to grip ; size and weight, making too big
a mouthful to be readily picked up. And
how do these points count in the adult
turtle world? Well, isn’t it remarkable
that so defenceless a creature as the
turtle should be able to exist and, more-
over, flourish in seas swarming with
sharks, some species of which attain a
length of 30ft. and perhaps over?
CALLED IT A DAY.
He “called it a day” in a ’Bidgee bend
(Old and forgotten, he’d earned his spell);
Only a mongrel dog for a friend
To whimper and mourn him as evening tell.
Too worn and feeble to mount a nag,
Out of the past he had tramped his way
With battered billy and meagre swag,
A river “whaler” who called it a day.
Saddle days on the long, hot road,
Dust and glare of the spreading plain ;
Stragglers that flinched from the stockwhip
goad, .
Breakers that wheeled from the mob in vain;
Cutting-out camps; and the watch at night,
With its droning song, till the stars grew dim
And the mob took shape in the new day’s
light—
These were the memories dear to him.
Many years have flown since the wreck was
found
Near the dead campfire, where they laid him
low
While a gaunt dog whined by the fresh-turned
ground;
For this is a story of long ago.
But we have memories of nags and men
On the old stock routes where our thoughts
yet stray,
Far off from the road we have gone “since
then” — .
Like the river whaler who “called it a day.”
MAORILAND.
C. H. W.


ř
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
New second edition.
MINING HANDBOOK of AUSTRALIA
NEW SECOND EDITION.
Gives complete details of 600 Gold, Base Metal and
Oil Cos., with technical data on Mine and Plant.
OTHER FEATURES: Metal Prices, 25 Years . . .
Location Maps, Mineral Production Statistics, 25 years.
Details of State Batteries and Plants, Complete
Glossary of Technical Terms. Wages Awards . . •
Buyer’s Directory. Bound in Leather Cloth, Gold
Blocked. Price 20/-, postage 1/-.. Obtainable from
TAIT PUBLISHING CO. PTY., LTD.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne; 8 Spring St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 63,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 .. 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 .. 823,421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 . . 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958: 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375 ; 1933, £4375 ;
1934-35. £5000; 1936, £5500 ; 1937, £5000;
1938, £2708. f Includes sundry reserves.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Prqvident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48,268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 . . . . 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
Reserves drawn upon, £238 .. 812,690
1938.. 227,462 £5,096 86,381 75,985 888,675
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1926-35, £7500;
1936, £7OOO ; 1937, £7500; 1938, £7500.
f Includes sundry reserves.
The 43-year-old Metropolitan, operating
in the three Eastern States and South
Australia, is a sound, regular bonus-
paying institution which continues to
make steady progress along the right
lines. A tight hold is being kept upon
exes., which have been substantially re-
duced over the last decade, and the pro-
tection for policy-holders consists of
good-quality assets, returns from which
show a satisfactory margin over and
above the rate the office assumes its funds
will earn. Moreover, the said margin
has lately widened a trifle, while the basis
of valuation has been further strength-
ened, which augurs well for maintenance
of bonuses to policy-holders and divi-
dends to shareholders.
Although bonuses to policy-holders and
dividends to shareholders are declared
annually, the actuary sends out his
figures only triennially. Surpluses (excess
of assurance funds over actuarial liabili-
ties) at the last three valuations compare
as follows:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
19.31 .. .. £25,779 £19,700 £45.479
1934 . . ■ . 28,543 19,747 48,290
1937 . . . . 36,910 13,242 50,152
The contraction of £6505 in the Indus-
trial figure for 1937 was due entirely to
a more stringent basis of valuation, which
increased the actuarial liability, or pro-
tection for policy-holders, by nearly
£13,000. In the Ordinary department
£9306 of the surplus was reserved against
suspended mortality ; the remaining
£27,604 belonged 90 p.c. to policy-holders
and 10 p.c. to shareholders, the ratios
having been altered from 80 p.c. and
20 p.c. respectively at the time of the
last valuation. Bonuses to policy-holders
then ranged from 30s. p.c. to 40s. p.c.
on Ordinary whole-life and endowment
assurances, and on Industrial contracts
10 p.c. on the sum assured on policies
15 years in force, plus 1 p.c. for each
additional year.
Last year the co. shared in the general
experience, the contraction in the total
amount of new business put on the
books (£816,828) being £2B4,24B—Ordi-
nary £303,203 (down £104,461) and Indus-
trial £513,625 (down £179,787). Still,
total income in the two sections com-
bined was £23,968 better at £376,774, of
which £292,150 (up £12,049) was pre-
miums, £BlOB (up £6108) consideration
for annuities, and £76,516 (up £5811) in-
terest, rents, etc. After paying all legiti-
mate claims and exes., and handing
shareholders £10,208 (down £2292),
£151,484 (up £20,713) was added to
the assurance funds, raising them to
£1,759,528. These funds, which belong
to policy-holders, have the support and
assistance of other reserves totalling
£97,290, as well as the share capital. The
dividend was equal to 20.4 p.c. on the
£50,000 of share capital as against 25
p.c. for the previous year, and the amount
added to funds was 40.2 p.c. of total
income as against 37 p.c. for 1937.
After deducting taxes, the net effective
rate of interest earned on the mean assur-
ance funds was 4.58 p.c., whereas the
office assumes that the funds will turn
in only 3 p.c. in the Ordinary and 31 p.c.
in the Industrial section.
Excluding dividends and taxes,- and
allowing 3 p.c. for consideration of annu-
ities, the proportion of net premiums
swallowed in exes, was 18.7 p.c. in the
Ordinary and 41.2 p.c. in the Industrial
department, compared with 18.8 p.c. and
44.5 p.c. respectively in 1937.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co.’s
investment portfolio:— .
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£253,415 14.3 £252,881 13.1
Govt, securities . . 1,041,736 58.9 1,189,735 61.9
Shares other cos... 21,345 1.2 24,764 1.3
Mortgages . . . . 282,445 16.0 271,959 14.1
Loans on policies.. 111,423 6.3 118,448 6.2
Book debts . . 50,608 2.9 52,604 2.7
Cash . . . . 6,189 0.4 13,187 0.7
Most of the money that became avail-
able last year was put into Government
securities (up £147,999), which now
account for 61.9 p.c. of total assets as
against 36.4 p.c. in 1929.
General Industries, Ltd.
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Old. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929 90,777 20,229' 10 p.c. = 70,240 f 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20.586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,261 t Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159.878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238. . 6,549
1935 75,530 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 12i „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20.825 „ „ 79,646 904 8.607
1939 103,528 20,851 12 J „ „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. t3£ p.c.
§ Arrears from Sept. 30. 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
This is a holding co., so the position
cannot be judged entirely by the figures
in the table. The operating cos., Metters
and K.F.B. Pty., turn out stoves (the line
on which the business grew up), baths,
gas-heaters, radiators, enamel goods and
other builders’ hardware, etc., and the
business is well spread throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland, where a
factory is operated by a subsidiary of
Metters. Like all others in the heavy
industries, the business suffered severely
during the slump ; the subsidiaries regis-
tered losses aggregating £163,185 for the
three years to the end of 1933, and the
holding co. jettisoned £319,077 ( = 7s. 6d.
per share) of its ord. capital, reducing the
total on the share-register to its present
£935,041, of which £297,874 carries a
cumulative 7 p.c. Earnings have since
responded handsomely to the continued
growth in building activity, and after a
five years’ wait the ords. got into the
picture again with 10 p.c. in 1936, fol-
lowed by 121 p.c. for each of the three
succeeding years. Furthermore, things
have been better than the figures in the
introductory table suggest.
Consider these figures, which show the
combined net earnings, etc., of the subsi-
diaries :
To
Dec., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 83,926 83,398 528 235,113
Loss.
1930.. 77,381 6,300 151,432
1931.. 68,466 Nil 82,966
1932.. 17.34 S Nil 65,618
Profit.
1933.. 6,470 Nil 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,361 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,428 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
1935.. 96,189 78,021 18,168 180,181
1936.. 131,677 100,176 31,501 211,682
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 206,682
1937.. 142,269 100,347 41,922 248,604
Assets realisation res., £5023.. 253.627
1938.. 165,559 100,347 65,212 318,839
Last year the volume of activity in the
construction trades continued to expand.
The erection of dwelling-houses, flats,
factories and city Buildings for banks,
insurance cos., hotel- and shopkeepers,
as well as Government expenditure in
connection with defence and other works,
kept builders and the wide range of in-
dustries from which they draw supplies
more than usually busy. After providing
for all contingencies, the combined net
earnings of the two subsidiaries sprang
£23,290, reaching £165,559, or enough
to cover the holding co.’s pref. div. and
show 22.7 p.c. on its ord. capital, as
against 19 p.c. and 17.4 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. Actually, the operating
cos. distributed only £100,347, same as in
the previous term, leaving £65,212 in
the business, thus raising the support and*
assistance for their £792,170 of com-
bined capital to £318,839.
Last year the Maoriland subsidiary
netted £11,431 (up £5215), or 17.6 p.c. on
capital, and paid 8 p.c.
Despite the continued improvement in
earnings and the wide margin between
these and distributions, the market, mind-
ful of recent and not-so-recent develop-
ments, prices the holding co.’s l2s. 6d.
ords. at 18s., as against 19s. 9d. a year
ago, and 21s. 3d. 12 months before that.
At 18s. the return is 8.6 p.c. on a 12f
p.c. div. basis. The p§und prefs. at 245.
return 5.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
The net tangible cover is £3 15s. 4d.
prefs. and 16s. 2d. ords.
The position as the operating cos.’
balance-sheet figures show it compares
as follows:
1929. 1934. lost. 1938.
Paid capital. . £904,531 £722,170 £792,170 £792,170
Sundry creditors 227,483 159,682 257,253 208,255
Freehold . . 400,665 303,128 341,625 321,093
Plant, etc. . . 350,453 288,524 384,693 388,955
Stocks . . 420,039' 306.946 412,767 415,409
Book debts . . 232,184 178,864 201,123 238,301
Shares other cos. 35,723 27.350 27,631 24.630
Cash . . . . 576 586 753 867
Including the allowance for depreciation,
etc., the year’s surplus earnings enabled
£48,998 to be clipped off the outside debt,
£37,178 to be added to debtors’ balances,
£2642 to stocks and £4262 net to plant.
The reduction in the book value of free-
holds was £20,527. Excluding shares
in other cos., the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£446,322) was £88,932 stronger than
at the previous balance.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. = 52,974 1 336 184,877
Staff provident fund, £3500 C ’
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,8/i
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295 1, 0 115 141,992
Staff provident fund, £3500 ..5 ’
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 1 1 469 143,461
Staff provident fund, £3OOO .. f
1932.. 49,052 7£ p.c. = 43,725 1 2 827 146,288
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. f
1933.. 47,125 7J p.c. = 43,725 1 900 147,188
S'taff provident fund, £2500 .. j
1934.. 48,788 74 p.c. = 43,725 1 2 - 63 149,751
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. \ ’ _
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 1 5 354 181,105
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. } ’
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 1 c 014 186 419
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. j ’ ’
Obsolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,642
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,640 1 QQft 9n r, fi o 2
Staff provident fund, £2500 990 2 °°’ 63 “
1938.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 .. 163,852
1939.. 62,148 8 p.c. = 46,640 15,508 179,360
This Dunedin-controlled co. set up in
the wholesale drug trade in the Dominion
about 60 years ago. Its drug warehouses,
of which there are four, are now stocked
largely with products manufactured in
the co.’s own pharmaceutical factory;
so the Government’s action in rationing
the sale of London credits and restricting
imports hasn’t caused any serious dis-
location of the business. But the major
part of the co.’s turnover these days
arises from the sale of superphosphates,
which it turns out from four large chemi-
cal fertiliser works in the most important
agricultural and pastoral centres in the
two islands.
Last year the demand for super, was
lighter, owing mainly to the fall in wool
and wheat prices, together with a wet
season. Also, introduction of the 40-
hour week resulted in a smaller factory
output at higher unit costs, which were
further raised by lifts in wages and
stinging increases in taxation now
7s. 6d. in the £ for cos. —and further
bleeding of another Is. in the £, making
Bs. 6d. in all, has been announced in
connection with the Government’s social
insurance scheme. Gross earnings fell
away £25,977, while exes, (down £10,391)
made off with an extra £3 4s. of each
£lOO of gross:—
Exes. p.c.
Gross Profit. Expenses. of Gross.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.c.
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1930 . . 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,882 64.3 „
1934 . . 127,761 78,973 61.8 „
1935 . . 137,226 82,732 60.2 „
1936 . . 149,551 95,097 63.5 „
1937 . . 156,700 106,570 67.8 „
1938 . . 215,073 137,339 63.9 „
1939 . . 189,096 126,948 67.1 ~
Still, the net result (down £15,587) was
a satisfactory 10.6 p.c. on capital as
against 13.3, 8.6, 9.3, 9.3, 8.3, 8 and 8.4
p.c. back to 1932. The div. was kept at
8 p.c., making with the special 12} p.c.


r
HE falling leaves of Autumn...
the birds leaving for warmer
climes. In these, and in a thousand
other ways, Nature is providing
against seasonal changes. To man-
kind the warning is clear—the system
must be on guard against any ills
and ailments that the change of
seasons may provoke. “Have
Wolfe’s Schnapps every day for
your health’s sake,” is a cardinal
rule at any time of the year, which
assumes a still greater significance
at the change of seasons.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
potent diuretic that aids the system
to function freely by cleansing the
blood-stream of impurities. Just
now, at the fall of the year, when
a general toning up is necessary,
you will find Wolfe’s Schnapps in
moderation an unquestionable
benefit. With hot water and lemon
it is the greatest “night-cap”
of all.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in
Quarter Bottles as well as in the
familiar Half and Large Sizes.
OLFE
SHBRQOUCT OF HOLLAND.
THIS £
ALCOHOLIC |
1 Exclusively In $
.t only pur* Iroc S
nd ingredient, hu ;
3 =
possible quality.,**"**!
attention of Affautfear
UVsfhrrW
_Coidial. embogsq|*tn
NbJ
irJ*?
Roiyer
rSßJnlowjr attempt at infrini
===fr«T:!PllirifLOZ
WOLFES
WW \JmmwT MM tm
(Z^omdlhcdiJmdam
emu Ik DDC
wWimiirrd
As Good for Women as for Men


Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T. 11. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
It. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
11. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ŕ
Prospectuses and Application
Forms obtainable at any
branch of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, and from
members of Stock Exchanges.
ln
TERMS
Interest payable
half-yearly.
Issued at Par.
Principal repayable 1949.
Guaranteed by the Govern-
ment of New South Wales.
METROPOLITAN
WATER, SEWERAGE AND
PRA^NACE^)A^
SYDNEY
W -to
SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
Goreful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors;
Union Insurance Society of Canton
.Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; B 5294
e
cash distribution early in 1938 an average
of 10.5 p.c. over the last five years.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £583,000 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities* . . 252,463 84,438 228,114 219',526
Factories, etc. 466,943 366,221 396,942 392,158
Stock.. .. 373,891 274,477 324,059 330,316
Book debts . . 172,094 133,802 221,895 ' 212,123
Cash, etc. .. -r- 105,002 130,579 73,523
* Includes provision for taxation.
The reduction of £57,056 in cash, etc.,
was on account of the special p.c.
cash div. already mentioned. Payment
of this div. again shows up in a reduc-
tion of £52,583 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£396,436). Additions were made
to plant, etc., but £4784 more was written
off than was spent on fixed assets. The
growth of £5657 in stocks reflects pur-
chases before import restrictions were im-
posed.
Many doubt whether the Maoriland
Government isn’t leading trade and in-
dustry in the Dominion further into the
wood instead of out of it. However,
well-handled and well-ribbed concerns
like this one, which manufacture most of
their own requirements, should give a
satisfactory account of themselves in the
long run.
The market prices the f.-p. £2 shares at
665., about the same as a year ago, after
allowing for the special div. The return
at 665. is 4.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the net tangible cover is 265. per
pound of paid capital.
Colonial Gas Debenture Issue
Colonial Gas (Melbourne) is offering
£BB,OOO of 4J p.c. 15-year debentures at
par (£100). The issue has been under-
written by J. B. Were and Son, the Mel-
bourne stock- and sharebrokers, who
have taken firm £56,000 worth of the
issue, leaving £32,000 for subscription by
those on the share and debenture registers
and/or the public. The money, wanted
to meet the co.’s capital requirements, is
payable 10 p.c. May 15 and the balance
June 1. On this basis, the full half-
year’s interest payable November 16
will contain the equivalent of a cash
bonus of approximately 3s. Bd. p.c. The
terms are a trifle better than the current
market for comparable securities; and all
debentures, which rank pari passu with
one another, are secured by a trust deed,
giving them a first charge upon the co.’s
property and undertaking. The trustees
are the E., S. and A. Bank and the West-
minster Bank (London).
Simultaneously with this new cash
issue, the co. is asking holders of exist-
ing debentures maturing on November
16, 1939, and January 1, 1940, to con-
vert into new debentures on exactly the
same terms as the cash issue. Any of
the old debentures not converted are to
be offered to share- and debenture-
holders, together with the £32,000 worth
already referred to.
Existing debenture issues total £494,100,
made up as follows:
Date
Amount. Rate. Maturity.
£125,000 6 p.c. 16/11/’39
24,900 6i „
120,000 64 „ 16/12/’4O
124,000 4 J „ l/5/’52
100,000 4J ~ 15/l/’62
Allowing for the present cash-and-con-
version offer, the total on the debenture
register will be £582,000, which will call
for £29,189 (£2182 more than total de-
benture interest paid last year), or a wink
over 5 p.c.
The co. controls 26 gas undertakings
scattered throughout all the Australian
States. Before allowing for debenture
interest, net earnings for the 12 months
to June 30 last amounted to £105,111, or
over 3| times the total annual debenture
requirements after the present cash-and-
conversion issue is fully subscribed and
paid. The aggregate book value of all
assets was £1,991,831—n0 intangibles
figure in the sheet.
Principally owing to the lift in steel
prices, Austral N.Z. Mining, the Austral-
Malay float on Maoriland’s Clutha River,
has had to raise an additional £lOO,OOO
stg. to finance its construction programme.
If results come up to expectations, how-
ever, about 18 months’ dredging should
clean up this indebtedness. The plant, a
3,500,000-c.y.-p.a. affair, is expected to
be digging in October. With all-in costs
at 2.8 d. per c.y. and gold at £7 an ounce
sterling (it is now £S7 Bs. 6d.), the pros-
pectus figured on annual net earnings of
£NZ68,460, or ss. 6d. a share. The
property is near Cromwell, South Island.
Original boring indicated 28,000,000 c.y.
of 3gr. wash, but subsequent testing has
doubled that quantity of pay-dirt. Last
term a dredging lease of 200 acres was
granted over the Shine Basin section, and
another lease of 260 acres north of the
main property has been applied for.
There are 245,000 shares issued —210,000
£1 ords. and 35,000 Is. deferreds enjoy-
ing equal profit participation per share
with the ords.
* * V * *
In Wiluna’s first quarterly report-
reports were issued monthly previously —
recent development results in the main
mine are shown to be disappointing. Some
of the ore-bodies are not yet fully de-
veloped, but it appears improbable that
as great a tonnage of ore can be ex-
pected from these as appeared likely in
the earlier stages of development.
Diamond-drilling to test the east (main)
lode shear at depths considerably below
the main workings and testing of the west
lode by the §ame means to a depth of
2750 ft. have failed to disclose anything of
economic importance. In the Bulletin
section development to date on the new
shoot at 1200 ft. level has been disappoint-
ing. A later report states that a diamond
drill operating at a depth of 600 ft. has
penetrated, at 90ft. east of the Happy
Jack shaft, ore of a true width of 23ft.
and of s.7dwt. average value. The point
of intersection is nearly a mile north of
the Wiluna main shaft and some distance
east of the boundary of the Moonlight
group, operated by the Gold Fields Aus-
tralian Development Co. Amalgamation
between this co. and Wiluna is
not improbable later on. Smelting was
suspended at Wiluna about the end of
March. Roasting of concentrates by the
controlled temperature process, recently
instituted, has proved successful, and has
resulted in improved cyanide recovery.
Although actual overall recovery from
flotation and cyanidation is less than that
obtained by smelting, lower costs more
than counterbalance lower recovery.
During the quarter 146,067 tons was
treated for £216,024 in Aust. currency.
Working costs, excluding expenditure on
development and exploration, were
£161,392, leaving an estimated working
surplus of £54,632. Total expenditure
on development and exploration was
£35,747, and on construction and equip-
ment £8937,
* * * *
To finance the sinking of a new ver-
tical haulage-way and provide plant,
Blue Bird (W.A.) has invited share-
holders to take up 100,000 2s. new shares
at par, one for one. At present ore is
treated at a near-by State battery. A
recent report by the inspector of mines
on this layer of golden eggs says: “High-
grade ore of an average width of 15in.
continues to be exposed. As the ore-
body dips very flatly it is being mined on
the longwall system, resembling the coal-
mining method of longwall advance.
Shaft-sinking proposed by the co. will
permit of easier handling of mullock, and
should reduce mining costs considerably.”
* * * *
To the delight of its amiable Yankee
boss, Dale Pitt, Big Bell (W.A.) has ex-
tracted over 80,000 oz. during the two
years, or thereabouts, that treatment has
been in progress, and is still going strong.
Dale Pitt has looked at several things
in the West represented by their owners
to be as good as Big Bell, but hasn’t felt
impelled to take them up. T. S. Mac-
kay, Pitt’s right-hand man, resigned the
other day to take another appointment
in Canada.
* * * *
Latest address of Hansel Mundy, first
known as Chaffinch, is the old Sun mine
on the Norseman goldfield (W.A.). Work-
ings have been unwatered, and the shaft
is being retimbered. A “strong” lode is
said to be visible in the bottom. Some
stoping was done by former owners, but
no record of values appears to have been
left.
* * * *
Old Bayley’s Reward, now operated by
Phoenix, Ltd., one of the subsidiaries
of Commonwealth Mining and Finance,
Ltd., is being equipped with a second-
hand suction gas outfit from Sand Queen,
another of C.M. and F.’s subsidiaries,
and a treatment plant, also second-hand,
from Southern Cross. Developments are
stated to be “satisfactory” and ore re-
serves to be “plentiful.” . >
* * * . * *
Swan Bitter’s new 600-ton-a-month
cyanide plant has started, and will deal
with 500 tons this month. The board is
considering increasing the mill from five
to ten head in a month or so. Recent
developments in the co.’s new mine at
Mt. Magnet are encouraging, and so,
according to the board, are prospects of
the £12,000 payable from profits for the
purchase of the property being earned
prior to expiration of the option in
November.
* * * *
Backed by a favorable report from the
manager of Blue Bird, Carbine has de-
cided to try its luck at Grant’s Patch,
near Ora Banda (W.A.). It is paying a
deposit of £lOOO, and has undertaken to
hand the vendors a further £lO,OOO, plus
30,000 f.-p. shares if it completes the
deal. The reef is small but of good value,
and “is widening at depth.” So far it
has been proved only to a vertical depth
of 80ft.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) has made “ten-
tative arrangements” for an option over
a Norseman area, and has agreed to take
another area at Sandstone on approval.
Development on the Shenton mine at
Menzies has ceased, and operations are
now confined to extracting available ore
below No. 7 level.
if: sfc *
Westralian goldminers and mining sur-
face hands are again asking for more.
This time, as before, they want higher
rates of pay, shorter working hours,
something extra for skill and a bigger
industry allowance. Underground workers
demand a 35-hour work week of five
days, and those employed on the surface
a 40-hour week, also of five days. A
payday every other Friday is also re-
quested. At present the ghost walks
on the 3rd and 19th of each month. Re-
cently Parliament refused to compel it
to walk at any other time, saying that
the question was one for the Arbitration
Court to decide.
* * * *
Freney shareholders were told at a
meeting in Perth the other day that the
agreement for the advance from the Com-
monwealth Government had been signed,
and that a boring plant was expected to be
hired presently. The field superintendent
and head driller had fixed a bore site,
where drilling is expected to commence
in less than two months.


SMOKE-OH!
“Man kills swallow at golf and a sparrow
while playing tennis.”
It is understood he now intends taking
up cricket and getting a duck.
4. 4* 4. 4>
“Naturalist says ants have a higher social
sense than human beings.”
They are certainly sociable at a picnic.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Crooner receives 5000 flattering letters every
week.” —Film blurb.
For “flattering” read “flattening.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Passengers for the initial flight said that they
had never experienced such comfort in travel-
ling. They were all delighted and more than
enthusiastic.” — Advt.
In fact, they were transported with joy.
“Women are odd about lying.” — “Truth.”
They’re odd because they so often lie
just to get even.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is success?” — Women’s paper.
The stage at which you get handsomely
paid for talking about your failures.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wallabies Bred in Scotland.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
The Scots always like the idea of some-
thing in the pouch.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Nawab of Pataudi’s marriage. Rode
elephant to fetch bride.” — “S. M. Herald.”
No doubt she appreciated the extra
travelling trunk.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Farmers live longer than any other manual
worker.” —Insurance report.
They’ve got to if they want to get the
mortgage paid up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Former international cricketer now swings a
bag at metropolitan courses.” —Sporting gossip.
Barrackers advised him to do this years
ago.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A politician is a salesman with nothing
to sell—but he sells it.
Fairyland.
“When reading became more universal, those
picturesque old-world characters who jour-
neyed from cabin to cabin in rural districts
telling their fairy stories faded out.”
—Magazine writer.
That’s open to argument.
Some quaint old fairy stories still go
from cabin to cabin on luxury cruises.
Though doors are banged in their faces
and dustcans hurled at their heads, high-
pressure salesmen are doing their best
to keep alive the simple charm of the
fairy story.
It is very pretty to imagine fairies hop-
ping about from leaf to leaf, but the only
leaf that will start a King’s Cross fairy
hopping is one out of a chequebook.
The old fairy story always started with
“Once upon a time.” The modern fairy
story kicks off with “Once upon a good
time the Fairy Queen met, etc.,” and the
etceteras preponderate when the waiter
brings the bill.
The old fairy stories gave us intimate
glimpses of life beneath the mushrooms.
Many we hear to-day give us a fair idea
about life in and about mushroom com-
panies.
Me.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Live-wire people are always handing
out shocks to those who come in con-
tact with them.
Rich Dining.
“He always dined richly.”— “D.T.”
On his dinner table there was invari-
ably a bank of flowers, and the silver
was splendid and plentiful; in fact, the
service was a credit to the establishment.
His soup was made of gilt-edged stock,
he took his lamb with mint sauce, and
he insisted on golden sauce with his pud-
ding.
Tenors sang to him while he ate, an
orchestra played its million-aires, and the
cakes were always adorned with hun-
dreds and thousands.
H. M.
é
“Pioneers are rough.” —“Sunday Sun.”
They have to be rough so that they
can smooth the way.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The art of music is, comparatively, a late
form of human expression.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Listening to some allegedly musical
items is proof that it is not late enough.
4* 4* 4*
“A gas company official found a gold-rimmed
monocle among the pennies in a slot meter.”
A pathetic instance of how the New
Poor struggle for existence.
4* 'l* 4* 4*
Youthful Cycling Veterans.
“Jensen finished very strongly to record a
time of 58 l-ssee. for half a mile riding off a
handicap of 95 years.”
—Maryborough (0.) “Chronicle
In another century or so the winner
should be a world-beater, though Ziff-
kins, the limit man, who had his beard
marcelled to avoid catching it in the
wheel, should be reaching his best form
by about a.d. 2020. The scratch men, who
lost their feeding-bottles, aren’t expected
to finish for a decade or so. These babies
are in future to be allowed to compete
in prams, and no race meetings are to
be held on pension days.
Langshan.
A Bad Racquet.
“It appears that the only thing this husband
and wife had in common was a liking for
tennis.” —Divorce Court Judge.
It started when she netted him.
The game was love and life was fine.
She watched the service, slim and trim,
And soon their names were on the
line.
Then came the smash ! It seems that she
Was hardly ever in at all,
Except to volley threats when he
Lobbed home with friends and made
her ball!
"Go to the deuce!” he always said.
She, thirty, found another sport,
And went for glorious drives instead,
And — well, they finished up in court.
T. W. NATHAN.
Affection.
“Most modern girls are very mercenary.”
—Headmistress of ladies’ college.
Don’t speak much of love to me; tell me
what you earn.
Say that you’ve a big sedan, and pots of
cash to burn.
Hold my hand and promise me a
diamond or two,
And if a better offer doesn’t come I’ll
marry you.
MELTON.
Not So Wild.
“The wild men of Borneo are no longer
wild. I found them eating Australian biscuits
recommended for babies. But the women are
wild.” —Wanderer Frank Clune.
No doubt the decision to cease being
wild was taken after a survey of the
news from the civilised parts of the
world had convinced them that as sav-
ages they were flops. Then, naturally,
the wives got wild with the husbands.
To find her once-fierce warrior turning
the kitchen upside down to find his baby
biscuits is an awful sock in the eye to
a woman’s pride.
But there is still hope. The Borneo
women are striving desperately to coax
their men back to manhood via the
“Get out! I'm not dressed."
biscuit route. Read this unsolicited testi-
monial received by the Growler Dog
Biscuit Co.:
Bui Bui Jungle,
Borneo.
Sirs, —Your Growler Dog Biscuits
are wonderful. After the first packet
my husband was again his old self,
growling and snarling at everything.
Imagine my great joy when after
the third packet he started burying
bones all over the jungle. I cannot
tell you how proud apd happy l
was when he dived under the table
and bit a large piece out of the calf
of my leg. I am recommending
Growler Dog Biscuits to all my lady
friends in Borneo. — Wild Woman
from Borneo.
D. McM.
Conversation Piece.
“Hello, hello, is that you, Mabel dar-
ling? It’s me here. Oh, how silly of me!
Well, see if you can guess. Who? Mabel,
how could you? Fancy thinking it was
Alice, of all people. It’s Janet speaking.
“No, there’s nothing wrong. I just
rang to see how it sounded to speak to
Sydney from right away up here at
Kosciusko. What’s that? Yes, I know
I could have. But it’s so much more
expensive that I couldn’t resist the temp-
tation. And how are you, pet?
“Yes, I’m feeling simply divine, and
there’s a most gorgeous ski-ing instructor.
Yes, absolutely. How’s George—or don’t
you see anything of him now? It’s too
bad of him, you poor thing.
“Heavens, the three minutes can’t be
up already. Good-bye, Mabel. It’s so
nice to have had a chat with you, but I’ll
ë
ē
HOOTS AWA.
No Blushing Honors.
“A Paris beauty specialist has started a
school to teach women to blush.”
I hope for his own sake that Monsieur
meets with more success than I.
When the last wave of New Coyness
swept the country I thought I’d cash in
on it. Slinging up my job of hole-puncher
in a tripe foundry, I set up a posh estab-
lishment and specialised in blush-pro-
ducing for women who wished to appear
unsophisticated.
Charging fancy fees, I soon had a class
together, mostly socialite sub-debs., and
to test what I was up against I started
off by recounting some of the best Mae
West yarns ; warming up, I went through
all the Little Audreys, and finished up on
the choicest of the old Stiffy-and-Mo
gags. The only response was yawns.
Then I hit on a simple and effective
plan. Each of my clients was to wear
a necklace of what-
ever gimcrack jewels
she favored,
threaded with a
strong thin wire. By
twisting it around
with a finger under
the pretence of toy-
ing with it wffiile talk-
ing, it was obvious
that it must become
tighter, thus con-
stricting the neck un-
til the wearer’s face,
was suffused with the
requisite rubescence.
But I clean forgot
that necks differ in
girth. I had tried it
out on my own
rather scraggy neck,
and found that 14
twists produced the
right hue, and un-
thinkingly I laid that
down as general
practice. At a cock-
tail party shortly
afterwards one of
my pupils, an over-
fed matron in her
fifties, was just saved
from strangulation
as she was going
black in the face by
the prompt action of
the youth she was
ogling.
In evidence at the
subsequent action
for damages her
doctor said that it
would probably be
three months before
her eyes got back
properly into their
sockets, and that,
with her neck, twists would have
been sufficient to produce a bright purple
blush. An unfeeling jury awarded her
such heavy damages that to meet them
I was compelled to sell the house I was
renting.
Yes, the best of luck to Monsieur —
he’ll need it.
Bo.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPLETE GUIDE.
III.
To walk behind a brand-new mower
with its varnished handle, japanned nuts,
brightly-painted ironwork and gilt-edged
blades is to inspire in its proud owner a
determination to keep it so. He will
make a silent resolution that it will never
be left out to rust or be kept for weeks
shrieking for a drop of oil as the old one
was. This time he’ll do as the instruction
chart advises: “Cut grass absorbs oil
freely, so oil your mower about every 20
minutes when in use, and clean thor-
oughly when finished, and wipe knives
with oily rag.”
When, three weeks after you bought
the mower, you go to get it out of the
woodshed and find it in the long pas-
paium on the back lawn, give it a few
preliminary pushes to ascertain the degree
of rustiness it has attained. This will be
indicated by a certain stiffness in the
cylinder. Also, if the knives can be in-
duced to pass over the cutting blade, keep
a keen ear for the particular sound it
makes. Should it approximate that of a
rip-saw being drawn across a sheet of
galvanised iron, soak the whole thing in
a bucket of kerosene for a while.
A closer inspection will reveal that the
set-screw which covers the hole through
which you oil the works is missing
(probably you forgot to replace it when
you last oiled the machine), and that the
inside of the cylinder is clogged up with
oily mud and grass clippings. Develop-
ment of a light touch is necessary for
their removal, and this is good practice
for the handyman.
First, upend the mower. The parts
now visible will be the wooden roller and
the underside of the cutting blade. Along
the length of the latter, so as to deaden
the clangorous sound of steel on steel,
place something soft—a garment from
the dirty-clothes basket will do.
Now take your light sledge-hammer
and, raising it above your head, let it fall
on to the garment. On no account bring
it down with all your force, or the face
of the hammer may be damaged. Keep
"You can come in now."
doing this along the blade from wheel to
wheel for a few minutes.
You will be gratified to note, on re-
versing the mower, that the bulk of the
foreign matter has been removed, but
some small pieces will be left which will
defy the hammer. Recourse to other
methods is indicated.
Some handymen favor the “stabbing”
process. This consists of hammering the
head of a pin into a long stick, resharpen-
ing the point on a grindstone, and har-
pooning separately each piece of mud
and grass. There is also the “chop-suey”
method: two knitting needles are in-
serted and the obstacles deftly removed.
By far the quickest and —so far as the
cylinder, at least, is concerned the
cleanest method is that of the “draw-
back.” A hollow tube is inserted into
the oil hole, the mouth is placed over
the exposed end, and the breath sharply
inhaled. The suction will cause all the
remaining oily grass and mud to be
extracted instantly. A glass of kerosene
should be kept handy to gargle in case
some of the oily matter sticks obstinately
to the tonsils. The now cleaned-out
cylinder may be filled with clean oil.
It now only remains to devise a sub-
stitute set-screw for the one you had
removed and so carefully placed away
that it can’t be found.
S.W.K.


u
l
ane Me o
oCet no aduantaae ill
ae 5Up.
Shakespeare.
)9
Take time by the forelock and commence now
to provide a measure of financial security for
the years ahead.
A convenient, simple way to do tms is py
lodging your surplus funds on interest-bearing
deposit with the Union Bank—an investment
assuring a regular income with a maximum of
safety.
Interest commences irom tne actual date the
money is lodged.
These deposits are accepted at any Branch ot
the Bank, in sums of £5 and upwards, for terms
of 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( ESTABLISHED 1837 )
Incorporated in England
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
I
/
1
FOLDS AND PACKS
TROCKS FOR YOU
In a lightweight, neat-looking Globite Robe
Case you can pack 12 frocks in about 3
minutes. There's no folding to do. They
don't crease or crush. They need no press-
ing when taken out .... they're fresh and
ready to wear. Available at all good stores.
GLOBITE
ROBE CASE
FORD SHERINGTON LTD., MANUFACTURERS
(Wholesale only)
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Australia’s Trade Relations
Britain, France, Maoriland, Belgium
- and Italy, in that order, were the only
important countries with which Aus-
tralia had a favorable balance of trade
during 1938. Japan, which bought
£4,867,173 sterling more from us than it
sold us in 1937, in 1938 had a balance
in its favor of £88,937. There was a big
shrinkage in trade with Italy, though
Germany did more business but all
in Germany’s favor, its credit for the
year 1938 rising from £76,700 to
£1,419,242.
The following tables show import,
export and “net balance”, values of trade
with the 12 more important countries
with which we do business. The total at
the bottom of each table includes all
other countries’ transactions with us as
well.
The year 1937 was one of heavy ex-
ports and “prosperity” in the U.S.A.,
which prompted a demand for our wool,
and nearly resulted in it buying from
us as much as it sold: ——
Year Ended December, 1937
Excess of
Imports, Exports, Exports,
Country. £Sterling. £Sterling. £Sterling.
Britain .. 42,744,374 60,292,132 17,547,758
Belgium .. 1,083,069 6,001,861 4,918,792
Canada .. 7,246,268 1,923,940 -5,322,328
France . . 884,860 7,537,828 6,652,968
Germany 3,904,391 3,827,691 -76,700
Italy .. 693,820 3,652,156 2,958,336
Japan .. 4,416,408 9,283,581 4,867,173
N.E.I. .. 7,562,469 1,072,913 -6,489,551
Maoriland 1,671,085 5,231,107 3,560,022
Sweden .. 1,250,436 355,206 -895,230
Switzerland 696,355 145,087 -551,268
U.S.A. .. 15,481,692 12,072,613 -3,409,079
All countries 103,569,676 132,427,067 28,857,391
Minus sign (—) denotes excess of imports.
The credit in Australia’s favor for 1937
was £28,857,391 sterling, and covered all
our invisible overseas commitments. Then
wool and wheat prices started to slide, a
“recession” in the U.S.A. hit metals
severely, and better prices for meat and
our larger gold production couldn’t cope
with the almost general decline in values.
But our appetite for imported goods
was not checked ; it continued to grow
until the credit position at the end of
1938 forced a more cautious mood on
to us: —
Year Ended December, 1938
Excess of
Imports, Exports, Exports,
Country. £Sterling. £Sterling. £Sterling.
Britain .. 44,750,861 59,477,956 14,727,095
Belgium .. 1,100,202 4,398,593 3,298,391
Canada .. 7,577,718 1,498,467 -6,079,251
France .. 1,017,989 8,451,976 7,433,987
Germany.. 4,108,898 2,689,656 -1,419,242
Italy .. -772,837 846,105 73,268
Japan .. 4,625,624 4,536,687 -88,937
N.E.I. ... 6,884,645 1,397,386 -5,487,259
Maoriland 1,988,092 5,550,572 3,562,480
Sweden .. 1,322,568 349,502 -973,066
Switzerland 942,842 152,574 -790,268
U.S.A. .. 16,280,503 10,514,036 -5,766,467
All countries 108,005,029 120,992,762 12,987,733
Minus sign (—) denotes excess of i.mports.
The credit for 1938 fell precipitously to
£12,987,733, as the table shows, because
of a. drop of £11,500,000 sterling in ex-
port values and a rise of £4,500,000 in
imports. The only countries to buy more
from us were France and Maoriland, and
there was but one country —the Nether-
lands East Indies, from which we draw
a large part of our petrol and crude oil
supplies—from which we didn’t increase
our orders.
Canada is one of our “bad” customers.
We buy a lot of motor-car chassis from
this Dominion, and it’s a pity that more
reciprocity isn’t in evidence. Most of
us are glad to give our patronage to
Empire manufactures, and no doubt we
will continue to have the same sentiments
on the matter ; but trade representations
to Ottawa on our behalf have generally
been fruitless.
Revival in the Australian sharemarkets
continued last week. Australian Con-
solidated Industries ords. appreciated to
325. 9d., representing 31s. 9d. after allow-
ing for the div. accrued, and showing a
return of £4 9s. per cent, on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. Actual div. paid in respect of the
term ended March 31 was 6.86 p.c. on
the bonus-increased capital, declared out
of profits £36,884 higher at £324,512. One
result of the capitalisation of disclosed
and inner reserves in Australian Glass
has been to give old holders a much
better return on their investment and a
wider and more profitable market for
"When yer’ve got ’er sawed through, Alf, I'll be ready ter take off.”
their scrip! Last week’s price of 325. 9d.
was equal to just over £6 per old Aus-
tralian Glass share. A.C.I. ords. are
now active nearly every day on Sydney
and Melbourne ’Changes. The ord. share
issue was almost quadrupled by the long-
awaited bonus.
Broken Hill Prop, fully-paids lifted to
565. 6d., returning about £4 11s. per
cent., allowing for the div. accrued. The
co.’s year ends on May 31, and if New-
castle steelworks production figures are
a true guide to earnings profits should
be very close to last year’s. The Barrier
mine, now closed, wasn’t much help to
earnings in 1937-38. It will be interest-
ing to see how increasing costs have been
met.
United Provision ords. have been weak
in a firming market. They slipped back
to 7s. for a time, returning 8.6 p.c. so
long as last term’s 3 p.c. distribution is
continued. The div. was paid out of
operating cos.’ earnings, equal to 3.5 p.c.
on the parent’s ord. capital, allowing for
pref. div. requirements.
Australian Gypsum is a stock directly
dependent on the building trade that
holds its price in the sharemarket. In
1937 the scrip touched 245. 6d. for a
time, and in 1938 a “low” of 18s. 6d. was
recorded, but recent quotes have been
around 20s. 6d. —returning just tinder
8 p.c. to the buyer. Australian Gypsum
was a straggler until an amalgamation
and reorganisation took place some years
back. Divs. were resumed in 1934. Gyp-
sum is the mineral from which plaster-
board and plaster of Paris are made (some
manures contain it as well); in Australia
it mostly comes from South Aus. and
Victoria.
Conscription—in Britain—of youths
around 20-21 seemed to add further
strength to Australian ’Changes when the
news was published on Thursday morn-
ing. In Sydney the chalked-up record of
sales was declared to be a “good board,”
even if turnover was on the light side.
London ’Change remained unresponsive,
the City having a new Budget to digest.
Higher incomes will bear extra taxes, the
larger estates will have to pay increased
death duties, the horse-power tax on cars
has been increased steeply, and some
excise and other duties, notably on films,
tobacco and sugar, have been increased.
Ordinary income-tax rates remain un-
changed. Profit-earning on rearmament
contracts is to be regulated.
* * * *
British steel production during March
was the highest for any month since the
record set in November, 1937. Follow-
ing the cut in British steel prices last
December there has been a noticeable
recovery in steel-mill outputs. There
have also been large orders for A.R.P.
shelter purposes, and general rearma-
ment has had its effect.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Herald shares appreciated further, to 635.,
the firmest quote for many months. Myer ords.
remained at 28s. 9d., although the 9 p.c. div.
looks like being repeated this year.
The State Executive Council nominated the
“prescribed” Stock Exchanges in accordance
with the new Companies Act. The approved
Exchanges are as follows:
Under Sub-section 2 of Section 356.—The
Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Under Sub-section 4 of Section 356.—The
Stock Exchange of Adelaide, Ltd., and the
Brisbane, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth,
Sydney, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
and Wellington Stock Exchanges.
For the Purposes of Section 124 and the
33rd Schedule.—The Stock Exchange of
Adelaide, Ltd., and the Brisbane, Mel-
bourne, Hobart, Perth, Sydney, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington
Stock Exchanges; the Stock Exchange of
London, the Montreal, Toronto, Johannes-
burg, San Francisco and New York Stock
Exchanges, the New York Curb Exchange
and the Paris Bourse.
Emperor shares were a trifle firmer at Bs.,
and Loloma scrip strengthened to 20s.
Great Boulder shares lifted to above 12s.
following a rise to near 10s. sterling in Lon-
don. The thrashing-out of differences between
the directors and the “shareholders’ commit-
tee” seems to be doing the market no harm.


Yarra Falls, 355.
Though not going as cheaply as
they were a few weeks ago (when
335. 6d. was taken on one occasion),
the shares in Yarra Falls looked
favorable buying at last week’s
price of 355. They return 5.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria.')
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived -
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
£
*
fk
%
Both the hall and the stair-
way belonged to the '9o's.
v,*
si
The walls were stained wood
, . . dingy . . . depressing!
&
"A nondescript hall has the same effect as a shabby suit . . . yet it’s surprising
how many people neglect the entrance to their home. I've done quite a lot
of hall-modernising jobs lately, using Cane-ite . . . the white-ant-proofed, easy-
to-work insulating board. With Cane-ite (which is made in handy sized Ivory
and Natural Boards of just the right thicknesses) even the most out-of-date
hall or any other room, for that matter can be made as modern as the
moment, at very little cost . . . and no structural alterations are necessary."
Builder Brown . . .
Builder Brown—and all other builders
—know the value, also, of Masonite
. . "THE WONDER BOARDS OF 1000
USES" . . the non-splintering, grain-
less, non-warping boards which have
such amazing versatility.
$$HBl
C A N E- I T E
■g| '
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)*
Please send me sample and literature on □ CANE-ITE □ MASONITE.
NAME - M:1
ADDRESS
* Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. CA9-9
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via "The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=
~-===m
\
VJP
: 3t=E*3i>
jEfwmm.
- «s
E3\
%
s
Insure witti the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office* Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Melbourne “Argus” last week an-
nounced that Solomon Gold Mines,
N.L., was about to be registered “to
acquire an option of purchase over an
alleged large gold-bearing lode on Vali-
korta Ridge, between the Tsaravonga
and Soryohio rivers, on the island of
Guadalcanal,” British Solomon Is. The
police-court touch of “alleged” is unusual
for the “Argus” financial page. The re-
port went on to say that T. R. Victor,
mining engineer, was going across to
have a look at the show, and that, of the
capital of £5OOO (£5 shares), £4500 had
been underwritten by Wallace H. Smith
and Co., sharebrokers. Smith, Victor
and P. F. Cody were named as directors.
A co. called Solomon Islands Gold
Sluicing was formed by other interests
early in 1937 to sluice the upper reaches
of the “Sorvohio and Tsarivonga rivers,”
and Pratten interests had looked at them
some years before. Pioneer Expedition,
also interested in Mandated Alluvials
(Papua), sponsored this float, which
was not sufficiently supported by the
public to proceed with the job in
hand. There appeared to be fair evi-
dence of gold (a pickle-bottleful of nice-
looking slugs was brought into the
Bulletin office by Les J. Davis), also
undoubted evidence of small to large
boulders and fierce daily floods in the
rivers. Davis, a director of Pioneer, also
mentioned a lode proposition in the same
area. The “Argus” report talks of a
lode, and it will be interesting to see if
this one turns up trumps. Great hopes
have been held by some in the past con-
cerning gold in the Solomons. Whether
mining on a large scale would be worth
while hasn’t yet been proved one way or
the other.
* * * *
The price of gold still stays above
148 s. in London. One influence has been
the demand for gold, and for currency
outside of Europe, by holders of sterling,
or by holders of French francs, etc.,
dealing through London. It is probable
still that not one person in five under-
stands the first simple thing about the
price of gold under present currency
conditions in England ; the reference is
to the fact that it isn’t really the price
of gold that fluctuates, but that the
currency in which its price is expressed
varies in value. Gold is the international
standard of value still, even if there is
no free gold standard left in the world,
and rises and falls in the “price” of gold
indicate falls and rises respectively in
the demand for the currency of the
country in which the “price” happens
to be expressed. Thus, while gold may
fluctuate in “value” in London accord-
ing to whether people are putting sterling
money into Britain or taking it out, the
metal’s “value” remains almost un-
changed in New York. Which is clear
evidence that the fluctuations are in
sterling, and not in the price of gold.
The rises and falls in quotations for
gold on the London market indicate the
state of British currency in comparison
with the world’s standard of values.
Several times we have seen “flights” from
sterling in Britain, notably around elec-
tion times and when troubles arise on
the Continent. In the first instance the
money may flow to the Continent and to
New York ; in the second case money
usually flows from the Continent and
from London to New York. In recent
times the U.S.A. has been regarded as a
haven of refuge by many investors, in
spite of the New Deal; hence the great
quantities of gold shipped westward
across the Atlantic. This influx of money
to the U.S.A. seems responsible to some
extent for the periodic bursts of buoyancy
on the Wall-street Exchange. In Aus-
tralia we had something of the same sort
of experience while Maorilanders were
rushing their capital away from the con-
trol of the Savage Government and buy-
ing shares on Australian ’Changes. Only
the embargo eventually placed on the
export of capital from Maoriland stopped
this flood.
* * * *
Though London Stock Exchange ex-
hibited no particular brightness last week,
quotations on the Metal Exchange were
all firmer. Tin jumped up to £224 10s.,
the highest quote since October, 1937,
when a collapse in prices was precipi-
tated. The Tin Pool has set itself a
buying price of under £2OO and a selling
limit of above £230. Last week’s quote
was the nearest the metal has yet
approached the selling limit.
Lead and spelter, the Barrier metals,
firmed to £l4 15s. and £l3 15s. respec-
tively. They still are not much above
the lowest prices of the last few years.
Copper, in which Mt. Lyell (Tas.), Mt.
Morgan (Q.) and the Cobar (N.S.W.)
mines are principally interested, moved
up to £4B a ton for electrolytic. In Mt.
Lyell’s last completed term (to Sept. 30,
1938), the metal averaged £44 17s. 6d.
sterling a ton, and net earnings, includ-
ing revenue from fertiliser investments,
ran out at £150,830 Australian. Dui'ing
the first six months of the current term
(to March 31) electrolytic has averaged
£49 13s. sterling—the rise was partly in-
fluenced by restriction of metal output
in other parts of the world, chiefly in
southern Africa and Chile, where the
world’s greatest copper mines are
situated. Mt. Lyell is not subject to
output control, though it benefits from
appreciation in world prices. On the
other hand, it is subject to the rising
cost of living in Australia, which regu-
lates wages, and it has been milling
lower-grade ore of late, both factors
increasing the cost of metal-extraction.
The grade of ore, and the costs factor
in this regard, should be more stable in
1938-39 than it was last term.
an * * *
The figures given in the article else-
where in these pages relating to Aus-
tralia’s overseas trade deal with the calen-
dar years 1937 and 1938. The fiscal year
ends on June 30, and the 1938-39 term
has now run a little more than nine
months, for which figures should soon
be available. For the eight months to
Feb. 28 our merchandise exports fell
£7,132,000 sterling, against a rise of
£1,042,000 in gold-export values. The
net fall in exports was thus £6,090,000,
as this tabulation shows:
Move-
-1937-38, 1938-39, ment,
£Stg. £Stg. £Stg.
Exports— 1000. 1000. 1000.
Merchandise .. 73,723 66,591 -7132
Gold .. .. 9,244 10,286 +1042
Total.. .. 82,967 76,877 -6090'
Imports—
Merchandise .. 75,010 67,171 -7839
Gold .. .. 1,319 2,026 +707
Total.. .. 76,329 69,197 -7132
Balance.. .. 6,638 7,680 +1042
Imports were reduced £7,132,000, which
was £1,042,000 greater than the drop in
exports, and the balance in Australia’s
favor (£7,680,000 stg.) benefited to that
extent. As in 1937-38, it promises to be
about 50 p.c. short of our overseas in-
terest commitments.
* * * *
It is interesting to record that among
all the cash put up for building-society
use in N. S. Wales this last couple of
years, the Government hasn’t contributed
a razoo. It has put out its chest, etc., and
has nominally “guaranteed” the lenders
—largely banks and assurance cos. —but
it has still to be demonstrated as to how
and when this “guarantee” operates. The
service rendered by the “financial insti-
tutions” to what has been described as
a “home-hungry” people is liable to be
overlooked when politicians start spout-
ing about what they have done. The
assistance granted to home-builders, inci-
dentally, had to have a limit, and that
limit has now been reached. But it
appears to have started something, not-
ably a keener interest in home-making.
There is likely to be expansion in the
building-society movement if inter-
national situations and internal economics
give it a chance.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Crisis Times in Naziland.
[How the general run of Germans, like the general
run of people elsewhere, are bewildered by and react to
crisis-mongering, as described in a (condensed) report
by London “Daily Mail” Berlin correspondent, Paul
Bretherton.]
In Germany the ominous mutterings of a real
crisis beyond the horizon are drowned in the terrific
hullabaloo raised at home, a din which has already
given most Germans the earache and has driven them
to tune in to German news from England every
night, just to hear someone talk reasonably.
In the morning the citizen’s eyes are shocked
with black headlines, shrieking: “A stab in the heart
for the dastardly English warmongers; Ruritania
spurns offers of British protection,” or something of
the sort. Later in the day the Nazi radio announcer,
in lugubrious tones, says: “Ruritania’s praiseworthy
stand shows that she, at any rate, has seen through
the mask of the wicked, murderous democracies.” At
a quarter past eleven at night the citizen tunes in to
London Regional, without much difficulty if he has
a reasonably good set. A quiet voice, in superb Ger-
man, says: “The Ruritanian Minister in London
called at Downing-street to-day. It was afterwards
announced that the Ruritanian Government has
given certain assurances to Great Britain that in the
event of certain circumstances arising,” etc. Rubbing
his close-cropped head, our bewildered citizen of the
Third Reich pours himself out a glass of schnapps
and tells his comfortable wife that “you never know
what to believe these days.”
Alice never seemed to be really astounded in
Wonderland, but even she would have been knocked
off her balance in Germany at the present moment.
Every morning and every afternoon the printing
offices have their orders to let loose broadside after
broadside against the English in language that some-
times only just stops short of being indecent. If
mild little Alice arrived in Berlin and was able to
read a newspaper before doing anything else she
would probably dive into the British Consulate for
fear of being lynched.
But a walk around the town would assure her
that John Bull’s daughters are treated as politely here
as they are in Oxford-street, although John Bull him-
self is denounced as Beelzebub and the arch-enemy
of Germany. Once .again, Alice would say “Curiouser
and curiouser.”
The crisis hangs about Germany like a faint but
persistent smell of smoke. The Germans are fairly
used to tension by now, and they can stand a good
deal of strain. Bohemia and Moravia were taken so
swiftly and smartly that there was very little appre-
hension about the results. “Oh, well, it had to come,
and surely you English will not start quarrelling with
us about that now?” was what my friend Hans said.
Memelland simply slid into its place without so much
as a rattle or a squeak, and Hans said: “It’s all over
now; it didn’t hurt very much, did it? Now let us
get together again.” I assured him that I did not
believe that it was all over, but he was unshakably
cheerful.
And then the muttering started beyond the
horizon, and the word Poland seemed to swing into
the forefront of daily conversation with peculiar swift-
ness. Hans refused to be perturbed, insisted that this
was nothing to fight about, no matter what the papers
said. Albania vanished, and this made Hans jump a
bit. Then the broadsides at England began in earnest,
and Hans gave up prophecies for the moment.
Neither Hans nor millions of his brethren “like
the look of things.” But they find it hard to imagine
themselves at war, real and terrible war, with Great
Britain. After all, the warm weather is starting, and
it is just the time to take the paddleboat out of
winter storage and get it ready for week-ends on the
gleaming Mecklenburg lakes. Of course, if you have
to go and fight, well, you just fight as well as you can.
But one thing is strikingly clear, that the German-
in-the-street would like to have a much clearer idea
of what really is going on outside his country. If
he has to fight, it would be nice to know what he is
fighting for, and what led up to it.
If he really thought that Mr. Chamberlain was
setting out to surround the German Reich and then
smash it to pieces, he would start cleaning his rifle
straight away. He has been told that this is Mr.
Chamberlain’s plan ; but the same people told him
the other day that King Zog of Albania had been
planning to start a war in the Balkans, which would
end in the collapse of his huge neighbors. That was
very hard to swallow. And so there always remains
the hope that London Regional will tell him what
really did happen in Albania and why.
Next time I see Hans he will probably ask: “Is
it true, as the paper says, that England has only one
anti-aircraft gun on the island of Malta?” And I shall
answer: “Well, Hans, what do you think?” And
Hans will rub his head and say, “It’s hard to know
what to think, isn’t it?”
“Short of War.”
[This scathing comment on the drift towards war in
the U.S.A., and on those responsible for it, is condensed
from the “Saturday Evening Post.”]
Never was a stranger thing than that the Ameri-
can people should be inviting themselves to another
world war before it happens.
At frequent intervals those who sample the
waters of public emotion heave their questionnaires
into the stream, and the tabulated results show a steady
onset of the idea that we shall have to save the world
for democracy again.
But you do not need the statistics. You can feel
it. There is all at once an intellectual cult of inter-
ventionists. The feet of many pacifists are running
in the paths toward war. The American character is
inhabited by a strong crusader spirit. Many voices,
for different reasons, have been calling to it, and it
responds.
When the President first called to it, we were not
thinking of war, talking of war, or preparing for war.
Our thoughts were inturned upon our own economic
and social maladies. The New Deal was going badly.
That was in October, 1937.
Suddenly, out of the blue, in a speech at Chicago,
the President proposed that we should have to help
quarantine the aggressor nations of the world. Nobody
knew we were going to cast aside the priceless advan-
tage of mere isolation. Nobody knew we were going
to forsake the traditional policy of mere neutrality.
As for our duty to help quarantine the aggressor
nations of Europe and Asia, such a thing had never
been debated.
Ever since the quarantine speech, the Government
of the United States has been slapping the dictators
in the face. When Secretary Ickes had used his heavy
hand on Hitler, and the German Government pro-
tested, the State Department slapped him again by
saying, in effect, that the indecencies of Nazism had
put Germany beyond the pale of diplomatic amenities.
We ourselves sincerely tolerate that feeling. Just
as sincerely we say that the Government should let
the flames of hatred alone, instead of fanning them ;
and in any case there is nothing to be said for the
palm of the hand as an instrument of foreign policy.
After the quarantine speech, the front page of
newspapers began to change. Rumors, alarms and
discussions of war, touching this country, began to
compete for the first position with news of our internal
frustrations. It was a relief, indeed, to be thinking
and talking less about our economic anasmia and
more about our place in the affairs of the world.
The hypnotic in the President’s Chicago speech
was the word “quarantine.” Not to fight the dic-
tators, but to quarantine them. How simple!
The hypnotic now is the phrase “short of war.”
Something to be done against the dictators, “stronger
and more effective than words,” and yet “short of
war.”
Regard now the spectacle of the great American
Government shouting at other Governments, “We
hate you. The American people hate you. These
words as we utter them are futile. We know that.
But we will do more than words. We will do every-
thing we can to defeat you—short of war.”
There is no such infantile thing. If those who
say it do not know better, they are even more dan-
gerous than we think, for they are incompetent.
What are the methods more effective than words
and short of war that one nation may employ against
another? They will have to be either measures of
economic hostility or measures of economic discrim-
ination ; and measures of either kind, with the posi-
tive and avowed intent to do injury, are measures
of war.
Suppose this were not so. Suppose it were, as a
Senator said in debate on the national-defence pro-
gramme, that “Every time we sell a ’plane to France,
standing between us and the dictators, so to speak,
wfe need one less ourselves.” In that light, the thought
of measures short of war turns out to be such a
thought as that, of all the nations representing the
democratic ideal in the world, the one most powerful
shall save itself by selling arms to the others. The
word for that attitude is one that war at its worst has
never yet deserved.
The President does not make the foreign policy
of the United States. He has not that constitutional
power. He can negotiate treaties, but he cannot make
them ; a treaty is not made until the Senate confirms
it. He cannot declare war. Only the Congress can
do that.
Nevertheless, he can, if he is so minded, provoke
war. He can create situations and entanglements such
as to make war inevitable. He can, as we have seen,
condition the national mind to thoughts of war. The
Constitution cannot save us from a President who
turns world hero on our hands. It left that to the
people.
There is no division of the American mind on the
subject of adequate—very adequate—military defence.
But while we talk about our military defences without
knowing what our foreign policy is, we are neglecting
our natural defences. The first of these, more impor-
tant in many ways than armament, is to keep our
industrial machine at high key and in full production.
This we have failed to do. Our machine is running
down. And our second most important natural
defence is to mind our own business.
Marx, a Poor Prophet.
[Written by William Henry Chamberlin, for many
years a newspaper correspondent in the Soviet Union,
this article appeared in the “American Mercury,” from
which it was reprinted in “World Review” for April.]
It was a professing Communist in Russia who
first, quite unconsciously, directed my attention to
Marx’s basic and major blunder:
“Marx said that revolution must come first in
the most highly-developed capitalist countries.
America is more advanced industrially than we are,
but there is no American revolution. What’s the
matter with you Americans, anyway?”
This comrade, I feel in retrospect, was a dangerous
thinker and a likely subsequent candidate for liqui-
dation. This idea that Socialism must come as the
next higher stage of human development after
capitalism has exhausted its possibilities of develop-
ment is the very cornerstone of Marx’s system.
Of the three countries which, according to Marx,
should have been first to burst their “capitalist husks”
and emerge into the apocalyptic splendors of
Socialism, two —America and Britain —show little
indication of setting up the co-operative common-
wealth. The third highly-developed capitalist country,
Germany, has indeed experienced a revolution, but
hardly the kind which Marx foresaw as “inevitable.”
Closely allied with this cardinal blunder was
Marx’s equally mistaken conviction that capitalism
everywhere would survive long enough to perform all
the functions which he allotted to it. Here again
history has dealt unkindly by him. For the only
large country where his ideas have won the status
of a state religion is Russia, where capitalism was in
its early adolescence at the time of the Bolshevik
Revolution.
Another of Marx’s great mistakes was his belief
that a dictatorship of the proletariat was both
desirable and possible. Of all the ideas of minority
rule that have been put forward since Plato’s
Republic, this conception of preferred rights for the
class of manual wage-workers is surely one of the
most patently unreasonable. The effort to put it into
practice in Soviet Russia has probably contributed as,
much as any single factor to the protracted agony of
that country during the last two decades.
The packing of the universities with Red pro-
fessors whose political coloration was their sole
academic qualification and with students who were
deliberately selected on a basis not of ability, but of
class origin, the filling of offices on the same basis,
led to a measure of incompetence in almost all
branches of the State service which could not be dupli-
cated anywhere in the world. Nowhere could one
find so many “captains of industry” unable to
distinguish between a turbine and a generator, so
many managers of large farms who could not be
trusted to know a silo from a haymow, so many
engineers better versed in the laws of Marx than in
those of chemistry and physics.
And, as this incompetence led to shortage and
suffering, and suffering led to discontent, a demand
for scapegoats grew up, and the psychological back-
ground for the witchcraft sabotage trials was
created. •
Equally absurd with belief in the dictatorship
of the proletariat as desirable was the belief that it
could be maintained. The occupational list of the
members of Stalin’s new Parliament is revealing in
this connection. It shows a marked preponderance
of bureaucrats over proletarians.
In Capital, Marx thunders against piecework
methods of payment. He would doubtless be sur-
prised if he could appear in a Soviet factory to-day
and find, along with a crude lithograph depicting his
own features, wall placards demanding more inten-
sive application of piecework and denouncing any
opponents of this system as Trotskyist spies and
saboteurs.
Marx also regarded the wage system as a product
of capitalist iniquity. A considerable part of the
first volume of Capital is devoted to efforts to prove
that exploitation can be eliminated only by abolish-
ing the sale of labor, that is, by doing away with the
wage system. Here, as in other cases, history has
played Marx a joke. Twenty years after the revolution
which was made in his name, the Soviet Union gives
not the slightest sign of scrapping the wage system,
which is, indeed, becoming markedly and increasingly
differential.
Behind all these mistaken assumptions lies a
greater and more fundamental error. This is Marx’s
failure to realise that unrestricted power is far more
oppressive, far more conducive to exploitation, than
private ownership of wealth. In other words, an
absolutist State, monopolising both political and
economic power, not only can be, but must. be, a
more ruthless exploiter than the private employer in
a democracy.
The latter, assuming that he is obsessed with a
desire to short-change his employees, faces a host
of curbs and checks. His workers may organise a
union and strike. They may leave him individually
Maxton on the Line-up.
Mr. J. Maxton, M.P., addressing the Scar-
borough Conference of the Independent Labor
Party:—
“It is to me the height of tragedy that in
a world where the overwhelming mass of the
people desire peace with a fervor and sin-
cerity never known before, and with a realisa-
tion of the horror and futility of war such as
they have never shown before, the nations
seem to be heading for a clash on a larger
scale than ever previously experienced.
“To-day we see the prospects of a great
European war — nearer, l think, than some
people realise —and with no clear definite in-
ternational voice that can make itself heard
coming from the united workers of the world.
We see the big working-class movements,
where they still exist, lifted up voluntarily in
almost as close an alliance for war as are the
workers in the Fascist countries lined up under
compulsion.
“This is a state of affairs that no man who
is looking at real facts can afford to ignore
or gloss over”


for a more appreciative boss. And the working of
a competitive system generally carries its own penalty
for unfair labor* policies. But what curb or check
can there be on the Soviet local satrap who has
received orders from Stalin to starve the peasants
into submission or to liquidate a few saboteurs or to
throw a few thousand kulaks out of their homes?
Obviously, in the light of recent Soviet history, none
whatever.
Turkey’s Masterly Position.
(Condensed from an article by a London “Times”
correspondent.)
Turkey’s national energies are almost entirely
concentrated on developments at home. Abroad her
only desire is for the long term of European peace
which will enable her to pursue her programme un-
disturbed. She can feed herself. She also enjoys the
rarer asset of virtual self-sufficiency in industrial raw
materials. The only staples she lacks are rubber and
tin. \
Textile, sugar, paper and cement factories are
already at work, and a national iron and steel in-
dustry is well on its way to completion, but except
at these few key points industrialisation is still in
embryo. Even the passing traveller seeing the country
from a window of the Taurus express must realise
that over great tracts the peasants are still pitifully
backward and poor. Yet on the remotest stretches
of line he will come across signs of the new life that
is being infused into the old frame. Here a con-
signment of crates from Hamburg fills a wayside
station with the awkward shapes of modern machin-
ery ; there a British navvy shouts Cockney instruc-
tions to Turkish workmen from the cab of his crane.
The Turks have not hesitated to seek expert help
from more experienced nations. Finally, as our
traveller steams into Angora, he will see the crowning
symbol of a changed nation, the barrack-like banks
and ministries of a minaretless city which is the very
antithesis of the indolent charm of Istanbul, and
which represents the fountain-head of inspiration and
organisation.
A nation which enjoys so great a measure of in-
ternal stability is in a position to adopt a forward
foreign policy. Since 1933 Turkey has been a prom-
inent member of the Balkan Pact; since 1937 the
moving spirit of a Middle Eastern Pact with Iran,
Iraq and Afghanistan. She can thus be justly re-
garded as the leading influence in Near Eastern
(though not in Arab) thought. But the international
importance she derives from these links with her neigh-
bors pales to insignificance beside the advantage she
acquired when in 1936 she obtained permission to
refortify the Black Sea straits.
New fortresses on the banks of the Bosphorus
and Dardanelles heighten both her diplomatic and her
strategic influence. Under the terms of the Montreux
Convention she controls the passage of all warships
through the straits, not only in war-time but when
she may “consider herself to be threatened with
imminent danger of war.” Turkish friendship is there-
fore highly desirable to Mediterranean Powers and
virtually essential to the Black Sea States.
The army is well armed and reliable. From the
first it has been the pride of the Republic ; was not
its founddl a Ghazi —that is, a victor in the field—
and is not his successor a general also? The Anatolian
Turk has always been a good soldier; to-day he
cherishes the tradition of a Republic founded on
his personal efforts. (In Turkey when you mention
“The War” you do not mean the European cataclysm
but the war of 1921-22 which ousted the Greeks from
Asia Minor.) Turks speak less of their navy and air
force, neither of which can point, as can the army,
to a dramatic battle-worn past; but both forces have
figured prominently in the Budgets of recent years.
All told, few countries occupy so masterly a
situation. It is small wonder that since Turkey’s 'rise
to power her friendship has been sought by a number
of suitors. At present inclination pulls towards Great
Britain; interest towards Germany. Success is an
attribute greatly admired by the peoples of the
Levant. The dictators have gained admirers through
their successful shock tactics, while respect for the
British and French Governments has dwindled with
each successive capitulation to force. In the opinion
of most Turks nothing will right the balance so
quickly as conscription in Great Britain.
A second factor which might influence judgment
is the relationship of Turkey with Powers other than
the Anglo-Franco-German trio ; e.g., her long-stand-
ing alliance with Russia. Cherishing no such feeling
for Italy, she resents the speeches in which Italians
talk of their “historic mission” to the peoples of Asia
and the Near East. She has not forgotten that a zone
in Anatolia figured among their war aims, nor does
she like the presence of Italian guns and airmen in
the 12 islands of the Dodecanese, most of which lie
within sight of her shore.
Concentrated as she is upon internal develop-
ment, Turkey’s aim is to avoid disturbance ; she is
therefore a stabilising factor, and, owing to the weight
she carries with her neighbors, is the key to stability
in the Near East.
France’s Navy.
(From a London “Daily Mail” article by Lieut.-
Commander Kenneth Edwards, R.N.).
The French Navy has at last become a force to
be reckoned with and one which is bound to play a
very important part, particularly in the Mediterranean,
he personnel has been improved out of all know-
u’ anc * th ? material strength has become
of the greatest importance. This is due in part to
the completion of the new French battle-cruisers Dun-
kerque and Strasbourg, ships of 26,500 tons, mount-
mg eight Bin. guns, and which, on trials, have reached
a speed of 31* knots.
Until these two French ships were completed
there were in the world only three ships which could
both overtake and destroy the German “pocket battle-
ships” or the German battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau. These were the three British battle-
cruisers Hood, Renown and Repulse, and the Renown
is undergoing reconstruction and will not be ready for
sea for several months. The addition of these two
French ships to the resources of the European democ-
racies is therefore exceedingly important.
The French cruiser forces are very powerful and
composed of types peculiarly suitable for war in the
Mediterranean. France has seven modern cruisers of
the heavy type mounting Bin. guns—ltaly also has
seven of this type of ship. In 6in. gun cruisers France
has 11 modern ships opposed to the 12 of similar
class possessed by Italy. On the other hand, France
has 32 ships of approximately 2500-tons displacement
and armed with five 5.5 in. guns in addition to an ex-
tensive anti-aircraft and torpedo armament.
These ships are all exceptionally fast. They are
classed by France as contre-torpilleurs, but by the
definitions of warship categories which have been
accepted by most of the maritime Powers they are
light cruisers. Certainly they are far more powerful
than any destroyers at the disposal of the Italian
Navy. Their exceptional speed and power might well
make them a decisive factor in a Mediterranean war.
Italy is superior to France in the number of
destroyers at her disposal, but a smaller proportion
of the French destroyer strength is made up of small
vessels which would normally be used only for coast
defence. The submarine forces of France and Italy
have for some time been approximately equal,
although Italy is now forging ahead in the construc-
tion of this class of vessel.
The French Navy is at present organised into
two main squadrons —one in the Atlantic and one
in the Mediterranean, but these are so arranged that
the concentration of the whole French naval forces
in the Mediterranean can be rapidly achieved. If
war should break out the British Navy would be
concerned with the North Sea and the Eastern Medi-
terranean, leaving the western basin of the Mediter-
ranean to the control of France.
The main naval strategy of France must always
be concerned with the defence of the North African
trade route between Marseilles and the Algerian
ports. Complete safety of this trade route, by which
France’s reserve of man-power must travel to rein-
force forces on her eastern frontier, must entail com-
plete French domination of the Western Mediter-
ranean. For this reason the main naval defence
line of France in the Mediterranean will ru'd from
Bizerta, round the western side of Sardinia to Cor-
sica, thence to the French coast near the junction of
the French and Italian Rivieras. The holding of this
line would inevitably mean the blockade of Italy
from the west. Moreover, the French forces would
not remain idle behind this defence line. The fast
French light cruisers would be ideal for raiding Italian
communications.
Ogpu and Gestapo.
('Condensed from an article in the U.S.A. publication
“Foreign Affairs.”)
The methods of the highly-organised State police
systems of National Socialist Germany and Soviet
Russia differ from the spectacular terrors of previous
systems. They are more refined; and technical
developments, from the machine gun to the micro-
phone, have put overpowering forces in their hands.
By these systems the populace of both countries
is subjected to a continuous and active terror,
directed against every individual who from any point
of view makes himself inacceptable to the State. Such
individuals either are “liquidated” outright or man-
handled or sent to a concentration camp or crippled
in their economic existence or forced to flee the coun-
try or merely confined at home. In sum, these various
methods constitute a true terror because of their arbi-
trariness and the severity with which they are executed.
Means of defence are extremely limited. In most
cases the decision to use coercive methods is reached
by the police authorities themselves, often in accord
with some personal whim, without any hearings of
witnesses, and of course without any counsel being
provided for the victim.
From the moment of his arrest nothing more
generally is heard of the delinquent until his fate has
been decided ; and often the decision is delayed indefi-
nitely. In the Soviet Union it usually is assumed that
a prisoner has been executed if his relatives bringing
him fresh laundry are refused admission. In Ger-
many, the fact that a prisoner has been executed
occasionally is brought to the notice of his family by
sending them by parcel post an urn containing his
ashes. This kind of terror is in accord with the theory
of the deterrent influence of punishment.
From time to time the Soviet Union stages a
show tribunal which maintains a faithful semblance
of orderly court procedure. This, of course, is done
primarily for political reasons, domestic as well as
foreign. In Germany, political “People’s Courts” have
been set up to satisfy possible pangs of popular con-
science. In these courts the defendants are permitted
ex officio counsel. But entirely apart from and above
such external trappings of “justice” as these the secret
police works its pleasure. It supervises the function-
ing of the People’s Courts, and often (as in the case
of Pastor Niemoller) supplements the punishments
meted out there and in other civil law courts by again
taking into custody those who have served their time.
Nominally it cannot carry out capital punishment—
but only nominally.
Needless to say, these occult and arbitrary police
doings put a great strain on everybody’s nerves. The
terror is sharpened by the omnipresence of the secret
police. The whole nation begins spying on itself.
“Considering that the Soviet Union has 150 million
inhabitants who are being spied upon,” ran a Soviet
joke, “and that there are 150 million spies to do the
spying, the country must have at least 300 million
inhabitants.” Indeed, it is open to question which
psychological influence is deeper—the arbitrariness and
severity of the actual punishment meted out to indi-
viduals or the atmosphere of ominous secrecy in which
the whole populace must live from day to day and
from year to year.
Every criminologist has to guard against the
danger that he may cultivate more mistrust than really
is called for in particular circumstances. All secret-
police systems, without any exception either as regards
individual officials or the organisation as a whole, are
apt to succumb to this professional weakness. The
terror thus automatically multiplies. Their leaders
are concerned about their preservation of power—a
miracle to which they never get accustomed—but even
more about the preservatign of their lives. It is vita!
for them to detect and deal with all centres of possible
resistance. But when the police systems which they
set up undertake to read the minds of the people they
soon begin to read almost nothing but evil thoughts.
Confronted with the task of seeing that no citizen
harbors any mental reservations, and everybody holds
himself always in a state of complete docility, they
make suspicion sovereign. It ends by being sovereign
not merely over the public, but over the police as
well, and over their leaders. No wonder that the cata-
logue of reprehensible acts constantly expands. The
scent of the police on trails of possible danger becomes
more and more acute, more and more subjective.. The
suspect is enough without the crime.
The notion that the suspect is guilty makes the
State police almighty; the bureaucratic terror is
supreme ; the conception of the State against the citi-
zen has won.
“Community Conscription.”
(From a London “Spectator” article by H. Powys
Greenwood .)
Through the Association for Service and Recon-
struction, I attended a meeting of the Hackney Wick
branch of the Transport and General Workers' Union
to discuss the situation. It is perhaps significant that
the first essential was to dispel the general impression
that Nazi Germany was riddled with Communism and
internal dissension and tottering to its fall. Once
that had been cleared away and the full magnitude
of the challenge explained, the whole tone of the meet-
ing changed. The following policy, which nobody
had prepared in advance, was hammered out in general
discussion and unanimously accepted except by one
pacifist present.
(1) Compulsory national service for all citizens.
(2) Compulsory national service forxapital— i.e.,
the control (but not the expropriation) of all produc-
tive resources in the national interest.
(3) Limitation of profits, particularly armament
profits.
(4) Fixed Trade Board wages and abandonment
of the right to strike.
(5) Full co-operation between trade-unions and
employers on working conditions and to secure in-
creased output.
(6) The whole system to be directed to the rapid
training of unemployed and abolition of unemploy-
ment.
(7) Surplus resources after providing for arma-
ment needs to be used to maintain and improve social
services and amenities.
(8) Citizen rights for those serving in the forces.
(9) The new armed forces to be citizen forces with
officers from all classes, notably the working classes.
(10) A progressive but non-Socialist Government
the workers can trust as a guarantee that the system
would not be used to impose Fascism, and that in
the event of a war the rank and file would not be
let down again after it.
Admittedly, this only represents the views of one
trade-union branch out of thousands. But those
present were mostly representative and active shop
stewards with long experience of the working-class
movement. It was evident that the two main points
without which no approach to agreement would have
been conceivable wiere the compulsory service of
capital and the question of unemployment. Stress was
also laid on the officering of the forces. The whole
received the appropriate name of “Community Con-
scription,” and it was decided to press the trade-unions
to come out with the policy. Whatever the result, the
meeting was surely some indication of the underlying
feeling in the country.
Hitlerian Diplomacy.
(George Glasgow, in “Contemporary Review.”)
March has been Herr Hitler’s favorite month.
On March 16, 1935, he proclaimed the re-
establishment of general compulsory military service
for the German people. On March 7, 1936, he de-
nounced the Treaty of Locarno (which was a non-
aggression pact), made proposals for an alternative
non-aggression pact, and sent 40,000 troops to re-
occupy the Rhineland: all on the same day. On
March 8, 1937, he agreed to take part in the scheme
of non-intervention in Spain, not having the slightest
intention of carrying out that agreement. On March
13, 1938, he annexed Austria. On March 16, 1939, he
annexed Czechoslovakia.
Before annexing Austria he promised to respect
Austria’s sovereign integrity. He made the like
promise before annexing Czechoslovakia. He has
made the like promise to Lithuania.
He defeats his object. A promise by him not to
do a thing advertises his intention to do precisely
such a thing.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Sydney horses failed at Eagle Farm
on the first day of the Q.T.C. round.
As usual, nowadays, all sorts of excuses
were made, particularly for the failures
in the Stradbroke Handicap. Waireka
did not keep a straight course —in any
case, she was too young to be racing in
a sprint for all ages. Hamurah was “a
victim of bad interference.” Bodley Head
“received a knock which sent him back
to the rear of the field” —of 12. And
“only continual interference prevented
Korimako from easily winning the
Hamilton Handicap.”
Another theory is that these Sydney
horses lost because the Brisbane horses
were better at the weights. Of recent
years some of the best horses in Aus-
tralia have been bred in Queensland,
and with sires like Spearfelt, The Buz-
zard, Rivoli and Bachelor’s Persse pro-
ducing a multitude of winners, it is only
reasonable to suppose that the general
average is higher than it was. Certainly
the Sydney horses have been treated very
well by the handicapper.
Waireka was favorite, at 5 to 2, for
the Stradbroke, and was soon out in
front; in fact, she had the run of the
race. In the straight she was passed by
Bahwing and First Prize, and although
she made a close thing of it Bahwing
was the winner: “short” head ; head ;
1.1 H. Bahwing is trained by Bougoure
and was ridden by Briscoe ; he is a five-
year-old gelding by Rosewing - Lady
Anambah. His s.p. was 8 to 1.
Another “short” head separated Kori-
mako from Tragopan in the race for
which she was set. Evens was her price ;
her conqueror was 7 to 1. He is by The
Buzzard-High Cover.
Another son of The Buzzard in Seven
Fifty, ridden by McCarten, outstayed
seven opponents in the St. Leger, for
which he was favorite at 5 to 4. It was
thought that Hendra Lad, by Bonne-
ment-Lady Be Good, would test W. A.
Tucker’s colt, but he was beaten out of
a place, Young Poi being second and
The Albatross third: three lengths ; three
lengths; 3min. B|sec.
At Eagle Farm on April 1 Seven Fifty
beat Spearbleu in a mile race, receiving
111 b. On Saturday Spearbleu was second
to Spear Chief in the King’s Plate, but a
bad second —beaten by five lengths in
2min. 4sec. Spear Chief was 4 to 1 on.
Herarde, from Sydney, couldn’t get a
place.
Queensland breeding won the Brisbane
Cup, and in style as royal as the line,
Spear Chief (Spearfelt-Serevale) running
home the winner by three lengths in Aus-
tralasian record time of 3.19|, despite
the topweight steadier of 9st. 71b. The
lightly-weighted Six Fifty was second, and
the Sydney candidate L’Ajglon (8.12),
third. Tragopan made most of the run-
ning, from Princess Rivoli and L’Aiglon,
with Spear Chief back in the middle of
the field. They raced in that order to
approaching the turn, where Lappin
allowed L’Aiglon to go to the front. Into
the straight McCarten was able to take
Spear Chief through for a clear run
along the rails, and in a great burst of
speed he ran out a splendid winner.
What a triumph for the Carbine blood!
First, second and third all by descendants
of Carbine, and the Australasian record
for two miles knocked endways!
In a field of four on the Monday, the
best Hamurah could do was third, beaten
by two of those who were held to have
been lucky to beat her on the Saturday.
This time First Prize turned the tables
on the other Queenslander Bahwing.
* * * *
Taking into consideration Bachelor
King’s light weight (7st.) and his known
liking for the course and the distance,
this Page tipped the Buoyant Bachelor
horse for the April Handicap, the main
event at Warwick Farm, with Cathartes
next; and they finished first and second.
What a good thing Bachelor King was
reckoned in quarters with superior
knowledge was indicated by his carrying
51b. overweight and going out favorite, at
4 to 1, with Cathartes —9 to 2 was the
best price laid. Second to the pacemaker,
Speardale, most of the way, and obviously
going easily, Bachelor King went to the
front at the home turn and, allowed to
lob along, beat Carthartes by a neck.
Speardale was third two lengths away.
On the Wednesday Bachelor King had
run fourth in a 10-furlongs race at Rose-
bery. Certainly he had 9st., but the com-
pany was inferior and the time (2.10)
poor. It was a pronounced reversal of
form; and there would have been a
demonstration if a rain squall had not
sent the indignant scattering for shelter.
Bachelor King is trained by Jack King,
three of whose horses, Billy Boy, Red
Rosebud and Let Slip, have figured in
outbreaks of popular disfavor. The
explanation asked after Reading had
alternated failure at Warwick Farm with
success at Randwick a week later should
have been required in the case of
Bachelor King.
Sal Volatile was backed again, but
racing has evidently soured the little
mare. She made a feeble effort along
the back of the course, but in the straight
moved away from her field and beat two
home. The company was too select
for Silver Joan, and Bianconi and Mono-
gram also shaped badly, although they
looked well enough.
Jim Pike was rewarded in the
Flying Handicap for his patience and
perseverance with the roan horse Grey
Derby. Seven to one was his price,
Aureus being at the same odds, thanks
to the backing of Arabia. It was a
grand finish; Grey Derby, on the out-
side, got the verdict by a head from
Aureus and Moaveil (20 to 1), who ran
a dead-heat. Arabia, a 7-to-4 favorite —
Darby Munro rode him —was fourth in
the straight, but he beat only Perimond
home. June also raced disappointingly,
but Tusculum and Captain Oates, fourth
and fifth respectively, should soon enter
the winning list. It was Tusculum’s first
race for months, and the run must have
pleased the owner, Mrs. E. J. Watt, wife
of the A.J.C. committeeman.
Jumping hurdles and galloping with
such celebrities as Ajax, Defaulter, High
Class and Early Bird have improved Kai
Tere. Favorite at 5 to 2 for the Sunny-
brook Welter, he was never off the bit.
In previous races Kai Tere was ridden
in front. Different tactics were tried on
Saturday with the son of Siegfried: he
was not asked for an effort until Forward
and Palarang had run themselves out at
the home turn. The pair moved away
from the rails, Munro shot Kai Tere
through the opening and the race was
over. Flamari and Bengal Lancer filled
the places, Tony being a fair fourth.
Athboy, a small brown colt by im-
ported Achcullen and bred by part-
owner E. Hunter Bowman —he was pres-
ent — put up a good performance in
winning the April Juvenile at 9 to 2.
On the rails at the barrier, Athboy missed
the jump and had to be ridden hard, but
the race was his at the home turn.
Thompson, his jockey, is apprenticed to
Hunter Bowman; fighting weight, five
stone. Merry Smile, speedy but a poor
sticker, was second, and Tel Asur,
troubled by the track —he took the home
turn badly—third.
Early Hope (14 to 1) surprised by
leading all the way in the Encourage
Handicap, a race for apprentice riders.
Aristocrat made a game effort to beat
the winner and went under by a head;
Cable Boy, who came home strongly,
was a fair third. The favorite Trumpeter
had every chance, but tired in the
straight. Can March, a champion in the
south-west, proved too much of a hand-
ful for her rider. Lugging badly, she had
pace enough to make the running at the
home turn ; then she went off the course.
Interrogation, “by Veilmond or Sil-
vius”-Suggrapho, is an interesting novice.
A big four-year-old, she won the Farm
Novice in time only a quarter of a
second slower than Bachelor King’s.
Aren’t We All was a close second, and
Sydney third. The favorite, Baldmon,
was boxed up early and could not get
a clear run at any stage. Interrogation
is trained by a former jockey, Hanneybel,
and raced by him in partnership with a
bookmaker, A. J. Sheedy. They got tens
for their money.
* * * *
Patron’s 1894 Melbourne Cup victoiy
was recalled by more than one happen-
ing at Ascot (Vic.) on Saturday. The
Trial Hurdle was captured by In Arms,
whose original owner, E. L. Purehes, is
a son of the man that raced Patron. Later
in the afternoon Purehes won with
Pebblestone, while Lanarus, winner of a
division of the Trial Handicap, formerly
belonged to Dick Bradfield, who trained
Patron.
F. W. Purehes was a carcass butcher,
and so is his son. E.L. bought In
Arms, untried, from W. Burke. The
gelding broke down in both forelegs, and
had to be given a long spell. Purehes
sold him to a retail butcher who races
as “H. Willott.”
In Arms (Windbag-Nurse Maid) re-
mained in the stable of Vin Ryan, who
has trained for E. L. Purehes since the
latter’s advent on the turf. Solidly backed
at fours, In Arms defeated the 7-to-2
favorite, Mac Devon, by a length, despite
a blunder at the last hurdle which caused
McKee to lose the use of one stirrup-
iron.
Vin Ryan, who completed a winning
double when Pebblestone scored, was
associated as jockey with the Geelong
stable of the elder James Wilson many
years ago. His cousin, Jack Ryan, rode
over fences, and piloted Confederate to
victory in the Australian Steeplechase of
1909, beating those great performers
Bribery and Grafnax.
Pebblestone had finished so well over
six furlongs at Moonee Valley on the
previous Wednesday that the extra fur-
long of the Murchison Trial was con-
sidered eminently suited to this colt, and
he firmed to 5 to 2, ousting Rose Prin-
cess from favoritism.
With a well-timed run Breasley brought
Pebblestone home a half-length winner
from the fast-finishing Cider Lass, with
Rose Princess a close third. Last-named, a
beautiful, filly, is a sister to Balkan Prince,
who finished third in Wotan’s Melbourne
Cup. Ribstone, dam of Pebblestone, was
an English winner before being imported
by A. G. Hunter for his Seymour stud.
John Wren, for whom the highly pro-
mising Wilson is trained by Frank Mus-
grave, patronises a number of trainers.
Wren was at Ascot, and saw Melas
(Parenthesis-Noirau) unluckily beaten by
Considerate in the two-year-old event.
Melas is in the stable of Pat Kelly, a
former crack lightweight jockey and
brother-in-law of Mick Poison. If he
had not stood flat-footed at the start and
lost lengths Melas must have won. He
failed by a mere half-neck to overtake
Considerate, who led into the straight.
Defeat of Melas (3-to-l favorite) was
a body-blow to punters, but ringmen
didn’t exult, as Considerate had been
supported from twelves down to sevens
by Steve Murphy and his followers. Con-
siderate belongs to Stuart Dunbar, chair-
man of the Victorian Club, for whom
Murphy won the Australian Steeple of
1932 with Bang Bang.
Wren’s ill-luck did not end with the
downfall of Melas. He was represented
in the Wokingham Handicap by Soltoi,
the Irish-bred stallion trained by Dave
Macnamara, once a great footballer.
Being unsound, Soltoi cannot be given
fast work; yet he dominated the market
to such an extent that “eights bar one”
could have been had.
The wretched exhibition given by Soltoi
suggests that he has turned roguish.
Badger could not persuade the handsome
chestnut to stretch out. The race went
to little Miss Burn, a 16-to-l pop, with
Trowsdale (an undependable customer)
and Adherent in the minor places.
V.R.C. chairman Alan Currie, who
left on Monday for an extended overseas
trip, had the pleasure of seeing Digni-
tary win the Aylesford Handicap for him
ai 6 to 1. Judean, the original favorite,
whipped in the field. Being forced to
join the leaders early did not suit the
Curialis gelding.
Last as they passed the stand for the
first time, Dignitary covered extra ground
by being wide out at the turn. He
squeezed home by a head from Prince
Sion, who made an amazing run on the
rails from an apparently hopeless posh
tion, and lost by a head. The effort spoke
well for Prince Sion in the Adelaide Cup.
Bill Burke, who trains Dignitary, won
the Plymouth Welter with Hautboy,
owned by W. P. Mein. Leading through-
out, Hautboy won by narrow margins
from Lalmoni and Silver Bond. The
favorite, Fancifort, made his finishing
run altogether too late.
Dick Bradfield allowed Lanarus to be
sold under the hammer a few weeks ago
for 125 guineas. The new owner is F. W.
Hoysted, who had a nice win with the
colt in the second division of the Murchi-
son Trial at sixes. Hoysted bought
Lanarus because of Irving, another son
of Salmagundi, having done him good
service.
* * * *
Allunga is to be retired to the stud on
Hunter Bowman’s property at Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.). Never a champion, he
could stay well and was honest. With
fair chances he should get good stock;
anyway, he looks the part of a successful
sire.
* * * *
Mosaic has entered upon his spell at
Riverstone (N.S.W.). The colt got very
light on his racing at Randwick, and
may not have been at his best when
Defaulter beat him. His spring mission
is the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Desolation, who was badly staked in
a track accident at Randwick, is among
the regular workers again. The Queens-
lander lost a fair amount of condition
while in the vet.’s hands. His Westralian
stablemate Maikai is doing well, and may
be taken north to run at the Doomben
meeting next month.
* * * *
Killed in a car smash in St. Kilda-
road, Melbourne, on Friday night, Jack
Corteen. Corteen owned Heroic when
the chestnut won the A.J.C. Derby in
1924, and had a half-interest in Purser,
who won the Caulfield Cup a fortnight
later. Disqualified over the running of
that horse, he bought horses no more. He
owned a Flinders-lane bond store, and
in early life was an oarsman, rowing for
Albert Park.
* * * *
“T.”: Albert Edward Harry Mayer
Archibald Primrose, known to cricketers
of the last generation as Lord Dalmeny
(he was Surrey’s captain) and to con-
temporary racegoers as Lord Rosebery -
being the sixth Earl of Rosebery and the
second Earl of Midlothian—has won the
Two Thousand Guineas with Blue Peter,
who was favorite at fives; and Blue
Peter is now favorite for the Derby. He
is a chestnut colt by Fairway-Fancy Fiee,
and his Two Thousand Guineas victory
was achieved in smashing style. One o
our learned flapper-papers reports that
“Lord Rosebery has abandoned ms
political ambitions,” explaining that he
had “three ambitions: to win the Derby,
become Prime Minister, and marry te
most beautiful woman.” It confuses the
present Earl with his father, who became
Prime Minister, won the Derby—witn
Ladas in 1894, Sir Visto in 1895 and
Cicero in 1905—and married Hannah de
Rothschild, who had a most beautiful
bank balance. In appearance the ow
of Blue Peter favors his mother.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Brighton Handicap: Kai Tere or
Sigh ; next, Flamari.
Moorefield Handicap: Kai Tere
or Sailmaker ; next, River Namoi.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Tony ; next, Pearl Verde.
Flying Welter: Heroic Faith;
next, Moaveil.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Glen Elgin Handicap: Pantoon ;
next, Judean.
Magdala Welter: Silver Bond ;
next, Fancifort.
Bulla Trial: Gaiety; next,
Lothario.


m
mm
**w.
WHAT worn
HAPPTN to you.
#
mmm
V
'Don't worry about us THIS trip'
m
/>. V
fir
I *
YOU D BE SA^S B U. T SAF® K u E o S , bl J Sat<! Brake*
Thanks
Brakes are
f rorT «>>e '"""
standard on al ■—«««»«
M
For extra protection you don ? t
have, and can’t get in any other
car, drive a new Hudson. Thrill
to championship performance,
proved by official tests in every
part of the world.
Enjoy the roominess unmatched
in other cars. Profit from
sturdiness that mocks the miles
and makes light of the roughest
going.
See new beauty, new luxury, new
features. Come in to-day and
drive the new Hudsons and see
for yourself the extra built-in
value which only Hudson
provides.
NEW
1939
HUDSON
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON
COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
HUDSON ‘ f ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
Hudson Motor-car Company.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
motors, ltd.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
\
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
2XN.38.


“KING t° h f e ROAD”
BAITER IRS
INVINCIBLE
since
1906 .
INVINCIBLI
fSM
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4
6, 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five lears
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size tor
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., C.S.A. ,
Established in 1906, —'
Under the Whip
Queen Esther failed to get a place in
the Glenroy Handicap at Moonee Valley
on Wednesday, but the Eastern Monarch
mare would have been “in the money”
if her apprentice jockey Hartney had not
met with an extraordinary mishap. In
the act of drawing the whip near the
home bend Hartney allowed a rein to
slip loose. This looped around the foot
of Gold Streak’s jockey. Hartney feared
that the other lad might be unseated if
he tautened the rein, so Queen Esther
was out of control for an appreciable
period. Gold Streak, the longest-priced
runner in the race, was narrowly beaten
by Peggy O’Neil (9 to 4, favorite), with
W. R. Kemball’s Siegfried three-year-
old inches away in third position. Bank-
shaw came from a long way back and
seemed unlucky to lose.
The clever horsemanship of Breasley
was the main factor in Peggy O’Neil's
success. Peter Muschialli, who prepared
Prairie Moon for an Oaks victory in
1937, trains Peggy O’Neil. The mare was
imported from Ireland at the same time
as Plectrum, and is by the same sire as
that stallion—Bulger.
Though he incurred considerable ex-
pense in taking Plectrum to Sydney on
a fruitless Easter visit P. T. Heywood has
sent that horse on another long train
journey. His mission on this occasion is
the Adelaide Cup. Never has Heywood
been wasteful of money or far astray in
judgment of form. Melbourne punters
won’t allow Plectrum to “run loose” at
Morphettville.
His losses as a timber miller in Heales-
ville bushfires have not lessened A. G.
Newman’s fondness for racing. With a
view to testing Prince Sion’s Adelaide Cup
prospects Newman gave the handsome
little stallion an outing in the six-furlongs
Somerton Handicap at the Valley and
was encouraged by earning third money.
Two Melbourne bookmakers, J. A.
Phillips and “Mannie” Lyons, who con-
terftplate transferring to Sydney because
of lighter taxation there, vacated their
stands at the mid-week Moonee Valley
fixture. It was an unlucky decision, as
the Valley results favored ringmen. De-
spite constant agitation, there does not
seem much chance of the Victorian Gov-
ernment lessening the burden on book-
makers. Revenue from the tote goes to
charities. Money is needed for other
purposes, and the Government will not
surrender any source of supply. Which
may be bad policy in the long run.
Because of the Warrnambool meetings,
combined with the departure of many
good horses for Adelaide, racing in Mel-
bourne is temporarily in the doldrums.
No real revival can be looked for until
the Grand Nationals arrive, by which
time also potential spring stars will have
been put into work again.
Two odds-on chances were defeated at
Moonee Valley. Wick stood flat-footed
when the barrier rose in his division of
the Juvenile Handicap. Brazen King,
who had won so brilliantly at Caulfield,
did not perform within a stone of that
form in the race for three-year-olds.
Luck was against Wick, but the failure
of Brazen King could not be excused.
“They ain't bitin as well as they Was yesterd'y."
Rex Felt, a worthy son of Spearfelt,
won his division of the three-year-old
event, but had to withstand a protest for
interference. Rex Felt belongs to Vin
O’Neill, who was associated with the
Melbourne Cup triumph of Spearfelt.
Ross Grey-Smith, of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, owns a very promising four-year-
old in Harford (Devonshire-Glenlucian),
who annexed the Batman Trial at
Moonee Valley like a potential Cup
horse. Sent out at 6 to 4, he gave the
leaders a long start and scored with a
smothering run. Dam of Harford goes
back to a sister to Marmont, whose vic-
tories included an Australian Cup and
Grand National Hurdle.
* * * *
“Bucki”: Penance did not beat Car-
bine (B. 19/4/’39). I saw that race at
Flemington long—too long—ago. At the
turn into the straight it looked 100 to 1
on Penance, he had such a lead, while
Ramage was riding Carbine hard. Half-
way down the straight it still looked as
if Penance could not be caught; but
Ramage kept at it, and the old champion
just got up. You may bring on your
Poseidons, Poitrels, Eurythmics, Phar
Laps, Ajaxes! None of them ever did
or ever could do what Carbine did
in Sydney as a four-year-old. He
won the w.f.a. race on the first
day, the Sydney Cup on the second
day —he carried 91b. over w.f.a.,
and was almost down as they turned
into the straight and both w.f.a.
races on the third day ; and he finished
up by winning the three-mile w.f.a. race
on the fourth day. Yes, sir, “Old Jack”
was the greatest horse that ever looked
through a bridle.
* * # *
“Farnham”: Brummy, the local hard-
case, was cursed with a pronounced
stutter. One Saturday he approached the
s.p. intending to back Gay Dell in a
race at Ascot (Melb.). “A deener
G-g-g-g-g” he began. “Make up
your mind, Brummy, you haven’t much
time,” said the bookie impatiently. “A
deener G-g-g-g Aw, m-m-make it
Finch.” Finch won at sixes.
* * * *
The Wagga Gold Cup was won by a
real Riverina horse, the three-year-old
gelding Saul; bred by Otway Falkiner,
raced in the colors of daughter-in-law
Mrs. O. McL. Falkiner, prepared by the
family trainer, Watters, and ridden by
the veteran Riverina horseman Foster.
Frank McGrath, a great patron of
Riverina ■racing, sent his own horse
Adonis from Sydney, and was very con-
fident ; but Adonis —favorite at twos—-
was beaten into third place in a close
finish, Manu Forti, from Melbourne,
being second. Saul was at 5 to 1, the
same price as Love from Maggie. He is
by David-Miss Quex.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hall Disqualified
Jack Carroll got fed up with Joe Hall’s
showing against Jackie Wilson at West
Melbourne Stadium, disqualifying Joe in
the tenth session of the 12-rounder and
declaring afterwards that he did not think
Joe was doing his best.
The same thought must have occurred
to many watching Joe in fights before
this. At his best, a clinker, Joe has long
had the same sort of apparent lack of
interest in the proceedings that that other
good little Australian Micky Miller fre-
quently displays. Unlike Micky, who
sometimes looks as if a good holiday
out beyond Bourke would do him a lot
of good, Joe invariably gets into the ring
looking in the very pink of condition —
literally so ; the general run of scrappers
are either weather-browned or gym-
nasium-white ; Joe is a blushful pink
over every exposed square inch of his
sturdy structure.
In fact, he always looks fit enough to
fight at his top indefinitely, but it’s very
rarely anything approaching that promise
is carried out. He fights in fits and
starts, and at that usually when he has
been driven to it by attack. In common
with the bulk of Australia’s present crop
of scrappers, he’s at his best as a counter-
fighter, but mostly he’s content to just
smother and look after No. 1. If he
fought, he would be up with the best of
them ; as it is, a busy, aggressive scrapper
like Wilson can make him look com-
pletely outclassed, as Wilson very deci-
sively did on this occasion. Joe scarcely
put a glove on him all night, and the
crowd were fed to the neck with it long
before Mr. Carroll’s patience at last gave
out.
Joe, of course, isn’t by any means
alone in his declining to be aggressive.
It is the outstanding trait which the bulk
of present-day Australians have in com-
mon. They have, on the whole, for-
gotten the art of attack. That is why
any moderately-good Yank who cares
to make the voyage out can now rely on
leaving these shores with a better repu-
tation than he ever had before. There’s
one good thing, at least, about pretty
well all these recent imports —they will
attack. Australians have mostly so taken
to the defensive line of scrapping that
after an engagement the punches they
delivered can be individually remem-
bered, like strange and remarkable events.
Henneberry is on his way to England,
hoping to meet Jock McAvoy. If he does
well in Britain he will visit the U.S.A.,
where his praises have been sung by a
succession of native-born boxers and
trainers. Sabatino and Farmer also de-
parted last week, so Ron Richards may
run short of opponents.
Footbrawl
Surprises are coming early in Melbourne
football. Carlton, on top last year, went
off to Geelong confident of beating the
locals more easily than Collingwood had
done. It led at half-time, but superiority
in kicking for goal gave Geelong the
match —14-8 to 11-13. The story was re-
peated at Essendon, where Melbourne
was the visiting team. The ’Dons had
Coward, from Westralia, among the for-
wards. The game was always close


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352—56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,.
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY. *
A
&
%
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
d. Norman trenery,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
m
fIW
o.u^
t
COS c^PITROLS
JIM. There’s a grade to suit your car
SUPER PIUS
The premier grade—the ideal fuel for modern cars
and trucks. Super Plus is the only Ethyl petrol that also
contains benzol -and offers you exceptionally high
anti'knock quality together with amazing mileage.
PIUS BENZOL
—is the outstanding motor spirit in the standard
grade field. Petrol-benzol blends are sold in other
markets at premium rates but Plus Benzol is
available in Australia at the standard grade price .
è
pgR
sU
tltf 1
&
m
LOOK FOR THE RED, WHITE R RIDE PUMPS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with Branche. at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
and often exciting ; at the final bell Mel-
bourne led 21-15 to 19-21.
Collingwood’s thoughts are already
turning to another subscription list to
arrange for the celebration of another
premiership. With Todd in great form —
he kicked 10 goals—’Wood beat “Sowth”
21-20 to 15-17. ’Wood’s 146 points made
the highest score of the day. Rich-
mond did nearly as well against Foots-
cray, 20-19 to 17-8 ; nor was St. Kilda
(20-14) far behind opposed to Fitzroy
(14-18). In the other match Hawthorn
beat North, 17-13 to 11-11.
* * * *
“Saltwater”: Not only was Ambrose
Palmer’s jaw badly broken while the
former champion pug was bogging in for
Footscray v. Essendon (B. 26/4/’39), but
the eye that bothered him in so many
fights—so much so that he had to devise
a special guard for it—was opened once
more. Alike in football as in boxing,
Ambrose has been dreadfully unfortu-
nate. Acting on reports that there was
scandalous delay in getting hospital treat-
ment for the lad, the Footscray Council,
with due solemnity, “decided to forward
a protest to the Premier.” It is improb-
able that the intercession of Chamber-
lain is demanded when an Arsenal or
Aston Villa man becomes a-casualty;
but, in Melbourne, football is regarded
with becoming seriousness. The medical
superintendent of Alfred Hospital has
testified that Palmer “was competently
treated on the ground,” and that all they
had to do at the hospital was to remove
:he dressings and replace them and to
decide that it was “not a suitable case
for public-hospital treatment.”
* * * *
“T.”: Sydney Rugby League officials
still cherish the hope, the dream, that
their fading code will some day be
blended with Australian-rules. When
they study the Melbourne dailies filed in
their club, how they must wish they could
bring it off! Attendances at the six
V.F.L. matches on the opening day of
the season totalled 104,500, gate-money
panning out at £2739. The crowd at
each of the three games that drew best
exceeded 20,000. There were not nearly
that many at the four Sydney Rugby
League games played on the same day.
The League prudently drew a veil over
attendances and gates, but ‘‘‘about 9000”
was its principal press barracker’s esti-
mate of the crowd at the Cricket Ground,
where the “match of the day” was played.
After two successive defeats Canter-
bury-Bankstown atoned with a convinc-
ing win over St. George. The Dragons,
who, by making a hash of Newtown in
the second round, had gone to the top
of the Rugby League class, got a caning,
17-7. The premiers owed victory to abil-
ity to adjust their game to the changed
conditions when a squally deluge came
in the last half. Easts went on their
merry way by downing Western Suburbs
9-2 in a spirited game. North Sydney
couldn’t rustle up a single point against
Balmain. The winners bored in from
whistle to whistle, and had 34 on the
board before going in to scrape the mud
off. South Sydney also got into big
figures: 24 was its tally against Newts’
modest penalty goal.
* * * *
With three lots of Sydney Rugby
Union matches played, Randwick and
Eastern Suburbs remain unbeaten. Rand-
wick beat North on Anzac Day, and St.
George, 16-11, on Saturday, though it
had anxious moments. East has a very
promising winger in Sefton, who was
with the G.P.S. last year. To his side’s
14-6 win over Gordon the youngster con-
tributed a fine try.
North, thanks chiefly to the übiquitous
Gibbons, half-back and captain, cantered
away from Manly, 24-8, four tries to
two—by Hodgson. West, with Barnes’s
ticking up to its old match-.winning form,
finished ahead of Drummoyne, 12-5, one
try each, and University managed four
tries to Parramatta’s two. But goals
made it 14-10 at the end. Parramatta
had much the better of the affair till
rain affected ground and ball.
Union Rugby is making decided pro-
gress in Westralia. Perth alone began
the season with 23 clubs. One of the
regular players, ex-Minister Tummas
Paterson will be delighted to learn, is a
certain Lieut. Dewar.
* * * *
The King and Queen and 100,868
others were at Wembley when Portsmouth
beat Wolverhampton for t’ Coop, scoring
4 goals to 1. Newspapermen called it
“the gland final,” both teams having
taken gland treatment. Portsmouth must
have taken a lot more than the Wan-
derers.
* * * *
The North v. South match at Sydney
Showground was a pale travesty of
Soccer. Speed there was, but only the
Southerners exhibited it. For North Mc-
Nabb, the Test custodian, played a
rattling game, and a hearty kick over the
knee failed to take the steam out of him ;
but one man can’t carry a team. Of the
five goals scored by the winners, Work-
man notched four, one by “heady” work.
Davidson, in the centre, Anderson and
Crowhurst, Metters’s nippy right-winger,
aided and abetted most of the North-
bound surges. Norths saw the'opposition
net sag but once, and that from a penalty.
With only three points separating six
teams, a dour struggle is being waged
for the N.S.W. State League Soccer
premiership. Goodyear bounced to the
front by toppling Metters 2-1 in an excit-
ing game. It broke a two-year hoodoo
the Cast-ironers have had over, the
premiers. St. George cracked the pace
on over the final stage to snatch the only
goal of the match against Granville.
Woonona, at the bottom of the table, did
well to hold the strong Wallsend side to
a 2-all draw; Weston walloped Adams-
town 4-1 ; Cessnock just got home 4-3
against Newcastle ; Leichhardt won from
Gladesville 2-1.
Miscellaneous
With no fuss or flapper-press hysteria
£lOOO was collected to send a Sydney
R.C. eight to London to race for the
Grand Challenge Cup at Henley regatta,
and the lads, with an emergency, are on
their way. Turner, the sculler, is a
member of the party ; he will, of course,
compete in the Diamond Sculls won
last year by Burk, the American. Syd-
ney’s sporting venture is, in effect, an
attempt to do what dad did, for a Sydney
R.C. crew won the Grand Challenge in
1912.
$ $ $ *
“Turon River”: I liked old Bill, but
he would skite, and knocking about with
him got to be a nightmare of blokes
nudging each other, grinning and other-
wise showing disbelief of his yarns.
“Yairs,” he said one day to the usual
grinning crowd, “I got 14 medals an’
three cups for shootin’ pigeons; two
blazers an’ 17 medals for playin’ foot-
ball ; 23 cups for all kinds of athletics;
an’ I once sparred with Jack John-
son” That’s as far as he got before
the mob walked out on him. “Cummon
up to the shack,” he invited me then,
somewhat sadly. I went, and—yes, he
showed me the lot, even to a newspaper
cutting of his spar with J.J.
* * * *
“D.”: Von Nida has made a hit in
Maoriland, which he and Cremin are
touring. On the Christchurch Club
course, which is reckoned difficult —or as
difficult as courses go in these countries
—he went round in 65. His companion
is returning about the middle of the
month for the Queensland open. The
Von is staying a bit longer.


CrLLTV^
r
BBS
Ills: New Company Overseas Stars featuring
THE FOUR FRANKS,
SAMMY COHEN
In Broadway Hot Shots.
“Tlie Laugh Round-up/’ featuring
AVIIX MAHONEY
and JO Other New Acts.
Q
FREE
Trial
Offered
Remarkable Intermittent Vacuum Helmet used PRIVATELY BY HAND,
vacuum water tap pressure ("no water touches the head). AMAZING
Scientifically Re-News THICK HAIR thru STIMULATING deeHpng°
vessels. HAIR FOLLICLES root after few treatments, NEW HAIR W" s
CURES GREY HAIR. BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ALOPECIA, EXCESS DM*"*
OILINESS. For men. women. Low price. Agents required.
RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932), OPP. RICHMOND STATION, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Ladies (almost) Only.
The Bulletin critic went along to
“Beauty in the Balance,” the Berlei show
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, the other
week and was astonished to discover that
he was the only male person present.
The house was full of women of all
ages, shapes, sizes and position on the
local social register, but they were one
and all gazing with strained attention at
the proceedings as if their lives or their
husbands or their boy friends or some-
thing depended on it.
Being in a vast minority, the Bulletin
man did not dare to applaud, possibly
because he didn’t want his presence to
be discovered in case the show was a
feminine counterpart of those dark ritual-
istic ceremonies of the Australian abo-
riginals in which, if a lubra stumbles even
accidentally on one, she gets hit over the
head with a waddy.
Moreover, what sort of criterion lovely
woman attaches to her form and deport-
ment is a profound mystery to him ; it
changes every season and sometimes
takes shapes that seem as extraordinary
as the fashion for inserting soup plates
in their lips affected by the belles of cer-
tain tribes in Darkest Africa, which is
followed so rigorously that the ladies
eventually are obliged to have their food
thrown into their mouths, after the
manner of the rhinoceros hornbill.
But the thing that struck this critic
about the exhibition was that the Berlei
people don’t advertise their prowess
enough, considering that they appear
capable of performing miracles of muta-
tion, transmogrification and adaptation
to a changed environment which puts
Nature completely out of countenance.
For instance, two girls who had been
interrupted while they were in an early
stage of dressing brought on a ten-foot
framed enlargement of a photograph of
one of Berlei’s subjects, and the audi-
ence was presented with the spectacle of
a woman who had had four children and
had apparently completely succumbed to
what she regarded as the physically in-
evitable, considering that the standard of
feminine beauty nowadays requires the
sort of figure which makes you think a
lady has left the room when she has only
turned sideways.
After holding this spectacle up for in-
spection to the accompaniment of a dirge
from. the orchestra, the girls departed.
Then a fan that filled the back of the
stage divided and the subject of the
photo, stepped out in person looking
like a reasonably good avatar of the
Venus de Milo. The lady who was in
charge of the proceedings explained the
scientific principles which had been
applied to make the lady’s tummy vanish,
her bust to assume such fair proportions
and her melancholy visage to assume
such an expression of hopeful exaltation ;
and the Bulletin critic wondered what
Myron, Phidias, Praxiteles and those
other Greeks would have thought about it.
All they could do was to get the pretti-
est girl in Athens and make their marble
look as like her as their skill permitted.
But the Berlei people go one better. They
take a living human body which has
begun to sag distressfully in places and
mould it into the warm semblance of a
classic Aphrodite.
Another thing which impressed present
writer was that the strange notions of de-
portment which some of the Melbourne
fairest share with their favorites of the
talkies, and which vary from walking like
a duck to undulating like a boa-con-
strictor, are anathema to Berlei, which
goes to Bali for its inspiration. The girls
of Bali thresh the rice with stampers and
carry anything from a potato to a port-
manteau on their heads. After Berlei
has finished with its clients they walk
almost as nicely as the prempuans of
Bali.
“Gunga Din.”
Cary Grant, Victor McLaglen, Douglas
Fairbanks, junior.
An extra-good Disney product cartoon-
ing some of Hollywood’s better-known
inhabitants, a string of tiptop shorts and
this rattling fine film make a tophole
bill at Sydney Regent.
It’s a good lusty stretch of derring-do,
with Mr. Grant and co. occasionally
whaling the daylights out of a couple
of hundred tribesmen just to prove that
one white man is worth several dozen
of his tinted brethren. There are fanatical
priests, mysterious temples, pits of cobras,
moiders and Lud knows what mixed up
together and threatening the integrity of
Indiah, if not the Empiah, until the army
steps in for some timely mopping up.
A strong vein of comedy helps tremen-
dously in keeping the film above melo-
drama and, by way of contrast, adds
Roland Young trying to cope with a piece of Constance Bennett and half of
“Mr . Atlas” in “Topper Takes a Trip,” at the Century, Sydney.
more force to the more serious business
of shootin’ tribesmen and keepin’ up
army traditions and whatnot. Grant has
proved himself a first-class comedian,
and here he turns in an excellent job as
a Cockney sergeant. McLaglen and
Fairbanks belonging to the same rank,
the three of ’em extract every ounce of
humor they can from the circumstances.
According to the film Gunga Din
earned his niche in posterity by blowing
a bugle to warn approaching troops of
ambush and then passing out from a
bullet or bayonet between his ribs. That,
of course, is open to doubt, but the
filmsmiths back their version by intro-
ducing Mr. Kipling towards the finish so
that he can write his verse there and then
and so that the colonel or somebody can
recite over Gunga’s coffin.
“Blonde Cheat .”
Cecil Kellaway, Joan Fontaine.
Here at long last is a supporting film
not calculated to send an audience rush-
ing out bent on self-destruction. Lately
seen at Sydney Embassy, it could figure
quite satisfactorily as main item.
It deals with a young fellah clerking
in an uppah-stratah pawnshop where
sprigs of sassiety and nobility drop in
to borrow a couple of thou, on their
diamond watchchains, etc. One even-
ing after closing time an elderly, prosper-
ous-looking gent, tears in to float four
hundred frogskins on a set of earrings
which, however, are firmly attached to
charming young niece. Young fellah’s
troubles then are to keep security in sight.
Young fellah, by the way, is engaged
to daughter of boss of popshop, whose
wife is bent on climbing to a perch in
the uppah stratah of sassiety. Pop isn’t
keen on prospective splicing match, and
the earring business turns out to be his
frame-up to put young fellah in daugh-
ter’s black books and so kibosh the en-
gagement. So it breezes on.
Cecil Kellaway tiptop as the pawn-
broker. Young fellah is played by Derrick
de Marnay ; Miss Fontaine is called upon
to be a charming little minx, and man-
ages that pretty well to perfection. Also
in the piece are comedian Robert Coote,
not unfamiliar to the Australian stage,
and John Sutton providing an occasional
roar as Lord Thingummy, an authority
on huntin’ the pumah.
“Flirting with Fate,” an opus now doing
the rounds, lacks the usual spontaneity
of Joe E. Brown’s honest clowning, but is
a not unbearable stretch of damfoolery
and fallabout, with joe as boss of a
bunch of vaudevilleans adrift somewhere
in South America, and Leo Carrillo as a
boss bandit.
Music Clubs * Anniversary
Concert.
The Associated Music Clubs of Aus-
tralia celebrated the tenth birthday of
the founding of the clubs with a concert
at Sydney Town Hall last Thursday
night.
It was a reversion to an earlier and
happier day when Sydney mostly made
its own music and had little occasion to
pay homage at the shrines of imported
celebrities. There were present all the
essentials for a satisfactory musical fes-
tival —a sound conductor (Dr. Bainton),
an excellent orchestra (A.B.C. Sym-
phony), a choir of 400 voices, sup-
plemented by a list of soloists that didn’t
seem to leave anyone out, two good
violinists (Phyllis McDonald and Norah
Williamson), and two first-class pianists
(Lindley Evans and Frank Hutchens).
The last-named, with orchestral back-
ing, enjoyed themselves and pleased a
sophisticated audience with a perform-
ance of Mozart’s seldom-heard Concerto
in E Flat for two pianofortes. Vaughan
Williams’s new choral composition
“Serenade to Music” was presented by
the orchestra and no fewer than 16
soloists—an extraordinary work, exhibit-
ing Williams in his most exalted mood.
Elgar’s “Challenge of Thor” (from “St.
Olaf”) and the salutation from “The
Banner of St. George” gave the massed
choirs a chance to shake the rafters, and
having shown that they could do this
they gave a nice quiet rendering of Gus-
tave Holst’s setting of the Psalm open-
ing “Lord, Who hast made us for Thine
own.”
The violinists had their innings in the
Bach Concerto for two violins and
orchestra, and covered themselves with
glory. Orchestra alone played Dvorak’s
Slavonic Dances, Mendelssohn’s “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” overture and the
“Rosamunde” overture of Schubert, and
the night ended worthily with the tremen-
dous strains of the “Hallelujah Chorus.”
Ice Palais.
The weather having taken the right
sort of turn, skating was got going in
earnest at Sydney’s Ice Palais with a
gala opening last week and the Shiverers’
Club took the plunge into a waterhole
in the Domain.
The Shiverers can have theirs on their
own; the Palais, where they have an
abundant warming plant for keeping cosy
those who don’t warm-up on the ice, will
do us.
Opening night was a cabaret affair,
with general skating, dancing (on skates,
of course) and some pretty exhibitions.
It’s an enormous place, fitted on luxurious
lines, with a topnotch dance band and
an ice-floor of some 60,000 sq. ft., and
exceptionally well run.
“The Island”
“The Island,” Adelaide Repertory’s
latest offering, is by Merton Hodge, an
M.L. doctor before becoming a play-
wright in London.
It is a British military community
where cocktails and ill-natured gossip
form the staple of life. Nothing much
happens except that one lieutenant drinks
himself into suicide, and the bride of
another one gets sick of the gossip and
obtains a transfer.
Thus all depends on the acting; and
it was sound all round Jack Moore
(a new find) as the young rotter,
Kenneth Robertson as a strict but human
senior officer, and Roxy Sims as the
bride ; while Frank McCarron and Gwen
Coffey have the true humorous gift.
Judy Amadio.
Judy Amadio, daughter of the great
Amadio who fluted so long for Florence
Austral, brought out her father’s chosen
instrument at Melbourne Assembly Hall
one night last week. Mangaret Schofield
was at the piano, and the pair attacked
a Bach sonata and the Concerto No. 2
of Mozart.
Miss Amadio, who has been sup-
plementing what her father showed her
at the University Conservatorium, was
best in the Mozart; her tackling of the
solo numbers lacked confidence. Alfredo
Luizzi, a magnificent local singer, assisted
with an aria from “Andrea Chenier.’
Ina Maidment’s Songs.
While sundry individuals have been
tying to produce an Australian school of
music by writing indignant letters to the
papers, Ina Maidment, of Melbourne,
has been doing the job for them.
The results of her courtship of the
Muse were presented at the Assembly
Hall a week or two back with a posse of
good executants, comprising Elizabeth
Coote, Kathleen Seabrook and Alfredo
Luigi, with Noel Nickson, the new Clarke
scholar, operating on the piano.
Miss Maidment’s songs were suffi-
ciently varied to keep the audience guess-
ing, and nobody could complain of any
lack of melody in her compositions. If
none of her ditties reached the summit of
perfection, none of them approached
within measurable distance of banality
and there was force in some of them, as
well as grace in others. “The Emperors
Charioteer,” “The Sewing Machine” and
“The Chinese Bride” were among the
best of the collection.
ARTBURSTS.
Sydney
At Anthony * Horderns’ gallery is a
show of oil-paintings by S. Herman, a
Swiss artist who has for some years
lived in Australia, and who has some
reputation as an art collector.
Mr. Herman is quite able to draw :
one of his nude studies shows there is
nothing the matter with his eyes or his
knowledge of anatomy. Yet in tne
majority of his pictures he affects an
inability to set a hat on a head or a neck
on shoulders. He also has the imagi-
nation and color sense to be producing
something better.
Eth'leen Palmer’s coior prints at the
Macquarie Galleries are decorativ


MERCHANDISE
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles, Office
E<lu i p m ent, Furniture,
Sports Goods, Photo-
graphic, Engineering and
Building Fairs.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL
WILL BE EXHIBITED.
If you buy for future reselling ... if your business depends upon the
latest in mechanical equipment ... if you are engaged in any phase ox
commercial enterprise . . . then Leipzig Trade Fair is necessary to
your success. ,
Twice yearly 10,000 manufacturers from 23 countries assemble in this
historical German city to meet the demands of a quarter of a million
purchasers from all parts of the world.
LEIPZIG
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
COMMENCES AUGUST 27th, 1939.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) and
Letters of Introduction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia for, the Leipzig Trade Fair, Challjs House, Martin Place,
G. Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne; J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
H. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Australians are always welcome in Greater Germany.
DO YOU FEEL N
DOME UP T
/
OUR CRUISES
WILL CUT THE KNOT
EARLY JUNE —“ORONSAY” f FIJI (Suva)
LATE JUNE—“ORONTES” $ RABAUL
LATE JULY—“ORAMA” f
NOUMEA
By way of Barrier Reef; returns by way of Lord Howe
and Norfolk Islands.
LATE AUG.—“OTRANTO” f — PAPUA
By way of Barrier Reef.
f First Saloon and Tourist ‘B\ $ First Saloon and Tourist.
ORIENT
LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd., Incorporated in England
designs of the utmost delicacy and charm,
showing a firm command of line, a nice
taste in color and complete mastery of
the technical problems involved: She dis-
plays exceptionally clever adaptation in
such scenes as “Pittwater,” “Crooked
River,” “Granite Peaks,” “The Hawkes-
bury,” “Spring, Middle Harbor,” “Narra-
been Lakes” and “Gerringong Land-
scape.”
In the foyer of the Theatre Royal is
a show of sketches of Russian Ballet
dancers by Enid Dickson. The drawings
have vitality and convey a sense of
movement. They are pictorial, of course,
because the ballet is above all things
pictorial. It might even inspire fine art
were it not that the rigorous physical
training of dancers is apt to produce thick
ankles and chubby knees.
Melbourne
The Bulletin man dropped in at the
exhibition of Rex Battarbee at the Mel-
bourne Fine Arts and thought that he
was seeing a second show by Albert
Namatjira, the abo. artist,who sold out
at the same gallery a year ago ; and no
wonder. One was the pupil of the other,
and if their studio was the open plains of
the Never Never, the same phenomenon
is to be observed that has been repeated
throughout art history, inasmuch as a
pupil, when he looks at Nature, always
tends to see what his master saw there.
The brittleness of Battarbee’s detail
may be a characteristic of Centralia, but
the same meticulousness of detail is pre-
sented in his recent landscapes painted
at Port Campbell (Vic.) and in Tassie.
“Smoke Haze, Launceston,” has a softer
appeal than the others.
The impression was gathered at the
Athenaeum that John S. Loxton, too,
sees trees, hills, snowfields and
moonrise very much in terms of his
teacher. For his “Mending the
Nets, Carrum,” his “Fishing” and his
“Cool Depths,” the same adjectives
would have to be put into commission
as if they had come from the atelier
Herbert.
CIRCUS
Paid a second visit to Wirth’s one
night last week, to have extended to us
the Freedom of the Big Top, the tented
horse- and menagerie-enclosure and the
outlying dressing-tents.
They’re amazing people. Here they’ve
been putting on their changeful show
night after night all over the continent
for generations, and from the enthusiasm
and excitement you’d think it was a first
night.
Now the Big Top has come down on
the great open spaces it covered off
Oxford-street for the past six weeks.
There’s to be a short season round Syd-
His shirt is yanked off by Oskar.
ney suburbs, and then they’ll be off again,
heading out on the annual trek.
If they want more horses to add to
their spanking collection they’ll gather
’em up out beyond Hughenden and
Winton way in Queensland. Though a
kind on his own, needing to have the
right conformation, the circus horse, they
tell us, is a humbly-bred animal. There’s
no special stud, as you might think, for
turning out these white and black
beauties, but they’re aristocrats in their
way, after the manner of landed gentry.
Mostly, they’re Kidman-bred, so they,
too, like the Wirths, tie up with spec-
tacular chapters in the country’s past life.
The Wirth people get ’em in the rough,
and presently here they are, as if born
for the part, prancing beneath the pretty
circus ladies and plumed escorts, earning
their oats, but living high, and looking
as if they had never, even in nosebag
dreams, rubbed a rough coat against a
gidya or put a broken hoof down on a
claypan.
They and the lion act, the balance and
muscle acts, the daring young trio on the
Swears Hitler
laughed.
flying trapeze, the
elephants, the leap-
ing greyhounds, the
monkeys riding a
hurdle race on Shet-
land ponies, the
couple of separate
tribes of clowns —
they’re all the better
for being watched
like this from some-
what behind scenes.
In their own out-
skirt gunyah a
small square tent,
measuring not much
more than 6ft. by
6ft.-—the three mem-
bers of the Francois Troupe of Inter-
national Clowns great long Oskar,
whiteface Ermino and musical tramp-in-
rags Amadio—-are translating themselves
from their native Italian and French into
the universal Esperanto of their act.
Surnamed Cavallini(along with Ermino),
Oskar hails from Mussolini’s stamping-
ground, but until he speaks he looks in
his natural state as authentic a specimen
of a hatchet-faced outback Australian as
was ever carved out of stringybark.
Made-up, he looks like an ascending pile
of ill-dressed bones suckled and brought
up on a diet of rum and cloves. Ermino's
make-up as the traditional whiteface of
clowndom disguises the fresh and healthy
complexion of the party.
Amadio (surnamed Lacchini) hails
from Marseilles, born of a Parisian
mother and a Buenos Ayres father,
clowning in the family dating over four
generations. Presently he’ll be going into
the ring with Oskar for their first act, a
house-rocking business in which they
enter and perform in slow
motion. This item is going
to leave a trail of cracked
ribs up and down the land-
scape on the present trek.
It’s in their second turn
that Amadio is the togged-in-
rags tramp—the spit of one
of those beery specimens that
G. K. Townshend draws for
The Bulletin. In this act he
commits comic frightfulness
with musical instruments—
first with battered specimens
of orthodox orchestra equip-
ment ; then with streamlined
chromium instruments that
look not only the lqst word
in modernism but in futurism. To be in
keeping with the times all orchestras
should now be playing instruments of
the identical black and silver glitter and
shape of these. They arfe M. Lacchini’s
own invention, the one he himself acts
the goat with a masterpiece of beautiful
craftsmanship credited to a small town
on what used to be the German-Czecho-
slovakian border.
At the present moment he’s midway
through his dressing, and, without much
“He ees simple.”
English, but what he has very well man-
aged, he’s doing the talking for the trio.
He has no make-up on yet, but has
pulled on his baggy pants and adjusted
around his bare torso the ridiculous
Lilliputian lady’s brassiere that will help
to wreck the house when, later, his shirt
is yanked off by Oskar in the circus ring.
Thus preposterously got up, he explains
the inventing and making of his futurist
musical instruments, and takes up one of
them —a gleaming arrangement of silver
pipes—and plays on it a run or two of
woodland notes that anybody beyond the
confines of the tent would swear were
coming from a beautifully-played flute.
Amadio’s tramp suit, hanging from a
peg on the tent pole, is 21 years old, and
was made of rag patches in the first place.
The boots that go with it are stamped
1915 inside the sole —it would almost do
for their size, too.
The wearer of these adornments him-
self chuckles over recollections of having
played before the Dictators. He swears
that Hitler laughed. As for Musso, “He
ees simple. He laugh and laugh. Ho ho
ho, ha ha ha! ”


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
>
4i
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 134771.
r
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting- you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
York Minster.
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. ■ • • • ; •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Stree
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C-d.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the or
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED*
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The War Veterans’ Home at Narrabeen
was rightly opened on Anzac Day, and
it seemed a rounding-off to the morn-
ing’s services of Remembrance to take
the road to Legacy Park, where the Home
stands. It is a spacious place of deep
cream bricks and red roofs, and on the
sides facing the Narrabeen Lakes and
the open sea it has great round windows
—the old bow of the Georgian days on
a larger scale. In the perfect autumn
afternoon it was bathed in sunshine, and
all about it rose the gum-trees. There
should be some first-class billiard-players
trained here. Down in the billiard room
there are two full-size tables. Somebody
said that one of them had come from
the home of Captain Patrick.
There were special buses rdnning from
Wynyard for the opening, and in addition
a formidable fleet of cars made the
journey. By the time Lord Wakehurst
arrived to do his deed there were hun-
dreds gathered about the building or in
the driveway near the guard of honor.
The whole surroundings scintillated
with medals and colors. Every
second man wore a row of them.
A small boy listening intently to the
speeches wore his father’s. There was
great applause when chairman Dr. W.
Wood announced that the Home had
been opened free of debt, and hon.
architect McConnel, who was present,
came in for a share of it. Speeches
were made by Minister for Transport
Bruxner, L. A. Robb (R.5.5.1.L.A.) and
C. D. Lockhart.
Ten years ago the music clubs of Aus-
tralia had their beginning, and no one
was more active in their founding than
Oliver King. It must have been a joy
to him and other pioneers of the move-
ment to mark off such a successful first
decade. A concert in the Town Hall was
the celebration, and from harbor suburbs,
from the heights of North Shore came
club members, wearing their brightest
and best. Lady Gowrie, ferny green her
chiffon dress and feather cape, came with
daughter-in-law Mrs. Hore-Ruthven,
whose chiffons and feathery coat were
of softest grey.
With the Admiralty House group were
also the genial General Anderson couple
and Captain Llewellyn Palmer. Noticed
welcoming the vice-regals and official
guests were the Oliver Kings, Mrs. Bain-
ton, Lena Ward and Mrs. Hope Gibson.
Chief Justice Jordan came with his wife ;
and the knightly Francis Anderson and
his wife and Mrs. B. S. B. Stevens brought
congratulations and applause.
It was as uplifting as walking in a
sunny field to wander about the Junior
Red Cross Exhibition. Everything in this
yearly display is a labor of love. The
happy little Junior Red Crosser wants
nothing but the knowledge of doing
good. Throughout the year in their thou-
sands they knit and they sew that the
children of the sick or disabled soldier
may be warmly and daintily clad. Not
only do they make the garments, but
the youngsters run verandah bazaars,
penny concerts, doll shows and other en-
tertainments to raise the money to buy
the materials with which the garments
are made. When the late Eleanor Mac-
Kinnon founded the society in 1914 she
did a service not only to the soldier but
to the Commonwealth. It’s impossible
to think of a finer training ground for
young Australia. Not for young Aus-
tralia alone. Fifty-six countries are
proud of their Junior Red Cross girls
and boys.
Every year the exhibition is enlivened
by a pageant. Small girls and boys
dressed as bright and bizarre charac-
ters of history, as fairies, ballet dancers
and Robin Hoods, make the circuit of
the Town Hall with pointed toe, with
prancing step, and finally make their
bow to the distinguished guests. Last
Friday Lady Gowrie took the bows. No
one in this year’s company adopted the
stiff-necked attitude of the small boy of
last year who, being a king for the after-
noon, firmly declined to bow to any-
body. Virtue is not always the quality
thait lures .these babes in their mas-
querades. There was a very haughty
Du Barry, and a five-year-old was a
“gorgeous hussy” in hooped pink satin,
bunched out with tulle at the back. Peace
with outspread wings conquered War.
There was a group of watermelons ;
their headdress,, a most realistic split
melon, looked refreshing. Probably
little Eleanor MacKinnon, 3£, grand-
daughter of the founder, got as great a
thrill as any out of the afternoon.
There was a tea-party for the official
guests in the Mayoress’s rooms. There
was the profusion of flowers always seen
at Mayoral parties—rich autumn blooms,
the day being one in April. Mrs. Nock
received wearing a trig black suit. Lady
Gowrie’s frock and hat were powder
blue in tone. With her was the Hon.
Mrs. Hore-Ruthven. All around the
room were women who have given long
service to the Red Cross: Dame Mary
Cook, Ruby Storey, Dr. Mary Booth,
the Julius and Parker ladies, Mrs. Cecil
Hordern, Miss da Silva Waugh and Mrs.
Minell. Here also were the wives of the
various Consuls, and in many cases their
husbands were with them. Other men
present were chairman Mackay Sim,
E. S. Marks, deputy-chairman of the
N. S. Wales division of the Red
Cross, Athol Richardson (Minister for
Social Service) and the Town Hall’s
Frank Crane.
When Mrs. Wakamatsu leaves Syd-
ney, which she does next month, with
her Consul-General husband, who has
been transferred to Calcutta, this city
will lose an example of the perfect
hostess. She and her Consular husband
said farewell to Sydney friends in the
Atuta Maru last Wednesday. The ship
h&d been turned into cherry blossom
time with miniature trees in bloom and
many gay lanterns. Mrs. Wakamatsu
was a pictorial figure in her kimono Of
deep-blue silk rich with gold embroidery.
Among smart guests were Mrs. Norman
Nock, who came with her Mayoral hus-
band, the Jordan lady and Mrs. Claude
Plowman. These two are off on a
country jaunt that will take in Moss
Vale and the South Coast. Mrs. H. N.
Giblin’s flat little hat wore red flowers
and a fuchsia red veil. Mrs. Maurice
Gulson had trapped a rich catch of
silver fox. The Anderson lady and
Mrs. H. J. Feakes were tall among the
women guests.
Last night at Admiralty House there
was a small dance, and none there was
more attractive than the Hon. Mrs. Hore-
Ruthven, the Governor-General’s daugh-
ter-in-law. This is the most recent photo-
graph of her, and it was taken by Rene
Pardon. Her lovely hair and eyes are
remarkable. Note the Persian-kitten size
of the latter.
Nearly 200 friends of Myrine Collins
made their way to 4 Clairvaus-road, Rose
Bay, where cousin Mrs. N. P. Walsh was
lending her house for a farewell party to
the departing bride-to-be. Myrine, who
went off in the Monterey last week to New
York and marriage with James Harten,
of New York’s City Hall, is at once
bright of intellect and easy to get on
with, and her list of friends must be as
long as the Harbor Bridge. Anyway,
there have been about 29 parties in her
honor tucked into the five weeks or so
since she announced her engagement.
Mr. and Mrs. Walsh had the right idea
about entertaining, and with the open-
ing round of oysters served stout. There
were sherry and ginny mixtures, of
course, for those who preferred them.
Then a movie was taken of the party.
Myrine takes this away with her. She
also takes with her piles of typically Aus-
tralian gifts. A new idea is the silver
tray engraved with the signatures of
12 of her girl chums. Trix McSweeney’s
special bit was a ceramic of kookaburras
and slip rails. Myrine’s frock was a
lime green marocain, her hat a vagabond-
ish burgundy antelope just the right
thing on her Spanish-black hair. Mrs.
Collins helped in the entertaining of the
big company.
At Mrs. Robert Dixson’s party to aid
the Joan Hammond fund last Sunday,
Marjorie Hambridge, just fresh from
Europe and Szigeti, was the violin-
ist. Elwatan, at Castle Hill, was rich
with autumn beauty, in spite of the
brooding, overcast skies, and listening to
Marjorie was a great gathering of Syd-
ney’s best-knowns in the social and musi-
cal worlds. This clever violinist is busy
working for her recital, which is dated
for the last lap of June, It will be held
in the Conservatorium. Photograph is
from May Moore.
This Letter told its readers before of
the charm of Ethleen Palmer’s work.
Then the artist carried off this State’s
150th Anniversary prize for her very
graceful print of egrets. At the moment
the Macquarie Galleries are hung with
25 examples of her work. There’s charm
about such subjects as “Hornbills” and
“Ducks and Cartwheels,” and anybody
would love the horses in “On the Road
to Sydney.”
Frank Medworth, of the Technical
College, made the opening speech breezy
and complimentary. Frank takes a line
to himself, for he not only wore a beard
but added color with a green shirt
and a terra-cotta tie. Both his tie and
Mrs. Medworth’s bright scarf might have
been of her own hand weaving. One
of the company whispered she was an
expert in this craft. Mrs. Medworth, too,
merited more than one glance. Her
smooth black hair (she was hatless) was
wound around her head in plaits, and
the dark head above her grey suit was
very paintable. The dark Ethleen her-
self wore a bluey-green frock and a
burgundy hat. Among the company of
friends and buyers was the artist’s
mother.
One of Friday’s happy happenings was
the tea party at the Queen’s Club given
by Mrs. Sydney Herring. Mrs. Herring
is about to move into her home at War-
rawee. Singing daughter Diana has been
engaged for the Glyndebourne festival.
With the Tudor singers she has been
touring Portugal.
Quite the wedding of the week was
the Jocelyn Josephson-Wallace Ander-
son uniting. Evening was the time, and
St. Mark’s the place, and onlookers by
the hundred were, gathered to see the
passing of the bride and her ’maids.
Jocelyn’s pretty figure carried the Empire
style of her ivory brocades with dis-
tinction. The frock had long sleeves and
a long train. There was the bright light
of diamonds at the neckline and on the
cuffs of the sleeves. The brocade of the
wedding frock with its silver design is
the same as that specially designed by
the French Federation of Silk Manufac-
turers for the Queen. Swaying frocks
of white silk net over satin were worn by
the four maids: Marcelle Bishop, Jean
Anderson, Gwen Brown and Franki
Murphy, who made a pretty posy of
girlhood. Jocelyn is the only daughter
of the late S. A. Josephson and of Mrs.
Atwill, of Point Piper. ’Groom is the
only son of the W. A. Andersons, of
Double Bay. Reception at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club. Honeymoon in the
Yosemite Valley.
There was sparkle about the Union
Refectory when the Newman Society held
its yearly reception. Dame Constance
D’Arcy, a nice mingling of smiles and
dignity, helped to receive. A cluster
of early violets was pinned on her frock
of black lace. The McGirr sisters
were among the blithe. Beatrice’s organ-
ising hand was behind the function, but
slipped itself demurely during the party
into a little blue velvet muff that looked
as though its place of birth was the Rue
St. Honore. Sister Pat had brought it
from Paris, also its accompanying trifle
of hat, all net and feather mount. Pat’s
own taffetas were gay with stripes.
Justice McTiernan brought niece Mary
McTiernan —pale blue her frock and pink
her roses. Pleated in the newest way
were Imelda Burfitt’s deep-blue chiffons.
The society’s president, Tom Herbert, and
Mrs. Herbert —rosy nets her choice —
were surrounded by a party that was just
a nice friendly size. Miss Kate Egan and
Mrs. Greg McGirr helped to form it.
Alison Stephen, of Orange, was attrac-
tive in beflowered taffetas. Joan Park-
man, from Yass, was among the dancers.
It’s probably just a conventional hang-
over that makes the black-velvet-dashed-
with-fur ice-skating outfit seem more at-
tractive than the butterfly radiance of
the satins and lame that blew iridescently
about the big arena of the Ice Palais at
the season’s opening. That isn’t to say
that the girls wearing these lighter tones
didn’t look nice. They did, but some-
how this bright frocking seemed to turn
a sport into an exhibition piece. Bright
as a mountain berry was the red bolero
Nuttie Mackellar wore with her black
swing frock, and Mrs. Elink Schuurman
passed blithely in a plaid frock and white
boots. Cinnamon brown was worn by
the fair Mrs. Brookes, and the also fair
Mrs. Douglass got her effects from black
velvet and black cloth. Andree Pelletier,
Lorna and Sylvia Patterson and Barbara
Long-Innes were among the gay dis-
posers. Canadian visitor Margaret
Manahan left an impression of grace and
breathless speed.
Last week an extra sparkle was put
into Melbourne days by the sapphire and
diamond ring worn by the newly-engaged
Elizabeth Margaret Eadie. She and
mother motored down south so that
fiance John Irwin Moore would not be
lonely during the ten days his ship was
in Melbourne. Blue blood on both sides.
Navy blue, in fact. Elizabeth Mar-
garet’s father is Lt.-Commander Eadie,
R.N. (retired), and John Irwin’s father
is a navy commander also. Mother is
writer Mrs. Ivy Moore.
The Sydney Industrial Blind Institution
will benefit from the three-day exhibition
of Madame Lul Gardo’s hand-made rugs
and shawls. An added interest will be
the travel talks which Madame Gardo
will give on the various countries from
which she has drawn her collection. The
exhibition opens on Tuesday at 2.30 p.m.
at the Women’s Auxiliary Club rooms,
33 Macquarie-street.
Mrs. Audrey Carlisle Taylor, who was
Audrey Schute, took her second slice of
matrimony last week. The church was
St. Mark’s at Darling Point, the time mid-
morning, matron of honor Mrs. Lennox
Bode and the ’groom George Maiden.
The bride was smart in a beige and
henna ensemble, and her Arctic fox furs
were two in number and cocoa in tone.
Mrs. Bode, in navy and white, was, as
usual, effective and pretty. Wedding
lunch was at the Edgecliff home of the
bride’s mother, Mrs. Arthur Schute.


TWO SHILLINGS
ŕ
is all you pay for
ONE PINT
of the world's best
remedy for
COUGHS,
ŗ
COLDS, CATARRH,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS, SORE THROATS, ’FLU
You save lots of money by making in your own home ONE
PINT of the best possible family remedy for chest, nose,
and throat ailments, by simply adding a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water. An equal
quantity of the best ready-made-up remedies would cost
up to £l. HEENZO is a genuine 3-in-ONE money-saving
remedy. You take HEENZO internally as the quickest
method for banishing coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, and
influenza. You use HEENZO as a nasal antiseptic for
catarrh and colds in head. You use HEENZO as a gargle
to gain instant relief from sore throats. A dose of
HEENZO is also the best preventive against catching the
ills of winter chills, when venturing out into crowds or
wet and windy weather.
HOW TO USE HEENZO IN TREA TMENT OF
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
WHOOPING COUGH
Call doctor immediately for injections. Ease the cough with
made-up HEENZO.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take half teaspoonful of concentrated
HEENZ.O in wineglass of hot water every four hours. Ease
cough with made-up HEENZO. Keep bowels open.
HEENZO IS NICE TO TAKE
GOOD FOR ADULTS AND CHILDREN
t
\HEENZO,
saves you money


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic* pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the II
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY TILLS.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
, SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 732 of 1939.
BETWEEN CECILIA MELBA GLADYS
TOWNS Petitioner
And JACK CLIVE TOWNS Respondent.
TO JACK CLIVE TOWNS late of Narrabri
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CECILIA
MELBA GLADYS TOWNS has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
Datgd this 26th day of April, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
PHILIP GOLDMAN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 657 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALICE RENSHAW Petitioner
And ALBERT RENSHAW Respondent.
TO ALBERT RENSHAW late of East Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE REN-
SHAW has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twentieth day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. C. ROWLES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN
ro
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 540 of 1939.
lETWEEN VALMA MAY WEDGE Peti-
ALBERT HERBERT WEDGE Re-
ALBERT HERBERT WEDGE late of
Granville in the State of New South
TAKE NOTICE that the said VALMA MAY
/EDGE has commenced a suit against you
1 this Honorable Court and is applying for a
issolution of her marriage with you on the
rounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
use during three years and upwards AND
AKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
a appearance to the said suit at the P r °P£'
dice of this Honorable Court on or before the
wentieth day of July One thousand nine hun-
red and thirty-nine and in the event of your
ot so doing within the time limited or obtaining
irther time the Petitioner will proceed and the
jit be heard and determined your .absence
otwithstanding. A copy of the P et, t'° .
erein may be had on application to the under
igned free of charge. .. 10 , Q
DATED this 27th day^TApnl.^39^
1 ' ' Registrar.
N. C. ROWLES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
2 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
A between-season for flowers cut no
blooms out of last week’s wedding decora-
rations. St. lohn’s, Toorak, was filled
with chrysanthemums, blue masses of
hydrangeas and slim, blue clusters of
delphiniums for the afternoon wedding
of Bunty Govett and Charles Davies and
the evening wedding of Ida Glover and
Harold Leslie Morgan. Both couples
went honeymooning in the Monterey,
the former pair bound for Honolulu, the
latter for Rotorua and perhaps a glacier
or two.
The brides, hearing that their wed-
dings were taking place at the same
church on the same day, came to an
amicable agreement about colors to suit
the respective bridal groups. Ida was a
white-and-silver picture, while her ’maids
were in misty-blue net with handfuls of
pink roses.
Bunty Govett and her ladies-in-wait-
ing were all in white, and between them
carried a king’s ransom in orchids and
out-of-season lily-of-the-valley to match
gifts from the ’groom of diamond clips
for the bride’s plastic curls and pearl
bracelets for the ’maids’ wrists. The
bride, who is the elder daughter of I. P.
C. Govett, of Sydney, and of Mrs. Clyde
Govett, of South Yarra, was accom-
panied up the aisle by her mother, elegant
in pearl-grey gown and mauve orchids.
After their honeymoon the newly-wedded
pair will live in Hobart.
Guests at the reception, a cocktail-
hour party at Darling-street which fol-
lowed the wedding, let their heads go in
the matter of hats, it being an occasion
when they could do so, for the cham-
pagne cocktails were a prelude to just
champagne. Mrs. Geoff Smith’s infini-
tesimal black headpiece had a buffalo’s
horn of white gardenias protruding up
over her forehead. Mrs. Alan Stuart’s
cyclamen feathers encircled her dark hair
as the waving feelers of an anemone.
Sheila Helpman’s platter of blue feathers
was attached to a ribbon just a little
more secure than it looked.
A number of South Australians were
gathered together last week for the Reg
Greers’ housewarming party. There were
Bill Turnbull, Harry Miles, Bill Norman
and Bill Ralph, all from S.A., plus their
respective wives ; also Addy Hughes (Mrs.
Miles’s sister from Sydney), Wally War-
boys and Dick Schmidt, who among
them represented most of the other States.
The new home is at Hampton, and the
Greers have decided that now they have
a fine bouncing daughter flat life has
been left behind them for ever. As the
host and hostess are so baby-minded the
Bill Ralphs took their baby also to the
party, a child of impeccable behavior
who was only outdone in capacity for
sleeping through all sorts of noises by
the equally young Miss Greer.
To-day, May 3, is an at-home day for
the Victoria League Bush Library and
Newspaper committees —all interested are
welcome at the club, where they may see
the work in progress and leave, if they
are so minded, donations of books,
papers or money for expenses. There is
no lack of voluntary helpers in the
League to pack the books and to renovate
them when they come back from each
trip to the country, but postage is heavy
and so are freights, although the railways
have granted big reductions.
The Bush Library brings joy and com-
fort to hundreds of lonely country people.
To cite just one case, there is a woman
living on an isolated farm who pushes
her twin babies in their pram five miles
to the nearest township on the day her
parcel of books is due, and five miles
home again in the afternoon. No re-
quest to the League for books or maga-
zines is ever refused. The newspapers
go far further afield than the books,
are sent as gifts not as loans, and are
passed from reader to reader. In some
Pacific islands their colored pages finish
life as decorations in the natives’ hair.
Applicants for reading matter state
their tastes, and their names are card-
indexed so that there is no fear of a
lonely planter on a palm-girt isle who
waits for his serial step by step being
left lamenting half-way through the mur-
der story feeling that he will never dis-
cover who committed the deed of dark-
ness. Among far-flung addresses typed
out for newspaper parcels each mail are
those for Resident Magistrates in Papua
and New Guinea, radio officers at Manus,
Kavieng and Woodlark Island (N.G.), a
group of miners in Burma, and lonely
folk who live at lighthouses round the
Australian coast.
Mrs. O. W. TiegSj who is hon. sec. of
the Bush Library, thought out a scheme
a couple of years ago of writing to vari-
ous authors telling them something of
the good work done through the organi-
sation. Of these authors 90 have already
shown their interest by presenting one
or more copies of their books to the
library. Among them are Gertrude
Atherton, H. G. Wells, Carel Kqpek,
Walter Murdoch, Laurence Meynell,
Alan Cobham and Evelyn Ward. The
League’s Bush Library now has 10,000
books in circulation.
Beatrice Oakley (Allen Farrow photo-
graph) is to be Polly Peacham in the
National Theatre’s production of “The
Beggars’ Opera.” Miss Oakley (Mrs.
Claude Ward in private life) is a well-
known soprano and teacher of singing.
She was a Melba Scholarship winner and
was among the last group of students
who had lessons from Dame Nellie. It
was Melba who advised Miss Oakley to
walk and swim as much as she liked,
but to beware of tennis. The diva be-
lieved it was not good for a singer's
breathing. Miss Oakley thereupon gave
up her favorite game, and it wasn’t until
two years ago that she discovered a sub-
stitute in golf. She’s a promising player,
and last season reduced her handicap to
22 and got into a pennant team for
Eastern.
Shoals ahead in the financial seas of
the Renown Free Kindergarten have been
safely navigated as a result of the picture
night at the Regent Theatre, South Yarra.
Tickets sold in plentiful large batches,
and everybody bought satisfactorily in
the foyer of sweets, lucky envelopes,
flowers and posies and cartons of cream
from the Walter Clarke property at Sun-
bury. Nancy Hewlett, who organised the
function, seemed to be, with her little
jewel-green coat and sleek short coiffure,
both upstairs and downstairs at the same
time. The Clarke lady, who is the president
of the kindergarten committee, was there,
and behind masses of chrysanthemums
a glimpse was caught of Mrs. George
Stevenson’s blonde head, elaborately
arranged with sculptured curls. Mrs.
Larry Heath and Margaret and Noreen
were among the helpers. (They say they
have spent all their time recently packing
and unpacking as a result of changing
their minds about going to-Europe. Last
plans made were that they should sail
this week.)
Among posy sellers was brunette
Heather Moran wearing dregs-of-wine
velvet (she recently became engaged to
Dr. Bill Kirkham, of Warrnambool). Dr.
H. I. Carlile’s six feet four inches of
height was noticed mounting the stairs.
Ken Niall was among the “victims” of
salesmanship, and found himself with a
large box of chocolates tied up with
several pale-blue satin bows. Mrs. Arthur
Day, in black lace, saw that people with
hankerings for bottles of whisky and
wristlet watches had a chance of chasing
lucky numbers for such prizes. Cynthia
Vernon Smith looked well in her long
brocade coat, and she did well in the
matter of lightening her tray of flowers.
An even taller young salesgirl was Mary
Browne, recently arrived from England.
Mary has more than a share of beauty
as well as of height.
An unusual decorative addition to the
sweets stall consisted of posies of choco-
lates and other sugary morsels. Each
edible flower, wrapped in transparent
paper, was wired among ferns, paper
leaves, etc. These posies were made by
Mrs. A. Ostrom, of Ringwood, as a gift
for the stalls of her friends, Mrs. W. D.
Murray-Smith and Mrs. Spencer Harper.
To-morrow night (May 4) ambitious
and clever young dancer Vera Grist will
give a recital at Central Hall. Among
those assisting her are some of her fel-
low-students (Vera is a pupil of Madame
Saronova), pianist Valda lohnstone
(whose photograph is by Eve Ray), Alex.
Burlakov, who with his violin has been
given a “night off” from the Palais, and
soprano Irene Branston. Since she left
the Conservatorium Miss lohnstone has
given several recitals. She is also pianist
for maestro-of-singing Adolph Spiva-
kovsky.
Last week the National Theatre gave
a tea party as a prelude to its “Beggars’
Opera” season, commencing on May 20.
Designs of costumes by Esther Paterson
were on view, and guests were also in-
vited to admire the alterations already
in progress in St. Peter’s Hall, which
will be used in future for National
Thedtre productions. Among guests at
the party were J. Hume-Cook, who shook
humor into his speech ; Tommy Minogue,
who is producing “The Beggars’ Opera,”
and Thea Hughes, of the Women’s
League of Health. Thea recently re-
turned from Perth after a very success-
ful campaign there in connection with
opening a League branch. Perth fell for
the idea with gusto, and Dorothy Dow-
ling, who is ip charge of the work, is up
to her eyebrows organising and teaching
her large classes.
Others present at the National Theatre
party included M. and Madame Edouard
Borovansky, who are opening a school
of Russian Ballet on May 1, in which
Eunice Weston’s school will be incor-
porated. Mrs. M. McLeod was also
among those full of news. Hers con-
cerns daughter Shirley, still in a stage of
excitement at her very recent engage-
ment. The young man is Leslie Burchall,
of The Mohican, Taggerty. The Mohi-
can’s claim to fame is the fact that it
possessed the first galvanised-iron roof in
the valley around Buxton and Alexandra.
At present Shirley is holidaying in the
district and making the most of the job
of learning to ride a horse, drive a
plough and cut ferns.
Irene Mitchell has opened a Children’s
Theatre in Melbourne’s Little Theatre,
which building she feels is particularly
suited to her purpose. Though small, it
possesses a stage and orthodox theatre
seats, but is not so large that little people
might lose themselves or their voices
within its precincts. Miss Mitchell, who
has had many years of experience in
teaching the very young, believes that a
children’s theatre is a valuable institu-
tion, for it brings forth a spirit of cama-
raderie and assists nervous children to
lose their self-consciousness and develop
their personalities. Children’s theatres
are prevalent in England and America,
and in France they are subsidised by the
Government.
A long trip hung on the spin of a
coin last week when Mary and Betty
Triado tossed a penny to see who would
accompany their cousin Ray Parer on a
flying trip to New Guinea. Mary won,
and had a couple of hours to pack a suit-
case with summer clothes.
Ray Parer and Willi Schafhalisen (always
known as Willi—his surname is reserved
for his passport) were in Melbourne for
a few days before taking off in a five-
passenger Fokker which they will fly to
the mission station at Alexishafen, near
Madang. Willi, a young German, is the
mission’s pilot. Mr. Parer took the
opportunity of buying a ’plane for him-
self while he was in Australia, and will
be here again shortly to fly it to New
Guinea. This Boeing, a 12-passenger
machine, was originally intended for a
Cook Strait run between the North and
South Islands of M.L., but the Dominion
Government stepped in and vetoed single-
engined ’planes crossing the water. A
new purchaser had a scheme for freight-
ing crayfish in it between Adelaide and
Melbourne, but someone else found a
cheaper method of carrying the crays,
and the Boeing was again unable to fulfil'
its destiny. Mr. Parer will use it for
carrying both passengers and cargo in
New Guinea.
Mrs. Norman Dickson, who has been
staying with her mother, Mrs. A. Rodda,
of South Yarra, said good-bye to Mel-
bourne last week before moving on for
the wind-up to her holiday, a month in
N.S.W., where she will spend some of
the time with Marie O’Brien, of Potts
Point, and a few days at least in the
bracing air of the Blue Mountains. Mrs.
Dickson’s home is at Lower Edie, in
New Guinea. She found her racing luck
ran the right way while she was in her
home town, and showed the science of
the sport through rose-colored glasses to
a young friend from Hong Kong, Kath-
leen Glover, who also managed to pick
the winners. Kathleen is travelling to
England with her parents, the Frank
Glovers.


V NIM JUT IN SIHX ami OlOHd v
m
,r,x
rv
j z
...AND £2O TO SPEND!
Yes, the “AGFA” PHOTOGRAPHIC
COMPETITION offers to amateurs the
opportunity to win such a magnificent
prize as this—a Luxury Cruise to the
South Seas plus £2O to spend—or £5O
in cash. Nor is this all. The SECOND
PRIZE is an “AGFA” HOME MOVIE
OUTFIT comprising Cine Camera and
Projector, valued at £35. The THIRD
PRIZE, an “AGFA” SPEEDEX
COMPUR CAMERA valued at £lO/2/6.
Now, why shouldn’t YOU go in—
and WIN?
THE COMPETITION CLOSES MAY 31st, 1939
ţ
Remember, no less
than
75 Consolation
Awards
well worth winning
will also be offered.
A S' K YOUR
CHEMIST for
folder giving full
particulars of the
conditions of the
Competition, o r
write
“AGFA” PHOTO-
COMPETITION,
62 Clarence Street
(Box 3957 V,
G.P.0.), SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
ť
FILMS (-CAMERAS
“For Better Photography ”
ŧ
VlCTOR!A—Herbert Small Pty., Ltd.,
308-310 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Herbert Small
Pty., Ltd., 243 Pitt St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND—Herbert Small Pty.,
Ltd., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA—Ash Bester & Co., 102
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—F. H! Faulding
and Co., Ltd., James Place, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. E. Sains-
bury & Co., 27 London Court, Perth.
NORTH Of
TWENTY- EIGHT
In Little-known New Guinea
“Kaloa”: J. L. Taylor’s report on the
recent long patrol of the Mandated New
Guinea mainland leaves little remaining
to be written of the central country.
Taylor’s outward journey ended near
the point where Papua, Dutch New
Guinea and the Mandate meet. There
he found Patrol-Officer Black, who
accompanied him on the return journey as
far as the head of the May River. The
party was attacked fiercely in the Thurn-
wald Ranges, and one native was killed
by an arrow at the door of Taylor’s tent.
Native police drove off the attackers.
Going down the May the party met
considerable resistance, passive and other-
“C’mon and meet y'r auntie or I'll pull y'r leg orf !”
wise. It found the lower part of the
river a fine stream “flowing through
pleasant, well-populated country.” On
the Upper Sepik there was more trouble
with natives. Trouble ended when, after
10 months’ patrol, during which there
had been no grumbles from the police
and carriers even when continually
menaced by attack, the Government
yacht Sirius picked up the party.
Taylor recommends establishing a base
camp at Wabag, which will bring the
country from the Markham to the Upper
Korosomeri—almost the whole of the in-
terior grassland—under control.
Anybody who sees a chance that white
settlement of these areas may begin is
an optimist. There are 100,000 to 150,000
highly-organised, intelligent, agricultural
natives on the central tablelands to be
considered. The present policy of con-
trolling them and keeping them in order,
jl U t ; r t general management of
. - s S emselves under their
rVvLSIn ? U the b6St th m Ca , n
PCrS SaVe ° ffiCialS
I 5 u ‘
„ XTi . .
• , ung . e ” ess • North Australia sees a
nM ? 0V w d f yB ' Jl 16
pranh station with at Wa * ers tele-
fmarlort trnnl/ lo u turt s maik on its
lo **£P at - gre + at air i lners
more than be Vmilri tr” 8 10 - tWO boi !u S
more than he could traverse in a month.
Big motor-lorries roar past, or pull up
with supplies. Cars of all makes and
Wet l r t ?Hi ri i^ C f? Cre t P ' t -^ ln dizzies . lo tbe
woHH hrincr *« St anstocrats tb ® car
themselves 8 rw SBengerS fnf Y as
aood-lookina l^ 8 J ean men
tanned to the B h orseS f f aces sun_
saddlery, by, the° do^'padd ngTn
the shade of the cook f s wafoneue Now
thpn _ ct • . wagonette, inov.
the nad neeks § hobb^* 6 8 Bta a l ong
the pad, necks bobbing, nose-strings
fastened to the stern of the next-ahead
Stranaest of all i c o + r j an , eacL
Strangest of all is a team of donkeys
Creek and the Katherine Tennanl s
* * *
“V t ” • Qryn r *
about bow tb« g vr ere c sung or Wee ks
about how the Noble Savage was to be
brought from Arnhem Land to Darwin
to thrill the Franconia tourists Pictures
reveal the N.Ss. as ill-kempt bow-leSted
and wretched-looking mangrove
~"f'; c .,, roll “ l . ln a ? hes or something
e in swimming trunks. A full
cast of man-sized Arunta or Iludjera m
full Centralian fig would thrill any audi-
ence in any part of the world when they
really got going—splendid men, splendid
costumes, splendid dancing and chant-
ing. But these poor coastal wretches
look more fit for a hospital than a stage
in their show costumes.
& * * *
“Gain”: A joint British-U.S.A. ad-
ministration has been established over
the Phoenix Islands, and the curious
might well ask why. I find that in all
atlases of the ’nineties —including U.S.A.
and German —these not-very-useful atolls
are marked as British, though there was
no administration on the spot. British
law, however, ran in them. A murder
on Canton Island was just as liable to
produce British retribution as a murder
in Battersea. When trans-Pacific oceanic
flying, pioneered by Australians, became
a commercial possibility, Uncle Sam
began to remember that his ships used
to call at the Phoenixes about a century
ago. On this considerable propaganda
in favor of U.S.A. ownership was based.
In the sealing days U.S.A. ships used
to call at Westernport (Vic.) and Tas-
manian ports at which no actual British
occupation had been established. But,
though both Victoria and Tasmania would
be appreciated gifts in Washington (D.C.),
I can’t see the Commonwealth offering
to establish a condominium over them.
There seems to be no better reason for
it in the case of these useful flying mail
bases.
* * * *
“Morobe”: How the old-time mission-
ary would have stared at modern
methods! Alexishafen, the great island
German mission off the New Guinea
coast, whose fathers look after the sick of
over 100 villages, has every feature of a
self-contained modern town, from a print-
ing press downwards. A recent addition to
its facilities —which are bought out of its
coconut income—is a big Fokker ’plane,
similar to that used by Kingsford Smith
on his trans-Pacific flight. After it has
been flown northward by Ray Parer it
will carry supplies to branch mission
stations on the mainland.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The cheery, clamoring
native kids who dive for pennies along-
side visiting ships at Port Moresby are
putting up their price to a silver mini-
mum on account of trade risk. While
the Bulolo was discharging recently, an
unlucky nine-year-old diver was seized
under water. He floated up with a leg
bitten clean off, and died on the jetty.
It is the first recorded accident of the
kind at Port, and local opinion as to the
attacker varies between a groper and a
shqrk. The swim boys believe in the
groper theory, but the clean-cut wound
seems more suggestive of the razor-sharp
dental outfit of a shark than the peglike
gripping denture of the giant cod, which
divers fear more than any shark. A
crocodile would have gripped its vic-
tim by the middle and carried him away
to its food-maturing deposit.
* * * *
“Dip”: lam pleased to report that the
patrol boat Kuru has reached Darwin at
last. About seven months ago it under-
went trials in the south and then left for
the N.T. It managed to crawl into
Townsville for “extensive alterations,”
and Mr. Abbott, the Administrator, called
,in to look at it and was “very pleased.”
Now I come to think of it, seven months
must be a record for speed as far as
N.T. administrative matters are con-
cerned.
* * * *
“Selwyn”: What about a Snipers’
Brigade? If the best men from all over
the Commonwealth were enlisted the
result would be as lethal a collection of
bullet-slingers as the world has seen.
The Turks did something of the same
sort with their mountain men, and I
noticed an instance of their reliance on
riflemen a few years ago in Asia Minor.
In the upland villages of Galatia gen-
darmes were equipped with two rifles.
Every day it was part of a gendarme’s
routine to go out with one of the wood-
cutters who came down from the hills.
The latter carried a borrowed police
weapon. It was explained to me that
the police were not teaching these people
to shoot but they were finding out who
were in the sniper class. Some of the
old Boers and Afghans in their fifties and
sixties were a greater nuisance to British
armies than young men. And Central
and North Australia breeds ’em at least
as good. And, just by the way, five of
the eight members of the N.Q. rifle team
that won the State competition were
over ordinary military age with a good
many grey hairs scattered among them.
* * * *
“Wanetta”: Thursday Island recently
lost its oldest inhabitant, Bill Noelke.
The dreadful climate seemed to have no
effect on his constitution, and at 91 he
was in the habit of taking an evening
ramble in the middle of Thirsty streets.
He was slightly deaf from malaria, and
so one dark evening a local council truck
knocked him over.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Unemployed in Queensland?
Answering the Trades Hall, the Minister
for Labor stated that out of 8341 men
recently called up for employment 2643
refused work offered. A further 776 did
not even trouble to reply.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: I liked a tale which sent the
Sydney flapper press breathless —it was
about a hardy New Guinea explorer who
found himself so tongue-tied that he could
not converse with the Administrator. The
poor fellow had been speaking for
months what the erudite journal which
reported his embarrassment, called
“beche-de-mer.” The Administrator, of
course, as Governor of a community in
which officials quite commonly discuss
the world with their wives in pidgin,
would not know the universal lingo. An
earlier one than the present used to need
to send for his secretary when he wished
to carry on a discussion with his head
boy.
* * * *
“Narine Cubby”: Wonder who holds
the record for the last dry spell? One
grazier whose plot is south of Windorah
(Q.) claims his last three years’ rainfalls
as 170, 230 and 123 points respectively.


''RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and* experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
“ltadio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
5q
CtQ
Ji^
ttlyl
%
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT. ___
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney
Good CONTACT
Means SALES
it’s best through
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6PM
6AM
St. George’s House, St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( USA •)■
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation oi
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is oni}
possible in a publication of the nature ot
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It bnngs
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world s lead
ing radio laboratories. Apart frdm the yafu
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICA
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount oi
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per
through The Bulletin Office, 252 beoige
Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
1852 U.-H.-F. Converter.
Constructional details were given in B.
11/1/’39 of a superheterodyne converter
for use on ten and five metres when ap-
plied to any form of broadcast or short-
wave receiver having a reasonable
amount of R.F. amplification. That
converter employs an 1851 valve as tuned
R.F. amplifier in conjunction with a
6JBG mixer-oscillator, plus self-contained
power supply. It constitutes a simple but
highly efficient way of obtaining the best
possible reception on the ten- and five-
metre bands. Several converters of that
type have been since made by the writer
for 56mc, experimenters, and each per-
formed perfectly. For those who may
prefer something of a still simpler nature
but yet capable of excellent results, W. M.
Conklin (W9BNX), “Radio’s” associate
editor, sends details of the converter de-
scribed here.
W9BNX is primarily interested in the
development of efficient receiving and
transmitting apparatus for the ultra-highs,
and considers that acorn valves of the
954 type have not yet been surpassed as
R.F. amplifiers or superhet mixers. For
comparison he tried the 1852-type valve
as a mixer where a fairly high inter-
mediate frequency can be used. Results
were quite satisfactory, in that ten-metre
signals were better than in the modem
communications receiver that was used
as the I.F. channel, and five-metre opera-
tion was far superior. Where such con-
verters are to be used, the 1852 and 1851
types have much to recommend them
provided that the output frequency is at
the high end of the broadcast band or
even higher.
Construction.
A compact chassis is used, and
mounted in the centre of the panel is
a 25mmfd. dual-stator tuning condenser.
Directly back of the tuning gang is the
1852 mixer; to the left is the oscillator
coil, and to the right the mixer coil. A
can behind the 1852 contains a tuned
output coil, and a few turns to provide
link-coupling to the receiver used as an
I.F. channel. Below the tuning gang is
a 15mmfd. trimmer on the mixer to elimi-
nate tracking problems on separate
bands.
The Circuit.
Several triode oscillator circuits were
tried. The tickler type was subject to
pulling when the mixer was tuned, but
the cathode-above-ground type operates
satisfactorily. The minimum number of
turns between cathode and ground neces-
sary for oscillation gave best results ; 4|
turns on a lin. form for ten metres and
3| turns at five metres, with the tap three-
quarter turn up, are used. The oscillator
is on the high-frequency side of 28mc.
and on the low side of 56mc. Some diffi-
culty with hum was experienced until an
additional resistance-capacity filter was
provided for the oscillator plate supply.
All oscillator leads should be made
rigid to avoid shock detuning of the cir-
cuit. The ground leads are all brought
to one point, which is even more advis-
able in the mixer circuit where an extra
fraction of an inch in the cathode lead,
common to both the grid and plate re-
turns, is undesirable, in that it has effects
upon the input circuit and gain similar
to electron transit time.
Suppressor injection is used through a
50mmfd. or smaller coupling condenser,
although only control-grid injection was
mentioned by R.C.A. The 1852 mixer
was considerably superior to the 6L7 it
replaced, having less conversion noise and
considerably more gain. The mixer grid-
coils, wound on lin. forms, have 5|
turns on ten metres and three turns on
five ; this is in contrast with larger coils
possible with an acorn 954 mixer. The
antenna coil, for link-coupling to a reso-
nant circuit, was first interwound with
the grid coil; this made tuning broad
owing to the heavy loading of the input
circuit by the aerial. Three turns at the
ground end were better. The R.F. input
and output are connected to tip jacks
at the sides of the unit.
The cathode bias-resistor can be 1000
ohms to 2500 ohms, somewhat larger
than recommended. This reduces the
loading effect on the input circuit with
a slight loss in valve gain, the result
being an improvement.
The output circuit consists of a tuning
unit mounted in a shield can, coupled
Circuit of the new U.-H.-F. converter. Full details are given in the text.
to a four-turn pickup coil, which is link-
coupled to the receiver used as an I.F.
channel. This link could be a concentric
line or shielded pair to good advantage ;
it picks up enough signal to give a beat-
note if the receiver is tuned on a continu-
ous carrier and running wide open. A
clear spot just off 6mc. is used with this
converter.
Adjustment.
First step in lining-up the converter is
to adjust the output circuit to resonance
with the receiver used as an I.F. ampli-
fier. This is easily done, inasmuch as
the receiver noise, due both to shot effect
in the mixer and signal or background
racket at the 1.F., increases when the cir-
cuit is brought in tune. The oscillator
can be tuned around to locate a signal,
but an easier way to set the oscillator is
to listen for it in an all-wave receiver
and set it at 28mc., plus the I.F.
When this adjustment has been made,
there remains only to line up the mixer
input circuit on outside noise or on a
signal. This was done when the 10-metre
band was open, and proved to be quite
easy. Ordinarily it will be necessary to
obtain proper aerial-coupling, inasmuch
as high aerial pickup and transfer to the
mixer input will be important in deter-
mining weak-signal sensitivity and signal-
to-noise ratio.
Signal-to-noise Ratio.
When a receiver is used at successively
higher-frequency bands, it is generally
necessary to run up the gain. Valve or
other noises then become more apparent
because the signal input or R.F. ampli-
fication falls off, and the increased gain
amplifies the noise. In a somewhat simi-
lar way, when a converter is placed in
front of a receiver the converter itself
amplifies circuit noises in its first stage,
and gives the impression that the whole
layout is noisier. This is not necessarily
so, because the gain in the receiver can
be reduced, inasmuch as the signal too
has been amplified. Likewise, if the
A.V.C. is left on, the receiver noise is
suppressed by it on a very much weaker
signal than would operate the A.V.C. if
fed directly into the receiver rather than
through the converter.
Many amateurs are misled on this
point. A quiet receiver may indicate an
absence of amplification instead of a
good signal-to-noise ratio. If each stage
has reasonable gain, the set noise will
be determined in the grid circuit of the
first valve, whatever its function, and it
will fall off substantially if the grid-clip
is removed. It follows that a high ratio
of signal to set noise in a good receiver
is determined by the non-regenerative
gain ahead of the first plate circuit —
primarily aerial pickup, coupling and am-
plification in the grid circuit and tube.
Regenerative gain increases the noise pro-
portionately, and does not improve the
signal-to-noise ratio any more than does
running up the I.F. gain.
The disadvantage of the 1852 or 1851
as the first valve in a receiver lies in the
fact that it acts like placing a relatively
low resistance —say 500 ohms —across
the first tuned circuit, making a good
tuned circuit act like a poor one. Other
factors bring the gain up to where some
amplification can be obtained at five
metres when none is produced by other
standard valves. As already mentioned,
the acorn valves have advantages which
make good tuned circuits —after the valve
is placed across them—possible at much
higher frequencies, thus resulting in more
gain and an improved signal-to-noise
ratio.
Values for the circuit diagram are:
Rl, 25,000 ohms T-watt ; R 2, 40,000
ohms 1 watt; R 3, 1500 ohms 1 watt;
R 4, 5000 ohms 1 watt; R 5, 50,000 ohms
i-watt; Cl and C 2, 25mmfd. ganged
tuning condenser; C 3, .Olmica; C 4,
.00005 mica; C 5, .00005 mica; C 6,
lOOmmfd. midget variable ; C 7, 25mmfd.
air-padder; CB, 15mmfd. mica padder ;
C 9, .01 mica ; CIO, Bmfd. or more.
Coils: LI, three turns cold end; L 2,
5{- turns on 1 in. form (10 metres), three
turns on lin. form (5m.); L 3, 4| turns
on lin. form (10m.), 3f turns on lin.
form (5m.); L 4, 30 turns close-wound on
lin. form ; L 5, four-turn pickup coil.
Fairly heavy-gauge enamelled copper is
used for the tuning and plate coils, and
L 4 is wound with 28 DSC copper.
Ceramic or trolitul sockets must be
used for the 1852 and 6C5. Plate and
filament voltages can be taken from the
receiver used in conjunction, or a small
Dower pack can be incorporated.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: At the annual general meet-
ing of I.R.E. (Aust.) held in Sydney on
19/4/’39, secretary O. F. Mingay referred
to the value of utilisation of the services
of Australia’s experimental radio trans-
mitters for defence communications.
Although no concrete scheme 'has yet
been evolved, the W.I.A. has various sug-
gestions under consideration. It should
be remembered that not all licensed ex-
perimenters can be classed as first-class
telegraphic operators, and it is only men
proficient at such work whose services
can be of any real service. This Page has
repeatedly stressed the need, as have the
senior radio inspectors in each State, for
more attention to key-work and less to
telephony in general experimental com-
munication. Telephony can be of use in
certain circumstances, particularly in the
establishment of an ultra-short-wave net-
work of a more or less secretive nature,
but the advantages of telegraphy in any
sphere of radio communication are
obvious where speed and reliability are
essential. Many licensed experimenters
are already serving in naval reserve,
militia, and C.A.F. units, and the
R.A.A.F.W.R. is at present in the process
of reconstitution. The problem is to
determine, apart from military service,
just how amateurs can be useful in a
civilian capacity. There are hundreds of
highly-efficient amateur stations, some
taking in strategical points throughout
Australia, that could be of value in some
co-operative manner. Should war occur
it is certain that amateurs would rise to
the occasion, but in time of peace many
useful men do not or cannot consider
enlistment for individual reasons. It is
true that some of the present-day service
radio equipment would not pass muster
in the eyes of the experienced experi-
menter. That is sound enough reason
why radio equipment for the defence of
this country should be made in Australia,
even if basic designs follow overseas
practice. The Australian manufacturer
to-day has little or nothing to learn from
overseas sources about the design of
transmitting and receiving equipment
for most purposes. For the army to have
to wait months, and even years, for equip-
ment from Britain whilst men are trained
on equipment of virtually obsolete nature
would be a tragedy. Anything of recent
design overseas can be readily duplicated
here.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
There are still plenty of good things
to be had in the short-wave regions,
though some stations show erratic be-
havior, such as VLR3 in the mornings.
Sometimes around 8 a.m. it is about the
worst station in the 25-metre band, but
picks up to good strength during the day
and is good at closing time at 6 p.m.
VLR3 and VK3ME are also erratic on
the 31-metre band, with VPD2 in sharp
contrast as a very good station at night.
Night reception shows some falling olf
on the higher frequencies, with
.occasional dead nights; 13-metre stations
are rarely audible now. The Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace was heard excel-
lently from 8.40 p.m. through GSJ, GSG
and GSV, even the commentary broad-
cast from an aeroplane being 100 p.c.
copy. It is peculiar that when higher
frequencies have shown poor perform-
ance the 25-metre stations are heard well,
HCJB, a station seldom heard well, put-
ting up a good show recently.
A new station heard at night is Saigon
on 49.05 metres, giving transmission times
as 6.45 to 7.15 a.m., 11.45 a.m. to 12.45
p.m., and 7 p.m. to 8.15 p.m., French
Indo-China time. This is 2hr. 40min.
behind our time The station has a
powerful signal and is better than 9MI.
Reports are asked for —to P.O. Box 412,


With thousands
of fastidious people this
a daily habit
is
Dental authorities agree that a dirty,
stained denture is a constant menace to
health as it provides ideal conditions for
dangerous bacteria. Why not clean your
false teeth, and keep them clean, by the
method dentists are now recommending ?
This is the regular bath in ‘Steradent’
solution. ‘Steradent’ will make your
false teeth spotlessly clean, fresh and
natural-looking —and keep them that way.
Fill the cap of the tin with ‘Steradent’ and
pour the powder into a glass .containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to cover the dentures.
Stir well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress or overnight. Take them out
and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Stains disappear. Dull teeth gleam white
again. ‘Steradent’ penetrates into every crevice
Your whole denture is purified. Your mouth
feels cool, smooth and refreshed. ‘Steradent’
is superior to anything I know of,’
writes one dentist. 'I wish every-
one wearing dentures knew about
it,’ writes another.
‘Steradent’ is guaranteed harm-
less to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double
size 3/6.
TRIAL OFFER. Send 2d. in
stamps for trial supply to Reckitts
(Over Sea) Ltd., Box 2515 88,
G.P.0., Sydney, and mention the
name of this paper.
ttuiw ruwnP
*LSITUrt
HWxjfruTlf
deans and sterilizes false teeth
Everyone likes listening when
there's something that pleases
the ear. If your radio is dull
and lacks sparkle, worn valves
may be the cause. Make listen-
ing the pleasure it should be ...
Revalve
with
%
THE WORLD'S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Saigon, Another recent newcomer is
HPSA, Panama, on 25.64 metres from
10 p.m. Just below this station is an
Indian, a shade lower a Japanese, and
then a Saigon transmitter on 25.5 metres.
On 19 metres the three Berliners open-
ing at 4.30 p.m, are stronger than
Daventry, but from 5 p.m. onward the
Empire service wins. GSO has been ex-
ceptionally strong and has often over-
shadowed RW96. Best transmitter of
the Gs is GSD. On the 25-metre band
DJZ and DJD are fair, RNE fair, TP A 3
poor, TPA4 good, and W2XAF is audible
on 31 metres between 8 and 8.30 a.m.
Usually this station is right out of the
picture.
K. B. G. (Thargomindah).
Amateur Chatter.
During the W.I.A. convention held at
Easter in Melbourne a dinner speech by
Chief R. I. Malone contained ominous
forebodings about the future band occu-
pancy of amateur radio in this country.
The outlook for Rome in 1945 is not
bright. That the axe is likely to be ruth-
lessly wielded on amateur frequencies as
time progresses seems inevitable, and it
doesn’t look as if present amateur
leaders can do a thing about it. With
threats to reduce the width of DX bands
or bar these channels entirely it behoves
amateurs to make use of the u.-h.-fs. to
the utmost before the axe falls. What-
ever happens, it is certain that the unsym-
pathetic outlook on the part of com-
mercialism wouldn’t have been so in-
tense if microphones had been unknown.
Not that telephony isn’t an important
part of amateur as well as commercial
radio—it is—but who will deny that it
has been grossly misused?
Record grinders and those who clutter
up the air with transmissions of no value
whatsoever to the science of radio de-
velopment claim that they are doing
genuine experimental work. Those who
continually play recordings under the
guise of experimental transmissions de-
clare that they are concerned with high-
fidelity investigations. That’s no reason
to imitate broadcasting stations, and in
any case the commercial broadcasting
world has nothing to learn from the
amateur about high fidelity. That is
obtained only by the use of equipment
tar too expensive for the average ham.
If everything were in order on the
amateur bands, there wouldn’t be any
call for vigilance committees. It’s time
to take stock and justify the amateur’s
presence on the air, otherwise all will
suffer through the foolery of a handful.
The serious experimenter looks upon
the vigilance men as being there for the
good of the majority, as they assuredly
are, and not a handful of bogeymen
waiting to pounce on the unwary. It
should be remembered that the com-
mitteemen are themselves amateurs, and
have the interests of amateur radio at
heart.
By amateur radio through ZL2NW
and VK3WH comes word of 56mc. tests
in U.S.A. A.R.R.L. H.Q. station WIAW
was copied by ZL2NW, broadcasting
details of tests to be conducted on 56mc.
during each week-end of May. Activity
will be concentrated each Saturday and
Sunday between 9 a.m. and noon and
5 p.m. and 8 p.m. central standard time.
These times correspond to between 1
a.m. and 4 a.m. and 9 a.m. and noon
Eastern Australian time. Such tests
should not be treated haphazardly—pos-
sibilities of 56mc. DX are worth trying
for. It is certain that in U.S.A. there
will be many high-powered crystal-con-
trolled stations on the air in those
periods.
A move is to be made to reconstitute
the defunct u.-h.-f. section of N.S.W.
division of the W.1.A., and it is antici-
pated that increased interest in 56mc.
will be the result. No trouble would
be found in obtaining the co-operation
of crystal-controlled stations in Sydney
to ensure the presence of at least one
station on the air each evening for an
hour, with considerably more activity at
week-ends. At present activity on the
band in all States seems to be confined
to Sunday evenings, and the period of
silence through the week nights is dis-
couraging to those who may seek con-
tacts at those periods.
An old hand reported back on the
band is W. Bardin, VK2ABZ, of Dun-
das, N.S.W., who was heard on the
evening of 23/4/’39. He has just re-
turned from a year’s commercial duties
in New Guinea, and will no doubt be
heard with modernised equipment in the
future.
From u.-s.-w. listener Ron Ruther-
ford, of Willoughby, N.S.W., who played
a prominent part in the VK2CI-
2NO 56mc. tests between Newcastle and
Sydney recently, comes an interesting
account of reception tests with the
“square-corner” reflector aerial recently
introduced by W. M. Conklin, W9BNX.
This aerial was compared against the
two-section vertical WBJK type with re-
markable results. Owing to weight con-
siderations the reflector-type aerial was
erected temporarily only sft. above
ground. The receiver was used with a
switching system to make rapid changes
from one aerial to the other, the WBJK
type being 35ft. in the clear. Where
signals were in any case very strong on
the BJK, an enormous increase in strength
was found with the reflector array, and
the horizontal effective angle appeared
to be in the region of 30deg. Back-to-
front discrimination is so marked as to
completely cut out the high power
signals from VK2NO even with the beam
array at that station trained on the
receiving location. Here is another in-
stance where the co-operative work of
a listener proves extremely valuable to
u.-h.-f. experimenters. The high gain
possible with the new reflector-type array
seems more than worth while, even with
erection quite close to ground. This is
a point worth consideration in view of
wiiid resistance limitations. A suggestion
for the reflector portion is the use of
galvanised-iron chicken netting. Bronze
flywire would be excellent but would
present difficulties in high winds.
Rutherford constructed the reflector of
12-gauge galvanised-iron wire.
Latest station to move to 56mc. in the
Sydney district is VK2QM, otherwise
Cecil Light, one-time swimming cham-
pion. From his Coogee location his
crystal-controlled signal reaches out in
fine style, frequency being 57,060 kc. At
present the 10-metre transmitter is used
on five metres by doubling in the 807
final, a plain vertical doublet aerial taking
the R.F. skywards. The regular amateur
band superhet is used with modifications
for the band, the 6K7 R.F. stage being
discarded after tests showing that this
was a handicap rather than a help. The
mixer-oscillator is a 6L7-53 combination
followed by a 1600 kc. LF. channel. In
order to use the lOOmmfd. band setting
condensers at 56mc. with some degree
of ease, variable series capacities are
used. Once these are set for 56mc. a
wide degree of bandspread is obtained on
the lOOmmfd. condensers owing to the
greatly reduced effective capacity.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin " Test Review.
C Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Philips Model 1941 Radioplayer.
“New Listening” aptly describes the
series of broadcast and dual-range Radio-
player receivers recently introduced for
1939 by Philips Radio. Illustrated is the
mantel model, known as the “1941.”
This receiver has been thoroughly tested
by this Page, and after only a few
minutes’ dial manipulation the opinion
was formed that for the very reasonable
MODEL 1941.
price of 13 guineas a first-rate performer
is contained in compact size. This model
is designed to cover the broadcast range
only, and is of a convenient size to be
picked up and transferred from one
power point to another in the home.
Sensitivity is such that a few feet of
wire attached to the aerial lead is suf-
ficient for more than average purposes.
The dial is of the illuminated bar pointer
type, and the tuning knob has a recessed
copper disk on which may be engraved
an inscription if the receiver is the sub-
ject of a gift or presentation. To the
right of the cabinet, at the side, are two
knobs for tone and volume control—
quite a sensible place to put them. They
are as easily reached as they would be
from the front of the cabinet.
The 1941 is designed for 240-volt A.C.
operation, and is a four-valve design ;
three and rectifier, with ample sensitivity,
selectivity, and excellent reproduction.
Valves are: EK2G, octode mixer-
oscillator ; EBF2, duo-diode-pentode;
EL3G, high mu power pentode; and
SY3G, rectifier. Adjustment may be
made internally to cater for 220 volts
or 260 volts A.C. supply; a change
which would necessarily be made by a
competent service mechanic.
Features of the chassis are girder-
suspension in live rubber and cadmium
plating for prevention of oxidisation;
tuned circuits air-trimmed, and thus not
likely to be affected by moist climatic
conditions; special pre-matched coils,
low power consumption of 45 watts
only; State zoning of stations on the
tuning indicator; automatic volume con-
trol, and a safety back affording com-
plete protection. Dimensions of the
chassis are 15in. long, lOin. high, and
7yin. deep.
With the receiver comes a very com-
plete instruction booklet dealing with in-
stallation, operation and maintenance.
The job is so simple to put to work,
however, that it is impossible not to get
immediate results. In station-getting
qualities this 1941 is no laggard, for in
the test location in Sydney’s eastern
suburbs everything that can be heard
on the broadcast band with much more
comprehensive receivers is there on the
dial in full force. The little job is a fine
example of modern broadcast receiver
design in that it does so much with a
minimum of valves. Further particulars
can be obtained from Philips Lamps
(Australasia), Philips House, 69-73
Clarence-street, Sydney.
"Radio" (U.S.A.) for April.
As usual, this West Coast American
radio publication for the amateur and
professional radio engineer contains a
host of good technical articles. These
deal with an 813 bandswitching trans-
mitter, by W6CEM ; high-efficiency fre-
quency doubling, by Frank Jones; a
compact all-band portable transmitter,
by W6LCL; a C.W. ’phone monitor and
frequency meter, by W6KSX ; the quadi-
rectional rhombic antenna, by W4DHZ;
transmission lines as circuit elements, by
W. M. Conklin ; and simplicity at 56mc.,
by W3AIR. Subscriptions to “Radio”
are accepted at The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney, 18s. 6d. per year;
copies mailed direct from the American
publishers.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I have a battery-charger, known as the “Fan-
steel, an d marked on the case as being suit-
able for charging at four or six volts with a
rating of 0.65 to 0.5 ampere. The electrolyte
jar contains a carbon rod, the other electrode
being a steel ribbon about \in. wide. What
electrolyte solution should be used?— 77o.
Because of the current rating, this is obvi-
ously a trickle-charger, intended for continu-
ous use. What appears to be a steel ribbon is
more probably tantalum. Electrolyte should
be pure sulphuric acid diluted with pure water
to have about the same specific gravity as the
solution used in lead-acid accumulators.
* *
(1) Can you give details for coils for four
bands in an American design for a \A-volt valve
superhet (B. 1/2/’39)? (2) In the T.R.F. 9-
to 1000 -metre receiver with coil turret wave-
change in B. 22/3/’39 the text says that the
detector turret has six contacts. Only five are
shown in the diagram. Which is correct? (3)
What is meant by the statement that “the 10-
metre coil for the detector has a primary with
two turns interwound from each end” ? (4)
Could you publish details of a condenserless
tuning system employing the “trolley-car”
system of making contact with the wire turns on
coils? (5) Can the 9- to 1000 -metre T.R.F.
receiver be used with batteries as it stands?—
769.
(1) Coils as used with circuits for two-volt
mixer-oscillators will be quite suitable with these
valves. (2) The circuit diagram is correct.
There are five contacts, as a common earth
return is used for the detector grid and cathode
coils. Two separate earth contacts are unneces-
sary. (3) This should have read “two turns
interwound from the earth end.” (4) This
system has been considered, but has complica-
tions by reason of the work involved in making
a special dial with a counter to show the com-
plete number of revolutions. In order to be
certain of good contact, plain copper wire
would not be suitable. Silver-plated wire is
necessary, otherwise oxidisation would result
in poor contact and erratic behavior of the
receiver. The scheme is more of a commercial
proposition than one for experimental construc-
tion. (5) Not with the four-volt valves used
in the original. If these are changed for six-
volt types such as the 6D6, 76 and 41 the
design would perform equally well with battery
supply.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 710 of 1939.
BETWEEN WILFRED PARRY Petitioner
And ANNIE PARRY Respondent.
TO ANNIE PARRY late of Albury in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILFRED
PARRY has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
20th day of June 1939 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of April, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LAPPIN AND GRIFFIN, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Wagga Wagga; by their Town
Agents, BOWMAN AND MACKENZIE,
Solicitors, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 564 of 1939.
BETWEEN ENID MARY PETERSON Peti-
tioner
And FREDERICK WALTER PETERSON
Respondent. ' > %
TO FREDERICK WALTER PETERSON.
TAKE NOTICE that ENID MARY PETER-
SON has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion during
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to this suit
in the proper office of this Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further, time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be . heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition' filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of April. One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, City Mutual Building, Hunter Street,
Sydney. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 518 of 1939.. -
BETWEEN AGNES HOLLAND Petitioner
And RICHARD HENRY HOLLAND
Respondent.
TO RICHARD HENRY HOLLAND late of
Surry Hills.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AGNES
PIOLLAND has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-first day of
July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing .so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
, (L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRANK J. SOMMERS, Solicitor, 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 500 of 1939.
BETWEEN, BERTHA ADELINE DARKEN
Petitioner
And HORACE ERNEST DARKEN Re-
spondent.
TO HORACE ERNEST DARKEN late of
Melbourne.
TAKE NOTICE that the .said BERTHA
ADELINE DARKEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage oh the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to.enter an.appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twenty-fourth day of June
One thousand nine!hundred and thirty-nine and
in the event of your" not doing so within the
time limited - or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed ' arid the suit' be heard and
determined, your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of April,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. H. WILSON, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney. . .. .
Legal Notice.
TO PETER ANDERSON EADIE brother of
Annie Hutton Eadie late of Pukerau South-
land New Zealand Spinster Deceased who
died intestate at Waitati New Zealand on
the 22nd March 1934 and to his children
(if any) and to all persons claiming by
through or under him or them or any of
them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
31st July 1939 your claims to share in the
estate of the abovenamed Annie Hutton Eadie
failing which such estate will be distributed dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 22nd day of
March, 1939.
J. H. CARRAD, Solicitor to the Public
Trust Office, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEA-
LAND.
NEW SOUTH WALES POLICE
SUPPOSED MURDER
..... 2* .
■
Spill
»8»
m
rl&rlkt
I HHI
m
If you recognise the horses or sulky shown above, please communicate with your local Police
Dapple-grey mare branded on near thigh, brand believed to be OUQ.
Chestnut mare branded on near thigh, brand believed to be JGE over 5.
The letter G is reversed.
Sulky light build, originally painted green with red wheels, but recently
painted yellow with red lines.
CONVERTS OVER
80% OF ITS ENGINE POWER
INTO STEADY
Caterpillar Diesel
mm
*§B
Every model of the “Caterpillar”
track-type Tractor has the correct
its weight moves along on smooth
steel rails formed by the tracks.
balance—the anti-friction
design—the positive trac-
tion to convert oyer
80% of its engine power
into steady drawbar puli!
Broad tracks gear it to
the ground so efficiently
that useless slip is elim-
inated. Likewise, this
tractor does not waste
power to propel itself—
its tracks stay on top of
the soil like planks, and
The “Caterpillar” Tractor
is far ahead:
In simplicity of design.—
Fewer yet far stronger parts,
typified by the transmission.
In dust protection. —Note,;
for instance the patented
automatic bellows-type seals
that guard this tractor’s final
drives!
In Lubrication —look to the
track rollers and especially to
the “ Caterpillar ” engine
which has a double - pump
lubricating system.
And in any other feature
you think of to compare!
Such geared -to - the -
ground traction saves you
non-productive wear on
your tractor needless
waste of fuel costly
waste of time. Nearby
owners will glad|y tell
you, in terms of superior
work done and extra
satisfaction gained, just
what the “Caterpillar”
track-type Tractor offers
you.
There are five sizes of track-type tractors to meet the varying requirements of farmers, graziers,
timber men, governmental bodies, contractors, mines, industrial plants, and other power users.
“Caterpillar” distributors also offer “Caterpillar” Diesel-powered Speed Patrols for low cost road-
building and maintenance as well as a complete line of earth-moving machinery and “Caterpillar”
Diesel Stationary and Marine Engines.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, South
Brisbane.
Victoria & Tasmania:
William Adams &
Company Limited,
521-523 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters. Sydney.
Showroom:
311 Castlereagh Street.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor
Company,
231-239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia:
Wigmores Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.^^^


-n
u
<&
42/-
t
972
If It’s for Hard Work, It’s the “Stockman
Made with a double sole and genuine Scotch Zug Upper.
Leather-lined throughout with best quality Calf Skin.
Reinforced Elastic-sides and ankle strap.
PRICE 42/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe."
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY“
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wrinkles v. No Wrinkles.
“Damram”: “Ghanam’s” articles (B.
15/3/’39 and 22/3/’39) call for comment.
To me the only proved method of
economically protecting sheep from blow-
fly seems to be projection of an arsenic
solution through the wool to the skin —
“jetting.” Jetting cost is governed mainly
by the cost of arsenic mixture.
That recommended by the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department (calcium
arsenite) costs only 4-d. per gallon. An
average of two sheep to the gallon gives
£1 per 1000 sheep.
Labor needed to treat 2000 sheep per
day is three or four men —but labor cost
can be omitted. If the men were not
jetting they would be crutching and
dressing in paddock or shed.
Capital outlay on jetting plant, race,
etc., should not exceed £l5O, so that in-
terest and depreciation are negligible.
Four to six jettings per year will give
protection to any flock sheep at a cost
of £4 to £6 per 1000, or £BO to £l2O per
annum for 20,000 sheep. For stud sheep
add 50 p.c. for extra material.
As wrinkly sheep
can be protected by
jetting just as surely
as plain - bodied
sheep, the wrinkle
panic is a “busted
flush.” Retain the
wrinkles, in modera-
tion. Their extra
wool-bearing surface
gives you the extra
pound of wool
which pays for the
shearing.
New England Fat
Lambs.
“Guyra”: New
England enthusiasts
stand strongly for fat-
lamb-raising in their
northern N.S.W.
highlands. J. M.
Coleman’s report
says it is possible
with the right type
and breeds for cross-
ing, fed on improved
pastures and fodder
crops.
An authority
affirms that the ex-
hibits of fat lambs at the season’s shows
in northern N.S.W. prove that, with
pasture to assure growth, production can
be carried out with success. The lambs
penned were mainly Corriedale-merino
and Dorset Horn-merino.
N.S.W. departmental sheep-and-wool
expert E. A. Elliott considers it only
waste of time for New Englanders to
expect export lambs of first crosses vrom
pure merino ewes.
The industry, he thinks, can only be
a success if, in addition to the best of
improved pastures, big-ftamed longwool
cross merino ewes are employed, with
rams of the Down breeds.
The series of crossbreeding trials on
these lines, mainly with Corriedale-merino
ewes, is to be resumed at Glen Innes
Experiment Farm for lamb-raisers’ guid-
ance.
Some Lambing Tips.
“Valerin”: A reliable man amongst
lambing ewes can save a lot of stock.
In normal births the front feet should
show first with the nose above and be-
tween them; if the ewe needs help,
draw the lamb gently straight out.
When the head only shows, quick
attention is needed or the lamb will be
strangled. If you cannot get the feet
out push the head back.
If that fails, cut it off and little dif-
ficulty will be experienced in grasping
the two front legs and removing the
body.
An injection of a disinfectant will
prevent blood poisoning. Place the ewe
m a yard or sheltered place where she
can be watched.
Always wash the hands with disinfec-
tant, especially if there are any scratches
on them.
Australian v. M.L. Fat Sheep.
“Ager”: Leaving out Canterbury and
Marlborough, the Romney ewe holds
sway in M.L. as a fat-lamb breeder.
The Southdown ram is standard.
Maoriland is out for uniformity, but
breeds along different lines from Aus-
tralia, where we err towards a bigger,
less compact sheep, and instinctively look
for wool qualities, rather than for type
and fleshing.
M.L. favors the heavy lock wool type.
It makes for better bone and constitu-
“Go it, Strawb!”
tion, better fleshing, more solid backs and
earlier maturity.
A “big little sheep” is favored in M L.
At ram fairs, good solid flock rams
sell freely from eight to 15 guineas.
Early maturity is the most valued
quality of the Southdown.
Ticks on the N.S.W. North Coast.
“Mookau”: Councillor Hardy, of
Kyogle, told a large meeting of dairy-
farmers and graziers the other day that
he believed northern N.S.W. was “on
the edge of a great calamity to stock-
owners through the general outbreak of
tick fever.” He added that he had seen
“paddocks bleached with the bones of
dairy cows that had died of the disease.”
Queenslanders would have no difficulty
in naming the State.
They could also tell him that only in-
sistent precaution will keep out the tick.
In this outbreak, there was a light
infestation round the Woodenbong area,
after fever had apparently died out and
dipping had been stopped. Dipping
started again, but ticks seemed so scarce
that farmers it up. After that came
the plague.
Quarantine of tick districts, combined
with proper dipping, will always get rid
of the tick, provided his inroads are
taken in time and dipping methods are
right.
Calf-feeding Technique.
“Aerogenes”: “Yeno Ham’s” calf-
feeding method (B. 29/3/’39) of replacing
the fat by adding linseed meal to the
skim milk is expensive and is not the
most effective way.
In whole milk the proteins are per-
fectly balanced against the fats and the
sugars. Removing the fat upsets this
balance, making the skim milk protein-
rich. Linseed meal is also protein-rich,
having about three times as much pro-
tein as fat, so that adding it to skim
milk is bringing coals to Newcastle.
Proteins can be broken down by the
animal body to equivalents of starches
and fats, but it would take a great
quantity of linseed meal to replace all
the fat, and most of its protein would
be wasted. Better, and also much
cheaper, foods are ground maize and
pollard, which are rich in starch. They
can be given as a gruel or in milk, but
are most easily fed dry, in a trough
with some chaff.
Linseed meal is of value where skim
milk is scarce or lacking. Whey is ex-
cellent if it is clean, but most of the
protein as well as the fat has been re-
moved. A protein addition linseed
meal —will balance remaining sugars.
Gruel of pollard, linseed meal and
water is often used. Linseed is a gentle
laxative and is made more worth while
by its fattening qualities.
Sub.-clover Success.
“Ghanam”: W.A. sub.-clover develop-
ment is going ahead like wildfire, and
it’s hard to understand why it is not
being extended on the same scale in
other parts of the Commonwealth.
Official figures show that 300,000 acres
were put down between 1932 and 1937,
and in a -year or so, if the normal in-
crease of 100,000 acres a year continues,
there will be a million clover acres in
W.A.
In 1937-38, 1700 sets of culture for
inoculation were supplied by the W.A.
Agricultural Department to farmers.
Many novice planters fail to establish
seed even with inoculation; but this
usually has nothing to do with soil con-
ditions. Much trouble comes from faulty
sowing with super.
Don’t leave inoculated seed lying mixed
with super, which contains 23 per cent,
phosphoric acid, though it is not so harm-
ful to mix with basic super (17 p.c. phos-
phoric acid).
The correct method is to plant inocu-
lated seed and super, together ; but do
not let the two make contact until just
before they reach the ground.
The Army Worm Advances.
“J. Want”: From the N.Q. canefields
to the southern border it is making strong
progress.
Don’t regard a few army worms as
not mattering—there is no such quantity
as “a few,” except in scouting lots.
The life cycle begins when the moth
lays eggs round the farm. Caterpillars
hatch out seemingly in millions, gather
in ordered army corps, and march across
the countryside in hungry lines,
methodically eating every vegetable,
from grain to grass, in sight.
Well fattened by gastronomic exercise
and mature in experience, the enemy


FORTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION,
Conducted by
THE N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
To be held on the
SYDNEY SHOWGROUND,
21st, 22nd, 23rd, and 24th JUNE, 1939.
SEE THE PICK OF AUSTRALIA’S FLOCKS.
PRIZE HONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £lOOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Sheep Saturday, 20th May
Fleece Classes Saturday, 20th May
Junior and Senior Judging- Competitions .... Saturday, 20th May
Sheep Dog Trials Wednesday, 24tli May
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
STUD SHEEP SALES, Sydney Showground, viz:-
British and Down Breeds Friday, 23rd June
Merinos, Corriedales, and Polwarths Monday, 26th June
Endeavour House, G. C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
CONCRETE SILOS
INCREASE FARM PROFITS
Ensilage and
fodder con-
servation in-
crease the
profits derived
from the
farm. The
dangers
of crop and
pasture short-
age through
drought are
nearly entirely
eliminated by
the possession
of a perma-
nent concrete
silo, and its
owner is also
p r o tected
against loss
of stored feed
supply
through fire
or storm.
if
Because of its
freedom from
maintenance
the first cost
of a concrete
silo is the
only cost. For
satis factory
service over
the longest
period of
time the con-
crete silo is
s u pre m e.
There are
three com-
mon types of
concrete Silos
monolithic,
block and
concrete
stave.
Write to Us or to Individual Member Cement Companies for the following
Booklets:
CONCRETE FOR FARM AND
STATION
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS
CONCRETE REPAIRS LEAKING TANKS
CONCRETE TROUGHS, TANKS AND
WELLS
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: 82471.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
THE NEARER THE MILL
THE BETTER THE PRICE!
★ The London Market offers
you definite advantages!
London is within 48 hours of the biggest mills in Europe.
You can consign your wool through your usual bank or agent, who
will arrange advances before shipment, and for proceeds to be
telegraphed from London within 24 hours of sale. Prices are usually
higher on the London market, and there is always spot demand!
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co*
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
now retires to its Maginot Line in the
midst of the devastation it has wrought
and changes calmly into chrysalises,
from which emerge more moths which
produce more eggs and, in turn, tens of
millions of worms in place of the mil-
lions of the preliminary season.
The best time for handling worms is
at their feeding stage. On grass it is easy.
Try a 6ft. strip in front of the army
dusted with a bran bait of 251 b. bran,
lib. Paris green, 41b. molasses, and 2gal.
water. The whole should form a
loose, friable mess. The danger is that,
after the worms have dined, stock may
eat the residue, and particular care needs
to be taken when treating standing crops
among the leaves of which the bait may
lodge.
Queensland Agricultural Department
also recommends sprays. A good one is
ilb. hard soap boiled in lgal. water,
with 2gal. crude oil added after the
mixture has been taken off the fire. It
should be stirred thoroughly for several
minutes and then churned up with a
spray pump before being used.
Spraying isn’t so effective as baiting ;
where crops and grassland have to be
dealt with, a combination of the two is
worth trying.
The Season in Sunraysia.
“Steve”: One of the most severe heat-
waves on record during January and
February, followed by untimely rains
during picking, caused heavy losses to
this year’s dried-fruit harvest in Sun-
raysia.
The 1938 sultana crop was a record —
41,370 tons ; and this season’s is down
one-third, 27,580 tons.
With a lower market value as a result
of a drop in grade, the actual loss com-
pared with the previous year’s record
will be £55,000. This figure is increased
to £275,000 if the loss of an additional
13,000 tons (9000 lost during the heat-
wave and 4600 due to untimely rains)
is valued at £25 per ton, less £5 per ton
unspent harvesting cost.
Other factors decreasing the growers’
return are the increased cost of harvest-
ing the damaged fruit, three-quarters of
which was affected by rain, extra labor
required in removing it from the racks,
and dehydrating.
Packing sheds have their dehydrating
chambers working full time this season
and are still unable to cope with the
large amount of damaged fruit. Block-
holders whose crops fared worst have
had to have their fruit washed and de-
hydrated up to three times before pack-
ing.
The percentage of dark-colored fruit
is greater, rendering the task of “typing,”
or color blending within the grade, more
difficult. Offsetting the financial loss to
the industry from the unseasonable
weather is an increase of 1000 tons of
currants harvested before the rain. These
will realise £20,000. The U.K. price for
sultanas has risen £3 per ton, increasing
the value of the fruit harvested by
£30,000.
Compared with the average for the
past five years and taking all these con-
tingencies into consideration the value
of the dried fruit crop in the Sunraysia
areas will be down £40,000.
Concrete Blocks.
“Zedo”: It is easy to make a concrete-
block mould, but it needs to be a careful
job,.
First make a base of well-planed
wood, reinforced with metal to prevent
warping ; round this a rectangular box
of good hardwood to carry six blocks of
the required size.
One corner needs to be angle-braced
to assure that the frame will never lose
its rigidity of shape. Other corners should
be hinged save for the gate corner, which
should be fitted with strong clasps. One
side should be pierced to admit metal
slides to form six or more metal com-
partments.
The other long side should have re-
cessed grooves to correspond with the
slits. Slides should be 12-gauge sheet
iron. Tops of the outer mould should be
reinforced with |in. steel plates screwed
on.
A few wooden blocks which can be
plugged into the compartments make it
possible to use this type of mould for
making cavity bricks; other special
shapes can easily be contrived.
The type of sand available is one of
the most important factors in determin-
ing the mix of block cement. Assuming
blocks are 12in. by 6in. by 3in„, a 941 b.
bag of cement will make 24 bricks with
one part cement to three parts of sand,
and 48 bricks with one part cement to six
sand. Cavity blocks 12in. by 6in. by
6in., with two 6in. by 3in. by 3in. cavi-
ties, run 15 bricks to the bag with a 1-3
cement-sand mixture, 20 bricks with 1-4
mixture and 30 bricks yvith 1-6. This
means 12 sq. feet of wall area from 1-3
solid cement 3in. thick and sq. feet
with feet semi-cavity wall.
Sand and cement must be mixed
dry very thoroughly until color is even
throughout. Shovel into a conical heap,
open a crater on top and add water
through the rose of a hose.
The mix must not become sloppy.
When its moisture seems uniform and
it will hold its shape when squeezed in
the palm of the hand it is right for
pouring.
The mixture should be tamped down
well into the moulds, especially at the
sides and corners, and the tops should be
worked flat with a scraper and trowel.
After being removed from the moulds,
which should.be pulled open with a firm
but steady pull, the bricks are left on
their bases for 24 hours and then kept
mildly damp for a week before they
are allowed to dry off.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Best way to feed
molasses to cows with hay is to give
from half a pint to a pint in each feed.
Mix the measured quantity with boiling
water to soften the molasses, and then
pour it over the usual feed. Don’t put
molasses in the drinking water. Its use
restricts the amount of water taken each
day.
“Disc”: When topdressing pastures
for winter feed, first use a light harrow
on the grassland, especially if the ground
is undulating. This will prevent the
fertiliser from being washed into
“pockets” by heavy rains and forming
patches of luxuriant growth here and
there, surrounded by “Sahara” strips.
“Valerin”: In many N.S.W. districts
foxes are taking a heavy toll of lambs,
picking out the largest and eating the
tongue and muzzle. A couple of well-
trained dogs will give them hurry-up.
Though he may be too cunning to take
a buried bait, a fox will invariably dig
it up. This inquisitiveness can be turned
against him by placing three or four
carefully-hidden rabbits around the dis-
turbed earth.
“Canbelego”: Trials in Condobolin
(N.S.W.). demonstrated the advantages
of sowing wheat on a moist seedbed.
One plot was sown dry, and another after
rain, six days later. During the growing
period the wheat on the moist seedbed
showed to better advantage. The wheat
on the moist seedbed yielded 16 bushels
331 b., while the return from the dry
seedbed was 13 bushels 411 b.
“Mullengah”: When a cow breaks a
horn, dip a wad of cottonwool in car-
bolic oil and apply it to the break. Keep
the pad in place with a bandage. After
a few days remove the pad, examine and
apply antiseptic lotion or kerosene.
Later apply Stockholm tar and bandage,
if needed. Inspect the wound regularly,
and if pus is forming repeat the antiseptic
lotion and tar.
“Tuross”: A warning to cattlemen
comes from Singleton (N.S.W.). The
district stock inspector advises the deaths
of 12 cows from eating young shoots of
the burrawong palm —zamia in Queens-
land. Eating fronds of this palm causes
rickets in the hindquarters. Especially
after bushfires, the new shoots are appar-
ently poisonous. Poor coastal country,
the burrawong, and cattle with rickets are
associated with mineral deficiency in the
feed, treatment for which is a lick of
equal parts coarse salt and sterilised
bonemeal.
“Gwydir”: Bingara (N.S.W.), a centre
of live-wire movements, has appointed a
committee to devise conditions for a
soil erosion competition. This is a new
one! The proposal originated with the
local branch of the Agricultural Bureau.
Bingara was the first country centre in
Australia to organise an export chiller
steer competition—judged on the hoof
on home pastures and dressed at Smith-
field.
“Pappamosca”: The steady flow of
meat agents who are coming south from
the U.K. markets shows how anxious
buyers are for our products —if they are
the right products. The latest arrival is
F. C. Mason, meat manager for A. J.
Mills, who points out that Australia and
M.L. together export to the U.K. only
2 per cent, of the bacon imported into
Britain. He says that there is a “golden
opportunity to develop this market.
Britain needs a lean type of pig and
Australia has the ideal climate for pro-
ducing it.


//
11 '• ■ , ■ M
ltl||g| | . ' . ; |
SSSSSiSwS-wKS:^
-' * jV- .'- ' * ' 8888 4
i
£ ; «kij
v. . • • • . :-v.v- ; ••■;....•>.;.;.
■\. v
€ **
. - :
SSi'iifjSSiS
mmmmm
mim $
- '/ , * M - -
' '' #
gU m W I Mi | H 1
‘Tooheus
FLAG
■■
w
gfil #Y / v ' .?
wmmm it li® m tel t
f®*," ; «§£ '■ j MM; ff i' *
■ *■• K > w ss? § JH*# wm
■ S.
¥^i
* * **
HE TIES TO EE
REAL WORKER’S
COMPENSATION
& o-000, the knock-off whistle blows,
And down the thirsty worker goes
To (t have a few”
Ah, here f s a man who knows his drinks,
For every foaming pot he sinks
Is TOOHEYS BREW!
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA*
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A'CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at Cd. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & Di'KUDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; AV. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. 8. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Jffices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers. New South Wales, also representa -
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
ems Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
sure quicker.
move accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering ana
other problems . . . multiplication, division propor
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple oou -
enables you to master the use of the slide rule> qI *■
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kin (is ford Smith Colleges, /"•
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Warned to i>ell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
wants typing work. Used to handling manu-
scripts ; neat and accurate; moderate charges.—•
3228.
Gentleman, Sydney, journalistic, publishing,
library and organising exp., seeks position,
full-time or part.—3237.
Man, Sydney, cook and light handyman,
seeks position close to Sydney, northern
suburbs preferred.—32so.
Young man, N.S.W., five years’ exp. chain-
man both town and bush work, driver’s license,
also has Mines Dept. Diesel driver’s ticket,
used to small boats, requires work anywhere.
Refs.—324s.
Amateur movie man wants story or scenario
dealing with Australian animals.—3233.
To buy copy Illustrated History of Botany
Bay, published by The Bulletin in 1888. —•
3247.
To get in touch with buyers of original
Phil May drawings.—3lB2.
Music for piano, trumpet and saxophone of
two songs, “Song of the Nile” and “The Chant
of the Jungle.”—3ll3.
Words of verse entitled “The Pioneers,”
opening line of which runs: “The years roll on
but the story stands, that tale of an earlier
day.”—32l9.
Information Sought.
Any record of a woman being attacked by a
shark ? —3lOl.
During the last 15 years there have been
four cases in Australian waters. In February,
1924, a woman was attacked at Bronte, near
Sydney; in February, 1926, a woman was taken
by a shark near Adelaide; in January, 1929,
a woman was attacked by a shark at Collaroy
(N.S.W.); and in January, 1935, a girl was
attacked by a shark in the George’s River
(N.S.W.).
* * * *
(1) What was the total indemnity imposed
on Germany by the Allies? (2) What was
Australia’s share, and how much did she re-
ceive? (3) How much did Germany pay alto-
gether, and when did she stop paying ?— 3042.
(1) The amount of reparations due by Ger-
many under the Peace Treaty was fixed in
January, 1921, at 132 milliards of gold marks
(£6,600,000,000) payable in bonds. This
amount was later modified, and under the
Lausanne agreement concluded in July, 1932,
reparations were abolished with the exception
of a conditional German liability to deliver
three milliard marks of 5 p.c. bonds. (2) Aus-
tralia’s share was approximately £63,000,000, of
which £5,563,000 has been received to date.
This amount does not include the proceeds of
the realisation of ex-enemy property in Aus-
tralia and New Guinea, at present in the hands
of the Public Trustee and Custodian of Ex-
propriated Property. (3) The total amount paid
by Germany is 20,598,000,000 gold marks.
Apart from the service of the Dawes and
Young loans, reparation payments in the
strict sense ceased with the Hoover mora-
torium of 1931.
* * * *
What amount does the N.S.W. Government
pay to the superannuation fund per contribu-
tor ?— 2914.
In accordance with the Superannuation Act,
1916-35, the employee contributes for a pre-
scribed pension and the Government pays to
the fund half the amount of the pension paid to
the employee. An exception is made in the
case of an employee who was over 30 at the
commencement of the Act, in which case the
Government pays a greater amount than half
the pension, varying with the age of the em-
ployee at date of entry into the superannuation
fund.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning A. J. Cronin,
author of “The Citadel”? —3109.
Born 1896; educated Glasgow University.
Saw war service in the navy, then graduated
in medicine, which he practised in South Wales
and London. In 1931 he decided to follow his
natural bent and devote himself to literature.
He has written Hatter’s Castle (1931), Three
Loves (1932), Grand Canary (1933), The Stars
Look Down (1935) and The Citadel (1937).
* * * *
Countries that severed diplomatic intercourse
with Germany during 1914-18 without declar-
ing war, and dates of such action? —3179.
Bolivia, April 14, 1917; Peru, October 5,
1917; Uruguay, October 7, 1917; and
Ecuador, December 7, 1917.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin phrase:
“Totius autem injustitice nulla capitalior est,
quam eorum qui turn, cum maxime fallunt, id
agunt, ut viri boni esse videanlur” ? Who
was the author? —3217.
“But of all wrong there is none more heinous
than that of those who, when they deceive
us most grossly, so do it as to seem good men.”
The author was Cicero.
* * * *
Has the nest of a bowerbird ever been
found ? If so, how and where does it build ?
Have bowerbirds been known to live in cap-
tivity ? —3065.
Nests are frequently found. There are
several kinds of bowerbirds, but all build a
heavy kind of nest of sticks; the shallow de-
pression for the eggs being lined with leaves or
grass. The nest may be from 6ft. to 40ft.
from the ground, in the fork of a tree. The
eggs of the satin bowerbird are generally two
in number, cream colored, with dark-brown
spots and blotches. Those of the spotted
bowerbirds are generally greenish-grey, with
wavy, irregular, thread-like blackish lines.
Bowerbirds live in captivity, and may be seen
in zoos. Private persons cannot keep them
in N.S.W. without a permit from the Govern-
ment department controlling the Bird Protec-
tion Acts.
* * * *
Should a race for such a prize be described
as “Lady’s Bracelet” or “ Ladies’ Bracelet”?
—3175.
A case could be put up for both “lady’s”
and “ladies’.” One could argue in favor of
“lady’s” that the prize can go to only one
lady; in support of “ladies’,” that the bracelet
js an article designed for and worn by ladies
in general, and that many ladies are interested
in the race and its result. “Ladies’ Bracelet”
is usual in printed entry forms and pro-
grammes; but advocates of the singular find
strong backing in Webster’s Dictionary, wherein
it is stated that “The possessive ladies’ is used
as a variant in many compounds and phrases.”
The common “ladies’ man” is cited among the
variants, but when it comes to individual defini-
tions of the various phrases and compounds
the “lady’s” form has either sole or preferen-
tial mention, in the latter case even “ladies’
man” yielding precedence to “lady’s man.”
* * * *
(1) Can Newton’s law of universal gravita-
tion be expressed as follows: “Bodies in space
attract each other inversely as the square of
their distance apart and directly as their mass.”
(2) Is there a work on non-circular gearing by
McKay? If so, price and publishers? —3l4l.
(1) The definition, as it stands, is not entirely
correct. The latter portion should read “and
directly as the product of their masses.” This
means that if either mass is doubled the attrac-
tion is also doubled, but if both masses are
doubled the attraction is quadrupled. If the
distance is doubled the attraction is four times
less, but if halved the attraction is quadrupled.
(2) Theory of Machines, by that author, con-
tains several chapters on non-circular gearing.
Price 365. (Arnold, London).
* * * *
Who was Cybele in mythology? —322o.
She was the nature goddess of the ancient
peoples of Anatolia. Primarily she was a
deification of the earth as sustaining and repro-
ducing the wild life of nature; secondarily, she
was the nourishing mother of man, giver of
the arts of life, and founder and upholder of
cities and nations. She was thought to
haunt mountains and forest fastnesses, accom-
panied by trains of wild attendants (Cory-
bantes, Dactyls) bearing torches and dancing
to music. Her eunuch priests were called
Galli. Orgiastic rites and revelries were cele-
brated in honor of her and of her god lover
Attis. Phrygia, Lydia and Mysia were the chief
early centres of her cult, but it was widely
adopted by the Greeks, who identified the
goddess with the Cretan Rhea as Rhea Cybele,
mother of the gods. The Romans imported
her cult direct from Asia Minor in 204 B.c.
In mythology she was regarded as mother of
Zeus and foster-mother of Dionysus.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning John West,
a Congregational minister who afterwards be-
came editor of the “S. M. Herald” ? —3239.
Born in England in 1808, in 1829 he was or-
dained to the ministry of the Congregational
Church. He came to Tasmania in 1839 under
the auspices of the London Missionary Society
and settled in Launceston. A few years later he
threw himself vigorously into the agitation
against transportation and was sent to secure
support in Sydney and Melbourne, a mission
which he carried out successfully. A letter
published in Henry Parkes’s paper, the “Empire,”
which asserted that he had left his flock unfed,
was the occasion of a libel suit which West
won with £lOOO damages. He continued his
ministry in Launceston until 1854, when he re-
moved to Sydney to become editor of the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” a position he held
until his death. His History of Tasmania
(1852) is a picturesque and, on the whole,
fairly accurate work. He died in Sydney on
December 12, 1873.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning the playwright
and dramatic critic St. John Ervine ? —3244.
Born at Belfast, Ireland, in 1853, he was a
trooper in the Household Battalion, October,
1916, to April, 1917, and a lieut., Ist Batt.,
Royal Dublin Fusiliers, in France, October,
1917, to May, 1918, when he was wounded.
He managed the Abbey Theatre, London, in
1915, and was a Professor of Dramatic Litera-
ture for the Royal Society of Literature from
1933 to 1936. Within recent years he has been
a dramatic critic and special. writer on the staff
of the London “Sunday Observer.” He has
written about 10 full-length plays and a Life
of General William Booth.
* * * *
(1) Were cricket bats always made of willow?
(2) What variety of the tree supplies the best
wood for this purpose? —323o.
(1) Not always. Some early bats were
fashioned of oak, beech and walnut, and,
according to Ashley Cooper, in Cricket High-
ways and Byways, the first century made in
South Australia was hit with a cherry-wood
bat. (2) The best willow (Salix alba, var.
ccerulea) is found only in three English
counties, Essex, Hertfordshire and Suffolk.
The average number of bats obtainable from
a single tree is 200. The record is held by
a tree planted at Boreham, Essex, in 1835, and
cut down in 1888. This giant weighed oyer
11 tons, and supplied material for 1179 bats.
■** * *
(1) List of Governors-General of the Com-
monwealth with dates of office? (2) List of
Prime Ministers down to J. A. Lyons, and dates
they held office ? —3256.
(1) Earl of Hopetoun (Jan. 1, 1901, to Jan.
9, 1903), Lord Tennyson (Jan. 9, 1903, to Jan.
21, 1904), Lord Northcote (Jan. 21, 1904, to
Sept. 9, 1908), Earl of Dudley (Sept. 9, 1908,
to July 31, 1911), Lord Denman (July 31, 1911,
to May 18, 1914), Sir Ronald Munro Ferguson
(May 18, 1914, to Oct. 6, 1920), Lord Forster
(Oct. 6, 1920, to Oct. 8, 1925), Lord Stone-
haven (Oct. 8, 1925, to Jan. 22, 1931), Isaac
Isaacs (Jan. 22, 1931, to Jan. 22, 1936), Lord
Gowrie (Jan. 22, 1936, to date). (2) Edmund
Barton (Jan. 1, 1901, to Sept. 24, 1903), Alfred
Deakin (Sept. 24, 1903, to April 27, 1904),
J. C. Watson (April 27, 1904, to Aug. 17, 1904),
George Reid (Aug. 18, 1904, to July 5, 1905),
Alfred Deakin (July 5, 1905, to Nov. 13, 1908),
Andrew Fisher (Nov. 13, 1908, to June 1, 1909),
Alfred Deakin (June 2, 1909, to April 29,
1910), Andrew Fisher (April 29, 1910, to June
24, 1913), Joseph Cook (June 24, 1913, to Sept.
17, 1914, Andrew Fisher (Sept. 17, 1914, to
Oct. 27, 1915), W. M. Hughes (Oct. 27, 1915,
to February 9, 1923), Stanley Bruce (Feb. 9,
1923, to Oct. 22, 1929), J. H. Scullin (Oct. 22,
1929, to Jan. 6, 1932), J. A. Lyons (Jan. 6,
1932, to April 7, 1939).
*** * •
Approximately what is the annual production
of crude petroleum by the five countries that
lead in that field and what is the approximate
world annual production ? —3226.
Latest returns indicate that the U.S.A. pro-
duces 170,000,000 tons annually, U.S.S.R.
27,000,000 tons, Venezuela 26,500,000 tons,
Iran and Iraq 14,000,000. tons and Rumania
6,900,000 tons. World production is about
270,000,000 tons.
* * * *
Figures showing number of submarines be-
longing to the seven chief Powers of the world ?
Give name of authority. —3262.
British Empire (52 built, 18 building or pro-
jected), France (76 and 16), U.S.A. 84 and
17), Germany (36 and 8), Japan (57 and 3),
Italy (82; no details regarding building or
projected), Soviet Russia (38; no details regard-
ing building or projected). Figures are from
Whitaker’s Almanack for 1939.
* * « *
What were the main points of the Anglo-
ltalian Accord signed last year? —326B.
The main points covered by the treaty were:
(1) Britain and Italy will maintain their present
positions in the Red Sea and Mediterranean.
(2) Italy will seek no territorial or political
rights in Spain. (3) Britain and Italy will not
interfere with shipping in the Mediterranean
and the route east. (4) The Ethiopian frontier
will be sharply defined to prevent interference
with Italian dominance within the country
proper. (5) Italy will adhere to free naviga-
tion of the Bosphorus and Dardanelles, as pro-
vided in the Montreux convention. (6) Britain
and Italy will exchange information about mili-
tary activities in the Mediterranean area. (7)
Italy will respect Britain’s dominance of Aden
at the southern entrance to the Red Sea. (8)
Italy will not interfere with the flow of .Lake
Tana, headwaters of the Nile.
* * * *
About when was the beginning of the Iron
Age?— 32s3.
Implements of cast bronze were superseded
by those of hammered iron at varying dates —
in China, Chaldea, Assyria and Egypt about
4000 b.c. ; in South-eastern Europe about 2000
b.c., spreading over the rest of Europe from
1000 b.c. to ad. 100, by which time the use
of hammered iron was known throughout Scan-
dinavia and in Ireland. It is possible that the
Eastern civilisation discarded the use of bronze
and adopted that of iron even before the West
had reached the Bronze Age, and even before
the remoter parts were still in the Palaeolithic
Age.
#
What was Michael Massey Robinson, ex-
convict and later minor official in N. S. Wales,
who used to recite patriotic odes of his own
composition at official levees, before he was
transported? Why was he transported? —3lB4.
Born in 1747 and educated at Oxford Uni-
versity, he practised for many years as an
attorney before he betook himself to verse-
making and blackmail. One of his poems re-
vived a disproved charge of murder against
James Oldham Oldham, whom some authori-
ties describe as a London ironmonger and others
as a respectable magistrate and “deputy-judge-
advocate-general” of England. For attempting
to blackmail Oldham by a threat to publish
this poem, Robinson was in 1796 sentenced
to death, but at the prosecutor’s request was
reprieved and transported to N. S. Wales.
ij*
My dog always has about as many ticks as
hairs on his skin. Can you advise a remedy?
—3043.
The ticks on your dog are probably the
common brown dog tick ( Rhipicephalus san-
guineus). The simplest way to deal with them
is to get a good-quality derris-root powder and
dust this thoroughly through the dog’s coat
every five or six days. There are now several
proprietary insect powders on the market which
contain derris root.
* * * *
Formula for a paint or enamel for applica-
tion to iron which is unaffected by heat up to
boiling-point, fermentation and very weak
acids, and which will not flavor foodstuffs with
which it is brought in contact when dry? —
2952.
Cannot suggest any enamel which would be
suitable for this purpose without stoving. A
great deal of research has been directed to
the problem of finding suitable lacquers and
enamels for food containers, and formulae have
to be adapted to the precise conditions under
which they will be used. The material is gener-
ally applied to tinplate, which is then stoved
before making up into cans.
Brief Answers.
H.N.H.: Write Cement and Concrete Ad-
visory Association, Shell House, Carrington-
street, Sydney A. 8.: The poem appeared in
the “New Triad” about 10 years ago, and was
reprinted in a Christmas booklet issued by
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, last year
A.L.P.: Try spraying the rose bushes with
lime sulphur 1 in 30 J.F.D.: Wilkie Bard
visited Australia in 1922 and appeared at the
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney. He was a vaudeville
and variety entertainer of high repute
E.C.H.: Marie Lloyd appeared at the Tivoli
Theatre, Sydney, in 1908... .R.R.S.: Call at
American Consulate, Melbourne A.J.P.:
“F.a.q.” stands for “fair average quality”
J.M.C.: White Poppies, by Carl Warburton,
was published by Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney; price 6s J.T.J.: Frank Johns received
a life sentence after the holdup at Wanta-
badgery, and while in gaol attacked and killed
a warder, for which offence he was hanged
E.D.: Italy has a king and the Fascist organi-
sation, which has abolished the forms of
representative government and permits no
opposition to its policies. Supreme power is
vested in Mussolini. The organisation seized
power at a time when Italy was threatened with
a Communist uprising... .H.A.C.: Write secre-
tary, Soil Conservation Service, Assembly Hall,
Margaret-street, Sydney D.R.H.: (1) Qualifi-
cations necessary to become a stock inspector
are the degree of Bachelor of Veterinary
Science of Sydney Uni, five years’ course, or
similar qualification. (2) There are no openings
at present. (3) Chief Veterinary Surgeon, De-
partment of Agriculture, N. S. Wales S.S.:
William Gosse Hay was born November 17,
1875, at Linden, Burnside (S.A.) S.W.F.:
There is no Australian-born member of the
Order of the Garter J.E.H.: Cannot see
any technical objection, but to avoid all risk
it would be wiser to have it witnessed by a
wholly disinterested person and an executor
other than yourself appointed... .R.G.: The
lines are from “My Mate Bill,” by G. H.
Gibson (“Ironbark”); the poem is printed in
The Bulletin Reciter... .T.H.D.: Tuckarimba
is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “the
junction of two creeks”.. r .W.J.P.: (1) The
Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages,
Registrar-General’s Department, Queen’s-
square, Sydney. Fee would depend on the
search -required. (2) The Registrar of Births,
Brisbane. Fee depends on time involved in
making search... .G.A.: Cannot say definitely,
but should not think it would be held against
you having regard to the lapse of time and the
fact that the offence in question was not one
affecting your financial or business probity.
It is not, however, possible to plumb the
depths of the police mind... .W.G.N.: There
are a number of species of grasses commonly
known as silver top. Unless a specimen carry-
ing seed heads is submitted for identification,
cannot say whether seed is obtainable—J.G.:
Write various music dealers and gramophone
companies for gramophone-record and sheet-
music catalogues from which information re-
garding composers and publishers of songs
is obainable. Other information is not
available in Australia... .J.A.M.: The question
has never been submitted to the electors in
the form of a referendum... .E.C.G.: (1) A
number of reliable schools advertise regularly
in the “S. M. Herald.” (2) Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (3)
Allow four to five weeks to elapse. (4) A
full list, with special requirements and rates
of pay will be found in the Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook, 3s. (5) Write Marconi
School of Wireless, 47 York-street, Sydney
W.H.D.: Write Under-Secretary, Department of
Defence, Melbourne... .J.W.: A baptismal cer-
tificate is considered sufficient evidence to estab-
lish date of birth.... H.H.: Consult Whitaker’s
Almanack for the last three years W.H.:
There is nothing to be gained by such a trans-
formation and strongly advise against it. Ant-
bed is always weakened by admixtures of in-
ferior materials: manure is a disintegrating
vegetable compound, and carries the risk of
tetanus should a player fall and sustain a
scratch or injury... .J.M.G.: (1) Without
knowing the material of which the handles are
made, it is impossible to suggest the correct
cleaner; all the composition handles are easily
marked and difficult to clean. Marks are
caused by condiments, fruit acids, sauces and
some cooked vegetables, tomatoes being par-
ticularly liable to cause stains when washing-up
is delayed. (2) Rub with a cloth dipped in
olive oil or ammonia or vinegar; or try one
of the finer abradant cleaners: then wash oft
quickly with warm soapy water and polish
dry D.L.: Write K.P.M. line, 255 George-
street, Sydney... .T.J.L.: Eleanor Dark, the
Australian novelist, is the daughter of Dowell
O’Reilly, poet and short-story writer. Address,
Varuna, Katoomba (N.5.W.).... W.R.J.: Write
Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning College, Bourke-
street, Waterloo, Sydney... .W.A.W.: Write
Divisional Officer, Commonwealth Meteorologi-
cal Bureau, Sydney... .J.T.: The twelfth Com-
monwealth Parliament was dissolved on Novem-
ber 27, 1931, following the defeat of the
Scullin Ministry in the House. The thirteenth
Parliament was elected on December 19, 1931,
and the Lyons Ministry took over as from
January 6, 1932... .E.M.A.: The text is from
St. Matthew vi, 28 Inquirer: See the Com-
monwealth Official Year-800k.... P.D.: Wnte
Commonwealth National Library for copy ot
Annual Catalogue of Australian Publications,
2s V.M.: Town Clerk, Town Hall, George-
street, Sydney, will forward particulars on
application... .A.H.D.: Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers (Mrs. Catherine Lindsay, hon.
sec.), Box 3448 R, G.P.0., Sydney; annual sub-
scription 5s E.L.8.C.: Proceedings of the
fodder conservation, pasture improvement ana
soil erosion conference, held in Sydney last
July, will be found in a pamphlet issued by the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department, obtainable
from the N.S.W. Government Printer, Bent and
Phillip streets, Sydney... .N.H.T.: Copyright
can be obtained by lodging a copy of the 'J 0
with the Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bans.
Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney, and paying a
registration fee of ss.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
r
THE
"MEEKA"
POLEY
SADDLE,
£ll/14/-
(BARE)
£l2/17/6
(MOUNTED)
la full “Somer-
set” type and
is made of best
quality Kip. The
flaps and skirt are in
one piece. The tree
is strongly made
and has a solid gullet' plate.
WALTHER & STEVENSON IW:i
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ŕ
ŗ
ř
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
I'lie Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.X.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stain pea.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
R.J.P. (Kurri Kurri): Stand corrected about
those Canaries... .W.N.H.: Very little in
your “Happy Home Life” J.H.: Not good
enough yet G.C.: Deposited E.S.: How
do fears - look when they’re “agog”?
E.McC.: They all flag... .8.E.W.: Just misses.
A.L.H.: Doubt if the American accent,
however much Roosevelt impresses you, can
be described as
Voice surpassing earthly music
Floats o’er mountains sere and grim....
—C.R.A.: That subject needs richer treat-
ment J.H.M.: Hate to turn down “Bill,
the Bottle-oh,” but he’s lived too long with
empties M. 1.: Give it to mother
H.D.: “The Football Coach” needs a whistle.
• ...E.J.: It’s in moult 0.5.: Prosy; and a
“stinking stench” is redundant as well as un-
pleasant... .R.E.C.: About 18,887 lines of
backhand pencil-script about the sights of Mel-
bourne !... .F. 8.: What’s all that about? ....
M.A.: Just a vase... .L.G.K.: Even consider-
ing what’s gone before, the last line’s a come-
down... .H.L., J.P., M.F^.L.: No use trying
to write two-minute elegies J.F.: It might
have found a place in Percy’s Reliques....
D.D.: That won’t “finalise” anything, unless
you've a reputation as a poet F.C.5.8.:
Now try it elsewhere M.8.H.: Tripped up
trying to answer five rhetorical questions in
the first three lines K.A.R.: “An Old
Horse” appears to have the staggers....
PR.: Keep it well hidden J.T.8.: “Seven
Days’ Sorrow” was... .D.T.D.T.: A rough job ;
try us when you’ve had more practice....
L.R.B. and L.C.: They herald a gloomy winter.
... .C.N.T.: Sketch is basket fodder; yarn
might stand a chance elsewhere... .N.T.C.:
Away!... .D.8.R.: “Threnodious wail” is a
corker.... 1.P.E.: Would stand a better chance
written in the third person G.T.8.: It went
“shrieking into the vQid” of the w.p.b
E. 8.5.: You’ll have to think of a better one
than that.... R.E.1.: Chestnuts... .L.8.D.:
Cannot promise to return paragraphs....
T.V.S.: It’s a first cousin to one we published
a few months ago 8.5. P.: You should be
sorry about that... .G.S.G.: Never, never do
that again... .L.R.A.: Hope it is “The Last
Rose of Summer” K.Y.R.: At least it is a
true mystery, in that it has no solution....
H.P.E.: Nothing there M.J.M.: If only
you’d stop to think before you do these things.
. ...L.F.S.: Slight improvement... .G.D.W.:
But none there N.C.P.: Is that the best
use you can find for a twopenny stamp?....
S. : Cut it by more than half and try again.
. ...P.R.D.: Dull L.E.C.: Too short for a
yarn and too long for a par 0.N.5.:
You’re not very familiar with your subject
N.P.R.: That’s a mighty poor argument for
“The Might of the Pen” J.E.R.: A matter
of opinion... .N.R.A.: You like what we
don’t, and we like what you don’t. Well, what do
you suggest?... .F,E.V.: No, but wouldn’t
mind seeing some others... .G.T.C.: “‘Ha,’
he said, ‘I see it all.’ ” Twirling his long black
moustache, no doubt R.S.Y.: A chuckle
here and there, but not enough 8.T.W.:
Have you no pity? G.8.G.: A remark-
able blend of incoherency and illegibility....
T. Has its moments, but they’re few....
8.8. W.: Don’t know of anyone who might
consider it L.T., G.T.C., P.T.R., J. 8.5.,
K.Y. and T.W.8.: Missed... .T.A.H. (Perth):
Very well, then; the Nats, lost one Assembly
seat, but gained Nelson, and the C.P. lost Irwin-
Moore to an Independent.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.: No kennel here for the dog on the
tuckerbox Y.S.: You belong to the land-
lubber school of nautical artists R. 8.:
Smooth, lines, but mostly in the wrong places....
T.R.A.: The ostriches are livelier than the
humor... .8.D.: Street urchins await removal.
T.L.D.: There’s an idea there, but the
drawing gives it little support... .M.J.: They
look like strays from a freak show A. 8.:
Needs overhauling on the art side; humor
flabby 8.G.: Confused enough in its present
size; reduced, it would become 10 times more
obscure... .W.P.: A bad-tempered retort does
not necessarily make a laughable gag
A. Comic strips ruled themselves out.
B.M.: Picture of whirlwind in action is
sheltering in the w.p.b S.M.R.: You’ve
learned how to set out a drawing, but you
ruin it with ugly and heavy linework.. ..H.C.:
That ungainly steeplechaser and his giant rider
were never in the race... .F.M.: As illustra-
tions for a stained-glass-window-maker’s
catalogue they would be excellent... .M.A.:
Two-up school sketch is a hopeless jumble of
badly-drawn figures... .K.M.: Pay more atten-
tion to anatomy... .P.W.: The youngster
merely displays imitative ability; tell him to
tackle something original... .J.M.M.: We’ve
seen the new P.M. and he doesn’t look a scrap
like that M.A.: Same aeroplane landed
in same paddock not so long back... .F.L.:
The plumber discovered the maiden in the
bath in 4387 b.c. .... J.A.: Try working with
a broader nib on smoother paper... .G.C.D.:
Seem to have seen that tipsy diner coping with
a plateful of spaghetti somewhere before
B. : Don’t fancy the shapes of the ship-
wrecked passengers V.W.: What made
you think that we were in the market for illus-
trated tongue-twisters? H. 8.: Either our
spectacles need repairing or there's something
very wrong about that sketch... .A.J.T.: Sub-
mit as a design for a recruiting poster....
W.W.: Figures give impression of having been
built out of wooden lattice-work W. 8.:
Near the mark; make gags snappier and try
again H.J.N.: Not this week’s worst, but
very close to it... .J.S.: As dead as the rooster
we ate last Christmas... .M.R.: Quite a
homely scene, but not the kind to raise a
laugh 8.J.: Only a super-optimist would
expect payment for that. .. .G.D.: In your case
ambition has outstripped talent F.W.: Use
your eyes more and take more time over work.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Izvestia” has no doubt as to whether
there will be war and who will win it:
History has never shown such a just
war as will be that of the Land of Social-
ism (U.S.S.R.) against the Fascist bar-
barians. The Soviet peoples know that
the strain of the coming war will be ter-
rible and very cruel, and the U.S.S.R.
will do everything necessary in the shortest
possible time and with as little bloodshed
as possible to put an end to Fascism and
barbarism.
Then why need Britain bother?
H= * * *
“D. Eff”: Official confirmation of the
view that writers are superfluous on the
great dailies of to-day is given by the
list of “reserved” occupations in Britain.
Writers are about the only persons con-
nected with newspapers who will go to
the next war. Photographers, printers,
process operators, office managers and
paper-makers will all be retained for ser-
vice on the home front. Nothing is said
about astrologers. All 8.8. C. employees
are reserved except announcers and pro-
gramme arrangers. Others to be kept
at home include bricklayers, makers of
cutlery and bulb-growers.
* * * *
James Albert Mallinson, a song-writer
known as “the English Schubert,” is back
in Australia, which he first visited in
1891 to get cured of consumption. He
not only got a cure here but a wife —•
the Danish soprano Anna Steinhauer. In
the succeeding 48 years he has toured
Europe, Australia, Maoriland and 50
other countries giving recitals of his songs
with his wife as soloist and examining
aspirants for entrance to Trinity College
of Music, written a number of works for
the piano and composed songs to the
number of upwards of 300. “Four by
the Clock” and “Slow, Horses, Slow,”
are perhaps the best known of his lyrics.
He and his wife live in Denmark.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: One curious effect
of the Japan-China war has been the
reappearance of rickshaws for hire in all
main Japanese ports after nearly 30 years.
For a generation past the only ones of
the kind were run by a few pirates, mostly
in Yokohama, who demanded exorbitant
rates for hauling unwary newchum tour-
ists for a few blocks from wharf to hotel.
Geishas, going to and from their engage-
ments, were generally carried in closed
rickshaws drawn by men in their em-
ployment of that of their agency, and
a few conservatives kept private rick-
shaws. The Government programme of
restrictions of petrol sales to taxis and
private cars has resulted in a rickshaw
boom. But visitors need not conclude
hastily that they are back in “Madam
Butterfly” days as regards the rates they
may be asked by ricky men.
* * *
The unloading of a consignment of
gold at one of the big London banks the
other day led to an argument about the
space occupied by Great Britain’s gold
stocks. Since one cubic foot of pure gold
would represent 17,571 troy ounces, a
ton of the metal would occupy no more
than 1.859 c.f. Not long back the gold
holdings of the Bank of England and the
Exchange Equalisation Account totalled
98,528,000 ounces. To store this weight
of metal en masse would require a room
of less than 6000 c.f. capacity, or
approximately a cube with sides of 18ft.
Taking a room 9ft. in height, the floor
space would need to be only 36ft. by
19ft.


RUSSIAN ALLIANCE?
BY "EL VERDUGO.”
AMOVING spectacle for a cynical
observer is the continuing display
of the simple convictions of thou-
sands of journalists and millions
of parlor pinks that if the U.S.S.R. can be
roped in as an ally of Britain, as well as
of France, the world would be “safe
from aggression.” Paris papers insist
that Britain should accept a Russian
alliance. So does Sydney’s Labor
Council. And Associated Press thinks
that “the projected air alliance will
bring Russia into the European situation
in her most useful form.”
It is considered that Russia is prepared
to join the Western Powers and protect
threatened Eastern Powers.
If words can mean anything, the
U.S.S.R. is already “in the European
situation.” Words are plentiful in
Russia, being the only things given away.
As a useful ally, however, Russia is a
minus quantity.
If Moscow’s air force is five times the
size of other air forces, as is wildly
alleged, it still has 8,000,000 square miles
to defend. The bloated aggregation of
republics has two cities with populations
of 3,000,000 or more, nine more with
over 400,000 each and 108 more holding
more than 50,000 each, besides several
thousand miles of coast on the door-
steps of two powerful potential enemies,
both with stronger navies and infinitely
greater technical resources. In addition,
there are vital Russian canals, hydro-
electric works, collective granaries, oil-
fields,' railway junctions and industrial
centres. There would certainly be two
large defending armies, spread along huge
land frontiers, to be co-operated with
from the air.
About the only thing Britain could
hope for from a Russian alliance would
be the privilege of defending Red ports
and the Red Navy. The Red Navy cer-
tainly has four battleships of the 1909
vintage, but the only one which has
attempted a sea voyage since the war is
at present in the Black Sea. Having
taken it there, the Government cannot get
it back to the Baltic.
The Red Army, of course, is a dif-
ferent proposition. It is many months
since it fought a “battle” against some
Japanese. Our rude forefathers would
have called the “battle” a “combat.” But
“6500 soldiers of the Red Army were
decorated for valor.”
There are, however, considerations
which go far deeper and which affect a
possible Russian alliance far more than
the country’s capacity to fight. Russia
is not one country; it is 11 countries.
As for the Government well, as the
Statesman’s Year-Book (1938) puts it:
Sovereignty in the Soviet Union derives
from the Communist party All legisla^
tion and all foreign negotiations, though
formally carried through by the State
administration (Soviet line), are either initi-
ated or preliminarily passed by the Secre-
tariat of the party (party line). Every
organ of the State administration is practi-
cally always headed by a party member
Members of the party distributed over the
whole mechanism of the State system repre-
sent the controlling power which drives the
State machine in the direction required by
the general secretary of the Communist
party along the so-called “General Party
Line.” The purity of the party policy and
strict discipline are maintained by means of
a special party Code of Regulations and
by systematic purges.
Thus it comes about that Russia is
run not by a head of its own, but by the
general secretary of the Communist
party, Mr. Stalin, who is not even in the
Cabinet of the U.S.S.R. There is a
Russian Parliament of 1143 members,
of whom 841 are Communists. Fifty-
five per cent, are Government officials
and Communist party officials, and 1\
per cent, are officers of the Red Army
and Navy. All were elected unopposed.
The only three Opposition candidates
who came out retired before the poll.
Two were unmasked as “Fascist traitors”
and one shot himself.
How the Red Army could be used
in any war, if it lived up to its ideals, it
is difficult to understand. Mr. Stalin
says that “in capitalist countries armies
are usually trained in the spirit of hatred
for other peoples, in the spirit of hatred
towards workers and peasants of other
countries.” But the Red Army “is built
up on absolutely another principle.” It
has been “trained in the spirit of inter-
nationalism, in the spirit of respect for
other peoples, in the spirit of love for
the workers of all countries, in the spirit
of the maintenance and consolidation of
peace between countries... .in the spirit
of the unity of interests of the workers of
all lands.... Our army is the army of
world revolution, the army of the
workers of all the world.” And Mr.
Stalin adds that its internationalism is
the strength and might behind the Red
Army, which “has innumerable friends
and allies in all parts of the world, from
Shanghai to New York.”
This makes it possible to understand
some obvious incongruities. Article 132 of
the Russian Constitution says that “Uni-
versal military duty shall be the law,”
and enforces it on all young Russians —
two years for infantry, three years for
higher technical arms. And every Com-
munist in the world approves because
the Red Army is an “army of liberation
of the proletariat.” But the Communist
party is “against military conscription”
—to quote the Australian Communist
party constitution —in any other coun-
try, because Communist theory is that
compulsory service in Britain, in Aus-
tralia, in the United States and in France
is “service for Fascism.”
Mr. George Dmitrov, secretary of the
Communist Internationale —of which
Mr. Stalin’s Communist party is in con-
trol, and which has its head office in
Moscow —has put the position clearly in
a small pamphlet called “After Munich,”
an Australian edition of which is being
circulated. The war “now being waged
by Fascist Powers in Spain, in China and
which threatens in Central Europe” is,
Mr. Dmitrov says, “in the last analysis
being waged against the capitalist inter-
ests of Britain, France, the U.S.A., since
the object is to secure the repartition of
the world and spheres of influence to
the advantage of the aggressive coun-
tries at the expense of these so-called
‘democratic’ States.” He asks why the
“bourgeois Governments” did not put
collective security into operation to
compel Germany, Italy and Japan to
retreat: —
They did not do so because they did
not want to because their policy is
determined by reactionary Imperialist
circles, who out of fear of the growth of
the working-class movement in Europe,
of the movement for national liberation
in Asia, out of hatred for the land of
Socialism, sacrificed to Fascism the inter-
ests of their own peoples. They supported
German Fascism because they want in its
person to have a European gendarme that
strangles every democratic anti-Fascist move-
ment of the masses of the people. In the
name of their narrow class Imperialist
interests, they yield the small nations to be
rent asunder by Fascism, thereby facilitating
the further aggression of the Fascist
Governments.
Mr. Dmitrov, whom Australian Com-
munists regard as “the architect of the
People’s Front,” distinguishes the atti-
tude of the U.S.S.R. from that of all other
members of the League of Nations. He
has the face to say that “when German
Fascism was brandishing the knife over
Czechoslovakia, when the Polish and
Hungarian vultures had fastened their
teeth into the living b9dy of Czecho-
slovakia,” the Soviet Union,
in accordance with the agreement con-
cluded with Czechoslovakia, declared be-
fore the whole world that it was ready
to come to the assistance of Czechoslovakia
should it be attacked, and would fulfil its
obligations as provided for by the Treaty.
No rat ever sneaked more silently into
a hole than the great post-Munich
U.S.S.R., which Mr. Dmitrov says “is
the powerful buttress of the struggle
against the wars of conquest, the un-
failing defender of • small nations and
weak countries against Fascist aggression
and Imperialist enslavement.”
It is easy to understand that part of
the retreat was not through fear. It was
part of the programme by which “stead-
fastly and confidently the Soviet Union
is completing the construction of socialist
society and advancing to Communism
the resolute strengthening of con-
tacts between the great Soviet people and
the working class and peoples of the
capitalist countries.”
Nothing suited international Com-
munist purposes better than the Munich
agreement. So soon as it was arrived at
they did everything to make use of it as
a stick to beat the “Imperialist” Govern-
ments. And all the beating has not been
left entirely to Mr. Dmitrov.
Mr. Dmitrov’s elucidation was issued
last November. At the 18th (March,
1939) Congress of the Communist party
of the Soviet Union, the body in which
“all legislation and foreign policy” of
the U.S.S.R. is “either initiated or pre-
liminarily passed,” Mr. Stalin almost re-
peated his henchman’s words verbatim.
His utterances are being published in
official Communist publications in Aus-
tralia, and the following quotation from
his speech is reported in the “Workers’
Star,” March 31, 1939, issued in Perth:
War is being waged by the aggressor
States, which are infringing in every way
upon the interests of non-aggressor States,
primarily England, France and the United
States, while the latter are drawing back
and retreating, making concession after
concession to the aggressors. Thus, open
redivision of the world and spheres of in-
fluence is taking place before our eyes at
the expense of the interests of the non-
aggressor States, without the least attempt
at resistance, and even with a certain
amount of connivance by the latter. In-
credible, but it is a fact.
How is this one-sided and strange charac-
ter of the new Imperialist war to be ex-
plained? How could it happen that the
non-aggressor countries, with vast possi-
bilities at their disposal, have so easily
and without resistance abandoned their
positions and their obligations in order to
please the aggressors? Can it be ex-
plained by the weakness of the non-
aggressor States? Of course not! The
non-aggressor democratic States are un-
questionably stronger than the Fascist
States, both economically and militarily.
How can the systematic concessions
made by these States be explained? This
might be explained by the fear of revolu-
tion.... The bourgeois politicians know, of
course, that the first Imperialist war
brought about the victory of the revolu-
tion in one of the biggest countries
They are afraid that the second Imperialist
war may also lead to the victory of the
revolution in one or several countries.
Through the policy of non-intervention
there runs an eagerness, a desire not to
prevent the aggressors from perpetrating
their black deeds, not to prevent, say,
Japan from becoming involved in a war
with China, or, better still, with the Soviet
Union; not to prevent, say, Germany be-
coming enmeshed in European affairs,
from becoming involved in a war with the
Soviet Union; to allow all the belligerents •
to sink deep 'into the mire of war,
stealthily to encourage them to follow this
line, to allow them to exhaust one an-
other and then, when they become suffi-
ciently weakened, to appear on the scene
with fresh forces, to come out, of course,
“in the interests of peace” and to dictate
their terms to the weakened belligerent
nations. It is cheap and it serves its pur-
pose. They left Czechoslovakia to her fate
and then began to lie vociferously in their
press about the weakness of the Russian
army... .urging the Germans to march
further east, promising them easy pickings
and prompting them on; just you start a
war with the Bolsheviks and then every-
thing will proceed nicely.
Stalin went so far as to say that the
British and French press had been used
to try to embroil the Soviet and Ger-
many in a war over the Soviet Ukraine.
He said that “one might even think that
the districts of Czechoslovakia were ceded
to Germany as the price of an under-
taking to launch a war on the Soviet
Union, and now the Germans refuse to
pay the note, telling their creditors to go
and chase themselves.” Ostensibly all
Governments and systems of government
which are not Communist are the same to
Mr. Stalin, his Communist party and his
U.S.S.R. They are all lumped under the
heading of what Mr. Dmitrov calls
“rotten declining capitalism and its
poisonous, foul - smelling cesspool
Fascism.” The Red Army will fight for
any people of a democracy—England,
France, U.S.A., Germany, Italy—pro-
vided that people is “casting off its chains”
and ready to tie itself to the Communist
Internationale and allow itself to be run
from Moscow.
And so far as the heads of existing
non-Communist Governments are con-
cerned, the Internationale shows a nice
impartiality. Mr. Dmitrov declares that
the “Fascists are shedding the blood of
the Spanish people, and twenty million
Spaniards pronounce the name of Ger-
man interventionists with anathema.”
The Communist party of Britain re-
marks contemporaneously that Mr.
Chamberlain’s hands “are stained with
the blood of the people of Austria,
Czechoslovakia and Spain... .women
and children have fallen over in Spain,
cursing Chamberlain with their last
breath.”
The Australian Communist party, in
a manifesto issued by the National Con-
gress in November, says that Mr. Cham-
berlain has “betrayed small nations to
Fascism” and that “the handing over of
New Guinea to Germany which is im-
plied in the policy of appeasement would
bring the frightfulness and barbarism of
Fascism revealed in the recent horrible
pogrom against the Jews in Germany
right to our Australian coastline.”
The Westralian Communist official
organ says there are “no bounds to Cham-
berlain’s infamy.” The Australian Com-
munist party believes that, “in direct con-
trast to bloodthirsty Fascism,” the Soviet
Union is the “powerful buttress of liberty
and world peace.”
Throughout the Commonwealth the
Communist party is actively engaging in
a campaign which it frankly admits is
“inspired by the example of the Soviet
Union,” and aimed to put “Fascist
mongers in a strait-jacket.”
The measures of the party —and some
of its Labor allies speak the same
sentiments in virtually the same words
—are many and various. One is opposi-
tion to compulsory military service and
full armament in Australia, because “so
long as the Lyons Government remains
in office there is no guarantee that the
arms will not be used against our people,
whose enemies they are.” Another is an
intensive campaign in industrial centres
for “civilian defence,” the mounting of
16in. guns and other schemes which they
know are impracticable. This helps to
create discontent with the Government.
Another is the continual pinning of Mr.
Chamberlain’s name to that of Hitler ; a
continual vaunting of Russian ideals of
government as superior to Australian
ideals; an incessant promising of higher
wages, equal pay for the sexes, holidays
with pay, abolition of wage taxes and
taxes on food, free social insurance, and
the like.
Before any Russian alliance is entered
into there are two necessary pre-
liminaries. The first is that Russia and
the Communist party shall begin to mind
their own business so far as the internal
affairs of Britain and Australia are con-
cerned. The second is that some ex-
planation should be forthcoming of some
incongruities in the relationships of the
U.S.S.R. with “the Fascist aggressors,
Germany and Italy, the chief incen-
diaries of war,” as the Australian Com-
munist party calls them.
Since 1935, beginning with Zinoviev,
the world has watched the execution of
hundreds of Jews in Russia, most of
them charged with “terrorism” and
“Fascist traitorism” and conspiracy with
Trotsky to sell the Ukraine to Germany
as the price of the return of capitalism
in Russia. Feeling that pro-German
Jews were at the back of the murder of
Kirov in 1934 even inspired a pogrom
in Leningrad in January, 1935.
At a meeting of the Royal Institute
of International Affairs in London last
June more than one speaker mentioned
peculiarly close trade relations between
“Fascist” Germany and “Democratic”
Russia, the trade being financed by
generous German credits. Dr. Seton-
Watson, of London University, remarked
that German abuse of Russia was
“simply a blind.” A German-Russian
alliance “had been within an ace of
success last summer.” Such alliance
was, he said, “always possible.”
The German-Russian position, how-
ever, is not nearly so interesting as the
Italian-Russian position. Since Russia
began to vaunt the coming of its Mighty
Navy the world has wondered where it
was coming from. When the first of the
cruisers turned up —the Tashkend, laid
down on November 21, 1937 —it came
out of the yards of those “Fascist vul-
tures” Messrs. Orlando, of Leghorn,
Italy, in whose business the Italian Gov-
ernment is heavily interested. The new
class of 8500-ton (Kirov) cruisers which
are building turn out to be modified
editions of the Italian Emmanuele Fili-
berto class, strange funnels, turrets and
all. They are designed by Ansaldo, the
firm which is building Italy’s first 35,000-
ton battleship Littorio. Jane’s Fighting
Ships —the issue has just arrived—says
the machinery is “possibly Italian.”
Nine destroyers of the Stremetelni class
now building are designed and fitted by
Odoro-Terni-Orlando, of Italy. The
new submarines —Garabaldetz, Chartist
and Karbonari are designed by the
Italian firm Adriatico, which has built
a “Garibaldi,” a cruiser, for the Italian
Government. The Kirov patrol boats
laid down in 1935 came from the yards
of Ansaldo, Italy.
These facts have only leaked out re-
cently.
It is not yet known where the three
U.S.S.R. 35,000-ton battleships are to
be born. It has been reported to Jafies
that “Guns, armor and boilers have been
ordered abroad.” It would certain y e
known if they had been ordered m one
of the “democratic” countries, where ad-
miration for Russia runs so high.
Practically the whole of the modern
Russian Navy is of “Fascist vulture
origin. . . (
Such are the peculiar exigencies
naval equipment that it will be necessary
for its ships occasionally to pay
visit to Messrs. Ansaldo Orlando and
Adriatico for re-equipment and repairs.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
A Westralian wins this week’s first prize for a bright idea crisply expressed.
Abolish State Governors
The coming of the Duke of Kent as
G.-G. marks a favorable time for the
abolition of the office of State Governor.
Surely we won’t need a substitute for
royalty when we have the dinkum oil. —
How E. (W.A.).
“How E.” is Robert Howie, of “Lich-
field,” Allanson, Westralia; and he wins.
Radio Announcers
I’m no stickler for “pure” pronuncia-
tion, but some of these radio announcers
make me feel like slinging the heaviest
self-pronouncing dictionary on the market
at their heads.
I heard, among other glaring errors, a
B-class announcer refer to the Fascist
regime as the “faysist rayjimay” ; whilst
an A-class speaker repeatedly pro-
nounced the German “Herr” like the
English “her” instead of like “hair.”
Whether we like it or not, the radio
announcer tends to set the fashion for
spoken English to-day. His influence is
becoming almost as strong as that of
the school-teacher, but, unlike the latter,
he can speak as he pleases.
Now, while broadcasting is in its early
stages, is the time to ensure that all an-
nouncers are reasonably accurate in the
use of the mother tongue. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Cut Out the Fanfare!
We are passing through troublous
times. Many people live beside their
wireless sets eagerly awaiting the next
news from overseas. Should the nation
become involved in war it would mean
a complete upheaval in the lives of all —-
indeed, many would lose their lives in it.
Certain nations appear to have adopted
the policy of keeping the world in a state
of tension and uncertainty; nerves are
on edge ; a state of unhealthy excitement
exists which leads highly-strung people
into forming rash conclusions and pre-
vents them from exercising their saner
judgment.
A war, if it comes, will be an endur-
ance test; it will be won by the side
which can keep up the morale of its
people.
Mob hysteria, jingoism, unreasonable
nationalism and such frothy states of
mind are not enduring, but calm forti-
tude and grim determination are the
qualities that will count in seeing the
ghastly business through to a successful
conclusion.
A man at the wireless set listens im-
patiently to a recording of the latest
crooner, awaits the “overseas news.”
A pause, a fanfare of trumpet music ;
then the announcer: “The Prime Min-
ister, Mr. Chamberlain, addressing the
House of Commons to-day....”
I hold that this fanfare of trumpet
music acts as an irritant to overstrung
nerves, and that it creates an atmosphere
of “sensation” when what is required
at the present time is a “peace psycho-
logy”—a calming-down and a soothing
of jangled nerves instead of stirring
them up. The stimulating effect of mar-
tial music is well known, and trumpets
appear to me to possess this stirring effect
in the highest degree. I should like A,B.C.
to eliminate its prelude to the “overseas
news” and to substitute a tune that, if
not actually soothing to the nerves, is at
at least neutral. — W. R. G. Colman
(Tas.).
The White Feather
We of the younger generation are
becoming accustomed to the “white
feather,” though in a symbolical form.
Since the first cries of “Join the
Militia” there has been an excellent re-
sponse, but is the cause sufficiently grave
to merit a cold shoulder being given to
those unable to join owing to their occu-
pations?
To stress my point: in a tram some
tour or five days ago I found myself
seated opposite an elderly man who was
rather sozzled, After glaring fiercely at
me for some time he burst out with:
“You young pup! In my young
day a man was in the army before he
grew a mo!”
This is but one of many such incidents.
Yet I’m quite sure that many of us who
are unable to join now, and who have
no desire to parade and look pretty in
uniform for the benefit of the Bright
Young Things, would be the first in line
in the event of war being declared. —Wm.
P. Madden (Q.).
Why No Uniforms?
When I first joined the militia at the
beginning of December I didn’t object
to doing rifle exercises with a broom.
Even when I went to camp and was then
issued only with boots, hat and overcoat
I didn’t complain. After a heavy rain,
when our palliasses were soaked, and we
were instructed to empty out the straw,
“A man might as well 'ave a bit o' comfort!"
I did so willingly. We were issued with
fresh straw which was not perceptibly
drier than our first issue, but we took
that as part of the joke. When we re-
turned home from camp we had to march
up the main street in canvas work-clothes,
boots and hat, sans puggaree, and it was
then I first started to get annoyed. Since
then we have received no addition to our
equipment.
Though I have met some great chaps
I am sick of the militia. Someone well
up in the service is getting money for
nothing.
I suggest that the Government issue
to every recruit an order to go to a local
tailor and have his uniform made by
him at a fixed and reasonable price. It
will distribute the work over a greater
section, speed up delivery, and it is a
safe bet that the uniforms would fit. At
the moment the militia is like a comic
opera army, dressed in uniforms that
look as though they have been cut out
with an axe.
I want my uniform, and if something
is not done in a hurry I know I am only
one of thousands who will do his best to
get out of the show. Imagine being led
into war by leaders who can’t even handle
the distribution of uniforms! — Machine-
gunner (Vic.).
Readers and “Glamor”
“M.A.8.” (B. 12/4/’39) asks what is
wrong with the reading public of Aus-
tralia. It’s glamor, alias “It,” alias sex-
appeal, alias erotomania. Even the lover
of good literature occasionally finds these
high-pressure selling methods creeping
into his favorite pages.
Would a popular magazine—any of
dozens —dare present itself for sale with-
out a glamorous creature on the front
cover? Would it dare leave out the
film gossip?
Admittedly, a few publications feature
samples of good reading, but interspersed
with its pages are pictures that border
on the pornographic.
To find the cause of it all I will leave
to someone wiser than yours aggrieved ;
but let me hazard a guess. The many
publications on the market have opened
up an entirely new field of readers —es-
pecially among young bloods of both
sexes —who previously read nothing at
all. Readers have become more defi-
nitely classified, and the danger lies not
so much in the swelling ranks of the
clamorers after glamor as in the possi-
bility of their influence upon our few
remaining sane and solid publications.
And the onus is not upon the pro-
prietors of the latter. It’s up to Aus-
tralian readers and Australian educators.
—O. M.K. (N.S.W.).
Evading Obligations
I may be a very unpopular man if this
article is published, nevertheless here it
is. We all know that there is no greater
underlying cause of unrest and troubles
than the shirking of obligations, both
national and domestic. The State is as
much to blame as the individual. There
are too many loopholes of escape in sys-
tems —too little enforcing of the last
letter of the law. Some people seem to
take a great delight in evading obliga-
tions, at the same time demanding full
citizen rights for which their more honest
fellows pay to the last penny.
Income-tax payments to a large
majority are something which should
always be evaded ; in fact, it is a source
of pride to them to be able to do so. As
a laborer who has worked over most of
Queensland I see many examples of these
evasions.
In this State the unions have a very
strong hold —it is practically impossible
these days to get work without a union
ticket. No person can leave the country
without his income-tax clearance, but
what of the person who never leaves?
With a system combining these clear-
ances and the exhibition of union tickets
many, or maybe all, of the shirkers
could be forced to pay their dues. All
applicants for positions or work should
have to show their clearance from the
Income Tax Department, and all regular
employees should, at a fixed date, be
compelled to show that they also have
complied with the laws of the State from
which they expect some return. — Adrian
Scott (N.Q.).
So What?
Just suppose for a moment that all
the reforms advocated by the 26 contri-
butors to this page on April 19 had come
into being. A cordon of silence would
be enveloping us while we were all deep
in thought. We’d all have been emanci-
pated from commercialised sport, booze,
patent medicines and press dope. All
the dead-end boys would be studying for
trades. No birth-control. Seppelt’s wine
advt. would be lodged in the archives
of the National Art Gallery. We’d have
ceased to worship money. The right sort
of Diggers would be getting the right
sort of pensions.
Facilities for racing would be increased.
Folks with weak eyes would still be pre-
vented from becoming soldiers. Every
State-school child would have an indi-
vidual teacher, and no exams. Wealthy
Australians wouldn’t send their kids
abroad any more to be educated. A per-
fect National Register would have re-
sulted in everyone getting the perfect job.
The Bulletin would have ceased criti-
cising Australian institutions. Adver-
tisers of jobs would always say what
salary they were offering. The Italians
in the North would have packed up and
gone home to Musso. A long-range
forestry policy would have been adopted.
The recruiting muddle wc d have been
straightened out. State education would
have been made perfect. Butter prices
would have been adjusted. Folks would
have ceased criticising the Australian
workman. Every family would have a
house. Women and men would have
equal wages. Soil erosion would have
vanished. Old-age pensions would be
paid by post. The world State would
be on the way and women would be paid
to have babies.
What then?
Only one thing more necessary—and
that would be for the folks to learn how
to be unhappy, without worrying too
much about it. That’s the main problem
—which nothing will change.— Socrates,
Jun. (N.S.W.).
No Publicity for Suicides
It is a pity that our daily rags can’t
be prevented from publishing details of
suicides. Apart from the increased hurt
to their shocked relatives, these particu-
lars seem to induce other ill-balanced
people to follow the deceased’s example.
Note one unusual method of shirking
life and you’ll see within a few weeks
that several persons have copied the idea.
How these unfortunates do away with
themselves is really no one’s business.
Newspapers should merely report death
by suicide or, better still, by misadven-
ture, and cease pandering to morbid
sensation-lovers. —P. R. (Vic.).
Subsidies—and Taxes
It has been proposed that the Govern-
ment should grant a bounty to the wool-
growing industry whenever the average
price falls below 12d. per pound. On
the face of it nothing could be fairer,
as at present almost every other industry
gets a subsidy when prices fall below
a payable level; but it is really a ridicu-
lous suggestion. Subsidies are tackling
the business from the wrong angle, and
will merely start a vicious circle of
raised taxation and higher production
costs, at which stage the same school
of thought will suggest raising the sub-
sidy and continuing the merry spiral.
Wool could be made to pay by lower-
ing costs, and a good start would be to
eliminate wages tax and give the em-
ployer the benefit. This method of ex-
tracting money from the uncomplaining
(well, sometimes) populace is being very
much overdone. The grazier pays special
income tax (no - deductions), he pays
portion of that money to the shearer,
who must pay wages tax (no deductions
for single men), and the shearer in turn
pays a portion to the shed-cook, who
once more has to shell out wages tax.
Probably this now sadly tax-depleted
portion of currency is damaged still fur-
ther, but I am too disgusted at this
juncture to carry investigations further.
—H.C.C. (N.S.W.).
The 8.8. C. and U.S.S.R.
Following the instructions of the
Government to “tune-in to Britain,” I
listened to an Empire short-wave broad-
cast, and was interested to hear a talk
on the U.S.S.R. —I beg pardon, Russia —
in the form of a dialogue. The argu-
ments against were put by Mr. “Anti”


in a most diffident voice; Mr. “Pro”
promptly disposed of them all in a firm
tone, and in the best 8.8. C. manner.
I learned, to my surprise, that a few
years ago Russia was 95 p.c. Communist
and 5 p.c. Russian, but that to-day the
proportions are exactly opposite. The
recent purges were easily explained as
being due to “spy fever,” and I heard that
the present army is a most efficient fight-
ing force in comparison with the 1914
one (which is a poor compliment indeed).
Then came this whopper—a whopper
whether you are “pro” or “anti” —“the
Russians are a deeply religious people.”
I missed the rest of the argument over
this owing to a sudden fadeout —no
doubt it was too much for a self-respect-
ing wave-length, but I did hear the
summing-up, the sense of which was that
no system of collective security would be
complete without Russia.
As a sales talk for mugs it was good—
just the right touch ; and of course the
8.8. C. is quite free from political control
—quaite!
What worries me is that the “party”
in the various other countries hasn’t yet
heard that Communism is no more, and
it shows a sad lack of liaison somewhere.
The cream of the joke is that, when I
twisted the dial to hear what Moscow
had to say about it all, a loud —very loud
—jarring noise was all I got. Too bad!
—See-saw (N.S.W.).
A Striking Picture
Hung at a current art exhibition in
Maoriland is a striking picture, executed
by a youthfuT artist, depicting Christ in
a gas-mask. The picture took my mind
back to nearly 30 years ago when, as a
schoolboy, I was taken with my class
mates to the Wellington Town Hall to
view that picture of the century “The
Light of the World.”
The hall was darkened and the painting
was floodlit. The effect was unforget-
table, and how characteristic of those days
the masterpiece was! George the Fifth
had but recently ascended the throne
and war was far from everyone’s
thoughts. It was a happy, peaceful time.
And now we have Christ in a gas-mask !
—Winton Keay (M.L.).
Make Australia Headquarters!
What is needed in solving the world’s
problems is a little constructive imagina-
tion and a lot of courage. We are all
anxious for the British race to keep out
of possible European wars; Australia
should be effectively settled ; the Jews
require a national home. Here’s my
solution. Transfer the British popula-
tion to Australia and sell the Isles to the
Jews.
Britain’s vital interests in Europe would
immediately disappear, and with them
all inclination to fight over that trouble-
spot. Any nation would think twice
about attacking the New Australia,
defended by the combined Australian and
British forces. Communications with
the rest of the Empire would be com-
paratively easy to safeguard. We could
set our 40-odd million new arrivals to
work to feed, clothe, house and defend
themselves. I’m sure it’s a better proposi-
tion for them all to come now than for
the survivors to come at the end of an
exhausting war.
Those who prefer English fogs to Aus-
tralian droughts could remain, at their
own peril, with any sentimental enough
to talk of deserting France, Russia,
Democracy or anything else.
Really, there are only two objections.
I can never imagine the Jews (or anyone
else) buying the place. And it would be
a severe blow to Test cricket. — Jape
(N.S.W.).
“Comrades”
For biting the hand that feeds you, is
there anything to compare with the acti-
vities of some Communist agitators? One
I know has been for years waving the
red rag in N.Q. Spurning regular em-
ployment in order to further the Cause,
he has subsisted on the one-day-a-week
relief racket.
One of his many grouches against the
existing form of government is lack of
freedom. Considering that he has been
for years knowingly and uncomplainingly
kept by the very form of government he
is so assiduously working to destroy—if,
then, this does not constitute a fair
measure of freedom, tell me what does!
—C. A. B. (Q.).
Sheltered Industries
In the past city newspapers have
gloried in referring to wheatgrowing as
a sheltered industry. Until the flour-tax
came the only evidence in support was
that various Governments returned to
farmers a few of the many millions taken
from them by doubled costs. Doubled
costs were fostered and developed by
tariff and industrial legislation.
If newspaper-writers used both eyes
they would observe that manufacturers
are sheltered by getting all the tariff pro-
tection they ask for. Manufacturers and
retailers are generously sheltered by being
privileged to pass on doubled costs and
charge what they like. Workers engaged
in secondary production, distribution and
transportation, as well as civil servants,
all enjoy a legal shelter against high costs.
It is the people who are sheltered who
destructively criticise and try to negative
the flour-tax method of sheltering the
wheatgrower against inflating costs. If
Protection based on Freetrade values
ruled in Australia, then sheltering would
be unnecessary, our ability to defend the
country would be double what it is, and
our national liabilities about half.
P. R. O D. (N.S.W.).
Housing Boards and Their Methods
When a Housing Board is set up in
Australia it generally decides first of all
what a house should contain —some form
of hot-water supply, so many rooms, so
much floor space, such a type of heating
equipment and so on ; then it decides
what the house should be built of and
where; and, finally, what it is going to
cost and where the money is coming
from.
Housing schemes worked out along
these lines inevitably lead to a small
number of well-built, conveniently-fitted
houses being constructed at a cost far
in excess of what the poorly-housed fami-
lies can ever afford. The bulk of the
cost falls on the State, fresh taxes appear
probable, and the community gets fed
up with the whole housing business.
American social experts have gone into
the housing question pretty thoroughly
from the viewpoint of costs, and it is
now an accepted rule with them that the
capital cost of house and land should not
exceed twice or two and a half times the
annual income of a family.
Applying that principle to the low-
income Australian family, a Housing
Board would decide that a basic-wage
earner could not afford a home costing
more than £420 to £5OO. It would then
ascertain just what types of houses could
be built at these figures, and, unless defi-
nitely empowered by the State to subsi-
dise homes, proceed to erect the dwell-
ings as quickly as possible.
Critics ask what sort of a house can
you build for £5OO. I’m no architect,
but I am convinced that it is possible to
build a four- or five-roomed wooden or
fibro-cement dwelling superior to the
average industrial suburban residence. It
wouldn’t contain an h.-w.-s., a sunken
bath or an electric cooker; but it would
be clean, large enough for the average
family of to-day, and something the occu-
pant could take a pride in and improve
as the years go by.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Cocktail Parties
Reading Sydney’s daily papers one
cannot help being struck by the endless
number of cocktail parties “thrown” by
“our best people” and the prominence
given to them. Why, or in whose in-
terest, are these proceedings featured?
I hate to think that any long-established
and respectable paper would boost the
liquor trade or capitalise society’s weak-
nesses in the interest of its sales.
Granted that in this democratic coun-
try of ours everyone is free to dope him-
self or herself to the limit of his or her
own particular fancy; but, though the
majority of the reading public probably
have no objection to Sydney’s sassiety
poisoning itself to extinction, I do think
they object to having the process con-
tinually portrayed to them as interesting
or amusing.
When this country is supposed to be
in training for the fight of its life, when
the rising generation is fighting for phy-
sical fitness and self-control, and when
the average housewife is scratching to
buy a few potatoes and balance the
family budget, pictures of sassiety dames
with cigarettes in their mouths and cock-
tails in their paws are neither inspiring
nor helpful.—F. A. N. (N.S.W.).
Whyalla and Defence
“Visitor’s” reference to the war-time
safe location of the B.H.P. plant at
Whyalla, S.A. (B. 12/4/’39), is amusing.
Actually, Spencer Gulf is one of the most
vulnerable waterways for the attention
of enemy vessels. A modern battle-
cruiser and seaplane-carrier could pass
Cape Borda light in the dark and be off
Whyalla and Port Pirie by dawn.
Anchored in mid-gulf, the vessel could,
with alternate broadsides, blast the
B.H.P. works and proposed blast furnace
at Whyalla and the smelters plant at
Port Pirie off the map.
To make doubly sure of the inter-
ruption in the supply of iron ore, lead,
silver, etc., seaplanes launched from a
carrier could, 75 minutes later, be drop-
ping bombs on Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
Since all the power eggs are in one
basket at the Hill, two or three aerial
torpedoes dropped on the central power
station would stop all operations on the
line of lode for the duration.
A little attention at both entrances to
the Gulf by the Defence Department
would make things safer; but at the
moment it’s an open go.—H. J. S.
(N.S.W.).
“Let There Be Light”
Why do the churches of all denomina-
tions maintain a hush-hush policy in re-
gard to the fee required for performing
the marriage ceremony? It is always one
of the prospective bridegroom’s chief
worries, as no two persons give the same
reply in response to his questions as to
the amount he should place in the en-
velope for the officiating clergy. His
lack of knowledge, together with a fear
pf his falling short of the just amount,
usually results in the said envelope con-
taining a sum disproportionate to the
service rendered.
It should be no province of the Church
to profit through the ignorance of its
members, or seek to gain by its own
silence.
All churches should have a definite
scale of charges for weddings, ranging
from the ordinary ceremony to the fully-
choral or nuptial mass —and these
charges should be made public or con-
veyed to the prospective bridegroom
when he is arranging for his marriage.
A number of people consider a bride-
groom an easy mark ; his church should
not be among them. —Burr (Q.).
Culture and National Defence
There may not seem to be any funda-
mental connection between culture and
national defence, but the unclean refuse
which is being continually cast up on
the surface of our lives must have a
deranging effect on the moral fibre of
this nation. Hitler, speaking at the open-
ing 6f an art gallery at Munich in 1937,
asserted that the defeat of Germany in
the war was due to a general decline and
collapse, not only in the economic and
political spheres, but, perhaps to a still
greater extent, in the cultural.
That art, in any real sense, is com-
pletely divorced from the ordinary every-
day lives of the majority of Australians
is a matter which should give our so-
called leaders material for very serious
reflection. Art -is not a grace or orna-
ment of civilisation, but the very test
and proof of nationhood. It has its
roots in the nation, and is a thing, not
of an age, but of a race.
Irresponsible materialism is a disease
as terrible as cancer and is rampant in
our midst. It is spread chiefly by the
press and wireless, defiling all that it
reaches. —Dum Spiro Spero (N.S.W.).
The Leader Is Here
It is all too easy to overlook the fact
that the leader of this Commonwealth in
1980 and most of his Cabinet are in
our schools to-day.
If in the past we have been dissatis-
fied with the qualities exhibited by our
leaders, would it not be wise to do some-
thing so as to perfect, as nearly as pos-
sible, the system of education which is
moulding the characters of those future
leaders?
Cecil Rhodes had a very noble con-
ception in his mind when he bequeathed
an endowment for Rhodes scholars. But
I hope it will not be thought that I am
reflecting on the type of men which
Rhodes scholarships have produced when
I say that Rhodes might have done far
better had he made some arrangements
for the Rhodes Trust to get hold of those
boys much younger. In the matter of
education a great deal of damage can be
done before the boy ever reaches the
University.
In Germany to-day four Fiihrer
schools are in existence where young
fellows are trained for political leader-
ship. These fellows go from one school
to the other, remaining a year in each,
so the course lasts four years. There
are 1000 in each school; 4000 future
leaders are in training at once. In the
future small boys, of the very best type,
will' be taken at the age of 10, and sent
to special schools until they are 18 ; then
they’ll go for six months to a labor
camp, followed by two years in the
army, and then 12 months studying
some profession. At 24, the pick of
these will be sent to Fiihrer schools.
These boys are to be deliberately dis-
tributed among the four schools in dif-
ferent parts of Germany so as to accus-
tom themselves to the nation’s different
mentalities.
Are we such supermen that we can
leave all this business to chance? — Demos
(N.S.W.).
The Need for Noise
Personally I like all noises that make
for the greatest happiness of the greatest
number. And I really believe there is
no sound in the whole wide world that
is hated as noise at all times by everyone.
My children, for instance, love the sound
of a pneumatic drill, and I often stand
entranced with them listening to a sym-
phony played on this ingenious instru-
ment by some mute, inglorious Paderew-
ski.
You see, I realise that my neighbor’s
wireless set makes a noise only when I
don’t want to hear it, and that when I’m
listening enraptured to’ “Dad and Dave”
(at full blast) he’s probably tearing his
beard out in handfuls —because he’s try-
ing to say his prayers. But he feels none
of that hostility while his typewriter is
clicking out 250 words a minute and
I’m trying to get the baby to sleep.
I like the bush just because it is so
pleasantly noisy. Birds in the bush, to
me, make a noise like thunder. My
neighbor’s little daughter Insomnia
makes a noise like a yellowhammer
between seven and nine every night in
town ; but I never go berserk, because I
know that if I were in the country and
heard that same noise I should say to
myself “Lo! hear the gentle owls,” and
be frightfully bucked about it. I like
farmyard noises, too, and the music made
by cows, sheep and ducks.
And this brings me to the point. If
Count John McCormack had come into
the garden of No. 25 Park-street, Hack-
ney (S.A,), while Mr. J. Arthur was com-
posing his letter on “The Need For
Quietness,” and had begun to sing the
loveliest of his songs, Mr. Arthur would
have been thrown into convulsions. Just
as dirt is matter out of place, so is noise -
sound out of place to the one who objects.
—Pater Unfamilias (N.S.W.).
The Feminine Mind
Congratulations to a woman for
scooping the pool from The Bulletin
the other week! It proves that women
still have something in their minds
beyond frivolities, and also that The
Bulletin realises it has women readers.
I always thought that the only sym-
pathy for women was showered all on
“Ma” in “The Man on the Land” pages.
Goodness knows, any “Ma” on the land
needs sympathy.
This may be my boss’s typewriter and
his paper, but these are my thoughts.
When the male readers contribute
their mind to these pages I wonder if
half of them know what they’re talking
about! They leave themselves so open
to contradiction.
Do you remember the article on
why do women spend so much on
beauty treatment? When I look at
myself first thing in the morning I go
down on my knees, not for physical
jerks, but to bless the manufacturers of
cosmetics.
Then the other week an article from
India on what a glorious railway ser-
vice we have. Compared with India I
agree with our learned friend, but Surry
Hills (Sydney) could likewise be com-
pared with Pall Mall. We can look for-
ward to a letter from Alaska congratu-
lating our Transport Department for
the home-going tram service even on a
race day.
Again, why cannot a market be found
for Australian writers? I’ll tell ’em why.
They, too, forget that women like a
little romance. If they do write of
romance they’ve got to take a girl m
the middle of Australian bush settings to
do it. Ugh! Snakes and mosquitoes!
It takes an overseas writer to show us
the possibilities of a closed car and a
back alley, and, once having obtained
it, naturally we ask for more. Rather
Hitlerish, perhaps, but we, too, receive
no setbacks.
However, if men are still going to
write about what’s in their minds I sin-
cerely hope it’s for someone to enlighten
them on their subject. If we women
cannot get the last word in reply v\e
still have the privilege of the last laug .
—Doris Bridger (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
f. f
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
•
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
343 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Redfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
r
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W
’Phone: LM4794.
TkMjxfilWoHJUi
ŕ
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Suite (; 0 1K, City Mutual
iuildingr, cnr. Hunter & Bligli Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
680
707
796
7 ms
6 ins.
6ins
66
4 tQ
59
Postage 9d Extra.
ASTOUNDING VALUE CUPS.
Al. Quality Pure Silver Plated. 200 Designs.
Trophies 3/9 to 25/-
CLUBS SAVE MONEY.
Wholesale Jewellers. Est. 70 Years.
P. KLEEMO PTY. LTD.,
217 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Diamond Rings.
DEAF?
New Invention— The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —’head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.. Suite 805
T. & G. Building. Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
THE
“GENUINE
KEMP”
The old favourite. With
narrow grip and 3in
hand-sewn kneepads.
mounted, £6/157-
SUPER QUALITY, with
hogskin seat and brass
mounts, £7/7/-.
(Freight free in N.S.W.)
Write for free illustrated
catalogue.
u
Ride in Comfort
Narrow Grip.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
_ 18 ■2O WILSON ST NEWTOWN
W. H. WILLIAMS FOR SAFER SADDLES
Goods
Sent
C.O.D
desired.
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making: Machine and
Combination Tobacco liox. Usual Price, 6/C.
“Bulletin” Headers 3/9
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for ... 17/6 Honest Value, 30/-
Sol Levy,
Tobacconist. Est. 38 Years.
713 George Street, Sydney.
ENGLISH POLO BOOTS
Guaranteed made in England
by the World Famous Firm
of G. T. Hawkins.
Hade from Super-grade
Feathers, exceptionally
smart and will wear for
years.
LADIES’ £5/157-
GENTS’ £6/6/-
Freight Free in N.S.W.
GOLDMAN’S,
429 George Street (Cnr.
Market Street), Sydney.
’Phone: MA2096.
e
The "VICTORY"
Self-Heating IRON
S l ave time and
trouble in the
Laundry. The
“Victory” Seif-
Heating Iron
weighs on I v
61b. when filled
with a halt-
pint of benzine ;
lights in less
than half a
minute; and
Price,
39/6
costs less than one halfpenny per hour to use.
Send for literature on Benzine Table Lamps,
Cookers and Irons.
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
329 CASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
M
The “THEKMWELL"
KEROSENE BATH
~ HEATER
and SHOWER
Provides sufficient hot water
for a plunge bath for a little,
more than id. Provides won-
derful comfort in any home.
Easy to instai. Copper, chrome-
plated, with shower attached.
Price, £B/15/6
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS:
Write for illustrated leaflets.
Oil APPIIANCES Pty., ltd.,
134 CASTIEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY.
ABERDEEN ” COW RUGS
£1
4ft. 6in. up to
6ft. made on
style recom-
mended by the
Dept, of Agri-
culture ; fitted
with adjustable
spring snaps
back and front. 240 z. canvas, closely woven, 6/-.
Bituminous waterproofed, 7/4. Measure rug from
centre of chest to buttock.
Ask for “Aberdeen” Brand Stock Rugs, sold by
stores in all States, or write manufacturers,
SMITH COPELAND & Co., Ltd.
33 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY,
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
'QJhe Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work —cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
YOUR RAZOR-
IS IT GIVING YOU COMPLETE
SATISFACTION? "
If not you may trade in your old one
for tlie celebrated
ROLLS RAZOR
A very liberal allowance will be made
on blade, all types of safety and electric
razors irrespective of condition. Write
or call to-day.
F. S. HODGE
(late Hotel Australia).
Hairdresser, Tobacconist and Bolls
Kazor Specialist,
221 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
Opposite Sydney Hospital. ’Phone: 8VV5287.
BLANKET BALE
See what Salvage Stores now
POST
FREE
offer:—
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
2 Heavy-quality Linen-finished
Double-bed • Sheets, size 90 x
80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Oases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONLY 35/-
| STORES ifli
SYDNEY
è
FLOWER SCISSORS
cr~
Cl
P 25 Cuts and holds the stem of
flower, 6-4-in., chrome-plated, each
7/6
Post Free for Cash.
W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PTY.,
LTD.,
STOPvoiffißupture
é
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/'3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance .you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street. Sydney,
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD
188 GEORGE STREET.,SYDNEY. N SW
Parmak Electric Fencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
1 3 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
TILLEY LAMPS
It
1
i
300 Candle Power. British Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on l.[ pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake oft'. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 50/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table , Wall, Vase and Other
Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
VV. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
70 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MANCHESTER BALE
21/- 21/- 21/-
2 Heavy Genuine “OSHKOSH” Hygienieally
Wrapped Winter-weight SHEETS, guaranteed
5 years. Size. 54 x 90, and no seams.
2 English Colored Towels, absorbent and soft.
2 Full-sized Quality White Pillow Cases.
2 Single Bed BGANKETS'.
1 Erin-art Guest Towel, traced, with 2 skeins
of cottons.
THE ABOVE BALE 21/- (Post Free)
FREE with this Bale—l Gorgeous Silk
Interwoven Eastern Design Brocade Bed
Spread, 50 x 70, in shades of Vieux Rose,
Cream, Gold, or Blue, to tone with your
color scheme.
STERNS STERNS
200 Z GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ê
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
A BOOK BARGAIN'
“JUNGFRAU”
A Romance of Modern a#
City Life by Dymphna
Cusack. ’
A 5/- NOVEL FOR
6^
0^
C&'
1/6
Post. Free.
\y
i«
F
cO-
-
c°
o\v 0 \v
fttv
.•«*> x'..-
..-•* .
\o® e
ot
u" N
otf v 0
*#&***


NEW DISCOVERY
HAIR Quic/dii^-
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“ Hair Growing Like Wildfire”
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the
hair. The month isn’t quite up yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait
that long. I could have told, you after one application that your
treatment wouid certainly grow hair. I have used a lot of different
‘restorers’ in my time, but yours is the only one that I ever used
that I have had any faith in. Y’ou said it would cure dandruff in
one week. Well, I can beat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in
one night. It has completely changed the color of my hair. It
has turned it from dry. dead, straw-looking color back to its
original shade of brown, and now, after about three weeks’ use, I
have a lot of new hair growing all over my head. It’s growling
like wildfire. I might mention that I never gave your treatment
a very fair go, either.” E. J. REYNOLDS, M., N.B.W.
Test It Yourself —NOW !
NOW, you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in
your own home—under any condition you like, and if it doesn't
grow new hair, rid you of dandruff or any other hair trouble
you suffer from within :;o days it COSTS YOU NOTHING! —not
a penny. But you must hurry; this offer may never be repeated;
it places you under ito obligation; all you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
£ m
What I Discovered About Hair
|T does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you are fast
1 going bald—or what you have tried! I know you have not
used the RIGHT method! My own hair fell out in handfuls
until I fast began to go bald. I tried everything; but now I
have a thick, lustrous growth of hair—thanks to the important
discovery that—
Hair “Seeds” Still Live in Bald Heads
T HAVE proved as in actual cases quoted opposite that the
1 hair ‘ seeds'’ frequently remain alive in bald heads for a
number of years. In the greater majority of such cases new
hair can be grown, provided that the real causes of the trouble
are known, and the correct scientific treatment applied.
Hundreds of men and women from all over Australasia have
grown new hair this wonderful new way. Just read the
letters opposite received from these grateful people—surely
this is proof enough.
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
j ’HEY never have—because it is impossible! There is one
* underlying principle that stimulates New Hair Growth
that principle is involved in the new Kelso Murchison Treat-
ment! It’s a new way—entirely different, and successful. It
approaches baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new angle.
With it you can stop your hair troubles overnight.
Don’t waste more time and money on worthless “tonics”
and “hair restorers”; but accept my great offer and watch
your hair grow! Get this special offer coupon in the post
to-dayl
It Does Not Matter
IT does not matter how long-standing your hair or scalp
4 trouble may be; it does not matter what you have tried
J. Kelso Murchison is prepared to PROVE to you beyond all
doubt, and without you risking one penny, that YOU CAN
GROW NEW HAlR—if you send the coupon
below NOW!
No matter what your hair trouble may be, you can test
this method yourself for 30 days.—Send Coupon Now!
This OFFer Expires Shortly!
SEND this COUPONS
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
Dept. 94, Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS ;
3/5/’39
ë
ē
WAS PRACTICALLY BAJA)
—H EA I) NO W COJI-
PLETELY COVBEED
WITH YOUNG HAIR
“1 have been applying your
hair culture course for thirty
days with splendid results.
1 was absolutely bald on the
crown of the head, and no
hair on the temples—just a
very thin streak across the
head between the temples
and the crown. Since I have
been using your course my
head is completely covered
with young hair. I had
tried every known method of hair growing
without the slightest result until I tried
yours. I can recommend your course to
anyone, for my hair was in a very bad
state.” —George Morrow, 0., N.Z.
MRS. ANITA BURGESS, BEAUMARIS,
VIC., SAYS:—“COURSE A BLESSING!”
“I am writing to thank you for the won-
derful results received from your hair
treatment. I was in despair—my hair
had been falling out and had got Very
thin, and no life in it at all, and was full
SSST9HfIK V
?JS:S
»m.
of dandruff. I
decided to try
y o u r course.
Well. I can really
say it has been a
blessing to me,
as my hair now
looks really
better than T
have ever known
it to be. You
will agree that
the photograph
speaks for it-
self.”
JL. PHILLIPS, OF DUNOON* SAYS:
“HAIR HAS GROWN TWICE AS
THICK!” “After the first night's
treatment the dandruff began to dis
appear; at the end of three days
whs completely gone. New hair was
growing at the temples and on
crown of the head at the end of .‘>o
days, and in a very short period
all my hair and scalp troubles
over for good. My hair lias also
grown twice as thick. Anybody suffering from any of the
hair disorders I have had and desiring to get rid of them
for all time, and obtain a good head of hair, just write
to J. Kelso Murchison.”—L. PHILLIPS, !>., N.S.W.
Ij. PHILLIPS.
’i: . •"J
BALD PATCHES GROWING HAIK.
“Before I started to use your hair treatment my
hair was falling out that much (hat I thought
I would he bald in a short time. Thanks to your
wonderful treatment, the bald patches on my
scalp are growing hair very rapidly, and I would
recommend your hair treatment as the best in
the world. It has cured my dandruff, and my
hair is 100 per cent, better.” —W. A. PEARSO}*.
8., N.S.W.
WAS BALD FOR 16 YEARS—HAIR NOW GROWING.
“Hair lias started to {trow over the bald parts, which have been
bald for 16 years.”—G. L. HORTON, 0., S.A.
HAIR GETTING THICKER AND STRONGER EACH DAY.
“I have been using- your treatment for the past five weeks, with
wonderful results. 1 am pleased to say that the dandruff has entirely
gone, and my hair has -taken on new life again, getting thicker and
stronger each day.”-—G. LORD, G.. S.A.
£lOOO GUARANTEE
I guarantee that all testimonials published in this announce-
ment are all genuine letters or extracts from reports received
by grateful men and women who have used the Murchison
Method successfully. These letters, together with hundreds
more, are open for inspection at our offices at any time.
J. KELSO MURCHISON
Dept. 94, Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly
depicted than in this picture.
....».
fSS
O Days AMAZING TRIAL Offer?
