

: '.i}!! JI!!! : •• ‘ i''»Jl <•• i • • Htij j;;;;i!•! ii Ii»• •• ii!>•;! j!::;;; ■■ ■•'j i • ;
!I! j{! j} mi I* i«•» mii»i};: ji<mi i ;! f!J ****j •! •' I s * I’i'i »i
IliililliPllllllpilillSilliiiiiMiiii!:’
!;:!':!!! i! '■ •;■!!* !i:j:: IP, 1:• iiiii:;iiiii;n : :::ii:
!?ni!
a !!!!!!•!!!!!;!:
i! i ::::::: :i'!l M! iii:i iiii !•! !iUi
Hit* !
"'ll!!
I If
ui!*.* iu::
i mi:
SJU
!iil! I:*;••»!!!f!! 1 "‘MUnHii.t
r;;-;
-min
... v.\;uu
iSSSSU
ii?! •• »Mr«» H• !:*»?
V
iliii! !!*> ij'lljjjii jj
• SI
rjrrnTU
I
’The New Inn”
Gloucester
It is a strange con-
tradiction that one of
the oldest coaching
inns in England was
so named.
For five centuries
the courtyard has re-
mained practically
unaltered.
-
£‘.2?
• V''-’
tn/MBi. rr
MS
•j:
<3>s*
m
c
c
"7
:3
% x'wL
Vi?
sw
i 7 /
Jl I
m
i - -
v / Vv~ ' " ■
MM.
at
/m i iu.ii
V,
SaSEH!
h ,r
mi
:•.V. V :• -•; i&wm
51
/m
[P
ii:
& -
J■* -
we b ro*4,
-L
,ssr-4 \
Ph
iOLHKOOK&i
0 RC ESTERS^.
Host Holbrook says:
"Age gives my Worcester-
shire Sauce its rich mellow
flavour.
It is brewed from the finest
ingredients and matured
like good wine.
Ah, indeed! it adds a relish
to the simplest meal.”
norlc/s dm&iser’/
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
'eT.io.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ 9 Vol. 60. —No. 3124.
Wednesday, December 27, 1939.
Nostrums in Season
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
Packed with the best books of the day.
Also gift stationery. Post free anywhere.
Write for one now!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George St., Sydney.
Learn
Freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney BuHjETIN.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
The Red Page
STALIN
To read through the 690 large pages
of Boris Souvarine’s Stalin : A Critical
Survey of Bolshevism (Seeker and War-
burg ; per Angus and Robertson) is to
penetrate behind the faqade of idealising
claptrap that has made newspapers and
radio here a joke for years, and become
familiar instead with the reality of “con-
centration camps and places of exile”
in which were shut up “more than five
million convicts” ; of “the greatest gaol
history has ever known, where men die
like flies, where they are beaten like
dogs, where they are made to work like
slaves”; of the only factories in the
world which have prisons and guard-
rooms attached; of rule imposed by
terror, justice informed by torture and
determined by favor, the death sentence
enforced for theft and on children from
12 years of age onwards—of many other
foul aspects of this sordid “paradise.”
No contemporary records have been able
to keep up with all the mass arrests and
executions, the suicides and the assassina-
tions which collectivisation dragged in its
wake. Statistics do not register these
numerous victims, any more than the
G.P.U. yields its secrets of the barbarous
deportations of millions of human beings,
transplanted to arctic regions and beyond
the Urals. Whole villages, cantons and
districts were depopulated and their in-
habitants dispersed and decimated, as
happened in ancient times in Assyria and
Chaldaea.
Souvarine quotes an American corre-
spondent extremely favorable to Stalin’s
interests as having estimated at 2,000,000
the approximate number banished and
exiled in 1929-30 alone.
The truth would appear still more
atrocious in its full extent if it were known
that the “dekulakisation” was pursued
without respite in the course of the follow-
ing years, and that the official figures vary
between five and ten million for the
number of kulaks, not including the un-
fortunate mujiks presumed to possess a
little more than the average... .It can be
considered then that 5,000,000 villagers
at least, regardless of sex and age, have
been chased from their hearths and doomed
to a life of iniquitous misery, many to
death.
Souvarine adds:
It is impossible to know how many have
perished of hunger and cold in the northern
forests, in the building of great public
works and in concentration camps. But
partial information gives us some _ idea,
not precise though none the less terrible —
especially of the appalling number of
child victims expelled with their mothers,
sometimes in the dead of night, and trans-
ported from the temperate climate of the
south to glacial regions where many of
these little innocents have found premature
deaths through lack of shelter, of proper
care and of the barest necessities. What,
in the face of such facts, were the famous
proscriptions of Sulla and the two trium-
virates, so often evoked by the socialists
after the Commune? The historians of the
Asiatic empires of antiquity or the Middle
Ages could alone produce anything com-
parable.
“Statistics,” Souvarine reiterates,
“string together all sorts of numbers that
are without interest or reality, but not
those of the suicides, capital punishments,
victims of the Plan, deaths due to famine
and typhus The G.P.U. itself would
be incapable of giving exact estimates.”
He quotes from a brochure of B. Shir-
vindt, director of prisons, to the effect
that condemnations pronounced by the
tribunals in 1929, for the Russian Re-
public alone, without the Ukraine and
Caucasus, numbered 1,216,000 against
955,000 the previous year, not including
the sentences inflicted by the G.P.U.
The death sentences had increased in
this one year by 2000 per cent. These
partial investigations throw a terrible light
on the repression carried out in the whole
of the U.S.S.R. by the two jurisdictions
even before the peak was reached at the
time of collectivisation.
Souvarine refers to Solonevich, who
was also in a position to verify his
calculations:
He counts a minimum of 5,000,000 de-
tained in the concentration camps, without
including those in the prisons and isola-
tors” or the various categories of those
banished or exiled; and he estimates the
total number of condemned as one-tenth
the number of adult male inhabitants. It
would be fairly near the truth, tiherefore,
to envisage a figure approaching 10,000,000
—to speak only of the living.
These quotations are from Chapter X,
in which Souvarine is writing on Stalin
the established dictator. The preceding
nine chapters comprise a long, detailed,
closely documented history of the origins
and rise of Bolshevism and its sub-
mergence again under the
present despotism, together
with an industriously pur-
sued attempt to get at and
present a true account of
Stalin’s earlier career, his
inch-by-inch progress to dictatorship.
It is a very extensive history of
Russia from the days of Bolshevik
and Menshevik plottings to the present
day. Souvarine has his hero —Lenin.
He presents a more favorable picture
of Trotsky than of Stalin, but
There is between Stalin and Trotsky at
least an essential psychological resemblance
which sets them very much below Lenin:
their claim to be infallible.
After following Stalin’s career step by
step through hundreds of pages he sums
up on him:
He has not succeeded in establishing
himself without a certain flair, without
natural faculties for intrigue and an effec-
tive alloy of coolness and energy. Clever
at putting off disadvantageous solutions,
at dividing his enemies and getting round
obstacles, he shrinks before nothing if he
can but attack, strike and crush. He had
the dexterity to exhaust opposition by dila-
tory tactics combined with the gag,, the
pillory and the whole gamut of sanctions.
We recognise him as cunning, crafty,
treacherous, but also brutal, violent, implac-
able and set always on the exclusive aim
of holding the power he has confiscated
by an accumulation of petty means.
Souvarine rounds his history off with
a long “postscript” dealing with the
“counter-revolution,” with details of
Stalin’s methods of coping with that
threat to his dictatorship. The portion
of this final chapter dealing with those
who perished or disappeared in the
purges will be found hard to match even
from among the grimmest chapters of
all history. Souvarine puts the estimated
number of victims in the Red Army and
Navy—“red with the blood of ‘his’ fol-
lowers shed by Stalin” —at the staggering
total of 30,000! After naming those of
sufficient importance to warrant listing,
Souvarine adds:
How many people has Stalin butchered?
A precise enumeration is impossible
when dealing with such a hecatomb. Every
person in the public eye drags in his fall
sometimes dozens, sometimes hundreds of
subordinates, whose wretched fate is passed
over in silence. The executions are in
general kept secret, except when express
orders are given for publicity.
Souvarine writes further of
the distress of the millions of exiles; the
innumerable ill-treated penal labor squads;
the concentration camps, where a frightful
mortality makes huge gaps,; the overflow-
ing isolators and prisons; the millions of
abandoned children, of whom only a
minute percentage manages to survive; the
executions and punitive expeditions; the
multitudes “mown down in large armfuls”
by Stalin;... .the immense charnel-houses
of this gigantic prison which with double
irony is called a “socialist fatherland.”
Writing before Finland had made its
stand, causing former admirers of the
“Great Red Army” to change their tune
to “Bungling by Red Army. Poor Fight-
ing Quality” (vide “S. M. Herald,”
18/12/’39), Souvarine declared:
A war of long duration would demand
other national and moral resources than
interior repression or the first campaign
of the Red Army. Neither industry nor
agriculture, and still less transport, is ready
in the U.S.S.R. to endure the high tension
of a modem war. A report of Kagano-
vich admits 62,000 railway accidents for
the year 1934 alone, 7000 locomotives put
out of action, 4500 trucks destroyed and
more than 60,000 damaged. These figures
increased in the first months of 1935,
and there were “hundreds oi dead, thou-
sands of wounded”.... Stalin allows him-
self the frequent spectacle of imposing
parades with defiles of tanks and aero-
planes, but he does not realise that in
war-time his engines will lack oil or petrol,
his artillery will lack munitions, and he
will be unable to repair them as soon as
they are put out of commission. He may
condemn to death for culpable negligence
the mechanics and drivers who have escaped
from accidents, but that cannot improve
the railways or the rolling stock.
These last two chapters, when Sou-
varine has found his way through the
thick woods and is dealing with well-
documented facts, are the most vigor-
ously written. The earlier ones are made
somewhat turgid by the author’s dual
purpose of giving Lenin his due and pre-
senting every scrap of information that
tends to throw light on Stalin’s charac-
ter. All the way it is a searching and
impressive historical work.
Wild Geese in Glasgow.
The atmosphere of Neil M. Gunn’s
novel Wild Geese Overhead (Faber;
F. W. Preece, Ltd.) is very much the
atmosphere of the medical student
reminiscences that are written of Glas-
gow and Dublin. The characters —jour-
nalists in this case—spend most of their
time in the pub quarrelling about their
souls.
In conversation, in his own life and
by observing the high life and low life
of the city, Gunn’s protagonist is taken
through a series of adventures intended
to symbolise the complete human ex-
perience. After he’s been to the edge
of death he’s rewarded witJjija wife, peace
in the country and a vision of the wild
geese, an image of pure delight.
Possibly Glasgow journalists do shout
metaphysics at each other all day long,
but the pub scenes are the worst of the
book. There is powerful writing in the
low-life scenes —brawls with drunks and
toughs; and a frustrated love affair with
a prostitute, delicately told. In spite of
this “realism,” there is not much sense
of reality: characters appear, and events
occur abruptly, as if they loomed up out
of a fog. Like most books written to
illustrate a poetic idea, it is unsatisfac-
tory as fiction but it is pleasing enough
as an essay.
Life on the Rolling Sea.
“Go, little book!” says Fred Rebell,
concluding his Escape to the Sea (Mur-
ray). “Already thou hast been rejected
by a number of publishers, nor did
agent have any better luck with thee.”
Well, little book, thou hast had a tough
time of it; and yet thou’rt an odd
enough little fellow for any publisher to
have snapped thee up with gusto. Not
the least fascinating part about thee is
thy blurb, wherein thy publisher says
that thy author has made thee with a
simplicity and a frankness that are
“almost subhuman”; nor are thy attrac-
tions in any way diminished by the
introduction of Richard Hughes, who
says:—
Gerbault is a civilised man; Rebell
seems rather to have the physical resist-
ance and insensibility of an animal; and
both in this and in his mysticism seems
related to Algernon Blackwood’s imagi-
nary Ur-mensch rather than to be one
of the human race.
The bloke who wrote thee, tiny tome,
set out from Sydney and sailed 9000 miles
across the Pacific to Los Angeles in an
open boat with only a tarpaulin for shelter.
He had only the crudest of navigating
instruments, all home-made. He knew
nothing about sailing except what he had
read in Sydney Public Library; his
charts were pencil copies from an old
atlas, with whole archipelagos missing.
Slim volume, thou speakest of waves and
winds, of terrible dangers and hard-
ships, of a voyager alone in a boat that
many a sailor wouldn’t trust from Cir-
cular Quay to Kirribilli.
Furthermore, small saga, thy author
has a positive genius for putting him-
self down on paper, and the portrait of
the man is as fantastic as the story of
the voyage. Rebell, thou spillest the
beans, was born in Latvia and skipped
over the border to Germany to avoid
military service. Trying to escape from
Germany he developed a hatred of pass-
ports which crops up oddly through the
book and which eventually landed him
in gaol in America. He stowed away
from Germany, went farming in Wes-
tralia, wrote to his childhood girl friends
in Latvia to see if any of them would
marry him, had an unlucky adventure,
and then married a girl who came out
in response to a view mat. advertisement
in Latvian papers. But it was no good:
The sad beginning of my marriage was
only the first of those misfortunes which
now fell on me, each worse than the last.
A young heifer broke its back, a draught-
horse fell in a swamphole, the cattle be-
came afflicted with rickets: and, to crown
all, our expensive pedigree sow died of
sunstroke.
There was a divorce. Rebell fell in
love again with a “demure, dark-eyed,
dark-haired Australian maiden of nine-
teen summers.”
Defects and blemishes? Did she have
any? I should say so, for who is there
without them? First, she had protrud-
ing kneecaps. But what are protruding
kneecaps when a man loves as I loved?
In spite of this singular devotion
Elaine would have none of him, and
Rebell moved to Sydney. There was a
dark day at the Gap, when he contem-
plated jumping over. He reflected:
If there be no Hereafter, well and good.
But was there none? For sure? If there
was one I had better learn about it before
I went there. So I retraced my steps
from the Gap, and, returning to the Public
Library, read all the books on the Here-
after I could get hold of.
The great voyage began. Rebell in-
tended to call at Maoriland but missed
it by a couple of hundred miles and
made for Fiji. From there to Samoa,
the Danger Islands, another miss with
Jarvis Island, landfall at Honolulu, and
then across to Los Angeles. Besides his
adventures and his comments on each
place he visited, he records his prayers,
his visions and love affairs. He defied
the immigration officials in America and
was gaoled until “Mr. Slavens McNutt,
a scenario writer from Hollywood,” went
surety for him. He was deported to
Latvia, but had no intention of staying
there for ever: —
Somewhere in the Pacific there is an
English maid, fair as the lily, bright as the
, morning star. Five years have flown by;
hearts have grown cold and memories
faint; but one heart I know still beats
loyal and time; r ka-cs f - f 1
longing for me, Hnt ... ■ • IO
wait much logger. .
An Old Fogey.
Possibly “In Good King Charles’s
Golden Days,” which had its world
premiere outside Britain at the hands of
Grregan McMahon in Melbourne recently,
is not the best of Shaw’s plays. But its
defects—if they are defects and if its
critics know what its defects are- do not
justify the contemptuous attacks made
by some Melbourne commentators on it.
It ought not to be forgotten that the
old man who wrote it once wrote plays
which infuriated two generations of Eng-
lishmen, though they are conditioning our
thinking at the present moment. There
are all sorts of subjects about which
people nowadays talk quite freely which
they would not be talking about at all
if it had not been for the courage and
clear thinking of this aged lion, who has
performed the same service for us as
Dickens did for his generation.
Dickens made Englishmen sensitive
about the monstrous practice of chimney-
sweeps sending boys up chimneys and
even lighting fires under them in the hope
that their struggles would dislodge them
if they got stuck; now there isn’t per-
son in the community who wouldn’t be
utterly revolted at such a thing happen-
ing. But there may be other things hap-
pening which are just as revolting, but
which don’t revolt us simply because
they are accepted. The job of writers
like Shaw and Dickens is to make us
self-conscious of such things, and if we
subsequently forget who performed this
service for us, that is all in the way of
human nature. But it will do no harm to
point out the fact.
“Widowers’ Houses,” “Mrs. Warren’s
Profession” and even “Blanco Posnet”
once made audiences purple with indig-
nation, were banned by the Lord Chan-
cellor and kicked out of the circulating
libraries and no nice young person was
allowed to read them. It is all very well
for Melbourne critics to be sniffish about
Shaw now, but it took 25 years for Mel-
bourne to summon up the intellectual
guts to allow some of those plays to be
presented to it. Mrs. Warren’s profes-
sion, moreover, still flourishes in Mel-
bourne under the nose of the highly
respectable City Council; and the dia-
tribes of George Fox, the Quaker, in
this latest addition to the Shavian canon
are extraordinarily applicable to the be-
havior of some clergy in the present
crisis.
F. S.
Love Has No Resurrection ; E. M.
Delafield (Macmillan). Short stories.
They have imposing titles and the
characters have the orthodox complexes ;
but they’re mainly luv-mag. stuff.
English Spinster: Esther Meynell
(Chapman and Hall). Fictionised life of
Mary Russell Mitford, who wrote Our
Village. Glimpses of Ruskin and Eliza-
beth Barrett Browning. Even when Miss
Mitford’s in her sixties Miss Meynell
treats her as if she were a nice child of
three or a nice pet rabbit, but that’s the
only objection.
Songs from the Dandenongs, words
by Olga Waller, music by Jean Fraser
(Robertson and Mullens, Is. 3d.), is a
series of simple lyrics the object of
which seems to be to instruct kinder-
garten infants in the nomenclature and
appearance of the hilly district round
Melbourne.
An account of the ramming of a
German submarine in 1917, from Frank
Worsley’s Endurance :
We opened fire with the port twelve-pounder
forward. The submarine, of 1000 tons burthen,
was now travelling across our bows at a speed
of eight knots. We were only 600 tons,
and we were bearing down on her beam at
24 knots. We certainly must have looked
like the Angel of Death to those unfortunate
Germans. I gave the order, “Prepare to ram!”
and the crew flattened themselves on the deck.
The ram caught the submarine amidships, tear-
ing her sides open and rolling her beneath us.
We felt a terrific shock, and at the same time
heard the unearthly rasp of tearing steel. She
sank rapidly beneath us, and immediately after-
wards we were shaken by a tremendous ex-
plosion. The sea was boiling up in great
bubbles and masses of foam, while oil spread
over a large area. Amongst the patches of
oil we saw the German captain and the
steersman struggling in the rough water. We
threw them lifebuoys.


.
: ' ■'
Ipgl
||, >j|g > >r ■'■
If/V » ■
*
Wm / : wM
- . ,f-
. .
M A
yflf JB
*>*
f* r
ps? '*
„ M /\
X 1/1
Sr '
V' m
Ki
,
*4?
:••*: ;
_____
:
\
; ’:?
■ ': .. ->1
.
0
as
*k
, $t
so*
*' ql
&/**
a*
oje° , .
O^'
so^
toe'
too’
to' 1
v\V»
,t\e s
' ce "AooO"- V
>nv f ' sV ' T oo a ertv ’
roe
(A'
eV,
re
000 » °
,\?> eS
pVta*
e<o'' 0 "' , o'"*'
A * e
\o9
c °\ „
xS ooe - . Ae tO^° n
vo eoO s '° lo t-
_4t‘\9 e
be upQ o
P o '" iec\*" q ' i . ,
> et> „ V\o< 4e ' fr e<
>°>'' 1 ~,os°“ , „>V'O
,e<«
rei
\\te
V °
<*v>*»*
\o9
oX \oV-o>
o*
i\ 9°
O?
n os^e^ e
et veto?-
ce t oOO'
,_.... „»****«<■*
N*'. Mo W'°
S('<3 e<
P " C tss'• V ' a " • *e<*
> oV, vl o( * **£ '»< '°" 5 \ >'o>
to'0 V °' o' l ®. s**' y^e*
*.***? 5
O copoo*' l '
l\\e
stf»o’
i\\
B \\eA° nC
re^
eooO'T’ >'9 e '°^ e A '°'
\a
JO V eA ;, e
**£>■
o\^° n
QOC
» SS&Sri
7 0
KJG
ĜJ
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd., Sydney.
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE TIME FOR DEVILRY AND MIRTH
BY HAROLD MERCER
i < r* VERYBODY knows that Christmas comes
| but once in a lifetime and it is a season for
I devilry and mirth,” said Mrs. Parsley. “I
don’t believe, though, that people should
divulge in organs of righteous living, doing nothing
but eat and drink, falling upstairs and getting all
enframed with spiritual likker, and having arguments
as if they were married couples! Christmas should be
a time of sweet accordiums. But when there are
people who want to stop Christmas from being
Christmas they are going too far.
“Stop Christmas, did you say?” I exclaimed.
“There never was such an upset as the Christmas
that happened,” Mrs. Parsley pursued. “What with
husbands defiling their wives about giving them pre-
sents, and people getting at daggers withdrawn, as
the saying is, over it, the whole place was in tremors,
<‘YOU’D never think that a man like Mr. Tom
1 Biggar, who was big and jolly even when he
was complaining about why he couldn’t pay the rent,
would start all that. A reg’lar Southerly Bluster, Mr.
Slompack called him, with his habit of slapping people
on the back, even me, which it nearly took my breath
away. Very sorry was I for those children of his,
which children always look forward to Christmas,
with a father who wanted to put an end to it.
“Which those children came here all unbeknownst
to me, or I wouldn’t have let them have the flats.
Not that I don’t like children, which we have all had
to be some time or another ; but flats are no place
for them, and it gave me the surprise of my life the
rlnv nftpr thf'm Bippars came to see them kids sliding
down the bantetersfand racing about the stairs
down the hamsters ana racing aoout tne siairs.
‘what k r the meaning ’of’’this I‘tettofetot’ to**
‘ 8
tt , P ~ D , ‘ -a
Oh, come now, Mrs. Parsley, he says, married
couplessometimes
“ ‘Yes there are a few children ’ savs Mr Biggar
as if he had iust discovered them which him being
the father it was absurd for him to portend that
; h e%ldn h ’t r ’no,ic:d S .hem Ur befo". T
have mentioned that we had some children, but one
is liable to overlook details.’
“‘Mr. Biggar’ I says firmly ‘if you call them
details, I serpently would not have let you this flat
if I had known you had them. Perhaps another little
ferlTavT"or: “‘Xh P T , tm°
ifin Advance ’
“They had let me into the flat, and the look on
that Mrs. Biggar s face which a very nice woman she
seemed, made me feel sorry for her, it was that
anxious. + ,
“ ‘Mr. Biggar will put all his cards on the table,
she says.
M “/ Why> J erta,nly ’ Fll put all my Cards ° n thC
table, says Mr. Biggar.
‘Them cards, it seemed, was only a figmen o
speech, as the saying goes, and a great one for laying
his cards on the table that Mr. Biggar proved. Every
time he wanted to sell anybody a block of land or
something else, which he was always trying to sell
somebody something, he talked about them cards.
“ ‘You see, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Biggar, ‘only
this morning I reproached Mr. Slompack about the
purchase of a block of shares, which I am letting him
j n G n the ground floor. Directly I collect my com.
i w in let you have the rent.’
“Although I didn’t like that talk about letting
people in on the ground floor, that being a phase
used by that Mr. Parsnap who wanted to float me into
a limited debility company, I let them stay.
“ ‘Tom ought to be in a big position ; he’s a very
a ble man, Mrs. Parsley,’ Mrs. Biggar told me. ‘But
he likes to work for Com. Often I tell him he’d be
better off if he got a reg’lar salary, even if it was
only four pounds a week.’
“I couldn’t see myself why he couldn’t make that
Com- pay him a reg > lar salary< Howsoever, we all
have our own troubles, and Mrs. Biggar had hers, no
doubt) though she got on with her husband much
better than most married CoU ples. B ut, although I’m
Peeping Thompson, who hears no good, one morn-
? as I P p * Md the Vl heard her saying that it looked
as ° if it as going to be a very poor Christmas.
« Mr came out Q f tbe fl at looking very
hot an Tno t fs O Uy as he was usual*. § "
damn Christmas! It’s nothing but a
blarsted nuisance’’ he savs and slams the door behind
? arSted nuisance - he says > and slams the aoor Denma
'
~ . .
“ | T was just there that all that tumor had its genius.
1 who should be coming a i ong the corridor when
r ‘ said that but Mr. Bangwelterer who had
No. 3 > and was as S run W as hc was weU off ‘
“‘Quite right!’ he says. ‘I like your sediments,
sjr< j hafe Christmas> It br i ngs o ut a lot of noisy
fools’ . , .„ . h
Mr - Biggar looked a bit took aback, but the
pair went al . ong together, and I could hear Mr. Biggar
sa yi n S that just when business was bad and that Com.
to Sy
the top of the
flat they was still talking in the lounge at t t p
s tairs . and Wassaß t ?f
s X Veeks about what her was
P q g bu hef for Christmas, and he looked ill
evef y
Bigga , r was , ?,f 1 a
have a badge and
fee undert | kers not to buy presents for Christmas.
Hundreds of menll be glad to j ojn up so as they can
save spen ding their money on a lack of principle.’
“ ‘How’ll we work it?’ says Mr. Wassail.
6 ' T»;„„ ar ’ ‘We’ll
make ’em a s luip h ’ Mr Bangwefferer can bJ a precedent,
can be vices- and
an • p a bout us all putting in half
Y-
“Wotcha doin', Van Goff ?”
“ 'Elpin me cobber, Salvador Dali, with a bit o' surrielist bicklayin!
a dollar each as an entrance fee, and getting things
going?’
“All they had been saying about the absolution of
Christmas had seemed stuffed with nonsense to me,
and it surprised me to see them handing money to Mr.
Biggar, after which Bangwelterer said they’d better
have a drink, and they went out. He seemed quite
pleased at being a precedent, and so did the others
about being vices. And what surprised me more was
Mr. Biggar coming in later, all jovial and with bottles
of beer, and paying me some rent.
“It was a nine days’ blunder next day when it was
all in the papers about them men wanting to stop
Christmas being Christmas. There was columns of it
all spread out, and all that Mr. Bangwelterer said, and
Mr. Biggar ; which it sounded very like Mr. Biggar
when he said that the League was laying all its cards
on the table ; and there was talk about people who
were working for that Com. who didn’t get much
money at Christmas.
“The whole place buzzed with incitement over
that, and there was that Mr. Bangwelterer very proud
of all the duplicity he was receiving about the Anty
Christmas League, as they called it. The number of
papers Mr. Bangwelterer bought, it seemed he must
want to send them to his friends so that they would
see his name in print. But the others was like that,
too. From what they said Mr. Biggar knew a man
who was on the papers, and he had put all that in, and
said that the membership of the League was already
many hundreds, which I couldn’t see how it could be
that already, though Mr. Biggar was rushing about and
getting members, too, with his pockets full of money.
<«<TFS absurd!” says Mrs. Wassail. ‘My husband
f says he won’t buy any Christmas presents as a
matter of lack of principle. It’s just meanness ; but
I’m not going to stand that from any husband.’
“Mrs. Wassail always spoke like that as if she had
a lot of husbands. ‘I don’t intend to speak to him
again until he designs from this absurd League.’ But
I must say that if Mrs. Wassail called the way she went
on not talking to her husband I can’t think what would
ever happen if she nagged him.
“Mrs. Biggar was almost in tears. ‘lt’s not like
Tom,’ she said. ‘Tom is so openhearted and generous,
I can’t understand him wanting to despoil such a fine,
kind destitution as Christmas. It quite upset me when
little Dick, poor little soul, asked me, so pathetic,
whether Santy Claus was dead.’
“And there was vases broke in Number 14 when
Mr. Andrews joined them Antys. They wore badges
on their coats now, which Mr. Biggar must have been
very quick to see them attributed to everybody so
early. Like one of them strokes of glazed lightning
he seemed ; only I learnt afterwards that them buttons
had been got cheap, them letters which everybody
thought stood for Anty Christmas League having been
meant for Australian Croakie League, which it had got
them badges made and then had gone broke. Which
that accounted for the design ; everybody thought the
mallets was to knock Christmas on the head, but
they didn’t understand the hoop.
“But nobody knew about that, and they thought
Mr. Biggar was very clever getting them so quick, and
having all that improper gander, as they call it, in the
papers ; for on the days that follered there was a lot
more of it. There was parsons writing in to say that
that Anty League was quite right; Christmas wasn’t
intendered for guzzlings, and all the money spent on
drinking and feasting would be better spent on helping
the indignant. Others said there was too much noise
and it would be better if all the righteous behavior
was done away with. And there was Mr. Biggar talk-
ing about hundreds of members having joined the
League ; and you could tell it was him because he said
that by getting the agritation going just before the
Christmas rush was starting the Anty League had
got in on the ground floor.
“Mr. Slompack was one of them who
was wild about it. He said that Mr.
Biggar serpently had thrown a spaniel
into the wheels, and he called Mr. Bang-
welterer a Miss Anne Throphy, which I
couldn’t understand, Mr. Bangwelterer
not being that sort of man at all.
“‘I believe in Christmas, Mrs.
Parsley,’ said Mr. Slompack. ‘Biggar I
can understand ; the poor chap hasn’t the
money to do what he’d like to do ; but
Bangwelterer just wants to stop other
people’s happiness. And now, because
he’s got a little duplicity, he’s talking
about going into Parliament, and having
Biggar as his security. It’s got the shopkeepers
scared, all this improper gander.’
i < T T was as if there was a war on, with the people
1 taking sides and getting bad-tempered as the
horns of an angry bull about it, especially the women
whose husbands were wearing them badges. The
shopkeepers about here were all upset and said I


shouldn’t allow things like that to go on in my flats.
Poor Mrs. Biggar was quite upset about it.
“ ‘And besides, Mrs. Parsley,’ she tells me, quite
tearful, “it seems terrible to go on like this about not
having poultry for Christmas ; it’s unchristian, and
even though my Tom doesn’t go to church he s not
one of those esthetics who don’t believe in nothing.
And plum pudding, too ; it doesn’t seem quite civilised.
Besides the presents for the children, which he was
always very fond of giving them! It seems to me as
if he’s gone wrong in the head. It’s very trying, you
know, working for Com.’
“ ‘He ought to leave them, if it makes him that
way. He’s certainly started something, Mrs. Biggar.
Why, the whole country’s in an uprise about this Anty
business. Which, you pore thing, I know it’s not your
fault, but it’s going to be a terrible Christmas.’
i i A ND so it was. There was papers pastured on the
walls telling people to have a real holiday, but
no Christmas wastefulness. And there was all them
rows in the place which seemed likely to be like one
of them caravans which fall clashing down the mount-
ing side, when Christmas came. Already Mr. Wassail
went up to the Major’s flat one night to sleep there
because of the way Mrs. Wassail wasn’t speaking to
him; and she went after him when everybody was
asleep and started hammering at the door, saying she
wasn’t going to have her husband spending all night
drinking with his precipitated friends. Then there
was Mrs. Andrews going home to her mother and
coming back and finding that Mr. Andrews wasn’t
home, and making all that fuss about it when the
milkman helped him up the stairs.
“As if it wasn’t bad enough, there were them
Antys quarrelling, too. It was a man named Trubble-
heimer, and well he looked it, who, it appeared, Mr.
Biggar had unrolled as a member. He didn’t live here,
but he kept coming looking for Mr. Biggar, who was
always in and out, and it was mostly out, and missing
him. But I overheard him when he caught Mr. Bang-
welterer and Mr. Wassail on the stairs one day.
“ ‘Where’s this Biggar?’ he demandered. ‘l’m a
member of the dissociation, and I intend to see that
things are done. If Biggar can’t attend to them let
him resign and I’ll be the security.’
“ ‘But Biggar started the whole thing! ’ says Mr.
Wassail. ‘I suppose he’s out getting new members.’
“ ‘Well what’s he doing with the money?’ asks
Mr. Trubbleheimer. ‘lt’s our money. He’s got to
discount to us for it; he’s got no right to spend any of
it without our authorship. If he does, he can be
arrested for embezzlement. And you’re irresponsible,
too, as precedent, Bangwelterer —you, too, Mr. Wassail,
as a vice. You might be necessities after the fact.’
“It gave me quite a shock to hear that, especially
as Mr. Biggar had been paying his rent without talk-
ing about seeing that Com.; and the shock was worse
when Mr. Biggar came in in a new suit of clothes,
which his other one had certainly looked shabby. If
it was embezzlement new clothes wasn’t the right
thing. I was glad that poor Mrs. Biggar, who was
worried enough, hadn’t heard about that. Those two
men seemed worried, too.
“ ‘But look here, Biggar,’ I heard Mr. Bang-
welterer say, coming down the stairs with Mr. Biggar,
and he’s eyes seemed to be on that new suit; ‘some-
thing will have to be done. Trubbleheimer insists on
having everything in orders.’
“ ‘Tell him to put his head in a bag,’ says Mr.
Biggar. ‘l’ve got to see a chap now.’
“That Mr. Trubbleheimer didn’t seem the sort of
man to be told to put his head in a bag with immunity ;
and I don’t think they told him that when he came
back again, hardly had Mr. Biggar gone. Very hot
he spoke all about having found out that Mr. Andrews
was taking his wife for a holiday (that having fol-
lered their rumpus, which it seemed very right and
proper to me, but he said it wasn’t royalty) and there
would have to be a meeting to compel him. Which
he went on to talk about compelling all members who
were disroyal.
“ ‘We’ll put Biggar out. If necessary we’ll perse-
cute him. I’m prepared to act as security myself,’ says
Mr. Trubbleheimer. ‘What’s being done? There hasn’t
been anything in the papers for days.’
“ ‘Certainly there should be more duplicity,’ says
Mr. Bangwelterer. ‘But I’ve got a bit of trouble on
my hands. The employers at Hardman and Cripps are
on strike. They’ve been used to getting a Christmas
bonus, and they’ve been notified it’s not going to be
given this year.’
“‘What’s that got to do with it?’ demanded Mr.
Trubbleheimer.
“ ‘l’m the manager,’ says Mr. Bangwelterer.
< ‘ 'T' HERE was Christmas coming in the streets with
l all them beautiful flowers like there were in the
Garden of Eden, and the poultry that was to be killed
squawking everywhere, and everybody with happy
faces ; but it seemed there was going to be nothing
but trouble, trouble, toiling bubble, as the Bible says,
in these flats. And when I didn’t see Mr. Biggar for
a few days I thought that that Mr. Trubbleheimer,
which a very nasty man he was, must have got out
that persecution, although Mr. Bangwelterer and Mr.
Wassail was against it. It was terrible to think of poor
Mr. Biggar, even if he had wanted to stop Christmas
being Christmas, being arrested right then and them
poor kids left without a father.
“‘I can’t make it out, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mrs.
Biggar. ‘Tom rang me up to tell me not to worry, but
he would have to be away for a few days. He’s not
a man to stay away from home, and I don’t see why
his work for this precious League should keep him
away. Especially as that Mr. Trubbleheimer keeps
coming to our flat to see him, and told me to tell him
there was a meeting on Thursday night. Mr. Trubble-
heimer says he’d better be there for his own sake.
“ ‘I don’t like that Mr. Trubbleheimer,’ added
Mrs. Biggar. ‘He looks like a sheep in wolf’s clothing
to me. Tom says he thinks there’s a salary and wants
his job as security for the league.’
“It didn’t seem to me that that Mr. Trubbleheimer
would have left messages for Mr. Biggar and had him
arrested, too. But you never know ; for if ever there
was a two-faced Judy, as they call them, it was that
Mr. Trubbleheimer. I was almost as worried as that
poor Mrs. Biggar.
“And then Thursday came, and no Mr. Biggar,
and matters in the flats were worse than ever. And
although I couldn’t make headed tails out of it, because
Mrs. Wassail was calling out nasty remarks to Mr.
Wassail, them men, Mr. Bangwelterer and Mr. Wassail
and Mr. Taylor and the Major, were all talking very
disturbed as they went out to the meeting which Mr.
Biggar didn’t know about.
“IT worried me to think of what would happen to
* Mr. Biggar if it hadn’t happened to him already
if he wasn’t there, as how could he be? But there ;
the unscrewable ways of improvidence work in a his-
torical way their blunders to perform! Being all upset
I’d gone out to get a bit of air on a tram ride to
Watson’s Bay, and there when I got back was a noise
going on in the flats almost as if there was a righteous
organ. I was astoundered; only I was glad it was a
jolly organ, not one of them undomesticated quarrels
that there had been so much of.
“It was Mrs. Wassail I met at the top of the stairs.
Looking happy she was.
“ ‘I came to look for you, Mrs. Parsley,’ she says.
‘They want you at the party.’
“ ‘What party?’ I said.
“ ‘Why, the Biggars’,’ she said. ‘Mr. Biggar came
home with a lot of friends all of them laden up with
parcels—you never saw such a procession! —and Mr.
Slompack lent them his flat, too, so that they’d have
more room. He’s up there and they want you to
come along and have a drink and some cake.’
“If ever a woman was flappergasted, it was me
when I looked in on that vestal scene, as the poet
calls it. There was people all over the place laugh-
ing and drinking ; decorations strung across the room,
and even a Christmas-tree in the corner, all tinsel and
lights and them children with them toys looking as
happy as Larry. Which, directly he saw me, Mr.
Biggar came over with a bottle of wine and a glass,
and Mrs. Biggar came, too.
“‘Ha, ha!’ laughs Mr. Biggar. ‘You see we’re
at it, Mrs. Parsley. I couldn’t hold it up till Christmas.
Come in and enjoy yourself.’
“It astoundered me ; but I felt a bit sick when
I saw all he must have spent, and thought about that
embezzlement and the meeting them Antys were
holding.
“ ‘But,’ I gaspered, ‘I thought you didn’t like
Christmas, Mr. Biggar.’
“ ‘Me?’ laughs Mr. Biggar. ‘I love it. It’s a great
time. Why, I could hardly hold myself until I’d got
my first week’s screw.’
“ Tom has a regular job. It’s a big firm, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mrs. Biggar, all happy and excited. ‘And
it’s a year’s contract; and much more than four
pounds a week. The firm was depressed by Tom’s
disorganising ability; and he had to work right
through three whole nights, sleeping on the job, to help
derange for the final Christmas rush.’
“ ‘My disorganising ability! ’ laughs Mr. Biggar.
‘No, Mrs. Parsley ; I’ll lay my cards on the table.
They want to stop me from carrying on that Anty
Christmas business.’
“ ‘Traitor! ’ says a voice behind me in the door-
way. And when I turned round and saw Mr. Trubble-
heimer, Mr. Bangwelterer and Mr. Wassail there it
seemed to me that that there Name’s This had arrived.
I suspected that at the back, where there was others,
would be them detectives to arrest poor Mr. Biggar.
“But he only laughed.
“ ‘You sold the League,’ says Mr. Trubbleheimer.
‘Well, you’re finished! I’m security now, and you’ll
have to hand over all the money and the list of
members, or we’ll persecute you.’
“ ‘Oh, you’re welcome,’ laughs Mr. Biggar. ‘You
wanted my job, Trubbleheimer, from the start, and
you can have it. But there’s nothing much in it.
There’s only about forty members, and the bills for
those posters are still owing.’
‘“Only forty members!’ exclaims Mr. Trubble-
heimer, which you could see the disappointment on
his face.
“‘Too right!’ says Mr. Biggar. ‘Only for that
newspaper boost, which a friend of mine reckoned was
a good story, there wouldn’t have been anything in
the blarsted silly League at all. Only I was hard-up, I’ll
say frankly, when that idea came, and saw the chance
of raising a few bob, I wouldn’t have had it on my
mind. Well, I’ve got a good job now, and we’re in-
cubating. Come in and join us, won’t you, gentle-
men? You drink, don’t you?’
“‘Too right I do!’ says Mr. Wassail, stepping
right in and going over to Mrs. Wassail quite friendly.
But the others didn’t. They seemed on the horns of a
tenterhook.
“ ‘Come in, gentlemen! ’ says Mr. Biggar. ‘lt’s
Christmas.’
“Which it seemed a funny thing for a man to say
who’d been talking of stopping Christmas ; but it was
only Mr. Trubbleheimer that seemed to mind. As
Mr. Wassail told him, quite hot, if he didn’t like to
stay he’d better get. There was enough members of
that Anty-Christmas League there, celebrating
Christmas, to outvote him or any trouble he wanted
to make.’
“I said,” concluded Mrs. Parsley, “that them who
want to stop Christmas being Christmas go too far.
And that’s what they did at that party. Why, they
was asking the milkman to have drinks with them
before they went to bed. And the worst of it all was
getting that Mr. Bangwelterer, who had hated
Christmas, up to his flat. Which he wanted to talk to
everybody about how his employers were going to get
their bonus, and all about his name having been in
the papers and he was going to go in for Parliament.”
THE LAST PRIVATE HOUSE
IN YORK-STREET.
BY GERALD DILLON.
IF you steer a course due west out of The Bulletin
Office, 252 George-street, Sydney, you will, if you
have negotiated all the perils of the street safely
and turned the proper corner, find yourself ascend-
ing Church Hill. About a century ago the Govern-
ment Treasury was housed in an unpretentious build-
ing on the left-hand side of Church Hill going
towards York-street; and here crowds used to gather
to witness the arrival of the four-horse coach carry-
ing gold from the Turon, Abercrombie or Araluen.
The coach used to dash up in fine style, with its armed
escort cantering alongside. In the early ’fifties that
was one of the sights of the capital.
York-street lies nowadays between the southern
end of the Bridge and the Town Hall. In the old
days York-street extended from the south entrance of
the Military Barracks to the Old Burial Ground which,
in the ’sixties, was handed over to the municipal folk
as the site of the Town Hall. Once upon a time this
same York-street was the main thoroughfare leading
to the country, but it lost this distinction when Gov-
ernor Macquarie straightened out George-street.
And now a “Coffee Inn” sign proclaims that the
last private house in York-street has gone for ever.
That house had fascinated me for years past. It
stood there as a veritable oasis in a desert of commer-
cialised activity. In front, a large palm-tree shrouded
in decent privacy whatever life went on on the other
side of the windows of No. 13. I often wondered
about that house, how much longer it would be there,
and why it had been overlooked in the march of com-
mercialism. I never saw any stir about it, but I was
always curious to know who lived there, and why.
One day I went up and rang the bell.
It was a frightfully private-looking house, witn
entrance at the side. The hall door was brass-bound,
and as I stood there listening to the echoes of the
bell I knew that it would be heard in the basement
kitchen by a maid whose uniform of decent black
was relieved only by the perfect whiteness of her cap,
apron and face. I had not the least idea what I was
going to say when she had finally ascended to the hall
door and opened it to me.
“Could I interest you in a vacuum cleaner?” Per-
haps I could gain admittance that way, and then, by
a series of camouflaged inquiries, discover how it
was that this last stronghold of conservatism was still
flying its private-house flag in York-street. I felt
sure that the mistress of the house would be sitting
above in the drawing-room, with her feet on a
hassock, and a lace cap, with a dash of mauve in
it, perched on top of her snow-white hair. Her head
would be resting lightly against an antimacassar, and
through a pair of gold filigree-work lorgnettes she
would be reading one of Miss Braddon’s novels, not
entirely without a sense of guilt.
I decided finally to let the spirit move me. If
the maid were confidential-looking I might approach
the matter —“Does Mrs. Ebenezer Upperty live here?”
She might fall into a reminiscent mood. “Well, as
woman and girl, I’ve been here for sixty years, and
I never heard tell of any Upperties round here. But
if you like to step inside I could ask the mistress. I
know she has a street directory. It’s an old one,
dated 1865.” Once inside I could pursue my inquiries
about the house.
The door opened very cautiously, as if it were
cn a chain. There was the maid, and there was I
clearing my throat of wholly imaginary obstructions.
I stifled a few imaginary sneezes. Eventually the spirit
did move me, but in a wholly unexpected direction,
and I found myself a voice which I scarcely
recognised as my own —“I suppose you haven’t got
any rooms vacant here?” Had I said “Have you got
any empty beer-bottles?” the question could hardly
have appeared more out of plumb with the atmo-
sphere of that strictly private-looking house. The maid
looked at me for a few moments before replying in
a very pained tone: “There are quite a number of
spare rooms in this house, but this is not a tenement
house. This is a private residence”
In that way I was afforded for one very brief
moment my first and last glimpse into the hall of
the last private house in York-street. In actual fact
its last owner was an old lady, bedridden, but deter-
mined to die in that house. She had successfully
resisted all encroachments on her own sense of the
fitness of things. Gas had illuminated the house until
the other day. Everything was preserved there as
it had always been. In that house at least, time had
stood still.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j4shl 'Mhe ofta'ie meUoumeMMuUfcuq/ad
LONDON BRIDGE.
London Bridge is the most famous
bridge in the world. None other is
so well known, and in so many
variety of ways. Even in nursery
days most will recall the line, though
the rest of the verse be forgotten,
“London Bridge is falling down.”
For the first mention of London
Bridge one has to go back close on
iooo years. During 1016, Canute, of
real and legendary fame, was busy
on one of his sieges of the old town.
Intending to attack the city from the
river, he found his advances delayed
by a bridge, strongly fortified and
well defended. This is the first and
only reference to such a structure.
By whom or when built will, in all
human probability, never be known.
London Bridge is as much a part of
London as, say, the Tower. . Its his-
tory is as varied almost as that of the
great Metropolis political, social
and commercial. During the intem-
perate reign of William Rufus, when
the noble Westminster Hall was
founded, it was Rebuilt. It is not
necessary to enter into a recital of
the alterations it has witnessed
through the centuries. Innumerable
pictures have rendered its appearance
at varying periods familiar to every-
one. The visitor today in regarding
this great artery of commerce, for
such it is, sees a location wheron
Britain’s story for a thousand years
may largely be read. It provides also
a barometer, so to speak, of the popu-
lation growth of London as illus-
trated by demands of traffic. Cer-
tainly so recently as 1839 the traffic
was “dense,” but not to be compared
with the picture it presents in this
year of grace.


WINGS OVER EUROPE.
“The arrival of the first Canadian division in Britain was followed by the publication of details of the Empire air-training scheme. Estimated cost is six hundred
million dollars, and instruction will be given at 67 bases in Canada, the staff numbering 40,000.”
Prussian Eagle: "Heil Hitler—and Heaven help him!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE NON-STARTER POLICY.
Not six months ago most Australians were prepared
for or resigned to the probability of a Labor victory
at the Commonwealth election next year. Very few
would now give Labor a dog’s chance, unless the elec-
tion is preceded by peace. The people are anything
but satisfied with the Menzies Government’s war
measures, but they know that the Government believes
in the war and, in its fashion, is doing its best. They
have good reason for doubting whether Labor is keen
on the war, and they realise that if Labor had the run-
ning of it Australia’s war effort would be a disgrace.
Labor can’t win a Commonwealth election with-
out carrying N. S. Wales, and after the exhibition
given in the Sydney Domain on December 17 by repre-
sentatives of the N.S.W. Federal and State Parliaments
Labor will never carry N. S. Wales while there is a
war on. On the platform were Mr. Ward, M.H.R.,
Mr. McKell, M.L.A. (Mr. Lang’s successor), the
general secretary of the A.L.P., the president of the
Left Wing Labor Council and Mr. Donald Grant,
M.L.C. All the gentlemen let themselves go to the
effect that Australia shouldn’t send troops abroad,
mustn’t have national training or service (“Labor,”
the general secretary boomed, “will fight with all its
strength the introduction of conscription in Australia,”
although the Act says every Australian not under 18
or over 60 is “liable to service in Australia in the
defence forces in time of war”) and should restrict
its exertions to making money out of the war or trying
to make money.
“Labor stands for adequate defence of the Aus-
tralian nation, the maintenance and integrity of the
British Commonwealth of Nations and opposition to
the transport of troops overseas.” Thus Mr. McKell.
“We can best help to maintain that integrity by attend-
ing to our own defences and assisting Britain by pro-
viding her with munitions, foodstuffs and other neces-
sary commodities for the successful prosecution of
the war.” And, of course, Britain can “best help”
Australia by paying for all the “munitions, food-
stuffs and other commodities” and by transporting
them all, letting the officers and men of the Royal
Navy and the merchant navy take all the risks and
make all the sacrifices.
These ignoble sentiments are not confined to the
gentlemen who spoke from the Domain platform.
They have been uttered —certainly with a nicer choice
of language —by Mr. Curtin and repeated by Mr.
Forde. They are the sentiments of Mr. Lang and Mr.
Beasley. There is no love lost between some of these
politicians —indeed, faction-fighting has been resumed,
and it is predicted that there will be at least two
Labor “parties” in N. S. Wales after the Easter con-
ference—but they and their friends and unfriends
are of the same mind about the war and the part in it
they assign to Australia—the unspeakably contemptible
part of non-starter.
A day after the outbreak in the Domain, the first
Canadian division arrived in Britain. So Canada is
not going to be a non-starter. And the successful
passage of the Canadian troops disposes of the least
unworthy excuse for the cry that Australia should be
a mercenary spectator while. Britain is fighting for its
life. If the attitude of other Great Powers is such that
the Canadian Government has no qualms about send-
ing so many of its soldier sons abroad and preparing
to send so many more, and if they can be carried in
perfect safety across the Atlantic, the Australian Gov-
ernment need have no qualms and troops can be car-
ried in perfect safety across the Indian Ocean.
Three days after the Domain demonstration, the
Deputy Prime Minister of Maoriland arrived in Mel-
bourne on his way back from London. His Dominion
also has rejected the role of mercenary spectator. On
the contrary, its Labor Government began recruiting
an expeditionary force before the Australian Govern-
ment did, and plans to send as many soldiers as may
be required. As for airmen—and Maoriland-born
pilots and observers, hundreds of them, have already
distinguished themselves in the Royal Air Force —Mr.
Fraser said in Melbourne that, “in addition to partici-
pating in the Empire air scheme, New Zealand will
send 650 pilots and 650 air-crew and technical personnel
to the R.A.F. each year.” Presumably if Labor were
in control of Australia’s war effort, there would be
no Australian participation in the Empire air scheme,
nor any organised contribution to the R.A.F.; and if
the Royal Navy had asked for an Australian cruiser
to help in running down the Graf Spee —in the action
against which the mostly Maoriland crew of the
Achilles won deathless glory—the request would have
been sullenly refused.
Australian Labor has not dared to condemn
Maoriland Labor for its active participation in the
war. That would be too impudent, and too incon-
sistent with its paeans of praise for Maoriland Labor’s
general legislation and administration, which have
been heard off and on for upwards of three years. But
Australian Labor can’t have it both ways. If active
participation is the right policy for Maoriland it must
be the right policy for Australia. If non-participation
is justified by the situation at home and the actual
or probable course of events abroad Maoriland Labor
must be wrong. It is so little conscious of being wrong,
that it is preparing to add extensively to its already
excellent record, and if it can’t get men enough by the
means hitherto employed it may even resort to con-
scription—the possibility has already been mentioned
by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
And while the non-starter programme was being
advocated in the Domain, the Finns had reached the
eighteenth day of their splendid stand against the Red
invaders. It says little for Australian Labor that there
has been no official condemnation of the monstrous
Red crime against the decent little democratic republic.
Some of its Left Wing elements in Sydney and Mel-
bourne are actually cheering on the invaders. Yet if
the subject is distasteful to Labor for that reason, and
others, it deserves to be studied by the leaders of the
party for its significance to Australia.
How is it that a tiny State with little more than
half the population of the Commonwealth has been
able to defend itself for a month against what Labor’s
Left Wing has claimed a thousand times to be the
mightiest force the world has ever seen? Not because
the Finns have gambled with the existence of their
republic on the chance of there being sufficient armed
and trained volunteers about when an enemy chose
to strike, as Labor is prepared to gamble with the
existence of Australia. If their rulers had been so
mindful of votes, and so careless of their nation’s fate,
Finland wouldn’t have lasted 48 hours. Finland has
held the invading hordes at bay, in the process pro-
viding a lasting inspiration and example to countries
like Australia, because every Finn fit to bear arms
had to learn how to defend his country, and accepted
the obligation manfully. Army, air force and coast
defence force were recruited on the principle of uni-
versal service, every citizen being liable to serve “from
the age of 17 to the age of 60.”
All young men who have reached the age of 21
are summoned to active service. The period of service
is generally 350 days; for those appointed to be trained
as officers or non-commissioned officers of reserve,
440 days. At the end of this service the soldier remains
in the first reserve to the age of 40. The first reserve
contains periods of active training, in all 40 to 60 days.
The second reserve is divided into three classes. To
the first class belong the conscripts who, after their
service in the reserve, are relegated to the second
reserve (men of 40-60); to the second, the conscripts
who are considered incapable of active service in
peace-time (men of 21-60); to the third, young men
(17-21) who cannot on account of their youth yet be
enrolled as conscripts.
At the beginning of 1938 the Finns had an active army
of 33,000 and could call up about 370,000 reservists.
Australia at the same time had 34,600 militiamen,
enlisted for three years and trained 12 days a year,
that being the long result of the Labor “policy” that
“suspended” compulsory training and smashed an
organisation which would have been of priceless value
in this war. ...
Australia did not want this war, but being in it
there is only one thing for Australia to do and that is
to go its hardest. “Moderation in war is imbecility.”
If Labor were in control of the Australian end of the
war, and it were suffered to reduce its selfish and
childish notions to practice, though the enemy would
be delighted allied and associated nations would find
harsher words than “imbecility” for Australia’s per-
formance.
Nostrums in Season.
Past experience shows that anything that has been
fashionable in England is presently fashionable in
Australia. Therefore this country is due shortly to
hear its old familiar set of yapping oracles bawling
the miraculous merits of the latest panacea for rid-
ding the world of war and establishing everlasting
peace.
It is now called Federal Union or World Federa-
tion. Like the League of Nations, it is an American
patent, but neither this latter fact nor the ludicrous
career of the League has prevented it from being
eagerly taken up in England. It will be as eagerly
taken up in Australia for certain. There is evidently
no limit to credulity and gullibility in this idea of run-
ning the world by a committee. In this one respect,
at least, there is nothing the matter with the birth-
rate. It has doubled. They are now born at the rate
of two a minute.
That the League should have had the following
it once boasted in Australia is one of the most extra-
ordinary things about the history of that most ordinary
excuse for evading temporarily unpopular duties of
statesmanship. It never at any time had more than
an academic interest in the Pacific. It had not the
slightest power in America on one side of these waters
or in Asia on the other. At the height of such strength
as it ever had it was a European show almost exclu-
sively. It was a mock federation of some European
Powers, with other satellite sprat and tiddler peoples
gathered about them. Bemused Australia and Maori-
land were among the minnows.
These two countries especially —being young and
raw and full of foolish hope—had their very exist-
ence jeopardised by it; indeed, they are not yet out
of the bogs it led them into. Politicians in both places
saw in it the excuse they badly wanted at the time for
evading then unpopular and distasteful, though vitally
necessary, legislation. It may be no accident that
the finest feathered mimics in the world are to be
found hereabouts. Their counterparts masquerading
as statesmen took up the Baldwinish parrot-cry, “The
Covenant of the League is the cornerstone of our
foreign policy.” They paid their countries’ dues to it,
and their countries, for this negation of statesmanship,
paid them —as statesmen!
Apologists for the League have filled the air and
the columns of the nostrum press with excuses for the
failure of their great cure-all. It somehow got adul-
terated, was watered down, and then finally was thrown
to the cat. This is an obsession with them, and they
will go on explaining the awful flop till doomsday, or
until they get enough dupes together to start adminis-
tering the substitute dope they are now concocting.
The danger in all this is that it distracts public
attention from an aspect of the League’s calamitous
existence far more important than that nostrum’s
failure. Its apologists say that it was a wonderful
ideal, its failure a great calamity. That need not be
disputed, if “wonderful” is the right adjective for a
nostrum composed of woolly notions wrapped up in
romantic sentimentalism. More important for Aus-
tralia and Maoriland —and Britain, too—to keep very
clearly in mind is the disastrous influence the same
League had for many years in frustrating their defence
measures and endangering their chance of survival.
Now that another nostrum to replace it is as good as
here, it needs to be insistently emphasised that the
League is directly responsible for desperate efforts now
having to be made —at appalling cost to ensure the
safety and survival of these countries.
Without the League as a blind the timeserving
politicians who infested these countries at the time
would never have dared to permit the total eclipse of
defence measures. There stood the League. It was
remote, it was impotent; but its remoteness enhanced
rather than lessened its value to provincial minds, and
its impotence had still to be demonstrated. Against
the few who insisted that it could do nothing to pro-
tect Australia and Maoriland, even if its European
assembly could be imagined as interested in such out-
landish places, there were a hundred professors, news-
paper and radio oracles, stalwarts of the League of
Nations Union, sentimental bishops—limelighters all
—to assert that the League had banished war from
the face of the earth, that brotherly friendliness and
goodwill reigned in the hearts of all men thereon.
This claptrap suited the temporary office-holders.
The war had left painful memories, and this was ex-
tended to make anathema also everyone and every-
thing that could be associated with the worst of
human depravities. Men in uniform were no proper
sight for civilised society—belittle them, traduce them ;
away with them! Guns and all other fighting machines
were the signs of decadence—scrap them ; tow the
warships out to sea and sink them!
Moreover —as the office-holders realised —defence
cost money. If the country could be fobbed off with
the idea that paying a mere £60,000 a year towards the
upkeep of the League was sufficient defence expendi-
ture that was splendid. The office-holder, not having
to insist on millions for real defence nor on such an
unpopular, though essential, measure as compulsory
national service, was thereby assured a safe seat, and
the safety of the country could go to the devil. It is
painful to think about now, but it is true, that in that
drugged period not a solitary statesman arose in these
parts ready to hazard his political safety by telling the
country the unpopular truth. On the other hand, poli-
ticians of all parties lent themselves to telling the
people what at that time the people wanted most to
hear —that the League of Nations was omnipotent and
defences therefore a waste of money.
What politician, Pooh-Bah professor, newspaper
or radio oracle, League of Nations Unionist or senti-
mental bishop can today stand forth and say he was
no party to the imposing of that sorry hoax? The
measure of their folly is the millions now being poured
out like water in a frantic effort to recover the position
that was given up in the hallowed name of the League
of Nations. And now already they are concocting
their new cure-all. The war is yet to be fought. If
it is fought, it will be at frightful cost, in money, lives
and suffering. It will more and more become
anathema, as war always should be. But everything
associated with it will become anathema, too, and
that is a different matter. Then the cure-all purveyors
will be louder than ever; the new hoax of Federa-
tion — a mock European Federation —will be palmed
off on these countries of the Pacific as sufficient for
their defence and survival. Dismiss the troops, abolish
compulsory training, scrap the guns, sink the ships.
The old familiar fool’s circle.
Are Australia and Maoriland trying to fall for
that again?


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Position of Italy.
All Europe is talking about the speech delivered by
Count Ciano, the Italian Foreign Minister, in the
Fascist Chamber at Rome in the presence of Signor
Mussolini and “crowds of diplomats. ’ Editors and
radio commentators who have been wrong all along
were beginning to cherish the illusion—the latest of
many —that Italy would come into the war against
Germany. Of this there is not the remotest possibility ;
and no good can come of any more wishful thinking
about it.
The position, as outlined by Count Ciano, is that
Italy and Germany have been allied since May, and
the alliance remains, though evidently, as in the case
of the old Triple Alliance, the terms left Italy free
to remain out of a German war in w'hich Italian in-
terests were not concerned. On August 21, Count
Ciano said, “I received a message from Herr von Rib-
bentrop to the effect that he was going to Moscow to
sign a pact with Russia.” Ten days later “Italy decided
on a pacific attitude,” meanwhile “taking precautions
for its national safety.”
Italy’s intention not to fight was made known to the
German Government and no other. That was the
reason for the telegram from the Reich stating that
Germany did not think it necessary to ask Italy for
assistance.
As for Poland, Signor Mussolini had on March
27 “warned the British Government of the possible
consequence of unconditional guarantees to that coun-
try.” Britain and France were to blame for the
Russo-German pact, because “if they had ignored
Russia Germany would have found a way to do like-
wise” ; then “Poland would have been the last country
to be involved in Germany’s claim for a re-
vision of the peace treaties that have lacerated
Europe.” The object of the German arrangement
with Moscow was to keep Russia out of the encircle-
ment policy and to keep it neutral.
- References to the British and French Governments
were not cordial. Those Governments were accused of
having “designs in the Mediterranean which conflict
with Italian interests.” The Duce, for his part, had
had “a long fight against the dangerous aberrations of
reparations, military guarantees and collective
security,” a formula “based on the illusion of keep-
ing Europe in a state of marble-like immobility.” Italy
had sought to relieve the position by proposing a
Four-Power Pact and a plan of disarmament. Its
“realistic attitude” had “prevented the war from
spreading.” It would “continue to follow the de-
velopment of events, ever ready, if possible, to give
again its contribution towards world peace ; equally
determined to protect its interests on land and sea and
its future as a Great Power.”
Not very friendly or comforting. But it is better
for people to know clearly where Italy stands than
to allow their minds to be stuffed with another fool-
ish fancy by the imbeciles who were so sure that the
first shot fired in the war would bring the U.S.A. in on
our side.
Australian Commands for Australians!
The resignation of Air Vice-Marshal Goble at the
moment when a vast air-defence scheme is on the point
of inauguration is a blow to the Government and a
loss to the R.A.A.F-
The Air Vice-Marshal has maintained silence
about his reasons for resigning, but, according to
Colonel T. E. White, one of the first air expeditionaries
of the last war, the Government ignored the R.A.A.F.’s
chief-of-staff so much that he “found his position un-
bearable.” Colonel White proceeded to declare that
the method proposed for participation in the Empire
scheme is “a complete sell-out for the R.A.A.F.”
Under the present scheme officers will be sent from
England to take Australian commands which could
well be held by Australians. The vague measures
proposed by the Government to preserve the identity of
the R.A.A.F. overseas are far too feeble a foundation
on which to build a lasting Australian air tradition.
Vague and feeble they are. Mr. Menzies says R.A.A.F.
identity will be preserved “as far as possible.... as
far as that practice can be attained.”
Air Vice-Marshal Goble was appointed head of
the R.A.A.F. at the beginning of this year. Air Vice-
Marshal Williams had held the position from the be-
ginning of the R.A.A.F., having served the Common-
wealth in the air ever since it had owned a machine.
That officer would have given way to an Englishman
to meet the views of Air Marshal Ellington had it
not been for public opinion.
The only thing against Air Vice-Marshal Williams
was that, though he had a very fine war record and
had passed the Imperial Defence and Royal Air Force
colleges, he was out of touch with the most recent
developments in British aircraft and technique. Not
that it mattered much, because the Commonwealth
Government had consistently failed to secure any
really up-to-date British aircraft.
Air Vice-Marshal Williams went to England for
two years, and was given one of the senior adminis-
trative commands —the Coastal Group. Air Vice-
Marshal Goble was appointed to replace him for the
period of his absence.
Nobody could impugn Air Vice-Marshal Goble’s
modern experience. He had just returned after three
years’ service with the R.A.F. He had been Deputy-
Director of Operations at the Air Ministry in London.
For 18 months he had commanded the second-largest
bomber group in the Empire. An air-commodore and
two wing commanders were on his staff, and he had six
self-contained R.A.F. stations under his control, with
two city territorial squadrons.
The Dominion training scheme was produced out
of a hat after war broke out. The first suggestion was
that everything should be centred in Canada. That
was too much for Australia but theie is a curious
indefiniteness about the plan which has been adopted.
Late last year, Sir Kingsley Wood, the British Air
Minister, said in the Commons, as quoted by the
“United Service Review”:-
Canada, Australia and New Zealand are co-
operating in training pilots for the Royal Air Force.
At that time Australia had heard of no plan of training
which could warrant such a statement by a British
Minister.
Colonel White is right in saying that Parliament
should deal with the air-training scheme. Expenditure
over three years is to cost at least £50,000,000, but no
detailed statement was made by the Prime Minister
till Parliament had rushed into recess.
Meanwhile, everything should be done to retain
the services of Air Vice-Marshal Goble and to make
use of all the air, naval and military talent available in
the Commonwealth.
If there is any doubt in the minds of Ministers
about the air position in particular, a look at the
R.A.F. List should reassure them. In the R.A.F. there
are many Australians and Maorilanders holding re-
sponsible positions who would be serving their own
countries if justice had been done in the past to our
defence necessities, and if Ministers had thought in
Australian rather than British terms.
A New Conspiracy of Silence.
“Pawang”: The most striking film in Victoria at
the moment is “Damaged Goods.” I asked a friend
whether he had seen it. “Oh, we know all about
that subject,” he said. But do we?
The campaign against syphilis in Australia was
launched about 30 years ago. Up to that time no
politician ever mentioned syphilis, a daily newspaper
editor would have taken a fit if the word had slipped
into his columns, and it was never spoken in polite
society. Then James Edmond, of The Bulletin, took
up the cudgels. A master of polemics, he jeered at
the conspiracy of silence, unearthed the horrifying
statistics and made utter fools of the people who
rushed to protect innocence and purity from his
onslaught.
As William James said, a new idea is first de-
nounced as scandalous and its originator as a villain ;
then it is accepted ; finally the people who previously
denounced it think they thought of it themselves. This
is what happened in Australia. At first a few indi-
viduals took courage. The subject began to be argued
on the public platform. Here and there a member
of a Parliamentary Opposition embarrassed the Gov-
ernment with pointed questions. Public health authori-
ties began to get a bad conscience. Last of all the
doctors abandoned their complacency and became
scientific. It took years for that last stronghold of
obscurantism the daily paper to wake up to the situa-
tion, but one day some editor swallowed hard and
passed copy on the awful subject up to the com-
positors.
After that everything was taken for granted.
Health authorities issued posters, warning notices were
.pasted up in lavatories and non-notification of the
disease became a criminal offence, punishable with
imprisonment. James Edmond’s courage was vin-
dicated.
Now, however, in an age which has brought a
great increase of “irregular” competition with the
prostitute, there is a fresh conspiracy of silence.
It is more difficult to eradicate than the old
one because it is based on the assumption that every-
thing is all right: a distasteful matter is in the hands
of the responsible authorities and there is no neces-
sity for anybody else to talk about it. What is con-
veniently forgotten is that the responsible authorities
are not only doctors, health boards and police but
parents.
How many parents ask themselves whether they
could discuss syphilis with their children with no
more embarrassment than they discuss tuberculosis or
infantile paralysis? If all parents went in for such
self-questioning they would discover that their belief
that venereal disease is no longer a menace is not
based on any statistical knowledge but is an evasion of
the same feelings of shame which produced the disas-
trous results for the husband, the wife and the baby
in Brieux’s drama.
As the doctor said to young Dupont when he
married, people believe what they want to believe,
unfortunately.
Churchill Again.
That section of the British press and Parliament which
bludgeoned Mr. Chamberlain into bringing Mr. Win-
ston Churchill from the back benches into the
Admiralty as First Lord must be getting black looks
from those who are trying to run the war by co-
operation among the departments charged with the
job.
The first division of Canadians arrived in Eng-
land on Monday of last week. The press knew of it,
but had been advised by the censorship that the War
Office did not want the news published until Wednes-
day. No doubt it wished to give the Canadians time
to get settled into camp before the fact of their
arrival was made public, and no doubt it had other
reasons.
Loyally the press obeyed the request for silence.
The feelings of editors and War Office chiefs can be
imagined when, on the Monday night, Mr. Churchill
rushed to the microphones and blared the news to all
and sundry. There was an immediate outcry from the
press, which demanded instant reform of the whole
system of censorship. It should have demanded the
censure of Churchill.
Ministry of Information and censorship have
been under fire since the war began. In recent weeks
some sort of order had come out of the initial chaos
and it appeared that smooth co-operation was on the
way. It is evident that, so far as the Canadians’ arrival
was concerned, those controlling the information were
working together, and had not the First Lord been
so hungry for public notice there would have been no
kick coming from anybody. In 1939, as in 1914, he
will advertise himself and meddle in the affairs of the
Army.
Cables published in Australia described the affair
as one of the worst censorship muddles to date.
Unfair: it was just another Churchill blunder.
Still Improving.
Wheat prices were still on the up-grade last week,
latest Wheat Board quotes (Sydney) being 3s. 9{d. for
bulk and 4s. Oyd. for bagged. Canberra at last took
action regarding storage, assuming power under the
National Security Act to commandeer buildings and
cornsacks for the purpose.
The Wheat Board has decided to grant three-
fifths of the amount being paid on wheat delivered to
sidings to growers who provide proper storage on the
farm. Licensed receivers are to see that farm stores
are adequate to protect the grain from damage.
There is likely to be speculation under the sys-
tem whereby a farmer receives 2s. 10yd. on rail at
ports and a certificate for the amount of grain de-
livered. This certificate is to be the basis of future
payments from the pool should realisation exceed
2s. 10yd. Canberra is being pushed to permit growers
to sell certificates, though it is doubtful if any of the
pushing comes from growers themselves. The board
should see to it that certificates are not negotiable, for
it is certain that nobody would buy them unless pretty
sure of showing a profit.
The grower should get every farthing of increased
prices, and speculators should not be allowed to
horn in.
All things considered, the industry faces 1940 with
a better chance of getting out of its difficulties than
it appeared to have a month ago. Shipping is still the
main problem, and the need for Australia to provide
its own becomes more urgent every day.
Youth.
“0.T.” comes out full of fight:
A witness before the N. S. Wales Youth Employment
Select Committee declared: “It is the right of every growing
child to have the benefit of any culture or knowledge that
we have, to have a job in which he can express himself, and
to take his part in community affairs as an equal citizen. If
money is not available to give every child that right, then
our system is not Christian, is not sane and is not worth
living under for those who have not.”
Money can’t change a mediocrity into an individualist, nor
create a mind in a body born without one. The Labor move-
ment long ago recognised the plain fact that most, men are
born to work under authority. Hence unionism.
Australia compels its children to attend free schools.
There they are taught to read, write and count. It has often
been said that they are not taught to think, but it remains
debatable whether this can be taught unless the pupil is natur-
ally inclined that way, and then he will think anyway.
The child goes from school able to read newspapers,
books, periodicals. In their columns the world parades before
him. All political creeds display their wares. He can, if
he will, learn history, geography, economy and life. If he
cares to exercise his mind there will be enough to keep him
thinking from morning till night.
But does youth, in the mass, want to think? Does it
care what forces operate to provide it with food, clothing
and entertainment? Does it seek to understand the truth?
Does it question every proposition put before it, or does it
accept without question the fantasies, the covert suggestions
which pour from the printing presses?
Youth yields to instinct rather than reason. It is gregari-
ous; it fears originality because it fears ridicule; it loves
demonstration and will blindly follow the man or the party
who can make the most noise or let off the brightest fire-
works; its cruelty and intolerance are incredible. Teaching
youth to think may be difficult, but that is not astonishing,
for it has to be taught cleanliness, moderation and thrift,
things that should come naturally to anyone capable of
thinking.
An Australian youth leaves school as well equipped educa-
tionally as his compeers in any other part of the world. He
is turned loose in a land brimful of opportunity of all kinds,
a land short of population, short of the hands to do the
work it needs, ready to repay handsomely anyone who has
the initiative to earn it.
Various organisations begin to assail him with their doc-
trines, chief of which seems to be that the Government should
or should not do this or that. A still small voice may suggest
that he do something for himself, but youth won’t listen to
still small voices. The capering medicine-men can bluff
him any time. He swallows their mumbo-jumbo, is kidded
into believing he’s a hell of a fellow, and goes off to the
pictures or the beach or to meet the girl with a light heart,
glad to have escaped because there was something prodding
at his brain and he has neither the inclination nor the guts
to find out what it was.
In course of time he reaches voting age. Now he is a
man, now he can correct a few of the things he doesn’t like,
now he can exert his “right to the benefit of any culture
or knowledge we have,” now he can “take his part in com-
munity affairs as an equal citizen.” But the medicine-men
are still there; they dangle gew-gaws—sometimes known as
election promises—before his dazzled eyes; they feed him
with cheap sensations; they give him plenty of pap to please
the senses because they know he doesn’t want anything to feed
the mind; and then they prove how well they know him by
forcing him to vote or pay a fine.
Here and there a beardless freak bobs up and says or
does something that suggests he has been thinking. Youth
shies off. It gathers in a mob and eyes this queer specimen
askance, as cattle gather round a strange animal in the
paddock. And, like cattle, youth paws the ground and
bellows, and unless the oddity gets away will gore him.
Plainly, Australia faces a serious problem in regard to
youth employment, but the spouting of highfalutin nonsense
is about as likely to solve it as trying to empty the sea with
a bucket.
If the Select Committee cares to stand near any central
railway station in any Australian city on any week day and
compare the number of flappers going to work with the
number of lads it will get important evidence. If it takes
a quick look over the stagnant country towns, the idle acres
surrounding many of them, and the foolish loading of industry
with excessive taxes, basic-wage fallacies and hampering trans-
port and other restrictions it will be able to present a report
that should shock Australia to its core.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bogaduck”: We had gathered at a
neighbor’s to listen direct to Daventry.
There, came a loud “grunk,” fol-
lowed by a silence which was broken
by a clear and somewhat agitated
voice saying “We are interrupting our
programme for some startling news. The
battle-cruiser Hood and the battleship
Rodney have been torpedoed and sunk in
the North Atlantic. The British army in
France has mutinied. Mr. Chamberlain
has absconded after embezzling the whole
of the latest war loan of fifty million
pounds” When the voice began to
announce that Tasmania had declared
war on Kangaroo Island after repeated
acts of aggression the spell was broken.
Jumping to his feet, our host ran to the
wireless set, looked behind it, grabbed up
a wire, traced it to the next room and
returned with his two schoolboy sons,
one of whom held an old telephone trans-
mitter in his hand. They had rigged up
a relay and had given us a broadcast of
their own from the adjoining room.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: A Sydney Sunday news-
paper—perhaps to offset the competition
of free magazines and kolored komics —
came out with portraits of two lydies.
The more presentable smiled brightly
at her public, and on her breast reposed
a gold cross!
* * * *
“0.T.”: Melbourne “Argus” wants a
national figure to represent Australia as
John Bull represents England, Uncle Sam
the U.S.A. and so on. It says “Hop’s”
Little Boy at Manly is outgrown.
What’s wrong with a half-starved indi-
vidual lying exhausted under a tree in
which roosts a Federal crow watching
six fat State leeches sucking industriously
away at the inert form, which can’t rise
because the Red Tape creeper has over-
grown it, while a Taxation anatomist
carefully plots the body to see if there
are any more veins for the leeches to
tap?
“Spokeshave”: The “Argus” has no
more hope of foisting its effigy on the
Australian public than of getting it to
sing the same national anthem. These
things arrive by accident. John Bull
arrived by accident, and so did Uncle
Sam. It was a pure accident, plus an
exceptional cartoonist, that focused Aus-
tralia on the Little Boy at Manly.
Nobody could have consciously in-
vented that quaint symbol for nascent
Australian manhood; when people
try to do it consciously they pro-
duce some figment of their sentimental
imaginations which embarrasses the ordi-
nary citizen beyond endurance. My can-
didate for the “Argus’s” emblem is an
old lady of mid-Victorian vintage in a
playsuit.
* * * *
“M 8”: If London “Evening Standard”
is right, Neville Cardus intends to come
to Australia in January and settle down
for a time. It is not stated whether he
intends to concentrate on our cricket or
our music. My notion is that he’ll have
a dab at both, and that dailies will either
syndicate his stuff or trot out their best
imitators. So in the dark days of that
total war which is freely forecast for
next February, Australians will be
cheered by such gems of thought as
“Bradman’s magic wand stroked all that
reached him and runs came fortissimo
until one felt that here was a duellist par
excellence , worthy to rank with D’Ar-
tagnan in thrust and parry. I thought
O’Reilly played the soft pedal too long —
a little more expression on the andante
would have been a fitting orchestration
on a day when sun and sky and wind
were propitious.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: A Mr. Lillico got up in the
Speck’s “Parliament” the other day and
launched an attack on that great
tourist asset Port Arthur, declaring it
to be a monument of barbarism and
cruelty which would bring a blush to
the cheek of a Tasmanian aboriginal.
There are no Tasmanian aboriginals left
to raise a blush, and I don’t see why a
contemporary Tasmanian should be
ashamed of the convict settlement at Port
Arthur. A more reasonable cause for
shame is the marked inferiority of the
modern architecture of Hobart to what
the convicts built at Port Arthur.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne City Council hav-
ing won in the dispute with the Defence
authorities over Fawkner Park, Air Force
administration is to be established on the
dusty, windswept space where Wirths’
Circus lately established itself, and where
the soapbox fraternity hold forth —Yarra
Bank. The question as to where to
accommodate the dispossessed orators has
“Mind if We use your electric razor, dad?”
been brought up in Parliament, and Chief
Sec. Bailey has suggested the Exhibition
Gardens or the Exhibition Oval, authori-
ties of those places protesting. There
has been surprisingly little protest from
the soapboxers, and it looks as if the
fight for free speech has gone out of
fashion. It was different a few years ago
when a previous Chief Secretary for-
bade public speaking on the corner of
Sydney-street. Black-and-white artist
Noel Counihan had himself locked into
an old iron lift, had the lift chained to
a horse lorry, the lorry padlocked to a
verandah post, the key thrown away and
the horses taken back to their stable.
Then he harangued the delighted crowd
for 40 minutes while the police frenziedly
tried to burst open his cage with axes,
and even brought up reinforcements in
the shape of an oxy-acetylene torch.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A novelty in Mel-
bourne is a massive door which opens
by means of a “magic ray” at the
T. and G. Building in Collins-street.
A valve in one of two pillars erected at
the entrance projects a beam of light on
to a photo-electric cell, and the passing
of a human body interrupts the circuit
and sets a relay working. An air valve
then causes the portals to swing open,
and a post diagonally opposite has an-
other cell which closes the door behind
one. It gives the jitters to old ladies not
up in the latest scientific gadgets, but
they will get used to it, as the device is
to be extended.
* * * *
“X.S”: An abo. who asked two plain-
clothes policemen for threepence got
six months in a Melbourne court recently,
and this so upset the various societies
for the prevention of cruelty to Binghi
that they rushed in with a combined pro-
test. It turned out that Colored Brother
was a habitual offender, but the indig-
nation of the societies would not be
allayed. An occasional member of
the race may be met drifting up
in the lifts that lead to their apart-
ments. One said to me the other. day
with bitter feeling: “Before I was as
good as a white man everybody wanted
to help me. Now I’m a white man I’ve
got to work for my living and pay for
my board and lodging like any other
blighter.” Blackfellows are such a rarity
in Melbourne that when a family brought
a native nurse from Darwin on their
holidays theatre managers gave her
the freedom of their shows, and audi-
ences lost interest in the proceedings on
the stage and concentrated on the dusky
damsel. Seven of the ten employees in
my place of business say that they have
never seen an abo.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Victorian law is much
more humane to drug addicts than
N.S.W. law. A case like the one
in which a doctor got three months
for “having knowingly administered
a drug to himself for the purpose
of addiction” could not happen in
Melbourne. Publication of reports of
such cases is prohibited, and nobody
knows what order a Court makes. Vic-
tims of the habit may be sent to a hos-
pital for a month, or in severe cases to
the new institution at Royal Park, where
modern scientific methods are used to
cure them of their unfortunate obsession,
One method is to continue to give the
patient his favorite dope, but gradually
add a greater and greater proportion of
harmless white powder until he is taking
nothing but the white powder, while he
is being medicined at the same time to
prevent the awful effects that supervene
when an addict’s supply is suddenly cut
off. Permanent cure, of course, cannot
be obtained in this way. Drug addiction,
like dipsomania (and, according to some
theorists, consumption and cancer), is a
disease of loss of hope. The patient has
to be given hope, and the worst thing
that can happen is for him to be dis-
couraged by a public sentence which stig-
matises him as a criminal.
* *
“E1V”: “Spokeshave” (B. 20/12/’39)
may have his laugh at the possibility of
the Romans having got down to Australia,
but there’s a good deal of evidence that
somebody from the ancient Mediter-
ranean world found his or her way to
the Pacific. If you can show me any-
thing more Greek in pattern and design
than the helmets and robes of the ancient
Hawaiian kings, trot it out. Possibly at
some time some of the outwash from
Alexander’s legions in India found their
way across. There are remnants of white
Aryan-looking colonists right across the
Pacific half-buried in the waves of
brown. Awa, a little island off the New
Guinea coast, is home to one of these.
There the natives are so like European
whites in figure and hue that the stranger
who lands there feels that he has struck
a drifted-away portion of the Bondi
Beach crowd fully undressed. Or rather
almost fully undressed, for all real ladies
in Awa, when not engaged in fishing,
wear a single fig leaf after the manner
of Eve. It is, of course, a Pacific Island
and not a Mediterranean fig leaf, but that
does not matter.
......
“C.”: Apropos of Nullarbor, the
origin of Australian place-names is
a dangerous subject to play with,
I remember a Queensland Governor
who made a hobby of correcting
the spelling of the Lands Depart-
ment. One of his corrections changed
a Brisbane suburban station from Moor-
aree to Murarrie as being more accu-
rately aboriginal. Conning an early map,
I discovered that the district was marked
“Moor Area.”
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Notice a lot of ladies and
gentlemen in Melbourne complaining
about the standards of Australian hotels
as compared with those overseas. Tut
to them, say I. Claridge’s in London, the
Ritz in Paris, the Adlon in Berlin cer-
tainly ; but, when you come to reduce
pubs to their lowest common denomi-
nator, the Australian country town puts
it all over thousands of them. Let the
complainers try the Hotel Ismid, in Tur-
key’s naval base one double bed lor
three star boarders, raw eggs without
bread for breakfast, one towel and
one tin-bowl bath for the whole
pub, and lavatory accommodation on
the top floor with a shaft through
all the storeys to take away the
sewerage. Or let them try the pub at
Konia, also in Turkey, where the playful
boarders organise—or used to a few years
ago—cockroach races up and down the
walls. To my mind, the best hostelries
in the world, price for price, are the
Indian. Where else than at Maidens, in
Delhi (where they usually dig a couple of
hundred cobras from under the floors
at the appropriate season), can you get
sitting-, bed- and bathroom, and all meals,
including a nine-course dinner with
superb service, for eighteen bob a day.
inclusive?
* * «... *. ~ .* w n
M 8 : A.B.C. s Weakling has b
darkly telling us to watch out for Japan
and her .alleged designs on Pacific coun-
‘ries - No bold posters or staring headl
greeted the arrival in Sydney of 100
c^ arK * peach-blossom trees sent by
£<= Mayor of Yokohama as a gift to
North Sydney Council, which, in return,
had sent to Yokohama some flowering
gums . The Japanese press has corn-
mented favorably on the Australian ges-
ture • w jp A.B.C. and others please copy?
* * * *
“Frater”: There is a difference be-
tween the Australians and the English ;
main essential of it is that the Aus-
tralians seem to be more sincerely con-
vinced than the folk of Blighty that a
man’s a man for a’ that. Or a woman,
In one of the lofty Ministerial apart-
ments above the Commonwealth Bamc
in Sydney great personages headed by
Hughes assembled to put the cachet of
Australia’s approval on the labors of a
charlady. She has been “doing for”
Priministers and other Federal panjan-
drums for 20 years, and a lot of them
filled a wallet of notes on the occasion
of her retirement. After the presenta-
tion, which left her practically speech-
less, she was interviewed. She said I
knew Mr. Fisher, Mr. Hughes, Mr.
Bruce and Mr. Lyons. They were all
nice to me, but Mr. Lyons was the nicest
man I ever met.”
I SOMETIMES THINK.
r sometimes think —not with the pleasant note
Wherewith old Omar or Fitz Gerald wrote
About the redness of the rose’s glow,
Whence it had come and whither it would go.
Fancies far less poetical engage
My mind in this utilitarian age;
To jungle law once more must nations sink,
I sometimes think.
I sometimes think how little use or good
The churches’ talk of peace and brotherhood
When half the world, as never yet before,
Goes rent and split in twain with bloody war,
In forms to which no butchery could attain
In times of Genghis Khan or Tamerlane.
Heirs of the ages, we? How light the link,-
I sometimes think.
I sometimes think the world is out of joint,
A sterile promont’ry, a barren show,
As William Shakspeare’s Hmmlet sought to
point
Out, full three centuries or more ago,
A place, in Yankee phrase, that’s “on the
blink,”
I sometimes think.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T.”: One of my objections to war is
the ugly expressions it brings into vogue.
“Rape,” for example. “The rape of
Abyssinia,” “the rape of China,” “the
rape of Albania,” “the rape of Czecho-
slovakia”—elderly gentlemen, leader-
writers and the like, who wouldn’t think
of Using the beastly word in mixed com-
pany, don’t seem to be able to think of
any other when referring to these mili-
tary performances. And “evacuate.” In
the sense of removing people from a
place of danger, “evacuate” seems to have
become a permanent infliction on a noble
language. A recent example from my
favorite flapper-paper:
Paavo Nurmi, world-famous distance
runner, was out at his country home when
the first bombings of Helsinki started on
November 30. He went by car to Helsinki
and evacuated the six girl assistants at his
shop.
I find that sort of thing as shattering as
the new-style illustrated aperient ad. in
which a lovely lady discourses on the
symptoms which reduced her to distrac-
tion and triumphantly reveals what
relieved them.
* * * *
“Hack”: There must be something in
this newspaper game. A London mes-
sage announces that old S’Langdon
Bonython, owner of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” who died last October, cut up for
between £3,000,000 and £4,000,000. When
the news reached this outpost of Empire,
the editor of our four-page bi-weekly was
so moved that he called on every one of
his five advertisers and told them he was
clapping on an extra 3d. an inch.
* * * *
“Colbun”: A curious accident which
killed three men while putting down a
spear well at the Fairymead sugarmill,
near Bundaberg (Q.), illustrates once
more the dangers that lurk in the vicinity
of high electric power. The foreman
used a long-handled spear-auger for
the job, although electric cables were
almost directly overhead. The long
handle was not necessary, but he relied
on care to keep it clear. A moment’s
inattention while it was being lifted from
the bore allowed it to make contact with
the cable. He and his two workmates
were killed instantly, and a fourth man
who tried to render aid was badly
shocked.
* * * *
“F.S.”: In the days of his obscurity
an artist painted a couple of landscapes
containing, as Whist’er would have said,
the knowledge of a lifetime. He marked
them “15 guineas,” hung them in an ex-
hibition and invited the trustees of a
public gallery to come and see them.
The trustees didn’t like
them, but a furniture
warehouseman bought
them for a tenner apiece.
Years after the warehouse-
man looked at his walls
and decided that some-
thing a bit more modern
would look better on
them. So he offered the
landscapes to the trustees
of the same public gallery,
and, as the painter had
since attained to eminence
(if not affluence) in his
profession, he asked 150
guineas apiece. The trus-
tees decided that the
painter himself would be
the best judge of the worth
of the pictures, so they
deputed one of their number to
make inquiries. The telephone rang
while the painter was enjoying his frugal
dinner. “Oh, Mr. Dauber,” said the
trustee, “do you remember years ago
selling two landscapes to Mr. Spiffkins?
Well, he has offered them to us for 300
guineas. Do you think we would be
doing a good thing if we bought them?”
“I think you would be a pack of damned
scoundrels!” roared the painter, hang-
ing up the receiver.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The Department of Infor-
mation is short of information if it pro-
poses, as announced, to broadcast its
short-wave propaganda to the Dutch East
Indies in Dutch and English. Of the
60,000,000 variegated inhabitants of the
vast archipelago a bare handful under-
stand those languages, even imperfectly,
whereas Malay is the lingua franca of
millions of Javanese, Chinese, Arabs,
Japanese, Eurasians and Europeans. For
one native in the civilised centres who
reads European papers, a hundred get
their notions from the vernacular press,
which has invented a vigorous journalese
composed of Malay, Arabic, Dutch and
other linguistic oddments that beggars
description. It should be easy for the
department to get a proficient speaker,
and if he is a Malay he will be a natural-
born mob orator.
ijc % % %
VPawang”: Dudley Flats, the unsavory
tin suburb on the foreshore of Port Mel-
bourne, has an international reputation.
A Melbourne city councillor was being
shown round an old cathedral town in
France by a gallant, friendly and cour-
teous party of French civic officials. After
inspecting the thirteenth-century cathe-
dral they were returning to the Town
Hall to sample the wine of the province
when they happened to pass through a
street of houses built in the Middle Ages
where Villon might have brawled and
which Norman Lindsay would have loved
to fix in pencil. “We have no slums like
this in Melbourne,” incautiously re-
marked the visitor. “What about this,
monsieur?” retorted one of the Gallic
Bumbles, producing some photographs of
Dudley Flats from his pocket.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: An ancient and honor-
able profession which has been hard hit
in Melbourne by the war is that of the
herbalists. Sad to relate, Hitler’s sub-
marine campaign has seriously interfered
with the continuity of their supplies of
Nature’s medicine. An old lady with a
back like a wheel and a face appropri-
ately witchlike used to grow the most
valued medicinal herbs behind a high
hedge in one of the outer suburbs, but
importing interests drove her out of
business. I met a distinguished prac-
titioner of the herb-healing art in Collins-
street. His loathing of quackery amounts
almost to an obsession. “I’m going to
give it up,” he told me gloomily. “I
don’t believe in giving ’em oats like
others do.”
* * * *
“K.P.”: Scientific progress is made by
strangely devious paths at times. Experi-
ence in the last war showed that, however
nasty a heavily-flyblown wound might
look, ihe risk of dangerous after-effects
was much less than from a similar wound
promptly treated. The larvae not only
ate the dead tissues in which the bacteria
lived, but they also prevented bacterial
growth. Specially-bred maggots were
used for certain bone infections until it
was found that an extract of them was
equally effective. Then an investigator
identified the real active agent as a sub-
stance called allantoin, occurring in the
excreta of the maggots, and used an ex-
tract of it with complete success. Going
a step further he split off part of the
allantoin molecule to form urea, of
which a 2 p.c. solution gave the same
result as the maggots or the allantoin.
Now it is widely used for wounds, gan-
grene, bone diseases, burns and non-
healing sores.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A major disaster on the war-
front would not have caused as much
consternation in Melbourne as did the
news that broadcasting of descriptions of
races, that great national service, was
capable of being tampered with or mani-
pulated. Many years ago in Perth
punters reaped a harvest from pavement
bookies who did not know that there is
a difference of an hour and a half be-
tween Adelaide and Perth time. When
they discovered their mistake they tried
to work the swindle the other way about
until an unsportsmanlike police commis-
sioner put a stop to the whole business.
“F.S.”: It has been my
lot of late to mix with
refugee aliens • doctors,
architects, a sculptor, arti-
sans, businessmen and what
not. They are pleasant
people, but they have in
common a fixed idea that
because they were born in
Vienna, Berlin, Budapest or
Warsaw they are heirs to a
European culture denied to
Australians. But the tradi-
tion of an Australian is
just as much the tradition
of Europe as it is of a Spaniard, a Hun-
garian or a Welshman. My father was
born in South Australia and my mother
was a baby when she arrived there, but
I can no more get out of my blood the
thousands of years of European culture
than I can change the color of my eyes.
The musical gods of an Australian are
Europeans, his literary deities are Euro-
peans, his old masters of painting are
Europeans. The fact that a greengrocer
was born in Vienna does not make him
any more the heir of Mozart than if he
were born in Footscray. And a Lilydaie
girl named Nellie Mitchell was as good
a singer of Italian opera as Tetrazzini.
* * * *
“Q.C.R,”: Those ancients who yearn
for the good old times are apt to forget
the amenities which modern life has
brought us. My first dentist was a firm
and practical bush mother. Her method
was to stand the young patient on the
edge of a verandah, tie one end of a
string to a rafter, the other to an offend-
“ Thompson, where do I put all these innards ?”
“Only ten laps more, Bert, and We’ll
win that bottle.”
ing molar. A sharp push did the rest.
At 13 I graduated to professional care
in a Queensland mining town. Ihc
operator was a large man. He dumped
fne into a chair, produced an enamel
basin for blood and a tool that looked
like a castiron forest devil. Then he
stuck something like a drenching bit over
my mug, opening it up like a nigger’s
watermelon. Two large hairy navvy's
paws descended on my forearms and a
distinct odor of beer was wafted from
overhead. An Irish voice behind said
truculently, “Kape shtill, ye omadhaun!”
The forest devil obscured the view and
fastened itself to a tusk. I felt myself
stretch from my toes upwards. Sleeping
shiftmen woke up all over the town think-
ing the 3.30 hooter had blown. In the
third round, dentist and navvy won. I
was away from school three days on
bread and milk with a face like a bal-
loon. That was 36 years ago. The other
day I walked into a Sydney dentist at
3.40 p.m. At 4.30, minus six molars
which had been replaced by a new set,
I was keeping an appointment half a mile
away. And no pain whatever, thanks.
As the dentist remarked: “It’s like shell-
ing peas, these days.”
V X * *
“E.S.S.”: Still standing is the home-
stead of Swan Creek station, five miles
below South Grafton, Clarence River,
built by John Small, pioneer of the river,
considerably over 100 years ago. It was
the first stone house erected outside Syd-
ney, is still in good order, and still occu-
pied by a member of the family. To
reach the Clarence John Small built the
schooner Susan (the name perpetuated
in Susan Island, opposite Grafton), and
she was the first vessel to enter the river.
Swan Creek run then embraced the
whole of the Clarence valley on the
southern side. John’s son William, who
succeeded him, subdivided the frontage
into farms, and so started the farming
settlements. He it was who imported the
first Clydesdales to Australia. He 'also
started the first Australian sugarmill, at
Harwood Island, and the N.C.S. Navi-
gation Co. Another of the Smalls had
a butchery at Woodford Island, and it
was in delivering meat for him by row-
ing boat that Michael Rush became a
world-famous oarsman. The Smalls claim
to be the oldest Australian family.
Rebecca Small was the first white
child born in the country —at Govern-
ment House, Sydney. Harriet Small,
afterwards Mrs. Sellers, of Sellers Hotel,
Grafton, was the first born on the
Clarence.
DECEIVERS.
“Many beautiful Australian girls who married
American naval seamen have never seen then'
husbands since.”
They wooed and won, were duly wed, and went
Their ways across the widely severing seas,
Troubling apparently no more anent
Their conjugal responsibilities,
These gay Lotharios in uniform
To whom we tendered such a welcome warm.
To whips of female hearts they found the key—
As jackies ever manage, one allows —
And at the altar—or the registry—
Breathed, one may guess, indissoluble vows.
And then, as sailors ever may and might,
They faded out into the Ewigkeit.
They came and saw and conquered—and anon
Pulled up, as cricketers would say, the
stumps;
Much as when in days agone
He left deserted Dido in the dumps,
And, to talk straight and matters not to mince,
Few of their wives have seen their husbands
since.
Ah, Uncle Sam, when next you man a fleet
Across the surging seas to do their jobs,
To these Arcadian shores send, I entreat,
Less personable and persuasive “gobs”
Than these invaders from the U.S.A.
Who marry Aussie girls—and sail away!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Bs.
vfSgi*
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
y
&
m
Hi
10 for 9d...20 for If 61 f 6
E 1866
MADE
S P E
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
It is necessary that motor-engines and
chassis should be made in Australia, but
it is not necessary that they should be
made by one concern and one only. Yet
if the incomprehensible Government at
Canberra has its way that is going to
happen. The incomprehensible Govern-
ment has promised a monopoly, plus
bounty, plus Government contracts, to
A.C.I. (formerly Australian Glass), which
is to promote “a company with an
initially-subscribed capital of £250,000.”
The Government will not authorise capi-
tal issues for the motor-car manufacturing
industry other than to the proposed com-
pany. The Government will do its best to
limit the production of motor-cars and
trucks to the proposed company for five
years.
Thus Lawson, the Minister of Customs.
If Parliament were sitting there would
be the devil’s own row about it, and the
thing may conceivably wreck the nego-
tiations for a composite Government.
Air Vice-Marshal Goblfe has given up
his job as Chief of the Air Staff, adding
to the shock “a minute containing his
views on certain Air Force matters.”
Thereupon Menzies repeated his assur-
ance that “the Australians who join the
R.A.F. under the Empire scheme will
be grouped, as far as possible, into
squadrons designed for Australian air
crews.” About the same time the Minister
of National Defence at Ottawa was ex-
press on the point that “the first Can-
adian division” now in Britain “will be
supported in the field by a Royal
Canadian Air Force squadron,” and
no “as far as possible” about it. The
“Tune-in to Britain” business has been
overdone all along.
The Sutherland-Cronulla (N.S.W.) rail-
way has entered upon its career of finan-
cial misfortune. The original official
estimate was that it would swallow
£22,000 p.a. of the people’s money, but
it is now confidently expected that £30,000
will go west in the first year.
When Sutherland-Cronulla was de-
clared open for traffic somebody recalled
that it was the first occasion of the kind
since the Unanderra-Moss Vale line was
baptised with the familiar beverages seven
years ago. He didn’t mention anything
about the Unanderra-Moss Vale accounts.
The admitted loss for 1938 was £38,900,
for 1937 £54,400.
When Westralia was bitten by the
Secession bug, “farmers, almost to a
man,” the “Primary Producer” recalls,
“were secessionists at heart.” Now, it
allows rather sadly, “many” of them “are
actively working to extinguish members
who have hitherto supported this State
against Federal encroachments”:
The fact is that circumstances and politi-
cal opportunism are playing right into
the hands of unificationists. In the end
W.A. will have no choice. If we are to
live at all we will then have to come into
the national scheme of things.
The “Primary Producer” is the official
organ, not only of the P.P.A., but of
the Westralian Country party.
Saying “there will be no definite
finding of suspicion against anyone,”
Justice Gavan Duffy closed his inquiry
into Melbourne “Terewth’s” allegations
concerning the milk and moneylending
legislation. Addressing counsel for
Speaker Tunnecliffe, his Honor amplified
his statement; the Speaker and Mrs.
Tunnecliffe had given evidence. Mean-
while the editor of “Terewth” was fined
£l5 for refusing to answer questions. He
repeated his refusal, and further action
was postponed pending the result of an
appeal.
Five more annual allowances for
widows of Commonwealth politicians—
one of £lO4 and the others of £l56 —
figured in the estimates which the Par-
liament at Canberra adopted without
debate. The husbands of the ladies
were all Labor members. This did not
prevent the venomous Ward (East Syd-
ney) from referring to Mrs. Lyons as
a “well-paid pensioner,” and demanding
a Government veto on her radio work.
The politically unspeakable in pursuit of
the defenceless.
In the end-of-the-session hurry and
flurry the annual subsidy to the alleged
National Travel Association was cut
from £20,000 to £15,000. Had Parliament
been in a mood for discussion it might
have blotted out the whole £20,000, but
it couldn’t spare even five minutes for
protection of the public purse.
“Prominent businessmen,” quoted by
Sydney “Sun,” are demanding “a posi-
tion in the Federal Cabinet, preferably
that of Treasurer,” for Stevens. One of
(Someone pointed out that Lindsay had left Maoriland out of his Empire Air Scheme
cartoon, and Frith undertook to repair the omission on another page. He expects to
disarm criticism by acknowledging that he has never seen a kiwi.)
“Hold hard—I'm in this!”
the prominents, none of whom is named,
describes his hero as “a fighting in-
strument” :
He is armed to the teeth in a situation
like the present, and he ought to be in
action.
The truth is that his teeth have been
drawn since he promised a surplus of
just on £BOOO, increased Parliamentary
and Ministerial salaries by £25,000 p.a.
on the strength of it, and wound up with
a deficit of nearly £2,500,000, after
having borrowed everything in sight to
keep going. And if he ventures to con-
test a Commonwealth constituency the
electors —since stung with robbery-by-
statute taxes —will see that he is kept out
of action.
Sydney “D.T.,” of “positive-action-
against-Japan” and Russian - alliance
celebrity, has been performing again:
For years Europe has argued about
Russia’s military power. Events in Finland
suggest it has been greatly overrated.
For years the “D.T.” blithered that
Russia was the Mightiest Military Power
on Earth, and that Stalin was devoted to
the Democratic Front. Events in Europe
and Asia suggest that it should have
had its head read.
If the mystery of where Woolcott-
Forbes, alias Brandei, has got to is not
unravelled, it won’t be Justice Lukin’s
fault. Dealing with a petition declaring
that the Dashing Punter has “committed
an act of bankruptcy by remaining out
of Australia, with intent to defraud and
delay his creditors,” his Honor made an
order for substituted service of the most
comprehensive description:
The petition to be served upon Abram
Landa, solicitor, and upon Albert Levitus,
solicitor, both of whom have been named
as holding Forbes’s power of attorney;
upon Forbes at his wife’s London address;
upon Mrs. Forbes at that address; and
upon the caretaker at 72 King-street, Syd-
ney, where Forbes had an office.
Garden it was who sneered years ago
that Mr. Lukin was too old for his job.
Garden is now forgotten, whereas the
veteran Queenslander’s ways of dealing
with bankrupts still command the ad-
miration of those who have business in
his court.
On December 13, as reported by cable,
“the Leicester City Council ruled that a
blind person who marries another blind
person shall not be employed by the
Leicester Blind Institute unless he can
produce a medical certificate that the
marriage will be childless.” That must
have seemed cruel to millions, but it
doesn’t seem so cruel in the light of a
divorce case dealt with in Sydney six
days later. The parties were a blind
woman who had married, at 18, a blind
man then 21 ; he deserted her and
her son, also blind and now 21, saying
“I should never have married.” An
almost uncanny commentary on the
Leicester decision.
In Tasmania last week Mr. Dwyer-
Gray, Premier without portfolio, became
Deputy Premier and Mr. Cosgrove,
Deputy Premier, became Premier with-
out portfolio. It is felt in Hobart that
the war is now as good as won.
Not to be out of the fashion, the West-
ralian Assembly finished off its year’s
“work” with a rush at an all-night sitting
which lasted 15 hours. “Work” began
on August 4, and there were three sit-
tings a week —they started late in the
afternoon and generally ended in time
for the gentlemen to get their beauty sleep
—until the rush period began. For these
performances members are paid £6OO a
year plus free passes for almost every-
thing except drinks and haircuts.
The Red-led Miners’ Federation had
a beautiful strike, which was a costly
failure. Then it had a Commonwealth
arbitration case. Then it got an award
and had an appeal case. Then it de-
manded that the Government should
appoint a “special” tribunal, “same as we
had in the last capitalist war,” when “a
sympathetic old Judge” conceded all the
claims that had been “formulated.” Men-
zies having refused, another complete
stoppage is threatened ; that or “a series
of irritation strikes,” whichever has the
greater nuisance-value. Possibly the idea
is that one or other might effect a diver-
sion in favor of the Workers’ Republic,
now in danger of being overrun by the
ravening hordes of Finnish imperialism.
The N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation has
repeated and amplified its demand for
grants. It wants another £5,000,000 for
education (virtually double the present
vote) from State taxpayers and £5,000,000
from the Commonwealth, both additions
seemingly to be annual and permanent.
If the Commonwealth agreed it would
have to find another £7,000,000 at least
for education in other States. More will
have to be spent on education, particu-
larly on the technical side, but the Com-
monwealth shouldn’t grant a penny piece
until education is placed under its con-
trol, and income taxation with it. >
Britain is the Red Brigand’s best
customer. In 1938 its imports from the
Red Brigand were valued at £19,543,000,
whereas exports were worth a mere
£6,434,000. The previous year it bought
more Russian goods (total value
566,145,000 roubles) than the purchases
of the Red Brigand’s four next-best
customers: U.S.A. (134,412,000 roubles),
Belgium-Luxembourg (129,756,000), the
Netherlands (111,888,000) and Germany
(107,658,000). In that year British im-
ports of Russian wheat were valued at
£3,901,100 and of Russian butter at
£1,258,300. That wheat and butter trade
at least should be diverted to Dominions
which have never let the Old Man down.
Strange that the N.S.W. Railway Offi-
cers’ Association has not protested against
the reappointment of the 62-year-old Har-
tigan for seven years. It has been active,
and its president voluble, on subjects less
important to its members than the pro-
motion that would follow the appoint-
ment of a younger commissioner from
within the service—and there would be
no occasion for going outside it. In the
Maoriland Railway Department retire-
ment is compulsory after 40 years’ ser-
vice ; and the Maoriland Railway Officers
are campaigning for the superannuation
of the g.m. in January, when he reaches
the retiring age—it has been hinted by
the Government that he may be kept
on. The reappointed Hartigan, who lives
in a Sydney suburb remote from rail-
ways, has had 47 years’ service.
From “Rotobanana”:
Dejection has descended on the Communist
“Tribune,” published in Sydney, and still
“registered at the G.P.O. for transmission by
post as a newspaper.” “Pat Forkin will send
us no more stories as an observer with the
Red Army, he is dead”; Mr. J. N. Rawlings
“has openly associated himself with a small
clique of trotskyists in Sydney,” and has been
“expelled from the ranks of the Communist
party”; “the truth of Molotov’s statement
that the Soviet Union is not waging war
against the Finnish people is becoming more
obvious day by day”; Communist ladies “de-
livering leaflets in a corridor outside the
Housewives’ Association rooms” were ordered
out by the president; above all, the “editors
of the ‘Daily News,’ ” not long ago the hope of
the Red side, “found big space on their front
page for the pro-war and anti-Soviet decision
carried by the Melbourne Trades Hall Council.”
But there is still balm in Gilead. To the utter
confusion of “trotskyists, bakuninists, the Fin-
nish bankers, industrialists, landlords and mili-
tarists,” and British and French imperialists,
“the greatest Marxist and the greatest thinker
now living, Joseph Stalin,” had a birthday—
the 60th —on December 21, and he wasn’t
liquidated.


YOU CANT BEAT A GOOD SHEEP-DOG.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital P,aid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •. • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
cad Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Streef
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
WUdOi.
A
a
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR AND INDUSTRY
AUSTRALIA’S CHANGING ECONOMY AND THE
EFFECT OF WAR ON FINANCE.
A FULL BUDGET
OF WAR-TIME FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS, BALANCE-
SHEET REVIEWS AND MINING INFORMATION.
December Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST ,
§! l| gif ■
If not you owe If to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UfilT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton ltd*
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.O n SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
PERSONAL ITEM S
Beauford’s races with Gloaming and
Eurythmic were recalled by the death
in Sydney of William Hooke Mackay,
Beauford’s owner. A native of Dungog
(N.S.W.), Mackay was one of Aus-
tralia’s leading graziers, his proper-
ties extending over N.S.W. and
Queensland. A director of Pitt, Son and
Badgery, Union Trustee Co. and Royal
Exchange Assurance, his turf associations
are being carried on by a son, W. H.
Mackay, who races that speedy filly Dark
Elegance. The Mackay property, Anam-
bah, near Maitland, has often been used
as a military camp, its late owner being
a great believer in military preparedness.
No mean horseman, he was noted in the
early days on the Manning for his work
among cattle in the wild country there.
He was 81 at the end.
When an R.A.A.F. Avro Anson
bomber crashed at Richmond (N.S.W.)
its crew of five were killed instantly.
They were Flight-Lieutenant Arthur JM.
Watkins, son of a Roseville (Sydney)
medico, who was to have been married
shortly; Flight-Lieutenant Hugh B.
Horner, son of the manager of the Mac-
quarie Broadcasting Network, who
joined the R.A.A.F. after service with
the R.A.F. in England and India and
with the Sydney-Singapore section of the
Empire Airways; Flying-Officer Henry
P. Fitzgerald, a Tasmanian; Flying-
Officer Malcolm M. Mclnnes, of Mel-
bourne ; and Leading Aircraftsman
Leonard J. King, of Brisbane, who joined
the R.A.A.F. as wireless operator after
six years with the R.A.N. Reserve.
Bert Oldfield is pictured here by Lusby
in the uniform he has donned as an
officer in the 17th Battalion. It’s the same
Oldfield who is this country’s No. 1
wicketkeeper, a title won in the 1919-36
series of Test matches, during which he
BERT OLDFIELD.
put up a world’s record by snapping up
90 victims. Born in Sydney 42 years
ago, he commenced playing in first-
grade cricket for Glebe in 1914,
leaving off to do a spot of stretcher-
bearing with the 15th Field Ambulance
in Egypt and France. Of course he was
a member of the original A.I.F. cricket
team, and he has hovered over wickets
in England, Africa, Malaya, Ceylon,
France and Maoriland.
The senior State’s Chief Judge in
Equity, Reginald Heath Long Innes,
comes of a legal family, being a son
of Judge George Long Innes, of the
Supreme Court of N. S. Wales, and
though Sydney-born had his education
in England at Malvern College and
JUSTICE LONG INNES.
Oxford. He was called to the English
Bar in 1893, returned to Australia and
practised so successfully that he took
silk in 1916. His appointment to the
N. S. Wales Supreme Court Bench came
in 1925. He’s 70, plays golf, and can
still give a good account of himself at
cricket or tennis.
The Bulletin regretfully reported the
death of artist W. B. Mclnnes on
15/11/’39. His 21-year-old son Malcolm
was among the killed in the Air Force
Avro Anson which crashed at Rich-
mond (N.S.W.). The late flying-officer’s
portrait at the age of four, painted by
his father, is in the Vic. National Gal-
lery. Educated at Victorian State schools
and at Scotch College, Malcolm joined
the R.A.A.F. in January, ’37, was pilot
officer in December of that year, and
promoted to flying officer 18 months
ago.
Premier Playford took a complete rest
after the late and strenuous sittings of
S.A. Parliament by going off for five days
fishing in a 35ft. ketch in the waters
about Kangaroo Island. “No telephone
calls or other disturbances,” he said at
parting. “I am going to rough it with
the fishermen.
Two Jesuit Fathers who are brothers
are to be heads of Sydney’s two Jesuit
Colleges. Both are Melbourne-born, both
went to Xavier College in that city, and
both went on to the National University,
Dublin. Rev. Thomas Hehir, who was
a master at St. Ignatius’, Riverview, be-
comes rector of St. Aloysius’ College,
Milson’s Point, and Rev. Noel Hehir
becomes rector of St. Ignatius’ after two
years as rector of St. Aloysius’.
Ancient sword-arms twitched and
long-forgotten wounds burned again
when the Victoria League of Queensland
gave a Christmas dinner to some veterans
in Brisbane. Oldest soldier there was
C. R. Arnold, who fought in the Ashanti
War of ’74; he is 88. J. W. Hawes
marched with Roberts to Kandahar in
’79, and yarns of the Zulu War came
from J. E. Gosling, C. Regan, G. M.
Money, J. H. de Riordan and M. D’Arcy.
Youngest was J. C. Hewitt, 69, who was
in the Sudan in ’9B and also in the 1914-
18 affair.
Shades from the dawn of the nine-
teenth century might have been observed
hanging round a church in a Melbourne
suburb recently. An uncompromising-
looking bloke was remarkably like Mac-
arthur; it is certain Governor King was
there; there was a rich brogue in the
whispers of certain shadows that had the
stamp of Irish exiles about them, and the
person looking to the priming of a duel-
ling pistol might have been Paterson. The
occasion was the marriage of Philip
Gidley Leslie King, a direct descendant
of the man who succeeded Hunter and
preceded Bligh as Governor of N.S.W.
about the time Trafalgar was fought.
Naturalist-author Charlie Barrett and
his wife are somewhere in the wilds of
Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) on the track of
the elusive diprotodon or its remains.
This is the last lap of a journey right
round the continent in the cause of
natural history, two outstanding results
being the discovery of new insectivorous
plants in the north and pictures (the first)
of the rare banded ant-eater in its wild
state. The Barretts “shot” the marsupial
in south-west Westralia. Mrs. Barrett
found a new kind of tree-frog up in
Arnhem Land.
New head of Wesley College, Melb.,
in succession to Harold Stewart, is Neil
Harcourt McNeil, who was selected out
of about 70 applicants and takes over at
the beginning of 1940. McNeil, a Scotch
College product and a Rhodes scholar,
was at Oxford when the 1914-18 war
broke out, volunteered, qualified for a
commission, had light - artillery and
R.A.F. experience and won the Military
Cross. His M.A. comes from Oxford,
where he won his rowing blue, his
Dip. Ed. from London Uni. He founded
the Associated Schools of N. S. Wales
and took a leading part in establishing
Fairbridge Farm Schools in the same
State. He has been head of Knox
Grammar School, Sydney, since it opened
in 1924.
Retiring at the end of this nearly-
finished year is A. W. McNicol, g.m. of
the Union Bank of Australia. He has
been in the banking game for 50 years,
and in the service of Union for the last
44 years of that period, joining on the
first day the bank was open in January,
1896. He has been Union’s sub-inspector,
and later inspector, in every State in the
Commonwealth, and served as well as
an inspector in M.L. His successor is
A. E. B. Goode, Union’s chief inspector.
C. T. Peck moves up to be chief in-
spector.
On August 21, 1897, The Bulletin
printed a story called “Barney Borker’s
Blucher Boots,” the maiden effort of
Edward Sylvester Sorenson. When he
• wrote it Sorenson was shearer, wool-
classer, enginedriver, carpenter, painter,
boundary-rider and bookkeeper on a
north-west N.S.W. station. Born at
Dyraaba, near Casino (N.S.W.), in
1869, of Norse and Irish-Australian
parentage, he rounded up cows at the
age of eight on Wooroowoolgen station
(N.S.W.), left home at nine to work for
a Tomki farmer, and got his schooling
at Greenridge between corn-planting and
corn-pulling time —if there was no chip-
ping to do. Apprenticed to a carpenter at
14, he served two years, roamed for over
15 years, during which he tried his luck
at almost every kind of rural work, dug
for gold, was secretary of a race club,
managed a butter factory and ran a pub
at Tibooburra (N.S.W.). He decided,
after his Bulletin success, to become a
writer, and for 42 years wrote for this
paper a great number of stories, articles
and verse and thousands of paragraphs.
Last Tuesday he died at Marrickville.
S. H. Prior described him as the “shyest
man that ever visited The Bulletin
office.” He paid his last visit four days
before he died, and the copy he left was
as bright and fresh as ever.
Alan Treloar, Vic.’s Rhodes scholar
for 1940, has the duality of qualifications
demanded by the founder. He was one
of Carey Baptist School’s brightest
scholars, Greek, Latin and philology
being his major interests. In 1936 he
was awarded a senior Government
scholarship. On the athletic side he is
a Rugby player and he enlisted in the
University Rifles in 1937. He won’t go
to Oxford until the war is over.
If Air Vice-Marshal Goble, resigned,
goes to Britain to offer himself to the
R.A.F., he will be following his own pre-
cedent. In 1914 he wanted to join
the A.I.F. and was rejected for defec-
tive eyesight. He paid his own passage
to the Old Dart and joined the Royal
Naval Air service, in which arm he
garnered a D.S.C., a D. 5.0., a military
0.8. E., the Croix de Guerre, a squadron
commandership and two mentions :n
dispatches.
Owner of El Madrono, one of the
finest farming properties in Argentina,
and a leading figure for many years in
the British community of Buenos Ayres,
A. E. Belcher died just before the Graf
Spee nosed her way into the River Plate.
Born at Geelong (Vic.) he was educated
at the Grammar School there and at
Dookie Agric. College. He went to
Argentina after the 1902 drought, was
first associated with the Pearson and
later with the Dunn and Drysdale hold-
ings. He took up El Madrono in 1907,
and transformed it from rough pampas
country into its present splendid state.
He left a widow and family of six.
Well known in Adelaide’s business
circles is James Hay Gosse, born at Kent
Town, S.A., 63 years ago. He’s manag-
ing director of George Wills and Co., and
on the directorates of Adelaide Steam-
J. H. GOSSE.
ship, Executor, Trustee and Agency Co.
and Royal Insurance, among other cos.
His father was Deputy Surveyor-General
of S.A. from 1875 to 1881. J. H. Gosse
has represented his State in football and
rowing, and is president of the Norwood
F.C. He’s also Consul for Denmark
and president of the S.A. Zoological Soc
Plays tennis.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
11(11
m
in
1111!
It
111
Kill
m
Iff!
r<
• i
V-I
r
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Among the new song hits is a number
entitled ‘lf I Only Had a Brain.’ ”
—“Dance News.
Sounds like a State politician’s theme
song.
4* *s*
“Her husband, who was a boxer, was seldom
home.” — “Sun.”
It was in the ring, no doubt, that he
learnt the bad habit of going out.
* * * *l-
- is a growing discontent among farm
employees.” — Daily.
Grouse-abouts.
•F >l’ 4* 'l*
New Year wish from R.A.F. pilots to
U-boats: “Bomb voyage.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Let your men friends choose your clothes.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Judging by appearances, there must be
a lot of women with hardly any friends.
4* •I* *i' 4*
“Members of the force can speak French,
Italian, Russian, Japanese, Hindustani, Chinese,
German, Norwegian, Danish and Dutch.”
—Article on N.S.W. police.
English, of course, is not essential for
officers stationed in the King’s Cross dis-
trict.
4* 4* 4*‘ 4*
Horse Sense.
“Disalto decided that the jumping game
was not so good.”— Sporting item.
That’s the trouble ; most horses are too
intelligent. I remember training a chest-
nut that could catch horse-flies on the
track on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but
wouldn’t raise a gallop in races. I dis-
covered afterwards he was the prime
mover in his union for a shorter week,
the chief claim in its log being Wed-
nesday afternoons off and no Saturday
work.
No, give me neddies that don’t think
for themselves. Sharpened spurs, loaded
whip and a stab with the buzzer coming
round the home bend and they do the
rest.
P. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Thursday evening will be favorable for
travelling.”— Astrological forecast.
Especially for those tenants whose
rent-day is on a Friday.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“To be successful you must cultivate a light
touch.” — Musical mag.
Limit your requests to five bob each
time.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Don’t spend your holidays in hospital.”^
—Melbourne “Sun.”
Unless you’re keeping company with
a nurse.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The ideal soldier’s watch.” — Jeweller’s advt.
Guarding a brewery.
Balanced.
“Ernest was an accountant, a fine fellow in
every way.” — Women’s paper story.
He was a splendid figure of a man,
with a well-balanced mind and a taste
for books. His cash was right, and there
were many things to his credit. A man
of some account, full of goodwill, the
sum of whose virtues was considerable,
and yet capable of making a cross-entry
into any discussion if his indignation
“ Quick , fetch Billy from school —I can't get out of this thing!”
was aroused. He was no silvertia.il,
pitchforked into his job. He had got
there by degrees.
It was easy for him to throw a girl
off her balance, sheet home his advantage
and convince her that there was great
profit in accepting him.
Her fluttering heart said, “This is
E. & O. E. loves me!”
H. M.
•J* 4* 4* 4*
“Puts marriage before politics.”
—“Daily Telegraph.
After all, you have to fool only one
person at that game.
»I*
“Yes, milk really is slimming.”
—“Sunday Sun.’
And many a milkman has helped to
thin it out.
•J* 4* 4*
“During his three months’ absence he had
worried considerably over how his wife would
fare. On returning, however, he found her
living with another man.” —Divorce report.
Despite his absence she succeeded in
carrying on.
•j. ■ «|«
War to the Knife.
“The first casualties were Tommies suffering
from indigestion owing to overgenerous
sampling of the excellent French food.”
— “Sun.
This opens up vast possibilities for a
new type of warfare. Imagine big guns
firing plum-puddings and smaller guns
sending over salvos of apple dumplings!
The nation that could assemble the
largest number of Continental chefs
could lay down a barrage of appetising
smells that would produce howls of
anguish from the opposing army. Wave
after wave of waiters would then charge
loaded with dishes fit for an epicure.
Brasshats would work on menus night
and day planning a big offensive. War
news would be interesting. Communiques
like this would appear:
“Much groaning and moaning was
heard in enemy territory last night. Our
apple dumplings took heavy toll and
enabled us to reach all objectives. We
successfully declined with thanks a
counter-attack of roast duck and apple
sauce.
“This morning our troops captured
three carb. soda dumps, and the many
prisoners taken were in the last stages
of fatty degeneration of the heart.
“Reported that enemy troops have
mutinied in many sectors, declaring they
are fed up and cannot stomach this sort
of war any longer. Our air force dropped
propaganda leaflets about famous secret
indigestion cures known to our people
only.”
D. McM.
No Option.
"Come back ! Come back ! Lord Ullin
cried. “Return to me my daughter!’’
“I wish to hell I could!” replied a sad
voice o’er the water.
“But she has got a gun : pressed to my
ribs, and swears she’ll never
Let up until the parson makes us man
and wife for ever!”
D. MC.
Try Out.
“It might do a certain type of mistress good
if she donned the maid’s uniform and found
out for herself how trying the daily routine
of a busy household can be.”
— Women’s paper.
One mistress to another after a day
in the maid’s uniform:
“Darling, I’ve had such a thrilling day.
I had no idea these tradespeople were
so eager to make a maid feel she is not
alone in the world. Imagine my surprise
when a big he-man of a chap grabbed
me round the Waist and said, ‘Come on,
Sister, a big kiss for your umsy-wumsy
butcher-boy! ’
“The lower orders of society definitely
have the right idea about solving the
servant-girl problem. The baker told me
I was a snodger tabby, whatever that
means, and would insist on bouncing me
up and down on knee. The milk-
man tickled me under the chin, and the
postman grabbed a couple of quick
kisses just to help poor old pop on his
way, as he put it.
“And the policeman! What an answer
to a maiden’s prayer! He stuck his head
through a window and said, ‘Hello,
Gorgeous. Tell me when the old cheese-
and-kisses goes out and 111 be seeing
you!’ , .
“But I must tell you about the big
thrill of the day. When Bob came home
from the office he sneaked up behind
me, put both hands over my eyes and
planted two marvellous kisses on the
back of my neck! When I turned
around he went the color of beetroot and
bolted from the room. Now, I wonder
—but poor old Bob was always a bit
self-conscious. But do try a day i n
your maid’s uniform, darling. It’s fun.
I’m giving my maid three days a week
off from now on.”
D. McM.
Query.
In prose, you’ll meet with “angry sea
And “thirsty soil” and “howling wind.”
While “babbling brook” and “sighing
tree”
And “waving corn” in verse you’ll find.
These and such terms as “blushing rose ’
In written works keep on intruding.
But why, in poetry and prose,
Are hills or mountains always
“brooding” ?
P.O.M.C.
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1940.
Jan. —Tokio will announce that suc-
cess has crowned negotiations with
U.S.S.R. over new demarcation of Man-
chukuo border. Gdring will boast that
no enemy of Nazism remains within the
Reich.
Feb. —Fourteen more Japanese divi-
sions will arrive to strengthen Manchu-
kuo border. Discovery of land mine
under office of Ministry of Four-year
Plan will prompt Goring to increase his
personal bodyguard to 155, including eight
venom-tasters and 18 doubles. A Famous
American Correspondent will predict
that Hitler will strike in the spring
simultaneously through Holland, Bel-
gium, France, Luxemburg, Switzerland,
Rumania, Hungary and Denmark. A
King’s Cross refugee will refuse £75,000
for a block of flats and will be found
to be drawing the dole.
Mar. —In fierce clash on Manchukuo
border Japanese will claim to have shot
down 738 Soviet ’planes, only damage to
their own air force being one fighter
with bent strut. Stalin will award 3485
Orders of the Feathered Hind to troops
for gallantry in action against “leprous
Japanese imperialists,” and will promote
the 0.C., Captain Krzmptl, to marshal.
Hitler will threaten to launch terrible
Blitzkrieg against England if new peace
offensive fails.
Apl Stalin will offer to conclude non-
aggression pact with Hungary. All Hun-
garian reservists will immediately be
called up. “News-Chronicle” will an-
nounce that Goebbels is held prisoner by
Goring in concentration camp. N.S.W.
Retail Traders’ Association will in-
augurate Cousins’ Day.
May. —An unsigned article in “Popolo
d’ltalia,” attributed to Mussolini, will
stress need for Italians to keep their
powder dry. This will be interpreted by
Hiram Q. Blahsplurger, brilliant column-
ist of Utah “Bugle,” as “a slap in the
face for Hitler.” Marshal Krzmptl will
be shot as Trotskyist wrecker. N.S.W.
Treasurer will declare that buoyancy of
revenue will ensure small surplus for year.
June. —Goebbels, in interview with
foreign pressmen, will stress need of all
European nations to live in harmony.
Goring will order that new ersatz pud-
ding, made from couch-grass seed, linden-
tree sap, sawdust and processed sump oil,
be eaten four times a week —or else. He
will claim it is more appetising and fat-
tening than the steak-and-kidney pud-
ding eaten in effete democrabies. N.S.W.
Treasurer will announce deficit of
£6,550,000.
July. —“News-Chronicle” will reveal
that Goebbels was let out of concentra-
tion camp to give appearance of solid-
arity among Nazi hierarchy. “Pertinax”
will reveal that at secret meeting Molotov
flatly refused Von Ribbentrop’s demand
for more oil.
Aug. —A new trade agreement between
Russia and Germany will provide for
supply by Soviet of five million tons of
oil. A Famous American Correspondent
will disclose that Hitler, after bursting
into tears at conference with generals,
rushed into his sanctum and put his head
in gas stove, but prompt action by S.S.
man prevented suicide.
Sept. —Visiting singer will cause sensa-
tion by declaring she had flea-less sleep
in N.S.W. train. An American columnist
will bitterly attack all belligerents for
depriving American readers of hot news
through their senseless refusal to launch
great frontal attacks.
Oct. —Hitler will threaten to start
“total war” if his “sacrificial fight for
peace” is not recognised by England.
Commonwealth Cabinet will be threat-
ened by a split over the vital question of
whether Second A.l.F.’s puttees should be
rolled up or down. Stalin will declare
that if the menacing attitude of Liechten-
stein is pursued the mighty Red Army will
be forced valiantly to defend itself against
the principality’s “brutal aggression.”
Nov. —A giant leopard will terrorise
a Victorian rural district. N.S.W. Treas-
urer will anticipate buoyant revenue, and
the House will vote extra £2OO p.a. stamp
allowance for each member. A Famous
American Correspondent will declare that
the 1148th Chinese Route Army has been
cornered by Japanese in Wattaporkow
and must be annihilated.
Dec. —Hitler will threaten to launch
terrible lightning war on England if peace
offensive fails. A small dingo, with blobs
of paint all over it, will be shot in a rural
Victorian district. The 1148th Chinese
Route Army will appear intact in Bang-
chow. Half-yearly accounts will disclose
N.S.W. deficit of £8,800,000.
BO.


ABORIGINLITIES
“Cant make out where the cubs came from, sir. Parents cant be dead yet.”
“Wippegong”: Harry the hard-case
swept out of the cookhouse, plates
balanced all up one arm, charged across
to the waiting mob of Barrier Reef
tourists and slammed down four dinners
with a loud “Un, deux, trois, quatre.”
An austere dame —why she came to the
mystic isle Heaven only knows —raised
an eyebrow and in her heaviest patronis-
ing tone murmured “A little French!"
Across the table Ginger eyed her casually,
then had a smoke on the beach with Harry
after dark. “Ever work on the cane-
fields?” inquired Ginger. “Plenty.” “Pick
up any Italian?” “A little,” said Harry.
“Why?” Ginger told him. Next morn-
ing the first 10 breakfasts were counted
on to the table in breezy Italian ; and
the dame was thoughtful. “How did it
go?” asked Harry, his nose breaking the
surface an inch from Ginger’s in the
swimming enclosure later. “Went fine,”
drawled the quiet one. “See that fair
chap down the other end? University
man, honors in German” and the rest
was lost in a gurgle as Ginger submerged.
Service at dinner that night was too much
for the dame, and to the assembly at
large she whispered “Who is this man?”
“Didn’t you know?” said Ginger. “Bril-
liant student that; remarkable career ;
does this sort of thing in his vacations.”
And the story of Harry’s heroic struggle
from orphaned infancy, as told the dame
by Ginger that evening, was a tale that
left From Log Cabin To White House
standing.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: How did the wobbe-
gong shark get its name? Tradition has
it that it was given to the ugly brute by
the Port Jackson abos. in the earliest
days of Australian settlement. We hooked
one today and kept it for crab-pot bait.
Regarding its broad, silly face hanging
over the side of the bait-box, the eyes
drooping and the wide sloppy mouth
turned lugubriously down at the corners,
it was borne in on me that tradition was
probably wrong, as usual. Anything
more woebegone couldn’t be imagined.
My bet is that wobbegong is really a lag-
rendering of the description applied to
the dismal-looking scavenger by some
officer of Governor Phillip’s regime on
seeing his first one. What has J. H. M.
Abbott got to say?
* * * H=
“Arachne”: Saw a ding-dong fight be-
tween a wood-adder and a ground spider
that had hair on its legs like a Clydes-
dale stallion. The wood-adder was a
species of gecko ; the spider’s body was
the size of the top of an eggeup,
earth-colored, with a spread of legs that
would have lapped over a big man’s
hand. She was loathsome, and as full of
fight as a butcher’s dog. Adder did his
swaying movements in a mesmeric dance.
Spider didn’t blink an eyelid. They
closed. Adder got in some good work.
He raked wi * hi ? ? lawa - bit with his
teeth, swung his tail in miniature bullets
of a crocodile on the job. Mrs. Spider
c ij nc hed. She wrapped the other bloke in
her arms. Then she dipped her head
and, apparently, sank in her mandibles.
Adder went as limp as chewed string.
Hig j drooped i ike the falling petals
of a fading bloom . He didn > t have a n
inch of fight left in him . M rs. Hairy
L e g S g Q t on the job immediately. Though
iders are supposed t 0 be sucker s, this
thing took slivers of flesh even as a silk-
worm s tri P s a mulberry leaf. At least,
§be star t ed to do it until I crowned her
a$ v j ctor using a baton of wood for the
purpo se
py * * *
“Gryllus” * My new neighbor genu-
intere;,ed in the ways of the
J - *
creatures of the bush, confided to me
that it seemed to need some sort of
special gift to watch without alarming
them. It is simple enough. Early morn-
ing and the cool of the evening are the
best times ; nearly all wild things shelter
and sleep in the heat of the day. One
must learn the art of walking softly and
of keeping perfectly still on occasion,
Wear sandshoes instead of boots, khaki
or dark clothes instead of white. Don’t
smoke on the job. Avoid sudden move-
ments, move your eyes before your head,
your head before your body. Study the
tract of country you want to spy on.
choose vantage points of observation
with good concealment, and carry a good
pair of binoculars with no shiny sur-
faces on them. When you leave your
observation place do it as quietly as pos-
sible. With these things and patience you
can stickybeak into the private lives of
anything from water-rats to wagtails or
frogs to flying-foxes.
* * * *
“Eel”: Yakka was decidedly not over-
burdened with brains, but his obvious
sincerity was appreciated by his mates.
A dispute had arisen between the em-
ployers and timberworkers, and at the
resultant stopwork meeting a strike had
been practically decided upon —when up
spoke Yakka. “Well, boys, I quite agree
with all you’ve said, but the Bible says
that a good servant obeys his master, and
I reckon that don’t allow for strikes. So,
you see, I can’t strike with you.” “Cripes,
Yakka,” came the chorus. “You ain’t
goin’ to scab on us, are you?” “Well,
boys,” said Yakka, “I couldn’t do- that.”
“So you’ll strike?” asked the union rep.
“I don’t see how I can,” said Yakka.
The rep. lost patience. “You’re not
going to scab, and you’re not going to
strike; what the devil are you going to
do?” “Well,” said Yakka, “I suppose
I’ll have to be nootral.”
* » ? <
“Pitt-street”: Let Angourie boast of
its crocodile and Tantanoola of its tiger,
Sydney puts them all in the shade with
its man- or, rather, baby-eating cater-
pillars. These ferocious insects roam
the heights of Rozelle in the still small
hours, and heaven only knows what,
damage they may have done had not a
fond mother, visiting her infant at 4 a.m.,
found one of the things on its neck.
Later there were “about a dozen ugly
bites on her arm. There were holes in
the. baby singlet.” Doctor who treated
the wounds had no doubt that “the bites
were made by a caterpillar.” Don't
know whether he went by the teeth-
marks or the holes in the singlet, but
three entomologists swore the whole
thing was impossible.
♦ * * *
“Cooramin”: Two day-birds that de-
stroy a tremendous number of white-ants
(termites) during the insects’ swarming
time are the rainbow bird, commonly
called bee-eater, and the Australian
dollar bird. The latter makes the greater
havoc among the winged pest, for it
continues hawking till after dark. The
termites take flight from the old logs
and nests at dusk, and the dollar bird
enjoys a big supper when other day-birds
have gone to roost. Besides what they
catch, countless numbers are struck down
by their wings and become easy prey for
the black ants. The dollar bird, so
called from the round white patch on
each wing, is one of the beauties of the
forest, and is noted for its rolling and
tumbling in the air.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: At a cattle station on
the Diamantina (s.-w. Q.), one of the
blackboys failed to turn up at daylight,
and an inquiry from his moaning lubra
brought forth the information that
Butcher, a self-styled rainmaker, had
been “pointum bone longa Toby.” All
hands were wanted at the time, and,
taking a bottle of rum as a possible
means of counteracting Butcher’s invis-
ible death-ray, the boss cajoled the boong
into swallowing a big nip. It took Toby
a day and a night to recover from the
effects of spirits more potent than Butcher
could conjure up, and when Toby ap-
peared fit for work again he’d seemingly
forgotten that Butcher had ordained his
death. But the rum cure created a bad
precedent, and a couple of days later
another of the boys became smitten with
Butcher’s evil designs. He was stiff. The
boss was a wake-up, and a stockwhip
about his skinny legs broke that magic
spell in double-quick time.
* * * *
“Naturala”: As the toughest creature
on earth I nominate civilised man, when
in good physical condition. Polar ex-
ploration has proved that he can with-
stand cold on at least an equality with
the dog and the bear. In such regions
the horse and other supposedly hardy
creatures simply aren’t in it with him.
But heat provides the supreme test. Up
in the blazing-hot Kimberleys the white
man, fully clad, will be trotting around
unconcerned in the midday heat while
the kangaroos, the emus and the niggers
will lie gasping in the shade. Even the
flies go under to such heat: every shady
spot will be crowded with the pests, but
not a one will tickle the man out in the
blazing sun. The horse, too, is a poor
sustainer of extreme heat. During the
great Victorian bushfires of January,
1939, ridden and driven horses collapsed
alike at the approach of the flames, but
the men in charge of them were able
to keep going, and in most instances sur-
vived to tell the tale. Even little children,
babies in arms, withstood a heat that
brought draught horses to the ground
before the flames even touched them.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Old George, stoop-
ing to weed the lettuce bed, jumped as
the pellet struck him on the seat of his
trousers. With a sharp yell, and tenderly
rubbing the affected part, he looked
around for the culprit. A quick search
through the lupin patch revealed no one,
and, very mystified, the old chap re-
turned to his work. Two minutes later
he stopped one behind the ear; although
the sharp ping just behind him gave
ample evidence of his tormentor’s pres-
ence, no one was there. He was begin-
ning to think of spirits, when he remem-
bered Tommy’s new air rifle ; breathing
threats of vengeance, he waddled up to
the house. Half-way there the sight of
Tommy helping his father down the far
end of the paddock brought him up with
a jerk. Thoroughly perplexed, he was
walking back through the lupin patch
when a veritable barrage assailed him
and, incidentally, ’solved the mystery.
Now he has erected a hessian screen to
protect him from the flying lupin seeds
which are being so forcibly ejected from
the drying pods.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Gilbertian touches
abound in the carrying-out of their duties
by the Torres Strait island native police.
When Sergeant Nataneilu, off duty, came
upon a miscreant “in the hact” it was
patently impossible to lower the dignity
of the Force by arresting the culprit when
the Law was clad only in a loincloth.
Therefore, strictly enjoining the male-
factor to remain immobile, the cop de-
parted for his hut, clad himself with meti-
culous care in the magnificent serge shirt
and lava-lava of his constabulary office,
and returned to arrest the obliging out-
law.
* * * *
“B. Comber”: In places around Aus-
tralia the chemical influence of the sea
presents some odd puzzles. Out from
Broome, 400 miles north and the same
distance south, the waters yield the finest
lustred pearls, the finest m.-0.-p. shell in
the world. Five hundred miles to the
south pearls again are found —in Shark
Bay. But the Shark Bay pearl is straw-
colored and small, the shell of practically
no value. At one time hundreds of tons
of it lay on the beach, its only obvious
use being for the making of roads. But
take a live Shark Bay shell with its pearl
north to Broome waters and there let it
lie for a year or so, and, lo! the straw
color has gone —in its place is the lustre
native to pearls actually born in such
charmed waters. On the south coast the
versatile sea presents another puzzle. Out
from Albany, close to the western edge
of the Bight, lies Cheyne Beach, on which
organic objects slowly turn to stone.
Buried in the sand one finds stumps of
trees completely petrified. Six hundred
miles away to the east, at the other side
of the Bight, lies the companion beach
on Flinders Island. Exhibited one time
was a lump of petrified beef. Indubit-
ably it had once been part of an ox, and
beyond question it was now stone. But
there was no explanation as to how the
sea at Flinders Island came to turn one
into the other.
FAR TOO FUSSY.
“The papers,” said old Boree Bob, and slowly
filled his pipe,
“In dishin’ out their Household Hints all
publish reams o’ tripe.
The trouble is the women lap it up, you bet
y’r life,
An’ then a man don’t get no peace—he’s
sooled on by the ‘strife.’
“Just lately they’ve been maggin’ on the
‘dangers,’ if you please,
Of havin’ flies around the place a-breedin’ of
disease.
A lot o’ rot! They’ve hung around me, on
an’ off, for nighi
On sixty years; but, ’cause o’ that, did I curl
up an’ die?
“Of course, me missus reads it, an’ she ats me
then from tors;
‘There’s swarms of deadly insecks in the kitchen
now,’ she roars.
She harps upon the frightful risks that she
(not me) ’ll run
From ‘two-winged messengers o’ death’ if
somethin’ isn’t done.
“I hadn’t got no fly-screens, doors, or any-
think like that,
But like a flash it came to me—yair, corks
around her hat.
I had some trouble gluein’ twine along that
blasted brim,
But in the end I fixed it and the job was
pretty trim.
“Aw, I dunno, these women ain’t consistent — 1
not a bit.
For when she pipes her cady, why, she dashed
near has a fit,
Then goes dead lemons. Yair, she puts a
cover for her nob
Before her health and comfort. That ain’t
sense,” said Boree Bob.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Old - timer”: It’s Murrumbidgee
Rory’s yarn: I’m camped one night on
the Murray, down Barham way, an’
feelin’ a bit sleepy, when strike me fat
if a bloomin’ great cod don’t come
slitherin’ up the bank and says “How
y’ doin’, mate?” My old dorg Flamer—
an’ there’s no gamer ’ound this side o’
’Ades —’e takes one look at that fish an’
goes f’r his life. Blue me if the thing
don’t sit down there an’ starts yarnin’
away like as if everythin’s fair dinkum.
Yair, it tells me a yarn about a steamer
that gets sunk be a snag near Tapalin
bend. There’s a lot o’ liquor aboard an’,
so this blanky freak reckons, most of it
gets busted open an’ all the cod an’ perch
an’ brim an’ things starts lappin’ it up.
I’m pinchin’ meself, o’ course, t’ see if
it’s true, an’ that fish goes on talkin’.
Seems there’s ’ell to play in the river
when they get some o’ that booze aboard.
All the catfish gets in a mob, an’ next
thing they’re goin’ the pelicans scone-’ot;
there’s lobsters sparkin’ up t’ tortoises, an’
redfins swimmin’ round like mad ; an’ one
old codfish gets up on a sandspit an’
sings a real old-soldier song. Well. I
can’t remember all it tells me, but
presently it slips off, waddlin’ on its fins
like a flamin’ seal, an’ takes a header
inter the river. After a bit I comes to an’
reckons I’ve had ’em pretty bad that
time, so I goes f’r a guzzle outa a bottle
o’ rum I’d snaffled over at Koondrook.
The bottle ain’t there. That’s funny, I
thinks t’ meself, an’ hunts around. Say
what y’ like, that bottle’s lyin’ down be
the river, an’ it’s empty! Work that
out!
* * * *
“Badila”: Outside our six State legis-
lative excrescences, the noisiest place in
or near this continent is Lighthouse
Island, most seaward isle of the North
Barnard Group, when the Torres Strait
pigeons are nesting. To add to the din
of quarrelling suitors, cooing of mated
pairs and the ceaseless movements of the
entire community, the south side of the
island is occupied by an outsize colony
of flying-foxes that scream and screech
as only they can. Towards sunset seem-
ingly endless flocks of the blue-and-
white pigeons arrive on the northern side,
crops bulging with quandongs and other
scrub nuts, while from the opposite side
issue forth an endless stream of fruit bats,
intent on their nocturnal food expeditions
on the mainland. The gulls and terns add
to the busy scene, noisily vying with the
kingfish in their depredations on the
shoals of sardines.
* * * *
“Orrible John”: “Dungeness” (B.
29 /11 / ’39) got the facts of the Mt. Isa
beer drink second-
or third-hand. The
“local suction
artist” happens to
be a moderate beei-
d rinker whose
appearance at the
local bar is an
exception rather
than a rule; the
bet was for one
pound (not five)
and the official
times were: Three
pots, 16 seconds ;
five pots, 50 sec-
onds, and the re-
maining three were
down in 13min.
3sec. A regurgita-
tion took place on
the six-and-a-halfth
pot, and it was on
this that “no con-
test” was declared.
Mt. Isa pots are
the Imperial pint -
standard. The con-
testant now admits that it was the speedy
dispatch of the first five which eventually
beat him, and declines to enter into any
more competitions on account of the
unwelcome publicity brought about by
“local correspondents” whose imagina-
tions are greater than their capacity for
veracity. Y’see, / happen to be the bloke
who drank the beer.
* * * *
“A.G.”: Touching on “Bull-ant Bill’s”
reference (B. 22 /11 / ’39) to waxing
and waning of the moon, timber
and plants are not the only things
affected by it. Knew an old Cornish
couple who always killed their pigs at
the waxing of the moon. They swore that
if it were done during a waning moon
the bacon always fried away to next to
nothing.
* # * *
“Salmon Gums”: Dad, a true conser-
vative, stuck firmly to his felt hat and
eyed son’s straw headgear with unquali-
fied disapproval. “Think you’re a flamin’
Mexican cowboy?” he grunted. Came
the heat-wave, and, tired of removing the
heavy felt every few minutes to wipe the
sweat away, he bought a wide-brimmed
straw after much persuasion. Soon he
was singing its praises. One morning he
was milking Beauty, a restless cow at the
best of times, and an extra vigorous
switch of her tail caught dad’s hat and
sailed it smoothly on to her horns. For
the next few seconds dad was kicked,
knocked down, walked over and drowned
in milk ; then Beauty, her eyes completely
obscured by the hat, and with pieces of
the wrecked bail flying with her, crashed
through the shed, upset a crate of eggs
and finished up in the pigsty. Dad’s back
to the old felt.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: A party of blacks had
a permanent camp opposite Augathella,
on the Warrego, and whenever a mob of
travelling cattle passed the spot old Grid-
iron would interview the cook. “When
you killum beast next time?” he would
“ ’Ave un ever been up in one, laad?"
“Chief says We got to cut down the meat bill."
ask. If told that the event would happen
within two or three days, he calculated
at what distance, at 12 miles a day, the
cattle would be at that time, and his
whole camp would prepare to follow.
Drovers carried little or no bone, the
meat being usually cut off and the frame
of the beast left intact. All the “innards”
were also left, and sometimes the tongue
and* tail as well. Thus the pickings were
well worth a couple of days’ walk to
Gridiron and co., and they 1 were always
on the scene of the killing. Not infre-
quently they had a good swag of meat
to carry back. They were known as the
Augathella Crows.
sg * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’m interested in
“Double Dee’s” Westralian stumps (B.
6/12/’39) which, “left behind by timber-
cutters years before, were as dry as
tinder.” I’ve chopped down and ring-
barked from Manjimup to Mukinbudin,
and I’ve yet to strike the timber that will
die completely, even when chopped off
at ground level. In fact, one of the
features of the Westralian bush is its re-
generative powers. Country that has
been chopped down and left untouched
for five or six years is worth at least half
the original price for the re-chop. Sucker-
bashing is a recognised occupation after
burning, and suckers showing over the
head of a crop of ripening wheat aren’t
always evidence that the crop is a poor
one. Similarly, ringbarking will send up
a crop of suckers unless scientifically
done, the correct method being to cut
through the bark and into, but not
through, the sapwood, so that the tree
dies slowly. Even then the job should
be done in midsummer.
* * * v
“Nor’-west”: In northern Australia
the white man generally goes fishing
with dynamite, butchers ten times more
fish than he needs, and occasionally loses
a hand in the process. The aboriginal
also goes fishing without hook and line,
but takes no more than he can use —
and never loses even a digit. Overland-
ing from Wyndham to Derby one sum-
mer we came upon a river dried to a
succession of small deep pools. ‘ Blime!”
said the Cockney bloke. “I smell fish
in there —and we haven’t even got a
bent pin.” But Black Tommy knew one.
Scouting around he located a certain
bush, from which he gathered an armful
of leafy , twigs. Bruising the leaves
slightly he cast his offering on the waters.
And, lo! within a short while the whole
pool turned milky, with fish swimming
dopily right on the surface.
Without much trouble we col-
lected a dozen —nice sizable
fellows up to a couple of
pounds, and perfectly good
eating, though taken “while under the
influence.” After the catch Tommy
was careful to remove all twigs pos-
sible ; a glance next morning showed
that the water had resumed its normal
color, with its finny inhabitants pre-
sumably restored to a condition of
sobriety. Thus Binghi not only fishes
scientifically, but also conserves the
untaken fish for the possible necessi-
ties of another day.
* * *
“C.M.E.”: A Gippsland (Vic.)
farmer, digging out rabbits in a hill
paddock, came on a fox burrow. He
dug it out and unearthed a litter of
four cubs, which he killed and left
lying beside the mound. Returning
to work next morning he found that
the cubs had disappeared. Work that
day took him about a quarter of a mile
farther up the hill, and there he came on
a previously dug-out burrow showing
signs of being recently tampered with.
The spoor of a fox showed plainly, cross-
ing and recrossing in every direction. In-
vestigation disclosed the four cubs buried
together.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “I gets roped inter play in a
country cricket match one time,” said old
Ben the handyman, “an’ it turns out to be
one o’ them ’ot days. There’s a coupla
‘nines’ on, so that ’elped a bit. Any’ow,
the other side bats first, an’ they got a
good few runs, an’ we didn’t do too bad
ourselves for a start. But we ’as a bit of
a collapse, and four wickets fall in one
over. When I go in, an’ I’m last man,
we want 11 runs. It’s pretty late and the
umpires ’as decided that it’s the last over.
I’ve got five balls left an’ I reckon I’m
goin’ ter get them runs. But some’ow I
can’t connect. Four swipes I ’as and
misses, an’ then down comes the last
ball. I swung as ’ard as I could an’ away
it went. Clean over the fence —an’ we’d
won.” “But,” I said, “over the fence
would only give you six, and you said
you wanted 11.” “Yairs,” replied Ben,
“but I ’it that ball so ’ard that it split
fair in two, an ’alf of it went over one
fence and the other over another, an’ I
got six fer each bit.”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Butler, the Blue Moun-
tains chain-murderer (B. 1/11/’39), prob-
ably found his first Australian victim in
W.A. Back in 1894 in the Bardoc dis-
trict three prospectors came on a digger
filling in a hole. The lone one ceased
operations, came towards them so as to
prevent further approach, and told a
story of a mate napping a reef further
along the ridges, and also of a water-
hole on towards the main camp track.
Obligingly he offered his services as
guide. But, though he pointed to places
where stone was broken and where
he averred his mate had been working,
no mate was seen. Convinced that he
must have struck it rich and was cover-
ing up the lode, preparatory to hurrying
into Coolgardie to register, the three
prospectors went back, dug into the
filled-in hole and uncovered a human
head—with a hole in it, evidently made
by a pick. That Bardoc murderer was
close to being caught in the act, yet he
got clean away. Butler was in Cool-
gardie round about that time. It was
from Bayley’s mine that he stole the
mining diplomas which later enabled him
to put his patter over his Sydney victims.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: I left home very early
in the morning, with a neighbor’s truck
ahead and a very tired-looking fox
terrier pounding along about a quarter
of a mile behind him. I picked up the
dog, hoping to catch the truck* Thirty
miles farther on I had to leave the
main road, but the other truck pulled
up half a mile away, so I dropped
the foxy, knowing that his owner would
be just starting to boil the billy. When
I next met my neighbor he was full of
praise for his dog. “Chased me for
damn’ near forty miles,” he declared,
“and caught up, fresh as paint, when 1
pulled up just past the crossroads. I
thought it a pity to disillusion him, but
it’s given me an idea of how some
“records” have been put up.
THE SONG OF THE OLD BRIGADE.
I have given away my tent and fly,
My cattle dog and his chain;
I have dumped my swag and my waterbag
And I’m joining the mob again.
Let them give me a gun and a bandolier,
With bullets supplied aplenty,
And I’ll do my best when I’m up with the
rest —
I’m good as I was at twenty.
There’s a plough to sell and a cow to sell
And my equity in a farm;
They may have them all, for I’ve heard the call
And farming has lost its charm
As my mind goes back to the bloody rack,
The shambles and din like thunder,
With the ’planes on high and the battlecry
And the days of revenge and plunder.
There’s a stockman’s job on a western run
And some gear that I’ve laid aside
And my trusty hack of the lonely track
That a woman or child could ride.
I am lean and tough and I’m young enough
And strong is my arm, and steady;
And I’ve packed my bag and have rolled my
swag
And I’m willing and keen and ready.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


! - 1
i
*
ipL
ißrirty^irrtaa
mm
7) TEARS IN DUBBO
In 1848 Jean Serisier, a young Frenchman, drove the pegs
marking the site of Dubbo. It was later surveyed by Mr. G. B.
White who, incidentally, also laid out the city of Melbourne.
Twenty years later, and long before the railway reached the
town, the Bank of New South Wales'opened a branch.
With a population of close on 10,000, Dubbo is now one of
the State's most progressive towns and the centre of an area
noted for its stock, wool, and wheat.
The support which the Bank of New South Wales has extended
to the Dubbo district for 71 years is typical of the part the
Bank has played in the development of New South Wales.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
527 A
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Plrie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1929.. 160,637 10 p.c. = 141,909 18,728 383,014
Share premiums, £5O .. .. 383,064
1930.. 118,347 7-J p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
1931.. 91,554 6f „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 8:1 ~ ~ 125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 6i „ „ 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 7* „ ~ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8} „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143.017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ ~143.017 49.580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 llj ~ „ 160,894 53,303 728,385
The position is even more comfortable
than the figures in that table suggest.
Formed 30 years ago by Henry Jones and
his lieutenant, A. W. Palfreyman, this
holding co. stepped in where there was
waste in buying and selling, as well as
overlapping in organisation, and reduced
the lot to a minimum. The subsidiaries,
which are in the jam, fruit-canning and
-preserving and general merchandising
businesses, are scattered throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland and ex-
tend to England and S. Africa as well.
Until the close of last accounts, outsiders
knew little of the real position, the cur-
tain being kept drawn over the operating
cos.’ figures. The market, however, has
always been prepared to back the man-
agement on the strength of the co.’s
history and its grip upon the trade in
Australasia and elsewhere.
For 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 divs. averaged a wink under 11
p.c., sweetened with £455,492 of bonus
scrip in 1927, though share premiums
take some of the gilt off the gingerbread.
Slump and other things brought the div.
down to 6} p.c. in 1931, since when
overproduction of canned fruits and
price-cutting by Government-assisted
factories have produced fluctuating re-
sults. Still, shareholders had a steady
10 p.c. again for the three years to the
close of accounts in 1938, followed by
1 H p.c. last term.
Here is net income from Australian
and other sources as the parent’s accounts
show it:- —
i 931. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Net income:—
Australian.. £55,674 £145,264 £137,747 £157.546
- Other sources 35.880 54,850 54.850 66,651
Total .. £91,554 £200,114 £192,597 £214.197
The spring in last year’s figures (£19,799
from Australian and £lBOl from other
sources) was due to increased sale'of
jams to merchant houses in Britain. The
£214,197 was 14.9 p.c. on capital as against
13.4, 14, 13.7, 10.4, 9.4, 7.7, 11.9 and
6.4 p.c. back to 1931. The div., which
was lifted from 10 p.c. to p.c., was
made up of Is. 6d. from Australian in-
come and 9d. from ex-Australian income.
The combined p. and 1. figures for the
entire organisation, published for the
first time, show the parent’s share of net
profit within the Commonwealth at
£190,667 and from outside Australia at
£75,622, total £266,289, or £52,092 more
profit than the parent claimed and equal
to 18.6 p.c. on capital. That was after
deducting losses by subsidiary cos.
amounting to £16,164.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures for the organisation:
CONSOLIDATED RALANCE SHEET.
Liabilities, | Assets
Paid capital. £1,430,173 I Freeholds, etc. £597,928
Outside | Plant, etc.. . 279,590
interests* . 79.477 | Stocks . . 872,099
Gen. reserves 1,321,983 j Debtors . . 785,008
Tax provision! 159,478 ! Shares .. 101,245
Creditors, etc. 427,549 I Cash, etc. . . 745,328
Final divs... 125,140 [ Goodwill ".. 02,542
£3,543,800 | £3,543,800
* Including proportion reserves. f Including other
contingencies.
It is a solid financial structure. Including
shares, more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities and the final div. by
£1,951,051. Among the features which
catch the eye are the low figure at which
plant appears, the large amount of stocks
and debtors’ balances and the substantial
cash holding, etc. A large cash reserve
is necessary because the co. has to buy
up a year’s requirements of fruit within a
period of from three to six weeks.
As for the current term, prospects for
the co.’s Australasian trade are bright
enough, though increased taxes and other
costs will cut into takings, but the in-
creased duties imposed by Britain on the
co.’s products (approx. 200 p.c.) and extra
transport and other charges are likely
to affect the English trade. During the
Great War (1914-18) the co. supplied the
British War Office with jams at cost, and
“it is unlikely that there will be any
change from this policy if we are asked
for any supplies in the coming year,” the
chairman says.
At 555. 3d. (48s. 3d. a year ago) the
pound shares, covered by 3.85. 6d. in net
tangibles, return 4 p.c. on a 11| p.c. div.
basis.
The D.I.C.
Maoriland best knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand,
Ltd., by those initials.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c.* Ord. serves, serves.
1929.. 45.027 lO p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125,649
1930.. 37.447 15.000 10 „ „ 17,918 4,529 130,178
1931. .19,371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
1932.. 2,974 15,000 Nil 113,547
5 p.c.
1933.. 17,207 12,500 2J p.c. = 4,532 175 113,722
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,969 . . 135,691
1934.. 26.684 12,500 5 p.c. = 9,077 5,107 140,798
1935.-27,777 12,500 5 „ „ 9,092 6,185 146,983
1936.. 33.005 12,500 6 „ „ 10,927 9,578 156,561
Reserves capitalised. £58,899 .. .. 97,662
1937.. 37.568 12,500 6 p.c. = 14,589 10,479 108.141
1938.. 39.790 12,500 6 ~ ~ 14,589 12,701 120,842
1939.. 41.853 12,500 0 .. „ 14.589 14,764 135,606
* Reduced to 5 p.c. under the National Expenditure
Adjustment. Act in April, 1932.
A surprisingly good performance con-
sidering the inroads socialistic legislation
and other Government activities have
made into the earnings of private enter-
prise in the Dominion. Still, unlike the
primary producer, the retailer is able sub-
stantially to pass on increased wage
tax and other costs. Moreover, during
the last few years there have been plenty
of money about, owing largely to lavish
Government spending on public works
and social services, and a consequent
high level of employment. Also, ex-
change and import restrictions provided
retailers with an opportunity to make
more lines locally and thus gather a
manufacturing as well as a retail profit.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, this co., which runs a
chain of four high-class softgoods stores
at Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Wanganui, registered a spring of
£36,843 in gross earnings (£321,047),
which were a record for the business.
Including £66,463 for rates and taxes,
exes. (£283,448) were up £37,633. Taking
into the reckoning an inexplained addi-
tion of £4254 to reserves, the net result
.was £2063 better at £41,853. This was
enough to pay the prefs. 5 p.c. (reduced
from 6 p.c. under the National Expendi-
ture Adjustment Act in 1932, and made
permanent under the Mortgagors and
Lessees’ Rehabilitation Act in 1936) and
show 12 p.c. on ord. capital as against
11.2 p.c. and 10.3 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. The div. was kept at
6 p.c., which is equal to 8 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the one-for-three gift
to the ords. about three years ago. So
far as the pref. shareholders are con-
cerned, the Mortgagors and Lessees’ Re-
habilitation Act now amounts to a
glaring social injustice.
The extent to which the people are
being bled to pay for the Government’s
social experiments is not widely realised.
After providing for depreciation the
Government made off with 12s. 2d.
(60.8 p.c.) of every pound-of this co.’s
profit last term ; shareholders received
4s. 2|d., and 3s. 7Jd. was retained for
expansion and stabilisation of the busi-
ness. Of each pound taken over the
counter, on the average suppliers got
12s. 10d., salaries and wages accounted
for 3s. 9d., the taxgatherer took Is. 4d.,
trading exes, amounted to Is. Id., rates
2d. and dividends 7d., leaving 3d. for
business development, etc.
War has provided the Cabinet with
fresh opportunities to restrict economic
freedom further and expand public
credit, and action has been taken in
both fields. There have been a tightening
of exchange control and more drastic
restriction of imports. But the biggest
danger lies in steadily mounting internal
costs with a more or less fixed price
for the country’s chief exports, which
have been sold to Britain under con-
tract. This and taxation to support war
and other expenditure are likely to lead
to an increase in unemployment sooner
or later, with a consequent dislocation
of trade and lowering of the standard
of living.
The market, with one eye on the co.’s
history and the other on the wide margin
between earnings and distributions and
the satisfactory state of the finances,
prices the 10s.-paid ords. at 14s. 6d. At
this figure the return is 4.1 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis, with possibilities. The
pound prefs. at 21s. (235. a year ago) yield
4.7 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£2 10s. 3d. prefs. and 15s. 7d. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1934. 1930. 1938. 1939.
Pref. capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Old. capital . . 181,829 182,153 243,149 243,149
Liabilities . . 184,195 139,942 204,553 176,956
Premises, plant
etc. . . 525,917 491,348 458,884 443,174
Stocks . . 181,829 165,204 221,770 231,110
Book debts . . 70,297 87,654 102,779 106,747
Investments and
cash . . 4,931 1,626 55,951 46,121
Last term outside liabilities were reduced
by £27,597, and stocks increased by
£9340 and debtors’ balances by £3968.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£207,022) was £31,075.
Amalgamated Textiles (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Re—
Sept., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 8,968 Nil 1,515
Unexplained reduction, £125 .. .. 1,390
1932.. 1,337 Nil 53
Profit.
1933.. 21,768 5 p.c. = 14,759 7,009 7,062
Unexplained reduction, £282 .. .. 6,780
1934.. 9,733 3| p.c. = 11,028 5,485
1935.. 17,624 5 „ „ 14,704 2,920 8,405
Unexplained reduction, £73 .. .. 8,332
1936.. 12,513 Nil 12,513 20,845
1937.. 7,183 5 p.c. = 14,709 13,319
Forfeited shares, £ll4 .. .. .. 13,433
Plant, etc.* written up, £64,041 .. 77,474
Written off freeholds, £11,116 .. 66,358
Nov., Loss Deficit.
1938*. 125,652 Nil 59,294
Forfeited shares, £142 .. .. .. 59,152
Tax refunds, £4575 .. .. .. 54,577
From tax reserve, £1405 .. .. 53,172
Sept., Profit.
1939'f. 6,367 Nil 6,367 46,805
*l4 months. f!0 months.
The figures prior to 1938 are mislead-
ing, owing to successive overvaluations
of stock by a former general manager.
The facts disclosed in connection with
the matter absolved the board from
blame. Of the loss of £125,652 in 1938,
£117,620 was in respect of overvaluation
of stock; actual loss attributable to
the 14 months’ trading to the close of
accounts was estimated at £16,200. It is
plain, therefore, that the aggregate net
profit of £68,821 shown by the accounts
for the preceding five years was not
profit at all. The actual net result of
the 10 years’ trading to the close of
accounts in 1938 was a loss averaging
£4BOO p.a.
At the same time the board decided
to make some paper adjustments. The
book value of freehold was written down
by £11,116, reducing the figure to
£72,235, goodwill (£10,517, which had
never been treated as an asset by the
“Wild Cat”) was rubbed out of the ac-
counts, and the book value of plant, etc.,
was written up by £64,042, raising the
figure to £135,627. It all left £59,294 of
the capital unrepresented by tangibles in
the books at the end of November, 1938.
These adjustments have- no effect upon
earning power one way or the other.
Indeed, no harm would have been done
had all deadwood been pruned out of the
accounts, and another cut made in capi-
tal —in 1929 £156,105 (6s. Bd. per share)
was lopped off shareholders’ account in
an effort to put the business on an even
keel.
The profit of £6367 shown for the 10
months covered by the latest accounts
is a promising performance, all things
considered. It was at the rate of 2.6 p.c.
p.a. on capital, and was written after
allowing £4OO for taxation and £6273 (4.6
p.c. on book value of plant, etc., at Nov.
30, 1938) for depreciation. It leaves out


BEFORE AND AFTER.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., H.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Reresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Cl'aridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * s»
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt. >
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. YV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and . other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1802.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLD*,
(Jen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
of the reckoning £142 added to the for-
feited share reserve, a tax refund of £4575
and £1405 transferred from the tax re-
serve to the p. and 1. account. No div.
was paid, the amount of capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books at the
end of September being reduced to
£46,805.
As for the current term, enough
defence and other contracts are in hand
to keep the plant running at or near capa-
city till June next. Also, the board
claims that, compared with a year ago,
a better margin now exists between costs
and selling prices, and further improve-
ment is expected. In addition, the taxa-
tion authorities have agreed to recog-
nise the loss in 1938 as applicable also
to the two preceding terms, which means
that these losses can be carried forward
against profits for three years as regards
State taxes and for five years as regards
Federal taxes. One of the co.’s biggest
difficulties is its heavy overhead, owing
to the situation of the mills —one at
Orange, another at Albury and a third at
Goulburn —which turn out worsteds that
compare very favorably with the products
of competitors. Considering the co.’s
contribution to the policy of decentrali-
sation, it deserves more assistance than
it has thus far received in the way of
reduced freight and power charges, etc.
Here is. the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —-
Sept., Sept., Nov.. Sept.,
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £294,079 £294,179 £294,179 £294,179
Overdraft . . 50,700 51,143 61,894 53,330
Sundry creditors 13,819 14,640 55,100 51,851
Freeholds . . 83,035 83,276 72,235 72,235
Plant, etc. . . 94,436 77,335 135,6§7 130.501
Stocks . . 158,209 187.184 117,620 98,555
Book debts . . 48,335 40,906 26,242 50,267
Cash, etc. .. 2,889' 1,589 1.560 1,398
Last term stocks were reduced by £19,065
and debtors’ balances increased by
£24,025, while £8564 was snipped off the
overdraft and £3249 off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors. The more or
less liquid surplus (£45,039) was £16,611
stronger than at the Nov., ’3B, balance.
During the year the price of the f.-p.
13s. 4d. shares fluctuated between 2s. 9d.
and 6s. Bd. in the market. At ss. 9d.,
the latest price, the return would be
5.8 p.c. on, say, a 2\ p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities of a bit better. The cover
is 11s. 2d. in net tangibles, largely plant,
worth what it can earn.
Loloma (Fiji)
For its second operating period (52
weeks as against 40 weeks), Loloma,
Vatukoula, Fiji, shows £A193,813 (up
£110,020) of profit, equal to 4s. Bd. a
share. For the current term gold re-
coveries have been fairly well maintained
around 26.2dwt., and throughput is now
running at the increased rate of 32,500
tons p.a., while full benefit of the en-
hanced price of gold is accruing to the
co., Fiji being satisfied with its usual
royalty.
Contributing to increased profit were
the longer crushing period, the lift in the
value of mill-feed, greatly-improved ex-
traction (an average of 95.1 p.c. against
87.6 p.c.) and a cut (disappointingly
small) in average operating costs. Crush-
ing performances are compared here: —■
1938. 1939.
Treated, tons . . .. 18,036 27,767
Head values, dwt. .. 27.9 28.1
Gold yield; oz. .. .. 22,074 37,208*
Dwt., ton . . . . 24.4 26. S
Silver, oz. . . . . 5,589 7,659
Dwt., ton . . . . 6.2 5.5
Costs (Fijian), ton .. 66/24 64/9'
* Including- 660 z. from 896 tons old residues.
Following installation of a new flotation
cell, extraction, 92.6 p.c. at the beginning,
had lifted to 96.6 p.c. at the end of the
term, when tailing losses were under one
’weight a ton.
Commencement of lime production at
Tau has cut £4 Fiji a ton off the cost of
this commodity to the co. ; storage facili-
ties, to be duplicated, at Vatia have also
lowered oil costs. Despite this and the
larger millings, the management figures
costs per ton of ore mined and treated,
including development, mine administra-
tion and general charges, only Is. sjd.
lower at 645. 9d. Fiji. An unduly wet
season is officially blamed.
Treatment figures cover 13 four-weekly
periods to July 12, whereas the financial
statements are made up to July 31. In
Australian currency, an analysis of out-
goings per ton of ore treated, so far as
it can be made, yields the following
comparison:
1938. Pev Ton. 1939. Per Toil.
Net revenue £180,791 £322,544
Costs—■
Mining . . 12,131 13s. 6d. 23,315 16s. lOd.
Milling . . 29,498 325. 9d. 41,234 295. Sd.
Development 24,427 275. Id. 17,342 12s. 6d.
“Other” mine
exes . . 10,060 7s. 3d.
Administra-
tion, etc. 16,565 18s. 4d. 13,456 9s. Bd.
Income tax 4,500 ss. Od. 11,401 Bs. 3d.
Total outgo 87,121 965. Bd. 116,808 84s. 2d.
Depreciation 9,877 11,923
Net profit.. 83,793 193,813
A new unexplained item, “other mine
expenditure £10,060,” renders strict com-
parison difficult; moreover, the mill was
not operating for the full 1938 year. Tak-
ing the figures as they stand, however,
there has been a drop of 7s. Id. a ton
in direct mine expenditure, due entirely
to the expenditure of 14s. 7d. a ton
less on development—the ’3B figure in-
cludes £10,998 charged to revenue but
incurred prior to the commencement of
ore-treatment. Taking taxation but not
depreciation into the reckoning, the drop
in total outgoings on a per-ton basis was
12s. 6d.
Divs. of 3s. a share absorbed £123,750.
The balance of retained earnings
(£81,986) went to pay for £24,069 of new
plant, add £17,075 net to advances
(mainly capital outlay in connection with
the Tau and Vatia ventures) and pay the
previous term’s final div. (£41,250).
Excluding £31,000 in shares in Tavua
Power Pty., which is installing an extra
525 kw. generator, liquid resources show
little movement at £50,247, while £21,452
is owed outsiders. Reserves stand at
£300,190 (share premiums account for
£198,750) and capital at £93,375.
Development of new ore has kept pace
with mill treatment, leaving reserves at
nearly five years’ mill-feed:
, —* —17/7/’3B >, , 6/9/’39
Tons. Grade. Tons. Grade.
Positive . . 109.715 27.3 dwt. 116,000 26.4 dwt.
Probable . . 29,100 19.3 dwt. 25,549 16.6 dwt.
Total . . 138,815 25.6 dwt. 141,549 24.8 dwt.
On No. 3 horizon some 29.6dwt. stuff
has been dug up since the latest ore esti-
mate was prepared, but neither values nor
size of the ore-channel generally are quite
as good as on the higher levels. Current
development is aimed at sinking to 550 ft.
and opening out Nos. 4 and 5 levels.
Behavior of the ore-body here and results
from testing the possible extension of
Emperor’s Regent lode, which is showing
16.5dwt. over 4|ft. near Loloma’s south
boundary, will determine whether
throughput is to be stepped up.
Loloma has 825,000 shares issued,
priced at 30s. each in the sharemarket.
Divs. of 2s. 6d. a share have so
far been disbursed in respect of the cur-
rent term, and chairman P. E. Cody
says last year’s rate will at least be
maintained. Assuming that gold keeps
at £AIO 10s. an ounce, estimated ore in
sight should be worth £A 1,060,000 net to
the co. (255. Bd. per share) with costs, ex-
eluding depreciation, at £4 4s. a ton and
a 96 p.c. extraction. With deepening of
the workings and the rising trend of
stores and other charges, costs may prove
difficult to hold down at the present rate
of treatment.
Lake George Mines
Working offshoot of Lake George
Mining Corp., the London holding co.
floated in the early-1937 metal boom to
exploit the old Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.)
silver-lead deposits, Lake George Mines
has run into a sea of troubles, the pre-
war collapse of metal prices being not
the least. The concentrates being sold
overseas, war-time shipping difficulties
and increased freights, etc., have further
aggravated the management’s problems.
For the six months to Sept. 30, when
concentrates on hand amounted to
4110 tons lead and 3884 tons zinc,
an operating loss of £A52,578 is
estimated. But arrangements cover-
ing “the immediate future” should
assure better prices than those assumed
in arriving at the loss, the board reports,
and the recent rise in the maximum
British price for lead, zinc and copper
should help future earnings. So will
completion early in October last of the
Bungendore-Captain’s Flat railway.
For the six months 70,144 tons of
crudes was milled, with these results:
, Lead Concentrates
Quarter , Assay Zinc Con.-^
Ended. Tons. Pb. Cu. Au. Tons. Zn.
p.c. p.c. dwt. p.c.
June.. 3600 52.9 3.7 5.5 4014 55.9
Sept... 3705 52.6 3.4 3.8 4853 57.9
The feed is not near so rich as the
Barrier deposits, the September quarter's
assay being 6.4 p.c. lead, 10.9 p.c. zinc,
0.74 p.c. copper, I.3dwt. gold and 1.250 z.
silver—which was, however, below mine
average. Concentration to date has not
yet produced the 55-60 p.c. lead and
60-62 p.c. zinc concentrate looked for in
the prospectus, partly owing to the low
grade of ore treated and the skilled labor
position, lack of which has kept the mine
output below the 500-ton-daily mill capa-
city. The position is improving, how-
ever, and an encouraging feature is the
progressive improvement in values below
312 ft., lead content of the ore on the
750 ft. level being above mine average.
Captain’s Flat was previously worked
for gold and copper. The primary sul-
phides consist of an intimate mixture of
iron pyrites, galena and zinc-blende, with
a small admixture of copper pyrites. It
helps explain the low metallurgical re-
coveries compared with current Barrier
experience. Down to 800 ft. ore reserves
are reckoned at 2,113,100 tons, assaying
principally 7.6 p.c. lead, 13 p.c. zinc,
0.7 p.c. copper and 2.3dwt. gold, with
something like a further 5,000,000 tons
considered probable. A pyrite concen-
trate also produced, containing approx.
50 p.c. sulphur, is dispatched to the
fertiliser cos. at Kembla. When the
board considers the time ripe provision-
has been made for the doubling of mill
capacity at an estimated additional out-
lay of only £A35,000.
“Emu Bay” on an old proposition
under new control:-
The tireless energy of the Speck’s late Archie
Sligo is still bearing fruit on his beloved wet
West Coast. Renison Associated Tin has
commenced production. Archie got behind the
show when Pat O’Dea, now the co.’s general
manager, showed him the results obtained by
Ron Midson in his laboratory at Zeehan by
preflotation of the pyrites and subsequent
gravity concentration of the tin contents from
the siliceous residue.
Then O. T. Lempriere and A. J. Reid came
in and transformed dreams to realities by in-
stalling, under metallurgist Frank Grey's direc-
tion, a flotation unit which is now working
in conjunction with the well-equipped gravity
mill included in the co.’s purchase of the
Renison Bell mines. A five-ton parcel of
concentrates, worth £B5O, has reached the
smelters from the first fortnight’s run, and
those familiar with the results predict that
Renison Associated will be hobnobbing with
its aristocratic neighbors, Mt. Lyell, Rosebery,
Hercules and Mt. Read.
Existing equipment will handle 60,000 tons a
year of the stanniferous pyrites of an average
tenor of from 0.8 to 1 p.c. Sn, and the avail-
able tonnage is such as to permit of the plant
being quadrupled within a year or two.
Issued capital is only £40,000, while ore
reserves, proved and probable, total nearly
700,000 tons.
* * * *
Tableland Tin reckons that further
capital expenditure on its Mt. Garnet
(Q.) venture will absorb £150,000 —cost
of installing and starting-up the big No.
2 dredge £140,000, and £lO,OOO for addi-
tional water storage. The money is ex-
pected to be found by (1) calls of £42,000,
(2) estimated profit from No. 1 dredge
£40,000, and (3) £75,000 by (Government-
guaranteed) overdraft. To June 30 capi-
tal outlay at Return Creek had run to
£166,823, but much of the expenditure
( e.g ., on power plant and dams, etc.) has
been preparatory to the installation of
No. 2 dredge. While a lot of money has
also gone into reconditioning the old
plant taken over with the property, the
directors appear to have safeguarded
shareholders against the risk of putting
in expensive plant before adequate de-
velopment. Following electrification to
cope with the hard wash and other modi-
fications, No. 1 plant is now earning
£2OOO a month on a 70,000-c.y. turnover,
and yields to date (14oz. Concentrate on
the average) have confirmed expectations.
For the year to June 30, during which tin-
winning was intermittent, a loss of £13,566
showed up. Paid capital is in 240,000 £1
ords. (14s. 6d. called at balance date) and
half that number f.-p. Is. deferreds, all
ranking equally for divs. Now paid to
16s. 6d., sellers of the ords. are prepared
to accept 9s. As with 95 p.c. of mining
ventures, financial estimates have gone
somewhat astray, but the outlook now
appears cheeriest for a long time, though
the use to be made of outside money will
inevitably postpone the div. stage when
full production begins. The dredging
reserves are 73,000,000 c.y. averaging
mostly between 0.51 b. and 0.621 b. t.o.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s mining and treatment
costs in the sulphide section are reported
to have fallen 2s. 6d. a ton compared
with last year’s average, and to have
dropped in the oxide section. The
smelters are now running smoothly, but
grade of ore and other adverse factors
are still affecting profit-earning.
* * * *
Mt. Rainbow, in the Gladstone hinter-
land (C.Q.), does not seem to have con-
tacted the rich basalt lead lost in the
’nineties. A number of tributors have
lately been on the job round the old
workings—evidently with meagre results,
since parcel returns are given in dwts.
and not ounces. In the old days a yard
of dirt was sometimes known to yield
a couple of ounces of gold.
* * * *
The South Burnett mine at Kilkivan
(S.Q.) is turning out 40 tons of 15dwt.
ore on a reef ranging from 6in. to 30in.
thick. Workings are getting extensive
now, with No. 4 level showing decent
developments lately. Kilkivan, on the
fringe of the Gympie gold belt, must
have one of the most diverse mineral
collections in Australia. It has had gold-
mines, a Coppermine (Mt. Mudlo),
several mercury deposits and a nickel
show at Black Snake. Add to this pros-
pects for iron ore and asbestos. It’s a
list that will take a lot of beating from
any one district.
* * * *
Not many working mineowners in the
West can afford champagne, chicken and
asparagus these days. One, however,
working a claim 150 miles north of
Meekatharra, recently brought a 6510 z.
bar of gold into the towmship ; it came
from 210 tons put through a three-head
mill.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”: Emperor (Fiji) directors
have followed the leads of other gold-
mining boards in Australia and abroad
in seeking higher fees. Six Lake View
directors divide £11,300 p.a.. four Boulder
Perseverance £5OOO and five Sons of
Gwalia £2625. Remuneration of boards
of some African, Canadian and Ameri-
can cos. is up in the five figures.
* * * *
Drilling plant on Freney Oil’s area will
soon be going again. The surface-control
casing has arrived from America, and all
hands and the cook are busy cementing
and doing their bit in other ways. Opti-
mists tip that something encouraging, or
better, will be stabbed by the drill before
long. Meanwhile shareholders, many of
whom are in at high prices, watch and
pray.


OUT OF THE
PAST
The Lady Nelson
J.H.M. ABBOTT
ALMOST 140 years ago a small 60-
ton brig dropped her anchor one
evening just at dusk in the mouth of
Sydney Cove, having beaten up the
harbor through a fairly stiff southerly.
She was the Lady Nelson, commanded
by Lieutenant James Grant, R.N., and
had just completed a voyage from the
Thames to Port Jackson, being ten weeks
out from the Cape of Good Hope. To
no other ship, big or little, did early Aus-
tralia owe quite so much as to this re-
markable vessel. In her brief life of 25
years she was hardly ever without em-
ployment in the work of exploring and
colonising the shores of Britain’s new
possession in the South Seas. The En-
deavour and the Sirius and Flinders’s
Investigator loom large in our history, but
what they actually did in the develop-
ment of the country can hardly be com-
pared with what was done by the little
brig in the quarter of a century during
which she was at work in Australian
waters. She was undoubtedly the most
useful craft that came here during the
first 50 years of British settlement in the
continent.
The Lady Nelson was built at Dept-
ford in 1799, and was specially designed
for exploration in uncharted waters. Cap-
tain John Schanck, R.N., 16 years before,
had submitted a design to the Admiralty
for building a small vessel with sliding
centreboard keels, which could be raised
or lowered when necessary, and so suc-
cessfully had it turned out that several
craft had been constructed on the same
plan. She had three centreboards, and
when they were raised drew no more
than six feet of water.
One of the first of the brig’s long list
of services was the exploration and sur-
vey of the Hunter River, which had been
discovered three years before her arrival
in Sydney by Lieutenant Shortland, R.N.,
but had not yet been permanently settled.
From that time onward the logs kept by
her successive commanders are a long
chronicle of almost unremitting employ-
ment, either as a surveying ship or in
various services incidental to the admin-
istration of the colony or its outposts.
After her voyage to the Hunter Lieu-
tenant Grant returned to England and
was succeeded in her command by John
Murray, who had formerly been master’s
mate of H.M.S. Porpoise. He had local
rank as a lieutenant. It is interesting to
note that her logs now purport to be
those of his Majesty’s Australian ship
Lady Nelson, showing that the cap rib-
bons of the present-day Royal Australian
Navy are no new departure.
Murray did much useful work in the
brig, and the excellence of his charts is
evidence of its quality. The most notable
of his discoveries was that of Port
Phillip, and the Lady Nelson was the first
ship to enter the big bay. He named it
after the Governor, Captain King, but,
with a self-abnegation as refreshing as
rare in those days, King insisted that it
should be called after his old command-
ing officer, the first Governor of New
South Wales.
It is not possible here to follow
the little ship’s career under her vari-
ous captains, but her fate may be in-
dicated briefly. In 1824 she was acting
as guardship of the short-lived settlement
on Port Essington, and when fresh pro-
visions began to run out the Comman-
dant decided to send the Lady Nelson
for a cargo of buffaloes. So she sailed
from Port Essington in February, 1825.
Before he weighed anchor her com-
mander had been warned to steer clear
of the island of Baba, one of the Serwatti
group, which was the lair of savage and
dangerous pirates, but it was there she
made an end. A long time after her
departure news came to Sydney that her
hull was still to be seen on the island.
All her ship’s company and her officers
had apparently been murdered.
Snakes at Vaucluse
IN B. 8/11 /’39 the writer told the story
of the ringing of Vaucluse House
with 500 barrels of Irish soil by the
redoubtable Sir Henry Browne Hayes
in order to keep snakes out of the
premises. “From that day it has always
been asserted,” he said, “not a snake was
seen inside the ring of Irish sod.’
This assertion was made in his Botany
Bay by John Lang —not John Dunmore
or John Thomas —and was based on the
say-so of Captain John Piper, who had
the estate after Hayes and sold it to
William Charles Wentworth. Quite
recently the writer received a letter from
Miss Dorothy Wentworth, the latter’s
granddaughter, which entirely disproves
the statement as to the efficacy of Irish
sod in keeping snakes out of Australian
houses, and it throws such a light on the
historic old mansion, now the property
of the citizens of N.S.W., that he cannot
refrain from quoting it here almost in its
entirety.
“It was with much interest,” says Miss
Wentworth, “that I read your story of
‘The Irish Sod’ in this week’s Bulletin.
I send you in return some reminiscences
of my childhood at Vaucluse House,
hoping that they will interest you.
“My father, Fitzwilliam Wentworth,
spoke of the importation of Irish soil
by Sir Henry Hayes as an undoubted
fact, and his memory went back a very
long way. I can remember an uneven
part of the lawn, near the Norfolk Island
pine, which was supposed to be part of
the original trench that contained the
Irish soil. I should hate to ‘blast the
truth’ of any good story, but I must
dispute the assertion that ‘not a snake
was ever seen inside the ring of Irish
soil.’ That is undoubtedly the correct
ending to a most romantic enterprise,
but is far from the truth. Snakes con-
tinued to infest the house and grounds
in my grandfather’s day, and down the
years, till a growing city swept them
away, as well as the pleasant denizens of
the bush—wallabies, possums, native cats
and bandicoots, and the lovely wild-
flowers—that I can remember in the
’seventies and early ’eighties.
“The creek that runs through Vaucluse
garden was blamed for the number of
snakes always to be found there in
summertime. It brought a good supply
of frogs and other food for them. Every
year my father had a quantity of snake-
sticks’ cut and placed round the veran-
dahs and at fixed places in the grounds,
so that a weapon of destruction was at
hand. They were long, pliable quince
switches, and we were absolutely for-
bidden to play with them or move them
away. He said my grandfather had
done the same when he was a boy. The
cellar steps were a favorite place for
snakes. I can remember running down
them and seeing a black snake on a
lower step —just in time to take a flying
leap over it and yell for help. It was
killed by Lizzie, our nurse.
“My mother used to tell of a most
terrifying experience. She was sitting
on the verandah, just outside the draw-
ing-room window, having coffee after
lunch, with some guests. She felt some-
thing moving in the folds of her skirt,
and looking down she saw a ‘bandy-
bandy’ snake —all black and white rings.
I cannot remember the name of the
gallant hero who dispatched it with a
walking-stick, but it was preserved in
spirits as a rare curiosity.
“There were numerous occasions of
snakes on the verandah, and snakes in
• the garden and grounds were too com-
i monplace to remember, but no one was
[ ever bitten that I have heard. It is a
i far cry to the days of Sir Henry Browne
• Hayes and the Irish Sod, but there were
• snakes in Vaucluse garden quite recently,
. and there may still be a few there. I
; don’t know if the ‘Ghost’ still walks into
the verandah-room and places an icy
hand on the unhappy sleeper therein!
But I should imagine he, too, has de-
parted from the invading hordes.”
The “ghost” alluded to by Miss Went-
worth was traditionally supposed to be
that of Captain Thomas Dennett, from
whose executors Sir Henry Browne Hayes
purchased the estate in 1803.
Torres's Voyage
IUIS VAEZ DE TORRES was
second-in-command of the squad-
ron of two ships sent out by the
Spanish Viceroy of Peru at the end
of 1605 on a voyage of discovery in the
Pacific, and came very close to doing for
Spain what James Cook did for Britain
in discovering East Australia. De Quiros,
the leader of the expedition, thought
he had found the legendary southern
continent when he came to Espiritu
Santo in the New Hebrides, but after
Torres had been abandoned there he
(Torres) satisfied himself that Santo was
only a small island, and then set off on
a voyage to the southward in an
endeavor to locate the real position of
the mainland. He nearly did so, and
if he had succeeded the story of this
country might have been very different
from what it has been during the last 200
years.
Torres’s long, arduous, adventurous
and unlucky voyage ended at Manila,
where he left his journals, which were
hidden away in a monastic library until
the British took the Philippines from
Spain in 1762, and were not published
for well over a century and a half after
he had deposited them there. They give
a very vague and inaccurate account of
his wanderings in those seas, but a
careful comparison of them with the
present charts enabled Captain F. J.
Bayldon, R.N.R., a few years ago to
arrive at certain conclusions regarding
this historic voyage which may be un-
reservedly accepted.
“Steering south-west from Santo to
a point about 360 miles north-east of
Keppel Bay (Queensland),” says Bayl-
don, “Torres turned north-west towards
the eastern end of New Guinea, as
marked on his chart, but found himself
unable to round Cape Sudest. He there-
fore made west along the New Guinea
coast, and on his way entered at least
three harbors —Jenkins Bay (which he
discovered on July 18, as we learn from
Spanish charts of the time), Orangerie
Bay (August 10), and Triton Bay
(October 18). Between Orangerie and
Triton Bays he coasted New Guinea to
the head of the Gulf of Papua, then
skirted a great shoal south-westwards,
looking for a passage through it, and
through an opening probably just south
of Saibai (though some authorities think
he went as far south as Banks Island)
reached the Arafura Sea. Working back
to the New Guinea coast, he passed
westward to Cape False, then north to
Cape Steenboom, and so to Triton Bay.”
Several suggestions have been made
regarding this voyage of Quiros and
Torres which are highly improbable.
One of them was that some of the
Spaniards, under Lope De Vega,
reached Port Jackson, and sailed north-
ward along the east coast of Australia
as far as Port Curtis, where they were
wrecked. This theory was based by
the late Lawrence Hargrave upon a few
faint and almost obliterated markings
of the rocks which he found on Wool-
lahra Point in Sydney Harbor, and on
a doubtful legend of a Spanish wreck
on Facing Island. Another notion is
that the land discovered by Quiros was
really Australia, which is mainly founded
on the improbable stories of Qiiiros
himself, who wrote with magnificent
vanity concerning the extent and richness
of the continent he thought he had found.
It is quite certain that Espiritu
Santo, of which the best evidence makes
him the discoverer, does not correspond
with his exaggerated description—though
this may perhaps be accounted for by
simply regarding him as a professional
explorer anxious for another job. All
the rest of the evidence — Diego De
Prado’s chart, the statements of Torres,
and the latitude given by Quiros him-
self —make it abundantly clear that he
did not come closer to Australia than
the group now known as the New
Hebrides. It was reserved for the
lieutenant whom he left in the lurch £t
Santo to sail into Australian waters and
just miss the realisation of their com-
mon ambition.
The Gentle War
FORTY years ago Britain went to war
with the South African Republic
and the Orange Free State, and
Australia, Canada, New Zealand,
British South Africa, India, Ceylon, the
West Indies, the Federated Malay States,
Fiji and all the rest of what are now
known as the Dominions and the Crown
colonies took a hand in it with much
enthusiasm and a good deal of vigor.
The writer joined in it, too, with a vague
idea that he was assisting to preserve the
Empire.
He was one of a numerous band of
brothers who were out to combat in-
tolerable wrong, and was fortunate in
seeing such an affray under modern con-
ditions as might make war quite impos-
sible in the future. A Russian named
Bloch had recently published a book
which proved that, because weapons and
methods of using them had become so
devastatingly deadly, war was coming to
an end. So everyone who saw this one
was lucky. The writer wrote a book about
it himself afterwards, and described what
he saw in Pretoria in June, 1900, just
after the pretty town had been taken
from its Boer owners.
“There were English Tommies from
the counties, slow of speech and
ponderous of thought; Cockney
Tommies from the East of London,
slack of manners and gamin-like in bear-
ing ; Scotch Tommies who were broad
and sturdy, and altogether veritable
towers of massive strength; Irish
Tommies whose brogue preceded them
round corners; straw-hatted ‘handy-
men’ of the ‘Four-point-sevens’ who
seemed to look with contempt upon the
benighted ‘soldiers’ with whom Fate,
for a time, had cast in their lot. There
were dainty men of the City Imperial
Volunteers; wealthy men of the Yeo-
manry ; men who had a nodding acquain-
tance with Sydney, but a close friendship
with the Western Plains; Tasmanians,
New Zealanders, Queenslanders, Mani-
tobans, men of the North-west, some of
Ceylon, Indians, Burmans —all the queer
mixture that the Empire had been pour-
ing into South Africa since the war
began.”
And all of these had got to know what
modern war was, with its hardships and
its horrors, and would be able to go
home and tell their kind how right old
General Sherman of the U.S.A. had
been when he remarked, “War is Hell!”
And now, 40 years afterwards, when
he is 65 instead of 25, the writer sighs for
the gentleness, the restraint and the polite-
ness of those old days in the picturesque
and delightful veldt amongst the innocent
and charming kopjes.
We were lousy, of course, and an
appalling proportion of us died of
typhoid and dysentery, whilst there
were plenty of bullets, much starvation,
and not infrequent shells. We had to
“draw fire” from the purple kopjes,
and sometimes burn down the houses of
people quite like our own Australians
whom it was unpleasant to incon-
venience. But we Were not choked and
stifled with poisonous gases, bombarded
from the clouds, or called upon to hate
our fellow-men and believe everything
evil of him because he was on the other
side. Above all, we were never expected
to assist in knocking women and chil-
dren about as, these 40 years afterwards,
every soldier of every race must, at some
time or other, face the possibility of
doing. For the most part it was only
“man’s inhumanity to man” we had to
think about and deplore. It had not be-
come an inevitable consequence of war
that children and their mothers had to
prepare themselves against attack with
gas-masks and air-raid shelters. War,
; when we were young men, was some-
, times even quite a gentlemanly affair,
■ and had its decencies —decencies it will
: never know again.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
KITCHI VG’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
Leather
Portfolios with
Zipper Fastener.
Sizes:
15in. x lOin.
and 16in. x 11 in.
Prices from:
16/6 to 32/6.
TUJ
Ideal for
Documents,
Catalogues,
Music,
Reports.
C. E. KITCHING
Pty., Ltd.,
319 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: 8W7133.
{Near Wynyard
Station .)
Business,Rollery,Etc.
A Big Year Ahead
The outlook for 1940 is based on
happenings in 1939, the chief being the
outbreak of war. A new financial era
began on Sept. 3.
Starting off with greasy wool priced
at lid. in the January auctions, 1939
saw a gradual decline in prices until 9d.
was the average for June—the end of
the season. The mean price for the
whole 1938-39 clip was 10.3 d., and the
proceeds from sales at auction in Aus-
tralia £38,674,000. Wheat prices at the
beginning of 1939 started off in feeble
shape, dipped down in March, showed
some recovery in May, and touched the
lowest price on record during August.
Butter for export kept steady at about
11.55. Australian a hundredweight up to
the end of September, and gold, about
fourth in importance among our exports,
was almost unchanged at £9 ss. an ounce
for the first eight months of 1939. In
Australian currency lead and spelter
were worth about £l9 a ton, on the aver-
age, until the outbreak of war.
The Commonwealth basic wage rose
from 775. to 78s. in Dec., 1938, and took
a further lift of a shilling in June, 1939.
At 795. it stays until the end of this year
at least, and probably until March,
though any movement in the cost of
living, by a ruling of the Arbitration
Court last week, is to be reflected more
quickly in the basic wage. During the
first quarter of 1939 the cost of living
rose rather sharply, but it was compara-
tively stable for the next six months.
There were some wide fluctuations in
share prices during the first eight months
of 1939. Up to the end of August the
highest price. touched by B.H.P. shares
during the year was 675. 6d., the lowest
525. 6d. Australian Consolidated Indus-
tries ords. had been up to 38s. 2d. and
down to 28s. 3d. British Tobacco ords.
were more sedate with a highest quote
of 495. 6d. and a lowest of 445. Brad-
ford Cotton ords. had a highest of 395.
and a lowest of 375. ; Yarra Falls ro'se
to 38s. and fell to 335. 6d. Bank of New
South Wales scrip, had a dreary passage
m the sharemarket; highest quote was
£3O 10s. and lowest £27. Tooth shares
were up to 555. and down to 465. 9d. ;
the width of Carlton’s quotes up to Aug
31 was 695. 9d.-635. 6d.
Shortly after the outbreak of war
Britain acquired the Australian wool clip
foi the duration and one season there-
after at a price of 13.437 d. Australian,
f.0.b., plus half the profit on resales, and
plus |d. a pound handling charges. With
the revised estimate of the clip suggest-
ing a further 275,000 bales to come; for-
ward this season, it looks as though at
least £60,000,000 Australian - will be
derived from wool, this year, as against
£40,000,000 or thereabouts last year. The
price is more than 3d. a pound better
and the clip higher.
Export butter has been sold to Britain
at 1375. a cwt. for choicest, f.o.b. : Here
also is extra revenue,; provided the
seasons are kind. Surplus ' sugar, eggs,
cheese and dried fruits are also going,
away at better prices.
Gold is more valuable per ounce both
in Australia and Britain, though this is
directly a result of our currency depre-
ciating in the foreign exchanges. In Aus-
tralia it has risen from £9 ss. to £lO
12s. 6d. per fine ounce, and, though half
the price above £9 is taken in tax by the
Federal Government, it all represents
additional national revenues.
The British Government has contracted
to buy 166,500 tons of lead a year from
Broken Hill at £lB 16s. 7d. Aust. a ton,
f.o.b. Port Pirie, and Electrolytic Zinc
will sell 36,000 tons of speiter a year,
f.o.b. Risdon, at £lB 15s. Since these
contracts were entered into lead and
spelter have risen from maximum prices
in London of £l6 12s. 6d. for lead to
£25 sterling, and from £l5 for spelter
to £25 15s. sterling. Prices of metals
for Australian consumption have been
fixed at £2O 17s. 3d. Australian for lead
"Step on it, Roy — she’s got a secret Weapon."
and £2O 2s. 6d. for spelter. Despite the
higher prices ruling overseas for metals
now, Australian,-silver-lead cos. are
apparently satisfied with ,the contracts
and arrangements made, considering all
the features of the situation. In any case,
the mining industry in Australia so far
is contributing, substantially to the effort
of keeping a national economic balance
during this war, and its, example is some-
thing well worth holding up before those
engaged in other types of business and
also, before wage-earners.
In one of the weakest of our indus-
tries there has lately been a turn for the
better. Wheat prices have risen to about
3s. lOd. a bushel, highest price since early
in 1938. European price-rises have been
wholly responsible for this firming, which
is encouraging ; growers so far have been
unable to ■ get much help, artificial or
otherwise, from the Wheat Pool, and if
world prices continue to firm wheat-
farmers will be much better off without
additional Government aid.
Though it represents an industry that
seems periodically to be in a parlous
plight, wheat is valuable to us in our
exports inasmuch as it adds an average
of about £15,000,000 sterling a year to
our overseas spending-money, and funds
of that variety are especially precious just
now.
One result of all these economic de-
velopments since the outbreak of war has
been the different complexion taken on
by the sharemarkets. Here, of course,
the more speculative aspects of the
national economy show up clearly.
Broken Hill Prop, shares recently touched
795. 6d., A.C.I. ords., ex a new cash
issue since August, went to 38s. 9d., Drug
Houses to 28s. 9d., Tooth scrip to 535.
6d., Carlton to 665. Bradford Cotton
ords. have been up to 51s. 6d. —there is
a great deal of forced activity in our
cotton-mills since the war —and Yarra
Falls shares have been above 41s. British
Tobacco ords. have regained something
like the highest quotes of 1939, but Bank
of N. S. Wales shares, after slumping to
£24 175., have since been stagnant at £27
or under.
Offsetting the higher revenue we are to
get for our export production to an
extent that we cannot foretell will be
the cost of our share in this war. Over
£61,000,000 is to be spent on defence
alone during 1939-40, and the influence of
increased taxation and public borrowing
will affect; the money-market and the
credit.: position. Commonwealth esti-
mates provide; for additional taxation of
£6,000,000 and defence loans of
£46,000,000 this financial year. It is clear
that," if we are to make the best use of
our advantages and deal most effectively
with our problems, in 1940 we shall have
to fight costs inflation and speculation
tooth and nail.
As the; Stock Exchanges throughout
Australia approached the closing-down
day for 1939 last week, a firm tone pre-
vailed in the sharemarkets. Broken Hill
Prop.; after sinking to 765. 6d., recovered
to 795. 6d.,'and many other issues were
near their recent highest price. Aus-
tralasian Paper ords. at 365. 2d., Cumber-
land at 335. 3d., Electrolytic Zinc at 605.,
Bradford Cotton at 495., G. J. Coles at
735. 6d., Aust. Consolidated Industries
at 38s. 3d., Felt and Textiles ords. at
365. 3d. and Myer ords. at 325. were
particularly strong. Weaker issues were
those principally engaged in the building,
furnishing and importing trades.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Papua has abandoned
operations on its strange lode at Misima
Island, Papua, near Cuthbert’s show. At
the beginning and right through assays
looked good, but the plant was never
able to show the same results, even after
contents of the tailings were included.
In 1937 250,000 tons of s.7dwt. oxides
was mentioned, also 150,000 tons of
sulphides. Recoveries of 41s. a ton and
costs of 21s. were spoken of, also profits
of £36,000 a year. Estimated costs were
almost achieved ; recoveries never. By
some geological freak assay values were
always misleading. Chairman F. G.
Pratten delivered this obituary in Can-
berra on December 15:—•
After the thorough sampling of the mine
over a period of years, during which time
well over 5000 samples were assayed, it
was most difficult for your directors to
believe the mine was overvalued ; but they
now reluctantly admit the definite con-
clusion, as first expressed by D. F. Scott,
that the gold content of the large body
of ore is its recoverable plus residue value,
and not the average assay value of the
great number of samples taken.
Your co. has had the advantage since
its inception of advice freely given from
no less than six reputable and experienced
mining engineers. Before it was decided
to equip the property a further engineer
was sent to Misima to check up the value
and tonnage. After a thorough investi-
gation, which included further assays in
Australia, he confirmed values but some-
what reduced the tonnage.
Large bulk samples of ore were also
sent to England and America and reports
thereon from both places confirmed our
values; but, unfortunately, it was later
believed that instead of making a complete
recovery of the gold content of this bulk
sample a similar method of checking values
was employed—viz., the assay value of the
parcel, less residues, which was said to
equal the recoverable gold.
It is most unfortunate that our ore-body
should be of such an unusual type, which,
under ordinary sampling and assay methods,
returns inflated values; this, I understand,
occurs only in most exceptional cases.
There are 540,000 of ss. each issued, of
which the chairman said the board had
subscribed for 60,000, still held. No fees
have been drawn by the directors during
iheir five years of service.
**'*■*
Ords. in the Myer Emporium, Mel-
bourne, have bucked up in recent weeks.
Selling at between 28s. 6d. and 30s. in
November, there was turnover in the
scrip at 325. last week. This rise
of 3s. 6d. a share inside a little over
a month is contrary to the general be-
havior of retailer shares since war broke
out. In Sydney, scrip in David Jones,
Farmer’s and Anthony Hordern has
been very quiet for some months. The
yield on Myer ords. is now £5 13s. per
cent, on a 9 p.c. div. basis, which rate
was covered fairly comfortably by last
year’s profits. The co.’s chairman and
managing director, Norman Myer, is
chief advisor on clothing matters to the
Defence Department.
* * * *
After reaching a post-depression high
record of 1524 points in the Common-
wealth Statistician’s index for the March
quarter, the rising cost of living in Aus-
tralia showed a slight but definite sub-
sidence to 1520 during the two succeed-
ing quarterly periods. Those are the
latest figures, and, since the information
is taken at the middle of the quarter,
those for the September period don’t
include any of the economic effects of
war. The index number for December
will be awaited with particular interest,
as it should give some sort of indication
of how the price-control regulations are
working.
Money wages throughout Australia
rose in the second quarter of 1939, but
have since been steady, their buying
power up to the Sept, quarter being fully
maintained. Last week the Full Arbi-
tration Court in Melbourne decided that
adjustment of the basic wage to cost-
of-living figures will be made a month
earlier than hitherto, which means that
there will be a “time lag” of only a
fortnight between the publication of
quarterly retail price index figures and
the adjustment of the basic wage, as
against six weeks hitherto.
* * * *
Since the outbreak of war the cost of
living in Britain has risen by 12 p.c.
* * * #
For, the first time in some years early
estimates of an Australian wool clip seem
to have been substantially astray. In June
it was forecast that the 1939-40 season
would produce 3,096,000 bales. Now
it is expected that the clip will run to
3,371,000 bales, and a cheque of
£60,000,000 (Australian) is anticipated. If
latest estimates are realised the 1939-40
clip will be a Commonwealth record.


m
■ ■
1
■
m
538
k
i
i®
• ' \ \
■■ . .1
1
isT*
SfiL/j
in
■
H. '■
r
&
: :
1 :
. : ■: : : .
l
k ..
-
i-.-m
ss
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
£ Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
-0 out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
RE6D.
CLOTH
?m3
BORN SHORN WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Bradford Cotton
The new issue to ord. shareholders in
Bradford Cotton Mills, Sydney, is to be
in the proportion of one for one. lai
capital at present is £358,909, of which
£205,742 is in ords. The issue of 34,000
ords. to Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co. in
part payment for the Barnet Glass iac-
tory at Footscray will add, when the
other shares are taken up by those on
the register, £240,000 to the co. s sub-
scribed capital altogether. A further
issue of shares is to be made to Dunlop-
Perdriau in 18 months’ time.
The present share issues, the one to
shareholders being underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son at 6d. a share, represent
the greatest expansion in capital so far
in a very progressive career. Before it
became a public concern Bradford Cot-
ton had a good div. record, and since
listing ord. divs. have averaged I2i p.c.
In Feb., 1938, 53,750 £1 ords. were put
out at par following the issue of £21,500
of bonus scrip. In April this year £20,000
of pref. money was offered. Since then
development has been particularly swift.
Before war broke out a subsidiary, C.
and D. Mills, was formed to make canvas
and duck - in great demand now for
military purposes. Then Sanforising Ser-
vices of Australia was formed and a
plant imported to pre-shrink cotton goods
by the sanforising process, patented by
the Arrow shirt people. Later the busi-
ness of Austral Silk and Cotton Mills,
Melbourne, which used to be in the
A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group, was bought
holus-bolus for 93,167 6 p.c. Bradford
prefs. and 43,000 ords. The spinning
section of this business was what the
buyer particularly wanted.
The linking-up with Dunlop-Perdriau
may have to do with the manufacture of
tyre-cord, on which a bounty of 34d.
a pound is to be granted. Increased
duties on canvas and duck, totalling
about 44d. a yard, have also been in-
troduced to help establish this section of
the industry.
The extended ramifications of Brad-
ford Cotton should considerably add to
its strength on the business side. On
the financial side, capital account is being
swollen to nearly £600,000, with pros-
pects of further increases later on. Also,
additions to plant under present import-
ing conditions may be costly. But the
co. is shrewdly and capably managed,
while there are undoubtedly great oppor-
tunities for expansion in the Australian
cotton-textile industry. Less than a tenth
of our requirements are now woven in
this country.
Maximum base-metal prices were re-
adjusted in London last week. A lift of
approximately 20 p.c. was permitted in
electrolytic copper, and, allowing for the
new method of quoting, 56 p.c. in spelter
and 47 p.c. in lead. Freedom was
allowed in the price of tin a week earlier.
Here are comparisons of price move-
ments (sterling) in base metals and silver
since just before the outbreak of war:
Aug. 31, Sept. 1, Dec. 18,
Ton. Ton. Ton.
Electro, copper £53/10/- £5l £62f
Lead, foreign £l6/11/3 £l6/12/6* £2sf
Spelter .. £l5/2/6 £ls* £25/15/-f
Tin .. .. £230 £230 £259
Fine Oz. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
Silver .. Is. 7.9 d. Is. 9.4 d. 2s. 1.5 d.
* Duty (7s. 6d. a ton foreign lead, 30s. foreign
spelter) for buyer’s account,
t Delivered buyer’s premises.
Maximum’ price of electrolytic copper is
now up £ll compared with the previous
figure fixed, and lead is up £8 7s. 6d. —•
or £B, allowing for the duty of 7s. 6d. a
ton on foreign lead now included in the
price. Spelter is higher by £9 55., duty
of 30s. a ton paid. Silver has had a free
market right through, and is now 27 p.c.
higher than on August 31. Tin has
subsided from a peak of £275 touched
on Dec. 11.
Though prices in Australia have been
fixed at £63 17s. 6d. Aust. for electrolytic
copper, £2O 17s. 3d. for lead and
£2O 2s. 6d. for spelter, Barrier mining
stocks and Mt. Lyell rose steeply on
Tuesday of last week. North B.H. shares
rose 2s. 3d., Souths 25., Zinc Corps. 25.,
New B.H. Bd. and Mt. Lyell Is. 3d.
Electro. Zinc ords. lifted 2s. In view
of the small amount of metal these cos.
will have for export outside of the British
war contracts it was hard to-see how
they are likely to reap much immediate
benefit from the higher London quotes.;
In 1938-39 Australia exported roughly
200,000 tons of pig lead and 45,000 tons
of spelter. In 1939-40 Britain will be
entitled to take 166,500 tons of-lead:and \
36,000 tons of spelter at prices fixed.be-'
fore last week’s rises. -Mt. .pro-
duction of copper, at present consumed
entirely in Australia, is also sold at a
fixed internal price. The sharemarket
repented of its optimism about Barriers
on ’Change’s last day.
Barrier mines, especially Zinc Corp.
and North 8.H., are stepping-up the
capacity of their plants, and these cos.
may have a greater export surplus of
metals this year. In this regard it would be
interesting to know whether all Barrier
lead production is pooled by B.H.
Associated Smelters and a common price
paid, or whether increased production
is entirely a matter for the mine con-
cerned. In view of the three different
prices ruling for lead and spelter now
the pool idea would seem the only prac-
ticable one.
* * * *
With the sharemarkets closed and Par-
liament in recess, Australian Glass’s (or
A.C.l.’s, if you like) Christmas present
for 1.939 was announced last Saturday.
The wealthy A.C.I. is to be given a
manufacturing monopoly in order to
encourage it to make motor-cars of 15
h.p. or over in Australia. Certainly we
want Australian-made cars. But these
are the terms A.C.I. is to work under:
A bounty of from £3O to £2O per engine ;
the existing tariff; safeguards against
foreign cos. setting-up in Australia ; pro-
hibition of capital issues by possible local
competitors; promises of Government
custom; a broad assurance that “the
Government will do its best to limit the
production of motor-cars and -trucks to
the proposed co. for five years.” Eighteen
months ago Australian Glass had a paid
capital of £1,105,478, valued by the share-
market at £4,700,000. Since then an
additional £200,000 of capital only
has been paid in, but the sharemarket
last week valued the show at approxi-
mately £7,850,000. That was before
details of the motor-car enterprise were
announced. For this A.C.I. has agreed
to risk £250,000.
Mt. Lyell’s contract with the British
Government involves a maximum of
7000 tons of copper a year, the price
£4B 10s. sterling, f.o.b. Sydney, with
provision for adjustment according to
costs. In order to supply the maximum
quantity Lyell would have to increase its
production by over 50 p.c., since almost
the entire 13,000 tons of electrolytic now
turned out each year is absorbed in
Australia, and the demand for indus-
trial and defence purposes exceeds the
present rate of production. Thus it has
yet to be demonstrated whether the con-
tract with Britain is likely to be con-
summated. As Lyelhs mine is opened
out the grade drops, and a great deal
more ore has to be put through the plant
these days to produce the annual 13,000
tons of copper.
* * * *
The proposal to increase the produc-
tion of petrol at Glen Davis, Capertee
(N.S.W.), from 10,000,000 gallons to
30,000,000 gallons a year should not be
allowed to fall down simply because it
may be necessary for the Federal Gov-
ernment to forgo its a gallon tax
on the extra, as well as the initial, out-
put. Money saved in foreign funds just
now is of vastly greater importance than
taxes gained or lost within Australia.
One of the financial difficulties in an
increased-production scheme would be
the cost of enlarging the pipeline from
Glen Davis to storage tanks at Black-
town —140 miles. Much of the plant
at Glen Davis has been salvaged from
the derelict Newnes venture, where old-
time retorting methods, a narrow seam
of shale and expensive haulage combined
with a general waste of money to
kill the original co. At Glen Davis the
seam is 4ft. thick, and it has the advan-
tage of modern additions to the plant.
Around the Wolgan and Capertee valleys
is some of the most rugged country in
Australia. This has always added to pro-
duction costs, the mountain railways serv-
ing the old Newnes works alone running
into something like £250,000 early in this
century. George Davis, of the gelatine
concern, is in charge this time, and a
much more businesslike effort is indi-
cated. The original Newnes co. (Com-
monwealth Oil Corp.) was a sink for
English capital that never earned a div.
The record of squander that occurred in
the C.O.C.’s day has been one of the
talking-points against the resuscitation of
the industry up to date. Before the ad-
vent of C.O.C. there was a profitable
export business with Scotland in the
crude shales.
* * * *
Australians as well as people in the Old
Country will be pleased with the turn for
the better in British trade returns for
November. Whereas in October exports
were £18,000,000 down compared with
the same period of the previous year at
£24,622,000, and imports were £17,000,000
lower at £79,000,000, the November com-
parison was a drop of only £5,562,000
in exports (£37,360,000) and a rise of
£6,014,000 in imports (£83,988,000). For
the eleven months to Nov. 30 com-
parisons show a decrease of £46,086,000
in imports and a drop of £33,313,000
in exports.
Additions to Britain’s foreign exchange
—or, at least, a slowing-up in with-
drawals from its foreign reserves —mean
freer Empire exchange facilities with
foreign countries. If Britain’s foreign
funds stand well up to the onslaughts of
war spending, Australia may expect an
easing of restrictions on foreign pur-
chases all the sooner.
* * * *
BTI.P.’s big order from Britain for
40,000 tons of steel has been completed
by the Newcastle and Port Kembla sec-
tions of the business, and the stuff has
all been dispatched.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
IT’S A STRANGE WAR.
[One or two rash souls, in the items here condensed
from various acknowledged sources, attempt to have a
look at tomorrow. All such are to be taken with the
greatest caution; those included here, under the head-
ing “Prophets,” .are given because they represent
something of the vast flood of speculation at present
appearing in British newspapers. The general purpose
of this collection of items, however, is only to show
some odd aspects of what, so far, has been a strange
war.]
I wonder if there has ever been a war which in
any way resembled this. A war in which no country
is eager to fight, and where there is no ill-feeling
between the combatants. — Lady Oxford; “Daily
Sketch.”
I believe that the reason why we have been at
war for months without any large-scale fighting in
the West is that Europe—even including Germany—
recoils from the idea of unloosing all the terrible
powers of destruction contained in modern armies,
fleets and air forces. That Hitler has given us all this
time to complete our preparations and transfer our
army and its stores unmolested to France is all but
proof that he is afraid of war in the West.
In the meantime, we are witnessing the mightiest
military demonstration in all history. Campaigns of
the past could be classified as either wars of position
or open warfare ; this is the first great war of inertia.
It is expensive and tedious, but not sanguinary. Bore-
dom, inconvenience and impoverishment are its
weapons, and, so far as one can see, it promises
no climax or conclusion.
Paralysis has descended upon the normal
peaceful pursuits of 160,000,000 people in
Britain, France and Germany—yet, except for
the munition industries, warlike activities have
not yet begun. Is this long pause the hush that
precedes the raising of the curtain on a terrible
tragedy, or does it mean that there is some
hitch in the production?
During the six weeks that I have spent
at the “front” in France, I found the same per-
plexity among the men who went out there
expecting immediate hostilities. It is uncanny
to see an army standing fully prepared for
battle, yet held by circumstances in stagnation.
All the precautions, secrecy and dispersion that
characterise a modern field force seem like
sheer formalism when there is no fighting and
they have to be enforced in the midst of a
French population living under what are prac-
tically normal conditions.
British military resources in France go
on increasing, with no immediate use for them.
Ammunition pours in, though none is being ex-
pended. Reinforcements accumulate at the
base, but the casualties they are intended to
replace do not occur. — G. Ward Price; “Daily
Mail.”
The absence of carnage in this war to date
must be, consciously or unconsciously, dis-
appointing to the big shots of American cor-
respondents and their readers at home. For
years we and they had been told that the next war
would be “total war,” unparalleled in universal fright-
fulness, and, when the day came, we waited breathless
for the slaughter.
At first American papers refused to believe that
it was not the censorship which was hushing up some
first-class carnage, and editors sent angry cables to
their London correspondents such as: “Unwant
Ministry Information bunk unless hottest spot.” Now
it has dawned on them that the news is simply not
there. But they do their best with what there is. In
the Chicago “Daily News” the report of the first attack
on the ships in the Firth of Forth was headed:
“Two-hour Battle Rages Near Edinburgh.”— Alison
Outhwaite ; “World Review.”
Deep down in the Maginot Line, French regi-
mental cooks prepared lunch for Mr. Anthony Eden
and a party of Dominion representatives. There is,
of course, a war on, so the cooks could not let them-
selves go. But they managed to scrape up quite a nice
little lunch of eight courses, with three wines and
liqueurs. This was the menu: —
HORS D’CEUVRES VARIES.
VOL AU VENT FINANCIERE
(A kind of meat pasty).
CIVET DE LIEVRE A MA FACON
{Hare with onions and wine).
CHAMPIGNONS A LA CREME
{Creamed mushrooms).
ROTI DE BGEUF A LA ANGLAISE
{The roast beef of old England).
GLACE NAPOLITAINE
{Neapolitan ice).
GATEAU A LA MAGINOT
{Maginot confection).
FRUITS.
The wines were Rieslin (an Alsace wine), Pom-
mard (burgundy) and champagne. This there’s-a-war-
on luncheon was not only cooked in an underground
fortress but eaten in one. — “Daily Express.”
V * * * *
Daladier Reviews
{The French Premier sums up after three months of
“warfare.”)
“For three months our forces have been in con-
tact with the enemy. In the air, our air force and the
British air force are victoriously confronting the enemy
’planes. Contrary to all forecasts, military operations
have not yet developed with that violence and that
vast and brutal extension over wide fronts which they
seemed likely to assume.
“We ought not to take this initiative. This war is
to us a war for our security and our liberty. Our rule
for those who defend us is economy in blood and
economy in suffering.
“Conquerors launched out on adventure can sac-
rifice hundreds and thousands of men in mad offen-
sives. Those who defend their soil and their liberty
are careful to avoid as far as possible the sacrifice of
human lives. Such is the rule of our Government and
the chiefs of our armies. Yet* while husbanding the
blood of Frenchmen we are accumulating without
truce or respite powerful means which give us the cer-
tainty of being able to break their assaults and which
would permit us, if necessary, to attack at the right
moment with the minimum of losses and the certainty
of success.”
**.•*:* *
Prophets
(Oswald Garrison Villard, in London “Daily Telegraph.”)
I am convinced that the German army plan, if
not interfered with by Hitler himself or by political
considerations or the need of some action to head off
the unrest and dissatisfaction with the war, is to attack
England at the beginning of May, 1940, with a ferocity
“Daily Mirror,” London.
“THEY DON’T SEEM TO WANT EITHER OF US!”
unparalleled in history. The aim is to destroy the
British Empire once and for all.
To that end the long winter months are being
most carefully utilised. The- attack upon England
cannot, of course, be otherwise than through sub-
marines and by means of the air. One hears in Ger-
many the most astounding figures as to the size of the
air fleet that is being accumulated for the spring
attack; if those assertions are heavily discounted,
there still remains the figure of 30,000 machines to be
available when good flying weather returns.
One can believe this or not, but that there will
be the largest air armada ever brought together is con-
fidently claimed. When one asks how it will be pos-
sible to man all these machines, the answer is that this
has been foreseen for a long time.
There is the greatest confidence in the ability of
the submarine to inflict tremendous losses upon British
shipping. The number of submarines laid down since
the beginning of the war was stated to me, from a
source that I am bound to respect, to be 400. It was
added that the American belt-conveyor system was
being used in this mass-production of two types of
boats, one large and one small: When I asked how
crews for such an enormous number of boats could
be obtained, I was again told that that had been
thought out months in advance. Allowing for a heavy
discount, and assuming that the figure will be more
nearly 300 than 400 boats, it still appears to me as if
the rate of production given as two a week by Mr.
Churchill, in his speech of Nov. 12, would soon be
exceeded.
(Wilson Broadbent, in the “Daily Mail.”)
We are told again that Germany has 30,000 aero-
planes at least, a vast fleet of submarines, and that the
real war will begin in the spring of 1940.
No enemy was ever favored with such long warn-
ing. Britain and France are to be allowed to speed up
their vast output of munitions and machines while
Hitler’s aeroplanes become even more obsolescent.
There must be something wrong here. The best ex-
planation is probably Hitler’s fantastic belief in the
force of propaganda.
His object is to crack the resistance of Britain
and France from within. He wishes to frighten us,
but German propaganda has now lost its force, even
though conveyed by most distinguished visitors. Hav-
ing heard so many Nazi boasts, the people of Britain
and France look for action. Hitler, the visionary, may
dream of glorious victories to be won against the
whole world, but it is quite clear that his generals do
not. They have warned him that the army machine is
not ready to fight the combined British and French
armies, and other armies which might become involved.
The generals want more time.
;jc * * *
The Trek from London
(.Evening Standard” leader.)
London has suffered more severely than any other
part of the country from the restrictions imposed by
the war. Here all the great trade organisations of the
nation had their centre. This structure has been
hauled down. Many of the businesses took to their
heels at the first sound of the battle drum. They found
that often the civil servants had got ahead of them.
One result of this dispersion may be seen in the un-
employment figures ; in the past month London has
excelled all other districts with a rise of 55,000. The
other result, the financial loss, is incalculable.
All this took place in the first days of the war.
Perhaps then there was some excuse. But since then
the fear of huge bombing assault has been greatly
reduced and defences against it have been enormously
improved. How have the evacuees reacted to this
changed state of affairs? Some have stayed where
they are, others have returned. Children have marched
back to London. Big business has not followed their
example. It has stayed in its village hideouts, sniffing
the country air, gazing at the green fields.
(G. Ward Price, in the ‘‘Daily Mail”)
Great bodies of civil servants —as many as 11,000
in one place—are established in various provincial
towns, where they monopolise the big hotels.
According to manufacturers who have to deal
with them, they are there settling down for the
duration of the war —with their golf clubs and
afternoon-tea trays —to follow a peace-time
routine that takes little account of the emer-
gencies with which the producing industries
are faced.
(From the “Economist”)
At present the whole process of evacua-
tion is crumbling. Even in the first instance too
few of the women and children for whom
evacuation was arranged actually went —
675,000 schoolchildren out of a million and a
half in all, 270,000 out of 500,000 in London,
25,000 out of 100,000 in Birmingham, a third
in Sunderland and a quarter in Leeds. Ever
since, the business of billeting and settlement
has proceeded haltingly and with acrimony,
despite the fact that accommodation should
have been easy because so many stayed at
home. The root trouble is social. The Eng-
lishman’s age-old distaste for billeting in private
houses is undimmed.
The crazy notion that “there won’t be any
air raids now” has spread. So the drift back to
danger has gone on —13,000 children back to
Manchester, 20,000 back to London, 5000 to
Birmingham, and so on. The meaning of
evacuation for the vulnerable urban areas is
simply that no schools are open for the
900,000 children that never went or have come
back. The Government’s view that the schools
there should not be opened is the right one ; but the
point is not simply that schools should not be opened
in danger areas, but rather that there should be no
children there to go to school. If there are air raids
there will be chaos.
*****
Conscientious Objectors
For only twopence you can learn how to avoid
fighting for your country. The Joint Advisory Bureau
on Conscription, claiming to centralise all the anti-
war organisations in Britain, has its offices in the same
building as the Peace Pledge Union, the pacifist organi-
sation founded by the late “Dick” Sheppard. Leader
to-day of the Union’s 134,000 members is Canon
Stuart Morris. The bureau publishes a 5000-word
booklet called The Conscientious Objector and the■
Tribunal, price twopence, in which the applicant for
exemption can learn the answers to all the questions
likely to be asked by the Judges. There is also a
detailed explanation of the court and the legal pro-
cedure. — “Sunday Graphic.”
(Hilde Merchant, in the “Daily Express.”)
There are two sides to Cambridge. At one end
of the town there is the stream of undergraduates who
go to the Conscientious Objectors’ Court at Shire Hall
for exemption from service. At another end of the
town there are the R.A.F. recruits taking an officers’
course, most of them undergraduates who have broken
up their education to join in the war.
The conscientious objectors went before a tri-
bunal to say they could not build football fields for
soldiers, and many of them refused ambulance work
or A.R.P. duties. Eighty per cent, of them want to
become teachers. Judge Lawson-Campbell said today:
“We are going to be overflowing with teachers.”
These two types have been side by side in the
same classes. The R.A.F. boys walk through the town
to their training fields, leaving behind them all the
promise of their university education just to preserve
that freedom that allows conscientious objection at
the other side of the town. Of those seeking exemption
75 per cent, are members of the Peace Pledge Union.
The P.P.U. leaders sit in the court with copies of
the “Peace News.” In one week the Court has heard
about 130 applications from students. Trinity Col-
lege has the highest number.
*****
Sundry Sentences
Can we be saved from the oppression of stupid
officialism! A silly girl of 19 in Wisbech flashes a
torch in the black-out. She gets a month in gaol. A
month in prison! Think of it. She behaved like a bad
citizen. But where’s the sense in this savage sentence?


She flashes a torch. But motor-cars and buses carry
far brighter lights. The brushes of electric trains make
a fireworks display of dazzling sparks. These ridi-
culous anomalies show the spirit of our war-time
bureaucrats. —“Daily Express.’
There must be many members of my calling who
would sleep more soundly in their beds il they weie
to hear of an act of clemency in favor of the Ports-
mouth newsvendor who was sentenced to two months
imprisonment for displaying a false newspaper bill.
His offence was that he had written on a contents bill
the words, “Germany Attacks Holland.” His detence
was that, not being much of a scholar, he had left out
the word “If N—Gordon Robbins—presumably a
newsagent—in a “Times” letter.
* * * * *
At the Star and Garter
In the Star and Garter Home, Richmond, are
men who were wounded in the last war and have
been suffering ever since. When so much money is
being spent —some wastefully —on the present war, it
seems harsh and ironical that these ex-soldiers and ex-
sailors should have had to be deprived of a small com-
fort which meant a lot to them. Until the war they
had a pint of beer each daily, with their dinner. This
has been stopped. The Home can no longer afford to
give it to them ; at the present price it would cost
about £600 a year. [The war is costing Britain
£6,000,000 a day.] —William Hickey ; “Daily Express.”
The Indian Crisis.
(Condensed from an article by Edward Thompson in
“Time and Tide,” London.)
For twelve years the National Congress has
watched with increasing estrangement and dismay
Britain’s foreign policy, and in its annual assemblies
has passed resolutions affirming India’s right to refuse
to be committed to a European war without her con-
sent. Last March the annual warning was couched in
particularly drastic terms. It was left unnoticed ; we
were giving a pledge to Poland, and our eyes were all
on Europe.
The war came. There was no formal consultation
of either the Central Assembly or the Provincial
Assemblies: India was told that she was a belligerent.
This, Indian opinion held, proved that her instalment
of self-government was bogus ; she was regarded as a
chattel. A year ago, it was well known, British people
had asked, “Why should we die for Czechoslovakia?”
which Mr. Chamberlain styled a far-off country of
which we know nothing. This argument applied with
even greater force in India, which is a very long way
from Central Europe and Poland. It is no answer to
say that no one has yet asked Indians to die ; that
all that has happened is that Indian troops (without
consent asked of any of the Legislatures) have been
moved to Egypt and elsewhere as precautionary
measures. The principle remains, and the wound to
self-respect. Also, at this stage we simply do not know
what this war may later become. The last European
war cost India 100,000 casualties. Who knows how
vast the area of this war may yet become?
Eire, Britain’s closest neighbor, declared herself
disinterested, and there was no protest. South Africa
hesitated, and came in by a narrow majority. There
is a widespread impression also that, though the
Dominions have come to Britain’s side with a
generosity beyond all precedent, this is the last time
that they will come into a war that has resulted from
a foreign policy in which they have had no say. Their
people have gone to the ends of the earth in order to
live out their lives in freedom and happiness and not
to be continually drawn back into the quarrels of
Europe. Our action with India was the worst blunder
in Imperial policy during this post-war era. Congress
held eight of the eleven provincial Governments, and
when these Governments were formed could have held
another two (as part of a coalition). Its Ministries,
no doubt with some inexperience and some amateur-
ishness, but with tremendous zest, were engaged in
their own plans of social reform. They were told that
all this must be subordinated to a war that had come
in Europe.
Congress issued a statement asking what were the
British war aims—whether this was a war for Imperial-
ism and to preserve the status quo, or a genuine war
for freedom and democratic principles—and how these
aims would be applied in India. The Viceroy inter-
viewed 52 persons, and then issued a statement which
a great many British in India consider the worst poli-
tical document of the post-war era. It was felt the
more poignantly because Congress passionately wanted
to co-operate, if terms that secured self-respect were
obtained, and because of the respect the Viceroy had
won. The authorship of this document has been laid
by Indian opinion, rightly or wrongly, at another door
than the Viceroy’s, and it is held that it has proved
beyond question the little regard that the British
Government pays to India.
Congress in emergency session pulled out its
Ministries (October 22), and eight provinces have
passed back (since no alternative Governments are
possible) under irresponsible rule. The original plan
was to launch civil disobedience immediately. This
was changed at the last minute. Everyone dreads civil
disobedience, which will prove a far more desperate
thing than on the three previous occasions. One month
ago a settlement could have been obtained on com-
paratively easy terms (always assuming that this is
really a war of “the democratic Powers” against totali-
tarianism). It will be hard to obtain now, and civil
disobedience is certainly coming.
Uncle Sam and J. Bull.
(From American Notes, by Denys Smith, Washington,
in London “National Review.”)
The American attitude to British foreign policy
after Munich was that this lacked toughness and
backbone. There were a number of people who
would have gone further than this —in fact, did. They
took a view of our policy that was both hypocritical
and unfair ; hypocritical because they laid down a
standard of conduct for another country which they
had no intention of urging upon their own, and unfair
because every stricture passed upon Britain was equally
applicable to the United States. They spoke of the
British “betrayal” of democracy and compared the
Government with Judas. But neither Britain nor the
United States was under treaty obligation to defend
Czechoslovakian independence, while moral responsi-
bility lay equally as heavy upon the United States —
where an independent Czechoslovakia was conceived
and proclaimed —as upon England.
This minority who spoke of England’s cowardly
action in refusing to accept the German challenge a
year ago, this vicarious war party, ready at the drop
of a hat to defend Czechoslovakia to the last Eng-
lishman, exists no more. It no longer cries to the
Democracies “Go in and fight,” or to the Totali-
tarian States “You can’t intimidate me.” Its former
members may be found in the forefront of those who
are most actively protesting their complete neutrality,
who disdain to pass judgment upon the merits of the
present dispute, and who gaze with trepidation at the
djinn which has escaped from the bottle they were
once so anxious to see uncorked.
The peculiar nature of American support and the
very limited value of American friendship have been
made evident by the reaction of that country to the
outbreak of war. British foreign and British com-
mercial policy had been trimmed to catch the favoring
breeze of American approval. But after this course
led England into dangerous waters it was discovered
that American criticism of England for “backing
down” did not mean that America would do any
backing up. Britain adjusted her foreign policy to
American specifications, found herself involved in
trouble thereby, and was disowned.
The sentimental attachment in Great Britain to
any policy which had been given the American im-
primatur, and the dislike of refusing any suggestion
coming from the United States lest such a refusal
might be interpreted as an unfriendly act, has not only
hampered British diplomacy but led to the acceptance
of naval treaties which gravely weakened British
naval strength and forced the British Admiralty to
accept a fleet which, instead of being based on British
requirements, represented a compromise between those
requirements and the requirements of the United
States.
British diplomacy, whose initial weakness was
partly due to the fact that it was designed to conform
to the desires of the one nation whose aid could not
be relied upon in a crisis, is often accused by spokes-
men for that nation of an ineptitude responsible for
bringing on the war. Germany and Russia can play
the game of Power politics without any regard for
the rules. France and Britain, bound by principles
of international law and morality (outlined so clearly
in Mr. Hull’s numerous speeches on the subject), were
unable to agree to any such cynical double-dealing
as that which led to the successful conclusion of the
Soviet-German pact. The price of Russian friendship
was not one which any honorable nation could accept.
If Britain had paid the price, the severest critics would
have been on the American side of the Atlantic among
those who now talk of British diplomatic blunders
being responsible for the war.
The Strength of France.
(Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
V. S. Swaminatkan.)
All along the line France is stronger today than
25 years ago. During the last war the enemy advanced
over the whole Lorraine field, shutting off virtually all
of France’s iron ore ; the offensive through Liege,
Charleroi, Mons and Valenciennes cut off the best part
of France’s coal supply. Between 1913 and 1918 the
French output of coal declined from 41 to 26 million
metric tons, iron ore from 22 to a mere two million
tons, pig iron from five to a bare million tons and raw
steel from five to two millions.
This time France has not suffered the ruin and
demoralisation consequent upon invasion ; France pos-
sesses a stock of gold double that of 1914, an industry
intact, not as it was then behind the enemy lines, and
an Empire whose economic potential has vastly in-
creased in the last quarter of a century.
So far as foodstuffs are concerned France is un-
doubtedly much nearer to self-sufficiencv than any
other great industrial nation on the Continent. Domes-
tic production of grains, sugar, butter and milk is
more or less adequate to cover home requirements.
Of 19.1 million metric tons of solid food consumed by
Frenchmen last year, only 1.7 million tons was im-
ported from both the French Empire (largely North
African possessions) and foreign countries ; the share
of the latter amounted to a paltry 527,000 tons. The
two items imported in sizable quantities in 1938 were
maize (712,000 tons) and rice (549,000 tons, mostly
from French Indo-China). Of 65 million hectolitres
of wines Frenchmen drink, 16.5 millions come from
Algeria and practically none from foreign sources.
France has accumulated large emergency reserves of
wheat, sugar, frozen and chilled meat and butter.
These reserve stocks in conjunction with domestic
production ensure that French food supplies are ample
to cover all contingencies.
The supply of iron ore and scrap is more secure
in France than in any other of the countries of Western
Europe. While in terms of tonnage Germany has to
import two-thirds of her iron-ore requirements and
Great Britain almost one-third, France can get along
with imports of rich hematite and magnetite ores total-
ling only some 2 per cent, of her consumption. Fler
output of iron ore averaged 34.6 million tons during
the last three years, and nearly half of her production
is exported, chiefly to Belgium and Luxemburg and
Germany. In 1913 the Metz-Thionville area of Lor-
raine alone supplied 21 out of 28.5 million tons of iron
ore needed by Germany. Today, the Alsace-Lorraine
field lies safely behind the Maginot Line.
Unlike Germany and Great Britain, which must
import large quantities of scrap, France has actually
an exportable surplus of this material. She ranks fifth
in point of steel production. During the first half of
the current year France produced 3,965,000 tons of
raw steel, and the total capacity of her steel plants at
10 million tons is more than ample to satisfy home
requirements. Domestic coalfields do not suffice to
meet French needs, but arrangements are now well
under way to supply British coal.
France is in very much the same position as Great
Britain in the matter of oil supplies. As long as the
Allied Navies have command over the sea routes, oil
supplies for both are assured. The French chemical
industry has grown in stature and strength in the last
25 years. It is now virtually independent of sea-borne
Chilean nitrates for manufacturing nitric acid, ex-
plosives and fertilisers. Today France possesses a
thriving synthetic dyestuffs industry and is the second
largest producer in the world of potash.
With her war chest full, territory intact and indus-
tries mobilised, France, economically the best balanced
of all the industrial countries of Europe, alongside of
Britain can face a major war of long duration confi-
dent of ultimate success.
Synagogue Passport Factory.
(From an article by Arthur Tietjen in London
“Daily Mail”)
The mysterious Mr. Janowitz is missing. He was
the brains behind a passport-faking gang which, at
£150 a head, forged identities to enable aliens to enter
Britain. Scotland Yard believes he was rounded up by
the Nazis when they sacked Katowice, the Polish
town to which he fled when he knew the police were
on his track.
Recently his name has been mentioned often at
the Old Bailey, and now six of his accomplices have
been gaoled for their activities. They are Izak Silbiger,
36, a Pole; Pablo Wagner Beckers, aged 47, an
exporter of dual nationality—German and Chilean ;
Feiwel Willner, 30, a Pole ; Nicholas Granville Vincent,
aged 22; Alfred Barlow, aged 42; and David
Manches, formerly a Pole and now a naturalised
British subject.
How some of these men trafficked in the misery
of human beings—refugees from the Nazi brutality—
was explained. In the guise of trying to help their
fellow-countrymen in distress, this passport organisa-
tion was brought into being to sell fictitious British
passports to aliens at prices ranging from £75 to £150
each. Refugees were only too willing to pay that
price to lose their Continental nationalities and enjoy
the freedom of British citizens to travel to Greece,
Australia and Canada to start life afresh.
The passport factory began at the end of last
year. Janowitz was the organiser. Willner, a Doctor
of Philosophy, had for the past two years been living
in England training to be a rabbi. He knew several
languages, and became a reader and teacher at the
Belsize Park Synagogue, N.W., at a salary of £5 a
week. To his synagogue came the refugees. When
a “customer” came forward, a member of the gang
would be sent to Somerset House. There he would
turn up the records to obtain the name of a person
about the same age which would be the English
equivalent of the refugee. For instance, Braun would
be Brown and Neumann Newman.
The next step was to obtain the birth certificate,
and all these entries would be copied on to the pass-
port application. A photograph of the applicant
would be attached, and the form would be “signed”
by a clergyman or other person competent to lend
his signature to such documents. A room would be
taken by a member of the gang for a week to receive
any correspondence from the Foreign Office that might
be sent relating to the application.
How widespread this trading in passports became
is as yet unknown by the authorities. In the role of
an exporter, Beckers, with another man now in Ger-
man hands, interested himself in the “Jewish problem”
from the very beginning.
Chief-Inspector Salisbury and Det.-Inspector
Thorpe arrested Willner in his synagogue, and rounded
up the other members of the gang in one day. Sen-
tences passed upon the men for conspiring to obtain
a passport by false pretences were: Vincent, 21
months; Willner, 15; Barlow, 12; Beckers, 11;
Manches, nine ; and Silbiger six months.
Reproof for the "Times.”
London “Times” slips, and is reproved by
an honest Dutchman:—
Sir, —As a citizen of Haarlem l have seen
with much interest the picture in the “Times”
of November 11 of a newspaper office where
the citizens of Haarlem are seen gathered to
wait for news about the political situation with
regard to the menace of Holland.
1 want to point out that I am passing every
day that newspaper office and that always —
also in peace-time —people are gathered there
to get news. You must not forget that Dutch
people are not accustomed to spend money
by buying newspapers in the street and that
they always prefer to get hold of the latest
news in the cheaper way by attending it at
the newspaper offices where it is published at
any time. —/ am, sir, your obedient servant,
Helmuth Mainz.


m.
K-
J
'///
/ s'
SSfS
1
5®
m
1.-n
Ez
/
m
Tk
*s
r
r
ip:.
C%
k
■s
l
/
%
A
A
T7i
M 3
gas:
>SM!
lt;V; , «!!:«.’»•
KEEP THE FLAG FLYING
with the real Australian drink that
builds comradeship and good health.
£
I
\
. .v;k-
W-'i
:
f Jl ;: ‘
>J?X
Tooheys
d
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAt
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


TATTERSALL’S CLUB
First Day:
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1939.
Principal Event:
THE CARRINGTON STAKES of £l3OO.
SIX FURLONGS.
ANNUAL RACE MEETING
RANDWICK
RACECOURSE
SECOND DAY:
MONDAY, JANUARY 1, 1940.
Principal Event:
TATTERSALL’S CLUB CUP of £l5OO.
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
On Villiers Stakes day an attendance
of 24,000 at Randwick was a thousand
less than on the corresponding day last
year, and a tote turnover of £28,916 10s.
represented a decrease of £2728 ss.
In a great finish Rodborough won the
Villiers Stakes for J. R. and J. K. Hardy.
In view of the good form shown by him
recently in two welter races, and the
probability of his being suited by the
lighter scale, it was somewhat surprising
that Rodborough was at a comparatively
long price until Saturday. Then he came
into the market in no uncertain fashion,
being backed from fourteens down to
eights.
R. Stanton could not have had him
looking better, and there was merit in the
win. After commencing well Rodborough
dropped back at the half-mile, but though
he momentarily looked like getting into
trouble he avoided it. A furlong from
home he was in behind Grey Derby,
Diamond Wedding and Delmestor, with
seemingly very little chance of getting
a clear run. Hickey, however, pulled him
out, and, riding most vigorously, squeezed
through an opening that presented itself,
and landed Rodborough a head winner
from Red Thespian, who led 50 yards
from the post. Even after Rodborough
headed him Red Thespian kept the re-
sult in doubt until the winning-post was
reached. Rodborough is said to be any-
thing but an easy horse to ride, and
Hickey deserved all credit for his hand-
ling of him after entering the straight.
Mildura, in third place, ran particularly
well, after being so slow in finding his
legs that he appeared hopelessly placed
after going a furlong. Not so badly,
however, as Korimako, who was last
early, and still in that position at the
half-mile. Even then, if luck had come
her way from the three furlongs, she
might have won. Rival Hit was another
that finished strongly, but Diamond Wed-
ding, Delmestor and Grey Derby, who
led into the straight, and were still at
the head of affairs a furlong from home,
could not see it out. Grey Derby actually
got his head in front, but a mile at
Randwick is a trifle far for him. I did
not think Binnia Hero would find the
distance to his liking. He made up
ground in the straight, and Tattersall’s
Cup will give him a better chance. None
of the remainder showed form that called
for special mention.
Backers were astray in their Hurdle
Race calculations, neither of the joint
favorites, Harley and El Banado, ever
really looking like winning. Berrima led
to the turn, but then Spearbine took
charge. The latter was first over the last
jump, but was outstayed by the Marconi-
gram mare Tweedside, who from the
commencement of the last mile was never
further back than third. Lockslea and
El Banado had a great set-to for third
place, the former gaining it. Harley’s
form pointed to the handicappers hav-
ing got his measure, and though Berrima
dropped right out in the straight he will
win over a shorter distance at a suburban
track.
When Rylstone ran in the Kirkham
Stakes he struck trouble at barrier-rise,
and tailed off throughout. In the Decem-
ber Nursery he led at the end of the first
furlong, and was not afterwards really
in danger of defeat. In the straight Pan
Pipe and Haran came at him, but though
the latter finished gamely his chance was
never a winning one. Pan Pipe again ran
greenly, and, after failing to raise suffi-
cient dash in an attempt to get through
on the inside in the straight, he tired, and
was cut out of third place by Haridelle.
David. Copperfield and Drava were
prominent at the turn, and Our Barney
was nearer the front at the winning-post
than at any other stage. Haridelle ran
well to get third, but though Merry
Smile’s half-brother John Halifax (by
Pantheon) looks a galloper he did not
show anything. His yearling price was
500gns. Rylstone is by Hall Mark from
Lady Zelteers (Zeltinger-Limond’s Cheer),
and his ownership is shared by S. W.
Phillips and H. S. Thompson, the latter
being his breeder.
With Breeze making the running the
Holiday Handicap field was strung out
in remarkable fashion at an early stage.
At the six furlongs Own Folk and
Bristol were so far back that success for
either appeared impossible, but Santa,
who was always within striking distance
of Breeze, ran her down soon after turn-
ing into the straight and won easily
from Own Folk, who showed excellent
form in making up a tremendous amount
of ground over the last half-mile. Bristol
also wiped out a lot of his leeway, but
did not do as well as Own Folk. Breeze’s
owner may now decide that a mile and
a quarter is beyond her tether at Rand-
wick. Santa is a brother to Pen Name
(Marconigram-Nom-de-Plume), but is an
improvement upon her.
Curiosity met a strong field in the
Highweight Welter, but, taking com-
mand half-way down the straight, won
so decisively that she should not be long
in further adding to her credit account.
Marengo ran well, but without having
any chance against the winner, and
though Talkalot missed a place her form
was much the same as that shown in her
recent races. There was very little be-
tween her and Glorious at the finish.
They finished fourth and fifth respec-
tively, with Glorious doing slightly the
better. Old Rowley headed the re-
mainder, and his turn should not be long
in coming. Sign On showed unexpected
pace for six furlongs, and though Beau
Mari died out at the finish he is on the
improve. In her four wins this season
up to last Saturday Curiosity has earned
£7BO.
* * * *
With all her weight Delmestor may
be a Carrington possibility. Although
9.3 pulled her up in the Villiers, an
additional 41b. will be counterbalanced
by the two furlongs shorter distance.
However, I expect her to be beaten by
Diamond Wedding, for one. The latter,
with 7.5, should run a great six furlongs.
In the Villiers she was one of the leaders
up to the last furlong, and it is reason-
able to expect her to be all the better
for that race. Up to Monday no definite
arrangement had been made for a rider
for her, but, failing anyone of greater
experience, the stable apprentice, Lester,
may again have the mount. He rode her
well in the Villiers. Grey Derby played
a prominent part in Saturday’s mile, but
he may be taken off his legs in the early
part of a shorter race.
Early Bird’s recent deeds have not been
encouraging, and the form of Trimmer
and Vergure in the Chisholm Handicap
—I am writing before the decision of that
race-will tell backers more than I can
concerning their chances. Trimmer has
been pleasing his trainer.
If all is well with Bradford his chance
is undeniable. Winner of last year’s
Challenge Stakes with 8.3, and successful
again at Randwick with 8.4 three weeks
ago, he is thoroughly deserving of con-
sideration. Caesar at his best—and he
is working well —should be worth a place
ticket.
Anne won at her last start at Rand-
wick, and is as game as could be wished,
but she is very close to Diamond Wed-
ding, who, if she draws a fair post posi-
tion, is bound to take a lot of running
down. I look to her to win.
* * * *
Writing before the Summer Cup is de-
cided, it is difficult to express a pro-
nounced opinion concerning the possible
result of Tattersall’s Cup. John Peel,
Malagigi, Bristol, Own Folk, Kurra-
wid, Santa or Bringa may incur a penalty.
Believing it will be John Peel, I prefer
Malagigi to any of the others. If John
Peel is not good enough to win the Sum-
mer Cup it will trouble him to win Tatt.’s,
even with his light weight of 6.10.
In addition to those mentioned,
Curiosity and Binnia Hero enter into
calculations, and if the former can run
a mile and a half nearly as well as she
can a mile she is bound to play a promi-
nent part. Breeding is not against her
staying fairly. She is by Constant Son
from Golden Curio, by Rossendale from
Golden Shoe, by Wallace from Golden
Slipper. Old Rowley is coming on rapidly
but may require a little more time to get
back to the form that enabled him to
win weight-for-age races. Kurrawid and
Santa should get a mile and a half, but
I shall pin my faith to Malagigi.
* * * *
A course of hurdle schooling often
improves a horse’s solidity on the flat,
and trainer Tom Lambert experimented
successfully in this respect with Morvren,
10-to-l winner of the Fund Handicap at
Williamstown on Saturday. Morvren, a
five-year-old mare by Parenthesis-Moig-
net, had won several minor races, but
was not staying quite as well as antici-
pated, and Lambert considered that a few
lessons over the jumps would bring out
her latent stamina. That was less than
three months ago, and the schooling
proved of immediate value. Morvren
won successive Trial Handicaps at Ascot
with 9.0 and 9.5, failed twice subse-
quently under big weights, was an un-
lucky third in the Ascot Cup at her next
start, and compensated for that defeat by
winning the Fund Handicap in striking
style.
The mare’s backers would have sold
out cheaply when she was last at the half-
mile, and her chance was not improved
when she had to be taken wide at the
home turn, but, appreciating her drop in
weight to 7.4, she finished brilliantly tc
win going away from Cackle and Royal
Jubilee. Morvren is owned by her breeder,
“S. A. Rawdon,” and is raced on lease
by J. E. Kellway and F. E. Thomas.
Decision to race Lady Montague for
another season before retiring her to the
stud has not had happy results so far
Owner A. E. Kimpton announced several
months ago that the Liberal mare was to
have begun stud duties this season, that
a mate had been selected for her, but
Lady Montague did so well during a spell
that it was decided to train her again. A
close second to Keelie in the recent
Epsom Cup suggested that she was about
to return to her best form, but, backed
for a collective fortune, she let her
backers down in the Williamstown Fund
Handicap. Many of her supporters criti-
cised rider W. Cox for Lady Montague’s
defeat into fourth position. They con-
tended that Cox was in too much of a
hurry in rushing her from fifth at the
five furlongs to take the lead near the
two, that Lady Montague might have
lasted it out had her run been delayed
a little longer.
Dick O’Donnell, who trained winners
of most of Maoriland’s important
races and later met with success in Syd-
ney, has not enjoyed much luck lately,
but he appears to possess a galloper of
more than average promise in French
Legion, an imported French-bred entire,
four years old to Australian time, by
Brumeux-Fire Legend. French Legion,
whose previous racing had been in better
company, was always a short-priced
favorite for the Williamstown Maiden
Plate, which he won running right away
from Bureaucrat and Super Prince. He
only warmed up to his work towards the
finish of the mile and a quarter, and,
having raced only lightly, seems sure to
improve. French Legion was a foal when
he and his dam were purchased in France
for O. K. I. Tyson, his dam being stinted
to Brumeux at the time of the sale. The
result of the latter mating was another
colt, now three years old to Australian
time, who is out spelling. Frank Demp-
sey did Tyson’s riding until his recent
retirement, and Harold Skidmore has
taken his place.
Williamstown stewards handed out un-
welcome Christmas “gifts” to two appren-
tices on Saturday. W. Hooton, rider of
International, was suspended for a month
for crossing too sharply in the Fund Han-
dicap, and F. Morris, rider of Minority,
was stood down for a similar period for
causing interference in the Welter Handi-
cap. Stewards have their jobs to do, and
they decline to be swayed by any Santa
Claus sentiment.
Backed from 10 to 1 down to sevens,
Rosado made a one-act affair of the
Williamstown Welter Handicap, leading
throughout the seven furlongs, winning
by three lengths, and recording the
course record time of 1.24 y. Her form
was an improvement on her third in a
somewhat weaker field over a similar dis-
tance at Mentone two weeks earlier, but
backers who commented upon the im-
provement failed to take into considera-
tion the different scale of weights.
Rosado is not a big mare, and in the
Mentone race, in which riding was re-
stricted to crosscountry jockeys, she car-
ried 9.5. Originally handicapped at 7.9
for her Williamstown race ; an appren-
tice allowance reduced her weight to 7.2,
and she made the most of the big drop.
A four-year-old by Silverado-Roscome,
trained by Elwood Fisher for V.R.C.
committeeman T. C. Manifold, Rosado
did not win out of her turn. Always a
brilliant track galloper, she had raced
unsuccessfully since her two-year-old
days.
Owner E. O'Brien and trainer Steve
Murphy were out of luck at Williams-
town. They hoped to win a double with
Good Boy in the Trial Hurdle and King
Arthur in the Three-year-old Handicap,
but each was beaten into second place.
Good Boy, though a winner at Ballarat
at his previous start, has not had much
experience of hurdling, and was out-
jumped by Fighting Cock, who led all
the way and thereby repeated his Ascot
win of a week earlier. King Arthur was
beaten on the post by Sir Romeo in the
Three-year-old Handicap, but his forward
showing demonstrated that his recent
racing over hurdles had not affected him
Horses of his age are seldom put to
hurdling, but King Arthur has already
proved his ability as a “mixer.” He won
over hurdles at Ascot recently, and is
one of the most promising young jumpers
in training. Murphy seems to be in a
fortunate position as far as next winter’s
jumping season is concerned. In addi-
tion to King Arthur and Good Boy, his
stable shelters another promising young
hurdler in Henry Tudor.
Failing to begin as smartly as usual,
Sir Romeo’s chance of justifying his
favoritism for the Williamstown Three-
year-old Handicap seemed remote when
he was only fifth, and many lengths be-
hind the runaway Sun Call, rounding the
home turn in the Williamstown Three-
vear-old Handicap. At that stage Sun
Call looked like seeing it out, but he ran
out of steam in the straight, and both
Lord Walla and King Arthur in turn
appeared the likely winner before Sir
Romeo got a lucky run between them
and won in the last couple of strides. Sir
Romeo, a Gay Lothario-Mons Star colt,
trained by Mick Crossey for Mrs. G.
Hore, compensated for his unlucky defeat
by Mac Rob at his previous start. Mac
Rob did not have the long Mentone
straight to help him on this occasion,
and, though running on, finished only
sixth.
Melbourne’s Lord Mayor Coles and
former Lord Mayor Luxton made a
happy choice when they paid 400gns.
for the Gay Lothario-Mitzi colt at the
last yearling sales. Named Old Vienna,
this brother to Limerick Lace followed
up his Moonee Valley success of five
days earlier by leading most of the way
in the Two-year-old Handicap at Wil-
liamstown. He showed no signs of dis-
tress after entering the straight with a
clear lead, and won comfortably from
Livonia (Manitoba-Ra) and Portante
(Portofino-Fission). Both minor place-
getters are likely to improve, as each
was having only her second race.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
CARRINGTON STAKES.
Diamond Wedding 1
Bradford 2
Delmestor 3
TATTERS ALL’S CUP.
Malagigi 1
Own Folk 2
Curiosity or John Peel 3


Favorites have not won Tattersall’s
Cup out of their turn. In the last 10
years that race has been won by only two
heading the quotations.
1930 Jeypore (J. Goldstone), 7 to 2.
1931 Jeypore (W. Cooke), 5 to 1; Dalston,
7 to 4, unplaced.
1932 — Spearman (J. Munro), 7 to 1; Induce-
ment, 5 to 1, third.
1933 Miss Nottava (S. Weiss), 12 to 1; Stone-
brook, 2 to 1, unplaced.
1934 — Satmoth (D. Munro), 10 to 1; Milan-
theon, 3 to 1, unplaced.
1935 Balgay (S. Murphy), 33 to 1; Magnitas,
9 to 4, unplaced.
1936 — Spear Prince (H. Hanley), 5 to 1.
1937 — Auto Buz (F. Shean), 7 to 1; Loud
Applause, 4 to 1, third.
1938 Billy Boy (F. Shean), 20 to 1; Mananui,
7 to 2, unplaced.
1939 Bristol (E. McMenamin), 8 to 1; Red
Sails (third) and Young Crusader (un-
placed), 7 to 2 each.
* * * *
A four-mile race is decidedly unusual
these days, but one was run at Bay
Meadows (San Francisco) last month.
There were six starters, and Anhelation
won by a neck, with the third horse only
a nose further away. There was prize-
money for the first five, but the winner’s
share was only £265. The time is of in-
terest, the four miles being run in
7.17 3-5. As usual in all American races
the pace was hot in the early part, the
first half-mile being run in 50 4-5, but
the final mile took 1.50.
* * * *
America’s greatest special race of the
year was run at Pimlico (Baltimore,
Maryland) on Nov. 1. Its value was
£A2500, and it was put on to bring about
the meeting of the crack three-year-old
Challedon and the best older horses.
However, Challedon had only two oppo-
nents, Kayak 11. and Cravat. He carried
8.8 to their 9.0, and won by half a length
from Kayak 11., who headed him turning
into the straight. Challedon, who was
favorite, ran the nine and a half fur-
longs in 1.59.
This win brought Challedon’s earnings
for the season to £A46,000, and his total
at two and three years to a little over
£63,000. These are the “Blood Horse”
figures. It is surprising some of our
breeders do not breed a few horses to
American time. Perhaps A. E. Cooper,
the most enterprising buyer in Australia,
may be tempted to do so. The prizes in
America are tremendous for two- and
three-year-old races. Col. E. R. Bradley’s
two-year-old Bimelech has won six races
of the total value of £A33,700 this season.
After Bimelech won the Pimlico Futurity
on November 4 his owner offered to run
him against any horse of any age in
America at w.f.a. at a mile and 70
yards or eight and a half furlongs. The
stake could be $lO or as high as any other
owner wanted to go. Bimelech is favor-
ite for next year’s Kentucky Derby, a
race Col. Bradley has already won four
times.
* * * *
If ill-health had not interfered J.
Higgins would have come to Sydney early
this year to take the position of chair-
man of A.J.C. stipendary stewards. He
has since accepted an appointment with
the Royal Calcutta T.C. to do its big
meetings. In a letter to me he spoke
highly of Finalist and Baqlava, and said
Panaster had furnished into a really nice
horse, but was unfortunately a non-
sweater, which is a drawback in the
Indian climate.
Baqlava, who is trained by A. Higgins,
beat Finalist a head in the King-
Emperor’s Cup. In this Baqlava was
ridden by W. Sibbritt, though when he
won the Hilliard Plate W. Scanlan was
on him. Odds of 3 to 1 were laid on
Finalist for the King-Emperor’s Cup,
while Baqlava was at 7 to 1 against.
My correspondent says racing is boom-
ing in India, and several high-priced
horses recently purchased in England in-
cluded Cockpit, Fulham, Bistolfi, Cos-
mopolitan (for A. Higgins), Caerloptic
and the two-year-old Tant Mieux. The
last-named is stated to have cost £7OOO.
He was owned in England by Prince Aly
Khan, and showed good form in that
country.
% * ifc ip
In the last ten years favorites have not
had marked success in the Carrington
Stakes, only two winning. As the last
was Jacko in 1933, it is up to another
to succeed. At the time of writing no
certainty attaches to what will start
favorite. Villiers Stakes form has not
done much towards assisting backers in
the selection of Carrington Stakes win-
ners. Last year Delmestor ran in the
Villiers Stakes with 8.9, finishing fifth,
but a week later she won the Carrington
Stakes with 8.13,. those behind her in-
cluding Bradford, whom she met a pound
worse than when he ran second in the
Villiers. Winners and favorites for the
last ten years are as under:
1929 — Gay Ballerina (E. Bartle), sto 1; Green-
line, 3 to 1, third.
1930 — Pavilion (M. McCarten), Bto 1; Green-
line, 3 to 1, unplaced.
1931 — Greenline (J. Pike), 16 to 1; Tom Pinch,
7 to 2, unplaced.
1932 — Closing Time (E. Bartle), 5 to 4 on.
1933 Jacko (D. Munro), 2to 1.
1934 Dame Moab (D. Lightfoot), 12 to 1;
Myra Tip, 7 to 2, unplaced.
1935 — Vista (M. McCarten), 7to 1; Windbird,
4 to 1, unplaced.
1936 Falstaff (Heather), 7to 1; King’s Head,
5 to 1, second.
1937 Brown Baroness (F. Hickey), 12 to 1;
Mangoola, 7 to 2, unplaced.
1938 Delmestor (S. Davidson), 12 to 1; Early
Bird (second) and Bradford (unplaced),
3 to 1 each.
* * * *
Australia has some big breeders, but
their operations do not approach those
of J. B. Haggin at one period in Cali-
fornia. That was a long time before
California became a non-racing State. It
is again one of the leaders in America
GEORGE PRICE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Few trainers have made more rapid progress in a
comparatively short period than George Price, who rode
with marked success in Maoriland, trained there, and after
the war —he did duty on a hospital ship—decided to try
his luck in Sydney. His beginning was small, but ability
carried him forward. Windbag, who took “making,” was
his first horse of real note, and with him he won a Mel-
bourne Cup and numerous w.f.a. races.
Gold Rod is another who has done particularly well
for him, his record including Melbourne’s and Sydney’s
principal two-year-old races, the A.J.C. St. Leger, Caul-
field Futurity Stakes, and Epsom and Doncaster Handi-
caps. Spear Chief, Veilmond, Homer, Kuvera, Pandava,
Carry On, Jocelyn, Sir John, Cuddle, Reonui, Waikare,
Caramba, Murray King and Waireka are others of his
big winners. Some trainers cannot make the best of good
material. Price can. Painstaking to the last degree, and
not prone to regard geese as swans, he can be relied on
to turn out many more winners of importance.
in that respect. At Haggin’s Rancho
del Paso stud, near Sacramento, he had
23 stallions, these including 11 or 12
from England and three from Australia.
He had 500 brood mares, and annually
sent to the New York sales 300 yearlings.
* * * *
In this year’s six leading sires in the
United States, up to the commencement
of November, four were bred in other
countries. English-bred Challenger 11.
Play) was on top with
approximately £A61,500. This rather
upsets the contention of those writers
who, in their enthusiasm for their own
horses, are never tired of pointing out
how greatly England and Australia
would benefit if they went in for a strong
infusion of American blood.
Some of these scribes are seemingly
unaware that 27 years ago a shipment of
about 140 stallions, mares and yearlings
arrived in Sydney from America, and we
were told by American papers what a
tremendous loss it was to Kentucky, and
how greatly Australia would benefit. The
shipment was sold at auction, but it has
yet to be demonstrated that the mares
would do as much for Australia as
claimed. When America wants fresh
blood it still looks to England, and it is
certain Australia will continue doing so.
* * * *
It is hard to say what would be thought
of a trainer who now started a horse
three times in one day at Rand-
wick. I saw that happen on New Year’s
Day, 1905, the horse being Deemster, a
stallion by Cambria. On the first day
of Tatt.’s meeting he ran second to
Haloya in the Carrington Stakes, and
that, of course, caused particular atten-
tion to be paid him on the second day.
Favorite at 9 to 4 for the Flying Welter
(six furlongs), he ran third.
With one race intervening, he was
saddled up for the New Year’s Gift, one
mile, and, as the extra distance was
expected to suit him, he was again favor-
ite, his price being 5 to 2. Another third
was the result. That run did not com-
plete his day’s labors. He was started
for the last race on the programme, the
Welter Mile, but his previous efforts had
taken toll of him, and he ran nowhere.
At a country meeting a month later he
had two runs the same afternoon, and
won at his second start!
* * * *
Heroic, Australia’s most successful sire,
who has headed the winning list for
the last seven years, having over £263,000
to his credit, broke a leg last week and
had to be destroyed.
Foaled in 1921 he be-
came impotent three
seasons ago, and his
youngest stock are
three-year-olds. By
Valais from Cher-
sonese, he was sold
as a yearling for
1800gns., and won
the first race in which
he started, the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate.
In the greatest
finish I have seen
for an A.J.C. Derby
he defeated Nigger
Minstrel by a head,
with Spearfelt a
similar distance
further away. Pre-
vious to that he
downed Gloaming
in the Chelmsford
Stakes in 1.5(H,
which still stands as
a nine - furlongs
record for Rand-
wick. Circumstances
prevented Heroic
frorri competing for
the Victoria Derby,
and he was subse-
quently bought by
C. B. Kellow for
16,000gns. For that
owner he won the
Newmarket Handi-
cap and several
weight-for-age races,
closing his turf
career with 21 wins,
11 seconds, four
thirds and £38,062
in prize-money.
Heroic won at a
mile and three-
quarters, and I think
he would probably
have gone close to
winning the 1926
Sydney Cup with 9.7
if Valbee had not
fallen nearly half a
mile from home. Up
to that point Heroic
was going easily in
a good position, but he lost a lot of ground
in avoiding trouble, and then, meeting
with a slight check in the straight, he
weakened at the end, Naos beating him
for third place. Weighted at 9.10 —41b.
below Windbag—for that year’s Mel-
bourne Cup he did not run. His son, Hall
Mark, won a Melbourne Cup for him,
and his representatives of today include
Ajax, Australia’s greatest weight-for-age
horse.
Ajax is reported to have developed into
a fine horse since he last raced, but, while
he may be superior to Spear Chief as
a galloper, it might be safe to bet that
he would not beat him in the matter of
appearance. Spear Chief is the finest-
looking horse at Randwick, and does
credit to Spearfelt in every way. With-
out the least desire to belittle the mares
with which he has been mated in Queens-
land, one cannot help wondering how
far Spearfelt would have gone as a sire
if he had been bought for one of N. S.
Wales’s or Victoria’s leading studs at the
conclusion of his racing career. Most of
his stock race in Queensland, and up
there they have shown they can sprint
and stay. Third in stakes in Australia
last season, he had 47 winners, only
Brazen (49) and Gay Lothario (48) hav-
ing more. Heroic, who led in stakes,
had 42.
* * * *
As a rule, when a horse is not doing
as well as its trainer could wish, it leaks
out. Bradford’s case is an exception, as
he was one of the topliners in the Villiers
Stakes betting until he was withdrawn
on Thursday. Last season he was only
narrowly defeated by Fakenham in the
Villiers, but each of his three wins was
at six furlongs, one being the Challenge
Stakes, with 8.3. Perhaps Bradford’s
owner has come to the conclusion that
he is better at the shorter distance, and, if
the horse was not quite at his best, wisely
did not wish to imperil his Carrington
Stakes chance by giving him a hard race
in the Villiers. When he won at Rand-
wick three weeks ago he had 8.4, and
his Carrington weight is 8.3.
* :fc * *
There is a letter at The Bulletin office
for George Friend, who was associated
with racing stables in Sydney for some
years. The letter is from Victoria, and
the writer says that it is of importance.
* * # *
Joe Canty is said to be the best all-
round horseman Ireland has produced
since the Great War. He is as much at
home over hurdles and fences as on the
flat, and is the only rider who has ridden
100 winners in Ireland in one season.
His figures in 1925 were 117 wins, 62
seconds, 43 thirds and 117 times un-
placed. Canty has ridden successfully
in England, but has declined several
offers to reside permanently in that
country.
*■* * *
English writers have been indulging in
a controversy as to the youngest rider to
succeed there, and special mention is
made of a lad of twelve who won a
race of importance many years ago. In
Sydney W. Kelso (sen.) beat that. He
was eleven years and eight months old
when he won 1882 Tattersall’s Cup on
Lord Orville. The distance of the race
was then two miles, and Lord Orville
carried 6.2. Later the same afternoon
Lord Orville won the New Year’s Gift,
miles, for which he started at 5 to 1,
Kelso again being the rider. It was not
the first time the same rider had two
mounts on Lord Orville in one day. The
previous November he rode him twice
in the same afternoon at Parramatta,
scoring a third and a second.
* * *
In Sydney this season some stallions
have done sufficiently well to cause their
progeny to be in demand at the coming
autumn sales at Randwick. Among the
two-year-olds Trueness and Flying Knight
have drawn attention to their respective
sires, Harinero and Medieval Knight, and
Dark Elegance has done likewise for El
Cacique. Broadcaster was beaten in the
Breeders’ Plate, but, as he subsequently
won the Maribyrnong Plate, his sire,
Marconigram, further demonstrated that
he can beget early-comers. In three-
year-old races Reading has kept that
sire well to the fore, and it is almost
unnecessary to write that High Caste has
done the same for Bulandshar. Pre-
sumably there will be a rush for that
horse’s youngsters at the Wellington sales
next month.
Feminist (Metropolitan) and Bristol
(City Tattersall’s Handicap) were good
winners for Pantheon, and The Buzzard,
as usual, got his share of advertisement,
his winners including L’Aiglon, Katanga
and Own Folk. Although the war may
have some effect upon prices as a whole,
I expect the good lots to bring full value
again this season.
* * * *
Three-year-old Manaos, well known to
Sydney racegoers, gave backers a shock
at Calcutta on December 9. It was not
thought he had much chance of seeing
out seven furlongs in the York Plate
(div. Ill), but he got to the front early
in the piece, and stayed there to the
finish. His dividend was at the rate cf
nearly 15 to 1, and the tote double of
Bibi and Manaos returned about £2lO
for 15s. No one succeeded in picking the
tote treble, and £2BBO was carried over
to the next day’s treble.
* * * *
Edifice, who was the medium of a
tote dividend of £132 6s. for 10s. when
he won at Victoria Park last week, is
a half-brother, by Pantheon, to The Jilt,
and a brother to Pandion, winner of a
Q.T.C. St. Leger and third in a Brisbane
Cup. Edifice is bred to stay, his dam,
Valferre, being out of Poitrel’s sister
Poyferre. However, no certainty attaches
to a horse proving a stayer, no matter
how it may be bred. Poitrel’s brother
Poilu could not get beyond nine fur-
longs, and was only moderate at that
distance. As a yearling Edifice cost R.
Bruce 425gn5., and early this season
won a couple of small races.
H: * Jfc sfc
Trimmer, who has not raced since his
Brisbane trip, is reported to be doing
well. He will require to be at his best,
too, to win the Carrington Stakes with
8.12, but he is up to weight. Ver-
gure is another not exactly thrown in
with 8.9. Foaled to English time, he is
still short of being actually four years,
and his form at the recent Rosehill meet-
ing did not tend to uphold the high
opinion his owner expressed of him a


"Not there, you goat! Shoot him under the shoulder-blade!"
little while back. If Vergure received a
little more than he expected in the Vil-
liers and Carrington Stakes his owner
contributed to his treatment by an-
nouncing what his horse was likely to do
in important handicaps. It was sports-
manlike, but not exactly wise.
* sfc *
A suit was entered recently in Cali-
fornia against Santa Anita Park and
Hollywood Park for £A460,000, at the
instigation of a taxpayer who charged
that improper computation of breakage
(“fractions” in Australia) had cost
machine bettors that much in the last six
years. The suit asks for £A375,000 from
Santa Anita Park and the remainder from
Hollywood. It is contended that since
it is not clear to whom the money
belongs it should go to the State. In
answer to that it was pointed out
by some papers that as Santa Anita Park
voluntarily reduced its share of the take-
out from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c. the track will
still have taken less than allowed by law
even if the suit should be successful.
* * * *
Two men prominent in the Maori-
land racing world at different times died
recently. One was John Maher, father
of the well-known woman trainer Mrs.
Alan McDonald, and the other W.
(Jerry) Wilson, winner of the Great
Northern Steeplecchase on Sol in 1906
and Kiatere in 1907. Maher, at various
times, trained for various leading owners,
and one of the famous horses he had
in his charge was the steeplechaser
Moifaa.
* * * *
In Sydney we have not lately heard
much on the score of doping, but those
who profess to be knowledgeable on the
subject say it still goes on. Some trainers
know more about drugs than others, but
as expert knowledge is necessary in re-
spect of quantities it would be interesting
to learn who advises trainers in that
respect. If it could be ascertained, the
chances are it would create some sur-
prise.
* * * *
American trainers as a whole have
little liking for preparing horses for
distances beyond nine furlongs. Over
there, as in Australia, sprinters are the
main stand-by of most. With an
occasional race and light work many
sprinters can almost train themselves.
Some American clubs offer inducement
to trainers to pay a little more atten-
tion to stayers, and at its meeting next
year the Miami J.C. will again make
the following awards: Trainer of a win-
ner at 9\ furlongs will receive £AI2
10s. ; mile and a quarter, £25 ; mile and
three furlongs, £37 10s,; mile and a
half or further, £5O. In America suc-
cessful trainers occasionally receive
very substantial recognition from clubs.
The trainer of the winner of the Widener
Handicap at Hialeah Park on March 2
will receive a £A1250 bonus from the
Miami Jockey Club.
* * * *
At a dinner given in New York by
the Thoroughbred Club to Major Burke,
of California, the latter in his speech
intimated that he did not believe it was
only the little man who “did things.”
He said :—•
There will always be good sportsmen in
racing, and there will always be others,
too, whose greed for money and notoriety
will tempt them to indulge in practices re-
flecting discredit upon the Turf; both of
these classes include the spread from the
wealthiest owner down to the poorest.
Exactly. A wealthy owner will
occasionally be party to something a
poor one would scarcely dare attempt.
Likewise a trainer can shield himself
behind the fact that he is training for
owners who are regarded as above sus-
picion. It should not be so, but it would
be nonsense to say there are not Aus-
tralian owners and trainers who cannot
go a little further than, others in the
way they run their horses.
* * * *
In Australia some old-time jockeys
receive credit for being much superior
to those riding nowadays. It may be so,
but I have an idea that the best of the
last 20 or 30 years would not compare
unfavorably with the top-notchers of 50
years ago. Tactics at middle and long
distances are so different that comparison
is difficult. In England all the old-timers
swear by Archer and Fordham, but Mey-
rick Good, in his reminiscences in the
“Sporting Life,” pays the following
tribute to Tod Sloan, whom, however, he
regarded as an “impossible” individual
when not on a racehorse:
Sloan was the greatest wonder I ever saw
in the saddle. There was something almost
superhuman about his efforts, and he
would improve horses a stone or more on
the form they showed when ridden by our
English jockeys.
His record was such that bookmakers
became so tired of paying out on his
mounts that they charged 5 per cent, com-
mission on his winners. I well remember
how Sloan’s dashing tactics nonplussed
our crack jockeys.
# V * *
All starters have experienced the dis-
pleasure of racegoers at some time 01-
other, but in the way of unintentional
severe criticism the following from J. B.
Booth’s book, Old Pink ’Un Days, is
hard to beat:
On at least one occasion English Jockey
Club starter Arthur Coventry was inclined
to wish that women did not go racing,
as it was borne upon him that even the
fairest of the sex are liable to jump to
false conclusions in technical matters.
At a certain meeting at which he was
starter, a well-known and beautiful lady
went down to see the start, and, relating
the experience to a friend, on being asked
what the race was, she said it was a
handicap.
“Oh, no,” said the friend, “the race
you saw was not a handicap—it was what
is called a weight-for-age.”
“I’m sure it was a handicap,” the lady
protested pettishly. “Mr. Coventry started
them one by one, and that’s a handicap,
isn’t it?”
“Started ’em one by one,” groaned
Coventry when the story was told him.
“Thank heaven she’s not a reporter! I
wonder how she’d describe one of my worst
efforts?”
* * * *
In the late ’fifties, when so many races
were run in heafs, a three-event pro-
gramme would give a full day’s sport at
country meetings. Untrained hacks were
set severe tasks, and at the Shellharbor
meeting in May, 1857, the Publicans
Purse of £lO was confined to horses of
that class. The conditions were mile
heats at weight-for-age. There were eight
starters, and five heats were run before
Donnelly’s Unknown scored the two
heats necessary for a win. Unknown
improved as the race progressed. He was
second in three heats, and then won two.
Three other runners won a heat each.
Heats of two miles for the best horses
were common, and the Maitland Town
Plate of £lOO in 1853 was won by C.
Roberts’s Dora. In the first heat, run
in 3.54, she was fourth, and won the
next two heats in 3.49 and 3.52.
* * * *
The temporary cessation of racing in
England, owing to the war, may have
cost Lord Rosebery the St. Leger with
Blue Peter, but, as it was, he had a great
year. The close of the flat-racing season
at the end of November saw him the
leading owner with £38,450, while he was
also first among the breeders with
£37,377. Lord Derby was second in each
division. The Aga Khan had his leanest
season since 1925. J. Jarvis, with £56,229,
led the trainers, and Gordon Richards
rode 155 winners. Neveti
was nearest him- with 71.
Lord De r b y’s Fairway
(£53,340) was the most
successful sire.
* * *
“Are there more big
bettors among average
racegoers now than be-
tween thirty and thirty-five
years ago?” was a ques-
tion I heard asked the
other day. This caused
me to look over betting
books lent me by a man
who was prominent at that
period, and did sufficiently
well to be able to retire
some time ago. It sur-
prised me to find how few
course bets there were
of over £2O. even at important Rand-
wick meetings. Plenty of. “fivers”
and “tenners,” but a bet in which the
odds were laid to £5O was unusual. Some
of the names in the books from which
I take my figures are those of men who
still do many commissions. Nowadays
any paddock bookmaker in a fair way
of business who did not have some £5O
bets, even at -suburban meetings, would
disgustedly remark “There was no
money there.”
* # * *
Next year’s Kentucky Derby will carry
£A 18,750 added money. It is anticipated
that with entry fees and starters’ sweep-
stakes its value will go close to £A21,000,
which will make it the richest three-year-
old race in the world. Trainers are being
well looked after by the Churchill Downs
management. The one who trains the
Derby winner gets £A7SO, second £5OO,
and third £250. Australian trainers would
certainly appreciate something similar in
connection with some of our principal
races.
* * * *
Grey racehorses are rarely seen on
Australian racecourses, but they are
numerous in England, a couple of wins in
an afternoon by horses of that color
not being unusual. About the last really
good grey that raced here was imported
Chrysolaus, and he did not sire an undue
number of horses of his own color. In
the first division of the last Cambridge-
shire run at Newmarket, second and third
horses were greys, and another interest-
ing fact is that geldings played a promin-
ent part in the decision of each division.
First and third in the first division were
geldings, and second and third in the
second division. Which makes one won-
der whether much will ever be gained
by debarring geldings from Derbies, St.
Legers and important two-year-old races
in Sydney and Melbourne. Most big
breeders will continue to look to Eng-
land for sires in preference to paying
even a moderate price for an Australian
Derby winner, and the most the debar-
ment of geldings from the classic races
will continue to accomplish is an in-
crease in the number of undesirable
stallions. As a whole, breeders, owners
and trainers would still like the restric-
tion removed.
* * * *
Even those individuals who have the
highest opinion of their own judgment
where yearlings are concerned must
admit it is possible to be very wide of the
mark in selecting something that is
likely to turn out well. If it were other-
wise, the men with the longest purses
would nearly always own the best race-
horses. Touching on this an American
exchange says: —
Many years ago the elder August Bel-
mont, who was considered an authority on
breeding and racing form, sold three cast-
offs from his yearling band. One brought
£A32 10s., another £3O, and the other £2B
15s. They developed into goldmines. The one
that brought £32 10s. was Flitter, which
won five straight races as a two-year-old.
The one that brought £3O was King Crab,
which won 84 races, and the one that
brought £2B 15s. was Badge, winner of 79
races. Mr. Belmont had a system of
measurements by which he judged his year-
lings, and these three were very small
yearlings and so were discarded, but they
all proved to be great race winners.
* * * *
I have repeatedly referred to the diffi-
culty of getting fair fields in America
for distance races, and the important
Lawrence Realisation at Belmont Park
(New York) a few weeks ago was an-
other instance. It is a mile and five
furlongs race for three-year-olds, geld-
ings being barred, and it attracted only
four runners, notwithstanding that first
money was £A4677, second £540, third
£275, and fourth £B7. The favorite.
Hash, won in 2.42 3-5, which, as the
course was muddy, was decidedly fast
travelling. Australia’s best is Young
Crusader’s 2.42}. Hash carried 8.7.
Some American writers are suggesting
that, as the fields are always poor, the
Realisation, the Jockey Club Cup (Bel-
mont Park) and Saratoga Gold Cup
should be dropped, and handicaps take
their place. The last-mentioned two are
among America’s few long-distance
weight-for-age races.
* * * *
The well-informed English writer
“Mankato” says the first Irish Derby was
run in 1866, and was won by Selim from
two opponents. The Derby remained
of small value for many years, but this
year it was worth £2500 to the owner of
the winner. The Irish Oaks, which was
worth only £271 in 1914, carried £1447
first money this season. In Ireland last
year 433 flat races under Irish Turf
Club rules aggregated £41,398, against
1985, worth £760,031, under Jockey Club
rules, in England.
* * * *
Racing at some courses in America
must become decidedly wearisome be-
fore the conclusion of a meeting. For
instance, on November 23 the Louisiana
Jockey Club (New Orleans) commenced
a fixture that was to last at least 87 days,
the prize-money totalling £A100,00(J.
Where racing is concerned we are enthu-
siastic in Australia, but 87 days at one
track even Christmas Day not being
omitted —would be too much of a good
thing for most of us.
* * * *
Stud fees run high in America. Blen-
heim 11. commands £A625, and his list
for next year was full some months
ago. In view of the prices averaged
by his yearlings in August that is' not
surprising. At the same stud Sir Gala-
had 111. and Gallant Fox are at £375
each, and Flares, Hard Tack, Omaha
and Stimulus £250. In connection with
Blenheim 11. and Sir Galahad 111. there
is no return privilege for mares that
miss, but that is conceded with the others
mentioned.
v * * *
In the “Horse and Hound” (London)
J. Fairfax-Blakesborough interestingly
discusses the derivation of the word
“jockey.” He says that originally it was
a term of derision, connoting distrust
and suspicion. To refer to a man as
“a jockey” in Shakspeare’s day (and
much later) was to include him among a
class of horse-copers known in the north
of England as “The Forty Thieves.” If
you seriously accepted the views of
some Australian racegoers they have
many descendants riding in this country.
Bailey's Dictionary (1728) gives “jockey”
as “One who manages and deals in
horses,” while Ash’s (1775) Dictionary
is not so complimentary. Its definition
is: “A fellow that rides horses in a race,
one who deals in horses, a cheat, a
tricking fellow.” Early in 1800 the
Sporting Dictionary says that, while
the universal acceptation of jockey then
applied merely to riders of racehorses,
in some districts if it was said of some
man he was “quite a jockey,” it implied
that he was little, if any, better than a
swindler, and well qualified to jockey
any person with whom he had trading
transactions.
* * * *
In New York a jockey named Eddie
de Camille is going for a big win. Ruled
off at Empire City (New York) last July
for using a battery, the young man has
entered a suit against the Jockey Club
for £A25,000. If he should get a verdict
for anything approaching that amount he
will be able to do without further riding
for the remainder of his life.
* * * *
William Fawcett, reminiscing for the
“Sporting Life” (London) recently, in-
cluded a story about John (“Honest
John”) Day, who trained for Lord
George Bentinck. Day, according to
the story, tried a horse of Lord George’s
very early one morning. Then he came
back and wrote two letters. One was
to a well-known bookmaker, the other
to Lord George. They ran:
My Lord, —The colt is quite fit and has
done a rattling gallop. I think he. is bound
to win. Back him for all you can on
Monday if you can get a fair price.
Dear • , —The long-legged lord will
be at Tattersall’s on Monday. Lay him
all you can; the horse is a stiff ’un.
Then he put them in the wrong envelopes
and mailed them. A little later Lord
George had another trainer.
In Australia many years ago a writer,
in sarcasm, prefixed “Honest” to the
Christian name of a prominent owner-
trainer. Later it was accepted by many


Legal Notice.
RE CHARLOTTE LUCY BIGNOLD Spinster
deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
15th November 1937 and made in an action
In the Matter of the Trusts of the Will of
Charlotte Lucy Bignold Spinster deceased (late
of Stanley House Surrey Street in the City
of Norwich) Aglionby against Bickersteth 1937
8.3984 whereby the following inquiry was
directed viz. “An Inquiry what nephews and
nieces great nephews and great nieces of the
abovenamed Testatrix Charlotte Lucy Bignold
were living at the death on the 3rd August
1934 of Mabel Lilian Bathurst Bignold and
whether any such persons are since dead and
if so who are their personal representatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiry
are to send by post prepaid to Henry
Charles King Esquire of 17 Serjeants Inn
Fleet Street London E.C.4 so as to reach that
address in the ordinary course of post on or
before the 9th day of April 1940 their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said Order unless the Court
or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Tuesday the 12th day of April 1940 at 2.30
o’clock in the afternoon is the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims before
Master Newman at the Chambers of the
Judge Room No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London. A claimant not residing in
England or Wales must send with particulars
of his claim the name and address of a person
in England or Wales to whom notice to the
claimant can be sent.
DATED this 24th day of November, 1939.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN,
Master.
Note. —The persons sought are David Wil-
liam Fenn, Joseph Fenn and Lily Fenn, who
are believed to have been born at Cheltenham
(children of Mary Jane Fenn, nee Bignold, a
sister of the Testatrix), and any children of
the said David William Fenn, Joseph Fenn and
Lily Fenn and if any of such persons have
died since 3rd August 1934 their personal rep-
resentatives. The said Mary Jane Fenn died
at Cheltenham in 1870. The said David Wil-
liam Fenn is believed to have gone to Aus-
tralia.
TARRY, SHERLOCK & KING, 17 Ser-
jeants Inn, London, E.C.4, Agents for BLYTH
& HORNOR, of Norwich, Solicitors for the
Plaintiffs.
as a tribute to his fair dealing in racing,
somewhat to the amusement of those
who were contemporary with him.
* * * *
A useful Turf publication, Rctceform,
is to hand from Maoriland. It is issued
every week by Organ Bros., Ltd.,
Manners-street, Wellington, and, in addi-
tion to full accounts of race meetings
and dates of coming fixtures, contains
a deal of other information. The index
of performances is replaced each week,
and anyone wishing to keep thoroughly
in touch with Maoriland form could not
do better than become a subscriber.
* * * *
The war has made things difficult for
stud-owners in France. The young men
have been called up for military service,
and some trainers have also had to turn
over their teams to others for the same
reason. “Le Jockey” and Paris “Sport,”
the daily sporting papers of Paris, ceased
publication in September, as did the
official “Racing Calendar.” Consequently
little is now printed in France that is of
interest to racing people.
* * * ♦
In winning the second division of the
Encourage at Randwick, Billie came home
very strongly, and made a half-second
faster time than Miss Pentheus. Hazaden
was backed as if defeat was out of the
question, but after leading into the
straight she tired so greatly that she
finished a poor third, very little ahead
of Diogenes, who did not begin with his
usual smartness. My Dear commenced
so badly that she could scarcely be
counted as taking part in the race.
Persian Gold got second. Billie is by Beau
Pere from Slack Line (a Night Raid
mare), whose daughter, Lady Primrose,
won an A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes.
M.Q. and Rafferty
It wasn’t an overflow gathering that
witnessed the meeting of George Elliott
(9st. and Frank Farrington (9st.
31b.) at Leichhardt Stadium for further
discussion of the “junior lightweight
championship,” but it kicked up enough
hullabaloo for a crowd ten times the
size. The lads, for their part, put up a
scrap worthy of a packed house. It
suggested that these spare titles are a
good idea: they give the boys some-
thing to fight for when purses are thin;
an incentive that puts them on their
mettle.
This pair certainly gave the assembled
addicts solid value for their money. The
fight had everything but real class, and
at times Elliott supplied even a bit of
that. Instead of the lightly-sparred first
round that has become the regular thing
in scraps of over six rounds, they were
fighting hard within ten seconds of the
opening bell. The first two rounds were
practically non-stop. They crashed into
it, dragged each other around, punched
hard and continuously, fought as if they
meant it. The scrap might have been
described by the fastidious as a mill, but
it was a truly fought affair; they meant it.
In the midst of it a stray bit of thistle-
down floated into the ring. There have
been plenty of scraps lately where it
would have been a perfect symbol, but
it displayed no sense of the fitness of
things barging in here. A posy of tiger’s
claws would have been more like it. The
lads fought on at times after the bell;
they kept on their toes in their corners ;
they never stopped fighting. They gave
ref. Mick Lacey one of the toughest
nights he has had since he gave up the
tougher side of the game.
Elliott’s better boxing retained him the
title. He gradually wore Farrington
down, in the ninth would have sat him
down only the bell spoke, and took a
conclusive points win. He’s a neat and a
clean fighter.
* * * *
Ron Richards continues fighting in
splendid form. He disposed of Atilio
Sabatino at Sydney Stadium almost with-
out effort, his left hand being particu-
larly lively and pretty to watch. With it
he caught Sabatino’s left eye in passing,
speak, and by the end of the fifth
round Sab.’s optic was fast closing. It
wasn’t cut about, but just bunged up.
The Puerto Rican is especially vulner-
able in that region. He was rendered
hors de combat in engagements the same
way when he was here about a year back,
and it was given out that he was going
to the U.S.A. for an operation; subse-
quently that the op. had been performed
and the optic mended. So much guff,
apparently. The damaged eye kept on
getting puffier and puffier, till it was shut
fast. Therefore Joe Wallis, at the end of
the ninth, called the engagement off lest
worse befall.
Now they’re talking of matching them
again. It shouldn’t be allowed. Sabatino
is an ornament of the ring; a very nice
boxer. Outside Richards, he would clean
up anything at present in the country.
But the sort of spectacle his further meet-
ing with Ron would be likely to provide
ought not to be encouraged. It could
very well be part of the process of blind-
ing Sabatino.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
0 Open and Amateur Champion of Australia .)
The backswing is a mystery to most
handicap golfers. Even if grip and stance
are correct, a faulty backswing can ruin
any shot. A player must standardise his
backswing— must take back the club in
the same manner every time, gradually
working into a “groove,” before reliable
shot-making can be guaranteed.
•••••*
The day of the long, flowing back-
swing is gone. The modern golfer con-
centrates on a minimum of movement to
produce the maximum result; which
means he shortens his swing going back
and shortens his chances of errors. In
comparison with five years ago, my
present backswing is at least 18 inches
shorter. After looking at the younger
generation in play, veteran players seem
to overswing. I remember in my early
youth (perhaps not so long ago at that),
when caddying for my father, studying
the long and loose swings used by the
then leading players. Since 1934, when
I saw the team of visiting professionals
from America, I have been a firm be-
liever in a moderate swing. In those
days I had long back- and forward-
swings, which caused hooking. The club-
head, swinging the extra distance back,
promoted a tendency to hit too much
from the top of the swing.
Bobby Jones, Harry Vardon and Cyril
Tolley all had long backswings. Of the
stars of today the percentage of similar
players is very small. Bobby Jones
swings well past the horizontal, breaking
all the theories; but Jones, like many
other champions, possesses unorthodox
features. As timing plays such an im-
portant part in the golf stroke, a long
backswing is quite a wasted effort, for
it doesn’t increase the speed of the club-
head any more at impact with the ball
When I first saw Henry Cotton’s cur-
tailed swing in England three years ago
—curtailed both back and forward—I
realised my contention was right. From
his restricted swing I saw Cotton easily
reach 570-yard holes with a drive and
iron. He is in the first five of England’s
longest smiters of the ball.
A fault that frequently spoils a good
backswing is an overfirm grip, which
pulls the clubhead away too quickly
from the ball and around the body. This
immediately flattens the swing, making
it a round-the-body one, instead of
widening it and giving the player a better
chance of hitting the ball. The clubhead
should be taken straight back from the
ball for at least nine inches before
swinging away. The majority of players
who overswing open the left-hand side
of the club as the head nears the hori-
zontal, which, combined with the bending
of the left elbow, causes their downfall.
By not letting go at the top and fully
cocking one’s wrists, a great deal more
“punch” is put into the shot. With a
completely closed left-hand grip through-
out the backswing and a straight left
arm, overswinging is nearly impossible.
Women golfers are the chief offenders
when it comes to overswinging. More
flexible wrists and arms allow the club
to be taken further back. It is notice-
able, however, that the best associate
players are not floppy swingers but hitters
of the ball. “Babe” Didrikson, the finest
woman player I have ever seen, who
drove a ball as far as my own tee-shots,
had a very curbed style. Powerfully-
built, and having amazing physical ad-
vantages, she fully capitalised by com-
bining them with perfect timing to give
her many 300-yard drives. The secret
was that her backswing was short and
nearly foolproof.
• • • 4 « *
The backswing is a most vital part of
the game, from the drives down to the
simplest of short chip shots. It should
be a mixture of a deliberate but smooth
movement in which the player is
preparing to summon up all he has
at the right moment to hit the ball. I
have straightened out my game tremen-
dously by concentrating upon a smoother
backswing The average player would do
well to concentrate on doing the same,
for he can undoubtedly improve by
reducing the length of his swing. He
will have to disregard temporarily any
loss of length which occurs in the first
few games, but concentration on the
problem will pay handsomely. With
regular practice any strangeness will
soon wear off, especially as greater accu-
racy and sounder hitting are achieved.
* * * *
No course has yet been selected for the
playing of the N. S. Wales amateur
championship to be held in April. This
year it was played at Kensington, La
Perouse being the previous venue. It
came as a surprise to many early in 1939
when it was suggested that the Lakes
Club would be brought into the select
circle of championship courses, but the
council chose Kensington again at the
finish. It appears, however, that in 1940
the Lakes will hold its first State cham-
pionship, a fitting tribute to the club,
which has made its course as testing as
any in the country.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee")
What the advent of Bradman has
meant to South Australian cricket was
brought home painfully to the Queens-
land bowlers at Adelaide on Friday and
Saturday, when S.A. knocked up 821 in
a day and a half. The side had three
wickets still in hand when Bradman
closed the innings. His own contribu-
tion was 138 (in 115 minutes); Ridings
added 151, Badcock 236 and Waite 137.
Ward (5-62) and Grimmett (4-71) dis-
missed Queensland for 222. Brown (156)
gave his adopted State a good start in
the second knock, but on Monday
Queensland’s position was hopeless.
* * * *
By the making of that 821 a South
Australian record was established, and it
will be of greater ultimate value if an-
other State draws level in competition
points for the Sheffield Shield. In that
case averages will decide it. Five points
are given for an outright and three for
a first-innings win. South Australia has
made the utmost possible use of the ad-
vantage of playing its three home matches
first.
Four centuries in an innings is not un-
paralleled for South Australia, it having
been done by Vic Richardson, Lonergan,
Nitschke and Badcock five years ago in
the corresponding match. Best perform-
ance of this kind anywhere is the five
centuries for N.S.W. at Sydney in 1901
against S. Aus., when they piled on 918
(Iredale 118, Noble 153, Sid Gregory 168,
Duff 119 and Poidevin 140). Only four
bowlers had 100 runs or more hit off
them in that innings. Last week five
Queenslanders shared that little distinc-
tion, and Ellis, their most dangerous
bowler, missed it by five runs, 1 for 95.
Badcock, as a batsman, is somewhat
enigmatical. When he starts streakily
and is dismissed cheaply people see in
his bat some technical weakness. When
he emerges from early spasms of uncer-
tainty to flash along in heavy scoring
he is likened to Bradman. Like his
captain, he is prone to develop a century
into a double century and an occasional
treble century. He has made over 200
in an innings against each Sheffield rival
—325 against Victoria, 271 n.o. against
N.S.W. and 236 against Queensland.
L.b.w. is infecting R. A. Hamence, the
able South Australian. In four of this
season’s five Shield innings he lost his
wicket in this way—twice in the N. S.
Wales match. As he was a victim in
the closing one a year ago against Vic-
toria he has built up four l.b.ws. in five
innings.
* * * *
Victoria and N. S. Wales had a very
interesting tussle at Melbourne. Vic-
toria’s 280 on the first day (Tamblyn 58,
Sievers 53, Johnson 41, Beames 34, Has-
sett 33 ; O’Reilly 4-75, Pepper 3-91) gave
N.S.W. a chance of setting up a big lead,
but only Barnes (98), McCabe (52),
Solomon (52) and Chipperfield (40) rose
to the occasion, the bowlers (particularly
Ring, 4-84) being on the spot and the
fielding good. However, the visitors
finished with 321, made in 3 hours 37
minutes.
Barnes has reached the nineties six
times in his short career, three times
against Victoria —98 twice and 97. He
looked sure to run into the century on
Saturday, when Fleetwood-Smith brought
off a smart right-hand slip-catch.
• ••••*
Victoria and N.S.W. have had many
startling bursts in piling up big totals
in one season. The Sydneysiders took
the palm when, in 1925-26 —the year
Don Bradman emerged from the nursery
of club cricket —their smallest total was
554. They made that number against
South Australia at Adelaide, to be fol-
lowed by 705 in Melbourne, 642 and 593
in Sydney against the South Australians,
and finally 708 against Victoria in Syd-
ney.
• * • • • •
It was a remarkable achievement to
top 700 in each match against Victoria
in one season. But Woodfull, Ponsford,
Ryder and co. had ample revenge in the
following match, a season later, in which
they topped the thousand runs (1107)
against Kippax’s party, created the
world’s record total and, incidentally,
assisted Mailey to a little record when
his four wickets cost 362 runs!
To remind us all that cricket is a
game of ins and outs, Victoria followed
that gigantic total by tumbling for 35
in the following match in Sydney, with
Ray McNamee securing 7 for 21 and
Charles Macartney 3 for 10. But this
time Woodfull, Ponsford and Ryder were
absent, and the pitch helped the ball to
“talk.”
* * * *
How’s this for cricket’s uncertainty?
Randwick closed at 7 for 236 after dis-
missing Glebe for 139. Glebe closed at
5 for 259. With an hour left for Ranu-
wick to bat, skipper Marks decided to
go for the runs and outright victory
(10 points), though he had first innings
points (7) stowed away. Within three
minutes of time ’Wick was all out for
152 hot going in 55 minutes and
beaten by 12 runs. P. Neal’s 42 included
three sixes. Glebe thus collected 10
points, but Randwick also got five, the
number now given to a side that leads
on the first innings though beaten out-
right. Glebe’s road to eventual success
was opened by A. Briscoe (91) and S.
Stone (76), who put on 140 for the first
wicket in the second innings.
* * * *
Unless war service claims many of the
best players Maoriland will possess a
compact eleven to test any Australian
team that might tour. They tackled Sir
Julien Cahn’s English team last March,
but two of the four days were lost
through rain. W. M. Wallace, a sparkler
who showed class and the spirit of adven-
ture in Australia, headed the home scores
with 54 not out in a total of 170 for five
wickets. The tourists responded with
163 for seven wickets, so honors were
easy. C. S. Dempster, himself star of
older Maoriland generations, contributed
44. J. Cowie, Maoriland’s star bowler,
struck length and form to take 3 for 46.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The team of Colts which
is allowed a place in district cricket in
Adelaide is having a change of heads.
Pellew, who had led it for several seasons,
is now O.C. of the guard over alien inter-
nees, and his place in the cricket field
is taken by Grimmett. While the veteran
bowler is away with the State team the
job falls to Gordon Harris, who was for
years an opening bat for S.A. and just
on the verge of higher things. In fact,
he made over 2000 for the State with a
steady average of nearly 34.
“Jachris”: Tasmania has lost R. F.
Beauchamp, cyclist and oarsman, killed
in a car accident. As cyclist, Beauchamp
won a 50-mile race in 1926, and repre-
sented the Speck in the Colac-Melbourne
event. As oarsman, he was twice a mem-
ber of the State eight, sculling champion
for five years and four times runner-up
in the Australian sculling championship.
Only 33 when the end came, he’d taken
to cycling again.


<x±rv
GJ
AT THt
iivou
V
AFTERNOONS ONEY:
Pantomime “CINDERELLA.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Will Mahoney and Stars at Both Shows.
AFTERNOONS ONEY:
Pantomime “MOTHER GOOSE.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Salaci’s Puppets & Stars at Both Shows
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Golden Boy”
Sydney Plaza has for its Christmas fare
the screen version of the play by Clifford
Odets which in its stage presentation
shook records on Broadway.
And now will arise the highbrow
critics, if any witness it, and deplore
Hollywood’s destruction of Great Art!
Of course Hollywood has altered it; it
may be lamentable taste, but in present
viewer’s opinion Hollywood has consider-
ably improved it.
And that despite the fact that the play
winds up with the Golden Boy getting
killed in a car smash, after having killed
a man in the ring and broken one of his
own hands, thereby putting an end to
the hopes entertained by his father and
himself —but especially his father —that
he’ll be a great violinist.
At the end of the talkie he’s still alive,
and in other respects the finish here is
a sentimental happy ending. Yet it
struck this viewer as essentially more
satisfying tragedy than the original play.
Where the play seemed to miss was in
trying to turn a purely sentimental story
into a significant tragedy merely by kill-
ing the hero. Such tragedy as the story
holds is much better conveyed by the
film’s method of having him still alive.
The theme is one of frustrated hopes.
The boy’s father has him taught the fiddle
for 10 years, and spends 1500 dollars he
can ill afford on a choice instrument for
the boy’s twenty-first birthday. It’s just
at this time, however, that the boy, who
has been secretly learning the Noble Art,
starts to get worth-while fights.
When he comes home with the news of
his first good fight there’s a conflict of
wills, but a girl—mistress of the boy’s
manager—comes into the picture and in-
fluences him to go on fighting, not, as
it happens, for her sweet sake, but be-
cause she’s given him cause to hate her.
Subsequently a gangster enters into the
picture, too —to buy out the boy’s
manager—and by the time he gets into
the ring for what is to be his final fight
he is full of hate for everybody con-
nected with him, and nearly all of them
are ditto towards him.
Such tragedy as this sentimental story
holds lies in the boy’s hands having been
ruined for violin-playing by pickling to
harden them, and the climax is reached
when he breaks one of them in the ring.
That he kills a man at the same time is
purely a misfortune, not a tragedy. The
“tragedy” is complete with the ruining of
his hands, and for the play’s dramatic
purposes it then doesn’t matter in the
least whether the boy is killed in a car
smash, as in the play, or goes home with
the girl to be embraced by pop, as in
the film.
In presentation the film seems to beat
the play hollow. The best of it is the
Madison Square Garden climax, with the
fight shown very clearly and effectively,
and the total effect greatly enhanced by
the camera moving from ring to spec-
tators. All this, of course, is an enlarge-
ment of the play. It is also the most
savage picturing of a fight crowd this
writer has ever witnessed. Whether Odets
so intensely dislikes the ring or not, the
director of the film must dislike it sav-
agely.
The story as a whole is very largely
told in close-ups, superb compositions,
many of them. Barbara Stanwyck doesn’t
seem quite the right person for the part
of the girl, but the rest are admirably
cast. A newcomer, Bill Holden, in the
part of the boy looks an authentic dis-
covery. He is completely convincing as
pug, as violinist and in his general acting.
Menjou does one of his very best jobs as
the boy’s first manager, and Joseph
Calleia is back in one of his old gangster
roles, and there was never a better. But
the director does the best job of all.
* *
“Fifth Avenue Girl”
Timothy Walter Connolly Bordan,
millionaire maker of pumps, whose busi-
ness looks like going down before the
hidebound rules of U.S.A. Labor legis-
lation, comes home on his birthday to
find his Sassiety-ridden missus, his play-
boy son, and his debutante daughter gone
about their business. After a discussion
with his valet on maple-trees in bloom,
the pump king wanders forth into Cen-
tral Park, Noo Yark, there hears a
know-all discussing the love life of seals,
and meets Mary Ginger Rogers Gray, a
very good dancer who used to work
with Fred Astaire and is now, for some
unexplained reason, down to her last five
bucks and no jawb.
The king of pumps persuades her —
with the aid of a bundle of greenbacks
that would make a Randwick bookie’s
mouth water —to dine with him. He be-
comes elevated and shouts for the mob.
Next morning the papers have a hot
story of a pump king stoushing taxi-
drivers, cops and even his own valet and
carting a blonde round the hot spots.
This shocks the servants dreadfully.
Anyhow, Ginger Gray finishes up with
a job. The pump king lets his business
go hang, indulges his passion for pigeons,
and pays Ginger to act as though they
lurv and intend to marry.
Playboy son Tim Holt takes hold of
the pump industry, gives it a good dose
Lloyd Lamble opens his nerve-war offensive against his wife, Hilda Scurr, in the
stage show “Gaslight” at Sydney Minerva.
of that wonderful American youth which
always drops on to an obvious solution
that everyone else hails with cheers, and
pulls it round. His sister, the deb., nerts
on her father’s Communistic chauffeur,
who won’t touch her because she’s
branded with the sign of the almighty
dahlar, uses the blonde interloper to
further her hunting. Mrs. Verree Teas-
dale Pump King has successive bouts of
the megrims, drops her gigolos and con-
centrates on the manufacture of beef
stew, a concoction with which in the old
days she won the P.K.’s heart.
There’s a lot of wisecracking, of
course, and the double-entendre is over-
worked, but finally the daughter gets
her Communist, who has opened a repair
shop and become a Capitalist; Ginger
gets the reformed playboy son; the
pump king’s missus gets the pump king ;
he gets beef stew; and the audience
feels that it’s had its money’s worth.
Christmas fare at Sydney’s Mayfair
Theatre, it should please Ginger’s host
of admirers, and will inspire Connolly
fans to wonder what other type of
Yankee captain of industry can play
Walter Connolly. James Ellison is a
successful Communist, and young Tim
Holt —a son of he-man Jack—saves the
pump industry convincingly. Honors go
to the unknown sailor for his restraint
in not knocking the playboy cold when
everybody in the audience silently begged
him to do so.
* * * *
“Babes in Arms”
Strong suspicion that this frothy opus
at Sydney St. James was concocted with
the specific intention of displaying the
versatility of Mickey Rooney. If so, it
succeeds admirably. The young man
takes to vaudeville —“hotted up” in the
modern mode —with the ease of a poli-
tician making promises.
There is a tendency to smuggle into
the production a maudlin tear or two,
but the spot of glycerine is washed out
in the flood of laughter at antics which
at times hit the top spots. Two such
are an uproarious interlude in which
Rooney gives cleverly realistic imper-
sonations of Clark Gable and Lionel
Barrymore, and a rib-tickling cigar-
smoking episode. Action is speedy, but
the tinpanny music is a neck-pain.
The to-do hinges on the decline in
popularity of interlocutor-and-corner-
man vaudeville coincident with the rise
of the films. Mickey’s parents, old
troupers, flop in making a defiant come-
back. But does son and heir admit
defeat? No, sir! With greasepaint in
the blood handed down to him from
generations of footlight-facers, he carries
on tradition while Pa and Ma are “on
the road” by writing song hits and pro-
ducing his own juvenile show in his
home town. The plot having reached
thus far, who could doubt that a big-
shot prodoocer should see in it a for-
tune and transplant it to Broadway, with
Pop as ace adviser? That the resultant
magnificent production—done in the best
M.-G.-M. style—resembles the h.-t. show
as much as horehound beer does Moet
is a trifle. And who worries, anyhow,
especially during the festive season?
With Charles Winninger and Guy
Kibbee on deck, soundness in character
parts is assured Judy Garland croons
in a minor key and generally abets
Mickey in the fun.
“The Rains Came”
The broad, turbulent scenes of an
Indian village experiencing floods, earth-
quakes and plague occasionally surge up
through the trite narrative of this current
Sydney Regent offering. The disasters
are almost incredible, but incredibly real;
the atmosphere and detail of the Euro-
pean and native quarters practically pro-
ject the scenes off the screen.
Had the story been as big as its setting
it would have been an excellent film,
but it’s a shallow, unsatisfactory hand-
ling of a yarn about a goil falling for
remittance boundah and a lady of un-
certain virtue doing likewise for a very
virtuous native medico. Complications
are sorted out by the intervention of the
elements. Instead of making a bold face
of the yarn, as they should have, the
filmsmiths have made a snigger of the
gossip and scandal and rounded it off
With a dose of sentimentalism.
Characters are a lot better than what
they have to do. Tyrone Power as the
native medico turns in his best work
yet, possibly because the role suits his
awkward stiffness; George Brent as the
remittance chappie is very natural and
very good. Brenda Joyce, a “discovery,”
is pleasant enough, though inclined to be
a bit sloppy, but Myrna Loy’s perform-
ance as the tarnished wench must be
her worst. There’s an excellent support
headed by H. B. Warner as the rajah,
Marie Ouspenskaya as his wife and
Joseph Schildkraut as an educated native
gone bush again.
“First Love”
“Cinderella” in modern dress, with a
minimum of alteration from the original
script and an “Alice-in-Wonderlandish”
flavor, this Sydney State offering is cal-
culated to delight the youngster over the
school holidays and pass an agreeable
hour for mamma to boot without unduly
distinguishing itself.
Bare knees and long tresses being out
of place in Miss Durbin’s now-sizable
proportions, the lass is here given a
chance to exploit her sex-appeal, the
heart-throb being Robert Stack, a new-
comer to the screen. All the fairy-tale in-
gredients are there, not forgetting the
flight from the ball at midnight and the
lost slipper, with sundry servants and
police acting as collective fairy g.ms.-in-
chief. Sizable slabs of mirth from
Eugene Pallette, a harassed parent who
eventually explodes with the might of any
Vesuvius, help to wash it down. The
songwriters have provided the warbling
lass with no fresh vocal opportunities ;
but her voice is improving with maturity,
though Universal’s recording is as patchy
as a navvy’s pants.
STAGE AND CONCERT
If Victoria’s new Rhodes scholar, who
specialises in philology, ever wants a job
he might get one at
Melbourne Tivoli,
where Professor
Johnny Hyman is
at present earning a
living by chalking
words on a black-
board and stagger-
ing his astonished
audience with the
effects he produces
by rubbing some of
the letters out with
a duster.
Another thrilling
item is an Epic of
the Sea in which a
lurking U-boat
sends a British liner
to the bottom with
appropriate musical
honors and is sunk
in its turn by
H.M.S. Achilles.
For some reason
or other this feat
of British arms is
achieved without
the assistance of
the Tivoli lovelies
clad in bits of
naval costume..
Other fresh arrivals are Cusko’s Dog,
Monkey and Bird Circus and Ben
Chavez, the mystic man from Mexico.
Comedian Will Mahoney and Scott
Sanders divide the comic honors, and
Evie Hayes, the songbird from Cali-
fornia, contributes a generous slice of
sentiment.
* ' m * *
As this page was going to press panto,
was breaking out in six different spots
in Melbourne. This constitutes a local
record, only exceeded by the longevity
of some principal “boys.” “Alladdin” is at
His Majesty’s, “Sinbad” at the King’s,
“Red Riding Hood” at the Apollo, “Alice
in Wonderland” at the Comedy, with
Minnie Everett’s Lilliputians as the chief
attraction, “Cinderella” at the Tivoli and,
to complete the theatrical renaissance,
that ancient classic “Charley’s Aunt” will
occupy the evening session at the Princess,
with “Puss in Boots” as a matinee per-
formance.
* * * *
Second Sidney Myer free concert at
Melbourne Town Hall produced a
notable performance of Cesar Franck’s
one and only symphony. The Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra under the Heinze
baton gave the brooding agitation of the
work and its amiable moments the re-
quisite amount of emphasis. The A.B.C.
violinist, Jeanne Gautier, made her
second appearance in Melbourne in that
showy exhibition piece, Lalo’s “Sym-
phonic Espagnole,” and Debussy’s
“L’apres-midi d’un faune” gave a touch
of tropical glamor to the programme.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
Safe
§B
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
£>yimey (Sraatatar
ii>rifool Ifnußf
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927,
conducted under the direction of the Trustees by
a School House Board. Early application for 1940
is essential. Apply for Prospectus to:—
THE HEADMASTER ’
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Twenty thousand Christmas hampers
for soldiers were packed, with two
days of the time limit to spare, by the
various women’s organisations of Sydney.
When Ruby Board, on behalf of the
various women’s organisations, volun-
teered for the job, men pursed the lip of
incredulity, and shook the head as though
saying, “You may be willing, but this
is something really big.” However, the
women rallied around, and by day the
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund rooms could
have shown points to a well-run beehive.
First the flat cardboard cartons were
shaped into boxes. These were passed
to the packers with their piles of cakes,
puddings, cigarettes, sweets and gifts be-
side them. The filled cartons were then
taken over by a benchful of workers
who closed and sealed them, taking care
to leave clear the printed words on the
sides of the cartons.
Blueprints (as to capacity) and hard,
methodical work resulted in the cartons
being packed at the rate of 1000 an hour.
Altogether 1400 workers took a hand.
In the evening the girls and men of vari-
ous city firms took over, cheerfully add-
ing another two hours or so to their
day’s toil.
From the Governor’s daughter, the
Hon. Henrietta Loder, and Mrs. Cooper-
Day (one of Sydney’s great workers dur-
ing the 1914-1918 upheaval) everybody
was obsessed with the vision of moun-
tains of large containers filled with the
little boxes ready to speed on their jour-
ney of goodwill. Mrs. F. J. Davy, the
hockey girls’ popular secretary, swears
that the sports girls didn’t drop in a
hockey or cricket ball instead of a pud-
ding.
Margot Ruthven had just the right ex-
pression of serene simplicity as the
Madonna in the Nativity Play at the
Minerva. This was a Heather Gell pro-
duction, and was for the benefit of the
Newtown and Frank Saywell kinder-
gartens. Naturally children, the holidays
being with us, were present in numbers
at this afternoon performance. As bright-
faced as a doll on a Christmas-tree, small
Frances Julius handed a blaze of gladioli
to Lady Gowrie, who came from Can-
berra to see the play. Later, Frances was
in the official group where the Julius
lady, her grandmother, a mighty worker
in the cause of the kindergarten, sat in
company with Mrs. Lionel McFadyen
and Mrs. J. L. Ruthven. Marie Burke
and Gladys Moncrieff were among atten-
tive gazers at the unfolding of the greatest
story in the world. Angels and shepherds
and wise men hymning the glory of
“Peace on Earth” took the stage of the
Minerva, whose opening play was, by the
irony of the days we live in, concerned
with the shattering by bombs of all that
the Christmas play stands for.
When there is a war on the small sons
and daughters of the Navy can’t have the
loan of a warship for their Christmas
party. However, last week they philoso-
phically made the best of things on
Cranbrook playing fields at Rose Bay.
If some of the older ones had an aching
regret for the moment when Santa Claus
arose as Neptune from the sea and clam-
bered up to the cruiser’s deck, they
blanketed it with ice-creams and dashed
into the fun. Fifteen men of the Navy
on shore-leave came along to keep the
fun at bubbling-point. Moira Pope helped
mother, who is president of the Naval
War Auxiliary, to keep the young guests
entertained.
The Christmas loot included the Aus-
tralian Art Annual, 1939. Besides being
a thing of beauty, it presents a record of
all art activities throughout the Com-
monwealth. As Sydney Ure Smith says
in his introduction, “Wars, however grim,
cannot go on for ever. Art endures and
outlasts war.” This credo seems justified
by the reproduction of such charm as
Syd Long’s “Winter Sunshine,” Adrian
Feint’s “Hibiscus,” and the lovely dew-
washed world of Hans Heysen’s “Morn-
ing Light.” There’s a special word in the
book, too, for The Bulletin’s friend
Howard Hinton. The list of the pictures
chosen and given by him to the Teachers’
College, Armidale, runs into four pages
of print.
The John O’Riordans, of Randwick,
put an extra curl into the locks of a
bunch of Kincoppal girls last week. They
gave a party for sons John and Jim, at
school at Riverview, and they filled the
house with pretty teen-old partners.
Daughter Celia, slightly older, was a swirl
of black tulle, and brought a group of
her special friends into the fun. Some
grown-ups slipped the leash of time and
gambolled, too. One young woman the
morning after said about the party: “It
made me feel ten years younger last night
and twenty years older today.”
Smiling Moira Pope (as becomes the
daughter of Captain Pope) is taking a
hand in the affairs of the Navy. At last
week’s Christmas party to the children
whose fathers are in the R.A.N., Moira
was one of the busiest helpers. Photo-
graph from Norton Trevaire.
Earl Beauchamp would have approved
of Ihe good looks, the half-wistful, half-
whimsical expression of the bride of his
youngest son, the Hon. Richard Lygon.
Before the marriage, which took place
recently at Hanley Castle Church, the
bride’s name was Patricia Janet Norman.
Her father was the Rev. S. N. Norman.
Quite a way with the babies has
William Morris Hughes. He couldn’t
have exercised his fascinations more if
he were wooing an electorate than he
did at the Norland Home Christmas
party. ■ He and Dame Mary Hughes,
who were guests of honor, travelled all
the way to Ashfield to take part in the
afternoon merrymaking. The Christmas-
tree decked by the nurses and the
parents flaunted its bravery on the
grassy lawn. Present Norlanders, ex-
Norlanders and parents abounded in the
groups around the tree. Knight Charles
Marr and his lady were also of the after-
noon’s honored. The doings started at
half-past two, and it was with a sigh
of regret the small ones saw the gate
close at six o’clock.
Rollicking sounds of “Boomps-a-Daisy”
filled the corridors and floated down the
liftwell near the rooms of the Catholic
Women’s Association last Wednesday
night. Within its portals young women
put a kick into the Palais Glide, and
beneath their expressive hands the Chest-
nut Tree flourished with a rapidity that
would have made an Indian fakir blink
with amazement. The newly-formed
Catholic Nurses’ Guild was having its
first party. Lectures and meetings it
has had, but never a bonbon night
before. Nurses and trainees of St. Vin-
cent’s were the hostesses.
Some lovely frocks were present,
notably Mrs. Slattery’s evening-sky-blue
chiffons with their floating-angel sleeves.
Miss Kate Egan was there, Lambeth-
Walking with the best. Mrs. Liggins gave
a hand; likewise pretty Kitty Barlow.
Fun rose to little screeches of laughter
over the musical romance. You know
the story is written with frequent blanks,
and the musician fills these in with
snatches of song. The listeners then fill
in the blanks according to their ear for
music. One lady got on to the color line,
anyway, when she wrote down “Swanee
River” while the musician was playing
“Poor Old Jeff.”
For 15 years the 201 Detachment, Red
Cross Headquarters, has been entertain-
ing the soldiers in Hut 10 at Randwick.
Every month a group of the V.A.Ds.
goes out, and every Christmas they trans-
form the hut with streamer and flower and
Christmas-tree. This year the hut’s old
friends took out a company of the new
V.A.Ds. to meet the Diggers. In the day
the Governor and Lady Wakehurst visited
the hut, and were duly impressed by the
tall Christmas-tree and the general air of
expectation. There was the usual
rich indigestible and dear-to-our-hearts
Christmas menu for supper, and an im-
mense Christmas cake. Then came Santa
Claus, drawn in on a chariot by V.A.Ds.
Lights out for this, and only the torches
borne by the charioteers picked out the
gloom with stars of light. There was a
record fruitage of cigarettes, sweets and
presents on this year’s tree.
Dr. Bainton giving his consent, Lloyd
Davies spread his farewell party to Syd-
ney on the lawns around the Conser-
vatorium. This was an open-air 5.30-
till-8. There were plenty of chairs, but
if you felt like a seat on the greeny
sward nobody said “Nay.” Drinks were
frequent and of the best, and the savories
seemed particularly appetising in the
light of the setting sun. Lloyd goes oft'
to Adelaide Conservatorium, and simply
every bit of human life connected with
the Sydney Conservatorium had turned
up to say “Good luck!”
This vivid-looking girl is Joan Red-
shaw, who is responsible for the clever
illustrations in Cecil Purdy’s little book
on chess. Among These Mates is the
title, and there is not a dull sketch in
the collection. The author is the well-
known chess champion, and the title was
inspired by the lines in “The Taming
of the Shrew”:
I pray you, sir, is it your will
To make a stale of me among these mates ?
“The History of the Game” says it
originated in India or somewhere else,
somew here between 10,000 B.c. and
A D . 2000. “Ruy Lopez, a Spanish bishop,
took p up yvith enthusiasm. Some
audl orities suspect that he was not a
bishop, but he mitre been.”
Jf h ave any ch ess-playing friends
coursej j t ’ s a V ery intellectual game)
J s(sme of the j okes on them. Cecil
. g th£ elder son of the j ate f) r< John
purd j n 1935 be won the Maoriland
chess y ' championship, but as his given
nam£s a]sQ include -John Seddon” the
dj££ mjght hav£ b££n gaid tQ be loaded-
tbe j ourney ” j s this
Letter , s fa y vorite picture in the book.
I]lustrator Joan ’ s pen has an i mp j n it.
photograph by Dorothy Welding.
j obn y^ ood new iy returned from the
London film world, will be featured in
Minerva’s coming show, “Quiet
Weddi „ The girls fa in the cast will
inc]ude K a trin Rosselle and Marie Rosen-
fcld Th i s is comedy, and nobody will
b - t t ■ i aug h or two. In “Quiet
W g dding » the about-to-be bride finds the
fian£ g £ rout i ne too muc h for her tern-
Qr temperamentj and there’s a boil-
JJ v£r betW££n her and the steady. Which
reminds of a girl friend who had been
a d quite am i a bly for two years,
ghe and the young man set a
Aft£r that the bicker i ng sta rted.
T were tQ live in the COU ntry, and
one day th£y S£t out to buy a bath .
h eater. The girl returned without bath-
heater or ring. She said, indignantly:
“When we even quarrelled over the make
of bath-heater I couldn’t help feeling one
house would never be big enough for the
two of us.”
One of the first 1939 soldiers’ brides
to be wed in the chapel of “Shore”
Grammar was Jean Mackay, pretty elder
daughter of Brigadier-General Mackay,
headmaster of Cran brook. Jean an-
nounced her engagement only the other
day, and the plans for the marriage were
made suddenly. ’Groom Lieutenant
Travers, of the Ist Battalion, 2nd A.1.F.,
is an old “Shore” boy. The marriage
took place on Friday at six in the even-
ing. The lieutenant’s leave was up on
Saturday. Only attendant was Jean’s
small sister. A family reception was
held by Jean’s parents at Cranbrook.
If ever this Letter should be born an
orphan it asks nothing better than to
find anchorage at Dalwood. The Christ-
mas party of this friendly home for
babies filled the Wentworth with little
boys in their dark-blue pants and pale-
blue shirts, with small girls in blue tunics,
butterfly-gay about the heads over which
the paper sunshades Santa Claus had
given spread brilliant and carefree.
Whistles and jaunty caps made conquer-
ing heroes of the males. Marie Burke
hopping out of a taxi, her arms filled with
presents, her printed silks gay as a lark’s
song, was one of the afternoon’s happiest
incidents.
There was a parade of children in
fancy costume. Georgian bucks and
Regency belles stepped out with gum-nuts
and slices of watermelon. There were
prizes (mostly tickets for Luna Park) for
the costumes that caught the judge’s
fancy. Then there was a great pink
Christmas cake, cut by one of the Dal-
wood girleens, the knife directed by
Marie Burke.
Pretty play of the afternoon was the
“Ten Little Nigger Boys” singing com-
petition. This was run by a former radio
“auntie.” Small children were coaxed to
enter the contest —the one who sang the
best was to get a book. The listening
babies were to decide by show of hands
which singer they considered the best.
But the listeners put their hands up for
everybody. “Ah,” said the auntie, “I see
it’s hard to decide. We’ll have to call on
a fairy.” Then she whispered to each
singer in turn, “Close your eyes tight and
say ‘Please, fairy, let me win the prize.’ ”
And, behold, the fairy wafted along the
line, putting a picture-book into each tiny
pair of hands.
Another of the Kangaroobie Daltons
was married last week. The dark-haired
Myra became the bride of Lieutenant-
Commander Bacon, R.N., of H.M.A.S.
Sydney. A soft white lace frock and
the tulle wedding veil that hacl been worn
by her mother, plus gardenias and a
diamond pendant, were worn by Myra
with good effect. Sister Deirdre ’maided.
The wedding was in St. Joseph’s Church
at Neutral Bay, the reception at the
Macquarie Club.
Christmas was just a prelude to mar-
riage with Miriam Hyde, Adelaide
pianist and composer, who now lives in
Sydney. On Boxing Day Miriam mar-
ried her Marcus Edwards, of the Second
A.1.F., in St. Michael’s, Vaucluse.
Miriam’s parents came up from Adelaide
for the wedding. Marcus is the second
son of the Rev. John Edwards couple,
of Rose Bay. Mrs. Alan Traill, of Bur-
wood, was matron of honor, and Dr.
Malcolm Edwards best man.
The various auxiliaries of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital have a special
incentive to do noble deeds in 1940. At
the yearly meeting of the auxiliary com-
mittees, Mrs. Robert Dixson presiding,
Mrs. Harold Bott promised to give a
tea party in one of the city’s haunts of
fashion to the auxiliary topping the list.
Then Gladys Moncrieff, who was the
guest of the afternoon, rose up and said
she’d like to offer a trophy. Moreover,
she pledged herself to arrive at the party
and sing for the victors.


Don’t Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan’s Ointment
to-day.
Limit
BRIGHTON COLLEGE
MANLY.
Day and Boarding School for Girls.
Kindergarten to Leaving Honours.
Telephone: JA3964; after Jan. 20, XU3192.
Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE WILLIAM RANDOLPH LENNARD, also
known as WILLIAM BROWN, late of
Acacia Lane, Warwick, in the State of
Queensland, Baker, deceased.
NOTICE is "hereby given that HARRIOT
LENNARD (nee LOWE) and all persons claim-
ing to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
WILLIAM RANDOLPH LENNARD, also
known as WILLIAM BROWN, late of Acacia
Lane, Warwick, in the State of Queensland,
deceased, who died on or about the Sixteenth
day of May, 1939, at Riding Road, Balmoral,
Brisbane, in the State aforesaid, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relationship
to the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on or
before the Fourteenth day of June, 1940, and
that after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date the Public Curator will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
fhe parties entitled thereto, having regard only
to the claims of which he shall then have had
DATED this Fourteenth day of December,
1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
RE PHILIP HENRY GOULD, late of 9
Wandoo Street, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane,
Storeman and Packer.
NOTICE is hereby given that MARY ANN,
MARY or ANN GOULD, believed to have
been known as POLLY GOULD, the lawful
daughter of PHILIP GOULD and DINAH
GOULD (nee COOK), and all persons claim-
ing through her by will or other derivative
title howsoever are required to forward proof
of her or their relationship to the above-
named Philip Henry Gould, who died at Bris-
bane on the Thirtieth day of May, 1939, or
proof of her or their right to participate in
the distribution of the estate of the said de-
ceased on or before the Thirtieth day of June,
1940, otherwise after the expiration of the
last-mentioned date the PUBLIC CURATOR
will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased among the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice.
DATED this Fourteenth day of December,
1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane..
Divorce Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2205 of 1939.
3ETWEEN KATHLEEN JESSIE WYNDRUM
Petitioner
And PERCIVAL SINCLAIR WYNDRUM
TO PERCIVAL SINCLAIR WYNDRUM also
known as Percival Sinclair Armour lor-
merly of 32 Patterson Street Concord in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
rESSIE WYNDRUM has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and UP F TmTHER °TAKE
cause or excuse AND FUR I HER IARt,
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit in the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Thirteenth day of March One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined notwithstand-
ing your absence. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had. by you on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this Eleventh day of December, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. bout,
Registrar.
W. R. THOMSON, Solicitor for Petitioner,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
) MAVIS ANNIE PALLAMOUNTAGNE
formerly of Mathoura Road Toorak m
the State of Victoria Married Woman but
now of parts unknown. , , y t-vtpj
TAKE NOTICE that your husband LIND-
iY KENNETH ALBURY PALLAMOUN-
has instituted proceedings against you
r divorce on the ground of desertion for
ree vears and upwards. > Unless you enter
' appSancTfn the office of the P™tt.on° t ary
the Supreme Court at Melbourne in the
ate of Victoria within Fourteen days from
e date hereof and thereafter file :nearanee
[thin Ten days of entering such appearance
e suit will proceed « I _JSSrnv Sei 9Qi Bridae
L’ESTRANGE & KENNEDY, 291 Bridge
oad, Richmond, in the State of Victoria,
alicitors for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Once again among the blowing of
trumpets, the squeak of tin whistles, a
lot of chatter from childish tongues and
an occasional loud shout of excitement
from some young patient, Father Christ-
mas handed round presents in the chil-
dren’s ward at the Alfred. The blinds
were down for the occasion so that
the tree, its topmost branches touching
the ceiling, glittered with fairy lights and
the twinkly stuff of decorations. Among
the young folk who shook hands with
the all-important gentleman in red sateen
and cotton-wool (Wallace Mitchell for
the sixteenth year in succession) were
Terry, aged four, with two fractured legs
and amischievous smile who loves to pull
off the nurses’ caps when he lures them
to his cot, and Valerie, who is making
an excellent recovery from her adven-
ture three weeks ago when she fell over
20ft. from a window to a cement path.
After all the patients, plus the “ex-
in-patients” who come along by invita-
tion, had received their gifts Father
Christmas did the hat trick for the per-
sonnel. Dr. Dick Smibert, who has joined
the A.1.F., came to the party and re-
ceived something in the mechanical-toy
line Dr. C. C. Dyte also collected a
train ; Dr. John Mulhany found himself
the owner of a Barnacle Bill; Colonel
Eller was handed a bucket and Matron
Wilson an aeroplane, after she had
promised not to fly away in it. Dr. Don
Oldmeadow and Dr. “Eagle” White also
had their names called to come and
choose whatever they hankered for upon
the branches. Sister Gilbert got some-
thing carefully and festively wrapped up,
and Sister Myrtle Rowe found herself
possessed of a tambourine. Hospital
president G. J. Coles received a drum,
doubtless from one of his own stores, but
the lack of novelty didn’t spoil his appre-
ciation of the gift.
Dr. Gerald Weigall was there with his
small daughter Elizabeth, who received
a parasol which met with her full
approval. This is the twenty-fifth Christ-
mas-tree that Mrs. Barry Thomson has
organised for this ward in the Alfred.
She collects all the toys and is up at
crack of dawn for several days before
the party, wrapping up the presents. In
addition to the usual gifts she also pro-
vided the ward this year with little blue
slippers for any young patients who are
well enough to wear them.
The air of Christmas week was thick
with weddings, and the padres scarcely
had time to remove their robes of office
and hang up their Christmas stockings
in their own homes. Honeymooners
were met with everywhere during the
holidavs, touring the country and grilling
chops by the side of the road, sunbaking
on the beaches or looking for quiet games
of golf on links where they wouldn’t
find friends and acquaintances popping
out of every second bunker.
Thelma Watt and Keith Mackay gave
their friends no opportunity of long
hours of decision over wedding presents.
Informal invitations to quench a Christ-
mas thirst at Menzies, and incidentally
join in a bit of romantic rejoicing, came
two days before the party, which followed
a quiet ceremonial at Christ Church,
South Yarra, where the red carpet was
spread over the footpath with no bride
to walk upon it. Thelma drove herself
up to the church and slipped inside un-
obtrusively ; Keith, who has a reputation
for being late for everything, arrived
safely almost on the tick of the hour
appointed.
Gippsland was chosen for the honey-
moon, and if the fish are biting
well in the sea around Wilson’s Promon-
tory a few of them will be cooked and
eaten en route. Thelma will be missed
by the small children at the Free Kin-
dergartens, where she has been volun-
tarily helping since her return from Eng-
land with her mother, Mrs. Oscar Watt,
a couple of years ago.
Several air hostesses have been snapped
up into matrimony during the last few
months. The last to settle upon the earth
was Bobbie Stokes, who kept a morning
appointment with Alan Macandie. Alan
is an old Scotch Collegian who special-
ised in geology at the University and has
been kept busy with inter-State travelling
since he joined B.H.P. As Bobbie was
some time on the Perth run, they saw
each other at uncertain intervals. Bobbie
was a pharmacist before she joined
National Airways. This couple ate their
Christmas dinner in a ship bound for
M.L. and a five weeks’ holiday, during
which they will'enjoy a reunion with two
other ex-air hostesses, Lorna Webb, now
Mrs. Bob Hay, whose home is at
Tauranga, and Iris Gilding, now Mrs.
John Harrison.
The bride and ’groom will stay a
few days with the Bob Hays, who
have promised to give them a few
tips on trout fishing in Lake Taupo.
Afterwards all four will travel to the
South Island to be shown a glacier or
two by the John Harrisons, who live in
that part of the world.
As her own wedding was taking place
on the following day in Melbourne,
Bobbie Stokes was not able to be in Adel-
aide for the marriage of her friend
Brenda Parsons to Keith Ring. The re-
spective brides therefore compromised
with telegrams to one another. Brenda s
sister Cynthia Parsons, of National Air-
wavs, arrived at St. Matthew’s, Adelaide,
for the 11 o’clock ceremony with not a
hair out of place after her morning jour-
ney from Melbourne. Brenda was at-
tended by her sister Nancy. The home
of the newly-married couple will be at
Jamestown (S.A.).
In addition to good wishes for
Christmas and New Year Betty Wilson
and Charles Denton Kemp have been re-
ceiving felicitations on their recent en-
gagement. Betty’s portrait is by Broo-
thorn. She is the younger daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Wilson, of Toorak-
road, South Yarra.
Among weddings of the week was that
of Valerie Downes and John Howse,
whose ceremonial was performed by the
Rev. Hollins Allen, chaplain of Geelong
Grammar School, in St. John’s, Toorak.
Also a white-slipper and white-satin bride
was Edna Harry, who was married to
David Kennedy in Wesley College chapel,
with reception following at Grosvenor,
all on a late afternoon of summer tem-
perature with scarcely a breeze to stir the
tulle veils of the bride and her ’maids,
Margaret Bartlett and Jean Kennedy.
Sheila Westcott was all for traditional
white satin when she kept her appoint-
ment with Max Munro in Christ Church,
South Yarra, and afterwards at a dinner
dance given by her parents, the C. V.
Westcotts, of Canberra, at No. 9 Darling-
street. White also, but this time of velvet,
was chosen by Judy Adams, for whom
Ken Briggs waited in Melbourne
Grammar School chapel. A flat in Rivers-
dale-road, Hawthorn, will be the first
home of the newly-wedded couple when
they return from a short motoring honey-
moon. Another bride who showed a
penchant for white was Pat Vaughan,
but she took advantage of the short day-
time skirt to add a little candy-striped
jacket and small white hat. Good wishes
were said at Scott’s, and a journey fol-
lowed to Sydney. The bridegroom, Dr.
Lowen Hardy, is a surgeon in H.M.A.b.
Canberra.
The Norman Bjookeses’ grandchild,
Norman Harold Gengoult Smith, was
christened in traditional layers of lace
with a final overall swathe of veil worn
by his mother and his grandmother at
their respective weddings. JJad the Duke
of Kent arrived in Australia he was to
have been invited to be godfather (and
as his brother Gloucester is godparent to
the baby’s sister he would most likely
have accepted). Priminister Menzies
deputised and held the infant capably.
It was a day of pats on the back
(figuratively speaking) all round. R. G.
Menzies was celebrating a birthday, and
the Brookes and Smith families were
agog with the news of Mrs. James Dyer s
remarriage. Her husband is Dr. J. B.
Hanson, M.A., who is a Doctor of both
Philosophy and Literature. Mrs. Han-
son’s new home is at 7 Mansfield-road,
Oxford. Although she has left Paris her
Lyre Bird Press continues its output of
art and literature.
After an absence of four years the
Hon. Lewis Clifford and his wife have
returned to Melbourne and are being
made welcome by their many friends.
They are at present at Melbourne Man-
sions. Mrs. Clifford’s photograph is by
Broothorn.
One of the most excited people in
Melbourne (she can’t sleep for thinking
of the great adventure before her) is
Cynthia Duigan, who before long may be
Sergeant Duigan, for this is the rank at
which masseuses are going abroad. Her
name is on the list of seven called for
from Victoria who have withstood all
the various weeding-out stages. Cynthia’s
only regret is that her mother, Mrs.
H. McL. Duigan, rather than live alone,
will be vacating the very charming cot-
tage she recently built at Beaumaris.
Mrs. G. C. Phillips and son Pat, aged
nine, who are staying with Mrs. Phillips’s
mother, Mrs. J. Buchan, at her flat in
Orrong-road, are receiving extra felici-
tations with their Christmas mail, for
all their friends have something to say
about the successful exploits at the mouth
of the Elbe of the submarine Ursula,
under the command of Lieut.-Commander
Phillips. Mrs. Phillips has lived in many
places, including China stations, Malta,
England and Australia, since her mar-
riage in 1929, but her husband, whom
she met in Hong Kong, has not yet
visited this country. One of his sisters,
Mrs. Arthur Noakes, also married into
the Navy and lives in England. Lieut.-
Commander Noakes had retired before
war broke out, but was on the Naval
Reserve and is again taking an active
part in responsible work.
Lady Gowrie has written the preface
to Lady Hackett’s Household Guide, the
revised new edition of which is being sold
for the Red Cross. Dr. Deborah Buller
Murphy, author of The Australian Mrs.
Beeton, has spent a considerable time
bringing her 1000-page volume up to date.
As well as cookery it contains chapters
on dry-cleaning, household economics,
baby welfare, etc. The price is 155., and
covers are available to suit any kitchen
color scheme. It was not a Mrs. Beeton’s
but a Mrs. Bonnett’s Christmas dinner
which Dr. Deborah ate this year, at that
good lady’s “pub” in the hot back-of-
beyond of Milparinka, N.S.W., where that
State meets S.A. and Queensland. Dr.
Deborah’s visit to that part of the world
coincided with the arrival of machinery
for Mt. Browne Alluvials. The nine
shareholders are all women.
Among committees which got their
balance sheets audited just before
Christmas were the Zooie Ball people
and the Women Artists. The Zooie Ball
in the Zoo made £llOO, and so broke all
existing records for money raised in any
one evening for charity. The women
artists did very well to collect £2OO with
their bazaar in The Block in aid of the
Red Cross and the Comforts. Among
those who worked particularly strenu-
ously at this effort were Guelda Pyke,
who did propaganda service outside the
door, and Mrs. Lena Bryans, who stuck
like glue to running the lucky dip, even
to the extent of buying tickets for it for
stray children who wandered into the
shop with no money to spend. Mrs.
Bryans did no good for herself out of
the dip, but will be making omelets
until further notice as a result of pluck-
ing a basket of eggs out of a recent
R.A.A.F. Locker Fund raffle.
Two props, were stolen during the
season of “Plays from Three Countries”
produced by Terence Crisp, but it wasn’t
the hand-through-the-window thief’s
lucky night. He got a clock and a
cigarette box, but both were brummies
made of scrap and decorated with a dab
or two of paint. Henry Marsden, who
had rehearsed a part in the Hungarian
one-acter, was called into camp, and in-
stead of doing his bit on the stage was a
khaki-clad figure in the audience. Alan
Money gave an extraordinarily clever
interpretation of old Baruch in “The
Jews of Hodos.”


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THER SERVICE MAN
Great Days for the R.N.
“Nobby II.”: The Graf Spee lies on
the bed of the River Plate, and, with
one exception, her officers and crew (1038
altogether) are interned at Buenos Ayres,
but the world is still discussing features
of a sea-fight that had the Nelson touch.
The Graf Spee apparently concentrated
on the Exeter. Relieved from major at-
tentions, {he Ajax and the Achilles were
able to close in and give the Spee a
thorough peppering.
The Exeter lost in killed and wounded
nearly half her complement of officers
and one-sixth of all her crew. She had
to stand up to between 40 and 50 hits,
some of them from 6701 b. shells, which
fortunately were fired from extreme
ranges. Even at that, five of her six
eight-inch guns were put out of action,
and the sixth could be fired only by
hand.
There was nothing wrong with the
German shooting. It says a good deal for
the Exeter {hat she was able to hang on
under the conditions and against such
heavier armament as she had to face.
“Mr. Churchill,” it is written, “scorn-
fully referred to the Graf Spec’s dis-
regard of the honorable course of fight-
ing to the death.” R.N. men would be
the last to join in sneering. Even though
the enemy captain knew (if he did know)
{hat only the Ajax and the Achilles, rein-
forced by the Cumberland, were waiting
outside Montevideo, the Spee would have
been no match for a fresh Bin.-gun ship
with all her ranges carefully laid, a full
complement aboard, superior speed and
two smaller cruisers to provide diversion
and terrier bites. Anyway, newspaper
reports referred to the Barham as being
somewhere about and to the Renown
as coming up. A British ship is never
scuttled, but the men most relieved at
the sinking of the Spee would have been
her waiting executioners.
It was not Captain Langsdorff’s fault
that the Spee did not come out fighting.
Two days after the scuttling he shot him-
self in his room at Buenos Ayres, leaving
a note to the effect that he had decided
to share the fate of his ship, first assur-
ing himself that his officers and men
were safe. He had addressed the men
in a speech and taken personal farewells
of the officers. Wrapped round the body
was a flag—according to a Buenos Ayres
account, the flag of Imperial Germany.
Following hard on the Spee battle
came reports of thrilling work of British
submarines in the North Sea. A job in
“the Trade” is normally the dullest in
the Navy because targets are so few. The
Ursula and the Salmon found a bit of
excitement, however. Ursula is one of
the newest jobs in the R.N.: 540-730
tons, 11| surface knots, six tubes, a
couple of small guns and a crew of 27.
Lieut.-Commander G. C. Phillips, whose
wife is a Melbourne girl, had her as his
first command. Her week’s bag was a
6000-ton cruiser of the Koln class which
she discovered surrounded by destroyers.
Meanwhile, the Salmon, which is a
Swordfish boat of the 1938 vintage, rolled
home to the music of sirens after an
enjoyable patrol full of event.
She had used her six torpedo tubes on
a large German U-boat, which she blew
to pieces with a volley. She had met the
Bremen on the way home to Germany
from Murmansk and refrained from tor-
pedoing the giant; but the commander,
Lt.-Com. Bickford, prepared to fire
a shot across her bows as a warn-
ing that he would attack if she did not
stop. The Bremen is 50,000 tons, nearly
1000 ft. long and inevitably defensively
armed with six-inch artillery. The Sal-
mon is 670 tons, 208 ft. long, and the
largest shot she could have fired would
have been a 14-pounder.
The next 24 hours brought the Salmon
in sight of practically all the main ships
of the German fleet, including two
26,000-ton battle-cruisers and one pocket
battleship, two new eight-inch-gun 10,000-
ton cruisers and the 6000-ton Leipzig.
There were 57 guns, 5.9 in. or over, scat-
tered round that fleet, apart from a few
hundred smaller ones and a large number
of torpedo tubes. It was also a certainty
that no such squadron would venture out
without guardian submarines and de-
stroyers in the vicinity. But the Salmon
walked right in and fired all her six tor-
pedo tubes on different courses.
After a few seconds a terrific explosion
told that the Leipzig had been hit. Then
there were two loud noises from the
direction of the Admiral Hipper, which
is so new that the paint is scarcely dry
on her.
Salmon left for the sea bottom. When
she bobbed up again there was no Ger-
man fleet, but the sea was so full of oil
and the air so full of smell that her crew
were glad to retire to another locality
where the atmosphere was pure enough
to breathe. Not long after she returned
to port the German supply ship Colum-
bus, 32,580 tons, carrying 30,000 barrels
of oil, was scuttled to avoid capture in
the Western Atlantic.
“Salt”: So a British submarine has tor-
pedoed a cruiser of the Koln class. The
Koln was in Sydney in 1933, and I spent
a lot of time on board her. She was
about as dangerous a piece of naval iron-
mongery for her size as ever cut water.
Her class of three (1927-29) were pro-
ducts of the first German post-war naval
programme and set a new standard when
they were built. They mounted nine 5.9
guns and eight 3.5’5, they had tremendous
range, remarkable arcs of fire, four triple
torpedo tubes and 2ft. less draught than
the ships of the old H.M.A.S. Sydney
class. In fact, all their features suggested
that they were reminiscences of the
Sydney-Emden fight, built to outmatch
ships of the old Commonwealth 5200-ton
nine-gun type. The British answer was
the eight Leanders: the Ajax and
Achilles are two; the Commonwealth
now owns three.
* * * *
“Evvet Effendim”: It isn’t much of an
advertisement for the Workers’ Father-
land, but the Russian-prisoner problem
which the Finns are facing has its
humors. Divorced from the plenty of
the glorious U.S.S.R. and the paternal-
ism of the Kremlin, captured soldiers of
the invincible Red Army firmly refused
to be released, explaining that they hadn’t
had a bite for four days. And it is hope-
less to arrange an official exchange of
prisoners because Marshal Voroshilov
does not seem to have succeeded in cap-
turing any Finns. However, his cam-
paign now seems to be planned out for
hi m . jf h e allowed the whole of the
j^ ed Army to be taken prisoner, the ever-
victorious (by radio) 12,000,000 could
eat t h e ir way to ultimate triumph.
* * * *
..Q uerex » : An American radio rnaga-
noled for j(s Ju|es Verne out .
% ? the em ahcra“
as asserting that he aircratt-camer
Courageous was sunk by a robot sub-
marine directed by radio waves from a
larger sub., and that this explained the
British report that the attacking sub. was
destroyed. That radio control was em-
ployed is possible—radio engineers the
world over know that it could be so em-
ployed. What I don’t believe is that
Fritz would give the show away about
such a method of destruction.
Around the Army.
VII.
THE BABBLER.
From dawn to dusk he's slaving ;
For to satisfy the craving
Of a hungry horde he goes for all he’s
worth.
Though he may look rather greasy,
Only those object who’re queasy :
There’s all sorts-of-kinds of fellows on
the earth.
When the scran is on he’ll dump it
In your dixie. “Take or lump it’’
Is his motto, be it fair or stormy
weather ;
And if you would start a melee,
And are game as Edward Kelly,
Say no lousier food was ever slung
together.
In base camps, barracks and other
pleasant places where military life, in
terms of scran, approximates civvy
“War or no War, he's got to help with the Washing."
spheres, it amounts almost to sacrilege to
refer to the lordly being who presides
over the kitchen as a greasy or a babbler.
He is virtually a chef. With several cooks,
assistant cooks and fatigue parties under
him he daintily samples a concoction
respectfully offered for his imprimatur
by an obsequious underling ; if it passes
his finicky palate he condescends to
allow the troops to eat it. Such a being
arouses only the deepest contempt from
the real babbler, who is met with only
on active service.
It is axiomatic that a bab. should
either have had absolutely no experience
of cooking or experience confined to
hashhouses where, instead of customers
getting serviettes, they wipe their greasy
hands on the establishment’s large woolly
dog, which is washed every Wednesday,
and mulligatawny soup is on the menu
every Thursday.
He is allotted an offsider, not so much
for his material as for his moral sup-
port. Thus, when the greasy has been
snoring off a bender and wakes up only
five minutes before the troops are due
tor tea, the offsider’s job is to pacify the
mob banging on dixies with spoons out-
side the cookhouse door while the bab.
stands off and flings jamtinfuls of petrol
(pinched) into the fire in a desperate
attempt to get the tea water reasonably
hot before they wreck the joint.
Not that he would ever think of giving
the troops tea made from water that had
boiled. There is the classic case of the
Western Front bab. who in 18 months
had never boiled it once when making the
tea. As he used to say to his offsider,
“Let the blankards strain the leaves
through their tatts!” Not one complaint
did he get about it. Then one day he
accidentally got up early and let it boil.
That day he was accused by an irate
mob of making the tea with water that
hadn’t boiled! The injustice of it so got
under his skin that he gave the game up.
Let us listen at the cookhouse door as
the main meal of the day is being pre-
pared.
“How’s the stew goin’, Jack?”
“Damned if / know. I thought you
were looking after it.”
“Blime.! No wonder I could smell
somethin’ burnin’! I thought it was only
your socks dryin’ there by the fire. Better
shove some more water in it —not from
that dixie, idiot, that’s the one y’ washed
y’ socks in . . . What the hell are you
doin’ to it now?”
“Skimming the grease off it, ape.
Whaddaya think I’m doing —embroider-
ing a doyley? This blasted Fray Bentos
bully’s nearly all fat.”
“Y* blanky goat! If they don’t see
any grease floatin’ on the top how the
blazes are they goin’ to tell it from the
tea? Have some sense! Here, let’s give
it a stir . . . ’Struth! it is a bit on the
thin side. What’ve we got in it?”
“Search me / I put the bully and water
in, and a few Steele Rudds. Did you
shove anything else in?”
“A few onions I scrounged. You’d
better put some thickening in—it makes
it look better, anyhow.”
A few minutes later the bab., after
stoking up, has a look at the stew again.^
“What’re these white lumps floatin
round in it?”
“The flour, I s’pose. You said to
thicken it.”
“You’re a proper ratbag, if ever there
was one. Don’t you know the flour’s got
to be mixed with water first?”
“Ratbag yourself! Wouldn’t more
water make it thinner still? Anyway,
what’s wrong with a few lumps?” That’ll
be the start of a ding-dong row and the
splashing around of some home truths—
but, after all, a bab. must have some
diversion to make tolerable an otherwise
humdrum existence.
A greasy is a minor dictator in his
own right, and will tolerate no back-
slack from anyone less than an 0.C.;
and even he can be got rid of if he starts
snooping around too closely. Such as:
“Morning, Thompson. How’re things?”
“Ar, we can’t get enough coal and
wood, the mob’s goin’ snaky about the
rations, they haven’t had a sar’-major’s
cup o’ tea for months and the spuds are
nearly all crook. Otherwise it’s jake.”
“H’m! What’s that dirty old singlet
doing there?”
“That’s the dishcloth, sir. Can’t get
an issue from the Q.M. Hey! Jack,
hurry up with those dixies —we’ll have to
get the me-and-you on. Look out for
your strides, sir”—and the O.C. promptly
beats it as blackened dixies are tossed
carelessly round in the confined space.
The cook is the sartorial despair of
the unit. Unlaced boots, puttee-less
breeches and a singlet comprise his regu-
lation dress. And no bab. worthy of
the name would get about in strides
which were not sufficiently greasy to
justify the stock claim by those he
allegedly feeds: “If Tommo’s strides
were boiled they’d make a thicker soup
than the stew he gives us.”
For the anaemic quality of the viands
he dishes up the bab. has an almost per-
fect excuse —the fatigue party. For don’t
they, in their anxiety to be finished,
always take three-quarters of the spud
away with the peel?
On rare occasions the powers that be
go mad and give a luxury issue. The
cooking of, say, rice tests the bab.’s
ingenuity to the utmost, and he and his
offsider go into conference. Neither
having cooked rice before, they per-
force experiment. So they fill a
dixie to the brim, add water and
put on to boil. Swelling of the grain
takes them completely by surprise, and
soon two dixies are full. When these
flow over they requisition more. Even-
tually blasphemous troops are eating rice
every day for a week and shortage of
utensils has thrown cookhouse into utter
confusion.
S.W.K.


TI
W£AK M£N AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling:
of old agre are due to failure of certain
elands.
U2l GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing: pre-
mature old ag:e and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing: new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
WBLfTS
Vs
Put the
“second”
hand on the
dock of communication
In the space of a split second,
the latest news flashes across
the world to you with clarity
and brilliance —when your
radio is re-valved with
m
z
Sealed for your protection
THE FLYING COLUMN
Off the Leash.
The Royal Air Force, which for weeks
of this queer war had been held on a
leash, as it were, is now on at least one
job for which it was designed. The
leaflet flights over Germany demonstrated
what was already well known: the skill
of navigators and the worth of British
machines. No doubt those flights were
useful also in providing information
about the enemy’s defences. But the
R.A.F. was not designed as a distributor
of circulars and is temperamentally un-
suited to inaction in war-time.
The immediate job on hand is the
tackling of objectives which must be
destroyed if the end of this war is to
be hastened. Replying to the Nazi cam-
paign of mine-laying by sea and air,
followed by mass aerial attacks on
fishing vessels, the Coastal Command
branch of the R.A.F. is taking the war
into the enemy’s territory by attacking
the menace at its source.
Heligoland, Sylt, Borkum and other
bases have been considered impregnable
strongholds—by the Nazis. The R.A.F.
has proved that it can get there, and is
likely to continue doing so, whatever the
odds. Events so far may be considered
as skirmishes compared with what may
be expected as the tempo of the war in-
creases. On both sides there are ex-
cellent machines and men. There will
be heavy losses on both sides. But the
scales weigh in favor of the R.A.F. Few
people outside air-force circles realise
just how vast it has become.
More About British Machines.
Fairey’s most noteworthy feature is its
power of manoeuvre, for it is a single-
engined aircraft. It has been used for
a great deal of dive-bombing develop-
ment work, and for this has proved re-
markably efficient.
In the third group of aeroplanes are
coastal reconnaissance types, which have
been doing exceptionally useful work m
dealing with submarines, and Army co-
operation and Fleet Air Arm machines.
Among the coastal reconnaissance
machines there is the Avro Anson,
British military aircraft fall into three
main groups: those of defence, counter-
attack and co-operation work, naval and
military. Dominant performance charac-
teristics can be applied to these groups ;
defence calls for speed, counter-attack
for range, co-operation for good powers
8f manoeuvre and handling. With speed
must go a high climbing rate. In these
qualities the R.A.F. is well equipped ;
going on three months’ operations, better
than the enemy. .
R.A.F. machines pre-eminent for speed
are the Vickers Supermarine Spitfire and
the Hawker Hurricane. Both are fitted
with the Rolls Royce Merlin engine,
1030 h.p., a V-type liquid-cooled unit
with a small frontal area. Top speeds
are 367 m.p.h. for the Spitfire and 335
m.p.h. for the Hurricane.
A point which exercised many critics
when the two designs were first adopted
as standard single-seat fighters con-
cerned the difficulties of handling
them by day and night. Predecessor
biplane fighters were looked upon as
relatively simple machines, having no
retractable undercarriages or variable-
pitch airscrews. Dismal Jeremiahs sug-
gested that the new monoplanes, with
their added complications, might prove
too much for the ordinary R.A.F. pilots.
British industry and R.A.F. efficiency
soon silenced them. Service pilots found
no difficulty in getting used to the new
machines. They were soon flown night
and day with full confidence and cer-
tainty.
In the second group of counter-attack
aircraft the Vickers Wellington is an out-
standing example. With a top speed of
265 m.p.h., the Wellington has the re-
markable range of 3240 miles. Con-
structed on the geodetic system, it is
accepted by all impartial observers as
one of the best long-range bombing aero-
planes in existence. In the scale of size
downwards from the Wellington, there
are the Handley Page Hampden, the Bris-
tol Blenheim and the Fairey Battle. The
“ANY BOTTLES?"
among the Fleet Air Arm machines is
the Blackburn Skua ; Army machines in-
clude the Westland Lysander. The
Lysander is noteworthy for the way m
which it employs wing slots for obtain-
ing low landing speed and short take-off
runs without too greatly diminishing top
speed. The Skua was the first high-
performance monoplane to come into
service in quantity as a deck-flying air-
craft.
Powers of manoeuvre are the domi-
nant quality in all these aircraft. For
Army co-operation, ability to land in
small advanced landing-grounds and to
perform such duties as picking up and
dropping messages is of supreme im-
portance. The British machines have
shown themselves well designed for these
tasks. Deck flying calls for adequate
powers of manoeuvre and control at low
speeds, especially when near stalling
speed. Even top speed must be sacrificed
somewhat if good control near the stall
and a sufficiently low landing speed can be
secured in any other way. The Skua is
a fine example of a carefully-thought-out
compromise between the high-speed needs
of an aeroplane working with the Fleet
and the qualities required for the deli-
cate manoeuvre of deck landing.
British industry has served the R.A.F.
well. Indications are that speedy de-
velopment will take place, resulting in
new and startling types of aircraft as
the war clock ticks on. Whatever lies
ahead, the genius of British aeronautical
engineers and their staffs will be equal
to the demand.
Heavy Oil v. Petrol Engines.
For some time German aero engineers
have been saying they have developed
heavy-oil engines with better performance
than petrol engines, but there still appears
to be no perfected compression-ignition
unit. It is considered that even the most
advanced Junkers heavy-oil engine is no
more than a very successful experiment.
Trouble to be overcome is the old snag
of compression-ignition motors ; that of
relatively low take-off power.
Examination of the known types of
Nazi aeroplanes with which the Allies
have come into combat shows that the
Junkers heavy-oil engine is
minority. The Junkers Co. has fitted tar
more of its high-duty petrol engines o
Nazi ’planes than those of the Jumo or
Diesel types. The Junkers petrolengmes
follow the heavy-oil principle in that tney
are fitted with direct injection instead or
carburettors. Experts who have inspected
these engines in captured machines say
that the direct injection causes consider-
able trouble, and that engine overhaul is
needed after only 25 hours’ running.
A petrol engine consumes all the air
taken into the cylinders. The heavy-oil
engine is not so far developed, and is
somewhat of a wasteful air consumer.
Somewhere about 30 p.c. more air is
needed to produce good consumption.
The advantages of heavy-oil engines
cannot, however, be overlooked, and
these advantages no doubt spur German
engineers on to higher efficiency in view
of likely petrol-fuel problems arising
from Britain’s naval blockade.
Diesel engines can operate over a wide
load range without much change in
specific fuel consumption. They can be
controlled for minimum consumption at
cruising speed without risk of damage.
Electrical ignition and radio shielding can
be eliminated, and danger of fire in a
crash is smaller. An aeroplane driven by
a Diesel engine has at present to fly for
six hours or more before the benefits
of low fuel-consumption operate, and
will thus never have the advantage until
the ratio take-off to cruising power is
improved.
Purchase of 100 more Wirraway ’planes
and engines; laying in of stocks for
another 100; construction of 90 Bristol
Beaufort bombers; buying of 50 Moth
Minor ’planes, 350 Tiger Moth air-
frames and 700 Gipsy Moth engines -all
this has been added to the Australian
Government’s air programme.
* * * *
“Aileron”: War-time arrangements for
civil aviation are still undecided. Com-
panies are working under a temporary
subsidy scheme which has been extended
till the end of January to admit of
Minister Fairbairn taking part in the
final discussions. His original idea was
a five-year plan, with expansion of aero-
dromes, development of safety devices
and of night flying. War must modify
things, but not as regards services which
link Australia with the rest of the world
and with New Guinea. Otherwise,
the Government may find itself under
pressure to permit foreigners to do
what Australians are not helped to do.
Already there is talk of Pan-Pacific link-
ing up the Auckland-Sydney service,
either from N.Z. or New Caledonia, and
of Japan extending its Palao run to
the Commonwealth. Sums involved in
maintaining a high level of service by
Australian concerns and in providing the
connecting links with overseas airlines are
not so heavy that they could not be
borne even in the stress of war. By
shutting down the useless offices of their
Agents-General and diverting the money,
the States could go a long way towards
providing the subsidies.
* * * *
“Querex”: Some time ago the Navy
intercepted as contraband 28,500 tons of
petrol destined for Germany. Working
things out on the basis of twin-engined
bombers with engines of 1000 h.p., flying
time and petrol consumption, the enemy
with that quantity of fuel would have
been able to raid Britain daily with 50
bombers for about a year. For 28,500
tons of petrol amounts to 8,550,000 gal-
lons. The Navy’s coup was the equiva-
lent of a victory in battle, and there were
no casualties.
* * * *
“Ex-R.A.F.”: The reverent burial of
Nazi airmen shot down in Scotland
(everyone has seen a picture of it) has
had a parallel on the other side. “Aero-
plane” mentions the case of three uniden-
tified British airmen, shot down over
Germany. They were buried with full
military honors at Osnabruck on October
5, a squadron leader of the Nazi Air
Force giving an address to the “soldiers
of the English Air Force” at the grave-
side. He said: “We do not know your
names or ranks, so that at last you find
peace on German soil in the same way
as you fought, that is, as unknown men.
We know only one thing, that you fought
heroically for your country until you
died for it. Death ends all enmity, and
German soldiers honor
and pay homage to
) every foe. Testimony
of our homage I place
on your graves on be-
half of the German
squadron with whom
you fought.”
The Air War Day by Day.
Dec. 17.—1 n an attack on fishing vessels
by Nazi air raiders the motor vessel
Serenity and five trawlers were
machine-gunned, bombed and sunk off
the east coast of Britain.
Dec. 18. R.A.F. bombers, seeking
enemy warships in Heligoland Bight,
encountered wave after wave of
fighters. British report: “Twelve
Messerschmitts down and seven R.A.F.
machines unaccounted for.” The Nazis
allege that they lost two machines and
the British 34 —far more than the
number of British machines engaged.
Dec. 22. —Heinkels over the Firth of
Forth and the east coast of England.
One apparently damaged ; no British
loss. Another trawler sunk by enemy
planes.


m
§
THE
"Narvon"
Poley
Saddle
£l5/17/6
(COMPLETE)
The seat is
hogskin and
the flaps and
skirts of best
quality kip leather.
The panel is lined
with English serge
and stuffed with doe
hair.
N.S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER * STEVEHSOH "
39S CEORCE ST. SYDKEY
AUST KALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “Bulletin" production “
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
NORTH Of
TWENTY- EIGHT
The Dinkum Lingo
“Murrinjamunnie”: I read that Dr.
Capell, of Sydney, who “has travelled
4000 miles in the last 18 months in the
remotest parts of North-west Australia,”
has come home a walking Tower of
Babel. In the intervals between covering
an average of 220 miles a month in rough
country, he has “studied and recorded
several dozen dialects in the areas he
travelled,” and “also studied the mytho-
logy that forms the background of the
cave paintings in the Kimberley district.”
The doctor must be amused at the enthu-
siasm of the chronicler.
Dr. Capell discovered, with surprise,
one Aussie language with five genders,
which shows that he is not very experi-
enced in northern languages. In a major-
ity of them —at least, on the eastern side
—there are three numbers —singular, dual
and plural—and each number has three
persons, of which one has two genders—
masculine and feminine, and neuter. But
each gender again has three forms
according to whether the person spoken
of is handy in front, close up astern or
away to billy-oh. Each form has a dif-
ferent ending. And there is also a varia-
tion in pronouns according to whether
vou are speaking of present, past or
future.
If you wish to ejaculate in Pitta Pitta
(n.-w. Q.) “Hullo! Doctor Robinson’s
sisters!” you remark: “Ee-yah! Lobinthon-
munguni-maro-nga kako-pityiri-warra!”
and “Doctor Robinson’s sisters are serving
dinner” is succinctly: “Lobinthon-mun-
guni-maro-nga kako-warra-lo munta-na
mare-ka.”
One thing which seems to have sur-
prised the doctor was a language in the
Roper district which “uses three tones
and a glide like Chinese.” At the Wearin
some years ago, when the tribes were in
on the MacArthur on walkabout for
salt, I noticed several lads who had sing-
sing languages, but the tones were not
those of Cantonese, and they seemed to
have no significance. They resembled
the sing-song of Norwegian. Sounds
like the result of contest between vocal
cords and the elements.
If any anthropologist or ethnologist is
looking for evidence of the origins of
the hundreds of dinkum Aussie languages
outside Australia he’ll find plenty of it
in vocabularies. In Pitta he’ll find kulla
for a billabong or waterhole (Turkish,
geui) ; kamo, moving water (Turkish,
yamurgh, rain). Fundi is the word below
the Selwyns for yellow wattle —gold is
unknown there. Yet you find pundi,
gold, in the Tamil languages of India.
A pukka Indian sahib is one who has
been moulded into a proper form of
gentility. Pukka in Pitta Pitta is some-
thing completed, manufactured. A
dukka dukka is a corroboree greenroom
shed. A couple of thousand miles away
among unrelated races in the Bismarcks,
a corroboree is a duk duk dance. There
are Chinese words too — nopo, wife,
seems to have come 4000 miles to Boulia
without being caught in the intermediate
native tongues between the King and
Carpentaria.
“X.T.”: Darwin missed an aerial
tragedy the other day by a whisker.
Guinea Airways’s Lockheed Electra ’plane
was 11 minutes out on its way south
when the starboard engine cut out and
caught fire. With 10 A.I.F. men aboard
besides the crew of two, Pilot Buckley
turned back and tried to make the aero-
drome on the port engine. The load
proved too much, and he was forced to
try to pancake the machine in. On the
fringes of the aerodrome trees were
hit, one being pulled down. The
Electra’s tail unit was torn off, the wings
pierced and one engine detached. The
aerodrome had been warned by continu-
ous messages from Radio-operator
Edgerton, who stayed coolly at his key
during the trip back. The machine came
down heavily ; a soldier’s skull was frac-
tured ; four other soldiers were cut and
“Y' Wont get rid of ’er till she gets a bite of y'r bread an syrup”
bruised. The remainder, with the crew,
however, succeeded in saving all the
freight after landing, before the fire
spread to the fuselage. The machine
was a total loss —damage about £27,000.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s Ludmayor
Jones and his 11 Labor colleagues on the
council gave some remarkably variegated
explanations of why they all stayed away
from a special meeting called to discuss
the use of council land for a Bingo-
joint. Alfie himself admitted that he had
no intention of being present. The Vice-
Mayor was out of town. South Brisbane
“wasn’t feeling too well.” Bulimba hadn’t
heard of the meeting. Brisbane and
Nundah “had no comment to make.”
Ithaca was at a hospital finance meeting.
Logan and Kurilpa couldn’t be located.
Enoggera had no reason to give, but was
going away soon on holiday. The re-
maining stalwart had been unable to
attend meetings for months on account
of ill-health. As only nine aldermen
were thus able to attend, the meeting
lapsed for want of a quorum after an
exchange of lively back-chat with the
visitors’ gallery. The Bingo-joint con-
tinues to do excellent business.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: It is not only a change
of battery systems that is needed at
Tennant Creek (B. 20/12/’39). One of
the miners’ leading grievances is high
freight. There is a road train in the
N.T., but the Government uses it mainly
to lift goods from Katherine to Vesteys’
stations at 4d. to s|d. per ton per mile.
Tennant has to depend on rail from
Adelaide to Alice, and on private trucks
from Alice to the town over 325 miles of
the softest road in Christendom. Charge
from Adelaide is round £24 a ton, and ex-
plosives cost £55 to carry from the south.
Centralians feel that they are entitled
at least to a share in the road train,
which can haul 40 tons and traverse the
southern road when trucks are at a
standstill. It should be possible to cut
rates from Alice to Tennant by half.
“Zedo”: The story of one of the finest
surf rescues on record has been told in
the Bundaberg (Q.) coroner’s court. In
rough surf, off Kelly’s Creek, Bargara,
six young people were caught and
carried out. Oswald Bussey did a 200-
yard sprint to his boat, but the sea was
so rough that he could not take it outj
so he started on surf-skis. He picked
up a man some distance out at sea, and
on the way in he found two other young
men struggling and helped them to safety.
Another head appearing well out in the
water, he made another successful expedi-
tion. Near the man he saw the body of
a girl floating in the water apparently
drowned, but was compelled to leave her
and bring the man in. The latter had
risked his life trying to save the girl.
Maurice Anderson, a boy of 13 in a
canoe, saved two other lives, but two
girls of 16 and 17 were drowned.
* * * *
“Titre”: The sugar industry has less
reason to be sorry for the war than any
other in the Commonwealth. Thanks
to centralised organisation and harmony,
sugar made an export bargain which is
both sane and satisfactory. And the
crop is a bumper one. When beet-sugar
from Victoria is counted in, the output
will be an easy record —more than
900,000 tons. Sugar producers on an
average-income basis certainly will lead
every other industry on the continent. As
880,000 tons of sugar will come from the
North, there will be no district in the
Commonwealth equal in prosperity to
that between Mackay and Cairns (Q.).
A generation ago “experts” declared that
sugar *vas doomed because black labor
was going.
* * * *
“Ross”: Exit, in Townsville (Q.), Bob
Ranwell, one of the best-known pressmen
of the North. Born in Maoriland with
ink in his blood, he drifted north after
a period on the reading staff of “S. M.
Herald.” His first stop was Winton in
the mid-west, where he ran the “Herald.”
Thence he went to Townsville, where he
was as well known as Castle Hill till he
retired some years ago. As senior rounds-
man of DaVe Green’s Townsville “Bulle-
tin,” Bob Ranwell’s duties took him into
the middle of every industrial dispute
which seethed in the northern capital. No
strike was complete without the slight
figure of Bob, pipe in one corner of his
mouth, notebook in his left hand, walk-
ing-stick swung on the crutch of his right
arm and eyes glinting humorously while
antagonists yelled their viewpoints at
him. He was a meticulous inquirer. I
remember him many years ago, during a
railway strike when some bullets were
fired, interrogating an eyewitness: How
many bullets? Were they from a gun or
revolver? Had the eyewitness seen the
thing happen? Did he think the shots
were fired at anybody in particular?
“Hey,” shouted, the victim, “don’t yer
know it’s raining?” “Yes, it was rain-
ing yesterday, too. The rain’ll keep,” said
Bob quietly. “What was the calibre of
the revolver, do you think?” We were
properly damp before the questionnaire
ended.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The first 1722 men of the
A.I.F. went southward a few days before
Christmas on four trains, after marching
through Brisbane. Major-General Tom
Glasgow took the salute at the G.P.O.
The enemy will get a shock when he sees
the Queenslanders. If they are not the
heftiest soldiers in
the world outside
hand-picked Guards
regiments, they must
be pretty close to it.
* *
“East Point”:
Though Darwin has
just celebrated its
centenary, there are
still primitive braves
round the outskirts
who refuse to
recognise that the
Stone Age is not still
with us. One is the
bane of the police
because, in spite of
all civilised teaching,
he insists in believing
that the only sane
way of wooing is to
dong the lady of the
moment on the coco-
nut and drag her to
his wurlie. A toler-
ant Native Affairs
Department has tried
to shut its eyes to
the vigor of his love-
making, but the
other day he picked
on a lady who had
heard of British law,
and she insisted on
his being dragged
into a dock. The
law is a stern affair, and it decided to be
deterrent. It fined Romeo ten bob with
10s. costs. The ancient way was more
effective; the tribe would have taken
time off to spear the offender. The lady
also might have been speared to discour-
age others.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Details revealed by the
Commonwealth Auditor-General indicate
that a canvas canoe on the Molonglo
represents Canberra’s safe limit in ship-
ping matters. The Larrakia’s little lark
with the three Jap. luggers cost £BOOO in
judgments against the Commonwealth,
also £lB6O for fares and travel exes, to
Darwin, £1466 in legal fees and £1614 in
wages for watchmen, £12,394 in all. The
patrol boat Kuru, built in Sydney under
Commonwealth supervision, cost £11,825.
Condemned at Townsville for unsuitably
light construction she cost another £1250
for strengthening. The 138-ton fisheries
investigation vessel Warreen, also built
under Commonwealth supervision, cost
£21,341. Delay in delivery absorbed £460
in wages for the waiting crew. A month
later she had to be returned because of
defects. More defects caused another
recall and a bill for £BO3.


'Q
4
L
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LIKE
Monthly sailings across the Pacific to
CANADA U.S.A. EUROPE
via
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
by R.M.S. "Aorangi" and R.M.S. "Niagara"
Visit the Vew 2eafand (Eentennicif (Exhibition !
NOVEMBER, 1939 TO APRIL, 1940
Only 2\ Days from Sydney by the Luxury Liner
“A W A T E A”
14,000 TONS 23 KNOTS
SPEED AND SAFETY SERVICE GAIETY
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
59 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE
NEW ZEALAND
*
to the holiday of a
lifetime at the
CENfENIIiAI.
exhibition!
rs
yin
%
EW ZEALAND’S colossal Centen-
' nial Exhibition at Wellington, N.Z.,
is now in full swing—the greatest and
most spectacular exhibition ever seen
in the Southern Hemisphere ! Visitors
from all parts of the world are flock-
ing to these unprecedented festivities.
Come, too, and join New Zealand in
celebrating her 100 years of British
Sovereignty.
Send to-day for the colourful, illustrated
folder free —to the New Zealand
Government Tourist Bureau, Sydney,
Melbourne or Brisbane, or to any travel
agency.
O
o
o
To assist those who cannot make their own plans,
accommodation may be arranged through the
Official Accommodation Bureau, P.O. Box 544,
Wellington, New Zealand.
NOW in Full Swing . . . and
continuing until MAY, 1940
BOOK HOW for your visit to the
NEW ZEALAND
CENTENNIAL
EXHIBITION
WELLINGTON
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.R.F.: Prosy D.S.r A point, not a
poem V.J.M.: We’re off both “Grog” and
“Hitler”... .W.C.: Christmas is no excuse for
that sort of thing J.S.D.: We’ve heard of
“Oomph,” but if that’s what it is we don’t
want any A.S.E.: There’s too much verbal
undergowth in “The Forest” C.G.R.: The
writing’s all right; why not hang it on some-
thing substantial?... .G.V.R.: No, we can’t
“utilise” it H.N.R.: “Love on a Pedestal”
still there C.F.K.: “I speak for 6000
people.” You say very little F.R.A.:
Characters are good; what they do is impos-
sible. .. .H.R.C.: That con. man has been
biting at us for years H.T.A.: “Isaac” got
nowhere near our coffers... .L.G.N.: “Does it
matter if I write by hand?” No, but it does
matter when you write in a microscopic scrawl
and on both sides of the paper J.T.8.:
Judging by the number of true stories we’ve
read about people dying during droughts it’s
a wonder that there are any farmers still alive
in Australia F.R.L.: Neat but slight
V.D.L.: Overhaul the finish and come again.
G.T.E.: “I write for the love of it.”
Your affection doesn’t seem genuine
FR.I.: ‘‘Midnight Caller” sent on his way
H.G.C.: The idea’s all right, but it’s badly
served up D.T.E.: “5.0.5., L.S.D.,
R.S.V.P.” W.p.b It’s an old yarn
that hasn’t improved with age C.G.C.:
You’ve been reading “Lochinvar” G.S.D.:
If that’s what happens “While the Storm
Rages” we suggest that you go to bed on
such occasions... .L.C., H.M.F., C.T., E.W.L.,
P.D.B. and F.H.W.: Go elsewhere T.L.S.:
A trickle merely; it got lost in “The Sands of
Sorrow.” R.N.: You overwork your Muse.
J.K.M.: A faltering fable V.W.: It’s
not* the first “grey streak of dawn” we’ve
closed our eyes to. .. .D.C.0.: Lightweight....
M.C.: Precious prose, and precious little to
it ...C.8.: Such gloom is unseasonable
M.T.: It begins well, but it’s rocking long
before the final couplet... .R.S.: Echoes from
the more objectionable of the last-war poems.
K.T.: Show it to the lady W.E.8.:
None of those, but keep trying M.G.:
Style is good, subject hackneyed... .J.P.: And
you’re playing too old a tune —on an ancient
trumpet.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.D.: Gent, mounted on bobtailed nag
bears no resemblance to Menzies... .R.8.L.:
Not much better than you were at the begin-
ning of the year R.W.: Looks as if you
used a nutmeg-grater and a bag of blue
R.H.T.: It was a popular wheeze during our
boyhood days S.P.: Lunatic jokes are on
our banned list... .G.R.: Figures tottering at
perilous angles and harsh outlines... .P.N.:
You have the ideas but not the ability to
express them... .L.E.: Composition is fair,
and so is figure drawing; jokes let you down.
R.C.: We’ve never seen an Australian
sailor garbed like that... .N.A.: One of the
late B. E. Minns’s abos. first made that bright
remark G.G.: Can’t understand your pas-
sion for filling your pictures with drawings
of barbers’ poles... .H.L.C.: Leason has done
“The Bush Picnic” a hundred times better
J.M.: Neat and tidy, but cheerless 8.C.:
Among the week’s washouts L.N.: A crude
batch entirely devoid of humor E.C.: Not
a chance while you employ that freakish style.
B.A.: More like a couple of rolls of barbed
wire than human beings.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The Reds burst into Finland in viola-
tion of Litvinov’s assurance to the League
~ , i * ttocd an
that his U.S.S.R. couldnt conceive of an
outrage so abominable as invasion or
one civilised State by another. Finland
has a one-Chamber Parliament, woman-
hood suffrage, one-vote-one-value and
proportional representation. In local
government (the unit is the commune),
“all men and all women of 21 who have
paid the local taxes for two years” can
be voters. Sixty per cent, of the
3,800,000 people (nearly all Lutherans)
are employed in agriculture; there are
nearly always a favorable balance of
trade and an annual surplus of revenue;
there are three universities, and so com-
plete a system of primary and secondary
schooling that illiteracy is confined to
imbeciles and lunatics. No fouler inter-
national crime was ever committed than
the loosing of the Red horror on this
happy and well-governed little Republic,
* * * *
u
pointed to command the Maorilandm
wherever they may go, is a qniet, dreamy-
looking individual with a sense of humor,
When he made the solo raid that won him
the V.C., he was asked afterwards by an
officer why his men did not follow him.
“I think,” said Tiny, I must have
forgotten to give them the order to
follow me. The 1914-18 war found him
an officer in villas Mexican army.
Freyberg just walked out on Villa despite
the fact that he had no money. He man-
aged to get to Frisco,-wheie he won
enough in a swimming lace to take him
to London. His pet war-story is about
the game of Rugby played under the
guns of Turkish forts, under an arrange-
ment which proved to Freyberg that the
Turk is a good sport.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: The public, upon whom
practitioners of my profession are ever
operating for the removal of carelessly-
guarded oscar, may not be aware of the
fact that we are intensely race-conscious ;
hence our pride in the fact that it took
an Aussie to work out a plan to loot the
English football pools. He boarded a
mail train, stole a bag filled with coupons,
cut a small hole in it and inserted
coupons filled in after the match results
were announced. Some little oversight
resulted in his receiving 12 months’ hard
from a Beak, possibly prejudiced against
these beastly colonials and their origi-
nality. Still, the scheme in itself was
sound, ana revealed the dash, initiative
and which marks Australian
j n an y com p an y
* * * «
One of Sydney “D.T.’s” heroes is
wanted in France as a deserter. Fie is
“Andre Marty, the midget French
deputy, who led the naval mutiny in the
Black Sea in 1918,” and “who led the
last thousand Red International troops
over the French border from Catalonia”
after the collapse of the civil war in
which the “D.T” backed the wrong
horse. When the present war broke out
Marty made himself scarce, being too
much of a traitor or a cur to fight for
his own country.
t * „ * , * * ,
Grenadier : Gort has literary blood
m his veins. One of his grandparents
was old Robert Surtees, the fox-hunting
squire who became the Dickens of sport-
mg literature and creator of Mr. Jorrocks.
This fact ought to stand Gort in good
stead when the time comes for the post-
™ £“”, <£ tort .n whtt*
l the kings explain their military move
menib - # * * *
Dead in Hampshire (Eng.) Algernon
Talmage, R.A., who painted “The
F ound j n g G f Australia,” a depiction of
i anc ii n g G f Capt. Phillip which now
h an g S j n Parliament House, Sydney,
t„ 1920 Talmase won a medal and a
1000 _ dollar prize 8 at the international Art
Exhibition at Pittsburg (U.S.A.). He
W as Canada’s official artist in the 1914-18
W ar, and was 70 at the end.
* * * *
Frances, Viscountess Portman, who has
d j ec j j n England, was the last survivor of
seven beautiful Miss Cunninghames,
of Gippsland (Vic.), outstanding belles
of Melbourne in the 1860’s. All but the
youngest married before their eighteenth
birthdays ; she waited till well on towards
middle age before rewarding a faithful
lifelong admirer—there was a tragic
reason to account for those 20 years of
spinsterhood. Frances Cunninghame’s
first husband was Andrew Livingston-
Learmonth, part-owner of Ercildoune
(Vic.), and of big N.S.W. pastoral hold-
ffigs. They went to live in England after
her marriage in 1869, but revisited Aus-
tralia frequently until his death. She
married the second Viscount Portman in
1908.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esc;., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
VVith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
t>ank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is. to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right ol selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to pell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady musician, Sydney, seeks work as
accompanist for students, no public performing.
—5679.
Writer of patriotic songs would like to get
in touch with composer of music.—s 669.
By elderly retired schoolteacher, N.S.W.,
position of caretaker anywhere.—s6s7.
First-class motion-picture projectionist-mana-
ger desires position. Ten years' exp. Any
Australian State or Islands.—s67B.
To buy Reivers’ Road, by Richard Fisher,
published about June, 1938. —5658.
To buy instruction book for 1935 Chevro-
let—s 663.
To buy A History of a Yorkshire Family. —
5667.
Information Sought.
(1) What is a waterspout ? (2) Is there any
evidence of a waterspout falling on a craft
and sinking it? —5435.
(1) Waterspout is the term used for the
funnel-shaped tornado cloud caused by local
violent whirling motions of the air which are
induced in areas of low barometric pressure.
The usual height of the spout is 200 to 300
feet, and the thickness 20 to 30 feet. Some-
times it assumes a bent or oblique form. Some
waterspouts remain stationary, whilst others
travel at a rate of 20 to 30 knots during their
brief existence, which averages 10 to 20
minutes. At the end of this period the column
parts at about a third of its height from the
base and quickly disappears. The wind in its
neighborhood follows a circular path round the
vortex, and, although very local, causes a rough
and confused, but not high, sea. (2) The
Manual of Marine Meterology gives evidence
that superficial damage has been done to ships
by waterspouts. Among the many other
records of waterspouts that have been referred
to, there is nothing to show that a ship has
foundered as a result of the phenomenon.
* * * *
Have been invited to act as usher at a wed-
ding. Nobody here seems to know the duties.
Any advice ? —5719.
At the church the usher meets the guests as
they arrive, finds out whether they are connected
with bride or 'groom, and conducts bride’s
relatives and friends to right-hand seats, and
'groom’s ditto to left-hand seats. If there is to
be a reception afterwards, the usher generally
sees to the guests’ seating and comfort.
* * *
Who has the right to say to what religion
children shall belong? Is it boys to the father
and girls to the mother, or all to the father and
none to the mother ? —5690.
Unless there is good ground to show that
the father has by his conduct forfeited the right
it is for him to determine in what religion his
children shall be brought up. Of that right he
cannot be deprived unless by reason of moral
misconduct or other sufficient ground a Court
may be satisfied that he is not a fit person
to exercise his right.
* * * *
/ gave a man a cheque recently and he bought
it back to me a couple of days later and said
it was no good as it was dated on a Sunday.
Was he right? —s699.
Neither a cheque nor a receipt is invalidated
by reason of the fact that it was drawn and
dated on a Sunday.
* * * *
My N.S.W. property is freehold. Do I have
to get a license to fish for trout in a stream
running through the land? —5695.
Unnecessary for you or any member of your
family to hold a license. This freedom; does not
extend to friends or employees, however.
* * * #
Am thinking of taking a motor tour in the
N.S.W. country. Friends have overwhelmed,me
with suggestions as to spare parts, waterbags,
etc., so that I’m almost afraid to'go. ■■ Can you
give some brief advice? —s7o3..
If the car is fairly modern there is little to
worry about, provided you don’t intend to make
for the Simpson Desert or'similar places. Have
a competent mechanic give the car a thorough
overhaul and lubrication. One waterbag is
sufficient for anywhere' within -200 miles of the
coast. Carry a jack, spare tyre, mending outfit,
all necessary tools, adhesive tape, - rear- and
head-light bulbs, extra spark plugs, some rag or
cotton waste. Towns, water, service stations,
telephones are seldom more than an hour’s run
apart in the near hinterland. You would be as
safe running along the average country road as
in your suburban street.
* * * *
Recently heard' of an artificial fibre called
Nylon. Any information ? —5687.
It is being produced in America from various
coal-tar derivatives, and is said to be very suit-
able for knitted goods and likely to be used
for manufacture of “silk” stockings. A Sydney
expert who has seen it believes that factories
may soon be producing stockings from it in
U.S.A. and Britain.
¥ * * *
Where can I obtain plans of a charcoal-gas
plant suitable to operate on ■ motor-truck ?
Also a book explaining the construction and
the principles of such a plant, and any other
information of interest on the same subject?
—5540.
A considerable amount of information on
the matter is contained in a booklet now being
distributed by the Director of Mechanisation,
Department of Defence, Victoria Barracks, St.
Kilda-road, Melbourne. This booklet is avail-
able on request and contains various plans.
In addition, much information is contained in
scientific journals, e.g., the “Journal of the
Institution of Engineers” (Australia), Vol. 11,
p. 101, 1930, the “Transactions of the Institu-
tion of Engineers” (Australia), March, 1938,
p. 89, and the “Journal of the Institute of
Fuels” (Great Britain), Vol. XII, February,
1939, pp. 103-140.
* * * *
(1) / am thinking of buying a house on the
time-payment system through an agent. Who
pays the fees and who keeps the deeds? (2)
If the owner keeps, the deeds, could he mort-
gage the place without my knowledge? —s693.
(1) The person selling the house, the vendor,
pays the agent’s fee and he, the vendor, is
entitled to keep the certificate of title until the
payments have been completed. (2) To prevent
such a contingency, you could lodge a cfiveat
(notice, or warning) with the Registrar-General,
the effect of which would be to entitle you to
notice of any legal transaction with regard to
the property. A search at the Lands Titles
Office (Queen’s-square, Sydney), where a com-
plete record of all transactions with regard to
property under the Real Estates (“Torrens”)
Act is kept, would show if any mortgage
existed on it.
* * * *
Recipe for chemical weather glass and
method of reading it? —5529.
Chemical weather instruments are scientific
toys rather than meteorological instruments, but
can be used to indicate relative humidity. A
solution of cobalt chloride of the proper
strength will turn pink if the air is damp, and
bluish in color if the air is dry. A piece
of filter paper or muslin saturated with' such
a solution thus becomes a rough indicator of
the relative humidity. An attempt has been
made by standardising the strength of the solu-
tion and arranging a scale of color to make
the instrument give quantitive results, but it
is very doubtful if satisfactory results could
be obtained. Possibly certain other hygro-
scopic chemical substances could be utilised
to give a qualitative indication of the relative
humidity. Other toys which may indicate rela-
tive humidity depend on physical principles.
One is the so-called weather house. This con-
sists of a little box in which two figures are
held together by a twisted strand of hygro-
metric material which winds up or unwinds,
with moisture changes; this causes the motion
of the two figures, one of which appears at an
opening when the air is dry and the other
when it is damp.
* * * *
(1) Type of soil and climate necessary to
grow the American hickory-tree of the type
used for making tool handles? (2) Can seeds
or young trees be obtained in Vic. ? (3) How
long do the trees take to grow to a useful
size? —5561.
(1) The various commercial species of
hickory, of which there are several, are native
to the east and south-east of the U.S.A. They
grow best in a cool lowland climate with
fairly high rainfall. They are usually found
growing on moist low slopes or on bottom-
lands along the banks of streams, on deep,
loamy, fertile soils, in association with such
species as cottonwood and oak. (2) Seed
would have to be obtained from the U.S.A.,
and purchase could probably be arranged
through one of the leading seed merchants in
Vic. or N. S. Wales. (2) No definite data are
available as to the growth rate of trees planted
in this country, but it is estimated that at least
30 years would be required to grow timber of
the type necessary for the manufacture of tool
handles or agricultural implements.
*.* * *
Are Australian dried fruits, particularly
prunes, apricots and raisins, processed in any
way with sulphur, etc., or wholly dried by sun-
heat ? Does sulphur-curing alter or destroy the
vitamins, in such fruit? —5559.
Most fruit in Australia is dried in the sun;
some frifit, is treated by dipping in caustic soda
solution or other dips before drying, and some
fruit is exposed to the fumes of burning sulphur
to bleach and sterilise it before drying. While
the sulphur treatment destroys vitamin B in
fruits treated heavily before drying, it protects
vitamins A and C in these same fruits. Prunes,
raisins, dates and most figs are dried without
the use of sulphur dioxide, hence their vita-
min-B content is relatively undiminished by
drying.
* * * *
/ am interested in pise, cob or sun-dried brick
construction, and propose, when enough data
have been gathered, to construct a house of the
material. At present, although I have seen
examples in England, I can find no one to aid
me by experience, or much literature on the
subject, and what there is available here is very
vague. Can you help me? —5574.
Method is too complicated to describe here.
Consult Building in Cob and Pise de Terre
(His Majesty’s Stationery Office, London;
price 25.), Rammed Earth Walls for Buildings
(U.S. Department of Agriculture Farmers’
Bulletin No. 1500), Adobe as a Building
Material for the Plains (Agricultural Experi-
ment Station of the Colorado Agricultural
College, Bulletin 174), and articles, “Pis 6 Build-
ings for Farmers” in “Queensland Agricultural
Journal,” Vol. XV, page 199, and “Pise de
Terre: A Cheap Method of Enclosing Land or
Fields,” in Agriculture and Livestock in India,
Vol. IX, page 392.
* * * «; *
I am making small models and figures of
plaster of Paris. Is there anything that can
be added to the plaster which will make the
results stronger and harder?— ssBl.
Make Davis’s powdered glue into a thin
mucilage with hot water and mix the plaster'
of Paris with this instead of water. Better
experiment first with a little of the thin glue
and plaster. The mixture hardens a little less
quickly than when only water, is used, and the
result gives a very hard, surface which will
take varnish if necessary.
* * * #
(1) Day, time and date of Sunshine railway
disaster? (2) What trains'were concerned?
(3) Number of killed, and injured? (4) Who
was considered responsible? (5) Was the
driver reduced in grade? (6) Is the driver. .
■ still alive 3—5591.
(1) About 10.50 p.m. on Easter Monday,
April .20, .1908. (2) 7.15 p.m. train, Ballarat
to Melbourne; 6.50 p.m. train, Bendigo to
Melbourne. (-3) Killed, 44; injured, 421. (4)
Driver L. Milburn. ’ (5) He was dismissed
from the service. (6) No.
* * * *
Method, if any, of dissolving shellac in tur-
pentine ? —5555.
Can’t be done. Sir Edward Thorpe, in his
Dictionary of Applied Chemistry, London,
1926, Vol. VI, says: “Orange shellac is soluble
in cold methyl or ethyl alcohol, or a mixture
of the two, also in isopropyl and amyl alcohols,
but is quite insoluble in petroleum hydrocar-
bons or turpentine, thereby differing from all
other common resins soluble in alcohol.”
* * * *
' (1) Are white spots on the fingernails an indi-
cation of diet deficiency or general poor state
of health 3 Any suggested remedies ? (2)
Which contain most and w.hat kind of. vita-
mins: Almonds, walnuts or peanuts? , Would
nuts be ,regarded as a complete and satisfac-
tory food alone? (3) A good tonic for im-
proving . and enriching the b100d?— 5551.
(1) They are no indication of dietetic or other
deficiency, merely an individual peculiarity of
no importance whatever. They are uninfluenced
by treatment. (2) All- contain about equal
quantities of the vitamins B 1 (anti-neuritic) and
C (anti-scorbutic). The nutritive value of
nuts is extremely high,, and. they may form
substitutes for meat to a considerable extent,
being an even more concentrated food than
cheese. Thirty large walnuts contain as much
fat and protein as 2|lb. of beef, but it would
be necessary to eat about .700 ‘ walnuts tq.
obtain the amount of protein needed by the
body every day. A man could live on nuts
alone, but he would have to do a .lot of chew-
ing. Nuts are not readily digested, though
this difficulty may be overcome to some extent"
by grinding and cooking. (3) Can’t prescribe
without examining the patient.
* # * *
How to grow waratah and boronia 3—5260.
Waratah and boronia seeds are best sown
from about May until September. The follow-
ing points apply to both varieties: Sow the
seed in seedboxes or nursery-beds in ground
that has been well prepared, and allow the best
drainage possible. Best results are obtained
by pressing down the soil firmly and sowing the
seed and covering it very lightly with leaf-
mould and then watering well. After the small
plants have shown through tjansplant them
into pots unitl they reach a height of
"6in. to Bin. .They will then have been suffi-
ciently hardened off and ready to transplant out
again into their permanent positions. After they
have been transplanted out you will need to
be careful to see that they are protected from
severe heat and westerly winds, otherwise not
much difficulty should be experienced in grow-
ing them.
« * * *
Particulars concerning a family of plants
known as Piperacece 3 —5289.
It is a family of herbs, shrubs or climbers
widely distributed in temperate, but chiefly in
or near tropical, regions. Two genera are in-
digenous to Australia; Piper, one of them, has
seven indigenous species. The flowers are small,
in terminal spikes. P. novce-hollandice (climb-
ing or native pepper) creeps like ivy up the
trunks of the tallest trees. It affords a stimulus
to the mucous' membrane; its active principle
is a brownish oily fluid, with a pleasant aro-
matic taste arid a benumbing effect on the
tongue, even in small quantities. The wood is
coarse-grained, and pungently scented when
newly cut. P. hederaceum, also a climber, is
a good honey-yielding plant. The genus
Piperomia,- of which five species are known,
consists of small, inconspicuous herbs.
* * >l= *
In a report on the damage caused by the
spread of mistletoe a bird is blamed. Is it
guilty, and what sort of a bird is it? —5644.
Partly guilty. It is called the mistletoe-bird
C Dicceum hirundinaceum ) and is a small
percher which sticks mostly to the treetops,
thus being hard to see. The cock is brilliant
blue-black above, with bright red breast and
red patch under the tail; the female is duller
and her only red is under the tail. It is
common throughout the mainland, but not in
Tasmania. They feed largely on the mistletoe
berries, hence are believed to spread the para-
site from tree to tree. Their note is a lively
one. The nest is one of the most beautifully-
made of Australian birds, a deep bag made of
white downy hairs and suspended from a
branch. Eggs are dull white.
Does Anybody Know?
In the late ’nineties in Charters Towers two
slaughtermen for a wager dressed three car-
casses each, the winner in something under
half an hour. What was the actual time ?
5635.
* * * *
Source of the following quotation and cor-
rect wording: “Heaven smiles and earth stands
aghast when States and kingdoms speak of
truth and justice.”-—5682.
Brief Answers.
F.H.: Federal bonds deposited in a bank at
Canberra are liable to N.S.W. State death duty
if the deceased at the time of death was domi-
ciled in N.S.W F.M.: Write Under-Secre-
tary, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne R.C.:
The N.S.W. Marriage Act provides.' for marriages
to be celebrated either by a minister of re-
ligion duly registered or by a District Registrar.
If there' is a courthouse in your suburb then
probably the Clerk of Petty Sessions will also
be a registrar for the celebration of marriages.
In Sydney you can arrange matters at the
Registrar-General’s Office, Queen’s-square, by
personal inquiry. ,A.B:C.: Notice is published
in the press .that application will be made, after
14 days from the publication of such notice,
that probate of the will may be granted. In the
same notice all creditors of the. estate are re-
quired to furnish particulars of their claims
to the proctors or solicitors handling the estate
within the 14 days’ period. Failure to do so
will not necessarily bar the admission of a
legitimate claim, but may cause risk and
trouble... .J.M.F.: To be on the safe side
you should have a proper partnership agree-
ment drawn up by a solicitor. Every partner
is liable jointly with the others for all debts
incurred on account of the partnership so long
as he is a partner, and after his death his estate
is also liable for such debts so far as they
may be unsatisfied but subject to the prior
payment of his separate or private debts
A. 8.: fl) Write David Moore, 16 Bridge-
street, Sydney. (2) She cannot “demand” any
fixed portion of his wages. A husband is
bound to supply his wife with , the necessaries
of married life, such as a home or lodgings,
food, dress and other requirements. What are
necessaries is a question of fact determined
by the circumstances of the parties, and for
these, if not supplied, she may pledge his
credit 8.D.: Scotland—Motherwell and
Wishaw, 64,708; Falkirk, 36,565; Wigtown,
1261. Irish Free State—Dublin County
Borough, 468,103; Cork County, 275,192;
Limerick County, 100,092. France—Nancy,
121,301; Tours, 83,753. Victoria—Bairnsdale,
3858; Horsham, 5273; Hamilton, 5786....
N.C.1.: The Act is very complex and technical
and no doubt will be the subject of much liti-
gation. Its object appears to be that, where
probate has been paid on an estate prior to and
after the passing of the Amending Act and a
life interest in the estate has been created
under the will, then, on the termination of
such life interest, if during its continuance
the property in question. has been increased
in value, duty on the increased value or “aggre-
gation” will have to be paid... .D.V.: Edu-
cational. Handwork, by William Taylor (4s.
3d.), ‘ Model Construction for Infants and
Juniors, by E. C. Benton (65.), and The Book
of Infant Crafts, by Effie M. Bowman
(105... 9d.)... .B.D.Write Commonwealth
Statistician, Federal Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra, A.C.T A.8.A.: Rupert
Brooke wrote two sonnets entitled “The
Dead,” one beginning “Blow out, you bugles,
over the rich Dead!” and the other “These
hearts were woven of human joys and cafes.”
Both appeared in his Poems, 1911-1914 and
later in his Collected Poems... .G.C.: In the
absence of an award specifying the value of
keep allowed to an employee, the value assumed
by the N.S.W. Taxation Department for unem-
ployment relief and social services taxes pur-
poses is £1 per week. The employee referred
to would thus be in receipt of £2 per week
and would be taxable to the extent of lOd. per
week.... J.M.A.: (1) Not sufficient informa-
tion available in Sydney to enable comparisons
to be made. (2) N.S.W. rates are published
in the Merchandise and Livestock Rates Book,
issued by the Dept, of Railways, Sydney, price
6d..... J.F.K.: The market for plays in Aus-
tralia is at present small and uncertain and is
confined mainly to amateur groups in the
capital cities, but it shows signs of expansion.
Consult the Playwrights’ Advisory Board, c/'o
British Drama League (N.S.W.), 44 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. (2) It is advisable to copy-
right plays. Cost is ss. Full details from
Copyright Office, C’wealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney T.J.T.: Right Book
Club, 343 Little Collins-street, Melbourne....
J.K.D. and D.L.: Write David Moore, 16
Bridge-street, Sydney M.T.: Write Director
of Dairying, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney....
T.E.: (1) The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act
provides that where a pensioner has property
other than the home in which he permanently
resides the rate of pension otherwise payable
shall be subject to a deduction of £1 for every
complete £lO by which the net capital value of
the accumulated property exceeds £5O. Where
the capital value of such property exceeds £4OO
no pension is payable. (2), Money received or
owing from the sale of property is property
within the meaning of the Act and must be
taken into consideration in assessing the pen-
sion rate. (3) See answers to (1) and (2)
R.F.: Write Palings, Sydney... .J.W.: (1) List
of Hawaiian words has been posted. (2) Dee
Why (N.S.W.) takes its name from the shape
of the beach and the lagoon at the back of
the beach, which is said to resemble a D and
a Y N.P.: There is no work by Piot in
the N.S.W. National Art Gallery and no
reference to him in available art dictionaries.
E.B.: The chances of a fatality are in-
finitely remote and would be further reduced
by the wearing of rubber soles... .W.R.W.:
There is ample evidence that the Moree baths
have greatly benefited many sufferers from
various forms of arthritis. It is advisable to
undergo medical examination before taking
a course. Write to N.S.W. Tourist Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin-place, Sydney, for in-
formation. .. .J.M.: Not only calcium, but
many other minerals are necessary for the
proper growth of teeth, and they must be forti-
fied with a liberal intake of most, if not all,
of the vitamins. A good diet contains oranges,
tomatoes, lettuce, celery, raw carrot or cab-
bage, root vegetables, green peas and beans
and ample supplies of milk. Periodical visits
to the dentist are advisable... .J. 8.: (1) No
statutory period is prescribed by N.S.W. law,
and a marriage may be celebrated immediately
after the completion of an information form by
the contracting parties, provided always that
the officiating clergyman is satisfied as to their
bona fides. (2) Two witnesses... .R.R.: Con-
dition is known as intertrigo, a superficial form
of dermatitis. Reduce the amount of starch in
the food, and see that the child is not overfed.
The mildest soaps should be used for washing
and the affected skin covered at other times
by a piece of linen spread with zinc ointment.
A good antiseptic dusting powder (Johnson and
Johnson’s) is very useful.


w?s
LYS
&
PROOF.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
sti
m
PiW
m.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed W ire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Wobbles On.
“Ghanam”: As regards price, results
so far this season are more heartening to
the British buyer than to the Australian
grower. There will be no more appraisals
this year. The market opens again on
January 8, and from then till March 14
another 528,000 bales Will be offered.
The clip will be larger than last year by
probably 400,000 t 0.500,000 bales. N.S.W.
yield will be up about 250,000 bales alone,
and the improvement in W.A. is likely to
be over 10 per cent.
Prices still refuse to work up to the
contract average, and the adjustment will
be a laborious business. Averages ran
from 9.1 d. (S.A.) to 11.79 d. (Tas.) in
1938-39. Never were even lines and level-
quality wool more needed by graziers
than at present. The man who is likely
to lose most under appraisement is the
grower who is satisfied with patchy flocks.
Feeding Sheep.
“J.R.D.”: Grasshoppers and drought
in N.S.W. have already caused many
graziers to start hand-feeding their stock.
The choice apd extent of supplementary
feeding will depend on what natural feed
is available, and also on the type of stock
to be fed.
Dry sheep may be able to keep going
on scrub and any dry grass available, plus
a mineral lick of salt, bonemeal or di-
calcic phosphate. Ewes in lamb or with
lambs at foot will require something
further. The digestive organs of a sheep
are designed to handle bulky food. If it
is all dry bulk without nutriment, the
animal loses condition and is unable to
supply milk for the lamb, but a concen-
trated ration without bulk is not suitable.
In the last dry spell many sheep fed on
sheep-nuts alone were lost.
If there is a fair amount of roughage,
dry grass and/or scrub, it should be
supplemented by grain or artificials with
a high protein content. The best ration
of all is good lucerne hay—one of the
handiest to feed, if baled. Oats are prefer-
able to wheat. Maize is also good and
easy to handle, but an equal weight of
bran is better than any grain, though in-
clined to be wasteful in feeding. Meat-
meal is particularly valuable for breed-
ing stock.
If there is sufficient ensilage, hay, chaff
or oats all that is needed is to balance
the ration so that bulk and nutritive
values are combined. It is more economi-
cal to feed chaff in troughs than as hay.
Where all feed has to be bought the bulk
should be fed at a minimum rate of
lib. hay or chaff per sheep per day. Add
to this ilb. grain—oats, wheat or corn —
and increase both hay and grain for
breeding ewes; 2oz. to 4oz. meatmeal
should also be given to ewes for a few
weeks before lambing.
Drench the sheep before starting to
hand-feed, but don’t drench with carbon
tet. if they are being fed on meatmeal,
grain or anything with a high protein
content. If sheep must be drenched with
c.t., take them off the concentrate for a
few days beforehand.
Sheep Breeds in N.S.W.
“A.A.D.”: The sheep population of
N.S.W. at March 31 this year was
48,878,663 —2,684,518 less than last. Not
since 1930 had numbers dropped below
50,000,000. The decline is attributable
primarily to drought, which reduced
lambings.
Merinos at 40,861,601 were down
2,755,841, this loss being greater than
the overall reduction. They represented
87.3 p.c. of all sheep. A total of 2,483,916
merino comebacks was also smaller to
the extent of 90,000.
The better conditions as regards pas-
ture and feeding and increasing atten-
tion given to fat-lamb raising in the agri-
cultural districts are reflected in an almost
general advance in the dual-purpose and
mutton breeds. The Corriedale, which
enjoys a wide popularity in all but the
hotter and drier areas, increased from
427,293 to 471,134. Less than 20 years
“You oughter get one o’ them electric lawnmowers , sir, for a big job
like this."
ago 75,000 was regarded as a satisfactory
total for the breed. Numerically, the
Polwarth continued on the down-grade,
the total of 25,089 showing a drop of
5000 in two years.
The basis of lamb-breeding continued
sound, as indicated by an increase of
110,589 crossbreds, to 4,812,528. In the
circumstances, the progress in the British
breeds used in producing first-quality
export lambs can be regarded as fair,
though not as expansive as most ob-
servers would expect. Farmers favored
Border Leicester, Romney Marsh, Dorset
Horn and Southdown.
Queensland Lamb-raising.
“Ovis”: Fat lambs should be a profit-
able business on the Queensland coast in
districts where there is not too heavy a
rainfall; provided, of course, that the
lamb-raiser treats the job as farming and
not merely as a sheep-keeping propo-
sition.
The Agricultural Department recom-
mends Romney Marsh rams, the nearer
to pure the better, in the wetter districts;
and the ewes, whether Corriedale or cross-
bred, should be strong-woolled and plain-
bodied. Ewes should not be kept on the
coast more than a couple of years. The
health of the ewe is a prime considera-
tion, since the growth of the lamb de-
pends upon it.
There is plenty of spring work to be
done by the coastal lamb-rearer —mark-
ing in August, ewe shearing in Sep-
tember, topping-olf of lambs during the
next two months (they should be sold not
later than December). Then there is a
month’s fattening programme for ewes
which are to be sold. Here, again, the
health and soundness of mouth of the
animals count.
There are no fortunes in the business,
but a good return for the man who has
the right sheep, works hard and knows
the game.
Fodder Conservation.
“K.Mc.”: H. C. Stenning, who judged
the recent N.S.W. coastal fodder con-
servation championships, complains that
few dairy-farmers attempt to provide suf-
ficient feed reserves. This, he says, largely
accounted for the decline of 13,000,0001 b.
in butter output last year. Pasture im-
provement leads to increased stocking,
thus accentuating the need for large fod-
der reserves.
The majority of competitors used silage
as the base fodder. If well made, it is
succulent and palatable, and the loss of
nutrients is less than with hay. Maize
and sorghum were the most favored
crops.
Tower and trench silos were in equal
favor.
Four entrants used pits 20ft. to 30ft.
deep, near the feeding stalls, the silage
being hauled out with power hoists. Waste
in the tops of tower silos could be avoided
by more thorough tramping, adding a
little water and six inches of earth. Heat-
ing causes freshly-cut fodder to give off
carbonic acid gas, and when filling pit
silos a quantity of chaff should be
allowed to fall in and drive out the foul
air before descending.
Wheat Storage.
“Ben C.”: N.S.W. silo authorities are
rushing the construction of temporary
bulkheads at sidings to accommodate
about 5,000,000 bushels of grain, the con-
gestion caused by lack of shipping, short-
age of bags and a crop of 66,000,000
bushels having found the State’s storage
capacity sadly short. It is hoped that
grain sheds will hold another 1,500,000
bushels in bags, that 30,000,000 more
will be held in country and terminal silos
and that about 5,000,000 will be retained
on farms.
It was suggested that temporary farm
silos of hessian and netting could be
rushed up. Hessian is neither water- nor
weevil-proof, and growers who find them-
selves compelled to store at home are
asking for trouble if they expect to hold
grain for any length of time in such
flimsy structures. Wheat Board regula-
tions provide for advances only when the
wheat has been delivered to an agent.
The board will have to do something
about this, and it should also make sure
that wheat intended for storage on farms,
as well as at non-silo sidings, is well
protected against weather, vermin and
fire.
Mercury Compounds for Wheat.
“Seed”: Dr. E. T. Edwards, who has
spent two years in America studying
pathological grain problems for the N. S.
Wales Agricultural
Department, found
that ethyl mercury
phosphate dust has
| largely replaced
| copper carbonate for
bunt control in
U.S.A.
Copper carbonate
was first introduced
in N.S.W. during the
last war, and was
adopted in all large
wheatgrowing coun-
tries. Its displace-
ment by mercury
has been gradual.
Ethyl mercury phos.
has the advantage
that it is a sort of
maid - of - all - work,
supplying treatment
for a number of
diseases in several
cereals —Tunt in
wheat, stripe disease
in barley, rye stalk
smut, loose and cov-
ered smut in oats
and sorghum and
seedling blight in
maize. The standard
dose is dust contain-
ing 5 per cent, e.m.p.
at the rate of
per bushel of cereal
seed.
For maize blight and other diseases a
1-per-cent, dust is used in U.S.A. at the
rate of 2oz. per bushel of seed. Dr.
Edwards says that dusting produced
wider and more vigorous germination in
maize at Wisconsin, but results obtained
at Hawkesbury College and elsewhere in
N. S. Wales have not been uniform. It
is worth persisting with the experiments.
Seedling blight is the bane of the maize
industry in the Commonwealth, and a
mercuric dust, if it succeeds, will provide
a cheap and easy remedy.
Rye in Riverina.
“Erina”: Riverina graziers are watch-
ing the experiments of J. A. Gibson to
improve his pastures near Hay (N.S.W.).
In autumn, 1937, he broadcast Mac-
Dougall strain of Wimmera rye, an
acre over 540 acres, scattering the seed
from a motor truck by hand. The land
was not cultivated, but immediately after
broadcasting was heavily stocked with
sheep so that they would tread the seed
into the ground —a grey loam carrying
saltbush and wild sago. Sowing cost
less than £10.
That season and the next were dry, and
Gibson assumes that a good deal of seed


&
V;
<3
111
k=4
2933.
Ideal for Hard Country Wear
A full brogued Shoe made with imported Scotch Zebu Leather. Heavy
double sole and welted heel with good quality leather back linings.
Stocked in full and half sizes in medium fittings. PRICE 39/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY”
Y£S-/S°PE6REES
COOIER THAN
BEFORE WE
t NSUIATEV
ytu. Coot'anct /
Do heat rays “bounce of!” your root
BECAUSE it is filled with millions
of minute air cells, Cane-ite effec-
tively resists heat, cold and noise.
With Cane-ite, too, you can DECOR-
ATE as you insulate. Smart modem
effects can be achieved by painting
or stencilling the surface —or by
using Cane-ite in either of its two
colours, with bevelled edges, the
designs being tooled or sanded.
White-ant-proofed Cane-ite is made
in three thicknesses in boards up to
12 feet long. Easy to install, inex-
pensive and amazingly durable. Ask
your branch of the Building Ma-
terials Division of the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Ltd., for samples
and full details.
OR DO YOU
SWELTER IN AN
UN-INSULATED
HOUSE?
CA 35-9
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
SAVES MORE THAN IT COSTS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
MASONITE, "The Wonder Board
of 1000 Uses", is the inexpensive
solution to countless building
problems. Ask us for full infor-
mation.
was lost because of wind and birds. Early
this year the Riverina got splendid rains,
and though the whole paddock was not
covered there was a good response from
the Wimmera. It is still green.
Gibson expects a big increase next year
from the natural seeding. He intends to
stock carefully. The Wimmera has easily
beaten the barley grass, to which it is
superior as fodder.
Rape for Feed.
“Wundi”: In temperate parts of east-
em Australia rape is a sound crop much
neglected.
Sown on prepared ground late in Feb-
ruary or early in March, it should pro-
duce plenty of young, luscious feed for
sheep- or pig-grazing by May, but ani-
mals should not be allowed to eat it
down too short. Sheep particularly need
watching, but feeding can be regulated
through the knowledge that they gener-
ally make two grazes over the field —
one for the first leaves, another for what
remains. An average crop should feed
and fatten 10 to 15 sheep to the acre
for a couple of months,
Cattle should be kept off rape, as
should all hungry animals, which are apt
to wolf it and suffer from bloat in con-
sequence,
Rape makes a good rotation crop in
wheat areas, and with wheat at its present
price many a farmer in suitable districts
might turn to it for lamb-raising. It
has the double advantage that it is a
splendid soil-improver. It has a long,
sturdy root system which, when it de-
cays, leaves large air channels. Ploughed
in, its large leaves are great humus-
makers,
The best soils for rape are rich, friable
loams. It will do well on wheat land,
but maize and potato lands suit it better,
Fine tilth is necessary in sowing, and
seed should be drilled in following a
roller to a uniform depth of from iin.
to lin. Or mix with super, and put
through the fertiliser box. Drills should
be about 7in. apart, taking about 41b.
to the acre.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: In classing, keep the two
types of hogget wool separate. The wool
from shurled hoggets, i.e., two-tooths that
have been shorn as lambs, will have a
blocky tip, whilst hoggets unshorn as
lambs will carry fleeces with a curly and
pointed spiral tip. The wool from the
former is more uniform in length, but
that from hoggets shorn for the first time
is invariably softer in handle and of
more taking appearance than any other
part of the clip.
“R. Ney”: The lamb industry’s biggest
handicap is a perennial shortage of breed-
ing ewes. Wheat-farmers on the fringe
of the grazing country who are trying to
raise lambs would do better breeding ewes
for sale to lamb-breeders. Border Leices-
ters do well in the wheat country ; so do
big merino ewes, and the ewe cross makes
splendid lamb mothers. At a recent
Riverina (N.S.W.) sale from 31s. to
395. 6d. a head was paid for a line of
15,000 ewes of this type.
“Ess”: Never sow lucerne in a small
area of a big paddock with the idea of
giving the stock a mixed feed. They’ll
concentrate on the lucerne as soon as it
shows up and eat it out. If it is not pos-
sible to sow the whole paddock, stoutly
fence off the portion sown and, when it
is well established, graze it carefully,
allowing the stock only a short time on it
at intervals.
“R. Ney”: The wheatgrower must be
a mixed farmer if he is to make a do
of it. Properly managed, sheep may
often mean the difference between profit
and loss on the average wheat farm. A
lucerne stand will be good for at least
six years, and the land when put back
to wheat will be found to have regained
fertility. Where black oats or saffron
thistle have practically put the land out
of commission as a wheat-producer,
lucerne is ideal as a weed-eradicator.
Land should be fallowed as for wheat.
It should be sown in early autumn on
a fallow well compacted by sheep and
sown shallowly by mixing the seed with
super, and running both through the
manure box of the combine. Seeding
rate varies according to district; from
41b. to 81b. with |cwt. to lewt. super, an
acre seems to be the range.
“Mulgo”: A useful soil-binder is
crowsfoot, a deep-rooted perennial herb
and a valuable pasture. It provides winter
feed and is fresh and green before most
grasses start to shoot. It flourishes any-
where, and is particularly relished by
horses. There are two species, both
drought-resistant. When cultivated or
sown in paddocks by itself, it produces
green fodder, and later makes capital hay.
A few cultivated plants suffice to spread
crowsfoot in paddocks.
“B-gar”: Try this for wounds at lamb-
marking: To three gallons of castor oil
add one gallon of tar and two quarts each
of turpentine and raw sheep-dip. Bring
the mixture to the boil, stir well and
apply hot. The dressing will keep the flies
at bay until the wounds have almost
healed.
“Mookau”: N. S. Wales and Queens-
land coastal dairy-farmers could well
enter seriously into the steer business.
Steer-raising calls for the same placidiiy
of technique as caring for milkers. The
problem is to take the youngsters as
weaners or yearlings and put as much
meat on them as possible in the shortest
possible time. Quiet, steady grazing and
careful handling are needed. Small
farms have the disadvantage that they
provide little variety of country, but, with
organisation, districts like the Shoalhaven
and the Illawarra could work a co-
operative scheme.
“8.C.”: Ford filled first three places
in the Riverina zone of the Sydney
R.A.S. contest. Heavy spring rains had
spread stem rust through the crops,
and Ford, which is highly resistant to the
disease, once again proved itself a good
wheat where excessive wet conditions are
likely to develop. Owner of the cham-
pion crop was C. B. Allen, Colinroobie.
“Veteran”: Under varying seasonal
conditions 190 cows of all ages in the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department’s seven
stud herds last year averaged 66641 b. milk
and 326.451 b. butterfat, or equal to
4001 b. butter, in 273 days’ lactation. As
all cows were in milk a further six weeks,
the actual production would be nearer
4501 b. The Jerseys at Glen Innes farm, in
the district of severest climatic conditions,
led with an average of 369.431 b. butter-
fat from 23 cows. The highest average
for milk was 78051 b. by Grafton Ayr-
shires, but the test there was lowest at
3.82 p.c.
“Cocky”: To feed its pet parrots and
fatten its poultry Australia imports about
200 tons of sunflower seed annually, an-
other 50 tons being grown in Queens-
land. The war may affect imports, and
farmers with soil capable of growing
maize or lucerne might do worse than try
a sunflower crop. Sunflower seed uses
are: Cattle fodder as oil-cake, fattening
poultry, oil for use in manufactures.
Green stalks are good for fodder and
silage, mixed with maize.
“Rom N.”: Fodder conservation is
something more than a protection against
drought. Besides providing a good ration
good fodder helps stock to resist attacks
of disease. Often, though there is ample
grazing, the grass lacks certain elements
which are needed to combat such things
as sterility, rickets, grass tetany, milk
fever. Pre-parturient apoplexy and
entero-toxaemia in sheep are very often
the result of too much food unbalanced
with a good dry fodder such as oats or
wheat. So long as the farmer has a stored
reserve of feed he has little to worry about,
but it is a mistake to hold it until all
the grass has been eaten: it should be
fed out as a ration when the stock shows
signs of needing it.
“Gumeraka”: Roseworthy Agricul-
tural College (S.A.) has developed new
varieties of wheat, barley and field peas.
All are considered improvements on
existing varieties. The new wheat —
Rapier—will be released this year. It is
the result of six years’ selective work
with Sword. It has a finer straw, is
uniform and does not shatter. Other
qualities include resistance to stem rust
and flagsmut and a slightly better baking
quality than Sword.
“Norco”: A. H. Ferris, of Wyrallah.
Lower Richmond (N.S.W.), took the Far
North Coast pasture improvement cham-
pionship from 35 other competitors.
Ferris has converted 100 acres of badly-
drained gilgai country into highly pro-
ductive rye grass-clover pastures. Satis-
factory drainage was obtained by plough-
ing in narrow 12yd. lands with open
drains between leading to deeper and
wider main drains at the ends of the
paddocks. Fallowing for at least six
months is necessary to allow the heavy
clay loam soil to crumble and to kill
the weeds and tussocks. It is customary
to plough three times and harrow six or
eight times during the fallowing period.
Pasture mixtures consisting of perennial
rye grass, Phalaris tuberosa, Italian rye
grass and red and white clovers are sown
late in March with a dressing of one
bag (1871 b.) super, per acre. During
winter the sown pastures are topdressed
with |cwt. sulphate of ammonia per
acre. Ground carbonate of lime at Bcwt.
to 10cwt. per acre is also used every two
or three years. The cream returns have
increased by 50 p.c. in the six years that
Ferris has been developing his scheme of
pasture improvement, whilst the cost of
seed and fertilisers used each year has
averaged less than £5O. A herd of 120
head is grazed on an area of 180 acres,
the remaining 100 acres of unimproved
swamp land on the farm being used only
for dry cows. There are many more
thousands of acres of similar land on
the North Coast of N.S.W. which could
be similarly improved.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
Method of treating pipeclay for whitewashing
outdoor buildings so as to prevent rain washing
it 0ff?— 5465.
The following formula for a whitewash for
outdoor use will be found effective: 121 b. pipe-
clay (whiting) with sufficient water to pro-
duce the right consistency, and 41b. common
size. Melt the size and pour it into the paste,
stirring all the time. Allow to cool, strain
and, if too stiff, add more water, stirring
briskly.
$ * * *
How can a bullock hide be tanned into
sound, useful leather ?— 5559.
The production of leather is a highly
specialised and very skilled art, and is rarely
carried out with success by amateurs. The
hides are first washed to remove blood and
debris, and then treated to loosen the hair
so that it can be removed by mechanical means.
The skins or hides may be hung in a warm
chamber and left until putrefactive organisms
have effected the requisite loosening of the hair
or wool, or they may be treated with lime.
Unhairing is next carried out by plucking by
hand or by suitable mechanical method. After
further washing and, if necessary, deliming,
the skins are ready for tanning. Tanning may
be carried out using either vegetable extracts,
such as are extracted from tan-bark, or by
chemical methods. The oldest chemical process
is the alum process, which uses 81b. alum, 81b.
salt, 31b. to 51b. flour and 21b. to 41b. egg
yolk for 1001 b. weight prepared skins. Chrome
alum is also used. The skins are hung in
baths containing one of these tanning agents
until thoroughly tanned and then taken out and
dried. A crude method «f tanning which may
be effective would be to peg the skin out in
the sun and to keep it moistened with strong
solutions of alum until tanning had been
effected.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
in future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4 2 d. per line,
all others at 2|d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. . . ,
W. Charnley, who writes from a Perth suburb, gets double rates for a spirited
bit of writing on a contentious subject.
This Fertile Land
Well, and isn’t Australia a wonderfully
fertile land? “Mallyree” (B. 29/11 /’39)
says it isn’t. The trouble is that most
of the really fertile areas were grabbed
by the early-comers—and still remain
grabbed. Take a country journey any-
where and note the area of unused land
even within eyeshot of road or railway.
Take the vast area of W.A.’s practically
untouched south-west —land that grows
king jarrah and karri averaging 175 ft.
tall. What sort of land is that?
Take the areas even in tiny Victoria,
forest areas recently swept by great bush-
fires—what sort of land is it that grows
those timber giants and the almost im-
penetrable undergrowth? Take the Fitz-
roy valley and the Kimberleys of North
Westralia—millions of acres there as yet
only supporting a few cattle. Is soil that
grows grass 6ft. high unfertile?
Ride out from Perth to Spearwood and
watch industrious Southern Europeans
breaking out the capstone from under a
couple of feet of dry-looking sand. Watch
them turn this sand into a marvellous
verdancy with water pumped from 10ft.
underground. Go to Carnarvon and see
them growing bananas, pineapples and
tomatoes with water pumped from the
dry sandy bed of the Gascoyne River.
There is room for fifty million people
in Australia easily. But you can’t de-
velop the fertility of land by saying it is
no damn’ good.— Billy See (W.A.).
“Billy See” is W. Charnley, of Zareena-
street, Hollywood, W.A.
The White Feather
Scorfield’s cartoon (B. 8/11/’39) de-
picting two semi-nude hussies handing a
white feather to a “beach god” leaves me
as cold as the hair on a Polar bear’s tail.
I suggest that Ted redeem himself by
a further effort depicting a parade of
Australian husbands pushing empty
prams, followed by a battalion of ordi-
nary Australians carrying banners in-
scribed: “The feminine answer to the
White Australia policy.”
If white feathers were handed to all
Australian women who are shirking their
responsibility there would be heavy mor-
tality among white leghorns this winter.
—L. J. R. (W.A.).
Slums
As one whose spiritual home is in
Woolloomooloo, may I protest against
the disparagement cast upon this dear
old suburb by “Tom” (B. 13/12/’39)?
Most Sydney suburbs are slummy in
parts. Mosman, for instance, has a
definite slum area. So has Kirribilli,
within a stone’s-throw of Admiralty
House. Potts Point is practically all
slum, and even the Bellevue Hill area
contains much that is slummy. Intense
overcrowding is the main feature of life
in Sydney today, and it is all due to the
growth of industrialism.
I’m told that since 1914 something like
165,000 buildings for housing purposes
have been erected in and around Sydney
at a cost of something like £175,000,000.
Goodness only knows who lives in these
new houses and flats, but the plain fact
of the matter is that they are beyond the
renting power of the average Sydney
worker. The result is the letting of rooms.
Hundreds of homes originally erected
for one family are now being occupied
by five or six.
Take the case of a man with a wife and a
couple of small children whose capacity
to pay rent stops at about 15s. a week.
For that he may get some sort of a
room and the right to use a bathroom
and laundry. If he could find the ideal
cottage, rent plus fares would mean at
least 255. a week, while a flat with
modern conveniences would be still more
expensive. Until he can afford that
extra 10s. a week he must put up with
all the inconveniences of life in a build-
ing which he shares with perhaps 20
other tenants.
These buildings (which exist all over
Sydney) contravene all accepted stand-
ards of overcrowding. There seem to be
inspectors of almost everything in Aus-
tralia except these insanitary houses, and
rents in and around Sydney are far too
high. The other day I inspected an
unfurnished bedroom in York-street for
which was demanded 30s. per week in
rent. That was for one bare room and
the use of a bathroom-cnra-lavatory
which would be shared with the other
tenants.— Diana Dustbin (N.S.W.).
Slum-dwellers
Until train, tram and bus fares are
reduced considerably, poorer families
will continue to huddle into the slum
belt encircling every large city. Give
them the opportunity of moving to less
congested areas without increasing their
living expenses, and they will quickly
demonstrate that they are slum-dwellers
by necessity rather than inclination.
The high cost of transport is doubly
responsible. Cut freight and haulage
costs and industry is free to spread out
further from the commercial centre ; cut
passenger fares in half, and working-class
families may retreat from the grimy slum
to the more refined atmosphere of the
residential suburb. Of course, those who
exact atrocious rents for places unfit
to house cattle would be faced with the
necessity of making liheir properties habit-
able, but money spent in demolition and
rebuilding would be passed around. —
Nairb (Vic.).
Churchill
The worst feature of Winston
Churchill’s recent outburst (B. 13/12/’39)
was not his abuse of Germany—though
there is no reason why we should descend
to mud-slinging because the Germans do
—but his impudence in putting himself
forward as interpreter of Italy’s foreign
policy.
The Italian Government has not offi-
cially announced a change of policy since
the outbreak of the war. Hence it was
the height of impertinence for a foreign
politician to inform the world that Italy
was turning away from Germany. In
equally bad taste was his offer to Italy
to enter into a “fruitful partnership with
England and France in the Mediter-
ranean.” Not only did he fail to define
what the “fruitful partnership” was to
be, but he had no right to make such
an offer. Only the Prime Minister or
Foreign Secretary should do that, and
then only after consultation with Cabinet.
The snub an Italian spokesman gave him
was richly merited.
His reference to Japan was equally
unfortunate. Mr. Churchill is unpopular
in both countries, and also in Spain—an-
other nation with which we should re-
main on good terms. Italians have not
forgotten that he was one of the prin-
cipal advocates of sanctions, the Japanese
remember that he favored England sup-
porting China against them, and the
Spaniards know him as a bitter enemy of
the Nationalist cause during the recent
civil war.
The heads of these States would not
allow a subordinate to make speeches
of that kind. They are likely to conclude
that Churchill is too powerful for Cham-
berlain to discipline and that there is a
possibility of his becoming the next Prime
Minister.
Until they are sure that that won’t
happen, their attitude towards England
is likely to be one of aloofness and
suspicion.— Tom (N.S.W.).
“The Yanks Will Go”
I read with great interest copies of
The Bulletin sent me by an Australian
friend. It seems to me that The Bulle-
tin is the voice of Australia.
My husband is a disabled World War
veteran and a member of the American
Legion. The Legion annually celebrates
the victory of freedom in 1918.
I knew the arms embargo would be
repealed, because the U.S. Government
couldn’t do otherwise. Regardless of all
the German Nazi and Russian Reds here
or anywhere else in the world, Great
Britain and France will never know
defeat as long as there is a true American
citizen in the United States.
The Yanks went over before, and they
will go again in spite of all the propa-
ganda if Great Britain needs them. A
whisper will start them marching.
Jessie Stirling Murley (New Jersey,
U.S.A.).
Dietetics and Camp Life
If “Petermac” is correct in stating that
constipation is still a feature of army
camp life (B. 6/12/’39) it shows that
those who devise the menus for the
troops have not yet grasped the simple
fundamentals of dietetics.
An incorrect diet can be one of the
worst enemies of an army. It forced
General Townshend to surrender his force
at Kut, and it turned the crew of one of
Germany’s commerce raiders into scurvy-
rotten wrecks. Towards the end of the
1914-18 war dietitians were at last
allowed to have a say in planning army
menus, and the result kept men in
splendid health,
At the same time the Germans were
experiencing all the horrors of diet de-
ficiency through our blockade, and it was
this, as much as the influence of propa-
ganda, that reduced the ratings of the
German navy to such a mutinous state.
If men in camp need aperients of any
kind it is a sign that their diet is deficient
in roughage, and this can best be cured
by issuing wholemeal bread. Fresh fruit,
too, would help, and there should be no-
thing to stop our men from having two or
three apples or oranges or a handful of
plums issued to them each day.
If those who prepare soldiers’ food
were qualified dietitians, army life would
be the model one as far as health goes. —
Tompion (S.A.).
Peace at Any Price
Some phrases catch on, and, to the
unthinking, they bear the imprint of un-
tarnished truth. Such a phrase is “Peace
at any price.” If you want to vanquish
an opponent in debate on peace and
war, you have only to accuse him of
wanting peace at any price. The victory
is yours, because “peace at any price ’
has caught on as a phrase descriptive of
national cowardice or unmanliness.
Those people who speak disparagingly
of peace at any price seldom stop to
think of the price they themselves are
apparently prepared to pay for it. They
generally are the type that believe in
peace so much that they are ever ready
to spend the last shilling and to give
the last man in defence of it.
The greatest thing a man has in
the world is his life. Take it and you
leave him nothing—in this world. It can,
of course, be made intolerable by oppres-
sion, but the lives that break under op-
pression are not very great, and the
people who perish that way not very
strong. The man who scorns peace at
any price—a colony or two, for instance,
or a trade concession—invariably asks
millions to surrender the greatest price—
their lives. And if a man dies for peace
he obviously can’t enjoy it.
Who can say that there is some greater
price to pay for peace than to die for
it? And who can say that such
things as territory and national arro-
gance and mercantile supremacy are
more dear to the man who fights to pro-
tect his hearth than his own life? There
may be an emotional glamor about dying
for peace and thereby refusing to pay
“any price,” but there is little logic.
Do I believe in peace at any price?
I don’t. I think that the lives and hopes
of millions of innocent people, no matter
their nationality, are too great a price to
pay. But I believe in peace at any price
short of war. — Benn (Q.).
One Parliament
As I see it, the only manner in which
abolition of State Parliaments can be
achieved is the formation of yet another
party with the abolition of itself (and the
Parliament with it) as its only object.
It should not take very long to find
responsible candidates to accept the over-
whelming support for this one-plank plat-
form, and I’m willing to start work on
the scheme immediately if those prepared
to give active help will write to me. —P.
White (N.S.W.).
The Basic Wage
The man on the small income is still
waiting for an honest economist to ex-
plain why the cost of living rises out of
all proportion to each basic wage in-
crease. That living costs are extremely
reluctant to drop in the same ratio when
the basic wage is decreased is another
mystery of high finance. The explanation
that the wage increase resuits in a cor-
responding jump in production costs is
threadbare with use, and affords little
consolation to the harassed bread-
winner.
In theory the basic wage is the lowest
sum which a man may earn to keep
himself and his family off the street, and
is based on the current, not the future,
cost of living. To be consistent, wage
increase should follow the elevation of
living costs, yet under existing conditions
the reverse is the case, which is mani-
festly unjust.
The basic wage should be based on
the average cost of living, not merely
on the minimum necessary to the poor
man. When the nation is prosperous
the individual should prosper accordingly
—assuming that the individual is worthy
of his place as a member of the nation.
Then, during a period of depression,
when the average cost of living would
naturally fall, the individual would be
less likely to complain of unfair treat-
ment and more likely to pull his weight
in a joint effort to restore prosperity.
The human factor being a variable
quantity, equal distribution -of wealth
is an impossibility, but a more equitable
distribution would lighten the burden of
Labor without reducing Capital to the
breadline. —N. (Vic.).
Apologising for Stalin
British people the world over are
tolerant, but in a war in which the
Empire is concerned it is galling to have
university professors apologising for
Stalin, not only before but since the
invasion of Finland. I’m very tired of
hearing one humorless professor prate of
imperialists and their fell designs.—
Adsum (W.A.).
Outlaw Communism?
Since the outbreak of the war the
Communist party has made strenuous
efforts to justify its loyalty to both Russia
and Australia. In matching its sympathy
with Britain’s war aims and Russia’s in-
vasion of Poland, it told us that Russia
took this action to forestall Germany’s
designs on Rumania, and to protect
the harassed Poles. Now Russia her-
self has threatened Rumania, and pro-
tected the Poles by confiscating private
property, desecrating churches and mur-
dering clergy. Soviet bombings of Fin-
land were clumsily explained as capi-
talistic press fabrications, and Finland’s
resistance was attributed to urging by
imperialistic countries.
The attitude that the Communist party
in Australia would take if we were
involved in a war with Russia is summed
up in a resolution passed in Novem-
ber, 1938. It stated, “We declare that
if the Workers’ Fatherland is attacked
it will be the duty of every Communist,
and the duty of all workers and sup-
porters of peace, to use every means in
their power to guarantee the victory of
the Red Army over the imperialists.”
In time of war the Australian Govern-
ment is obliged to weed out organisa-
tions subversive to its aims. If it neglects
that we can look forward to sabotage
and civil war. As shown by the action
of the French Government in its quick
suppression of all things Communistic,
repressive measures are better than the
prospect of an armed conflict within our
shores. —J. Sobbi-aski (N.S.W.).
Road* v. Rail
The Bulletin never lets any opportu-
nity pass of reminding taxpayers of the
State railway deficits and of comparing
railway operation unfavorably with road
transport. There is every need to watch
the finances of State-controlled organisa-
tions, admittedly, but in one respect The
Bulletin is quite unfair: it does not
take into consideration the immense un-
recorded wastage in road transport,
which is borne by the State just as much
as the annual railways deficit, and is of
greater importance. That is, the wastage
in human life.
From the beginning the railways have
had to pay scrupulous attention to safety
of railwaymen, passengers and the
general public. A considerable percent-
age of railways expenditure has always
been devoted to the purchase, upkeep
and operation of safety devices and train-
ing of personnel, in addition to all rail-
way planning having public safety as an
.essential background. The result is that
the railways are definitely the safest
form of transport.
Road transport has no tradition of
safety at all costs. The amount spent
by the industry on training personnel for
safety, organising for safety and keeping
vehicles safe is negligible; and so are
the results. When road transport as a
whole, including private-car operation, is


considered, the human wastage involved
through accidents is staggering in com-
parison with deaths and injuries through
rail accidents. But it is no wonder.
Safety always costs a good deal, and the
road transport industry seems reluctant
to spend anything like a reasonable
amount in proportion to its general
operating expenses in preventing prevent-
able accidents. The unfortunate fact is
that the public tolerates a state of wast-
age in this direction which it would
tolerate nowhere else; certainly not in
the State railways.
No, I’m not a railwayman; and I
travel by car almost daily. I’m just won-
dering whether we shall ever develop a
sense of proportion in these things.—
Wusslean (Vic.).
News Broadcasts
In his statement (B. 22/11 / ’39) the
general manager of the A.B.C. says no-
thing to justify the curtailment of the
rebroadcasts of 8.8. C. news, something
which is particularly hard on us men
outback to whom wireless is one of the
greatest blessings of the age.
, At present we are generally at work
and well away from home before the
first news broadcast. For the same reason
we also miss the midday and afternoon
sessions; but we look forward all day
to the evening news. Then we hear the
announcer give a summary of the news
—and a lot of that precious ten minutes
is taken up by coughs and pauses —then
the guillotine descends half-way through
the session, leaving us to wait for the
weekly mail and the newspapers to get
some idea of what has happened.
Those of us who had about £25 to
spare have ended this exasperating busi-
ness by scrapping the old set and buying
short-wave outfits which enable us to get
Daventry direct, but most people can-
not afford such a luxury. Away from
the cities and the bigger towns a strong
feeling of indignation is growing at the
way in which country listeners are being
treated.
While on this subject, why doesn’t the
A.B.C. also give us at least one rebroad-
cast daily of the German propaganda?
What more telling blow could you give
to enemy propagandists than the infor-
mation that we are rebroadcasting all
Germany’s propaganda because our list-
eners find it so funny?—H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Film Censorship
Reading theatre advertisements, I note
that some films are marked “Adult Exhi-
bition” and others “General Exhibition,”
these terms being censorship classifica-
tions. This despite the fact that theatres
which exhibit films “fit for adults only”
still put out the notice “Children half-
price.”
And, anyway, what does the phrase
“Not suitable for general exhibition”
really mean? I say screening a film in a
big theatre for the benefit of anyone
who likes to come to see it is general
exhibition.
I have seen many of those pictures
which, so the censor says, should not
be generally exhibited, and could find
no reason at all for such condemnation.
—Le Chat (S.A.).
Pneumonic Influenza, Please!
It wasn’t pneumonic plague, as “X.
Ray” (B. 6/12/’39) imagines, which
swept the world after the 1914-18 war,
but pneumonic influenza. Had it been
pneumonic plague there would have been
no war this time and very few of the
human race left. Death within four
days is the invariable result of pneumonic
plague.
Nor is there any scientific ground for
“X.R.’s” guess that the 1918-19 pandemic
was due to vitamin deficiency. Its viru-
lence and fatality were practically iden-
tical in all white populations affected by
it. In Central European countries, where
war operations had substantially lowered
the normal dietary standards, they
showed no marked, difference from those
experienced in outbreaks in ML., Canada
and the U.S.A.
Political uproar and popular scare not-
withstanding, the pandemic wave never
got past Australia’s quarantine defences.
The proof lies in the fact that deaths
from pulmonary diseases were actually
lower than usual in the 1918-19 period.
Had the experience of M.L. been shared
by Australia they would have exceeded
normal by at least 20,000 in two months.
As for obviating the need for hospitals
by educating the public in health pro-
tection, it is clear that “X.R.” has never
been professionally engaged in that
thankless and unproductive job. Leading
experts from abroad consider that Aus-
tralia possesses the most effective and
articulate system of health services in the
world. Its press is constantly running
popular educational matter on health
subjects. This has been going on for 20
years and more. Yet the ad. columns
of any daily newspaper afford ample
proof that the average citizen continues
to believe that all the ills of the body
and mind can be prevented or cured by
taking the right kind of patent medicine.
Extensive scientific investigation during
recent years has shown that, except for
isolated parts of the outback and in city
slums, the Australian population in
general shows no trace whatever of any
dietary deficiency, whether in vitamin
content or otherwise. —K. P. (Q.).
Scientific Farming
This is an age of science. Business-
men the world over are continually
striving to obtain the fullest possible re-
turn from the amount of capital invested.
By using better methods they reduce costs
of production, at the same time achieving
the objective of getting the highest re-
turn for their money.
Farmers must emulate businessmen.
They must realise that they have a lot
of money invested in property, equip-
ment, flocks and herds. Every avenue
of increasing the earning capacity of
the farmer’s assets must be exploited to
the full, and there must be no waste of
labor or land.
First steps for the stockowner are
pasture improvement and fodder con-
servation, both worked in such a way
that soil fertility is maintained, if not
increased, by judicious use of fertilisers.
Stock must receive an abundant supply
of fodder. When that is achieved the
stock must be improved. Only the best
producers, whether they be cows, sheep,
pigs or fowls, should be retained. Side-
lines must be developed to the full —the
day of “one-crop farming” has gone out.
Until the farmer realises that he is
engaged in a business demanding scien-
tific and systematic methods he cannot
be assured of the maximum return. —
Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Why Call Them “Dr.”?
It seems rather ridiculous that we
should call all medical men “doctor”
when addressing them or even speaking
about them. If it is correct to do this then
it should also be correct to say “Hello,
Public Accountant Smith” or “This is
my friend, Company Manager Jones.”
The title “doctor” has nothing to do
with the medical profession in particular,
but is an honor conferred on distin-
guished men in any profession. For
some unknown reason, however,
Bachelors of Medicine call themselves
“doctors.” It seems to me just another
form of snobbery.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Spasms
The O.F.M. writer who advocates
more control of pavement traffic (B.
22 /11 / ’39) overlooks the by-law history
of Sydney. It’s a city where such laws
are honored in spasms. Pavement con-
trol had its turn some years ago, and
will certainly be hauled from oblivion
again.
The first spasm, I believe, was directed
against expectorating in public. That
had a long run and must have aided
public funds before it slipped into desue-
tude. Then, as the rule of the road was
switched from right to left, came the first
pavement-control effort. With relentless
zeal pedestrians were exhorted per mega-
phone and by stentors in blue uniforms
to keep to the left. It was not a serious
matter if one didn’t, and with offenders
the Law contented itself with a kindly
little homily delivered confidentially on
the kerb. The phase passed, and now,
as noted, we go as we please. It was
just after this that the first anti-jay-
walking campaign was inaugurated.
Then it was tram-tickets. That had
a splendid innings. Never before had
Sydney been so bereft of pavement
adornment. So strictly was the by-law
enforced that every time a city tram
stopped there was a feverish rush by
ex-passengers to hurl their tickets in the
nearest “Be Tidy.” Like previous spasms
the tram-ticket one passed. The city is
again decorated with millions of dis-
carded tickets. Nobody worries.
Then there was the effort to train the
populace to cross the street in batches
and at intersections only. That carried
no fine, only a reprimand that fell from
aloft like the voice of doom and could
be heard half a mile away. Today the
reckless in scores dash in among cars
and lorries and dodge death in an effort
to save half a minute. And they do it
unreproved.
And now jay-walking again. But
don’t let that disturb us. In three
months’ time we shall all be jay-walking
in glorious freedom. — Pennant (N.S.W.).
Not in Vain?
“F.O’F.” (B. 13/12/’39) has got his
logic all twisted, specious though it still
sounds. If, as he says, war will abolish
itself, why has war so grown in virulence
and frequency in the twentieth century?
The Boer War produced a mortality rate
of about one in 20 ; the Great War got
the figures down to one in 10 ; the Chaco
war halved them again. What the
Spanish and Abyssinian wars did I don’t
know.
Your bellicose Irishman is arguing that
the human race will be brought to the
millennium of peace when it has so
exhausted its resources —mental, econo-
mic and physical —that it can’t fight any
more. I may be wrong, but I infer that
“O’Flaherty” wants us to rush around
looking for wars on the principle that
the sooner we get them over the sooner
we have peace. It reminds me of the
mental case who was seen hammering
his head with a piece of piping. “Why
are you doing that?” a warder asked.
“Because it’s so bonzer when you knock
off,” was the devastating reply.
With all due respect to “F.O’F.” I
think Dean Inge is right when he says
that the victims of 1914-1918 perished in
vain. If they did not, why are we in-
voking our youth to go into battle again?
-25 (Q.). .
The Real Reason
Among the idealists and moonrakers
seeking for war causes and war aims in
the 0.F.M., none seem to realise that
the fundamental cause of all wars is that
some people and some nations are never
satisfied with enough. Russia, for in-
stance, with half of the 3,800,000 square
miles of Europe and the whole 7,000,000
square miles of practically undeveloped
Siberia, reaches out a clutching hand for
the Balkan States and Finland. Germany
got back the Rhineland, Austria,
Sudetenland without opposition, then
subjugated the Czechs and the Slovaks.
Then came Poland. Next on the list,
probably, was to be Schleswig-Holstein,
then Alsace-Lorraine, and, finally, the
lost German colonies.
With a dominant, revengeful Germany
in occupation of those colonies where
would the security of the British Empire
have been? Take a look at the map of
the globe, note how both German East
and West Africa could dominate British
Empire communications in these days of
submarines and aeroplanes. Even leav-
ing New Guinea out we Australians
would be lost.
That is what the war really is over.
Of course, we British are pretty good our-
selves at the grab game, and it is doubt-
ful if even we know when we have
enough. But the law of life, on the earth,
under the sea, in the air is that each must
look after itself. And so long as this law
prevails, and it is the fundamental law of
life, it would be suicide to permit any
potential conqueror to establish armed
camps on our Empire’s arteries. —
W. C. C. (W.A.).
Long Life
There is no real law in creation con-
demning mankind to be old or to die
at any given age. Human thought, no
doubt, finding itself in the abstract
and without support, sought some
means of expression and produced a
counterpart in the co-called concrete
physical body. But man is not physical,
he is mental: the body is merely the ex-
pression of human thinking.
Therefore, as such it is entirely con-
trolled in all its activities by the mind
which conceived it; every drop of blood
which flows through our veins, every
heartbeat, every function is entirely the
result of thought. The body of itself, like
any other mechanical or inanimate thing,
can do nothing; it is the servant of, and
it obeys, the human mind. “As a man
thinketh, so is he.”
Control of thought, therefore, allows
us to be whatever we wish to be. We
can have the same vitality, virility and
youthfulness at 60 as we have at 20 if
we so desire. Health is not the privilege
of any one or any group of individuals;
being one of the essentials and attributes
of real life it is available to all, and is as
free as the air we breathe. A. S. K.
(N.S.W.).
O.F.M. and Our Present Task
The downright good sense and clarity
of expression demonstrated by contribu-
tors to the O.F.M. columns lead one to
ask “Why not apply the principle of these
columns to a far wider sphere?” Under
the stimulus of the urgency of controlling
international lawlessness, why not extend
it to national or even allied boundaries?
Undoubtedly there are numerous brains
in this and allied countries in which
simmer intelligent, and also not-so-
intelligent, ideas that are incapable of
piercing the barriers erected by official-
dom—erected, possibly, in self-defence.
I suggest an advisory committee or
committee of national intelligence whose
function it shall be to receive this flow
of suggestions, inventions, etc., together
with the unavoidable crackbrained
schemes, to consider and reject the un-
usable and retain for use or adaptation
by experts those which contain the
essence or fullness of what is required
in whatever form they may take. For,
clearly, we must use to the maximum our
man-power, industry and ingenuity.—
W. Gardiner (N.S.W.).
Regulating Trade
Isn’t it time some attempt was made
to regulate the sale of everyday com-
modities? As matters stand, you can
walk into any large retail store and be
hatted, booted, trousered, shirted, have
your nails and boots polished, your hair
cut, whiskers trimmed, corns and bunions
lifted, headaches banished and the system
in general pepped up.
Then there’s a niche where you can
buy tomatoes, pigs’ feet and other deli-
catessen dainties; and probably another
corner for dogs’ dope for fleas, mange,
worms and ticks. Near by are pink pills
for pale people, cooling creams for red
noses, mixtures for putting on layers of
fat and others for taking it off. Nothing
is overlooked by the universal providers.
But why should the chemist, the small-
goods man, the greengrocer and a legion
of other traders be legroped by this sys-
tem? Every trader should be restricted
to one calling. Just imagine The Bulle-
tin draping one of its windows with
yards of sausages and another with
nighties and scanties! — Aussie (N.S.W.).
“Secret” Weapons
Fear of the unknown is always worse
than that induced by some tangible
danger, and the sensation-loving news-
papers which splash up every German
surprise as a “secret” weapon are aiding
the enemy by playing on the fears of
the people at home.
To anyone in the know, however, the
essence of all these “secret” weapons is
their utter simplicity. A little while ago
Germany’s new “invisible” or “wakeless”
torpedo was being headlined, and one
weekly paper went so far as to declare
that the secret of it might be a body
shaped like that of a shark. The real
secret, of course, was that the torpedo
was run on compressed ammonia instead
of air. Compressed air leaves a wake
of bubbles, but ammonia instantly dis-
solves in water and leaves no such wake
to mark its passage.
The “magnetic” mine was also splashed
up as a drifting terror which was drawn
towards the hulls of steel ships, whereas
it is merely an automatic firing device
which is nothing new.
The words “secret weapon” should be
expunged from every newspaper’s voca-
bulary, and, whenever the enemy springs
a surprise on us, the information as to
just what it probably is should be issued
by the authorities. The reality can be
quite grim enough without this senseless
embroidery.— Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
One Law for All
A clerk, laborer or any other ordinary
servant in a Government department is
not supposed to go in for any other paid
occupation in his spare time. Though,
for instance, a railway fitter might be a
good musician, he is not allowed to teach
music or play in a dance orchestra. His
wife is similarly restricted.
On the other hand, the head of a Gov-
ernment department, an M.P. or any
similar highly-paid official may give talks
and lectures over the radio and receive
comfortable remuneration without losing
his position.
Surely the same rule should apply in
this matter right from the Governor-
General and Prime Minister to the ordi-
nary laborer. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
Holdups
Garage proprietors are not the only
ones who tempt holdup men (B.
13/12/’39). In city banks it is a not
uncommon sight to see mere slips of
girls stuffing payrolls of large establish-
ments into attache cases and, unescorted,
stepping blithely out into the busy
streets.
Apart from asking for trouble, this is
needlessly endangering life, and, as
several of these holdups have occurred,
employers should be legally compelled
to supply an armed escort when pay-
rolls exceeding a fixed sum have to be
transferred from the banks. Peter
Piper (N.S.W.).


Mainly
~Z
m
R «
8
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,00 b in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STOPw^Ripture
Worries/
One pleading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says
“I oitier your appliances lor my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To provc% this we offer
■
■
*l4 DAYS'TREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full: details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.»
(Dept. 27), 84 Pil \ Sydney.
TARZANS GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound "ready
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
l.'Of. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Itoad,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/.
GJG
GREENMORE
API). BY ELECTRICAL AUTHORITIES.
BOON FOR THE
] SUMMER.
Convenient, Econo-
mical, just plug in.
Will do the entire
coolsing for a small
famjly. It toasts,
roasts, grills, bakes
your scones, etc.
Finished mottled
cream, green or
blue.
W b 1 e n ordering
state voltage re-
j quired.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the; Manufacturers;
GREENMORE PRObUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
*°****ft
57/6
>ll
Air-cooled 4-cycle l
SWGLE-CI'LINDEB
PETROL MOTORS.
t to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
/
(A/SIA) PTY. LIMITED
SS2 Kent St., Sidney, N.S.W.
‘54 Common
Errors in English”
The lip-perfect fat hod
of correction by ini,
repetition and rea
tation,
oning.
errors so
The training corrects
definitely and conclusively that the
pupil speaks correctly without thought
and without self-conscibiisness. The
chapter “Easy Speaking”:jshows how to
find the proper pitch and how to im-
prove intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post. Particu-
lars from E. H. Welford, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
t
ft
m
-,.:N
a
w
4%
7 wont Warn you again about overloading
ĜJ
THE
HANOI
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35/
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue. /
J. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTQN
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. KOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
urne.
GJ
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines ard
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO.,
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
i m i
This MODERN DESIGN 13-jewel Swiss
TITUS Gent's (or Lady’s) Wristlet Watch.
It has RADIUM dial, polished chrome and
stainless steel case and carries written
guarantee. DON’T SEND MONEY—pay
only 50/- on delivery (in Gold-filled Case,
SO/-). Write for particulars of other models.
LENNOX ADVERTISING SERVICE,
Grace Building, 77 York Street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
GJG
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid —
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOM E TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 6018, City Mutual
Bldg., cnr. Hunter and
Bligh Sts., Sydney.
MEMOft'^ lTH E a5E
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative
dynamic. Handle men and affairs
Reconstruct yourself for efficienc:
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
m
WINCHESTER
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
3-cell, 350 ft. op /
Range ....
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
LAMBS SAVED
I
By Using the
AROUX (Bloodless )
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Sate —and as quick as the knife.
"Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY & CO.,
-oux Emasculators, 14 Pitt-st., Sydney
GJ
GENUINE “G.8.D.”
Silver-mounted London-made Briar
A
To You, 8/6.
Usually, 15/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb. —
worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe contained in its
own case for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOL
Tobacconist, Est. 39 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
WHY s r CORNS AND BUNIONS
GJ
The MAGIC CORN RUBBER
Nothing is so painful as a Corn or Bunion, or so
easily removed if done the right way. Our Magic
Antiseptic Corn and Bunion Remover removes tln
corn or callus instantly. You do not have to
pare or cut the corn ; just rub it gently with the
Remover and all hardness, callousness and the
soreness is taken away. Does not make the corn
sore. No pain, no danger from cutting. A'c
nasty stuff to put on for a week. Just a simple,
scientific and antiseptic instrument that will last
a family for years. Removes corn in less than a
minute. Posted to Any Address on receipt of One
Shilling Postal Note or Stamps of any State. Try
one, and tell your friends. THE UNION M. &A.
Co., 299 Elizabeth Street,, Melbourne.
PRGE’
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street, Geelong, Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
271121’Z9 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss *
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


c YlQuitM\
m.L-RUSTRRURN PRODUCTS
* "WAR AT AH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OK GALVANIZED
"WARATAH"
yfih&l/lMjbnq
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FLAT JF
'“WARATAH"
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
*WARATA«*
StoeJL
LIGHT AND STRONG £
’WARATAH"
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT ANO FIRM
'WARATAH-
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN GATE
AN INVITATION IS EXTENDED TO CUSTOMERS
TO VISIT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE
m
m
m
■m.
i.'
m:
m
mm
k
i.
I
H
m. %
:.V,
Sfox
P ; ;:::El: ■% V =f#
:
■s
Iw
in
O^T:
j]» (
Ul&jtv
STEEI
JRW
it*■ ,
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
•: - V, .. >.
? :■
m
==s
HYLANDS BROS, (aust.) PTY. LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Rylands stand behind their products
£
1
r
PpH
M
ii
«
&
MAO£~\
> RROS.fwPrr
WEASTI
IS
m
