

I®
\
t&tn
wm
m
n
m
f,
5*
-=ulU
W
(\
■!L
W
/<"
fj
m
a
ijuhmfy!! NO/
The CONNOISSEUR’S SELECTION
IS UNBEATABLE . . .
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Ideal Scotch Whisky
DISTINCTIVE and DIFFERENT
"None but Itself can be its Parallel”
Guaranteed wholly
distilled and matured
in Scotland
Agents: CURCIER, ADET U Co. Pty. Ltd. MELB.
m
uuEeamtt
isjn
Tns
e * T *A tyrcmtd s*'#=|
£ IQ U £
«5!
ra/nv6
Liqueur
m
!M
<SSS«Z
PRODUCE Of SCOTLAND.::
P-OTTLED t GUARANTEED BT
DISTILLERS
the OLENFiDOITCH Amo aALVEME ■J± t -jSJ2I—
SCOTLAND ■
NETT CONTENTS l PINT 6FUJID OZSrr^^
Tigp |ri IT CONTENTS - I PINT 6FLUID
l^° Nl> UK ‘" c ° THE SUPERVISION Of THf. COtINONWEALTH
9 i j
m
\
liJ/jtjWt
&UCCK
m
m
y
Famous for Half a Century.
The Bulletin
The Gathering Storm
Vol. 60.—N0. 3110.
Wednesday, September 20, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Freelance
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Nam e
r y Address
-B. 239
The Red Page
MAKINGS OF THE WAR.
G. Ward Price finished Year
Reckoning (Cassell; Angus and Robert
son) on May 1. Chaos has since broken
loose, with accompaniments that make
nonsense of drayloads of books dealing
as his does, with the scene of turmoil anc
speculating on the likely outcome. Ye
if Ward Price now had the opportunity
of revising his book it’s unlikely that he’d
want to cancel out a line of it.
It gives a clear, direct, comprehensive
analytical account of the events, the mis
takes, the ambitions; the personal
national and political factors ; the mutua
misunderstandings and recriminations
the diplomatic dealings and double-deal
ings ; the general forces making for war.
A masterly piece of reporting on the
European scene over the past few
troubled years, it’s extraordinarily accu
rate in its forecasts. Because he was cer-
tain the Poles would fight—he says they
like fight—he thought Hitler might move
on to the easier mark of Hungary. Apar
from that, he might have written it al
since the war broke out.
What stands to him most is his avoid-
ance of the rock on which pretty wel
all the oracles have come to grief—he
does not build on Russia. Further, he
knows his dramatis personae personally
and knows the whole scene he depicts
from personal contact with its peoples
from living among them, and from hav-
ing a box-seat at all the main events dur-
ing the decisive years. When Hitler
appeared on the balcony in Vienna to
hear the cheers of the crowd, he was on
the balcony with him. Turning to leave,
Hitler exclaimed jubilantly, with a jerk
of his head towards the tumult below,
“Well, Ward Price, is there any compul-
sion about that?”
Hitler is the leading figure of the book,
presented in a sufficient range of moods
to stand out as a living character: there
is a fierce and forbidding picture of him
in the angry, black mood in which he
met and threatened Schuschnigg. There
are clear pictures of the scores of other
personalities also. Revealing conversa-
tions with Ribbentrop and many others
enliven the account, fill in details and
provide depth of background to the
events which have led, with deadly in-
evitability, to the abyss.
Some of these details will come sur-
prisingly to nearly all readers; for
example, concerning the pact which Mr.
Chamberlain and Hitler signed at
Munich, and which seems such a prime
piece of irony now.
Ward Price’s account is that Mr. Cham-
berlain rose on the morning of September
30 and set himself to draft a formula
general enough for Hitler to find no
reason for rejecting it, yet precise enough
to be a formal pledge that consultation
should be substituted for conflict in
future Anglo-German relations. From
Mr. Chamberlain’s point of view it would
act as a set-off to the reproach that the
democratic Governments had capitulated
before the threat of force ; and it would
be difficult for Hitler to refuse to put his
name to a statement embodying the
views which the four heads of Govern-
ments had expressed between themselves
in their discussions the night before.
With the draft in his pocket, Mr.
Chamberlain set out for his farewell call
on Hitler, and there, without any pre-
vious indication, produced the document.
It was no doubt a surprise to Herr Hitler
when Mr. Chamberlain produced his mani-
festo, with the suggestion that they should
both sign it as a record of the new under-
standing which their three meetings had
brought into existence between them. He
had expected Mr. Chamberlain to confine
himself to the formal remarks customary
between statesmen on leave-taking. The
presentation for his immediate acceptance
of a diplomatic instrument dealing with
the whole future policy of Germany must
have been a startling development.
“Thus, although perhaps with reluc-
tance,” adds Ward Price, “Herr Hitler
signed the draft.”
It is certain that had that account of
the production of the now ironical pact
come out at the time, very few would
have accepted it —as very many natu-
rally did —as the seal of a lasting peace.
Among other things, it would seem to
explain why Mr. Chamberlain, back in
England, redoubled Britain’s rearmament
effort, even before the suddenly-decided
invasion of Czechoslovakia made a
mockery of Hitler’s prom-
ises. Mr. Chamberlain knew
how it was produced, saw
Hitler’s surprise at it and
must have known what it
was worth.
Aware of such things, personally
familiar with all the characters of the
mounting drama, Ward Price —writing
last April—was able to sum up on the
prospects:
There are only three ways in which the
present situation can develop. The first
is that the Western Powers should ac-
quiesce in Germany’s aims—protesting,
perhaps, but not resisting. The second is
that, thanks to the initiative of President
Roosevelt or some other intermediary, an
international conference should assemble,
at which, contrary to the experience of the
past, a solution acceptable to all parties
were found. The third and most probable
development is war.
As it has turned out.
Decidedly a book —or the book —to
provide a full understanding of what is
now happening.
Little Man, What-ho!
George Orwell, who wrote the bitterly
gay Keep the Aspidistra Flying, has con-
tinued the adventures of the Little Man
—not the same little man, but they are
all essentially alike —in Coming Up for
Air (Gollancz).
This time he’s a traveller in insurance,
George Bowling, 45, fat, with a brick-
red face and butter-colored hair. In his
small suburban home in process of being
paid for he is dully married to Hilda,
whose passion is for economies which are
painful without being effective. He is
also the father of two children. “Two
kids in a house the size of ours is like
a quart of beer in a pint mug.”
He is bowling along quite nicely, how-
ever, keeping well on the surface, when
suddenly he becomes aware that he is
living in a highly-dangerous world that
blow up about him at any moment.
It was his new false teeth that started
him thinking. They grin at him from a
glass as he takes his bath and they start
a solemn train of thought. In the light
of those teeth he sees the dinginess of
everything. Then from the window of a
train he sees a bomber ’plane and his
mind goes off into a slow panic.
He doubts if he has anything, but he
feels sure he is going to lose it. He
becomes a bolting rabbit. He has no-
where to bolt to, the future is walled up
and he is chained to his wife, his unpaid-
for house and his job. The sky will fall
on him and he won’t be able to get away.
There is only one bolthole left un-
stopped—he takes refuge in his past. It’s
a meagre past and, like a shrunken
blanket, won’t cover him completely. The
best thing in it, the supreme ecstasy, had
been fishing, though he hadn’t fished
since he was 16 and had left school to
become a delivery boy at the grocer’s.
There was one pool in particular, in the
grounds of the Hall, outside his native
village, which he had always meant to
fish, a quiet, forgotten sort of place where
the fish were enormous.
Secret from his wife he has £l7, won
on a horse. He determines to take a
holiday, go back to Lower Binfield, re-
capture the security of his youth and
catch at long last the enormous fish. He
involves himself in a lot of lies, telling
Hilda that he is going to Birmingham on
business.
He is very thoroughly stung. Lower
Binfield has been changed beyond recog-
nition by the speculative builders. He
sees his first love changed into a slatternly
woman. The Hall has become a lunatic
asylum. The pool has been drained and
turned into a rubbish dump. Arriving
back home he is greeted by a furious
wife who has discovered that he was
not in Birmingham, and can only believe
that he has been away with a woman.
Coming Up for Air is almost a parable,
yet it is the least sententious of books.
George is as much a figure of fun as
of pathos ; the pathos is in the funniness.
He is a vulgar little bounder, and he is
Everyman at the same time. His tragedy
is so small that it is universal, within
the reach of everybody, and that is what
drives it home. That it doesn’t matter
what happens to George Bowling is the
essence of the tragedy.
The story, conceived in fantasy, is
written in the realist vein. The charac-
ters, the setting and the details are all
very natural.
Chris Brennan .
H. M. Green’s Christopher Brennan
(Angus and Robertson) is by a man who
is himself a poet, a friend of Brennan,
and it contains a short biographical
sketch, a disentanglement of the various
editions of Brennan’s poetry, all limited —
one to eight copies only—an analysis of
the influences that formed him and of the
rhythmic bases of poetry, an inquiry into
his Australianism, and a general appraise-
ment of the man and his work.
The biographical note is brief and thin.
Kindly consideration for those still living
who were involved with the poet’s tragic
and ill-adjusted life would dictate this,
but it is rather unfortunate, for Brennan’s
poetry is intimately bound up with his
personal story. As Green says, “Brennan’s
poetry is simply Brennan, or a glori-
fied Brennan, his moods, his personality,
no more and no less.” It is autobiographi-
cal at one remove. “It conveys a reflec-
tion not so much of events experienced
in our world as of moods set up by them
in the narrator, which moods are all
raised to a poetic power.”
Green gives a picture of the man:
A huge unwieldy figure with a long
black wave of hair brushed back from a
large shining forehead, the fleshy beak of
a nose, the enormous pipe, the soft black
hat, the great black flapping mantle such
as is seen out here nowadays only on an
old-fashioned German scholar in some
fantasy of the films. An unforgettable
figure stalking down George-street of a late
afternoon, either alone and submerged in
a profound abstraction, or, if with a
friend, then perhaps declaiming in a mag-
nificent baritone passages of ifeschylus or
Swinburne amid the amazed populace and
snorting cab-horses.
As a man he was simple, kindly, a
brilliant monologuist, happy in company
and yet at the same time profoundly
lonely and melancholy. Although Green
is a sincere admirer of Brennan, calling
him “the greatest” poet that Australia has
produced and referring to him as a
genius, his commentary bears rather
heavily on the negative side. Brennan,
he points out, was not so much a man
of character as of personality. The
tragedy of his life was not so much due
to outward circumstance as to an inward
flaw.
He fell, as Green puts it, between the
three stools of philosophy, scholarship
and poetry. Despite his great gifts he
remained unfulfilled in any of them,
though his spirit came nearest to its con-
summation in poetry. His was a rumina-
tive rather than a creative gift and he
lacked the will or the ability to break
new ground. Green says: “I know of
no new path that he struck out for him-
self ; he was not a creative thinker.”
And, “Does he make us feel now and
then that he has got to the bottom of
thought? Yes, I think he does. But does
he make us feel, in doing this, that he
has cast a new light on something? I
hardly think he does that.”
Green challenges the very generally
held belief that Brennan was a follower
of the French symbolist poet Mallarme.
He was a symbolist only as every poet is,
thinking in images, and Mallarme was
only one of a number of poets who in-
fluenced him. The difficulty that his
poetry often presents arises out of idio-
syncrasies of expression and veiled refer-
ences to personal matters of which the
average reader does not and cannot pos-
sess the key, rather than to profundity
of thought or to any metaphysical con-
cepts.
Green’s book is rich in quotations. It
makes interesting reading and should be
welcomed by admirers of Brennan’s work
even if only as a basis of discussion.
The Theatrical Napoleon .
An entertaining chapter of French his-
tory and an example of the fate that can
overtake a dreamy man married to a
masterful woman are part and parcel of
Octave Aubry’s Eugenie, Empress of the
French (Cobden-Sanderson ; translated by
F. M. Atkinson).
Louis Napoleon was a romantic ad-
venturer and doctrinaire. He wrote a
book called The Napoleonic Legend,
dabbled in the cause of Italian freedom
but drew back, dabbled in secret societies,
was a professional intriguer and exile,
talked about his “star,” attempted a coup
in Paris, failed, was thrown into prison,
escaped and reappeared again in Paris
in 1848, the year of revolutions. Another
coup succeeded, and a wave of sentiment
and hysteria carried him to power.
His marriage, though he was genuinely
in love, was a stroke of theatricality.
Eugenie de Montijo was one of the most
beautiful women of her day. Her father
was a grandee of Spain who had fought
for Napoleon ; her mother was the clever,
volatile, intriguing daughter of a Scottish
gentleman, Baron Kirkpatrick, who had
made a fortune in trade and married a
Spanish wife.
Eugenie was 27 when she attracted
Louis Napoleon. At first his intentions
were not matrimonial, but Eugenie would
accept nothing less than the crown.
They corresponded, and her letters
made a very good impression—as well they
might, for they were written by Prosper
Merimee. Louis, infatuated by this time,
proposed and was accepted. They were
married with great pomp in 1851. It was
not quite King Cophetua and the beggar
maid, but near enough to appeal to the
romantic. Eugenie never loved him, but
affection, respect, gratitude and a whole-
hearted agreement with his political aims
made her a loyal wife. In 1854 their
only child, the Prince Imperial, was born,
and Eugenie became an ardent dynast.
The imperial couple lived in a world
of ghosts. Eugenie, at least, was always
aware that their position was precarious,
and that they were living in a fiction of
power and splendor.
Napoleon 111. followed the Napoleonic
legend. He imagined himself a great
soldier and a conqueror of Italy. He led
a campaign there against Austria in the
cause of Italian liberty. The generals
won a victory, but it left him incapable
with nausea. He added Nice to France
as the price of his intervention. He hesi-
tated and withdrew; he reversed his
policy, garrisoning Rome with French
troops to protect the Papal State against
his former allies. He alienated everyone
and injured his prestige. He tried his
hand at king-making, still in imitation
of his uncle, and set the luckless Austrian
Archduke Maximilian on the throne of
Mexico. The French troops were ignomi-
niously defeated by the Mexicans and
Maximilian was executed.
With the Emperor’s health declining,
Eugenie took an ever greater part in
politics. The thing she feared for the
dynasty was revolution. As a counter-
irritant she fomented war with Prussia
over a barren dynastic question. Bismarck
wanted war, too. He knew how it would
end ; Eugenie, living in a hollow world
of make-believe, did not. They had their
wish in 1870. Napoleon and his 14-year-
old son went with the army. Eugenie
ruled as regent in Paris. Defeat followed
defeat, and Paris raised its head in revo-
lution.
The news of the defeat at Sedan and
the capture of the Emperor brought the
mob to the palace gates. Eugenie fled.
Her American dentist, Dr. Evans,
smuggled her to the coast, and Sir John
Burgoyne gave her a passage in his yacht
to England. Queen Victoria gave her
asylum at Chislehurst. She had managed
to save a substantial fortune, and had
smuggled her jewels to the Austrian Con-
sulate wrapped in newspaper. In the last
disastrous days in France she behaved
with courage and determination.
For Napoleon 111. the make-believe
was not yet quite over. In exile he
planned to return to France in the same
style as Napoleon I. had returned from
Elba. But he was a very sick man, and
died before he could attempt his impos-
sible plan.
Clinging to the family tradition,
Eugenie made the young prince an officer
in the British artillery; although, when
he insisted on going to the Zulu War,
she watched his departure with fore-
boding. He was killed by a Zulu assegai.
Eugenie lived on, not unhappily, until
1920, when she died in Madrid, almost
a hundred years old.
Aubry tells the story graphically and
with spirit.
Wattle in the Ranges: Cyril E. Goode
(Imperial Printing Co., Ltd., Perth). Front
cover has a design of wattle, back cover
an umbrella perching in a black circle
and labelled “The Badge of Shame.”
Whether or not it’s meant to be, it looks
comic. The wattle verses are better than
those revolting from the gamp.
Life: John Pride (Daily Post Printers,
Liverpool, England). He pursues the
spirit of life among the elements and
among the animals from the lamb to the
rat. A long poem, sincere, sensitive, a
bit prosy.
Beasts of the Blood Trail: J. K. Mc-
Dougall (Industrial Printing and Publicity
Co., Ltd., Carlton, Vic.). 184 pages of
fairly facile rhyming, with “Australia
First and Always” placed next to “The
Crimson Flag.”
Sullivan at Bay : Frank Sullivan (Dent).
American funnyman. Essays on “The
Ugly Mollusc,” “A Bachelor Looks at
Breakfast,” and so on. Lightly amusing.
Everyday Fare for Fitness: Dr. Stanley
B. Whitehead (Bodley Head). Discussion
and recipes. Very vegetarian.
Visions of Youth: Sir Campbell
Rhodes (Murray). Improving talks to
Boy Scouts.


A.vniow Horderns
Telegraphic Address:
e<f Hordernia’% Sydney
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
m
■Ball
<
<d;W}; ; ;k'
as
»«**§**
m
' 1 , ,
wx 7smamk ''"mm
mmm®
pflp
B»f
s&vVs.v
1;
■••: - '.:
m
m
w
★ War %eu>A at
Vour Jihcfer 7ip A
THIS AMAZING RADIO USUALLY PRICED AT
Your Radio is the most reliable source
to which you can turn these days for
quick and accurate information.
Anthony Horderns' are offering the
"Uni" 5 Valve Dual Wave Electric
(illustrated) at a saving of nearly £5.
It has press button tuning, Amphion
dynamic speaker and frequency
spaced dial. Regular Price, £l9/19/-
SPECIAL PRICE £l4/19/6
9/61/fl3
jppdd^
761/613
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 30/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 23/7.
* If he Complete Portable
TAKE IT ANYWHERE!
LATEST 1.4 VALVES. STANDARD BATTERIES
The "Uni" Champion Portable weighs only
17 lbs. Uses the latest 1.4 valves (4 valves),
standard Ever-ready batteries. Daylight
range of approximately 100 miles. Finished
in waterproof aeroplane cloth.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £l2/12/-
Cjl
<>l
C •
C-j — i
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 25/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 19/10.
~,: v
temm
~ ' >* . 'V.v, :: '
■ > <-
mm
\
fs-
i2>
-• /
,
* 5 Value fcual Wade (Za4'w
SPECIAL MANTEL MODEL usr pricb
Only a limited quantity available, well known branded
line'(we cannot mention maker's name)/ 5 valve dual
wave electric Mantel Model, suitable for 240 volt power
supply only. This mantel model will permit you to receive
news directly from oversea. Has dynamic speaker, and
is equipped with automatic volume control. Cabinet is
highly polished and of selected wood.
LIST PRICE •
SPECIAL PRICE
£lB/18/-
£l2/19/6
9/61/2| 3
w»U "/81/813
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 26/-. 12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/0/5.
Ill” CONSOLE BATTERY VIBRATOR 5-VALVE DOAE ME RADIO
You can tune in direct to oversea programmes with the Dual Wave Radio. It has a modern, clear dial, exceptionally clear tone,
and Battery Vibrator (no Dry Cells to renew). The handsome Cabinet is a modern console, highly polished.
This Radio is outstanding value and is available on easy terms. ANTHONY HORDERNS' PRICE
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT *2/7/-. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/5/3.
• Electrical—Ground Floor —Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
EYT
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, Sydney


MY FATHER DOES
A JOB
by James Haekston
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
“ r\ ON T you think we’d better make the R a
| little fatter, my sonny?”
I J My father, ready for anything, had taken
on a signwriting job, and was putting the
word “Bar” on one of the front windows of the Cross-
roads Hotel. Being good at lettering, I helped. It
took us quite a while to do the job, for it was a hot
summer, and there were delays to suit the convenience
of a big thirst, “Have a drink?” broke in on the still,
hot, blowfly-laden air persistently. My father liked
the easy, happy work and the temporary limelight—no
hard slogging, no hills to climb, no thirst in dry creek-
beds ; and when the thermometer trembled with the
heat he could mortgage his job for a drink.
My mother wondered why the thing was taking so
long, and I knew she would have felt more settled
had we been writing “Six Miles to the Bar” on the
rails of the fence opposite our own home. After we’d
been at it a while she asked if it would be finished
soon.
“No, not for a while yet, unfortunately,” said my
father solemnly. “The gold-leaf is giving me a little
trouble. You’ll be no more pleased than I shall be
to see the job finished.”
In the evening we talked shop. “Have to improve
on the A to-morrow, my sonny. Then you can fill
in the blue shading round R, while I put the gold
round B. Lot of planning in signwriting, Mother.”
“I hope she will pay you well for all the time and
trouble you’ve both been putting into it,” my mother
said. “How much will you get about? So I’ll know
where I stand.”
He wrinkled his brows. “Can’t go into that until
the end of the job. Maybe I’ll leave the price to her
—might get more that way. Whichever way it goes,
though, I’ll be treated fairly.”
Next day, Friday, my father said to me, “Mother’s
wading for the money, and we’ve got to put a spurt
on now and finish it to-morrow.” He sighed.
“I have a feeling she expects more than I have any
hope of getting. Of course there’s been wasted time ;
but we couldn’t be stand-offish and unsocial, could
we?”
We finished it next day, thirteen days after
we’d started it. But Saturday was a bad day to finish
on. The men from the battery were down for the
week-end, several locals were making an afternoon
of it, and a northern squatter was enjoying himself.
After we’d finished, my father said, “You sit on
the form in the corner until I get fixed up about the
money.” Half an hour later he said, “Hard to do
business, she’s so busy. Must wait a while yet to get
her ear.” At three o’clock the squatter again shouted
for the bar. About four-thirty Mrs. Popp handed my
father a sovereign—“ The balance of the job money.”
And my father shouted and bought himself a cigar.
ON the way home that evening my father was full
of faith, hope for the future and kindly feelings
towards all squatters ; but his brave outlook changed
with the miles, and wilted before the cold, accusing
finger of retribution.
“I had to drink with them to-day, and buy back,
too —matter of prestige.”
His sentences kept time with our steps.
“She said I stuck up a pound’s worth of drinks
during the job. Got to take her word for it, though.
Now fifteen bob of the sovereign she gave me has
gone. Should have charged her three pounds.”
I asked how much he had charged.
“Two pounds,” he replied bitterly; “and it’s gone
except five bob of it. She deducted the pound I owed
her. But, remem-
ber, you know
nothing about that
either.”
“Finished at
last! ” were my
father’s first words
at home.
My mother
asked how much
he had received.
He shifted.
“Price hasn’t been
fixed yet.” And he
squeezed the five
shillings into her
hand. “Big crowd
in the bar ; she was
too busy to talk
business. Bad day, Saturday. Should have finished
upon a week day.”
“What’s this?” she asked, looking disconsolately
at the money.
“Five bob I got until I get squared up.”
“If she had enough time to advance you this
surely she’d enough time to pay you the lot, Walter.”
“She advanced me nothing. I borrowed it from one
of the battery men.”
“It wouldn’t have taken her long to pay you,
Walter.”
“I couldn’t drag her away from her customers.
The correct thing for such work is to send in an
account and wait until the end of the month for settle-
ment. Most businesses carry on in that way.”
“A month!” said my mother forlornly. “Busi-
ness methods don’t apply to us.” Then timidly, “I
could send the boy down on Monday for some on
account, if you don’t like asking for the full amount
yet.”
My father gasped. “Good God! No! Not in
dribs and drabs. I’ll see her on Monday myself.”
On Monday he set off on a supposed visit to
Mrs. Popp, and took me with him as false witness.
“I hate lies, my sonny, but —er —remember, if you’re
questioned, I went into the hotel.” Just out of sight
from home we struck off into the scrub, where he sat
down on a log and studied the grass.
After enough time had elapsed for us to have
been to the hotel and back, we returned home.
“She’s gone into the town on business for the
day,” he said. “Just missed her.”
“Oh,” said my mother sympathetically, “and you
had all that walk in the heat for nothing. Why not
save your weary bones and send the boy down to-
morrow with the account?”
“My bones are not weary,” said my father ; “not
my bones.”
Next day he set off on another fictitious trip, on
his own ; and when the necessary time had passed
he returned. “I’ve bad news again, Mother —anyway,
for a time.”
“You didn’t get paid, Walter?”
“No ; have to wait a month. She has a big
brewer’s bill to meet, and asked me to let my affair
stand over until then.”
“Surely she can spare ours?”
“Well, there you have it. Evidently she can’t.
Anyway, I agreed. Had to, in fact. What else could
I do?”
“Couldn’t you have explained how urgent ours
is?”
“I told you before, Mother, such accounts. by
rights should not be pressed for until the end of the
month. Hard on us, but we’ll have to abide by the
rule, it seems.”
“And I’ll have to wait a whole month?”
“It looks like it.”
“Did you make out your account?”
“No. She said to let the whole matter, price and
all, stand over until then, when she will go into the
matter with me.”
AT the end of the month my mother came back to
.he subject again.
“Yes. Mother, I’ll go down soon and make out
my account. Just give her a little grace you know,
the usual thing.”
That week my mother talked miserably to me
about things. “I want ten pounds. That’s the condi-
tion I am in. I want such a lot of little things.”
My father saw to it that I was never away from
him long enough to be sent to the hotel. But some
time later, lulled into a false security by my mother
not having again mentioned sending me, he went off
on some business of his own and left me home.
Then she came to me. “Your father is too timid
about asking for what’s owing to him. Why, he
hasn’t even sent in his account yet. I want you to
take a note down to Mrs. Popp. I know she won t
mind my asking.”
I began to feel uneasy.
“I’ll ask her to let me have three pounds on
account. That would see me over nicely—l can’t
make out the full account and ask for it because I
don’t know the amount.”
I set off with the note, without any plan or even
the haziest idea of where I was going or what I was
going to do, when I thought of a legitimate excuse,
apart from the money, for visiting the hotel.
I had rescued a young chicken of ours from a
hawk and, mainly for its own safety, had given it
to Mrs. Popp for her netted fowlrun. I would go
and see it.
While standing by the fowlyard, not knowing
what I was going to do next now that l was there,
somebody’s hands were clapped over my eyes.
“Guess! ”
I smiled.
“You tink I going to kiss you ven you come to
take your shicken back?”
“I didn’t come to take the chicken, Mrs. Popp,”
I said.
“Veil, vy you come? You vant some eggs?”
I shook my head.
“I know,” she said, running her fingers through
my hair, “you come to see my liddle Paula.” And
she led me into the kitchen, where she sat down and
sighed.
“Veil, I not know vat you vant, my poy, but I
know vat I vant-*! vant a ’oliday. Dat’s vat I vant.”
She pulled my ear and laughed. “Ve vomen always
vant someting.”
At that moment I thought of my mother, and,
not thinking, I repeated innocently what she had told
me. “My mother wants ten pounds.”
“Your modher vants den pounds?” she echoed.
“Yes, it’s her condition,” I went on.
She raised her eyebrows, then nodded. “Your
modher vill vant so many tings at a dime like dis.”
“She said she wants a lot of little things,” I said.
She placed her hand on my shoulder. “Dere is
a dime ven all vomen vas sisders, my poy. I ged
you a biece of cake.”
She left me, then came back with the cake and
a letter. “Run ’ome and give dis note to your modher
and my best vishes vor ’er ’ealth.”
I walked home, wondering what was in the letter
and also what I was going to say to my mother.
“A note from Mrs. Popp,” I said the moment
I got home.
“A letter!” And her bottom lip fell, then she
opened it.
It was a wonder the roof did not fly off or the
window panes burst. “Oh! A ten-pound note!” she
cried. “It must be the full amount. What did she
say?”
“She said to give you the note,” I said quietly, as
it dawned on me what I had so unwittingly done.
“How foolish of Walter not to have gone and
got it. I suppose the money’s been waiting there for
him ever since the end of the month. She has prob-
ably been waiting for him to go down and see her
about the account.” She laughed. “She didn't want
any grace. What else did she say?”
“She said to give you her wishes for your health ”
“How nice of her! I must call and thank her
the first opportunity I get. My word, your father will
be pleased.”


WANTED:
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short 1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates —
£2 2s. for each 1100 words.
Closing date for the fourth monthly com-
petition is October -7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and judged.
I didn’t say anything. I was now wondering
what my father was going to say to me.
Y\J HEN he arrived home and found her in such high
“ * spirits he turned jokingly to me. “Has your
mother been to some hotel to-day?”
“No,” she smiled, “I haven’t been to some hotel,
but the boy has been to the Crossroads Hotel.”
He started.
“I sent a note to Mrs. Popp asking for some
money on account.”
He sprang to his feet.
“Now then, Walter, calm yourself. Everything
is quite all right. Mrs. Popp did not send me the
three pounds I asked for.” He stood staring at her.
“But sent the full amount and kind wishes for my
health as well.”
“The full amount?”
“Yes, Walter ; and a just sum, I think, for thirteen
days’ work.” She handed him the money.
“A ten-pound note! ”he gasped; then he looked
queerly at me.
“Don’t look at the boy like that,” said my mother.
“He only did what I told him to do.”
My father’s face was a study. “What did you
say in your note, Mother?”
“Here it is, Walter. She didn’t keep it.”
He read aloud: “Could you please' advance me
three pounds on account signwriting ? I’m short.”
She smiled. “And she gave the boy a piece of
cake, too ”
My father sat down helplessly and pressed his
hand to his forehead.
“You’re not upset about it, are you?” she asked
a little guiltily.
“I’ve —er —had a bad headache to-day.”
She went to him. “Never mind ; now we’ve got
the ten pounds you’ll have no immediate worry. You
can stay home and take it easy for a while.”
Before retiring that night my father said he would
want my help in the morning. That meant I was to
be cross-examined in the scrub.
WE had hardly got a safe enough distance away
from home when it began. “Tell me exactly what
happened, and how, by all the living wonders, you
extracted ten pounds out of Mrs. Popp and also
shielded me? Now, word for word —everything.”
When I had finished he nodded.. “Well, it’s noi
your fault, but you’ve burned your boats behind you
all right, and mine, too. You’ll get no more cake
or see your chicken for a while, for, by the Lord
Harry, when Mrs. Popp finds out you haven’t got a
new baby brother or sister she’ll wait for you with
the clothesprop. And I owe her ten pounds.”
Next day my father and I had to go into the
town to get some things the family wanted. It was
another very hot day, and my mother asked him to
call in at the hotel on his way back and thank Mrs.
Popp and also bring home a couple of bottles of beer
for himself.
We gave the Crossroads Hotel such a wide
berth that we never saw it either going or coming,
even if it did lengthen our journey considerably.
As soon as we got home my mother asked if
he’d brought home his beer.
“No, Mother. I thought
it wise not to call in at the
hotel coming home. There
were too many traps pulled
up, and all people I knew. I’d
never have got away.”
“Then we haven’t thanked
Mrs. Popp yet?”
“No, not yet; next time.”
K A Y mother’s new-found
* ** happiness was now dis-
turbed by an aching tooth,
and, so she could have it out,
she arranged with the store-
keeper to take her into the
town. We were to go with
her.
She furbished up an old
topcoat to hide her shabby
clothes.
“Looks a bit funny,
doesn’t it?” said my father.
“A heavy topcoat in
summer? It —er —may give
people a certain impression.
Put two and two together
like.”
“Who’s interested in
what condition I am in or
how I look?” she said.
“Don’t you want people to
think that?”
He pondered. “I don’t
know, Mother —yes, and then
again no.”
My father sat well back
in the wagonette on the way
in, and when we pulled up at
the hotel wriggled out of
having a drink and thanking Mrs. Popp. “You must
not miss the dentist, Mother.”
Finished with the dentist, and having bought our
few stark necessaries of life, my mother looked at
all these things that were beyond us —perfumes, new
frocks, millinery, new suits, hats, soft carpets, rugs,
sideboards, polished tables and big, fat, opulent arm-
chairs.
We were all surprised when Mrs. Popp, in her
flash, red-wheeled buggy, pulled up suddenly in the
middle of the road. Her comprehending eyes were
fixed on my mother’s enveloping topcoat. “I tought
you vould be down ver a boddle of vine, Valter, to
be ready vor der chris’ening?”
My father smiled wryly.
My mother called back gently, “Thank you very
much for” But she got no further, for my father
baulked her by asking Mrs. Popp in a very loud, forced
voice how business was.
“Good, Valter,” Mrs. Popp called back; “and
I vant you to paint ‘Private Bar’ on der big vindow.
Dwice as big as der last shob, and I pay you dwice
as much. I can’t vait now —I late. Come and see me
in a veek’s dime.” Then, smiling at mother: “ ’Ow
vas your ’ealth keebing? I ’ope everyding vill be all
righd.”
“Spanking turnout,” said my father as she drove
up the road.
“She seems to be most concerned about my health
lately,” said my mother happily ; then she thought.
“But what did she mean about the wine for the
christening?”
“Oh, just her idea of things. Foreigners always
seem to get things wrong. I told her I’m launching
a new invention later on, and she thinks everything
that’s launched is christened with wine, like when
we launch a battleship.”
“Oh,” said my mother, convinced. “And she
gave you more signwriting to do.” A determined little
smile played about the corners of her mouth. “Walter,
I know men don’t like looking at shops, so I want
you to go and have a drink and buy the boy a ginger-
beer. I haven’t quite finished yet; I’ll be back here
in fifteen minutes.”
“If you insist,” said my father.
He ordered a whisky. “My word, that was a
close shave and no mistake! I thought the fat was
in the fire then, all right.”
“We’ve got more signwriting to do,” I said.
“Have we?” he growled. “Not if I know it!”
On our way back home my mother said that it
might be a good idea if my father were to go in for
signwriting permanently. “It pays so well.”
COME days later my father and I returned home
and found her waiting for us outside the house.
“Waiting for us, Mother?”
“Yes,” she smiled. “I didn’t want you to spoil
my surprise.” And she took us both by the hand.
“You must both close your eyes and promise not to
open them until I count three.”
My father looked puzzled. “All right, this once.
I’m not much of a man for playing children’s games.”
We closed our eyes.
“Now don’t spoil it; wait until I count three.”
she cautioned ; and she led us into our front room.
She counted, and we opened our eyes. In place
of our old sticks was a brand-new suite of furniture.
“Isn’t it lovely?” she said simply.
My father stood spellbound.
She went over and felt the new table, like a
young bride making her first home. “It’s real oak.
Look! She came and placed her hands on the lapel
of his coat. “Walter, I have put up with things with-
out complaining, haven’t I?”
He nodded.
“And never grumbled at our lot, have I?”
He shook his head.
“But for years I’ve wanted this, not only for
myself, but for you, too. I want you to enjoy it with
me.”
He nodded.
“I saw the suite before Mrs. Popp drove up, and
after she had gone I decided to buy it. It was cheap
—only fifteen pounds ; and I paid two pounds deposit
on it. I sent you into the hotel because I knew you
would not let me buy it if you knew.”
He didn’t speak. She was so completely happy
in her idea of how things were with us financially
that'any anger my father must have felt had died.
She crossed over to the new armchair. “Feel it.
It’s so soft!”
My father felt it as if his fingers were of steel.
She sat in it and bumped herself up and down
like a child. “See how springy it is!”
He gave a peculiar laugh. “And how are you
going to pay for it all?”
“No teasing,” she said, as if paying for it were
an easy matter ; and she backed him gently towards
the armchair and made him sit in it. “Why, out of the
twenty pounds for the signwriting you have to do,
of course ; we have a month to pay the balance.”
He sat there looking blankly at her while she
went on talking.
She drew nearer to him. “Go on, Walter, say
something—answer me.”
“What did you say, Mother?” he asked in a far-
away voice.
“Oh, you know what I said,” she laughed ; “you
can’t fool me. I said: Now, don’t you feel fine,
Walter?”
It took us quite a while to do the job,
for it was a hot summer, and there
were delays to suit the convenience of
a big thirst.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
Jfffblt li'dm'cfia'ie mellcumejsmidlmq/mt!
“THE CENTRE OF THE WORLD" CHARING CROSS STATION, LONDON.
There are few citizens of the Empire, no matter in what part of the far-flung domains of our race they may be domiciled, to whom
the expression, definitely geographical in this sense, “Charing Cross,” is not familiar. As the West End terminus of what is now the
Southern Railway, this gateway of London with the Continent, among railway stations occupies a position all its own. Its location,
the western end of the Strand, “a nerve artery of the Empire’s Capital,” accounts for much. Readers of the works of that
brilliant writer of the latter Victorian and Edwardian eras, Arthur Binstead, will be perfectly familiar with the references to Charing
Cross Station, especially the “under the clocks” phrase he so frequently employed in a sense to which its railway association was
subsidiary. This “modern Casanova,” as Binstead has been described, pictured Charing Cross Station as a rendezvous, but in a limited
sense. Actually it possesses a much wider comprehension. Why, at Charing Cross the man from the Australian “Never Never,” the
furthermost parts of the Dominions, may and frequently does meet “cobbers” from his own particular locality. Many years ago a
British “exile” on a Western Argentine Estancia wrote a poem of considerable merit, in which he told how to him London was
continually calling. In that effort Charing Cross and the Strand, of which it may be taken as literally a part, figured prominently. Now
this “world centre” is threatened with abolition. The station is to be removed to the south side of the river in order to relieve the
congested traffic in this area. The Cross with which the station is designatively so closely allied is probably derived from the village
of Charing in east Kent, though tradition has it the place was named after Eleanor, the “chere reine” of Edward I. (1272-1307).
The famous cross in front of the present hotel in the “cabyard” is a replica of the handsomest of the nine crosses that King erected
to the memory of his beloved consort. Proclamations were once read at Charing Cross, and here on June 21, 1857, was proclaimed
Victoria, of noble memory.


NEUTRALITY FIRST.
“Go it, you guys; but don’t none of you forget that I’m nootral!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252158; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch G4hs.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
THE GATHERING STORM.
Another week of war sees the British Expeditionary
Force in position beside the French; sees Poland,
already defeated by the Germans, and reduced to
desperate straits, treacherously invaded by the Rus-
sians ; sees Canada fall in line with the rest of the
Empire, except Eire; sees Maoriland first of the
Dominions with a force —of 6000 —for probable over-
seas service and Australia enlisting another —of 20,000.
And there have been other events that historians will
note: an ex-King of England and his wife taken back
from exile on the Continent; a variously-interpreted
secret ’plane dash by Mr. Chamberlain to attend a
meeting of the already-constituted Allied War Council
in France; British war plans based on the assumption
that the war will last three years or longer; and any-
thing that could be interpreted as tentative feelers for
peace bluntly rejected.
In Australia, as in England, the cry has been heard
for “more war news.” Justification for not giving
the Yelp Press the license it would like is provided in
reports of the safe landing of the British Expeditionary
Force in France, without any submarine attack and
without any intelligence of the move, the size or dis-
position of the force leaking out. At such times the
censorship of war news has to be even more stringent
than is really necessary, to play safe. It is the lives of
men —in troopships, in the front line and elsewhere —
that it is safeguarding. After all, the Yelp Press has had
a free enough go with other wars for some years past;
the appetite for “more war news” is only one of the
least dubious results of that trade in sensationalism.
The thunder of the guns on the Western Front
suggests that the Yelp Press will get what it wants,
with the difference that this time it will be the grim
fact after the event, not spectacular falsehood in
advance. There will be fewer such stories as those of
the Famous Gofas, the Amazon Warriors of Addis
Ababa, the Fighting Fishwives of Spain. That sort of
claptrap has had its day. The seeming inactivity up to
last week meant, for one thing, that the mistakes
of 1914 were not being made over again. If the
German Westwall —beside which the pillbox defences
on the ridges before murderous Passchendaele were
easy—is to be broken, nothing is more tragically cer-
tain than that the slaughter will be more terrible than
at the Battle of Arras, where the British casualties
alone numbered 132,000, or on the Somme, where the
British casualties for one day —July 1, 1916 —totalled
57,470, nearly 20,000 dead.
Wars still must be won by men. There is no substi-
tute, though it is still a widely-held fallacy that there is.
Because it has faced up to this reality—that war
is the mass death sentence of young manhood — The
Bulletin has set itself against war and the policies
and provocations making for war. It has felt lonely
on the job ; but now that this war has come because
the threatening belligerence of Germany could be
tolerated no longer, there is only one thing to be done,
and that is to stand firm until we can gain a just and
enduring peace.
Fallacies that have deluded a good many people
will have to be thrown overboard. It is fallacious to
expect that this horrible business is going to be imme-
diately ended by a revolt of the German people against
the Nazi Government —the too-hopeful object of the
pamphlet-bombing of Germany. There is no evidence
that any but fools and wishful thinkers would accept
that the German people are other than wholeheartedly
behind their Government and its policy. So long as
any hope of their winning this war remains they can
be expected to remain behind that Government and
policy. The beautiful thought that this is not a war
against the German people, that “we have no hate for
the German people,” looks very nice on paper, and
up to a point is true. But it is not any more true than
it was in 1914, when the war aims were identical
with those now given out.
If I am asked what we are fighting for I reply
to fulfil a solemn international obligation to vindi-
cate the principle which, in these days when force,
material force, sometimes seems to be the dominant
influence the principle that small nationalities are not
to be crushed, in defiance of international good faith,
by the arbitrary will of a strong and overmastering
Power. I do not believe any nation ever entered into
a great controversy —and this is one of the greatest
history will ever know—with a clearer conscience.
That was Mr. Asquith in 1914, and it could have been
Mr. Chamberlain in 1939 ; indeed, Mr. Chamberlain
used some of the very same phrases. It was not a war
then against the German people, any more than it is
to-day, if the term is taken literally. But it was war
against Germany, and it is now.
Part of the strange perversion of reality in the re-
vulsion that followed the last war was the general
belittling of the conclusive part played—as it now
must be again—by the fighting forces. While the war-
book writers were depicting them as craven brute
beasts paraded for the shocked entertainment of well-
cushioned non-combatants, a whole tribe of academic
theorists were as busy transferring the last shreds of
credit from the front-line fighters to such factors as
efficacious propaganda and blockade. These were con-
tributing factors to the victory, but boosted out of true
proportion.
All this suited the German book. It was gratify-
ing and helpful to national morale to believe, with the
academic wiseacres, that Germany had not been de-
feated in the field. At first the accepted version was
that the German army had been let down by the Ger-
man people ; “the stab in the back.” That was a great
boost for the efficacy of propaganda ; but there was
the danger that it might be a boomerang on a future
occasion, so it was changed in favor of the German
nation and army having been starved into submission,
the credit being thereby given to the blockade.
There is strong evidence that these notions pre-
vail. In one way and another the part of the fighting
forces has been so completely discredited and over-
looked that it is now their grim lot to re-establish
their claim to priority. The historical truth is that the
German Army was conclusively defeated in the field
in 1918. It was only then —after four years of
shambles—that the German people saw anything
wrong with a Government and policy identical with
those they are supporting now. It is against all trust-
worthy evidence so far available that there will be
any difference in this present war.
There has been much talk of “war aims,”
especially by stay-at-home novelists and fire-eating pro-
fessors. The declared objective is to crush the Nazi
Government, though what kind of Government, unless
it be Communist, could replace it and suit the German
psychology is hard to see at the moment. “War aims”
will be determined, not by stay-at-home novelists and
fire-eating professors, but by the course of events and
by the British and Dominion Governments after con-
sultation with their Parliaments. The German defeat
of Poland and the invasion of that country by the
Muscovites, together with possibilities that may arise,
have made it necessary that the whole situation and
outlook should be discussed at a secret session of the
Australian Parliament.
The lately propagated fallacy that “even war will
be a relief from this war of nerves” now seems piti-
fully mean. What pathetic, cheap stuff the sensation-
mongering Yelp Press has been existing on for years
past! It has had its artificial day, and this is now
grim reality.
It seems certain —provided the present line-up
and some neutral declarations hold —that there will
then be a call on the man-power of the Empire.
Despite all the fallacious thinking and perversion of
history, defence of the Empire is our greatest interest.
The men who won the last war had no higher motive.
“Poor little Belgium” may have affected sentimental
non-combatants; it left the men who did the fighting
cold. The men in France were not carried on from
battle to apparently hopeless battle by any inspiring
urge whatever. Nobody educated to war by a course
of war-books is half as disillusioned as they were.
They were as fed-up as they could be by the whole
gruesome business, and by nothing more than its flat
monotony. Yet they fought—terribly, desperately ;
time and time again ; and in the end victoriously. They
fought because they were there, and had the job of
seeing it through. Men of the same kind will, if the
need arises, fight that way again.
If the position becomes desperate—it was worse
than desperate more than once in the last war —the
call for the Empire’s man-power must come. Unless
it became so desperate that all the Dominions would
have to adopt compulsory service—in what would be
a fight, not for a moral principle, but right down to
the primitive purpose of preserving their existence —
Australia’s effort would be voluntary, as before. Since
Britain has conscription, that will not be equal effort
—a fact and a consideration that should be kept well
in mind by the whole regiment of furious Fireside
Fusiliers in these parts in the event of Britain being
offered what Britons may regard as a satisfactory
peace.
Merchants of Moonshine.
A liberal education in the vanity of human wishes
and of journalistic prophecy can be had cheap at any
public library by anyone with sufficient time and
patience to turn up files for, say, four years and read
the cables and leading articles —in the Sydney daily
press especially. During the period mentioned, the
Sydney daily press was strongly interventionist, and
Mr. Anthony Eden was its idol. Its sentiments were
repeated over the air, with private embellishments,
by a parcel of “news commentators,” and editors and
“commentators” were so positive that they were im-
personations of Light contending with Darkness, and
this view of the matter was so generally accepted,
that even the expression of honest doubt was dis-
missed as “Fascist.” The Bulletin had that epithet
hurled at it many a time.
Mr. Eden was Foreign Secretary on December
22, 1937. On that occasion he delighted his admirers
by reporting that Britain had gained the love and trust
of “the nations of the Balkan and Little Ententes,
whose territory stretches from Turkey to Czecho-
slovakia.” The “Sun” was moved to publish in its
Sunday issue one of those pretty little arithmetical
tables which had such a vogue at the time. On our
left, the Democratic Front, with a total population
of 381,000,000; on our right, the Fascist Front, total
population 180,000,000: result, swift knockout.
In the progress of events the love and trust ot
“the nations of the Balkan and Little Ententes, whose
territory stretches from Turkey to Czechoslovakia,
have suffered severely. Greece and Rumania, though
both received guarantees and credits from Britain,
are officially neutral in the present conflict ; and
Rumania’s neutrality has not prevented it from sell-
ing most of its wheat and hiring most of its shipping
to Germany. Neutral also are Bulgaria, Hungary
with, in these cases, a distinct bias in favor of the
enemy —and Yugoslavia. Turkey, with Anglo-French
guarantees and British credits to play with, and pos-
sessed of the sanjak of Alexandretta, ceded to it (in
contempt of the League) by France, has declared itself
a friend to all, and its Foreign Minister is off to
Moscow to arrange a pact. Czechoslovakia has, of
course, disappeared ; and, though love and trust may
still be treasured by Dr. Benes and his Czech fol-
lowers, the Slovaks fought for the Germans against
the Poles.
In the same speech Mr. Eden addressed soothing
words to those of his admirers who were for “positive
action against Japan” without waiting till the pear
was ripe. “Any course of action in the Far East,”
he said, “must depend upon the co-operation of other
nations besides the members of the League.”
Britain is constantly in consultation with the United
States. Over and over again Britain and the United
States have taken parallel action, indicating the close-
ness of their co-operation.
Washington replied, with some asperity, that it was
“still following a course of independent action and
judgment without contemplation of joint action with
any other Power.” This did not prevent the “Daily
Telegraph” from announcing that “in the face of
Japan’s continued violation of international law in
China, Britain and the United States are rapidly
approaching a close understanding... .an Anglo-
American bloc in defence of peace and order.” At
the same time it reminded the President that his
country was “just as interested in the fate of Austria
as in that of Panama.”
When relations with Germany grew bad another
role was assigned to the U.S.A. It was not only to
participate in “positive action against Japan” but to
enter from the outset into a war with Germany. Then
the darling project of an alliance with Russia was
minted in trustful brains. All the Sydney dailies and
nearly all the “news commentators” were for that.
“S. M. Herald” threatened the Japanese with Russian
bombing of their naval stations. The “D.T.” wanted
the alliance with Russia extended to the Far East.
The Russians sold their allies in 1917, and in the
last month they have sold everybody—Britain, France,
Poland, Rumania, the League, Chiang Kai-shek
and Communists and Parlor Pinks throughout the
world. Their treacherous treaty with Hitler was the
signal for war to be let loose. While their brothers
the Poles were putting up a fight they kept their hides
safe. When Poland was in its death-agony they
tore up their 1932-45 non-aggression pact with it and
sent an army across the frontier, knowing that it might
mean war with their ally, France, and with Britain —
both pledged to defend Poland against aggression—
but trusting to their Nazi masters to protect them.
Compared with Stalin, Cain was a gentleman.
The U.S.A. is so neutral that its first measure was
to veto delivery of arms and munitions, not only to
Britain and France, but to Canada and the Common-
wealth. Japan, according to Consul-General Akiyama,
“will be neutral in the war —and pro-British.” That
was written by the Consul-General in the “D.T.,” of
all papers. When it appeared Moscow and Tokio
must have arrived at their Manchukuo-Mongolia
armistice, and two days later Moscow was screeching
to the world that they had reached an anti-aggression
agreement. This the Japanese deny.
Italy, for its part, has made nonsense of a thou-
sand hostile articles and radio diatribes by continuing
its relations with Britain and France while remaining
allied to Germany. All the Jeremiahs and minor
prophets were sure that the Italians would be in the
war with bells on when the first shot was fired. It
is possible that the terms of the alliance with Ger-
many will compel them to come in, and possible
that—as in the case of the old Triple Alliance —there
is a secret clause exempting them from any obligation
to become embroiled with Britain. Meanwhile their
overseas shipping services, suspended for a few days,
during which some Italian vessels—one of them
ploughing Australian waters —made themselves scarce,
have been resumed, and preparations for the Inter-
national Exhibition at Rome are going on. It is recog-
nised in Britain that Italy’s position is difficult, and
delicate negotiations are in progress ; but it is obvi-
ously expected that Italy will remain a non-combatant..
Spain is a neutral and a very useful one. In one
Spanish port alone 50 German merchantmen have
taken refuge. Had Britain intervened in the civil war
as editors and “news commentators” demanded—with
cataracts of abuse for the Nationalists and covert
attacks on The Bulletin —some of those merchant-
men would now be scouring the seas as commerce-
raiders and U-boats would be operating from Spanish
bases. The same position would have arisen if the
side that the interventionists wanted Britain (and Aus-
tralia) to back, the Stalinist side, had won. Spain
would then have become, not the “Fascist” colony
of their excited imaginations, but a Red Russian
colony, and Red Spain—whose leader, Negrin, gave
the Red Front salute on quitting Catalonia —would have
signed a villainous treaty with Hitler, as did Stalin.
The war is a calamity, howsoever considered, but
it might have been worse. If the editors and “news
commentators” had had their way it would have begun
long before Britain and the Dominions were ready,
and Germany would not be their only enemy. One
of the certain consequences would have been isolation
so complete that the Dominions would have been
unable to help Britain ; and they would have had to
prepare, swiftly and with all their might, for other
consequences.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Squandering the People's Money.
The increases in income tax, sales tax, customs and
excise duties first announced were expected to give
the Commonwealth Government another £5,910,000 of
revenue this year and the subsequent additions bring
the estimate to £8,410,000. Not a great deal consider-
ing war necessities and the extortionate demands of
the Sydney Government for mere provincial purposes
—the Sydney Government aims at raising another
£6,000,000 or so, chiefly by means of income and relief
taxes—and the medicine would be taken with resigna-
tion if it were not proposed at Canberra, as well as at
Sydney, to scatter tax-money about in the old wanton
way.
The Commonwealth estimates contain many items
that should be cut down or cut out. In the first cate-
gory, take the following:
Grant to Adelaide Government .. .. .. £995,000
Grant to Perth Government .. .. .. 595,000
Grant to Hobart Government .. .. .. 430,000
Overseas trade publicity .. .. .. .. 47,020
N.Z. Exhibition—Representation .. .. 47,000
N.Y. World’s Fair—Representation .. .. 8,000
Conveyance of members and others .. .. 38,500
Travelling, Ministers and secretaries .. .. 3,300
Travelling and subsistence, C.G.’s Office .. 1,600
„ „ „ Treasury .. .. 1,460
„ ~ „ Attorney-General.. 900
„ „ ~ Taxation .. .. 11,900
„ „ „ Health .. .. 1,050
„ „ „ Arbitration Court 2,470
„ „ ~ Forestry Branch .. 550
t „ ~ „ Interior Dept. .. 22,500
interior Department—motor vehicles .. .. 12,000
Australia House, general upkeep .. .. 14,400
To distribute £2,o2o,ooo—the same as last year—
among three improvident State Governments is simply
encouraging them to remain improvident Why
shouldn’t the three reduce their expenditure by at least
half a million: and start with their grant-fed Parlia-
mentary and Ministerial salaries? In Westralia 80
Assemblymen and Councillors actually get £6OO p.a.
for talking 12 to 15 hours a week during an annual
session that lasts about four months.
And £47,000 for “overseas trade publicity” when,
for one thing, Britain is buying pretty well all our
export surpluses. Another forty-seven thousand also
for an exhibition that will almost certainly have to
be postponed. And all that money for toting members
and officials around! Compared with last year’s votes,
each item under that head has been increased, in some
cases substantially.
As for items that should be cut out, these appear
in “Miscellaneous Services” alone:
Australian National Travel Association .. £20,000
Entertainment—Distinguished guests and visitors 2,000
Entertainment allowance—Australia House .. 1,250
Empire Parliamentary Association . . 320
A. B. Piddington, allowance (plus £3OO from
N.S.W.) 200
Grants Commission .. .. .. . . 5,000
League Secretariat .. .. 44,000
„ Assembly—Representation .. .. 2,150
„ Union, subsidy .. .. .. .. 100
International Labor Office .. .. .. 1,400
Evian Committee on Refugees .. .. .. 550-
“Handbook of Australia” .. .. .. 2,500
Public Works Committee .. .. .. .. 2,000
Purchase of State portraits .. .. .. 1,200
Twenty thousand for a Travel Association that
won’t have a tap of work to do, travel being off the
map! Five thousand for a Grants Commission and
two thousand for a Public Works Committee for being
excrescences. Three-thousand-odd for “entertainment”
—in war-time! Nearly £48,000 for a League that is
as dead as Caesar's cat! And people are to be taxed
for all that, as well as for maintaining, on full salaries,
a swarm of Jacks-in-office, who during the war will
be chiefly occupied in keeping themselves warm half
the year and cool the other half.
In 1914 there was wild prodigality—especially in
the Defence Department—from which neither the
services nor the nation benefited. It is all too probable
that the same thing will happen this time. But making
the war an excuse for continuance of gross peace-time
extravagance should not be tolerated by Parliament,
and will be bitterly resented by the people.
Earle Page Resigns.
Earle Page’s resignation as leader of the Country
party leaves the way open for a settlement of the
family quarrel and for another agreement with the
U.A.P.—a consummation which anti-Labor daily
papers are doing their best to prevent.
Earle Page was virtually the creator of the party
which he led for 18 years. Since his return from the
war he has given almost the whole of his time to poli-
tics, abandoning in the beginning one of the largest
surgical practices in N. S. Wales. He has been member
for Cowper since 1919, and as Treasurer and Minister
of Commerce he held office for lli years.
As author of the Financial Agreement he deserves
to be remembered. The referendum at which the
nation accepted it, by majorities never approached
before or since, was a personal triumph for him. He
had no luck with his marketing schemes, but nothing
could shake his faith in them.
He was the father of rural hydro-electrical
schemes in the Commonwealth. His pioneer effort at
Nymboida (N.S.W.) serves thousands of farmers and
has been a model to other States. During the depres-
sion, when others were talking about what Govern-
ment should do, the doctor began a private settlement
of families on Clarence River land, and never looked
for praise.
There has been no harder worker in Parliament
or in the Ministries with which he has been asso-
ciated. Bruce used to say “I work seven days and
seven nights a week, but Page seems to have found
out how to use the fourth dimension.” And his party
never lost faith in him till he fell out with Mr. Men-
zies and named the grounds.
His friends say he was a sick man then, fitter for
a hospital than the Prime Ministership, which, brief
as his tenure was, he did not want. He has always
been ready to admit in principle that the largest party
in a coalition must provide the leader. In the election
of a successor he supported Mr. Cameron, admiring
the South Australian’s ability and strength of character.
Mr. Cameron is the kind of man who takes his
own course. A stubborn Australian of Scottish descent,
it is by no means certain that he could get on with
the stubborn Australian of Scottish descent who leads
the larger party, but in the supreme interests of Aus-
tralia the effort ought to be made. Mr. Menzies has
receded a little from the position he took up when
Dr. Page was the other negotiator. Though he is “not
prepared to have in Cabinet any Minister not selected
by me,” nor to bargain as to numbers, he assumes as
a matter of course that there must be discussion with
Mr. Cameron. At present both leaders seem to be
standing on their dignity. There has been too much
talk of dignity and prestige in the general conduct of
affairs.
In the present urgent situation it is necessary that
the Government should be strong in both Houses and
strengthened in personnel. Without doubt it would
be strengthened if Mr. Cameron, Mr. Fadden, Mr.
McEwen and possibly Mr. Anthony became Ministers,
especially as Dr. Page’s successor has firm and direct
ideas of what should be done for the defence of Aus-
tralia, and in his advocacy of the introduction of uni-
versal military training fears nobody.
War Cabinet Changes.
A U.A.P. War Cabinet was appointed after the nego-
tiations with the Country party had broken down. It
consists of the Prime Minister, Mr. Street, Mr. Hughes,
Mr. Casey, Mr. Guilett and Senator McLeay. There
is comment on the absence of Mr. Fairbairn, whose
Civil Aviation work has been outstanding.
There followed the announcement that 20,000
infantry are to be enlisted for home or overseas ser-
vice, and that the militia, “just under 80,000,” will now
be called up in two drafts for a month’s training.
At the same time additional increases in taxation
were introduced —75 per cent, of the price of gold in
excess of £9 Australian, and another 4.4 d. on com-
pany tax, making it 2s. in the £. Gold tax will extend
to New Guinea as well as Australia.
War expenditure, according to the Prime Minister,
will exceed £40,000,000 in the first year, as against
£15,000,000 in eleven months of 1914-15. This, the
Prime Minister declares, “completely disproves the
suggestion that Australia is hanging back, and that the
spirit of 1914 is lacking.” Effort is not to be judged
by expenditure, and, in any case, money had a far
greater purchasing power in 1914-15 than it has in
1939-40. For that reason, “A.I.F. rates,” which the
20,000 volunteers are to get, are now insufficient.
Possibilities in the Pacific.
“Feng-Shui”: In the Great War Japan did consider-
able service to the cause with which it was associated,
notably by escorting Australian transports. It ousted
the Germans from Tsingtao. In 1915, however, it
served on China the Twenty-one Demands.
A Chinese party arose which believed that declara-
tion of war on Germany would make it impos-
sible for Japan so to treat China. After the usual
civil war and Parliamentary upheaval, the war party
in China declared war on the Kaiser.
Immediately war experts all over the world, know-
ing nothing about the matter, started predicting the
arrival in Europe of incredible numbers of Celestials.
Actually, not a single yellow soldier landed in Europe.
A few coolies did, and one, his camp having been
bombarded, left an enduring memory by arriving at
a Channel port sporting a plug hat.
There are certain parallels between the situation
in 1914 and the present position, and there are extra-
ordinary possibilities in it. The Japanese have been at
war in China for two years, though they call the affair
an Incident. The ruling Chinese party was backed by
Moscow, which has now sold it, as it sold the Czechs
and the Poles. Suppose the ruling Chinese party de-
clared war on Germany. This would not be an em-
barrassing position for China, for the danger of its
having to repel a German invasion would be remote.
But it would be embarrassing for Japan, even if the
Chinese war on Germany was what the Chinese call
a “paper tiger.”
On the other hand, the Chinese may have learnt
from experience—if a nation ever learns—-that being
one of the victorious countries at a peace conference
is not necessarily an advantage. At Versailles the
victors received payment in accordance with their
potential capacity to demand it, and little nations
were deluged with all sorts of embarrassing riches.
China got nothing ; in fact, it lost more as a successful
belligerent than it would have lost as a neutral. The
Chinese were beside themselves with fury, but the
map-makers at Versailles never even listened to them.
But the war gave Japanese trade, commerce and
industry an enormous impetus. When it emerged from
the conflict its mercantile marine ranked as the third-
largesl in the world, and its manufactures had increased
out of all proportion. In process of time, other nations
having recovered their lost markets, it turned to China
again ; hence the China “Incident.”
It was the incapacity of European nations to settle
their differences amicably that produced the renaissance
of Japan as a great industrialised military nation. A
generation or two before it had been a nation of artists.
Now it has become a nation of businessmen and
soldiers. War may produce a similar renaissance in
China.
In short, Hitler’s “triumphant” policy may have
some strange repercussions.
The British Purchases.
Britain agreed to buy the whole of the Australian
wool clip at a price which, when this was written, had
not been agreed upon. Immediate sequels show
how carefully these matters should be arranged.
The first step in the introduction of the purchase
scheme was a proclamation prohibiting export of
wool, wool-tops, noils and wastes. This cut out Aus-
tralia’s normal trade in partly-manufactured and pro-
cessed wools. Then all Australian private contracts
for scouring and carbonising greasy wool were can-
celled ; and 500 wool and basil workers lost their jobs
“temporarily.”
While every help must be given to Britain, the
Commonwealth Government should exert its influence
to see that all purchases are used to help Britain’s war
effort and not to aid Bradford manufacturers anxious
to destroy processing of wool in the country in which
it is produced. Loss of employment suffered by
manufacturing wool workers might have greater reper-
cussions on Australian defence policy than the export
of a certain amount of manufactured or partly-pro-
cessed fleece to other Dominions and allies and friendly
neutrals. Every extra man employed in developing
wool manufacture in Australia releases a worker in
Britain for military service or war-material work.
Nor should the effect of wool restriction on
Japan be forgotten. At present, because of its own
war measures and currency difficulties, Japan is
managing with an absolute minimum of raw wool.
To have to replace this with manufactured European
woollens and worsteds would be a heavy burden. Italy’s
position, too, must be considered.
In fact, every measure possible should be taken
to keep normal channels of trade open and neutrals
satisfied.
A Ministry of Information.
In 1918 Mr. Hughes conceived the idea of a Com-
monwealth Propaganda Bureau. An insurance co.
manager and the warden of a Melbourne University
college were appointed to the central office, and com-
mittees were formed in all States, the personnel being
mostly gentlemen who knew nothing about publicity.
It was intended to have paid secretaries in each capi-
tal with departmental status. One of the chosen
officials offered to do his job for nothing in his spare
time. While the organisers were recovering from this
shock the war ended.
That Propaganda Bureau is to be reborn as a
Ministry for Information, with Mr. Gullett as poli-
tical head and the National War Museum Director,
Major Treloar, as permanent head—at £l2OO a year.
There will be State branches and advisory committees,
•presumably to see that information issued is the right
sort of information. In short, a grand new department
modelled on a British improvisation which has had
to be apologised for already.
The ordinary channels of information seem ample
enough to keep the public informed. Already depart-
ments are stiff with publicity men—trade, travel and
so forth. Also private secretaries whose jobs may
become sinecures who know more about presswork
than the head of the new department will know 10
years hence.
A copious supply of cablegrams which have been
passed by British censors comes to the daily press. It
is supplemented by a continuous flow of radio bulle-
tins from all over the world. The Australian censor
and his staff can attend to these matters, and also to
such radio “news commentators” as require attention
—one of the gentry still wants to fight the world.
It would be a misfortune if information were
bureaucratised, as almost every other phase of Gov-
ernment activity has been bureaucratised in the last
few years.
New Guinea and Papua.
The “expert” committee on Papua and New Guinea —
Mr. F. W. Eggleston and two civil servants, one from
Papua and the other from New Guinea —has reported
against amalgamation.
It considers amalgamation “undesirable in the
interests of the Territories and their peoples.” The
main obstacles, in its view, are “difference of laws,
administrative conditions, difficulties arising from
differences in financial positions and considerations
arising out of the Mandate.”
So it advises that the two be maintained, and
that Lae be the new capital of New Guinea. A previ-
ous committee recommended Lae, but the recommen-
dation was ditched by Mr. Hughes, who favored
Salamaua. The committee is against Salamaua because
of the large expenditure necessary to reclaim its swamp
lands. It does not even believe that Salamaua, now
an established port and air terminus, should be con-
nected with Lae by road, though the two are on oppo-
sides of the same gulf.
Parliament was not consulted about the appoint-
ment of this committee, and Parliament should not
let it have the last word. The only geographical divi-
sion between New Guinea and Papua is an arbitrary
line drawn across the map. There are certainly
financial and administrative differences. New Guinea
has gold just across the border from Papua,
and New Guinea has always been more lavish in its
expenditure and prone to cut its coat to Geneva
standards. But there is no obstacle to joining the
two, save the pretence that New Guinea is held as a
sacred trust for a League which cannot even hold a
meeting to discuss its affairs and is under sentence of
eviction from Switzerland. Japan has already annexed
mandated territory in the Pacific, only 300 miles from
New Guinea.
From the moment Parliament decides that the two
territories are integral parts of the Commonwealth,
all difficulties can be swept away. The only section
of the population which is likely to feel that it is
suffering is the large foreign element congregated in
the Mandate.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: As a retired cable editor whose
experience of filling in war messages goes
back to the Russo-Japanese affair, let
me testify that the boys on the
Great Dailies I have studied are doing
a good job. Beyond a tendency to give
duality to the sort of frontier town or
village that has two names, German and
French, I have noticed nothing wrong
so far. It was different in 1914, when
rapid enemy movements over Belgian
and French country with hundreds of
place-names were dreadfully confusing
to scribes unfamiliar with military terms,
and with French. Sometimes the village
of Tete de Pont was taken and retaken,
and an advance from the Maas to
the Meuse was followed by the cap-
ture of Point d’Appui. I admit, more-
over, that we let too many things go on
in “en-Woevre,” and that on one occa-
sion we had a Fritz force in three places
at once—Nieukerke, Neukirch and Neuve
Eglise. But it' was all done in the good
cause of enlightening the people.
* * * «
“Togeroa”: Add to cities that never
acquired a population (B. 13/9/’39)
Cornwallis, which nearly a hundred years
ago was planned to be the leading city
of Maoriland. The ship Brilliant brought
the first citizens, and a large area of land
on Manukau Harbor, the back door of
Auckland, was acquired and actually laid
out, with a fine city square, Brilliant-
place, and streets named after celebrities.
But the Manukau was found to be un-
suitable for shipping, and the infant
Auckland had made such immense strides
that the new arrivals preferred to make it
their home. Except for a few scattered
residences, Cornwallis is as deserted to-
day as it was a century ago.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Goulburn Gaol (N.S.W.) is
just as up to date as the American Sing
Sing (B. 13/9/’39) in allowing prisoners
to study music. Under Governor Smith,
two long-sentence men not only studied
musical theory, but sat for exams., which
they passed. Another man filled in his
leisure doing wonderful needlework, and
a fourth was an expert woodcarver.
* * * *
“Zeter und Mordio”: I’m wondering
whether Siegfried was quite the right
name to give that chain of forts along
the Western Front. In the first place,
Siegfried was a Dutchman ; in the second
place, he got mixed up with a brother-
in-law named Gunther, who induced a
Dane (or Norman) to murder him. Any-
way, as those who know their Nibelun-
genlied are aware, Siegfried, prior to this,
had had a few rounds with a dragon in
whose blood he bathed, this salutary pre-
caution resulting in his being covered
with a horny hide which made him in-
vulnerable except in one spot between the
shoulder-blades, on which a linden leaf
had stuck. It was there that Hagan, the
Dane or Norman, socked him while he
was drinking at a fountain. As Sieg-
fried is always associated with the
Achilles-heel complex, and as there is
another Gunther (from Chicago) urging
England and her neighbors to squelch
Nazism, it sounds ominous, as any for-
tune-teller would admit. But perhaps
Adolf and his pals are not superstitious.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The shade of Clemenceau
must grin at the sight of the League of
Nations and its International Labor
Office under notice of eviction within any
given 24 hours as a potential risk to the
independence and neutrality of Switzer-
land. Even more widely at the City of
Peace becoming one of the defended
Swiss frontier posts, the subordinate staff
of the £1,750,000 Palace of Peace
Through Justice all called to the colors,
and disarmament experts having to clean
out their own offices and empty their own
waste-paper baskets. Future location
presents difficulty, as it must be in a
European member-State, and the League’s
unpopularity with the one-man-govern-
ment States makes it an undesirable
tenant. Vichy, in France, is tipped.
* * * *
“D.E.”: These protestations of de-
votion to the common cause by foreign
minorities with clubs and newspapers are
rather trying. I take it for granted that
our Greek friends are loyal to Aus-
tralia, so I don’t need to be assured that
they will defend it to the last hunk of
fried flathead. Neither does it thrill my
blood to read that “the Estonians, having
been under the German yoke for 700
years, will never forget the hardships suf-
fered by their forefathers,” and that the
“ How's the war affecting this place?"
“Wot War ?”
“committee of the Sydney Estonian
Society” is siding with the Empire against
“a reckless, irresponsible and power-mad
group.” The same with the war-whoop
of the “Progressive Federation of Yugo-
slavs”—“The fight is on, the fight for
democracy, liberty and independence of
nations ; the war against the bestial rule
of Fascism ; Fascism must be destroyed! ”
I suppose such sentiments are shared in
the homelands of these exuberant
foreigners. The fact remains that Greece
(in spite of those “credits”), Estonia and
Yugoslavia are devastatingly neutral.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Calling up of the militia
for training makes one think of those
early volunteers of 1914 —the hard-doers,
the silent bushmen, the larrikins, the
athletes, the students and so forth that
came forward in those old years that we
thought were dead but are seemingly
revived again. It is doubtful if any army,
however large, contained the variety of
types to be found in the A.I.F. Even
“Bindertwine” was there —he came out
of the Victorian mallee, and when they
got him to Broadmeadows and examined
him they decided that perhaps he would
be better in the artillery. He reached
the gunpark and was shown an 18-
pounder, and when they opened the
breech and invited him to look through
he did so, then straightened up and said,
“Gorbloomey, it’s got a nole right through
it!” And from then until he died (after
second Bullecourt) he kept the battery
in a ferment, for they never could decide
whether he was a dinkum dope or not.
* * * *
“X.S.”: One of the strangest cases of
suicide in Victoria’s history was aired in
the coroner’s court in Melbourne re-
cently. Subject was a patient of the
Kew Mental Asylum who, with five
others, had been taken by a warder to
the banks of the Yarra to dig sand. An
altercation arose between two of the
patients. One struck the other and then
rushed for the river. A third patient
overtook him in time to prevent his
throwing himself in, but while they were
all being shepherded back to the asylum
the patient who had been struck broke
away and tried to emulate his attacker
by throwing himself into the river. The
would-be rescuer once more intervened,
and in the struggle both fell into the
river and were drowned. All the other
patients tried to follow their example,
and it was only by superhuman efforts
that the warder avoided having to return
as an escort without a convoy.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: One of the more im-
portant items of war news from the
Western Front during the week appeared
in Sydney “Sun”: —
An exhausted concrete worker from
the Siegfried Line who boarded the train
at Frankfurt-am-Main said that after
working half a year, 11 hours a day,
including Sundays, he was ordered to re-
main on duty until December. He wanted
to marry but had no free day.
Perhaps his proposal to the Fiihrer was
not concrete enough; but in any
case non-Aryans must be moved to
admiration. Only a German with the
Si e 8 complex would be prepared to add
the burdens of matrimony to a 77-hour
week on a
“H”- Censorshin eh*? T ast time even
vprcitwo a P a t tlme
Orn’et nn tS W % Se o . f „ mine ’ AU
Qui t on the Western Front, was cen-
sored out of one paper because of its
references to the slaughtered. When I
used “9999th Reinforcement” as a pen-
name the censor struck it out lest it give
information to the enemy. And an artist
friend had his exultation at the prospect
of a cheque cut short by the news that
the censor had forbidden publication of
his drawing, which showed a very small
statesman in a wrvlarap rar
statesman in a very large car.
j at /-M. r i • ,
Lao-dah : Mr. Chamberlain s mo-
mentous Sunday-night declaration pro-
duced a change in the plans of at least
one young Australian. Employed on
Empire communications, he was on leave
in Melbourne from China. Not having
read the morning paper, he was strolling
along Collins-street on the Monday morn-
ing speculating as to whether he would
put in the day at St. Kilda or in the
mountains. A few hours later, his leave
cancelled, he was on his way by air, via
Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon and Hong
Kong, to a desolate island at the mouth
of the Foochow River.
“Cauboy”: Sponsors of the pro-
gramme for a Marjorie Lawrence recital
at Melbourne Town Hall were thrown
into a predicament by the Nazi invasion
of Poland. Items were to have been en-
tirely drawn from the works of German
composers, Wagner and Richard Strauss.
Fears of the effect on an audience at the
present juncture suggested the complete
scrapping of the programme and the sub-
stitution of British music, but after a
consultation between the Australian
singer and conductor Bernard Heinze, it
was decided to eliminate Strauss, as in a
sense trading with the enemy in the
matter of royalties, but to stick to Wagner
and fill up the gap with French and Eng-
lish composers.
sic * * *
“T.S.”: 1939 has been a bad year for
astrologers, and fickle Venus has let them
down horribly. From printed astrological
predictions for 1939: —“September 13:
This new Moon could well be named the
Moon of Peace, because it occurs in con-
junction to Venus and upon the mid-
heaven over Europe, showing most help-
ful conditions for the preservation of
peace.” And Sydney “Sunday Sun’s”
astrological notes, published on the day
war was declared, in a brief summary of
the year following a birthday on Sep
tember 4 predicted that “the young and
free may expect a pleasant year, with
many plans for nest-building and such-
like. The older ones who previously
have lived a dull emotional life may find
it very much brightened.”
* * * *
“Alpha”: “F.S.” (B. 6/9/’39) evidently
is not familiar with the principles of
aerial camouflage work. Those “trees that
don’t look like trees” are not intended to
be seen by an observer from any angle,
since the airman is almost exclusively
concerned with shadows. A regularly-
shaped shadow is an indication of man-
made works, and a potential target, since
little in nature is geometrically exact. The
camouflage artist therefore strives to
break up shadow outline, or simulate
natural shadows. Coloring is of second-
ary importance, as the camera is the
main enemy, and it is color-blind ; eleva-
tion and swiftness of flight tend to defeat
the observer’s naked eye, so far as detail
is concerned. In regard to ground ob-
servation, a quite different problem arises,
and “realism” is sometimes necessary.
Usually, however, the best results are
achieved by tinting the concealed object
to avoid contrast with its surroundings,
breaking up the regular outline, and
merging the scheme into the general
background.
* * * *
“T.S.”: That word “Service” has beeii
overcommercialised. I rang the doorbell
and the lady of the house asked me my
business. “It’s in connection with
National Emergency Service,” I began,
but got no further. “No thanks —we get
all our groceries from Jones’s,” was the
retort, and the door was closed before I
even had a chance to mention that there
was a war on.
I WONDER.
“The Lang; forces have decided not to break away
from the official Labor party, but to try to regain
control at the next Easter conference. If successful
they will re-elect Mr. Lang- as leader.”
I wonder if his dash is done,
His crowded hours for ever past;
If he so many scraps who won
Has got it in the neck at last.
I wonder if his goose is cooked,
And if he’s down and out and under,
Henceforth a has-been to be booked.
I wonder.
I wonder if, unkindly shot
From off the wall he once bestrid,
He feels resigned to having got
What poor old Humpty Dumpty did,
Or if he hopes the fickle mob
Will presently undo their blunder
And shove him back into his job.
I wonder.
1 wonder if that angry yell
Will soon be drawing to a close,
And cease to give vociferous hell
To recreant mates and caustic foes.
Who will there be to soak the rich
By levies on their ill-earned plunder,
And brickbats at the banks to pitch?
I wonder.
I wonder if he’s got the knock
For keeps—the sack, the boot, the toss,
Or whether he’ll survive the shock
To re-emerge the Labor Boss.
And, if he should regain the post,
Again to foam and fume and thunder,
Which do you think will profit most,
His own—or the opposing host?
I wonder.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


On account of the increased cost
of printing paper and the
threatened limitation of supplies,
it is necessary to restrict the
number of papers sent to news-
agents for casual sales. There-
fore, regular readers of “The
Bulletin” and the “Woman’s
Mirror” are advised to ask their
newsagent to keep their copies
for them each week or to have
them delivered.
“I tried to reason with 'im, but 'e just Worships Chamberlain!
“Gert’s Bertie”: The only things in
this war which so far have made me froth
at the mouth are the flapper-press head-
ings about the “gallant women anxious
to serve” and the sight of young females in
uniforms. One particular corps has given
me several attacks of apoplexy. They
parade the Sydney streets in fusilier caps
and light-blue uniforms which must
have cost about seven quid a time, and
their arms are decorated with color
patches in imitation of the fighting A.I.F.
Their rigs are of such a color that the
mark would show if they even dribbled
on them. If they are for working in, they
are about as serviceable as an evening
gown ; and if they are not, the money
spent on them is sheer waste and would
have been better applied buying ammu-
nition. Any kind of work that is really
worth doing can be done by the most
perfect lady in a pair of khaki shorts
and a shirt to match, but the big Aus-
tralian cities are full of pushing organisa-
tions, some of which are recruited by
“examination.” One dame I met last
week shows what the examinations are
like: “He was a nice man —quite good-
looking. I couldn’t answer any of the
questions because I hadn’t had time to
look them up. But he kept on saying:
‘Oh, but you meant so and so, didn't
you?’ Yes, I got through.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There were eight Schwerdts
in the sheaf-tossing competition at Adel-
aide’s Royal Show: six brothers, their
father and a cousin. Two of them got
to 49ft., but a dark horse with a 3ft.
handicap did the same height. A chap
named Tonzing was the winner ; others
competing were Koch and Thiel and
Zerg. They are all of the South-German
strain that came here a century ago to
breathe freer air. The breed has made
valuable citizens —farmers mainly, though
not entirely—and, in the last war, fine
fighters for Australia too.
* * H= *
“Ballidu”: “Dick Tafone’s” account
(B. 23 / 8 / ’39) of the hardships suffered by
door-to-door salesmen can’t apply to
W.A. Here an agreed-on retainer is paid,
whether or not sales or the profit thereon
reach that amount. Naturally if after
a few weeks’ trial the canvasser’s figures
are consistently under his retainer he
goes. Only collectors (insurance and
t.p.) are required to provide a guar-
antor —usually for about £5O. Some-
times fidelity bond insurance (annual
premium about 16s. in our case) is
used instead. The firm that employs
me as salesman-collector pays the union
rate of wages (shop assistants’ scale) and
calls it an advance against commission.
Commission earned is balanced against
wages paid, and if greater shows up in
the form of periodical cheques. Other
firms have slightly different methods, but
I have never encountered anything re-
motely resembling “D.T.’s” tale of woe.
* * *
“Maski”: Australians are not the only
people faced with a rise in the price of
beer, and they are taking it easier than
the Maorilanders, who have been going
through similar anguish. With excise
up 3d- a gallon, and £BOOO worth
of new glasses on order as a pre-
liminary to reducing the 13oz. glass
to 12oz. and the 9oz. glass to Boz.,
bars seem fuller of an evening than I
remember them, as if the whole popula-
tion were doing a bit of stoking up
against hard times to come. In Maori-
land the price increase was countered
with rebellion in many a workers’ pub,
and the pubs didn’t hang out very long.
After reading a few resolutions from
unions that members would refuse to
drink beer until it was reduced from the
new rate of 6d. a handle of lOoz. to 6d. for
120 z., the pubs caved in on handles, and
bottles came down from Is. 9d. to the
original Is. 6d. Bung holds that these
rates are “practically cost price,” but no
bankruptcies have yet been reported.
*•& sjc *
“S.T.S.”: An echo of
last January’s heat-wave
in S.A. has reached the
courts in a batch of
compensation cases. A
widow claimed for fatal
heat-stroke to her hus-
band working in the
sheep-runs at the abat-
toirs. Two men claimed
for the lasting effects of
collapse sustained whilst
road-digging or unload-
ing timber on the
record days at 114 to
117 degrees. The de-
fence was that the heat
was just “a natural con-
dition, which the whole
community suffe r e d
alike,” and that the
sufferers were exposed, in the course of
their employment, to only the same
weather conditions as their mates who
came through without mishap ; but the
Court called it “abnormal risk” which
had been the cause of either death or
continued incapacity, and compensation
was allowed in each case.
# * * *
“Ente Marid”: Cablemen thought it
worth while to mention the “singularly
informal” look of the plain sheet of paper
on which Mackenzie King wrote
Canada’s declaration of war, which was
then copied out by a clerk and cabled
to be approved by the King. It shows
how pretentious we have become in the
last century. In George lll.’s day, headed
paper with its embossing and crests was
an exception rather than the rule—the
bad form of profiteers, in fact. I have
letters of Wellington’s written when he
was a Duke and Prime Minister on plain
sheets of paper, and the Mitchell Library
owns a couple of notes from royal princes
written from Kensington Palace —one
was Kent, the father of Queen Victoria
—with never a crest or a line of print
on either.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Yarning with the officer
who controls the wireless activities of
a Government department, a man who
had graduated from the ranks of radio
amateurs to his now very responsible
position, we got to the war-time ban
on amateur radio. “Suits me,” he
said; “we can get some real go out
of our operators now. They come on
duty full of enthusiasm after a spell
off, whereas before they came on duty
bleary-eyed from lack of sleep after
spending all their time chasing DX.” Ex-
planation is that many of these operators
were also radio amateurs and operated
their own stations at home.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Nothing better shows the
diversity of people’s reactions to fear
than a photograph from London of the
disturbance created by a man who threw
a handful of what looked like bombs
into a crowd gathered at Downing-street.
A woman has thrown herself on the
ground on top of her two children in an
endeavor to protect them from the ex-
pected explosion. A few feet away from
this magnificent display of the maternal
instinct a young man is rushing forward
with a camera to get a snap of the occur-
rence. Many of the onlookers look less
alarmed than curious, and there is every
degree of progress of reaction to the dire
external stimulus. The “bombs” were
blackened tennis balls.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: My first day out with
the suitcase finished me. In the sales
school I had been taught the art of
dominating the prospect, I had the talk
off pat, and in the demonstration which
I gave to the sales manager before the
class of 40 lusty recruits I got top marks.
So did all the others. Then the sales
manager selected the brightest lads and
showed by actual example how to meet
and overcome all objections and the
quickest way to close the business. My
timid knock at the first door next day
produced a weird result. With ghostly
reality the door opened silently and
slowly about four inches. A face was in-
serted in the crack. It was sharp-pointed
and pink, and adorned with two pene-
trating savage little eyes. “Good morn-
ing,” I began, “I —I don’t suppose you
would be wanting to buy any soap to-day
—no, I thought you wouldn’t —good
day.” I wonder what that sales manager
would have done.
* * * *
“Uncle Pharaoh” pioneers a pro-
fession :
After some delay, I have chosen my cushy
war-time job. lam going to open a school
to instruct policemen who will be charged
with handling the new regulations about hotel
registrations. You ' mightn’t think there was
much in that unless you know Eastern Europe,
but a free lesson will soon dispel doubts. To
be a successful hotel passport cop you need
a general’s uniform, black cock’s feathers for
millinery, an outsize cavalry sabre and top-boots
that creak. You begin work at 5 a.m., when
you bang with the sabre on the hotel door.
You con the register. Then you yell: “Room
548.” You creak up to room 548. Mr. and
Mrs. Joneski, of Boggabri, are there enjoying
the last remnants of beauty sleep. “Open!”
you holler, at the same time lamming Chloe
out of the door panel with your armory and
creaking loudly with your boots, “Polizei!
Gendarme!” Joneski rises like a kangaroo
and opens. Negligently you creak in, drop
your sabre on the cowering Mrs. Joneski and
say: “Hah! Your wife, eh?” as if you had
discovered the gunpowder plot. Without wait-
ing for'an answer, you shout: “Passport!
Reisepasse!” Joneski hops to produce it.
You read it as if it were Assyrian cuneiform
for several minutes. Then you point an accus-
ing finger and howl: “True, is it not, this?”
Joneski makes affidavit. Slowly you rise and
remove sabre from bed, straighten millinery,
twirl moustaches, shake head, creak to door
as if going for handcuffs, look sternly at victims
as if to say, “Beware, a time will come!” and
close door very quietly, at the same time trying
the handle. You then lurk in a passage till
Joneski goes to bathroom and you hear the
shower flowing. Now come smartly up and
begin process of bearding Joneski again. By
the time he has seen your sabre and heard
you creak in the bathroom, breakfast-room,
writing-room and some more intimate places, a
suitable inspiration is sure to come to him.
If he is a foreigner, you may be able to buy
slivovitza enough to tide you over several jags.
“She’s bin like that since the third of September.”
EX NIHILO.
“It’s no use writing poems about the poems you
haven’t written.” —“Answers to Correspondents,”
13. 13/9/’39.
“The song that once I dreamed about,
The tender, touching thing,”
I never entertained a doubt
From shore to shore would ring,
The masterpiece I thought I could
Achieve sometime, somehow,
Yet never did —ah, what’s the good
In telling of it now?
It might have been acclaimed and hailed
As something rare and prime
If rhyme for reason hadn’t failed
Or reason failed for rhyme,
Or inspiration’s fount run dry
Before the goal was won—
Or any other reason why
The poem was never done.
It would have held, I dared to hope,
That song I sought to sing,
Some of the nimble wit of Pope
And some of Swinburne’s swing;
And there might, too, be touches there,
And rhythmic bursts and beats,
For purring critics to compare
With Tennyson and Keats.
I aimed too high, I’m sad to say,
By vain ambitions swayed,
And learned too late I couldn’t stay
The course or make the grade.
And now ’twould get, I may not doubt,
The editorial goat
For me to versify about
The verse I never wrote.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


gas
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
CRAVEN A
IfeuU aftpieciafo thefo
mm
ifq vanity/
m
S
xx
H
PREVENT
Tnrmm
POLITICAL POINTS
Hitler is guilty of this war, but on
Judgment Day others will stand beside
him; among them Stalin and the Inter-
national Sooler. The International Sooler
has many names and many countries,
but the American specimen is the foulest.
Washington’s favorite pastime, giving
the Nazis hell with mouths and fountain
pens, was abandoned the moment war
came ; but Congress is to be asked to
alter the nootrality law by reinserting
the cash-and-carry clause. If Congress
does, Uncle will get the cash and weep
bitterly for such carriers as are mined,
bombed, shelled or torpedoed. To the
sheer nobility of cash-and-carry only a
Liverpool stoker could do justice.
The Russians must have begun mobil-
ising against Poland without communi-
cating their intentions to Australian
Communists. Anyway, Comrade Miles
held forth in this strain at Transport
House, Sydney:
The attack on Poland by German Fas-
cism was an act of stark aggression with-
out any justification whatever. Com-
munists and all peace-loving people will
support the Polish people’s struggle against
enslavement by brutal Fascism.
And now, of course, they’ll have to
support the Polish people’s struggle
against enslavement by the brutal
Fascism of Moscow. Forward, scattered
fragments of the Red International
Brigade, “the greatest fighting force the
world has ever seen”!
Page having gracefully effaced himself,
Cameron has become leader of the
Country party; but there is to be no
coalition Government yet awhile.
Menzies, “unanimously” supported by
the U.A.P., insisted that he should
decide how many C.P. Ministers there
should be and pick them; and the
Agrarians wouldn’t agree. So a War
Cabinet has been named Menzies,
Street, Casey, Hughes, McLeay and
Gullett. Along with the Ministry of In-
formation, this seems to be a return to
the “tune-in to Britain” policy.
Five years ago a determined-looking
Digger-farmer arrived at Canberra from
Barker (S.A.) and straightway challenged
the qualifications of Jock Garden, on
the ground that he had been an avowed
Communist who gloried in having taken
instructions from a foreign Power. Gar-
den’s associates were indignant at the
newcomer’s presumption, but were soon
forced to recognise that there was stuff
in him. Three years later he was a
Minister. Now he is leader of the
Country party, and in his first speech as
such he demanded the immediate enlist-
ment of 100,000 men for six months’
training, additional drafts of the same
number, and universal training for home
defence, all as parts of one clear policy:
resolute and ruthless prosecution of the
war.
It wouldn’t be safe to wager that there
won’t be a Cameron Government before
the war is over.
The Westralian “Parliament” resumed
“business” on August 3, and at the end
of the month it had done nothing but ask
questions and gas on address-in-reply.
On the eighth day of address-in-reply in
the Council proceedings began at 4.30
p.m., stopped at 6.15 for 75 minutes of
fodder and reflection and closed at 8.51
on “question, put and passed,” that the
House go out of action for six days. On
the tenth day of address-in-reply in the
Assembly the gentlemen rested from their
labors after they’d gassed for a trifle
over four hours. There are 80 members,
: who get £6OO p.a. and free railway and
J tramway passes, with a lot more for
) President, Speaker, Chairmen of Com-
mittees and Ministers—nine!
Old-age and invalid pensions are ex-
pected to cost £16,700,000 this year. The
outlay on war pensions is reckoned at
less than half—£B,2B7,ooo, although it
includes “payments to ex-soldiers and
nurses whose earning power has gone.”
Commonwealth income tax, which
brought in £11,883,000 last year, land tax
(£1,489,000) and estate duties (£1,915,000)
are now wholly mortgaged to pay old-
age and invalid pensions, and other taxes
have to make up the difference. Every
politician vaguely admits that something
will have to be done about it. Casey, his
eyes turned towards Washington, is will-
ing to let anyone else produce a plan, his
own having been dropped into the rush-
ing Molonglo.
“S. M. Herald” is still blithering about
“the surrender of the Western Powers at
Munich”, and “the sacrifice of Czecho-
slovakia.” It doesn’t, of course, mention
the surrender of the Russians, who had
an alliance with their blood-brothers the
“President Roosevelt repeated his pledge to defend Canada were it to be attacked by any non-British nation.”
“Lissen, you—attack my twelve million Canadians and I’ll lam you war is hell”
Czechs and quitted them almost as
basely as, 11 months later, they quitted
their other blood-brothers the Poles.
But does anyone, except Granny and
A.8.C., now believe that Britain,
tragically ill-prepared as it then was,
should have fought for Czecho? If
it had done so it would have had to
fight not only Germans but Hungarians,
Slovaks and Poles ; and Czecho wouldn’t
have lasted 48 hours.
Roberts, the professor with three jobs,
admits to feeling “chafed”:
Some of us, missing the feverish rush
to canvas in the first few days of the last
war, have chafed at the relative inactivity.
There was an excuse for Roberts “miss-
ing the feverish rush to canvas” last time,
for he was only 13 then. But they are
taking volunteers of 38 in Britain, and
there should be a special welcome for
professors—heroes of a hundred fights
with tongue and pen.
A few Sydney people are writing to the
papers to say that Stevens is just the man
to save the country. But who is Stevens?
In July 8.8. C. engaged one of the
A.B.C. “news commentators,” a Mr.
MacMahon Ball, to spout on “Australia’s
foreign policy.” Concluding spasm, as
reported in the “Listener”:
The principle of collective security, of
resistance to aggression, in the East as in
the West, is the only principle that can
give a firm and consistent basis for unity
of policy between Britain, Australia and
America. Such a policy should also bring
the co-operation of the Soviet Union.
Australia’s foreign policy? No ; A.B.C.
moonshine.
“WILL STALIN DOUBLE-CROSS
HITLER?” asks the “D.T.” Perhaps he
will. Certainly he double-crossed the
“D.T.,” “S. M. Herald,” “The Watch-
man,” Mr. Kurt Offenburg and thou-
sands of professors, American novelists,
Australian Communists, British editors
and the British Labor and Liberal parties.
Trembling at its own temerity, Sydney
“D.T.” suggested that “Stalin may have
cynically sacrificed the Poles —and peace
—so as to lead Germany into the trap
of a hopeless war.” It describes this as
“a strange new theory.” The entire Com-
munist press has been barking the rubbish
for weeks, hoping that asses have short
memories as well as long ears.
Are there secret clauses in the Germano-
Italian treaty? There were in the old
Triple Alliance instrument. One was that
in no circumstances was Italy to be
dragged into war with Britain. Other
articles were to the effect that Italy was
not bound to assist Prussia or Austria
or both in a war of aggression, and that
if aggressive action was contemplated—
as against Serbia —Italy was to be con-
sulted so that the Italians might have an
opportunity of moving for peace. It
was on the ground that these articles had
been ignored that Italy declared itself
neutral on August 3, 1914.
When it was proposed that the nation
should take care of Joseph Lyons’s
widow, and ten of his eleven children
until they could earn something for them-
selves, opponents —not Labor members
—spread the yarn that the dead P.M-
was a rich man; and this no doubt had
something to do with the failure of the
memorial-bursary fund in his own State.
What a cruel lie it was has been shown
by the lodging of his will for probate.
He left exactly £836.
In future the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is to charge 5 p.c. for collecting
money due to creditors with garnishee
orders against employees. Nothing
wrong with that; but there is with this:
the legal right to garnishee is to be taken
away from “moneylenders” without the
sanction of “the chief officer of the de-
partment.” The excuse is that “officers”
are “exploited,” and that the number of
garnishee orders has become embar-
rassing. Last year 2400 were issued in
the P.M.G.’s department alone.
In quarters notorious for the preaching
of a holy war against Anti-Comintern
Pact Powers, it is now unctuously asserted
that Australia will make money out of
the war. Australia won’t make money
out of the war, and no good Australian
wants to make money out of the blood
and agony of British Tommies, airmen,
seamen and bluejackets and the tears of
their womenfolk. The good Australian’s
sentiments have been well expressed by
Curtin, who suggests that the people of
Australia should make a gift of a million
pounds’ worth of food to the people of
Britain.
The State Premiers’ Union will have
to do something about Daladier. Re-
sponsible as Premier to an empire at
war, an empire with 42,000,000 people
in France and 65,000,000 overseas, the
fellow has actually become Minister of
Defence, Minister of War and Foreign
Minister. Mair and Dwyer-Grey, the
two latest members of the union, have
no use for that sort of blacklegging. They
are “Premiers without portfolio.”


“KINDNESS IN ANOTHER’S TROUBLE.”
“A display of thoughtfulness and human kindness towards the relatives of enemy aliens would not be incompatible with determination to fight in a good cause.


The Smallest, Lightest and Most Complete
Portable in the World
"The Baby”
EMPIRE
No other typewriter at this price
can give yoa ALL these features
• Completely standard keyboard
• Interlineator
• Paper support
• Itight and .Left Margins and release
e English STEEL typebars
• Card holder and paper bail
• PULL length cylinder
• FULL length ribbon
• Automatic ribbon reverse
Weighs 8»lb. Made in England, and it’s
RUST resisting.
Over 150,000 machines of this type are in use
throughout the world.
■to
r
£12112/-
Cash or Easy Terms.
Roneo Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
21 Hunter Street, SYDNEY
Jackson & O’Sullivan,
Queen Street, BRISBANE
John Withers & Son Pty., Ltd.,
210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
43 Creek Street, BRISBANE
Holdsworth & Co., Ltd..
A.D.C. Building’s, Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE
J. Walsh & S'ons Pty., Ltd.,
130 Macquarie Street, HOBART
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATE
gives you:
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s leading
companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £2O-25 (approx.) you can
secure an interest in 20 sound enterprises,
known throughout Australia. Income is paid
twice yearly.
S 3
ZO CO^^
Custodian T-rustees for Investors
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Telephone: 85294.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia’s war-time Controller of
Shipping, Commander George Davies Wil-
liams, R.N.R., of Sydney, is a Welshman
who started his seafaring in the merchant
service, but had a R.N.R. commission as
far back as 1909. He served in the Syd-
ney and Australia for a while in the
Great War, and was in the Zeebrugge
show. The Armistice found him in com-
mand of H.M.S. Marguerite. Good
work in the /Egean and Black seas won
him the D.S.O. in 1919. He has held
many important shipping billets in Aus-
tralia—most recently the presidency of
the N. S. Wales Maritime Services Board.
He had his sixtieth birthday last Sunday.
One of the first R.A.F. officers to
strike a streak of bad luck was L. H.
Edwards, a Maorilander. He has since
turned up slightly wounded in Ger-
many, whence was broadcast what
purported to be an interview with
him. He is a Patea boy who was
in the M.L. Air Force. Last April
he went to England to do a special train-
ing course with the R.A.F. He was one
of M.L.’s leading Rugby men, and played
for Wellington and North Island and
once for “the Rest” against the All-Black
team, for which he narrowly missed selec-
tion.
Sydney’s Canon Hammond, as noted
for his practical labors on behalf of the
underdog as for his assaults on the
Demon Rum, celebrated a few days ago
the twenty-first anniversary of his appoint-
ment as rector of St. Barnabas’s, the
little church in George-street West which
every now and then treats passers-by to
a grin by reason of some pithy epigram
on its notice board. Archbishop Mowll
has made the Canon Archdeacon of Red-
fern as a practical recognition of his good
work. Though he’s a big man with a
heavy jaw and a hard eye, there’s nothing
cumbersome about the new archdeacon’s
mental processes, and Sydney forgives
him his intolerances for the sake of the
vigor and wit with which he indulges ’em.
SIR CHARLES BARCLAY-HARVEY,
New Governor of S.A.
Adelaide gets a good gardener from
Melbourne in B. J. E. Bone, who had
charge of the nurseries at Fitzroy and
now succeeds the late A. S. Orchard as
Curator of Parks and Gardens in the
S.A. capital.
Crossed the bar at 70, Captain Arthur
James Elms, Lloyd’s surveyor at Port
Pirie (S.A.) for the last 15 years. Born
at Dover, in his half-century of seafaring
he sailed all the Seven Seas. He was
second navigation-lieutenant in the Terra
Nova when she sailed into the Antarctic
to take relief to Scott. One of Elms’s
shipmates on that occasion was Evans of
the Broke. In war-time Captain Elms
served in the R.A.N.
“Exdig”: One of the plums amongst
the jobs going on the Commonwealth’s
war establishment has dropped into the
mouth of Major J. L. Treloar, who was
a junior officer when he became O.C.
A.I.F. War Records, London. Treloar’s
labors there earned him higher rank and
a virtual lien on the later-created job of
Director of the Commonwealth War
Memorial. From that he has stepped into
the £l2OO p.a. position as administrative
head of the new Department of Infor-
mation. He’s a painstaking, methodical
chap, with a passion for detail. Artists at-
tached to the A.I.F. War Records Sec-
tion to put on canvas their memories
of the Diggers in action before the mem-
ories faded thought their chief was going
too far when he asked them to keep
diaries of their daily effort. Entries such
as “December 12, painted a bit of cloud ;
13, bit more; 14, ditto; 15, ditto,”
caused the instruction to lapse.
A link with the four Henty brothers
who founded Portland (Vic.) a year be-
fore Melbourne started on its first one
hundred years was snapped by the death
in Melbourne of Mrs. William Henty.
She married the youngest son of Stephen
Henty, who entered politics and became
a member of the Legislative Council.
Dead in Sydney, Alfred Consett
Stephen, 82, head of the old Sydney legal
firm of Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, and
descendant of one of Australia’s first
Chief Justices and first legal knight, who
came out with Governor Darling in 1825.
The family has since provided a second
C.J. and two other Judges, one of whom,
Edward Milner Stephen, died only a few
months ago. Consett Stephen was edu-
cated in England, at Tonbridge and New
College, Oxford, before returning in 1882
to join his father’s firm, which has en-
joyed a “Bellevue Hill” practice for
nearly three-quarters of a century —
“S. M. Herald” was among its clients,
and it has represented the A.M.P. for
over 60 years. Consett had been chair-
man of the Law Institute of N.S.W. and
a director of many leading companies.
He left one son—Leslie Consett Stephen ;
a second, Adrian, was killed in the 1914-
18 war.
Died at Tullamarine (Vic.) a few days
ago, William McNabb, last surviving
brother of the McNabbs who founded the
Oakbank Ayrshire stud, and who for
the last half-century have been Australia’s
leading breeders of Ayrshire cattle. There
is not an Ayrshire stud in Australia that
does not contain an infusion of Oak-
bank blood. When McNabb Bros, sold
their stud to P. H. Morton, of Sydney, it
was the largest single stock transaction
in Australian history. When Morton dis-
persed his stud the McNabbs bought back
all the picked animals. A nephew, Alex.
McNabb, and his two sons will carry on
the stud.
J. H. Lindon, recently appointed a
director of Vacuum Oil, is one of Aus-
tralia’s leading oil technicians. Born in
Adelaide, he graduated at Melbourne
Uni. as Bachelor of Civil Engineering,
and was for a while employed as a rail-
way construction engineer in S.A. He
enlisted in 1914 and rose to rank of cap-
tain in the Third Pioneer Battalion, with
M.C. After post-war engineering experi-
ence that included two years in the
U.S.A., where he looked after the interests
of the Michell crankless engine, he joined
Vacuum Oil as chief automotive engi-
neer ; many important executive positions
followed, including g.m. in M.L. He
returned to Sydney this year.
In Melbourne to lecture and examine
for the licentiate diploma of the Asso-
ciated Board of the Royal Schools of
Music, London, is Henry Cope Colies.
Dr. Colles is musical critic of the “Times,”
having succeeded Fuller-Maitland in
that position in 1911. He edited
the latest edition of Grove’s Dictionary
of Music, and has written a number of
tomes on musical subjects.
Athol Richardson, who as N. S. Wales
“Colonial Treasurer” has the job of look-
ing after that State’s sorely-muddled
finances, is a comparative newcomer in
ATHOL RICHARDSON.
Parliament, having been elected for Ash-
field in 1935. He’s a barrister, aged 41,
and did his bit with the A.I.F. in the
Great War. He was born at Newcastle,
N. S. Wales.
Edward Goll, who, with Sargent,
packed Melbourne Town Hall for the
concerto programme last week, is the
doyen of Melbourne musicians. He was
born in Czechoslovakia in 1884, and at
14 was touring Europe, England, America
and Australia. He won the Rubinstein
prize for the piano at 19. Health
reasons brought him to Melbourne in
1914, when he joined the musical staff
of the Uni. Conservatorium. His wide
knowledge of pianistic literature was dis-
played recently in a series of concerts
in which he played 350 pieces by 70
different composers, ancient and mod-
ern. To acquire that equipment one
needs to start early, and when Goll was
able to crawl he used to pull himself up
on the piano and rest his chin on the
keyboard while his father and mother
(who had 17 children) were playing, stay-
EDWARD GOLL.
ing there in a state of fascination until he
fell asleep and had to be carried off to
bed by one of his numerous brothers.
“J.E.8.”: Archibald Currie is dead in
Melbourne. Born in St. Kilda (Vic.) in
1868, he began his business life in the
shipping co. of his father, who appren-
ticed him to engineering and then sent
him round the world to learn something
about mankind. He managed his father’s
shipping business till 1913, when it was
bought by the 8.1.5. N. Until the end
of his life he had a seaman’s roll in his
walk. Though a strict Presbyterian, he
was liberal in his outlook. He was a
one-time president of the Royal Yacht
Club of Australia, but more Australians
remember him as a V.R.C. member —the
owner of The Crusader. He had a fine
Shorthorn stud at Yin Barun, near Ben-
alla (Vic.), and was a post-war pioneer
importer of good Scottish sires. One of
his daughters married a Syme of the
“Age.” Above all, he was a philosopher.
During the depression he put his hand
on the shoulder of a despondent N.S.
Wales pastoralist and remarked: “Laddie,
don’t worry. You and Lang will even-
tually lie petrified in the same creek.”
Admiral Sir George Fowler King-Hall,
Commander-in-Chief of the Australian
naval station from 1910 to 1913, died in
England the other day. The naval history
of the King-Hall family dates from 1805,
when James Hall forsook the ancestral
craft of weaving at Spitalfields to enter
the navy as a surgeon. The next genera-
tion was represented by Admiral Sir
William King-Hall, who joined the navy
in 1829. Sir George, who died the other
day, was his son. He retired at 63, but
was well on in the eighties when death
overtook him. Commander Stephen
King-Hall (compiler of “news-letters”)
represents the fourth King-Hall genera-
tion to have been in the navy.
Obit, a Maorilander who became a
big figure in mining in S’Africa: J. A.
Agnew. Agnew was chairman of Con-
solidated Goldfields of South Africa, on
the boards of 27 companies and director
of 12. He helped along the revival
of mining in Westralia, where he was
chairman of Lake View and Star and
the Wiluna Corporation, and assisted the
dredging industry in New Guinea. One
of his hobbies was philately, and his col-
lection is said to be worth £20,000.


oj
1-4 Volt
RADIO W
-TAKE A
m
m
■
m
*s!•>:'.> MMMxXW
■ ■■
Ms
S&s
vmm
'.....
11II : : : .
............JhH
m
mm
; ;
MS
MS
Ki-
rn
-
m-.
Sh®t-
Will
vmmm
m
:
CAH
you
!)s*■
10 Hi
AOU
A**l
V iHio&
c
1-4
> st
rT
POK
fNIt 11 '
COH v
cah $(
MOV
Bt
jOO
OOH
P
tftVW
HO
IS
N
pO/H'
CHI*
A
fVtH
If
US*
CAH
y-
&
mmmm
1.4 volt valves and dry batteries are
specially designed for use with each
other. Shown above are the PR4S and
PRB Radio Batteries specially engineered
to a size suitable for the smart modern
Portable radio YET capable of remark-
able performance dnd service. Offer-
ing an exceptionally long working
life they keep operating costs down
and eliminate the need for inconveni-
ent accumulators.
No Power Point
Accumulator or Aerial-
Simply Switch On, Tune In
EVERYWHERE you go out-doors this season you will see one of the
sensational new 1.4 volt Portable Radios. Equipped with the
wonderful new economy valves and operated entirely from specially
designed dry batteries they are lighter and more compact than any
other set you have ever seen—require no power point, aerial or
accumulator, cost as little as Id. per hour to run, and can be carried
and used anywhere. Just put it down and switch it on to skim the
cream of radio entertainment.
In the bush, at the seaside, even in the garden or as a "second set
around the house a 1.4 volt Portable radio offers you and your friends
endless hours of fun and music, so see your nearest radio dealer
to-day and ask him to show you one of the newest models—or write
to Box 37, P.O. Mascot, for advance literature. Sent Free.
1.4 Volt Portable Radio is Equipped with
eVEREADY
TRADE - MARK
✓
RADIO BATTERIES
EVEREADY (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Pl 9-1019


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: Mary looked up from the
paper she was reading. “My,” she said,
“Sam Splatts is engaged to Sarah
Brogan.” “What!” roared Dad. “I
thought he was sweet on you.” “So he
was,” replied Mary, tossing her head ;
“but I gave him the go-by.” “He ain’t
no catch, anyhow,” snorted Dad. “He’s
been cornin’ here for years, an’ all the
blighter ever done was to cadge terbaccer.
Too lousy to buy his own. Oh, well,
he’ll find he’s made a mistake.” “Yes,”
Mum chipped in, “I’m sure he will!”
“Too right, he will!” Dad stormed on.
“Brogan don’t smoke.”
* * * *
“Wabbalee”: One of the rarest of
Australian timbers is the wavy-grained
blackbutt or stringybark. During a five-
year stretch of sleeper-cutting in that
timber I never struck one. But a wavy-
grained spotted-gum isn’t hard to find—
not on the N.S.W. far-south coastal belt,
anyway. I have found the biggest per-
centage of wavy-grained timbers close to
the sea, more particularly on long head-
lands open to strong sea winds.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: He blew into a Sou’-
Westralian timber mill and put it to the
boss, who told him he could start next
morning as spotter — i.e., back-sighting
the big logs on the saw-bench. In the
morning he turned up complete with
collar and tie, and the boss raised his
•eyebrows and asked him wasn’t he start-
ing. “Too right,” he assured him. “I’m
ready to start when they do,” indicating
the cutters, who were preparing to leave
for the bush. “What d’ye think y’r going
to do?” asked the boss. “Why,” he said,
“spot the good logs for them.” The boss
told him quietly that the bush wasn’t quite
as thin as that, and wired to Perth for
a spotter.
* * * *
“Stultus”: A mate for “Geraldton’s”
heroic abo. (B. 2/8/’39) was Alipasa, a
Badu Island native who was crew
on a Japanese-captained m.o.p. lugger,
the Baedae, which foundered off Jackson
Island, n.-w. of Thursday Island. The
skipper could swim passably well, but the
diving tender could not. Alipasa set out
carrying the latter and directing the other
to follow him, and together they fought
a battle for hours against constantly
changing tides. They looked like making
the shelter of a reef in Travers Passage
when a trio of sharks cut them off. At
this the fatalistic Japs were for sinking
quietly below, but Alipasa urged them
to continue. He passed over his burden to
the swimmer of the two, and then turned
to remain himself as shark bait whilst the
others reached the shore, which they
actually did before Alipasa struck out for
himself. But he must have overestimated
“Thank goodness the army's mechanised THIS time, Dobbin."
even his own power of endurance, for
the sharks reached him before he made
the shore. To-day only a record in
the Japanese Club in T.I. is left of Ali-
pasa, whose brother Panielu is the
present-day headman on Badu Island.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: A bushman is always very
reluctant to admit that he is bushed, and
Bushman Jr. is a chip off the old block.
Young Jimmy Rigg, aged 10, got sepa-
rated from his father while they were
searching for bees’ nests in a thick forest
on Myrtle Creek (N.S.W.). Next morn-
ing he was discovered wandering aim-
lessly about several miles from home by
one of the neighbors who had joined
forces to look for him. “How did you
come to get lost?” the man asked him.
“I’m not lost,” said the kid resentfully ;
“I’m lookin’ for me old man.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Black swans are found
on all more or less still waters in Vic-
toria. Salt and brackish waters, lakes,
inlets and tidal rivers give them accom-
modation ; but what do they eat? Oyster-
growers declare they are vegetarians, and
swear by them as collaborators and
friends in the coastal rivers. Eschewing
the “spit,” which is the embryo oyster,
(hey feed on the green slimy weeds which
would otherwise destroy the spawn.
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: Of the few places where
seals are to be found in Australia the
least known are the Skerries, a small
mass of bumpy rocks in the sea 18 miles
from Mallacoota (Vic.), and quarter of a
mile from the inlet of Wingan Lake.
The Skerries are included in the large
Wingan sanctuary, the home of the big
yellow-legged black duck. But the Law
cannot patrol a far-away reserve which
has no road to it. The ducks probably
do not miss the few dozens of their
family bagged by alleged sportsmen —and
there is always the convenient justifica-
tion that food is food. Killing the
is another proposition. When his boat
is close to the Skerries one of the “big-
game hunters” picks off a seal with his
rifle. Witnessing death but not under-
standing it, the seals flop into the ocean
and swim out to the boat with an air
of friendly inquiry. Then the intrepid
sportsmen get to their big turn. With
a shotgun each they pepper the faces of
seals that are protected by law only.
Many are slaughtered. More unfortunate
still are those doomed to starvation
through being blinded by shot. The
seals are curious but harmless. If they
had an adaptable instinct for self-defence
a rush attack on the boat would intro-
duce a zest which is now entirely lacking
from the courageous sport.
“Devil Fish”: Seals sometimes come
into fresh water in Australia. The pub
at Conargo, on the Murrumbidgee, be-
tween Deniliquin and Hay (N.S.W.),
used to have the skin of one that was
killed there, nearly 1000 miles from the
mouth of the Murray. But unless the
yarn of one having been seen in Lake
Tiberias, in the middle of Tasmania and
1300 ft. above the sea, is right, they are
not so enterprising as in the Northern
Hemisphere. Big and Little Seal Lakes
in Labrador are so called because seals
breed in them, though they are 100 miles
from the sea and 900 ft. above it. In
Asia seals are permanent inhabitants of
Lake Baikal, though it is nearly 2000
miles from the ocean and, of course,
fresh.
* * * *
“W.8.D.”: The explanation of those
high-jump records (B. 16/8/’39) is simply
that the nags concerned weigh less at
Cairns (Q.) than at the southern capitals.
Gravity hasn’t the same effect, being
nearer the Equator. Increased value for
effort at Cairns as compared with (say)
Melbourne is, of course, only slight—
just enough to break records, in fact.
* # * *
“C.”: Who said the spirit of the
pioneer was dead? On a cruise in
Spencer Gulf recently I landed on Wedge
Island and met a young man named
Cooper, owner of the island, which covers
2000 acres, and enthusiastic sheep-farmer
and turkey-raiser. Two and a half years
ago Cooper was an accountant in Adel-
aide and had never turned a furrow on a
farm. Last year he sheared 1200 woollies
for 36 bales, and this year he will be ex-
porting fat lambs. He is using the C.S.
and I.R. remedy for coasty disease in
sheep ; he has sown down Wimmera rye
and burr clover, and is experimenting with
other grasses, and he has a good market in
Adelaide for his turkeys, which run wild
over the grassy slopes. Horsebreeding
is also engaging his attention, and when
he feels like a little sport he chases wild
goats along the cliffs; they were a
serious problem at first, but his shooting
has improved, and gradually the pest is
disappearing. Lonely? Cooper cheer-
fully denies this. He has a radio trans-
ceiver worked from air cells, and every
two weeks a ketch calls in with supplies
and to take away stock. The only regret
of this bronzed, heavily-bearded modern
Crusoe is that he stayed so long at his
accountant’s desk.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: There seems to have
been something wrong with this last
spring-summer changeover in S.Q. waters.
The humpback whales arrived with
their playful 20ft. babes on the south-
ward migration from equatorial to
Antarctic waters more than a month
earlier than usual. The same thing hap-
pened with the sea-curlews, those big
brown beach birds with the long curved
bills who make the journey to and from
Siberia every year. Whimbrels, godwits
and dotterels arrived on schedule time,
but the so-called Australian snipe, which
goes to Japan to breed, is weeks later
than usual. And deepwater fishermen
complain in fervent saltwater language
that snapper seems to have cleared out
from all the best reef grounds and left
them to rubbish of no market value.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A pair of kookaburras has
been setting up housekeeping in a spout
of a big grey-gum within easy binocular
range, and I confess to the ungentle-
manly act of peeping. Jacky is a gallant
and attentive husband, but the bride’s
efforts at looking and behaving as coyly
and modestly as bird etiquette demands
are a scream. The humor of it evidently
appeals to them both, for after each flir-
tatious interlude they howl with laughter
and do a ridiculous dance, beating the
rhythm with their tails and bursting into
guffaws which end in a chuckle. A
sound-picture of the performance would
make a small fortune for the lucky taker,
but in a lifetime of bush-stickybeaking
I’ve never before come across such a
pair of born comedians on their honey-
moon.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The reason why the
Torres Strait islanders (B. 6/9/’39) never
built their own canoes was that there
were no trees on their islands nearly big
enough for 60ft. or longer hulls. Also, the
five eastern islands where alone those
canoes were used were all colonies origi-
nally settled from the Fly River. There
never was any “cannibalistic raid and
counter-raid by vendor and buyer,” but
regular friendly trading. The islanders
never were cannibals anyhow. Canoes
were paid for in armshells through ac-
credited agents on each island, the order
placed at the end of the s.-e. season and
the canoe delivered by a Fly River crew
at Warrior Island in the n.-e. season,
thence going on to its destination with
islander crews. It is more than 30 years
since the last one came across, and white-
fella boats, often Jap-built in Thursday
Island, have long replaced them.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The mammoth among
cetaceans is the blue rorqual, but never
yet has an authenticated tape-measure
recorded one of 100 ft. (B. 23/8/’39),
though 90-footers are fairly common.
Perth Museum houses a skeleton, taken
on the W.A. south-west coast, that tapes
81ft., and is reckoned to be one of the
largest in the world. Whale measure-
ments are apt to be misleading owing to
the bulging cetacean bulk; footage
should be taken along the line of the
vertebrae, not from nose to tail around
the carcass. Taken the latter way, even
the humpback, which seldom reaches
50ft., stretches the tape very deceptively,
the bulk of the humpy being altogether
out of proportion to its length. Along
the W.A. coast, where humpbacks
abound, males seldom exceed 35ft., while
the females average 40ft. Among all the
Balcena tribe the female is larger than
her husband. The contrary holds with
the Cachalots, or toothed whales. It is
in bulk that the Balcena tops the century.
An 89ft. blue rorqual, weighed in sec-
tions at South Georgia (S. Atlantic),
added up to 119 tons. A 50ft. female
humpback in good Antarctic condition
probably touches 100 tons.
* * * *
“Rokko”: A Sydney doctor is fully in
accord with “Booraby’s” statement (B.
23/8/’39) that the small grass tick can be
worse than its much larger cousin. His
schoolgirl daughter when motoring home
from a holiday up the coast bathed at a
popular beach, and then had a sleep on
a grassy spot under a tree. When she
reached home she was complaining of an
irritation on her back: it grew worse
rapidly, and her mother investigated. Ten
minutes later her medico father had her
in the surgery, where, with his wife’s help,
he began to pick hosts of tiny grass ticks
out of the girl’s back. The business began
at ten o’clock, and about 1.30 a.m. the
“all-clear” signal was possible. Then
Dad counted the ticks that had peppered
the youngster. There were 129 of them.
SYDNEY IN SEPTEMBER.
Smooth of slope and green of lawn
Stretch the Gardens all about me,
And, let those who care to doubt me,
Dewy as they were at dawn;
For the sun is yet so tender—
Shining soft and shining early—
That he has not spoiled the splendor
Of the dewfall, pink and pearly.
Sweet as kisses is the air
While, allured by light and fragrance,
Like to velvet-coated vagrants
Butterflies drift here and there:
Cooing, cooing, coyly cooing—
On high pine-trees met together—
Many, many doves are wooing
In the gold and gentle weather.
Yon a kookaburra wakes,
And —I swear it!—ne’er was laughter
Lifted up to dome or rafter
Half so joyous as he makes;
Great, indeed, must be his scorning
Of all ills on life attending,
Thus to jocund be at morning—
Mirth that knows not pain far-sending.
Pilgrims here will trudge anon
When the sun has higher risen,
Like to folk escaped from prison—
Old and young, and worn and wan;
From the city’s turmoil turning
All among green leaves to ponder—
For a while of sweet sojourning,
Hither, hither they shall wander.
Roses climb on trelliscd vines
Round and round this shoreside arbor
While the blue face of the harbor
Through their ruddy radiance shines.
Sweet, oh sweet in idle dreaming—
As the bee upon them dozes,
And their leaves with dew are gleaming—
’Tis to sit beneath these roses!
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“And you watch out for mines and torpedoes!”
“Dick Tafone”: An attempt at demon-
strating to the Brisbane public the rela-
tive effects of suitable and deficient diet-
aries has had an unexpected and even
scandalous ending. The demonstrators
were two white rats of identical age
named, for the occasion, Dopey Dan and
Hector the Hero. They were housed to-
gether for comparison, but fed separately,
Dan getting all he could hold of white
bread, jam, tea and such non-vitamined
tucker, while Hector did his worst on
wholemeal, cheese, milk and similar
scientifically approved eats. At the end
of a month they changed over, the idea
being to show how Dan would catch up
to Hector once he got a proper menu.
All went to schedule for five weeks, when
Hector began to put on quite unexpected
weight and girth in spite of the altered
diet. The grave doubts which began
to loom up about vitamins were solved
by Hector —eight times, in fact. Hector
proved indisputably that his name should
have been Hettie. Dan’s alleged dopiness
is now considered to have been low
deceitfulness.
* * * *
“W.G.L.”: Eyewitness’s evidence is
worth —what? Three of us, members of
a railroad camp, were out shooting, and a
black cockatoo was brought down. In
the centre of its throat was a bristly tuft
of exactly the same color and texture as
the crest on its head. The engineer said
he had never noticed such a tuft before.
But the carpenter was certain that they
were a regular feature of the male birds.
Meanwhile, as I idly moved the tuft to
and fro it came away in my fingers. It
was a steel dart with a tufted top from an
airgun!
* * * *
“Gryllus”: “Flight” (B. 6/9/’39) won’t
find any mention of parrots in the Old
Testament, or the New either, for the
same reason that there is no mention of
kangaroos —none of the authors ever had
a chance to see one. There are no in-
digenous parrots or cockatoos in Europe,
none in Asia except a few in inland India
and none in Africa north of the Sudan.
No figure of a parrot has ever been
found in ancient Egyptian art. The Aus-
tralian region is the home of parrots,
with South America as a poor second.
Most of the birds mentioned in Holy
Writ are listed as unclean in Lev. ii, 18,
and Deut. xiv, 16. Sparrows appear to
have had a sales value of two for a far-
thing (Matt, x, 29), or five for two far-
things (Luke xii, 7), but for what purpose,
pets or provender, is not clear. Ducks
and geese are not mentioned. Bats are re-
garded as “among the fowls” of unclean
kind.
* * * *
“F.A.W.”: Do fish have hospitals?
Hauled a short stretcher-net the other
day in a sheltered pool of a saltwater
creek on the N.S.W. North Coast and
got 11 fish—nine of ’em invalids. There
were two blackfish with severely
lacerated tails —one with piece out of
side, but healing nicely ; two bream with
deeply-embedded hooks; a very sick
mullet ; a whiting with one fin missing ;
another who appeared to have suffered
Jonah’s experience ; and a third with half
a lip gone. Occurred to me that this pool
must have been a sort of sanatorium
where injured fish retired to recuperate.
Anybody throw light on the subject?
* * * *
“Pdison Creek”: It’s difficult for a
Groper to visualise bad water “on the
track over the Toowoomba mountains to
Brisbane” (B. 23/8/’39). Try kangaroo-
shooting out from Carnarvon with a
sweep through the Ashburton to Onslow.
There were stations where the sheep
hadn’t drunk for over two years. Dew-
fall and an occasional mouthful of pig-
weed or parakeelia accounted for the few
survivors. And the fluids we humans
drank! It was the crystal-clear that we
avoided with its threat of an early
demise. Anyway, real deadly water
always turns the tea inky black. But
decayed animal matter was the worst.
Even ’roos and dingoes die in some water-
holes. Filtering is the way to purify it;
a couple of inches of sand and a scrap
of canvas in the bottom of a perforated
kerosene-tin will do the trick. The vilest
waterholes I’ve struck have been those
visited by ’Ghans with their camels. Not
all the filtering or boiling can make water
palatable after a team of camels has
visited it. But if you are really dry
you’ll drink it.
* * * *
“D. 0.”: It is interesting to note the
walking abilities of different native races.
Any average white used to walking could
knock spots off the’average island coon,
especially in sustained effort, yet an aver-
age mainland abo. would make a white
look silly. Doubtless the explanation lies
in the heritage of an agricultural people
as opposed to that of a truly nomadic
people who did little or no cultivating.
Civilisation has reversed this order of
things with whites, as in most civilised
communities it is the agriculturists who
have the stamina.
* * * *
“E. and O.”: Can it be that “Cam
Cove” (B. 9/8/’39) was the innocent
young lady who taught me in a little bush
school about 20 years ago that only an
aborigine can throw a boomerang and
make it return to him? Surely no one
else could be responsible for the extra-
ordinary statement that the white man
cannot extract music from a gum-leaf.
“C.C.” should know by this that the
white man can, by training, acquire the
skill of an aborigine in all his arts, in-
cluding that most difficult, blacktracking.
With a couple of generations’ practice
he would even learn to live for a fort-
night on a handful of emu feathers and
a long walk.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: “Langdon’s” rattler-
jumping swagmen (B. 23/8/’39) reminded
me that not only such luckless “products
of our economic system” have thus
travelled. A Melbourne journalist accom-
panied a former Federal Minister on an
unpaid-for journey by rail to Mildura in
company with a number of fruit-pickers,
who remained unaware of their identity
until articles praising the general law-
observing spirit of the unemployed were
published. Togged out in their oldest
clothes and dropping their accustomed
refinement of speech, the two investiga-
tors thoroughly enjoyed their goods-train
journey. The ex-Minister carried his gold
pass just in case of accidents!
* * * *
“Gt. Boulder”: Gold is an elusive
metal; often just when you think you’ve
got it you find you haven’t. With bullion
rocketing to £8 per ounce or more, there
was a wild rush around the W.A. gold-
fields, speculators scenting out old mine
dumps, sands and slimes like hungry
hounds after a bone. Johnson found a
real bonanza —by fire-assay the sands
showed nearly five 'weights to the ton.
A real goldmine all ready mined. With
a rush and a whoop up went a plant,
vats, trucks, precipitation-boxes, etc.,
Johnson in the meantime dreaming of
world tours, de luxe liners and the rest.
Came the first clean-up, and the zinc
boxes yielded absolutely nothing!
Puzzled but undaunted, Johnson put
through another 200 tons and cleaned-
up again. But again nothing. Undecided
whether to call in the police or a metal-
lurgist, Johnson finally decided on the
latter. Taking a tin dish, the metallurgist
went over the dump. As he made a wet
panning-off black particles floated away.
Charcoal! Back when the now-aban-
doned mine had worked they used to run
their ashpit cleanings out to dump along
with the battery sands. “Dismantle your
plant,” the expert advised. “You’ll never
get a pin’s-point of gold where there’s
charcoal. It simply precipitates the metal
from cyanide solution in the vats.” There
are thousands of ounces buried like that
in W.A. waiting to solidify into some
gold-nugget formation of the future.
* * * *
“Komediak”: The outback habit of
relying on makeshifts in times of emer-
gency can end disastrously. An outback
Vic. cocky, about to go into town on
his usual fortnightly visit, found that
Dobbin had somehow mislaid the two
rear shoes. A frantic search of the stable
and paddock failed to reveal the missing
hoofgear, and in desperation the irate
agriculturist was forced to rely on his
own ingenuity. After an hour’s frantic
activity, the buggy moved off. An hour
and a half later a telephone ring sent us
scurrying for the town. The nag, it
appeared, had unaccountably had a fit
of jibbing in the main street. After much
prising with crowbars and profanity, the
cause of the halt was revealed. Cowbails
in his haste to reach town had shod the
nag with two magnets which came in
contact with the iron surface of a man-
hole.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: When they can be per-
suaded to do so, a couple of lubras work-
ing together will out-track any buck:
they may be a bit slower getting over
the ground, but rarely will they miss any
signs. After six of us, including two
Binghis, had failed to pick up the tracks
of four horses that had vanished one night
during the sandfly season, the promise
of plenty tuckout and bacca acted as a
lure to two old lubras from a near-by
camp to “lookout varraman.” Having
secured some of the promised reward in
advance, the old girls set out on foot, we
also riding out that day and the next to
try to cut the horses’ tracks. Thou-
sands of cattle coming to and from water
made it difficult to locate horse-tracks,
and when, after three days, the gins
failed to return, it looked like saying fare-
well to the horses. But on the evening
of their fifth day out they appeared, driv-
ing before them the four hobbled wan-
derers. The yabber between our abos.
and the gins disclosed the information
that the tracks had been picked up in
amongst “plenty bullocky” a couple of
miles from camp, and they’d been fol-
lowed to where a check rabbit-proof
fence stopped further progress. That
fence wasn’t one yard less than 40 miles
from our camp. Fearing that the horses
might race away if unhobbled, the gins
drove them with the greenhide bracelets
on, tying them up on the one night
camped out coming back with rope made
“longa dress.”
“Packed in like sardines, ain't we?”


ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.rn. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street', E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59 934 > lg 859 108,187*
Provident fund, £l5OO )
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 ) , QQ ,
Provident fund, £l5OO J 5 > 993 114,180
1931. . 59,00 i 8 p.c. = 49,958 ) q rj.q ,99 ooq*
Provident fund, £lOOO $ B’U4!' 8 ’ U4! '
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932. . 62,242 8 p.c. 00,000 ) -.r, 9,9 100 371
Provident fund, £2OOO S ioU,d '
1933.. <1,575 8 p.c.— 50,000 (.7,* 11 R Q 46
Provident fund. £3OOO 1 18,57 118,946
H 934. . 69,250 8 p.c. 50,000 ) ,<? 7m
Provident fund. £2500 \ 16,750 130,701
iS3S. 83,539 8 p c. = 57 115 1 2 3,924 159,625
Provident fund, £2ooo j
1936. . 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,415 ) 23,824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 (
1937.. 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 ) 27,451 210,900
Provident fund, £2500 (
1938.. 102,555 8 p.c. = 90,101 | 9,954 220,854
Provident fund, £2500 (
1939. . 140,669 10 p.c. = 125.000 1 13 icg 2 34 023
Provident fund, £2500 J * ’
•Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
During the Great War of 1914-18 there
was a slight drop in the average con-
sumption of beer per head of population
in Australia. That was because a volun-
teer expeditionary force was dispatched
overseas. But the dividends of soundly-
established breweries were not inter-
rupted, and as the troops returned con-
sumption of beer increased, and so did
hotel rentals and brewery earnings. As
for the present struggle, dispatch of a
volunteer expeditionary force overseas
will depend upon whether Britain asks
for such assistance. Meanwhile, the urge
to buy one’s neighbor, a drink is stronger
than usual, and the breweries should
benefit. As against this, operating and
distributing costs continue to climb,
partly on account of a direct lift of 3s.
per week in the wage rate for brewery
hands, the Federal tax on company earn-
ings has been lifted 10.2 d., making it
2s. in the £, and excise has been bumped
up from Is. 9d. to 2s. per gallon. The
lift in excise has been passed on,. and
the board has set aside £60,000 (up
£20,000) to meet the next tax bill, but
more may be wanted.
Between them this co. and the Queens-
land Brewery supply most of the beer
consumed in the northern State, especially
the southern half. There is no price-cut-
ting in the trade, and competition takes the
form of buying up hotel properties, thus
widening and anchoring turnover with
one stroke. Since 1927 (a couple of years
after the best of Perkins’s business and
plant was bought) this co. has added no
less than £1,272,659 to the book value of
hotel properties, and £259,713 more was
spent upon the brewery than was written
off. To meet the outlay £877,306 of fresh
capital was gathered, and £413,969 was
added to the outside debt —since the- scrip
commanded a premium in the market
the new share issues were in the nature
of bonuses to shareholders. Here are
balance-sheet figures:
Paid 1927. 1935. 1938. 1939.
capital £372,694 £781,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Liabilities* 69,361 251,984 457,754 483,330
Brewery
Warehouse 0 ' } 329 - 732 445.5 U 442,322
Hotels . . 151,095 774,170 1,361,235 1,423,754
Stocks .. 66,516 74.244 104.218 109,855
Debtors .. 107,269 64.710 82,776 104,332
Cash. etc. 8,429 13,715 25,532 24,591
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Chief movements last term were additions
of £62,519 to the hotels item, £21,556
to debtors’ balances and £25,546 to the
debt, which includes an unspecified pro-
vision for contingencies. When the books
closed the debt, etc., exceeded more or
less liquids by £244,552, or £706
less than at the previous balance,
despite the outlay on fixed assets. No
harm would be done if more capital was
issued and the debt reduced.
The capital gathered during the previ-
ous term got more of a chance to show
what it could do, and declared net earn-
ings sprang £38,114. That was after set-
ting aside an extra £20,000 for the tax-
gatherer (£60,000), allowing a further
£8645 for depreciation (£38,649) and in-
cluding £3OOO struck off intangibles (now
£ll,lOO, not treated as an asset herein).
The profit claimed was 11.2 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 9.1, 12.7, 11.1, 11.7, 11,
11.4 and 9.9 p.c. back to 1932, the trough
of the depression. A 2 p.c. bonus was
added to the 8 p.c. div., making 10 p.c.
for the year.
At the annual meeting this week share-
holders will be asked to lift nominal capi-
tal to £1,500,000 by the creation of
400,000 new 12s. 6d. shares. No hint is
given in the report as to when some or
all of these will be offered. Since the
beginning of 1939 the scrip has fluctuated
between 225. and 245. 6d. on the market.
At 225. 3d., the figure last week-end, the
immediate return is 5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
235. 9d. per pound of paid capital.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers (S.A.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 24,259 7 p.c. = 23,583 676 88,435
1930.. 15,831 4 „ „ 13,476 2,355 90,790
1931.. 13,817 4 „ „ 13,476 341 91,131
1932.. 14,130 4 „ „ 13,476 654 91,785
1933.. 14,058 4 „ „ 13,476 582 92,367
1934.. 13,642 4 „ „ 13,476 166 92,533
1935.. 8,594 2$ „ ~ 8,422 172 92,705
Loss.
1936.. 2,583 Nil 90,122
Tax res. written back, £4OOO .. 94,122
Profit.
1937.. 21,215 5 p.c. = 16,845 4,370 98,492
1938.. 20,929 6 ~ „ 20,214 6,715 105,207
1939.. 23,470 6 „ „ 20,214 3,256 108,463
Some ugly possibilities for super,
manufacturers and other traders were
removed when the Federal Government
decided to buy and market the whole
Australian wheat crop for the duration
of the war through a central wheat pool.
This will mean sale of grain on a uni-
form basis, prevention of scare deals with
speculative dealers and will probably
ensure a better average price and more
certain income to growers. It is in-
tended that the grain should be sold
at ruling prices as opportunity offers
and shipping space is available. The
return over the whole harvest will
be equalised to give growers an average
price, the amount of which will
depend upon world parity price. The
possibilities are that an initial payment
of Is. per bushel will be made to growers
soon after delivery of their grain, fol-
lowed by subsequent payments as it be-
comes possible to make them.
This co. turns out superphosphates
from works at Wallaroo and Birkenhead,
S. Aus. About three years ago it and
two other producers in the State decided
to go on to the market together, and a
new sales subsidiary, Fertilizer Sales,
Ltd., was formed for the purpose, thus
eliminating price-cutting and reducing
overhead. All three cos. have since done
much better for themselves. Demand,
however, is governed largely by the for-
tunes of wheatgrowers, graziers and
others whose incomes depend mainly
upon seasons and prices.
Considering the lighter wheat crop in
S. Aus. (31.7 million bushels, down 11.7
million) and the sharp drop in the ex-
port price of the grain (the average was
only 2s. 9.2 d. a bushel as against 4s. 5.1 d.
for the preceding year) this co. did re-
markably well last term. Gross earnings
(£42,757) were down only £2227. A
growth of £1232 in exes. (£19,287) left
the net result £3459 lighter at 6.9 p.c.
on capital as against 7.9, 6.2, a loss, 2.5,
4, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.1 p.c. back to 1931.
The div., which was lifted from 5 p.c.
in ’37 to 6 p.c. in ’3B, was maintained
at the higher rate.
As for the current term, British pur-
chase of our wool and meat and a sub-
stantial part of our wheat has completely
changed the outlook for these export
industries, and for all associated with
them. It should help to sustain the
demand for super., while the supply of
phosphate rock from Nauru isn’t likely
to be interrupted, thanks to the Navy’s
command of the sea. But manufacturing
and other costs can be expected to rise,
and stinging increases have already been
announced in taxation. So the 6 p.c. div.
is by no means secure.
The co. is well ribbed financially:
1925. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £336,900 £336,900 £336,900 £336,900
Liabilities . . 40,016 25,506 46,586 50,177
. Freeholds, plant
etc 215,649 233,303 202,974 219,945
Stocks . . 75,642 84,106 70,194 100,228
Debtors . . 34,824 27,130 25,324 19,231
Cash, etc. . . 143,182 132,988 209,492 169,427
When the books closed the more or less
liquid surplus (£244,709) was £13,715 less
than at the previous balance, owing to
the outlay on fixed assets.
At 17s. the f.-p. pound shares, covered
by 265. sd. in net tangibles, would return
a shade over 7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 73,132 13$ p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions, £81,432 . . 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13$ p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions, £35,444 .. 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492,682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 467,682
Unexplained additions, £32,482 .. 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. * 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 .. 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523,267
Unexplained additions,. £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 . . 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12$ p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20.276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679,040
1938.. 113.491 8.9 p.c. = 35,480 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26.434.. 784,079
1939.. 90,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Although this co.’s ice-cream is a luxury
easily dispensed with in hard times, there
is nothing in the immediate outlook to
suggest a sharp contraction in turnover.
Certainly there has been a stinging in-
crease of 74 p.c. in company tax, the
trend of costs is still upward, and com-
petition is getting more of an edge on it ;
but the substantial margin between earn-
ings and distributions suggests that, un-
less something unexpected happens, the
div. is not likely to be interfered with,
for a while, at any rate.
The row about the issue of bonus
scrip has been carried from one Aus-
tralian court to another, and is now be-
fore the Privy Council, which will deal
with the matter when it has time. A
couple of years ago the board decided
to double paid capital by the issue, to
those on the register at September 3, 1937,
of bonus scrip on the basis of the amount
paid up instead of on the face value of
issued shares —that is to say, in the pro-
portion of one f.-p. 14s. share for each
f.-p. share and one f.-p. 14s. share for
every three contribs. paid to 4s. Bd.
Although the div. was reduced from 16
p.c. to 8.9 p.c. in 1938, and repeated at
the lower rate for the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts, the board has for
the last two years set aside an amount
equal to another 8.9 p.c. on capital as
it now stands pending final judgment of
the Courts.
Since the beginning of 1939 the f.-p.
shares have fluctuated between 565.
and 495. on the market. After sales at
485., buyers offered 495. and sellers asked
525. last week. At 50s. 6d. the im-
mediate return is 2.4 p.c. on an 8.9 p.c.
div. basis. On the same basis the con-
tribs. at 18s. 3d. would return 2.2 p.c.
Obviously the market has one eye on the
proposed gift. The net tangible cover
per pound of paid capital is 625. 6d., of
which 225. lOd. is represented by the de-
preciation reserve.
After making “ample” provision for
taxation and setting aside £26,434 (up
£5157) for depreciation, there was a sharp
drop of £16,679 in last term’s net earn-
ings ; but they were still equal to 24.3
p.c. on capital as it now stands, as against
28.5, 27.8, 17.2, 14, 10.9, 7.8 and 5.2 p.c.
back to 1932, when £28,389 of capital
was returned.
Finances are comfortable:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. £397.440 £397,446 £397,446 £397,446
Sundry creditors 29,522 80,841* 94,355* 95,335*
Freeholds, etc. 245,645 260,838 279,008 285,345
Plant, etc... 485,495 548,540 624,804 687,281
Investments.. 152,926 149,300 180,802 212,051
Stock . . 19,495 25,447 39,584 39,897
Book debts.. 14,274 11,115 1'8,123 23,238
Cash.. .. 99,772 180,084 128,415 108,115
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last year’s addition of £6337 to freehold
and of £62,477 to plant, etc. —both in at
cost—suggests that the board doesn’t
expect any shrinkage in business. The
addition of £31,249 to investments was
mainly on account of the co.’s new
creamery at Taree (N.S.W.). Including
£83,695 of Commonwealth stock, grouped
with investments in the table, the con-
traction in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£159,610) was £15,852, owing to
the outlay on the creamery and other
fixed assets.
The inter-State offshoots all did well:
r- —1939 \
Profit, Div.,
Held p.c. p.c.
Paid by Capi- Capi-
Capital. Parent. tal. tal.
Peters Arctic (Q.) £180,086 £43,150 11.6 8.3
Peters (Vic.) .. 167,528 19.703 13.4 9.0
Peters (W.A.) . . 128,631 20,736 11.5 9.0
All maintained their 1938 rate of dis-
tribution last term, after the usual liberal
allowances for depreciation had been
made.


KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
Leather
.Portfolios with
Zipper Fastener.
Sizes:
15in. x lOin.
and 16in. x 11 in.
Prices from:
16/6 to 32/6.
DG
Ideal for
Documents,
Catalogues,
Music,
Reports.
C. E. KITCHING
Pty., Ltd.,
319 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard
Station.)
n
.UCA
BRITISH W MADE.
THERE IS A
BATTERY
<£S£>
i
i
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
\3^
DG
Y*o
iOSS-
AO*
m
DG
GJ
GJ
Hi
m
GIT
*^/o
AEn °n 4
*ES
RU
LUCAS Quality Batteries
are Warranted for 2 Years!
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Bennett & Wood Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company,
15 Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Hannan Bros., Ltd.,
58-62 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
W. T. Burns,
46 Brisbane Street,
HOBART.
Bell’s Auto Electrical Service,
166 Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON.
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltfl.,
156 Lonsdale Street.,
MELBOURNE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Adelaide and Wharf Streets,
BRISBANE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
15 East Street,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Sturt Street,
TOWNSVILLE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
6 Alpin Street,
CAIRNS.
Joseph Eneas (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 627-639 Wellington Street, PERTH
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ & &
1929.. 12,110 Nil
1930.. 164,575 Nil —; 180 >‘7 8
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,840
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 2j,384
1935.. 30,128 6.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
1936.. 35,680 9.1 „ „ 20,000 15,680 56,192
Contingency reserve, £13,500 .. •• £9,692
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 25,385 95,077
Loss.
1938.. 91,391 Nil s > 6B6
Profit. „
1939.. 4,120 Nil 4,120 7,806
The period covered by the table has
been the most disastrous in the history
of this co., which buys wool, hides and
furred-skins, etc., in Australia and sells
them overseas. The time factor thus
makes earnings very vulnerable to
economic and other developments. For
four out of the 11 years losses aggregat-
ing £287,781 showed up ; during the other
seven profits totalling £180,540 were re-
corded. In 1930 the books were cleared
of intangibles, including £130,000 of
goodwill, by lopping 9s. per share
(£180,000) off capital, reducing it to its
present figure (£220,000) in 400,000 f.-p.
11s. shares. A run of divs., averaging
8.5 p.c., was paid for the four years to
the close of accounts in 1937 ; then a
sharp drop in prices for wool, furred-
skins, hides, tallow, etc., brought a loss
of £91,391 in 1938.
Commenting on last term’s trading, the
board says:—
Whilst we have not had serious declines
in prices to contend with, there has been
a definite slowing down in the demand for
our primary products and, with it, long
periods of inactivity. Developments in
Europe and East Asia have had the effect
of further narrowing down our markets,
and competition for the limited business
offering has made it very difficult to earn
reasonable profits.
After providing whatever was considered
necessary for contingencies, the net result
was a profit of £4120, or 1.8 p.c. on capi-
tal, and for the seventh time in the last
decade shareholders were passed by.
The financial position improved:
1932. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £220,000 £220,000 £220,000' £220,000
Overdraft 1 \ 119,462 162,088 167,845
Creditors ) f 10 1,974 62,953 44,744
Fixed assets.. 180,054 175,294 183,812 169,181
Stocks .. 89,876 215,926 171,879 157,162
Rook debts .. 48,701 150,849 78,630 99,773
Cash. . . . 686 1,592 1,555 1,423
Shares other cos. 12,851 12,851 12,851
Last term £14,631 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets, stocks
were reduced by £14,717 and £5757 was
added to the overdraft, thus enabling the
co. to carry an extra £21,148 of book
debts and to knock £18,209 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£58,652) was £18,751.
When the books closed, stocks ap-
peared at cost or market price, whichever
was the lower. Now the war with Ger-
many and continued hostilities in East
Asia have just about made dislocation of
the co.’s markets complete, for a while,
at any rate. However, the decision of
the British Government to purchase Aus-
tralian raw wool, etc., should help the
co. out of some of its immediate troubles.
Still, there might be trouble ahead again
in connection with furred-skins. No hint
is given as to how much of the £157,162
at which stocks appear is represented by
these skins.
On the market sellers ask 6s. for the
scrip, which is one of the most specula-
tive stocks on the market, without attract-
ing buyers. The cover is 11s. 4d. in net
tangibles.
The Gold Tax
War sent the London price of gold
up with a rush to £SB Bs. per fine ounce,
the equivalent in Australian currency
being £lO 10s. per fine ounce. This im-
mediately stimulated interest in the future
of the goldmining industry. Chief doubts
were how the Government would deal
with the question of taxation, and the
extent to which plant, labor and other
costs would be likely to rise.
The tax question has now been settled,
the Federal Treasury having decided to
take 75 p.c. of proceeds of sales of the
metal above £A9 per fine ounce. This
applies to all gold produced in .fyastralia,
New Guinea and Papua, but not to gold
brought to Australia from territory out-
side the jurisdiction of the Common-
wealth. Export of the metal has been
prohibited, and the tax will be deducted
when the gold is sold to the Common-
wealth Bank or its agents.
Profits from goldmining are exempt
from ordinary Commonwealth company
tax and from income tax when remitted
as dividends to shareholders. Goldmining
cos. and shareholders therein thus escape
the recent sharp increase of 75 p.c. in
Federal company tax and of 10 p.c. in
Federal income tax, while at the same
time enjoying a very substantial windfall,
due to the war, in the shape of a high
exchange premium on gold. Further,
except in Westralia and Tasmania, gold-
mining profits are exempt from State
taxation. So, all things considered, the
Government has not treated the industry'
harshly. One-quarter of the amount by
which the price exceeds £A9 per fine
ounce will be retained by the cos. to
offset, or help offset, any further rise in
costs or to provide extra benefits. In
S. Africa and Rhodesia, which are in less
need of London funds than Australia is,
the Government has decided to take the
whole of the proceeds of goldmining cos.
arising from any increase in the price of
the metal above £S7 10s. per fine ounce.
In Australian currency the price of
gold averaged £9 Is. 2d. per fine ounce
for the 12 months to June 30 last; for
August the figure was £9 Bs. 7d.; it
recently rose to £lO 10s. At £lO 10s. the
tax would amount to 225. 6d. per fine
ounce, and at the present rate of produc-
tion (about 1,800,000 ounces p.a.) would
yield over £2,000,000 p.a. to the Treasury.
Early in 1938 the president of the Aus-
tralian Mines and Metals Association
(knight Colin Fraser) made an analysis
of the cost of producing gold in Aus-
tralia. Here are some of the results:
261,000 fine ounces, comprising the yield
from Wiluna, Gt. Boulder, Mt. Morgan,
S. Kalgurli and Central Norseman, cost
1445. per ounce.
249,000 fine ounces, being the yield from
Lake View and Star, Sons of Gwalia,
Triton and New Occidental, cost 108 s.
per ounce.
208,000 fine ounces, the yield from N.
Kalgurli, Golden Horse Shoe, Morning
Star, Cocks Pioneer, Central Nell Gwynne
and Adelong, cost 98s. per ounce.
118,000 fine ounces, which came from
Yellowdine, Golden Plateau, Wattle Gully,
Erlistoun, Comet, Lake View and Star
tailings and Cocks Eldorado, cost 625.
per ounce.
Costs, which are in Australian currency,
include the extraction and treatment of
ore and ordinary development, adminis-
tration and realisation charges.
Australasian Petroleum proposes to in-
crease subscribed capital from £405,000
to £750,000 by the issue of 345,000 £1
shares at par. The co. is the outcome
of an agreement, arrived at toward the
close of 1938, between Oil Search, which
had become financially exhausted after
a long but inconclusive hunt for oil in
Australia and New Guinea, and the
Anglo-Iranian and Standard-Vacuum cos.,
which embrace British and American in-
terests, and are two of the most power-
ful oil undertakings in the world. Aus-
tralasian Petroleum has now selected the
spot in New Guinea where it proposes to
sink its first deep test well, and equipment
capable of drilling to 10,000 ft. is on its
way to the field. It is to pay for this
equipment and finance the work that the
new capital is required. To enable it
to take up its quota of the new issue, Oil
Search is offering its own shareholders
449,450 of its ss. shares at par. Oriomo,
as chief shareholder in Oil Search, will
be entitled to apply for 135,598 shares
of Oil Search’s new issue. The market
prices the old shares at 3s. 4d.
* * * *
Raub Australian (F.M.S.) says, it
has no reason to reduce its original
estimate of accumulated tailings (300,000
tons, assaying mostly 2dwt.). Allowing
for quantity since treated, these will pro-
vide approx, a further six years’ work
handling 40,000 tons annually, in addi-
tion to 60,000 tons of current tailings.
Other old dumps also exist, but trans-
port presents a problem. Though there
has been no complete check of bore
figures, results from surface material to


Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointmeht
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JJ
5
fWsll
KJ
%
r
m
By Appt. to the late
King George V.
Unlined, 357-
Silk lined, 37/6
The traditional craftsmanship
of the English hatmaker is
maintained in every Woodrow.
In style, colouring and finish
they are outstanding .as the
finest value obtainable.
'Woodfoy?
v ' Hats
I
STORES
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
i —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne,
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
TRI
ENDURA
Pens-Pencils-Sets
Guaranteed for
All Time
Unending constant satis-
faction in ownership is
assured all who buy a
CONKLIN ENDURA
PEN OR PENCIL by a
guarantee of free repair
service whenever repairs
are required.
CONKLIN ENDURAS
are made of unbreak-
able materials, and in
strikingly beautiful
modern color combina-
tions.
See them. Try them.
Gents* Pens,
30/- and 407-
Ladies’ Size, 307-
Pencils to match,
25/-
Complete Sets in
Presentation Case,
55/- and 65/-
p
From all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores
LET
r ATLAS i
CARRY THE
l BURDEN y
f
llJh
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South A'js. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE •■.••.••••• 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNET OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
date indicate that values have been under-
estimated, and better returns are expected
from deeper material, where the water-
logged material made accurate sampling
difficult. So far the re-treatment plant has
not done all expected of it, but improve-
ments in both throughput and recoveries
are expected. A special type amalgamator
is to be installed in the ball-mill circuit,
and a new chemical reagent is to be
tried in the flotation process. For
the first 28 weeks of its current
term the co. shows a mine profit,
subject to depreciation, of £43,474 stg.
The 70-head stamp battery crushed 34,103
tons ore for 90840 z. gold, while the re-
treatment plant recovered 43940 z. gold
from 54,476 tons sands.
* * * *
The North Australia Survey Commit-
tee considers the Granites field, 350 miles
north-west of Alice Springs, Centralia,
which was examined in 1937 and 1938,
worthy of further investigation, with a
view to large-scale development. Fol-
lowing alluvial gold discoveries in 1932,
the field was the scene of a rush, which
quickly subsided on unfavorable reports
from mining engineers and others, and
little work has been done since. Develop-
ment has comprised trenching and the
sinking of a few shallow shafts (deepest
72ft.) and workings. The gold occurs
in ironstone on an east-west line 5} miles
long, the central portion being most im-
portant. There are few outcrops, but
trenching, etc., has indicated wide
auriferous ore-bodies for 15,000 ft., the
ironstone occurring in five sections sepa-
rated by shallow sand-drifts. Widths vary
up to 76|ft., true width of the main
formation where fully exposed being 30ft.
Along 500 ft. in the Golden Shoe section
sampling returned values of from 4.sdwt.
to 16.8dwt., while the Bullagitchie sector
gave 4dwt. values in four places over a
length of 250 ft. Higher-grade ore exists
in formations up to 20ft. wide. System-
atic development and sampling to deter-
mine width, grade and size of the ore-
shoots is recommended, and the Survey
considers mining of the shallow oxidised
deposits by power-shovels might be un-
dertaken while this is proceeding.
* * * *
Mt. Peter, the small goldfield at Cairns’s
(N.Q.) back door, is to have a battery
of its own. High time, too, because its
proximity to Chillagoe Smelters has kept
it back by limiting operations to 2}oz.
gold ore, leaving the lOdwt. stuff, which
it wouldn’t pay to smelt, in the ground.
Last year 200 tons yielded 500 oz. at Chil-
lagoe. Most of this came from the Talis-
man, which has decided prospects if
worked on the dwt. basis rather than in
terms of ounce fine. And it would have
plenty of company in the numerous other
auriferous veins that plough through the
steep mountainsides there.
* $ * #
The old Woolgar goldfield (N.Q.)
comes into the news again with the work-
ing of the New Perseverance, which was
chief producer in the ’eighties. Six men
are at work on it, and a consignment of
ore for Chillagoe has been raised. The
ore carries both galena and pyrite, which
means that battery treatment will be com-
plex, but sulphide ore is expected to
average not under 2oz. per ton. With
the Mowbray, this show formed the basis
of a proposal by an English co. to get
a large concession embracing Woolgar in
the post-war years. The project fell
through because satisfactory terms
couldn’t be arranged.
* * * *
The crushing of the Orange Creek
Syndicate, Cracow (Q.), for August
yielded 148 oz. bullion from 270 tons,
thus keeping up the steady monthly out-
put at almost 2dwt. increase per ton.
There is every appearance of a large
prospective tonnage that should not drop
under the Bdwt. grade, and as with most
Cracow mines it is probable there are a
few pockets of ounce stuff that fulfils
the legitimate purpose of equalising
monthly returns.
sfc s*: * ij:
W. J. Esgate is erecting a battery at
a new find on Bee Creek. This forms
part of Eungella, which is Mackay's
(N.Q.) goldfield, though from a statistical
aspect it remains undistinguished. It
jumped to prominence among prospectors
by small veins that in spots were half-
gold, such as the old Orchid, which had
a sensational opening, but like most of
its type had no body and petered out.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) tentatively suggests 365.
a ton as its all-in cost figure (taxation
excluded) for the current term. When
throughput goes up to 3000 tons monthly
(looked for by next March or so before
the outbreak of European hostilities) ss.
a ton is expected to be shaved off the
figure, and annual disbursements of 2s.
a share are then anticipated. The co. has
proved its lode to 350 ft., averaging be-
tween 60ft. and 70ft. wide, the grade
being better than so far encountered.
Last term’s increase in ore reserves (due
mainly to opening up of No. 6 lens, not
yet fully proved) is said to take no
account of No. 4 lens, believed to have
been unearthed at 300 ft., where it is 50ft.
wide. Until the new plant is installed
recoveries are expected to be in the
vicinity of 6.68dwt., the figure for August,
as against the grade of s.Bdwt. placed on
reserve ore at May 31.
* * * *
Lake View’s proposed new cyanidation
plant will have a capacity of 60,000 tons
monthly, approx, the same as that of the
existing plant. It is to handle the old
Chaffers tailings, at the south end of the
Kalgoorlie field, where there is around
four to five years’ work. The co. has
arranged for Golden Horse Shoe to later
re-treat the half-million or so tons of old
Ivanhoe sands on similar profit-sharing
conditions to which the Horse Shoe is
now treating the Gt. Boulder dumps.
* * *
After meeting the tax bill and provid-
ing £2912 for depreciation, Endurance
Tin, sluicing at South Mt. Cameron, on
the Speck’s east coast, cleared £7514 for
the 12 months to June 30. Paid capital
is £47,356 in 189,425 ss. shares, and
unchanged div. of Is. a share absorbs
£1957 more than was netted. Last term
405,200 c.y. was treated for 142| tons
tin concentrates, an ayerage recovery of
0.791 b., total cost per c.y. being 7.09 d.
For the preceding year the corresponding
figures were 371,900 c.y., 148£ tons,
0.891 b. and 8.37 d. Boring has increased
sluicing reserves to 5,112,800 c.y., equal
to 12 years’ work, average values being
0.61 b. per c.y. Depth ranges from 70ft.
to 180 ft.


HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
IBIEIIBIIBHB E
SHHi
fGJjJIL-Uf.' IUmJ luj itIULU LQ
\OVQ-V\CQ. \LU ‘jffi ILU LU
VUa 'Wu bw
M iu
Lu L
m
itxj* IgS;; !c£ lea
KraEllEilE
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“Once when girls went swimming they
dressed like Mother Hubbard.”
— Women’s paper.
Nowadays they resemble the cup-
board.
v 4* 4* *l*
“Personality and Typists.” — “Sun.”
It’s efficiency when they are speedy
and personality when they’re fast.
4 1 4* 4* 4
“Artificial pearls are manufactured from fish
scales.” — “World’s News.”
Any gold-digger knows that to get
pearls she only has to hook some poor
fish.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He suffered an affliction for 25 years.”
—Short story.
Now he is able to celebrate his silver
wedding.
4 4 4 4*
“The moment Jimmy tasted the medicine he
gurgled frantically, then spat it out in front
of everyone.”— Short story.
In short, he gave an exhibition of bad
taste.
4 4 4 4
“Giving money away is the hardest thing in
the world,” says Lord Nuffield.
He ought to try borrowing it.
•I* -I- 4
“Hitler cannot take a big offensive on the
Western border lying down.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
The idea is to make him sit up.
4 4 4 4
“Veteran film comedian declares he will live
to be 112.” — Film gossip.
He evidently wants to attain the same
age as some of his gags.
4 4 4 4
“These days, an ability to concoct a wide
range of piquant cocktatils is reckoned a neces-
sary attribute of the really successful hostess.”
—Social notes.
If you want to get on you must be a
good mixer.
4* 4* 4 4
“The good dancer must be light on his
feet.” — Women’s paper .
And even lighter on his partner’s.
“The Chief Constable of Cheshire has sug-
gested general adoption of white stockings,
pointing out that women wearing white stock-
ings are easy to avoid on roads.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Musical Mix-up.
“One large gaol in this State can boast a
full orchestra and vocalist of no mean ability.”
—Sydney paper.
The most popular vocal number is
“Alias, Where Art Thou?”
Perfect harmony is difficult in gaol
orchestras, because forgers, by sheer
force of habit, will slip in a crook note
here and there.
Applause is taboo. The performers
hate being clapped in gaol.
There are very few openings for gaol
orchestras, but command performances
are frequent. Positively last appearances
are very popular, but not encouraged.
The conductor never wearies members
with long diatribes about time. They
could tell him something about that.
D.McM.
“ Yes , I can ride all right, hut you told me to have her hack by four o'clock."
Some people tie a piece of string
around their lingers to remember, and
others tie a piece of rope around their
necks to forget.
“There’s nothing in radio-plays,” declares
disgruntled author.
So we’ve heard.
•b
“Film magnates are amongst the world’s
richest men.” — “D.T.”
They can thank their lucky stars.
An authoress is a woman who doesn’t
mind finding herself on the shelf.
Sour Grapes.
By making dates he tried to reach
The heart of one sweet little peach.
But she upset his applecart,
Gave him the pip and quite a start
When cherry lips declared with vim
They didn’t care a fig for him !
D.McM.
The Good Oil.
“When Australia is mentioned in German
propaganda it is with a tendency to indicate a
desire to break from Britain.”— -Cable.
“2ROT speaking. Heil Hitler! Der
news I vas pring iss Ausdralia vrom.
Since der Shew refugees vas allowed to
arrife in Ausdralia, vere dey haf been
vorced do lif in such deserd blaces as
Darlinghurst, dere haf been outpreaks of
Iking. Der Shews are known as ‘Ikes,’
so dis Iking, vich rebords say is& more
bobular beginning, iss chasing der Shews.
“Der fear dot Ausdralia vill pe shordt
off foodt subblies is shown py der
evvordts !o breserve even pirds. ‘Spare
der crows’ iss a slogan vich iss heard all
ofer der gountry. Und many vomans haf
vined been for valking jays agross der
streets vere dese bet pirds, vich vould
useful pe in an emergency as foodt,
mighdt be killt.
“Many off der yong men haf enrollt
in der Vite Shirts, und bractise eggser-
cises vith veapons galled badts. Id is
obenly saidt dot dese yong men are
brebaring vor der Dest mid England.
“All dis shows how retty der poasted
Empire iss to avay preak. Heil Hitler!”
H. M.
White stockings went out when the
Emperors fell,
Though that past generation enjoyed
them.
Now they’re in with the war in which
Ad.’ll get hell,
Who in thunder will want to avoid
them ?
D.
Wearing-down Process.
“I know what you are going to say,”
said Maria.
This reading of my mind is an annoy-
ing habit of hers. Three times she had
made remarks about spring fashions, but
my studied silence had so far avoided
any danger.
“You were going to say the new
fashions can’t be more ridiculous than
last year’s. Well, I certainly agree with
you there,” Maria went on.
Even this pat on the back didn’t break
my determined silence. I know all about
being beware of the Greeks when they
come bearing gifts.
“But,” pursued Maria, “that is why
women like myself who don’t go to
absurd extremes should be examples of
sanity in dress.”
My silence was still unbroken.
“Now, I know exactly what you are
going to say,” Maria went on, bridling.
“And don’t dare to talk to me like that.
A man who is a man would be ashamed
for his wife to be seen without a rag to
put on her back.”
“But,” I submitted mildly, “I didn’t
say a word.”
“Do you think I have lived with you
all these years without knowing what you
think?” thundered Maria. “I can read
you like a book, Aitchem. And I know
what you’re going to say.”
Well, of course, she won. She’s get-
ting that dress.
But I am chuckling. You see, what I
was going to say before I made up my
mind not to say anything was that I was
expecting a special cheque, and as she
would probably want a new dress and
some other frills she could have them.
Now she’s going to get only about half
of them.
And I know what she’s going to say
if she ever finds out.
H. M.
Some Little-known Facts About
Holland.
I.
GENERAL KNOWLEDGE.
Holland is a small strip of windmills
and sea-dikes held together by canals and
sand dunes half-way in the North Sea
between England and Germany. It is
also called one of the Low Countries,
but the name isn’t popular with a people
whose morality is so high that American
tourists who have told Little Audrey
and Mae West stories there have been
met with discouragingly blank stares
from the honest burghers.
As most of the land is below sea-level,
life in the Netherlands has some peculiar
features. All warships, for instance, have
to be launched by pulling them up the
slipways into the water. Also, to prevent
the country’s being pushed further below
the sea, every article possible has to be of
very light material. Haystacks are made
hollow ; draught horses are worked and
fat stock grazed with balloons attached
to their sides so as to keep their full
weight off the ground ; cork steamrollers
are standard equipment and pneumatic
hammers have to be made of celluloid.
The Dutch have brought pig-breeding
to a high efficiency. It was they who first
exploited the idea of keeping porkers
on one short period of strict rationing
during their fattening. This resulted in
bacon with one thin strip of lean through
the fat—affectionately known throughout
the British army, for which it is exclu-
sively produced, as “lance-corporal”
bacon.
Before any sea-dike can now be con-
structed provision must be made for a
hole in it exactly the size of a small
finger. This is to give patriotic Dutch
t»°y s a chance to become national heroes
by holding the sea back and saving the
entire country from being flooded when
a turbulent sea threatens it.
Chief industries are windmill-watching,
schnapps-drinking, tulip-smelling and
thinking up new words that include a
j ot 0 f v ’ s> j’ s> k ’ s and aa ’ s Among the
national pastimes stalking the eggs of
seagulls and game-fishing on the great
shrimp and anchovy grounds of the
Zuider Zee test the physical endurance
of the hardy inhabitants to the utmost.
There is also a kind of football (hoofe-
boorle) played, but splinters from the
players’ wooden shoes puncture so many
footballs that only the rich can indulge
in it.
Owing to the soggy nature of the land
mining is a hazardous occupation, for
water is struck at about 2ft. Skin divers,
wearing only water goggles, which hold
in place the traditional miner’s lamp,
dive down, pick in hand, to chop away
coal, iron ore, diamonds, or whatever
other minerals they may strike, and shoot
to the surface with what they have wbn
when their breaths give out. The pay-
ment of special bonuses to those who
can submerge the longest has resulted in
miners acquiring such enormous chest
development that most of them even-
tually get jobs in garages blowing up
truck tyres.
Bulbs rank so importantly in the
national economy that they are gambled
in freely by the great financiers of Am-
sterdam, Rotterdam and Watterdam just
as stocks and shares are in other coun-
tries. It is no uncommon sight to see
a mynheer reeling ruined out of the
Bulb Exchange after tulips have dropped
half a point. Paradoxically, ranunculas
and hyacinths may, following the seasonal
rains, all come up, only to go down with
a rush at the first international crisis or
through heavy selling in futures.
Cheese-making is confined to Limburg,
as the prevailing wind in that southern
province is towards the North Sea. The
round, red-painted cheeses used to be
transported to Amsterdam by canal
barges, but so many escaped en route that
droving them by land was found to be
safer and cheaper, as demurrage, wharf-
age, lighterage, etc., were saved. The
cheeses towards the close of their maturity
period become so lively that they have to
be kept behind stoutly-barred doors;
when they are old and strong enough to
stand the long journey they are mustered
and put on the road under the care of
drovers and their dogs, who are de-
olfactory-sensed for the purpose.
S. W. K.


f
#■
m*
m
si
\
f.
Economy
True economy does not always mean saving
the pence. It may be more important to save
time, to avoid risks, to conserve energy or
to avoid discomfort. That is why the opening
of a current account in this bank represents
real economy. You may draw cheques in
payment of accounts, conserve money not
immediately required and become entitled to
all the facilities the Bank provides for its
customers. Obtain the free booklet /‘Services
and Facilities” from pur nearest Branch. ;
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria)
50/t6/38
" QUALCAST"
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
FJ
1
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qucilecssf" Lawnmowers
MODEL “II”: 10in.12in.14in.lGin.
Bronze Bearing .. 33/- 41/- 44/-
Bali Bearing .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- GO/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
BUSINESS, ROLLERY, ETC.
War and Old Weaknesses
With its peculiar mixture of high living
costs and increasing taxation, its expand-
ing manufactures and growing output of
land products, its deadly overgovernment
and division of authority, the Australian
economy is being swept up in the whirl-
wind of something that looks almost like
a world war. The strain will now be on
to enlarge our production and transport
facilities, and the weaknesses that were
becoming increasingly obvious in peace-
time may now tend to be forgotten.
But they shouldn’t be, because if they
are further aggravated, as is likely in
the stress and rush of providing money
and materials for war, the economic con-
fusion they are bound to bring about
later on will also be aggravated.
A man may arm himself elaborately,
he may expand in physique as a result
of his compaigning, but organically he
remains much the same unless he under-
goes the right treatment for anything he
happens to have wrong with him. Aus-
tralia’s economic weaknesses are not
likely to be cured sirqply because a
stretch of war-time inflation and perhaps
some forced industrial growth appear to
be ahead. If the stimulus of war be-
comes of too unhealthy a nature our
weaknesses will be increased. And it is
becoming clearer that the slow growth of
Australia’s population over the past 20
years has, been because of political and
economic mismanagement rather than be-
cause of lack of natural resources. The
intrusion of politics into financial matters.
is one of our heaviest burdens.
A wave of speculative activity in Aus-
tralia has followed the outbreak of war.
A little while ago speculators thought
war would be a disastrous thing for prices
and business activity. Now speculators
think war will be a terribly-good thing
for most kinds of businesses. They have
run to the Stock Exchanges with buying
orders at a rate that promises quickly
to counterbalance their rush of selling
orders for nearly the whole of the previ-
ous six months. How like speculators!
For over four years this paper has
expressed unwavering views on the mat-
ter of what, would be likely to happen
to the monetary value of ordinary shares
in the event of a lengthy war involving
the Empire. Last week these views were
repeated. Shortly, they were to the effect
that the unhealthy waste of war would
depreciate the value of money rather
than the worth of industrial equities, and
that the Commonwealth’s past experi-
ence in regard to war has been that we
have made considerable industrial ex-
pansion during and after the period of
hostilities. Any occurrence having the
effect of narrowing the sea-lanes (such
as caused by war) or the financial lanes
(such ..as was caused by the last depres-
sion) lias also had the effect °f throwing
us on to our own resources and of further
developing the country,
Given the requisite period for re-
adjustment, we likely to have the
same thing happen again. Britain is
already restricting its exports to all parts
of the world, and as it is only practicable,
owing to the higher duty on foreign
goods, to import many of such products
from Britain, it is probable that attempts
will be made to remedy the shortage that
W <H ar ise by manufacturing more neces-
sides in Australia. Already construction of
the Tasmanian newsprint venture is being
speeded up to provide the daily papers
with their particular type of paper ; and
there will be many other similar develop-
ments. Rapid completion of B.H.P.’s
ne w undertakings may become a matter
of national urgency, and the same with
Electrolytic Zinc’s aluminium venture,
With all this development and war
expenditure we are likely to have keen
competition for money and therefore
higher interest rates. And if Australia
is to bear its share of the wastage of
war the loss will have to be financed
by greater borrowing or increased
taxation. All-round inflation may gradu-
ally occur, the extent being restricted
or encouraged by the soundness or other-
wise of the financial management of
the nation.
Eventually money may lose some of
its buying power, dependent on the
course of the war, etc. That would tend
to raise prices, also costs. With the
cessation of hostilities, however, there
would undoubtedly be a reaction of some
kind, though properties, shares, com-
modities, etc., bought on a reasonable
basis now should continue to be worth
their price. But, as always, it is unwise
to speculate on things coming to pass.
If anyone desires to protect his capital
by buying ord. shares, properties, etc., at
a reasonable price now, well and good.
But it will be dangerous (as well as
generally deplorable) for anyone to
borrow money and gamble on prices
having a swift rise.
The speculative increase that has taken
place on the Australian sharemarkets the
last week or two has been in anticipation
of a number of things that haven’t yet
happened. The Stock Exchanges, which
imposed a ban on bear operations during
the week in which war broke out, have
now withdrawn the ban, and rightly so.
There will be profit-taking before long,
and confusion also, because the forces
underlying the economics of war will
not be widely understood, however much
publicity is given to the matter.
The great drawback to any money
system yet devised is its instability. With
stable money—money of unvarying buy-
ing power—one could look ahead and
plan business operations without fear of
booms or slumps. Prices would be
governed almost wholly by supply and
demand.
But, as things actually are, we have a
particularly unstable money in Australia.
We may not have such a temperamental
economic system as that at present exist-
ing in the U.S.A., but our costs in terms
of money aren’t nearly as stable or well
controlled as those in Britain, in spite
of Britain’s great preparation for war.
Notwithstanding the rises in prices in
some of our export commodities that
have already taken place, and others that
are hoped to take place, costs are still
a national danger. It is the balance be-
tween costs and prices that counts, and,
as costs are already too high in relation
to prices, if they retain their present
proportion during the period of war’s
influence on finance our economy must
remain unsteadily balanced. Costs have
been rising for much too long when
the heavy fall in export prices is con-
sidered ; though prices may be on the
rise now they are still greatly below 1937
levels, whereas costs are considerably
higher.
The disorganisation that war finance
may cause is likely to cloud the position
with a kind of industrial stimulation that
can be very treacherous. Unless an iron
hand is kept on costs we may come out
o)f it all with a jellylike backbone. It is
comparatively easy- for an Empire with
great natural.resources to finance a war ;
it may be very difficult to finance the
ensuing peace.
Taking the long view, our aim should
be to see this country equipped, indus-
trially and economically, to trade on a
reasonably profitable basis with the rest
of the world under conditions ruling at
normal times. The instability in our
costs, as indicated over the past two
years, is Australia’s great national weak-
ness. It is pandered to by our political
and electoral systems and, to some extent,
by the Arbitration Courts, which base
rising wages on rising wages costs and
falling wages on falling wages costs.
Although stockbrokers and Pitt and
Collins street punters were smiling at the
rise in share prices last week, the most
encouraging thing to happen in recent
months was a small fall in the average
cost of living throughout Australia for
the quarter that ended on June 30. Actu-
ally, the fall was hardly noticeable with
a magnifying-glass, but it was a steady-
ing—The first thing of its kind since the
September quarter of 1934.
The sharemarkets in Australia gave
the only clear reaction to the second
week of war. While the war itself was
debated in many different shades of
opinion, and the news of it was so
meagre as to keep it still in the category
of “a queer war,” Australian Stock Ex-
changes gave the development of hostili-
ties a boisterous reception. Bank shares,
which had sunk to a very low level (in
the case of the ’Wales to the lowest level
since long before the slump) the preced-
ing week, made sudden recovery—’Wales
scrip from £24 14s. to £26 10s., then to
£27 2s. 6d. Melbourne ’Change was slow
to make up its mind, and on Monday
(11th) Sydney took the initiative, paying
from 665. to 68s. for B.H.P. shares,
against from 655. 6d. to 675. in Mel'
bourne. These quotes compared with
625. 6d. on September 5. Sydney paid
235. l\d. for Drug Houses shares when
Melbourne investors were paying 235.
(21s. 9d. Sept. 5). Drug Houses shares
later appreciated further, to over 255.
The possibility of the English Boots
people setting up in Australia, through
absorption of W. H. Soul or otherwise,
seemed to have been deferred by war
developments, and in any case the
£865,491-worth of stock the co.’s sub-
sidiaries held a year ago is reckoned
by the market to be worth more now.
Chemicals, like metals, have risen quickly.
On Tuesday of last week, when
the strength of Monday’s share-
dealings on Wall-street became known
(the Dow-Jones industrial-share index
rocketed to 155, up four points on
the higher figure at which New York
’Change closed for the week-end), there
were wide dealings in Barriers, Electro.
Zincs and Mt. Lyells. On Monday Mt.
Lyell had touched 335. 9d. in a burst
of spec, buying; and South had gone
as high as 31s. 3d. Here are some com-
parative quotes:
Sept. Sept. Sept. Sept.
1. 8. 11. 15.
North B.H. .. 43/- 48/- 50/3 48/9
Zinc Corp. .. 76/6 87/6 92/- 86/6
B.H. South .. 24/6 29/- 31/- 28/9
Mt. Lyell .. 25/- 31/3 33/3 30/9
Briseis Tin .. 7/9 8/3 8/3 8/5
Larut .. .. 5/3 8/- 7/8 7/10
Pungah .. 19/6 22/9 24/3 25/3
In the tin section Larut, following a
very swift rise, relaxed under pressure
of profit-taking. Its low market price
and large share issue makes this stock
subject to considerable speculation.
As the week wore on and “maxi-
mum” rates became operative in London,
Wall-street weakened, and bear opera-
tions again became permissible in Aus-
tralia. The result is noticeable in the
reaction that took place in silver-lead
and copper stocks on Friday. Malayan
tin shares continued strong by reason of
the increase to 80 p.c. in the quota for
the quarter ended September 30, with the
possibility that the same figure will be
allowed for the December quarter.
Among industrials, the market bid up
for most manufacturers of “consumer
goods,” was hesitant about concerns in-
terested in the construction trades
(cement shares, General Industries, Aus-
tralian Gypsum, Wunderlich, etc.), also
diffident about breweries, and kept clear
of importers and those dependent on im-
ported goods—such as Gordon and
Gotch, newspaper concerns (newsprint
has already risen sharply) and most
retailers, including chain stores. But,
taken on the average, the level of
industrial shares on Australian ’Changes
on Wednesday of last week was approxi-
mately the highest average for 1939,
which means that some stocks topped the
highest price so far this year. B.H.P.
arid Electro. Zinc came into that category.
* * * *
Olympic Tyre Co. has given an assur-
ance that all employees who are called
up or who volunteer for active service
will have their jobs held for them.
* * * *
In Canberra last Thursday Senator
Cameron asked whether the Government
would take action to adjust fixed incomes
and pensions in the event of a rise in
living costs, which he feared would result
from the lift in the price of gold. Mac-
leay, Minister for Commerce, replied that
the Government could take no effective
action other than to prevent excessive
charges being made. It is worth noting
that in the depression, when gold rose
from 85s. to over 160 s. an ounce in Aus-
tralia, the cost of living fell, because at
that time we were passing through a
period of severe deflation. This time the
position isn’t the same, though had war
not come we may have had uncontrolled
deflation before long—in other words, a
slump in trade generally.


Patents.
HAIR GRIPPING FASTENERS AND
METHOD AND MACHINE FOR
PRODUCING THEM.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
16257/28 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the grant-
ing of a license to make, use and vend the
invention within the Commonwealth of . Aus-
tralia. Particulars obtainable from Griffith,
Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 67
York Street, Sydney.
»9l«
Bv Appointment
La.
\ je,am ■Hoe fl
if.
•''* o'-
A WHISKY WITH
MAXY DUALITIES
quol 'ty i 5 - ion
°"'y „ ° V'f,j"? ,s °»d
'»* l„.,
>'C:"r^=r e '
C On Qc V; P ° /of e. *°
C/ o 6
l 6 oft./** 1 ' '*
c °sks. Yeor s i ° e ' n 9
Alth °ugh , * ° ot
'* C °Sts P re 'Wn
Sc ° tch C w° fe th Orr st Strengih
toil, it ° °nds. p Qr to ndQrd
Une 9uoli ed * co c jt.
wwV-b
©JadiaN
Whisky
(m
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd.,
WalkervHle. Ontario, Canada.
Since 1858.
you can beX^of
THE SHELL CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Incorporated in Great Britain)
5.39/8F
Litchfields (A/sia), Ltd., the Claude
Osmonde Barker venture financed mostly
by Westralian people who now some-
times wish they hadn’t financed it, has
had another year of heavy going. After
capitalising £2630 of share-selling exes.,
income (£234) still fell £2658 short of
outgo, so that the increase in the amount
of assets unrepresented by realisable
value was, including £179 of preliminary
exes, capitalised, £5467 for the year, com-
pared with £4464 in the preceding term
and £5279 in the initial period. At June
30, 1939, the co. thus showed a deficiency
of tangible assets compared with capital,
etc., invested of £15,210. Paid-up share
capital last balance day was £14,952, an
increase of £5542 during the year. There
was then only £3B unpaid in respect of
calls. Face value of “selective security
certificates” disposed of the proceeds
were to be invested in a stock-and-share
pool on behalf of certificate-holders —
was £36,410, up £19,320; the amount
paid up on them was £12,358, up £7605.
This increase is the most remarkable
thing in the year’s accounts. Another
remarkable thing that happened during
the term was Mr. C. O. Barker’s winning
of the Irwin-Moore (W.A.) seat in the
March elections and his relinquishing of
it in August.
Apparently a halt has been called in
the co.’s investment policy and some
attempt made to consolidate the finances
at this late stage. 1A any rate the co.
had £6646 in cash at balance day, together
with £4934 in “investments,” nature un-
described. These assets fall a few hun-
dreds short of the amount paid to the
co. by certificate-holders. There is £785
in fixtures, debtors, etc., and the outside
debt is £265. Shareholders’ capital is
entirely unrepresented by tangible assets
on book values, and, taking all realisable
assets in, there is a shortage of £258 on
certificate-holders’ account.
* * * *
The passing of control of Australian
Paper Manufacturers direct to share-
holders in Australasian Paper and Cum-
berland Paper is under consideration. It
is proposed to hand out A.P.M. scrip in
return for shares in the two holding cos.
The issue is complicated by the fact that
Cumberland has three classes of prefer-
ence capital, aggregating £208,111, with
ordinary capital of £239 ? 528 ; Austra-
lasian Paper has £228,500 of pref. capital
(one class) and £1,226,601 of ord. The
operating co. itself has £1,000,000 of 6
p.c. pref. capital not held by the holding
cos., but this presents no difficulty. The
market has appreciated the preliminary
announcement, and, because of it and
the general activity in industrial shares,
shares in both holding cos. have been
rushed.
♦ % Jk ±
The Commonwealth Statistician every
quarter publishes a compilation, in the
form of indexes, showing rises or falls
in the level of money wages (nominal
wages) paid to trade-unionists, move-
ments in the buying power of such wages
(called real wages), fluctuations in cost
of running an average home (the cost
of living), and other indexes showing
variations in the prices the nation is re-
ceiving for its wool, wheat, etc. The
following figures have been extracted
from the many pages of the Statistician’s
quarterly summary, and they reveal the
fact that the level of money wages has
been rising, but that, owing to an in-
creasing cost of living, the value of such
wages has fallen this year:
Nominal Real
Wages Wages H’hold Wool, Wheat,
(Male). (Male). Exes. Etc. Etc.
Dec.,’29.. 1974 1082 1712 1556* 1792*
Mar.,’33.. 1585 1192 1327 1118* 1175*
Mar.,’37.. 1659 1111 1433 1583 1552
Dec.,’37.. 1760 1155 1465 1140 1520
Dec.,’3B .. 1820 1213 1501 1049 1995
Mar.,’39.. 1821 1195 1524 1073 2062
June,’39 .. 1522 1024 1688
* Average for year.
Also, to make matters worse, the values
we are getting for wool and wheat the
last year or so have been dropping away
steeply. The wheat index in the fore-
going table includes prices for other
agricultural produce, which have the
effect of disguising the fall to some ex-
tent. Actually, wheat was recently down
to the lowest price on record. And, as
the table shows, the rising cost of living
has added to the difficulties of those on,
or dependent on, the land.
* * .* *
After the outbreak of war in 1914-18
the Australian wheatgrower got higher
prices for wheat and paid out increased
costs for growing, harvesting and market-
ing. Here is a list of Australian export
prices for wheat covering the pre-war,
war and post-war periods:
Bushel. Bushel.
1908 .. 4s. Id. 1915-16 .. ss. Id.
1909 .. 4s. 2d. 1916-17 .. 4s. lOd.
1910 .. 4s. 2d. 1917-18 .. ss. 3d.
1911 .. 3s. 6d. 1918-19 .. ss. Id.
1912 .. 3s. 1 Id. 1919-20 .. ss. 6d.
1913 .. 3s. 9d. 1920-21 .. 9s. Od.
1914-15.. 4s. Id. 1821-22 .. ss. 9d.
In 1915-16 production of wheat in the
Commonwealth was 179,065,703 bushels,
a record up to that time. The previous
season had, owing to drought, yielded no
more than 24,892,402 bushels, the lowest
harvest since 1902. By 1919-20 the yield
had slumped again to 45,974,992 bushels.
It recovered to normal size during the
next few years, prompted by the 9s. a
bushel averaged during 1920-21.
* * * *
The sharp depreciation of sterling,
which has been followed automatically
by depreciation of the Australian pound,
will affect the landed price of all imports
from countries other than Britain and
countries whose currencies are linked
with Britain’s. Goods coming from the
U.S.A., where the dollar has not been
devalued since war broke out, will be
especially affected. Motor-cars are ex-
pected to rise in price as soon as present
Australian stocks run out, increased in-
surance costs being an additional factor.
Motor-cars, especially of American
brand, are now largely made in Aus-
tralia, about 80 p.c. of the sale price rep-
resenting Australian-made in some cases.
Thus exchange and insurance costs will
apply principally to the cost of the engine
and gearbox, and in some cases the
chassis. Imports of American petrol, etc.,
will be affected considerably, and an in-
crease in the Commonwealth tax by a
Id. a gallon has already occurred.
Especially in regard to Shell spirit, a
large proportion of our petroleum-
products requirements now comes from
Borneo and the Netherlands East Indies.
* * * *
R. Keith Yorston and Edward E.
Fortescue, chartered accountants (Aust.),
old hands at the art of textbook pro-
duction, have just turned out Australian
Mercantile Law. The Law Book Co.
is the publisher. Although the writers
say “no claim is made to rival the
learned authors of the various works on
mercantile law; on the contrary, we
gratefully acknowledge our indebtedness
to them,” the volume is not one to be
cast aside by accountancy students as
soon as their exams, are over. It will
make a useful reference work in any
practising accountant’s library. The
book deals with most aspects of mer-
cantile law away from companies, bank-
ruptcy and income tax. It goes through
contracts, agency, sale of goods, nego-
tiable instruments, partnership, etc., to
bills of sale, mortgages, shipping, land-
lord and tenant and commercial arbi-
tration. A full index rounds off ah
excellent volume.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE NAZI-SOVIET PACT.
[Here, in digests and extracts from various acknow-
ledged sources, is the grotesquely fantastic story of the
Nazi-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact, the Soviet signature to
which amounted to Russia’s agreement with Hitler’s
impending attack on Poland, and therefore let the guns
off. First, some specimens of Nazi-Soviet mutual abuse,
which, despite the warnings of such authorities as
Krivitsky, deluded the whole boiling of Parlor Pinks
into accepting that in war dictator-ruled Russia would
be with the democracies as a staunch and gallant ally.]
Nazi Abuse of Red Russia
[On its climb to power and since, till the other
day, anti-Soviet-Communism, expressed in the whole
Anti-Comintern Pact, policy and alliances and vocally in
abusive comment, has been a surface staple of Nazism.
There is more, of course, in some of these specimens
of abuse than mere mud-throwing: they contain a lot
of naked truth.]
“A Russo-German alliance will mean a second
world war and the end of Germany.”— Hitler, quoted
in London ‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
One must never forget that the rulers of modern
Russia are bloodstained common criminals, that they
are the very scum of mankind. One does not make
an agreement with rogues to whom no contract would
be sacred, as they are not the representatives of honor
and truthfulness, but the representatives of lie, fraud,
theft, thuggery, robbery.— Hitler, ‘‘Mein Kampf.”
Those who are in power in Russia to-day have no
idea of forming an honorable alliance or of remain-
ing true to it if they did. — Hitler, “Mein Kampf.”
“Germany is the bulwark of the West against
Bolshevism, and, in combating it, will meet terror with
terror and violence with violence.” — Hitler, November
27, J935.
The Soviet Government —“hysterical and criminal
political maniacs.” — Goebbels, December, 1935.
“So far as ever this Bolshevism draws Germany
into its clutches, we are the deadliest and most fanati-
cal enemies.” — Hitler, May 21, 1935.
“We will sign non-aggression pacts with all the
world, provided only that we are treated fairly. We
will not sign a multilateral pact of mutual assistance
in the East, for in no circumstances would Germans
fight for Bolshevists. In such a fight our nation simply
would not march. Rather than sign such a pact I
should hang myself.”— Hitler, May, 1935.
“I tremble at the thought of what our overpopu-
lated Continent would be bound to become should
the chaos of a Bolshevist revolution succeed in impos-
ing on us a destructive Asiatic conception of life. I
shall prevent Germany from entering this path to
—“Die Brennessel,” Berlin.
DREAM IN A MOSCOW HUNTING LODGE.
(Nazi view of Fuhrer Staling
ruin.” — Hitler, March 8, 1936, in a speech beginning:
“We have no territorial claims in Europe.”
“Soviet Russia wants no peace. It is indeed the
Power which is hostile to peace.”— Hitler, Berlin,
March, 1936.
“Nothing binds us closer to National Socialism
than the mere realisation we are in the midst of a
world which is kept in a state of decomposition and
spiritual uproar by Jewish Bolsheviks in Moscow.” —
Hitler, September 13, 1937.
“With one single country alone we have detested
to enter any relationship. That State is Soviet Russia.
— Hitler, February 20, 1938.
Soviet Abuse of Nazi Germany
[Just as abuse of Soviet Russia had been a staple
of Nazism, so the “mighty Soviet’s” spokesmen let fly
at the Nazis, shooting in the back of the head scores of
leading Soviet comrades and thousands of minor com-
rades for allegedly being, among other things, Fascist
spies and wreckers.]
Comintern talks of increasing the Red Army as
the surest instrument for checking Germany, “for we
know that Hitler means war, and Hitler’s overthrow
by proletarian revolution will destroy for ever Ger-
many’s imperial war-nest.” — Instructions issued to
Comintern foreign sections, April, 1935.
“The Soviet Government rejoices that she is able
to organise together in Moscow those countries which
have an interest in working against Germany.”—
Radio Announcer, Moscow, March 19, 1935.
Germany—“the aggressor of to-morrow, who
already menaces the peace of Europe.”— “Journal de
Moscou,” October 12, 1935.
“The main aim of the Communist party is to
bring about the union of all opposition forces and to
overthrow the barbarous Nazi regime.”— German
Communist Florin, at Comintern Congress, August,
1935.
Clearly Germany is the enemy of peace and
security. Herr Hitler’s is not a programme of peace,
but of war, war both in the west and the east of
Europe.— Article in all Soviet newspapers, May 23,
1935.
There is no crime against the world and civilisa-
tion which the Fascist swastika is incapable of pre-
paring.—“Pravda,” after trial of Radek, February 1,
1937.
The Bolsheviks stand for the creation of a general
Peace Front capable of halting the further develop-
ment of Fascist aggression. The whole world knows
Germany to be the aggressor, “Izvestia,” July
30, 1939.
A Soviet war for the defence of the Socialist
regime against the Fascist aggressors for their complete
destruction is going to be the most just and most holy
of wars. — “Izvestia,” February 24, 1939.
The war of the Soviet Union against Fascism
will be the most just and lawful of all the wars of
humanity.— “ Pravda,” August 15, 1939.
“The policy of non-intervention means conniving
at aggression, giving free rein to war ; reveals an eager-
ness to allow all the belligerents to sink deep into the
mire of war, to encourage them surreptitiously in
this, to allow them to weaken and exhaust one an-
other, and then, when they have become weak enough,
to appear on the scene with fresh strength, to appear,
of course, ‘in the interests of peace’ and to dictate
conditions to the enfeebled belligerents. It is cheap
and it serves its purpose.”— Stalin, address to Bolshevik
Congress, March 10, 1939.
Note on Krivitsky
[The first authoritative warning of the deal between
Hitler and Stalin published in Australia appeared in
“Uncabled Additions” last April in an article by the
former leading Red Army officer W. G. Krivitsky,
which was condensed from the “Saturday Evening Post.”
On the say-so of a New York Communist publication
Krivitsky was declared bogus, this impudent falsity
being paraded by a Sydney hammer-and-sickle sheet and
given publicity by a Sydney com-
mercial radio station. Krivitsky’s
credentials were later well attested,
but, in case there should be any
doubts, here is another brief item
from the “Post.”]
Those detonative “Post” articles
by W. G. Krivitsky, former Soviet
general, will appear in an amplified
form as a book published by
Harper and Brothers.
And may we draw your atten-
tion to the fact that when General
Krivitsky recently appeared at a
public and official hearing held by
the immigration authorities to con-
sider the extension of his visa, his
status as a one-time Stalinite big-
wig was accepted by the U.S. Gov-
ernment-while the Communist
press, which had called him a fraud
and an impostor, remained dis-
creetly silent. The boys are slipping.
The Pact
[Krivitsky said, among other
things, that one of the most dan-
gerous of fallacies was that
regarding supposed enmity be-
tween Stalin’s Soviet and Hitler’s
Germany. This item from Lon-
don “Times” was, of course,
cabled; it is here included to
help complete this narrative of
international farce.]
Herr von Ribbentrop reached
Moscow by aeroplane yesterday
afternoon [23/8/’39] and had a
three-hour talk with the Russian
Foreign Minister. Last night a
German-Soviet Pact of Non-Aggres-
sion was signed in Moscow.
The text of the agreement reads:
Guided by the desire to strengthen the cause of
peace between Germany and the Soviet Republics,
and based on the fundamental stipulations of the
Neutrality Agreement concluded in April, 1926, the
German Government and Soviet have come to the fol-
lowing agreement:
Article 1.- —The two contracting Powers undertake
to refrain from any act of force, any aggressive act,
and any attacks against each other or in conjunction
with any other Powers.
Article 2. —If one of the contracting Powers
should become the object of warlike action on the
part of a third Power, the other contracting Power
will in no way support the third Power.
Article 3. —The Governments of the two contract-
ing Powers will in future remain in consultation with
one another in order to inform themselves about
questions which touch their common interests.
Article 4. —None of the two contracting Powers
will join any other group of Powers which directly or
indirectly is directed against one of the two.
Article 5.- —ln case differences or conflict should
arise between the two contracting Powers on ques-
tions of any kind, the two partners will solve these
disputes or conflicts exclusively by friendly exchange
of views or if necessary by arbitration commissions.
Article 6. —The agreement is concluded for the
duration of 10 years, with the stipulation that unless
one of the contracting partners gives notice to ter-
minate it one year before its expiration it will auto-
matically be prolonged by five years.
Article 7. —The present agreement shall be rati-
fied in the shortest possible time. The ratification
documents are to be exchanged in Berlin. The treaty
comes into force immediately after it has been signed
The Parlor Pinks Disturbed
[And then the Parlor Pinks on all fronts were
indeed flabbergasted.]
The retreat from Moscow has become, for the
British Communists, a rout. One of the leading pub-
licists of the Communist party yesterday took to his
bed in despair, a more agreeable alternative in any
event than taking to the barricade. An editor of a
“Left” weekly merely took to hysterics. The “bomb-
shell” of the Soviet-Nazi Pact appears to others of
the “Left” as more closely resembling an earthquake.
Lady Rhondda’s “Time and Tide” utters the plaintive
bleat that if only Ministers read books on the Euro-
pean situation they would realise that a Stalin-Hitler
deal was always on the cards. This is a new viewpoint
in those pages. — London “Evening Standard.”
The possibility of a rapprochement between the
two “dictated” States has been suggested, for weeks
and months past, in dozens of authoritative books.
Apparently British Ministers never read books on the
European situation. It is therefore unlikely that their
attention has been called to the remarkable antici-
pation in Herr Rauschning’s recently-published Ger-
many's Revolution of Destruction, where the author,
a former National Socialist, speaks of the inevitability
of a German-Russian alliance—“the confluence of
two streams which run towards the same sea, the sea
of world revolution. That alliance is Hitler’s coming
great stroke.”
But for months before Herr Rauschning’s book
appeared in its English translation, others had warned
us of the pure opportunism of Soviet policy, as of
the policy of all totalitarian States. And, apart from
books, were not the facts suggestive?— “Time and
Tide.” The “possibility of a rapprochement between
the two ‘dictated’ States” which it now discovers did
not previously occur to it.
We cannot, it is true, disguise from ourselves the
bitter and unexpected blow to peace which has been
struck by Russia.
The terms of the Russo-German Pact make it
clear that there has taken place in Moscow one of
the most indefensible and shocking reversals of policy
in history. If there is a war of aggression against
Poland heavy indeed will be the burden of Soviet
guilt.— Francis Williams, in London Labor “Daily
Herald,” previously all for Russia.
The German-Russian negotiations began early
this year. They seem to have been leading to tangible
results about June. That is to say, they antedated
the March crisis and the Anglo-Polish alliance, and
continued while the conversations between the Western
Powers and Moscow were going on. Russia was
therefore negotiating with the Western Powers about
how she might assist them in a conflict with Germany
while all the time there was grave doubt of her inten-
tion ever to do so.
It is now perfectly clear why Germany, in her
plans for the conquest of Poland, did not take Russia
into actual account —she has known all along that
Russia would not take sides against her. It is also
clear why Russia was never really interested in con-
cluding an alliance with the Western Powers. The
prospective alliance was a shadow, the German-Rus-
sian agreement was a reality.— Diplomatic correspon-
dent of Manchester “Guardian,” 25181*39.
In what must surely be the biggest single piece of
perfidy in history, Soviet Russia has betrayed all its
principles, encouraged the aggressors and double-
crossed those who were trying to be her friends in
Western Europe. No amount of ideological perfume
will avail to remove the smell that will for ever hang
about the name of Bolshevik. — From London “Econo-
mist,” 2618J’39.
Hearst’s Comment
Why did Germany make a peace compact with
Russia, its social and political opponent? Because
Germany was unable to make a peace alliance with
France and England, its natural locational and poli-
tical associates.
Germany offered such an alliance to France and
England definitely and repeatedly. Chamberlain prac-
tically agreed to this in the Munich Accord. But the
stupidity of the English radicals and extremists had
not been taken into sufficient consideration.
. Mr. Chamberlain, a good but not very powerful
man, yielded to this hostile influence, negotiated with
the bloody revolutionary Stalin regime in Russia, but
Stalin was as traitorous to the radicals of Western
Europe as he had been to his own people.— William
Randolph Hearst, in an article published in every
newspaper in his extensive “chain” in U.S.A.
British Labor M.P.’s Broadside
The one country in the world which desired war
was Russia. She wanted a prolonged struggle in which
the conditions would be suitable for world revolt or,


if she did not secure world revolt, she wanted at least
to weaken those nations which were dominant and
which were feared by her. The leaders at the Kremlin
were prepared to sacrifice 20,000,000 or 30,000,000
lives in that gamble for themselves.
If there was a doubt in Hitler’s mind as to making
war, the Russian Pact had driven him along the course
of war.
Treachery of the most double-dyed kind had taken
place on the part of the Kremlin in regard to the
British and French nations. How could anyone con-
ceive of inviting military, naval and air force leaders
to a country and discussing with them problems of
defence and probably pooling ideas in circumstances
of that kind?
Even if we did conclude a pact with Russia it
would give no real aid. All Russia would have done
was to fan the flames, to bring about an extended
period of war. — Mr. McGovern, M.P., of the Inde-
pendent Labor party, speaking in the House of
Commons.
The German Soldier To-day.
(From a London “Spectator” article by Major B. T.
Reynolds.)
After the Munich Agreement last year I was one
of the “British Observing Officers” in the Sudetenland,
and I was brought into close contact with two Ger-
man divisions on my front, working more or less
under active service conditions.
The first thing that struck me, because it was novel
in my experience as a soldier, was the crowd of “poli-
ticals” of various types with whom one was con-
stantly coming into contact. These “politicals” were
very much in evidence in the German lines. There
were S.S. and S.A. formations working with the troops.
The Gestapo was also there.
On one occasion I had to escort three Czechs who
had been sent by Prague on a perfectly legitimate
errand. Whilst I was explaining my mission to an
elderly dug-out subaltern at a frontier post, an indi-
vidual styling himself the Politische Leiter burst in
and tried to arrest my Czechs, saying that he had sent
for a party of Gestapo to remove them. I had the
greatest difficulty in inducing the subaltern, who was
badly frightened, to ring up his colonel and arrange
for me to see him. We were finally given an escort to
regimental headquarters after our political friend had
staged a hostile demonstration on the market square,
in the course of which the Union Jack was torn off
my car. Arrived there we were kept waiting an hour
under an armed guard whilst the “political” inter-
viewed the colonel, and in the end given an escort to
the frontier without having seen him.
Arrived there, I stopped and demanded the return
of my Union Jack. Whilst I was waiting for it a car
drove up and an officer got out and came towards me.
It was the colonel. He asked if I had any complaints.
I was commencing to enumerate them when he cut me
short. “No,” he said, “against my officers and men,
not against the ‘politicals.’ ” I said that I had no
complaints against the military. He drew himself up
and saluted. “You are a soldier and lam a soldier.
You and I have both behaved correctly. Good day.”
The degree of political activity varied. In one
infantry regiment officers and men were all wearing
the badges of the Sudetendeutsche Partei, the local
political organisation, on their uniform. In this regi-
ment I came across an instance of three young n.c.os.,
one of whom was wearing the word “Propaganda”
embroidered on the cuff of his uniform jacket, de-
liberately “gingering up” a mild-looking senior officer
into taking a stronger and more offensive line than
he wanted to. In other regiments things appeared
more normal. But everywhere it was noticeable that
officers appeared to be in closer touch with their men
than was usual in the old German army. It was quite
usual to come upon the officers of a battalion head-
quarters having a meal in the main room of a village
two cartoons on these pages were
reproduced from their original
sources in a publication called “Gagging
the Dictators,” which had some sale in
Australia. It contains dozens more in
like vein. The ones here used appropri-
ately illustrate this week’s leading item —
the account of the Soviet-Nazi Pact.
Wirschaft, with their men sitting at the little tables
all around them.
When the German army expanded in 1936 from
the long-service professional Reichswehr to a national
army, this involved increasing the number of officers
on the active list from about 5000 to something like
30,000. The deficiency could only be met by taking
back large numbers of retired officers. The senior
officers one encountered had obviously been brought
up in the old non-political tradition. They were sol-
diers first, last and all the time. I had some dealings
with a divisional commander —almost the Major-
General of stage convention, eyeglass, ferocious
manner and all. After an initial display of “fright
fulness” he thawed out and became quite fatherly
“You ought never to have retired, my boy. An intel
ligent young fellow like you should have had a greai
career in front of him.” He asked if I had seen any-
thing of his troops coming along, and how they hac
struck me. “Oh, a very good-looking lot, General,’
I said tactfully. “No they’re not,” he said, “and you
know it as well as I do. They’re not what they were
when I was a boy. Damned awful I call them.”
“Damned awful” was a libel. They were not that.
But they were an uneven lot. The effects of the lapse
of conscription between 1919 and 1936 were obvious.
I remember a French friend who was hit at the Marne
in 1914 and lay out all day on ground over which
German troops were working. He was an enthusiastic
professional soldier, and he told me that he forgot
everything else in the sheer pleasure of watching the
best-trained infantry he had ever seen. The German
army has done wonders in a short time, but it has not
yet reached the old standard of training. I doubt, too,
if the rank and file are all politically reliable. There
must be many older men who voted Social Demo-
crat or Communist in Weimar days, and some will
have had friends or relations in concentration camps,
if they have not been there themselves.
Since then the German army has had another 12
months in which to perfect its organisation and train-
ing. One cannot doubt that it has made full use of
the time. All the evidence, too, tends to show that
Germany is more united than she was last year. The
army is a potent weapon in the hands of the Fiihrer.
But the human material of which it is composed is still
far from being homogeneous. The National Social-
ist tradition in which the younger generation of officers
has been brought up differs fundamentally from that
under which the old German army won its triumphs
and earned the respect of professional soldiers the
world over.
Report on Germany.
[Maybe there is some wishful thinking in this report,
the writer seeing to some degree what he wished to
see. Nevertheless it contains internal evidence that the
writer has ability as an observer: e.g.,
it was written in July, yet is on the mark
concerning what has happened since, in-
cluding the Nazi-Soviet marriage. The
writer is a pseudonymous contributor to
the “Spectator,” from which this item
is condensed.]
My own impressions - during a
very recent visit to Germany are as :
follows. 1
The average German is no longer
a Nazi. The opposition is enormously
strong in all classes of the population
and in all age-groups. Anti-Nazis have
penetrated high into the ranks of the secret police
and the counter-espionage service. There is [in July]
general uncertainty and fear how the present situation
will develop.
All Germans fear and detest war. They would
be quite prepared to accept the reconstitution of
Czechoslovakia in its pre-Munich form. But they dis-
like the Poles and regard the present arrangement re-
garding Danzig and the Corridor as intolerable. It is
for this reason that they are afraid that Hitler will
succeed in making a war on this issue appear tolerable
to the German people. Yet, while they criticise the
status quo in Eastern Europe, they share our dislike
of the Nazi methods of altering it.
Germany is disquieted by rumors of a coming
rapprochement between Hitler and Stalin and an agree-
ment to partition Poland between them. [lt needs to
be kept in mind that this was written in July.] This is
regarded as the greatest long-term threat to the future
of Europe. As things stand at the moment, there is
a widespread refusal to face the fact that further
aggression will lead automatically to a general war.
Yet German public opinion is so defeatist that the
issue of such a war, if it comes, cannot be in doubt.
The only real antipathy at the back of every
German’s mind is reserved for Japan —so much is his
loyalty to the Triangle worth. There is no anti-
British feeling of any kind, though I found no one
who could understand the policy of the British Govern-
ment. The Nazis think Mr. Chamberlain has deceived
them, because they read into his no-more-war declara-
tion an intention to abandon Eastern Europe to them.
The anti-Nazis are unable to understand how he could
be so badly informed as to misjudge German
psychology last September. They trust that our spies
are better qualified to report military than political
information.
Profits from War Contracts.
[For some time before the war broke out Britain
was rearming at the stupendous rate of more than
£l3OO a minute. Some indication of where this was
going is given in this article from London “Sunday
Express.”]
Timber has gone up 25 per cent, this year. Jute,
used for sandbags, was £l9 a ton a year ago. It
soared to £3O a ton at one time. Mercury, used in
making fuses, has gone up from £l3 10s. to £l6 10s.
Machine-tool makers, whose work is the basis of
all rearmament manufacture, are making very large
profits. They have already been censured by the Par-
liamentary Select Committee on Estimates for refusing
to allow their books to be examined or to justify their
prices. Here are the comparisons between 1935 and
1938 of the profits of the leading machine-tool makers:
1935. 1938.
B.S.A £1,841 loss £431,346
Churchill Machine Tool .. 34,406 83,336
Coventry Gauge . . .. 13,928 76,445
Greenwood and Batley .. 26,794 72,862
Brooke Tool 16,619 77,759
The Churchill machine tool profits represent 54.7
per cent, of the capital, but, as there was a 125 per
cent, capital bonus in 1936, the profit really repre-
sents over 100 per cent, on the old capital.
The profits of two other machine-tool firms,
Kitchen and Wade and William Asquith, are equal to
69.9 per cent, and 79.3 per cent, respectively of the
ordinary capital. Of one machine-tool firm which
allowed its books to be examined, the Parliamentary
Select Committee said: “The profit was a shock to
us.” The name of this company has not been disclosed.
— “Krokodil,” Moscow.
HEAD-CHOPPER OF EUROPE.
(Soviet view of Comrade Adolf.)
In the case of 8.5. A., which, among other things,
makes rifles and, it is understood, Bren guns, the latest
profits, showing a 20 per cent, return on capital, are
the highest since the post-war boom.
The firm of Aircraft Components, Ltd., of Chel-
tenham, makes retractable undercarriages for airplanes.
The 1939 profits of the firm showed a 320 per cent,
rise on the 1938 profits, and a 600 per cent, rise on
1937. Its 1938 profits show that a return of 68
per cent, was earned on the capital.
Parnall Aircraft, Ltd., of Bristol, makes gun
turrets. It made a loss of £48,848 in 1936. In 1937 net
profit after tax was £26,782. In 1938 it was £66,787 —•
a rise of nearly 150 per cent, in a year.
An important item in rearmament is aluminium.
The British Aluminium Company, which makes prac-
tically all the aluminium produced in Britain;, had a
profit of £348,931 in 1936, £488,182 in 1937 and
£607,670 in 1938. The capital is £4,500,000. James
Booth and Co., Ltd., which makes aluminium alloys,
made a profit of £95,903 in 1937 and £140,411, or 36]
per cent, return on ordinary capital, in 1938.
Projectile and Engineering, Ltd., owns what is
probably the largest shell-making factory in Europe.
In 1936 it had a profit of 42 per cent, on its capital, in
1937 66 per cent., and in 1938, after a capital bonus
of 20 per cent., it had a profit of 54 per cent.
Fairey Aviation, Ltd., which makes bombers, had
a profit of £260,125 in 1938. These profits are 60 per
cent, up on 1937 and nearly 500 per cent, up on 1936.
Short Brothers’ profit for last year is more than double
that of 1936 and nearly 70 per cent, up on the 1937
figure. The profit is equal to 107 per cent, on ordi-
nary capital. Handley Page earned profits equivalent
to 75| per cent, of the capital in 1937 and, even after
the distribution of 150 per cent, in capital bonuses,
it earned over 35 per cent, of its capital in 1938.
The big heavy-armament concerns also show steep
profit increases. Hadfields, the great shell, armament
and steel firm, made a profit of 32 per cent, on ordi-
nary capital in 1937 and 34 per cent, in 1938. The
1938 profit constituted a new record.
The profits of the large naval construction firm,
Swan Hunter, have jumped from 11.9 per cent, to 26
per cent, on the capital in a year. Cammell Laird,
which builds ships for the Navy, made £223,707 profit
in 1937 and £253,908 in 1938. There was a special
tax provision of £lOO,OOO in 1938, otherwise the profits
for that year would have been £353,908. Vickers,
Ltd., which makes all kinds of heavy armament, made
211 per cent, profit on its ordinary capital in 1937
and 22 per cent, in 1938.
Some City experts think that the nublished results
of some companies in these days do not show the full
financial position, since there may be abnormal pro-
visions for depreciation, taxation and expenditure. It
may well be that some arms profits are even higher
than the figures suggest.


HOW A GREAT NEW DISCOVERY HAS CONQUERED
RHEUMATISM
The True cause of Rheumatism has been
discovered and an effective Three-Way
Method of treatment evolved which definitely
removes the cause. The effects are so certain
and the clearing so swift that —
YOUR RHEUMATISM WILL BE
ENDIHG WITHIN 21 DAYS
(FROM THE DAY YOU COMMENCE TREATMENT)
Mr. Douglas Curzon will send a
Free Trial Supply of his new method
and offer of Guaranteed Freedom
from Rheumatism to all who apply
on the application form.
An English Research Chemist has
brought years of experiment to a
triumphant conclusion by a great' new
discovery which affords every sufferer
from Rheumatism the blessing of
immediate relief and complete banish-
ment of this most distressing ailment.
Mr. Douglas Curzon states that URIC
ACID HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE PAIN, SWELLING AND
STIFFNESS OF RHEUMATISM. The
true cause is a toxic condition of the
blood, ORIGINATING IN THE
DEEP VEINS OF THE LEG. These
toxins cause the stiffening of the
muscles and the hardening and en-
largement of the joints by becoming
localised in certain parts of the body
and there producing exactly the same
sort of inflammatory thickening of
the tissues as the results from a boil,
ulcer or any similar localised, inflamed
condition.
This new, scientific method relieves
the pain, eliminates the poisons from
the blood and builds up the nervous
system. By ENDING THE RHEU-
MATIC TENDENCY it assures
immunity from future attacks. Only
since this discovery has it been possible
to guarantee
THE ENDING OF YOUR
RHEUMATISM.
This is a guarantee solemnly under-
taken and meaning exactly what it says
that within 2 1 days from the day you
commence using the complete treatment
you shall have received more than en-
couragement, more than hope, but defi-
nite proof that the end of your rheu-
matism is in sight or the complete
treatment will cost you nothing! It is
made possible by this amazing fact
that in hundreds of cases, where every
known treatment has been tried, this
new, scientific three-way method has
achieved a lasting clearance swift and
complete.
Strong words these to sufferers who
have endured their afflictions ceaselessly
through months and even years, and
almost beyond belief to those who have
tried, with dogged patience, every repu-
table specific, with still no lasting relief.
Yet the facts are there. This great dis-
covery has been made. The proof is
overwhelming.
SEND FORM FOR FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
Mr. Douglas Curzon invites every
reader who suffers from Rheumatism to
send the form at the foot' of this
announcement and immediately
receive free of charge and
obligation:—>
(1) A trial supply of his harm-
less Rheumatic Pain
Reliever to give positive
relief in every case of
Muscular, Nerve or Arth-
ritic Rheumatism.
(2) A trial supply of his Toxin
Eliminant to quickly and
safely reduce swelling and
stiffness.
(The complete Treatment
includes NERVE-FOOD
and a simple Regimen.)
(3) An offer to completely
banish your Rheumatism
under an unconditional
guarantee that it will be ending within
21 days from the day you commence
treatment or no cost to you.
If you desire to be free of Rheumatism
you should take the first step TO-DAY
by sending the form
below. Remember,
this costs you no-
thing and places
you under no obli-
gation.
•• >7
:; ■<:
i
WHERE RHEUMATISM BEGINS
Rheumatic toxins are
first produced in the
deep veins of the legs
and are then carried
by the blood to every
part of the body, re-
sulting in (7) slug-
gish circulation; (2)
congestion, and (3)
pain and swelling.
APPLICATION FORM
Mr. Douglas Curzon,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories,
62 Margaret St. (Box 4242 XX), Sydney.
Please send me, free of charge and obligation, the
trial supply of Rheumatic Pain Reliever and Toxin
Eliminant promised and offer to completely banish
the trouble under guarantee mentioned. 1 enclose
2d. stamp for postage.
Name
(Please print in block letters')
Address
B. 20/9/’39
AMAZING CATARRH DISCOVERY
Removes Cause of Catarrh, Head Noises and Catarrhal Deafness
NO NEED TO TOLERATE CATARRH IN ANY OF ITS MANY FORMS
FREE INSTANT RELIEF FOR ALL WHO SEND FORM
Mr. David Burton, discoverer
of the astonishing New Catarrh
Remedy, offers free relief to
all sufferers who send the form
at right or call at 62 Margaret
Street, Sydney.
Every reader who suffers from Catarrh
will be interested in the new English
discovery announced to-day, which
makes it entirely unnecessary to
tolerate Catarrhal Deafness, Head
Noises, Coughing, Choking, Sore
Throats, Headaches or other Catar-
rhal manifestations.
Mr. David Burton, a former
Catarrh sufferer, has formulated a
complete method which removes the
basic cause so that the trouble is
completely overcome. Thus, no
matter where Catarrh germs lodge—
in the passages of the head, throat,
chest, stomach or intestines —the com-
plete attack clears these germs right
out of the system. Not a single
“centre of infection” remains from
which they can spread back again to
the nose and throat. The head and
nose clear as if by magic; mucus
comes away; throat dryness dis-
appears ; inflamed membranes are
healed; germs are destroyed; dis-
charges stop and soothing, substantial
relief is quickly felt. The skin clears;
the eyes resume their former bright-
ness, the breath its one-time sweet-
ness ; dullness, both physical and
mental, gives place to keen alertness
of body and brain; respiratory diffi-
culties vanish; the cheeks assume a
healthy color; catarrhal headaches
become a thing of the past; every
objectionable catarrhal symptom dis-
appears, and the former Catarrh suf-
ferer once more enjoys vibrant, ex-
hilarating health, with freedom from
Catarrh and other abnormal con-
ditions.
Mr. David Burton, in association
with Anglo-Australian Laboratories,
desires to place his wonderful dis-
covery at the service of Catarrh suf-
ferers in every part of Australia.
Although numerous unsolicited letters
of appreciation from former sufferers
have been received conveying the glad
news that this new scientific com-
bination has permanently banished
their Catarrh, Mr. Burton insists that
each sufferer must convince himself
by actual test that this new discovery
is unique and really effective. Mr.
Burton will, therefore, send to every
reader of this journal who applies on
the form at the foot of this an-
nouncement: —
(1) A generous trial supply of
his new Antiseptic Vaporis-
ing Oil in Capsule form,
which will give INSTANT
RELIEF. This powerful,
bland, and pleasant anti-
septic oil instantly clears
stopped-up nostrils and
destroys catarrhal germs
breeding in the post-nasal
cavities and respiratory
tract. By virtue of its heal-
ing action it greatly aids in
the restoration of the in-
flamed membranes to a
healthy condition.
(2) Sufficient MUCUS-SOLVENT
TABLETS to purify the
blood-stream, eliminate
catarrhal germs from the
stomach, right digestive
wrongs, and help every
organ of the body to func-
tion properly.
(3) An offer to completely
banish your Catarrh under
a genuine guarantee of
satisfactory results, or it
will not cost you one penny.
Send the form now. That is the
first step to glorious new health and
permanent freedom from an annoy-
ing complaint, which steaily gets
worse if neglected, and which leads
to dangerous and even deadly con-
sequences. \
debility and
LACK OF CONCENTRATION
A
CONSTIPATION
HEARTBURN
INDIGESTION
<B*
' ’
STOMACH
DISORDERS
HOW-CATARRH BECI
w
The Metabolic balance is
seriously upset when the
acids are in excess of the
alkalinity, as in catarrh.
This corroding acidity in-
flames the mucous mem-
branes, resulting in the
symptoms shown in dia-
gram on left. When the
Metabolic balance is re-
stored Catarrh disappears.
i FREE INSTANT RELIEF
FOR CATARRH SUFFERERS
| Mr. David Burton,
BAnglo-Australian Laboratories,
62 Margaret Street,
I Box 4242 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, free of charge and obligation, the
S trial supply of Antiseptic Vaporising Oil Capsules and
Mucus-Solvent Tablets promised to give me INSTANT
I RELIEF from Catarrh and offer to banish the ailment,
j I enclose 2d. stamp for postage.
I Name
} Address
B. 20/9/’39


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING 1939
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £3OOO, ONE MILE.
THE COLIN STEPHEN STAKES, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Standard weight for age.)
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, OCTOBER 2 (Eight Hours Day).
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4.
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
(Standard weight for age.)
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7.
THE RANDWICK PLATE, of £1250, TWO MILES.
(Standard weight for age.)
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
G Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
RACING REVIEW
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
After the Chelmsford Stakes J. T r
Jamieson said that, even allowing for
his collision with the false rail, High
Caste’s form in that race was all wrong,
and he expected him to show to much
greater advantage in the Rosehill
Guineas. High Caste did. Reading set
a solid pace from the start, with High
Caste trailing him. Commencing the
final half-mile they were together, the
first five furlongs being run in a shade
over 1.1.
Turning for home High Caste looked
like leaving Reading, but the latter hung
on so gamely that within 30 yards of the
winning post he again got his nose in
front of the big Maorilander. Then
Bartle got a final kick out of High Caste,
who, however, registered only a half-head
win.
While High Caste and Reading were
fighting it out, Wilson was gradually
making up ground, and only for running
in behind the two leaders a couple of
times in the straight, and having to be
pulled out, would have been closer than
the three-quarters of a length by which
he was defeated. Many of his backers
claimed he should have won, but, though
it appears that he is going to act up to
the belief he would stay, perhaps the
lighter weights he will have to put up
in handicaps may suit him better than
the scale in classic races.
The fact of there being so little be-
tween High Caste, Reading and Wilson
strengthened Beau Vite’s Derby claims.
In the Chelmsford Stakes he not only
beat that trio, but finished better than
any of them.
There was nothing in the running of
any of the unplaced division in the
Guineas to suggest Derby possibilities.
Though Katanga and Billposter were
fourth and fifth respectively, they were
a long way from the place-getters, and
were not gaining ground at the finish.
There seems little hope for Bonny Loch,
who was well beaten before turning for
home.
Guineas form has often worked out
incorrectly in the A.J.C. Derby, but as
a result of Saturday’s running I fancy
there will be a small field for the latter,
with little support for anything outside
Beau Vite, High Caste, Wilson and
Reading.
Red Sails would have been unlucky
to lose the Rosehill Spring Handicap, but
he was also lucky in getting a clear run
after being in danger of being hemmed
in shortly after turning into the straight.
His win further emphasised what one
race will do for a horse.
When backed for Tatt.’s Spring Handi-
cap a week earlier I thought he looked
as if he would be all the better for a
little more racing, and his win upheld
that idea. Red Sails had not won since
February, but, on his best form, was
well in with 7.5. He gives the impression
of having developed considerably since
he won the Summer Cup.
The pace was slow for the first half-
mile, and though, when it improved, Red
Sails lost a little ground near the five
furlongs, he quickly made up his leeway.
Malagigi did no better than at Rand-
wick, and though, in consequence of
making the turns rather badly, he was
wide out a good portion of the way,
his form did not commend him for the
Metropolitan.
Geebung’s win in the Camellia Stakes
was a shock for those who saw him fail
badly at Tatt.’s meeting, when his owner
and trainer gave him a good chance in
the Tramway Handicap. As usual in
such cases the stewards were loudly ad-
vised to “Rub him out.” We all would
sooner win than lose, but there is no
gainsaying the fact that many Austra-
lian racegoers are bad losers. However,
I suppose it is the same everywhere.
Last early in the race and still in that
position approaching the half-mile, the
odds appeared completely against Gee-
bung pulling through. When Mildura
settled Thurles Lad at the Leger a win
for him seemed certain, but Geebung,
who was nearly two lengths behind him
less than a furlong from home, got his
head in front right on the post.
“I thought he would win when he com-
menced his run approaching the three
furlongs, and only for being checked
after turning into the straight he would
have won by a length, I reckon,” said
Geebung’s trainer, F. McGrath.
Some of Mildura's backers thought
McCarten took things a trifle easily for
a few strides after taking Thurles Lad’s
measure, but there was nothing in that
idea. Mildura had to be freely used to
run down the latter, and, being a trifle
“new,” that left him with nothing in
reserve at the finish.
Astounding’s run in the straight was
the surprise of the race. Eighth at the
home turn, he was actually doing better
than either Geebung or Mildura at the
winning post. . Tolerant was outclassed
and Fakenham needs more racing to
bring him to his best. Of the unplaced
lot Leif made a more promising showing
than any, and her turn may not be long
in coming, though at a longer distance
than seven furlopgs.
Gold Rod’s trainer, G. Price, believed
that the chestnut would be able to lead
in the first half-mile of the Hill Stakes
without undue exertion, and that he
would then be able to go too fast for his
opponents over the final half. It worked
out that way too.
Along the back McCarten slowed the
field down, and though when Royal Chief
closed on Gold Rod near the three fur-
longs it seemed as if his backers were
going to get a good run for their money,
Gold Rod went away from him again
without the slightest difficulty.
Gold Rod won the Hill Stakes from
Stretto last year, and before Saturday’s
race I heard the remark: “If he doesn’t
win this he will not win anything during
the spring.” Price may now regret that
Gold Rod is not engaged in the Claren-
don Stakes at Saturday’s Hawkesbury
meeting, though the task of beating Beau
Vite on 101 b. worse than weight-for-age
terms would probably have been too
much for him.
St. Constant and Mosaic had a good
tussle for third, but though the former
gained that position it was not an effort
on which he could be recommended for
the Epsom. St. Constant is not a good
beginner, and the comparatively ieasy
pace for the first three furlongs of the
Hill Stakes should have suited him, but
he failed to raise sufficient pace ever to
get reasonably close to either Gold Rod
or Royal Chief. Mosaic is likely to con-
tinue improving, and should be good
by the time the Melbourne Cup meeting
comes round.
Some of Disalto’s backers were for-
tunate in getting as much as 10 to 1
about him for the Highweight Handicap.
Favorably weighted, and running at a
distance that thoroughly suited him, he
was entitled to greater consideration.
Scanlan had him in a good position soon
after barrier-rise, and Bramol was the
only one able to pace it with him from
the half-mile to the turn. From the
Leger a win for Disalto was assured,
and he is bound to score again for
Bailey Payten, who has him on lease.
Bramol, who requires more racing to
bring him to his best, was cut out of
second money by Gay Salute, who did
much better than his fellow-Maorilander
Moorsotis, who strikes me as being
slightly overrated by our handicappers.
Taroo was too slow in finding his legs
ever to be dangerous, and Rathlin has
reached a mark from which it will trouble
him to add to his winning account.
* * * *
From the viewpoint of his Caulfield
Cup candidature nothing could have
been more satisfactory than Pure Gold’s
victory in the Moonee Valley Stakes last
Saturday. Taking charge at the end of
a furlong, he scooted away to score,
easing up, by lengths from Grandson,
with Glenfino a moderate third.
Pure Gold ran the mile in lmin. 39sec.,
which is record time for the race. When
Grandson, receiving 51b., beat C. B.
Kellow’s colt at the Valley on August 19
the mile occupied lmin. 45sec. Pure
Gold lost through swerving away from
the whip. At even weights Grandson
couldn’t ask the twos-on favorite to
gallop on Saturday.
Failure of Pure Gold to win as a
juvenile was a blessing in disguise. Clem
Hill let him into the Caulfield Cup at
6st. 91b. —121 b. under weight-for-age.
J. H. Davis apportioned 6st. 111 b. in the
Melbourne Cup. Jack Holt has timed
the preparation of Hall Mark’s brother
to a nicety, and the Victorian handi-
cappers must be fearing that they erred
on the side of generosity.
Moonee Valley Stakes was worth £750
and a £5O trophy to the winner. It is the
richest prize appropriated by Pure Gold
to date. Holt’s other Cup candidate,
Gay Prince, owned in W.A., pulled up
lame after a gallop on Thursday, but
swimming exercise caused the ailment
to disappear, and Jack is very hopeful
of non-recurrence.
In the past few weeks Pure Gold has
been ridden successively by Harold
Badger, the apprentices Gilmore and
Purtell, and lastly W. Cox. Suspension
of Gilmore at Caulfield on September 2
Brought Purtell a winning mount at
Mentone on September 9. Purtell was
claimed for Glenfino in the Moonee
Valley Stakes and Holt engaged Cox on
the course.
Pure Gold galloped with such docility
for Cox that it doesn’t seem to matter
who rides him, so long as a whip is not
used. Running away from it caused
Pure Gold to give J. O'Sullivan a nasty
fall at Flemington in the autumn, and
history almost repeated itself when
Harold Badger “flourished the flail” at
Moonee Valley on August 19.
James Scobie ran his three-year-olds
Muscari and Lusson at Moonee Valley.
He felt sanguine of Muscari’s prospects
in the Corroboree Maiden, but a
wretched beginning ruined things. After
being last to leave the straight Muscari
made a phenomenal dash into second
place at the half-mile. Such an effort,
wide out, could not be sustained.
Smaller than his stablemate, but more
forward in condition, Lusson was ex-
pected to play a prominent part in the
Moonee Valley Stakes. “I don’t suppose
he will beat Pure Gold,” remarked
Scobie, “but he ought to be a place cer-
tainty.” However, the Melfort colt
failed to show up and ran only sixth.
Now it is problematical whether Lusson
will go across for the Adelaide Derby.
Winner of the Maiden Handicap was
Benzonia, a 33-to-l shot, trained by the
former . jockey J. Besanko for O. B.
Olsen, who fields in the paddock at
Moonee Valley. Benzonia is by Beau
Pere, and her dam, Curtsey, was by
Limond from Salute, a half-sister to
March, the granddam of Limond.
Lou Robertson’s Pantheon colt Mar-
cius was a 9-to-4 favorite for the Cor-
roboree Maiden, but he had to be con-
tent with fourth place, as also did Zonda,
the Oaks aspirant, in the Moonee Valley
Stakes. At the close of the afternoon
Robertson and his friends recouped their
losses over Minority (5-to-2 favorite) in
the second division of the Nulla Nulla
Welter.
Minority, who has 7st. 21b. in the
Caulfield Cup, is by the 1932 Victoria
Derby winner Liberal from Bahlaka,
by Saltash from Galtee Maid, a half-
sister to the dam of Avenger. Though
she received 81b. from Bow Tie and beat
that mare by only a narrow margin,
Minority finished as if a considerably
longer distance than 5y furlongs would
be to her liking.
Carpentier heavily discounted his Caul-
field Cup prospects by not finishing
nearer than third in the Budgeree Handi-
cap, for which he was supported down
to 6 to 4. The Gay Lothario stallion
had an excellent passage, but was wholly
unequal to overtaking Diaphane (14 to 1),
who led all the way. Cackle “came from
the clouds” to deprive Carpentier of
second money.
“If he doesn’t win this race he ought
to be shot” was the confident declaration
of trainer H. Freedman concerning Bird-
play (Drake-Bright Comedy) in the first
division of the Nulla Nulla Welter.
Quoted at fours, Birdplay romped home
in advance of Great Legend and Destiny
Bay.
The Tasmanian-owned Portofino colt
Romford, for whom a big price was re-
fused in the autumn, opened favorite,
but was supplanted by Chaldean, who
also claims Portofino as sire. Second
at the half-mile, Romford petered out
and finished last. Chaldean did little
better.
Practically an all-the-way win was
registered by Sea King (eights) in the
FOR WARWICK FARM TO-DAY.
(By “PILOT.”)
Trial Hurdle Race: First Son, 1 ;
Tower Hill, 2 ; Mag Mort, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Pan-
nade, 1 ; Athboy, 2 ; Dagmar, 3.
Novice Handicap: Hieron, 1 ;
The Frenchman, 2 ; Kestrel, 3.
Flying Handicap: Denis, 1 ;
Tuhitarata, 2 ; Might Not, 3.
Green Hills Handicap: Pantler,
1 ; Jan Baz, 2 ; Own Folk, 3.
Welter Handicap: Belvoir, 1 ;
Moaveil, 2 ; Moonray, 3.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(By “PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Syntax, 1 ; Locks-
lea, 2 ; Tower Hill, 3.
Novice Handicap: Pierce, 1 ;
High Dividend, 2 ; Litigation, 3.
Quality Handicap: Mildura or
Adios, 1 ; Olympus, 2 ; Micawber, 3.
Clarendon Stakes: Beau Vite, 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Reading, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Fearless,
1 ; Feminist, 2 ; Red Sails, 3.
Rowley Mile: Tuhitarata, 1 ;
Berani, 2 ; Breeze, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Leslie Stuart Stakes: El Golea,
1 ; Manrico, 2 ; Nightguard, 3.
Hurdle Race: Musical March, 1 ;
Sea King, 2 ; Whernside, 3.
Mentone Cup: Bourbon, 1 ;
Pageant, 2 ; Pure Gold, 3.
Dandenong Welter: Ramdin, 1 ;
Denis Girl, 2 ; Birdplay, 3.
Yarraman Handicap: Romany
Chief, 1; Argestes, 2 ; Border Lass,
3.
Hampton Handicap: Mamillius,
1 ; Kingswear, 2 ; Windlelon, 3.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
//CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
Even the best spark plugs
wear out. Replace them with
new Champions at least once
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and bad.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
Boomerang Hurdle. Niello followed up
his Ballarat success three days before
by landing the Mount Cotterell Steeple-
chase at sixes. Strange thing is that,
whereas Niello jumped wretchedly at
Dowling Forest —yet had 25 lengths to
spare—he never put a foot wrong at the
Valley.
* * * *
Epsom betting has not undergone
material alteration as a result of racing
at Rosehill. As was to be expected, Gee-
bung and Astounding have shortened,
but in summing up the former’s chance
it must be remembered that, as compared
with Saturday, he has an additional 61b.,
and will meet Mildura that much worse,
and Astounding 91b., allowing that Lap-
pin, who is again riding the latter, will
be about 51b. over, increasing his weight
to 7.1.
Of the trio my preference is for Mil-
dura, as he is sure to improve, and has
shown he can get a mile at Randwick.
Last week he demonstrated he could com-
mence smartly, and that should give him
an advantage over Geebung, who will
stand an indifferent chance if he is as
badly placed half a mile from home as
he was in the Camellia Stakes.
It can be pointed out that Amounis,
also trained by F. McGrath, was nearly
last at the three-furlongs post in one
of the Epsoms he won, but Geebung.
though a good little horse, is not an
Amounis. Figures put Astounding ahead
of Geebung. He was less than a neck
behind the latter on Saturday, and in
securing the services of Lappin, notwith-
standing he will be 51b. over, the owner
of that horse was wise. Astounding is
not exactly easy to ride, and a boy able
to go to scale at 6.10 might have been
little use to him.
To my way of thinking, form in the
Rosehill sprint was not so good as in
the Tramway Handicap, and, as Adios
won the latter with 8.2, I do not see why
he should not again finish ahead of those
he defeated in that race. He will be 31b.
better off as compared with Sedunum,
who will probably be behind him com-
mencing the final half-mile.
Adios has done well since winning, but
I question whether his trainer puts his
chance much in advance of that of Mil-
dura, as the latter may be susceptible of
slightly more improvement than his
stable-companion. Denis, in the same
stable, did not do as well as expected in
his two recent races, but I shall not be
surprised if he wins something before
the A.J.C. meeting. If he does he will
again enter into Epsom calculations.
I still regard Micawber as likely to be
one of the hardest to beat. On Brisbane
form he is better than when he previously
raced in Sydney, and, while he has won
at Randwick at eight and nine furlongs,
he had 9.1 when Mildura (8.9) narrowly
beat him in the Bronte Handicap last
autumn. He will meet Mildura 91b.
better.
Micawber has done well in himself
since we last saw him in Sydney. Opinions
naturally differ, but I did not regard Te
Hero’s Ascot win as at all convincing
in an Epsom connection, and doubt his
ability to beat Adios on level terms, or
give Micawber 41b.
Going on the way he ran in the Hill
Stakes, little that is favorable can be said
for St. Constant. With age he is not
improving as a beginner, and, as I said
last week, I think if he does any good
at the A.J.C. meeting it will be at a
longer distance than a mile.
Bradford ran fairly in the Tramway
Handicap. Newcastle form this week
will give us an idea as to whether he has
improved, and that will be necessary in
order to turn the tables on Adios and
Sedunum. Bradford has 41b. less than
when he won the Challenge Stakes at
Randwick last January.
Delmestor is well, but would probably
be better suited by six or seven furlongs
than a mile. Speardale has a good Rand-
wick record, but does not appeal to me
for an Epsom. Petruchio is 51b. worse
off by comparison with Astounding than
when the latter beat him at Randwick.
Valhalla works well, and Tuhitarata is
smart, but neither Gilltown, Hybol,
Bramol nor Tolerant can be credited with
bright prospects. J. Munro told me that,
after being a little “off” for a few days,
Tel Asur is himself again, but an Epsom
is hard for three-year-olds.
Form this week may upset my calcula-
tions, but I am still sticking to Micawber,
Adios and Mildura as the three from
which the Epsom winner is most likely
to come, though after his good showing
at Rosehill it is impossible to overlook
Astounding.
* * * *
Stan Lamond is well satisfied with the
progress Cooranga is making, and though
she has a stone more than when third to
Royal Chief and Buzalong in last year’s
Metropolitan, he expects her to make a
bold bid for the coming one, notwith-
standing she will meet those two on
slightly worse terms. Cooranga’s form
has shown she is up to weight, and she
will have 51b. less than when second in
Tattersall’s Spring Handicap.
The injury Feminist received in the
Chelmsford Stakes was only slight, and,
in addition to again moving freely in
her work, she could not look better. She
could only get fourth in the last Sydney
Cup with 6.11, but with 7.4 she subse-
quently won the Dangar Handicap, run
at the same distance as the Metropolitan.
The w.f.a. scale allows for 71b. improve-
ment in her since last April, and in
7.12 she has 131 b. less than when her
dam, Loquacious, won the Metropolitan
at the same age.
Royal Chief wears a more solid appear-
ance than last year, but, even if all goes
well with him, I think 9.9 puts a second
Metropolitan beyond him. At Christ-
church last autumn he won the Sockburn
Handicap, nine furlongs, with 9.9, but
at the same meeting lOst. kept him out of
a place in the Autumn Handicap, at a
mile and a half. The Metropolitan, at
a furlong further, even with 51b. less, is
likely to prove a harder race.
Malagigi looks fit enough, but his last
two runs have been below his autumn
form. Either he is now a better horse
in private than in public or has not
struck his form of a few months ago.
Despite his failures, the books are not
inclined to take any risks with him. Since
the appearance of the weights, I have
regarded his stable-companion, Respira-
tor, as having the better chance, but the
betting market does not give a definite
idea as to whether the latter is to run or
be reserved for Melbourne.
Buzalong, as at Warwick Farm, is giv-
ing Respirator Blb. The latter beat him
there, and, being the younger horse,
should be more likely to improve.
Buzalong, however, is far from harshly
treated when it is remembered he ran
second in the last Metropolitan with 8.5,
won the Caulfield Cup with 8.6 and the
Bond Cup with 9.3. D. Munro was gen-
erally expected to ride Buzalong, and
would have suited him admirably, but
any arrangement in that respect is “off,”
to the sorrow of those backers who ended
doubles with Buzalong.
Excuses were made for Malagigi at
Rosehill, but that does not dispose of
the fact that Red Sails was leaving him
and everything else at the finish. In 7.7
Red Sails has a light weight for a five-
year-old who has a Summer Cup to his
credit, even though he carried only 6.11.
He is one I expect to continue getting
better.
He impresses me as having brighter
prospects than his stable-companion, St.
Constant. L’Aiglon may scarcely have
time to reach his best, Fearless may find
the trip a shade far, and at the end of
this week we shall know more than at
present concerning the prospects of Gold
Pan, Vestal and Pantler. The last-named,
if nearly as good as reported, should
figure prominently with 7.12. Gold Pan
and Vestal ran first and second respec-
tively in the A.J.C. Winter Plate, 1 mile
5 furlongs, and both have improved since
then.
However, pending further develop-
ments, I shall take Feminist, Cooranga,
Red Sails and Respirator as a collection
likely to furnish more than one place-
getter in the Metropolitan.
* * * *
Veterinary opinion does not favor
Defaulter’s prospects of standing the
work necessary for his Melbourne
engagements. Trainer F. Roberts, how-
ever, is still hopeful, as the horse has
not shown lameness when doing easy
work during the past few days. “It’s no
use throwing up the sponge” is Roberts’s
view of the position.
It will be a great pity if Defaulter is
unable to race at Flemington in opposi-
tion to Ajax, who has also been in trouble
during the past week. One cannot but
sympathise with Defaulter’s trainer. If
the horse’s owner were here a quick de-
cision could be made as to the best
course to take, but the onus is on Roberts,
and naturally he is in somewhat of a
dilemma as to what to do for the best.
Only that Defaulter has been such a
strong fancy throughout for the Mel-
bourne Cup perhaps he might feel in-
clined to adopt the safer plan of fore-
going further spring engagements. Still,
it will be a feather in his cap if all goes
well with Defaulter.
* * * *
F. D. Jones is after another Metro-
politan with Royal Chief. He recognises
that success with 9.9 is a tough proposi-
tion, but as his horse is bigger and
stronger than when he won last year
he is hopeful the extra 101 b. will not
affect him to the extent hoped by sup-
porters of some other candidates. Mool-
tan is the only winner of two Metro-
politans in succession. With 6.13 he de-
feated Apologue by the narrowest of
margins in 1907, but scored easily with
9.2 the following year. He was a
four-year-old when he won the first time.
Cagou won a Metropolitan with 7.13
when four, and again four years later
with 8.10.
Jones, by the way, has ridden as well
as trained the winner of a Metropolitan.
He was on Maniapoto when that horse
was successful in 1905, after cutting up
badly in the Epsom, for which he was a
hot favorite. It is not generally known
that Jones did a season’s riding in Eng-
land in 1906, when his 70 mounts gave
eight and a half wins, seven seconds and
four thirds.
One of the horses he rode while in
England was Noctuiform, who was a
failure there notwithstanding his good
deeds in Maoriland and New South
Wales. When Noctuiform ran away
with the A.J.C. Derby in 1905 he did
2.32 j, against the previous best of 2.37 i,
and his record stood until Salitros put
up 2.32 in 1920. The record is now
Phar Lap’s 2.31*.
Last spring Royal Chief ran second
to Ajax in three weight-for-age races in
Melbourne, but he will not be among
the latter’s opponents this year. F. D.
Jones has arranged to leave for Maori-
land with his horses on the concluding
day of the A.J.C. spring meeting. That
will not dispose of the possibility of
Royal Chief being a runner for the Rand-
wick Plate. After that race he will have
time to catch the steamer, which will not
leave until late in the evening. He is
to race at the N.Z. Cup meeting early
next month.
* * * #
Only that the form of older horses
between two and three months before
the spring meetings has so rarely come
up to expectations, six-year-old mare
Rivette would seem to have an outstand-
ing chance in the Caulfield Cup. Her
recent form has been excellent. There
is every reason for believing that the
severe mile and a half is within her
compass, and she has 6.13. A rehandicap
would see her meeting most of the Mel-
bourne horses on much worse terms. An
injury to an eye has kept her on the easy
list since she last raced, and, as she was
so forward in condition, that may be
something in her favor. The Caulfield
Cup has not been won by a mare since
Maple in 1928, and for several years the
minor place-getters have not included
one. Applying figures, however, it is a
long time since one was as much entitled
to support as Rivette.
* * * *
W. Lappin’s engagements for the spring
handicaps are of interest to all followers
of racing. He is to ride Astounding in
the Epsom, and in the Metrop. he may
be on Vestal if she does well in to-
morrow’s Newcastle Cup. Geebung is
his Caulfield Cup mount, and he will
be on Beau Vite in the Melbourne Cup.
The foregoing is Lappin’s present pro-
gramme, though, of course, there may be
the possibility of alteration.
When Epsom and Metropolitan double
lists were issued shortly after the appear-
ance of the weights, the top-liners for
the mile race were Adios, Beaupartir,
Bradford, Bramol, Destiny Bay, Denis,
Early Bird, Gilltown, Gold Rod, Lochlee,
Micawber, Mildura, Nightguard, St. Con-
stant, Spear Chief, Tetreen and Tel Asur.
It was not bad picking on the part of
compilers of the lists, as, while some of
those mentioned have dropped out, Adios
and Micawber are still among those at
the top.
At the same period, Defaulter, Mala-
gigi, Royal Chief, Spear Chief and
Feminist were in the front row for the
Metropolitan, while second-liners in-
cluded Cooranga and Buzalong, both of
whom are still very much alive. There
have not been many notable advances,
Red Sails being one of the few to shorten
to any extent.
* * * *
Chief flat event at Ballarat, the Forest
Handicap, went to Keeping Watch (The
Night Patrol-Eumarafla), who started
second favorite at 5 to 2 and carried 9.3
to a well-earned victory. Formerly
owned by Eddie O’Brien, who has re-
linquished bookmaking to become a
hotelkeeper, this gelding now is raced
by his trainer, Steve Murphy.
Flying Handicap at Ballarat was nar-
rowly won by Brown Ben, an aged geld-
ing by Brazen (sire of Bronze Eagle
and Kuvera) from Urania, a sister to
Tangalooma, who, apart from the dis-
tinction of annexing a Williamstown Cup,
once caused a sensation by vanquishing
his odds-on stablemate, Eurythmic, in
the V.R.C. October Stakes at weight for
age.
Jack Holt trained Tangalooma for the
late James Clark, of Queensland. Holt
ran first and third in the Caulfield Cup
of 1931 with Eurythmic and Tangalooma
respectively. On that occasion Tanga-
looma was in receipt of a stone from E.
Lee Steere’s horse.
* * * *
Support accorded Gay Prince last week
shows that Jack Holt will not have Pure
Gold alone to depend on in the Caul-
field Cup. This Gay Lothario four-year-
old is a W.A. Derby winner, and his third
in the last V.R.C. St. Leger, when far
from fit, was a most impressive effort.
Original trainer of Gay Prince was
J. J. Kelly, whose headquarters are in
Perth. It was from the hands of Kelly
that Eurythmic passed into those of Holt
nearly 20 years ago.
* * * *
“The latest offer of £6OOO for Beau
Vite came from Australia,” said R.
Stewart when chatting about his colt the
other day. In reply to my suggestion that
it was a big price to turn down, he said:
“It is hard to get hold of a good horse,
and now that I have one I naturally wish
to keep him. If I sold Beau Vite I might


CARRY ON, AUSTRALIA!
•" s "KJ«Sir
altercations 4
K
>/
tofifc- ,
BY COURTESY OF''THE ARGUS"
This Compelling Cartoon
with its Timely Message
Illustrates Our Viewpoint.
OLYMPIC TYRE DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
s
"V.
X..
M
mm*.
Z "Vs
Wmm>.
mm
m
H
sssgs
iirriYiriiriiiiViiYiifi'iiiriiiii
> ■~l'> nV. .~.V
itifr
m
ii
Check motor car values carefully and you'll
prove Chevrolet has at least £5O extra value
compared with competitive cars.
Every comparison proves Chevrolet "the buy of
the year." No other competitive car gives you
the style, the luxurious comfort, the performance,
the safety and economy that are inbuilt
Chevrolet features—features that have made
Chevrolet the world's sales leader for 7 of the
last 8 years. The new Spring-styled models
have new colours, new interiors, new equipment
and refinements throughout. Your local Chev-
rolet dealer invites you to have a Free 5-mile
Drive at any time.
S&e i/te Tien/ Jju'i/jtfi&i'ijiuto/
Add up the Extra Value
of these features:
Six - cylinder Overhead Valve
Engine
Pilot - Seat Driving Vision
Holden All - steel Body
Perfected Independent Front
Wheel Springing (Master de Luxe)
Pullman Ride (Standard Models)
Perfected Hydraulic Brakes
Vacuum - assisted Gearshift
(Master de Luxe)
Easy Terms Available Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan
CHEVROLET
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED. {69? 2?
C HEVROLET-THE WORLD S SALES LEADER
buy many more without getting another
of his class.
“No, I am not going to make excuses
for his two defeats by Beaulivre at Christ-
church in April. Beaulivre won well,
and is a particularly nice colt, but I think
there is greater room for development
in Beau Vite, who is a little the bigger.
The owner of Beaulivre is a great friend
of mine, and both of us would be pleased
if the two were to meet over a bit of
distance this season.”
That opportunity is sure to occur, as
both are engaged in the Auckland Derby
and the two St. Legers (Wellington and
Auckland).
* * * *
George Johns, well known in Sydney’s
sporting world for many years, returned
from Colombo last week. Naturally the
war has to some extent upset matters
associated with racing in India and
Ceylon, and, owing to uncertainty in con-
nection with shipping, Johns is afraid he
will have difficulty in fulfilling orders he
has in hand for Australian racehorses,
which are now in greater demand in
Colombo than English importations.
Glenarm, Cabalist, St. Mark, Parthe-
non and Leander are among the Aus-
tralians sent by him to Colombo that
have done well, but Oration, Learning,
Manaos and Retort did not acclimatise.
“It is only a matter of time for them
to do so,” said Johns. “I am sure they
will eventually ‘come right.’ ” They are
all going to Calcutta to race.
* * * *
It is not unusual to hear growls as to
what stipendiary stewards should or
should not do. Those officials are not in-
fallible, but the system is one that has
done a lot for the cleansing of racing.
Even now a “dead ’un” is not unknown
by any means, and its connections may
escape punishment, but I often wonder
what some of the fault-finders would
have said if they had been following
racing in Sydney—or elsewhere, for that
matter —between 40 and 50 years ago.
With a staunch friend or two on the
list of honorary stewards, some owners
and trainers could do almost as they liked,
and a few prominent men were not above
availing themselves to the full of the posi-
tion. Now they would have to be much
more careful, even though it is alleged
that some trainers have less to fear than
others from stipendiary stewards, because
they are training for men who are
credited with not being associated with
anything shady.
Nor is it always certain that an owner
knows what is doing. A trainer may be
aware that a race will do a lot for a
horse, and, while giving the rider the old
“don’t-knock-it-about” orders, may tell
the owner it is “sure to run well,” but
may save him from investing at all
heavily by adding, “It may not be quite
ready.” Still, that caution may not quite
save the owner or his friends from losing
a little money, though it would be a
shock for the trainer if the horse won.
I do not suggest such cases are numer-
ous, but they have happened, and will
continue to do so.
The trainer might contend he was really
doing his best in the interests of his em-
ployer, but he is not being helpful to
those of the public who believe that a
horse carrying the colors of some promi-
nent owner could be other than a genuine
trier.
» * Sfc *
With 10 yearlings in his team it
seemed as if G. Price would be numeri-
cally strong in two-year-olds early this
season, but shin-soreness and other
troubles have caused several to be put
aside until later in the season. For spring
racing he is now concentrating on the
colts Grand Fils (Beau Pere-Timid) and
Fearless Fox (Foxbridge-Eager Rose),
and the fillies Kiwi (Waikare-Queen
Avis) and Wairangi (Waikare-Sister
Vamp). The last-mentioned two are
owned by E. J. Watt, who did so well
with Waikare’s daughter Waireka last
season. She won six races, and £1520
in prize-money. Price had other two-
year-old winners in Marengo and Bel
Oiseau.
Grand Fils, who is being raced in
partnership by E. R. Williams and S. E.
Chatterton, cost 1000 guineas, and “W.
Biey” gave 600 guineas for Fearless Fox,
whose three-year-old brother, Eager Fox,
has recently raced unsuccessfully in 14.2
races in Sydney.
* * * *
Te Hero’s win at Ascot was not im-
pressive, and only that he is the first
leg of several big doubles the run would
have caused his price to lengthen con-
siderably. He moved off fairly, but
was disadvantaged by being wide out.
However, he was up with the leading
division after going two furlongs, and
though later he lost a little ground he
was again in a winning position enter-
ing the straight. He won comfortably,
but, in order to make his Epsom chance
all that some of his early backers for
that race believed, he should have dis-
posed of Salamyne and Martingale
sooner than he did. His trainer, D.
Lewis, is still hopeful, but unless he
shows something much better than last
week in any race in which he may run
before the A.J.C. meeting Te Hero is
not going to be a short-priced runner
for the Epsom. Besides, though he got
away at Ascot, his post behavior did not
create confidence. Until he actually
jumped away there was doubt as to
whether he was going to give his backers
a run.
* * * *
In the purchase of yearlings buyers
naturally give preference to the progeny
of young mares, but occasionally an old
one throws something that proves a real
racehorse. Dominant (by Martagon), for
instance, was 17 when she foaled Beau
Vite. He stands out as her best, though
she had other fair winners in Green
Patch and Haka, the latter being success-
ful in South Africa.
* * * *
Nominations for this year’s New Zea-
land Cup total 69, an advance of 13
on last year. The prize-money is £2OOO.
Horses engaged include Royal Chief,
Catalogue, Peerless, Willie Win, Arctic
King and Beaupartir, but, as usual in
connection with this race, the best three-
year-olds are missing. One would have
looked to Beaulivre to be an entrant if
only to give his owner an idea as to how
he was rated by comparison with the
older division.
Three-year-olds have a poor record in
the New Zealand Cup since Noctuiform
won in 1905. Indigo dead-heated War-
step in 1914, and he was the last three-
year-old to share in first money.
o Continued on next page.)


wm
m
:
X
m
*
:
■ m
1
m
a
a
i
•’>
i
13m
X
n
mm
;,: '3
I
HI
m
?ssgg
,
Hg
m
i a
■
S£
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
£ Australian Wool. \
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
® out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more "twist” in its
$ fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
REGD.
CLOTH
cut fyicjJi tD-ecjhwS
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
Sydney will be strongly represented in
to-morrow’s Newcastle Cup. W. Lappin
is to ride Vestal, which assures her being
one of the popular fancies. She was
sixth with 7.7 in the Spring Handicap
at Tattersall’s recent meeting, and the
way she finished indicated an early re-
turn to form. Gold Pan could not look
better, and, if he has a Metropolitan
chance with 7.6, he should give a good
account of himself with only an
additional pound.
Bristol is to be one of the field, and,
though it is a long time since he did any
good, he is coming on again. Young
Crusader is well in, with 7.12. He was
second in the Summer Cup last Decem-
ber with 8.11, and, though he has since
run some poor races, he may take a lot
of running down if he gets to the front
early in the piece. Pantler is credited
with being a little above the average,
and in 7.0 has little to carry, but I ex-
pect the winner to be Vestal or Gold
Pan.
M.Q. and Rafferty
One night last week a good-looking
Randwick lad, Bob Pattison, waved a
cheery good-bye to neighbors, and was
greeted with cries of “Hope you beat
him, Bob!” He was off to the Sydney
Stadium to fight a Queensland middle-
weight, George Wilson. An hour or so
later, after getting all over his man for
six rounds, he was floored by a right to
the jaw, and, falling awkwardly, lapsed
into unconsciousness. Carried to his
dressing-room, and thence to Sydney
Hospital, he was dead before dawn. The
Stadium management called off a fight
arranged for the same week, paid the
funeral expenses and undertook to give
the family 10 per cent, of the gross pro-
ceeds on the following Monday night.
It was a big “house” ; but that doesn’t
alter the fact there is still no legal liability
in these cases. And—because insurance
companies would see that boxers were
protected as well as themselves —it is a
grave defect of the Workers’ Compen-
sation law.
* * * *
Lang’s successor, McKell, can box a
bit. It runs in the family, for three
uncles, Billy, Jack and Herb McKell,
were fighting men, Billy (featherweight)
and Herb (welterweight) having been
Australian champions in their divisions.
Herb was the winner of a scrap with a
tough Melbourne man, Bill Jennings,
which old hands in Sydney 30 years ago
pronounced one of the two fiercest fights
they ever saw —the other was a private
affair between Billy McCarthy and Billy
Smith, afterwards coach and trainer of
the first Sharkey. Herb McKell went to
South Africa and, returning to Sydney,
died suddenly of appendicitis when quite
young. Billy lasted much longer. He
fought in every State and kept going for
at least 20 years. He was a humorous
little chap who used to tell good stories
of his meetings with thirteen-stoners in
the bush. The brothers were all intelli-
gent fellows, and Herb was no mean
hand at writing letters to the newspapers.
Nineteenth Hole
(By JIM FERRIER.)
At a meeting of the N.S.W. Golf
Council last week it was resolved not to
abandon the par system of handicapping
in favor of the standard scratch-score
method, it being maintained that since
adopting par in 1931 the standard of
N.S.W. golf has steadily improved until
it now heads the States in golfing
strength.
No handicapping system can be a truly
correct one if any player has to be placed
on a plus mark. In the days of bogey
the best golfers in the Ma State were
rated on p/ws-three and -four, but when
par was introduced it was some time be-
fore a player was put back on scratch. On
the standard scratch-score basis the lead-
ing players would have to add a stroke
or two to their scores, as that method is
midway between par and bogey.
Naturally the thousands of handicap
golfers who play their golf purely for
enjoyment did not give the question much
thought whether they had to lose a
couple of strokes or not did not cause
them any worry. The alteration would
have affected only a small number of
low-markers, for whom the whole of the
State would have had to be rehandi-
capped.
Personally, I am not entirely in favor
of the method of arriving at par, as dis-
tance is the only standard by which any
hole is judged, and no attention is paid
to the natural features of the ground. I
have seen par-four holes of 450 yards
where two wood shots into the slightest
breeze would leave me short, while other
holes of the same length could be reached
with a drive and a reasonably short iron.
Standard scratch score was intended to
arrive at a score under such conditions,
taking each hole separately into account.
I consider par should be a trifle more
elastic and allow for unusual circum-
stances.
Those sponsoring the switch over to
standard scratch score had only one
reason for their change —to bring
N.S.W. into line with other States and
avoid trouble in handicapping when its
players went inter-State.
It is hard to understand why the other
States have not adopted par, as that sys-
tem is used in Britain and U.S.A. I cer-
tainly think that such a step would raise
the standard of the game throughout
Australia.
Footbrawl
Melbourne v. Collingwood, the second
of the V.F.L. semi-finals, began raggedly.
In front of goal there was a lack of direc-
tion about the attack, ’Wood being
chiefly at fault. The game improved as a
spectacle, and Melbourne’s superiority
became manifest. Its opponents responded
as best as they could to cries of “ ’Wood!
’Wood!” but it is football that tells, and
the Melbourne brand was superior to
the end: 15.14 to 12.18.
Collingwood gets another chance. Next
Saturday it tackles St. Kilda, the winner
to have a crack at Melbourne.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Haydon Bunton, playing
for Subiaco, won this year’s Sandover
medal for the best and fairest player in
the Westralian League. In view of the
fact that he won the Brownlow (Vic.)
equivalent for Fitzroy three times, this
must be an Australian record. Marcus
Whelan was the youthful winner of this
year’s Victorian bauble. He plays for
Collingwood and works in a brewery.
* * * *
University, last in 1938, and in the
same position half-way through the
season that closed on Saturday, has won
the Sydney Rugby Union premiership.
The biggest crowd at a club game for
many seasons thronged the North Sydney
ground and saw Travers, the ’Varsity
breakaway, open the scoring immediately,
drop-kicking a goal from the half-way
mark. Two more fine penalty goals were
swiftly added, and already Randwick’s
case looked hopeless.
In that first half “the galloping Greens”
could never rise above a jog trot. The
ball twisted and bounced away from their
clutching fingers. When it did come
close their flat-footed backs couldn’t take
it cleanly, and so soon as they touched
it the Student forwards, pouring through
and with Travers always in the lead,
crashed them to the ground. On the other
hand, the ball came to the ’Varsity stal-
warts _ from scrums and rucks ; in the
loose it bounced to their arms ; and they
had scored two excellent tries, one con-
verted, when spell-oh came; ’Varsity
17 -nil.
At it again, the Students made a third
try; 20-nil, and all apparently over. But
Randwick died hard, scoring a try, a
penalty goal, a converted try and another
penalty goal. The Students were tiring,
but they weren’t finished, and another
converted try made the thing safe —25-17
(when ’Wick had collected a third try).
’Varsity deserved its win. It was the
better team all round.
* * * *
Only a few thousand saw the Rugby
League “championship” semi-finals on
the iron-hard Sydney C.G. South Sydney,
handling surely and running strongly, had
North at its mercy from the kick-off,
winning by 33 to 16. Canterbury-Banks-
town made a hash of Newtown, 34-17.
* * * *
For years the coalfields teams, parti-
cularly those around the Newcastle dis-
trict, dominated the N.S.W. State Soccer
League, but in the past few seasons the
gap has been bridged by strong sides
from Sydney’s industrial houses and
suburbs. Of these, Goodyear, well
organised and well balanced, has been
outstanding ; by beating Newcastle 8-0 on
Saturday it hoisted its third successive
premiership. The hollow win was the
result of steady, cohesive pressure rather
than spectacular play, and Newcastle’s
defence could find no answer to it.
Daley, leading the front line, netted six.
Wallsend and Metters, in second and
third place respectively, staged a thriller
with the gloves off. The hard tackling
generated some heat, with its attendant
injuries. Honors were divided with a
brace of goals apiece.
Miscellaneous
“Deuce”: Those N.S.W. tennis nabobs
who insisted that the Davis Cup team
should stay for the U.S. national singles
are now looking rather stupid. All the
young men were licked —Crawford by
Joe Hunt, Quist by Sabin, Hopman by
Riggs and Bromwich by Van Horn. But
Bromwich did reach the semi-finals.
Riggs won from Van Horn.
* * * *
“Mat”: English county cricket finished
before the war began in earnest. York-
shire once more landed the champion-
ship, and Hammond, of Gloucestershire,
topped the batting averages for the
seventh successive year. Hammond’s
figures are interesting: 1933, 3323 runs
(average, 67.81); ’34, 2366 (76.32); ’35,
2616 (49.35); ’36, 2107 (56.94); ’37, 3253
(65.04); ’3B, 3011 (75.27); ’39, 2479
(63.56).


OIUIV
ƑJ
WWWWM.M
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-6
NICK L.UCAS, the Singing: Troubadour
and World Famous Guitarist.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Minister of Mirth
And His All Star Company.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
In Sydney the spruiker outside the
Mayfair has a good line of patter for
the times, declaiming that the main item
of goods on offer inside is “not a war
picture.” Goods of that kind were all
right till the war actually started ; but
now — and still more so after it has
dragged on a while —they’re likely to be
a flop. Vicarious wars are well enough
as long as they stay that way.
It’s on the cards that it will be good-
bye to all that. There’ll no doubt be some
cashing-in on the war —or attempt to do
so —for a while. But with war on it
ceases to be entertainment, failing in one
of the main requirements, which is relief
and diversion. Anyway, if trends in the
last war are any criterion, entertainment
is likely to be concerned with anything
but war. Last time it became more and
more the lightest of froth.
* * * *
“Young Mr. Lincoln”
If the change on the film front could
be to films of the quality of “Young Mr.
Lincoln,” seen at the Embassy, it would
be something to the go’od. This film is
a credit to all parties— to Mr. Zanuck,
producer; John Ford, director; and,
above all, to Henry Fonda, whose per-
formance is a sweet revenge on the
people who have been keeping him play-
ing second-fiddle to Don Ameche,
Tyrone Power and similar graduates of
all-wood universities.
What is surprising, since Mr. Zanuck
is anything but consistent, is that it wasn’t
somebody like Tyrone who was selected
for this job. Maybe the histrionic quali-
fication that decided the issue was
Fonda’s height. He tops 6ft., though he’s
still short of the great Abe’s 6ft. 4in. of
homespun and hickory. Still, he’s near
enough; and, since he’s a very young
actor playing only a brief period of the
life of a very young Abe, the audience
can nurse the illusion that he is growing
up. It is part of his uncommonly fine
performance that he does age the neces-
sary amount for the brief time depicted.
The film deals only with the stretch of
Abe’s life from 1832, when he was keep-
ing a small store at New Salem, till his
successful defence of two young men had
up on a murder charge. This was only
a year or so later, very early in Abe’s
career as a lawyer, which career he began
when some prospective customers at his
store traded a barrel of old books for
goods. Among the books was a copy of
Blackstone’s Commentaries, and bury-
ing his nose into that Abe was soon on
the way to be a lawyer.
His career, however—as depicted in the
film—was decided even more sentimen-
tally. Anne, the young lass of his heart,
had died, and on a visit to her snow-
covered grave he held a stick upright and
let the direction of its fall —to or away
from the grave—decide the matter. Other
items of feminine interest are a young
lady making a set at him from some
rungs up the social ladder and also the
mother and sisters of the two defendants
in the murder case, the court work in
whose trial takes up a fair stretch of the
film. The womenfolk are secondary
characters in the piece, but they’re all
very naturally done.
It’s a good story, with the murder and
trial as melodramatic excitements ; not
historically accurate, but —because the
man is Abe Lincoln and the product
American, and because Gahd’s Own
Country would allow no serious muck-
ing about with him —the character of
Abe is stuck to closely and the fictions
worked into the trial are unimportant
and aid the entertainment.
But, above everything else, it’s the fine
acting of Fonda that makes this film. It’s
a quiet and sincere portrayal, making fair
use of Abe Lincoln’s well-documented
manner and gestures and humor. Fonda’s
general make-up is surprisingly effec-
tive. The somewhat hollow cheeks, the
black hair and fine forehead and mouth,
as well as the loose-hung arms and rather
gangly legs, are all there. The film has
gone no distance at all before Fonda has
built up the illusion that it is young Mr.
Lincoln himself, and he keeps it up
splendidly, except for one or two ,slips
in speech, which make the onlooker re-
member that it’s Mr. Fonda, but even at
that the thought is, Yes, and what a
dandy job Mr. Fonda is doing.
* * * *
It has to be regretfully recorded that
what goes with Mr. Lincoln is comic,
and isn’t meant to be. Indeed, it’s a
very serious affair, all about a young
couple who are getting on in the world, so
the young husband is full of shame be-
cause his poor old pop’s in the Old Sol-
diers’ Home. So they get Pop out,
though he’s very happy there, and then
he’s most unhappy. For consolation he
has the friendship of a little bootshine
boy, who gives him his hairy dog. But
Pop keeps putting his foot in it at his
son’s place, so when, after thieves have
ratted his trunk and he’s gone after them
and cleaned up the pair of them in Bro.
Jonathan style—he used to be a champ,
wrestler —he buys his way into a special
sort of Old Men’s Home, and everyone’s
happy again. Present sacrilegious viewer
Phil Taylor (on stilts) and
Marcelle ( fallabout ) giving
the audience thrills in
“Switzerland," the bright
ice comedy-ballet at
Sydney Royal.
laughed heartier than he’s done since
the war started.
* * * *
There’s a bit of compensation among
the supports in the shape of an excellent
“Mickey Mouse” and the, as usual, quite
entertaining Australian newsreels, one of
these showing a battalion of gym.-frocked
lasses doing goosesteps in some local pad-
dock. Odd that if the film hadn’t been
labelled they’d have passed for German
lasses doing the same sort of antics, as
they have done them in dozens of similar
films.
* * * *
“Good Girls Go to Paris”
This main item at Sydney Plaza is
comedy of the kind Hollywood does
remarkably well—a preposterous and
illogical chain of events backed up with
smart acting and played fast.
A simple country lass takes on a job
passing plates in a university tuck-shop
while nourishing ideas about extracting a
proposal from the offspring of some
wealthy gent., and then blackmailing his
parent. Her plan of action being dis-
rupted by the advice of a professor in
Greek, she lights out for N’Yark and
there finds herself ensconced in the affec-
tions of the brother of professor’s
fiancee.
On that note the film tears into its
stride. Professor’s goil has fallen for
butler’s son; her mother is about to
elope with an unsavory lounge lizard ;
son of the household is busy drinking
himself into an early coffin; and the
master of the manse has no truck with
any of ’em. Before it’s all through the
simple country lass has solved all their
difficulties and extracted proposals from
almost every male member of the house,
but holds herself in check long enough
for the professor to realise it isn’t all
Greek.
Joan Blondell is rapidly establishing
herself as a comedienne of the first order.
Melvyn Douglas (professor) carries this
sort of thing along effortlessly, and
Walter Connolly as the boss of the house
raises hilarity to fresh heights with every
appearance.
* * * *
Support at the Plaza is another of the
Torchy Blane series, differing only from
its predecessors in being slightly more
impossible and a good deal more boring.
Torchy and policeman offsider are
played by fresh players—Allen Jenkins
and Jane Wyman, who are more in-
credible than the originals.
* * * *
Murder Opus
Philo Vance has run up against some
pretty tough propositions in the filmic
sphere, but his adventures in “The Gracie
Allen Murder Case” should go down as
his toughest. Miss Allen ousts Mr. Vance
from the limelight and makes a roaring
comedy of this moider opus at Sydney
Cameo and Civic. What the moider and
the mystery are about and how Mr.
Vance sorts them out doesn’t matter
much—Grade's damfooling overshadows
everything else.
Brownlee, Etc.
John Brownlee, Australian baritone,
was warmly welcomed at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night. Brownlee re-
turns a much better artist. He has more
poise and a surer command of his
resources.
Highlights of Saturday’s programme,
which commenced with Bach’s “Good
Fellows, Be Merry,” and Handel’s
“Where’er You Walk” and ended with
“Land of Hope and Glory,” an ump-
teenth encore, were “Eri Tu” from
“Ballo” and a group of French lyrics.
Brownlee’s long suit is drama, and he
declaims the injured husband’s lament
from the Verdi opera with stunning effect.
With the Sydney Male Voice Choir
he went through five of Villiers Stan-
ford’s sea songs, bringing down the house
with “The Old Superb.”
Ivor Newton, accompanist and solo
pianist, is a master of technique, and
plays Prokofieff and De Falla as under-
as if he were the composer.
Some of the effects he produces at the
keyboard haven’t been heard in Aus-
tralia since Moiseiwitsch ceased to relish
what he played.
Despite rumors to the contrary, there
was no war-political censorship of the
programme. In addition to Bach and
Handel, a song by the Russian Cesar
Cui was given as an encore.
* * * *
Both vocally and physically, Marjorie
Lawrence made a magnificent Brunn-
hilde at her Melbourne Town Hall fare-
well concert. Her ringing tones soared
in harmony with an orchestral score
which tyrannises over most singers.
The “Divinites du Styx” of Gluck
and the melodious “II est doux, il est
bon,” of Massenet completed Miss Law-
rence’s boqquet. At the conclusion of
the Wagner excerpt the audience used
feet as well as hands to send Miss Law-
rence home to bed happy.
Elgar’s “Enigma” suite of variations
was the orchestra’s chief contribution.
Among the wreaths and posies there
ought at least to have been a cigar for
Bernard Heinze, whose conducting was
outstanding.
If the war spreads it may end with
national anthems monopolising concert
programmes. The Ormond Professor of
Music played three—the French, the
Polish and the British. The Polish turned
out to be an admirable piece of music.
Beverley Nichols Play.
Beverley Nichols hit on a magnificent
theme, when he wrote “Mesmer,” put
on with all the pomp and style of the
period (1777) by the Gregan McMahon
Players at Melb. Comedy.
Nichols tells the story of the first
mesmerist’s amazing cure of Therese
Paradis, a beautiful young musician, at
Vienna, who at 15 went blind when her
lover was slain at her side by her out-
raged father. Her father’s sword, accord-
ing to Nichols, represents her guilty
conscience, and her blindness is her
method of shutting herself off from the
sight of it.
Mesmer effects a cure, and she falls
in love with her savior. Mesmer is
driven out of Vienna by the medical
profession and goes to Paris, where his
extraordinary influence over other people
is depicted in a painful scene around
his magnetic fountain, where paralytics,
insomniacs and sufferers of all descrip-
tions howl and weep and rave until the
magician enters and stills their torments
by a few hand-wavings.
The French medical fraternity join
hands with the Council to Sustain
Morality and accuse Mesmer of having
made Therese his mistress. Her father,
once more outraged, rushes off to revenge
himself on his daughter’s physician for
her seduction, the sight of his drawn
sword recalls the memory of her former
sin and she goes blind again. At a sub-
sequent meeting of the French Academy
to investigate Mesmer’s claims she saves
him by a trick, which is superficially
good theatre but actually bunkum. Love
once more restores her sight and she is
reunited to Mesmer.
Norman Shepherd plays Mesmer with
too much theatricality, except where he
is pouring out his powers over the mad-
men and paralytics. This scene is the
highlight of the opus. Jean Duncan, a
beautiful girl, makes Therese occasion-
ally a poignant battleground between the
forces of reaction and understanding.
Artbursts.
English, Continental and Australian
color prints at Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, include vigorous, imaginative work
by Sybil Andrews and Lill Tschudi in
the exotic lino.-cut section. Lithographs
and wood blocks from abroad range
from the genteel eccentricities of the
brothers Nash to the excellent pictures
of John Pratt, one of the few modern
English print-makers who don’t find it
necessary to pretend they have forgotten
how to draw.
Some graceful lino.-cuts by Ethleen
Palmer and a charming block, “Summer,”
by Thea Proctor, are the most honestly
likeable things in the show.
* * * *
Regarded as patterns in color, some of
the pictures of the Design Club, a new
group showing wares at the Leighton Gal-
leries, Melbourne, are charming, but of
no significance. Few of the members
have as yet much technical facility, and
those with the least of it have tended to
produce the most pleasing patterns. They
are less self-conscious and less apt to
fall into imitations of the styles now
currently fashionable.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
A-JSL
m , - 'mi'
InillllJltHlll
0
r\. \
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMANS
LETTER
Knitting needles are out again, and
mountains of grey, of heather mixture
and khaki four-ply are being turned into
socks. Girls’ gossip has taken a new
turn. This is how it went last week. “You
knit one, purl one, right along the row ;
and then purl all the second row,” said
the woman in the new spring hat. “That’s
the way I do it. I always make the double
heel. What I say is a well-knit sock in
1916 is a well-knit sock in 1939,” replied
her companion in the silver fox cape.
“Well, they tell me the bandaging is new.
But, after all, I’m a trained nurse, and
I did V.A.D. work right through the last
war, and I guess I could bandage any-
thing. Still, I’m going to learn this tri-
angular bandage business.” “This war,”
said the flapper with the bright eyes, “will
bring Hazel’s engagement to a head.
She’ll have her ring before Christmas.”
“I bet you,” said her lunch companion
with the red hair, “that it’s all broken
off before Christmas.” “Right,” said
Brighteyes. “I bet you a bottle of
whisky, to be paid on Christmas Eve.”
“Taken,” said Redhead. “And I’ll tell
you what, whichever wins will auction it
among the boy friends to help the Poles.”
John Brownlee, handsome and erect,
is enriching Sydney with his sonorous
notes. John, who is one of the Metro-
politan and Paris Opera favorites, made
great appeal to this listener in Duparc’s
“Manoir de Rosemonde.” Loud ap-
plause, too, greeted the fresh robustness
of Stanford’s “Songs of the Sea.” As a
vocal and handsome background, the
Sydney Male Choir could scarcely have
been bettered.
There was a good house for the open-
ing concert in the Town Hall; and Lady
Gowrie brought a group which included
Miss Leo Wray, Mrs. Fred Payne and I vie
Price. There was a flash of red and white
satin beneath her burgundy velvet coat
as Lady Gowrie passed. In agreement
with the season, Mrs. Fred Payne’s chif-
fons were pale wistaria. The F. J. Davys
were there. The good fairies brought a
sunny disposition when they came to her
christening party. Ever since she brought
the hockey girls back from Adelaide (their
projected tour of England and the Con-
tinent knocked on the head by Mars)
there hasn’t been a complaint from her.
She’s full now of ideas for the way in
which sportswomen can help war-time
work along. Old-rose taffeta in frock
and jacket suited her fair looks. She had
to leave in the interval to go to the Lustre
Ball, where she was guest of honor.
The Trade Commissioner for Canada,
Moore Cosgrave, brought his good-look-
ing wife, and Admiral Feakes was an
applauder of the sea songs. Mrs. Walter
Burfitt, senior, was with Mrs. Walter
Burfitt, junior. Her frock of black velvet
had a band of white lace about its hem
and waistline. Mrs. Burfitt, senior, told of
daughter Esmey and some relations who
were holidaying in Holland during the
preliminary upheaval. As they were on
holidays they didn’t bother to read the
papers, and only found out \tfhen they
reached England—just before the cloud
burst. Mrs. Harald Bowden was a list-
ener ; so was Mrs. Greg McGirr, caped
in ermine. With Mrs. Carriclc was tall
son Alan, one of the several in uniform
at the concert.
Daisie Osborne, whose mother, Mrs.
Oliver Osborne, is noted for her lovely
complexion, was married last Saturday to
Peter Griffin Tait, of Bowral. Daisie’s
father was Oliver Osborne, of Bundarbo,
Jugiong, and Peter’s people, too, are in
the pastoral Who’s Who. Canon Barder
and St. Mark’s put the stamp on the
marriage vows. The family reception
was at bride’s mother’s flat in Macleay
Regis, Potts Point. The bride’s ensemble
was in primrose yellows and greens, and
brother Bill gave her away. Future ad-
dress of the Peter Griffin Taits will be
Gunnongjugrowah, Gobarralong.
The day was tented in blue, there was
the silky softness of spring in the air last
Saturday, so the Royal Motor Yacht
Club had a memorable opening for the
season. Linens and tubbable cottons
fashioned the suits and slacks worn by
the women. The pier and the boat steps
were all gaiety and movement, and the
clubhouse was* also crowded with in-
terested lookers-on.
Hosts of the afternoon were R.M.Y.C.
commodore A. S. McDonald and his wife.
A shady white hat and a frock of deep
blue sheer were her nautical coloring.
Rear-commodore S. L. Tyler and Mrs.
Tyler helped to receive the guests. In
the evening there was the usual dance
at the clubhouse, blue and gold flowers
being used in the decorations to
emphasise the R.M.Y.C. colors.
The frocks for the White Ball promise
to be of even greater beauty this year.
There’s a rush of last fittings, and the
designs range from the classic to the
modern equivalent of the bustle and the
crinoline. Decorations will be profuse
and original. Ladies who are not wear-
ing white are asked to don black frocks
relieved with white, so the Trocadero
on October 3 should be something like
an Aubrey Beardsley inspiration. The
ball will aid the Blind Institute.
This is the wife of Dr. Hamilton Kirk-
land. She, with Anne Morell, is carry-
ing the secretarial labors for the Sydney
Hospital Ball, which is to be known as
“the Race Week Ball.” September 28
is the date, and the Australia the place.
Mrs. Kirkland, like many other ladies
on the committee, trained for the nursing
profession at the Sydney. Photograph
from Freeman.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was the first to make
practical gesture towards Polish Relief
when she offered, on behalf of the
French Alliance, to give half the profits
of next Saturday’s musical and dramatic
evening to Poland. The Kellys are bear-
ing the expenses of the music, which is
to be of a very high standard. There
are to be dramatic recitals, too, by the
Comtesse D’Espinay and Henry Segaert,
Belgium’s former Consul-General in Syd-
ney. Giving a cocktail party, Mrs. Bertie
said: “By not giving this party I am
not helping affairs in Europe. I should
simply be helping unemployment be-
cause I should not be engaging extra
help. Unemployment is what we must
ward off.”
Sydney Hospital’s first ball should be
a lively affair, seeing that the now-solid
matron of Macquarie-street arose as it
were from a bath of rum. The first build-
ings of the hospital, erected in the early
days of Governor Macquarie, were con-
tracted for in exchange for the right to
import 45,000 gallons of rum and have a
monopoly of the sale of the spirit for
three years. Oxen (for labor and for
slaughter) and convict labor went into
the bargain which gave Macquarie-street
the building of “noble proportions”
stipulated by the Governor. In one of
the wards before the completion of the
hospital Lachlan and his lady gave a ball
in 1816.
What a deal of history has flowed
along the street to which Macquarie gave
his name! The first edition of the hos-
pital saw the victory of Waterloo cele-
brated. It has seen most of the medical
ignorances of the nineteenth century
gradually shouldered out by modern
science, surgery and hygiene. From an
establishment (though all the bad old
buildings have been demolished) where
the convict patients cooked their own
rations in the wards, did their washing
there, and hung it to dry on the veran-
dahs, where also there was a huckstering
of patients’ rations with the townspeople,
the Sydney has evolved into one of the
best staffed, equipped and managed hos-
pitals in the big cities of the world. The
standard of the nursing has always been
on a high level. And why shouldn’t it,
since Florence Nightingale herself helped
to choose the first group of nursing
sisters sent from England? She and
Henry Parkes had quite a correspondence
on the matter.
An impressive moment in the lives of
six young Air League pilots was the
pinning on of their wings. Minister for
Education Drummond presented these at
the Air League ball last week. The
Trocadero buzzed with youth for the
occasion. Dozens of small Air League
cadets came into the picture during the
ceremony of presenting the debs. There
were 15 of these, all in white. The young
cadets in their pale- and dark-blue uni-
forms made a guard of honor for the
debs, and their pilot partners. As each
girl curtsied to the Hubert Fairfax
couple hejr partner got into position to
swing her into a waltz. Inpedimenta in
the shape of cap and stick were whisked
from him in a slick, quick movement by
the cadet nearest.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who shepherded the
debs., wore black velvet sparkling with
diamente. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s frock
was a handsome affair in grape-blue
tones. The shoulder scarves flowed to the
ground in a cerise, dark red and blue
cascade. There was a roll of kettledrums
and much playing of “Soldiers of the
King.” One table was arranged as an
aerodrome. Another flew the British,
Australian and American flags. Dr. John
McGeorge was there with his pretty wife.
Her frock of anemone pink chiffon had
tiny frills from hips to hem, each frill
edged with lace. Mrs. C. H. Buchanan
wore her cream Limerick lace shawl with
a bouffant black net frock.
Major John McCall, D. 5.0., of the
Australian Staff Corps, has been engaged
for some months on special duties at
Defence Headquarters in connection with
the defence of the civil population of this
continent in the event of hostile aerial
attacks. Now the major has been lent
by the Military Board to take up. the
newly-created post of Director of Civilian
Defence and State Co-operation. Mrs.
McCall is busy packing, for, with her two
small daughters Philippa and Anne, she
will be leaving for Melbourne, where her
husband is now stationed, within the next
fortnight. Mrs. McCall is very popular
in Sydney, and her bright smile will be
missed at military cheerios. She has
been active in the patriotic and charitable
movements of the city, and-until recently
was president of the Randwick branch
of the Women’s Guild of Empire. Photo-
graph by Peter Pan.
The women’s chess championship of
N.S.W. and premier reserve tournament
began at Anthony Horderns’ staff library
last Monday evening. Play takes place
on Mondays and Wednesdays at 7 p.m.
A record entry has been received. Present
champion Edna Kingston is defending
her title, and her chief rival will be
Dorothy Dibley, 1937 champion, who
recently returned from England, where
she took part in several chess tourna-
ments, including the women’s British
championship. Another contender, Mrs.
C. Gheysens, has done well in previous
events.
Bruce Wentworth Hardie, the only son
of Major-General Hardie and Mrs.
Hardie, has just written home of his en-
gagement to Wenonah Tregurtha, of
Kulin (W.A.). Bruce is chief chemist
with the Vacuum Oil Company in W.A.
He is also in the militia, and is a lieu-
tenant in the Heavy Brigade. The day
after his engagement he went into camp
at Rottnest to do his term of military
training. The Major-General and his
wife are very smileful over the idea of
Wenonah as a daughter-in-law.
There’s nothing a group of Sydney
women like more than to run wild and
free among masses of flowers. Give
them thousands of blooms to work with
and they’ll evolve a display at once spec-
tacular and poetic. Purple and pink,
blue and white spread the giant flower-
fan across the entire front of the Town
Hall stage. Noreen Dangar and her
helpers had been busy on that for the
whole of Thursday. Beneath it, on the
floor of the hall, was a bank of green
velvet turf. That had all been carted
in from the Robert Dixons’ Castle Hill
home. From the entrance a path that
looked like green-and-white flags led to
the fan, and along it gipsy players strolled
and small girls danced on Thursday from
five o’clock onwards. For this money-
maker for the Day Nurseries and the
Kindergarten Union was original, and
commenced with an evening at-home.
Up each side of the hall were gaily-
awninged stalls piled with daffodils, stock,
lily. Here stood large jars filled with the
palest pink plum-blossom or what the
poet has called “the fiery blossom of the
peach.” Here were orchids, and there
was a bridal procession in miniature, the
bride’s shimmering white just disappear-
ing into the church while up the pebbled
path, after her, stepped her ’maids, their
frocks and hats of delicate blooms. On
gay little tables were set out sherry and
coffee. The Sheehan lady presided over
one of these. Noticed knight Julius and
his lady there, and the Professor and Mrs.
Windeyer. She had large sheets all ready
for the autograph-book to be presented
to Lady Gowrie.
Shirley Poynter and Anne Marie Fom-
berteaux passed you a pen; you gave
them a shilling, and there was your name
inscribed for vice-regal eyes. Mrs. F. J.
Davy was among the hundreds of guests.
Mrs. Hope Gibson was a worker. Mrs.
Harold Bott looked in. Flight-Com-
mander de la Rue and his wife were
there. Mrs. W. P. McElhone’s coat of
delphinium blue was a right color-note
amid the garden beauty. Margot Ruth-
ven was a pretty helper.
Dozens and dozens of women packed
into Paling’s concert hall for the meet-
ing called to form an auxiliary to the
main Polish Relief Fund. All present
were formed into a general committee
to work for what is to be known as the
Polish Relief Auxiliary Fund. The Con-
sul-General for Poland will, of course,
be the head of the Relief Fund itself.
Mrs. de Noskowski, the Consul-General’s
wife, was in the chair for the first part
of the proceedings. Later Mrs. Roy
Underwood, who was elected president
of the auxiliary, took the meeting in
hand. An executive committee to which
Ruby Rich, Mrs. Toby Browne, Mrs.
Brigg-Cooper, Mrs. J. McGeorge and
others were elected promises well in the
raising of funds and the making of gar-
ments, which will be the auxiliary’s
main work.
During last week this Letter unofficially
canvassed every woman she talked to
(and there were at least 80) on the sub-
ject of Mr. Curtin’s suggestion that this
land of plenty should send a gift of one
million pounds’ worth of food to Eng-
land. Every woman was loud in praise
of the idea. In fact, they said the sug-
gestion was good enough to have sprung
from a woman’s brain. The Girl in the
Flat Opposite goes further, and says that
every traveller from Australia to England
might (at own expense) carry his own
rations for his stay in England, in the
ship’s cooler: a few hams, a bag or two
of potatoes, a sack of sugar.
The Lord Mayor’s Patriotic Fund
(£3500 already in the bag) was launched
at the Town Hall last week. A message
from Prime Minister Menzies (a bit over-
wordy, as seems his custom) gave official
blessing. Lady Gowrie and Lord Wake-
hurst sent messages cheering the cause.
Premier Mair had helped draw up the
fund’s objects. These are, briefly, the
provision of comforts, equipment and
entertainment for sailors, soldiers, air-
men, nurses and all others engaged in
war duties, either for Great Britain or
her allies. Monetary assistance and mem-
orials are other uses to which the fund
will be put.
Already there are five patriotic collec-
tions proceeding, sponsored by the Red
Cross, the Y.M.C.A., the Salvation Army,
the R.S.S.I.L.A. and the Mayor. It was
decided at the L.M.P.F. meeting that
the distribution of the five funds would
be done by a co-ordinating committee
made up of two members of each organ-
isation. There’s a committee of 90 to
administer the loot.
A cheque for £5OO from Sir Harry and
Lady Oakes, of Nassau, in the Bahamas,
who are now in Sydney, was an
applauded item of the afternoon. Veteran
knight Thomas Buckland, it will be
remembered, started the ball rolling with
£lOOO.
Dame Mary Gilmore last month
achieved a 74th birthday and the publica-
tion of her book Battlefields (verse), and
on Sept. 4 a grandson. She has had an
illness, too, but is now convalescent and
hoping soon to be about again.


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, pufliness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN'S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by millions of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1979 of 1938.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS TRAMA Petitioner
And ROMEO TRAMA Respondent.
TO ROMEO TRAMA late of 38 Union Street
North Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
TRAMA has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Seventh day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the limited time
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of September, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
STAINS ON
FALSE TEETH
GONE!
stained
BEFORE
It is easy to use
‘Steradent.’ Fill
the cap of the tin
with ‘Steradent’
and pour the pow-
der into a glass
containing suffici-
ent warm water
(not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir -
well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress, or overnight. Take them
out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Then your teeth and plates are clean—
clean where the brush can’t reach. Dull
teeth gleam white again. Plates regain
their natural colour. ‘ Steradent ’ is guar-
anteed harmless to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double size 3/6.
You are safe with ‘ Steradent.’ It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Girl Guides are to be commended
on their speedy tactics regarding work
for the war. These doughty lasses, who
can peg tents, build fires in the rain and
tie knots so they won’t come undone,
have taken up sewing needles and knit-
ting needles with great enthusiasm to
make clothes for the children evacuated
from London. Less than 48 hours after
war was declared the Guides called a
meeting to discuss what form doing their
bit would take. Calls were made on
friends and acquaintances for donations,
and within a few days over £lOO was in
hand for the purchases of flannel, wool,
etc. Immediately work commenced at
headquarters in the cutting of materials,
many of the Guides bringing friends with
them to assist.
A number of girls who have jobs of
work are giving up their evenings and
week-ends to serve in the cutting-out
team engaged on the first stage of
fashioning vests, skirts, pants and
pyjamas which will help to keep thou-
sands of children warm in the coming
winter. Guides, Guiders, their mothers
and friends who can sew a neat seam
will assist in the making up of the gar-
ments, which will be distributed through
120 centres in town and country. Assist-
ance of older people will be necessary in
many cases, for the finished garments
must pass the alert eyes of the examiners
at headquarters before being packed and
shipped abroad. Every article forwarded
should have its size attached. Distribu-
tion will be from the Red Cross in Lon-
don through Imperial Guide Head-
quarters. *
Four men who looked like Big Business
discussing some hard-headed bargain in
a private luncheon-room at Menzies
answered “Come in” to a knock on the
door, and were immediately as melted
wax in the hands of the visitors—Mrs.
Barry Thomson, Mrs. Jos McClelland
and Mrs. Jack Manton, each wearing a
hopeful expression and carrying a tray
of flowers and cigarettes. The men of
commerce bought everything on the tray
and then handed the goods back again
to the charity—a bridge party in Men-
zies’ banqueting hall to help defray ex-
penses for the Antique Exhibition to be
held at the Athenaeum at the end of
November for the Red Cross and St.
Mary’s Mission.
Lady Dugan put in an appearance at
the party and stayed long enough to meet
the committee and swallow a cup of tea.
Carmen Winter, who was in charge of
the sweets stall, gave to the flower stall
for its lucky-number prize a piece of her
own handwork, a decorative piece of
basketry filled with chocolates. Mrs. H.
D. Giddy, chief mobiliser of the flowers,
was not caught out on the wrong foot
regarding wearing apparel by the sudden
and unexpected warmth of the after-
noon ; she looked particularly comfort-
able in her lightweight black frock and
brief white crepe jacket/
Cupid is so active these days that he
must be losing a roll or two of his pudgy
fat. So steady is his hand and so straight
his eye that one pot shot often brings off
an engagement and a marriage so quickly
that there’s no time in between for col-
lection of bridesmaids and trousseaux,
wedding parties and bridal veils. All the
bride has an opportunity of doing is
grabbing a hat (she holds things up while
she parks it at the right angle), while the
’groom buys a wedding ring without even
time for a self-conscious blush. The next
thing the happy pair remember is jump-
ing out of a taxi and finding themselves
hand in hand in front of the padre.
Joyce Robinson and Meryl Fink were
among last week’s brides, but although
they had very quiet weddings they had
both been engaged for several months,
so there were no hurried last-minute pre-
parations collecting trousseau and house-
hold effects. Joyce and Rex Ebbott were
married at Christ Church, South Yarra,
the bride choosing for her woollen sheer
frock a shade of pastel-blue particularly
well suited to her blue eyes and blonde
coloring. Meryl Fink and Ted Cohen
had a fussless morning wedding. The
’groom’s parents, Colonel and Mrs.
Harold Cohen, returned from abroad only
a few days before it took place.
Some of the livestock exhibits will be
flying to Melbourne Royal Show, which
commences this week. Owners have
found that some dogs travel better on
short aeroplane trips than they do on
longer, though to them less mysterious,
guard’s-van journeys. Prize poultry take
the air without ill-effects. Day-old chicks
and budgerigars are frequent passengers
on Australian airlines. They are treated
as “fragiles,” being given berths when
possible in the warmth of the pilot’s
cabin. Down aft in the, luggage locker,
which is the coolest place in the ’plane,
Westralian wildflowers are carried at this
time of year; the “say-it-with-a-bit-of-
bushland” is just as effective and more
original than the established code of the
orchid.
In the Spencer Shier portrait is Pamela
Armstrong, smiling as she should, for she
has all the world before her. She is
Dame Nellie Melba’s heiress and only
grandchild, and is marrying into the
wealthy and influential Vestey family
whose name is known in every country
of the world where cattle is an industry.
Miss Armstrong celebrated her twenty-
first birthday the week her engagement
was announced to William Howarth
Vestey, with whom she was often seen at
social functions in the season of the last
Melbourne Cup.
Marjorie Lawrence did not follow the
practice of foreign celebrities and grasp
her profits in both hands until she was
safely out of this country. Even before
the recent exchange difficulties arose she
had set her mind on Australian invest-
ments. Her fee for her farewell concert
(reported to be in the region of £200)
was her donation to the Victorian Red
Cross. The concert, in conjunction with
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, con-
ducted by Bernard Heinze, filled the
Town Hall with enthusiasts and well-
wishers. Miss Lawrence was her usual
hearty self, turning round to clap the
orchestra, patting the conductor on the
back, moving her baskets of flowers out
of harm’s way, the harm being her mag-
nificent skirt —a crin. in design, though
it had no hoops—which swept all
before it.
In the audience were Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, in a long, slimly-fitting coat of
silver lame ; Mrs. Ken Hadley, orchids
in her hair and white ermine upon her
black velvet coat; the Arnold Seitz
couple; the Percy Millers, she with
yellow roses upon her black velvet wrap ;
Mrs. O. Jenkin, also in black; and Mrs.
Charles Borrett, in a silver and lilac lame
cloak. Mrs. Edward Greenfields (who
was violinist Isabel Langlands) brought
two small daughters, a couple of forget-
me-nots in their pastel-blue frocks and
blue velvet capes.
John Fogarty and Beryl Cowper, who
were married without fuss last week, will
soon be looking upon placidly browsing
sheep and lush green pastures with a
certain light in the eye that donates
pride of possession—for their new home
is a sheep property, Dunalister, at Oak-
lands Junction. Alterations are now in
progress on the house, which will be
ready for its newly-wedded owners in
a couple of weeks’ time. For her mar-
riage Beryl wore a long frock of dove-
grey romaine with a soup?on of char-
treuse-green at the throat to match her
green hat, its crown smothered under a
gay canopy of blue and purple flowers.
Sister Maisie attended in a misty-blue
gown and black hat of expansive brim.
Tom Fogarty was his brother’s best man.
After the ceremony in the church the
Chris Cowper couple entertained a hand-
ful of next-of-kin at Egelabra, Williams-
road.
Last week marked an important event
for a group of young commercial artists,
all graduates of Swinburne Technical Col-
lege. Their first exhibition of design
was opened at the Leighton Galleries.
This Design Club keeps in touch with
the college through regular art-group
meetings for which art-master W. S.
Tompkins finds models. He gave his ex-
students a heap of encouragement about
the project of their exhibition. They did
their paintings away from the college so
that originality had an open go. They
also formed their own selection com-
mittee, and Mr. Tompkins saw the chosen
pictures only just before they were hung.
The Design Club does not mean to stop
at paintings and drawings; it hopes at its
next exhibition to tickle the curiosity of
manufacturers with realistic models of
their products. Stream lines, snoopy
curves, colors mixed cunningly as a cock-
tail will be devices used to glamorise
models of electric-irons, carpet brooms,
lawnmowers and the like.
Mrs. Maud Sherwood and Miss McNall
had an adventure with a bull while driv-
ing down from Sydney for Mrs. Sher-
wood’s exhibition of pictures. If Fer-
dinand had been a bullock he might have
helped to get them out of the mess by
paying for his sins with all his pulling
power,, but as he wasn’t he just snooped
off to his favorite occupation of smelling
wildflowers in the rain. As a result of
the encounter car and trailer landed in a
culvert with a swirling creek around them
rising higher every minute. A lorry with
block and tackle finally effected the
rescue. But for one cracked glass the
pictures suffered no damage from the
mishap.
Mrs. Sherwood and Miss McNall had
intended camping on Dora Wilson’s block
of land at Heidelberg, but as it was the
season’s wettest week, and as they had
only gumboots and no fishing waders,
they sought out a roof in the district and
lived in comfort under its cover. Mrs.
Karl Kumm opened the exhibition with
one of her usual cheery speeches—if she
ever loses her smile it will indeed be a
catastrophe. Among those who called
in at the Sedon Galleries during the
afternoon were Dr. and Mrs. J. Baldwin,
Dr. Baldwin giving his eyes a treat away
from masses of stars seen through the
observatory telescope. Mrs. Colin Syme,
who wears her hair in a chignon, chose a
little black hat made of felt leaves. She
was accompanied by Alison Syme, whose
black coat showed splashes of sable upon
its lapels.
This week the stage of the Comedy is
transformed with harpsichord, gilt furni-
ture, periwigs and kneebreeches, curls
and crinolines to the period of 1777 in
Vienna, when Dr. Franz Antoine Mesmer
shocked the medical profession of th/2
day with his experiments in hypnosis.
In the Beverley Nichols play “Mesmer”
Norman Shepherd was a convincing cen-
tral character, and W. H. Chandler was
Dr. Barthe, the fashionable physician of
the moment who used purges for every-
thing from leprosy to childbirth, and
would have turned the world into a pill
and then found someone willing to swal-
low it. Jean Duncan (Mrs. Alan
Michaelis) surpassed her friends’ expec-
tations as Therese Paradis; whereas
everyone took it for granted that she
would look beautiful no one suspected
that she would play the role with such
sympathy and understanding. It’s her
first straight part. Her experience
hitherto has been in musical comedy.
In the full house were noticed Dr. H.
N. Featonby, bravely escorting four
women, his wife, Miss L. Morton, Mrs.
John Gordon and Mrs. Monty Grover
(whose husband has taken a heartening
turn for the better after his recent seri-
ous illness). Nancy Hewlett was with
Mrs. Fred Thiel. The John Clarebroughs
were' in the audience ; also Mrs. John
Reid, accompanied by her husband and
her usual generous supply of cigarettes.
For this week Mrs. Alan Michaelis
(Antoine photograph) is Jean Duncan
once again. She gave up the theatre on
her marriage four years ago, and is now
enjoying being back again to play the
role of Therese Paradis in Gregan
McMahon’s production of Beverley
Nichols’s “M e s m e r.” The Alan
Michaelises have two small daughters,
aged three and two respectively.
For the moment fashion news is not
at a premium, but dress is part of a
woman’s duty (what a pick-me-up she is
if she tries to look like a spring day,
and what a bit of bad news if she just
doesn’t mind being dowdy?). So new
clothes will certainly have a place in
the picture even though they might not
be as extravagant as hitherto. People with
antennas tuned to this sort of thing
foresee (even without confirmation from
Paris) that the military modes will pre-
dominate, that field-grey will be worn,
and a shade of brown that gets near
enough to khaki to be its sister; that
belts and pockets will have no opposi-
tion upon suits ; that the pale-blue stripes
of the Air Force will appear as let-ups
upon black or navy blue. As to hats,
which have enjoyed such latitude, we
might be meeting little poilu caps, sailors’
visors and perhaps even the magnificent
plumed paraphernalia of the admirals of
the fleet.


C Tor Safety and Convenience
Vs
*
OPEN A CHEQUE ACCOUNT
A current account will enable
you to make payments by
cheque, thus avoiding the need
of carrying large sums of money,
and reducing the risk of loss to
a minimum.
The pass-book and cheque butts
are a complete record of trans-
actions.
I he account brings you into con
tact with an expert organization
whose duty it is to give you
every assistance and advice on
money matters.
It is quite simple to arrange
tor a banking account to be
opened at any of the Bank of
New South Wales’ branches.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IN THE yEAR 1817
4-46A.2.193%
«n»*ssa/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality ami
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney-
ƑJ
SI333S
in
Iff!!
H' !
m
- mm
R a y Hi a r t
ceramic short-
wave micro-
variables use
RMX insula-
tion, ensuring
high efficiency
results. Ball
race is elec-
trically shorted
and single-
space type can
be ganged.
Available i n
complete range
af capacities.
Write for complete details of everything radio
and electrical.
RADIO £' ELECTRICAL
SUPPLIES
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THE FLYING COLUMN
Aerial Power.
[These extracts from an article by an Ameri-
can writer in the June issue of “Popular
Aviation” are of interest in the light of sub-
sequent events.]
If Germany should start a war with
England and France to-morrow, what
chance would the Allies have against
German bombers? Facts bearing on the
question have been gathered from the
best possible sources in America—officials
of the U.S. Government, reliable aero-
nautical engineers and the air attaches of
various embassies in Washington.
When the international situation
reached a boiling-point in September,
1938, the German Air Force consisted
of 9500 ’planes and sufficient flight and
ground personnel to operate them. Pro-
duction had reached 60 ’planes a day.
British factories are turning out close
to 1000 combat ’planes monthly.
Group-Captain G. C. Pirie, air attache
of the British Embassy in Washington,
said a few weeks ago: “We have to-day
in England 1750 first-line aircraft. That
is to say, we have 1750 bombers and
fighters organised in squadrons ready for
battle. Behind that we have an undis-
closed number of reserve pilots, bombers
and fighters adequate to maintain those
1750 aircraft indefinitely, whatever losses
may be encountered, until such time as
factory production can be organised on
a war-time basis. In addition to this
number of combat aircraft, we maintain
some 3000 training aircraft.
“We have our fighters, bombers, anti-
aircraft guns, cannon, machine-guns, bal-
loon barrages to defend us actively....
Aircraft for aircraft, we consider we have
superior performance to any potential
enemy.”
In addition to the 1750 airplanes men-
tioned by Captain Pirie as immediately
available for battle, it is known that the
Royal Air Force has an equal number,
together with pilots, to throw into action
as a replacement force. Back of this im-
mediate reserve are several thousand
more fully equipped ships, not to men-
tion hundreds of Lockheeds and North
Americans ordered here. [They can’t
now' be delivered.] Altogether England
must have at least 7000 or 8000 first-class
fighting ’planes, with dozens more being
produced daily.
Training the Air Reserve.
“Aileron”: The new training scheme
for the Air Reserve should in a year or
two provide the Commonwealth with a
fairly large force of young men who have
learned at least the rudiments of flying
and from whom, when peace comes,
pilots can be drawn to meet the inevit-
able expansion of civil flying.
There are to be 43 centres, and
trainees will be divided into six categories,
ranging from complete novices to those
who are ready to qualify for “B” licenses.
The courses will extend over two years.
Beginners will be expected to do 10
hours’ dual and 15 hours’ solo flying
the first year and six hours’ dual and 20
hours’ solo the second year. Advanced
pilots will have 16 hours’ dual and 35
hours’ solo in the first year and two
hours’ dual and 25 hours’ solo in the
second year. The rates for instruction
will be £1 10s. per hour for dual and
10s. for solo flying. Beginners must be
between 18 and 25, and advanced pilots
not more than 30. All applicants will be
asked whether, if called upon, they are
prepafed to submit to continuous train-
ing to qualify for the R.A.A.F or its
reserve.
The course costs much less than any-
thing on a like scale which could be
obtained privately. For novices the
charge will work out roughly at £22 10s.
for the first year and £l9 for the second
year, while advanced pilots will pay up
to £4l 10s. for the first year and £l3
for the second year.
It should pay many big firms to assist
their youngsters to take the courses —it
isn’t improbable that before long the
light aeroplane will be the commercial
traveller’s regular means of transit be-
tween capitals and country towns.
War Birds at Brussels.
“Aileron”: At the Brussels Air Show
there was a wary display of fighting
machines.
Britain put in a Hawker Hurricane, a
Spitfire and a Wellington, but Spitfire
dimensions and performances were kept
a close secret.
Belgium turned in an interesting
fighter, the Renard R 37. The Renard,
powered with a single Gnome 14 N.Ol,
which delivers 950 h.p. at 11,300 ft., has
a wing area of only 215 sq. ft. It weighs
40001 b. empty, carries a fighting load
all up of 14501 b., and its speed range
“Are you sure this elevation s all right, Dig ?”
is 280-340 m.p.h. at 16,400 ft. Its ceiling
is 37,800 ft. Belgium also had a short-
range, single-engined bomber with a ceil-
ing of 31,000 ft. and a speed range of
280-326 m.p.h. at 13,000 ft.
France showed a Bloch 151 0-1 single-
engined fighter and a Hanriot NC-600
two-engined fighter, which is partly on
the secret list. The latter’s top speed was
given at 335 m.p.h., its ceiling at 30,000 ft.
and its wing area at only 186 sq. ft.
Germany played possum with only one
dive bomber among her many tourers —
and that not particularly frightening.
Powered with a 1200-h.p. Junkers 211,
Vee liquid-cooled plant, it had curious
gramophone-horn exhausts, which were
alleged to be speed-improvers. Arma-
ment consisted of a large-bore machine-
gun in each wing, a movable tail gun, a
500 kg. bomb underneath the fuselage,
with crutch-guide fittings to clear it of
radiator and propeller, and double small
bomb racks under each wing.
The new German “Protectorate of
Bohemia” had one Avia 135 fighter—in
the same range as the French Bloch.
Fokker showed the prototype of his
TB-W torpedo-bomber. It has none of
the surprises of his old “Venetian blind”
of 1914 vintage, but is thoroughly up to
date —all-metal, stressed-skin, moncocque
fuselage, transparent nose for gun-aimer
and bomber, and enclosed sound-proofed
cabin for pilot and combined radio-after-
gunner on top of fuselage. It carries a
torpedo—released through hydraulically-
operated doors. At present it is engined
with Wright Whirlwinds, totalling 900
h.p. Speed and other particulars are
secret
It was a Fokker that went down to
the guns of a Nazi scouting seaplane on
13/9/’39, the German realising his mis-
take as the Dutch ’plane hit the water.
The crew was rescued.
The swing of the Fokker works to-
wards English engines in fighting jobs is
worth noting. The T 9 two-engined
bombers which are being turned out for
the Netherlands East Indies have Bristol
Hercules power plants.
Goring visited the show.
“Spinner”: On the first day after
announcement of the subsidised flying,
scheme there were more than 300 appli-
cants in Sydney alone, a healthy sign.
It is to be hoped that
there will be enough train-
ing machines to go round.
* * *
“Aeron”: Pan-Ameri-
can Airways’ flying-boat
service between the U.S.
west coast and Auckland
(M.L.) is to continue with-
out interruption in spite
of the war.
“Kiwi”: Maoriland’s progress in avia-
tion has been startling. Up to 1934
gloomy Joes were pointing out that
high mountains, snows, Tasman gales,
Antarctic currents and other “disabili-
ties” made commercial flying in M.L. a
pretty poor proposition. In 1934 com-
mercial air lines carried 595 passengers.
Last year, though air routes cover only
a total of 2000 miles, 1,500,000 miles
were flown by commercial machines and
53,000 passengers were carried.


MACQUARIE GROVE
FLYING and GLIDER
SCHOOL PTY., LTD.
CAMDEN, N.S.W.—’Phone: Camden 13.
OFFICIAL OPENING.
The public is invited to attend the official
opening- of the new Hangars and Work-
shops by tile Minister of Civil Aviation,
the Hon. J. V. Fair bairn, M.H.K., on
Saturday, September 30, in conjunction
with the Royal Aero Club Aerial Race
Day.
Dance in hangar at night, for which
tickets are available at 15/- each,
including drinks.
Receive flying instruction at the company’s own
ideally situated aerodrome at Camden,
training ab initio to Commercial Pilot's
Licence.
Write for particulars.
E. MACARTHUR ONSEOW, Manager
Box 4, Camden.
0
'/f£
THE
No. 150
DEEP
SEATED
KEMP
STYLE
SADDLE
£B/0/-
(Complete)
it has Kemp pads,
deep seat, good long
kip flaps and short
panel with leather
points. Hogskin seat.
N.S.W. rail freight on Saddles paid for
cash with order.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHIR & STEVENSON
PTY.
LTD.
335 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
Half the
pleasure
of listening is lost when
valves are too weak to
drive out Tone Bogy
RE-VALVE WITH
m
Sealed for your protection
Munich Justified.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Aileron”: There are still people who
“argue” that Britain and France should
have gone to war for Czechoslovakia a
year ago. In view of what has happened
in Poland they should really have their
heads examined.
Before Munich, Lindbergh, a real
authority, warned Britain of the immense
strength of the German Air Force.
About the same time an Australian
who saw army manoeuvres in Germany
reported that the land forces were fully
mechanised, equipped with mobile
machine-guns on a scale never before
known, and even camouflaged in readi-
ness for immediate action.
The invasion of Poland has shown
what a superior force in this condition
can do to an inferior force. The Ger-
mans concentrated first on destroying the
Polish air arm. Having rendered it in-
effective, their air battalions attacked the
Polish infantry and cavalry.
The essential of old-time war was unity
of operation and contact by units, but
this war has shown a new method. Armed
with large- and small-calibre machine-
guns with a terrific rate of fire, and often
capable of devastating work with a hail
of small explosive shells, the German
Air Force prepared the way. It spotted
movements of Polish columns and broke
up those which had not had time to dig
into safety. Transport columns operat-
ing over unsheltered plain country were
easy marks. Horror dropped from the
skies on arsenals, aircraft factories, oil
tanks, railways and—refugees.
In the second line of the German drive
were 18 completely mechanised divisions ;
unmechanised divisions followed. Some
times the spectacle was presented of
isolated units moving forward with appar-
ently unprotected flanks. But the vastly
superior Air Force kept all sections of
the army in contact, advising Polish
movements and enabling the fast Ger-
man road transport to make swift liaison
with slower artillery and infantry when-
ever necessary, so as to anticipate Polish
operations.
Strong as the Maginot Line is, its fight-
ing efficiency depends on a steady flow
of men and material. During mobilisa-
tion, had the Anglo-French forces been
inferior in the air, trains would have been
destroyed, transport columns scattered,
depots under constant attack from the
sky. Munich removed that peril. It
gave the allies twelve months—and
evidently not a day was wasted.
It did not take Maoriland long to enlist
its—and the Dominions’—first Expedi-
tionary Force. On September 7 it was
announced that recruiting for a draft of
6600 men would begin on September 11.
That number was enlisted the first day.
In Auckland, where the quota was 2200,
there were -2700 volunteers. Pay ranges
from 7s. a day, with 3s. allowance for
wives and Is. 6d. for children, to 255. a
day and allowances for colonels.
The Maoriland example, coupled with
bad news from Poland, had an immediate
effect on the Australian Government. On
Friday the Prime Minister announced the
cancellation of the arrangement for call-
ing up the militia in drafts of 10,000 for
16 days’ training. Instead, “the force of
just under 80,000” is to be called up in
two drafts for a month’s training. In
addition, a division of infantry—“with
ancillary units, approximately 20,000
men” —is to be enlisted “for service at
home or abroad, as circumstances may
permit or require,” for “the duration of
the war and 12 months afterwards.” That
is better, but still more will need to be
done.
Special infantry division age-limits:
Privates and n.c.os., 20-35; warrant
officers and specially-qualified n.c.os., 40 ;
subalterns, under 30; captains, under 35 ;
majors, under 40; and lieut.-colonels,
under 45. “Divisional, brigade and
battalion commanders,” in fact, all com-
manding officers, are to be appointed
from the militia. But surely it can’t be
the intention to cut out still-vigorous
A.I.F. veterans who are not militiamen!
It is reported that the leaders of the
German campaign in Poland were
colonels and majors in the Great War.
Obviously, the enemy recognises the value
of Great-War service in the case of sol-
diers still in the prime of life. Disquali-
fication of Diggers who were in the early
twenties or still younger when they took
part in such wonderful operations as
those of August 8 (“Germany’s black
day”), the night march on Villers-Bret.,
Mont St. Quentin and the Hindenburg
Line would be the delirium of folly.
* * * * ,
September 23 is the twenty-fifth anni-
versary of the first embarkation of Aus-
tralian troops for service in Europe and
Asia in the last war. They consisted of
100 men of the Ist Field Artillery Brigade
Ammunition Column.
* * * *
Candidates for entry to Duntroon must
send in applications by September 30.
Sixty-four cadets graduate in December,
and there are 40 vacancies. Eight are
reserved for sons of men who have been
on active service, naval or military, for
the Commonwealth abroad. There are
two methods of entry —by examination
for lads from 16 to 20 on February 24,
1940, and “service entry” for men over 19.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: In spite of its “neutrality”
New Guinea is not overlooking the matter
of its defence. A volunteer force, which
will be an integral part of the A.M.F., is
being formed, and aliens have been
ordered to report. German missionaries
and planters are remaining at their ordi-
nary stations.
* * * *
“T.”: Trust Brand to know what’s
wanted: —•
Two-fifths of every army in the field
is required to keep the other three-fifths
in operation. With an army of 70,000 we
should have only about 40,000 for com-
bined active operations. Moreover, States
will demand the retention of certain units
within their borders. The sooner we have
400,000 properly trained men the better
it will be for our sense of security.
The honorable and gallant Senator has
amplified his proposals—increase the
number of militiamen to 400,000, give
all hands more training, and make
Brudenell White commander-in-chief.
And where could Australia get a better
man?
* * * *
“Zedo”: Diggers have been rolling in
to rejoin the R. S. Leagues and to offer
for the Reserve. In Adelaide (S.A.) alone
600 old hands have called at League
headquarters to volunteer for reserve
service.
* * * »
“D.8.K.”: The technician is most
sought after by the services at the present
time, qualified radio operators being in
greatest demand. The R.A.A.F. is calling
for engineer-fitters, instrument makers
and radio operators, age between 18 and
35. In Sydney recruiting headquarters
for the R.A.A.F. have been established
in Harris-street, Ultimo, near the Tech-
nical College. Selected men must enlist
for a period of six years. The Signals
units of the militia need good radio
operators also, and ex-amateur radio
operators are invited to present them-
selves for enrolment. Headquarters of
the Signals units in Sydney are: Ist
Divisional Signals, Drill Hall, Carlow-
street, Crow’s Nest, and 2nd Divisional
and Cavalry Divisional Signals at the
Engineer Depot, Moore Park-road.
* * * *
“Lampe”: The R.A.A.F. had a num-
ber of amateur radiomen in its peace-
time wireless reserve, with the result that
on the outbreak of war if found itself
with good telegraphists needing only
training in service procedure and discip-
line to complete their absorption as fully-
trained men. As enlisted W/T ratings
their job not only entails ground station
operating but active flying service. They
may even be gunners.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Senator Cooper, who lost a
leg at Pozieres, presented the colors to
the 26th Battalion, which embraces men
of Queensland’s western districts, and has
Harry Murray (V.C. and a string of
etceteras) for Lieutenant-Colonel. Mur-
ray’s present battalion has a record
worthy of him. It was formed on May
1, 1915, and arrived on Anzac on Sep-
tember 12. Its color battle honors include
Pozieres, Bullecourt, Menin Road, Broot-
seinde, Amiens, Albert, Mont St. Quentin
and the Hindenburg Line. Besides, it
was awarded honors for numerous ser-
vices not carried on its colors —Egypt
(T 5-16), Somme, Polygon Wood, Poel-
capelle, Passchendaele, Beau Revoir and
Flanders (’l6-18). The batt. is allied with
the Cameronians, Perth Regiment
(Canada), Otago Rcgt. (M.L.) and the
Witwatersrand Rifles (S’Africa). One of its
two color-bearers will give the Teutons a
shock if they ever sight him —Lieut. Reid,
who hails from Richmond (N.Q.), is a
broth of a boy who weighs 15st. 81b. and
rises 6ft. sin. off the ground.
“Nok”: Is there a family in Aus-
tralia with a record equalling that of the
Christie family of Canterbury, England?
The father, 76 this year, served in the
Buffs and rejoined for home service in
the last war. Of 12 sons, only one has
not served: one is in the Air Force, and
three are in the Horse Guards. Three
daughters are all married to servicemen.
The first has six children, of whom two
boys are in the army and another in the
Royal Marines. The second, a widow
and now a nurse, has two sons abroad,
one in the R.A.F. and the other in the
navy.
* # * *
“K.”: Many Wireless Institute men are
serving in navy, army and air force as
telegraphists. In order to provide further
numbers of qualified telegraphists as the
need arises the N.S.W. division of the
institute is inaugurating free instructional
classes in the Morse code and radio trans-
mission and reception theory. Those
desirous of attending classes should get
in touch with the N.S.W. secretary, C. T.
Horne, Box 1734JJ, G.P.0., Sydney.
:J= * * *
“Exdig”: The Allies are looking for
some reaction amongst the German
soldiers against the war. Saxons frater-
nised with Tommies at Christmas, 1914,
and they often gave us an easy time.
Once when our artillery started to shake
up things in a sector which had almost
gone to sleep, a big sign arose above one
of the Saxon trenches with, painted in
English, the words “Play the game, Aus-
tralians.” A prisoner—many Saxons
willingly became prisoners—who spoke
pretty good English voiced the view, “It’s
the Prussians’ war, not ours ; let them do
the fighting.”
* * * *
“F.A.F.”: General Joseph Victor
Vuillemin, appointed chief of the general
staff of the French Air Corps in Feb-
ruary, 1938, had then completed a quar-
ter of a century as an army pilot. His
early flying tests were passed on a
Caudron in 1913, and nine months later
he was in action with the first French
Escadrilles. His Great War record was
outstanding. The general has the Grand
Cross of the Legion of Honor.
* * * *
“Avian”: A lot should be heard of
the R.A.F. high-speed fighter Spitfire in
Britain’s air-war -operations. It is a
single-seater monoplane in which much
of the pioneer work done by the Super-
marine Co. in the design and construc-
tion of high-speed seaplanes for the
Schneider Trophy contests has been in-
corporated. The latest form of flush-
riveted stressed-skin construction has
been used, giving exceptional cleanliness
and stitfness to the wings and fuselage,
with a lightness never before attained
in this class of aircraft. The Spitfire is
powered by a Rolls-Royce Merlin engine,
and has retractable undercarriage and
split trailing-edge flaps. With full mili-
tary equipment it is claimed to be the
fastest fighter in the world.
“Ek D.”: The Defence Minister has
issued instructions to all commanding
officers to release, wherever possible, men
holding key jobs in firms which are
executing war contracts. Employers may
apply direct to commandants.
* * * *
“Don”: That report of returning
R.A.F. ’planes being mistaken for the
enemy and fired upon by English coastal
batteries had quite a few parallels in the
last war. One such incident I saw at
Eastchurch, Isle of Sheppey, in 1917.
Gothas had been over London during the
night, and as dawn broke a large lone
bomber was spotted flying high and out
to sea over the Kentish coast. Our A.A,
opened up on him for quite a few bursts
before W/T from Manston asked who
was firing on a Handley Page being
“ferried” to France, and why. But at all
times our SEs’s and Sopwith Camels
were in just as much jeopardy when
engaging Gothas at night over England.
They flew in the same archie stuff as the
attackers.
# * * *
“Castro”: The aircraft-carrier Ark
Royal bears the name of a famous pre-
decessor. The original was the first
vessel specially designed and equipped as
a carrier. Originally intended for a tramp
steamer, she was subsequently built with
a hangar in her hold, workshops and
cranes, and rendered good service in
early Dardanelles days. R.N.A.S. sea-
planes carried by her were early on the
Gallipoli scene in 1915. I was on board
her twice, in 1918 and 1919 —first in
Mudros Harbor and later in the Black
Sea port of Batum. Of all cockroach-
infested vessels, the old Ark Royal surely
held the honors.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—-now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at Od. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
UR1MWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORRES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Master mariner, N.S.W., many years in Gov-
ernment service, active, capable, familiar with
office routine and control of men, would like
to hear of position of any kind. Refs.—4732.
Tutor, Sydney, exp. with Blackfriars corre-
spondence course, seeks position in country,
or clerical position.—47l9.
Gentleman, Sydney, middle-aged, has con-
ducted small business, can perform clerical
duties, liftman, caretaker, seeks position. Refs.
—4695.
Man, Sydney, middle-aged, sober, reliable,
wants situation on station, kitchen and house-
work. Refs. —4675.
Gentleman, Sydney, seeks position as shop
assistant, liftman, caretaker, storeman.—472o.
Words of “Der Tag,” written by a railway
porter soon after the outbreak of the 1914-18
war.—47o3.
To buy, Scotch or fox terrier male pup,
no pedigree ; Sydney advertiser.—467B.
To buy second-hand copy of Classing the
Clip, by Cowley, or similar book on wool
fibres.—4733.
Information Sought.
Can a submarine send and receive wireless
messages when totally submerged? —4676.
Yes, but the transmitting and receiving
range is very small because the electromag-
netic waves are practically entirely absorbed
in their passage through the water and issue
therefrom with very feeble strength. It has
been found that a submarine when submerged
so that its loop antenna was only a few
inches below the surface of the water could
transmit to a distance of only about nine miles
with a wave-length of 300 metres and an an-
tenna current of six amperes. This range de-
creases as the height of the water above the
submarine increases.
# * * %
Relative ranks of commissioned officers in
the British Royal Navy, Army and Royal Air
Force ? —4760.
Royal Navy: Admiral of the fleet, admiral,
vice-admiral, rear-admiral, commodore, captain,
commander, lieutenant-commander, lieutenant,
sub-lieutenant and mate, commissioned officer
from warrant rank. Army: Field-marshal,
general, lieutenant - general, major - general,
brigadier, colonel, lieutenant-colonel, major,
captain, lieutenant, second-lieutenant. Royal
Air Force: Marshal of. the Royal Air Force,
air chief marshal, air-marshal, air vice-marshal,
air-commodore, group captain, wing-com-
mander, squadron leader, flight lieutenant,
flying officer (or observer), pilot officer.
H= * * H=
I understand that there is a board in Q’land
for the marketing of canary seed. Can you
tell me something of its operations? —473s.
Canary seed was at first controlled through
the Q’land State Wheat Board, but a separate
board was constituted in 1925. It is a tariff-
protection product, and the board undertakes
not to exceed an agreed price—at present £4O
per ton c.i.f. Australian ports. Recently there
has been increasing production in other States,
and the Australian market—consuming about
2500 tons a year—may be oversupplied. An
agreement at present operates with growers
elsewhere, but inter-State sales have been in-
creasing outside the pool. The State Wheat
Board now acts as the board’s selling agent.
(1) To whom did Gibraltar belong before
England gained possession of the place ? (2)
Is it a British colony or a protectorate ?
(3) Population ? (4) What are its chief in-
dustries? —4731.
(1) It was under the dominion of the Moors
till the 15th century, when it was joined to the
kingdom of Granada. It was captured by the
British in 1704, and ceded in 1713. (2) It is a
Crown colony. (3) At the 1931 census the
population was 17,613 civil, 3218 military and
541 naval, total 21,372. The estimated civil
population at Jan. 1, 1938, was 19,278. (4)
Industries are unimportant. The trade of the
port is chiefly transit trade and the supply of
coal to ships.
* * * *
Australian notes in circulation during each of
the first six months of this year; also, gold
and English sterling actually held in reserve at
corresponding periods? —473B.
January, notes in circulation £48,030,124,
gold and English sterling actually held
£16,031,458; February and March, notes in cir-
culation £47,530,124, gold and English sterling
£16,029,604; April, notes in circulation
£48,530,124, gold and English sterling
£16,029,604; May and June, notes in circula-
tion £47,530,124, gold and English sterling
£16,029,604.
* H= H= *
How many blocks of workmen’s dwellings
are controlled by the Sydney Municipal
Council? Number of flats in each block,
rentals and how much did each block cost to
build?— 4746.
It controls four blocks. The Strickland
buildings were opened in 1914 and consist of
eight shops and 71 self-contained flats of two,
three or six rooms. The rents range from
1 Is. 7d. to 265. per week. The Dowling-street
dwellings, opened in 1925, consist of 30 flats
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
ft .I servdce is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
41 «,, selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
°f f° ur or five rooms, for which the rentals
are 9d. to 225. 6d. per week. The Pyr-
mont dwellings, also opened in 1925, contain
41 flats of four or five rooms, and the weekly
rentals range from 13s. 7d. to 17s. 6d. The
Alexandria dwellings, opened in 1927, consist
of 23 dwellings and a shop, and the rental is
20s. per week for the dwellings and 465. 6d.
for the shop and dwelling. The total cost,
including the land, was: Strickland buildings,
£49,667; Dowling-street dwellings, £24,070;
Pyrmont dwellings, £35,549 and Alexandria
dwellings, £30,442.
* * * *
Who wrote the following patriotic songs
which were sung in Australia during the 1914-
18 war: (1) “Australia Will Be There,” (2)
“Boys of the Dardanelles,” (3) “My Old Bush-
land Home in Australia,” (4) “So-long,” (5)
“Wanted for the Fighting Line” ?— 4754.
(1) Words and music by W. W. (“Skipper”)
Francis, professional singer. (2) There were
two songs with that title. One was by G. Marsh
Little, vocalist; the words of the other were
written by A. H. Taylor, and the music by
Dr. C. W. MacCarthy, who also wrote the
words and music of “The Toast Is Anzac,
Gentlemen.” (3) Corporal N. Mcßeath. (4)
Words by John Barr, music by May Summer-
belle. (5) Words by W. M. Fleming, music
by May Summerbelle.
* * * *
Value and quantities of cheese sold by Aus-
tralia to other countries ? —4750.
Figures are for the year 1938-39, and are as
follows: United Kingdom, 34,814,8351 b. valued
at £1,020,179; Hong Kong, 197,5981 b. at
£9846; India and Ceylon, 156,7831 b. at £9742;
British Malaya, 200,5951 b. at £8781; New
Zealand, 14,7411 b. at £1229; Malta, 13,2601 b.
at £473; Pacific Islands, 32,8771 b. at £1766;
other British possessions, 16,0321 b. at £819;
China, 83,8831 b. at £3742; Egypt, 149,4871 b.
at £4967; Japan, 4201 b. at £29; Pacific Islands
(foreign), 47,3351 b. at £2105; Philippine
Islands, 146,9921 b. at £7308; other foreign
countries, . 66,7171 b. at £3550. Total,
35,941,5461 b. at £1,074,536.
* * * *
When and in what circumstances were stamps
issued by the Pacific Steam Navigation Co. ?
—4722.
In December, 1857, prior to the issue of
regular postage stamps by Peru, special stamps
were used, with the sanction of the Peruvian
Government, by the Pacific Steam Navigation
Co. to frank letters carried in its ships,
These stamps were in use from December 1,
1857, to February 28, 1858.
* * * *
What are considered the 10 most valuable
stamps in the world? —4727.
British Guiana (1856), one cent black on
magenta, used, £7400; Hawaii (1851), two cents
blue, unused, £5500; Sweden (1855), three skil-
ling banco, yellow (error of color), £5000;
Togoland (1914), one mark overprinted “Occu-
pation franco-anglaise,” unused, £5000; Mau-
ritius (1847), 2d. blue “Post Office,” unused,
£5000; Mauritius (1847), Id. red “Post Office,”
unused, £5000; U.S.A. (1846), Alexandria, post-
master’s stamp, 5c., black on bluish-grey, used,
£4000; U.S.A. (1846), Boscawen, postmaster’s
stamp, 10c. black on bluish, used, £4000.;
U.S.A. (1846), Baltimore, postmaster’s stamp,
10c., black on bluish, used, £3000; Baden
(1851), 9kr., black on green (error of color),
used, £2750.
* H= * *
(1) Is there a demand for metallurgists in
Australia? (2) Do firms in Melbourne train
youths from school, and, if so, what standard
of education is required? (3) Would a
diploma from the Melbourne Technical College
carry weight in seeking employment in metal-
lurgy? (4) What firms in Melbourne are likely
to employ youths with or without a M.T.C.
diploma ? —4471.
(1) Yes, particularly for those trained in
metallurgy in its applications to the metal-using
industries. (2) 8.H.P., Ltd., Australian Iron
and Steel and Associated Cos., have cadet
training schemes which include training as
metallurgists. The leaving standard is required.
(3) Yes. (4) The larger metal-using industries
such as Ruwolts, production engineers such as
H. V. McKay, Massey Harris and Sunshine
harvester works, and in general all metal in-
dustries of size are likely employers of metal-
lurgists.
H= H= * *
(1) Who invented the escalator? (2) Where
was the first escalator installed? (3) Its advan-
tages over the modern lift ? —4727.
(1) An American named Seeburger. It was
subsequently developed by the Otis Elevator
Co. in the U.S.A. and by Waygood-Otis, Ltd.,
in the British Isles. (2) In the Paris Exhibi-
tion in 1900. (3) No time is wasted in waiting
for lifts, or in filling and emptying them. It
operates continuously in the same direction
and can be set to run in the direction of
maximum traffic. Being automatic, no attend-
ants are required. Power consumption per
passenger carried is much less because stop-
ping and starting are eliminated. A 4ft. esca-
lator will carry up to 16,000 persons per hour.
h= * * _ *
(1) Height of Mount Everest? (2) After
whom was it named? (3) When were the
first serious attempts made to climb the moun-
tain? (4) Results of these early expeditions?
-4718.
(1) 29,140 ft. (2) After Sir George Everest,
who surveyed the Himalayas in 1841, and was
the first to measure the height of the peak.
(3) In 1922 and 1924. They were preceded by
a reconnaissance expedition in 1921 which
mapped the country north of the mountain
and discovered the most promising line of
ascent. (4) In the 1922 expedition a camp
was established at a height of 25,000 ft., from
which base three attempts were made, the
second reaching a height of 27,300 ft. On the
third attempt an avalanche overwhelmed the
party, killing seven. In the 1924 expedition
a camp was pitched at 27,000 ft. and a maxi-
mum height of 28,200 ft. was reached. Four
lives were lost.
* * * *
Does the M.B. degree of Australian uni-
versities legally entitle holders to the title of
doctor ? If not, what medical degrees do so ?
—4619.
The degree of Bachelor of Medicine granted
by Australian universities does not give the
holder a right to assume the title of “doctor.”
However, in N. S. Wales the Medical Prac-
titioners Act, 1938, provides that a person regis-
tered under the Act shall not be deemed guilty
of any offence within the meaning of the Act
by reason only of the use by him of the
description “doctor.” The degree of Doctor
of Medicine (M.D.) is the only medical degree
of Australian universities which confers the
right to the title of “doctor.”
* * * *
(1) Length of handles for stockwhips in re-
lation to the length of the thong? (2) What
length should the fall be ? —4659.
(1) Usually a handle of about 22in. would
be used on a sft. or 6ft. thong, and a 20in.
or 2 lin. handle on thongs round about 7ft.
to Bft. For 9ft. thongs or longer a handle
about 18in. or 19in. would be used, and these
would be loaded. (2) The fall is generally 24in.
long, though the length and weight of the whip
usually governs the length of the fall.
Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-street, Syd-
ney, will give further details required if you
care to write to that firm.
* * * *
The shield on the reverse side of the new
Australian florin apparently bears representation
of six different States. Reading from left to
right and from top to bottom, what are they?
—4633.
N. S. Wales, Vic., Q’land, S.A., W.A. and
Tas. •
* * * *
(1) What quantity of charcoal gas per hour
would be required to run a Fordson tractor
4 2 bore by at 800 r.p.m. (2) Where are
detailed particulars obtainable? (3) Where
could I obtain a second-hand kinetic carbu-
rettor invented by a Mr. Whiteman, of M.L. ?
—4633.
(1) .In general, from 121 b. to 161 b. of char-
coal is equivalent to one gallon of petrol for
traction purposes. (2) The Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research, Melbourne. (3)
Probably the best way would be to advertise or
consult the editor of the “Australian Motorist.”
* * * v
From where is the word “Podsnappery”
derived? —4764.
From Mr. John Podsnap, a pompous repre-
sentative of British Philistinism in Dickens’s
Our Mutual Friend. He continually protests
against anything likely to “bring a blush into
the cheek of the young person” (his daughter),
and always knows the exact designs of Provi-
dence (which invariably coincide with his own).
* * He *
Are any Australian species of gasteropods
injurious ? —4729.
One species, Conus geographus, is capable of
inflicting severe injury and even death. It is
a gaily-painted cylindrical shell about three
inches long, lurks under stones or coral-reefs
but is so uncommon that few Europeans see
it alive. The salivary glands of this and the
related species C. textilis and C. tulipa ex-
crete a venom the poisonous effects of which
resemble those of curari, and the radula has
developed long, sharp points by which Conus
stabs its victim and administers a minute dose
of poison. The stab is extremely painful, and
quickly disables the sufferer; control of the
muscular system is lost (though the heart and
lungs remain unaffected) and the limbs are
rapidly paralysed. The paralysis continues for
several hours, and may end fatally.
H= H= H= *
A few particulars about the native potato ?
—4752.
The native potato ( Gastrodia sesamoides),
which is really an orchid, is indigenous to all
the States except South Australia; it is also
known as “potato orchid” and “black man’s
potato.” Its tubers are of the size, and almost
of the shape, of kidney potatoes, and are
attached by thick fleshy fibres to the roots of
some tree on which the orchid is parasitic.
The Tasmanian aborigines roasted them for
food—their taste resembled that of beetroot.
* * * X
What soil best suits tecoma? When should
they be planted ? A few hints concerning
treatment after they are well established? —
4744.
They are best suited by a good-quality loamy
soil, and, being deciduous shrubs, should be
planted from June to August, although where
plenty of water is available plants may be
put out from pots during the spring and right
up till the end of November. Once established
this species stands dry weather fairly well, and
is suited to both temperate and hot climates.
The only treatment necessary is a trimming
during the dormant period to make a shapely
bush, and some well-decayed manure dug in
around the base of the plants every year in the
early spring just as they are starting into
growth. When planted on medium-quality soil,
an application of liquid fertiliser every fort-
night during the flowering period will im-
prove the quantity, quality and size of the
blooms.
* H= St *
How to prepare and apply lawn sand for
the purpose of destroying trefoils and clover
and assisting the growth of the grasses com-
prising the turf? —4742.
Ingredients are lilb. sulphate of ammonia,
Tib. sulphate of iron and 151 b. clean sand.
Grind the sulphate of ammonia and the sul-
phate of iron to a fine powder (both prepara-
tions can usually be purchased in this con-
dition), add to the clean sand and mix
thoroughly. Spread the mixture evenly over the
lawn in dry weather at the rate of 2oz. to 3oz.
per square yard. If no rain comes within 48
hours, then water in thoroughly.
Does Anybody Know?
Context of the quotation “Such a damned
disinheriting countenance . 4712.
Brief Answers.
F.M.: (1) Yes. (2) No. (3) None. (4)
No information available, but highly unlikely.
AT • The estimated populations as at
March 31, 1939, were as follows: N.S.W.
2 742 859, Vic. 1,880,241, Q’land 1,008,461,
s’.A. ’ 595,376, W.A. 463,880, Tas. 238,061,
NT. 5737, A.C.T. 11,824; total for Australia
6,946,439.!. .F.A.S.: “Killers” are small whales
which attack larger whales. Thresher sharks
are not known with certainty to attack whales,
and swordfish, although they may possibly ram
a whale occasionally with their beaks, do not
appear to do so in order to obtain food, and
they are not considered to be an enemy of the
whale H.J.: Write to the Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Taxation, Brisbane, giving him the
details of the proposed transfer or gift, the
value of the property proposed to be trans-
ferred, the relationship of the parties, and
ask him if the transaction will be regarded
as a gift subject to any, and if so what, taxa-
tion J.A.E.: (1) Radius squared, multiplied
by 3.1416. (2) Same, multiplied by length of
cylinder D.A.: The British tea-clipper
Thermopylae sailed in 1854 from Liverpool,
England, to Melbourne in 63 days 18hr. 15min.
R.B.: The Queen Mary has a registered
tonnage of 81,235, is 975 ft. 2in. long,
118 ft. 6in. wide, and 68ft. sin. deep. The
Normandie has a registered tonnage of 83,423,
is 981 ft. 4in. Jong, 117 ft. 9in. wide and 57ft.
6in. deep C.J.L.: From Arthur Yates and
Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney S.R.K.: (1)
Depends upon his ability, but, considering his
experiences, suggest that he try an auto-
biography. (2) Not necessary that material
be typed, but it would be an advantage.
(3) Cannot give quotation, since price depends
upon a number of factors not stated
W.H.J.: War (1914-18) losses of British mer-
cantile shipping totalled 7,759,000 tons merchant
vessels and 71,765 tons fishing vessels
H.H.: Care of Angus and Robertson, 89 Cas-
tiereagh-street, Sydney... .J.W.: N9t sufficient
particulars given... .J.W.M.: Write Under-
secretary, Defence Department, Melbourne....
K.E.K.: “F.a.q.” stands for “fair average
quality”... .J.P.M.: Mort’s Dock and En-
gineering Co., Ltd., Mort’s Bay, Balmain, Syd-
ney, is a builder of vessels of the type men-
tioned. .. .P. 8.: Dates of their deaths are as
follows: Arthur H, Adams, March 4, 1936;
Chris Brennan, Oct. 5, 1932; John Le Gay
Brereton, Feb. 2, 1933 ; C. J. Dennis, June 22,
1938; Edward Dyson, Aug. 24, 1931; J. B.
Dailey, Sept. 6, 1935; T. W. Heney, Aug. 19,
1928; “Smiler” Hales, Dec. 30, 1936; C. A.
Jeffries, April 20, 1931; George Gordon Mc-
Crae, Aug. 15, 1927; Frank Morton, Dec. 15,
1923 ; Ernest O’Ferrall, March 22, 1925; Louis
Stone, Sept. 24, 1935; A. G. Stephens, April
15, 1933; David McKee Wright, Feb. 6, 1928.
. ...W.J.H.: (1) The jurisdiction of the A.J.A.
award is confined to the Commonwealth. (2)
A Maoriland contributor does not automati-
cally come under the award. (3) Depends upon
the matter actually contributed. (4) Yes. (5)
Ye5....A.A.: “Welding Industry,” published
by L. Cassier Co., Ltd., 22 Henrietta-street,
London; and “Welding Engineer,” published by
Welding Engineering Publishing Co., 608 South
Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A A.S.P.:
From the description given it appears to be
an American Waltham, but it is difficult to
say definitely without seeing the timepiece
H.S.: Write Deputy-Commissioner, Repatria-
tion Commission, Chalmers-street, Sydney
W.M.D.: (1) Suggest you ask the Vic. Agri-
cultural Department, Melbourne, the names of
the unprohibited varieties of cacti. (2) The
“Carden Lover,” 8-10 Orr-street, Melbourne,
may be able to put you in touch with amateur
gardeners willing to exchange seeds....A.B.:
The Technological Museum, Harris-street, Syd-
ney, has issued a bulletin entitled “Grass Tree
Resin,” 7d. posted, which should meet your
needs... .W.J.H.: Get in touch with the City
and Country Tourist Service, 38 Martin-place,
Sydney V.H.L.WiII Andrade, 173 Pitt-
street, Sydney, can supply light- and dark-
brown water-stain in various sizes from Is. 6d.
per bottle posted. This can be washed off
easily with soap and water. The stain is not
obtainable in red, but grease paint, Is. per
stick, would serve the purpose... .F.G.W.:
The co. can refuse to repossess the car and can
sue the hirer for the balance of the payments
as they fall due. If the co. consents to re-
possess the car it is important that a mutually
satisfactory arrangement regarding the balance
of the money should take place. The position
is one for arrangement between the parties
concerned; and it should be clearly set forth
in writing to avoid future misunderstandings.
. ...W.H.S.: There are dozens of good stains
available in all hardware stores, in all sorts of*
colors; when buying, remember that they will
probably be darker than on the color chart.
A good home-made stain is made by placing
half a teaspoon of crystals of permanganate
of potash in a small tin and adding sufficient
hot water to bring out the shade you require;
try it on a piece of spare wood first. This takes
a beeswax polish very handsomely with plenty
of rubbing.. .. J. 8.: (1) Sam Carson is still alive.
(2) There are 11 records by him, available from
Palings, 338 George'-street, Sydney, at 2s. 6d.
each... .D.G.: Chrysanthemum Culture for
Amateurs, by Jones (3s. 3d. posted), Chrysanthe-
mums for Amateurs, by Macself (Bs. Bd. posted),
and Chrysanthemums for Amateurs, by Thomas
(2s. 6d. posted); from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney K.J.R.: The only works by Rex
Clements traceable in publishers’ catalogues are
Manavalins (ss. 9d.) and Weardale Sketches
(45.). Any bookseller could order them for
y0u....J.5.: A Dictionary of Modern English
Usage, by H. W. Fowler (Bs. 6d.), and The
King’s English, by H. W. and F. G. Fowler
(75.)... .S.G.M.: The work is of very little
commercial value, and would be bought only
by a private collector A.K.M.: (1) The
maximum “allowed income” for the purpose
of service pensions has been increased from
635. per fortnight to 655. per fortnight (£B4
10s. per annum) as from September 16, 1937.
The maximum rates of service pensions for
adults have also been increased, as from the
same date, by 2s. per fortnight above the
maximum rates shown in the handbook. (2)
The legislation now provides that, although
a widow’s service pension is to cease upon her
remarriage, service pensions payable to her
children may.be continued.. . .G.H.R.: A list of
works on quantity surveying and estimating
has been posted N.R.: Take the book to a
second-hand bookseller in Melbourne.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
%
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
i
33sas
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
( Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
n
I
/ ISO HI 10
3HO dUNVM SWM7VIAJ
—dOHisoinv 121 VA w
• ‘ / AVS / 7
mm
Stropped in a few seconds
mm
Cleaned in a few seconds
The simplicity of Valet is
its strong point. Simple t(
use. Simple to strop. Simph
to change blades. Simple tc
clean. Just a rinse undei
the tap and a wipe. Nothing
to take to pieces, nothing tc
put together. It cuts min-
utes off your shaving time.
OF ALL DEALERS
BRITISH MADE
Everything about the Valet Razor
makes friends. It’s a man’s razor,
designed to cut tough whiskers in
tricky places.
The Valet Razor and Stropping
machine keeps the blade at the
pitch of perfection. The sturdy
blades give weeks of service.
Shaving is always brisk, clean,
easy, and every shave is a pleasure.
HI
No , 99 Utility Set. Contains razor, strop
and three blades price 4/6
Other sets from 9/- to 45/-
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
S.P.: Incomprehensible... .1.J.C.: Not in-
terested in Ronnie’s reformation... .F.C.: Not
a smile K.A.L.: “I do not fancy myself
as a writer of verse.” Keep on not fancying.
J.R.McK.: Not even a starter A.W.:
What’s all that about?... .R. 8.: We have an
atlas, thanks... .E.M.: Did you say you’d
“improved” the ending? ... .G.H.R.: Flat....
A.W.C.: Sentimental; and you can’t call a
ballad a short story... .C.F.: Keep at it....
R.K.: Put it in irons L.L.: As you say.
. ...H.A.P.: Tennyson beat you to it....
J.S.H., J.H.M., H.A.A., P.F.D. and K.G.:
Now we know what they mean by “the horrors
of war”... .E.R.M.: Stick to your landscapes.
J.O’L.: Not greedy for your “Avarice.”
. ...S.H.: “Carnival” lacks appeal E.M.:
Far, far from real life... .G.F.P.: Couldn’t
make out what it was all about... .8.M.:
Average; we want ’em above it....D.G.: It
doesn’t get anywhere W.H.C.: Characters
right, but plot wrong 1.M.C.: Not far off.
E.M.T.: There’s still nothing to it
G.A.L.: Atmosphere only is g00d... .W.G.M.:
Just a faintly humorous incident... .F.C.W.:
May be worth a par R.E.R.: Charles
Garvice at his stickiest.;. .8.N.: More suitable
for a women’s paper... .J.S.C.: Suburbia at its
dullest... .W.8.G.: The ragged ending spoils
it....E.8.: Tearful melodrama like that has
long been out of favor Clarrie: True, it
doesn’t make a story... .C.R.D.: Not up....
I. : There’s enough gloom abroad without
loosing Mrs. Rennie on the world R.D.:
Can’t have the organist playing while the church
burns E.H.: “The Champion” failed....
J. : A shame to waste all the nice pink
paper....G.D.K.: “The Girl He Left Be-
hind” is still seeking a home F.T.C.: “He
Came, He Saw ” he went G.T.C.:
Whatever made you think that “Jeanie Was a
Winner”? J. 8.: Should find a home
G.R.McC.: Other markets might feast on that
grim morsel EJ.N.: Pretty 8.G.: An
erratic “Gallop”... .P.L.S.: A feeble sermon.
N.B.: Might make a par. for Smoke-oh.
. ...B.B.: Watery... .LP.T.: Should start
where it finishes V.R.P.: A yarn should be
at least as long as its covering letter M. 8.:
Amateurish... .J.S.T.: “The Adventures of
Flash Richards, Motorist,” are not for u 5....
....G.L.P.: Why? H.T.C.: “The Hawk
and the Dove” are roosting amicably in the
w.p.b H.T.8.: Appalled by the thought of
further contributions “in this light vein”
K. : Subject isn’t worth that length
T.8.W.: Not up to your best L.T.S.: You
talk too much... .8.R.W.: Speeches too
lengthy, descriptive matter ditto and not enough
movement L.T.S.: You’d be more at home
writing advertisements... .V.G.: As you say,
“plunging about in a literary quagmire”
8.R.R.: Dreadful... .D.R.E.: Come again
when you’re feeling happier... .8.G.Y.: Neat
work wasted on an old idea D.R.D.: Cut
the sketch by half and try again... .G. S.P.:
No fairy tales, thank you... .N.D.L.: There
are some things we can’t forgive... .J.L.C.:
You’re just paddling F.D.A., 8.R.,
L.G.O’M., C.T.C., J.R. and P.P.S.: Not up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.S.: You’re an industrious scratcher, but
little else... .F. 8.: More like a geometrical
problem than a humorous drawing W.R.:
We remember delivering a knockout blow to
that masterpiece 12 months ago S.H.C.:
You’ll have to use better bait T.M.: You’re
more adept with the eraser than with the pen.
M.M.: Try your local parish journal
C.S.: Jacky has long ceased to wonder what
aeroplanes are....M.P.: She shows talent
—as a dress-designer E.A.: It finished on
the reject pile B.B.: Artistic junk... .T.J.:
Train passenger who milked a cow has been
known to us for many years W.M.: Not
a winner among the lot E.V.A.: Wash
drawings need to be sharper in tone... .H.J.:
Same gag has been knocking at our door for
as long as we can remember... .C.R.: They all
belong to the “Comic Cuts” school and they
all look like imitations J.L.: Drawings
don’t improve with the years..'. .E.A.: Norman
Lindsay used that idea 25 years ago
P. 8.: It sent the Religious Editor to a rest-
home for a fortnight A.D.A.: The lad
shows promise but is sadly in need of lessons.
S.H.: Take them away J.8.A.: They
got close to the mark. Have another shot.
B.R.: The lasses are shapely enough, but
they don’t bring a laugh H.8.J.: All booby-
prize winners.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Colbun”: London’s historic land-
marks are disappearing at such a rate
that it must be getting difficult for elderly
visitors to find their way about. The
Lyceum, where Henry Irving and Ellen
Terry acted, and Tennyson was proud to
see his “Becket” produced, closed for ever
on July 1, aged 130 years. John Gielgud, a
Terry on his mother’s side, spoke the last
words from its stage, and Edith Craig,
Ellen’s daughter, was there to hear them.
Opposite was the office of the once-stately
“Morning Post,” now absorbed in the
“Daily Telegraph.” Cruellest of all, the
old Adelphi bar, where pots were sunk
for 162 years by travellers from all over
the world, Inky Wayfarers and mum-
mers, has gone, too.
"* # * * *
“Digger’s Father”: As I remember it
(and I have cause to do so), when the
first Anzacs left in October, 1914,
for Egypt, there was no idea that
they would go further than that. Guard-
ing the Canal and releasing English troops
for service in France was all we thought
of. But one of them —and he should
know—flatly contradicts this. He cites
as evidence the direction tacked to some
of the railway carriages going down to
the port of embarkation, “To Berlin,”
which I say, however, was just a light-
hearted joke of that early period, like
the Kaiser’s pedigree, alleged at that time
to be “Out of Berlin by Christmas.”
Which of us is correct?
* * * *
“Merlin”: That it is dangerous to
prophesy is exemplified by H. G. Wells’s
The Shape of Things to Come (1933),
which purports to outline the history of
the next 200 years. The author foresees
the China “Incident,” but makes it end
in disaster for Japan in 1939, after war
with the U.S.A. Wells is only four
months out on the date of the second
World War, which commences early in
January, 1940, and involves Poland and
Germany; but at the outset he makes
those nations the only participants.
Britain holds aloof; France throws
down the gauntlet to Germany, but
Hitler refuses to pick it up. Italy
after a day or two invades Yugo-
slavia. The Poles, having “a great
numerical superiority in aeroplanes” over
Germany, are able to bomb Berlin. Aus-
tria, Czechoslovakia and Albania (still
independent States) come into the war,
along with the rest of Europe, in 1942.
* * * *
Dr, H. R. Gibbs, dead in South Oss,
was better known in other States. Son
of a one-time Registrar-General of Vic-
toria, he studied both law and medicine
in Melbourne, and then went to the
U.S.A. and earned a doctorate in dental
surgery at Philadelphia. He practised his
profession in Sydney, but latterly had
lived at Streaky Bay in S.A.’s furthest
west.
* * * *
“T.”: Why will these papers that re-
port lawn-tennis matches liken the per-
fectly innocuous contests to bloody war?
The same bunch of cables brought the
news of the intrepid R.A.F. raid on Kiel
and of the deciding singles at the Quaker
City. Sydney “Sun” put out two
posters: BRITAIN BOMBS BATTLE-
SHIPS and (take a long breath) GOOD
NEWS FROM DAVIS CUP FRONT.


&LA
&
V',;.
tl
tv
wMm W
m.
V - A
T*r7S\
Hafi
jP/IN
0. v 'fc
AT.
w
w/m
m
Hunting is symbolic of England’s finest traditions. Traditional
too is the standard set by the Canadian Australasian Line
on its Trans-Pacific service.
Regular monthly sailings between Australia and Canada, with calls
en route at New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii.
All information from:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OE N.Z. LTD.
( Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George
Street,
Sydney.
Canadian
line
59! William
Street,
Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
KNIESE, Eileen and Margaret, daughters of
Edward Benedict Kniese and Elizabeth Kniese
will hear something to their advantage if they
communicate with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic-
toria.
ALLAN, John Thomas, son of David Marwick
Allan and Margaret Allan, nee Taylor, will
hear something to his advantage if he com-
municates with NATIONAL TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
KIRBY, Julia Mary, daughter of William
Scott Allan and Julia Allan, nee Collins, will
hear something to her advantage if she com-
municates with the NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic-
toria.
MONCKTON, Jeanne, daughter of Thomas
Monckton, of Auchenflower, Brisbane, Queens-
land, and cousin of Elizabeth Mary Cramp-
ton, late of Carlton, will hear something to
her advantage if she communicates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 95
Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Hatches Creek, N.T.
“D.”: I see that “In pursuance of the
powers conferred by section nine of the
Licensing Ordinance 1926-36 of the
Northern Territory, I, Hattil Spencer
Foil, Minister of State for the Interior,
hereby refuse the application of William
Turnbull for a Publican’s License at
Hatches Creek.” Which means that the
wolfram miners at Hatches will go on
lamenting the absence of a pub while
getting what kick they can from hop-
and gingerbeer.
To reach Hatches Creek you turn off
the Alice Springs-Tennant Creek road
just north, of Barrow Creek and drive
east through a hundred miles or so of
well-timbered country. Hatches itself
consists of a scattering of bag and bough
huts flung about over several miles of
low hills ; there are a police camp and
a butcher’s shop and goats —thousands of
them —and a medical patrol calls some-
times.
When I was there the only water supply
was Kangaroo Waterhole. Near Christ-
mas it nearly ran dry, there was much
dysentery and miners were about to hitch
their swag-straps when the rain came.
They stayed, and later the Government
sank a bore for them and promised a
tank and mill to go with it. Maybe they
have them now ; maybe they haven’t.
The hills are pockmarked with shaft-
mouths running in straight lines three
or four deep and resembling preparations
for trench warfare or the diggings of
some bygone race. The shafts go down
at all crazy angles, and the drives—if
they can be called that—are anything
from several feet to less than 18in. wide.
A chap called Walsh runs a battery—
at least, he did 12 months ago—to treat
his and other miners’ ore, but many of
them burn, crush and jig their ore all
by hand.
Population now is probably around the
hundred mark. At the beginning of the
year ended June, 1938, there were over
200 persons on the field. It was a good
twelvemonth for Hatches; production
totalled roughly 160 tons* of wolfram,
worth £44,300. In June, 1937, the mineral
was worth 60s. 4d. a unit and when the
Sino-Japanese clash cut off supplies of
wolfram from China the price shot up
to £lO a unit for a few days. It dropped
again, of course, but maintained an aver-
age of £4 19s. lOd. for three or four
months. With wolfram at that price
miners were leaving gold at Tennant
Creek to mine for wolfram at Hatches
and W r auchope Creek.
Now the price of wolfram is round
£3 a,unit, but if the war sends it up
again (it’s used in armament manufac-
ture) maybe the population of Hatches
will pass 200 and, maybe, Bill
Turnbull will get his pub.
John Flynn’s Heirs
On September 1 John Flynn’s Inland
Mission handed over to the Australian
Aerial Medical Service, Queensland Sec-
tion, the last of his flying-doctor organ-
isations, together with the radio plant and
buildings at Cloncurry.
Each State has now formed a section
of the A.A.M.S. and taken control from
the ATM. Queensland’s section is under
a committee formed by representatives of
the 8.M.A., the Aero Club, the National
Council of Women, the Bush Book Club,
the Red Cross, the C.W.A., the Apex
Club, Rotary, the Radio Engineers,
the Graziers’ Association, the Bush
Childrens Health Scheme and the
Q.A.T.8., with three others from no par-
ticular organisation.
A firm of accountants will do the sec-
retarial work. Queensland is by far the
largest of the A.A.M.S. sections, and at
the present time one doctor is employed
and two ’planes are supplied by Qantas.
Later on, when funds permit, it is the
intention of the section to establish an-
other doctor at Charleville.
The Cloncurry and Normanton bases
serve north and west. No charge is made
to a patient for a ’plane flight to the
doctor, but naturally the A.A.M.S. doesn’t
refuse payments when offered. Common-
wealth and State Governments pay subsi-
dies, and the public is asked to support
the section financially.
During ten years, May, 1928-May,
1938, a total of 280,395 miles was flown
from the Cloncurry and Normanton
bases, most, of the mileage being from
the former base.
Pedal wireless., transceivers have been
supplied to scattered homes all through
western and northern Queensland. These
sets are given by various persons or
organisations, and the A.A.M.S mstals
the set whereTf thinks Twill do best ser-
vice. The Cloncurry base will be controlled
by the operator assistant and a typist
Hitherto no charge has been made for
messages sent from wireless outposts into
Cloncurry, from which spot telegrams
are sent over land lines, but. all trans-
ceivers are to be licensed and given a call-
sign, and a charge of two. shillings mini-
mum will be made by the Postal Depart-
ment-half is to be kept by the P.M.G.
and the other halt by the A.A.M.S.
“They can come any time they like!"
“X.T.”: Northern Territory police
may be discontented, as somebody sug-
gested a few days ago, but there is no
doubt about their practical loyalty. One
of the first letters received by the Ad-
ministrator in Darwin after the, outbreak
of the war contained a cheque for £5O
from a constable in the interior, “to be
used for the defence of our country.”
Merchant princes, please copy!
* * * *
“Mataranka”: The first event of the
N.T. centenary celebrations, the Adelaide
River race meeting, was saddened by the
failure of that well-known identity I.
Layem to materialise. A'Darwin Boni-
face stepped into the breach,* but the
cry of odds had scarcely been raised when
the police appeared and arrested the
public benefactor, leaving the ring a
desert. Thursday Island could teach the
Adelaide River a few points. Many
years ago the inhabitants of the little
island used to hold a stirring meeting
with the aid of only two prads. Betting
was done through a tote,. and .charity
took the rake-off. Chances of winning
anything on a T.I. race were about the
same as those of getting ice-cubes in
the Lower Regions, but losses were taken
for granted.
* * * *
“Barkly”: Reports of isolated North-
erners burning to get into war service
are r beginning to come in. News gets
round more quickly than it used to. In
[he last affair I received a telegram a
month after hostilities had begun. It
had been relayed by packhorse-mail
from Charlotte Plains out on the Flin-
ders, and said: “Rumor here that war
on. Are Light Horsemen needed?” How
far the pattern has changed was shown
less than a week after the present shindy
began by the arrival in a Sydney office of
a breezy North Queenslander: “Listened
to Hitler in the Reichstag the other
night,” he began. “Couldn’t make out
what he was saying, but he sounded as
if he was looking for lash. So I took
the ’plane and came down to see if any-
body needed help.” And anybody with
a set which can listen to the pedal wire-
less of Centralia will hear each Sabbath,
these days, the familiar “over to you”
which passes on the initiative to a listener,
followed by gallant attempts to pro-
nounce the names of Polish towns which
have already passed through three or four
stages of Australianisation. The only
really isolated Australians are the luggei
men and nomads who prowl round the
Arnhem and. Carpentaria coasts garbeci
in less clothing than a Bondi beauty and
always ready to talk about the last war,
which was a central event in the lives of
most of them. _ , - .
“Qwert Yuiop”:' Queensland has added
a fifteenth wilful.murderer to the collec-
tion already doing life sentences in the
excellently-run gaol at Boggo-road. Der-
went Evans Arkinstall, aged 19, a visitor
from Sydney, hired a 74-year-old Bris-
bane taxi-driver on the night of May 23
and shot him dead in a quiet street on
the city, outskirts. With the slain victim
beside him, the ■' nice lad drove to a
deserted part of. the Pacific Highway,
dragged the body into some bushes and
drove on. Traced and arrested in N. S.
Wales after abandoning the car and try-
ing to get rid of bloodstained clothing in
a train, he admitted the murder, and dis-
played no trace of remorse or contrition
at any time in the proceedings. The jury
was not impressed by a defence of schizo-
phrenia (or split personality). Young
Mr. Arkinstall can now look forward to
a life of good food, pleasant occupation
and regular entertainment, all at the
expense of the taxpayer.
* * # *
“Selwyn”: Cloncurry heard of the out-
break of war in the middle of its annual
festival —the Diggers’ race meeting and
military ball—which brings inhabitants
from a couple of hundred miles around
to town. True there was a little acrimony
about a stipendiary steward who insisted
on fining horse owners for “having wrong
colors and similar minor breaches,” but
generally things were as cheerful as usual.
And the • Cloncurry “Advocate” had to
have its joke :. — !.'*-■
STOP PRESS.
Consternation was "caused in the realms
of, Cloncurry dogdom during the week
when Electrician Schwabe and his hench-
men commenced demolishing telegraph
poles in- the, town of Cloncurry. Indigna-
,. tion meetings , were held, at every corner,
and even the'foxies stopped chasing goats
for a time, for it was feared that every
pole in Cloncurry would be eliminated.
Cloncurry’s telegraph lines are going
underground.


LYS
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
WmWm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Greasy, Scoured or Tops?
“Ghanam”: Dalgety’s Annual Wool
Review comes once again, the usual
thorough compendium of facts and
figures. It points out that the steadiness
of values which ruled in 1938-39 would
have been “noteworthy” in any season,
but was “remarkable” in the disturbed
state of the world:
There were times when war seemed
almost inevitable, but through it all wool
continued to sell freely under good general
competition. Actually, the war scare helped
to swell the consumption of wool, as it
created an abnormal demand for military
requirements. Unfortunately, however,
the average price realised was, generally
speaking, pence below the cost of produc-
tion.
One matter raised in the review is that
of the export of Australian wool in a
more advanced state of manufacture. A
suggestion that all wool should be
scoured here was “strongly opposed by
buying interests, who prefer to deal with
the clip in the grease.”
The principal objection from Bradford
is that scoured wool is difficult to sort.
Most scoured wool goes direct to the
woollen trade, which puts it under pro-
cess at once. Wools for worsteds, which
represent the bulk of the trade, need close
sorting. And firms prefer to do this
each according to its own conditions.
Manufacturers say a general system
applied in Australia would not suit. Some
contend that grease preserves the elasti-
city and handle of wool on the voyage.
However, Australia already exports
about 70,000,0001 b. of scoured wool, and
scours a similar amount for local use.
A further suggestion that Australia
should sell more tops “has met with
equally severe criticism from Bradford,”
which said that the scheme was “imprac-
ticable.” Successful topmaking, it was
claimed, calls for constant contact be-
tween user and maker, and for careful
and secret blending which no Australian
topmaker could at present imitate.
Australia successfully makes tops for
her own needs, and in the last three
seasons exported £619,000 worth of tops,
noils and waste to Japan, China, Mexico,
India, Belgium, Poland, Greece and
Maoriland, Small shipments are sent to
the U.K.
There is no reason why this business
should not be extended. Every step for-
ward in manufacture before export gives
additional control of wool prices from
this end. And while prices are governed
by what the world will ultimately pay,
each process carried through gives an
additional strategic advantage in driving
a bargain and in controlling the flow of
supplies.
Swede Turnips for Sheep.
“Hortus”: Begin to prepare land now.
Soil with a fair percentage of sand in it
is best. Light to medium red loam does
well. About 20in. rainfall fills the bill.
Turnips are shallow-rooters. Hence land
should be ploughed deeply two to three
months before sowing. Clear weeds thor-
oughly. Surface soil must be friable. The
finer the tilth the better the germination.
Replough lightly and harrow just before
sowing—in February or March. On table-
lands a January sowing is often made
with success.
Sow lib. to 21b. seed in drills 2ft. 6in.
apart. Super. |cwt. to lcwt. per acre.
Slow growth leaves turnips open to aphis
attack.
As soon as plants are about 2in. high
thin out to 12in. or 15in. apart. Loosen
up between rows after thinning, and keep
loose. Retention of soil moisture is the
main essential of successful turnip-
growing.
Imperial Purple-top and Champion
Purple-top are good croppers.
At Quandialla (N.S.W.) one farmer
sowed a 23-acre block in late February.
The growth has been phenomenal. Owing
to the flush of other feed, the turnips
were not grazed. The farmer has been
pulling and trucking them since June.
Estimated yield is put down at over 10
tons to the acre.
“Got ’ im , Ma!"
Beef and the War.
“Mookau”: Care will be needed in
implementing British war contracts to
buy beef to see that quality is not allowed
to go down. During the last war, with
the unorganised urgency of the demand
for both meat and shipping, ox beef was
ox beef, with a uniform price whether it
came off Maloney’s old cow or the pride
of Bolinda Vale. Fortunately it did no
serious harm, but it might have done.
There has been considerable progress
since, and, with the suspension of the
chilled-meat industry for an indetermin-
ate period, there is real danger.
Beef should be graded as in normal
times, and poor beef just as vigorously
discouraged as in peace-time export.
Incidentally, I recently heard an Argen-
tinian express an interesting opinion on
our cattle: “Tops, excellent, though too
big ; tails to pens altogether too large ; the
sight of universal horns amazing.” In
a single sale day he saw only one lot with
even tipped horns. In the Argentine de-
horning is almost universal, and none of
the bruised hides obvious in Australian
sale pens are to be seen there. If for
nothing else, the Argentines would de-
horn because of the advantage in truck-
ing.
Argentine success in the export trade
is largely based on method, feeding and
standardisation. Even with huge annual
importations of stud stock every year —
so great that Scotland is sometimes called
“the Stud Farm of S. America” —a coun-
try where 70 per cent, of a drop of calves
on an estancia may be stricken with foot-
and-mouth disease is doing wonders to
hold the beef supremacy of the world.
Heavier Carcasses.
“Yarrunga”: The light carcass of beef,
lamb or pork is not a consideration in
the British Government’s take-over of
Australian meat. Good flesh and weight
are required.
Pig-producers, for instance, are to
supply 1601 b. to 1701 b. baconers, instead
of the 1201 b. to 1251 b. that Smithfield has
favored. Extra weight without too much
fat is desired. The heavy pig is the most
economical to produce, so the farmer
will benefit.
The Australian Meat Board’s move-
ment to encourage lamb-breeders to
market at an earlier stage to ensure lighter
lambs is being dropped. On a price basis
the producer is advised to put more
weight on to the lambs. Much the same
conditions are to apply to beef, the re-
quirement being good average trade beef
rather than the baby type or excess
weiehts
Keeping Sows in Condition.
‘•p a ppa m osca-: Maori,and Agricu.-
tural Department has carried out interest-
ing experiments with pasture feeding of
sows. A series of 196 ft. square plots
were used. A sow was allowed to graze
one of these for a day, and the grazed
and an ungrazed plot next door were
then mown to determine the food con-
cumntinn The sow used was a tvniral
.P , ' , f ,
animal seven weeks off farrowing and
weighing 3591 b. She was kept moving
for eight weeks.
Although she was heavy in pig she
made no gain in weight during the first
33 days. Her mean consumption of grass
was 24.21 b. per week.
A second sow which had just finished
weaning a litter was then tried. Her
weight— at first 4871 b 33 days in-
creased by 131 b. on a mean consumption
of 21.91 b. of grass per week.
The results, therefore, show that 251 b.
of pasture per week is bare ration cover-
age for a sow weighing from 4001 b. to
5001 b., and it should be remembered that
the sow differs from other stock in hav-
ing no period during which she may store
body reserves. Sows need a steady
maintenance of ration whether carrying
litters or not, otherwise they are not
likely to give best results.
When a sow has weaned her litter, six
gallons of skim per day should be given
until she has regained the strength and
condition lost during suckling. After that,
food should be regulated to hold her in
good form until about six weeks before
the next litter arrives.
Ration then should be increased. A
farrowing sow should be rising in con-
dition at the time of the happy event.
Westralian Tobacco.
“Wundi”: Westralia’s first tobacco
auction on August 25 was promising.
About 2400 bales were offered and only
40 failed to find buyers at a maximum of
3s. lOd. and an average of 2s.
W. D. Cass, the State plant pathologist,
says that there is plenty of room for ex-
pansion in the south-west. At the same
time, he remarked that production of
flue-cured leaf called for experience and
was no job for amateurs.
In W.A., tobacco would probably be
best developed together with mixed farm-
ing-dairymen and potato-growers pro-
ducing small experimental quantities
until they learn the ropes. Had this been
possible in N. Queensland greater pro-
gress might have been made. Instead, a
large number of growers entered the
business without knowledge of growing
or curing, with, the result that large quan-
tities of poor leaf were produced, much
of it on land unsuited to tobacco.
Even at full development, all soils suit-
able for general agriculture are not right
for tobacco, and it is unlikely that uni-
form areas will be found in W.A. large
enough to make tobacco-growing the
sole industry in any district. Before en-
thusiasts are moved by the success of the


BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS.
IBn
PER PAIR
YU
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with tired feet in the
Summertime by wearing Sandals. They’re serviceable and comfortable;
just the things to wear for coolness and ease. And as they are Abbey
Sandals they will give long, true wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Stock and Station Agents
Buyers and Sellers are advised to consult our
Special Stock and Property Department, or
our Branches.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: ALBURY, LOCKHART, Rand, Walla
Walla, Griffith, Leeton, WAGGA
WAGGA, DENILIQUIN.
VICTORIA: ECHUCA, Kyabram, CASTERTON,
MILDURA.
Chief Representatives and Attorneys in Victoria for
THE
STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Cover issued for all Classes of Fire, Accident and Marine
Insurances at lowest current rates.
Agents for KYMAC SHEEP DIP
Suppliers of All Station Requisites
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET
MELBOURNE
jTiTrfyvUefi'n-.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FROM FACTORY
Fresfi • Fragranf
TOBACCO
.AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers !
Enjoy the World’s Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW 1 Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
sales to rush into the business, capital
outlay, costs and general conditions need
careful consideration.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.R.D.”: In many districts lambs are
suffering from scabby mouth. The trouble
is highly infectious and may affect the
udders of ewes and the legs of lambs.
It may be checked, if noticed in time,
by isolating cases. Paint affected regions
with glycerine diborate. This is expen-
sive, and, if unobtainable, bluestone solu-
tion gives good results. Scabs should be
rubbed off before applying bluestone
(11b. to 2gal. water).
“J.W.G.”: To make a cheap and con-
venient lighter for burning tussocks or
firebreaks take a sft. length of fin. piping.
At one end, insert the ends of a looped
stiff wire that fits tightly, leaving about
an inch of the looped end protruding.
Pull a piece of cotton-wool tightly through
this and soak in kerosene or tar. It
should burn for half an hour.
“Yeno Ham”: Before sowing pastures
on a paddock that has grown cereal crops
try Poona cowpeas as green manure.
Plough the cowpeas under and sow the
pasture immediately afterwards so that
lull advantage can be taken of the nitro-
gen and organic matter. Use at least
lcwt. of super, per acre when sowing
the pasture, and apply up to 2cwt. of
super, per acre every year.
J- Want”: The N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department has been working hard
in an attempt to find the perfect sheep-
branding fluid. Tests showed that those
that could be depended on to stay on the
sheep for a year failed to scour out fully.
Finally, a formula from the British Indus-
tries Research Association was tried, and
although this, too, could not be com-
pletely removed in the scour, Bradford
declared the residue after scouring to be
brittle enough to come out in manufac-
ture, This seems a big advance. At any
rate, it shows that there is no need for
the use of tar, the bugbear of every wool-
buyer.
“Zedo”: A pity that chilling of beef
has had to be suspended owing to the out-
break of war, but under existing ship-
ping conditions it is impossible to guaran-
tee to restrict voyages to the necessary
50-day limit. The discovery of the
carbon-dioxide atmospheric process in
1933 first made our trade in chilled with
the U.K. possible, and it is only in the
last three years that the business has got
going properly. In that time, chilled ex-
ports have quadrupled and have im-
proved in quality. The C.S. and I.R.
has done considerable work which has
made prospects much brighter. Last year
the value of our chilled exports came
near to £1,000,000.
“Bovis”: In prescribing a weight and
age limitation for fat-cattle show exhibits,
the Sydney R.A.S. has made a wise move.
Previously age was the one factor that
operated for or against an exhibit, and
it narrowed competition, acting unfavor-
ably against the small grazier. Stall-
feeding, denied the small man on account
of the cost, should be practically elimi-
nated from the fat-cattle section, “buck-
ing-up” being restricted to three weeks
before judging. The term “pasture-fed”
will include lucerne grazing, but not
annual crops.
The Australian Meat Board an-
nounces that in view of the war situation
the fat-lamb competitions will be discon-
tinued. Entries received in June and
July will be judged if at all possible.
“Beefo”: I find I owe an apology to
the owner of those cattle a par. of mine
cited as dying from anthrax (B. 30/8/’39).
They succumbed to bloat, the result
of eating trefoil, it’s since been discov-
ered.
“J. Want”: I’m a great admirer of the
C.S. and 1.R., but I wish it would
express itself simply. One of the “official
bulletins” has a hefty-looking article on
the “use of the hydrogen ion and acidi-
metric determinations for indicating the
end point of a bacterial ret.” The
farmer who strikes that just goes on with
the milking. He’s not likely to turn over
to a “preliminary note on the anthelmin-
tic efficiency of phenothiazine against
hasmonchus contortus in sheep.”
“Ovis”: Storage of wool is going to be
a big problem under the war-time
arrangements. Many city stores are
already packed almost to the limit, and a
lot of early-shorn wool is being stored on
stations. Some arrangement will have to
be made regarding priority payments.
Clips usually take their turn at auction
in order of arrival in selling centres.
Growers who help organisation by stor-
ing their own wool should have special
consideration.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Claude, the new share-
farmer, is Yorkshire, and while he was
scything a bit of green feed I went over
to see what the contraption was he had
rigged on the scythe-handle. “It’s the
boo,” he explained ; “laws the swathe oot
nice. Just a soople switch bent oop from
the sneath end an’ over the cray-ring.”
It appears that what we ignorant
colonials call the handle is really the
sneath. The cray-ring is the attachment
fixing the blade to the sneath. What
we call hand-grips are properly dole-
woods, secured to the sneath with
doler rings. You adjust the top dole-
wood parallel with the blade and the
other at a suitable distance and angle
to keep the heel of the blade down and
the point up without having to stoop
when you swing. Claude shapes his own
sneaths out of bush timber and scorns
they Yankee misfits. When you whet
the blade give three strokes down from
the heel and only one up or you’ll take
off the edge as fast as you put it on. And
I admit that Claude lays it over any
Aussie scytheman I’ve seen in action.
“A.A.D.”: With full bulk handling
facilities, N.S.W. is better off than other
States should it be necessary to provide
long storage for wheat under the British
Government’s purchase plan. The total
silo capacity in N.S.W. is 31,820,000
bushels at one filling. That quantity is
always safe if kept turned and dry and
free from weevil infestation.
“Yarrunga”: The Guernsey herds of
W.A., mainly founded on Government-
introduced N.S.W. and Victorian stock,
are leading other pure breeds in produc-
tion. At the last two Perth Shows these
cattle made larger classes than at either
Sydney or Melbourne Show. An aver-
age yield in 273-day official tests of
4021 b. butterfat for 361 cows denotes
how the West has progressed. P. G.
Hampshire, who initiated and gave effect
to the W.A. dairying settlement policy,
has again visited the eastern States,
securing Guernseys of high-production
pedigrees.
“Tooralie”: A heavy kill of mistletoe
in parts of the Western Lands Division
(N.S.W.) has raised the suggestion of
parasitic insect activities. Entomologists
scout the idea. Local opinion favors the
conclusion that the summer drought and
heat-wave were responsible. On the
northern reaches of the Darling, especi-
ally in the vicinity of Bourke, 100 p.c.
mortality occurred on river gums and 80
p.c. to 90 p.c. on trees back from the
watercourse. The clean-up was not
general. The parasite still holds as a
killer on mulga, the best of the edible
trees in the west. The spread of mistle-
toe, in fact, continues a major problem
in the wide western areas, as it is in many
other sections of the State.
“Mundowie”: Cattle need to be quiet
and restful on camp when travelling if
they’re to conserve their strength. They
must be trained. Steers, when weaned,
should be herded and yarded every night
for two or three weeks. Trained cattle
make comparatively easy work for the
drovers, and the little extra trouble that
is taken on the run to break them in
when they are young brings more profit
to the owners. Cattle are as easily
quietened on wide runs where there are
no yards as in paddocks. Round them
up now and again on open camps and
ride among them.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Will white top or wallaby grass grow in the
warmer parts of Queensland ? In our part on
the south coast there is practically n0ne. —4660.
Danthonia is successful in Queensland only
on the Darling Downs and adjacent areas. In
those districts climatic and soil conditions are
in many respects similar to those of northern
districts of New South Wales, where Danthonia
is a valuable pasture. It is mainly winter and
spring growing in Queensland, and Danthonia
is not vigorous enough in summer to com-
pete with natural and artificial grasses.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are now severely
sub-edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published will, without
disqualification, be obliged. . , ,
The prize goes this week to a Sydney man who writes as a Parlor Pink, though
he is far removed from the variety that most people have met.
Psychology of a “Parlor Pink”
I suppose I am one of those The
Bulletin classes as “Parlor Pinks.”
1 don’t like the term—but I can take it.
There appears to be an inherent
assumption that a Parlor Pink lacks defi-
nite national feeling and leans a little
leftishly towards Lenin. Well, maybe,
maybe! However, here’s a microscopic
study of a “pink” microbe, written in
the hope that The Bulletin will modify
its attitude towards those whose only
crime is that of independence of thought.
When the declaration of war came it
is undoubted that we all welcomed it
with a sense of relief: mental torment
was over, action was promised. Four
years of the last war, more than half of
it in action, had taught me to hate war
with a lasting hatred. There was no
glamor on the Somme battlefield: only
mud, acrid stench and ever-present
nausea, the shattering roar of heavy
artillery and, as any old soldier will
agree, the unholy hope of a possible
“Blighty.” War, in all its phases, is a
ghastly horror.
There are other horrors, related, curi-
ously enough, to peace. The dole and
relief Work, for instance, long-continued
unemployment and utter poverty of the
meanest possible description. I know, I
know! I have not had a permanent job
since my eldest child (there are five now)
was born. What a soul-sickening pro-
gress from probable meal to possible
meal three times a day (sometimes) over
all those peaceful (!) years, the only high-
lights being most infrequent small
cheques from newspapers —which make
it obvious I am not a skilled journalist,
just an occasional contributor. “Pink!”
Who wouldn’t be Pink after such a
grind? I cannot yet understand why I
am not a boiled-lobster Red. .
Then the war news broke. Idealisti-
cally, it simply had to break. The Old
Country might do a little wriggling,
shoulder-shrugging, but thank heavens it
wasn’t going to crawl to the Madmen
of Europe! What would I do?
First thought, get a good job out of
it. Second thought, it would bring a
spice of adventure, after all, whilst a
man still had some blood in his body.
Wonder if I could sneak in for foreign
service? And, by the way, lam de-
cidedly not a brave man —entirely the
reverse. Then I took to walking the
floor —until my wife accused me of being
just as miserable as all the other re-
turned soldiers because their wives were
against them enlisting . . . and if it would
make me any happier she would have
no objection to my going.
So my application is in. I look young,
I’ve lost my birth certificate, so I might
just make it. —T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).
The address is Palmer-street, Balmain,
Sydney.
Australia at War
Australia is at war with Germany--
but no one would know it. This is likely
to be a war of attrition, long-drawn-out,
until the enemy is finally beaten. Before
the end comes every able-bodied man in
the Empire is likely to be needed either
as a combatant or in some other essential
capacity. Woman, too, will have her part
to play—and no unimportant part, either.
It may be that need will arise for Aus-
tralian soldiers and sailors and airmen
to serve overseas. It may be that the
defence of Australia will be our special
responsibility. The issue will be decided
for us by forces over which we have no
control. One thing is terribly certain —
we shall need trained soldiers and trained
sailors ; we shall need to supply and equip
them. The newly-formed Ministry of
Supply may be doing a job of work; it
is too early to judge, though we all know
that our militiamen have not as yet been
fully issued even with uniforms.
The first consideration, however, is
trained man-power. What have we to-
day? Most of the A.I.F. men are past
effective military age. We have some
78,000 militiamen, partly trained and
partly equipped. We have the nucleus of
a permanent army and staff corps. The
militia are to be called up for 16 days
camp training in batches of 10,000, “so
that business may not be unduly dis-
located.”
It is high time that Australia and its
politicians faced the facts. Business in-
terests must not be allowed to stand in
the way. We may be called upon at very
short notice, and our man-power must be
trained. We cannot permit our troops to
be murdered by sending them into action
untrained.
I am not a scaremonger. It is com-
monsense that we should be prepared to
defend our country should the need arise.
Compulsory training should never have
been abolished. The criminal folly of
earlier years can now be repaired only
by a powerful national effort in which
all should be compelled to take part.—
Idiotes (N.S.W.).
Now that we are fairly established on
the road to war, and all our energies must
be devoted to the subjugation of Ger-
many’s tyrannical might, it is to be ex-
pected that a wave of Hun-hatred will
sweep the British Empire and its allied
countries. On the whole, this will be a
good thing, since good haters are usually
good fighters, and any force, with the
exception of stark brutality, which assists
to bring this holocaust to an early con-
clusion may be considered virtuous. By
all means let us hate while we fight.
But ! When this war is over, and
Nazism and all the madness that it stands
for have been unburdened from the mind
of man, then let us forget our hatred.
Let us determine, even at this early stage,
that a hard-won, honorable victory shall
not be marred by a repetition of the
petty squabbles and grudges of Versailles.
The nations of the world will pay, and
pay dearly, for this war. Decide now
that none shall pay for the peace. —
Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
The achievements of the Diggers at
Gallipoli and elsewhere were all the
more meritorious because it was their
baptism in strenuous warfare. Unlike the
other nations engaged in the conflict,
they had no great soldierly traditions to
supplement their valor. Yet they proved
themselves the equal of the flower of
tried European soldiery.
Strangely enough, our militiamen hear
very little of Australia’s glorious military
deeds during their training, although
whenever an old soldier cares to recount
his experiences he is assured of an
attentive young audience.
In order to maintain a keen fighting
spirit in our forces I suggest that there
be regular lectures on tradition and
esprit de corps to our militiamen. —
Petermac (N.S.W.).
Politicians and! Us
It is surely a paradox that while we
abuse our politicians we also coddle
them. Following our party allegiance,
when we elect one of these gentry to
Parliament we give him what is practi-
cally a freehold title to the job if the
party character of the seat is definite and
not likely to change. Hence we find men
of no particular ability or merit holding
seats for 20 years and over. They know
they are safe, and settle down as party
hacks. An original idea is the last thing
that would germinate in their minds.
If electors were to arouse themselves
and run new candidates and rally round
them (it can be done without risk under
preferential voting), then the party hack
would have to - bestir himself and prove
his worth (if any). He could no longer
regard the seat as his personal property.
The N.S.W. salary grab last year would
not have been rushed through with such
audacity if members had had any fear of
real opposition from their party sup-
porters in the electorates.
It is of little use the electors grumbling
about the representation they get when
they have the power to change it and
don’t bother doing anything. The very
fact of the exercise of this power would
have a good effect— Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
Blundering Democracy
Why should blundering be inevitably
associated with democracy (B. 6/9/’39)?
Are we not intelligent people? Do we
not pay generously for good govern-
ment? .
Because of the blundering and ex-
travagances of our administrators un-
employment is rife, and to an idle man,
miserable and discontented, democracy
loses a lot of its appeal. He begins to
wonder whether a poisonous creed like
Communism is so bad after all, and
artful agitators are always at hand to
further mesmerise him with subtle propa-
ganda—Crusader (N.S.W.).
“Snooping Reporters”
“Mac” (B. 6/9/*39) has either beep
very unfortunate with reporters or doesn’t
know what he’s writing about. As one
of them, I can tell him his confidences
are quite safe, so long as he assures the
reporter they are confidences. People
love to spout to reporters, hoping they
will be reported. If they say anything
worth while, naturally it is reported. But
piffle isn’t, as a rule. “Mac’s” mass of
generalisations are unjustifiable slanders,
also printed in shelter —the shelter of
someone else’s willingness to allow every-
body the right of free expression.—J. B.
(Q-).
Wilderness of Words
Tome upon tome of “Hansard” is
packed with the preserved utterances of
our politicians. Law libraries present an
ever-growing verbal maze through which
students must grope if they wish to in-
terpret the law. The most trifling legal
document is a wearisome string of
“whereases,” “hereinafters” and other
such horrors.
Surely all this stuff could be simpli-
fied without its legal soundness being
impaired? Parliamentary bills could be
more brief and concise. The language
of litigation could be modernised. Even
in these advanced times, the laws we are
expected to observe are just a dizzy
roundabout of words. Resort to plain
English by our lawgivers would be a de-
cided service to the public.— Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
Independence a Virtue
In B. 30/8/’39 F. Olsen deplores the
growing tendency among Australians to
prefer “the haggard worries of a penuri-
ous independence to a regular wage en-
velope.” As one of those “independents,”
I’d like to give another point of view.
Some wage envelopes are regular but
others are not. Depressions, amalgama-
tions of firms, progress, fluctuations in
the market price of commodities like
wheat and wool and the alternate rush
period and slack time in industries like
motor-body-building make many occupa-
tions just as uncertain as any private
business. I have mastered a very useful
trade, and I hold a good wad of refer-
ences, but I grew sick and tired of work-
ing one week until ten every night during
a rush period and then being told “Sorry,
but we’ll have to put you off for a time.”
The man who never does anything
save work for wages or salary gets to
depend entirely upon somebody else pro-
viding work for him. When a depression
comes he is lost, and his type forms the
majority of those who have to be given
unproductive relief work or a dole. He
cannot think for himself, and he is un-
fitted to shoulder responsibility in an
emergency. The independents come into
their own at such times, and when a war
arrives you’ll find them in the ranks of
the n.c.os. and officers, where they shoul-
der responsibilities and tell the other
type what to do and how to do it. They
refuse to despair when things look black,
and they keep fighting as long as there’s
a shot left.
Another point is this: They very often
do not make as much in hard cash as
the wage-earner, but they often build up
a substantial asset for their old age.
Further, they often provide a surprising
amount of employment for the “regular
wage-envelope” type of worker.
My own income is very small, but I
use nearly £900 worth of manufactured
goods —all made here —in the course of
a year.
Of course, there are misfits among the
independents, but you find them every-
where.—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Pioneers’ Sins
The pioneers of this country have a lot
to be praised for —and quite a lot to
answer for. They destroyed valuable
timber without any thought for the people
who were to come after them, and now
millions of pounds have had to be spent
in reafforestation, prevention of soil
erosion and the purchase of timber for
building and other purposes. On the
North Coast of N.S.W. you see cowbails
and barns built of the best cedar, while in
other places thousands of pounds’ worth
of timber was burned merely to clear
a patch of land for growing a few bobs’
worth of maize.
These pioneers slaughtered koalas,
platypuses and many other valuable
animals merely to get their skins for mak-
ing rugs or selling for a few pence each.
They killed any bird or animal that
would provide them with meat to reduce
their meat bill or save them killing a
bullock. The people who came after
them have had to spend fortunes in en-
deavoring to save the valuable animals
and birds from extinction.
The pioneers made slaves of their
children, working them from daylight
until dark and keeping them from school
to help work the farm. Any present-day
farmer will tell you that he was nothing
better than a slave in his youth.
These old pioneers deride the present
generation and tell us what they did in
the good old pioneering days. They had
no dole or Government relief work ; and
their children had no talkies, jazz halls,
etc. But they had opportunities in
virgin country that are not open to this
generation. They went into the bush and
took the pick of the country, and what is
left for pioneering now would not keep
a bandicoot. These pioneers, if they
made a pound, had 20 shillings of it to
spend —to-day, the man who makes a
pound is lucky to have fifteen bob left
after he pays taxes that did not exist in
the good old days.
Criticising the pioneers may be like
criticising one’s parents, but facts are
facts and the sins of the parents fall upon
the children. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
‘‘Business As Usual!”
Rather grim humor was presented
among the black headlines on the front
page of a Brisbane daily. One column
carried Mr. Menzies’s plea for “business
as usual,” while the very next was full of
excuses from the Queensland Govern-
ment for having sacked about 1000 main
roads workers. The Brisbane City Coun-
cil carried the drama still further with a
note that 200 council employees would
have to go off the following week.
The Prime Minister’s statement looked
mighty good on paper, but a better
example from the State Government and
local authorities would have given it a
more substantial background.—G. H. A.
(Q.).
A “Bulletin” Club
Thumbs down on T. J. Palmer’s plea
for a Bulletin club (B. 16/8/’39). Other
papers may have their clubs, but I hope
The Bulletin remains the exception to
the rule.
In other respects The Bulletin is
exceptional. In its style, literary repute
and sincerity it is essentially a paper that
is different. It prints all sides of every
question, and the views expressed can be
relied upon as honest and informative
even when one disagrees with them. This
gives The Bulletin an individual char-
acter, and it does not need such a mani-
festation of the herd instinct as a club
represents to further its repute.
Admittedly, TJ.P. makes his idea seem
attractive in some respects, notably in
Australian Books and Gloom
The reason why most Australian books
are gloomy is because they are written
by amateurs. It takes the professional,
earning his bread with his pen, to write
with verve and humor. The happy end-
ing is the most difficult to attain. Life
is full of sad endings, ready-made ; life
itself ends in death. And the professional
doesn’t court the bailiff by writing books
for the Australian market; he can get
more overseas for one short story. The
Australian book seldom nets its author
£15 in royalties, while a short story may
fetch £50 in U.S.A.
As for those pessimists who deplore
the absence of an Australian story back-
ground—no wild beasts, no Injuns, no
civil wars, no haunted castles, etc. —they
move men to mirth. I could fill this page
with background ideas. The convict
system, for instance, viewed from other
angles than miserable wretches eternally
herded to the triangles. And goldfield
life —that still goes on. Dutchmen and
treasure, pirates up the W.A. coast. And
cattle drives, covered-wagon days, lone
women facing hostile savages. And men
and women living and loving for over a
hundred years, right to this moment.
Given, say, £50 apiece, there are Aus-
tralians who could turn out scores of
serials, each one different, each readable.
But not for £10 or £15, the price offered
nowadays when a rare editor condescends
to even consider an Australian serial.
Serial-writing is the training for book-
writing. Dickens was a writer of serials.
GRUB ST. (W.A.).


regard to the club’s proposed literary
foundation, but his suggestion of a badge
for members made me shudder. The
Bulletin has always kept aloof from
everything smacking of Babbittry, Rotary
and ordinariness generally. May it con-
tinue to do so! —W, J. Hay (M.L.).
Smut Purveyors
Thanks to public opinion overseas,
coupled with strict but efficient Com-
monwealth censorship, suggestive and im-
proper films have become the exceptior
rather than the rule. Their number is
now quite negligible. The same is true of
the general run of stage productions. If
the premiere is regarded as too hot the
producers are tipped off by the police to
make a few alterations and amendments
for the better. At this policy the average
decent citizen will not cavil. While depre-
cating any “wowserism,” he baulks at
filth without even the merest coating of
humor or jest.
Now, however, the channels for pur-
veying filth and smut are flowing once
more in a direction that Authority
appears to have overlooked. I refer
to troupes that follow the chain
of country shows. They remain only
a few nights at each centre before
moving on again, and the attitude of
the local police seems to be generally
one of laissez faire ; they are reluctant
to interfere because they will be branded
spoilsports by a certain section.
Invariably a proportion of the audi-
ence is composed of youngsters, and, to
be consistent, Authority should act in
their interests. It is little use purging the
cinema if second-rate stage turnouts are
to be allowed a free hand spreading smut
by word and action throughout the coun-
try.—R. Garrett (N.S.W.).
One Parliament, One Destiny
That leading article, “One Parliament.
One Destiny,” is one of the ablest put
forward by The Bulletin for some time.
Why not make your slogan from now on
“One Flag, One Parliament, One Des-
tiny” and continually drive it home?
For nearly 40 years (ever since I first
started reading The Bulletin) I have
noticed that projects and slogans ad-
vanced and adopted by you have nearly
always come to pass. ’
We never hear the slogan “Advance,
Australia” now, for the obvious reason
that this country has almost ceased to
advance. The reason is not hard to find,
for, with our many taxes, Parliaments
and other impositions, Australia has
practically reached the end of the road,
and will soon come to a halt if these
are allowed to continue.
“Tried by the supreme test of war,
the Australians became one people,” you
state. If I remember rightly, in a broad
sense that war was almost alien to the
interests of Australia at the time, yet we
fought nobly for the other fellow.
Why cannot We awake and fight for
ourselves? Our Governments now do
not represent us; they govern as they
please, grab salaries without asking our
leave, and generally impose with im-
punity upon the public—and we call it
democracy!
It is high time that Australians awoke
from their lethargy.— Wayback (Q.).
The Press and the Nation
The passing of the “Queenslander” and
the Sydney “Mail” early this year is to be
lamented as a long step in the wrong
direction; and, now that these two dead
publications have been joined by the ace
of Australian sporting papers, the
“Referee,” another row of silent presses
testifies to the lack of progress and fore-
sight among Australian men of money.
As The Bulletin of 15/3/’39 pointed
out, the competition that ruined the first
two came not from Australian publica-
tions but from overseas newspapers for
whose particular brand of political propa-
ganda there is a definite market in Aus-
tralia.
Propaganda is a powerful weapon, as
the fanatical minds behind such organisa-
tions as the Soviet were quick to discern.
In their hands it has become a menace,
and its unchecked entry into Australia
intensifies that menace.
It is a sign of the times that newspapers
of sterling merit cannot compete success-
fully with propagandist rags. However,
the enterprising publication’s greatest
enemy in Australia is our national trait,
commented on by all distinguished visi-
tors—love of money. It is this trait
among our wealthy men that is killing
the newspaper business in Australia. They
stubbornly refuse to be prepared to lose
money for a little while in order to gain
a market for national-minded newspapers.
There must inevitably be a market for
them because their worth cannot help but
command notice eventually.
Australia itself is responsible for the
stagnation in newspaper circles. This is
most marked in South Australia, where
we have two dailies, owned by the
same people, and where attempts to start
rival publications have ended in failure.
—P- POLKINGHORNE (S.A.).
A Volte Face
Asa teacher for many years, I have
been told to teach my pupils, through
textbooks and lectures, that primitive
man was little more than a beast, that
he knew no culture and had no law
except that of the jungle. I told the
children that when primal man wanted
a wife he clubbed her on the head, and
when he w’anted to divorce her he clubbed
her harder. Altogether the picture that
I and the textbooks have painted of our
primitive forebears must have convinced
the children that it is good to be alive
in such a cultured, enlightened world as
the present.
Goethe, I told them, was comparable
to our own great Shakspeare, whilst
Schiller and Lessing were only lesser
luminaries because of the two giants of
literature. This, I used to continue,
would be the prevailing culture of Ger-
many, for the culture of peace was the
only one possible in this modern, progres-
sive world.
Meanwhile, the vacation has inter-
vened and, at the time of writing, I have
not had to face up to them again. But
the day of reckoning is just ahead, and
I dread the looks, the questions and the
disbelief that will greet me on my return
to school, and I wonder if my task will
be as difficult as that of some small-town
German teacher. But I would not swap
consciences with the fat, honest gentle-
man.—Wm. Lynch (N.S.W.).
Tax Doctors’ Bills
If any man thinks that his lawyer’s
bill is too high he can submit it to the
taxing master at the Supreme Court,
who strikes out any items which he con-
siders to be unfair or excessive, but the
man who is faced with a huge bill for
medical attention has no such redress.
Some such check upon doctor’s bills is
badly needed, especially in country dis-
tricts.
Take the case of the one where I
reside. Our doctor was a cheery, hail-
fellow-well-met sort, and when discussing
the cost of an operation or something
of the sort with him you’d get a slap
on the back and a remark like “Don’t
you worry about that, old man; I’ll get
nurse to send you the ordinary bill, but
you just pay what you can.”
A year ago that doctor sold his
practice and went to another State, but
before doing so he put every one of his
bills into the hands of a solicitor for
collection. Of course, everyone told that
lawyer the same story, and in the end he
chucked up the job, with some uncom-
plimentary remarks about the doctor’s
business ethics, but nothing can alter the
fact that every one of those patients was
legally liable for the unpaid balance.
A taxing master for the medical pro-
fession would do away with all this sort
of thing, and would abolish that un-
pleasant haggling with the doctor before
an operation by those with limited in-
comes. The procedure would also benefit
the medical profession and do away with
a lot of ill-feeling towards doctors on
the part of patients who consider that
they have been overcharged.— Tompion
(S.A.). _
Women and Dress
We are used to the seasonal paeans of
praise concerning women’s dress. Sel-
dom do we see any public comment on
its inanities and inconsistencies.
Take those high heels. Doctors are
unanimous in declaring that they often
cause internal derangements necessi-
tating operation. And what looks more
foolish than a broad foot crushed into a
slim-fitting shoe? Chafed heels and
pinched toes bring their due punishment.
And what of those stupid creations that
masquerade as hats? Many of them are
devoid of any protection to neck, head
or eyes In the summer thousands of
women forsake cool and attractive femi-
nine attire and don heavy flannel “slacks”
in a silly pander to Dame Fashion. And
quite a number, proud of their furs, will
swelter in the heat to show them off. —
A. O’Halloran (M.L.).
Wisdom of the Government
In 1923 I spent 18 months on a station
in nor’-western New South Wales tutor-
ing a squatter’s family. Amongst them
was a lad who, even then, at the age of
11, displayed unusual mechanical ability.
He then wanted to be an engineer.
Later the boy went to a boarding
school and came out of it with a firm
resolve to take up flying. He studied
theory during whatever leisure he had
after his work about the place. Later
on he presented himself for a vacancy
in the R.A.A.F., but was rejected because
in place of having 36 teeth he had but 34.
The boy went back home and con-
tinued his aeronautical studies again dur-
ing his leisure from work. He then
managed to raise sufficient money to go
for training in Melbourne, where even-
tually he got his pilot’s license. His
training took over three years, and alto-
gether he was out of pocket to the extent
of £6OO. This sum he had to borrow.
Now he is employed with a civil avia-
tion co. and is on the R.A.A.F. Reserve.
He is liable to be called up for service.
I met him the other day and he said
he was worried by the fact that, if he is
sent overseas and killed, the folks who
lent him the money to get trained will
have to go unpaid.
But the Government will have got him
for nothing, though it rejected him
before. He seems to have been penalised
at the rate of £3OO each for those two
missing teeth!— Per Ardua Ad Aspi-
distra (N.S.W.).
Government for the People
The same Government which intro-
duced in October the all-round salary-
increase whereby an ordinary member’s
rate jumped from £l3 to £l7 per week re-
cently decided that the State could also
afford to increase the unemployment dole
by 6d. to 7s. 6d. per week. I challenge
any honorable member to demonstrate
that he could exist on that amount in
New South Wales.
These pinheaded and niggardly
attempts to deal with the unempl'oyment
problem make one despair of democracy.
Does any member conscientiously believe
that to set a dole of approximately one-
tenth the basic wage is a fair or reason-
able .way of solving the problem? Does
any honorable member give any serious
attention to the matter? Recent events
suggest that they are too busy clinging on
to their seats and manoeuvring for posi-
tions to spare any time for the real work
of government.
Here is an idea which is worth in-
vestigating. It is not original, and has
frequently been discussed in mining
circles.
There are many low-grade ore deposits
in this State, the cost of working which,
under normal conditions, would just
about equal the cost of the marketed
product. Let these minerals—coal, cop-
per, tin, lead, gold, wolfram and so on —
be tapped while we have the available
man-power with nothing else to do. Put
the operations in the hands of reputable
mining companies with the necessary
technical organisation, which could work
in conjunction with the State Mines De-
partment. All the Government would
be required to do would be to provide
workers, who would be paid the basic
wage, and guarantee the companies a
reasonable return on capital invested.
Only marginal propositions, or better,
need be tackled at first, but later on it
might be found worth while opening up
lower-grade mines.
Instead of being abandoned to hope-
less and demoralising idleness on a paltry
7s. 6d. per week, the unemployed would
be given jobs on the basic wage in this
new marginal mining industry, and, what
is more important, the chance to remain
good, self-reliant citizens. The activity
engendered and the new money put into
circulation would give other employment.
Instead of dole stagnation, the tide would
set the other way.— Wolfram (N.S.W.).
The Australian Accent
Why this extraordinary anxiety on the
part of overseas visitors that Australians
should speak exactly as they do them-
selves? As long as we speak the language
intelligibly it is much more interesting
and amusing that we keep to our own
easy and comfortable pronunciation. The
appalling imitation of an English accent,
as practised by “socialites” in all our
States, is painful of listen to, but they
seem to be under the misapprehension
that it sounds grander than the natural
Australian manner of speech.
There is nothing absolute about words
or the way they are pronounced, and
surely there is nothing very unpleasant
in the way the Australian pronounces
them; yet our critics analyse our mode
of speech as if it bore no relation to the
people who use it.
Were one accent evolved from all
the dialects of England’s counties,
whence came our pioneers, the speech
would be much more Australian than
Oxford. If the acquired accent of the
social suburbs is the outcome of the
process of education, then education has
little in its favor.
What would be sadder than to hear
a good bushman uttering a bogus imita-
tion of what can be at its best only a
synthetic English accent? Clotilde
(Vic.).
Modem Wives
While it is true that the modern busi-
nessgirl knows how to budget before
marriage, which certainly helps after, as
J. Gold (B. 16/8/’39) fortunately found,
there are still some maidens who would
rather “splash” on the wedding day than
swim in safety thereafter. I have been
letting a small furnished flat at a well-
known beach resort much in demand
with young married couples; among the
tenants were several pairs of honey-
mooners. In this way I have learnt details
hidden from the friends even of the
happy pair.
For instance, a young couple sent a
message to say that they were not arriv-
ing until midnight. I had to wait up in
order to let them in. Guessed, of course,
that there was a wedding in progress.
They arrived, to my astonishment, each
carrying a heavy suitcase. No taxi, not
even the bus! I supposed the poor young
things were not able to afford any kind
of festivity, and felt duly sympathetic.
However, the bride became confidential
in a day or two, and told me of the big
wedding she had had. It seemed incred-
ible, but when she showed me the photo-
graph later—published in a daily paper—
there was the wedding group, very
elaborate, very “posh,” with herself the
first lady.
Another bride who had only two night-
gowns in her “trousseau” and no warm
clothes for the approaching winter —the
young husband, returning immediately to
work, had neither overcoat nor umbrella
—went one better even than this. She
engaged a room overnight for herself and
mother at a city hotel. In the morning
early she dressed in her wedding gown,
copied from one worn by a “society”
bride a few weeks before, and spent a
luxurious hour parading before the mirror
in all her finery. The ceremony was car-
ried out in style to the smallest detail, and
afterwards a big breakfast was partaken
of by all. But she did not regret it, nor
the necessities she might have bought
with the cash expended; nor did the
husband. For one day this girl was a
personage, and the thrill she experienced
would light her during many a dark day.
Was she wrong? Was she right? Who
knows? Woman does not live by bread
alone.—Q. M. P. (N.S.W.).
Develop Our Native Grasses
Grasses introduced from other coun-
tries have played an important part in
pasture improvement in Australia, but
almost no attention has been paid to the
development of native species for the
same purpose. The imported grasses have
all been brought to their present high
state of productiveness and adaptability
by plant-breeding.
Little or no attempt has been made to
adapt native grasses tb different condi-
tions and different districts by plant-
breeding, although many of them are of
great potential value. Mitchell grass is
a case in point. A native of Queensland,
it has spread to various parts of N. S.
Wales, where it has become a valuable
constituent of pastures, even growing
through the winter in some areas.
One of the greatest needs of pastoral-
ists is a highly nutritious, drought-resis-
tant grass that will thrive in inland areas
where imported species will not grow.
Mitchell grass appears to be the answer,
but its value could be greatly increased
by scientific plant-breeding and the selec-
tion of the best strains.
It is a job that should be tackled im-
mediately by Government plant-breeders
in co-operation with the C.S. and I.R.
The help of pastoralists in experiments is
assured.— Bundalinga (N.S.W.).
Mistakes
The mistakes of our public men are
news, and any error of judgment on the
part of doctors, politicians or commercial
leaders in their civil duties is given so
much publicity as to make the affair
appear a capital crime.
The enormity of the error is a matter
of point of view, but this does not give
any newspaper reporter or radio commen-
tator justification for the bitter attacks
launched against the unfortunate man
who had two courses to pursue and chose
the wrong one.
These critics, as a rule, are incapable
of offering a suitable line of action be-
forehand, but are particularly adept at
pointing to the error afterwards and then
suggesting the Other way.
By our mistakes we learn, and it should
not be forgotten that the man who never
made a mistake never made anything.—
W. H. Webber (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
The R.J.A. LEVER 37/6
Chosen by Experts as the Ideal
Countryman’s
Watch.
Warranted
by the
Federated
Jewellers
Association
of the
Common-
wealth.
ASS 7
<lO
Send for
free
illustrated
watch and
diamond
ring
catalogue.
DIAMOND
S i WATCH
SPECIALISTS
1
112 MARKETS!
SYDNEY,
OPR DAVID JONES |
HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
I
m
m
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Redfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
m
■
Ss
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
*ma d e absolutely
stockproof with a
SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illusti*ated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
lB9 Clarence Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
HIK
D
By Using the
AROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
v rnent. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane—Safe—-and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—'fatten weeks
earlier. _ No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAltOl'X !
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
ITrom all Agents or —
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
The GREAT WESTERN SADDLE
75/- BARE
(Mounts 10/- extra.)
A splendidly - made
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse’s back.
Freight Free in N.S.W.
Write for FREE
Saddlery Catalogue.
GK
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18-20 WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W r .
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
€
WINCHESTER
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
3-cell, 350 ft. o r/
Range .... “«/*
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Goods
Sent
C.O.D.
if
desired.
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making Machine and
Combination Tobacco Box. Usual Price, 6/C.
“Bulletin” Readers 3/!)
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.—
worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette or Pipe.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for ~ J 7 j(y Honest Value, 30/-
C I Tobacconist. Est. 38 Years.
J-evy, 713 Q e orge Street, Sydney.
m
THE
HAND!
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35/
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERL
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
J. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne, Victoria.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN fREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTEKTtEAGH STREET. SYDNEY
7eitjjtfiiyHcHtk
m
ami PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Suite 601 K, city Mutual
Building, cur. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LAMB
De-Tailer
(DAROUX PAT.)
A Surgical Instrument for Docking
Lambs. Saves lot of blood by closing
blood vessels and glands. jLessens
Infection from Flies or Germs, Heals
Quickly, Reduces Mortality, and
Freezers say improves carcases.
Price, £3/5/-
Send for Pamphlets., Country Agents Wanted.
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
V|v,
r
i m
W
t-;-,
7 * ’ * '» * r ;. * .- .
. . -V . .
£p - .
f*
\' eumiA*
*** $»
W \ - jjjfc * <•
m..-*- ; '
P* A
2
“00, look, Waldemar—an early primrose.”
PRGE’
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 190 1.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves mav be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
HM| logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
4 Ghcringhap Street, Geelong. Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
BALDNESS
Can Be
CURED!
Tears of specialised '
training and ex-
perience in treating
all types of bald-
ness have made
Edwin Holland one
of the most famous
Hair Specialists in Australia. - Write
to-day with your hair problems.
EDWIN HOLLAND
349 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
G. 13.1.
CUT YOUR OWN HAIR
with the SAFETY HAIR CUTTER,
It is quite simple and easy. Cut it
short or any length. If you can
comb your hair yon can cut it.
'Just the thing for a family. Save,
its cost the first time i* i? xised£
Strongly made of nickelled fieel; last
a life-time. Price 1?6 post free, with
full directions Obtainable only from
!The UNION Company, 299 Elizabeth Streets Melbourne, f
v«
BIG COWBOY HAT
Picture shows have made us familiar with
the graceful Cowboy Hat. Its free and
easy style suits everyone and its light
weight makes it very comfortable for hot'
weather. Makes girls look charming. Its’
closely woven fibre is wonderfully toughi
„__ t _ . and will stand the’ roughest usage; it cam
be knocked about freely without injury Fits any head.
tUmri anH far working in sun
Just the thing for the seaside and for working in the sun,
for sportsmen, anglers, gardeners, etc. Only 1/S, post free.
THE UNION MFC. CO., 299 Elizabeth St„ Melb„ C.t.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
m
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W,
’Phone: LM4794.
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for* natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
STOPyounßupfure
GJI
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
comfort.
*l4 PAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
20/9/’39 (See Page 36)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department, “The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


Become
an
ARTIST
BRODIE MACK’S AMAZING FREE
BOOK OFFER TO YOUNG TALENT
C'OR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-
and-white artist, is offering absolutely FREE a copy of
his new book, How To Be An Artist,” to all readers of
‘The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Quickly!
Let BRODIE MACK
Teach You At Home
'“PHIS Book will amaze you with its possibilities and the
vast field it opens up to you. At last you will he
abie to learn all branches of the black-and-white art under
the supervision of Brodie Mack. This amazing short-cut
method simplifies art. You learn at home. If you have
an inclination for drawing, an inclination that many of us
possess, then why compete with the crowd in ordinary
occupations? Bfodie Mack can develop your ability for this
fascinating accomplishment. Thousands of pounds are paid
every year for drawings, fashion illustrations, advertising,
catalogues, pamphlets, books, comic strips, cartoons, etc.
Many have developed this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, embracing magnificent oppor-
tunities to those people possessed of the enterprise to lift
themselves out of the ruck of mediocrity and the dull, drab
monotony of factory, shop or office routine; in addition to
its lucrative achievements, it will lift you from comparative
obscurity to a position of importance in the public life of
the community.
MAKE MONEY IN
YOUR SPARE TIME
DHODIE MACK has made it
possible by means of this
remarkable course for you to
earn money in your spare
hours. He shows you how to
“cash in” on his experience.
He teaches you how to rapidly
develop your latent ability so
that you are able to produce
striking- illustrations and art
work. The fact of you read-
ing this announcement points
to you having a desire to be
an artist—then send for this
amazing book and let us
prove that we can make you
a skilled artist.
This Book
is Free to
YOU!
Learn to Sketch
This Easy, Rapid Way
BKODIE MACK lias taught
hundreds of men and women
how to draw by easy, natural
stages from the simple outline
to the finished drawing—the
drawings that will bring in good £ 8. d.
Brodie Mack can teach you to draw by
post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they
were not born famous. This is your oppor-
tunity to become a real artist, capable of
making faithful sketches that will surprise
your friends, delight yourself, and take
you out of the small-pay drudgery job.
This is YOUR opportunity—are you going
to pass it by? Then get that coupon into
the mail—this moment, NOW!
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
1
Tear Coupon—Post Now!
assn mm mm *sa mr nh mb mi nsnnHn mm u nuas mu bh jbo mt ssi sm asm w w re &&
THE BRODIE MACK CORRESPONDENCE ART
SCHOOL, DESK 43, LOMBARD CHAMBERS, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, Please send me FREE my copy of your famous
book, How To Be An Artist.” I enclose two pence in
stamps to defray postage.
Name
20/9/’39.
Address
(IjDCIF M4CK
tCKCESPCNMNCE
ART
SCWCCI
How to be an Artist
Exjplaintng In Detail
the WTxole' Brodlfl
Slack Correspondent*
System of Art
■fcawiciui
What This FREE BOOK Tells You
• How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your Spare
Time.
• How to Develop Latent Ability.
• How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature.
O How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the Papers.
• How to Sketch anil Draw.
• Send lor this FREE BOOK TO-DAY!
HOW TO BE AN
ARTIST IS FREE
NEVER before has a book of this nature
been offered free; that is why you
should send for your copy now. This
brand-new book shows you how to draw
—develop your talent —how to cartoon,
the secret of illustrating and how money
can be made even while learning. Fill
in your coupon and get it into the post
now—at once, before you forget!
THE BRODIE MACK
CORRESPONDENCE
ART SCHOOL,
Desk 43
LOMBARD CHAMBERS, PITT ST.,
SHlKlydneys' n.s.w.
HURRY
COUPON
LIMITED
'
YOU CAM GET STRONG#*^
Complete Home Gymsn one Outf it.
NOW ONLY 20/-, OR 2 6 DEPOSIT
TLTERE’S an opportunity for you to develop big muscles and obtain great
A * strength by taking advantage of this astounding bargain! Now only
20/- or 2/6 deposit for this famous £3 value. Complete Home Gymnasium.
Watch your muscles grow! Surprise your friends! Everything GUARAN-
TEED. The big chest expander alone is worth more than you pay for the
entire outfit.
Here’s What You Get
1.
2.
3.
4.
-Complete Set of Wall Apparatus
attachment*
-Two High-tensioned Grip Appa-
ratus builds strong wrists and
forearms.
-Book on Ju-Jitsu.
-Foot Stirrups; for legs, thighs,
stomach.
5. —Complete Muscle Building Course.
6. —Complete Boxing Course.
7. —Rowing Machine Attachment.
8. —Three - strand Progressive
Chest Expander.
Limited
Offer—
HURRY!
Guarantee
\oney back
IF NOT
satisfied./
mmnm
o
m
TV'*.
■do
me
%
tiG ft 8
©T e>o
c WM
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
Let us send you this whole wonderful
Muscle Building- Outfit, Courses, etc., to
try at our risk for only 20/-, or 2/6
deposit. If you’re not satisfied within
10 days, just return the course and your
money will he refunded in full without
question. We will send it C.O.D. if
you like. Just pay the postman a few
extra pence for postage, or pay by
instalments of 2/6 per week until 25/-
is paid. (No C.O.D. to N.Z.)
GYM. SUPPLIES,
Dept. 24, Box 357,mR, 0.P.0., Sydney,
GYM. SUPPLIES, SALES DEPT. 34,
BOX 3573K8, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs—
I enclose 20/-, or 2/6 as first payment, for
your complete Muscle Building Outfit and
Courses, and, in accordance with, your
GUARANTEE, if I’m not satisfied you will
refund my money in full.
NAME
20/9/’3i)
ADDRESS
Are YOU a NERVOUS
m
FREDERICK GRAY,
The Man Who Gives You This
FREE BOOK.
AMONGST THE CONTENTS OF
THIS AMAZING BOOK ARE:—
* HOW TO OVERCOME SHYNESS.
* HOW TO CURE SEEF-CONSCIOUS-
NESS.
* HOW TO KITE FEAR.
* HOW TO SPEAK WITHOUT
Timidity.
* HOW TO MASTER AWKWARD
SITUATIONS.
* H O W TO EXERT YOUR
AUTHORITY.
* HOW TO GET DETERMINED NEW
COURAGE.
* HOW TO STRENGTHEN THE WIFE.
* HOW TO CURE A HAD MEMORY.
* HOW TO INFLUENCE OTHERS.
* HOW TO BANISH BLUSHING AND
NERVOUSNESS.
FREDERICK GRAY, Dept. 84,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SUBJECT?
A SENSATIONAL FREE BOOK
devoted entirely to all forms of Nervous
Disorders is offered to readers of “The
Bulletin.”
TV/ IT HOLT the rise of drugs, apparatus,
tonics, faith cures, or any other un-
natural stimulant, you can develop the
Nerve Force of a tiger—easily and simply
in your own home. Whether you are just
nervous at; times, whether you blush or
stammer or can't sleep, whether .you are
self-conscious or shy, you should read this
remarkable book, because it will explain
to you the reason for your weakness 1 This
book truly explains and illustrates how
YOU can get rid of your nervousness per-
manently, You will feel the benefit in the
first few days. Gradually your nerve
troubles will be overcome, your will-power
strengthened, and yon will have complete
command of your thoughts and actions.
HURRY FOR
YOUR FREE
COPY !
JUST 500 copies of this sensational book
will be issued FREE to readers of this
paper in the next four weeks. You are
advised to get your application in the post
to-day without fail, and by return post
yon will receive a hook that will open your
eyes. But please post to-day 1
(END NO MONEY
FREDERICK GRAY,
DEPT. 84,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me ABSOLUTELY FREE
a copy of your new book. “How to Over-
come Nervousness,” in plain wrapper. En-
closed is stamp for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
20/!)/';D
