

fIOJS
• j- »■
S-S
&
pi
i
s.
Jr -
&
2S
513
{Ufll w
I
1!
vk
i iff'
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Kings Head at Shrewsbury is a
fine monument to the prosperity and con-
tentment of the middle classes during the
reigns of the Tudor monarchs. Its sign is
a portrait of Henry VII.
The trade mark of the House of Hol-
brook is an encircled St. George and the
Dragon. This is registered throughout
the Empire as a guarantee of the quality
of my products.”
r^A
rb
A
/ '
oj£r w orc’ester 6 *^
/i i« «l '-I ***!
'W :h ' iKSh.ui si-Sl^
IN THE UNITEP/'N
<i luvtast /txmxrs i **" tw
HOLBROOKS
n
tn
m
po
C/)
K
i— i
SAUCE
The Bulletin
Autumn Racing — Page 30
Vol. 60.—N0. 3083.
Wednesday, March 15, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
MJ
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, expir-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin
My Name
Uy Address ...
S.B. 239
The Red Page
POEMS BY DOUGLAS STEWART.
Douglas Stewart’s first book, Green Lions, and
his second, The White Cry (Dent), contain examples
of most of the mutations of the poetic image, from its
simple cradle to its symbolic grave. Firstly, the simple
image, the single picture:
The four girls frolic in the water
And their flesh grows warm with the subtle caress of
the current.
Then the metaphoric image, where he calls his heart:
The scarlet dancer caged in bone
Rocking my body like a bell.
Then the use of the image indirectly, to suggest one
sensation by recalling another:
Her name was a wet pebble on my lips.
Then a series of metaphoric images to form a progres-
sion or argumentation:
Suppose the shifting white fire of her feet
Branded the pale drowned stones with deathless grooves
As birds’ feet sand, as hares print frosted grass,
As deer in flight cut snowfields with the fleet
Delicate sharp diamonds of their hooves....
Then the use of the image as a symbol:
Though through the woods and night’s dark blue, the
mountain
Shines like the peace that I have fought to know,
Lighting the blue tranquillity of thought
Like a white candle with its flame of snow,
This beast whose bones are rock, whose cold fur snow,
Whose devil’s spawn of shadows, fanged with rain,
Darken the green grass and the murmured gold
And chill its lifeblood as they prowl the plain,
Has battled in the nightmare lists of lust
Beyond this point words won’t bear the weight,
and symbolism fades into a convention and sounding
of vowels:
The signature of dainty feet
Where the cold mountain water flows
Says here before the dawn cried out
Its trembling agony of rose
Or any lark’s voice broke from dark
And glittered o’er the brightening land,
The stream knew wings, knew birds whose grace
Was like a white dance on the sand.
One of Ezra Pound’s innumerable (and final) defi-
nitions of poetry is The Art of Charging Words ; and
in these instances from the work of a young master in
this electrical business we see that, with each gain of
significance from an increase in the power supplied,
there is a loss of precise form, of clear outlines and
of particular feeling. Perhaps the Archangel Gabriel
could say at which point in the progression one could
be sure of getting the most clear outline consonant with
the utmost significance; it is not a problem for mortal
electricians ; but it seems to me that in most of the
poems in his new book Stewart comes as near to a
solution as anyone I have read.
In this book Stewart is mostly developing a sym-
bolic poetry, and there is hardly a poem which is not
remarkable for some strange and original equivalent
of sensation. In “Green Pond,” for instance, he
develops a sensation familiar to anyone who has heard
“The Engulfed Cathedral,” by Debussy ; he is in a
village in an inland valley near his home in Maori-
land in the evening:
Green weeds upon the walls, pale monsters reel
Through lilies’ stems in silence thick and green,
And life to the croaking of a water-wheel
Moves in a time subhuman, submarine.
Comrade who with me, hand in webbed green hand,
Explore this silken gloom, this lush green gloaming
Where late light’s foam of gold makes all a pond
And only water-monsters should be roaming,
How many tides, in deep black waves of night
Shot with the silver fishes of the stars,
How many days’ long rollers of blue light
Have drowned this little town, these inland shores!
Here where the twilight dank in birds’ sweet throats
Strangles the music till the songs are lost,
The yellow hare submerged in lemon oats
Has heard a colder song, the tongues of frost
Hissing with silver like a sea of snakes....
The seasons all suffer a sea-change:
The brown surf of summer, brown as ale,
And foamed with silver thrushes here has swept
Until with a beautiful simile for spring he gets his
township completely under water:
Spring is the strangeness on us. Ah the tide
Is green and thick and water everywhere,
And smell of water not to be denied
Is brown as lilies’ roots amidst your hair.
The leaves of water-lilies roof the town,
And all the drenched green fields where spring has rolled
Are one still pond whence now the setting sun
Calls home his tide in foam of frozen gold
Then he completes the picture with a sharp contrast:
And only the white mountain rearing out,
Huge cone of snow upon the yellow west,
Troubles the twilight with a breath of doubt
Or soars at all above the land’s green rest.
At this point he might have stopped work and
gone for a swim with a New Zealand mermaid ; but
instead he suddenly turns the mountain into a symbol
of youth and rebellion and independent thought, and
the town in the pond becomes the symbol for the
clogged, accepting life of the crowd, which is his
own destiny:
How should we find the peasants aught but slow
As ploughland, cowland, frogponds drugged with cresses,
When even you a water-creature grow
With weeds in the brown eddy of your tresses,
When even I who on the hills above
Stood with the bitter mountain looking down
’ Brooding of his lost legendary love,
And held, and did not care, and held the town
A drop of still green water in my hand,
When I who climbed the bitterest heights to know
The town was in the hollow of my hand,
And could not care because my thighs were snow,
Am grown contented now and wish no change,
Finding your breasts of soft green moss, the slimed
Beards of the peasantry are now more strange
Than any peak of clanging ice I climbed.
How gleaming on the lilies, how grotesque
The light now swirls and churns in golden foam;
How surely too the surly bulls of .dusk
Come lumbering down and drink that golden scum,
And stand there, huger, blacker, statuesque,
While watched from the green margin of our home
The far-off mountain crumbles to a husk,
And plunging down we seek our dark-green gloom.
What frog or fish or monster am I grown
That while the day’s last rope last hope recedes
I swim in strangeness and I do not drown!
My mind is but a waving of green weeds.
I confess that I had no idea what a magnificent
poem this is until I began analysing it; the certainty
and decision of its phrasing, the organic development,
of the theme, the surprise of the sudden transition
into symbols ; to have quoted parts of it would be
to have given a very imperfect impression of the force
of the whole poem, and, in the same way, parts of
“The Godwits” would give no impression of its struc-
tural excellence ; it is constructed on a machinery of
flight with a significance familiar to anyone who has
studied the Freud dream-book.
Among the shorter poems is the epitaph “To
Be Cut in Stone,” which appeared some time ago in
The Bulletin:
This lady carried a moon within her breast,
And the white dreaming holiness of waters
Sighed in towards her out of all men’s hearts....
And after this pure and tranquil language the image
of the heart as a scarlet dancer in “The Scarlet
Dancers” has for me the effect of a kind of medieval
grotesquerie:—
The scarlet dancer caged in bone
Rocking my body like a bell
Calls back the brown dusk of the wood
When first within the double spell
He rhymed his red mate through the shade
I can account for my slowness in perceiving the
excellence of “Green Pond” only by the limited
range of reference in Stewart’s poems; he works with
a dictionary of country words only, the mountain, the
valley, the stream, the trees, the birds, the seasons;
but within this range he achieves effects I have never
seen before, and with a subtlety and profundity com-
parable to the most subtle and profound of contem-
porary writing.
RONALD McCUAIG.
"Some Australians Take Stock."
In Some Australians Take Stock (Longmans
Green ; Angus and Robertson), edited by J. C. G.
Kevin, nine Australians domiciled in Britain explain
various aspects of Australian life mainly for the benefit
of overseas readers. The collection is of academic
origin but full of vigor, and diverse both in subject-
matter and opinion.
The themes range from foreign policy to the Aus-
tralian accent, and from the aborigines to Eastern
trade. Only one generality covers the lot, which is
that the authors’ statements are less likely to be swal-
lowed whole in Australia than abroad.
Dr. W. E. H. Stanner writes of the aborigines. He
notes that they had an estimated population of 300,000
at the coming of the white race and have 50,000
to-day, the sharpest decline occurring between 1830
and 1890, the progressive pioneering period of which
we are most proud. Perhaps he is right when he says
that they are leaving no more trace on Australian
life than a passing shadow, but when he says that
they have no memorial in Australian art and letters
he is a little too sweeping. He believes that the rem-
nant could be saved but—out of his sympathy for
them —raises the question, what then? If the race
lives it must be provided with a future.
L. R. Mclntyre uses an eraser industriously on
our famous birthstain. Early conditions were so bad
that the convicts, partly owing to the scarcity of women
and partly to the misery that inhibits fertility, repro-
duced slowly. Their numbers were swamped by free
immigration, and it can truly be said that convict
blood is a negligible element in the community. He
brings forward some sharp reminders of Britain’s in-
difference to the welfare of the country in its early
days and touches not without bitterness on the omis-
sion of convicts —as well as Anzacs —from the “March
to Nationhood” procession during the 150th anniver-
sary celebrations.
The legend of our unlimited natural resources is
assiduously deflated by I. Clunies Ross. He says that
all the fertile country in Australia is now occupied.
The only means of expansion is in improvement of
pastoral and agricultural technique. In terms of popu-
lation Australia is urban and industrial, half her
population being concentrated in two big cities.
Climate is scouted by T. S. Dorsch as the under-
lying cause of a distinctive accent. In our case it
arises from the fusion of a number of English dialects,
and is accentuated by a national habit of indolence in
small matters.
J. V. Connolly is troubled by our export of a
commodity we need at home —brains. He says the
drift is occasioned by the greater rewards and better
social standing attainable in the professions and arts
overseas. In suggesting that a vicious circle is set up,
that the local impoverishment caused by this export
of brains is what makes a remedy difficult to find, he
is surely sinking to unwarrantable depths of gloom.
Allan G. B. Fisher thinks the falling-off of British
migration to Australia is due to Britain’s declining
birthrate and the saturation of Australia’s market for
primary produce. We are, he says, too race-conscious.
We should welcome non-British Europeans. He points
to the “many illustrations of the vitalising effects of
the entry of foreign refugees.”
R. W. G. Mackay, writing on politics, begins with
the remark, “If we accept the evolution of a demo-
cratic system of government as progress in a political
sense, then Australia is about a quarter of a century
ahead of British political development.” He then
proceeds to follow the history of party government
in the Federal sphere and to evaluate the parties.
Labor, though rarely in office and hampered by bad
organisation and frequent splits between Federal and
State interests, is the most significant party, and sets
the pace. No party can succeed in Australia that is
not reformist. The public usually prefers to get its
reforms from the Right rather than the Left. The
are the same reforms, anyway. The parties differ m
degree only on most issues. Basically, however, the
conservative parties wish substantially to maintain the
status quo, while Labor wishes ultimately to alter the
basis of society.
Mackay then traces the coalitions and genera
interlacing 'history of the three parties. His finai
conclusion is that we can make no further matenai
progress until the bonds of the Federal Constitution
are burst and the machinery of government thorough!}
overhauled.
Frederic Benham handles foreign trade. Begin-
ning with the illustration of an embargo on Japanese
cotton and rayon and Japan’s retaliation in buying
her wool in South Africa, he considers Empire prefer-
ence, and whether it serves Australia’s interests. Hh
answer is no. He believes the British market is con-
tracting as a consequence of falling birthrate ana
greater home production; that England wishes to
retract from the Ottawa agreement, and will do so.
The Eastern market up till the outbreak of war be-
tween Japan and China was expanding, and will
expand again.
If Imperial preference were abandoned, he sub-
mits, Australia would still retain Britain as a substan-
tial customer and the Australian consumer would be
freed from the burden of bounties which enable our
primary producers to sell in the British market. Aus-
tralia’s standard of living, he thinks, would rise if
she could buy Eastern goods freely and so stimulate
her trade with the Asiatic countries. He sums up:-
The geographical position of Australia and he:
specialisation in goods of which Eastern countries re
likely to buy more as their incomes increase mean
she has more to gain than most countries by the gre
of prosperity in the East. She could promote that pr:
perity, raise her own standard of living and expand ter
exports by following exactly the opposite trade policy
to that which she adopted in May, 1936.
Foreign policy is the subject taken by editor
J. C. G. Kevin. In his opinion Australia never had
a foreign policy, and has none now. Our White Aus-
tralia policy and our first occupation of portion of
New Guinea caused Britain some embarrassment in
her Eastern relationships, but these were only pro-
ducts of our internal affairs. Since 1917 Australia
has had power to deal directly with foreign countries,
and, with other autonomous Dominions, theoretically
equal status with the mother country in international
affairs. Lloyd George informed the Commons:
The advantage to us is that joint control means
joint responsibility, and when the burden of Empire has
become so vast it is well that we should have the
shoulders of these young giants to help us along. It
introduces a broader and calmer view into foreign
policy. It restrains rash Ministers and will stimulate
timorous ones. It widens the prospects.
Yet Kevin points out that the first intimation the
Dominions had of the Chanak affair in 1922 was an
invitation to send a contingent to Turkey if necessary
Australia agreed. Canada protested. In the settle-
ment at Lausanne the Dominions were not consulted :
nor when Britain recognised the U.S.S.R. At the
Imperial Conference of 1926 the international status
of the Dominions was again affirmed. Australia took
no practical interest. The Government continued to
reflect British opinion, and followed England in the
Italo-Ethiopian crisis of 1935. Australia’s only deep
interest abroad is markets. In foreign affairs Parlia-
ment is apathetic and public opinion ill-informed and
lethargic. It is high time, Kevin thinks, that we woke
up and exercised the powers we possess.
The "Elmer Gantry" Touch.
Erskine Caldwell’s Journeyman (Seeker and War-
burg) is Elmer Gantry writ small and without indig-
nation. It is brief and biting, a fragment of life as
Caldwell has seen it among the poor whites of Georgia.
It is set in the rural hamlet of Rocky Comfort, and
has to do with the five-day visit of the itinerant
(<Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — and in every act. 1823 —"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW" —1939
"THE SENIOR STORE”
,«S
116“ ANNIVERSARY (EIEBRATION
TREE” BRAND
SUPER BROGUES
USUAL PRICE 37'6
Now Selling
Maximum quality and re-
markable economy are com-
bined with well groomed
smartness in these "Tree" Brand Super
Brogues. Made in genuine imported French
Calf; and their superior construction shows
the result of the most careful modern shoe-
making. Special features include extra stout
wide welted soles and stitched heels. Full
and half sizes. Regular Price 37/6
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE 32/6
326
mmzSm
mm
m
WM
mm
■
mmm
• > S • : : :: : : : .
■s
m
ill
m
mm
§mmm
m i
m
‘ •C
: "*T
m
''Her.
M£i/"
>* -*t
H"
,w
:->n
Ik
v;
"Vrk
*#*
rrTi
376
USUALLY 42 y -
Truly military in style and fit. Our fine
quality Riding Boots . . . are just as
comfortable and good-looking as you
would expect. Elastic sides. Made of
imported Zug Leathers. Extra stout
welted soles. Full and half sizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 427-
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE, pr. 37/6
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney
Postal Address: Box 2712 C. G.P.O. 'Phone M 2401, Day and Night.
A gift of
BRITISH OAK TREES
during 116th Anniver -
sarg Celebration Sale .
Be sure and get yours.
Ask for further particulars .
Here is a stylish Shoe for you. Made on
the Ace last of genuine imported French
Calf. Wide welts, stitched heels, medium
or extra stout soles. Full and half sizes.
Regular Price, 37/6. SALE PRICE, 32/6
A
tj.yi*
'■' ■
f
». «
m
mi
“TREE” BRAND
SUPER WHOLE GOLOSH
USUAL PRICE 37 x 6 NOW AT
/
22'6 “TREE” BRAND SHOES
Shoes in Tan Calf, Brown Calf, Black Calf and
Glace Kid. Boots are in Black Box Calf only.
Ten styles. Full and half sizes. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 22/6
ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICE 21/-
21'-
• Men’s Footwear
—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all
in v/.0.1V. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
'
railway stations


The Editor
regrets that he is u
I’m too miserable to write a comedy, and too happy
to write a tragedy—and who ever heard of romance
on a pig farm ?
by
RITA HANCOCK
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
THIS is the day I tried to
write a comedy. My work
was far too gloomy, the
editors said; the people
wanted to forget their worries
in reading bright stories that
could uplift them for an hour
or two. Maybe they were right,
though I always find that being
uplifted for an hour or two only makes the flop back
all the harder.
Of course I have been told, too, that I shall never
make a success of writing unless I write about life as
I know it. It’s no use writing about romance on a
liner when you haven’t been off a pig farm in all your
life, and in the same breath I have been told that I
must write bright and happy stories —and who ever
heard of a woman being bright and happy on a pig
farm?
Well, I tried to-day to write a comedy. I wrote
a title neatly on the top of the page and then waited
for inspiration. I drew two horses’ heads and a
woman’s face with one eye knocked out, and sketched
a rickety paling fence all round the borders, before
I thought of a plot. It seemed a fair enough plot. It
was about a poor little girl who lived on a pig farm
and loved the man on the farm down the road. Un-
fortunately the man in a misguided moment had mar-
ried a woman, so the poor little girl loved in vain and
finally faded away and died of liver-fluke. But I
couldn’t see how that could be made into a comedy
either, and, besides, it was too much like the real
man who does live down the road —except that this
little girl isn’t going to fade away and die.
You know it’s a shame about the man down the-
road. He married a pale reed of a girl with hair that
fluffed out, and big blue eyes, and a mouth that
looked as if it could never stop from laughing.
She was lovely, though she wasn’t beautiful, but
there was nothing else to her —I knew that from the
start. When there were no men about she would sud-
denly stop laughing, and I could see that her mouth
wasn’t really pretty. It was the same with her eyes,
too —it was their color and their dark, silky lashes
and nothing else ; underneath they were blank.
She stayed just a year on the farm. She was a
poor hand at housework, and I used to go over and
put the house in order every week for her. I had
plenty of my own to do, but I couldn’t stand seeing
Rod worried, so, of course, I got to know a lot about
her and Rod’s life with her.
Then she cleared out. Bill, my brother, said she
didn’t have enough of the stuff you string racquets
with to be a farmer’s wife, and Rod was well rid of
her —but it wasn’t as easy as that for Rod. He took
it hard. There was more to it than just losing the
woman —there was his home and everything he’d built
his future on. I knew how he felt.
\\/ELL, I hadn’t thought of another plot when Bill
** came in and put an end to writing for a bit. He
was in a towering rage about the pigs, and wanted
dinner early —and I hadn’t even put the vegetables on
to boil. I put him off with morning-tea and half the
sponge sandwich that I had cooked for the school picnic
raffle, and 1 did my best to hide a guilty conscience.
It seems one of the sows with thirteen piglets had
somehow opened the gate of her sty and gone down to
the watermelon patch.
She had a very poor idea
of what constituted a ripe
melon at first glance, so she
had to learn by experience.
She began by testing the small
ones first and working up-
ward, taking a bite out of
each as she came to it. It
was very funny, I suppose,
but Bill seemed annoyed
about it, and I had to be
extra sympathetic because I
remember going into that sty this morning looking
for a hen’s nest, and I don’t remember going out the
gate. In fact, I am quite certain that, though I left
the gate unlatched for my return, I jumped over the
fence instead. However, it would never do to tell
Bill a thing like that.
After that I couldn’t even think of a plot for any
sort of a story. When I got back to the pad and pencil
I couldn’t even write a tragedy. Life has always
seemed like brown bread to me —plain and stodgy and
unromantic, though perhaps it’s been good for me.
Even my love for Rod hasn’t been romantic.
Loving a man and watching him marry another and
working to make their life a success and seeing it be
a failure isn’t romance ; it’s just a dull kind of ache
most of the time. There are those who might say it
was a comedy if they knew, but they aren’t going to
know. Not even Rod knows. Perhaps he d laugh, too,
if he hadn’t forgotten how.
I believe he thinks of me as a kind of female
brother of Bill. I’m an extra man about the place
to be called on at any time—to help with the hay
when the storm’s coming up, or give a hand with the
milking when Rod’s hired man wants a day off,
and being no size and pretty agile I’m good in the
sty sorting out the pigs and catching the little ones
when it’s weaning time, and putting them into their
new pens. I’ve never known Bill to pick a dry day
for that either. I feel like rolling in a drain some-
where when it’s over and never getting out again. I
hate pigs. I’ve just thought of that —I hate them.
Thank heaven Rod doesn’t keep pigs. He has
cows, and his bails are concrete and hosed until
they’re shining. We have a working arrangement
whereby we take the skim milk from him and he has
the hay from one of our paddocks —and it works welt
except when the pigs get out and get into his corn. Rod
puts the dogs on them then, and Bill doesn’t speak
to him for a week or so, and I have to hitch the horses
to the slide and go for the skim milk. But they make
up again the next time Bill wants to borrow some-
thing or Rod wants a hand with the sorghum seed.
Yes, I’m glad Rod won’t have pigs on his place
—I couldn’t feel the same about him if he had them.
No wonder he doesn’t feel anything for me. Fancy a
man getting romantic about a girl in her brother s
pants—four sizes too big and tied round the middle
with plough rein—with a lapful of mud and new-born
pigs!
That’s how he saw me the other day. One of the
sows must go and give her family their first sight of
the world out in the corner of the uncovered pen—
and it coming up a thunderstorm. They didn’t see
the world for very long. I had to claw down in the
slush and drag them out and wash the mud out of
their eyes and noses and wrap them in warm bags
before the fire.
And, of course, it had to be just when I was sit-
ting on my heels in the pen collecting an armful of
squirming mud that had pigs in it that Rod had to
come along. Of course he got down too and helped
me, but it made me want to cut the throat out of that
sow.
Still something rather strange did happen then—
and I’m grateful to the sow for it if she’s responsible.
While we were kneeling there together in the mud I
think Rod forgot who I was and thought I was Bill,
for he put his hand on my shoulder all of a sudden
and left a handful of mud on the only white spot on
my blouse, and he said: “I suppose you know that
Lola’s dead.”
Lola was his wife, and I didn’t know she was
dead, and I didn’t know what to say. I thought of
her laughing lips and felt miserable when perhaps I
should have been glad. She didn’t amount to much
as a woman, but she was something as a decoration,
and somehow, though she was his wife, I had never
been jealous of her. Perhaps she wasn’t big enough
to be jealous of. I think that was it. These last few
years she was nothing in his life except a barrier
keeping him from some other woman. Now he was
free, perhaps to take another woman—some woman
who would be big enough to possess him so completely
that I would no longer have even the right to think of
him. So I didn’t say anything—only wiped a iittle
pig’s eyes ; and Bill came, and I was glad that I didn’t
have to say anything.
But I don’t know what to think about it now. I
think I’m really glad that Rod is free. Perhaps he’ll
be careful about picking another wife after the experi-
ence he’s had. It’s a shame that nice house should
be going to waste, and the garden he took such pride
in is a wilderness. But that is not what really matters
at this moment—it’s how I’m going to write this story.
You see I’m too miserable to write a comedy, and too
happy to write a tragedy. And what’s the good any-
way. If I did write it I’d only have it coming home
to roost in a month or two with “The editor re-
grets ” pinned to its tail.
If it wasn’t for Rod I wouldn’t bother at all—
I’d go on being a pig-woman. But I did want to show
Rod that I am something different—and I want to


buy some tailored jodhpurs and a bright blouse or
two. But pigs aren’t very paying things, and Bill
always seems to want to buy twenty pigs for every
ten he sells, so there isn’t much left for me.
I like pretty frocks like any other girl, but let me
get into something dainty in the evening and straight-
way Bill wants a hand to load mangel-wurzels on to
the slide, or there’s a pig with footrot to catch and
care for, so it s not a bit of use me being dressed up.
In any case that’s never the time Rod picks to come
round. He likes to turn up when I’m swilling out the
troughs, or fighting a broody hen and swearing, or up
to my elbows in the wash tub.
Well, I’ve tried. And there is Bill in for his
dinner and I haven’t got the table set. All I’ve got is
a title, which I think is good—and four horses’ heads,
a devil with horns and two tails (the woman with the
eye knocked out was easily converted into the devil)
and a reinforced paling fence around the border.
jP bllS is the end of the day I tried to write a comedy.
At dinner we always have dinner at midday
—I braced myself to tell Bill that Lola was dead. Bill
opened his mouth wide and put in a spoonful of pud-
ding—and left me disappointed.
Didn t you know that?” he said. “I’ve known it
for months thought you’d have heard it.”
I was glad that no one had suspected me to be
sufficiently interested to have told me —and at the same
time I was angry for the same reason. And why Rod
had left the telling for so long left me puzzled. No-
body thought enough of me to bother telling me any-
thing.
There was so much to do all the afternoon I
couldn’t get back to the story. I made another cake
for the picnic, and it wasn’t quite a success ; then I
put in an hour or so making up my mind what frock
I would wear to the picnic, and then gave that up in
despair. It had been raining heavily all day, and the
way things were shaping there wouldn’t be any picnic
and Rod wouldn’t be there if there was —so what
was the use?
It was just about sundown —if there had been any
sun showing to go down—when Bill came running into
the kitchen, water streaming off his oilskins, and he
shook himself like a dog and sent a shower of mud
and water over the frock I’d been pressing. He always
runs to me when there is something wrong, so I wasn’t
surprised to hear that the river was rising and some
of the low flats of Rod’s were under water. What did
surprise me was that Rod had not. come home from
town, and the hired man had cleared out the day
before, and all the cows were waiting to be milked.
I supposed that Rod’s car had been held up by
a flooded creek, and he would have to walk if he
could get across at all. So I knew there were cows
for me to milk.
I put on a coat and some kneeboots, shoved an
extra piece of wood on the fire, then I went after Bill.
It was coming down like the middle of a thunder-
storm, as it had been all day, and I had a job to keep
my feet in the stream that tore down the little hollow
between our place and Rod’s.
When I got to the yards I found the cows all
clustered in the shelter shed shivering and jostling
one another, and Bill standing on the second rail of
the yard and swearing. I took a stand beside him and
saw what it was about and felt like saying a bit on my
own account. All the poddies were bunched out on
the flat on a little piece of higher ground and the
water was all around them.
They were all that spring’s calving, and most of
them were so young that they had only just been
trusted out of the pens. There was nothing for it but
to leave the cows and get those calves in before the
water rose and washed them all off. So at it we went.
DEYOND the flat I could see the river rolling down
*in big brown, creamy-capped waves, and the
backwash of it was all over the flats now except that
little island in the middle. The backwash was rising,
too, quietly lapping up a little higher with every wave,
pushing its gathering of sticks and wreckage up and up.
Bill started across first, and I saw the water go
to his knees. I picked another place, and hoped that
it was shallower, but it wasn’t. It welled up over my
boot-tops and filled them and left me gasping with a
silly kind of fright for a minute. Then I blundered
on. With the weight of the water in my boots I could
just stagger on to the island. I kicked them off there,
and I’m afraid I’ve lost them.
We had a try to shoo the poddies into the water,
but all the belting and booing and all Bill’s persuasive
conversation wouldn’t move them an inch. That island
was their home, and no Englishman was ever more
patriotic. There was nothing for it but to carry them
across, and Bill seemed to find it easy to swing one
on to his shoulder, but it wasn’t so easy for me.
I manhandled one into the water and tried to get
him to understand that it was for his own good. Have
you ever tried struggling with eighty pounds or so of
live beef waist-deep in water? I got one hand on his
tail and the other on his bottom jaw, and we hadn’t
quite decided who was master until we were half-way
across. Then he seemed to get the idea of what I
meant, and he set out for shore just as I got my foot
caught in something under water. I couldn’t get my
arm out of his mouth quick enough, and things were
pretty funny for a while—but Bill was the only one
who really enjoyed it, and I’ve still got muddy water
in my ears.
After that Bill took all the little ones and we
joined forces with the big ones, and, except that it was
getting dark, things got easier towards the end. When
the last ones saw their mates going up towards the
feeding pens they began to get a dawning idea of what
was afoot and they crossed with the urging of Bill s
boot. Still it was almost quite dark and the island
was covered before the job was done.
Bill waded across after the last poddy, and left
me standing alone on the highest part of the island
with the water tickling my ankles. I know it’s a com-
pliment to my strength and what not to be treated
like that, but, after all, I am a woman, and just some-
times I like to be treated like one.
I suppose I could have waded across after Bill,
but I knew the water was breast-high on me, and it
„, QO Ho r \r e>ii o n a t i t
p at r B T’ “? a V
couldn t doll. He had faded away towards the yards,
and I couldn t loose my tongue to call to him.
I think I was more of a coward then than any silly
poddy ever was, but I couldn’t for the life of me lift
a foot, and each moment the water was lapping a little
higher and the roar of the river seemed so close. The
only thing warm about me was the tears that got
mixed with the rain on my cheeks,
Then I saw the lantern swinging down from the
yards. It was coming so fast that I knew Rod was
carr y in g it i it wouldn’t be Bill who .would run for me
bke that. I loosened my tongue and called to him
f ome s i lly r °?j !' m ?°‘ “hat it was. I
“ “ S PnVa ‘ e
waded across with the lantern held above his
head> and he didn .,
seem to mind about me being such
a weak little idiot. He sat me up on his shoulders and
carried me across, and he wouldn’t put me down until
he had carried me right into my own kitchen and set
me down before the fire.
Then he told me some things, but that’s private,
too, between him and me. But there’s just one thing
be said that s funny in a way. He said he would never
have known how much he loved me if it hadn’t been
£° r tha t day he saw me with those litle pigs in the mud!
He f 1 he had a !" ays thoUsh ' 1 “ re ” ote - so
much more a boy than a woman—until that day. But
when he saw ™ thos <= he knew I
was everything a woman ought to be.
So y OU see there is romance in pigs after all. And
now I won’t have to bother about that story—l’m just
going to try living one instead.
RAZZO
—by Con Drew
IT was durin’ a lull in the boxin’ business that I
got Razzo wished on to me. I’d gone for a trip
to Melbourne hopin’ to go into smoke for a while.
I’m hardly there a week when I bumps into Joe
Slater one day in Collins-street. Joe had been handlin’
athletes all his life, and his long suit was trainin’
wrestlers.
“What would you say,” says Joe, “if I told you I
had a grappler who could flop any matman in Mel-
bourne?”
“I’d say get rid of him before he costs you
money,” I come back.
“This bloke’s gointer bring the money in,” says
Joe.
“I hope he does,” says I. “Good luck to you,”
and I goes to push off.
“Hold on a second,” says Joe. “You’re in this.
You’d better come up to the gym. and look him over.”
“Not me,” says I. “I’m in nothin’ that has any-
thin’ to do with grapplers.”
“You can’t mean that,” says Joe.
“I do,” says I. “I’m done with wrestlers.”
“But you was all for ’em wunst.”
“And now I’m all for havin’ a holiday,” and I
goes to push off agen.
“Don’t be in such a tearin’ hurry,” says Joe,
grabbin’ me elbow. “The day’s young yet. Now
listen to me,” And then he puts over a ten minutes’
oration anent the merits of his grappler.
He put up such a good case that I let him drag
me along to his gym., which is over a dago’s fruitshop.
When we got to the door of the gym. I seen a huge
hippopotamus of a bloke wrestlin’ with a Turk in a
padded ring. All of a sudden the big bloke grabbed
the Turk round the waist and heaved him clean out
of the ring. We only ducked just in time. The Turk
flew over our heads and parked hisself on his back
on top of some empty fruit-cases. If he’d travelled
another two feet he’d have rolled downstairs into the
dago’s shop.
“That’s my bloke,” says Joe, pointin’ to the gorilla
in the ring. “He calls hisself Razzo. A terrible
weakling, ain’t he?”
“He’s pretty strong,” I admits. “And he looks as
if he can wrestle. Is he game?”
“He’s chock-full of grit.”
“All right,” says I. “I’m prepared to listen to
business. Spill the scheme.”
“The scheme is,” says Joe, “for you to find the
mazuma to get Razzo wrestlin’ partners and keep him
in tucker until we get him a match. The dice ain’t
been rollin’ my way for some time and my roll would
rattle inside a napkin ring.”
“How will we cut?” I asks.
“Sixty-forty,” Joe says. “You to take the sixty.”
“All right,” I says. “I know I’m a fool for
cornin’ at it, but I’ll take the risk. Get him a match
with someone in a preliminary for a start and I’ll
make good the trainin’ expenses.”
\WELL, we put Razzo into trainin’ right away, and
* I must hand it to him that, in the small ring at
Joe’s gym., he showed us some pretty fair gallops.
There was no doubt that he was a slap-up grappler,
but he was a wee bit shy on brains. That’s why I
didn’t feel none too elated when Joe announced that
he’d matched him with The Italian Lizard.
The Lizard was a slippery gent, who knew how
to use his head. Still there was no one else in the
offing, and I had to be content.
The bout was to come off at Lou Sampson’s hall
in ten days’ time, so we put Razzo into serious trainin’.
I engaged two pretty slick grapplers to brighten him
up. They kept him mighty busy, but the ring was too
small for much fireworks. Razzo usually downed
them after a couple of minutes’ play. I don’t know
whether they did him much good or not, but he was
lookin’ mighty well when we bunged him into his
corner on the night of the affray.
There was a fair crowd to see the preliminary,
mostly followers of The Lizard, for when he breezed
into the ring they gave him a great reception. He was
a good stone lighter than our baboon, but he was
built for speed.
The go was to be one round of ten minutes, as
was usual in preliminary bouts in them days. While
the announcer was explainin’ the conditions to the
crowd, Joe says to Razzo: “This is only a preliminary
go, but there’s a lot hangin’ to it. If we win this bout
we’ll have dumb up a rung of the grapplin’ ladder, and
soon we’ll be in among the big money. This bird is
pretty snappy, and he’ll take a bit of catchin’, but
when you do grab hold of him don’t let go. Do you
get me?”
“I unnerstan’,” says Razzo.
After a bit the referee floated in. There was a
bit of a wait while he instructed the wrestlers. Then
he gave the signal to get busy.
'T' HE Lizard got busy all right. Razzo had hardly
* got set when The Lizard dashed in and, grabbin’
him by the legs, dumped him on the canvas. The
Lizard was on top of him in the tick of the clock and
clamped on a full nelson. It had about as much effect
on Razzo as a thimble of rum would have on a
stevedore. He threw The Lizard off with a shake of
his head and they scrambled to their feet.
• They fooled around for a bit; then The Lizard
made another dive for our bloke’s legs. Razzo was
ready this time. Grabbin’ him round the body he
threw him clean over his head. The Lizard lobbed
on his shoulders away across the ring, but he must
have been made of india-rubber. He bounced to his
feet like a tennis ball, and was into the fray again.
You could see that Razzo was much the stronger
of the two, but The Lizard was the quicker worker.
Twice he threw our bloke with a flyin’ tackle and
once he dumped him heavy with a back slam. Razzo
was busy, too, let me tell you ; he fought back like a
sore bulldog.
It was a lively bout all right, and the crowd was
on their feet most of the time. The pair had been
wrestlin’ for about eight minutes when Razzo grabbed
hold of The Lizard and dumped him hard. It jarred
The Lizard, and he got up a wee bit slow. Before
he had time to get set Razzo dumped him agen. This
time The Lizard fell in his own corner. He fell so
close to the ropes that it looked as if he was goin’ to
roll under them. Razzo was on top of him in a flash
and, exertin’ all his strength, started to roll him over
on his back.
“That’s the end of the section,” yells Joe. “He’s
got him dead to rights.”
And by all the rules of wrestlin’ it did look as
if The Lizard was done. Gradually The Lizard’s
shoulders got nearer to the mat and the ref. bent
down and glimpsed underneath them ready to give
Razzo the fall. Then suddenly The Lizard’s trainer
flashed his hand through the ropes and slapped Razzo
on the back.
It was done so quick that it’s doubtful if half a
dozen people seen it. Razzo thought the referee had
given him the fall, and he started to get up. Bing! In
a flash The Lizard wriggled from underneath him. In
another split second he was on top of Razzo and had
pinned his shoulders to the mat. The play was over.


RESOLUTION
by F.Thecives
When Don got to the “alley” the
women were just getting off to the
pictures. Just the two sorts. Big and
blowsy, and skinny and tough. Screeching
and clinging together like a carload of monkeys.
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS,
IT was five o’clock at last
and the toolbox was as
popular as a hotel bar for
a while. Men crowded
round it four deep. Don was
on the outside of the crush
and had to wait before it was his turn to clatter his
pick and shovel out of sight until morning. When
he’d got that over he was held up some more looking
for his tucker-bag and billy, and all the time he could
hear Mick’s motor-bike roaring.
They were working on a water-treatment plant in
a gully about twelve miles out of town, and Don and
Mick shared petrol and expenses. Most of the others
camped on the job and went into town only for week-
ends, but it was a bad place for a camp —too damp
and marshy in the hollow and hardly footing enough
for a mountain goat on the sides of the hills. All the
young chaps said they were goats to be working there,
and reckoned they’d be glad when the job was fin-
ished. But they wouldn’t be really. It would mean
most of them being out of a job and humping their
blueys again.
As Don threw his leg over the pillion Mick
turned round grinning. “I thought old ’Ere must have
been tellin’ you about the time he laid the Transcon-
tinental railway in his spare time.”
Someone had christened the old ganger Hercules.
He strutted about like a broken-down game rooster
and was always boasting about the marvels of strength
and skill that he had performed in his youth. Every-
body laughed at ’Ere, but they nearly all had a soft
spot for him, too.
“I get a bit of fun out of ’Erc’s yarns, too,” Don
smiled back. “Even if he does go off the rails a bit
now and then I reckon he’s seen some queer things in
his time.”
“Yeah, when he’s had the d.ts. I’ve seen some
queer things meself then. But they tell me that love’s
worse than beer for the brain.”
Don knew he was getting at him about Rene, but
he didn’t mind. He lifted his voice above the scrabble
of loose metal under the tyres and the noise of the
engine: “You’ll be rounded up some day, don’t fret.
One of them’ll brand you before you know there’s a
rope over your head.”
Mick kept the bike in second all the way down
the rise, and she kicked and bucked like a live thing.
The temporary road was only metal and sand wash.
Don had an easier seat once they got down on to the
flat that together with the humps made the ridge look
like a camel’s back. The road got better, too.
When they came out op the flat of the second
hump nearly into the main road, Don could see the
township shining in a warm pocket of the main range.
Pine-trees ringed the toy red-and-white houses like a
dark wall, and the last sunlight drenched the halo of
evening smoke with gold. Mick grinned back as the
tyres padded silkily on to the tarred surface of the
main road, “Now you’ll know we’re travellin’.”
“That’s the one thing I can’t forget sitting this
thing over the bumps,” said Don.
He got off about a mile this side of the town. His
feet were numb and the rush of the frosty air had
clamped a brittle mask on to his face. He called out
to Mick, “A man will be able to skate to work in
the morning.”
Mick wrapped an old scarf round his mouth and
nose before he went on again.
Don started to jog towards the house. He was
meeting Rene to-night, and he had to get tea and have
a bath first. It took the gilt off the gingerbread when
you had to light up and cook your own grub after a
hard day’s work. He wondered what it would be like
when he and Rene were married.
When he reached the gate he half-imagined Rene
in a white dress waiting for him at the door. But he
knew it couldn’t be like that really. He’d have to get
a job in town somewhere and rent a place. He
didn’t like the idea, but most people did that now.
And anyway he couldn’t expect to dump Rene down
in a lonely place like this, miles away from every-
body and everything. He wondered if marriage didn’t
make more difference than people made out.
He was surprised to see a light burning in O’Shea’s
house further round the slope. They paid old Tim
Holloway to keep the place in order, but they hadn’t
been near it themselves for years. When Don was a
little chap they used to come up quite often. Some-
times Mrs. O’Shea would “borrow” Don for a day.
His mother had never liked letting him go, he knew,
but he used to love sitting up in the big car. But best
of all he loved the ships. The ships Mr. O’Shea carved
when he wasn’t painting. Old galleons and sailing-
ships with shimmery green mermaids on the front of
them and tiny brass cannon. Everything so real that
Don used to think he could hear the crack of the
wind in the sails and the water slapping the sides.
His mother had been jealous of Mrs. O’Shea
taking him away, so he never told her how much he
enjoyed it. And when Mrs. O’Shea gave him anything
to keep he always hid it in a little dry cave near the
creek. He used to sail the little outrigger canoe she’d
given him on bright afternoons when he was supposed
to be at Sunday-school.
He saw another light grow in the windows of
O’Shea’s house, and heard a piano played softly. Then
he heard Mrs. O’Shea singing. The voice rose and rose
until it seemed to be spilling out of the clear sky like
the song of a lark. It made him remember things
that he’d thought he’d forgotten—the stories Mrs.
O’Shea had told him of the countries she had visited.
All the cities and countries he had never seen seemed
spread out before his eyes in the valley beneath him,
and he waited till the singing stopped before he went
inside.
HE shaved with cold water to save time. But in-
stead of his face in the little cracked mirror he
kept glimpsing hazy fancies. His head was so full of
dreams that it wasn’t until he was splashing in the
tin dish in front of the fire that he really thought of
making them come true. The idea of travelling about
a bit himself just came to him in a flash. He won-
dered why he had never thought of it before. He
could tackle any kind of work. And he had a bit of
money saved up to tide him over bad times. Every-
thing was plain sailing.
He was so excited that he didn’t think about Rene
for some time. And when he did think of her he didn t
let it worry him. He’d explain everything to her
that night. She was just the sort to understand. She
wouldn’t mind waiting a while. A year, or perhaps a
bit longer. It might be that long before they married
in any case. And he’d get experience while he was
away that would be worth money to him when he
returned. He’d explain that to her.
He hummed to himself as he hurried along the
road and wondered why he didn’t always feel as gay
and contented as he did now.
He ran into the Half-way store for some cigar-
ettes. “Ma” Ogden waddled in to serve him. Don
always thought it was silly the way she fuzzed her
grey hair and did up like a flapper.
“Ah, I see you’re goin’ courtin’, Don,” she tittered
archly ; “I only wish I was a bit younger. A little
bird tells me there’ll be weddin’ bells soon.
Don felt blood in his cheeks. “I guess it must have
been a lyrebird then, Mrs. Ogden,” he laughed flatly.
When he got outside again he thought she had a cheek.
The road ran nearly parallel with the railway line,
and Don could see the rails moving beside him like
threads of quicksilver. Step for step they moved
beside him. He kept trying to hum Mrs. O’Shea’s
song all the way into town.
'T HEY called the street Rene lived in Railway-alley,
* because most of the houses were taken by men
from the loco, sheds. Another thing about the “alley
was the floating population. Men always going to
work or pedalling home with smoke-masked faces.
Children always racing. Women always going next
door to borrow something. When Don got to the
“alley” the women were just getting off to the pictures.
Just the two sorts. Big and blowsy, and skinny and
tough. Screeching and clinging together like a carload
of monkeys.
Rene’s place had a privet hedge along the front
It was just as well, because the fence was all gap-
where the kids ran in and out playing chasings. Mr
Osborne answered his knock. Her big hands we
steaming and smelt of greasy washing-up water. Ever,
in the dark her fat face shone. “Oh, it’s you, Don.
she said. “Come inside. Rene ain’t quite ready yet.
Dad and Jack’s in there.”
As soon as Don got into the hall he heard Mag
and Iris squabbling, yelling like giants. Don had
been to Rene’s that they weren’t fighting. Mrs.
Osborne spoke to them: “Hey, pipe down, you two.
Don’ll think he’s marryin’ inter a menagerie the way
youse carry on” —she winked at Don won t K r '
Don?” f
When she winked her eyes sank nearly out or
sight. Since Don had been coming to see Rene Mrs.
Osborne had talked so much about the wedding tba
Don never noticed it any more. Not until to-nigW
“Give me a funeral or a weddin’ and I m as happy aS
a cow in clover,” was a joke of hers.
•' ■ r •* ■ fill


Mr. Osborne screwed his chair round a bit from
the fire and glanced up from his turf supplement. He
always had a sleepy-eyed look, as though he’d just got
out of bed and hadn’t washed or shaved yet. \
“Well, Don, what d’yer know?” he grunted.
“Ah, just the usual, Jim.” Don didn’t know one
end of a racehorse from another, so he always said
“just the usual” to Jim.
Young Jack looked up from his supplement now
as though he’d only just noticed Don was in the room.
He squeezed a nod out of his thin neck and saluted
feebly. He’d grown very casual since he’d got a job
on the baker’s cart. Only the mention of beer or
women could excite him now.
Jim nodded to an empty chair. “Take a pew. It
don’t cost any more and it’s easier on the legs.”
Don didn’t want to get talking. He said, “I don’t
think I’ll bother, Jim. Rene’ll be out in a tick.” It was
too much of an effort to talk with the wireless blaring
like that. And in the kitchen Mrs. Osborne was sing-
ing shrilly as she washed up. Don wished Rene would
hurry.
“Off to the pictures, I s’pose?” said Jim.
“Don’t know. Might just stroll round and look
at the lights.” Don wished he hadn’t said so as soon
as he’d said it. If Jim knew where they were going
he’d probably give Rene some message to do.
“Go on with you,” Jim grinned knowingly ; “it’s
too cold for strollin’ to-night. You’ll freeze ter death.
How about a game of cards?”
While Don was thinking desperately of some good
excuse lim had walked over to the sideboard and
fished out a greasy pack of cards. He told Mag and
Iris to shift their homework down to the other end of
the table. Then he laid a worn old green cloth on
the end nearest the fire. He seemed to take it for
granted Don was going to play. Don wondered why
he couldn’t think of an excuse on the spur of the
moment. He started to feel angry as he watched Jim
sitting flicking the cards idly. What did Jim think
he came there for, anyway?
Rene came in at last. She looked fresh and sweet,
and for a second Don felt happy again. But before
he could catch her eye Jim got in. “What about a
game of five hundred, Rene? Don’ll play.”
“Yes, I’ll play if Don’s going to.” She glanced
shyly towards Don.
It was too late then. Jim said he and Jack would
play Rene and Don. He said they might as well make
it a “trey” a hand just to give it an interest. Don was
too mad to care what they played for, though he
knew Rene wasn’t much good at the game. He was
mad at her, too, because she hadn’t done anything.
They went on playing, with Don not talking much
and feeling pretty sour. Joey went off to bed and Jim
“shunted” Mag and Iris for giving him too much of.
their lip. Then he told Jack to get a drink. Jack
slipped into the kitchen and came back with a couple
of quart bottles of draught.
Don wondered how Jim managed it with so many
kids to keep. He thought what a damned mess it all
was, and wondered why people ever had kids. He
drank one glass just to be friendly. But he still wasn’t
feeling too friendly though. Then Jim said he must
have another. He said it put hair on your chest.
Don didn’t like beer as a rule, but he thought the
second glass tasted all right. He and Rene won a hand,
and he smiled at her to make up for his surliness,
Mrs. Osborne got them some biscuits and cheese
for supper at ten o’clock. Mrs. Osborne and Rene
drank tea. But the men had some more beer. Jim
drank quite a lot and started to get merry.
Straight after supper Don got a slam in no trumps.
And next hand he got another. Even with Rene’s
mistakes they seemed to win every hand.
“Don’s struck a streak of luck,” said Jim dis-
gustedly. “I haven’t held a decent card for hours. I
ought to chuck the game in.”
“Look out, Don —lucky at cards, unlucky at love,
you know,” laughed Mrs. Osborne. “And that reminds
me ; I saw ‘Spike’ Renwick walkin’ down the road with
Rene the other afternoon.”
“You know I can’t stand a bar of ‘Spike’,” said
Rene vehemently. “But I can’t run away every time
I see him in the street, can I?” Her cheeks flushed
like scarlet blossoms.
They all teased her for a while then. Don knew
they were only joking. He laughed with the others, but
inside it gave him a nasty fright. He was glad when
he touched Rene’s hand feeling for his.
It was nearly half-past eleven when Don decided
to go. Jim’s luck had changed, and he wanted Don
to stay till one o’clock and go up with him on the
engine. But Mrs. Osborne said that he might never
get home if he waited for Jim.
Rene came to the door with him to say good-bye.
Outside the air was chill and bright. He cuddled Rene
close to him to keep her warm. But when he kissed
her she said he smelt of beer.
“You won’t ever drink when we’re married, will
you, Don?”
“Not if you love me enough.”
“But I do love you lots.”
A sudden thought struck him and he smiled a
little. “I bet if I went away for a while you’d forget
all about me and pick up with some other chap.”
“No, I wouldn’t, Don. And you wouldn’t ever
really go away, would you? I’d die if you did.” She
reached up and kissed him with soft, hot lips.
Don could feel the warmth of her flowing over
his body like sunlight. Looking up at him her eyes
were bright and tender. Don wondered wherever
he got that silly idea of going away. He kissed her
longingly and wished that he wasn’t going home to a
lonely house.
CLUNES MAN
BY
C. E. MAYMAN
/“IS I followed my brother into the store the men
f \ near the doorway fell silent, though Bill sold
V, I back the dynamite and fuse as if unaware of the
tension. They waited awhile for him to say
something ; then when he saw what Bill was doing old
Evan Morgan leaned forward and said angrily,
“Then the Maybelle really is closin’ down?”
“Yes, we pull the pumps in a few days,” Bill
answered. It was pretty hard for him to speak, and
they knew it.
“You can’t,” said Tommy Thomas. “You’ll flood
us all out.”
“Good God!” cried Bill, “you all knew it was
coming. Dad wouldn’t do it. Because the lease was
the richest he got big pumps when the leads went deep
and saved the place. But you know he ran the May-
belle at a loss just because the pumps kept your
damned shows open. Well, dad’s gone and we’re
broke. The Mines Department own the machinery
now and they’ve sold the pumps.”
Nobody said anything for a while. They stood
around like uneasy children ; then Tommy Thomas
rubbed his ragged stained moustache and said: “That’s
all right, youngster. I’m gettin’ too old fur the game
anyway. Got a sister in Perth I bin wantin’ ter visit
fur years.”
“Me too,” said Joe Davies. “This place ’as been
worked out for years, only none of us ’ud admit it.
There’s something beyond Kurnalpi Tim an’ me always
wanted to go back to.”
“Aye,” said Tim loyally. “Somethin’ we never
give a fair go. Like ter make sure.”
“I got a brother on the Boulder,” said George
Trethewey. “Never did like wet mines anyhow.”
That started it. There was a rasp of heavy boots
on the wooden floor as Evan Morgan pushed his way
in front of us.
“Wet mines? Ain’t no wet mines in the West,”
he challenged us all scornfully. “One o’ two like these
’ere, maybe, with mud in the bottom. Mind the old
days, Tommy, back in Victoria? Clunes, Allandale,
Maryborough. The Dook o’ Timor, the Berry Leads,
Madam Berry. Bailed a hun’erd damn’ million a day
out of ’er. Hell, a man wus a miner them days. Rivers
runnin’ through the gravel a hun’erd feet below the
surface. That’s where we learned our minin’.
“Mind when we first come West in ’96? Funny,
’member, gettin’ used ter the dry shafts round
Hannans. Me, I like water. Best bloody miners in
the world, we wus, workin’ them mines.
“Youngster, I wus drivin’ a whip-’orse at ten,
truckin’ underground at fourteen. Over fifty year in
mines. Think I can’t work ’ere without pumps? Yer
dad would ’ave understood—’e come from Clunes,
too. But you kids ; you didn’t learn in Victoria.” He
brought his knotty fist down on the counter like a
hammer and stamped out into the dusty street towards
his camp.
Of course he set the whole gang off.
“Yeah, they were grand days,” Tommy was say-
ing. “Evan could work the ’luvial right enough. But
this is wet no matter what he says.”
“Look here, Tommy,” interrupted Bill. “Evan
can’t go below once the pumps stop. The workings
will be washed out in a couple of days.”
“ ’Member how we got paid Saturdee about? Got
drunk on your pay one week, mine the next”...
George Trethewey edged closer to us meanwhile
and said so the others couldn’t hear him: “Don’t
worry, Bill. These Clunes Welshmen are stubborn
cows. Like to talk. Evan’ll be cooled down in the
morning.”
A FEW days later the Government men arrived
*'■ and the men came over from their camps—Evan
with Tommy—and we all followed the engineer round
in silence as he took voluminous notes and gave direc-
tions for the dismantling of the dust-covered
machinery.
When they had gone Bill asked Evan what he
thought of doing.
“Dunno fur sure,” said the old man evasively.
“Bin ’ere a few years now. It’s hard ter leave.”
“Now you’re not going underground, are you?”
Bill asked. Evan playfully tried to move the big rusty
iron ball in the Berdan pan, which hadn’t crushed a
decent specimen for years, and said: “There wus a
crosscut I wus puttin’ in. Like ter send it a few more
feet. Just ter make sure. But if you don’t want me
to”
We heard him sneering to himself as he pottered
off: “Wet mines, wet mines! No wet mines in this
State.”
J T was nearly a week after the pumps had stopped
* before anyone showed signs of leaving.
We had gone over to George Trethewey’s camp
to have a yarn as he was leaving next day. Evan’s
camp was furthest away, a few chains from the May-
belle boundary. We gave him time but he didn’t
show up.
“ ’Aven’t seen ’im about durin’ the day much,
but ’is chimney was smokin’ early this mornin’,” re-
marked Joe Davies.
There was a bit of a silence for a while.
“No, Evan’s too old a miner fur that,” said
Tommy, anticipating what had come into all our
minds.
“The old fool might have, though. Come on,
Jim,” Bill called to me.
“Maybe he’s only at the camp,” cautioned George
Trethewey, “havin’ a lay-down after dinner.”
“He’s an hour late now. You go to the camp,
we’ll go to the shaft,” said Bill, and commenced to run.
We were both stumbling by the time we reached
the shaft. A few tools were scattered carelessly about
and the ladders were still in position. The rest of us
had salvaged our ladders and tools and what timber
we could from below.
“The damned old Taffy,” said Bill with a smile.
“I’ll go down and see him.” He lowered himself
quickly out of sight.
The pumps were stopped! The thought kept run-
ning through my mind. I kept peering over the edge
into blackness. He seemed to have been gone a long
time. I lay down at full length and called down
hoarsely, “Be . . . low!”
. . low,” came back the echo.
“Be . . . low, be . . . low!” I shouted in panic.
I glanced into the scrub, but Tommy and the
others were not in sight. My job was to stand by
the brace, but the others would be across shortly.
There were sixty feet of ladders to the level Evan
was working. I knew the mine and did not light my
candle stub until I stood squelching in the muddy
drive.
I called ahead to attract Bill’s attention, and as
the drive turned sharply nearly bumped into him com-
ing back.
“What’s up?” he asked. “Did you find him?”
“No, just wondered where you were.”
“Hell, only been down five minutes. Others on
top yet?”
“Be across in a minute.”
We turned off the drive and scrambled cautiously
across several collapsed stopes. Where the walls
weren’t timbered they were “talking” loudly with a
steady tap, tap as patches fell with a chill splash. They
were greasy and loose to touch, and there was a damp,
unhealthy smell everywhere.
“There, Evan? . . . Evan?” called Bill softly into
a small drive ahead. “Look, the crosscut. He’s been
down here all the week.”
We held our fizzing candles higher. It was pretty
work, for the cut had been put in against the lie of
the wet country, and old Evan had only light bush-
wood for timber, but he had worked his way across
like a mole, taking out dirt that bore no weight and
leaving here and there at just the right angle pillars
of the more solid mullock.
Suddenly half a ton of the wet roof fell with a
plop in front of us.
“Don’t raise your voice. Let’s get out,” whis-
pered Bill.
There was a threatening hissing and sucking all
around as we picked our way back across the stopes.
Then ahead flickered a carbide lamp, and old Evan
lumbered to meet us.
“Sorry ter give you boys this worry,” he said
awkwardly. “Felt a bit sick. Stomach, it wus, me
stomach. Bin lyin’ down. Tommy told me you wus
down here.”
“Well have it out on top. Come on,” snapped Bill.
“See the cut,” asked Evan slyly. “Took it in as
fur as I wanted. Nothin’ there. Wish Tommy ’ad
seen it,” he wagged his head regretfully. “’E might
’ave done as good. Not George, ’e only come from
Moonta. All ’e knows about minin’ is ter put drip-
ping on the windlass when it gets hot.”
We stumbled back along the main drive, with
Evan muttering in the rear: “Should’ve seen us in the
old days . . . Berry mines. Seen some grand tim-
berin’ there.”
Without warning the drive behind collapsed. I
dropped my candle and the rush of wind put Bill’s out.
Only Evan’s lamp remained alight.
Bill shouted to run, but as 1 groped forward the
walls bulged. I heard the timber creak beneath the
tremendous pressure, then a heavy cross-tom snapped
and flung me sprawling into the thick mud. I struggled
to get up, but my legs were numbed.
I could see in the dim light the whole drive get-
ting narrower as the wall timbers were forced inwards
until they stopped the width of the broken tom,
which jammed open the stout legs that held up the roof.
Behind Evan I saw the thick mud and gravel crawling
into the drive as if into a pipe. I could see Bill tear-
ing at the log ; then Evan flung him back and his heavy
hands fumbled about the log. For a moment I lost
my senses, then Bill got his hands under my shoulders
as Evan slowly raised the log a little; then, as Bill
moved me, I felt the mud ooze like plasticine forward
over my feet.
“Can’t use his legs. Mud’ll get him,” cried Bill.
Evan turned and grasped the corners of the up-
right set of legs where they met the straining roof
timber overhead, and placed his feet against the fallen
tom, his big body fully blocking the narrow drive,
while the moving mud piled slowly up against his legs,
then his back.
“Drag the kid, youngster,” he gasped. “Mud
won’t run fur a while. Tell yer . . . best miners in the
world . . . learnt me timberin’ on Clunes.”
As Bill staggered with me towards the shaft we
heard the drive behind collapsing yard by yard. He
got me into the bucket and clung to the rope himself
and the men on top hauled us up in time. They had
me eased before anyone dared ask about Evan ; then
Tommy said: “Yes, he wus a good man in a wet
place. ’Course, he learned in Victoria.”


Three new floors of
bedrooms, all with
private bathrooms—24-
hour hot water service
and telephones.
Will
Enjoy
,-s
f!
TH
PK
*
■ -
-
- ■* ;; ~ :
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated position
away from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
—24-hour hot water service and telephones.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director,
ID
mi
- - ■ -
pt.
The Canadian
Australasian Line f s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
preacher Semon Dye. He arrived one day at Clay
Horey’s place in a car that couldn’t do much except
backfire. Clay had just married his fifth wife, the
fifteen-year-old Dene, the other four having been
progressively mislaid. Clay was taking things easy,
and his farm was doing the same. “Sin and let sin”
was his motto.
Semon, hell-bent on saving souls and picking up
some money, fitted into the slack life of the com-
munity like a hand into a glove, giving it form and
grasp. He began with Sugar, the high-yellow girl
in Clay's kitchen, graduated to Tom Rhodes’s home-
made corn whisky—Georgia Dew —and connived at a
game of craps that stripped Clay of all his liquid
assets, the one dollar that was his ready money, Dene’s
daddy’s gold watch, his car, finally Dene herself.
Semon Dye’s secular activities in no way diminish
either his reputation or his effectiveness as a saver of
souls. His revival meetings are whirlwinds. He knows
what folks like to hear about —sin —and he gives
them plenty. Wildest hysteria develops as the sinners
“come through.” Semon gets caught up in it himself,
foaming and twitching, and at the last meeting even
forgets to take up the collection. Next morning he
disappears in a whirl of dust in Clay’s car.
Clay and Tom, much poorer and no wiser, shake
their heads in admiration. Clay had bought Dene
back with a hundred dollars raised by giving a
mortgage on his next cotton crop. Even there Semon
had cheated ; but, no matter, Clay and his neighbors,
greatly refreshed, go slowly back to work. “It does
sort of leave a hollow feeling inside of me to know
he ain’t here no longer. I feel left high and dry like
a turtle on its back, that can’t turn over.”
The uniform amorality of the people of Rocky
Comfort is staggering, although, except for Semon,
who is*genuinely lurid, they are not monsters but
human beings, as simple as they are villainous. The
whole rather preposterous story draws its validity from
the character-drawing, innumerable touches of nature
and pictures of life being lived.
Fighting Fiddler.
Without completely abandoning the field of social
discussion, Clifford Odets, in Golden Boy (Gollancz),
has hit on a theme of much wider appeal than he used
in his “proletarian” dramas, such as Waiting for Lefty.
The topic is personal fulfilment as opposed to
worldly success, and the leading character is a young
American of Italian parentage who possesses if
Odets isn’t straining credibility just a little equal
skill with a violin or a set of boxing gloves. He owes
his musical training to the self-sacrifice of his father,
a fruit and vegetable peddler, a man of undivided
soul and, incidentally, a very sympathetic character.
In his early twenties the boy, Joe, wearies of steady
plodding at his musical studies. He wants money and
public acclaim and sees the boxing-ring as a short
cut to the realisation of his ambition. His chance
comes when a young boxer smashes his hand on the
night before a fight. Joe persuades the injured man’s
manager to put him into the ring as a substitute. Joe
wins, and from then on pursues a successful pugilistic
career, gathering to himself an elaborate wardrobe,
girls, money, a large automobile and public adulation
while continually getting farther and farther away it
is to be gathered from his natural self.
At first he is haunted by the memory of his earlier
ambitions and by his anxious father, who wishes to
make sure that Joe has made a decision in his own
best interests. A corner is turned when he injures his
hand in such a way that a return to a musical career
becomes impossible. From then on, urihampered by
considerations for his hands, he no longer pulls his
punches but becomes an all-in fighter. In the end a
fight concludes with the collapse and death of his
opponent in the ring. Following a highly emotional
scene in the dressing-room Joe roars away from the
arena with his girl in his speed car, and an hour or
two later both are killed in a smash-up.
A good deal of the action of the play takes place
in dressing-rooms under various rings, which gives
“noises off” a fine chance to convey the ringside atmo-
sphere. This is of a piece with the theatrical ingenuity
which distinguishes most of Odets’s work, but it is a
question whether it has not betrayed him somewhat in
this instance. A boxer about to enter the ring must
concentrate on one thing, winning, with the result that
Odets has had to suggest the conflict of his. soul at
second-hand. It is this that fills the father out as a
fully-imagined character and makes him rival the lead-
ing character for interest.
The question arises, too —if the reflective content
of the play is taken as seriously as the author obviously
intends whether Joe really was a musician gone
wrong. Does any man ever act against the true
grain of his character? He may be aware of con-
flicting desires, but if his motives are sorted out after
he has made his decision will it not be found that
he chose according to his nature? It is arguable
that Joe was essentially cheapjack and that even
had he kept to music he would have abandoned good
music to seek popular fame and large returns as an
exponent of the “Mother Machree” school. It might,
indeed, have been better had Odets worked out his
theme in the musical world.
This comment meets the author on his chosen
ground and is quite without-prejudice to the fact that
his drama is eminently playable and should make good
entertainment. Odets has plenty of inventiveness, he
gets a strong surface tension and his action rattles
along at a pace that temporarily conceals doubtful
patches in his premises. Ringside hangers-on, pro-
moters, racketeers and a girl who is torn between Joe
and his manager—and who isn’t quite as hard-boiled
as she imagined—are all well done. The dialogue is
crisp and seasoned with topical allusions —as when a
man whose funds are low admits to being “off the
gold standard.”
"Best Short Stories of 1938."
Homogeneity is the keynote of Best Short Stories
of 1938 (Cape), edited by Edward J. O’Brien. Their
competence is almost uniform, and even in their
subject-matter they have a family resemblance.
The great majority are about simple people and
universal events, all the romanticism, fantasy and
straining originality stripped away. Most are in the
minor key, and most are content to do without plot,
resting solely on verisimilitude and portraiture.
Predominant are such themes as the following:
The bombing of an Indian border village from the
air, “On the Border,” by Mulk Raj Anand ; the death
of a tramp’s child, “She Always Wanted Shoes,” by
Don Ludlow ; a returned soldier trying to come to
grips with life in a pub, “Old Sweet,” by Leslie Hal-
ward; two old men in a boasting competition, “A
Funny Thing,” by H. E. Bates ; a child at his father’s
second wedding, “A Wedding,” by G. F. Green ; a boy
fighting an eagle for his lamb, “The Erne from the
Coast,” by T. O. Beachcroft; a Basuto widow and her
suitors, “Snake in Hand,” by Sarah Gertrude Millin ;
an unemployed man appealing to his wife’s lover,
“Dear Mr. Flessheimer,” by Whitfield Cook. Realism
is attacked again and again through simplicity ; life
caught off its guard, so to speak, and displayed through
children and inarticulate people.
Some well-known names are strikingly absent
from the table of contents; no story by Somerset
Maugham or A. E. Coppard is included, for instance.
There is, however, a posthumous fragment by Kath-
erine Mansfield, no more than a sliver but alive with
her true and delicate transmission of the surface of
life. In the American section it is interesting that
more than half the stories are by writers with foreign
names —Pretro di Donata, Michael Fessier, Manuel
Komroff, Meriel Le Sueur, Elick Moll, Prudencio De
Pereda, Mark Schorer.
Bother India!
The Present Condition of India, by Leonard M.
Schiff (Quality Press, London), might help to modify
and even redirect some of the moral indignation that
various Leftist publicists are pouring on the dictator-
ships. Unlike Miss Mayo and others, Schiff is not
concerned with making out a dramatic case against
the English regime in India. In fact, as vice-principal
of a theological college in Birmingham and a one-
time parish priest of London, he is inclined to be
indulgent rather than censorious; but if some of the
documented statements he makes about the govern-
ance of India were received by cable in the offices
of some Australian dailies as news about one of the
dictator countries it would be a case for red-hot head-
lines.
For irresponsible one-man rule the native States
of India which are under the suzerainty of Britain,
according to Schiff, beggar description. The -hereditary
ruler is the source of all law, power, right and privilege.
The regime is so oppressive that the population prefers
near-starvation in India proper to complete starvation
in these gilded native principalities.
Englishmen in India, Schiff says, still implicitly
believe and teach in school that Surajah Dowling and
Tippoo Sahib were monsters of cruelty because they
gave short shrift to their enemies ; but even British
officers testified to the flourishing condition of their
dominions, where the peasantry were protected an</
their labors encouraged and rewarded. Indians tail;
about the Black Wagon—the goods truck which con-
veyed 200 Moplahs to a British prison in the hot
weather, only 20 arriving alive at the end of the
journey—precisely as Englishmen speak of the Black
Hole of Calcutta.
The reason why nobody notices what is happening
is that what is happening is normal and usual and the
normal and usual doesn’t worry the average person.
Yet, on Schiff’s figures, the infantile mortality amongst
workers in Bombay is from 400 to 600 per thousand
and the expectation of life in the whole of India is 22
years, as against 54 in England. Moreover, the worst
slums in England are as heaven by comparison with
the average slum of India, where in some places 1229
people are packed in the space of an acre, as against
an average density of 59 persons per acre in London.
Leftists have compassion to spare for the suffer-
ings of minorities in Europe, but the majority in India
live in squalor, while the governing sahib is the highest-
paid official in the world, his emoluments proportionate
to national income being 22 times greater than what
are paid to similar ranks in the U.S.A. Schiff says
there is one bed to every ten British soldiers as com-
pared wjth one bed to every 50,000 of the general
population in the hospitals in one area. An Indian
described the Government as “a Rolls-Royce Adminis-
tration in a bullock-cart country.”
The population of the country is approaching the
400 million, but whether this unwieldy mass is speeding
to reaction or decay is a matter of speculation. How-
ever, bother India!
FENG-SHU!.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Ireland on Ten Pounds : Sydney A. Clark (Nichol-
son and Watson). There’s a series of these “ten
pounds” books, all useful to the tourist.
The Microbe Man : Eleanor Doorly (Heffer). A
first-rate gift book for youngsters. Life of Pasteur
very entertainingly written, with excellent illustrations
by Robert Gibbings.
Sidelights from the Surgery (Pallas Publishing
Co.). Subtitled “Human Experiences in the Consult-
ing Room,” but the sundry Continental medico con-
tributors wander a good deal outside their consulting-
rooms and use a mighty lot of woolly words to wrap
up very little.


28 YEARS AGO
s®
Mi
Vai'
The first battery-started automobile.
The first starting battery—EXlDE.
TO-DAY
The modern Cadillac car.
IS
I
The modern Exide Cadillac battery.
The First
Starter Battery
was an
1939 is the 28th anniversary of the first Exide
Starting Battery and the "Self-Starter.” These
important contributions to automotive progress
appeared as standard equipment on the 1912
model Cadillac brought out in 1911.
The electric starter, backed up by Exide dependa-
bility, eliminated the hazards and uncertainties
of hand cranking. Its universal adoption made
widespread car ownership and year round opera-
tion possible.
With the trend in the last few years toward
higher engine compression ratios, more electrical
accessories for the driver’s safety and comfort,
and longer trips, the battery’s job has become
still more difficult and yet more important.
Certainly, the wise motorist gives careful con-
sideration to the selection of a battery a
product so vital to dependable every day service
from his car. In an Exide he finds the utmost
in reliability. An Exide battery has behind it the
unbroken record of 28 years of successful auto-
motive design and manufacturing experience.
Its makers are the "oldest in the business,”
established in 1888, 51 years ago.
Exide, during this long period, has built an
outstanding reputation for satisfactory perform-
ance, long life, and real economy.
Exide has kept pace with improvements to meet
to-day’s bigger demands on the battery.
Equip your car with the best. Buy an Exide
because . . .
■
WHEN ITS AN
IuSTAICT
s 1
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
FOR CARS, RADIO, MOTOR CYCLE AND HOME LIGHTING


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
\4dht JdmofWie mellcwneJSxmddmquet
In a sense Buckingham Palace may be
described as the centre of the Empire’s
metropolis. It is the town residence of
the Sovereign and his family. It is,
further, the centre of Royal hospitality
and the venue for State banquets when
foreign rulers, princes, distinguished
diplomats and statesmen are entertained,
as well as great functions when the
leaders of this Imperial Realm happen to
be assembled in London on “Empire
needs and necessities.” During the Season
their Majesties hold their Courts,
supremely important events, while garden
parties, in the beautiful grounds at the
back of the Palace, are social happenings
of superlative consequence. Once a
private mansion, called Arlington House,
bought and rebuilt by the Duke of Buck-
ingham in 1703, it was, after various
changes, purchased by George 111. in
1761 as a “Queen’s House,” and here all
his children were born. In 1825 George
IV., with the advice of John Nash, the
“creator” of that Regent Street which,
has only lately given way to the present
superb thoroughfare and Regent’s Park,
made further additions. It has been
added to and altered at various times
since. This will be noted in the illustra-
tions depicting the Palace in 1839 and
as it now is. Architecturally it has never
been regarded as a success, ill-comparing
with buildings erected for a like purpose
in several Continental capitals. Some of
the severest critics of the Palace, as a
palace, have likened it unto “a big store.”
It was not a Royal residence in the true
sense after George lll.’s time till the
accession of Queen Victoria, when further
alterations were made, those in 1846-47
costing £150,000. In 1851 the Marble
Arch, seen in the 1839 illustration, form-
ing the eastern gate to a then open court,
was taken down and re-erected at Cum-
berland Gate, the Oxford Street entrance
to Hyde Park, and at present one of the
most familiar landmarks of London.
During the absence of the Court from
London admission to view the Palace may
be obtained by special order issued from
the Lord Chamberlain’s Office at St.
James’s Palace. The visitor will never
regret such a “tour of inspection.” There
BUCKINGHAM PALACE IN 1839 AND 1939
will be seen the Throne Room, the Green Drawing Room, the State Ball Room, the Banqueting Room, the Grand Saloon and the Grand Staircase.
The Royal collection of paintings is particularly fine, works by such artists as Watteau, Dow, Diirer, Rubens, Rembrandt, Van Dyck, Cuyp, Potter, Teniers,
Reynolds Wilkie and Allan being represented. Other rare, beautiful and curious articles will also be seen. The National Memorial in front of the
Palace, erected to the memory of Queen Victoria, is the work of Sir Aston Webb. King Edward VII. was born in Buckingham Palace, November 9th, 1841.


OUT!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aws.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
BROADCASTING THE NEWS.
There was a fair measure of horsesense in a speech
Mr. Cameron, the Postmaster-General, gave to a
gathering of radio people while they ate soup one day
last week. Mr. Cameron locked horns with “sections
of the press” for “taking on the extremely onerous
task of prophecy.”
There is a tendency or an ambition in our press to
get ahead of the facts of the case. Rather than retain
the role of Recording Angel, some of the press desire
to assume the r6le of prophet.
The charge can be substantiated from newspapers
any day of the week. On the day Mr. Cameron was
reported Sydney’s “Daily News,” on the authority of
“Mr. Ebby Edwards” in London, announced:
All shades of Czech opinion are firmly convinced
that Hitler will invade Czechoslovakia on March 15.
Dailies are not only increasingly dealing in this
sort of scaremongering prophecy; they are becoming
reckless and using dates. Usually the date itself is the
only item ever realised in an otherwise silly fabri-
cation. The last date ventured for the opening of the
human shambles was, oddly enough, February 15; it
might be a lunar influence. The papers which gave
their columns to that prophecy did not come out
afterwards and pelt their prophet for an arrant liar,
nor will the “Daily News” pelt Mr. Ebby Edwards
after March 15. The papers which, in January, pub-
lished the prophecy of Madame Tabouis that Musso-
lini would deliver an ultimatum to France on
February 4 did not afterwards apologise to their
readers; they served up more helpings of Madame’s
guesswork.
These instances could be endlessly multiplied
from dailies of the past three or four years, justifying
Mr. Cameron’s charges many thousand times over.
At the same time, even the fact that Mr. Cameron’s
hearers were radio men was scarcely justification for
other statements attributed to him. As reported, Mr.
Cameron went on to say that “the radio listener would
realise that this method of distributing news [radio]
would bring him up to date better than any other.”
The A.8.C., whose news service Mr. Cameron no
doubt had in mind, has just published at Is. 6d. an
annual account of its activities, in which its “Federal
News Editor” says:
Much of the news in the papers is unsuitable for
the air, and in any case time limitations make it possible
to use only a small portion of it.
The “News Editor” also admits that “a radio bulletin
compiled from the newspapers will reflect” inaccur-
racies appearing in the newspapers. The truth is that,
except for a microscopic and unimportant portion of
its news service, radio is directly dependent on the
newspapers. It has no great staffs dedicated to the
single business of news-gathering. What it gives has
already been given better —because more fully and
with some sense of proportion—in the press. As
far as ne,ws service goes, radio is just a robot in the
shape of a parrot. Despite a number of lately acquired
faults, the press still provides incomparably the better
service.
For one thing, statements in the press are there
in print and can be read and reread, analysed at
the time, and corrected days, weeks or months after
publication. Statements made over the air leave their
impression and are gone; there is no means of
checking them, and for this reason alone they must
always be regarded with the greatest suspicion by
intelligent people. Unless A.B.C. takes to issuing in
printed form its “news bulletins” and the statements
made thereon by its “commentators,” this stigma must
remain, and only ignoramuses will take anything heard
over the air as gospel.
So far from printing such statements, A.B.C.
will not make them available on request. Its “Watch-
man” on the evening of February 28 made statements
which, as reported in the press, were the wildest of
sensationalism: —•
Hitler is turning the idea of war, which the Germans
formerly hated, into the idea of a holy crusade. The
enemy is not Soviet Russia, as it used to be, but the
British Empire. Germany does not expect to fight alone.
She expects as allies the other have-not nations, and
perhaps the have-little nations, too. From Hitler’s point
of view there is now no possible solution of Germany’s
difficulties by peaceful means. She can gain no trade
except by violence.
Since it is incredible that A.B.C. was not aware
of the publication of this version of its “Watchman’s”
statements, and since it did not contradict it, the con-
clusion must be that the version is correct. Would
Mr. Cameron suggest that anyone who had swallowed
this twaddle had thereby been brought up-to-date
better than by any other means? At the moment a
British delegation is seeing what can be done about
trade with and for Germany by peaceful means. By
“The Watchman’s” statement, as reported, that is
waste of time, and the British Government, in sponsor-
ing such a delegation, is an ass.
Even that much of “The Watchman’s” regular out-
pourings would not be available for examination if it
had not, rather unusually, been published in a news-
paper. Asked for a copy of what “The Watchman
had said that evening, A.B.C. replied that it was not
its practice to make such information available. The
result of that is to make the whole news-and-comment
service all the more suspect, and its trustworthiness
seem all the more unlikely.
The trouble with a pronouncement like that attri-
buted to Mr. Cameron is that it gives to A.B.C. news
service a stamp of authority that is wholly unmerited.
The position of A.B.C. as controller of “national
stations adds to this unmerited air of authority. It
is as if the news given out and the statements made
thereon carried the guarantee of Commonwealth
Government —this at a time when the head of the
Government and Mr. Cameron himself are hostile
critics of the very press from which A.B.C. snips the
news its commentators comment on.
The truth is that A.B.C. news, so far from being
what Mr Cameron is reported as claiming for it, is
a very thin helping of press news, of service only to
people mentally incapable of an intelligent reading
of newspapers, and, in the matter of speed only, to
people outback, who will need to take newspapers,
anyway, to check up on what they remember of the
radio service.
If the Government, or any member of it, is
really interested in an enlightened public opinion in
Australia, opportunity is there waiting in the Free
Library movement. Establishing it throughout the
country would do more for public enlightenment in
a year than will ever be done this side of a blue
moon by such a shaky and suspect medium as radio.
Prison Reform in Britain.
Britain almost completed a revolution in the treat-
ment of criminals when Sir Samuel Hoare, the Home
Secretary, a descendant of Elizabeth Fry, introduced
his Criminal Law Amendment Bill. This he did nearly
a century after Peel, with his first Prisons Act,
“brought to an end in the United Kingdom the
medieval conception of punishment” ; and 120 years
after Marsden was recording for posterity that, because
of the leniency of Macquarie, he and his fellow Sydney
magistrates had been compelled to inflict sentences
of up to 500 lashes.
In the House of Commons the principles of the
Hoare law were universally approved, save by one or
two diehards who objected to the abolition of flogging
for crimes committed outside prisons. The House was
prepared to a man to accept the bill on non-party
lines, and, along with it, the dictum of Sir Samuel
Hoare that crime results “from every conceivable
aberration a thousand and one different things ....
sometimes wickedness, sometimes bad luck, sometimes
folly, sometimes stupidity; and you cannot possibly
deal with them all by one or two simple rough-and-
ready methods.”
Crime has become a minor factor in British life
as it is in Australian life. If it were not for the rise
of bureaucracy most of the courts could be wiped out.
In 1937 the number of persons found guilty of all
kinds of offences in the United Kingdom was 800,000.
Sixty per cent, of all the charges were laid for motor-
ing breaches. Twenty-five thousand persons went to
gaol, 19,000 for the short sentences inflicted by magis-
trates’ courts.
Thirty-eight per cent, of those indicted were
youngsters under 17. But “inquiries go to show that
the young are not more wicked than formerly, though
they are less controlled by their parents It is not
so much the pictures and shilling shockers, but broken
lives, indulgent mothers, unkind stepmothers or unem-
ployment which make the young delinquent.” So a
committee reported.
The conclusion was reached, as it has been reached
in Australia, that prison is the worst way of dealing
with juvenile criminals, because it makes a dangerous
break in the thread of their lives. Lord Chief Justice
Hewart is mentioned as quoting a prison official:
“They go in crying and come out laughing.” In gaol
they gain nothing, since vocational training is impos-
sible during short prison terms, and they have lost their
jobs if they had jobs.
The law is to be completely revised on refor-
mative lines. Henceforth no child under 16 in the
England that a century or so hanged farm boys tor
burning haystacks and young girls for prigging half-
crowns will be sent to prison at all; nor will any
person of 16 or 17, unless there is a certificate from the
Court that the culprit is a depraved character. No
magistrate’s court will have power to imprison
any youngster under 21 except after a special investi-
gation of his or her surroundings and the special
circumstances of the crime.
Before trial all young accused will go to one or
two kinds of remand homes where they will not be
in contact with adult prisoners. One kind is for cases
which have some sort of neurotic, medical or problem
aspect. Corporal punishment for the young is entirely-
abolished, along with gaol.
For the very young there will be compulsory
attendance centres —places in which they will be
detained to undergo some training during certain days,
preferably on Saturdays, so that the thread of their
lives may not be broken. At the same time they may
find themselves with unpleasant occupations as substi-
tutes for football and the talkies, beside “being made
to look rather ridiculous with the rest of their friends”
by being kept in weekly over long periods.
For deeper-dyed villains in surroundings tending
to criminality, there will be “Howard Houses.”
Inmates will be obliged to keep barrack hours and
observe strict discipline, but they will be allowed to go
to work and live normal lives within healthy limits.
As for adults, preventive detention of habituals was
introduced in Britain in 1908. According to Sir Samuel
Hoare, it “failed to achieve substantial results.” In
the gaols in 1937 there were 12,000 persons with more
than one conviction ; 740 with more than 20 convic-
tions. A new system of “corrective” sentences, run-
ning from two to four years, is devised for those who
have more than once repeated a crime which carries
two years’ imprisonment as a penalty. Punishment
will be severe, discipline strict, work hard. That kind
of a sentence is a deterrent. For repeated serious
crimes, a “preventive” sentence in special prisons for
habituals may stretch to ten years.
But corporal punishment, except for mutiny or
brutal assault in gaol, goes. The machinery of stage
m ol o4rama —“penal servitude,” “hard labor,” “tickets-
of-leave” —disappears, together with the name “crimi-
nal lunatic.” Broadmoor becomes a “State mental
hospital.” Erring sisters will mope no more in
“gloomy Pentonville” (“They gets it pretty hot, The
maidens that we cotch —Two years this lady’s got For
collaring a watch”)—the site is to be turned over
for a model-housing project. The new British
ideal leans towards the New Hall camp near
Wakefield, where, as several Ms.P. testified, prisoners
with sentences under two years were found confined
only by the honor system, without bolts or bars, and
engaged in building a swimming-bath, feeding poultry,
planting cabbages and potatoes. No longer will
warders of the old type call “ ‘Come, step it, Forty-
eight!’ with coarse and brutal shout.” Custodians of
the wicked are to pass through probation schools and
learn psychiatry.
Sourabaya.
I read, with some incredulity, that the Dutch are going
to make a second Singapore of Sourabaya. Hitherto
they have been content to shelter virtually under the
wing of Britain. Their army and navy were little more
than a police force for keeping the native population
in subjection and suppressing rebellious rajahs in the
Outer Possessions.
The army was largely composed of foreign legion-
aries, One of their privileges was to have a concubine
apiece. An expeditionary force which was setting out
to prevent a rajah’s widows being burned in Bali put
in at the station in Java where I was situated; each
barefoot legionary was followed about by his native
lady, likewise shoeless. Children, if any, were taken
care of by the State and drafted into the, civil service,
which largely accounts for the dimensions of the
Eurasian population in the Dutch East Indies. The
international situation has changed all that, and for
some years past the military forces of the archipelago
have approximated to European standards.
Sourabaya used to be the entrepot for the loot
the Dutch extracted from the surrounding islands ot
their vast dominion, under their system of forced
culture and complete trade monopoly. The spices
that grew in Amboyna, Celebes and other islands were
much in demand to season the meat of Europe, which,
in the lack of cold storage, was often eaten rotten.
Islands under Dutch jurisdiction were allowed to plant
the spice trees. Any attempt to do likewise on others
was put down. Deprived of their means of livelihood,
the natives turned pirate, and pirate empires arose.
When Raffles founded Singapore and made trade
free and untrammelled, he aimed a deathblow at the
Dutch system. Singapore became a clearing-house
for the archipelago, and Sourabaya was threatened
with extinction. The Dutch gradually learnt that free-
trade was the better policy for them, but they have
never been able to feel quite complacent about the
possession of a colony which is a million square miles
in area and contains a population nearly ten times as
large as that of what is euphemistically called the
mother country.
Sourabaya is an ordinary commercial city, like
scores of others in Asia, though the Dutch have made
it look as much like home as possible with canals
and barges. But it is linked by rail with the so-called
Princely Lands, where dwell those picturesque sur-
vivals the Sultan of Djokjakarta and the Susuhunan
of Solo. 1
The Sultan is a legacy of the old wars with
the Portuguese, when the Dutch were only too anxious
to make allies of local despots, and to practise precisely
the same methods for getting what they wanted. He
moulders away in a luxurious court surrounded by
10,000 of his wives, children and relatives, and has
his private orchestra and ballet and Rolls-Royce cars.
A Dutch fort keeps its guns carefully trained on
his establishment. The Susuhunan is the spiritual
head of Java. Once a year he proceeds by levitation
to the seaside and communes with his ancestors in
person.
In the periodical uprisings which have dis-
turbed the Dutchman at his rystafel, attempts have
been made to revivify these decaying symbols of aris-
tocracy and leadership; but they have been rather
outmoded by the rise of industrialism, trade-unionism
and incipient Communism.
Sourabaya is a city where anything is liable to
happen. One night I met there a drunken young
Englishman who showed me title-deeds to the exclu-
sive ownership of the whole of north-east Java, includ-
ing Sourabaya. They had been bequeathed to him by
his grandmother, a Dutch Eurasian. They seemed
to be all in order, and he was full of indignation and
bitterness because he had been unsuccessfully bom-
barding the Government for ten years with petitions
for recognition of his title. He had the intelligence
of the average rabbit and about as much notion of
the problems of government as a public-school boy, but
it had never entered his head for a moment that he
might not be a fit and proper person to rule ten
million people.
FENO-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sad Days for Seers.
Events in Europe continue to confound newspaper
prophets and interventionist politicians. Last week
two of their Spanish heroes, Premier Negrin and
General Miaja, fell out, and in the result Negrin bolted
to France again, this time by ’plane. He was accom-
panied, one report says, by six Russians and “La
Pasionaria,” heroine of a hundred Stunt-Press articles,
who was warned not to venture into Paris’s Red Belt.
In the meantime a Red squadron surrendered to
the French in North Africa, and there was a Commu-
nist rising, not against Franco but against Miaja and
his friends. This has sorely embarrassed Pink papers
and politicians. They don’t know which set of heroes
to praise or blame.
The unhappy developments in Spain coincided with
military movements in Slovakia and the proclamation
of martial law in that country by the predominant
Czechs. Seventeen years ago Sir lan Hamilton, after
studying the situation in Central Europe, reported
that the Slovaks “prefer the cruelty of the Hungarian
to the contempt of Brother Czech.” Professor Roberts
declared, in effect, in his House That Hitler Built that
this was all wrong: Czechoslovakia was the very
model of a modern republic, “enormously wealthy and
strong,” and capable, if the Reich Germans should be
so mad as to try to effect a political union with the
3,500,000 Germans ruled by the wonderful Czechs, of
holding “the ridges from Eger to the Oder.” What
happened at the week-end bears out what Mr. Bruce
has been telling Australians: if it had come to fighting
in September the Reich Germans —with Sudeten-
landers, Poles, Hungarians and probably Slovaks help-
ing them—would have walked through Czechoetc. in
24 hours.
“S. M. Herald” admits in a headline that “Ten-
sion Is Less,” but Professor Roberts, writing in the
same issue, refuses to admit it. “Germany and Italy
are working up their public to the feeling that it would
be a holy war to fight for the right to live” ; “opinion
in England inclines to the view that the next crisis
will be a matter for Western Europe” ; a Franco
“blockade of the Republican coast can easily become
a menace to general peace” ; and “there is still graver
news nearer home” —Japan’s “open onslaught on all
foreign economic interests has the makings of the
most serious crisis the Pacific has yet known.” Sydney
University is still permitting this dismal don to asso-
ciate its name with his ravings.
A State Election.
Westralia is to have an Assembly election on Satur-
day. In the last Assembly there were 26 Labor
members, 13 Agrarians, nine Nationalists and two
Independents. Agrarians and Nationalists have a
friendly understanding, and the Independents voted
against the Government.
Labor has been in office for six years, and is
showing all the weaknesses which continuous Govern-
ments generally exhibit —Mr. Forgan Smith’s is one
of the rare exceptions. Westralians complain that the
Willcock Administration has lost all its initiative and
most of its energy. Mr. Johnson, the oldest member
of the party, has condemned its propensity for shift-
ing responsibility to boards. Because the Upper House
threw out its proposal for unifying the income and
emergency relief taxes and charging the same rates it
has issued feeble threats to that Chamber, but em-
ployment of youth seems to interest it little, and
social reform not at all. And while the Midland Rail-
way Company makes ends meet, and even pays divi-
dends, its own railways show a serious financial drift.
For money the Government relies chiefly on
Canberra, and Canberra never fails to come to light
with loans and all manner of subventions. In grants
alone last year it supplied £1,048,400 —State revenue
from all sources, including £3,645,900 from railways,
was £10,819,000. There are 50 Assemblymen and
30 Councillors, each, because of Canberra’s muni-
ficence, paid £6OO a year, with extra for Speaker,
President and Chairmen of Committees ; and there are
eight Ministers and an assistant. Heaven knows what
the nine Ministers find to do.
Four Ministerialists, four Country party men and
two Nationalists have been returned unopposed, so
there are contests for only 40 seats. The arrange-
ment of electorates gives the Government an initial
advantage. Its idea is that there are enough ticket-
voting electors to send it back with its majority of one
on the floor of the House, whatever it may have done
or left undone. Perhaps there are ; but Westralia, very
obviously, could do with a change. There are the
makings of a fair Ministry among the allied parties.
Both are strong in returned-soldier candidates, the
Nationalists especially, and Diggers should not lack
energy.
Casey, P.C.
In other days only Prime Ministers and distinguished
members of the judiciary became Australian Privy
Councillors; but of recent years—especially in Mr.
Lyons’s time —the distinction has been more widely
distributed. Mr. Pearce, Dr. Page and Mr. Menzies
were admitted to the select circle, joining within it
Mr. Hughes, Mr. Cook, Mr. Watt, Mr. Bruce, Mr.
Scullin, Mr. Lyons, former Governor-General Isaacs
and Justices Latham and Rich. Now Mr. Casey, the
Treasurer, has been named P.C.
~ There has been some newspaper criticism of
tnis thirteenth appointment, and there may be protests
in Parliament —as there were when Mr. Casey was
placed above Mr. White in the order of Ministerial
precedence, as a result of which Mr. Lyons had to find
another Minister of Customs —but Mr. Curtin has
intimated that there will be none from him. The
Labor leader says Mr. Casey is as much entitled to
the distinction as the colleagues and ex-colleagues
who possess it, which recalls that when the Health
and Pensions Bill was being debated Mr. Curtin
warmly complimented Mr. Casey on his second-read-
ing speech. Others, however, recall that Mr. Casey
has been little more than seven years a member, and
little more than three years a Minister of State. They
cynically suggest that the P.C. has been handed to
him as a consolation for the shattering of his hopes
for the Health and Pensions scheme and for his curious
disinclination to stand or fall with it.
Mr. Casey is significantly mentioned in Bean’s
account of the sinking of the Emden:
Captain von Muller, who a week later came as a
prisoner aboard the Orvieto.... was asked by Lieutenant
R. G. Casey what he would have done had he sighted
the fleet.
“I was 52 miles away from you that night,” was
the answer. “If I had got up to you I should have run
alongside her” (indicating the cruiser on the port bow
of the convoy) “and fired a torpedo. Then in the con-
fusion I should have got in among the transports. I
would have sunk half of them, I think, before your
escort came up.
“Whatever the risk, there was no soldier in the fleet
but thought it well worth taking.”
Had Mr. Casey infused a bit of the Von Muller
spirit into his politics, a people hungry for leadership
would have hailed him as a future Prime Minister.
Nobody is doing this now. If Health and Pensions is,
as Mr. Casey says, “the greatest measure of social
reform ever submitted to Parliament and the people,”
it is worth risking a job for, and Mr. Casey hasn’t
done any risking. He is too much like Mr. Lyons ever
to be accepted as Mr. Lyons’s successor.
The "Queenslander" Goes.
Australian writers and artists suffered another shock
when the “Queenslander” passed out. It was owned
by Queensland Newspapers. In a very brief obituary
notice the directors explain that, “in common with
other weekly publications of its type in other parts
of the Commonwealth, the ‘Queenslander’ has faced
increasing difficulties, and a review of the position
following a settlement of the [printers’] strike failed to
justify its continuance.”
Recently, because of the changed circumstances affect-
ing illustrated weeklies, the Sydney “Morning Herald”
closed the long-established Sydney “Mail.”
“Increasing difficulties” is right, but other “illus-
trated weeklies” have surmounted them. Unfortu-
nately there is no sentiment in the newspaper business
nowadays. A while ago there was a craze for buying
up journals, but imitation Northcliffes soon lost
interest in those which didn’t pay or look like paying.
There followed an appalling mortality among publi-
cations, daily as well as weekly, and victims are still
being struck down.
A similar process was witnessed in another field.
To create a public for a certain type of play, J. C.
Williamson never hesitated to lose money. This spirit
did not survive Williamson; and the Australian
public woke up one morning and found that the
Australian theatre had vanished in the night, as it
were, leaving Hollywood films in full possession.
One of the “increasing difficulties” is competition
from beyond the Pacific. The plague of sex-and-
horror magazines has been checked, but periodicals
which peddle smut or Sovietism or both have a con-
siderable vogue and command fancy prices. Their
jargon is imitated even by advertisers, and their gutter-
snipe political articles and cartoons have a certain
influence on young Australians, particularly prigs with
Communist inclinations. They pass for exponents of
the American spirit, but they really represent low alien
elements and sentiments, notably in their savage hatred
of the British Empire.
Men like Brunton Stephens and Essex Evans wrote
for the “Queenslandei.” Men of letters as distin-
guished and artists of ability contributed to the Sydney
“Mail.” It is a bad thing for Australia that such publi-
cations should disappear while Australians send
tribute to foreign magazines like “Ken,” for which no
lies are too foul or fantastic if they can be twisted by
some Central European Jew into an attack on the
British Commonwealth or its leaders.
Site for a School.
The attention of the officers who are selecting a
site for the R.A.A.F. training school seems to be
centred on Wagga.
Wagga has claims, no doubt; but so has Can-
berra. At Canberra the aerodrome —so called —is on
an excellent piece of level ground. Next door is
Duntroon, where pupils could be housed, and where
there are already cadets who could take advantage
of the course.
If there is any argument against Canberra the
same must apply to Wagga. Other places should be
inspected: Narrandera, for example. Narrandera is
in level country and has a fine natural aerodrome,
capable of expansion to 1000 acres. It is about
equidistant from Sydney and Melbourne, and its
approaches and air conditions are good.
Wherever the station is to be there should be no
delay in getting on with it. Civil Aviation and the
R.A.A.F. alike are perilously near to being short of
pilots for peace-time requirements. There is no
margin for any war wastage either in the R.A.A.F.
or among civil fliers, even with present machine
numbers. As for ground engineers, it is doubtful
whether there are enough, outside the R.A.A.F., to
service 50 twin-engine ’planes in full operation on a
war basis for any length of time.
Gandhi.
When Gandhi went into his last fast he said that the
world should not laugh. It didn’t laugh; at least,
British India didn’t, because it knew what would happen
if the emaciated little lawyer died.
The raison d'etre for Gandhi’s voluntary starva-
tion was Rajkot, the principal State of the Western
Kathiawar Agency. Rajkot has an average income
of 111 lakhs of rupees, and seven lakhs is appropriated
by the Rajah and his retinue for their private uses.
To meet these exactions, monopolies of matches, ice,
sugar and other necessaries have been instituted. An-
other source of cash is licensed gambling. Anybody
who knows how monopolies work when' they are
farmed out, as the phrase is, to native usurers knows
that the Rajkotans have cause for feeling irritated.
There is a Popular Assembly, but the Rajah
parcels posts out to his friends and relatives along the
good old lines of all Oriental despotisms. He made
his son his deputy and his nephew police superinten-
dent, which, since Rajkot is supposed to be an inci-
pient democracy, is like Mr. Lyons making one of his
family Chief Commissioner of Taxes without benefit
of arithmetic. Last August the people got up on their
hind legs and the police charged them with the lathi,
200 being wounded. A social reform movement was
started, and a United People’s Committee demanded
responsible government.
None of these reasons for Gandhi’s fast have
been mentioned in Australian papers, which take it
for granted that he is a quaint old fool with an absurd
notion of his own importance. As a matter of fact,
the British raj must be grateful for the assistance the
old man has given them in forcing the Rajkot poten-
tate to behave himself in a more civilised manner. It
knows very well that, unusual as his methods are,
Gandhi wields an immense influence in India.
"Beautification" in Melbourne.
“F.S.”: The worst news of the week in Melbourne was
the announcement that the City Council, riverside
councils, the Board of Works and the Harbor Trust
are considering an elaborate and expensive plan for
“beautifying” the Yarra from its mouth as far as
Heidelberg. Previous efforts in this direction a few
yeas ago aroused an outcry, although they were con-
fined to snagging the stream and destroying a
large number of trees. The new scheme is more
ambitious, involving grading and laying out the banks
—in other words, eliminating the natural beauty of
one of Melbourne’s chief assets and making it as
monotonously ugly as the stretch b>. een the Spencer-
street Bridge and Hoddle-street.
In the name of “beautification a word much
in the mouths of local authorities and the like —a
clean sweep was made of the front of the National
Gallery. The protests of a few artists prevented the
removal of the stone steps and their substitution by
commonplace drives, but concrete steps are being
added. The concrete steps look as incongruous as a
belltopper on the head of a South Sea islander. All
the trees have gone.
A riverside mayor says the opposite bank of
the Yarra is as worthy of beautification as the bank
along which the Boulevard runs. When Sydney Myer
donated a large amount of money for his boulevard
he no doubt meant it to be an ornament, but it has
destroyed the whole charm of a lovely stretch of
forested hillside. Apparently the riverside mayor
wants the other bank to look like it.
Gaols Are for Criminals.
A new aspect of the transport-strangulation policy was
revealed in a Queensland Supreme Court case in which
the plaintiff was a truck-driver and the defendant a
police sergeant.
In April the truck-driver was fined a pound at
Caboolture (Q.) for a petty breach of the transport
regulations, committed several months before. In
June a warrant of conviction was served on him. He
paid the fine on June 14.
A month later the sergeant turned up at his house,
saying, the truck-driver swore, that he had “wasted
half a day trying to find out whether you’ve paid
the fine.” Also: “The man at the C.P.S. office told
me to tell you you are a liar when you say you paid
the fine, and it suits me to say it, too.”
A week later the sergeant called again, and under
a warrant of commitment took the truck-driver to
Ashgrove police station, where he was locked up, first
in a cell with a drunk, then with still less congenial
companions. He had lost his receipt for payment of
fine and costs. That night a friend found it.
Before the arrest, it was sworn, the police looked
at his effects under warrant of execution, and reported
that nothing could be discovered to satisfy the fine.
Actually, his possessions included a motor-cycle, since
sold for £22, and a camera valued at £7O.
The defence applied for a nonsuit on the ground
that anything done by the sergeant was under warrant
of execution. That refused, it was urged that the
Brisbane C.P.S. office would have no record of convic-
tions outside Brisbane, and that there had been a
mixing-up of names. It was denied that plaintiff had
been called a liar ; he himself had declared that he
had no possessions save those he stood up in.
The jury found for the truck-driver; damages,
£550. He had claimed £lOOO. It is for Parliament to
make the next move —if it is a Parliament.
Gaols are for criminals. It is stretching even
Transport Department authority to have a competitor
locked up because Red-tape and Sealing-wax reported
that he hadn’t paid a small fine —though he had paid it.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Mac Hoots”: My infantile belief in
Bung’s bonhomie is withering right
away. To have stood in the pubbery
moodily munching • cheese and greens,
and to have learned recently that Maori-
land, too, is trying to cut- out counter-
lunches, was bad rough ; now, at the
Sydney hotel w! <: I am staying, to be
charged two bo a bottle for beer after
hours is too much to bear. I could un-
derstand though not forgive them
charging the lawbreaker double prices,
but I live there!
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne artist of
the impressionist school painted the
portrait of a well-known ’cellist with his
instrument, a commission from a Jewish
organisation for which the musician had
done a lot of playing in the cause of
refugee relief. After the picture was
finished the sitter looked at it with
approval. He found the likeness excel-
lent, but his technical eye observed that
some of the strings appeared to be miss-
ing on the ’cello, and he expostulated.
The artist’s explanation that his picture
was a rendering of light and shade and
not an instrument-maker’s catalogue illus-
tration failed to impress the musician.
“Would you paint in the other two strings
if your patrons asked you?” he queried.
“Would you put a few notes into a Beet-
hoven sonata if your audience asked
you?” said the artist. “No, I wouldn’t,”
said the ’cellist. “Well, I won’t alter
my painting.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The management of the
King’s Theatre, Melbourne, has adopted
an astute method of advertising by offer-
ing a daily guinea for the best criticism
of “Idiot’s Delight,” the anti-war drama
now running at that playhouse. Winners’
observations are printed in the “Argus,”
and it is not surprising to find that they
are mainly laudatory. But at least one
struck a different note. After praising
play and players and giving producer
a pat on the back, the writer concluded
with: “The play will continue to arouse
interest until the next great war com-
mences.”
* * * *
“Dhas”: I have a notion that this
craze for books on international affairs
is degenerating from a thirst for infor-
mation to a search for thrills. Visited a
country family the other day and found
Ma with Japan over Asia, daughter with
Guns or Butter, and son with a Norman
Angell; a few years ago, I know, they
read romances and detective novels.
Most people know the important facts
of the international situation, so aren’t
we all simply reading for excitement?
The political books have all the ingredi-
ents of both romance and detective
story: spicy little “personal touches,”
Hitler or Musso for villain, the suspense
of wondering what new dangers are to
be revealed in the next chapter, the
“thrill,” not of a body in the bathroom,
but of all the horrors implied in the
threat of war. If it’s thrilling fiction
that we really want, it’s no wonder that
we’re getting it. The more a book feeds
our jitters, the more there is in it for
the author and the publisher.
* * * *
“D.Y.”: If you want to test a friend’s
knowledge of Sydney Harbor ask him
to name the nine small islands in Port
Jackson. Among my friends seven has
been the highest score, the average being
five. For those who care to play the
silly game here are the nine, commencing
from the eastern end of the harbor:
Shark (one time a quarantine reserve for
stock) and Clark—both picnic resorts ;
Garden, a depot for the Australian Navy ;
Fort Denison (Pinchgut), old-time prison,
then fort, now a lighthouse and fog-signal
station; Goat, a repair depot for the
Maritime Services Board; Cockatoo, a
shipbuilding yard and graving dock;
Spectacle, used for the storage of ex-
plosives by the navy; Schnapper, a
station for sea cadets ; and Rodd, a picnic
resort in Iron Cove, an arm of Parra-
matta River.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: That fine old sea rule
of attending to women and children first
in any emergency is followed also in
“You see, Boss, owing to the world unrest we've got to expedite our rearmament programme !”
general medical practice, but for some-
what different reasons. When simulta-
neous calls of seemingly equal urgency
need attention, kids come first because of
the risk of sudden, dangerous develop-
ments. Some cynic has suggested that the
equally rapid disappearance at times of
ominous symptoms may influence pri-
ority for well-to-do private patients, but
we’re used to cynics. Women of child-
bearing ages come next, partly for simi-
lar reasons, partly because there may be
a lot of fuss and flurry in the spoiled
kind if she thinks that all the resources
of science are not being rushed to her
aid, but you have to watch out for the
under-describing heroine who doesn’t want
to make a song of it, bless (or curse) her
plucky soul. Old people next; although
old bodies are tricky things, they are less
important. Adult men last, unless there’s
a special reason —except, of course, for
hysterical fusspots. Those are really
mental jobs, not g.p. work.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Since the trustees of the Vic.
Nat. Gallery have asked chairman Bell,
of the Tramways, for the first cable tram-
car as an addition to their collection,
two more examples of early methods of
transportation have been made available.
The perfectly preserved heads of two
horses were unearthed at the corner of
King and Collins streets by the P.M.G.’s
workmen. Batman built the first hut
and John Pascoe Fawkner the first pub
in the immediate vicinity, and either may
have ridden the animals. A cow’s skull
was also discovered, and as the trustees
seem interested in historical oddities they
ought to see that the lot are preserved for
the nation.
# * * *
“Nakh”: One out of the scores of
stories that are being told at bushfire
inquests in Victoria: When the flames
swept down on Barongarook, in the
Colac district, John Robinson was at
home with his wife and 10 children in
an isolated holding. When burning
branches began to fall from the trees he
called the family inside, but the house
caught fire and he told them to follow
him outside and to obey him implicitly.
They were walking towards the gate
when the house exploded with a roar
and four of the younger children
panicked, climbed a fence and vanished.
The others showed a disposition to fol-
low, but the father forced them down
on to the ground and kept throwing sand
on them till the worst of the fire had
passed. The four runaways he found
dead on the roadway.
“D.Y.”: The use of the double f at
the beginning of a surname is still affected
by some families in Australia ; Ffrench.
Ffrost and Ffrance have come under my
notice, though I daresay that there are
also a few Ffoulkeses, Ffordes, Ffinches
and Ffennells about. One young lady—she
spelt her surname ffrench —tried to tell
me that the odd spelling marked the
antiquity of her family. Of course, it
means nothing of the kind. It is merely
a wrong use in print of the written form
of capital F, which was in general use,
as a relic of medieval script, up to the
first half of last century. Most legal
documents engrossed 100 years ago will
show that not only proper names but all
other nouns which would have been
printed with an initial F were engrossed
with a letter which looked like two small
f’s intertwined. In fact, the forefather
of every Briton whose name begins with
F to-day wrote his name, if he could
write, with an intertwined “ff,” though
in print it would appear with a single
capital F.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Sir Richard Living-
stone, president of Corpus Christi Col-
lege, Oxford, has expressed his ambition
to re-create the ancient Greek tempera-
ment by crossing a Scot with a Chinese,
He should have consulted the Navy be-
fore he chose his ingredients. The R.N.
had one such hybrid on its supernumerary
staff round the Pearl River (S. China)
during the war. His main exploit was
to collar a pinnace, remove it up the
river, beach it in a quiet corner and then
claim a reward for finding it. And when
charged he showed that he could give
Demosthenes a lot of points as an effec-
tive debater; for he said exactly nothing
at all except a Chinese word of one syl-
lable meaning “No.” The last the Navy
saw of the re-created Athenian was in
the middle of a loud splash as he was
heaved overboard.
* * * #
“Hawkshaw”: Policemen on both sides
of the Tasman have been kept busy lately
investigating the circumstances surround-
ing the presumed death of a Sydney skin-
buyer, one Gordon Robert McKay,
McKay took a trip to M.L. In Auck-
land, so the story runs, he had several
teeth extracted, and decided to recuper-
ate in a little cottage at Piha, a beauti-
ful lonely district which provided
Lamorna Birch, R.A., with some fine land-
scape studies when he was in Fernland re-
cently. One night the cottage caught
fire (McKay was addicted to smoking in
bed). Rescuers couldn’t get in, and the
cottage, with McKay presumably inside
it, was burnt to a cinder. In the debris
were found a toothless skull with a piece
of flesh adhering to it and part of a back-
bone, but very little else. Even thigh-
bones were missing. Later, in the course
of rummaging through cemeteries, the
police found an empty coffin in the
Waikumete graveyard, where McKay’s
presumed remains were buried, and the
arrest of a man who accompanied him
to M.L., on a charge of “improperly in-
terfering with human remains,” followed.
McKay had insured his life for £50,000
(£40,000 in Sydney offices).
* * * *
“D.E.”: At 69 Gandhi is getting old
for fasting, but March 3 found him at
it again in the process of scaring the ruler
of Rajkot, a native State, into granting
reforms said to have been promised. At
2 hours 24 minutes on the fourth day, the
Rajkot potentate capitulated, and Gandhi,
who by that time could neither sleep nor
sip water, reached for a glass of orange
juice. It was made painfully plain that
he couldn’t have gone three weeks with-
out tucker, as he did when he was cham-
pioning the Untouchables; even a week,
such as he used to do on his head, as it
were, might have settled him. I confess
to liking the old boy, than whom a gentler
and more courteous fanatic never refused
curry and/or rice. I like all pacifists
who have the courage of their convic-
tions, the Quakers above all; even “con-
” jf they are of the stuff of which
the late Lord Allen of Hurtwood was
made. It is bellicose pacifists I hate
those unspeakably selfish old men and
women who, safe themselves, would send
myriads of young men to death in hor-
rible forms by way of feeding fat their
political grudges.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: French doctors have
lately celebrated the bicentenary of a
bygone colleague, Joseph Ignace Guil-
lotin. He was a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Paris and a professor of anatomy
there. In 1789 he was elected to the
Constituent Assembly, where he urged
that capital punishment should be quick,
clean and merciful; decapitation by
mechanical means was the decent way.
So came the fashion for the louisette,
later rechristened after the good doctor.
But he didn’t invent “the widow,” nor
did his head fall into her basket, as
many imagine. He passed unscathed
through the Terror, and died in his bed.
A cruder form of instrument had been
used much earlier in France, Germany
and Italy, where it was reserved for
criminals of rank. A Scotch model, “the
maiden,” finished off one of Rizzios
murderers in 1566, and decapitated the
Earl of Argyll in 1685. But Dr. Quil-
lotin did add a few improvements to
the lady.
AFTER CALVERLEY.
“Women are entitled to smoke just as much as
men.’’— liev. 11. Allen at Sydney Methodist Confer-
ence.
Thou whom in pipes we pack
Or in cigars attack,
If you are good for Jack
There isn’t any
Reason that I can see
Why you should fail to be
Accounted equally
As fit for Jenny.
Blest herb, whose work of old
Our Calverley extolled
In verse that gleams like gold
For all who’ve read it,
’Tis meet that maid and datjie
Your solace, too, should claim
Without a word of blame,
Much less discredit.
Out on the Holy Joes
Who would such ban impose!
I class with croaking crows
And crawling lizards
Killjoys who find the sight
Of girls that gaspers light
Grate on their sense of right,
Stick in their gizzards.
Confound their knavish tricks!
I puff it off as nix
But flam and fiddlesticks,
Their sour disfavor.
Tf for a beau ’tis well,
How can it harm a belle
To taste —not merely smell —
A Woodbine’s flavor?
Aught for the gander’s use
Designed, I’ll say the goose
May share without excuse
Where’er they pal in.
An ash-tray is it, Mag?
There’s one beside your bag.
Maud, try another fag.
Here’s to thee, Allen!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Craiser”: A Melbourne sculptor,
passionately interested, like all good
artists, in anything even remotely touch-
ing on his vocation, was dining at the
house of a possible patron. A discussion
arose as to the degree of leverage that
can be exerted by false teeth in com-
parison with real ones. An anatomist
from the University maintained that
everything was in favor of Nature’s
dentures. “Bunkum!” cried the sculp-
tor. “Evidently you don’t know how
to use them.” Then he whipped out
his own uppers and lowers and,
seizing a Brazil nut, placed it between
the artificial molars and gave a demon-
stration. Then he slipped the fangs back
with a complete absence of self-conscious-
ness.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne version
of the man-bit-dog story being news. A
suburban householder acquired a Great
Dane, an enormous beast which measured
six feet when fully extended. Although
of an amiable disposition the hound had
a playful habit of rearing up and putting
his forepaws on individuals whenever
he felt a gush of affection for them, and
this trick was encouraged by his mistress.
The dog took a particular fancy to the
baker, a little man, and on one or two
occasions his demonstrations of affection
bore the baker to the ground, a spec-
tacle which amused the lady but filled
the baker with unspeakable humiliation.
One morning the tradesman was making
his departure with one eye on the de-
monstrative animal when it suddenly
leaped towards him. He jumped quickly
through the gate and closed it behind
him and the dog was left embracing the
topmost railing. With a look of absolute
hatred in his eyes the little baker turned
and buried his teeth in one of the
creature’s forepaws.
sic * sfc
“Lord Luvus”: It is one of the
penalties of royalty that it has to be
a stickler for tradition, wherefore on
state occasions kings and queens and
princes are to be seen being carried about
in archaic conveyances. The Federal
Railways Commissioners evidently in-
tend to follow precedent, and a new
State carriage is not to be built for the
Duke and Duchess. The most suitable
car, according to Commissioner N. C.
Harris, is the one used some years ago
by the present King and Queen and
later by the Duke of Gloucester. Un-
fortunately, he remarks, it isn’t air-
conditioned.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: My jolly old Sydney
“D.T.” showed me last week “Franco’s
bombing ’planes dropping a
deadly cargo in Catalonia.
Newest devices in aerial war-
fare have been tested during
the Spanish conflict.” Too
right, they’re the newest, and
the “D.T.” had a large pic-
ture to prove it. Several
thousand feet down below
there seems to be an oil-well
fire in progress. Up above
there are a couple of bom-
bers. Between them and the
earth are four of the “newest
devices.” They are not
bombs. They appear to be
old-fashioned naval shells
without any fins to keep them
straight. They have the
peculiar quality of being all
about the same size, no
matter how far they are from
the camera. I have had a
royal commission sitting on
them. Its verdict is (1)
that they are the most
peculiar aerial bombs it has ever seen,
and apparently were designed as a first
experiment by a schoolgirl; (2) one of
them must be 12ft. long and weigh two
“Well, a cove back there tol' me this is a short cut to the jetty!”
tons or so ; (3) an aeroplane of the size
depicted as dropping them would have
as much chance of emitting them as the
editor of the “D.T.” would have of
spitting out a blacksmith’s anvil.
“Billy See”: Never give up artificial
respiration on the apparently drowned
until rigor mortis has set in. Recently
a 10-year-old youngster was lifted out of
a Perth swamp, having been under water
for well over 15 minutes. Apparently
beyond hope, he was worked over by
three policemen for an hour. Now he
is walking about full of life again. Any-
way, does anyone ever stand a moment
and contemplate the average Australian
copper? In addition to arresting drunks,
hooligans, burglars, murderers, he con-
trols the traffic, collects statistics, even to
the number of fowls in one’s backyard,
looks after stolen property and missing
persons, has a knowledge of boxing,
jiu-jitsu and wrestling. And on top of
all that, and a lot more, he is capable
of rendering first-aid —right to taking off
his coat and restoring to life the kid who
as a very first item of his education
should have been taught to swim or,
conversely, not to get himself drowned.
* * * *
“Pawang”: During the great heafi
wave in Victoria, State school children
were kept cooped up at their desks, where
they fell asleep from sheer boredom and
misery. Requests to the Education De-
partment to allow the kids to go home
early on such occasions have met with
an unsympathetic reception. When 1 was
under the department’s jurisdiction as a
boy I used to view with the utmost
horror the prospect of spending a day
in one of their institutions during a heat-
wave. But I knew how to get out of it
without suffering any of the consequences
laid down by the department. I would
fill my mouth with soap until it foamed
in a realistic manner. Then I would go
into the woodshed and whirl round and
round for half a minute. By that time
I was in extremis, and I would stagger
indoors and collapse on a sofa. My
mother would tell me that I had better
not go to school that morning. So all
the department’s regulations did was to
turn me into a malingerer.
¥ * * *
“Van D.”: Statement that the Dutch
are not interested in Australia (B.
1/3/’39) requires rebuttal. I was in
Hobart during the regatta festivities, and
simultaneously some broadcasting stations
in Holland were disseminating informa-
tion about the attractions of Tasmania
from the tourist’s standpoint, so much
better than the local propaganda that it
brought at least one visitor from Mel-
bourne to the island State. Incidentally,
the Dutch are to be represented at the
gala festivities when Tasmania celebrates
its bicentenary in a few years’ time. And
the festivities will celebrate the Dutch
discovery of the island.
# * * *
“Kerys”: I joined my neighbor Binks
yesterday in the 8.30 a.m. rush for the
train, and discovered him poring over the
“Lost and Found” column in his morn-
ing paper. As it had been the same for
“Wed better catch this one, ducky, or Well be late for the business
girls' luncheon.”
the last three mornings, I made discreet
inquiries. Binks was ready to unburden ;
the matter was getting him down. For
months he had been nagging at Mrs.
Binks to get the clasp of her bag mended,
but she retorted that she carried it under
her arm and nobody could get at her
purse inside. So when Binks saw her in
town one lunch-time staring at an autumn
show, so engrossed that her bag hung
open on her arm, he decided to give her
a lesson. Abstracting the purse, he sped
away. That night he waited for his wife
to mention her loss, so that he might
point the moral and, after his homily,
hand back the £3 Is. She made no
mention of any loss. “Ha,” thought
Binks triumphantly, “won’t tell me be-
cause she knows what I’ll say. I’ll soon
end that.” He asked for change of six-
pence. Mrs. Binks arose, went to the
bedroom, brought back her bag, took
out her purse and counted out the change.
“And what I want to know now,” said
the unhappy Binks, “is whose purse did
I steal?”
* * * *
“E.D.”: Somebody in the Sydney
tree-planting department seems to have
read “Aldermen Prefer Elms” (B.
28/12/’3B). The latest decorations in
Bent-street are good old Australian
wheel-trees, which have a more decora-
tive and complicated foliage than the
oak, and boles which twist into attractive
leannesses. For the location, as the
Yanks would say, there could be no
better choice. When the trees send out
their scarlet flags of blossom in the
autumn every Communist on his way to
the Domain of a Sunday will feel bound
to raise his fist in salute. And as the
windows of the select Australian Club
will be in the background, he will be
able to enjoy the satisfaction of shaking
his clenched mitt towards them in dis-
approval of the hated capitalist, with such
good excuse that no Court will convict
him of insulting behavior. Perhaps the
club committee will counter by planting
jasmine in window-boxes and jacarandas
between the stenocarps, so that any
Leninist who salutes will have to include
all the colors of the Union Jack in his
homage.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Ever notice that the ice-
cream cones which the boy brings round
during the picture intervals don’t melt or
get sloppy, even on the hottest nights?
There is no sign of ice in his tray, and to
keep his stock as cool as he does he’d
have to carry round at least a couple of
large blocks of ordinary ice. A pound
or so of “dry ice,” packed in the tray
bottom, does the job far better. Weight
for weight it produces more than 15
times the cooling effect, and instead of
melting into water it evaporates into gas.
It really is solidified carbon dioxide,
known commercially as drikold, and is
being used to a rapidly increasing extent
for keeping foods cold in trains and
’planes on long journeys. Recent develop-
ments suggest that before very long it
will supplant the ordinary domestic ice-
chest to a far greater degree than have
the household machines for home pro-
duction of food-cooilh.
A MOOT QUESTION.
I know a handsaw from a hawk;
I trust I can distinguish bees
From bovine hooves, and also chalk
From cheese.
Pinkie I’ll undertake to tell
From port, and any amber cheer
That aerated-drink shops sell
From beer.
The well of English undefiled
I know from Gaelic and Erse,
And poetry from what is styled
Free verse.
In short, I’ve various ways and means
By which I think I could contrive
To tell you straight how many beans
Make five.
Yet, ’twixt some things, I here record,
’Twould puzzle brighter brains than mine
To definitely fix the bord-
Er line.
Our cricket champs, whose skill ensures
From year to year that they’ll be chose
To star on glittering English tours —
How queer it is that no one knows
Whether to deem them amateurs
Or pros.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
&
El 868
CRAVENA
so
10 for *°
20 for 1/6
E
TO PIE V E N T
imin
SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
Cabinet, determined to hold its Can-
berra meetings “in strict secrecy,” sent
“technicians” to prepare the basement.
Special telephones were put in and
“elaborate acoustics arrangements” made
for Mr. Hughes. “Windows were
cleaned,” and a fountain “temporarily
cut off.” Reporters stood by, prepared
to record escapes and resignations ; but
when this was written nothing of the
kind had happened.
Still cherishing the illusion that it has
“given Australia leadership,” Sydney
“D.T.” warns Cameron, the P.M.G.,
what to expect if he seriously annoys
it — i.e., “downfall”:
It happened to Mr. Paterson when he
was Minister of the Interior.
Which recalls that the “D.T.” tried to
push Paterson out of politics, and
Spooner, the Sydney Minister, too.
Spooner’s electorate is Ryde, and he beat
the “D.T.” ticket out of sight. Pater-
son’s majority in Gippsland (47,552 effec-
tive votes) was 10,586.
Wagging its collective jaw at Mel-
bourne, the A.C.T.U. Congress de-
nounced compulsory unionism as “un-
democratic in principle.”
Any element of compulsion is an infringe-
ment of personal liberty.
And so it is. But —our mistake! —it was
compulsory training for the defence of
the nation that was denounced.
Heffron Labor’s only hope in the
Hurstville by-election is to keep Com-
munists out of the picture; but they
won’t be kept out. Their “Workers’
Weekly” assures all and sundry that “all
progressives in Hurstville will vote for a
‘new deal’ for the Labor movement,
for Evatt as against the Lang group.”
The issue in which that appears is
adorned with pictures of two grinning
Asiatic ladies (“Tadjik women freed by
Soviet power”), of “Red Guards storm-
ing the Winter Palace, Nov. 7, 1917,”
and of “ice-hockey champs, in action —
four members of the Bourivestnik Club
in Moscow.”
From one of the loudspeakers which
have half maddened Hurstville issued
a shrill voice bespeaking votes for the
Heffron Labor man, on the ground that
he would champion the workless young
man. It belonged to a 15-year-old girl.
A rather silly stunt. Young men are
without jobs because young women have
them.
Just when the periodical potato famine
was about to be relieved by huge sup-
plies from Tasmania, and when Maori-
land murphies were £l2 a ton, with no
possibility of immediate shipments, the
Lyons Government lifted the embargo
on Maoriland murphies for a month.
How characteristic of the Lyons Govern-
ment!
Australian military districts are to be
reduced from six to four, with “an in-
dependent fifth command” at Darwin.
In the process Victoria and Tasmania
will be placed under one command.
“Modern requirements,” it is explained,
“necessitate the elimination of State
boundaries.” Very true, and it applies
to the government of Australia as well
as to army organisation.
The Sydney Government is awarding
itself great credit for having made com-
pany charges, Is. flagfall and 6d. a mile,
general in the city taxi business. Since
Yellow Cabs introduced them they have
declared handsome dividends. On a
minority of private owners reduction has
been forced by regulation. During the
same week the Government’s own rail-
way fares were raised all round. It was
given out that the increase would be
10 p.c., but—to quote only two examples
—penny fares have been doubled, and
for tuppenny rides threepence has been
charged. Another ha’penny would have
been enough in each case, but the
almighty department scorns ha’penny
fares —ha’pennies are such a nuisance to
handle.
“If Senator Keane leads the march,
and leaves his gold pass at home, we
“The reason why Mr. Stevens has been able to hold together two schools of political
thought—the U.A.P. and the U.C.P.—is his innate sense of fairness.”— N.S.W. Country
party Minister Drummond, at the presentation of an oil painting to Premier Stevens.
“Held ’em together, my foot! What about me ?”
will all be behind him,” remarked the
secretary of the central unemployed com-
mittee in Melbourne, apropos of that
gentleman’s suggestion that the unem-
ployed should organise a hunger march
on Canberra. It is now up to the heavy-
weight Senator.
Another newspaper hero has fallen—
Negrin, the Premier of Red Spain.
Pausing in his flight to France, this idol
of the Stunt Press gave the Communist
salute to his stricken land. He stole back
to Madrid by ’plane, but last week the
Madrid radio station announced that
Negrin’s Government had become “ex”
because of his “vacillation” (where have
we heard that word before?) and because
his “morbid” plan was “the salvation of
Spain through an international war.”
Heaps of British and American intellec-
tuals and Popular Front politicians, many
of whom call themselves Labor, were
willing to give the exploded nuisance
his international war.
Paddy Lynch, who nine months ago
took a dignified farewell of public life,
being about to retire from the Senate, js
trying to push Willcock, the Westralian
Labor Premier, out of the Geraldton seat.
He owns a farm not far away, and
Geraldton was not always Labor ; more-
over, Lynch has always had a following
among the workers. But at his age —
just on 72 —they don’t come back.
Melbourne “Age” recalls with a sigh
that Commonwealth Ministers once
“eagerly sought opportunities to meet
the people in public assembly in order
to tell them what was legislatively in
prospect, and why.” Nowadays they
rarely address meetings, though some of
them are keen on writing newspaper
articles about their free trips abroad.
In both respects they are imitated by
State Ministers. Even two-a-penny
Assemblymen perpetrate acres of articles
on their travels, and presumably expect
to be paid.
It is a million to one that “S. M.
Herald” never heard till recently of the
Austrian Jew who has been given a job
on the so-called County Council’s en-
gineering staff, although the g.m. admits
that “there were Australians qualified to
fill the position,” and it is a thousand
to one that Granny couldn’t of her own
knowledge tell whether he was a genius
or a dud. But the old girl is sure that
“the council was fortunate to secure for
a minor post an engineer so skilled as
Dr. Deisendorf,” and is convinced that
“it would be worse than stupidity to
debar” alien refugees “from official or
other appointments.” The ancient dame
has forgotten that soldier-preference is
N.S.W. law.
Gardiner, the Sydney County Council-
lor who a while ago talked insolently of
smashing soldier-preference on his show,
voted in effect for the refugee appoint-
ment, but salved his conscience or some-
thing by moving that, “in the opinion
of this council,” qualified Australians
should get preference over foreign appli-
cants. This was “carried unanimously,”
but the appointment stands.
Reds and Pinks from the Sydney Labor
Council dominated the “All-Australia
Trade-Union Congress,” with which the
greatest Australian union, the A.W.U.,
would have nothing to do. They are
not going to “collaborate with the
plan of defence formulated by the
Federal Ministry,” because said Minis-
try believes in “appeasement” and Mos-
cow hates it. With Red and Pink per-
mission, Australia is to have an army,
to be recruited somehow, but it must
“co-operate with other peaceful nations”
(particularly Russia, Mexico and China)
“and with the working classes of all
countries to resist aggression.” The de-
bate ended on a note struck by a Syd-
ney Trades Hall windbag—“ Australia is
being defended to-day on the battlefields
of China.” Trotsky blithered that first.
Christianising of refugee Jews was
seriously debated at the Methodist Con-
ference in Sydney, and in spite of the
Rabbi’s spirited protest the principal of
St. Andrew’s College returned to the
subject, saying “it is our Christian duty
to make the pagan Jew religious and
the religious Jew Christian.”
When a Jew gives all his religious en-
thusiasm to something outside the syna-
gogue, to Communism and the disintegra-
tion of civilisation, as in Russia, he be-
comes a menace.
But wouldn’t it be much better for the
country to keep out that sort of Jew
and heave out such as creep in? If
Methodists are still interested in con-
verting them they might send mission-
aries to Russia.
According to Minister McEwen, who
gave a pledge that the refugees his
Government is admitting by the ship-
load would not congregate in cities,
“officers of” his “department” are “con-
stantly engaged in ensuring that there
is no aggregation of aliens in any one
particular district.” Then they must go
about King’s Cross and Bondi blindfold.
Dunstan’s Government is foursquare
behind the National Fitness Campaign.
The geometrical expression is apt, but it
is not foursquare with a published asser-
tion that in one State school 73 pupils,
from the kindergarten infant to the
eighth-grade scholar, are all cooped up
in one room ; and that in the hottest
summer on record. Perhaps Dunstan’s
Government believes in making ’em
tough.
- “De Facto,” from Canberra:
The Commonwealth has turned two corners
in migration. For January, arrivals of British
migrants exceeded departures, and the influx
of refugees from Germany put them at the
head of the migrant list. While Australia
gained on balance 295 British for the month,
the German refugees jumped to 473. As the
flow seems to be increasing, it looks as if
Australia’s share for the next three years will
be well above the 15,000 limit. As for British,
they were still down 296 for the 12 months to
January 31, during which there were 869
immigrants from Poland. This may be the
forerunner of a big movement.


A HELPING HAND.
“ ‘Be Kind to Animals Week’ officially opened in New South Wales on Monday.”


SECURITY FOR ,
YOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies*
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
GOLD AND STERLING
FEDERAL LOAN FAILURE
GOLD AND EASTERN TIN NOTES
FINANCIAL REVIEWS AND SHAREMARKET
PROSPECTS
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
TeVol t/
Don’t let your life be dominated
by pestilential flics and otlier
insects— destroy them utterly
with Inseetibane . . . the'
powder that positively cannot
fail. Safe and non-irritating:,
unable to stain or taint,
INSECTIBANE is the ideal
weapon for eliminating: insect
pests. Sold by chemists and
stores everywhere; just say
“Inseetibane.” Just what you’ve
always wanted -is the new
Inseetibane Applicator ... it
spreads the powder wherever
you want it. Ask to see this
gets better results!
INSECTIBANE
PERSONAL ITEMS
John Greig Latham, C.J., elected to the
Chancellorship of Melbourne University
in succession to the veteran James
Barrett, was nominated by his predecessor
in the office. Latham is 62. Barrett is
77, and is a distinguished physician.
Leslie V. Waterhouse, born in a Syd-
ney suburb 53 years ago, is a mining engi-
neer who has found that the game pays
good divs. if properly handled. He is
a director of Placer Development and its
chief subsidiary, Bulolo Gold Dredging,
names almost sacred in Stock Exchange
circles ; some of the Australian offshoots,
Rutherglen Gold Dumps and Gold
Dumps Pty., winning profits out of the
slimes that old-time plants left, receive
L. V. WATERHOUSE.
Waterhouse’s most active attention. He
is interested in golf and racing, is an
owner, and takes a movie camera with
him when travelling.
John Walker Davidson, dead in Bris-
bane at 66, exactly a year after retire-
ment from the Queensland Commis-
sionership of Railways, was one of the
ablest and most experienced railway men
in Australia. Glasgow-born, he came to
Queensland in 1890 after some American
railway experience, and began as a junior
traffic clerk. In 1918, then Traffic Supt.
for the State, he was detailed for study
of railway developments in Britain and
the U.S.A., and soon after his return
succeeded the late Col. Evans as Com-
missioner. During his 20 years in that
difficult post his administrative ability
was demonstrated by the success with
which he handled industrial disputes, his
personality and integrity by successive
reappointments and the good opinion in
which the rank and file of his subordi-
nates held him.
H. A. M. Campbell has succeeded L. V.
Biggs as editor of the “Age.” He is a
Westralian, and, going from the “Daily
News” into the A.1.F., he got an MjM.
at Villers-Bret. Contemporaries in the
Perth branch of the A.J.A. before the
war were Roy Curthoys, who became
editor of the “Argus” ; a “Sunday Times”
man, now editor of The Bulletin, and
Jack Curtin, editor of the “Worker”
then, now the leader of Federal Labor,
with an odds-on chance of becoming
Prime Minister.
Australia’s Stanley Melbourne Bruce
and Queensland’s Harry of that ilk dis-
covered some curious mutual coinci-
dences during a recent meeting in Bris-
bane. Both are Victorian-born, S.M. in
1883, H. in 1884. Both went to school
in Melbourne, S.M. at Melbourne Gram-
mar, H. at Haileybury College. Both
achieved athletic fame at school, and
later on carried it further, S.M. as a Cam-
bridge rowing blue and H. as a fine ama-
teur boxer. Both entered politics and
attained Cabinet rank, S.M. as Treasurer
and later Prime Minister, H. as Minister
for Public Instruction and Works in the
Forgan Smith Government. And the
maiden name of the wife of each was
Anderson.
Henry Mayo Bateman, whose humor-
ous drawings have been a feature of
London periodicals for the last 30 years,
is revisiting Australia, the land of his
birth. He was born at Moss Vale,
N. S. Wales, 51 years ago, but his
parents migrated to England when
he was two, so he has little recol-
lection of eucalypted cloisterdoms.
He took to art as soon as he could
hold a pencil, and studied assidu-
ously in London art schools and
under C. von Havenmaet for years.
He found his metier early in the
century, and from 1906 onwards
has seldom had a drawing rejected.
He is in Sydney to see the police
enact his cartoon “The Guardsman
Who Dropped It” at their carnival.
Robert Ormsby Martin, just
appointed acting-assistant lecturer
in English at the New England
University College, Armidale, is
one of seven Ormsby Martins. Like
himself, his father, L. O. Martin,
Minister for Justice in the Stevens
Cabinet, and most of his brothers
are graduates of the University of
Sydney. R. O. Martin’s departure for
Armidale will leave a vacancy in the
job of secretary of the study groups of
the Australian Institute of International
Affairs, a body for
which the Ormsby
Martins have done
much.
Passed away sud-
denly at Palm Beach
(N.S.W.), Frank Rich-
ard, who was metal-
lurgist at Mt. Morgan
(Q.) for many years,
and erected and con-
trolled W.A.’s first
smelter furnace. There
he produced the first
blister copper in that
State. He located silica
deposits at Ulladulla
(N.S.W.), and estab-
lished, in conjunction
with the Moore Gov-
ernment, the first fire-
clay pottery in Queens-
land at Dinmore,
making large articles
not hitherto attempted
in Australia. His father
was a mine manager,
and a brother, George
Richard, was g.m. at
Mount Morgan for a
quarter of a century.
Sixty-six at the end.
Armidale (N.S.W.)
University College gets
a good head for its
chemistry department in T. B. Swanson,
M.Sc., of Adelaide University. He has
done much research there, and shares
with Prof. Macbeth authorship of
brochures on the constituents of eucalyp-
tus oil and kindred subjects.
Passed over in Auckland recently, at
70, George Henry Wilson, one of the
pioneers of direct trading between M.L.
and Canada. Born in Bradford, he had
16 years of business experience in
Toronto before arriving in M.L. in 1908
as representative of Wilson, Canham and
Co., of which firm he was
the founder, to arrange the
first shipment of wool, meat
and other produce to
Canada. His firm estab-
lished 13 branches in M.L.,
and in 1916 he decided to
take up his residence in
Dunedin, moving later to
Auckland. Patriotic ser-
vices during the Great War
and many years’ member-
ship of local bodies earned
him a knighthood in 1934.
“C.Q.”: At the exhibition
of the lifework of Bernard
Hall in Melbourne, Arthur
Streeton commented on the
late Gallery director’s com-
plete integrity of purpose.
Naturally he didn’t mention
his total lack of a sense of
humor. On one occasion
Hall remarked in passing to
a student, anent an addition
to the Gallery’s collection:
“What do you think of the new Land-
seer, Mr. X?” “Not bad,” said the
student. “I’m told it does about 30
miles to the gallon.” “That young man
doesn’t seem to understand a thing I say
to him,” said Hall.
Although The Bulletin saw the brand
of the coming man on Archie Galbraith
Cameron before he had been a month
at Canberra, it never met him until last
week, when Frith made the model of him
here reproduced. His determined face is
set on a powerful frame, and the eyes he
flashes on the other party to a conver-
sation are steely-blue. Unlike some other
Scots and Scots-Australians who have
made their mark in public life, Cameron
is quick on the uptake, and his unfalter-
ing decisions are made swiftly. And he
can really converse and think with the
other party instead of heaving speeches
at him as so many politicians do.
THE CAMERON MAN ,
(Modelled by Frith.)
Cameron was a 27th Battalion Digger.
Member for Barker (S.A.), and returned
with a 15,000 majority at the last elec-
tion, he is Postmaster-General and will
go higher. Even the two Sydney Labor
factions allow that he may become
Prime Minister. If he does, he will make
heaps of enemies, but he will do things,
An old friend’s farewell:
A rare jester and jingler was “Dryblower”
Murphy, of the Westralian “Sunday Times,”
who died in Perth last Thursday in his 72nd
year. A Victorian, born in Castlemaine,
E. G. MURPHY.
Murphy was one of the early birds on Cool-
gardie, but, though he dabbled a bit in mining,
he soon recognised, as presently did all West-
ralia, that writing was his proper calling. For
44 years, with few breaks, he turned out topical
verses and humorous pars., anecdotes and
sketches—first for Billy Clare’s Coolgardie
“Miner,” then for the Kalgoorlie “Sun,” and
from 1900 onwards for the “Sunday Times.”
In quality as well as quantity his output was
astonishing. He made two generations of
Westralians laugh. Now and then he stirred
deeper emotions, with verses such as “My Son”
—a war poem which was reprinted many
times —and “Little Drudges.”
He had a talent for music as well. Before
going West he had sung tenor in the chorus
of a Gilbert-and-Sullivan co., and. when the
U.S. battleships came to Australia in 1908 he
wrote the words and music of “We’ve Got a
Big Brother in America.” J. C. Williamson
bought the thing, had it altered—for the worse
—to “This Bit o’ the World Belongs to Us,”
and made a hit with it. “The Five-starred
Flag,” a much more rousing national song
than “Advance Australia Money” or “Aus-tray-
le-ah,” was another of Murphy’s composi-
tions.
Low’s sketch gives a perfect idea of the man
as he looked in his office. Though 23 years
have elapsed since it was made, Murphy
changed little in appearance—except that he
sacrificed his mo. —and not at all in manner.
He remained young in everything but years,
and was a peerless raconteur to the end.
He could have made a higher and wider repu-
tation had he been ambitious; but he liked his
job, loved the West and its people and was
content with his meed of fame.
Dead in Charters Towers (N.Q.), W. J.
Wellington, the local member since 1915.
An Adelong (N.S.W.) boy, he lost a leg
in his youth, but this did not prevent his
becoming a senior official of the Asso-
ciated Workers’ Union (now A.W.U.)
before he reached his majority. Welling-
ton was a model rank-and-file M.L.A.
—he rarely spoke except when his elec-
torate was affected and never made long
speeches about nothing. He has left his
mark on miners’ phthisis legislation.
George Bernard Shaw appears a baby
alongside Dr. Charles Strong, the G.O.M.
of Melbourne parsons. He founded the
Australian Church, an undenominational
affair, half a century ago, and it is still
a one-man, one-church religion, its only
conventicle being in Russell-street, hard by
the State Theatre, where its only pastor
conducts two services on Sunday and
edits a monthly magazine with a world-
wide circulation. Dr. Strong is a regu-
lar daily swimmer when he can get near
the water, and when he can’t he climbs
mountains. He will be 95 next birthday.
Bruce Montgomerie, C. of E. parson
in one of Adelaide’s poorer districts,
where he has done fine practical relief-
work with clothing, and especially food
for children —some £lO,OOO worth in
seven years—is moving to St. Matthew’s
at Prahran (Vic.).


2st
m
X SSs
Sp&ifii
illitt
JpC**
r<*^
30
i
m
X
JLxdath - *Ae Super Quality
Cigarette _
—blended from the finest tobaccos Virginia grows
66
CHANGE OVER TO
AHDATH SPECIALS
ff
Now in TINS of 20 for 1 7 6. Also Loube boxes 10 for 9d„ flat and round fifties and 100‘s.
£
4158-3.9


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “Life is full of surprises fer
some chaps,” remarked Dan. “Me an’
a mate pitched camp one evenin’ under
a bridge near a cocky’s place. Me mate
wus a youngish, good-lookin’ bloke, a
bit of a dasher with the wimmen, so he
reckoned. While I set about fixin’ up
the camp fer the night me mate offered
to go up to the cocky’s place an’ see if
he could wangle a handout. Sorta skite
on his part, it was ; reckoned he cud put
it over with the wimmenfolk better than
me. It suited me, anyway, an’ orf he
trots. Shortly he
comes tear i n’
back, scared
lookin’ to hell,
with his eyes stickin’
out like ’atpegs.
‘Cripes!’ he pants.
‘Let’s get outa here,
quick.’ ‘What the
devil’s up?’ I asks.
He points towards the
farmhouse. ‘I go up
there,’ he ses, ‘an’
butt inter a helluva
row between the
cocky an’ his missus.
I look through the
kitchen winder, an’ there she is, a
big, hefty young piece, beltin’ hell outa
her old bloke with a stick. An’ she’s
tellin’ him with each crack she give him
she oughter married some other bloke
she wus engaged to before she hitched
up with him, on’y he’d bolted an’ left
her in the lurch. By cripes! she’s a
holy terror.’ ‘But, dammit all, whatcher
so shook up about it for?’ I ses. ‘She
didn’t take to you, did she?’ He gives
a shiver. ‘No,’ he ses, ‘it’s jest as well
she didn’t spot me, or she would have;
I’m the bloke she wus tellin’ her ole
man about! ’ ”
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: An old chap in our Vic.
district who owns a two-roomed hut has
struck a new note in decoration by paper-
ing his dwelling with cards acquired
during many years of euchre-playing.
The walls of the “best room” are covered
by unused cards running from two to
six, while the remainder of the decks,
the much-thumbed euchre packs, have
been kept for the kitchen.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: A curious inland sight
is the floating silk that lifts in clouds
from the boonti bushes. These dry-
interior shrubs are often thickly infested
with a native silkworm, which spins a
soft, white, silky web. Sometimes bushes
are completely covered and look as if
they are draped with snow. When the
webs break away in a strong wind they
float in the air in masses and streamers ;
while low they drape passing cattle and
horses and riders. But great quantities
carried high are borne over hundreds of
miles of country. Masses of the soft
silk, blown from ihe Lake Frome dis-
trict on the border of S.A., have lodged
in the N.S.W. Riverina, whitening trees
and grass for miles.
* * * *
“Jay Fuller”: “B’gurra’s” muddy
water that unexpectedly became clear
(B. I/ 3 / ’39) was due to a deposit
of bushfire ash carried by the wind. In
outback Q. I’ve drunk clear water out
of a tank containing a souplike liquid.
The cook simply got a couple of bucket-
fuls, added coals from the fire and let
stand for a day or two. Result, water
as clear as you can get it with a heavy
layer of silt at the bottom.
V
“Tired Tim”: On spotting the tail-
end of a snake disappearing into a mouse-
hole in a corner of the hut, don’t shut
the door or gloat prematurely as you
pour the boiling water down. I know
a chap who did both. Considerably
underdone, young Blake emerged and
led off with a straight jab to the chin.
For a couple of brisk rounds the bout
was a sporting even-money event.
* * * *
“Botono”: The hole in “Dingo’s”
theory about trees growing on seemingly
“ Ain't you seen a face like that somewhere, Aggie ?”
so ii d rocky outcrops and there dissolv-
j ng holes by means of acid exuded from
rC ot-tips (B. 15/2/’39) lies in the “seem-
ingly-solid.” On an absolutely solid out-
crop nothing grows—as witness the bald-
ness Q f the granite “skulls” that decorate
spots in the W.A. deserts. Planting a
crop of grapevines on a half-acre, a foot
Q f loam covering a capstone that rang
like a bell, I found that not a dozen sur-
vived. And that dozen, I learned by
careful digging, had in some remarkable
way sent out exploratory roots which
some instinct had guided to tiny cracks
a nd m inute holes that permitted descent
0 a so ft er sandstone and thence down
20ft. or so to water. But where there
were no cracks the vines perished, their
roo ts evidently having no acid capable
Q £ dissolving the comparatively easily
soluble limestone
* *' * *
“A.R.”: Convalescing in Cue Hospital
(W.A.), I was resting on a bed near the
angle 0 f t he verandah, idly watching a
large redback which had spread its web
across the corner. Suddenly the spider
slipped off the web to the ground and
began grappling with a 6in. brown snake,
a battle royal followed, but the striped
one’s superior venom won the day. Next
day Young Joe’s empty skin was hanging
j n t h e W eb.
* * * *
“Brolga”: Knowalls in dietetics visit-
ing N.Q. rarely fail to impress upon the
locals the disastrous consequences of a
long-continued heavy meat-and-pudding
diet in the tropics. The lettuce-eater
having had his say, the northerner doing
heavy manual work stubbornly keeps on
chewing beef. Some woodcutters I know
here at Almaden are cutting three cords
of 6ft. wood a day. With the tempera-
ture round a hundred in the waterbag
and the only wood available giant cross-
grained ironbark, this takes some doing,
as any timberman will know. And ask
the boardinghouse-keeper if they don t
go for the meat and pudding! Anybody
who says that you can do hard yakka,
tropics or no tropics, on things like
bananas, lettuce and nuts is nuts.*
£tTT * „* A •* •
“Hopalong : Arsenic pen ox de is
used extensively in our S,Q. district for
preventing suckermg after ringbarking.
One cocky s order to our storekeeper
read: “A quid s worth ot anti-toxin for
suckers.* * * *
“Asdfg”: Aboliars frequently refer to
the “destructiveness” of the mistletoe,
The late Albert Morris, of Broken Hill
(N.S.W.), said the mistletoe did not
destroy, and, more, that it gave some-
thing to the tree rather than took
life from it. If you want to know
who Morris was-he had, in his spaci-
ous backyard, growing under natural
conditions, a greater herbarium than the
S.A. Waite Research Institute, and his
advice on soil erosion had been accepted
and acted upon in faraway Arizona.
I was with Morris when he shut up a
State director of agriculture, here to
study soil erosion, who was foolish
enough to challenge him on the point.
Morris was able to point to a tree carry-
ing a heavy growth of mistletoe on his
own property, and refer to others out-
back which he had had under observa-
tion for years, none of them showing
signs of distress from feeding the parasite.
It is disease that kills trees, not mistletoe.
* * 5*5 *
“Tra-Binna”: It is strange that of the
two “petrified” aborigines that have been
discovered in Australia neither has sur-
vived to the present day. The first, found
in the Upper Murray district in 1854,
was said to have been in a perfect state
of preservation. A travelling hawker
took it to Sydney and there exhibited it.
After some time it was sent to England,
but the ship was lost on the way. The
second was found in the Naracoorte
caves in S.A.’s south-east. While being
exhibited in Adelaide it was stolen, and,
apart from a rumor that it was some
time later on exhibited in a London shop
window, nothing has ever been heard
of it.
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: “We’re shearin’ at - a shed
in n.-w. Q. once,” said Bill, “and it’s
pretty hot, and the sheep are tough. One
day there’s a bit uv a scud comes over
just on the knock-off whistle —erbout two
points. After tea me an’ er coupla mates
goes down to ther dam to look fer frogs.
While we’re there we sees the boss watch-
in’ us, but he don’t say. nothin’. Next
mornin’ we ’as a vote, an’ it’s twenty-
three wet, ten dry. I’m rep., an’ after
we counts ther votes ther boss says “I
sighed on thirty-three shearers, and now
I’ve got ten. Yes,’ he goes on, bitter-
like, ‘ten shearers, ten poker-players, ten
fishermen and three blanky bait-getters.’ ”
* * * *
“Bluey”: We were playing with old
Possum, the retired sheep-dog. One of
the games was to blindfold the old fellow,
wrap rope or rag round his belly, remove
the fold and let him go. Though it was
childishly simple, he enjoyed it. As soon
as he was up he’d twist himself around,
tear the knot with his teeth, go through
hoops and turn over backwards in his
efforts to free himself. Then he’d come
up smiling and wait for the thing to be
done again. And once when he was
blindfolded one of the men wrapped a
shed skin of a carpet snake about the
old boy. It was done artistically, and
Possum entered into the fun of it, or
did till his eyes were free. As soon as
he saw that thing he shivered in great
tremors, his eyes started, his mouth
gaped. But it was momentary. In the
next flick that old dog displayed an
activity we’d thought he’d shed years
before. He didn’t play when he rid him-
self of that skin: he shook it, ripped
it to small pieces, went mad in his rage
as he tore at it. The old dog may have
been too tired to play any more after
that. By the look in his eyes as he turned
from us to go away I think he sent a
message that made all of us feel mean.
* * * *
“Flight”: What’s wrong with the pee-
wee that it isn’t nominated in the duet
stakes where male and female do the
complete cry? The rooster fellow —dis-
tinguished by his black bib —starts the
call by shrieking “P’wee.” He’ll throw
all he has into it, and just when he’s
about at the end of his cable the missus
will spread her wings, swell her throat,
jerk spasmodically and take up the run-
ning with a liquid and deep-sounding
“P’woo.” Timing is perfect, and it
sounds like one bird doing his stuff till
a man takes careful note.
* * * *
“Yungabutta”: For downright dam-
foolishness combined with patient per-
sistency, I hand it to a pair of minahs
which decided to set up housekeeping at
Yungaburra (Q.). Selecting the feed-
pipe of the railway watering-tank as hav-
ing all the requirements for the nuptial
nest, they vainly tried throughout the
nesting season to prepare the home for
the arrival of the stork. Twice a week
the mixed goods carried away their com-
munal effort into the tank of the engine,
but the minahs didn’t seem to mind, and
each washout found them busily rebuild-
ing. Instinct over reason?
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: I award the belt to
snapper for the gamest prowlers of the
ocean floor. Assisting “Tup” Hackett
from the Cape Jaffa (S.A.) fishing camp
to lift a set of two dozen craypots from
beside the surf-washed Margret Brock
reef, each day we hauled aboard his
stout cutter four or five octopuses that
had swum into the traps to eat the crays.
One day we brought a pot on deck that
held, besides the usual heap of shells
that once were crayfish, a dead octo. and
two very live 121b. snapper. How those
fish manoeuvred through the narrow
funnel and grappled with the tentacled
monster to kill him in those confined
quarters still has me thinking. Yet “Tup
assures me that off Cape Jaffa it’s no
uncommon occurrence.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I don’t know where
“Greenie” (B. 15/2/’39) got his assur-
ance that some members of the Council
hold the fallacious belief that young
turtles suffer a high mortality on their
way from the nest to the sea. I ve seen
it with my own eyes, hundreds of scream-
ing gulls snapping up the baby green-
backs as they toddled down to the waves.
But I don’t ask “G.” to take my word
for it; should he write to the W.A.
Tourist Bureau they will probably sell
him an actual photograph of it I have
in my possession one such—taken by
the Stewart expedition, which in 1917 in-
tensively explored the north-west coast
from Broome to La Crosse Island, in
the mouth of Cambridge Gulf. And
the photograph was indisputably taken in
broad daylight. As for the baby turtles
staying three days in the nest after being
hatched, my opinion is they leave almost
as soon as they emerge. And beach din-
goes preying on the nests! Well, mv
nor’-west turtles aren’t so darn silly
they lie on sandy islands out from the
coast, where there aren’t any dingoes.
Probably Ma Turtle has long ago studied
that point out. But with the best will m
the world she hasn’t been able to cir-
cumvent the gulls. Nor the sharks.
MULGA NED.
In many a song and story he’s achieved some
dubious glory,
Being famed from Marble Bar to Billy’s Flat.
He occasionally sallied to the city, but he
dallied
There but little, for his usual habitat
Was some place that’s free of paving, where
the leaves of gums were waving
Like the whiskers on his weather-beaten
moosh.
He’s been missed around here greatly; now
, has anybody lately
Sighted Mulga Ned, the Battler from the
Bush?
His address we’re unaware of. It was never
more than “Care of
Mick, me cobber,” which could mean ’most
anywhere.
On the Golden Mile you’d greet him, or along
the Barcoo meet him,
For, as he remarked, he “liked a change of
air.”
He’d been everything from platman to a one-
pip artist’s batman,
Gouger, shearer, barman, leader of a push.
Yes, a read hard-bitten ‘'doer,” and a friend
of every brewer—
That was Mulga Ned, the Battler from the
Bush.
His invariable ambition (which amounted to a
mission)
Was to “put a copper on a ‘bunch of fives.’ ”
He was much too often “molo,” and he mostly
travelled solo,
Though here and there he had a wife (no,
wives).
He’d contempt for most things alien in the
manner that’s Australian,
He was rarely in the state that Choom calls
“floosh”;
But you saw no better fighter, worker, dead-
game sport or skiter
Than Mulga Ned, the Battler from the Bush.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat thought it
was a quiet horse, but wouldn’t risk
simply dropping the reins on the ground
while he freed the sheep caught in the
fence-he didn’t want to be left afoot
three miles from home. So he looped
the reins over one shoulder. But that
sheep sprang away when freed, bolted
under the horse’s nose and scared it. Mat
went over backwards, the reins got a
half-hitch on his arm, and he was dragged
a couple of hundred yards through dry
Bathurst burrs. When he limped into
the hut and told his tale the boss snorted,
angry because of what Mat had escaped.
“Don’t y’ know any better than to do
a silly thing like that?” “Yair,” said
Mat shamefacedly; “in fact, I knew
before I’d gone twenty yards that I’d
made a bloomer. It was sorta pointed
out t’ me.” And he resumed picking burr
spines out of himself.
* * * *
“East Cape”: We had mustered a mob
and were driving them in when, looking
back, the Old Man saw a couple of sheep
that had been missed on a hillside about
half a mile away. He sent his dog back,
but she couldn’t locate them, and after
many tries and much cursing he called
the dog to heel. Laying hold of her he
took off his glasses and placed them on
the dog’s nose. Then, turning her in the
direction of the two sheep, he said:
“Now can you see the blankards?”
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Peace is a virtue with
the emu, but I once saw two rival males
engage in a vigorous scrap. In their
combative attitude the feathers for the
full length of the long necks were puffed
out, so that they looked three or four
times thicker than usual. The challenge
to the other fellow
was an erect stance
with neck stretched
to its highest. That
posture was main-
tained until the
gladiators came
within striking dis-
tance, then the
heads were suddenly
lowered and they got
to it with beaks and
feet. The emu can
give a severe peck,
but its most formid-
able armament is its
feet. It can kick for-
ward like a kangaroo
and backward like a
mule. It has speed,
too ; when pecking
at each other they
aim at the eyes—
which accounts for
the one-eyed emu
being found occa-
sionally on the
boundary fence. The
long necks helped to
keep my feathered
giants out of nail-
ripping reach, but
now and again, with,
a sharp turn, a back-
kick got home. A
powerful drive under
the tail finally put
one on the run, and
waterhole aS&Pe hC kept going ~ for the
“vv* „ * * *
rpn ™ g ” : Meat-ants are as tough as
A ' co ectors . ln the ordinary way. Bush-
/ s , never incommode them greatly
whiu neVei - seem to P ene trate their nests,
ninn.^r? 1 Com pounds merely add a
grower! r u' sh t 0 their diet > as § ra pe-
Never l hav i long since discovered,
them r k^ w that sheer heat could settle
until the recent tropical tempera-
tures bowled them over in thousands.
Whole nests simply turned up their an-
tennas and died. Bees perished by hives
during the same spell, although the flies
persisted throughout. Lack of water may
have something to do with the fatalities.
Strangely enough, the white-ant, to which
sunlight is anathema, flourishes best in
“Are we gonna crack this safe or ain't We?”
Hadeslike temperatures, despite the ten-
derest body in termitedom.
* * * *
“Heresone”: I found a young Moreton
Bay fig growing in a low stump, and cut
off a couple of feet of stump, with the
tree inside it, to plant near the house.
That was over ten years ago, but the
severed portion of the taproot in the old
stump is still healthy and full of sap,
though it has never attempted to put out
a leaf. Isn’t this opposed to all the rules
of vegetable physiology?
* * * *
“Paton”: Australia holds at least one
world’s speed record, that of insects.
When put against the watch by an
American scientist the Australian dragon-
fly beat all comers with a speed of 60
m.p.h.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Gus, in the grip of an
uncontrollable thirst, was angling for
the sack. He crossed his last dry gully
“I don 't like these Americans with their nasal twang, do you?”
Shoot again, lady. I sure didn't catch your drift”
and sat down to rest beside an invitingly
open road empty save for an approach-
ing horseman. A series of short sharp
tugs from an impatient boss at the other
end of the 10-chafn tapeline he answered
in kind. The rider reined up and stared.
“What are you doing there?” he queried.
“Fishin’,’’ said Gus.
“Brier”: “Y’ wouldn’t think a bird so
small as a sparrer would ’ave much
brains,” said Old Tom, “but it ’as. One
m . e ad , some gobblers which I’m fat-
tenin’ up with whole corn. The sparrers’d
git down on it before it ’it the ground,
I couldn’t make out ’ow they could swal-
low the stuff, so one mornin’ I keeps
watch. Sure enough, down they swooped,
each grabbed a bit er corn and away
they all goes, I jumped on me horse
and galloped after ’em. Led me right to
the railway, they did, a coupla miles
away. When I gits up to ’em there they
are puttin’ their lumps er corn on the
rails ; then they calmly perched on the
telegraph wires, waitin’ for the train
which useter go through about midday!”
* * * *
“Robina Sherwood”: “Tired Tim” has
partly answered his own question re the
natural food supply of the N.Q. abo. (B.
8/2/’39). Wild honey is excellent, even
to a “white” palate. For suppliers of
fatty food, add to the goanna carpet
snake, eel, emu, cassowary, crocodile and
wild duck. In addition to the übiquitous
yam, the coastal blacks had another
source of starchy food in the fruit of the
pandanus, of which parts were roasted
and eaten like bread, while the Tableland
blacks made meal from the nuts of a
scrub tree, which were pounded in dilly-
bags and repeatedly sifted in running
water to wash away a certain poisonous
substance, after which the meal was
roasted into cakes. An old gin explained
this process to me, and when I asked her
if any of the blacks still made bread that
way she replied that it was “too much
hard work,” and that it was easier to
scrub for farm wives and earn white
man’s flour, tea, meat, etc. Incidentally,
the annual urge to “walkabout” inspired
coastal blacks to visit inland areas and
vice versa, so the menu must have been
diversified as well as ample.
**' * *
“Tut-tut”: The point about this water-
divining is: Find me a place anywhere
outside of a recognised desert where one
won’t strike water —provided one sinks
deep enough! The dowser has been
meeting with great
success lately on the
W.A. Univ e r s ity
grounds at Crawley
—g rounds that
border the Swan
River, along the
banks of which for
miles a dog, by
merely scratching in
the beach sand, will
find a drink of pure,
fresh water. Dows-
ing got a proper try-
out in the early
Coolgardie days, but
all that the devotees
of the cult could
locate was subter-
ranean brine 10
times saltier than the
ocean. And every
shaft that touched
200 ft. got that, even
as far out in the
desert as Edjudina. Once took a gold-
fields diviner, blindfolded, in a car a
few miles down the Coolgardie road
and turned him loose with his forked
stick on an area through which, unknown
to him, the 30in, Mundaring-Kalgoorlie
water-main ran. Twice he unknowingly
crossed this flowing stream of highly
potable water, but not a dip did his
forked stick give. His naive explanation
later was that the O’Connor River, being
a man-made stream flowing through an
iron pipe, wasn’t susceptible to natural
influences.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: I was talking to a resident
of Wellington (M.L.) about the frequent
earthquakes in that town in its early days.
“Of course,” he remarked, “it stands to
reason we shouldn’t get them so often
nowadays. There are so many big tall
buildings to hold the place down firmer.”
* * * *
“Spooks”: Choom, an ex-military
man, was on a W.A. farm “to gain ex-
perience.” One lunch-hour the boss told
him to saddle up and take out lunch to
some men at a faraway clearing pad-
dock. Returning in double-quick time,
he was asked by an admiring boss how
he did it. “Galloped there and back,”
Choom proudly replied. “That Bon Ton
is a great little mare.” “God, man, did
you gallop her?” roared the boss. “She’s
only a trotter!” But Choom, who had
never heard of a trotter, was unim-
pressed. “Well, I’ve broken her of the
habit ; you shouldn’t have any more
trouble with her now,” he said.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Admitted that the abos.
did not run to tribal royal families; but
they nevertheless had leaders who, by
virtue of prowess in the field and the
council circle, ran the show and, inci-
dentally, appropriated the most desirable
females within their own totem, and also
the tastiest slabs of baked kangaroo and
emu. Great in their day were Midgeroo-
roo, Munday and Yagan, the trio who
bossed the Swan River (W.A.) tribes of
the 1830’s, and by their savage and in-
cessant warfare nearly brought about the
abandonment of the infant settlement.
Yagan was the son of Midgerooroo and
the nephew of Munday. His exploits, his
personal chivalry, his fine appearance
won from his harassed victims the title
“The Wallace of the West.” For,
although those early settlers fought him
and his tribe and appropriated their
tribal domains, they acknowledged a
fine spirit when they met one by liken-
ing him to the pride of Scotland. With
Midgerooroo they were not so tender;
him they stood against the barracks wall,
on the site where the old Perth P.O.
still stands, and gave an exit with a
crashing volley. Yagan in turn was
assassinated by two whites whom he re-
ceived hospitably into his camp. Still
pursuing vengeance, Munday, the last
of the trio, was placated by being made
Perth’s black policeman a measure
which resulted in the almost complete
pacification of the local tribes. Yes,
they had their kings, in the West any-
way, for when Yagan and his father
passed the spirit of the Swan River abos.
was broken.
FRUSTRATED.
To reach yon isle of our desire
That yonder flames and flowers
Long hours we’ve rowed with aching arms,
And little gain is ours.
Calm Was the morn when we set forth,
Boat launched, with flashing oars,
And easy of attainment seemed
Its silver-circled shores.
With dip of blade and lift of blade,
Skies radiant overhead,
Hope in our hearts, joy in our eyes,
’Twas merrily we sped.
A little while we gaily fared,
Fate fair and weather kind,
Till suddenly, to thwart our quest,
There rose an evil wind.
Hour after hour against its spite
Oars, grimly urged, we plied,
Till to its aid anon there surged
A swift, insistent tide.
To reach yon isle of our desire,
Yon lit and lovely flower
That luring lies upon the waves,
Seems all beyond our power.
Wherefore let us ship oars and drift
111-fortuned and denied;
In truth, we two have had enough
Of hostile wind and tide.
N.S.W.
BRICALOW.


ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4BOl.
POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
*
HE
HI
LUDOWICI "PIONEER" LEATHER
BELTING
LUDOWICI PIVOT DRIVE
BELTINGS V DRIVES GEARS
PULLEYS SHAFTING BEARINGS ETC.
J.C. LUDOWICI & SON
LTD.,
Power Transmission Engineers.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends
IMef. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£* £/ £. £
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 p.c. = 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30.000 10 .. „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 „ „ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 ~ „ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 74 „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 ~,,82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 .. ~105,000 772,642
t Excluding specific reserves. £479,810 at December
31, 1938.
A year ago the “Wild Cat” said that
the sharemarket bought Huddart Parker
ords. on a sound basis at 475. 6d. Cum
a final div. of Is. 7d., the shares were
selling at 545. last week, after having
been higher. It has been a good year
for this shipping co., and the year’s dis-
tribution (14 p.c.) is back to the 1927
rate. Only once (1926), when 16 p.c.
went out, have shareholders done better.
The co.’s chief vessels are the Wan-
ganella, bought cheaply for the Tasman
service during the depression, and the
Westralia, one of the earlier motor-
vessels to enter the inter-State passenger
traffic. The old Zealandia is still on
the run between Sydney and Hobart,
and there are cargo vessels, the Adelong
being added to the fleet in 1937, and the
Barwon is expected to arrive from the
slips in October. Tasmanian Steamers
Pty., in which H.P. has a half-interest,
runs a regular service from Melbourne
to Launceston and Burnie with the
Taroona and Nairana.
The co.’s income isn’t confined to
these sources, either. It has a strong-
boxful of shares in other concerns, most
of them important. The principal cos.
are listed hereunder, but the precise in-
terest isn’t known in every case:
Hebburn, Ltd. —four-sevenths interest ( £400,000).
Metropolitan Coal Co.—controlling interest.
J. and A. Brown Abermain-Seaham.
Tasmanian Steamers Pty.—half-interest.
Bay Steamers—controlling interest.
Melbourne Steam.
Amalgamated Wireless.
Australian National Airways Pty.—one-fifth interest
( £49,999).
A steady 12 p.c. is coming from Amal-
gamated Wireless, and J. and A. Brown-
Abermain Seaham, Collieries came 'to
light with 3 p.c. last year. Melbourne
Steam pays 7 p.c., and the Bass Strait
and Hobson’s Bay cos. appear to be
doing better. H.P.’s cargo fleet is well
occupied, though a six weeks’ coal strike
at Maitland was a snag during the past
term.
The co.’s coal interests by and large
are not remunerative investments for the
present, nor are the shares in airlines.
Both may improve with time.
Taking into account a reduction of
£2354 in the insurance funds, net profit
for the year is disclosed at £132,164.
That represents 13.6 p.c. on ord. capital
(allowing for pref. requirements) com-
pared with 11.5, 8.1, 6.4, 7.4, 5.7 and 5.5
p.c. back to 1932. In 1926 21.2 p.c.
was shown —that was before the new
Matson liners entered the Tasman trade.
Last term the 14 p.c. div. and bonus
(up 3 p.c.) called for slightly more than
the profit claimed, but there are sub-
stantial undistributed profits in some of
the co.’s investments, and H.P. itself
last year added a net £58,453 to a re-
serve for “contingencies, taxation, re-
pairs and maintenance, superannuation
fund, etc.,” before arriving at the net
profit. This comprehensive fund now
totals £479,810, and there are £772,642
of other reserves besides.
How much of the “repairs and main-
tenance” part of the £479,810 is neces-
sary to provide for depreciation, etc.,
isn’t known here, but in the 1937 term
the fleet, plus shares in other cos.
(lumped together at book value),
dropped £91,102 in the accounts, so
apparently depreciation is written off
before asset values are shown each year.
Last term progress payments on the new
cargo vessel showed up in the financial
position:
1924. 1937. 1938.
Ships, shares, etc. £1,055,442 £1,268,313 £1,318.071
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,405,922 1,469,529
Cash . . . . 35,127 43,978 34,721
Book debts . . 159,817 107,290 116,658
Stores . . . . 54,441 37,840 38,207
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,863,343 £2,977.186
Less liabilities.. 311,052 356,507 399,733
Net assets . . £2,227,031 £2,506,836 £2,577,453
There was a net addition of £49,758 to
ships and shares, and other investments
(apparently of a liquid nature) expanded
£63,607. The outside debt rose £43,226,
but the more or less liquid surplus,
£1,259,382, grew to £9382 in excess
of total paid capital. Juicy returns won
between 1918-1922 (inclusive) and the
sale of surplus tonnage when prices were
at their peak had a lot to do with lay-
ing the foundations of the co.’s present
liquid affluence.
The new year has opened with
trade still good, but the general outlook
isn’t as clear as it might be. In both
Australia and Maoriland the economic
position has been affected by rising costs
and lower export prices. However, Hud-
dart Parker’s position is very strong, and
the sharemarket, in asking for a 5.3 p.c.
yield on a 14 p.c. div. basis from the
ords., makes allowance for the drop of
a point or two in the div.
Including the contingencies, etc., re-
serve, net tangible backing amounts to
535. 4d. ords., £5 prefs.
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., “Guardian,” £577,470 .. 577,470
Preliminary exes., £15,073 .. .. 592,543
1930.. 102,453 95,312 Nil 7,141 ’ 585,402
Added preliminary exes., £7B .. .. 585,480
-44 p.c.
1931.. 66,631 66,914 Nil 585,763
74 p.c.
1932.. 106,153 106,710 Nil 586,320
S. Bennett shares written down,
£465,500 1,051,820
Reserves.
Ord. capital written off, £1,052,121.. 301
5.4 p.c. 5 .p.c.
1933.. 155,793 80,811 52,635 22,347 22,648
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 2,648
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 175,651 89,412 63,162 23,077 25,725
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 . . 5,725
1935.. 176,771 89,437 63,187 24,147 29,872
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 9,872
From depreciation reserve, £7500 .. 17,372
1936.. 184,551 89,491 63,568 31,491 48,863
Bonus div. Sun Newspapers, £126,343 .. 175,206
To staff fund, £8729 166,479
Building renovation reserve, £3OOO .. 163,479
Nominal
7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 58,913 222,392
Staff fund. £2OOO 220,392
Surplus liquidation S. Bennett, £376.. 220,768
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,993 62,634 283,402
To staff fund, £2OOO 281,402
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 224 p.c. from
October 1, 1931, and to special tax (2s. in £)
on income from property.
The accounts closed on Sept. 25, the week
of the Big War Scare. After printing and
selling more “Suns” and “Sunday Suns”
than in any previous year, and after pro-
viding £7191 less depreciation than in the
term that went before, Associated News-
papers showed net profits at £3721 higher
—a rise of 1.6 p.c. Reserves shown in
the table are subject to £1,683,878 repre-
sented by goodwill and establishment
account.
The three years to the close of last
accounts were the most prosperous Aus-
tralia has seen for nearly a decade,
1937-38 being outstandingly so ; but for
various reasons the earnings of Associ-
ated Newspapers didn’t show the response
seen among most other types of business.
The fact is that, though competition in
the evening-paper field has been bought
off at colossal cost, newsprint prices have
risen, and morning and weekly papers
have established themselves in the adver-
tising field more securely than was once
the case, while competition from wireless
has been another distraction to revenue.
Though advertising income is reported to
have touched a new peak, the 12.8 p.c.
shown on ord. capital last term, allowing
for pref. requirements (7 p.c. = £104,459),
doesn’t seem to have been easy work.
However, it represented a wide margin
over the 7 p.c. paid to ord. shareholders,
and £60,634 net was carried to reserves.
The “Sun” and “Sunday Sun” repre-
sent the backbone of the business. Of
the others “Woman,” “Wireless
Weekly,” “World’s News” and “Pix”—
the board reports that none of them is a
charge on the earnings of the “Sun.”
All the publications are now directly
owned by Associated, which in 1929 paid
£3,135,930 (scrip) for control of Sun
Newspapers and S. Bennett, Ltd. The
daily and Sunday “Guardians” were then
bought from “Smith's” outright, £400,000
in prefs. and £175,000 in cash changing
hands. With slump came a fall in earn-
ings and a rise in shareholders’ blood-
pressure—they became very noisy, and
there was a split on the board. The
“Guardian” and “Evening News” were
knocked on the head, but the “Tele-
graph,” which had been losing the
“Sun’s” money for a long period, was
persisted with.
Anxious to see the last of the “News”
and “Guardian” skeletons, shareholders
consented to a writing-off of 10s. per
ord. share (£1,052,021) in 1933. The
ords. got a first div. (5 p.c.) that year,
“Sun” earnings being responsible.
Then the “Telegraph” was sold early
in 1936 to the Theodore-Packer co., Con-
solidated Press, which to date hasn’t paid
an ord. div. Associated accepted 125,000
Consolidated ords., and Consolidated
also handed over £95,000 cash for the
“Evening News” building and another
35,000 f.-p. ords. for the plant. So
Associated had a 160,000 parcel of scrip
to put away in its hope-chest. Consoli-
dated publishes also the “Women’s
Weekly.”
Associated’s conservative dividend
policy has been a distinct help to the
finances:
1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. ..£2,563,601 £2,563,601
Overdraft .. . . . . 289,694 72,908
Other liabilities* . . . . 144,065 156,855
Provident fund .. .. 8,243 6,976
Depreciation reserve . . 365,983 364,376
Land and buildings . . 645,128 653,144
Plant, etc 698,297 643,388
Shares .subsidiaries . . 12,229 247
Shares other cos. , . .. 176,996 188.453
Stocks 293.437 163,864
Debtors, cash, etc 160,921 192,050
* Including tax provision.
Last term newsprint and other stocks
were reduced by £129,573, and the sale
of the Newcastle “Sun” to the Coal
City’s “Herald” people for £27,500 had
something to do with the drop of £54,909
in plant. Helped by these movements
and undistributed earnings, a net £203,996
was worked off the outside debt, reducing
it to moderate proportions. For the first
time in a number of years the associated
enterprises are able to show a surplus of
semi-liquid assets over liabilities.
The valjue of shares in Associated
depends mainly on earning-power of the
daily and Sunday editions. Even if the
depreciation reserve (£364,376) be taken
in as accumulated profit, and Consolidated
ords. be regarded as worth 20s. each (the
prefs., on ’Change, are still below par),
then the 1,492,275 prefs. in Associated
are just covered by net tangibles, with
only a few pence per share for the ords.,
whose main backing is earning power.
The current term began with news-
print costs still high and the tone of busi-
ness and employment in a slightly lower
key. War scares have played on public
confidence, and the economic position
was due to be more difficult in any case.
Just at the moment prospects seem to be
brightening, but they still aren’t up to
the 1937-38 level.
Associated ords. are at par, compared
with 225. 3d. a year ago. The prefs. at
235. (down 2s. in 12 months) return 6.1
p.c. so long as the all-round 7 p.c. distri-
bution continues.
Finnev, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ ~19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2J „ „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12.207 4 „ ~11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ ~16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ ~19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ ~ 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ ~29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 „ ~37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ ~37,371 15,482 125,570
It is pleasant to note that, while share-
holders’ pockets have benefited from the
business’s striking recovery since slump-
time, so have the co.’s finances. Ship-
shape accounts are again presented, and
net profit moves on to another record
despite what seems to have been a slight
pinching-off in turnover —adverse trading
conditions are reported to have been in
evidence during the last half of the term,
and that is in keeping with the “Wild
Cat’s” view of Christmas business tone at
the time. It wasn’t all it was cracked up
to be in any of the Big Cities.
Finney’s has been one of the notable
business recoveries of this generation.
In April, 1929, date of the generally-
acknowledged peak in share prices prior
to depression, the co.’s ord. shares were
going at 14s. When slump did come, of
course, they brought much less. Re-
covery started in 1932, a drab year for
most businesses.
New management had a lot to do with
it, and the public itself helped. Now
there is a concentration of shopping
around the Queen - Albert - Adelaide-
Edward-street block, which houses Coles,
Woolworths, Penneys and several picture-
shows. Finney’s, about the middle, goes
right through from Queen- to Adelaide-
street, and that helps, though position is
by no means everything.
The more cautious spending of the
people is shown up in Finney’s gross
earnings. At £245,186 for the term to
January 31, they are £5775 down on the
previous term. Ordinary trading exes.
(£170,902) rose £56 (69.7 p.c. gross,
compared with 68.1 p.c.); it was by cut-
ting £6937 off provision for income taxes
and contingencies (£21,431 this year) that
the co. was able to show net profit
£llO7 higher at £52,853. On average
capital that ran out at 14.1 p.c., compared
with 14, 13.5, 12.5, 9, 6.6, 4.4 and 1.8 p.c.
back to 1931. The 10 p.c. div. left
£15,482 to be carried to reserves, which
now stand at £125,570. This figure is
equal to six times that for 1933, and all
but £13,121 of it represents undistributed
profit.
During the 12 years to 1921 share-
holders averaged 8.1 p.c. p.a., plus £54,512
in bonus scrip. Next decade 5.6 p.c. p.a.
was averaged —with an effort. For the
last eight years 7.4 p.c. has been the
mean, and additions to reserves have
been on the scale indicated.
Undistributed earnings enabled a pro-
gressive strengthening of the finances right
up to last balance:
1928. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £275,993 £276,243 £370,328 £373,713
Liabilities . . 173,032 102,057 42,082 29,991
Freehold . . 128,037 153,940 263,188 263.463
Plant, etc. . . 31,529 38,828 81.127 77,940
Stocks . . 191,586 158.039 176,350 179,253
Book debts, etc. 126,828 39,156 53,358 49,467
Cash and in-
vestments . . 6,431 44,505 10,708 14,630
The stickier nature of stocks and the
rise in prices during the year may have
something to do with the £2903-worth
extra on hand at balance day. In the
preceding term there had been a drop of
£13,616, and in any case the item looks
moderate. A further £12,091 was paid
off the debt, and the position is now
almost on a current-account basis. The
more or less liquid surplus (£213,359)
was £15,025 stronger. Adequate depre-
ciation of fixed assets (£8241) appears to
have been allowed.
The management won’t be blamed if
trading results show something in the
way of a drop during the current term.
Conditions generally are unsettled, and,
with wool down and costs rising, un-
employment is increasing slightly. But
our national economy and Finney’s are
both on a sounder financial basis than
they used to be, and the market pays 30s.
for the scrip, cum Is. div. Yield is
6.9 p.c., and the backing 265. 9d. in net
tangibles per pound of paid-up capital.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Year to Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
1928.. 95.254 8000 11 p.c. = 55,000 32,254 200,619
1929. .102,922 8000 12 „ „ 60,000 34,922 235,541
1930.. 74,795 8000 9 ~ „ 45,000 22,795 257,336
1931.. 52,077 8000 8 ~ ~ 40,000 4.077 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369.. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
1932. . 45,800 8000 8 p.c. = 40,000 260,923
1933.. 56,958 8000 8 „ ~ 40,000 8,958 269,881
1934.. 63,856 8000 10 „ „ 50,000 5,856 275,737
.1935.. 65,208 8000 10 „ „ 50,000 7,208 282,945
1936.. 79,563 8000 12 „ „ 60,000 11,563 294,508
1937.. 97,490 8000 12 ~ „ 60,000 29,490 323,998
Goodwill written off, £118,074.. .. 205.924
1938.. 98,717 8000 14 p.c. = 70,000 20,717 226,641
* Subject to goodwill, £118,'074, until 1938.
G. and G. ords. are one of the
steadiest-priced investments on the Aus-
tralian sharemarket. Over more than
two years fluctuations have ranged be-
tween 50s. and 575. 3d., and the present
price (575.) is nearly as high as the record
for the period. On a 14 p.c. div. basis
the return is 5 p.c., and the net visible
tangible backing 275. 7d. per pound of
paid capital, the prefs. having priority
for divs. only. The asset most attractive
{"Wild. Cat” continued on page 24.)


FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY.—This advertisement is not an invitation to the public to subscribe for shares, the whole of the issue having already been
fully subscribed.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue at par of
200,000 6% Cumulative Second Preference Shares of £1 Each
in
Felt and Textiles of Australia Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of the State of New South Wales)
PAYABLE: 5/- per share on application; 15/- per share on allotment.
The dividend on the 6 per cent. Cumulative Second Preference Shares will be payable half-yearly on Ist January and Ist July in each year, free of Interstate
exchange in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart. The first dividend will be payable on Ist July, 1939, and will be calculated from the
date of allotment to the date of payment.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £1,200,000
(As increased by Special Resolutions mentioned below 1 .)
ISSUED CAPITAL:
40,000 6 per cent. Cumulative First Preference Shares/of £! each, fully paid. . .. £40,000
581,281 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid . .. . . .. .. .. 581,281
621,281 £621,281
OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION BY THE PROSPECTUS.
200,000 6 per cent. Cumulative Second Preference Shares of £1 each .. .. .. £200,000
HELD IN RESERVE
3 78,7 1 9 Shares of £ 1 each . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . • • • • 378,719
1,200,000 £1,200,000
The whole of the above issue of 200,000 6 per cent. Cumulative Second Preference Shares of £l each was underwritten by J. B. Were & Son. Of the total
issue 100,000 shares were taken firm by the Underwriters in terms of their agreement, and ordinary shareholders in the company were invited to apply for
the balance of 100,000 shares. Apart from their firm allotment of 100,000 shares, the Underwriters had the right to the firm allotment of any Shares from the
balance of the issue not applied for by, and allotted to, existing ordinary shareholders. Consequently no shares were available for subscription by the public
generally. The application lists are closed.
DIRECTORS:
JOSEPH liENTIGERN HEYDON, 46 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
THE HON.' SIR WALTER MASSY-GREENE,
I K.C.M.G., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Company Director (Chairman).
THE RT. HON. SIR GEORGE FOSTER
PEARCE, P.C., K.C.V.0., Esplanade
Hotel, St. Kilda, Victoria, Grazier.
CECIL RHODES-SMITH, 33 Macquarie Place,
Sydney, Woolbuyer.
JOHN HENRY TITCHEN, 33 Macquarie
Place, Sydney, Chartered Accountant
(Australia).
ARTHUR JAMES VALE, 59 William Street,
Melbourne, Company Director.
HENRI VAN DE VELDE, 33 Macquarie Place,
Sydney (Managing Director).
BANKERS:
Bank of New South Wales.
SOLICITORS:
HEYDON & LOCHRIN, 46 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ARTHUR PHILLIPS & JUST, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
CONSULTING SOLICITORS TO THE
ISSUE:
WHITING & BYRNE, 101 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
AUDITORS:
SMITH, JOHNSON & CO., Public Accountants,
Sydney and Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED
OFFICE:
JOHN HENRY TITCHEN, “Endeavour House,”
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
UNDERWRITING BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON, Capel Court, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
44 Martin Place. LONDON OFFICE: 39 Lombard Street,
E.C.3.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE.
The issue was made to provide for further working
capital, and for the general expansion of the Com-
pany and its subsidiaries.
An Extraordinary Meeting of Shareholders was held
on 10th March, 1939, and passed Special Resolutions
increasing the Authorised- Capital of the Company
from £1,000,000 to £1,200,000 by the creation of
200,000 6 per cent. Cumulative Second Preference
Shares of £1 each, and fixing the rights and privi-
leges attaching thereto.
THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES.
The Company and its subsidiaries conduct large-
scale operations as manufacturers in Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa, amongst their products
being “Marbled Felt ex” and “Feltex” floor coverings,
slippers, woven carpets, cotton-wool and waddings,
and allied products, and as makers of wool tops and
as wool scourers and carbonisers.
The parent company’s factories are concerned
chiefly with the production of woollen piece goods,
felts and hair products, and the factories of the
largest subsidiary (Federal Felters Pty., Ltd.) with
the production of somewhat similar lines. The im-
portant wool-scouring and carbonising and wool-top
making works consume over 1000 bales of wool per
week. An addition to the group in recent years
has been the woven carpet factory, the pioneer of
that industry in Australia. Ten of the main sub-
sidiary and associated companies are engaged in the
manufacture of slippers and shoes in Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa.
The main factories are located in Sydney and
Melbourne, but there are also important subsidiary
factories in New Zealand, South Africa and India.
Apart from its own extensive manufacturing
activities, Felt and Textiles of Australia Limited
owns the whole of the capital in a number of
important subsidiaries, and has interests in several
other associated companies, as shown by the accom-
panying diagram.
3Wt and uli'xttbs nt Australia Himitrd
SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
Australian
Hair Co.
Issued Cap.
£5,226
50% Interest
Peoples
Slipper Pty.
Issued Cap,
£1,357
100% Interest
lolanthe
Slipper Pty.
Issued Cap.
£4,000
100% Interest
Mvrl Shoe
Pty.
Issued Cap.
£35,000
100% Interest
N.Z. Slippers
Ltd.
Issued Cap.
£26,000
100% Interest
in Ord. Cap.
Myrl Shoe
(N.Z.)
Issued Cap.
£5.000
100% Interest
Botany Wools
Ply.
Issued Cap.
£25,000
100% Interest
John Grant
& Co. (N.Z.)
Issued Cap.
£B,OOO
33 Interest
Australian
Slipper Pty.
Issued Cap.
£5,113
100% Interest
Federal
Felters i’ty.
Issued Cap.
£150,000
100% Interest
Dalcer
Slipper Pty.
Issued Cap.
£7,350
100% Interest
Wellington
Slipper Co.
Issued Cap.
£l,OOO
100% Interest
South African
Slippers Ltd.
Issued Cap.
£15.000
100% Interest
SUBSIDIARIES OF FEDERAL FELTERS PTY. LTD.
Baldwin &
Grant Pty.
Issued Cap.
£35,000
100% Interest
Jas. Seymour
Ptv.
Issued Cap.
£45,000
100% Interest
Cotton
Dressings
Issued Cap.
£24.000
25% Interest
Pacific
Woofs Pty.
Issued Cap.
£30,000
100% Interest
Felt In-
dustries Ltd.
Issued Cap.
£l,OOO
100% Interest
DIAGRAM SHOWING THE PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES OF FELT AND TEXTILES OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED AND THEIR INTERESTS.
RECENT EXPANSIONS.
The history of the group up till the beginning of 1937 was set out in the Prospectus of an
Ordinary Share issue dated 24th February, 1937. Since then the organisation has undergone consider-
able expansion through the development of its wool businesses, large new wool-scouring and
carbonising works having been established in Sydney to supplement the Melbourne works, the growth
of the carpet-making industry, and the acquisition of additional slipper manufacturing companies in
Australia and New Zealand. Since formation in 1921 issued capital of Felt and 'Textiles of
Australia Limited has grown from £6OOO to £621,281 ; turnover of the group from a few thousand
pounds to over £1,750,000 per annum; and employees from 15 to over 3000.
The public capital is represented on the Board of Directors by Sir Walter Massy-Greene,
K.C.M.G. (Chairman), and the Rt. Hon. Sir George Pearce, P.C., K.C.V.O.
NET PROFIT.
Messrs. Smith, Johnson & Co., Public Accountants, of Sydney and Melbourne, and Auditors to
the Company, have presented the following certificate relating to profits for the last three years :• —-
We have examined the Books and audited Accounts of your Company, and the audited Accounts
of Subsidiary and Associated Companies for the three years ended 30th June, 1938 (or nearest
balancing date in the case of those Companies with balance dates other than 30th June). We
certify that the Net Profits of the Company, including that portion of the earnings (less lasses)
of Subsidiaries accruing to it, as disclosed by the audited Accounts, after providing for Taxation
and Depreciation, and after making such adjustments as are in our opinion appropriate, were as
follow
Year ended 30th June, 1936 .. £50,403
Year ended 30th June, 1937 .. 1 54,893-
Year ended 30th June, 1938 . . 60,376
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Smith, Johnson & Co., 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, 6th February, 1939.
CURRENT YEAR’S PROFITS.
The Managing Director (Mr. H. Van de Velde) has presented the following report dealing with
profits for the current year:—
With reference to the issue of 200,000 6 per cent. Cumulative Second > Preference Shares of £1
each, the Directors desire to report that, subject to audit, they are confident that the net profit
of Felt and Textiles of Australia Limited and its subsidiaries for the six months ended 31st December,
1938, will be not less than £45,000, after full provision for taxation; and that, in the absence
of any serious international complications and/or economic reverses, they see no reason why profits
for the second half of the current financial year should not be well mp to the average.
Yours faithfully (signed) H. Van de Velde, Managing Director.
“Endeavour House,” 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, 18th February, 1939.
COVER FOR SECOND PREFERENCE DIVIDEND.
0n the basis of the net profit of the Companv and its subsidiaries for the year ended 30th June,
t»3B, as shown by the audited Accounts, namely £60,376, and allowing for (a) the payment of
the first preference dividend, requiring £2400 per annum; and (b) the estimated immediate saving
in interest on bank overdrafts now proposed to be repaid, the annual requirement of £12,0'00 for
the 6 per cent, dividend on £200,000 of Second Preference Capital would be covered 5.7 times.
If the anticipations of the Directors, as set out in the foregoing report of the Managing Director
(Mr. H. Van de Velde), are realised, the cover for the Second Preference Dividend would be
even greater.
ASSETS BACKING FOR SECOND PREFERENCE SHARES.
The Net Tangible Assets, as shown in a consolidated statement of Assets and Liabilities of Felt
and Textiles of Australia Limited and its subsidiary companies (published in the full Prospectus),
amounted to £602,544 as at 30th June, 1938.
Since that date the Contributing Ordinary Shares have been paid up in full, and, with the
proceeds of the present Second Preference issue of £200,000, less the estimated costs of the issue,
the net tangible assets backing for each £1 of Second Preference Capital would be approximately
£3/14/10.
RIGHTS OF SECOND PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Special Resolutions passed by the Extraordinary Meeting of Shareholders on 10th March,
1939, provide that the following rights and privileges inter alia shall be attached to the said Second
Preference Shares, subject to the rights and privileges attaching to the 40,000 6 per cent. Cumulative
First Preference Shares: (a) The right to a Cumulative Preferential Dividend at the rate of 6 per
cent, per annum on the amount paid up thereon (after payment of the preferential dividend and
all arrears upon the said First Preference Shares), payable on the first day of July, 1939, for the
period from the date of allotment to such date, and thereafter payable half-yearly on the first day
of January and the first day of July in each year, free of exchange in a capital city of any State
of the Commonwealth; (b) The right in a winding up to the payment oi any arrears of dividend,
whether earned, declared or not, down to the date of such payment, and also to be repaid the
amount of capital paid up, or credited as paid up, on such Preference Shares held by them
respectively in priority to any payments to the holders of all other shares in the Company, apart
from the said First Preference Shares; but shall not be entitled to any further participation in the
profits or assets of the Company.
No further shares ranking pari passu with, or in priority to, the Second Preference Shares
may be issued, except with the sanction of the holders of at least three-fourths of such shares
for the time being issued
The rights and privileges attached to the Second Preference Shares cannot be modified, abrogated,
or altered except with the consent of the holders of at least three-fourths of the Second Preference
Shares for the time being issued; nor can any repayment of Second Preference Capital be made,
otherwise than on a liquidation, without a like consent.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
Application will be made as soon as practicable to the Sydney Stock Exchange and The Stock-
Exchange of Melbourne for the official quotation of the Second Preference Shares.
STATUTORY INFORMATION.
As this Abridgment of the Prospectus, dated 21st February, 1939, is not an invitation tc
the public to subscribe for shares in the Company, the detailed information required by the
Companies Acts to be included in advertisements of Prospectuses has not been included.


BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
». U.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,669,661 0 10
Rural Credits Department-
Capital Account . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 310,666 0 0
Development Fund . . . . 29,871 19 0
Deposits, Accrued Interest
and Rebate 87,152,106 2 6
Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities 6,824,703 10 8
£165,789,521 19 0
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 1,105,223 18 1
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR HALF-YEAR ENDED Cr.
3lst DECEMBER, 1938,
£ s. d.
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 85,473 13 2
~ National Debt Sinking
Fund 85,473 13 2
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 7,089 19 7
„ Development Fund .. .. 7,089 19 7
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury . 423,131 1 0
£608,25S 6 6 I
£ s. d.
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1938
„ Banking Business 170,947 6 4
„ Rural Credits Department 14,179 19 2
„ Note Issue Department .. 423,131 1 0
£608,258 6 G
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£
2,669,661
i. d.
0 10
£2,669,661 0 10
£ s. d.
By Balance 2,584,187 7 8
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits
of Banking Business 85,473 13 2
£2,669,661 0 10
We certify that the above Balance-sheet com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
Tor and on behalf of the Board.
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
15th February, 1939.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation
Reserve for Notes not Pre-
sented
Special Reserve-*-Premium on
Gold Sold
Other Liabilities
£ s. d.
53,030,124 0 0
23,302 10 0
7,752,900 19 ' 0
1,329,119 10 10
£62,135,446 19 10
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve 16,031,458 5 7
Debentures and Other Securi-
ties 45,999,176 1 4
Other Assets 104,812 12 11
£62,135,446 19 10
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
15th February, 1939.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralta
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1938.
LIABILITIES
Beserve Fund
Depositors’
Balances. .145,462,973 11 10
With Inter-
1,308,771 15 5
Contingency Account and
other Liabilities
£ s. d.
2,633,003 5 9
146,771,745 7 3
6,976,222 9 0
£156,380,971 2 0
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call .. 16,600,359 5 11
Australian Notes 220,199 10 0
Government Securities .. .. 103,206,781 12 8
Securities of Municipalities
and other Public Author-
ities 32,163,496 15 10
Other Assets 3,334,586 1 3
Bank Premises 855,547 16 4
£156,380,971 2 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR HALF-YEAR ENDED
31st DECEMBER, 1938.
Cr.
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund
„ National Debt Sinking Fund
£ s. d.
77,671 1 4
77,671 1 4
£155,342 2 8
£ s. d.
By Profit for Half-year ended
31st December, 1938, after
provision for payments
amounting to £105,849/19/8
due to State Authorities
under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agreements 155,342 2 3
£155,342 2 8
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
£2,633,003 5 9
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-half
of the Net Profits .. ..
£ s. d.
2,555,332 4 5
77,671 1 4
£2,633,003 5 9
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. P. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 15th February, 1939.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-tieneral oi the Commonwealth as to the correctness
of the above accounts have been given.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
mining machinery
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelyab” Melbourne.
m
m
Ik
'm
£l7/7/6 a year
GROWN TO
£lOO4
A CERTAIN man on the land invested in
a Policy with the A.M.P. for £5OO
when he was 32. He is very pleased about
it now—indeed, very proud of it —and he has
forgotten that he took a deal of persuading.
The arrangement was that he was to invest
£l7/7/6 a year for 20 years, but no longer,
and that the bonuses should go on mounting
up even when he ceased paying in, which he
did 14 years ago. after he had paid
£347/10/- altogether.
To-day that £5OO policy has grown with
bonuses to £lOO4/16/-, plus a bonus (prob-
ably for £l9) yet to be declared for last year.
YOU can have this kind of policy. Mem-
bership in the A.M.P. is open to everyone in
good health. The A.M.P. Society is the
largest Mutual Life office in the Empire. It
has paid out £146,000.000 to its members;
usually it pays out about six millions a
year. Every policy is backed with
£115,000,000 of assets. On an average, one
family in two in the Commonwealth and
New Zealand is protected in comforting
measure with one or more A.M.P. policies.
Use the Society for your benefit. Use it to
the full. It exists to help you win security
for yourself and your family.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an
experienced man to talk this matter over
with you. Or you might prefer to write
for a free copy of “Investing in Happiness."
Write to-day.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
in the eyes of the sharemarket is the
co.’s well-developed earning power,
though the items that appear in the bal-
ance sheet might assay more than 20s.
in the £1 if it came to a test, and for that
reason the 275. 7d. per share shown as
net tangible backing could probably be
stretched a bit.
The co. is in the wholesale-newsagency
and advertising business throughout Aus-
tralia and Maoriland ; “Gordon and
Gotch” appears as Australasian agent in
the publisher’s notice on the back page
of most British periodicals sold in this
part of the world. A large quantity of
Australian and American papers is also
handled, and the co. sells writing paper,
newsprint, printers’ requisites and fancy-
goods on an extensive scale.
Paid capital is £600,000 in 100,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 500,000 ords.
The share-register hasn’t been increased
for 14 years, but earnings have gone
ahead solidly since the slump, though
the peak profit of 1929 (£102,922) has
never been quite equalled. Still, the
present div. of 14 p.c. is a record, and
it indicates that the board is now very
satisfied with the state of the co.’s
finances. Expansion over the last decade
has had a very solid appearance about
it. Lowest ord. div. rate paid during
the slump was 8 p.c.
In the year to Sept. 30 last business
seems to have been fairly steady, and,
despite fluctuations in the price of print-
ing paper, net earnings were shown at
£1227 higher, totalling £98,717, and repre-
senting 18.1 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 17.8, 14.3, 11.4, 11.1, 9.7 and
7.5 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was in-
creased from 12 p.c. to 14 p.c., and
£20,717 was carried to reserves (now
£226,641 in excess of the goodwill item
that was written out of the accounts
last year).
Finances are in fine shape:
S'ept.,’34. Sept.,’37. Sept.,’3B.
Paid capital. . ..£600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities .. . . 105,147 147,454 124,665
Freeholds . . . . 205,554 206,420 192,885
Leaseholds . . . . 19,683 17,317 16,800
Plant, fixtures, etc. 33.833 28,976 30,452
Stock . . . . 193,718 212,663 190,980
Book debts . . . . 252,732 359,958 338,321
Investments, cash, etc. 200,439 207,107 274,165
£929,976 £1.032,441 £1,043,603
Stock values appear to be a source of
strength (they dropped £21,683, to
£190,980, last term); freeholds (£192,885,
down £13,535) also appear to be worth
every penny of the book valuation. As
fixed and trading assets have been written
down, a fine wad of cash and investments
(£274,165 on Sept. 30) has been estab-
lished. The outside debt (£124,665) was
reduced £22,789 last term.
The national income for 1939 is
threatened with contraction, but, though
G. and G. may find trading conditions
less buoyant, the well-conducted nature
of the business should help it to counter
uncertain conditions.
Nowadays Norseman (W.A.) is being
rushed by hitherto unlucky mining cos.
in search of golden wealth and market
strength. Several have already acquired
interests there, and two others, Enter-
prise and Australian Development, have
just followed suit. The former has taken
the Federation block, and the latter has
the Copeland co. as a partner in its ven-
ture. Both properties have been “favor-
ably reported on.”
* * * *
“R.”: Wiluna shares may become more
attractive. The drive from the main
mine to the Happy Jack shaft on the
1800 ft. level is now in 2000 ft. A drive
from the Bulletin shaft from the 1200 ft.
level to the same shaft is in 1700 ft. Both
drives are being pushed ahead fast.
The ore in the Happy Jack is re-
puted to be seven to eight ’weights,
and wide—local rumor says 80ft. Boring
is still going on from the internal shaft
at 2600 ft., and is to be continued in an
endeavor to strike other lodes south of
the main shaft. A drive was put in some
time ago to 4100 ft., but was discontinued.
It passed through a lode channel with
low values. The present boring is to
test that lode channel at a lower depth
and along a greater width.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) is flashing
the news about its latest acquisition, the
old Wiluna East mine, situated “prac-
tically in the heart of the main
mine at Wiluna and the Bulletin
and Happy Jack leases.” Traced for
1000 ft. on the outcrop, the lode is
said to be 4ft. wide at 150 ft., where it
has been driven on for 280 ft. “Thou-
sands of tons of highly payable ore are
ready for stopirig,” and all this the co.
gets for £2500 cash to the owners (pay-
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—-Ask O T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.—Advt.
* * # *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
•—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
able over 12 months), plus a quarter-
share in profits to the option-holders.
Last crushing of 1200 tons by the ven-
dors at the State battery is said to have
returned 6dwt. to the ton; the sdwt.
that got away in the tailings suggests
that Wiluna ore is living well up to
its reputation. A Hd. call (£1800) with
plant from Pomme d’Or, is expected to
see the co. to the crushing stage. .
* * * *
Ten months’ sluicing by Sandy Creek,
New Guinea, has yielded 42030 z. gold
from 173,408 c.y. Compared with the
last completed term, the co. has been
making Is. or so a yard more profit.
A 3d. interim went out in December, and
a similar final, doubling the previous
term’s full distribution, is likely. Market
for the 2s. 6d. shares, however, sticks
down around Is. sd. One reason is the
indefinite extent of sluicing reserves.
The co. holds a big area —920 acres at
April 30 last —but little has been
thoroughly tested, cost being prohibitive.
For the existing plants, the “Wild Cat”
understands there is some 18 months’
work at Sandy Creek and four to five
years on the Poverty Creek sector.
BRTEF ANSWERS.
P.8.E.: (1) The “Wild Cat” contends that
ord. shares in industrial concerns would in-
crease in value (terms of paper currency) in
the event of war, even if, by reason of share-
market panic, they didn’t increase in price.
(2) ’Changes were closed for a period on out-
break of Great War, and after reopening were
more depressed than otherwise... .W.F.H. and
F.H.W.: One of the more speculative affores-
tation concerns, with prospects of success a
long way off. As to advantages of amalga-
mating bondholders with shareholders, it de-
pends on the terms of amalgamation, particu-
lars of which aren't to hand. But shares should
be more negotiable than bonds.
(“Wild Cat’’ continued on page 42)


SMOKE-OH!
“My husband told me that I was too dowdy
for an artist’s wife.” — Divorce report.
Thought her a bit of a sketch.
I* 4* 4 •P
“Sydney has a piper who can charm fish
with his bagpipes.”— “Sunday Sun.”
By running up and down the scales?
4* 4* 4 4
“Everybody has a story to tell.”
—Literary course.
Husbands, however, have the most
trouble in getting theirs accepted.
4* 4' 4* 4*
“The Powers must be induced to shake hands
before quarrels become quite irreconcilable.”
— “Sun” correspondent.
In other words: Paws, before it is too
late!
•J*
“Traffic Constable Struck by Car.”
—News item.
That’s enough to make any copper
boil.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Income tax is probably the most unpopular
tax ever invented.” — News item.
Yet there always seems to be a demand
for it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
As statesmen, some of our politicians
should go a long way—and never come
back!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The board recommended that prison cells
be painted a dark oak stain.”
— W.A. Reform League report.
“That patch on me pants must ’ave give Way agin, blast it!"
“The coveted blue ribbons are already being
prepared for the Royal Easter Show.”
b.MJi.
They usually go to those who are in
the pink.
„ A . *. * * fu r
. At one time it took six months for authen-
tic news to reach this country from England.”
—Wireless talk.
Now, of course, it never arrives.
If college films are any guide, there
are more coo-eds than co-eds in
American schools.
4 4* *l*
“If cut flowers are put into lukewarm water
as soon as they come from the florist, will
last much longer.”—“ World’s News.”
And if they die before you get home,
the florist gets into the hot water.
4* 4* •I* 4*
Many a “nice quiet husband” is
actually only a nicely quietened one.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jockey Loses His Way.”— Sporting paper.
Probably on the horse we backed.
4* 4* 4* *s*
“There is only one way to eat grapefruit.”
— Women’s mag.
But is it etiquette to dine in a bathing-
costume?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What in your opinion are the three most
interesting features in the ‘Daily Telegraph’?”
— “D.T.”
The weather forecast, the date and
the mistakes.
4° 4* 4* 4*
Successful doctors declare that there’s
gold in them thar ills.
•b 4' 4*
“How can you prevent tea from staining
an eiderdown?” — Women’s mag.
Don’t have breakfast in bed.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“Davis Cup Tennis Players to Join Militia.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
Their turn to serve?
4* 4* 4* 4*
By Request.
“It is said that potatoes might go to £4O
per ton during winter.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Said she, “I crave no coats of skunk;
Your precious stones I treat as junk;
To hell with your exotic buds —
To prove your love, buy me some spuds!”
McM.
Inversions.
“At a Sydney suburban court a man aged
53 was fined 10s. for ‘riding a boy’s scooter
on the pavement to the danger of the public,’
and a drunk aged 15 was remanded to the
Children’s Court.”
Two strange inversions absolute!
Naught could be absoluter,
When boyhood goes upon the scoot
And age upon the scooter.
H. M.
We gaily started on a spree.
Heigho-ho, the little brown jug and me.
The Law stepped in and now I’m snug,
Close confined in the little brown jug.
L.
Whiskers.
“Our grandmothers never considered a man
handsome unless he could sport a good beard.”
— Women’s paper.
As young ladies our grandmothers
had to be tough.
Kissing an ardent lover was like kissing
a porcupine, with much to be said in
favor of the porcupine.
When a ooy young lady saw two
eyes glinting at her from what appeared
to be the middle of the Dorrigo scrub,
she knew that Romance was at hand.
Unless their cheeks registered a sen-
sation as of violent contact with nutmeg-
graters, mohair mats and sandpaper, they
began to suspect they were in the hands
of a sissy.
When you open the old family album
and gaze upon what appears to be a
picture of the wool sales in full blast,
it is hard to realise that you are face
to face with some Clark Gable of the
’sixties.
Cosmetics killed beards. So many
giddy old bucks started coming home
with rainbow-colored whiskers that angry
wives lost no time in bearding the liars
in their dens.
D. McM.
The Busy Man.
“He was a very busy man with no time to
spare.”— “Sun.”
Directly I saw that, I knew that the
writer had met Blobbs, whose office walls
are plastered with such signs as “Do It
XT To Tpovp tt 0 r.
Now. Time Is Money. Leave Us a
Few Pounds,” and If You Have Busi-
ness, Transact It in a Businesslike Way
and Leave a Busy
Man to Attend to
His Business.”
Blobbs spends
days selecting
these slogans, and
is always prepared
to devote a whole
day to new ones
like his latest:
“Are You Busy?
We Are!” He also
has long discus-
sions with friends
about them.
When anyone
calls to see Blobbs
he is always “in
conference” until
he is sure that the
caller is not a
hum or an ear-
biter. But if it is
really a friend he
welcomes the
chance to get
away from soli-
taire noughts and
crosses. He leaves
a note on the door
saying “Called
Away Urgently.
Back in Five
Minute s.” H e
probably comes
back five hours
later from the corner pub where, over
many pints, he discusses the merits of
time-saving for the businessman.
H. M.
The Art of Politics.
IV.
Interjectors most to be feared by can-
didates are women. Not only do they
ask the most awkward questions, but
they will hang on tigerishly until either
their question has been answered, not
to the candidate’s but to their own
satisfaction, or until he has made a holy
show of himself by exposing his ignor-
ance to the meeting.
One cardinal point must be remem-
bered in dealing with a woman —she
can’t be tossed out. Subtler methods
therefore have to be employed.
When a woman gets up and asks
point-blank to have the term “initiative,
referendum and recall” explained fully
to her, and the candidate has only the
foggiest notion himself what it is all
about, his best bet is to turn to her
with a polite “One moment, if you
don’t mind, madam ; there is someone
before you ; what is that, my friend?”
at the same time simulating a listening
attitude by putting his hand up to his
ear and gazing intently
at someone in the back
of the hall.
This will be the
“office” for one of his
“planted” offsiders to
rise and ask a readied-
up question which de-
mands a simple yet
lengthy answer. This
can be repeated several
times until the woman
becomes abusive or it
begins to look too
pointed. It is then that
a speaker has to em-
ploy all his wiles.
Flattery is a never-failing winner.
Turning to her at last and apologising
for having kept so charming a lady
waiting (this is good stuff, even if she
is beef to the ankles, has a dial that
matches could be struck on and a Pop-
eye voice), he can start off by commend-
ing her on her extensive knowledge of
political matters and expressing surprise
that he has been denied the pleasure
of conversing with her at previous meet-
ings. What did she say her name was?
In nearly every case the opportunity
of letting a lot of strangers know who
she is will be something her vanity will
be unable to withstand, and she’ll blab
out that she is Mrs. Browbeater. It is
then that the candidate can pull out his
handkerchief with a flourish, excuse him-
self, then give two loud nasal blasts.
This will be the prearranged signal
for one of his urgers ostentatiously to
“What for that pheller flag longa pole?"
“ That’s in honor of the Empire and our King."
“By cripes, you gibbit me one pheller flag , put longa
my plurry old gunyah. Long time now eberybody
forget I bin plurry King all about here."
[This is a sample of the early black-and-white work of Herbert
W. Moffitt, now a Judge of the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Commission.]
come up to the platform, bend and
whisper to the chairman, who will in-
terrupt the speaker to announce that a
Mrs. Breebowter or Brewbeater is wanted
urgently at home as little Tommy has
been run over by a steamroller. Never
mention that Mr. Breebowter has been
the victim, for that is the last thing that
would kid away a woman questioner.
If she fails to fall for this it is time
to emulate the Arabs and silently steal
sway, but not before the chairman has
hurriedly announced on the candidate’s
behalf that another crowded meeting is
awaiting him and that Josiah Boob, M.P.,
will speak in support of him. If Boob
has to face the fury of the frustrated
lady that’s just his bad luck.
The life of the old-time candidate for
political honors was a particularly tough
one.
The tradition of kissing the entire
infant population of his constituency had
been firmly established, nnd willy-nilly
he had to go through with the business
or run a bad last. Not only were there
many more babies then, but the wearing
of a luxurious growth of face fibre was
the fashion, and to push this without
warning into the baby’s face started it
bawling like mad. It is a difficult enough
task for a candidate to impress on
prospective supporters his fitness to be
their representative, and with a scream-
ing baby in the room he doesn’t appear
in a favorable light.
Moreover, in those ignorant days
superstition was almost as rife as it is
to-day, and it was no uncommon thing,
after he had departed in a rather strained
atmosphere and with the piercing shrieks
of an enraged infant still ringing in his
ears, for the mother to confide to her
lord: “Did ye nawtice, Jawn, how
the childer protisfed? ’Tis said the little
wans have the gift of second sight. I
always thought there was something fishy
about him. We’ll vote for the other
felly!”
Nor was that his only trouble. The
chances were that while he was dandling
the roaring infant on his knee and prais-
ing its intelligent expression the
seven kids were playing bung rules m
the backyard with his brand-new egg-
boiler or had sawn his walking-stick
nearly in halves.
To-day a candidate is in a far hap-
pier position. With babies becoming
rarer he is in small danger of having
a liberal dash of sour milk puked down
his collar as he bends over to take a
slobbery peck at a baby.
The shrewd present-day aspirant for
Parliamentary honors, before he starts
his campaign, takes a swift course in
dog-fancying. Thus he is enabled to
meet the sneering hauteur of a pampered
Peke with aplomb and remark its good
points, real or imaginary, to its doting
rhistress, and assume the air of a real
dog-lover to such effect that he can be
assured of the couple’s votes.
Present-day flat life has sounded the
death-knell of the politician of the older
school who had a bay window like a
nine-gallon keg across which he sported
a gold chain big enough to hold an
Alsatian. The modern politician must
of necessity be streamlined so that he
can wedge his way into a self-contained
flat. The old bay-window politician,
even if he could have got into a modern
flat, wouldn’t have been able to breathe
when he had got there, anyway.
S. W. K.


Myer Ords., 28s. 6d.
Giving a yield of 6.4 p.c., the
ord. shares in Melbourne’s princi-
pal retail house are still poorly sup-
ported, and may profitably repay
attention. Lowest div. paid during
the slump was 5 p.c.—in one year
(1931) only.
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. ''MERKUR''
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901
m
'V
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
PARIS INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR
The Gateway to World Trade
May 13 to 29, 1939
PRESENTS
An unrivalled opportunity to inspect the manufactures of 33 European and Oversea countries.
Palatial pavilions apd gardens set in 100 acres of Exhibition ground.
4,400,000 square feet of magnificent displays.
Provision has been made to provide, comfortable accommodation for over 2,000,000 visitors.
Everyone interested in the buying or selling of manufactures of every description should see, under
the most pleasing and advantageous conditions, the progress made in the production of every
article in the commercial and industrial fields.
For leaflet giving full particulars, write to the
TRADE COMMISSIONER FOR FRANCE,
Bank of N.S.W. Buildings, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SALE OF SHARES.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY
Offers For Sale by Public Auction in the Rooms of
Richardson and Ltd., 92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on
MONDAY, 27th MARCH, 1939,
COMMENCING AT 10 A.M„
“A” SHARES OF £6 EACH
TO A NUMBER NOT EXCEEDING 20,000.
The Directors of the Company reserve the right to discontinue the sale at any
time without offering the full number of 20,000 shares.
Terms and Conditions announced at the sale, or obtainable on application to the
Auctioneers, Members of the Stock Exchange or the Australian Gas Light
Company.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.,
AUCTIONEERS, 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(170)
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Time We Had a Change?
Last week there was a better feeling
in the sharemarkets, the initiative having
come from overseas, London for once
being more in the news than New York.
All base metals rose to above the average
for February, and the index of London
industrial share prices was the best for
some months. Improvement had been
in evidence abroad a week or two before
Australian ’Changes showed any re-
sponse, and no one can blame investors
here for that; they have been misled
often enough by Wall-street during the
past two years. Just now, however,
there is no doubt “the international
situation” has a decided bearing on
affairs in all parts of the world, and the
seeming improvement in the Continental
nervous system is the most hopeful sign
in many months.
About this time of the year the markets
are usually dull in Australia, and even
now they are, as noted, lagging behind
Europe and America in their response
to the “no war” sentiment. Various
reasons have been ascribed to this mid-
March despondency, and one that seems
to carry weight is that income-tax assess-
ments generally make their inevitable
appearance about this time ; in paying
up, a proportion of investors have to
realise some of their holdings more or
less willy-nilly, without regard to their
real value.
The average Australian investor hasn’t
yet come to believe in the signs of the
zodiac as having an influence on shares
in their courses, but he has fallen for
most other cranky ideas. For a long
time now the financial outlook of the
world has been bamboozling, trade con-
ditions being subject to frights and war
scares and to political interference in
business, especially, in the U.S.A. Thus
it has come about that the future of
prices—commodities as well as invest-
ments—is intensely speculative, old land-
marks being submerged for the time
being in the wave of social and inter-
national politics. No wonder nerves
have been shaken and brains horribly
confused.
There is an enormous amount of bluff
in the features of world markets. Little
sense has been evident behind the wide
fluctuations of the past two or three
years. Speculation ‘ has been overdone,
but if anyone in particular has been
doing well out of' it he must have
developed a new and remarkably subtle
technique. Prices of almost everything
for a year or more have indicated a state
of amemia in world trade that can be
of no good to anyone in the long run.
It is not in human nature to endure
or enjoy the same state of affairs for
too long. Life is made up of changes,
and in finance booms always precede
slumps. The years of recovery from the
last depression could hardly be called a
boom; from the end of 1933 to midway
through 1936 world trade was only
getting back on its feet. But for about
12 months, from the middle of 1936 until
the close of the first half of 1937, specu-
“Run me up 'n' down 'gen, Miss. 'S like being back on t' old mine."
lators in shares, metals and other com-
modities went right off their heads, the
U.S.A. being to the fore, as usual. This
was decidedly a boom, though one of
short life. The world of trade and
speculation has spent nearly two years
of repentance, with wars and rumors
of. wars thrown in, so the question arises
as to whether a change for the better
now isn’t just about due.
At the Commonwealth auctions, wool
prices, which showed hardly a flicker
of movement from the opening of the
season, have strengthened slightly of
late, and that is encouraging in view
of the fact that poorer wools become
prominent in the market as the sales
draw to their close. Another couple of
months should see the woolstores empty
and the last of the clip on the high seas.
Wheat, skins and base metals are still
low, but butter, meat, dried fruits and
increased gold production have helped
to improve our trade balance slightly
after cutting imports substantially.
Up to the end of 1938 costs con-
tinued to rise within Australia. Obvi-
ously they are rising at a bad time —
when trade and employment are suffer-
ing a setback. If prices of our exports
recover it will relieve the effect of
these rising costs to some extent, but
our economic architecture would be
much more solid if mounting costs them-
selves could be checked. They are being
aided upward, unfortunately, by increas-
ing taxation and precarious Budgets.
The intention of the directors of Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries, formerly
Australian Glass, is not to issue 11 new
shares in place of each four now held,
but to distribute 11 free shares in addi-
tion to every four held at present. This
alters the percentages given in B. 8/3/’39 ;
every 1 p.c. paid on the new capital
account will represent 3| p.c. on the old,
not p.c. So if 6 p.c. is the rate of ord.
div. in future it will mean 22y p.c. to old
holders ; if 8 p.c., then 30 p.c. The old
shares have been slightly weaker lately
at £5 9s. 6d. The tantalising question
of course is, What will the new div.
rate be?
* * * *
The motion that the number of New
Occidental’s directors (B. 8/ 3 / ’39) be
reduced from seven to five was defeated
on a poll by 74,830 votes to 44,326. Seem-
ingly proxies given before the meeting
decided the issue. The shareholders’
committee is to be elected on March 21.
Proxies may decide the issue again.
Following the announcement after the
annual meeting that knight Harry Mox-
,ham (chairman) was retiring from the
board of New Occidental, T. G. Murray,
M.L.C., last Thursday gave up his
seat. Murray used to be chairman of
New Cobar ; W. H. C. Chappie, still on
Occidental’s board, was another Cobar
director.
* * * »
Cocks Pioneer shares (B. 8/3/’39) have
taken to the skids after rushing up from
15s. 6d. to 255. 6d. since the beginning
of the year. The slide started sodn after
the peak was reached a fortnight ago;
and on Wednesday of last week there
were successive sales of the shares in
Melbourne at 17s. 3d. and 14s. 9d. On
Saturday the market closed at 15s. 3d.
The co. recently started production again
after a long period of overburden-
removal and plant-installation.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Myer Emporium maintained its interim ord.
div. at 3 p.c., and the board intimated that
trading for the half-year had been “exceedingly
satisfactory.” It hopes to hand shareholders
the usual final and bonus of 6 p.c. later on,
making 9 p.c. for the year. Support for the
scrip strengthened only slightly following the
announcement, and at 28s. 6d. the ords. still
yielded 6.4 p.c.
The issue of 200,000 6 p.c. second cum. prefs.
•by Felt and Textiles (B. 1 /3/’39) was fully
subscribed. J. B. Were and Son underwrote
the whole issue and exercised its right to firm
allotment of half the total. The scrip should
go to a premium.
A generally better tone was evident for most
industrial shares; the widespread rains on the
eastern half of the continent and more cheerful
news from overseas had a heartening effect.
Yarra Falls shares, cum Is. div., payable
on April 5, continued firm at 38s.


TRAVEL SERVICE
North, South, East or West, wherever the
traveller may wish to go, in Australia, he may
use the convenient and safe travel service
that a Commonwealth Savings Bank Account
offers. Not only does a Savings Account
provide the means for saving, in advance,
the money needed for the journey, but helps
to protect it en route.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open,
and enables the owner to make, in advance,
provision for withdrawing or depositing
money at any point within the Commonwealth.
Every Post Office is an agency of the
Commonwealth
Savings Bank
• • ♦ of Hustralia • • •
v:
mm
m
?b;SS
■
m
\
■?
i
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
SYMBOL Of A GREAT ALLIANCE
AND A STEEL-STRONG GUARANTEE
POLICY: To maintain in every detail the high
standards which have won for our parent
Companies the universal respect of industrialists
and manufacturers ... and to ensure that the
Australian products are identical in quality,
specification and, performance with those on
which the reputation of our parent Companies
is based.
To develop the highest possible quality of pro-
ducts suited to the needs of exacting manufac-
turers of quality articles, so that this Company
may attain maximum usefulness to Australian
industry.
In the treatment of customers to be fair always;
and to maintain the highest standards of quality,
delivery and service.
To recognise our obligation to the Nation which
makes possible the conditions under which this
Company exists and operates; believing that it
is the responsibility of every institution to help,
as far as it can, to develop industrial progress
in the interests of national safety and stability.
P T Y. L T D.
R M CO-
KE M B L A
T ORGAN
PORT KEMBLA
SAT
CRi-9
* THE
The Barrier Mines
"Old Opencut” enters the debate: —
“Forecast’s” arguments (B. 15/2/’39) on the
relative merits of Zinc Corp. and the North
mines leave me cold. I’m going to take a long
shot and put my shirt on the old Prop.
Though there is plenty of ore left in the old'
workings, the stopes are too close to the
ground damaged by the Central fire to warrant
stripping at present metal prices. The Big Mine
ceased productive operations early this month.
On the opposite side of the old lode, however,
there are great doings. In 1906 an exploratory
drive was negatively driven from the 1000ft.
iirnr in countr y .rock for a distance of about
1100ft. From this drive rises are being put in
to enable two sets of diamond drills to operate
three-angle holes to the 3000ft. mark. The
drilling has been given to two separate con-
cerns, so the job must be regarded as urgent.
there are two theories and a fact which
warrant the investigation. The calcitic forma-
aon visible in the south end of the Barrier
lode is favorable to the supposition that the
:op lode may be repeated at depth. Secondly,
die lode is arched like the Sydney Harbor
Bridge, and something fairly solid lifted that
mass to the surface on the Proprietary lease.
Ihe fact. Well, geophysical tests indicated that
is a vast mineralised mass down under.
The Zinc and the North are already chasing
their ore downhill, and both operate round the
_2-0ft. park. The geothermic gradient on the
Barrier is bad, and averages ldeg. rise for every
70ft. of depth. If the Big Mine strikes ore at,
say, 1600ft. to 3000ft., the mines at the ex-
tremities would have to go to 5000ft. to reach
the same lode. At this depth they would need
to evolve a race of miners equipped with horns
and tails to work in the heat. Air-conditioning
would be a prohibitively expensive business.
The diamond-drill will be as good as a dose
of monkey-glands to the Prop., and the old
fellow will be running round in rompers when
the Zinc and North whiskers are falling out
with senile decay.
III put my socks in with the shirt, anyhow.
Claude Neon Industries shares (B.
1 3, 39) rose Is. 6d. inside a week, to
31s. 6d. That price includes a shilling
interim div., payable March 31. Appar-
ently an expanding business is still being
done. The co. seems to be coping with
the intricate problem of neon-sign finance
with more than usual success. The
signs, expensive to make and of no use
to anyone except the lessee when
finished, are leased rather than sold out-
right, and the secret of success lies in the
lessor being able to get his outlay back
in the shortest possible period, the bal-
ance of the rents receivable providing
for maintenance and net profit. The
sign cos. earliest in the field (such as
this one and its ancestors) are naturally
sitting prettiest, as a proportion of their
signs should now have been paid for
out of rents.
» * * *
Australasian Paper ords. (B. 8 / 3 / ’39,
at 28s. 9d.) firmed to 29s. 6d. last week
in Melbourne, cum 9.6d. div. payable
March 21. The return is still £5 11s.
per cent, net, and it is well protected.
The operating co., Australian Paper
Manufacturers, makes cardboard and
brown paper ; whatever condition trade
is in, or whether people buy cheap food,
etc., or more expensive kinds, the stuff
is still wrapped in brown paper or put
into brown-paper bags. Cardboard hasn’t
quite such a steady market, special
varieties of it being used in the motor
and building trades ; but so far as that
kind used for packages, cartons, etc., is
concerned, there is a solid and regular
demand here also. A.P.M. has very little
competition, and when its Gippsland pulp
mill gets into full blast it should be a
'eli-contained industry.
* * * *
The Maoriland alluvial gold-dredging
concerns were active on Sydney ’Change
again last week. Ngahere, the newest
of the three with which Malcolm New-
man is associated, was bought consis-
tently ; it is not yet listed, and as there
appears to be little to choose between
Kanieri, Arahura and Ngahere except as
regards market prices of the ord. shares
—34s., 27s. 3d. and 22s. 6d. respectively—
the support for Ngahere is largely in-
fluenced by its lower quotation, the
time factor in commencing dredging
being apparently too heavily discounted
in quotations. Kanieri has already started
dredging, it is winning higher values than
bores showed, but the heavy ground has
indicated that the stacker of the dredge
will have to be strengthened ; Arahura’s
dredge should soon begin operations, and
Ngahere’s machine is scheduled for pro-
duction about the last quarter of this
year. All three cos. were kept well out
of sight of Pitt and Collins streets until
there was something definite to talk
about.
* * * *
Millings by Mt. Kasi (Fiji) for the
month to Feb. 22 were the highest yet
at 3554 tons, and the gold production
(712oz.), though just over 4dwt. to the
ton, also represented a record. The
sharemarket showed a slight interest, and
the scrip rose a few pence, to 4s. 9d.,
later coming back to 4s. 6d. The
accounts, due in the next couple of
months, should be interesting, and the
mine’s long-term outlook possesses
attractions.
The price of Davies, Coop ords. are
keeping up to 255., an interim div. being
due. A one-for-five bonus issue went
out last term, and the div. was 1\ p.c.
If that rate is maintained for 1938-39
the yield at the present market would
be 6 p.c. The co. is in the cotton textile
business, and, like other members of the
trade, is doing very well at present.
* * a
Adelaide Steam shares kept quiet last
week, 325., cum Bd. div., being accepted.
Allowing for the div. accrued (paid yes-
terday, 14th), the yield on a 7 p.c. basis
is £4 9s. 6d. per cent. The co. is one of
the Commonwealth’s key enterprises,
shipping being only one of its interests.
* * * *
A small parcel of the 6 p.c. cumulative
participating prefs. in Geo. W. Kelly and
Lewis, general engineers, and manufac-
turers, through subsidiaries, of Lanz Bull-
dog tractors and National Diesel engines,
has come on to the unofficial market in
Melbourne. Application is being made to
have the scrip listed. The prefs.'parti-
cipate with the ords. up to 8 p.c. A well-
covered 7 p.c. is being paid at present.
Paid capital is £144,748 in 46,000 prefs.
and 98,748 ords. In the 12 months to
30/6/’3B £22,378 was earned. Reserves
amount to £24,770.
* * * *'
The price of copra overseas is a little
better, South Seas sun-dried being above
£lO a ton in London. Ord. shares in
Morris, Hedstrom, which usually pays
its final ord. div. in June, were last sold
in Sydney at 265.; buyers now offer
255. 3d., sellers asking 265. 3d. In 1937-
38 p.c., including bonus, went out;
this year’s interim is unchanged at 6 p.c.
p.a. Mining activity in Fiji should be
helping the co., but the halving of copra
prices since 1937 must be pulling profits
in the wrong direction. A 6 p.c. div. for
the year at least seems indicated, however,
and it is payable in Fiji currency.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Uncle Sam’s War-seekers.
(Condensed from a Saturday Evening Post” article by
Demaree Bess.)
The majority of Europeans are hopeful that, if
they are left to their own devices, they can compose
all their present quarrels without resorting to general
war. But will Europeans be left to their own devices?
From across the Atlantic they hear a confused mur-
mur of voices, a swelling volume which at times re-
sembles a roar. The American people have become
all excited again about Europe.
Events of the past few months, since the Munich
settlement, can be woven into a strong argument to
support the thesis that uncertainties and shifts in Ameri-
can foreign policy are more dangerous to-day to world
peace than any other factor in the world situation.
Unless the American people understand and exercise
control over individuals and forces which are impel-
ling them to-day into the thick of power politics, the
U.S.A. may find itself not only participating in a Euro-
pean war, as in 1917, but actually starting one.
There are three elements which are contributing
largely to the creation of this new and dangerous
American foreign policy. The first of these is an im-
mense increase of popular interest in foreign affairs,
due to such new mediums of communication as radio
broadcasting and talking newsreels. This popular
interest is not yet well informed, because these new
mediums have generated mofe heat than light. In
the hands of unscrupulous agitators, the new emotional
attitude toward Europe can be exploited for sinister
purposes.
All sorts of persons, sincere and insincere, organ-
ised and unorganised, are exploiting the new feelings
for all they are worth. The activities of these indi-
viduals and groups constitute the second element
influencing United States foreign policy.
The intense emotional reaction of Americans to
German anti-Jewish outrages has provided a field
day for politicians, local and national. Naturally
they are not going to overlook such an opportunity
to win easy applause, whether or not they really have
any feelings about the matter. They are feeding the
violent popular prejudices and passions in every part
of the country. Some of them act like this simply
because they want to achieve a little easy popularity:
some give way to their personal emotions without
any thought of the consequences to their country.
Lack of restraint is never an admirable quality ; in
an emergency it may prove disastrous.
In addition to politicians, whose actions usually
are more irresponsible than calculated, the United
States is honeycombed with organised minorities and
interests which seek, for one reason or another, to
involve the country in European politics. Several
of these minorities have intensified their activities
since the Munich settlement, because that settlement
represented for them a disastrous defeat.
The largest of these minorities is that rather un-
wieldy mass known as “anti-Fascists.” This group
includes a little bit of everything, but its hard core
is the Communist party. To the Communists, the
Peace of Munich was a crushing blow. European
Communists have been playing a central role in Euro-
pean power politics for years, as the pawn of Soviet
Russia. The Munich settlement smashed them flatter
than a pancake and pushed Russia out of Europe. To
Communists, Russia is the “Socialist fatherland,” more
dear to them than their own countries. They are
internationalists in theory, but in practice they are
Soviet Russian patriots of the most chauvinistic type.
A convinced Communist would never hesitate to do
anything possible to drag his own country into any
war anywhere on the side of Russia. American Com-
munists have built up a whole flock of subsidiary
organisations, camouflaged so as not to scare off timid
people, but all designed to swing sentiment behind
Soviet Russia and against Russia’s actual or potential
enemies.
Another large and even more unwieldy minority
which wants the United States to play an active part
in European power politics is that which believes in
preventive war of one kind or another. The centre
of this group at present is the belligerent wing of
so-called peace societies. The German outrages have
given them another chance. Most of these societies
have international affiliations, and one can, perhaps,
see what they are doing more clearly in Europe than
in the United States, because their central committees
are located in Europe.
The majority of members in their European
branches belong to political parties which oppose the
present Governments in France and Great Britain, and
disapprove the whole policy of appeasement. For
that reason they are eager to convince their own
people that the United States will line up with Euro-
pean democracies against Germany, Italy and Japan
if only the European democracies drop their appease
ment policy.
Many other American groups have an interest,
emotional or calculated. The large Jewish population,
naturally, cannot remain neutral in questions involving
National Socialist Germany, which has dubbed itself
the “anti-Semitic fatherland.”
But the widening sympathies of the American
people for Europeans and their problems, and the per-
sistent insidious efforts of organised minorities to use
those sympathies to lure America into other people’s
quarrels, might still not be a menace to the peace of
the U.S.A. if a third element did not exist which, com-
bined with the other two, seems to constitute a high
explosive of incalculable danger. That third element
is the gradual development in the minds of some of
influential political leaders of a Messianic com-
plex. Evidence accumulates that a notion is gaining
ground in Washington that the American people are
destined to inspire and assist one group of European
nations to fight with another group.
The belief has got hold recently in the United
States that Americans are destined to rescue some
European nations from their enemies, to uphold one
set of European nations against another set because
one set is labelled “democracies” and the other set
is labelled “dictatorships.” Some leaders and some
organised minorities urge taking up the burden of
saving democracy by invading Europe again.
The majority of men and women in European
democracies have made it clear, since the Peace of
Munich, that they don’t want to be rescued from their
own statesmen by the American people or any other
outsiders. They do desire, if it is possible, to make
a peaceful deal with the “have-not” Powers, which
happen also to be dictatorships. They are endeavor-
ing frantically to make such a deal without giving up
too large a share of the spoils in the World War of
which the “have-not” Powers now demand a cut. This
bargaining process is very painful, and we may expect
to hear loud yelps from Europe for some time.
It seems to be a suitable moment for the United
States to stay completely out of European affairs
instead of thinking up all sorts of new schemes for
getting into power politics under the guise of crusades.
The “Worker’s Paradise” To-day.
(Condensed from a London “Sunday Times” article by
Virginia Cowles.)
The large Russian customs station at the Polish
border blazed with lights, and was crowded with
border guards and uniformed officials; but the only
people entering the country besides myself were two
diplomatic couriers and an English businessman.
When I left, going into Rumania, I crossed the fron-
tier in solitary state. Tourist traffic is almost non-
existent, ninety per cent, of the foreign Consulates
have been closed, and of the large number of foreign
engineers in the country several years ago few remain
—mostly Americans.
This withdrawal from contact with the rest of
the world is a direct result of the purge. As many
of the Russians who have been “liquidated” during
the past few years were accused of relations with capi-
talist Powers, Soviet subjects are now unwilling to run
the risk of being seen in foreign company. The foreign
colony in Moscow lives as though it were stranded
on a deseri island. No Russians may enter an Em-
bassy without special permission from the police, and
even with this permission they are loath to do so as
at some later date the visit may be recalled as evidence
against them.
Foreign ambassadors are trailed day and night
by a police car. When I went to Leningrad with two
friends police spent the week-end trailing us to
museums. Some foreigners are so used to this constant
supervision that they treat the G.P.U. agents as ser-
vants, asking them to put their coats in the cloakroom
at the theatre, pull their cars out of ditches and keep
them supplied with matches.
But in spite of the fact that it is impossible to
have free contact with Russians, Moscow explains
its story. The city offers a curious paradox that is
symbolic of the whole country.
When you enter Moscow you are impressed by
the tall modern buildings, the new bridges, the broad
avenues, the stream of traffic. You walk down a
courtyard into a Soviet apartment house and find the
hall swarming with humanity, sometimes eight or ten
people sleeping in a room. Then you begin to notice
the queues: long lines of people patiently waiting
outside dingy shops for milk, for meat, for vegetables,
for manufactured goods.
The main store, glittering with lights and swarm-
ing with human beings, seems only to heighten the
contrast. You push your way past counters well
stocked with perfume, artificial flowers, banjos, gramo-
phone records and children’s toys, but you find you
can’t buy shoes or woollen stockings, or material with
which to make a dress. One day I found a queue line
twisting through the shop, and discovered that a supply
of ribbon had suddenly appeared.
The struggle still taking place in the Soviet Union
is the same struggle which the country began in 1928
when the first Five-Year Plan was announced ; it is
the struggle to industrialise a vast, backward, agri-
cultural country with a mixture of dozens of nation-
alities and a largely primitive people.
Since those days, however, the governing system
has undergone a drastic change. In 1928, with private
enterprise abolished, the Communist party was the
ruling power in the country. Since then the process
of industrialisation has forced it to abandon certain
of its fundamental principles. The doctrine, still loudly
professed in theory, has in practice been twisted into
an ingenious whip with which to increase the temp
of production. An expert engineer is far more im-
portant to Soviet industrialisation than a zealous party
man. The power of the Communist party, therefore,
has been steadily declining, until to-day it is little more
than a vast publicity organisation to “sell” the Stalin
regime to the workers.
These salesmen are invaluable to the Government.
The Communist slogan, “From each according to his
ability, to each according to his needs,” has become
“From each according to his ability, to each accord-
ing to his worth.” This means that the majority of
Soviet workers and peasants are not paid fixed salaries,
but on piece rates. The average worker’s wage is
estimated at 240 roubles a month, and the minimum
is sometimes as low as 130 roubles. The purchasing
power of the rouble is roughly estimated at 3d., so that
240 roubles a month is equal to about 15s. a week.
The majority of workers and peasants live on
bread (which is kept at a low and fixed price), cabbage
soup and porridge. Although rents are cheap in Mos-
cow, it is impossible for a worker to rent more than
a few feet of floor space. Sometimes several families
share the same room. Since official positions in the
Soviet Union carry with them privileges that in other
countries are considered the common rights of life,
it is easy to understand the fierceness of the struggle
to enter the bureaucracy.
Although members of the Communist party play
an important part as Stalin’s salesmen, they have little
power in running the country. Stalin rules, but he
rules by means of the secret police. G.P.U. agents
are an integral part of every town and village, of every
factory, almost of every house. Any dissatisfaction
with the regime is conveniently labelled as “anti-
communist.” Although the constitution of the Soviet
Government proclaims freedom of speech, a volume
issued a few weeks ago, entitled The History of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union, explains that
disagreement equals diversion, that diversion equals
dissension, and that dissension equals sabotage.
Torturers in Barcelona.
[Prison methods employed in Barcelona before the
taking of that city, as described in “Spain,” published
in London with the object of informing British public
opinion from the Nationalist point of view.]
The conquest of Barcelona has revealed to the
world the anguish of a great city beneath the tyranny
and torture of Communist rulers.
The persecution by the revolutionary police was
intensified tenfold by “specialists” sent from Russia
to “purge” and oppress the people with the consent of
the junta, which could only maintain itself by Ogpu
methods, the price Spain has had to pay for Soviet
intervention in her internal affairs. The Chambers
of Horrors to-day stand as witnesses to their worse
than medieval methods of torture and crime.
When several hundred thousand persons had been
assassinated for being opposed to Communism, Social-
ism, Syndicalism and Anarchy, foreign opinion was
still strong enough to compel the Marxists and their
allies to clothe their murders in a cloak of “legality.’’
After a year’s orgy of crime in the open street, the
organisation of murder and persecution was handed
over to the Muscovites and their satellites, who brought
staffs of experts in the art from their own prisons of
Lubianka at the invitation of Negrin and Prieto.
Naturally, when nobody but revolutionaries dared
to be seen in public, there was a certain apparent
orderliness in the streets. They “made a desert and
called it peace.” When all the churches had been
destroyed or burnt or turned into stables, garages
and stores they talked of “religious toleration.” When
most of the Deputies had either fled or been mur-
dered, “Parliament” was convoked ; and when the
prisons were choked and the torture chambers
crammed with victims, appeals were made to the
“democracies.”
The foreign correspondents have seen and de-
scribed those places of torment, though not every
newspaper has seen fit to publish the- information,
because the aim of such papers is not to inform the
public of the facts but to maintain the lies they have
told, are telling and intend to go on telling.
Those who visit Barcelona to-day may learn fronj
the inhabitants of the deep collective panic inspired
by the chekas. Hunger gradually wore the people
down ; conscription obliged them to fight for then
oppressors ; organised or uncontrolled pillage plunged
them into poverty. But nothing survives in the minds
of those people like those Government chekas, into
which the victims entered healthy and normal, and
Ex-Internationalists.
From London “Sunday Dispatch”: —
A group of men scarcely noticed by the crowds
of passers-by walked down Whitehall, London. They
stopped at the Cenotaph, placed a bunch of flowers
at the base, stood at attention for two minutes, and
then dispersed.
They were members of the International Brigaders’
Anti-Communist League, now fighting against “those
who duped us.’’
Six months ago these same men were in the
trenches in Spain, fighting in the International Brigade
for the Government forces.
They have now formed a league to fight Com-
munism. Already they claim 100 former members of
the International Brigade from all parts of the country
have enrolled.
“Our experiences in Spain fighting with the Gov-
ernment forces and when we returned home have
shown us that we were completely deluded,” Edwin
Hall, former Captain “Seaman” Hall of the Inter-
national Brigade, said.
“Communism is the greatest menace to the world.
My comrades and I went to Spain to fight for the
Government forces and democracy. We found our
greatest enemies were the Spanish Communists. Now
we have banded together to fight the movement in
this country. We intend to pursue a campaign against
the Communist party.”
Another member of the group was John March,
formerly a sergeant in the International Brigade, who
was captured by the Italians in March, 1938.
“I was released by them in October," he said.
“I was treated better by them than when 1 was with
the Spanish Government soldiers. When 1 was in the
front line we had more enemies on our side than
those we were fighting. Now I am finished with Com-
munism.
“Our present movement was formed a short time
ago when some of us approached Captain Vincent
Collier, who attacked Communism at a public meeting,
and asked him to help us organise.”


whence they came out half-crazed, blind, mutilated
or were borne out dead.
Those prisons were established with men, plans
and proceedings brought by Rosenberg, Soviet Am-
bassador in Madrid, and Antonoff Owsoyenko, Soviet
Consul-General in Barcelona. They were newly built
and in selected parts of the city, such as in the garden
of the convent of the monks of St. John. “The most
striking thing in these chekas,” said Sr. Serrano Suner,
“is what might be called their technical cruelty; the
scientific, systematised cruelty; the choice of the
methods best adapted to act on the psyche of the
victims.”
In the St. John’s cheka small rooms were built
with very low roofs. On the floor were bricks stuck
up vertically in the form of a T and firmly rooted
in the ground so that the prisoner could neither sit
nor lie down and not even walk except on the edge
of one brick to another, balancing himself. In this
cell the prisoners were almost naked and starved.
Another diabolic device was the metronome
chamber, in which the prisoners went mad at the
continual lic-tac, tic-tac hammering in their heads.
There was also the light torture. The captives were
seated, bound, on narrow beds in pitch darkness.
Rings were placed in the eyes, like monocles, which
kept them firmly open and a blinding light was turned
on the victims, which ruined their sight.
In other cells, in the St. John’s prison and in that
of the cheka in Vallmajor-street, scientific methods
of torture alternated with rough methods of inflicting
suffering. In some rooms an iron hoop hanging from
the ceiling suspended the victim by the foot, and in
this position his head was steeped in water. Other
places may be seen where the victims were bound
and beaten to unconsciousness with sticks and straps.
Training South Africa’s Youth.
[The London “Times” letter written by Colonel James
L. Sleeman comparing South Africa’s youth-training
Special Service Battalion most favorably against Britain’s
dead-end dole system (“Uncabled Additions” 8/3/’39)
has been followed in the “Times” by a special article
(here condensed) from a South African correspondent.]
The South African voluntary “Special Service
Battalion” is combating many of the evils of unem-
ployment among men. This organisation is no longer
an experiment but a definite factor in the welfare of
the youth of the nation. From it other countries may
have something to learn.
The battalion was established in 1933 to provide
beneficial occupation for boys who had no employ-
ment and to assist them in finding suitable careers.
Their military, physical and recreational training is
undertaken by the Department of Defence, while the
Department of Labor is responsible for finding em-
ployment. The training tides young men over between
the ages of 17 and 22, and prevents them from drift-
ing into the despondency which idleness brings.
Special attention is paid to the health and physical
training of the youths ; and, as nearly every one of
them becomes imbued with a splendid sense of
discipline and service, the battalion has become the
favorite recruiting ground for many spheres of employ-
ment. Up to August last year 8000 of its members
had been found jobs.
The scheme, at first viewed with misgivings in
some quarters, has long won the hearty approbation
of all. References are repeatedly made in the Union
Parliament to the success with which the S.S.B.
turns often unpromising material into healthy, alert
lads, filled with a strong sense of citizenship and
eager to succeed.
The period of training varies from six to 15
months. Privates receive a shilling, corporals 18
pence, and sergeants a florin a day, in addition to
free rations, uniform, medical treatment, quarters, fuel,
and light. Recruits are required to be of good
character and physically and mentally fit. In urban
areas the recruiting is undertaken by the Department
of Labor, and in rural areas by the police. The final
selection is entrusted to a board consisting of repre-
sentatives of the Departments of Labor and Defence.
The course includes training in the elementary
phases of a soldier’s profession and in physical train-
ing and all popular forms of outdoor sport which tend
to develop physique and morale. The training and
exercises are carried out under the control of specially-
selected officers and instructors, and the housing,
messing and hygiene arrangements are supervised by
medical and other qualified officers.
But the question of obtaining employment by no
means takes second place. Not only are the boys
carefully selected for the positions for which they are
suited, but special training is provided to enable, them
to qualify for positions which would not otherwise be
available to them. As well as fitting men for service
in the Permanent Force, police and prisons, the
battalion is a training centre for railway employees.
The Railways Administration has established at
Roberts Heights an instruction school, at a cost of
£25,000, where boys are trained for employment as
signallers, guards and other workers on train and
station staffs. Railway coaches are provided to enable
the boys to learn their work under realistic conditions.
The demand by the Railway Catering Department and
by hotels throughout the country for chefs, stewards
and waiters from this school usually far exceeds the
supply. Candidates are also continually required for
the Government miners’ training schools and various
private industrial concerns.
The effects of the S.S.B. training are incalculable.
Many a backward, timid boy is turned into a confi-
dent and capable young man. His outlook on life is
broadened, and he has the team spirit.
The scheme is extending, provision having
recently been made for training girls from the poorer
class homes to enter domestic and other spheres of
service. They constitute the “Kappie-Kommando”—
the name denoting the self-reliant womenfolk of the
early South African pioneering days who wore
“kappies” or sun-bonnets and the movement
promises to match the success of the male Special
Service Battalion.
The record of the movement is to be observed
in those thousands of young men and women up and
down the Union who might have been ugly failures,
but who now conduct themselves well, take a pride
in their work, and try to do honor to themselves and
their country.
Spotlight on the Ukraines.
[Carpatho-Ukraine—which figured in recent cables,
along with its Premier’s statement “Hitler has been
our friend” —is the minute province, formerly Ruthenia,
locked in by Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and
Rumania. The general Ukrainian situation, which has
been mentioned as one of the likely sources of trouble,
is explained in this condensed article by a London
“Economist” correspondent.]
In 1918 the Germans set up, after the collapse of
Russia, separate Polish and Ukrainian States, the latter
including all regions with a Ukrainian majority. The
immediate aim of the Germans in the Ukraine was to
get hold of grain to relieve the food shortage in Ger-
many, and with this end in view they backed the
Government of General Skoropadsky, who represented
a clique of great landowners. But when Germany
and Austria in turn collapsed, Skoropadsky had to
flee, and the Ukraine fell into utter confusion. The
Poles occupied part of the territory of the Ukrainian
Republic in the west, while further east Ukrainian
nationalists (Petlura), Russian “Whites” (Denikin),
Anarchists (Makhno) and Bolsheviks fought for
mastery. In the end the Ukraine was partitioned
between Poles and Bolsheviks, and the two sections of
the Ukrainian people have had quite different destinies
ever since.
Most of what is now the Polish Ukraine was
formerly Austrian, and the inhabitants look back to
the days of Austrian rule as to a Golden Age. The
Poles at first promised autonomy for the Ukrainian
provinces, but they have never attempted to carry out
their promise, and have on the contrary made every
effort to obliterate Ukrainian nationality and Polonise
the population. Resistance on the part of the
Ukrainians has been met with repression ; in 1930 a
systematic “pacification” was carried out, and cavalry
detachments went from village to village flogging
peasants at random without any form of trial. To-day
there is probably no hatred in Europe equal to that
of the Ukrainians for the Poles, and the irony of the
situation is that, because Nazi Germany has found it
convenient to champion a cause which Britain and
France formerly ignored, the anti-Fascists of the West
will now be driven almost automatically to deny the
claims of Europe’s largest and worst-treated national
minority.
There can be no doubt that the Ukrainians of
Poland are responding readily to agitation coming
from Carpatho-Ukraine under the patronage of Ger-
many. The memory of Austrian favor makes them
naturally pro-German ; they see no hope of a free
national life except through separation from Poland ;
and the Ukrainian middle-class in the towns would
provide the social basis for a state of Fascist .type
subservient to Germany. In the Polish Ukraine the
landlords, the officials and the bigger capitalists are
Poles, but the Ukrainian petite bourgeoisie is large
enough to take the lead in the nationalist movement.
In the Soviet Ukraine, on the other hand, both
the landlords and the middle-class have been elim-
inated, and a new kind of society has been created in
which State officials have taken the place of the upper
social strata of former times. This social order has
given rise to conflicts of a new kind, but these are no
longer definable in terms of nationality. It cannot
be said that there is a struggle of Ukrainian against
Russian comparable to that of Ukrainian against Pole.
The Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic is one of the
constituent republics of the Soviet Union, and the
Ukrainian language is formally recognised as its
proper speech. There is no persecution of Ukrainians
as such in the Soviet Union, as there is in Poland, and
the language question, which provided the Ukrainians
with their principal grievance for half a century before
1917, is no longer an issue. There is, indeed, consider-
able unrest in the Soviet Ukraine, but it is not really
separatist, and it is certainly not pro-German.
The Ukrainians east of Galicia only remember the
Germans as invaders who hanged peasants on portable
gibbets and preserved the great landowners in their
possessions at a time when the Bolsheviks were driv-
ing them out. What does undoubtedly exist in the
Ukraine, and in much larger measure than in Russia
proper, is anti-Stalinism, but opposition to Stalin is
only equivalent to treason if one accepts the conten-
tion of the Stalinists that Stalin and the Soviet regime
are identical. The Ukraine is a stronghold of oppo-
sition tendencies because the proportion of well-to-do
peasants was much larger there than in Central Russia,
and the crisis produced by Stalin’s forced collectivi-
sation policy was correspondingly more severe.
That Stalin is well aware that the Ukraine is a
focus of opposition to his dictatorship is shown by
the special severity of the recent purge of its adminis-
tration. The Soviet Ukraine is the part of the U.S.S.R.
where genuinely democratic tendencies are strongest,
but just for that reason it is the least suitable for Nazi
penetration. Herr Hitler can find as many friends as
he needs in the Polish Ukraine, but if he seeks them
farther east he is more likely to be successful in
Moscow itself than in Kiev.
Control of Radio in U.S.A.
o Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post’’- article
by Stanley High.)
Seventeen years ago there were fewer than fifty
broadcasting stations and not more than 50,000 receiv-
ing sets in the United States. To-day there are 733
stations and 39,000,000 receiving sets —almost as many
of both as in all the rest of the world. In 1937,
America’s broadcasters put some 5,000,000 pro-
grammes on the air and collected a gross revenue of
$140,000,000.
You would not think that an industry with such
a record would have the jitters. But radio has the
jitters. As the figures indicate, broadcasting in the
United States is a private economic enterprise. But
radio is much more than that. For good and ill, it is a
cultural and an educational enterprise. It is also an
opinion-making agency.
The air waves which radio uses belong to the
people. The Government, on the people’s behalf, lends
them, free of charge, to the station owners. But what
the Government gives, the Government can take away,
and every six months every station owner in the United
States is obliged to present the Federal Communica-
tions Commission with a legally documented state-
ment of his reasons for believing that the Government,
in his particular case, should not take away. If the
reasons are moderately good ones and if, meanwhile,
no whisper of misbehavior has come in from other
sources, the Government generally renews and the
operator’s lease on life is good for another six months.
But the threat is always there. As a result of it,
the techniques of good behavior—as the Government
and, more particularly, the party in power define it —
are more highly developed in radio than in any other
American industry. And station owners, since they
can never be sure that they are more than six months
from the noose, are inclined to be on edge even in the
best of fimes. The present Administration, while con-
tinuing the Government’s police powers over radio, is
showing a lively and, to the industry, an ominous inter-
est in its political possibilities.
The industry, therefore, can hardly be said to be
jittery without reason. The state of its nerves —in
even the smallest matters which might conceivably
bring it into political disfavor —is pretty well indi-
cated by the recent action of one of the country’s
largest stations. The station discovered that one of its
announcers had a radio voice much like that of Presi-
dent Roosevelt. The unfortunate young man was
given the choice of changing his voice or his job.
The 1934 Act leaves the President of the United
States as radio’s Lord High Executioner. It is his
responsibility to determine the frequencies which are
reserved for the use of the Army, the Navy and other
Government agencies which require radio communica-
tions. Private radio gets what is left. To date, it has
been left enough to do very nicely. But there is
nothing in the Act to prevent the President from ex-
tending the reserved frequencies to such an extent that
private broadcasting would be crippled disastrously.
Likewise if, in the President’s opinion, there exists
a “war or threat of war or a state of public peril or
disaster or other national emergency, or in order to
preserve the neutrality of the United States,” he
can, “for such time as he may see fit,” shut down
private broadcasting altogether, dismantle the
broadcasting stations and dispose of their equipment.
Or, as an alternative, he can turn the operation of
the business over “to any department of the Govern-
ment under such regulations as he may prescribe,
upon just compensation to the owners.” For this the
President does not need to go to Congress. All he
needs to do is to make up his mind that one or the
other of the aforesaid situations has or is about to come
to pass. He then issues a Presidential proclamation,
private broadcasting folds up, and freedom of the air
outside the White House ceases to exist.
"Ola! Ola!”
On January 16 many Australian newspapers
—which apparently work to a rule that any-
thing cabled to them, however doubtful it may
seem, is sacred and must go in—gave promi-
nence to the prophecy of Madame Tabouis: —
In his speech to the Reichstag on January
30, if not before, Hitler will make a spectacular
revelation of the Italian claims. He will declare
that Germany’s forces are at Italy’s disposition.
On February 4 Italy would have to send a first
ultimatum to France.
Madame, of course, missed with both guesses
—no new experience for her, nor does it affect
Australian newspaper appreciation of her high
oracular gifts in the slightest. In fact, showing
in what high esteem she is held, Adelaide “Mail”
has published a special appreciation under the
heading “Woman Expert on Politics.”
Madame, it is to be gathered from this, is
“an authority on international affairs” and “her
vast public expects to hear something entirely
new, something that can be described as ‘inside
information.’ ,l
Says the “Mail’s” special correspondent:—
1 had tea with this most remarkable of all
Frenchwomen in a spacious secluded flat over-
looking the dusky Place Malesherbes. There she
lives with her husband and her 18-year-old
daughter. Whenever her son, who is in the army,
can be spared from duties, he comes home, too.
But they seldom penetrate into her office.
“My daughter,” she told me, “she loves danc-
ing and parties. My son jokes about my work.
My husband is a leetle jealous of it. See those
four telephone lines? Often I speak to America
on one, often to all the capitals of Europe—to
London, Geneva, Bucharest, Berlin. Then the
newspaper telephones. Cables and international
telegrams are read to me. I say, use that part,
don’t use the rest. Maybe we have a little —just
a very leetle — argument. But — enfin —I win....”
With this illuminating picture of an oracle at
work it is all the more distressing to learn that
Mine Tabouis, prophet of our political future, .
has sad news. She forecasts a crisis in June,
July, or maybe August.
And Madame’s “vast public” should keep in
mind the harrowing effect of chronic inside
information on one who has it:
“Ola! Ola f” she says in her fascinating little
French way. Then she sighs. Then suddenly she
seems weary and discouraged, and her large, grey
eyes—such infinitely kind, large grey eyes—
become misty.
It is very sad, indeed.


SYDNEY iHOROUGHBRED YEARLING SALES, 1939
llth, 13th and 14th APRIL, AT 11 A.M. EACH DAY.
The Catalogue includes particulars of 519 Yearlings by the
following Sires:—
Amalfi (imp.), Andrea (imp.), Beau Pere (imp.), Brazen (imp.), Bullhead (imp.), Buoyant
Bachelor (imp.), The Buzzard (imp.), Caledon (imp.), Chatham, Christopher Robin
(imp.), Closing Time, Constant Son (imp.), Deep Respect, Denis Boy (imp.), Deputy Ruler,
Dunnottar (imp.), El Cacique (imp.), Excitement (imp.), Fox-Earth (imp.), Fnarsdale
(imp.), Gilt Edge, Glenariff, Grand Joy (imp.), Grosvenor (imp.), Hall Mark, Harmero
(imp.), Havelock, Hazrat (imp.), Koomeela, Kuvera, Liberal, Light Brigade (imp.),
Limarch, Madagascar (imp.), Marconigram (imp.), Medieval Knight (imp.), Melfort
(imp.), Metallurgy, Mid Kent (imp.), Pantheon (imp.), Parenthesis (imp.), Pentheus,
Peter Pan, Phaleron Bay (imp.), Plantain (imp.), Rampion, Rionscup (imp.), Roger de
Busli (imp.), Roxburgh, Royal Sun (imp.), Ruffler (imp.), Salmagundi (imp.), Seascape
Boy (imp.), Silverburn (imp.), Simeon’s Fort (imp.), Sion, Spearfelt, Spearhead (imp.),
Stardrift (imp.), Tippler (imp.), Veilmond, Waikare, Winooka.
ANNUAL EASTER SALE
OF STALLIONS, BROOD MARES, UNTRIED STOCK
AND RACEHORSES IN TRAINING
will be held at our Newmarket Stables, Randwick, on MONDAY, 17th APRIL, 193 y
(after the conclusion of the A.J.C. Autumn Meeting).
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY., LTD..
BLOODSTOCK SALESMEN, 28 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
This Page selected Ortelle’s Star and
Pageant to finish first and second re-
spectively in the Australian Cup.
Pageant (eights) won by three parts of
a length from Dark David (20 to 1),
with Ortelle’s Star (fives) third, a similar
distance away.
Shooting through on the rails at the
home turn, Ortelle’s Star looked sure
of success for a stride or two; but
Pageant deprived her of control, and
shook off challenges, aided by a pull
in the weights. Bourbon (9 to 2,
favorite) headed the unplaced division.
The race was made to order for a
stayer like Bourbon. When Manolive
“stole the thunder” of Young Cru-
sader and drew out for a long lead
supporters of the favorite congratulated
themselves on the certainty that
stamina would determine the final issue.
Bourbon possesses a great finishing
run, but in a strung-out field it wasn’t
expected that he would be in advance
of only two rivals (14 started) three
furlongs from home after more than
two miles had been covered. How-
ever, he did much better than Spear
Chief, who finished a very weary sixth.
If he hadn’t broken down at the home
bend Manolive might have equalled me
achievements of Cherubini (1916) and
Answer (1925) by leading throughout the
21-mile journey. Harold Badger re-
ported that Manolive was still pulling
when the off leg gave way. Short of
condition through interruptions in train-
ing, the son of Manfred gave a splendid
display.
The leg which “went” on Manolive
hadn’t given trouble before. A. R.
Jamieson, his young trainer, hopes that
a six months’ spell, such as he had prior
to the 1938 spring meetings, will re-
habilitate Manolive ; but A. A. Spencer,
the owner, may retire his gallant gal-
loper.
Formerly a Perth (W.A.) businessman,
Spencer has set up residence in Victoria,
where he intends to establish a stud,
with Manolive as king of the harem.
Yearling fillies bought by Spencer in
Melbourne last week are to be mated
with Manolive after being raced.
F. W. Hoysted trains Pageant for
H. E. Spry, who raced Flail (Comedy
King-Switch) in conjunction with one of
his brothers, the late H. L. Spry. Six
years ago Flail ran second in the Aus-
tralian Cup; two years later he was
third, D. J. Price being the trainer.
Pageant was bred at the Sunbury stud
of Les Aldridge, but is by Windbag, to
whom Gay Element was sent under a
friendly exchange of mares with A. G.
Hunter, the Seymour studmaster. Gay
Element is by Comedy King from
Karunda (half-sister to Burrabadeen and
Blackadder), by Planudes, a St. Simon
stallion that Andrew Robertson brought
out from America for A. and G. Tye.
• • • • • •
Pageant is in the Doncaster and the
Sydney Cup, and will probably be sent
to Randwick. In 1908 Realm annexed
both the Australian Cup and Sydney Cup.
Saxonite (1912) dead-heated with Prize-
fighter at Flemington, and won at Rand-
wick. A year later Cadonia was second
in the Australian Cup and won the
Sydney Cup. Harriet Graham (1917) led
home the Australian Cup field and was
second in the Sydney Cup.
In the King’s Plate on Thursday Ajax
had only Aitchengee and Bourbon to
beat, and he did his job like the cham-
pion he is. Aitchengee just pipped Bour-
bon for second; the 12 furlongs were
traversed in 2min. 35|sec. Again in the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes on Saturday Ajax
had two opponents, and the result was
such a foregone conclusion that book-
makers did not operate on it. Through
an odd set of circumstances the chestnut
scored without real opposition. El Golea
swung away and lost 30 lengths; Judean
turned completely round and didn’t move
off until Ajax had covered half a fur-
long. The ss. tote behaved as strangely;
it paid 7s. Ajax. After the King’s Plate
his supporters got their crowns back.
It was in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes of
1938 that Ajax equalled the Australasian
record of lmin. for a mile. Un-
extended, he took lmin. 40|sec. on Satur-
day, finishing 3| lengths in advance of
El Golea, who did wonderfully well to
get so close. Ajax registered his eighteenth
successive win, and his stake earnings now
are £28,875. He, of course, goes to Rand-
wick. El Golea’s next outing will be in
the Alister Clark Stakes (maximum
weight, 9st. 51b.) at Moonee Valley on
March 20.
The C. M. Lloyd Stakes affair and
Manolive’s breakdown in the Australian
Cup were mishaps enough for one day.
What happened in the Gibson Car-
michael Stakes verged on tragedy.
Hall Mark’s young brother, Pure Gold,
had the Gibson Carmichael Stakes won
when he dived into the running rail half
a furlong from home and unseated O’Sul-
livan. The Sydney jockey escaped being
galloped on, being thrown into a hedge.
Pure Gold figured at tens. His trainer,
Jack Holt, who is out of luck, was robbed
of a belated victory.
The Gibson Carmichael Stakes fell to
John Wren’s Wilson, a 3-to-l favorite.
Badger had to ride the Siegfried colt with
the whip for two furlongs to squeeze
home by a head from Manolive’s stable-
mate Hiawatha, owned by M. P. Reid,
a wealthy Adelaidean.
The Leonard Stakes was won in fine
style by W. R. Kemball’s mare Amiable,
an outright selection by this Page. Tet-
reen put up a gallant fight, but Amiable
had his measure some distance from the
post. Amiable (fives) started in half a
point less demand than Tetreen, who
headed the quotes. Red Morn, a 33-to-l
chance, was third.
Though W. J. Winterbottom sold Tet-
reen, Gay Prince, third in the St. Leger,
isn’t for sale. He will be turned out for
three months and then trained by Jack
Holt, who picked him out for Winter-
bottom as a yearling.
High Caste was the outstanding two-
year-old at the carnival, winning the
Sires’ Produce Stakes and Ascot Vale
Stakes. In the latter race he did not
have a great deal to spare from Zonda.
Bartle says High Caste is inclined to loaf,
and he had to “bully” the colt over the
final two furlongs of the Ascot Vale
Stakes.
Lou Robertson, who trains Zonda, had
a winning turn with Crojick in the Fare-
well Handicap. Backed from 16 to 1 down
to less than half those odds, Crojick, a
three-year-old by Siegfried-Top Flier,
stalled off Baryta by half a head and
withstood a protest for interference.
Bailey Payten led in two winners at
the meeting, Micawber taking the Bourke
Handicap and Anpapejo the Elms Handi-
cap. Micawber was in strong com-
mission for the Farewell Handicap,
but the rise in weight settled him.
* * * *
Ajax’s Doncaster weight is 10.6. No
horse has ever won with that burden,
though with 21b. less Marvel did it in
1892, and Chatham in 1934. Winooka
had 9.13 when he won in 1932 ; and it
is doubtful whether he was within 71b.
of Ajax, both at their top. A horse the
handicapper has taken a chance with is
Gold Rod, who gets 9.2 —a pound less
than he had in the Epsom when he gave
191 b. and a good beating to Mohican,
who a couple of months later was among
the nine-stoners, and has 9st. in this Don-
caster.
Separating Ajax and Gold Rod are
Aurie’s Star, 9.8, Pamelus, 9.5, and
King’s Head, 9.4. None is badly treated.
Sedunum will be in request with 8.8,
Speardale with 8.7, and Bradford with
8.3. Early Bird, 8.9, is adjudged the
best of the three-year-olds in training,
among whom are Mosaic, 7.13, Mildura,
7.7, and Trimmer, 7.5. Mildura will be
a good second choice for Price if anything
goes wrong with Gold Rod.
Heroic, sire of Ajax, had 9.13 in the
Sydney Cup of 1926, and might have
won if he had not been hopelessly
blocked in the straight; as it was, he
finished a close fourth. Ajax has 9.10.
He is probably the equal of Heroic over
any distance, and unless Defaulter beats
him in the meantime he will be the Cup
favorite if he starts. For the moment he
cannot be regarded as a likely runner
in either race, and the intentions of
Defaulter’s owner are doubtful, though
with 8.12 the colt has been given a
chance. Johnnie Jason, not a first-class
three-year-old, won a Sydney Cup with
8.4. The handicapper reckons Defaulter
101 b. better than Respirator. Bourbon
has his Australian Cup weight, 8.13, and
Marauder gets the same. Next to Ajax,
Spear Chief (9.3) is regarded as the
best of the four-year-olds. Pageant has
8.4, Bristol 8.3, Maikai 8.2 and Desola-
tion 8.0 ; Ortelle’s Star has 8.7.
Though neither is above suspicion of
roguery, this Page will take Gold Rod
and Bristol for its early double.
* * * *
Stan Lamond, son and namesake of
one of the Randwick veterans, won a
double at Warwick Farm with Creditor
and Herarde. Both have pace above the
ordinary, and Lamond —himself a jockey
once—instructed the riders to make use
of it in the early stages and again at the
home turn. Creditor’s pilot was Darby
Munro, and the three-year-old gelding
was favorite —at 9 to 4 —for the Den-
ham Court Handicap. His skill and
strength prevailed in a rousing finish,
and Creditor beat Mildura and Cloudy,
but were it run over again Mildura
(7 to 1) would be favorite. Sal Volatile,
tenth at the half-mile, and wide out in
the straight, was a very close fourth. She.
looks an early winner.
* * * *
Because of his failure at Moorefield,
Herarde was an outsider in the March
Handicap ; eights in a field of six, and
a poor field at that. George Browne
bounced him out at barrier-rise, and when
he got to the front he stayed there —at
Moorefield he found Sailmaker too
speedy, and squibbed it half a mile from
home. Herarde looked in trouble when
the favorite, Limulet, make a fast move
at the home turn ; but Rosante carried
Limulet and Love from Maggie out,
whereas Herarde kept a straight course.
He beat Love from Maggie by a long
head; Limulet, who put no heart into
his work towards the end, was a similar
distance away.
It is still questionable whether Herarde
can go a fast 10 furlongs. Thanks to
Browne’s tactics, he had to make only
2min. 9sec. His tote div. for 10s. (there
were two) was £4 4s. 6d.
Dick Wootton continues to do well
with two-year-olds. On Fly and York
he has collected four times in four starts.
York’s price in the March Nursery was
4 to 1, and the old-timer’s colt won by
about a length from Hectic ; Bonny Loch,
who looked big, was a fair third. Con-
sonance, heavily backed, had had enough
at the home turn. York is a handsome
fellow by El Cacique, sire of El Senorita,
out of Neat Rose, and was bred by his
owner. He is to tackle High Caste in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes at Randwick.
Reg Moses, who bred Sigh (Sion-
Doreen), was present to see that five-
year-old mare open her account in the
Maiden Handicap. She was favorite at
7 to 4, and she led throughout, with
Adonis and Trumpeter chasing her at the
finish. Trumpeter carries the colors of
A.J.C. chairman George Main.
Pen Name (5 to 1) was another who led
all the way in the Farm Novice Handi-
cap. A daughter of Marconigram-Nom-
de-Plume, she had a light weight, 7st. 51b.,
and Knox set too fast a pace for the
heavily-burdened animals like The Bliz-
zard and Slanchivar. Sir Rawson was a
poor second ; The Blizzard and Felicia
ran a dead-heat for third.
Ken Woolridge’s Manfred gelding Pala-
rang was the elect of punters for the
Edensor Park Handicap. He had every
chance, but was no match for Forward,
who drifted from fours to sixes. Chicola
ran on strongly to finish third, and
Forestage shaped well while his condition
lasted. Forward is improving with rac-
ing. A five-year-old gelding by Brazen-
Forest Charm, he has 7st. 41b. in the Don-
caster.
* * * *
Pen Name, who made every post a
winner in the Novice Handicap at War-
wick Farm, is owned by young Mr.
Packer, of the “Daily Telegraph,” and.
according to the rival “Sun’s” Sunday
issue, young Mr. Packer took £5OO to
£lOO about his filly. If any “D.T.”
reader was as fortunate, it hasn’t gone
on record. The “D.T.” gave three sets
of tips for the race. None of them men-
tioned Pen Name. “Martian,” the office
astrologer, tipped Venice, Sign On and
Buckshee; Venice and Buckshee were
non-starters, and Sign On ran seventh in
a field of nine. One winner out of
seven, the winner (Sigh) being a 7-to-4
favorite, was the astrological person’s
achievement for the day. According to
this dreary humbug, “the unseen influence
in racing is undoubtedly the effect that
the planets have on each horse.” His
planets must have gone on strike.
* * * *
William Inglis and Son always make
a good job of their catalogue for the
Easter yearling sales, and this year’s pub-
lication is indispensable to prospective
buyers. Among the sires to be repre-
sented on April 11, 13 and 14 are Beau
Pere, Bullhead, The Buzzard, Chatham.
Hall Mark, Harinero, Kuvera, Liberal.
Limarch, Light Brigade, Madagascar,
Marconigram, Medieval Knight, Pan-
theon, Peter Pan, Royal Sun, Salmagundi,
Sion, Spearfelt, Tippler, Veilmond,
Waikare and Winooka —a truly wonder-
ful collection.
* * * »
“Jamwood”: A Sunday paper alleges
that “some of Sydney’s bookmakers,”
licensed men all, go in for' “underhand
work,” even “criminal proceedings.”
Purchase of tickets pinched from unsus-
pecting punters is alleged ; and more: —•
One common trick is played on women.
When a winning ticket is presented the
bookmaker and the bookmaker’s clerk
fumble with the betting book, apparently
checking the number. In the confusion,
they practise sleight-of-hand, give back
to the woman a totally different ticket, and
tell her it has no value.
Having had a long and extensive experi-
ence of lady punters I refuse to believe
it. If that were a common trick it would
be a common occurrence on Sydney race-
courses to hear a lady punter with a
voice that could cut galvanised-iron
screaming the place down.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
St. Kilda Handicap: Ortelle’s
Star ; next, Aitchengee.
South Yarra Handicap: Ami-
able ; next, Landlaw.
Kooyong Welter: Panax; next,
Sir Grey.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Westmead Handicap: Gold Rod ;
next, Caesar.
Juvenile Stakes: Merry Smile;
next, York.
Club Handicap: Sal Volatile;
next, Mosaic or Jocular.
Rydalmere Mile: Herarde ; next,
Gilltown or Jocular.


W* eS
That n
He
costP 6 ' 0
GOOD#YEAR
- ssui sna am himii miss
jsamn saniui in am swnmisro
Get the Goodyear Giant Pneumatics
built to do your job best . . .
Australia’s most popular line of truck tyres offers the best value —and
provides the best selection. Whether you use light delivery trucks on
city streets or mammoth trucks on back-country tracks, there is a Good-
year Giant Pneumatic that will cut your cost of operation.
The right tyre for your truck or bus can make a difference of thousands
of miles in tyre life. It can make a big difference in tons hauled, area
covered—in maintenance, and tyre cost per mile.
The right tyre for your vehicle is a Goodyear Giant Pneumatic your
Goodyear Dealer will gladly tell you the one best suited to do your job,
‘GOODYEARS CARRY BIG
LOADS 32,000 MILES.”
— H.J.E., Bendigo, Vic.
GOODYEARS HARDLY WORN
AT 35,000 MILES.”
— W.G.B., Welland, S.A.
‘23,000 MILES ON GOODYEARS
OVER BOSH TRACKS.”
Brisbane, Q.
GOODYEARS DO 36,000
MILES WITH 10-TON LOADS.”
—S.E.S., Sydney, N.S.W.
i
1
i
I
r
alias Greatf
Austr
Truck Ty re
at low prices
Value
.. tyM throughout, th
.quality tyre
. , r.i win give y° u
nCCd • because o£ these
rouble-free service, be
quality advantages—
(l) Double breaker strip.
(2) Dual beads.
,3, Flat, J«P
M) Tbiclr, sturdy should®* haw-
*™“* w *? 2 '*l fK'*^***"
JO X 5; 32 X
HIETOUCH
mm
the only tyre built
especially for your ~
hide
The TrU fk
tyre specially hu ' utility should
S ccC for lo«*£
b£ Tie free mileage, greater pay
«°Tw reduced tyre costs.
load ana re . , Goodyear
The Truck Ahwhee _by “
,*V,«e 4 features:—
UaS (1 ) Double breaker strip.
ll) • i truck tread m de-
(3) Truck type bead.
1 carcass
S3SS& , ‘‘?ffi/ SS
5-C5-39


Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
William Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Bo* 71. Melbourne. Victoria
°pijWP
Prices:
Less Gauge,
65/-.
With Gauge,
, 70/-.
u
I
7/ie Mrttd&i&ud'
UTMOST ENJOYMENT
AT LITTLE COST
Considering its many attractions, its bracing
climate, its excellent touring facilities Tas-
mania truly offers.the utmost holiday advan-
tages at lowest expense.
The Tasmanian Govt. Tourist Dept., will
provide an itinerary to suit your holiday
period, whether short or lengthy. Call or
write now for booklets and sailing dates, etc.
Obtain details of
famous Colour Line
Tours at All-Inclusive
cost from your State
Capital and return.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST DEPT.,
Sydney .. 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
Melbourne. .The Block. 286 Collins St.
Adelaide 12 Pine St.
Brisbane 196 Adelaide St.
Perth A.M.P. Building. William St.
Hobart .. Macquarie and Murray Sts.
Under the Whip
Classic successes in Victoria by S.A.
horses have been few and far between.
Auraria, the best three-year-old ever sent
across from Adelaide, landed the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1895 after failing in the
Victoria Derby which Wallace won.
After the Cup she dead-heated with Wal-
lace in the C. B. Fisher Plate; but the
programme was too much for her and
she became of no further use for racing.
In Tempest S.A. has a three-year-old
of fine quality. In the V.R.C. St. Leger
Tempest beat Respirator, from Sydney,
by a head. He revealed great courage
in stalling off Jack Jamieson’s colt after
making practically all the running.
Tempest’s owner, F. G. Scarfe, the
Adelaide merchant who made a pile of
money out of New Guinea goldmining,
was disappointed at Nuffield not being
in the field. Tempest had put up a great
race with C. B. Kellow’s chestnut in the
Victoria Derby, and Scarfe wanted his
revenge. But if Nuffield, fit and well,
had started he would have been as hot
a favorite as Ajax and High Caste in
their respective races. Jack Holt classes
Nuffield as one of the best thoroughbreds
he ever trained. Unfortunately, all hope of
getting Nuffield ready for the A.J.C. St.
Leger has been definitely abandoned. He
will do light stud duty in the coming
season. What may happen afterwards
is problematical.
Gay Prince (Gay Lothario-Violet
Rays) ran a particularly good third in the
St. Leger, considering that J. J. Kelly
wasn’t able to give him a distance pre-
paration. Several Melbourne sportsmen
are anxious to buy Gay Prince, whose
brother, Gay Lover, lost the Epsom of
1936 to Capris on a protest and sub-
sequently annexed the rich Cantala
Stakes.
Kelly returned to Perth last Sunday,
leaving behind the three horses —Gay
Balkan, Tetreen and Gay Prince —that
he brought over for W. J. Winterbottom.
Through fear of a breakdown Gay Bal-
kan was not raced. He is spelling at
Tullamarine, and will be joined there by
Gay Prince.
Tetreen, after beating Tempest and
Micawber in the Brunswick Stakes, was
sold to E. A. Connolly, delivery to be
taken at the close of the meeting.
Curiosity is felt as to what “Eric” will
do with Tetreen. Once he raced on a
very big scale. Now the prevalent idea
is that he “keeps horses to look at them.”
Eligible, the only galloper he had in
hand until Tetreen was acquired, has
averaged about two starts per season.
Frank McGrath watched the racing at
Flemington, but had no direct interest
in it. Chatting with a Bulletin scribe,
the veteran recalled that the last time
he started a horse in the Newmarket was
in 1912, when Desert Rose ran third,
behind Desire, from Tasmania. In the
previous autumn Desert Rose was second
to Queen o’ Scots. That Australian-bred
sires should be supported in preference
to those from abroad is the firm convic-
tion of McGrath, who looks forward to
the first of the progeny of Peter Pan
entering the sale ring at Easter. Mc-
Grath mated a mare with the horse chat
won two Melbourne Cups for him, but
she missed.
* * * #
Jimmy Pike had a welcome win at Vic-
toria Park, Sydney, with Plassey, a filly
he trains for one “A. H. Serghe.” The
race was only a division of the Maiden
Two-year-old Handicap, and the owner’s
cheque amounted to a mere £66 13s. 4d.,
but Plassey was favorite, at 5 to 2, with
Bravissima, one of F. W. Hughes’s string,
who ran third. Plassey, who was ridden
by Davidson, was never in trouble, and
is evidently smart. She is by imported
Melfort out of Gallant Victory, also im-
ported. Incidentally Davidson was in the
wars again at Victoria Park. Riding a
thing called Wiki Wiki, favorite for an-
other division of the Maiden Two-year-
old Handicap, he stopped a woodener
with his mouth when his mount threw
his head up at the barrier. Wiki Wiki
finished out of a place, and the jockey
came in bleeding and a bit groggy.
Beau Ercil picked up another race for
Mandel at Victoria Park —his fourth in
five starts; in the other he came in last.
The race was a division of the Flying
Handicap, and Beau Ercil’s price was
9 to 4. He was one of four that were
badly away, but he was up with the
leaders at the entrance to the straight,
and, though he ran wide, he overcame
that disadvantage and cut down Belgravia,
to whom he was giving 181 b. Lithgow,
an outsider, was third. The distance was
6| furlongs. Beau Ercil ought to go a
good mile. He failed to do so in the
Villiers, but he hadn’t then struck form.
* * * *
Some of the keenest bidders at the
yearling sales at Newmarket, Melbourne,
“Stop petting it, and get on with the fishing.”
were racehorse-owners who have been
very successful lately, notably Archie
Crofts, owner of El Golea ; W. J. Winter-
botham, of Perth, who won with Tetreen
and then sold him well, and Mandel, the
bookmaker, for whom Beau Ercil has
proved a very profitable investment.
Crofts gave 1100 guineas for a chestnut
colt by Gay Lothario-Balkan Rose, a
brother to Balkan Prince, and 1000
guineas for a brown colt by Manitoba-
Strepera. For another chestnut colt by
Gay Lothario-Sweet Echo, the West-
tralian bid 800 guineas, and he got a
Portofino-Fretwork chestnut for 450
guineas, also a Manitoba-Scanty filly for
225 guineas. Top price on the first day
was realised for a chestnut colt by Gay
Lothario-Donna Celesta —G. L. Scott, of
Melbourne, who owns Aspire, bid 1150
guineas for him. A. Lane, another Mel-
bourne man, had to equal it to secure
a chestnut colt by Manfred —Loorama.
Sol Green did not do as well as was
anticipated with his Lo Zingaros. What
was reckoned the best went to Steve
Murphy, of Melbourne, for 775 guineas ;
and Devon, the owner of Early Bird,
bought a chestnut colt by Lo Zingaro-
Recuperator, dam of Respirator, for 500
guineas. In five cases Green wouldn’t
take the prices offered. Portofino year-
lings were in request; for the Waltzing
Lily colt A. Krouse, a Kalgoorlie man,
had to go to 575 guineas. Fifty more
was bid for a brown colt by Portofino-
Semitist, but E. A. Underwood, the Oak-
lands Junction studmaster, wanted still
more (he got it from Mandel), and he
refused 650 guineas for a Portofino-Isa
colt.
Had the Windbags been put up a day
after the St. Leger, in which two Wind-
bag colts, Tempest and Respirator, ran
first and second, instead of the day before
it, they must have sold better. As it was,
save for 625 guineas given for a bay colt
out of Bahlaka, they went pretty cheap,
and so did the progeny of Windbag’s son
Liberal and the Melbourne Cup winner
Marabou. He was put up too. The best
bid, 400 guineas, was refuser'
Mandel had to write a cheque for 700
guineas to become possessed of a chest-
nut colt by Gay Lothario-Andromeda.
Representative trainers were active for
their patrons. A bay colt by Manitoba-
Werbelle fell to Frank Musgrave’s bid of
1100 guineas, and a Manitoba-A vert colt
was knocked down to Jack Holt for 800
guineas.
* * * *
In a review of Derby winners as sires,
a London “Observer” man writes that
“those of the years after 1920 have not
been so successful as those of earlier
times.” High on his pre-war list is
“Spearmint, 1906,” who “sired a Derby
winner and a St. Leger winner,” and
some of whose Australian descendants,
Marauder, Spear Chief and Early Bird,
have done very well at the Melbourne
meetings. The “Observer’s” scribe has
a good word to say for Blandford, who,
though he “never ran in. a classic race,
was a really good racehorse when at his
best,” albeit “difficult to train.” Bland-
ford sired four Derby winners, Trigo,
Blenheim, Bahram and Windsor Lad. He
also has representatives in Australia and
Maoriland.
* * * *
“T.”: Harry Tancred, the owner of
High Caste, has been learning by wireless
of the achievements of that magnificent
two-year-old, having been ordered a
Pacific voyage after a bout in hospital.
He is the Tancred who played Union
Rugby football for Maoriland against
N.S.W. Brothers Arnold and Jim won
N.S.W. and Australian caps, and were
among the Waratahs who went abroad in
1927-28 and beat Ireland, Wales and
France. Brother George is the punter of
the family, and, with J. T. Jamieson, has
brought off many coups. The Tancreds
are in the dead-meat line. They have
made a success of country killing in a
town once thought to be much too far
west —Bourke.
* I* * *
“D.E.”: People wise in the ways of
taxation departments are speculating
humorously on the inquisitions that
await a “sport” whose recent successes as
owner and punter have been very well
advertised. Where “sports” are concerned
the taxgatherers are as sharp as needles,
and this particular “sport” was not long
ago ordered to cough up seven “mon-
keys” for having, in the course of three
years, forgotten to mention income
amounting to about £5OOO. There are
no more studious readers of racing prints
than taxgatherers. They have even been
suspected of overhearing club talk about
this dashing bookmaker’s winnings and
that dashing bookmaker’s losses. Any-
way, it is certain that the gentleman who
has struck it lucky will called upon
to account for every pound his nags have
earned for him.
0 .
M.y. Olid KCITTerTy
Another Decision for Wilson
claude v arn er talks of settling down
. , . . •„ nnt his
m Australia, having, he explains, put
savings in racehorses and other Aus-
tralian “investments.” It is to be hoped
that he will have better luck with his


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
- ns
* ' ‘N/'
iUSTRAUiN w ;
AND PROUD OF IT/
Australia has every reason to
be proud of Olympic. An
Australian product through
and through, Olympic has
proved it can take the bat-
tering to-day's motoring con-
ditions impose on a tyre.
Every penny of capital be-
hind the Olympic Co. is Aus-
tralian —not a farthing of its
profits goes outside the Com-
monwealth. Moreover, every
Executive is an Australian ...
and proud of it.
Refit with Olympic
AUSTRALIA'S
BEST TYRE
The Choice of 90% of
Australia’s Racing Drivers
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
PTY. LTD.
Cnr. CROWN & STANLEY STS.
SYDNEY
Olympic Cyres
m
fQ?'
MADE
EFFIELD
IN
m
V
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
VIA AMERICA
Travel across the Atlantic
by the Giant Vessels of the
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSLANTIQUE
(French Line)
From NEW YORK TO ENGLAND.
* 3rd May, 1939 “Normandie,” from New York
13th ~ 1939 “lie de France,” ~ ~ ~
* I 7th „ 1939 ‘Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
25th ~ 1939—“ Champlain,” ~ ~ ~
*3 Ist ~ 1939—“Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
6th June, 1939 ‘lie de France,” ~ ~ ~
13th ~ 1939—“ Champlain,” ~ ~ ~
* 14th ~ 1939—“Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
21st ~ 1939 He de France,” ~ ~ ~
27th ~ 1939 De Grasse,” ~ ~ ~
*2Bth ~ 1939—“Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
Ist July, 1939—“ Champlain,” ~ ~ ~
Normandie,” largest vessel in the world.
Travel from Australia to England via America
—book your reservations before leaving.
Accommodation and full particulars:
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
Travel Department 7 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 87901
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane, Auckland, N.Z., Wellington, N.Z.
equine “investments” than did that other
likeable American Jimmy Clabby.
Varner had another mill in Melbourne
on Saturday night, his opponent being
that busy little coon Wilson. Wilson
wasn’t so aggressive as usual, and at one
stage looked as if he would wilt under
Claude’s ponderous attack. However, he
was the better boxer, and the verdict
went his way, though many in the crowd
disputed it.
Kingfish in a Canter
As with all the scraps in which King-
fish Dixon has figured since lobbing in
Sydney, his engagement with Dick Hum-
phries out at Leichhardt was a one-sided
exhibition of beautiful boxing. Scaling
lOst. lljlb., Humphries had some 41b.
advantage, and the better of it, too, in
height and reach, but, though he tried
hard, he couldn’t get a glove past Dixon’s
dandy defence.
The local lad made a fine rally in the
eighth round, keeping well on to the King-
fish and belting away for every second of
it. It looked great stuff, and the King-
fish appeared to be in trouble, so that
the onlookers —a packed house —bellowed
themselves as hoarse as if the pubs would
still be open. But the truth was that
none of Dick’s 3764 attempts to drive
his left through the midst of the King-
fish really connected cleanly, and all but
two or three of the lot were blocked by
elbows and powerful short forearms.
It was a surprising rally on Dick’s
part, for up to then he had taken a box-
ing lesson, all the more effective because
of his reluctance or inability to use his
right hand, even for defence purposes
against the Kingfish’s pretty and per-
sistent left hook. Anyway, it served to
buck the crowd up, and there was a
vociferous bellow as the bell went for
the ninth.
Out they came, and in went Kingfish
with a left hook that nearly shifted Dick’s
block off, and then an irresistible burst
of vigorous two-handed fighting, against
which Dick had only a very makeshift
defence and no counter whatever. Only
the bell saved a knockout, and the
spectacle of Dick dazed in his corner,
with his left eye cut, was too much for
ref. Lacey’s compassionate nature, so he
declared the proceedings over to the great
satisfaction of everybody.
The Kingfish arrived in these parts
some months ago without any fanfare of
trumpets. He has had little publicity
and doesn’t seem to hanker after it; but
there’s no doubt about his talent as a
boxer. Like two others in the present
crop of similar hue —Sabatino and
Stewart—he is a notably clean fighter,
even under provocation. Dick must have
hit him low nearly a dozen times in the
nine rounds —nothing heavy, and most of
it deflected low by the Kingfish’s elbows,
but enough to warrant a caution from
Mr. Lacey, and plenty to provoke retalia-
tion from many scrappers. The Kingfish
ignored it all, and boxed on in his ad-
mirable cool, tradesmanlike style. He
gives the impression of being flat-footed,
but has excellent balance and is very
swift in attack. There’s a heap of power
in his punches, and his boxing generally
is an action-treatise in the Noble Art.
Win for Joe Hall
Standing up on his ringside seat after
the scrap, a gent, with the lung-power
of McShortodds summed up perfectly
on the Joe Hall v. Henry Moreno en-
gagement at Sydney Stadium. “I backed
Hall,” he bellowed, “but never again!”
When they started out it looked as if
laying Ajax odds on Hall would be a
form of daylight robbery. At 9st. l£lb.
he had a 3ilb. advantage, and his robust
build made it appear more. He also had
advantage in height and reach, and in
boxing ability the little Mexican didn’t
seem to be in the same class.
The best the Mexican lad could man-
age in the earlier rounds was rushing
and hanging on, and Joe seemed con-
tent with lightly outboxing him. But
from the fourth onward the Mexican
took five rounds in a row, mainly by
virtue of sheer hard work. He kept up
a brand of rushing that he may have
learned watching the bullfights, walloping
away with both hands and carrying Joe
back against the ropes, where Joe would
stand head-high above him looking at
the clock or listening to the rain pelting
on the roof, or else would lie back on
the middle strand precariously balanced
on his kidneys.
Then Mr. Wallis would drag ’em
apart, they’d spar a bit, and then another
rush. As the little bustler came in Joe
would pick him off with his right, but
his punches, though clean and solid, were
too high, and the little bloke’s skull
seemed impervious to them. At this
stage he was clearly outfighting Joe —
not hitting so heavily or so cleanly as
the local lad, but making the fight, rush-
ing, bustling, biffing and blowing off
steam like an honest little engine.
In the ninth two great truths dawned
on Joe —that he was rapidly losing the
fight, and that he had a left hand. A
clinking left hook—to which the Mexi-
can had looked vulnerable all along—
caught the little chap coming in and
badly shook him. Joe improved on it
with a right cross, then a heavy left rip
to the chassis. It was miles better stuff
than anything he had shown up to then,
and it needed to be. The tenth was
Joe at his best, and that, though rarely
seen, is uncommonly good. He out-
fought, outboxed and all but outed the
Mexican, who was twice on his knees,
partly through slipping, and, when he
wasn’t taking Joe’s clean-cut punches,
was hanging on with both midget arms.
Joe took the next two rounds almost
as conclusively, and the decision by a
narrow margin—clearly the better man
on the night, but if he was a racing moke
he’d tempt, if not justify, a quiet touch
with a battery.
♦ * * *
“Genung”: “Starlight” (B. 8/3 / ’39) was
the gentlest soul that ever put on
the gloves. In the early ’nineties he
ran a boxing school in Ballarat, and
I was one of the young bloods who
found him a patient teacher. But
some of the lads got cocky, and one
night Jimmy Somebody passed the word
round that he was going to put some
rough stuff across the old darky. When
Star realised what Jimmy was after he
smiled rather sadly. Things happened
very suddenly. One! Two! Three!
The subsequent proceedings interested
Somebody no more.
Ins and Outs
For South Africa and England timeless
Tests have been killed by an appalling
performance in the fifth and final match
between Hammond’s men and the
Afrikanders at Durban. On the ninth
day of the infliction it was still dragging
on —so inexpressibly dreary that a bats-
man who knocked up three runs in 10
minutes was relatively dashing. When
this page had to go to the printer Eng-
land needed 443, and had nine wickets
in hand.
Westralia had some excellent cricketers
before the war, notably Selk and Ernie
Parker, a brilliant batsman who was
fated to fall in France. Their deeds are
recalled by the present State eleven’s
creditable showings against the Victorian
Sheffield Shield team. Two matches were
played, and both were drawn in favor
of the Westralians, who in the first game
scored 9 for 398 (closed) against 266
and 310, and in the second 257 and five
for 225 (closed) against 226 and three
for 78. Their most successful batsman
was Barras, formerly of Fitzroy, who
was very consistent (113, 54 and 95), and
in each of two Victorian knocks W.A.
bowlers got half the wickets cheap —Hal-
combe, 5 for 40 ; Eyres, 5 for 47. For
Victoria Tamblyn, Hassett and Sides
made centuries: 100, 103 and 121.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Yarraville v. Preston had
an exciting finish. Yarraville had to make
204 runs in 102 minutes if it wanted to
get into the semi-finals. Five runs were
needed when Perussich, the Yarraville
batsman, faced Preston’s fastest bowler
rocking in the last ball of the match. Fie
lifted it over the fence for a sixer.
* # * *
“Bowler’s Urger”: These howls about
Test cricketers who refuse to play for
their State irk me. Their critics cavil
too much. After all, representative
Aussie cricketers are true-blue amateurs,
and why shouldn’t they play only when
they feel inclined? Do they owe either
the public or the sport anything? All
they get out of it is a nine months’ tour
abroad, a few paltry hundreds in bonuses
after it and perhaps a job worth only
£5OO p.a. Some of these unreasonable
administrators wouldn’t give a man time
to look around to see how best to invest
his bonus or a few months’ golf to get
his eye in before rushing him on to the
field again. I recall going down to Syd-
ney’s harborside to see the 1909 team
return. It was at midday on a Saturday.
No sooner had the gangway been put
down when a lot of athletic-looking chaps
hurried down. In particular I noticed
one genial-looking fellow grasp his
brother’s welcoming mitt and then tear
off, an anxious look in his eye. It was
Warren Bardsley. He had only an hour
to snatch a bite of lunch, grab his togs
and rush out to Wentworth Park to play
for Glebe, his club, against Cumberland.
As I remarked to a bystander, it was
fellows like him, with their damned en-
thusiasm, that were spoiling the game.
Miscellaneous
“D.T.”: A better spirit seems to rule
between Oxford and Cambridge. A cable
message announces that for weeks lan
G, Esplin, an old “Shore” (Sydney) boy,
stroked the second Cambridge crew. As
he went to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar
this loan to the rival was a friendly touch.
* * * *
“Compo” : Walter Lindrum is promis-
ing a billiards counterpart of Test matches
with an arrangement for discounting his
own uncatchable superiority. The cham-
pion, nephew Horace and McConachy
will form the Australasian team, while it
is hoped that Davis, Newman and Smith
will wave their cues for England. The
idea is for matches to take place in
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide simul-
taneously, with loudspeaker information
concerning progress; aggregates to
decide. Thus, the inevitable Walter Lin-
drum victory will not avail if the English-
men outscore his partners.


Wf if MR'wysi
ŧ
AT THE
lIVOII
r»g«]
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY,”
featuring
BUSTER WEST & LUCILLE PAGE
And 10 Other Acts.
“THE 810 FUN SHOW OF 1939.”
Ada Brown, Radcliffe and Rodgers.
12 Star Variety Acts.
-CP;
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
A.B.C. Reports Itself.
After an introduction by Mr. Cleary
and a song entitled “Dedication of the
Voice of Radio to the Glory of God,”
the “Annual” which records A.B.C.
doings for the past 12 months turns to
the extraordinary business of Cricket.
This, as reported on by C. J. A. Moses
(general manager) and D. G. Leggett, is
Introducing Mr. Cleary introducing.
one of the major marvels associated with
entertaining Australians, if not the daddy
of them all.
License figures, the writers state, have
shown that Test cricket is the greatest
broadcasting attraction in Australia. Dur-
ing the last Tests radio sales broke all
records.
All over the country, as well as in
Papua and the South Sea Islands,
uncounted numbers of apparently sane
people sat up into the daylight hours
listening-in, before staggering off, blear-
eyed, to toil. In Fiji planters turned their
sets on full blast and left their windows
open for the benefit of the heathen, bats
and whatnot tensely listening outside;
while from Maoriland, owing to the sort
of clocks they keep there, came the report
that barbers were raking in fabulous
fortunes because strong men who had
hung on for the last broadcast word in
the night’s play hadn’t time to drag their
own whiskers off.
The amount of extra electricity used up
was probably enough to give every lass
in the land a permanent wave once a
day for life and keep all the tin hares
running in perpetuity.
Mr. Moses and Mr. Leggett say that,
fond of sport as English people are, those
people “cannot understand the extra-
ordinary phenomenon of thousands
listening until the small hours to each
day’s play,” and not only listening but
“groaning their disappointments, applaud-
ing friend and foe, suffering dull play in
the hope of brighter, now and again
offering a word of advice,” to say nothing
of contributing towards uplifting the
miserable standard of living of coffee
magnates, beer barons, whisky distillers
and ham-paste and cheese growers.
Meanwhile, those misguided beings
who blindly persist in clinging to the
Foggy Isles, instead of having the good
Apres le Test!
sense to migrate, have to put up with the
8.8.C.’s miserly ration of “two daily 10-
minute commentaries,” with an occasional
added half-hour of eyewitness descrip-
tion when the game is “particularly ex-
citing,” deciding which point no doubt
puts a severe tax on 8.8. C. judgment.
The A.B.C. writers make no attempt
to delve into why it is that a “game of
cricket on an English field has become
a matter of national interest” in these
parts, though the word “national” prob-
ably hits the nail pretty accurately. It’s
possibly an expression of that sort of
complex in its awakening stage more than
anything else, even if sitting up three-
parts of the night developing nothing but
long ears and listeners’ corns may seem
an odd way of giving vent to national
feeling. That explanation would like-
wise fit Englishmen adrift in these parts,
listening-in as strenuously as the rest
purely out of self-defence of the national
ego. Indeed, in this respect it would be
impossible to improve on radio as an in-
strument for helping cricket to unweld
the Bonds of Empire.
There is also, of course, the con-
sideration that this synthetic cricket
makes rattling good entertainment. As
done by A.B.C. it isn’t cricket at all, but
a drama of cricket, so that it might be
said that the most successful of all A.B.C.
broadcasts is the great occasional serio-
comic drama, written and composed by
various hands, entitled “The Test Match
in England.”
Of other plays broadcast by A.B.C.
those of Will Shakspeare are rated very
highly. Will, indeed, is spoken of in an
excellent article on writing radio plays
as “in many respects the perfect radio-
dramatist.” He must be pretty good, be-
cause in the last three years every one of
his 37 plays has been broadcast by A.B.C.
Not in their entirety, of course. Will
wrote for a coarse and vulgar age, and
some of his expressions and even the
For the benefit of the heathen.
name of one of his characters are too
much for these refined times' —over the
air, anyway. Apart from that easily
eliminated defect, the Bard might have
been writing expressly for radio in pen-
ning such scenes as that of the witches in
“Macbeth” or the doings of Ariel around
the estate of that most ruthlessly mis-
treated of all minorities —Herr, Signor or
Mr. Caliban.
The writer of the article on radio plays
makes some good points regarding their
special advantages over stage and cinema
productions, especially in the ability to
suggest peculiar atmosphere—the super-
natural, the eerie, fantastic, terrible, the
world of dream and suchlike, for which
the stage medium is too substantial and
the screen, though made of shadows, just
about hopeless.
It is further claimed that the radio play-
wright is “addressing each member of his
audience personally, and can aim at that
intimate ‘human touch’ so difficult to
effect on the stage, so almost impossible
to effect on the screen.” The argument
is that stage and cinema audiences give
a mass reaction, whereas radio appeals to
“an audience of individuals who are free
from infectious communal enthusiasm or
emotion.” That members of stage and
film theatre audiences cease to be indi-
viduals because they’re gathered in the
numbers of a herd might be doubted, but
the point is a good one as an instruction
to radio playwrights.
A.B.C. last year provided 108,158
programme hours from national stations,
so the toiler or spendthrift who heard
only the odd 58, or even the odd eight,
missed a lot for his money. Inside the
12 months 578 evening programme
periods were devoted to plays. With this
sort of thing going on on the one hand
and, on the other, the film houses run-
ning from 11 in the morning till 11 at
night, it’s not much wonder that in the
stage theatre about the only ghost capable
of walking is the ghost of its past glory.
Except to the diehard stage addict this
is not so bad as it may sound. A.B.C.
has taken to its bosom most of the
former inhabitants of Poverty Point, or
other broadcasters employ them, some
achieving affluence by judiciously blend-
ing their histrionic talents with the merits
of all manner of products from pork
sausages to pianos. They can no longer
be seen, alas! and no doubt some miss
this as much as, if not more than, their
audiences; but the A.B.C. ghost, though
Cultural urge.
he may not walk like a Caliph, at least
does walk. Among other handouts, he
supplies the needful to 259 musicians now
permanently on A.B.C.’s payroll, com-
pared with a mere 50 flute-chewers, cym-
bal-bangers and the like in 1932.
Also, in the year ended June, 1938,
70 p.c. of all scripts used in productions
of all types by A.B.C. was by Australian
writers. And people should not imagine
that A.B.C. work is all champagne and
roses ; 1166 auditions for dramatic and
vaudeville artists have been heard since
1937 ; 1375 musical auditions Were held
in 1938 ; and nearly 3000 scripts have
been submitted since 1936. Yet, judged by
pictures of them scattered through the
“Annual,” A.B.C. and staff all look
serene enough, and even to some extent
happy.
Perhaps the “Annual,” in so far as it
is an account of what happens to that
guinea you fork out, reads best of all in
regard to cultivating a widespread appre-
ciation of music, including that provided
by imported and indigenous artists of
front rank, appearing in person on plat-
forms in all capital cities, instead of
being restricted to Melbourne and Syd-
ney as they used to be, and now being,
of course, heard as Well by a fair propor-
tion of all those patriots who paid the
first instalment on their sets at the
prompting’ of an entirely different cul-
tural urge.
Running musical culture close must be
listed A.B.C.’s school broadcasts, schools
Enviable immunity.
listening to which have increased from
50 in 1932 to over 1600, with 90,000 pairs
of young ears devoted to absorption, as
well as another 3000 pairs in the out-
back that take in the special correspon-
dence-course broadcasts, and maybe can
poke out their tongues or let off a blood-
curdling raspberry with enviable im-
munity. Also towards entertaining and
improving Young Australia, A.B.C. last
year gave 25 free concerts to which
50,000 youngsters turned up. You’d
think it was Scotland.
“Dinner at Eight?'
Missed at the first night but picked up
at rehearsal, this comedy (why comedy?)
by George Kaufman and Edna Ferber,
produced by Gregan McMahon at the
Comedy, Melbourne, turned out to be a
much more human picture of the upper
stratum of New York society than “The
Women.”
At a first night Mr. McMahon is con-
spicuous by his absence. At rehearsal
he is a small dark note of incipient mild
protest seated in the white desert waste
of covered chairs. McMahon has been
moulding lumps of human clay into actor
shape for goodness knows how long, and
if his temper isn’t frayed by this time
it must be because he hasn’t got one.
“Dinner at Eight” has to do with Mrs.
Oliver Jordan, whose sole concern is
getting up in N’York society and who
is preparing a dinner to a visiting English
lord and lady. Her husband Oliver is
the heir of an ancient shipping line which
is failing. Having lost all incentive to
go on living, he is preparing for an attack
of heart failure. Their daughter Paula
is engaged to a young man who bores
her and has given herself to a movie
star, Larry Renault. Middle age has de-
prived Renault of his only appeal for the
public, his face and figure, and he is
fighting against having to admit that he
is out of the race for ever. Being out of
love with himself, he finds Paula’s obses-
sion for him an unmitigated nuisance.
Another prospective guest at Mrs.
Jordan’s precious party is Dan Packard,
ex-miner and now great financier, whom
the President is contemplating taking into
the Ministry. He is engaged in secretly
buying up the stock of his host’s steam-
ship company and completing Oliver's
ruin. He has tried to buy his wife’s affec-
tion by hanging ropes of pearls on her.
but Kitty, an ex-cloakroom attendant, is
having a liaison with her medical adviser.
Dr. J. Wayne Talbot, who is getting tired
of her. Dr. Talbot’s wife has got wind
of the affair, and extracts a confession
and a promise to be good in future from
the humiliated doctor. Another guest,
Carlotta Vance, a retired great actress
and a stockholder in Oliver’s shipping
co., is double-crossing him by selling out
to Packard.
The situation in the servants’ quarters
is no more propitious for the success of
Mrs. Jordan’s party. Gustave, the Italian
waiter, who already has a wife and family
in Italy, is in love with the maid Dora,
who insists on marriage, and he commits
clandestine bigamy on the day appointed.
Ricci, the German chauffeur, is also in
love with Dora and is watching the pair
with looks of homicidal fury.
On the evening in question it turns out
that the pieces de resistance, the English
lord and lady, have forgotten all about
the party and gone off to Florida ; the
lobster in aspic has been overturned in
a brawl between the waiter and the
chauffeur, and the waiter has three inches
of plaster on his visage; the maid is
preoccupied and gloomy, having dis-
covered her handsome husband is already
married ; the financier’s wife has begun
to feel that the doctor has deserted her;
the doctor’s Wife is celebrating a barren
triumph ; the host has received his death
sentence from the doctor. Only the
financier is jolly.
All this is contrasted with the com-
plete obliviousness of the hostess to what
is going on around her. She is only
concerned with the failure of her party.
The daughter has her duty towards her
fiance and her love for the movie star
pulling her both ways, and as the guests
file in to dinner she snatches up a cock-
tail, drinks it and goes off, presumably
in search of the film star, who, unknown
to everybody, is sitting in his flat with
the windows and doors sealed up and
the Unlighted gas on.
Everybody is good except the slightly
farcical minor characters. Julie Cotton
depicts the egocentric Mrs. Jordan to
perfection. Eric Reiman as her husband
is the embodiment of amiable discourage-
ment. Hugh Rose as the doctor and
Frank Tarrant as the film star are suf-
ficient excuses for the obsessions of their
respective inamoratas, taking everything
into consideration. Love in the kitchen
is admirably portrayed by Phyllis Rendle.
In a scene with Marie Balfour, Alec
Pratt conveys coarse brutal force with
the vigor of Oscar Asche.
New Drama.
Present writer would hesitate to say
that there was any idea above the mental
level of a child of eight in the three
short plays currently presented at the
New Theatre in Flanigan-lane, Mel-
bourne, behind the Duke of Kent.
Beyond such statements and variations
of them as that war is a curse, that
economic security is the first necessity
(a statement With which he disagrees
entirely, vide the careers of most of
the great artists, who never had it), that
traditional education warps the minds of
children, that the world should be made
happy and hate and fear eliminated,
that the workers should get a square deal,


SATISFYING
. . . THE FRIENDLY
CHARM OF BARNEYS
Men talk about Barneys almost as if it were human, as though it had being ... “friendliest
of all Tobaccos,” one smoker called it. One enthusiast got close to the heart of things
when he said: “There are times when a man needs not exactly a companion but a
sense of companionship . . . and Barneys supplies this need.”
How true this is can only be realised fully by those to whom the need is greatest . . .
amongst them those Barneys smokers in the lonely places of the earth! Just ponder this
. . . from a Barneys smoker exiled in the Arctic: “Up here in the far North comforts
are few and far between, and for me at least Tobacco ranks ‘number one’—and only
the best is good enough.”
If you have found the Tobacco which takes
the place of friends—and sometimes, if needs
be, of food and drink ... be thankful . . .
don’t think of changing. But if you are still
seeking the Tobacco which measures up, in
goodness and smoking satisfaction, to all that
a good Tobacco can ... try cheery, chummy,
honest Barneys. There are three strengths,
all equally good. No other Tobacco has won
such praise from smokers well qualified to judge.
Barneys
(medium)
Parsons Pleasure
(mild)
Punchbowle
(full strength)
oAt all good tobacconists . . . ask for
Jgsamcjts
The Ideal Tobacco
Each is sold in
the patent “Everfresh”
tin. 2 ozs. for 2/7 s
2203
and so forth and so on, he could not
find a skerrick. Who wouldn’t give
everybody in the world a square deal,
if he knew how to do it?
The plays were all feeling, but at any
rate the feeling was real, which is a
refreshing change. Also, they were well
written, well produced and acted with
a conviction which broke down all physi-
cal barriers. Leila Maughan and Muriel
Good were particularly impressive. Jean
Chesterton was attractive-looking and
has the makings of a leading lady. Robert
Mathews was also telling, and Jack
Maughan skilfully produced the last play.
Legit. Going Strong.
Legit, in Melbourne is in the position,
unprecedented for nearly a decade past,
of having more companies and more plays
pending and in operation than it has
accommodation for them.
The success of “The Women” at Mel-
bourne King’s was followed by the
nearly-equal success of “Idiot’s Delight.”
Neither was a box-office world-beater,
but both were profitable, and a fashion
for going to the drama has been created.
Australian and N.Z. Theatres has a
dozen or more “strong” plays in its
pigeonholes, and a number of competent
actors like Henry Mollison and Lina
Basquette on its payroll, and all it needs
to do is to proceed along lines which
point to a revival of the drama. Every
entrepreneur knows that nothing destroys
the theatre like letting the public down
by lowering the quality of the menu ;
but the habit of letting the public down
is as ingrained in a certain type of pro-
ducers as in a certain type of cafe pro-
prietors, as is also the habit of a certain
type of producers, when they make mis-
takes, of blaming the public for them.
They can learn a lesson from the
talkies. Every time a producer strikes
a good thing like “The Mutiny of the
Bounty,” “Dodsworth,” “Zola” or “Pas-
teur” the public responds immediately.
Every other producer then tries to cash
in on the racket, but as their motive is
not to produce a good picture but to
make a lot of money they only succeed
in boring the public. When they see the
public has been bored they then con-
clude that, as they knew all along, the
public doesn’t want the really good stuff.
Nothing is surer than that the success of
“Pygmalion” will result in Mr. Zanuck
or somebody getting a host of scenario-
writers to write “something like Shaw.”
Not being Shaws, what they will write
will be nothing like Shaw, and the public
will be revolted. They will then say that,
much as they would like to, they can’t
afford to lose money on the intellectual
drama.
There is no inherent reason, apart from
that mentioned, why legit., now on its
legs in Melbourne, shouldn’t stay there.
The Ballet was splendidly done and
largely attended, and it could be followed
by a revival of Wagnerian and Italian
opera. There are plenty of plays as good
as, and a good deal better than, “The
Women” and “Idiot’s Delight,” and the
fashion has been created.
The Stage in Adelaide.
The best theatrical news for several
jears is the announcement by manager
Rendall that Adelaide Royal is to drop
films and come back to its old form
as the chief home of entertainment in
the city. A long winter season is to
include “The Women,” “Idiot’s Delight,”
and sundry ballet and opera. The skilled
conjuror who prefers to be known as
Chang holds the stage at present, plus
some unusually good decor find music.
"They Made Me a Criminal ”
Etc.
Current offerings at Sydney film-houses
are at least varied —-good, bad and in-
different, and ranging from Mr. G. B.
Shaw’s modernised version of Pygmalion
and Galatea to Mr. D. F. Zanuck’s
Amurricanised version of the Suez Canal
and Ferdinand de Lesseps.
Only two new releases have been let
loose at time of writing. Sydney Plaza
has “They Made Me a Criminal,” with
John Garfield as a pug embroiled in
some moider business and lighting out
across the continent to the peace and
seclusion of a date farm, there to find
heart-interest and suchlike until the Law
gets on his track again. It’s “Les Miser-
ables” over again, but quite fair all the
way, and with some excellent bits in it.
Garfield’s acting is a little uneven, but
mostly good. Also in the piece are
Claude Rains and the “Dead End” kids,
all of them turning in their customary
nice work.
item on the ot her new bill—
Wings of the Navy,” at Sydney Cameo
and Civic—might have been designed to
frighten Adolf or Musso. or anyone from
contemplating invasion of Gahd’s Own.
One of those films made with the assist-
ance of Uncle Sam’s defence organisa-
tions, it seems to have enough ’planes
flying about to blow half of Yurrup into
smoke. Story, such as it is, concerns
young chaps learning to fly and old chaps
smashing up, with heart-interest develop-
ing on the side. Of the main figures,
George Brent seems to be adopting
Herbert Marshall’s attitude of stolid
suffering towards everything in general,
and John Payne is a lesser edition of
James Stewart.
Shakspeare and O'Reilly,
“F.S.” visits the flicks:-
The other evening I was at Hoyt’s
De Luxe, Melbourne, surveying from a
comfortably upholstered seat the Messrs.
Warner Brothers’ masterpiece, “Valley of
the Giants.”
The story concerned a bygone attempt
of sundry villainous individuals to oust
the settlers from their leases and destroy
the magnificent redwood forests of Cali-
fornia in the interests of Mammon. All
the good looks and virtuous qualities were
on the side of the settlers, and all the
ugly noses, low morals and blackguardly
instincts were on the side of the ousters.
There was a good-looking hero and a
good-looking heroine who was on the
wrong side at the start but changed over
at the finish. The best of it was the
felling and logging and the scenic won-
ders of the redwood forests; the idiotic
story was an unmitigated nuisance which
left the audience as cold as frozen
mutton.
The large flowing signature of Cresswell
O'Reilly, film censor of the Common-
wealth, was attached to the opus, which
m^X^forSh!n“ n T P ha°ve
watched the same signature flash on the
screen attached to scores of opuses just
as lifeless, just as silly and just as boring.
The natural conclusion is that Mr.
O’Reilly approves of these pictures, but
he doesn’t, vide his annual report just
presented to Canberra.
In this document Mr. O’Reilly states
that, in dealing with feature films last
year, cuts were made in only 10.3 p.c
compared with 17.9 p.c. in 1937 and 44 7
p.c. in 1933. This he attributes mainly
to the improvement from the censorship
point of view in American films. What
it really represents is that the American
censors have been so busy that his labors
have been lightened since 1933 by three-
quarters.
Despite this commendable result, how-
ever, he has regretfully to report that,
from the aspect of general quality, tech-
nical achievement and entertainment
value, the year has been barren and
uneventful, producers seeming to be satis-
fied to turn out average and less than
average quality pictures without exer-
cising much initiative or imagination. It
does not seem to have entered his head
that there might be some connection be-
tween a barren and uneventful year and
censoring activities.
There was a censorship in Shakspeare’s
day precisely similar to Cresswell
O’Reilly’s. Shakspeare had powerful
aristocratic and court allies, however, and
he was able to produce a series of plays
which Mr O’Reilly would never dream
of blue-pencilling to-day. But if he had
in , h e reign of Queen
f-beth instead of in the of Jo e
Lyons, would he have passed The Merry
Wives of Windsor, Anthony an
Cleopatra,” “Measure for Measure, or
“Venus and Adonis”? I don’t beheve it
for a moment. Nor that many passages
in “Hamlet,” “King Lear” and “Romeo
and Juliet” would not have come under
his scissors,
Th would have iven the Elizabethan
o ’R e iHy the same feeling that he would
h ./ d shakspeare, writing in
‘ , ... ... \ a v
I > TOd ( er “ ld, ° m w,h the , Sa ? k "L
Ied S'' of human nature about modern
problems, passed before his eyes in a
projection theatre. He would have mter-
preted this feeling as concern for the
welfare of the public, and would have
run his blue pencil through the very
passages which had stimulated his m-
terest, and the result he would have him-
self produced would have bored him
just as much as it would have bored
the public. He would then have put
in a report to his superiors de-
ploring the barrenness and uneventful-
ness of the past year in the matter of
Elizabethan drama. But the O’Reillys
of those days didn’t have quite so much
authority as they have at present; so we
have Shakspeare’s plays as he wrote them,
not because of but in spite of the Cress-
well O’Reillys.


FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and Alters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. , , ...
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and Alters. If these tubes or Alters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don't run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty £ pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to Aush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
STAINS ON
FALSE TEETH
GONE!
tained
were
Steradent four
■ e s are natural
teeth
false
My
using
after
black
plate
times,
five
white
■>s X".
pearly
teeth
N
12
Southgate
colour
Hew
A
Mrs
BEFORE
It is easy to use
‘Steradent.’ Fill
the cap of the tin
with ‘ Steradent’
and pour the pow-
der into a glass
containing suffici-
ent warm water
(not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir
well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress, or overnight. Take them
out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Then your teeth and plates are clean
clean where the brush can t reach. Dui*
teeth gleam white again. Plates regain
their natural colour. ‘Steradent ** f
anteed harmless to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double size 3/6.
You are safe with ‘ Steradent. It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA ) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sydney.
Steradent
cTean^ndsterilizes false teeth
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
All last week Sydney continued to
be naively surprised over the wedding
of Lord Gifford and Margaret Allen.
And perhaps Lord Gifford is still sur-
prised at his own luck, for his new bride
is representative of the best type of the
young women of this country. Moon-
bara, the Arthur Allen home at Port
Hacking, sacred to honeymooners, was
the pair’s destination after the family
spree in their honor last Thursday. This
was a very gold-leaf affair for which
the ballroom at Merioola had been newly
decorated. The flowers were in purply-
red tones, and .even the leaves were
lacquered in these hues.
With her ankle-length frock of pale
gold lace, Lady Gifford wore a shoulder
spray of lily-of-the-valley, father’s pres-
ent, a long necklace of stranded seed
pearls caught with diamond clasps, and
her engagement ring. This features an
aquamarine lit up by diamonds. Lord
and Lady Gifford had the latter’s father,
Arthur Allen, and sister Mrs. John Bavin
to help receive the guests. Guests from
Admiralty House were the Hon. Patrick
Hore-Ruthven and his wife, Mrs. Fred
Payne and her sister, Mrs. E. F. Wilshire.
The Lamb connections of the family
were in some force, and knight Tom
Bavin was there with his wife and daugh-
ters, Mrs. Gulland and Mrs. John Horne.
Lord and Lady Gifford will fly to Lon-
don in a few weeks’ time, and will make
their home in one of the admiral-named
houses in Dolphin-square.
The Independents gave a party for the
members of “The Women” co, last
Thursday. This was a five-to-six coffee-
drinking. One thing that struck the
observer was the nice array of »urs
sported by the members of the Theatre
Royal show. From principal Irene Pur-
cell’s exclusive-looking animal cape down,
there did not seem to be one homely
touch of bunny among the lot. Alethea
Siddons, by the way, looked really lovely.
Her cape suggested Persian lamb, or a
nibbler of some such exotic pasturage.
Aileen Britten, looking forward to her
Maoriland tour, but a bit disappointed
over not being able to accept a part in
the new Cinesound production, was an-
other attractive girl ; so was big-eyed
Marjorie Crossland.
Doris Fitton received the guests, very
smart in black, her black hair braided
neatly but severely. The reason for this
became apparent when the middle act
from “Tovarich” was presented. Doris
plays the part of the Russian grand
duchess who is reduced to a house-
maid, and her hair was dressed in
readiness. Sumner Locke Elliott, whose
new play “Interval” will be the studio's
next attraction, was there ; so was Alice
Gould, who is just on the verge of taking
her air-raid-precautions exam. Ethelwyn
Kirke, just back from Wellington, Enzed,
whose university has built a new
school of biology where her professor
father will reign, reports one of the cold-
est summers ever remembered by her.
Mrs. Regan, of Kirribilli, who goes off
to Maoriland soon, was drinking in the
warning. One could see her mentally
adding woollies to the wardrobe.
The Conservatorium was crowded for
the farewell recital of violinist Alethea
Helsden. Alethea is a bright-faced girl,
and her white frock with its touches of
lilac at throat and waist suited her warm
coloring. In the Cesar Franck sonata
she was particularly effective, and this
work evoked a storm of applause. Sup-
porters in the audience were Mrs. B. S. B.
Stevens, Dr. and Mrs. Bainton, the Bertie
Kellys and Lute Drummond. Lots of
young friends, too. A pretty group in-
cluded Rosamund Stephen, Elizabeth
Adams and Jessica Chard.
The R.S.P.C.A. poster exhibition at the
Blaxland galleries has its amusing and
its pathetic moments. Especially in the
six-year-olds-or-so’s section do the
posters show, as it were, direct action.
“Give your dog a comfortable kennel
and not a little box” adjures one young-
ster, and there is a picture of an almost
palatial kennel, while crouched in the
corner opposite is a depressed-looking
box. An arrow points almost contemp-
tuously at the box, and a small dog in
between the two plainly shows which
he favors. “Take Him for a Swim,”
commands another. This shows a square-
set youngster leading a joyful brownish
dog towards a pond about the size of a
soup plate.
The case of the prisoned bird has
touched the hearts of several entrants.
In one picture birds about the size
of seagulls plane merrily while dis-
consolate and very small birds peer
out of very unsafe cages under the
boughs of green cotton-wool trees. The
case for the horse is put neatly by one
young painter. He shows a very long
horse, with a quart or so of Dachshund
in him, enjoying a hay diet. Near by a
piebald horse is also having the right
thing done by him. Its small mistress
is proffering wisps of succulence. The
royal descent of the cat is recognised by
one owner, who claims it is a cat’s
privilege to have a cushion to sit on,
a tree to climb and a saucer of milk.
The almost entire absence of perspective
in these colored drawings was the cause
of deep delight to artist Rah Fizelle,
who was busy at the Blaxland galleries
last Friday. He claimed it was true
child art.
Alison Rehfisch bought this Spanish
hat in Granada a few weeks before hell
was let loose in Spain. These hats are
worn by the senoritas and senoras when
riding, or when engaged in some such
strenuousness. Otherwise a flower in the
hair or a mantilla was still, just before
hostilities, sufficient head covering for the
women. Alison trekked from Cadiz to
Malaga, from Malaga to Cordoba, took
in Toledo and Madrid, gathering up bull-
fights, marvellous sketches of bridges built
by the Romans, such as the one at
Ronda, melting vistas of Moorish colon-
nades. She saw the Alhambra in all
the beauty of its Saracen architecture.
Most vivid memory of the bullfights
she watched is that of Beatrice Santul-
lano, the woman matador. She played
and killed her bull skilfully, showing
amazing grace and verve. At the end
she stood a slender figure in black velvet,
the red cloak on her arm, while the vast
tiers of onlookers waited breathless. Just
as she was making the final dagger thrust
she drew her left hand almost caressingly
down the bull’s nose. Later she was
carried around the ring waving the bull’s
tail, which was hers by right of victory.
She looked young, gay and altogether
feminine. At Ronda the Australian artist
rented a villa for some weeks. She had
said to the man of affairs she would take
it if the household linen could be sup-
plied. The villa was part of the estate
of a near-by castle, and linen sheets of
an incredible fineness, all coroneted,
table linen, too, and exquisite silver with
ducal engravings were hers for the visit.
In Tangier she drank mint tea in
Moorish cafes, and saw bread baked in
ovens in the walls in the open streets.
Her most recent splash of color was
supplied by Brittany. Here the bright
blue suits, the rust-red shirts of the fisher
population of Concarneau, and in effec-
tive contrast the severe black velvet
bodice and cloth skifts of the women,
relieved only by the snowy starched coifs
of muslin or lace, made instant appeal.
She saw the famed Fete de la Mer, when
the whole fishing fleet comes to rest in
harbor for the blessing of the Church
before setting out on another season.
Part of the celebrations is the dance of
the blue net, when a blue fisher-net is
stretched across the street. There is
nothing remarkable about the net being
blue. All the nets are blue or red.
Alison brings back word of Arthur
Murch and George Duncan. Both of
them were doing jobs for the Leipzig
Fair—murals and so on. They also did
a great deal of work for the wool pavilion
at the Glasgow exhibition. There’s news,
too, of Janna Bruce, Dattilo Rubbo’s
former pupil. She has lately been
appointed to the staff of the Westminster
Art School, London—the only woman
on it. The Sydney painter, who will
have an exhibition on March 22, showed
with the R. 0.1. in London, and with
the Society of Women Artists. Women
painters from all over the world exhibit
here. Alison had the pleasure of being
hung between Dame Laura Knight and
Marie Laurencin.
Joyce Turner, of Roseville, begins
lectures at Sydney ’Varsity this month.
She won an exhibition by passing the
leaving with first-class honors in Eng-
lish, modern history and biology, plus
A’s in three other subjects. She is taking
up medicine as a career, and if she be-
comes as popular as a doctor as she was
as dux of Hornsby Girls’ High School
her father and mother will be completely
happy. Dad used to be a commissioner
of the N. S. Wales Savings Bank, and
brother Frank is an architect. Holly-
wood photograph.
Singing in public in Continental cities
is not such a simple matter as it is in
Sydney or in England. Singing girl Con-
stance Pickworth, who went abroad some
time ago, has written home in a great
hurry for copies of her own and her
father’s and her mother’s baptism cer-
tificates. It appears Constance is about
to sing at the Lyceum Club in Milan,
but first she must present these baptism
certificates. She says please to send them
by air mail. So all students who are
going abroad to study music or acting
should go armed with these documents.
It will save time and flurry when the
moment comes for public appearances.
To-morrow afternoon in the home of
their friend Miss Nell Gilbert, Captain
and Mrs. Keith Morris give a farewell
to Sydney. They sail next week for
England in the Nieuw Zeeland, They will
get a chance to sample the life of Singa-
pore, for they will be there a short time
before picking up the Christiaan Huygens,
which takes them the rest of the way.
Mrs. Morris, who is president of the
North Sydney Day Nurseries, hopes to
see the Margaret McMillan nursery in
England, and she will also visit Belgium,
where they have the last word in such
establishments.
A man who has lived in London
through the abdication, the Coronation
and the crisis may be said to have felt
the pulse of the nation. Just-returned
Australian Oswald Anderson is the man
this Letter has in mind. From his flat
above Piccadilly (shared with The Bulle-
tin’s Billy Albert) he has watched the
faces of Londoners through the three
events: a little bewildered, a little sad,
excited and overjoyed, and for the last
a squaring of the chin, a challenge in
the eye. In short, London has got into
Mr. Anderson’s system, and he feels any
spot apart from Fleet-street or Green
Park is just an outpost of Empire. He’s
the man who is busy telling us that tele-
vision is just around the corner. He has
met the Windsors, Noel Coward and
every celebrity of stage or radio. A son
in France helps run Radio Normandie.
Writer Ivy Moore’s “Friends of
France” club in Frazer House is very
smart with its long white window cur-
tains bordered in the tricolor. The blue,
white and red also borders each panel
of the white screen, and there are even
tricolor cups and saucers presented to
the club by an ardent member. The
door knocker is direct from Stratford-
on-Avon and is a present from the Lance
Fallaws. A painting of Sully’s terrace
in Fontainebleau was a gift from Sir
Hugh Poynter. This was painted by
his grandfather, Ambrose Poynter, in
1836.
There is near the door a fine steel
engraving of the Champ de Mars. This
was a present from the editor of the
“Courier-Australien.” Mrs. Melrose
brought an electric hot-water jug of
great dimensions, and there’s a specially-
embroidered chanticleer on a banner,
the work of one of the members. An-
other friend of France embroidered table
covers, and handed in some silver spoons.
In fact, each piece of furniture carries its
history of goodwill.
On March 17 Hans Joachim and Alice
Meyer von Forell are giving their friends
a chance to drown the shamrock. They
will hold levee at Chatsworth, Potts
Point, from five o’clock to seven.
Be Kind to Animals Week is in full
swing. Chief Secretary Gollan opened
it on Monday. There are a shop and tea
rooms going in Holfnung Chambers, near
the Post Office, apd this afternoon all
the dogs at the King Edward Home are
to be regaled on bones tied up with
ribbon because Mayor Nock and his lady
are opening the reconstructed canine
club. Humans will be served with tea
on the lawn.
Victoria Barracks sheathed the sword
and served savories on Friday last. The
rally was set for late afternoon, and just
as the hour approached so did a flurry of
rain. Among umbrellas passing from
car to the wide verandah where Major-
General and Mrs. Richardson received
their guests was the large Chinese one
(it was like a small tent) under which
Captain and Mrs. H. O. Phillips shel-
tered. The deep wine tones of Mrs.
Richardson’s ensemble were matched by
her toque. Her furs were beige fox.
Major-General Hardie and Mrs. Hardie
were there, all black and silver fox her
outfit. The Colonel Ridley couple came ;
so did Mrs. J. H. Thyer, soon to join her
husband. Major Thyer, who is stationed
in Darwin.
Rumors that Bobbie Larnach, who
travelled to England with her mother to-
wards the end of last year, had been
married in London are quite correct.
Bobbie is now Mrs. Reginald Norbury
Allmann.
Not generally known that at one time
Harry Gullett was almost stepson-in-
law to a throne —the Albanian —offered
in the ’2o’s to the late Lord Headley
(who was a Mohammedan). The offer
was put forward three times, but
apparently no mention was made of
salary. Lord Headley is quoted as say-
ing “the only thing that goes with it is
trouble and almost the certainty of
assassination.” Knight Harry s mother-
in-law (who was Barbara Baynton) was
Lady Headley. _____


/ (lUli§ (IUU -
vmfypnf dyjtp Mpn^fnnngrf,
ss
sil
mm
amm
is#l
mm
< ■.
w
Wmmm
'
*'i
m
wms
■ s
rnimmfi
ililiii ®.:.
H
■jMMMfa
•■ :■ :
IMMI
V
11111
SI»
SSI
V
s
■Mlnta''
■ ■. I
cii
. _
W- ■■#■*
m§
!
' ,\
ii \
a* ..
i
,S 3
.
■
3*- „ ;
mm
a
*
. ■MI
rfJT*
m
for the fortunate
Winner of the ■dm*
Photographic Competition
The luxury liner draws slowly away from the wharf. The snapping of the colored
streamers signifies for the happy tourists aboard her the severance of all ties with
the cares of mundane existence. Likewise, for them, the icy winds and chill rains of
the Australian winter are being relegated to another sphere. For the great ship is
headed for the South Seas —that magic region of sunny skies, amethyst seas and
glamorous moonlight—the home of beauty and romance, beloved alike of poet and
adventurer.
YOU would wish to be one of the figures thronging the rail, looking down at the
groups of friends gazing enviously upwards. Who would not? And there is no
reason why you should not be so happily situated. For a trip to the South Seas by
Luxury Liner is the prize provided for the winner of the Agfa Photographic
Competition. This is open to amateurs only. Expert knowledge is not essential.
A lucky snap may win the preference of the judges. A fortunate choice of subject
may outweigh technical experience. So why not start using your camera now?
You have until the 31st May to send in your entry. Think of all the subjects
that may come within the range of your camera lens before then. And remember,
in addition to the Ist prize, worth £5O, there are very valuable 2nd and 3rd prizes
and 75 consolation prizes. Ask your chemist to-day for a copy of the “Agfa”
Folder giving full particulars of the conditions of the competition. If by any
chance this folder is unobtainable locally, write to Agfa Photo-Competition,
62 Clarence Street (Box 3957 V, G.P.0.), Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—the competition closes May 31, 1939.
◄
&f a
2nd PRIZE
HOME MOVIE OUTFIT,
comprising ( 1 ) the marvellously efficient
“Agfa” Movex 8 CINE CAMERA fitted
with the very latest devices for quick
loading, easy handling, etc.; (2) “Agfa”
Movector 8 CINE PROJECTOR, which
permits the showing of moving pictures
at' home with absolutely professional
perfection.
Retail Value
3rd PRIZE
“AGFA” SPEEDEX
COMPUR CAMERA,
with F 4.5 Solinar Lens in Compur Rapid
Shutter (kindly donated by Herbert
Small Pty., Ltd.). This Shutter gives
speeds from 1/400th to one second and
takes exquisite pictures either by day-
light or artificial light, !£m.
Retail Value *lll/4/0
75 CONSOLATION
PRIZES.
25 “AGFA” ALL-METAL BOX
CAMERAS famous the world over—
absolutely the finest camera in its class
ever manufactured —ideal for beginners.
50 FREE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR ONE
YEAR to the “Agfa” Magazine, “Good
Photography”—each copy brimful of in-
formation and advice of the most prac-
tical kind. Contains photos, and news
f rom all parts of the world.
AGFA DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA—Herbert Small Pty., Ltd., 308-310 Collins
Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Herbert Small Pty., Ltd.,
343 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND—Herbert Small Pty., Ltd., 310 Queen
Street, BRISBANE.
TASMANIA—Ash Hester & Co., 103 Elizabeth Street,
HOBART.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—F. H. Faulding & Co., Ltd.,
James Place, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. E. Sainsbury & Co.,
37 London Court, PERTH.
FILMS {.CAMERAS
"For Better Photography”


Overseas visitors to-''
LONDON !
desiring hotel accommodation ,
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL;
Marylebone Road, N.W.I „
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 1 1 /- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
The Bulletin, Sydney*
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2200 of 1938.
BETWEEN JOSEPH RICHARDSON PRES-
TON Petitioner
And ELSIE CAROLINE PRESTON
(formerly Elsie Caroline Hodge) Re-
spondent.
TO ELSIE CAROLINE PRESTON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOSEPH
RICHARDSON PRESTON has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for a "dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-second day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this First day of March, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. D. RATNER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1127 of 1938.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS CLARE WOODS Peti-
tioner
And HARRY WOODS Respondent.
TO HARRY. WOODS late of Cross Street
Forest Lodge in the State of New Soutn
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
CLARE WOODS has commenced a suit again>
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three tears and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICt
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Second day
of June next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition hied
herein may be had on applicatiqn to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of March, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
T. G. D. MARSHALL, LANDERS & CO,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 9 Martin Place.
Sydney.
IN TEIE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO ERIC CHARLES THOMAS formerly of
Gardner’s Bay in Tasmania but now oi
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in tn
petition of OLGA MAY THOMAS of Gar-
ner’s Bay aforesaid praying for a dissolutio
of marriage on the ground of desertion. *
default of your so appearing you will not o
allowed to address the Court and the Lour
will proceed to hear the said petition proven
and pronounce judgment in respect there
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after t
publication hereof an appearance must
entered at the Registry of the Supreme Co *
of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Races,' dances for the young, bright
and beautiful, some weddings, an engage-
ment or two thrown in for luck, a heap
of cocktail parties and the beginning of
a series of farewells to Lord and Lady
Huntingfield made March race week a
period of activity to which Melbourne
has gladly awakened after its usual sum-
mer quietude. For the dances No. 9
was much in request. Mrs. Douglas Boyd
gave Meg’s coming-out party there, and
the next evening many young guests met
on the same floor once more for the
dance given by the Forster Rutledges, of
Wairere, Mansfield, for Patricia, turning
21 in a lame gown and with feathers in
her hair, and Margaret, a debutante with
Cecil Brunner roses, bows of white
ribbon and masses of white tulle. At
No. 9 also the H. R. Hamer couple gave
a dance for daughter Alison, who made
her debut last year at Government House
Ball.
Among dances in private homes Mrs.
H. F. Creswick’s party for the coming-
out of her daughter Moira was given
in a house as filled with flowers as was
the garden out of doors. Miss Creswick’s
cousin, Lorraine Martin, of Tasmania,
shared the honors of this occasion, for
she also was a deb.
Among wedding celebrations were
those which resounded around Vallie
Woodside and Ron Smith (son of the
T. M. Smiths, of Byron Hall, Macleay-
street, Sydney) and for Ted a’Beckett,
ex-Test cricketer, and Helen Wicking,
who were also married during the week.
Of the engagements, one of interest for
its county-country flavor is that an-
nounced between Deb Staughton (daugh-
ter of the A. J. Staughtons, of Keayang,
Terang) and George Lansell, only son
of the Leonard Lansells, of Chah Sing,
Moulamein, and of Lansellston, Bendigo.
The week’s Flemington race meetings
gave only a half-hearted invitation to
furs and feathers and autumn tweeds.
One day was so windy that most heads
were a prey to its pranks, and another
afternoon was warm and muggy with a
look about the stratosphere that might
have meant flashes of lightning and a
flood of rain. Present at this meeting
was an interesting and interested visitor
from Durban, Mrs. Una Caro, who has
been absent from Australia for 25 years.
She saw Carbine win at Flemington and
thinks that the course, as it is to-day, is
the finest in the world, and she has been
on many racecourses. Mrs. Caro says
that racing is popular in the Union of
South Africa, though it is nothing like
the institution it is here. The courses
run bookies and totes ; once inside the
gate punters may wander wherever they
like, and members’ tickets are for any-
one who likes to buy them.
An inter-State visitor at the same Flem-
ington meeting was Mrs, Ben Prevost,
of Perth, who flew back westwards the
next day. She came to Melbourne to see
her daughter started off on her second-
year Med. From Adelaide there was Mrs.
lan Haywood, and, from further afield,
Assam, Mrs. W. H. Houghton, who be-
fore her marriage was Mary Lindsay
Smith. She was very slim in blue, a
frock the same color as her eyes, and her
black hat was acutely upturned at one
side from her fair hair.
Among after-the-races cocktail parties
was a spot of hospitality issued by
Mrs. Hugh Bullivant at No. 9, where
guests arrived in a faint sprinkling of
rain. By the look of the thundery sky
anything might have happened before
they went on their way again, but nothing
did, except more Scotch mist. Amongst
those who stepped from cars to portico
were the Stuart Loves, Mrs. Love in
evening draperies, and Judy Chirnside
and Reshid Bey, Judy in parchment lace
that just touched the floor. She and
her fiance were also bound for later
parties.
The Bullivant family was well repre-
sented with Mrs. Arthur Bullivant, the
hostess’s daughters, Mrs. A. Brady, Biddy
and Prue Bullivant, and niece Pam Wil-
son, of Wagga, all of whom were well
up in news of Nina Bullivant, who has
just had a grand holiday in Switzerland
and sails for home in April. Mrs. Brady
received congratulations and condo-
lences, the former on the event of her
very new baby, the latter on the loss by
fire of her home at Kenyu, Boorowa,
N.S.W. Mrs. R. G. Casey enjoyed the
party particularly, for she met so many
friends from other States whom she has
not had an opportunity of seeing since
her return from abroad.
In the Spencer Shier portrait is Pat-
ricia Giblin, who is playing Paula Jordan
(in the film the Madge Evans part) in
the Gregan McMahon season of “Dinner
at Eight.” Patricia, her sister Phyllis and
their mother, Mrs. G. P. Giblin, are a
particularly decorative trio of mother
and daughters from Sydney who have
lived in Melbourne since their last trip
overseas. They are at present at Tra-
walla. While she was in London Phyllis
studied beauty culture. She is now put-
ting her knowledge into practice and find-
ing the job interesting in one of Mel-
bourne’s larger stores.
History has been made, for the Mel-
bourne Club’s cocktail party has come
and gone. The day was perfect, which
was fortunate, for the garden beyond the
“Forbidden City” wall, with its lovely old
trees and climbing creepers (which from
the inside smother the wall so that its
presence would hardly be suspected), came
in for the admiration it deserves. The
trees must be as old as Melbourne, and
it’s good to know they exist within the
heart of the city even though the out-
side world, its feet planted on a near-by
cobbled lane, can only glimpse the
loftiest branches.
Champagne cocktails or anything else
desired were served in several of
the rooms and in the garden, car-
ried there by a company of waiters
moving like busy bees among the flower
beds. Within doors the decorations were
gorgeous flowers, profuse as to their num-
ber, choice as to the quality. One room,
the windows of which gaze aloofly upon
the busy thoroughfare of Collins-street,
was entirely filled with red roses, the
handwork of some of the wives and
daughters of members, who had been
to the club in the morning for the pleas-
ant task of flower-arranging.
There was no stiff formality about this
exclusive party ; no official receiving, and
the “till seven o’clock” was not inter-
preted as a welcome worn out. Guests
stayed on and were loath to leave at a
later hour. The family spirit was present
in many groups of parents, “children,”
and relatives-by-marriage. Among those
glimpsed in between times on the stairs,
lingering in the fine library and studying
the pictures were the Clive Gaunts, who
are not long back from Europe and have
bought a house at Frankston; Mrs.
D. J. S. Mackinnon, wearing diamonds on
wrist and fingers ; Mrs. Kay Oliver, say-
ing good-bye, for she returns soon to
England ; and Mrs. Douglas Stephens, in a
Chinese hat, its tassel dangling tantalis-
ingly over one eye.
Among the youngest folk was Judy
Lillies, in a silk crepe suit of brown
and amber figurings. Fetching little
cocktail hats made from fistfuls of
fine feathers were worn by Mrs. Stuart
Murray, hers from a pink ostrich, and
Mrs. lan Mann, ostrich also, but flatter-
ing the cottage canary by imitating his
golden coloring.
Jean Love (Broothorn photograph),
who has won the Melba scholarship for
three years in succession, leaves for
abroad (at the present moment she thinks
it will be New York) some time during
May. Jean has been brought up on Scot-
tish music. The first music she ever
heard was from the bagpipes, and she
has been singing Scottish songs for the
last 18 years; she started young, at the
tender age of three, soon after which she
wore her first kilt and started to pick
up the steps of Scottish dances. She is
the only daughter of the Leslie Loves,
of Hamilton. Her parents are both of
Scottish descent, her mother being a
Cameron of the Lochiel branch.
This promising young soprano has had
encouraging letters from Tibbett and
other celebrities who have heard her sing.
She was a discovery of Muriel Cheek,
who has trained her voice for the last
four years. Her Melba scholarship does
not expire till the end of 1939. But
Harold Elvins and the Albert-street Con-
servatorium are arranging for what
remains of it after the first term of this
year to be tenable abroad. In the mean-
time various committees are organising
benefit concerts for Miss Love to keep
her in funds for what they hope will be
several years. The Western District com-
mittees hope to raise £lOOO, and there
will be a concert in the Melbourne Town
Hall on April 26. No doubt the Cale-
donian societies will rally round the
young student, whom they have known
for years as “our Jean.”
Melbourne skaters went spinning over
the surface of the St. Moritz on Friday
night at the gala opening of the new
rink risen from the uninhabited “Streets
of Paris,” situated in St. Kilda. Skating
fashions seem to run towards tartan
skirts, short and gored or short and
pleated, but the season has overtaken
many of the lads and girls, still thinking
in terms of bathing suits, who faced the
ice in whatever they happened to be
wearing. Among these were Margaret
and Lorna Horsfall, who waltzed and
ten-stepped in daytime frocks for any
occasion (and no doubt went home to
plan immediately something snappy in
the manner of whirling skirts of briefer
length).
Canadian importation Gladys Beaure-
gard looked well in a queen-of-the-ice
idea in white velvet with a long-sleeved
waistcoat bodice and fully gored skirt
lined with cheery satin to match her little
shorts. Australian champions Betty
Cornwell and Edith Adams wore taffeta
frocks in shades of sky-blue and pepper-
mint-pink respectively. Joyce Macbeth,
who’s attached to the Melbourne Glaci-
arium staff, was a poem of grace in a
green skating frock. She took part in
the general skating and in the dancing
enclosure, partnering her husband, F.
Merkovitch, and various small girls.
Owing to the wetness of the ice (the
machinery has not been long in working
order) there were many busters taken,
and even the professionals had their share
of falls in the puddles. The span of age
was interesting. A little girl of six went
round and round on the outskirts of the
seething crowd, clinging like a winkle to
the rails of the loges to rest her legs
when she was tired. A little old man,
small, wrinkled and bearded, only van-
ished off the ice for the speed skating.
He must have travelled miles that night,
and his age couldn’t have been much under
eighty. A comedy diversion was a great
success as performed by Jimmy Paxton
with apologies to Sonja Henie. He
wore white organza and suntan and
twinkly stars in his hired ringlets. He
leapt and jumped, pirouetted and held
one foot above his head as he sped across
the rink, and his one fall was made to
order.
Gregan McMahon’s “Dinner at Eight,”
timed to start at 7.45, for it contains 11
scenes and 24 characters, commenced its
week’s run in the usual crowded Comedy
Theatre on Saturday. In the matter
of clothes, preparation for the dinner
gave Mrs. Aubrey Gibson (who plays
under the stage name of Julie Cotton) an
opportunity of wearing some luxurious
negliges, Marie Balfour (as Kitty Packard,
the Jean Harlow role) the chance of
being “tough” in a coffee-colored pam-
pered-pet bed jacket and in layers of
cyclamen and silver lame.
Among the audience feathers were
more popular than furs, owing to the
warmness of the evening, but no first
night could come and go without a fen
foxes of lineage. Mrs. Harry Rosenth
had slim slices of them lying across the
shoulders of her white wrap. Mrs. Doug-
las Wilson used one or two upon her
pale-blue garment; Mrs. Edric Henty had
blue fox upon her cape of pintucked
pale blue satin. Feathers were seen on
heads and in boas, and Marjorie Carney
was among the wearers of feather flowers,
hers strewn upon her blue coat. Vaire
Wilkinson commanded attention and an
extra allotment of room for her blue
satin crinoline. Olive Rosenthal was as
a snowflake, all in white. Mrs. David
Elder also wore white, with stiffened
bonbons of frills around the neck. Dick
Linton was as cool as any man present
in a white dinner jacket.


Think, what an AGA
will do for yon.. .
City Folk
The fact that thousands of AG A
Cookers (which burn continu-
ously on coke) have been sold
where gas and electricity is
available, is ample proof of the
superiority of AGA over all
types of cooking appliances.
The AGA combines all the ad-
vantages of gas or electric
ranges, but is safer, cleaner, far
more economical, cooks better
and is every bit as simple to use.
Automatic thermostat eliminates
guesswork.
AGA Cookers are not low-
priced—they are guaranteed for
20 years against faulty work-
manship and material —and are
built to last a lifetime. Food
flavours are improved, dietetic
values increased and entirely
new cooking possibilities are
opened up.
In short an AGA Cooker
makes life infinitely easier,
and meals more appetising,
at the lowest fuel cost in
the world.
Invest in an AGA —it pays for itself!
Country Folk
No more lighting of fires when
you install an AGA. The AGA
burns continuously day and
night, is always ready for im-
mediate use, yet cannot burn
more than a fixed amount of
fuel. Model C (illustrated) is
guaranteed to consume not
more than £4 worth of coke in
a year (with coke at £2 a ton)
and requires refuelling only
twice in 24 hours. It excels in
every cooking method, provides
every oven and hot plate tem-
perature required—boils water
at the rate of a pint a minute,
roasts meat without basting,
keeps meals hot indefinitely
without spoiling.
«ca»
Write to-day for free illustrated booklet R 3.
LEVIN & CO. LTD. (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
as “Thou shalt not kill.” It is m good
company, for Cruden’s Concordance
makes the same error. The latter render-
ing is really Deuteronomy v, 17. But
it does not modify the council’s obvi-
ously gloomy outlook on the moral
situation north of 28.
# * * *
“Nagheer”: Warwick (Q.) was rather
peeved when the State Statistician de-
scribed it as the cheapest town in Queens-
land, but it cheered up when he ex-
plained that what he really meant was
that one could buy more there for less
money than anywhere else. For all
items, a Brisbane quid’s worth can be
got in Warwick for 19s. Id., whereas
“Shon”—and Others
“El V.”: The first time I saw A. J.
(“Shon”) Mason, who has celebrated his
fiftieth year as a master at Brisbane
Grammar, he appeared in a classroom
to referee a fight—a leisurely, compact
figure, buttoned up in a short-lapelled
alpaca jacket, his hair neatly clipped, his
moustache trim, though it was an age
of Carringtons and whiskers.
It was quite a good fight. A large,
meaty person, now a distinguished doc-
tor, was on top, holding a quart bottle
of Stephens’s blue-black. I was under-
neath, but had an enemy ear in each hand.
The procedure was simple. Every time
I tried to pull an enemy ear off he
poured a few gills of ink into the middle
of my face, which he was holding in
position with a well-placed knee.
“Shon” contemplated us with the
ironic stare of a man who isn’t quite
sure of his facts. Then he remarked in
his slow, deep voice: “Two of God’s
creatures, apparently. That’s my ink
bottle.” And, retrieving that article from
its user, he walked off as if we were
of no further interest to him.
A. J. Mason went to B.G.S. in 1889,
son of an East Indiaman captain, driven
out of London University by bad health.
He joined a little coterie of masters in
a school which never had more than
250 pupils till scholarship-holders
doubled the number. The masters were
“characters.” R. H. Roe (“The Skip-
per”) was a descendant of Bishop Heber,
member of a great Indian pioneering
family, and related to Westralia’s Gus
Roe, P.M., also a “character.” Edu-
cated under Jowett at Balliol, R.H. was
a mathematical first-class honorman, an
Oxford rowing blue, and a tennis-player
of fame —he introduced the game in the
North. He was a fine classical scholar
who could never understand the an-
tipathy of Queensland youth to
Euripides. He had been selected for his
job as headmaster by Dean Stanley and
G. W. R. Herbert, Queensland’s first
Premier.
E. S. N. Bousfield, second and after-
wards head, was a scholar of Lincoln
College, Oxford, who read Latin as
readily as his pupils read the sporting
pages, and whose standard query to the
ignorant (“Ain’t you a scholar?”) con-
founded all the precisians of the day.
Others were Bobby Gross and Jimmy
Cowan.
Bobby, about five feet thick, spoke
arid wrote six languages. He had been a
champion gymnast in Switzerland, a land
of gymnasts. He trained rifle teams that
twice won the Earl of Meath’s Cup
against the schools of the Empire. Into
the C.M.F. and the A.I.F. went
highly-placed officers from his small
cadet corps Lavarack, L. C. Wil-
son, C. G. Miles, and dozens more.
Mason succeeded him as captain, but
still found time to continue the job of
supervising the school magazine which
he has carried on for 40 years.
As for Cowan, hoary-headed as far
back as anybody could remember —
Jimmy could write two different sen-
tences at once on the blackboard, one
or both of them upside down, and pause
in the middle to turn round and say
“Stand up that boy in the third row
who’s making faces!”
But he was at his best on the cricket
field, where his style was as classic as
his handwriting. He batted left- or right-
handed indiscriminately, and when he
went on to bowl you had to wait before
each ball to find out whether you were
facing a fast right-hander with an
awkward swerve or a slow left-hander
with an assortment of breaks. And as
a field, completely ambidextrous, he was
a human clothes-basket.
And now Mason, known all over
Queensland and in various parts of the
great outside world, is the sole survivor
of the Ancient Great, though one or two
live in retirement.
• /
“Dick Tafone”: As a subject for
meditation during a March week
Queensland’s Council of Churches recom-
mended Exodus xx, 13-15:
Thou shalt do no murder.
Thou shalt not commit adultery.
Thou shalt not steal.
Quaintly enough, the official notice
appearing, duly panelled with black, in
the daily press misquoted the first verse
Toowoomba would have to pay 19s. Bd.,
Bundaberg 19s. 6d., Charters Towers
19s. 10d., Rockhampton 19s. lid., and
Townsville 225. 2d. Warwick scores best
with clothing and footwear, and, although
Bundaberg is a shade cheaper in rents,
the Pride of the Downs is 4s. 9d. in the
£ better in that respect than Brisbane,
A large influx of Scots is confidently
expected as soon as the glad news gets
around, although there is already a
powerful local Caledonian Society,
Perhaps that explains it.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Another death, the
tenth reported in Queensland, has
occurred from the sting of a Portuguese
man-o’-war, bluebottle to the surfer,
physalia to scientific folk. A five-year
child, bathing with her parents at Hull
River Heads, outside Tully, died soon
after the sinister blue threads had settled
round her body. Nearly all reported
fatal cases have been amongst children,
but there is good reason to believe that
drownings of surf-swimmers have been
due to contact with the long trailing
sting-threads, the sudden agonising pain
causing the victim to gasp his lungs full
of water and sink. Australia has no
monopoly of these sea-pests. A large
and particularly poisonous species occurs
in the Mediterranean, others in most
warm seas. Best first-aid for a sting is
p j c k o ff the threads and rub the part
vigorously with sand to break up the
tiny poison barbs left in the skin,
**. * *
“Clayfield”: Considerable ructions are
going on in Brisbane over the renaming
“Now y'r fever's gone, Ma, dontcher think it's time y' went off this invalid tucker ?”
of 1400 streets by the City Council to
“deal with duplication.” Old Sandgate-
road has raised one of the biggest out-
cries. Grandfathers and grandmothers
remember when they took the sulky on
a Sunday morning and trotted out boldly
down Old Sandgate-road. In fact, there
are few ancients in Brisbane for whom
the name has not some associations. But
it apparently has none for Lud Mayor
Alf Jones. Despite protests of progress
associations, he intends to call the
thoroughfare Bonney-avenue. Bonney-
avenue!
sj: * * *
“Ek Dum”: Queer people some of us
northerners. At Herberton and other
towns adjacent to the richest agricultural
regions in Australia, there has been a
vegetable famine because of “drought
and fires in the south.” Yes, veges are
toted up a thousand miles or so on ship-
board. On coral isles which have no
soil at all on them, and which have been
taken for aerial bases, Yankees are rais-
ing water- grown vegetables.
* * *
“Mary River”: After years of plead-
ing, established buffalo-shooters have
persuaded the N.T. Administration to
pass an ordinance prohibiting destruc-
tion of the animals without a license.
These men do considerably more than
merely find a herd and shoot. In their
way they are protectors. Perhaps the
Administration will now agree that buf-
falo-shooting is a primary industry and
release the shooters from income-tax.
Without them there would be no per-
manent settlement in interior Arnhem
Land. And the day may come when
their knowledge of the country and its
resources may make them a valuable
military asset.
* * * *
“J. Want”: One prisoner in North
Queensland seems to have established a
modern record. Last September he
escaped from Stewart’s Creek gaol. Now
he is still 500 miles away and apparently
still going. The police missed him by
seconds when he called at a farm at
Goovigen (C.Q.). Now they think he
may be hiding in the scrubs of the
Dawson River or Callide Valley, and
their only chance of catching him de-
pends on whether or no hunger drives
him out of the scrub. Personally, know-
ing the scrubs, I think the wanderer
must be slightly touched. I would
sooner do a year in Stewart’s Creek than
in some of the scrub down around, say,
Ghinghinda at this season.


t
fOR W£AN M£N AND WQMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIO TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
819 George St., Sydney
821
GL4ND
TONIC
TUBLfTS
COVER YOUR
POTENTIAL MARKETS
IN THE WEST!
with —
6AM • Northam .. . 2000 watts
6PM • Metropolitan 500 watts
6KG • Kalgoorlie. . 500 watts
88% of the total licenses in
W.A. are within 50 miles of
6AM • 6PM • 6KG
SI. George’s House, St. George’s Terr.,
PERTH.
’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Variable Selectivity.
Probably the most important feature
of the modern receiver is its ability to re-
ceive a wanted short-wave station, clear
of those on each side of it. This is
generally called “adjacent channel selec-
tivity,” and in the superheterodyne cir-
cuit is primarily controlled by the inter-
mediate frequency stage —that is, the stage
or stages working on a fixed frequency
chosen by the designer. In modern
receivers this frequency is usually between
450 and 470 kilocycles per second.
Unfortunately high selectivity can
usually be obtained only at the expense
of top-note response of the receiver.
Manufacturers had to provide adequate
selectivity to cater for the worst condi-
tions likely to be found in practice, and
fixed selectivity came to mean poorish
top-note response on all stations, however
wide the separation and signal strength.
The ideal solution appeared to be to
provide variable selectivity so that the
listener could make adjustments to suit
requirements. If the wanted station was
strong and the unwanted neighbor weak,
low selectivity and high quality could
be chosen; if the wanted station was
weak and the unwanted neighbor strong,
high selectivity and lower quality would
be needed.
Methods of Varying Selectivity.
In early models selectivity was usually
varied by rotating through 90 degrees
one of the windings in the intermediate
frequency transformers, thereby altering
the characteristics of the transformers.
In one position of the control, selectivity
was low and qualify high, and as
the control was operated selectivity
increased. Unfortunately with this system
the overall performance of the receiver
tended to change at the same time. After
further research the modern methods of
variable selectivity were developed—
methods that avoid many of the troubles
of the earlier designs. Instead of vary-
ing the characteristics of the intermediate
frequency transformers by a combination
of electrical and mechanical methods,
the variation is now effected en-
tirely by electrical means. Small sub-
sidiary windings are incorporated in the
I.F. transformers, and their effect is varied
either by switching or by changing the
value of a resistance connected with this
winding.
There are numerous combinations of
these three methods. Some manu-
facturers provide the listener with a three-
or four-position switch, giving definite
degrees of selectivity. Others give two
switched degrees of selectivity, with the
resistance control towards the maximum
selectivity position. The main feature of
all these later systems is that either the
overall performance of the receiver is
practically unaltered by the control, or,
in certain sets, the sensitivity tends to be
greater in the high selectivity position,
and vice versa. This is the ideal form
of variable selectivity.
It will be seen that a receiver having
variable selectivity control has many
advantages. Designers are still working
on the problem, which is one that greatly
affects the listener’s enjoyment of recep-
tion of short-wave broadcasting, but the
value of the feature should certainly be
borne in mind by the listener who con-
templates buying an all-wave receiver.
B. B. C. E. D.
Amateurs Lose to
Broadcasters.
As a result of the International Radio
Conference at Cairo early last year, ama-
teurs lost a good deal in the matter of
frequency allocations. Cuts were made
in several directions, to become effective
in September this year. Chief of these
is in the high-frequency portion of the
7mc. (40-metre) band, the frequency
range from 7200 kc. to 7300 kc. being made
available to short-wave broadcasting
stations. Theoretically, amateurs are not
barred from this range, but may continue
to use it on a “shared” basis, at the juris-
diction of the authorities in their par-
ticular country.
That it will be of little use amateurs
even considering the use of 7200 kc. to
7300 kc. after September this year be-
comes evident from latest advice from
England. There the 8.8. C. has allotted
two channels for two 100-kilowatt broad-
casting stations, and an Iraqui broadcast-
ing station, YISKG, is already in full
swing on 7200 kc. It was said recently
in “QST” anent this shared channel:
“Let the broadcasters come, we’ll mow
them down, we’ll blast them off the air” ;
strong words by the mouthpiece of the
A.R.R.L., but he will be a bold amateur
who QRM’s the 8.8. C., and obviously
England will not be the only country to
make use of 7200 kc. to 7300 kc. for short-
wave broadcasting purposes.
The Rome conference is not many
years ahead, and, in view of the general
behavior of amateur stations in these
times, it is clear that the existence of
amateur radio on DX and other chan-
nels depends merely on the forbearance
of the powers that be. It seems that any
measure of tolerance at Rome will need
to be well earned.
Amateurs will have to see that their
work justifies the claims they make. In this
country the amateur must be primarily
an experimenter. There is no room for
the “imitation broadcaster.” The micro-
phone has done more harm to experimen-
tal radio than anything else, and indica-
tions everywhere are that this is at last
being realised. There are excellent fields
for genuine experimental work —in the
ultra-high-frequency spectrum, for in-
stance.
VK2NO.
Liquid Light Valve.
Many radio experimenters have been
attracted to sound recording ; some use
acetate disks for turntable reproduction
and a few tackle the more involved pro-
cess of sound film. With the photographic
and mechanical difficulties of the latter
surmounted, the job of valving light by
modulation offers some interesting prob-
lems.
Details are given here of a system de-
scribed recently in “Wireless World,”
England, which gives the basis of a
simple but fully effective method of
modulating a beam of light. All liquids
behave as if they were separated from the
surrounding air by a stretched membrane,
this effect being known as “surface ten-
sion.” Surface tension tends to make
water creep up the inside of a small
capillary tube, and similarly it “lifts” the
line of contact which water makes with
the sides of a glass container slightly
above the surrounding level of the liquid.
In the diagram two strips of
aluminium or copper (A and B) are
shown side by side in a shallow glass
vessel (C) containing ethyl acetate. The
surface of the liquid rises up along the
two lines of contact so as to form a
curved meniscus, shown in enlarged form
in B. As both liquid and container are
transparent, the curved surface of the
liquid can be used as a lens to focus a
ray of light passing through. If a poten-
tial difference is applied across the elec-
trodes from a battery or other EMF
source, curvature of the “lens,” and there-
fore focal length, varies with applied volt-
age. Spacing between the two electrodes
is given as one-fiftieth of an inch with
depth of liquid at one-eighth inch. An
emerging beam of light, measured two
inches from the lens, varies from a width
of two inches for zero voltage to a width
of one-eighth inch with 500 volts applied
to the electrodes. Current passed is only
a few microamps. With a key or micro-
phone in series with the battery, the ar-
rangement can be used for signalling or
“talking” along a beam of light.
The system should be ideal for record-
ing sound on film by the variable width
or variable density method, and has
many applications as a light valve.
Amateur Chatter.
More 56mc. history was made on the
evening of 1/ 3 / ’39 when VK2CI at
Merewether, Newcastle, N.S.W., relayed
The location of VK2CI, Merewether, Newcastle, N.S.W., showing the
five-metre aerial arrays used on the occasion of the successful tests on
26/12/’39, when VK2LZ and VK2NO were received. The vertical W8JK
array, 40ft. high, is by the house, and to the right is the Yagi array, 15ft.
high. The signals were received on both aerials in turn, being superior
on the 8JK type.
56mc. C.W. signals from VK2NO back
to Sydney by medium of 40-metre tele-
phony. A similar experiment was suc-
cessful during the week with strong
signals at the Newcastle location from
VK2LZ, Wentworth Falls. It is reported
by letter from Eric Ferguson, VK3BD,
Melbourne (ex-VK2BP and the pioneer
of ultra-short-wave communication tests
between the Blue Mountains and Syd-
ney), that on Sunday, 26/2/’39, the test
arranged on 56mc. between Victoria and
Tasmania was unsuccessful owing to bad
weather, but that he heard two VK3
signals weakly on the band. One he
identified as VK3LZ, and now the ques-
tion to be determined is whether the
Victorian was active or whether the
signal originated from VK2LZ.
A V.C.P. telegraphy operator regrets
that 56mc. apparatus was not included
in equipment for recent exercises, in view
of the activity among Sydney stations.
The ultra-shorts are a logical medium
for inter-communication between vessels
of such a flotilla where short-range skip
conditions may hamper communication
on lower frequencies. In bad weather
visual communication may be out of
the question on coastal patrols, and static
conditions may put vessels completely
out of touch with each other at times.
The advantages of ultra-shorts, with their
absence of static, are obvious.
In B. 22/2/’39 reference was made
to the need for choosing amateurs for
defence communication on telegraphic
merits rriainly. That such proficiency
is of primary importance has already
been demonstrated. During manoeuvres
only two operators were found to be of
any real value. Traffic suffered, and
the work eventually fell on the shoulders
of one man, his co-operation with army
stations being conspicuous. Reliability
is one of the first essentials in handling
service messages, and purely amateurish
methods do not make for efficiency.
Applicants for key positions in various
services sho,uld be put to a transmitting
and receiving test by a competent
authority, and graded accordingly.
The annual DX marathon is in full
swing, and DX bands are swamped by
a medley of stations frantic in their
The five-metre 8JK array at VK2CI,
erected on top of a 30-foot pole.
efforts to pile up points. It is claimed
that C.W. DX contests make for good
telegraphy operators, but operating is
limited to hurried test calls, RST checks,
and exchange of serial numbers. Some
contest “stars” would be hard put to it
to handle ordinary traffic for a few hours
without constant repeats both ways. A
good operator is not necessarily a
speedster; he is one with control of
correct spacing, a feature of operating
unknown to many VK point-pilers.
Amateur radio is old enough to adopt a
saner outlook on such contests, which
can serve no possible useful purpose.
U.S.A. recently ruled that 56mc. must
henceforth be treated as any other band.
Unsuitable apparatus has no place there,
and the ruling needs extension to other
countries. Progress i§ hampered by use
of frequency-grabbing gear. Radio club
officers should school their members to
refrain from using field day transceivers
from fixed locations close to experi-
menters genuinely concerned with de-
velopment of the band. Transceivers
have a habit of getting into unauthorised
hands, and illegal transmission on 56mc.
is asking for trouble as on lower fre-
quencies. Those who have spent con-
siderable time and money on develop-
ment of 56mc. will not tolerate wilful


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long—felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/ per year
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations »»
Sheep bought *» "
Wire netting »
and so on. .
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
piracy or interference on the band, and
will place the matter in the hands of the
authorities.
* ’ * * * *
The early morning is the best time for
inter-State QSOs on 7mc. Several VK4s
A close-up of the Yagi five-metre arrav
at VK2CI.
may be heard regularly during the
early mornings, enjoying a QRM-free
yam, and old-timer VKSJT can often be
heard handling his key with VK3s around
7 a.m. There is much speculation on
the source of a mysterious signal appear-
ing for long periods on 7mc., sometimes
continuing from early afternoon to late
night. The signal is unstable, and emits
a series of dashes from what appears to
be a running-down mechanism. It is full
strength in Sydney and is reported simi-
larly from Brisbane. Obviously of Aus-
tralian origin, it presents a pretty problem
Superiority of the 1851 as R.F. ampli-
fier at 56mc. is shown by the excellent
results obtained in receivers made re-
cently by the writer, and in comparative
tests in U.S.A. Using an ordinary re-
ceiver in tests from W9CLH with
W9ZHB, Illinois, and WBCVQ, Kalama-
zoo, there was response from audible
but unidentified carriers. A receiver
using an 1851 R.F. stage was substituted,
and this resulted in ’phone communica-
tion with both stations at distances of
The three 56mc. experimenters who
received signals from Sydney and the
Blue Mountains on 26/2/’39. Left to
Right: Geoff Partridge ( VK2VU ), Ron
Rutherford and Gordon Kempton
( VK2CI ).
70 and 135 miles. There seems no reason
why relatively short jumps cannot be
worked with C.W., moderate power,
good receivers and antennae. The way
to get over hills is to back away from
them a little, even though it makes the
distance greater. That this is so is evident
in the signals from VK2LZ and VK2NO
at VK2CI, Newcastle, N.S.W.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
There is plenty of good reception to
be had these days. The 49-metre band
has been particularly good. It includes
two South Africans, ZRH and ZRK,
and GSA, DJC, OLR and Moscow. As
late as 9.30 p.m. GSB, GSC, DJA, DJN,
W2XAD, W2XAF and 2RO have been
heard on 31 metres. The 25-metre band
is very fair, especially in the early hours,
but by 7 a.m. GSD, DJD, TPA3 and
WIXAL are falling off considerably in
strength.
The 19-metre band is improving daily,
and now GSO, DJR, DJQ and DJB can
be heard all morning. Midday also
brings in XGOX and Calcutta just below
DJQ. All the 19-metre stations are fair
in the late afternoon and night, a fairly
recent arrival on 19.45 metres being
apparently Russian. Contrary to the
usual experience I find GSG as good as,
if not better than, GSV. Both are better
than Rome, DJE or PHI in the 16-metre
band.
K. B. G.
Empire Broadcasting Service.
The following frequencies have been
notified for use by the Empire station
at Daventry:
Freq. W.L., Freq. W.L.,
Me. Metres. Me. Metres.
GSA .. 6.05 49.59 GSJ .. 21.53 13.93
GSB •• 9.51 31.55 GSL .. 6.11 49.10
GSC .. 9.58 31.32 GSN .. 11.82 25.38
GSD .. 11.75 25.53 GSO .. 15.18 19.76
GSE .. 11.86 25.29 GSP .. 15.31 19.60
GSF .. 15.14 19.82 GST .. 21.55 13.92
GSG .. 17.79 16.86 GSV .. 17.81 16.84
GSH .. 21.47 13.97 GSX .. 21.64 13.86
GSI .. 15.26 19.66
At present the Empire transmitters are
operating on the following frequencies:
TRANSMISSION 1—
Area Served.
GSI .. Oceania, New Zealand
GSO .. Far East, New Zealand
GSF .. Australia
GSE .. Oceania, New Zealand
GSD . . Australia, New Zealand
TRANSMISSION 2
GSJ .. India, Malaya, Australia, West
Indies
GSH .. Africa
GSV .. Far East
GSG - ■ India, Malaya, Australia
GSF .. India, Malaya, Australia
GSE • • Non-directional
TRANSMISSION 3
GSH ~ Africa
GSG (to 3.15 p.m. G.M.T.) .. India,
Malaya, W. Australia
GSF .. India, Malaya, W. Australia
GSE (to 3.30 p.m. G.M.T.) .. Non-direc-
tional
GSD (to 4 p.m. G.M.T.) .. Far East
GSD .. India, Malaya, Australia
GSB (from 3.30 p.m. G.M.T.) .. India,
Malaya
GSA (from 3.45 p.m. G.M.T.) .. Non-direc-
tional
TRANSMISSION 4
5.20-9 p.m. G.M.T.
GSV .. South America
GSG .. Africa
GSP (from 6.45 p.m.) .. Canada
GSI (to 6.30 p.m.) .. East Africa
GSD .. Africa
GSB (from 6.30 p.m.) .. East Africa
GSA .. Non-directional
9.15-11 p.m. G.M.T.
GSO .. South America
GSD .. Canada (N. America)
GSC .. Canada (N. America)
GSB .. West Indies
GSB .. Africa
GSA .. Non-directional
TRANSMISSION 5
GSO .. South America
GSD .. Canada (N. America)
GSC .. Canada (N. America)
GSB .. West Indies, India, Malaya
GSB .. South America
TRANSMISSION 6
GSD .. Western Canada
GSC .. Western Canada
GSC .. E. Canada and N. America
GSB .. West Indies
GSB .. South America
ARABIC TRANSMISSION—
-5.17-6.15 p.m. G.M.T. (approx.)
GSC .. Near East
SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE NEWS
BULLETINS.
(1.30 a.m. and 1.45 a.m. G.M.T. respectively.)
GSO South America
GSB South America
GSB Central America
All programme details are given in
Greenwich mean time. Correct to local
time as follows:
Australia — Hours.
West .. .. .. . - . • + 8
South .. .. .. -. +9^
Q’land, N.S.W., Vic., Tas +lO
Barbados 4
Burma .. .. - - ■ • - • + 6^
Canada—
Eastern Standard Time .. .. 5
Central Standard Time .. .. 6
Mountain Standard Time .. .. 7
Pacific Standard Time .. .. 8
Ceylon .. .. - • • • • • +
China ■ • .. + 8
Egypt .. +2
Hong Kong .. . - • ■ • • + °
India .. .. . - • • • • +
Iraq .. .. .. .. • • .. + 3
Kenya + 2*
Malaya .. ■ • +7l,
*New Zealand .. .. -- •• +IH
Nigeria .. .. + 1
Palestine - • • • +2
Sierra Leone .. “1
Union of South Africa .. .. • • +2
U.S.A. (see Canada)
* During period of New Zealand Summer Time
add 12 hours.
What's What in Radio.
Total number of radio licenses in force
in Australia at the end of January was
1,108,405. Experimental licenses now
number 2005.
* * * *
A new cross-Channel radio-telephone
service between England and France
operates on ultra-short waves, 3.6 and
4.4 metres in the one direction and 3.95
and 4.9 metres in the other.
* * * *
The first radio newspaper made its
appearance in Missouri, U.S.A., where
the “St. Louis Post-Dispatch” broadcast
the first edition. Facsimile receivers were
installed in the homes of a number of
employees. The first edition consisted
of nine pages, 8yin. long and four
columns wide, using the regular news-
paper type. Pages included leading
articles, sports news, pictures, editorial
cartoon, radio programmes, financial
news and stock-market quotations. This
phase of radio is likely to be in everyday
use in future years.
* * * *
Held in previous years in Sydney Town
Hall, the E.R.D.A. Radio Exhibition is
this year to be run in conjunction with
the R.A.S. Easter Show. The new in-
dustrial exhibition hall has been secured
for the radio exhibits.
“R.H.A.”: Problem of power supply
for large public-address amplifiers is
eased by the introduction of cheap trans-
mitting rectifiers of the 866 “junior”
type. A pair cost little more than a single
83, but will handle the same direct current
at a much higher voltage. To overcome'
the drop in filter chokes, secondary volt-
age of the power transformer may be
increased to any suitable value up to
1250 volts. This is out of the question
with types 82 and 83. Filter condensers
need present no problem, since electro-
lytic types in series are a cheap and prac-
ticable solution-
Midget Condensers.
Two new types of Radiokes midget
variable condensers, as illustrated, are
now obtainable from the agents, Radio
Suppliers, Ltd., Angel-place, Sydney.
Both condensers are fitted with trolitul
end plates carrying the spindle bearings.
Trolitul is now extensively used as a
high-grade R.F. insulator for many radio
purposes, and is produced in various
colors.
The condenser on the right has a
maximum capacity of lOOmmfd., and is
sturdily designed with nickelled brass
rotor and stator plates. The spindle is
extended from the rear bearing plate in
order that ganging may be used. The
other condenser is a single-bearing type
similar to the earlier Radiokes midget
types, but with the advantage of trolitul
insulation. Capacities available in both
types are 10, 15, 25, 35, 50, 70 and 100
mmfd. All have a very low minimum
capacity, and the prices range from 6s.
to 9s. for the extended shaft type, and
3s. to ss. 3d. for the single-bearing type.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
1 use a genemotor with a 32-volt lighting
plant. At night-time strong signals ride over
the genemotor noise, but reception is difficult
in daytime. ’ Various voltages are taken from
the genemotor through a voltage divider sup-
plied with the seven-valve receiver. It is neces-
sary to use batteries always for short-wave re-
ception as commutator noise is high. I de-
cided to try extra filtering, having on hand a
30 henry 50 ma. choke and a twin Bmfd. con-
denser. I put the choke in the negative line
from the genemotor to the set, and condenser
across the negative and positive leads, with no
results. The voltage divider became very hot.
What is wrong? —756. .
The filter choke should be connected in the
positive lead between the genemotor output
and the voltage divider, with the filter ..con-
denser connected with one section each side
of the choke. The output from the voltage
divider will be as before. Reversal of polarity
of the electrolytic filter condensers would cause
overheating of the voltage divider, but in any
case the divider will pot overheat with the filter-
condenser unit between the genemotor and
divider. This extra filtering should greatly
reduce noise, but a condenser filter at the input
side of the genemotor may be worth a trial.
If the condensers are electrolytics, make sure
that the positive connections are made to each
side of the choke, and negatives to the negative
line.
* * * *
Details of type and dimensions of aerial for
use with a five-valve vibrator-powered dual-
wave superhet, situated 2000 ft. above sea-level,
with an iron-roofed house ? Sketch of the lay-
out is given. —7s7.
Distance from the house to the small table-
land is not indicated in the sketch, but if this
is not too great a small mast could be erected
here. This would permit erection of an aerial
of the inverted L type, taken to a mast on the
side of the house. The higher above ground the
better. A total length of 100 ft. of wire, includ-
ing lead-in, will be suitable. A good earth
connection should be used, or alternatively a
twin "wire counterpoise running fan-wise to the
base of the hill, and about Bft. above ground.
This arrangement would give good results on
broadcast and short waves.
* * * *
Is it possible to use an all-wave battery-
operated receiver from the 240 -volt D.C.
mains? Valves are all of the six-volt type,
and 135 to 180 volts of B battery is employed.
—758. , „
The receiver valve filaments would have to
be wired in series, and a barretter resistor of
the correct value fitted. Plate supply would
be derived through a filter unit consisting of
chokes, condensers and voltage divider. The
latter may not be needed if voltage distribution
is provided in the receiver H.T. circuits.


i X
mm
mm
iXiff
m
O
M I
s&
Pontiac Silver Arrow Sedan
Cain in pride... Save in price.. .with one of the
2 PONTIAC SIXES FOR 1939
Five years ago when the first Silver- Streak
series flashed across the motoring horizon,
people paid it. instant tribute for the new
and refreshing note Pontiac’s Silver Streak
Bonnet introduced to motor car design.
And when in the next year, and the
next, and the next, Pontiac continued
glorifying its ; original Silver Streak
inspiration, the applause was loud and
long. In a world of confusing style
changes, (with their effect on resale value)
the public declared wholeheartedly for
Pontiac’s policy of continuity of design.
Now, here to-day, is the 1939 series of
Silver Streak Pontiacs . . . fifth in line of a
famous family of beauties. The new
Pontiacs are more thrilling and more
glamorous than ever. They’re styled with
an eye to to-morrow, but with due con-
sideration to the buyers of previous years.
So come in and see the new lower-priced
. 115-inch.wheelbase Pontiac Silver Arrow,
complete with everything your heart could
wish ~. . the new Visioriair Body by
Holden, with its wider, deeper windscreen,
bigger side windows and narrow corner
and side pillars . . . Independent Front
Wheel Springing.. .. ■ Safety Shift Gear
Control . . . Feather-light Centre Poise
Steering . No-Draught Ventilation .. .
Multi-adjustable Front Seat, Adjustable
Front Armrests, Dual Electric Windscreen
Wipers, Dual Sun Visors, etc. It’s the
year’s bargain in beauty . . . way, way
ahead of anything near its price.
Pass on to the Chieftain, Pontiac’s
Senior Six, a full 120 inches in wheelbase,
with a roominess and luxury for which
people in the past have been accustomed
to. paying much higher prices. To such
people the Chieftain is a money-saver, too
. . . in first cost and in operating cost.
When can you make a time to see these
two great Pontiac creations? Any time
will suit your Pontiac Dealer to bring a
car round to your door for you to drive
for yourself.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR RADIO.
The modern motorist has an ‘AIR CHIEF’ in-
stalled in his car, to derive maximum enjoyment
from motoring:. A model specially designed for
Pontiac is included in the range at prices from
Eighteen Guineas. Ask for a demonstration.
You will be pleased with the excellent reception
of ‘AIR CHIEF’.
Buy from your Local Pontiac Dealer
112
Sold and Serviced by Pontiac Dealers throughout Australia.
The dredge of Tongkah Compound No.
4, a float of Tongkah Compound N.L.,
by which 31 p.c. of the issued capital, is
held, will be ready to set in at the end
of April. The Takuapa property has
from 15,000,000 to 17,000,000 c.y.; of
that 13,000,000 c.y. has been bored to
go lib., and similar values are expected
from the balance. There is a consider-
able quantity of low-grade wash in
an adjoining area. The dredge, capacity
Up to 180,000 c.y. monthly, was bought
from the old New Kopah co. in June
last, together with that co.’s leases
and quota right to 16 tons of oxide a
month, for £40,932 in shares and £16,223
in cash, payable within two years. To
keep capital account within reasonable
bounds, Tongkah Compound, N.L.,
transferred the required number of its
partly-paids in the pup to the vendor in
satisfaction of the share-consideration,
the shares being subsequently written up
to £1 each. Issued capital thus remains
at £150,000 in £1 shares. At Sept. 30
73,932 were, fully-paid, the baiance called
to 7s. Including balance coming to New
Kopah (£11;398), there was £35,100
owing to creditors, the parent figuring for
£18,076. Cash in hand amounted to
£1474. Calls of 6s. per share since should
have put a better complexion on finances.
* * * *
With restriction as at present, remain-
ing life of Rangeng Tin, operating in
Puket, Siam, is put 'at 3i years—-a year
shorter working full out —and the latest
report says nothing about possible acqui-
sition of any new property. For. the year
to Aug. 31 net earnings of £10,055 are
shown; £2462 went out in one year’s
pref. div. at 6 p.c., leaving £4925 of back-
pay still to come. The dredge dug virgin
ground, as against tailings in 1937, which
explains both better recoveries and in-
creased unit costs:
1936. ■ 1937. ’ 1938.
Cubic yards dug . . 816.240 1,312,463 979,439
Recovery t. 0., tons .. 182.1 , 194.4 300.5
Pounds per c.y. . . 0.5 • 0.33 0.68
All-in costs, c.y. . . 5.77 d. 3.83 d. 5.56d'.
Quota release, p.c. . . 76.15 65.33
Xet profit* .. .. £3508 £6635 £10,051
Pref. divs. .. .. £4925 £2462
* After depreciation: £284, 1936 ; £30,65, 1937.;
£2528, 1938. s
Yields for the current term have been
much the same, production of 119 tons
t.o. to the. end of February yielding a
mine profit of £5lOO sterling. Share-
holders have had a bad spin. In 10
years the prefs. have had £26,402 of
their money back in the form of divs.,
but the ords. nothing. The low assess-
ment (283 tons t.o. annually) has been
one difficulty. Paid -capital is £-103)408
in 255. shares called to 21s. 3d. —38,625
6 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 58,325 ords.;
only 34,160 of the latter are in the hands
of the public, the rest having been for-
feited. At balance day more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£12,642. Only other realisable asset of
any consequence was then the 100,000-
c.y.-monthly'dredge, in at £57,765.
* . * * . *
Passing of the final quarterly div. by
Triton, Cue (W.A.), caused just a little
concern among sharemarket followers.
Three sixpenny distributions (£72,000 in
all) have gone out for the current year,
as against Is. for the previous six months
and Is. for the year before that. The
co. has a heavy development programme
on its hands. Early intentions were to
open up three new levels in the old
Mararoa workings, and lately diamond-
drilling outgo has- also been running off
with a mint. Drilling interest centres
chiefly in the Rand leases owned by
Western Gold Mines, N.L., and some
three-quarters of a mile north of the
Triton workings. Original arrangement
for ■ the . development of the leases was
for Triton to put up 90 p.c. of working
funds, and to take 80 p.c. of any profits
untiL Western Gold gets £lOO,OOO, there-
after 90 p.c. The co. now balances to
March 31. For the 10 months , to Jan.
yields were fairly well maintained at an
average 6.27dwt. on throughput of
93,200 tons ; that is a bit better than the
figure for the preceding six months, when
41,242 tons went through the mill, and
there have been savings in costs following
tonnage increases, though recent floods
have set the co. back a bit.
* * * *
A Gt. Boulder circular, issued in Lon-
don on February 18, states that the
board views “with considerable confi-
dence the future dividend position.” Ore
reserves are said to be increasing at a
fast rate, and developments underground
are described as particularly encouraging.
A new diamond-drill find in virgin
ground at the 2650 ft. level is starred,
and the management in Westralia, both
at the mine and at the Perth office, is
praised. Another div. (3d.) is to be paid
next month.
* * * *
State batteries continue to be a big
help to the Westralian gold prospector
and small mineowner. To the end of
1938, nearly 2\ million tons of ore had
been milled for a return, including re-
ceipts from re-treated residues, valued at
over ,£A 10,000,000. In December (the
last official figures available) 16 batteries
crushed in the aggregate 8958 tons for
49080 z., valued at £A38,524.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
mM
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Roomand Breakfast . . from 7/6
J^~ J 1 .
Mr*
d
f
1U
b
lr^
j^l^z
°r
d^ 1 }
y ■
~ j <r
/-*•
ev^
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought Feeding of Sheep.
“Ghanam”: H. R. Marston, of the
C.S. and 1.R., in a report to the Aus-
tralian Wool Board on drought feeding
supplements, outlines the problems in-
volved—the supply of protein and acces-
sories to last-resort standing grass-straw ;
and of reserve energy-producing
materials.
Blood- and meat-meals and other
animal protein supplies seem to be most
satisfactory. Linseed oil cake, with 35
p.c. protein, is useful, but the supply is
too limited for general use. So are
supplies of fish-oil products. The best
and most practical supplement Marston
tested was dried young grass, which pro-
vides a concentrate of value almost equal
to linseed concentrate. The grass must
be very young and well leafed.
The conclusions support those arrived
at in England ; but cost of production
off irrigated land would be very heavy,
probably at least £lO a ton. In Eng-
land it is placed round about £7 to £9
per ton according to locality and season.
And most English pastures, long estab-
lished and carefully tended, have a far
thicker sole than Australian.
More Wool Sales.
“E.”: If anything the market at the
recent Sydney wool sale was weaker at
the end than at the beginning, though
prices at 11.4 d. average for the week
were considerably better than earlier
sales, and only Id. easier than at the
corresponding sale last year. About 90
p.c. of the offerings were sold at auction.
N. S. Wales sales were a preliminary
to the last burst of the season’s selling—
at Brisbane ; at London (March 14) and
at Sydney again on March 20.
In Sydney sales, for the eight months
to Feb. 28, 889,295 bales were sold for
£11,974,000, against 774,081 bales for
£13,175,542 for the same period of
1937-38.
Rugging Flock Sheep.
“Jumbuck”: I first experimented with
rugging sheep (B. 22/2/’39) in 1933
primarily to observe how oil-soaked bag-
made rugs influenced blowfly strike. The
season was dry and the flies few, and
none of the rugged sheep were struck.
At shearing time, when the rugs were
removed after six months, there was
plenty of evidence to prove how the
coverings kept out rubbish.
Weights were heavier from the rugged
than from the unrugged sheep, and,
although the numbers rugged were too
small to permit of the wool being kept
separate, the cleaner and better-grown
wool from these sheep was worth at
least 2d. per lb. more than the best from
the unrugged.
In scrubby country rugging would
probably prove of little value because
of the tearing of rugs, but on the plains,
where burrs, grass seeds, dust and sand
bring reduced values, rugging of flock
sheep should pay. Hundreds of sheep
shorn during midwinter months might
be saved if rugs were used. The present
cost of rugs prevents their being given
a thorough trial.
Blowfly Losses.
“Ghanam”: The N. S. Wales Agri-
cultural Department holds that blowfly
losses are more serious than is generally
realised.
One property in central-western N.S.W.
is quoted as spending £BOOO in a single
year to protect 40,000 sheep. On a
stud property with 20,000 head, a year’s
expenditure was £4300; on another,
£3OOO ; but there are records of properties
with 20,000 sheep where the cost was as
low as £390. These figures include no
reckoning of percentage decrease in clip
value in a bad year owing to “break”
in the wool, or of the loss , through dust
accumulation caused by continual yard-
ing of sheep for treatment.
A charge of 4s. per sheep for fly
treatment over 40,000 head seems more
severe than the income tax. Have M.O.L.
readers any figures to' show?
“Now where DID I hitch that blasted nag ?”
The Oldest Stud ?
. “El V.”: I note, that “S..M. Herald”
declares that “Coombing Park, Carcoar,
home of stud beef cattle breeding for
more than 50 years, is not only the
senior stud cattle station in N.S.W., but
one of the most interesting.”
If Coombing were only just more than
50 years old, it would be a mere pup
as a beef-cattle exhibitor ; Peel River Co.,
which showed at last R.A.S., can go back
80 years, and its mother company, the
A.A., 114 years, though it is no longer
a stud. The Reynolds’s Hereford studs
have been going for well over 70 years.
Actually, however, Coombing has a
record which would be hard to beat.
Long before the present owners took
it over, Coombing was a beef Shorthorn
stud. The original owner was Thomas
Iceley, who was granted 560 acres in
1827. His first importation of stud
Shorthorns was about 1830, and though
earlier pedigreed beasts may have been
imported—l suspect Governor Bligh’s
Young Tippoo of having been a Coates
aristocrat, though there is no proof:—
there are none traceable in N.S.W.,
pedigrees being wanting for the first Aus-
tralian Agricultural Co.’s stock.
Iceley’s pioneer bull was Rodney
(1392) by Dandy (951), d. Medusa, by
Regent (544), nearly related to Colling’s
Moss Rose and a near descendant of
Favorite (252). And it is almost a hun-
dred years since, in the middle of a
period when Australians were sampling
every great British stud, that a calf by
Bates’s great Duke of Northumberland
(1940), the leading Shorthorn sire of his
age, was brought to Coombing.
Bates had bought a bull to replace
Second Hubback —Belvedere (1706), a
Princess animal based on a double cross
of Favorite (252) on straight Hubback
blood. Bred to his own daughter, Bates’s
favorite Duchess 34th, he produced the
Duke of Northumberland “nearly
double the weight of Comet,” the first
1000-guinea bull in history, at 10 months
old.
One of the best of his calves, Duke
of Cambridge (3637), \vas chosen by
Bates as a : member of his team for one
of his renowned competitions against
Booth at Cambridge Royal. Three years
he headed his class at the Royal, but in
1842, when his mother —“Old Broken
Leg” to her friends —walked 40 miles to
York and beat Booth’s Necklace and 14
other cows in a historic competition in
vvhich the judges found that they “could
not judge the stars in the presence of the
sun,” the youngster was on his way to
Coombing.
Coombing is not merely the oldest
standing home of stud cattle in N.S.W.,
but the original N.S.W. home of the
Australian Shorthorn Waterloos.
Top-quality Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. farmers produce
wheat equal to Manitoba No. 1, the
standard grade of the United Kingdom
market. Dr. D. W. Kent-Jones, consul-
tant cereal chemist to the British Flour-
millers’ Association, says so in reporting
results of tests of strong white shipped
from Sydney in December.
The sample was from truckloads of
Pusa 4, Carrabin and Gular from the
north-west. The nitrogen content he
described, as excellent and abnormally
high. In protein content (18.92 p.c.) and
flour strength, the wheat was one of the
best he had ever examined.
Summing up he said:
This was an outstandingly good wheat
in all respects. Actually its strength was
above that of the general run of top-
grade Manitoba imported into England, and
it was much more glutenous. It should
prove particularly useful in blending with
weaker varieties.
The N. S. Wales north-west slopes and
plains produce these early-maturing
strong white wheats better than any other
part of the State, but as yet in barely
sufficient quantities for millers’ require-
ments. They contributed 19,115,000
bushels at the record average of 21.1
bushels per acre to this season’s harvest,
as compared with an average of 7,811,000
bushels for the previous 10 years.
Growing Clovers.
“J. Want”: Clovers are choicy about
soils and conditions ; they are not a
lazy man’s herbage. They need the right
kind of soil, well groomed by regular
topdressing, and well fed with regular
fertiliser. When they have a fertile soil,
regularly renovated and touched up with
super, and cleared of initial acidity with
a lime dressing, clovers will pay.
Don’t stick to a single clover —on
warmer coastal districts white clover
makes spring feed from August to No-
vember, and red from September till March.
Clovers go with all types of grasses,
including paspalum. But remember that
red clover is not a long-liver. A couple
of years sees the end of it in most pas-
tures unless it is renewed.
Potato Crops and Prices.
“Spud”: Potato crops both in N.S.W.
and Victoria have
given cause for
worry. In a
pick district like
Ebor (near Armi-
dal e, N.S.W.),
only a few miles
from the coast,
and on a high,
rich, well-watered
tableland, yields
have been “very
poor.” Round
Glen Innes the
output is esti-
mated at from 1|
to two tons per
acre. The Aus-
tralian average is
about 2.5 tons.
British - and Scottish districts produce
round about six to seven tons ; Belgium
and Denmark, eight to nine tons ; U.S.A.,
normally about 5\ to seven tons.
Australians must follow methods used
elsewhere —special preparation of land
and ploughing in of green manure, care-
ful tilth, particularly in dry season. And
they must realise that potatoes must be
nursed for disease and that they are most
profitable when treated as a small-area
crop. It’s no good sitting back to watch
potatoes grow themselves.
A man on the New England worked
for a 10-ton yield, which came out at
£2OO per acre during the recent shortage.
Malting Barleys.
“Malt”: Kenia, an improved two-row
or malting barley from Denmark, ap-
pears to be just the thing that farmers
and maltsters have been looking for for
many years. Its chief merit is greater
productivity than the Pryor variety, the
standard in Australia for nearly 40 years.
It is, too, a strong straw type. Many
farmers fight shy of barley growing here
on account of weakness of straw in the
varieties available to them.
Introduced three years ago, Kenia has
been tested in N.S.W. at Wagga, Bathurst:
and Glen Innes experiment farms under
varied climatic conditions, and at each
of the three centres it outyielded Pryor.
In the coming season it is to be included


82826,
f /
v 1
Zs
IMPORTED ZEBU LOOKS VERY SMART.
Especially when it is moulded on an extended square-toed last.
Apart from looks it has exceptional wearing qualities, being strong and tough.
Made with punched full golosh and full wide welt, and stocked in full and
half sizes. Brown, Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Hoes Not
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold —Shell Co., 60 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
■'aar
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
The Hygeia Dissolvenator Fully Guaranteed
PRICE £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
ţ
IT USED TO BE CALLED
K
'JAn 'B&eJk {/efaLMjiitct
UJ
•o j
m
AU\M
It was a sort of no man's land . . just a "back verandah."
Then came Masonite . . the versatile, inexpensive all*
purpose boards (non*warping, splinterless and grainless)
which enable any sensible carpenter to. become a wizard
at rapid up-to-the-minute transformation.
You can see what Masonite did for the back verandahl
Masonite Presdwood walls and floors, a Cane-ite ceiling
(applied over the existing ones); a little lacquering; a
suggestion of bevelling, and—well, Mother now sews and
receives her guests in surroundings she can be proud of.
Have you thought what Masonite can do in YOUR home?
FOR COMFORT.
Cane-ite, the new cane fibre insulating board makes summer
cooler, and winter warmer. Cane-ite is available in two
finishes in a range of sizes and thicknesses.
IfffflfT
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . PRESDWOOD
9UARTRBOARD
TEMPRTILE *
FREE SAMPLE
* Mail to your nearest Branch—Sydney , , Melbourne . ■
Brisbane . Adelaide Perth. 3 IS- 3. MA-8-9
JJuffy'alletz/ri,
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
5
E
M
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD- King St.. Sydney
“Wool values in London are
usually about 5% higher”
r
SAYS "THE YORKSHIRE OBSERVER"
This well known paper, wrote: cc Wool values
in London are usually about 5% higher than
those for similar wool in Australia.”
There are other advantages, too, in selling on
the London market. You can sell just when you
want to, for there is always a spot demand.
Your usual bank or agent will arrange for
advances before shipment, and for proceeds to
be telegraphed from London within 24 hours
of sale. Ask them for full particulars.
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
in farmers’ experiment plots under the
supervision of the Department of Agri-
culture. Barley has not previously been
given a place in these trials.
Sorghum Poisoning.
“Zedo”: A group of American experi-
menters has recently investigated
sorghum-feeding.
Sudan grass is recommended as the
safest sorghum, but even then care is
needed. When Sudan appears dark-green
it is full of cyanide and dangerous, especi-
ally if it happens to be short second
growth. The taller the grass the safer —
over 2ft., thehe is little risk with it. It
is economical not to feed it off till it
is 18in. high. When the grass is pale
yellowish-green, no matter how short, it
is safe.
When fertilising remember that a high
percentage of phosphorus and a small
percentage of nitrogen are most con-
ducive to safety. Drought helps to in-
crease cyanide proportions by holding
back phosphates while not retarding
nitrogen development. Moisture conser-
vation in dry areas is, therefore, im-
portant to safety.
The chances are particularly against
animals in low condition —the hungrier
they are the. more they will eat, and the
more cyanide they will take in. Where
an animal does not die at once —as it
usually does from cyanide —try half a
teaspoonful pot. permang., plus 21b.
molasses, in a quart of water.
One hint not mentioned by the Ameri-
cans is to starve an bid cow or other
cull till really hungry, and give her the
run of the paddock before letting in the
herd. An hour at most, and probably not
more than a quarter of an hour if she
gets to work at once, should tell the tale.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ayon”: If sheep are anything from
half- to full-woolled when chosen for
“killers,” shear them. It is easier than
shearing the skins afterwards, and the
wool brings a better price.
“I.B.”: When ewes and lambs have
been yarded for any length of time
shepherd for a while after letting out. It
saves loss through the mothers rushing
away to feed and leaving the lambs.
“Ayon”: To keep hides soft for rope-
making, paint with vinegar and rub with
soap before drying.
“Lam”: Good disinfecting mixtures
for sheds, stables and piggeries are
phenol, a pint to four gallons water,
and crude carbolic acid, 1| pints to four
gallons. Economy in chemical doesn’t
pay—better a little more than a little
less.
“M.”: Try this when the rods wear
a hole in the well pipes. From stout
hoop iron make a bracket a neat fit with
the pipe, allowing enough overlap at
the ends to punch holes for a bolt. Over
the hole wrap a piece of stout leather,
place the hoop-iron bracket over it and
tighten the nut on the bolt. Once the
water swells the leather there’ll be no
leakage. If the mill is shut off for any
time the nut will stand tightening.
“Munni”: Frugal lot, these West-
ralians. Firms in the Eastern States
certainly include marsupial and rabbit
skins in their sales, but I notice that
Westralians not only regularly quote
goat skins —best lights, shorthaired, bring
up to Is. per lb. —but water-rat skins,
which sell at 15s. per dozen, best quality,
and just now the Perth market reports
“no cat skins offered. No demand.”
Another bush sideline which makes a
bit of money in the West is manna gum,
of which there is usually a fairly heavy
supply. Highest prices run up to £4O
per ton, and even barky and powdery
offerings are worth from £3O upwards.
“X.T.”: Anybody with a good large
freight ’plane and a bit of capital could
make a pot of money in Australia
marketing farm lines. While eggs were
famine-dear in Melbourne and Sydney,
they were selling at glut prices in Perth
markets —special Is. to Is. 4d. a dozen,
standard from lid. upwards, and small
pullet Bid. to Eggs unpacked run
about 1120 dozen to the ton or a little
more. The freight ’planes of Central
America and parts of U.S.A. make a
good thing out of watching farm produce
markets and buying freight to suit them.
“Bundalinga”: During the depression
G. R. B. Williams, a wheatgrower of
Grenfell (N.S.W.), began feeding wheat
to pigs. That season his Is. 6d. wheat,
in the form of pork, brought him 4s. Bd.
per bushel. He has marketed all his
wheat as pork ever since. A. F. Gray,
N.’S.W. pig expert, says that with careful
feeding wheat is worth 4s. a bushel as
pig fodder. He advises crushing the
grain and feeding it with lucerne, rape,
barley and oats, which provide protein.
“Porcine”: E. Graham, of Kinilibah
(N.S.W.), is another who has proved the
economy in feeding wheat to pigs (B.
8/3/’39). He keeps straw for bedding.
After harvesting his wheat he cuts th.
straw with a mower and bales it in th
field. The bales are stored for cold-
weather use.
“Mulyan”: A valuable fodder plant
for mixed pastures is native cress, which
has a low bunchy growth, reaching about
a foot in height. It favors sandy soil,
and, no matter how dry the season, gives
a quantity of herbage which horses,
sheep and cattle eat greedily. Though
it has a slightly pungent taste, it used
to be much used outback when vegetables
were unobtainable as a safeguard against
scurvy. It is particularly useful for dry,
sandy hills and on flats that are other-
wise partially barren.
“Jesmond”: “Mullengah” advises not
to plant Kikuyu grass near cultivation
paddocks (B. 22/2/’39). No matter how
far away it is planted, it will eventually
reach the crop paddock and prove a
nuisance. The outlet from my bath drain
is 90ft. from the house and runs into a
paddock in which I had planted a few
Kikuyu roots. Three months after plant-
ing the grass I was surprised to see shoots
coming up in a flower bed near the
house. Investigation showed that a root
had grown through the drain for 80ft.
before sending a shoot through an open
join in the pipe.
“Nab.”: I have met N.S.W farmers with,
the vaguest of ideas as to what “export
parity” means for their wheat and how it
is determined. The London unit price,
equalling 2s. 9£d. a bushel (recent quo-
tation) means 2s. 4d. export parity, Syd-
ney, and Is. lOd. country rail sidings.
The whole charges from the farm to sell-
ing on the other side amount to a frac-
tion less than Is. sd. a bushel, and
exchange advantage of s|d. reduces that
figure to less than Is. Ocean freight of
about 9|d. a bushel takes the largest
cut. In N.S.W. costs consist of rail
freight (average) stfd., silo charge
and agent’s commission id.; total 7d.


Make your own money-saving
family remedy for quickly curing
CHEST
NOSE &THROAT
AILMENTS
WITH
HEENZO,
« »
HEENZfI
made up
IM YOUR,
O WN HOME
CHEST AILMENTS
Save lots of money by making
your own family remedy for
nose, throat and chest ailments by simply adding a two-shilling
bottle of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water. Then you
will have a supply equal to up to £l’s worth of the best ready-
made-up remedies for catarrh, sore throats, coughs, colds, croup,
bronchitis and influenza. For catarrh and colds in the head
you put a few drops of made-up HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning. Remember, HEENZO does NOT contain
m
♦
♦
M
MADE UP
IN YOUR
OWN
HOME
A
y>y/-y£>
mmSSm
m
m
m
m
I
any poisons. {Poisons can eventu-
ally destroy the delicate mem-
branes.) As a gargle for sore
throats, HEENZO gives instant
relief and, because of its purity,
can be used whenever distress is
felt. As an internal remedy for
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis
and influenza, the goodness of
HEENZO is universally known.
Because of its purity and freedom
from poisons, there is no danger
of overdosing with HEENZO, and
it will not upset the digestion of babies or
admts. HEENZO is equally good for
people of all ages. All chemists and stores
in Austx alia sell HEENZO.
'HEENZO,
1
Should be used in every home
*a
mi
%
m
GARGLE
HEEN7O
(ORE THROATS


SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
?;° d f v n er ““ph™
conserve mental
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, Dept,
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.O.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
j dices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, lor
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet ww
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter oi
a few hours. Chemists sell A CORN SILK «
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwaae
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell'' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced stenographer, Sydney, desires
position as companion-secretary. Refs. —2628.
Typist, Sydney, own machine, any sort of
typing, very small fee.—2630.
Employment wanted anywhere by returned
soldier, N.S.W., foreman on bridge and road
construction; own instruments for taking levels
and run traverses; has had full charge of
works employing up to 120 men; driver’s
license, inc. Diesel. —2697.
Saddler, Sydney, pensioner, used to station
work, small wages, go anywhere, seeks posi-
tion. —2663.
Married couple, Vic., young, no children,
want position of trust, caretaker estate or
bachelor station; wife housekeeper, cook, etc.,
man able drive car, effect running repairs, milk,
kill, etc. —2714.
Young man, N.S.W., exp. all farm work,
good mechanic, licensed launch- and car-driver,
wants job.—2720.
Good machine shearer (31), N.S.W., drive
any team, fence, etc., wants any farm or station
work anywhere. Refs. —2721.
To buy book of verses by “The Breaker”
(Harry Morant). —2640.
To buy Volume II of La Perouse’s Voyage in
the Years 1785-8. Arranged by M. L. A. Milet-
Mureau (published London, 1798). —2718.
To buy Christmas Bulletin, December 8,
1928, pages 46 and 48. Liberal payment for
these two pages in fair condition.—2629.
To sell 39 bound volumes of The Bulletin
from March, 1910, to June, 1926, for £5, pur-
chaser to pay freight and all charges from New-
castle.—2723.
Words of verse “The Laws of the Navy.”—
2667.
Words of recitation in Somerset dialect
starting: —
A Hornet zat on a holler tree,
A venomous spiteful twoad were he.
• —2690.
Information Sought.
(1) Date of Jean Batten’s solo flight in 1936
from England to Australia, time established by
her, and whose time did she better to obtain
this record ? (2) Date of her flight from Aus-
tralia to England? Who held this record
previously ? —2500.
(1) She left Lympne, England, on October 5,
1936, and arrived Darwin October 11, 1936,
completing the distance in five days 21 hours
five minutes, beating H. F. Broadbent’s record
of six days 21 hours 19 minutes established on
November 9, 1935. (2) Her flight from Darwin
to England was commenced on October 19,
1937, and she arrived Lympne on October 24,
1937, after a flight of five days 18 hours 45
minutes, beating H. F. Broadbent’s record of
six days eight hours 26 minutes established
on May 3, 1937.
* * * *
(1) Is daylight-saving time in operation in
Maoriland ? (2) If so, during what period each
year ? (3) Is the system regarded as satisfac-
tory? (4) Is it likely to be continued? (5)
What alterations are made in ship’s time leav-
ing Sydney for Wellington to allow for daylight-
saving time ? —2574.
(1) Yes. (2) The clock is advanced 30min.
during the period commencing at 2 a.m. M.L.
mean time on the last Sunday in September
in any year, and ending at 2 a.m. M.L. mean
time on the last Sunday in April in the fol-
lowing year. (3) Yes, judging from the number
of years it has been in operation. (4) Have
heard nothing to the contrary. (5) The time
is advanced 30min. on the night before arriv-
ing and put back 30min. on the first night
after leaving M.L.
* * * *
A batsman in playing at a ball accidentally
deflected it from hitting the wicket with a loose-
hanging shirt-sleeve; the umpire gave him
"out.” What cricket law governs this decision ?
—2670.
Law 24 says: “If with any part of his
person or dress [these two words were added
last year] which is between wicket and wicket
he intercept a ball which, in the opinion of
the umpire at the bowler’s wicket, shall have
been pitched in a straight line from the bowler’s
wicket to the striker’s wicket or shall have
been pitched on the off side of the strikers
wicket and shall have hit it the batsman is
out leg-before-wicket.” The umpire’s decision
was therefore correct.
* * * *
(1) On what date did Spofforth, the "demon
bowler,” last play in Sydney in an inter-
colonial match ? (2) Was the match on the
Albert Ground or on the Association Ground,
as the Sydney Cricket Ground was originally
called ? —2342.
(1) Spofforth played his last first-class match
in Sydney as a member of the Vic. XI in
January, 1887. (2) On the Sydney Cricket
Ground.
* * * *
(1) Average height of the Australian? (2)
Average height of Europeans? —2333.
(1) No index of any value is available; in
any given group of people the most surprising
diversity prevails where some degree of uni-
formity might be expected. Australians, ex-
cluding extremes, range from sft. 2in. up to
6ft. (2) Probably about the same, but there
are no statistics.
*** „ *
(1) Of what wood are xylophone bars made?
(2 Any books dealing with the construction of
this instrument ? —2626.
(1) Honduras rosewood, usually 15-16 in.
thick and 2iin. wide, graduated to l|in., in the
four-octave size; 15-16 in. thick and 2in. wide,
graduated to l|in., in the 34-octave size. (2)
Do not know of any. The resonators em-
ployed with this instrument are not easy to
construct as they must be accurately tuned.
* * * *
I am receiving an A.I.F. service pension, being
over 60. Would it affect my pension rights if
I made over my home to my sister or sold- it
for £5O down and 125. 6 d. a week ? —2555.
The grant or continuance of a service pen-
sion is dependent upon the rate of income from
ail sources, and the standard allowed income in
the case of a single man is 655. per fortnight,
or 130 s. per fortnight in the case of husband
and wife not living apart pursuant to any de-
cree or order. When a pensioner sells his
home, the proceeds will not be regarded as
affecting pension if he uses them to purchase
another home within two months or, in excep-
tional cases (such as transfer to a distant
locality), within three months. In your case the
Repatriation Commission would require to
know on what terms the home was “made over,”
and, in the event of sale, purchase price and
terms would need to be advised. You should
consult the Repatriation Commission before
committing yourself.
* * * *
Is there a market in Sydney for clean, dry
fowl feathers, and at what price? —2649.
Retail price is 9d. per pound in Sydney, and
you might get about half that. Try Australian
Feather Mills, 40a Glebe-street, Glebe, N.S.W.;
Hygienic Feather Mills, 22 Chelmsford-avenue,
Botany, N.S.W.; Beard, Watson and Co.,
George-street, Sydney. A small classified advt.
in the “Woman’s Mirror,” 252 George-street,
Sydney, might develop a market among needle-
workers and homemakers.
* * * *
Read recently of United Australia * party
{N.S.W.) Youths' Branch. What are its inten-
tions and conditions of membership ? —2421.
The branch, which is affiliated with the
senior U.A.P. body, consists of a younger-set
division and a political research and service
group. The younger-set division comprises
junior branches <3f the U.A.P. formed in the
various metropolitan and country electorates.
Any elector between the ages of 16 and 35 is
eligible to join. They meet fortnightly or
monthly, and their activities include political
discussions, debates and social functions, and
they participate energetically in the organisa-
tional work of the party. The political research
and service group’s activities include tutorial lec-
tures, study groups and classes on such subjects
as “Constitutional Reform,” “Parliamentary
Procedure,” “Economics,” “Defence,” “Tariff,”
“Public Speaking” and “Radio Broadcasting.”
A reference library is maintained for the use
of members. Associated with this group is a
U.A.P. Moot (or Model Parliament). This
meets monthly, and is conducted according to
the Standing Orders of the Leg. Assembly of
N.S.W. The Youth Movement also conducts
campaign schools at seaside resorts close to
Sydney prior to general elections, at which the
discussions are led by party leaders. Informa-
tion regarding all the activities of the Youth
Movement may be obtained by applying to
U.A.P. headquarters, 30 Ash-street, Sydney.
* * * *
When a car makes a right-hand or a left-
hand turn, and the steering-wheel is released,
the wheels tend to turn to the fore-and-aft posi-
tion. Why is this ? —2573.
This is due to the caster steering effect. The
caster principle has long been used in the front
wheel of a bicycle, where the steering axis
meets the ground in advance of the point of
contact of the wheel. Owing to this effect, the
handlebar will return to its normal position
when released, and the cyclist can steer with-
out using his hands. When a car takes a turn
the body of the car rises slightly; thus the
weight of the vehicle tends to return the wheels
to their fore-and-aft position. This gives added
security, for, should the steering gear break,
the weight of the car will tend to keep it on
its course.
* * * *
In laying on washes in water-color I get a
wavy, irregular effect. How can I obtain a flat,
even result? —2517.
Materials must first be correct; paint should
be of good quality without sediment, sufficient
should be mixed to do the wash without risky
additions, and brush must be as large as pos-
sible to sweep quickly over the space. Paper
or board should not be patchy or absorbent:
only the best paper gives even tints; much
erasing or fiddling with the surface will spoil
the tints. For large surfaces, take a camel-
hair brush full of color and sweep smoothly
and once only across the top edge; then be-
neath that wash in another sweep of color,
connecting by a slight overlap, and so on down
the paper. Keep a lower wet edge to each
stroke by tilting the paper at the top in desk
fashion, so that the paint is always working
downwards. You must work into a wet edge
to connect the brushings and avoid harsh dry-
ings and touchings-up.
(1) List of names ( aboriginal) suitable for a
home among gum-trees ? It is situated in rather
a hollow, and has been described as “in a
sylvan setting.” (2) Method of polishing jarrah
floors ? —2550.
(1) Binnowee, “a green. place”; Carramar,
“shade of trees”; Derribong, “green trees”;
Elouera, “a pleasant place”; Numeralla, “valley
of plenty”; Thirroul, “a valley or hollow”;
Woolway or Wullwye, “a sheltered place”;
Yarrunga, “large trees.” (2) The floors should
be sanded, polished and waxed by electric
machinery, for which a quotation can be ob-
tained from a firm specialising in such work;
thereafter waxed and rubbed occasionally. If
this has already been done to the boards, they
should need only brightening again. Sweep
well, wipe over with a damp cloth, and when
dry polish with a ready-made floor wax, or
make one by dissolving shredded beeswax in
turpentine to a smooth paste. The wax will
dissolve by standing a day or two, or may be
hastened over gentle heat, but is highly inflam-
mable. Apply with a flannel, and polish with a
woollen cloth, mop or electric polisher. Var-
nish must not be used.
* * * *
Cost of Australian Parliamentary Govern-
ment (Federal and States') during the last finan-
cial year ? —2504.
Amount. Per Head.
Commonweatlh .. £553,537 Is. Bd.*
New South Wales .. 198,961 Is. 6d.
Victoria .. .. 139,162 Is. 6d.
Queensland .. .. 108,808 2s. 3d.
South Australia .. 86,756 2s. lid.
Western Australia .. 102,817 4s. 7d.
Tasmania .. .. 49,709 4s. 3d.
Total .. ..£1,239,750 3s. Bd.
* Per head of Commonwealth population.
The other figures refer to State populations.
* * * *
Suitable electrical textbooks, both A.C. and
D.C., for a student with a rudimentary know-
ledge of electricity? —266B.
Suggest Hawkins Electrical Guide (10
volumes), £2 15s. Also recommend Alternating
Currents, by L. Agger (Macmillan and Co.,
London), 95., and Technical Electricity, by
Davidge and Hutchinson (University Tutorial
Press, London), 21s. All obtainable from
Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Nature of electrolyte used in Edison
cells ? (2) Is it sold in the solid form ? (3)
If so, how is it mixed? (4) Hydrometer read-
ings when fully charged ? (5) Suitable valves
for an eight-valve Keogh receiver? —2677.
(1) An alkaline solution of specially-prepared
potassium and lithium hydroxide in distilled
water. (2) Yes, from C. M. Terry, Ltd., 115
Pitt-street, Sydney. When ordering state type
and number of cells. (3) The electrolyte is dis-
solved in distilled water. Instructions accom-
pany each tin. (4) Approximately 1.2 at
60deg. F. when taken half an hour after
charge to allow for the dissipation of
the gases. The gravity does not change during
the charge and discharge to any extent.
(5) Depends upon the filament voltage. Amal-
gamated Wireless Valve Co., York-street, Syd-
ney, or Philips Lamps (A/asia), Ltd., Mullctt-
street, Camperdown, N.S.W., will advise on re-
ceipt of particulars of present valves in use.
* * * *
(1) Am I allowed to work a saw bench on
my N.S.W. private property cutting limber for
sale without a permit or license ? (2) If license
is required, from whom is it obtainable ?
(3) Is there any market for fruit cases either in
shooks or made up, and at what prices? —
2606.
(1) No, you must have a Sawmill License,
issued under the Forestry Act, fee £1 p.a. (2)
From the nearest forest office or the head office
of the Forestry Commission, Box No. 2667EE,
G.P.0., Sydney. (3) There is a splendid market
for fruit cases either in shooks or made up.
Prices vary according to class of case and
market supplied.
* * * *
What is a Brodie’s abscess, probable cause,
symptoms and treatment? —2431.
Brodie’s abscess is generally tuberculous in
nature and commonly occurs in the head of
the tibia (leg-bone). It is accompanied by
severe pain (increased by movement), by fever,
and by redness and swelling of the part. Treat-
ment consists in prolonged rest, and some-
times surgical drainage.
* * * *
(1) What is schizophrenia? (2) Symptoms ?
(3) Is it curable; if so, what is the treatment?
(4) Can it be administered in the home? (5)
Is it a notifiable disease? —2407.
(1) A form of adolescent insanity. (2)
The term includes a wide range of mental dis-
orders occurring in early life. The symptoms
include loss of interest in the patient’s surround-
ings, a sense of inferiority, whimsical and
even criminal conduct of many varieties, un-
sociability and lack of power for sustained
effort. (3) In milder cases not a few patients
re-establish social contacts and are much aided
by prudent and sympathetic encouragement.
Psychoanalysis is generally useless. (4) De-
pends on the severity of the individual case
and the skill of the medical attendant. (5)
Only in severe cases which may constitute the
patient a danger to himself or others.
* * * *
How is arabinose derived, and what is
its composition ? —2308.
Arabinose is a sugar belonging to the pen-
tose group and may be prepared by boiling
gum-arabic or cherry-gum with dilute acids;
but the best method is to hydrolyze sliced sugar-
beet after extraction of the sugar, the result-
ing mixture of galactose and arabinose being
freed from galactose by fermentation. It can
also be prepared from many plant cells which
have been converted into wood. It forms well-
defined crystals, melting at 160 deg., and has
a sweet taste.
* * * *
(1) How far do mosquitoes normally travel
from the water from which they are hatched ?
(2) Would motor-sump oil stop them from
breeding if poured on such water? If not,
what oil should be used? (3) Do they breed
in heavily-watered greenhouses? If so, what
means might be adopted to prevent it? —2sB2.
(1) About half a mile. (2) Yes. (3) Not
unless pools of water are allowed to collect
more or less permanently.
Brief Answers.
F.W.H.; The Registrar of Births, Deaths and
Marriages, Hobart. A small fee, about 5s„ for
ordinary search... J.C.C.: (1) The Invalid and
Old-age Pensions Act provides that in the case
of husband and wife, except where they are
living apart pursuant to any decree, judgment
or order, the income and property of each must
be deemed to be possessed by both in equal
shares. The Act also provides that a pensioner’s
income, including pension, must not exceed the
sum of £84 10s. per annum. The pension rate
will not be affected by income, therefore, if
the combined income of husband and wife, in
addition to the pension, does not exceed £65
per annum. The value of board and lodging
supplied to a pensioner and his wife is regarded
as income within the meaning of the Act
G.C.: Garner’s Introduction to Political
Science, Leacock’s Elements of Political Science,
Cannan’s Wealth, Brierly’s The Law of
Nations, Toynbee’s Survey of International
Affairs, and Gunther’s Inside Europe —
J.F.F.: (1) See page 673, Whitaker’s Alma-
nack for 1939. (2) According to the American
method of numeration, which follows the
French (whose corresponding term is milliard),
a billion is a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000;
according to the English and German method,
a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. (3) Yes.
W.F.C.: Will be pleased to help on receipt
of further particulars... .D.M.K.: His address
is care of Angus and Robertson, Sydney
E.M.C.: Ask her to forward them for con-
sideration... .W.O.B.: Write N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department, Sydney, for Diseases of
Animals Leaflet, No. 14, “Wheat Engorgement
in Horses”... .E.J.: No, the consent of the
parents is essential in all the States L.M.:
Not sufficient information. State if the terms
of the mortgage provide for compounding of
interest; state also periods of rest. It seems
unlikely a mortgage would be allowed to run
16 years without any interest payments. Were
there any? G.M.R.: Presume you refer to
fencing posts. When on a slope the distance
apart should be measured on the horizontal.
The distance apart measured on the ground
could be computed by squaring the normal dis-
tance apart, squaring the rise between one post
and another, adding these together and taking
the square root of the sum T.C.: The com-
pany states that it is not prepared to disclose
the information and refers you to Lloyd's Regis-
ter H.R.L.: Silky oak boards of the dimen-
sions required are obtainable from Chas.
Rouch,' Ltd., 13 Peel-street, West Melbourne,
Vic. It is also possible that other Melbourne
timber merchants may stock such boards.
Failing satisfaction from these sources, try the
Queensland Forests Service, Brisbane A.B.:
In accordance with Section 58, Part 5, of the
N.S.W. Government Railways Act, No. 30,
1912-34, each member of the Legislative Council
and Legislative Assembly is entitled to free
travel on the railways. The issue of free
passes to wives of members is covered by a
Cabinet minute of 1896 B.B.: The figures
referred to the whole tour and not to the Test
matches alone R.E.R.: Details obtainable
from London School of Economics and Political
Science, Houghton House, Aldwych, London,
W.C.2.,. .J.A.M.: Would require to seethe
full prescription... .T.A.K.: Send full postal
.address and Fijian information required will be
forwarded... .G.W.M.: (1) You should obtain
the written permission of the owner. (2) It is
not a crime but actionable by the owner of
the copyright... .J.P.: The only way is by
obtaining a divorce on the ground of desertion.
The procedure is by presenting a petition to
the Court of Equity dealing with divorce
matters. You would probably require profes-
sional assistance... .T.H.L.F.: The N.S.W.
Inclosed Lands Act provides that any person
who without lawful excuse enters into the in-
closed lands of another person without the
consent of the owner or occupier thereof or
the person in charge of the same shall be liable
to a penalty of £5. “Inclosed lands” means
“any lands, private or public, inclosed or sur-
rounded with any fence, wall or other erection
by which the boundaries thereof may be known
or recognised.” Write to him and say that
if the practice complained of is not dis-
continued you will take action against him as
the law provides... .D.R.C.: As a will speaks
from the date of the testator’s death the word
“sterling” would imply that payment should
be made in gold or silver coins of standard
value at that date. As the sovereign (gold)
has now been withdrawn from circulation the
word would be confined to silver R.B.M.:
It is not clear to which species of bird you
refer. You may mean the bell miner, noisy
miner (soldier bird) or yellow-throated miner
all of which belong to the honeyeater family—
or to the introduced miner or Indian minah.
Send full particulars either to the Queensland
Museum, Brisbane, or the Australian Museum,
Sydney G.H.R.: Textbooks dealing with the
subjects mentioned are not generally satisfac-
tory for Australian conditions, as they are
largely written in England and the U.S.A.
Members of the Institution of Surveyors of
N.S.W. might be able to supply you with
papers or information suitable for your re-
quirements. Write direct to the institution,
Gloucester-street, Sydney S.E.D.: Cannot
republish unless you can give date of the issue,
but you are at liberty to search the files.....
G.L.: (1) Consult Deaf Aids, Ltd., 13 Bligh-
street, Sydney. (2) Hot-air treatment, foam
baths and diathermy often effect great improve-
ment ... .E.C.: The injection of heroin is not
“the very latest treatment” for bronchial
asthma; but the drug is often used, as morphine
and other sedative agents are, to relieve the
typical spasms of asthma during an acute
attack. Heroin in the usual dose does not
cause paralysis... .H.M.H.: (1) President
Roosevelt is able to walk, but suffers iff 11 ] 1
considerable weakness in the lower limbs, fol-
lowing an attack of acute anterior poliomyelitis.
(2) Is able, with some support, to deliver
speeches while standing E.C.: F ran £
Taylor, Entomologist, School of Public Health
and Tropical Medicine, Sydney, has done some
recent work in regard to mosquitoes. Get in
touch with him.


BRAN DAI JFR’A
m
vfV
G*
f\ PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BKAMDI.OMI * CO, Ltd, BIBUIHQHAM. ENO
FORTY POUNDS
OF FAT VANISH
Wonderful Result of Taking
Kruschen
Here is another authentic case of a woman
who is successfully reducing by taking Kruschen
Salts, on the advice of her doctor. After
taking four bottles she has lost 40 pounds
of her excess fat. As she is still overweight,
she is continuing the treatment. She writes:
“I am taking Kruschen for reducing flesh.
I weighed 17 stone 4 lbs. when I started to
take it, and I have gradually lost weight. I am
now taking my fifth bottle. After the first
I was 16 stone lbs.; after the second, 15
stone 13| lbs.; after the third, 15 stone 4 lbs.;
after the fourth, 14 stone 6 lbs. lam under
a doctor, and he advised me to take Kruschen
Salts. I have proof of my weights, as the
doctor has weighed me every time. As I am
59 years of age, I think the result is wonder-
ful.” —(Mrs.) F.P.
Kruschen combats the cause of fat by assist-
ing the internal organs to perform their func-
tions properly—to throw off each day those
waste products and poisons which, if allowed
to accumulate, will be converted by the body’s
chemistry into fatty tissue.
m
to*
*
»»>
The Gillette Razor
is very good.
The Gillette Blade
is very good.
Use them together
—and they’re
perfect . .
\
o a a
1:
As a key fits its particular lock, or as a piston pre-
cisely fits the cylinder for which it was made—so
the Gillette blade fits the Gillette razor. These two
are made for one another side by side in the same
great Gillette factory. The same strict supervision
ensures the accuracy of each. That is why razor
and blade, used together, form the finest shaving
system the world has seen.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLUE GILLETTES : ELECTRtCtttrr IgHWKgP BLADES FOR T
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members oi the staff personally.
C.D.T.: There is more in Melbourne than
has as yet met your eye....J.5.: Nothing
wrong with filial pialy but every,hi»g wrong
with the way you state it H.J. and P.W.:
Try a woman’s paper H.J.W.: Still not up.
. ...H.H.W.: Indistinguishable from a dozen
other “Anzac Days” J.K.: Verses telling us
c ... M pu .
to Keep Smiling make us howl. . .M.P.M..
A flicker... .J.R.H.: Four valiant lines:
“To hell with you!” cried Billy Bung;
“Shut your mouth or you’ll be sharin’
The dusty ground with yer mangy hound
Outside the ‘Harp of Erin.’ ’
....G.0’8.: The cities are simply crammed
with poets yearning for the “wide open spaces.”
... .B.: You’ll have to work hard to say a new
~ . . . t-u „ , j
thing about beer J.M.0.: They may be de-
liberately slight, but they’re still slight
M. : It’s blank verse, but it’s hardly Shak-
spearean... .Carool: Both pallid L.P.: An
idea, but you don’t make much of it
J.A.P.: It’s a bit confused, but it’s a strangely
hpfliitif.il nnpm - •
oeautirui poem.
C.P.M.: Try elsewhere....H.L.M.: Ramb-
ling Mac.: In the first 20 lines you have
'roo, dingo, owl, bat, bees, birds, cows, horse
and horseman, farmhand and bride, pigs, grey-
beard Dad, another cow, old Flynn’s -wife,
the poddy calves, old Flynn and the devil.
You’d better try Taronga Park... .C.W.G.:
Another lance at Lyons! 8.J.R.: A pale
grin... .J.L.H.: Has its moments; but how
did they manage to read with their “quiv’ring
lips”?... .J.E.-S.: No sting in those insects.
. .W.F.S.: You are not the first to notice
that the modern maid wears less than the
Victorian... .P. 8.: Nothing wrong with that,
for your age.... A.K.A.: There’s a marginal-
verses problem, t00....L.R.: Thin.... J.M.:
A hippopotamiss C.H.: .Learn to condense,
[ OI \ a l ' FK 'G £° W v'w S®
to dash that off? H.M.: “Think ow ork-
ward it mite be if somethin’ struck me dumb.”
Pondering it deeply J.H.: Try elsewhere....
N. Have yet to see a cat weep... .J.K.:
“But now I’ll not detain you more for fear
V d , ma A ke ,K yOU w e i ary ” PM nkS v'n,; J i'n’ t Le nn V , e
it to Arthur Waley... .P.M.: You cant pos-
sibly rhyme “lyrics” with “politics”.... R.S.:
You have the distinction of being the first
for two whole days to sigh “Alas! I wish that
1 could once more roam”... .H.L.: So the
Australian criminal “pours fiery dregs of
absinthe down his gurgling, drain-like neck,
does he? L.E.R.: You’ll have to try very
hard if that’s a fair sample A.N.T.: “This
is Australia, beauteous sylvan land of the fay.”
Come off it! J.McL.: But what would the
censor say? A.A.8.: Dismissed S.S.H.:
Liked the hiving hens, but it’s a weakling....
S.E.K.: Might make a par N.A.W.: It’s
more like a jungle... .D.McN.: More mild
than bitter 1.5.: Ever tried prose? C.F.:
Rambling O.B.: You don’t seem to like
Mars F.MacD.: You never come down to
tintacks R.R.S.: Real feeling, anyhow...
W.M.S.: “Dime” is neither Australian nor
a rhyme for “mine” J.S.L.: No oil for that
flivver S.D.: Anything except sell it
H.M.S.: More practice needed K.N.: “The
Outsider” fell at the first page G.S.T.:
Call for Gertie 8.M.L.: Too many murders,
V.D.R.: Poor stuff for “a writer who has
written of, and had stories published in, every
corner of the globe”... .T.T.A.: Judged by that
your first essential is some practice in writing,
Is that all you have to say in
"tt'SEY'SKS
ring “Home-coming” coming
home J.P.T.: Rewrite and try again....
L.K.: Cut wherever possible and try a daily.
••••D-S-A.: Only a flicker S.R.C.: Little
bush cheild still up a tree N.R.L.: Not
eyen a chuckle... .G.R.8.: Please take Tillie
away before we lose our temper... .L.S.N.:
Just a string of old ideas poorly strung to-
gether.... J.E.M.: Have you no pity? ....
L.C.8.: Earned a second reading, but fell
down at the finish... .W.8.T.: That pug.
couldn’t even fight for breath J.S.Y.: At
least a gorilla on the loose in a submarine is
a novel idea^... .L.D.E.: You have an unhappy
habit of choosing the most timeworn plots
ML j . Come a | ain when you have something
worth while.. . .R.8.L.: “Two Cigarettes” make
very little smoke... .M.N.A.: Merely a rehash
of something we published a few weeks ago.
G.8.D.: Slightest of the slight... .E.T.F.:
No berth for sailor with wife in every port.
G.J.: “Not That It Matters doesn t
A.E.C.: It has been done better a hundred
times... .C.F.H.: Doesn’t make a yam....
K.E.G.: You’d have to go to a lot more
trouble to make anything of that... .W.N.:
“Bore on Koolawong very shallow
H.T.8.: Now think of a yarn L.T.V.:
You’re a master in the art of taking a long
tme to sa Y nothuig... .B.S.D. . Nicely written,
but too pretty.. ..C.H.D.: Send thern back to
America. . . .L.R.V., G.F.1., D.S., J.N.C. and
F.R.W.: Missed.
T 0 ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
r^nRRFSpn'MnF'NTS
cußKEiruiNucmo.
JM; Those cows and horses!... .M.J.:
. „
You need more patience... .T.H.D.. The fou-
wheeled buggy and its queer passengers weie
stopped at the Bulletin tollgate... .L.G.:
jj ow t h e gent, manages to support himself on
those legs has us puzzled... .F.R.: Neat and
6 , , . \ „ + •,
nicely posed, but more like a tailor s ad .
than a humorous drawing... .C.8.T.: A pun-
ster, no doubt, but a washout as an artist
j . jh e henpecked lion-tamer is no novelty,
nor is the car hurtling over a cliff... .F.W.:
- . . , .. *l 0 . ,„ nrnm i''
Prefer to see originals rather than on approval
rough-outs... .D.G.: A little too heavy....
W.C.: Not bad for a first attempt... .C.P.: It
shows slight promise; get a cleaner sweep to
your linework... .N.D.: Gag might have stood
J tVl _ „ii
a shght chance at the time the song was all the
rage... .E.F.: Thanks for invitation to tak
our pick, but none of them was worth pick-
ing A.G.H.: Next time an elephant comes
our way we will send him along to you as a
model... .H. 8.: If that’s the best you can do
you had better take up chess or crossword
puzzles... .K.D.: The silent-cop joke couldn t
carry the drawing L.M.T.: Congratulations
on the broad arrows on the convict’s uniform.
M.J.: They all need a lot more polishing.
V.S.: Long-winded jest and a sketch en-
tirely without merit K.R.: Suspect that the
chubby chap with the amiable grin is the P.M.,
but who is his lean and hungry cobber?
A.M.J.: Sketch appears to have been danced
upon by somebody wearing muddy hobnailed
boots E.M.L.: “United We Stand” certainly
makes up in patriotism for what it lacks in
art.. ..F.T.: A dud M.M.: Send it to some
parish magazine.
The roof that sheltered my mate and me,
It wentup C m n mioke in S ’
in the Australian bush,
Our pants.
>'o pyjamas.
A MIXED GRILL.
“C.B.”: After a disastrous tour in
South Africa the leading actor made
his way back to his home town, Mel-
bourne, with a heavy heart, a limekiln
throat, and a parrot, presented to him
in Johannesburg. The next thing he
remembered was bursting in the door
of the parental mansion in a state
of alcoholic exhilaration. “Well, I’m
home again, father!” he shouted
merrily as he staggered into the sitting-
room where the.family were gathered.
Then he heard his father saying: “You
were home last night, my son. There’s
your parrot on his perch.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: E. M. Webb, a scribe whom
Melbourne “Herald” has employed tor
some years past covering the history,
achievements and present condition of
the country towns of Vic., recently struck
Creswick. After paying due homage to
its beauty, the intelligence and co-
operative spirit of its inhabitants, the
excellence of its golf course, the in-
glorious part it played in the Eureka
Stockade affair when its relief column
was dispelled by a thunderstorm, and
so forth and so on, he went on to men-
tion its most distinguished citizen.
Norman, Daryl, Ruby, Lionel or Percy
Lindsay? No. Peacock,
* * * *
“Titre”: Proserpine, a northern sugar
weighed in very quickly with its
first 40 recruits for the new citizen army,
but that is in keeping with the Proserpine
war record. In that then lively village
the local rifle club had 21 members, and
when an official letter arrived asking how
many members of the club would volun-
teer for war service the secretary wired
promptly that 20 would. The other mem-
ber was away from town. Not too
far, however, to hear the news, for he
came back in a hurry and wanted to start
the war there and then. He said the
secretary had “insulted” him by not in-
cluding his name.
* * * *
“D.Y.”: Has any other 10 years pro-
duced such a galaxy of Australian writers
as the sixties of last century? Among
writers born during that decade were
Francis Adams, T. W. Heney, P. E.
Quinn, J. B. O’Hara, D. W. Burn
and Barbara Baynton (1862); George
Essex Evans, John Sandes, Arthur
W. Jose and Inez K. Hyland (1863);
Sydney W. Jephcott, Jessie Mackay,
“Banjo” Paterson and Dr. C. H.
Souter (1864) ; Arthur Bayldon, Edward
Dyson, William Gay, Mary Gilmore,
Dowell O’Reilly, D. M. Ross and
Frank S. Williamson (1865); Bar-
croft Boake and Bernard O’Dowd
(1866); Henry Lawson, Louis Lavater
and Grace Jennings Carmichael (1867);
Randolph Bedford, R. H. Croll, Arthur
Hoey Davis (“Steele Rudd”), Robert
Crawford and Frank Morton (1868);
John Steele Robertson (“Steele Gray” of
early Bulletins), Edward J. Brady, Will
H. Ogilvie, Roderic Quinn, M. M. Simp-
son, David McKee Wright, E. S. Soren-
son and Paul Wenz (1869).
* * * *
Noojee (Vic.) has been burned to the
ground three times, and after its last
immolation in January was flooded out.
When the Bushfire Commissioner called
there he was told there was no local fire-
fighting organisation, no emergency
supply of water, nor any dugouts. On
the other hand, it was maintained that
all the men in Australia could not have
saved Noojee on Black Friday. If that
is correct it should never be rebuilt.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Auditor-General dryly
notes that the Westmead-Rogan’s Hill
railway, constructed during the post-war
loan boom at a cost of £119,600, has
been “abandoned,” but still figures on
the books as a “fixed asset.” On
Sutherland-Cronulla £152,000 had been
spent when the last report closed. Steam
trams traversing the same route were
abandoned about the same time as West-
mead-Rogan’s Hill. The railway is also
fated to become “a fixed asset.”


. QUICK
a
N THE
9
•II
V> r>.. /I. . I|_
B ' IUI.'JJj
2_ .
r ftiu^ttfiuaovs
„ .V
««
*»*> ,>
TO
r • *
*
V?«Al
r *l*
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS... NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
ť
NQBranch
STURTS!
TOWNSVILLE
C.Q.Branch N°l East S t Rockhampton..
ENGINEERING Supply cvCf AUSTRALIA!™
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
%
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS .
JOHN DANKS & SON My. Ltd.
( Incorporated, in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone: CB3BO.
’Phone: M 6505.
ARTS AND CRAFTS
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
PACKED away for the time being
until more room can be found for
it than is just now available, the
N.S.W. Police Department has a
collection of artistic craftsmanship at its
depot in Sydney quite unique in Aus-
tralia, though Scotland Yard possesses
an older and more expensive one of the
same sort. It is a curious assortment of
trophies which the police have acquired
during a century or so of warfare with
the province’s criminal underworld, and,
although some of the exhibits have lost
the stories that once belonged to them,
for the most part their associations are
well known, and the collection has been
eminently useful in the instruction of
police recruits.
The assortment of items is extra-
ordinarily varied, and is made up of
such things as coiners’ moulds, spurious
money, wax impressions of door keys,
forged banknotes, pistols, revolvers,
knives, burglars’ masks, tomahawks,
police rattles of the kind that used
to equip—together with a cutlass —the
watchmen of Macquarie’s day, skeleton
keys, plaster casts of the heads of people
who have been executed—they mostly
wear a queer grip, as if their hanging
had been something of a joke—photo-
graphs of fingerprints, handcuffs, leg-
irons, conditional pardons and tickets-of-
leave of the convict days, specimens of
spurious gold, cats-o’-nine-tails, swords,
“life-preservers,” jemmies, loaded sticks,
bludgeons, sandbags, knuckle-dusters,
clockwork infernal machines, electric
torches, opium-pipes, rifles, abortionists’
instruments, bombs everything that
could possibly be used by bad lads.
Some of them are very crude, others
most delicately and skilfully made with
an obvious pride of workmanship in
their manufacture. They represent every
aspect of criminal activity, from -the
artistic superiority of the counterfeiter
to the impulsive makeshifts of the hasty
and clumsy murderer.
When the museum is on show the
delicate lock-picking implement lies side
by side with the cheap hatchet used in
some brutal murder, and the exquisitely-
engraved copperplate of the banknote
forger reposes near the knuckle-duster
and sandbag of the professional thug.
The tools of the real tradesman in crime
mingle with the primitive equfpment of
the unskilled robber. There is, for in-
stance, the outfit of one who improved
his chances ai “two-up” with double-
headed pennies, and near by a piece of
gaspipe used in knocking out a victim
in some midnight slum robbery.
There are many relics of once-famous
crimes whose perpetrators met the hang-
man: such as F. B. Deeming’s business
card as a plumber, the rifle used by
Butler, the Blue Mountains murderer of
the mid-’nineties, the Malay kris with
which the Parramatta River crimes were
committed in the eighteen-seventies, and
Ben Hall’s revolver. And there is one
very extraordinary and rather pathetic
relic —a volume of Alexander Pope’s
poems.
It belonged to Frank Johns, captured
at Wantabadgery station in 1879, when
“Captain Moonlite’s” gang of bush-
rangers was broken up. With Scott and
Rogan, Johns was sentenced to death,
but reprieved on account of his youth.
However, he was hanged half a dozen
years afterwards for the attempted mur-
der of a fellow-prisoner in Parramatta
Gaol.
On the flyleaf of the book of verses
is an inscription which Johns put there
an hour before he died. Under the
heading of “Tuesday morning, 14th
of July, 1885,” he leaves a sad little
message for a friend which may well
stand as a commentary on all these relics
of futile crime of which it forms a part.
“I made a mistake in writing a few words
for poor Bill in Morris’s poems, but you
can arrange it between you—l intended
this one for Bill. Be good—Jack. Be
good—nothing else is worth living for.
—Frank. In haste. 8 o’clock.”
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Oxmead”: Justice has been tardily
done to the memory of Alfred Austin,
who was debited with the authorship of
two preposterous lines on Queen Vic-
toria’s funeral:
Dust to dust, ashes to ashes,
Into her grave the great Queen dashes.
“John o’ London’s Weekly,” which
started the story, published a correction:
“The lines were written by a Babu
poet and appeared in a Bengal
newspaper... .They are well known
throughout India, and have been exten-
sively quoted among examples of
Babuism.” Austin wasn’t much of a
poet, and perhaps still less of a Poet
Laureate, but that his worst detractor
should have thought him capable of per-
petrating the quoted lines is incredible
to me.
* * * *
Robert Gibbings, an English artist and
writer who did some remarkable under-
water drawings in the coral areas of the
Red Sea, wants to try the same thing for
the Barrier Reef, and may come to Aus-
tralia later in the year. Gibbings wrote and
illustrated the story of John Graham, the
Ulster convict who rescued Mrs. Ellen
Fraser, of the wrecked Stirling Castle,
from the Queensland blacks just over a
century ago. Gibbings based his story
largely on material in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, and dedicated the book
to Ida Leeson, the Mitchell Librarian.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Comments by a Melbourne
parson on the display of luxury at a local
wedding remind me of a spectacular
demonstration of parental affection by an
American millionaire which a few years
ago tickled the fancy of Paris. He bought
an ancient chateau, removed it in toto
from the countryside, and set it up in the
French metropolis for his son-in-law’s
wedding. After the married couple had
given a few parties he shifted it to the
U.S.A. It had five-foot walls, and these,
together with every stone in the chateau,
were reset in their original position.
* * * *
Tom Groom, who is taking 18 mem-
bers of the Workers’ Travel Association
round Australia as part of a world tour,
is an English Socialist and journalist who
was associated with the Fabian Society
when Shaw and Wells were young men,
and Edward Carpenter, the Radical poet,
was in his fighting prime. Groom used
to do the cycling notes for Blatchford’s
“Clarion’' in its great days. The asso-
ciation he now represents was started
17 years ago to give English workers
a chance of seeing the world. In its first
year 700 members were thus assisted,
and last year 65,000 visited various
foreign countries at small cost.
* * * *
“K.N.” : Nobody is more cosmopolitan
than a Consul-General, unless it is a
Consul-General’s wife. Greece has sent
to Sydney Mr. Vrisakis, who has a
smiling wife and two small sons,
Constantin and Alexandre. The two
youngsters already speak two languages,
their mother six. Born in Rumania, she
spent much of her girlhood in U.S.A.,
met her husband there, and married him
in Prague. The family’s recent home
was in Smyrna.
* * * *
Transvaal Chamber of Mines broad-
casts that S. African goldmines crushed
54,250,000 tons in 1938, or over 3,000,000
tons more than in 1937. Average re-
covery fell 4d. per ton to 315., and costs
were 4d. more at 19s. 3d. Working
profits totalled £31,800,000, or £103,500
more than in 1937, but per ton were Bd.
lower at lls. 9d. Aggregate dividends
at £17,262,200 increased by £191,500.
Value of gold won averaged £7 25., or
2s, 3d. above the 1937 figure.
* * * *
Though the official Canberra attitude
is still that “peace is hanging by a slender
thread,” the Dutch, upon whom the
Terror would fall if the thread snapped,
don’t seem to be alarmed. Anyway, their
Colonial Minister, referring to East
Indies defences, said “the fleet would be
augmented if the international situation
grew worse,” but the Government did
not fear that Japan would be aggressive,
“in view of the good relations that have
existed between Holland and Japan for
centuries.” On the other side of the
Pacific Borah, the old Republican Sena-
tor, has denounced the Roosevelt pro-
gramme of War Department expenditure
as the effect of “bluff and jitters.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
A Canterbury (Victoria) writer gets the three guineas for a pointed reminder
that a fit nation must be educated.
More Education’
The need for constructive thinking to
enrich human life, and to make democ-
racy really effective, is well put by
“T.E.P.” (B. 22/2/’39), < but his remedies
—“more reasoning and less cramming in
schools, and some enlightened control of
the agencies influencing the popular
mind”—are vague.
The average person does not think
logically and constructively because, dur-
ing the very years when intellectual
growth is greatest—between the ages of
15 and 25—his mind is allowed to de-
velop undisciplined and undirected. Con-
sequently development is lopsided, and
the mind tends to occupy itself with the
personal problems of satisfying imme-
diate wants and neglecting the more re-
mote but more important problems of
the community.
Under our existing educational system
most people leave school at 15 or there-
abouts, and their education thereafter is
supplied mainly by newspapers, the
cinema and radio. At 21 they receive a
vote regardless of whether they are cap-
able or desirous of using it. The results
of this system in operation point to one
obvious conclusion—that if government
by the people is ever to prove satisfac-
tory it must be government by a people
trained in citizenship.
Citizenship cannot be taught to chil -
dren. It requires no small degree of in-
telligence and experience. By providing
continuous education, at least until the
voting age is reached, in economics, poli-
tics and other branches of sociology, the
State can ensure that its destiny is de-
cided by reasonably well-informed citi-
zens, trained to think of themselves as
members of a community. —D. J. G.
(Vic.).
“D.J.G.” is D. J. Golding, of Torrington-
street, Canterbury, Victoria. He wins £3
35., plus payment at space rates.
. .
Against Compulsory Training
While admitting the advantages of
compulsory training, I maintain that,
although a man can be compelled to
attend drill, he cannot be forced to take
an intelligent interest in his training.
I am serving in a country unit with
company headquarters in a very pro-
gressive town which is a wealthy farm-
ing centre. Over 50 per cent, of the
members of the unit are countrymen, and
they travel anything up to 25 miles once
a week to attend night parade and think
nothing of it. They are keen, and want
to know the where and why of every-
thing, thus keeping the n.c.os. and officers
right up in knowledge and practical work.
1 hold that any one of these voluntarily-
trained men will learn as much in one
parade night as an unwilling conscript
would learn in a month.
On the other hand, the man who is
compelled to attend drill and is not in-
terested has a permanent growl, and gen-
erally considers himself badly done by.
He looks on his instructors and superior
officers with a jaundiced eye, and even-
tually the trainee n.c.os. get fed up and
say in effect “What’s the use?” 111-feel-
ing develops, and there is no keenness
among the n.c.os. or the men, and so the
training slips.
If we can raise only an unwilling army
by conscription, perhaps it is better to
raise the numbers of a willing one by
the voluntary system. —As You Were
(Q.).
Training for Home Defence
Short sight kept me out of the Signals
unit I wanted to join (I felt my radio
knowledge and operating ability would
be useful), but the M.O. told me I
would be listed as “B class” and called
up for home defence in the event of a
general mobilisation. It seems to me
there’s room for a home defence reserve
made up of those whose business affairs
or medical standard prevent enlistment
in the militia forces, yet whose specialised
knowledge would be of value when
trained in defence work. Training that
begins with a general mobilisation is
b°™ d ‘° ie ‘ m n “” P RH A
™ e . , for tralnln S 15 °ow.-R. H. A.
Eye Exercises and Recruiting
If our Government really wants to get
70,000 men in the military forces, it can-
not afford to lose anyone who is physi-
caiiy fit and eager to join the ranks. But
t hat is what happens in the case of men
w fih defective eyesight. There are
thousands of would-be soldiers who are
convinced of the fact that, because their
eyesight is weak, admission to the
military is impossible. Most of these
fellows are ignorant of the fact that they
canj j n most cases, free themselves en-
tirely from the disability of glasses and
so help not only themselves but their
country. To strengthen our bodies we
do bodily exercises. In the same way,
e y e exercises strengthen our eyes. Glasses
are a curse to eyesight in many cases,
as they do most of the work originally
done by the eyes. The latter having less
work to do become weaker, and in time
stronger glasses will be required. Thus
each man who would ordinarily fail in
an eyesight test should be given a course
i n eye exercises without any cost to him-
self. The results would be excellent in
most cases.—L. F. G. (Vic.).
Obsolete Maps
The Commonwealth and States could
help j n giving Australia its rightful place
on map by promoting a movement
f or getting rid of the Mercator projec-
tion. This, by neglecting the globular
shape of the earth, enormously exag-
gerates the size of places near the Poles,
and shows those towards the Equator as
much smaller than they are.
A Mercator map of the world shows
Australia as smaller than Greenland,
although it is between three and four
times as large. Current ideas abroad
about the relative importance of Aus-
tralia and of Canada may well be influ-
enced by Mercator-projection maps,
which magnify Canada, especially the
more useless parts up towards the North
Pole. Even within the Commonwealt
the Mercator method exaggerates he
apparent size of Victoria or of Tasmania
hy comparison with Queensland or e
Territory. . f
The only accurate way of teach ng m p
geography is to use g o e ,
projections come nearer to the truth than
Mercator’s whrch is nearly 400 years old.
Carta (N.s.
Count Yo ur Blessings
„ 71 , „
WI W does . the av P , y
fonceal happiness? If you ask a man
how he is he searches himself to find a
P al » s lf L T 1S * ImJ J I .°£ Joy he heSltat6S
an a says Not too ba .
Happiness does not come f
big events of life, but from y
everyday pleasures, from shos ,
stomachs that digest, purses tha
» ** appreciation and bits of
that and the other too tr fl g
mention. .
. What we need is to cease being sus-
P’ clous of happiness and note all our
pl easures sound sleep, a good hot bath, a
decent breakfast, a flash of nature s love-
hness as we go to work, meeting old
friends and new faces, the good story
someone tells and a thousand other trifles.
A list of our pleasures would fill life’s
notebook; grievances need only a few
lines.—E. Johns (S.A).
.
Australian Speech
Is it any wonder that Australians are
so lazy in speech and so weary in enun-
ciating their vowels when the art of
speaking is almost forgotten during school
education?
After children leave the infants’ school,
phonetics are omitted from the curricu-
lum. Reading in class is usually slow
and arduous, and generally left to a
chosen few. Even teachers are compara-
tively untrained in speaking, and gener-
ally no better than average, which is
worse than poor.
Training in speaking could be given
as easily as training in any other direc-
tion, and it is wrong that only a fortu-
nate few, able to take courses in elocu-
tion or voice-production, should have the
advantage of correct speech—an attain-
ment that is an asset in any and every
walk of life. — Muff (N.S.W.).
The Refugee Danger
One point worth considering in con-
nection with the prospective harboring
of political refugees in Australia is that
probably about one out of every ten is,
or will become, an active Red.
Trouble has been caused in Australia
by foreign agitators before now, and
ringleaders of Communist agitation and
labor unrest in the U.S.A. are often rene-
gade “imports” who find in the compara-
tively free Constitution of the United
States a fertile field in which to sow their
seeds of dissension. Australia, with free-
dom of the press and freedom of thought
and speech, provides a happy hunting-
ground for Communists, whose work is
aided and abetted by the misinformed
blathering of a large section of the press.
Perhaps a modification of the old
ticket-of-leave system could be adopted
again, whereby all alien immigrants
would be kept under strict observation
for two or three years at least, and re-
quired to report to the authorities at
frequent intervals. With the threat of
deportation hanging over them, the
majority might be induced to behave
themselves.—J. N. C. Nicolson (Tas.).
Less Color and More Fact
In an age where international news-
reporting seems to have lost all sense of
proportion and when streamer headlines
are followed by the familiar cliche “It is
reported on reliable authority,” it is per-
haps still not too much to ask that in-
ternal news at least should make some
approxirnation to facts.
Scattered rainfall occurred in the
Riverina. Dailies announced in flaunting
headlines “Drought Definitely Broken in
West,” “Season Now Assured,” “Farmers
Jubilant,” etc.
An analysis of the figures quoted below
the flamboyant headings revealed that the
highest figure in the area was 111 points
—a handy shower, no doubt, but one that
could not by any stretch of imagination
be heralded as the means of breaking a
drought of nearly three years’ duration.
Other totals varied from one inch down
to 20 points—Just sufficient to do
more harm than good unless augmented
by additional falls.
Coming at frequent intervals as they
do, these reports give the city business-
man an erroneous impression of his
country client’s prospects and his ability
to meet obligations; the consumer is
vouchsafed a meretricious gleam of hope
for lower meat prices which do not
maerialise, and the worried grazier, seek-
ing areas for agistment, is exasperated
beyond measure at the misleading and
harmful statements.
Pessimism has no place in our coun-
try life, but at least the man on the land
is entitled to expect less “color” and con-
siderably more accuracy in the dissemi-
nation of news which affects him so
materially.—H. A. Hodge (N.S.W.).
No Children Allowed
When Mr. Hughes has finished talking
of “war thundering at our gates,” we
shall probably hear him enthusing about
babies again, and here is one thing he
could weli thunder at in that line.
The attitude of landlords, flat-owners,
boardinghouse-proprietors and publicans
regarding kiddies makes it practically im-
possible to find a furnished house, flat,
boardinghouse or hotel where the “no
young children” rule does not exist. If
Mr. Hughes wants to see more Aus-
tralian babies, it is up to him to do some-
thing about this “no children” attitude.
Its removal might not actually raise the
birthrate, but at least it is the due of
those trying to do so. —W. G. Meehan
(Q).
Radio Amateurs and Defence
Although most radio amateurs are
enthusiastic, many are far from being
expert at Morse or in the handling of
their stations in a manner suitable for
efficient military use.
During the last war I was running a
division’s radio and can speak from sad
experience of the amount of time wasted
in retraining many radio operators and
reinforcements before they were of much
use for active-service conditions.
I suggest that amateur associations
compile lists of their members, together
with their operating ability, etc., and
devise a scheme for co-operating with
the Army Signal Service in practice
stunts. They could also carry out tests
fairly often and independently of the
Signal Service.
The army could award graded certi-
ficates to amateurs qualifying for them,
and the whole scheme, probably costing
little more than the stationery and post-
age involved, would give amateurs suffi-
cient training to make them of value in
an emergency, and some incentive to
encourage them to co-operate in it. —
Mimax (N.S.W.).
Dirty Backyards
Enthusiastic praise for the “progress
of Australia” is continually before us,
prominent visitors from overseas generally
being credited with the remarks. Many
of these arrive by ’plane, their desti-
nation the capital cities, where Govern-
ment officials can throw out their chests
and expand on the subject of progress.
I have lived in one of the largest wool-
producing districts in Queensland for 15
years, and during that time nothing has
been done by the Government to encour-
age progress. The railway service is of
the lowest and slowest class. It runs
to a timetable in which a couple of hours
either way make little difference to the
authorities but cause much inconvenience
to the public.
Some time ago the goods-shed in the
local railway yards was burnt down, and
despite the appeals of local authorities
nothing has been done by the Govern-
ment to build a new one. The last few
months have been anxious ones. With
the continued dry spell many graziers
have found it necessary to feed their
starving stock. Fodder is arriving in
tons, making it necessary for overtaxed
lorries to run day and night to empty
the railway wagons. There being no
goods-shed, the grazier has to have the
fodder removed immediately or pay 12s.
per day demurrage fees. Should enough
rain fall to prevent lorry traffic, he would
have to leave the fodder exposed to the
elements or pay the 12s. a day.
This state of affairs continues in a
busy district while Ministers brag in cities
where progress is most evident. But
what good is there in building a mansion
if it has a dirty backyard?— Caroo (Q.).
Balancing the Budget in Gaol
Most of the N.S.W. depression cuts
have been handed back, the politicians
having been liberal to themselves in par-
ticular ; but nobody yet has moved to
have the affliction removed from the
boarders at H.M. penal establishments.
The 20 per cent, depression cut, con-
scientiously made all round, applies still
to all prisoners’ earnings over Is. .per
week ; the bloke who is doing fairly well
and earns Is. 6d. at the end of his six-
days’ yakka is still credited with merely
Is. sd.
The prison population in N.S.W. is not
great, and this cheeseparing has prob-
ably contributed a quid a week to the
balancing of the State Budget.
Other cuts go on, too. Formerly
prisoners used to be paid the gaol rates
(from 3d. to 6d. p.d.) for holidays; but
that was excised. “Wife-starvers,” who
don’t get their “earnings” (these go to
the wives who put them in), received
3d. per week good-conduct pay, which
they did get; but that was cut down to
a limit of 20 weeks. The wife-starver,
even if he stays on to the limit period of
12 months, comes out with five bob in
his pocket to start a new life.
There is almost incredible meanness,
even if it is an oversight, in continuing
these cuts amongst universal restorations ;
it is Gilbertian that they should ever have
been applied.—24l (N.S.W.).
Recruiting and Flappers
“2210” (B. 22/2/’39) is for appealing
to flappers to “make the young fellows
rise to the occasion”! And he would
like them to use “the same expressions
of disapproval [of shirkers] as were evi-
dent during the need for national service
20-odd years ago.”
Heaven preserve us from the white-
feather brigade and their ilk! 111-bred
flappers may have got a kick out of hand-
ing out feathers to non-uniformed stran-
gers—who may have been munition-
workers, bona fide “unfits” or indispen-
sable employees in any of the hundred
and one key industries for all they knew.
Sensible women were far too busy
serving their country in hospitals, can-
teens and factories, and tackling men’s


jobs with courage and self-sacrifice, to
worry about the shortcomings of other
people.
The best way Australian girls can help
the volunteer campaign is to set an
example themselves. The boy friends of
girls who join women’s voluntary organi-
sations —air-raid-precaution squads, am-
bulance groups, etc. —would not keep out
of khaki very long.— Wusslean (Vic.).
“Eggs-a-Cook”
Finding the paying-cash section of the
public wasn’t coming at eggs at 2s. a
dozen, the N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board
has retreated from its front line of de-
fence—“scarcity owing to bushfires”—
and reduced the price of eggs by 25 p.c.
Quoth the chairman, Mr. F. O. French:
“We are receiving altogether heavier
stocks than we anticipated.” Where are
they coming from, in view of the board’s
excuse at the time prices skyrocketed,
that thousands of laying fowls perished
during the January-February bushfires?
According to the State Marketing
Bureau, there were in cold storage on
February 18 1,434,420 dozen eggs,
being 83,941 dozen more than on the
same date in 1938. On top of this the
other States supplied 193,160 dozen ; so
that the alleged shortage on account of
bushfires turns out to be a surplus over
the previous period of 1938 of about
270,000 dozen.— Ovum (N.S.W.).
The Nation’s Health
Why are Australians so concerned
about the troubles of other countries and
so ignorant of their own?
Recently in S.A. attention was drawn
to the fact that this State had the highest
incidence in Australia of t.b. in females
between the ages of 15 and 30.
Girls employed as shop assistants,
nurses, dressmakers, etc., .were asked to
attend voluntarily a clinic at the Adelaide
Hospital to be examined for. early signs
of t.b. Some hundreds responded, and
a number were found to have definite
symptoms. The examining doctor recom-
mended cessation of work and complete
rest.
It was then found there is no provision
in our pension scheme for these early
cases to receive sustenance, so they re-
main in their jobs.
I work in a hotel and come in daily
contact with businessmen, shop and ware-
house employees, artisans and laborers.
They express opinions freely on all sub-
jects, from Hitler to Don Bradman, heat-
waves and to-morrow’s races, but not
once have I heard the nation’s health
discussed. — Lemac (S.A.).
Educate Their Masters
While I am with “Northcliffe, Jnr.” (B.
22 /2 / ’39), I would include voters at elec-
tions especially, for all the ills to which
man is heir politically can be traced to
their ignorance or laziness. Several
years’ experience as an official of a party
in election campaigns has convinced me
that the average voter is in the infants’
grade when it comes to assessing the
value of a potential political agent in
Parliament.
When a Riverina campaign was in
full swing and how-to-vote notices
with photographs of the candidates
and the names of their parties in
big letters were in every shop win-
dow, a wealthy landholder, past
middle-age, made a special visit to my
office and asked me to tell him which
was the representative of the party he
wanted to vote for.
If men like that were deprived of a
vote until they could satisfy a com-
petent examiner that they understood
what the use of it meant we would surely
have an improvement in our politicians
and legislation.—Ballot (N.S.W.).
What Is News?
Outside one of the local newsagents I
looked at the newspaper placards:
(1) Husbands Framed by Hired Woman.
(3) Rugby Star Changes Code.
(3) Jack Dempsey Tells of His Best
Fight.
(4) Miracle Escape from Poison Murder.
(5) Crossing , Smash: Man Killed.
Death Fall Over Cliff.
(6) “The Women”: Play That Caused
Storm.
(7) Selecting a Pope.
(8) Move to Save National Insurance.
(9) The Spanish Tragedy—and Hitler’s
Speech.
Is this a commentary on what the
public wants? Only three can claim that
they announce anything of real import-
ance, and the others are not even front-
page news.
Have editors no sense of propor-
tion that they give the same space to an
outback murder or society divorce as to
news of national or international import-
ance?—R. G. P. (Q.).
Southward Ho—Some Day
The Australian flag flies over much of
the Antarctic, but that apparently is as
far as our influence extends. South Aus-
tralia s Rymill can vouch that we have
made some effort to exploit the South,
but no really concerted move has been
made.
In my morning paper recently there
were two stories —American Lincoln
Ellsworth s plans for establishing a per-
manent camp at the South Pole, and a
statement by Japanese whaling officers
that up to February 14 they had treated
7140 whales, winning about 10 tons of
oil from each.
Similar opportunities awaited ' Aus-
tralia, but were disregarded. Is this our
way of honoring the memory of Scott,
who sacrificed his life in the cause of
British penetration of the Antarctic? —
Geoffrey Taylor (Vic.).
Relief-workers
Westralia has a small army of relief-
workers—-men who, through no fault of
their own, are unable to get employ-
ment and are drafted out to Govern-
ment jobs on road- and rail-construction,
etc. They are fair average Australians,
and that they are unemployable is a lie.
Most of them are married men with
families. Their wages won’t permit
maintenance of two homes, so, except
in a few fortunate cases, their wives
accompany them. Their home is a tent,
and the nature of their work necessitates
frequent transfers, often to distant locali-
ties. It’s a hard life, particularly for the
women and kids: —recently a kiddy seven
months old succumbed to the heat at Mt.
Magnet—and, besides the low wages of a
part-time job, the work carries an un-
kind and undeserved stigma.
These people are pioneers; they are
building pur highways, constructing our
dams, laying our irrigation systems, and
they’re doing it for a bare existence and
away from the amenities of city life and
in surroundings which are totally strange
to them.
They don’t want medals, but some
sort of recognition is their due, and for
a start I’d like to see their collective
nomenclature and status changed. Why
not make them a unit of the Defence
Corps? Our army will need a bridge-,
road- and rail-construction corps, and
there is one ready to hand. — Salmon
Gums (W.A.).
Relax!
“Neurosis,’" diagnoses the doctor
airily. “You young people are all getting
it. Why can’t you relax? Now go home
and read the paper right through, get a
magazine and a book on some subject
you are interested in. Spend the rest
of the day quietly, and go to a movie
to-night. You youngsters are lucky—
your relaxation is all ready-made. • In
my young day....”
So I go home. I pick up the paper.
I read of wars and rumors thereof, of
accidents and death, of murder and
violence, of disease and destruction, "of
waste and famine. I find we have an
inadequate Government, an inadequate
army and an inadequate people. I find
that food has gone up and wages ; haven’t,
that our trade balance is adverse and that
our taxation is on the increase. .
I turn to a magazine. The inside page
is shared by two advertisers, one - of
whom warns me that my pores are emit-
ting an offensive odor, and the other that
the state of my teeth is jeopardising my
existence. I skip all but the first column
of the opening story—the love interest
being just a little too strong—and am
promptly engrossed in the almost perfect
murder, with a mutilated corpse and a
broken-hearted widow.
I reach for a book —a light discussion
on the interesting subject of economic
theory—3oo pages of it, and 290 of them
devoted to telling me that the world is
in a hopeless state, with me invariably
the mug.
So I go to the movie—quite a good
show, all about a gang of neglected
schoolboys in an American slum quarter.
1 come home and go to bed —“relaxed.”
—Pip (Vic.).
Salaries for Single Men
. We frequently hear a great deal these
days about “equal pay for equal work,”
this being the argument most commonly
put forward in support of the proposal
that women should be paid the same
rates as men.
I want to know why there is all this
fuss over women when there .is a much.
more pressing problem ,ip the case of
discrimination against single men. Why
is the married man so often favored in
regard to both wages and employment?
To say that the married man has to sup-
port a family is to prove oneself very
shortsighted, for that attitude completely
overlooks the fact that the single man,
too, will want to marry, and may, in fact,
need even more financial resources than
the man already married. How else can
he save sufficient to ensure a reasonable
start in his matrimonial venture?
We hear our politicians, etc., mourning
the decline of the birthrate, and yet they
do nothing to encourage young folk to
marry with a feeling of reasonable
security, such as would be possible if our
young single men were looked upon as
potential fathers of the new generation
and given a wage that would enable them
to save for their future responsibilities.—
G. F. S. (N.S.W.).
Variable Costs
A certain social institution in one of
the States diverted the activities of 100
potential criminals to other avenues.
Any one of these on being convicted
would have cost the Governrrfent £2 per
week. The social institution was awarded
£2s—or one-quarter of the cost of one
convict.
A certain youth movement was giving
lads employment, mostly permanent, at
6s. 3d. per head. A Government granted
3d. per head, over six years, in cash, for-
getful of the fact that, had the move-
ment in that State acted in the same
manner as a movement in a neighboring
State, the cost of the work for the same
number placed would have been
£900,000. In the one case the cost was
6s. 3d., in the other £9O per head. In
some States the costs for similar work
were even higher.
In one town a children’s court sits
once or twice a month on 20 cases;
in another town four times the size there
are three days each week at the Central
Court and one day in each of two
suburbs. This latter State virtually sets
its mind against junior employment, and
gets the kick through children’s courts,
and no question has been asked by the
State with the “greater evils” of the
“lesser” evil one.
Have we Australian adults in such
matters yet reached the age of one year
mentally?— Xenophon (W.A.).
Secondary Industries
When will the alleged leaders of Aus-
tralia realise the utter importance and
urgency of developing our secondary in-
dustries? Where is there a preponder-
antly primary-producing country that has
attained to world,importance? Consider
some of them—the South American
Republics, Mexico, China, India and
other Asian countries.' No p.-p. country
can, standing alone, protect itself against
a strong invader; it lacks the sinews of
modern warfare —strong iron and allied
industries.- . r •
Moreover, consider what a fine mar-
ket our own cities offer the farmer’s
products. The sugar industry would
vanish without it, as would the rice in-
dustry. The exportable surplus in both
these callings, as in the butter industry,
is sold overseas, at a great deal less than
the local price. Now, almost without a
murmur, the local consumer comes to
the aid of the wheat industry, footing the
bill that will give a guaranteed home-
consumption price for wheat.
Rerhember that our overseas markets
may disappear almost overnight as they
have done before. They depend merely
on the vagaries and goodwill of the
British and foreign Governments. —
A. J. G. (N.S.W.).
Boys on Men’s Errands
There are too many advertisements in
the positions-vacant columns for lads
about 18 years of age to drive cars, oper-
ate dangerous machinery, attend garages,
etc., and many other hazardous jobs that
should be left to men with more experi-
ence. In some instances lads have to
act as escorts for pay clerks.
When the duties they are called on to
perform are progressing favorably all is
well, but should adversity be encountered
the lads, through nothing more than in-
experience, will often fail.
These observations are made with all
due respect to the lads, who are all eager
to earn their spurs, for which they are
to be commended, but it is hoped that
those employers who are so anxious to
employ cheap labor will allow the young-
sters to gradually .assume the responsibili-
ties of manhood. —W. H. Webber
(N.S.W).
What IS Wanted
That PE. article “Wanted —A Special
Service Battalion” (B. 18/ J /’39) should
read, “Wanted—A Commonwealth Gov-
ernment with Guts.”
We have placed men at the head ol:
affairs to direct Australia’s policy, both
home and abroad, yet a few irresponsibles
can set this policy at naught, and by
foolish action throw thousands of their
fellowmen out of employment and pos-
sibly embroil us in war.
The Commonwealth Government had
the remedy to its hand in the Port
Kembla affair, but took no action, except
for the visit to Wollongong of the Attor-
ney-General, who was subjected to jeer-
ing by the mob and was talked at by
union secretaries.
1 his visit reminds me of an episode
here on the goldfields some time ago.
A strike was brewing among the em-
ployees of a mining co. ; the men were
very bellicose and gave the management
a certain time in which to answer to their
demands. Things looked critical, par-
ticularly as there are some thousand-odd
natives employed by the same concern
who may or may not have caused seri-
ous trouble once the strike idea was
goasped. The Chief of Police, a very
capable man, paid a visit to that town-
ship ; whether his visit had anything to
do with the strike threat or not has never
been made clear, but dating from that
visit we have heard no more of the strike.
If the Commonwealth Government
could only spare a little time from the
business of minding other countries’ busi-
ness and attend to things nearer home we
should hear no more of these stupid and
dangerous boycotts and strikes.
The Australian workman has one bad
failing: he will listen to any blatherskite
who has anything to say, more especially
if this “anything” is being or has been
quoted by a trade-union official. Re-
move these troublemakers and you cure
the evil. How? I have before me an
ordinance relating to native labor in New
Guinea, and one section in particular
could, without much upheaval, but with
vast and lasting benefit to Australia, be
adapted to meet Australian conditions.
Section No. 109 a reads:
It shall be an offence....to persuade
or attempt to persuade a laborer unlaw-
fully to absent himself or desist from
work....
And now for the cry of “putting us on
the same footing as niggers!” Not at
all. Enforcement of such legislation will
not be necessary if workmen use com-
monsense. —M. M. Bird (New Guinea).
The Brad'field Scheme
Have those earnest advocates of the
Bradfield scheme any idea of the country
about which they write so glibly? One
of their big notions is that it will permit
irrigation. What is wrong with the Her-
bert, Tully and Burdekin now that they
cannot irrigate there and grow enough
crops to sustain all the flocks in the
country without spending £30,000,000 on
an impracticable scheme? What is
wrong with the water of the Darling that
they can’t irrigate there? In fact, what
is wrong with the waters of Torrens
Greek, the Thompson and other inland
streams that they don’t irrigate now?
As those rivers have never been short
of water, and as it is grass which has
caused losses in the past, it is difficult
to see how another 30,000,000 sheep are
to be carried, or how so many millions
are to be saved. As the Thompson aver-
ages about five miles wide from Mutta-
burra to Windorah, and anything up to
30 miles below that, in what way is a
stream in the middle of those scalded
billabongs going to increase the carrying
capacity?
As for added rainfall, that is a long
shot on which to spend £30,000,000. Even
if Lake Eyre was kept full, which is an
utter impossibility, it is doubtful if that
would affect the rainfall. The whole
coastline along the Bight is a notoriously
dry area ; Shark Bay, and many miles
on each side of it (W.A.), has a very
limited rainfall ; the Nitrate Coast, S.
America, has no rain at all; Aden and
other places on the sea-coast with un-
limited millions of square miles of ocean
on which to draw for evaporation dont
get the rainfall which already falls in
W.Q.
Brad field’s scheme allows for 4000
cusecs, with a possible 6000 of the same-
That, for those who want figures, would
take the whole rainfall from the 17,000
sq. miles which he expects to drain,
allowing a 50in. rainfall over the whole
area —which is an absurd deduction. Lake
Eyre covers an area of "from 10,000 to
12,000 sq. miles with an annual evapora-
tion of at least 150 in. Some put it at
more than twice that figure. Without
going into a multiplicity of figures it is
at once apparent that 10,000 sq. miles
with an evaporation of 150 in. cannot
be more than tickled by 50in. from
17,000 sq. miles. And that allows nothing
for soakage or other loss on the way to
the lake. Absurd to the point of being
ridiculous! -—Jumbuck (Q.).


mmm
0
W
c
HOW
DANNY RODE
TO VICTORY
> FAVOURITE
mu
mm
Ih^
HARD LUCK, JIM;I THOUGHT
YOUR HORSE WAS A CERT.
SO DID I. I MUST HAVE
A TALK TO THAT JDCKEY.
\\
\ MOW COME YOU
LOST, DANNY? I'VE
NEVER SEEN THE
/10PSE LOOKING Jk
BETTER
T™
m
$
■'
$
i
ITS THIS BAD BACK
OF MINE,SIR. IT'S ALL
I COULD DO TO SIT
IN THE SADDLE.
| HOPE YOURE
l RIOHT, SIR, I*M
\ JUST ABOUT
[ALL INy
you'd best take a course
OF Gift PILLS RIGHT AWAY.
THEY’LL HAVE YOU RIGHT IN
TIME FOR THE CUP NEXT
WEEK. ~ ~
YtS.I CAN
THOROUGHLY
RECOMMEND
GIN PILLS FOR
ALL KIDNEY
TROUBLES.^
r, -CS J. -N
L JK& 'T
- 8 o4>
's'
ttS
i#
JGILIFFF
EUCALYPTUS
BY JOVE' HOW DIFFERENT
FROM LAST WEEK! THANKS
TO GIH PILLS ! m '
COME OM DANNY/
LOOK-HE'S WON/
»-
ft*
\>
/S
X
GIN PILLS
ALWAYS WIN /
1
err
Like everything else in life, your
Kidneys become worn out at times,
and are unable to carry out their
proper function of filtering the
blood streams. By taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
for a few weeks the Kidneys will be quickly
restored to health, Backache will disappear, and,
like thousands of others, you too will feel that you have
backed a winner, for “Gin Pills always win.”
21 p\U-S
\'9 r
6 0 W lL -
<2,'9
3
soffit
DT SHELDONS
GIN PIUS
‘Jor the
Kidneys
STOP
COLDS!
am
til*
I m
with
Double D
|-[ERE is the modem way—the
quicker, surer way—of smash-
ing Flu and Colds in record
time: —
mm
RUB
TAKE
INHALE
chest and back with
Double “D.”
3 drops of Double “D”
on sugar.
15 drops of Double
“D” in hot water.
You get quick results from this Double “D”
3-Way Treatment, because the antiseptic
vapors of Double “D” destroy all Flu-Cold
germs in the nose, throat and bronchial tubes.
Double “D” Eucalyptus is double distilled
—double strength double purity, and the
purest and strongest Eucalyptus sold in Aus-
tralia.
9d. Enormous Sales 13
THE PURE. STRONG EUCALYPTUS
WITH THE SWEET, FRESH SMELL.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ŧ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
1
m
yours
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER S
“The World
Is Yours”
A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukoi
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
Post Flee
_ e>X^
S®’-‘
mY
•V
o*".„»> 1 ;
/
# s '
o<
vs s
<^s<
.-* V° \*V>‘


NERVES?
BRAIN FAG?
DEPRESSED FEELING?
You need Hidomak —
w lITTERY” nerves, run-down feeling,
d sleeplessness and depressed feeling are
caused by “Mineral Starvation” —a lack of
certain vital food minerals in the modern
diet. This condition causes many ailments,
from a simple lack of “pep” to serious
chronic headaches and constitutional dis-
orders.
Bidomak easily, quickly and safely corrects
this condition by providing vital minerals
which increase the number of red blood
corpuscles in the blood-stream, revitalise
worn-out tissues. It makes you well and
keeps you well.
Bidomak is a scientific compound of vital mineral
elements:
FERRUM, to build rich, red blood, and so carry extra
oxygen to the tissues, thus combating anaemia, and
chasing poisons and wastes from the system.
CALCIUM, to build up bone and nerve tissues, as well
as general bodily endurance.
: v:
to end Starvation"
SODIUM, to keep digestion keen, counter
acidity, clear away depression, and make
you feel good.
PHOSPHORUS, to prevent nervous break-
down and fatigue, and to help in creating
new nerve, brain and red blood cells.
POTASSIUM, to relieve nerve pains, pre-
vent constipation, build up the grey matter
of the brain, and for muscular control.
GLYCEROPHOSPHATES, for nervous disorders.
We have thousands and thousands of testimonials
praising Bidomak! Men, women and children, of
all ages, have benefited by this miracle of medicine.
If you feel run-down, get a bottle of Bidomak to-day
—take it yourself—give it to your family children
love its pleasant taste so much they like taking it.
3
for a Large Bottle at
all Chemists and Stores
(New Zealand 3/6.)
Start today on a course of
“The Tonic oi
SCIENTIFIC CONTROL
Attached to the Laboratories
of the Douglas Drug Company
are three fully qualified chemists
and a doctor of Medicine who
graduated at the Universities of
Edinburgh and Glasgow.
S Ti
m
Biifeiwli
!,brain body
L*tKVf‘Su(LDH
\ "
ftr* **««W:SPiES
*£§3si
SESSi
the Century
99
A REFRESHING HEALTH
DRINK
A delightful health drink can be made
by mixing a dose of Bidomak w® a
wineglassful or half a tumbler of ice-
cold water, or any aerated water.
A few drops of Bidomak m a tumb er
of ice-cold water is a delightfully
refreshing thirst-quencher.
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas Drug Co., Sydney, A del auk, Melbourne, Laboiato r/el P.O. Box 1018,
Tasmania : L. Fairthorne & Son Ply.. Ltd. Sole New Zealand Distributors : Q-Tol-Fluenzol Laboratory,
WELLINGTON, N.Z. | ■ " ' ' ' 4 ’ J 1
