

r£
m
a
ti
\ v\'< i
„ ,
’ . T .. » ,
'' A >
it>' ,
ira
»K
sm
Vs
IS
mss
i
SB ■ :-■'
Oi Ui
M
ill
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The 'White Swan’ at Stratford-on-Avon is
one of the loveliest inns in England, Its beautiful
oak timbering and recently discovered 16th cen-
tury fresco, which had been hidden behind oak
panels for three centuries, is of enormous interest
to lovers of antique craftsmanship.
My Worcestershire Sauce too is of particular
interest to connoisseurs, for it has always been
brewed in the same good old fashioned way, and
matured in vats of English oak until mellowed by
age, like good wine.”
e worm
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
The Bulletin
What's in The Other Fellow's Mind? Pages 49, 50
Vol. 60.—N0. 3096.
Wednesday, June 14, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn 1
StoriJ
Writing
at HOME
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My A ddress
S.B. 339
The Red Page
QUEST FOR YOUNG WRITERS.
The Bulletin’s quest for new short-story writers
—particulars are repeated on Page 7 of tiffs issue—
brings to mind J. F. Archibald’s search for new blood
a little over 50 years ago and the far-reaching results
of his drive. When Archibald returned to the editor-
ship in 1886 the bulk of the stories that had been
appearing in the paper were unsigned pieces, culled
from overseas exchanges and obscure sources, mingled
with some mediocre efforts by local writers. Archi-
bald resolved to obtain more and better stories.
It took him a few years, but he got what he
wanted. From 1880 to the end of 1888 The Bulletin
printed from 25 to 45 stories annually (14 were printed
in 1881 and only five in 1882), but in 1889 the number
rose to 75, and in the following year the paper was
running an average of three stories per issue.
Victor Daley, whose yarn “The Corpse-preserving
Company” had made a hit as early as 1883, was stirred
into writing more and more fiction. Ernest Favenc
(“Dramingo” and “Delcomyn”), William Astley
(“Price Warung”), Alex. Montgomery (“Sardonyx”),
Henry Cargill (“The Dipsomaniac”), John Farrell and
Archibald Meston joined the company. W. A. Woods
(“John Drayman”) followed a little later. With them
began what literary historians now call The Bulletin
“school” of story-writers. James Edmond, who
joined the staff in 1886, was a tower of strength and
wrote much under his own name and that of “Titus
Salt.” Frank J. Donohue (“Arthur Gayll”) contri-
buted “The History of Botany Bay,” which was illus-
trated with priceless sketches by Phil May and “Hop.”
These writers were all men in their thirties or
early forties, but they were soon to be joined by a
band of young writers in their twenties. Archibald
was still a young man and liked the idea of being sur-
rounded by young fellows. Among the first of the
youngsters to arrive was 22-year-old Edward Dyson, 'a
Melbourne factory hand, with a story called “A
Profitable Pub,” which was printed in The Bulletin
of December 24, 1887. The story, better known as
“The Golden Shanty,” is still an Australian classic.
Young Henry Lawson was not far behind Ted Dyson.
In 1888, Lawson, who had not long turned 21, scored
with “His Father’s Mate,” his first Bulletin prose
contribution. The next year, 21-year-old Randolph
Bedford appeared with “Jepson’s Fortune,” and in
the same year “Banjo” Paterson, aged 25, already an
established verse writer, came to light with “Hughey’s
Dog.”
Other young writers soon followed. During the
’nineties there was a team of new writers who were
still in their twenties. Several of their names now
loom large in the history of Australian literature. A
few of them, with their ages at the time and the titles
of their first Bulletin stories, are: Dowell O’Reilly
(28), “A Prayer for Rain” (B. 16/12/’93); “Steele
Rudd” (26), “Starting the Selection” (B. 6/4/’95);
Albert Dorrington (24), “Passing of Morrissey” (B.
20/7/’95); Barcroft Boake (25), “After Cattle” (B.
26/3/’92); Frank Fox (24), “Dolly” (B. 21/1/’99)';
Hugh McCrae (21), “With the End of Love” (B.
27/2/’97); Roderic Quinn (26), “A Tree That Grew
Awry” (B. 15/2/’96); E. S. Sorenson (28), “Barney
Barker’s Blucher Boots” (B. 21/8/’97).
Among other young writers well known during
the same period were J. B. Castieau, E. J. Dempsey,
Adam McCay, J. F. Millington, J. F. Poynton and
John Reay Watson. Barbara Baynton was 34 when
“The Tramp,” her most famous Bulletin short story,
was printed, but Ethel Turner was only 21 when
“Sweetheart” appeared, and Louise Mack was 20 when
“Idyll of Nurramurra” saw print. Harold Mercer,
who is still a regular Bulletin contributor, was even
younger. He was 18 when “At the Cross Roads” was
printed in 1900, and Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”) was
19 when “The Derelict” appeared in 1901.
Many young writers since then have broken into
print in The Bulletin. While the present competition
is open to any writers who have not had stories pre-
viously printed in The Bulletin, no matter what their
ages are, it should prove a special attraction to the
prentice hand.
M.L. and Australian Cameliers.
John Robertson’s With the Cameliers in Palestine
(A. H. and A. W. Reed, M.L.) is at once an unofficial
battalion history and a book to be recommended for
general reading. It chiefly concerns the M.L. Cameliers
and particularly the 16th Company, 4th Battalion, Im-
perial Camel Brigade, the “Author’s Own,” but he
gives the deeds of his company a relation to the
campaign as a whole. As he points out, if the work
of the 16th bulks large in the book it is because the
details of its work and daily life are familiar to him,
and they may be taken as fairly typical.
The Cameliers comprising Maoriland, Aus-
tralian, Indian and British cavalrymen—were the fight-
ing corps of a camel service assembled for the war
across Sinai. Romani, Maghdaba, El Arish, Gaza,
Beersheba, Maghara were among the major battles
in which they took part, and in addition they did a
great deal of patrol work far from the main forces.
The nature of their mounts enabled them to disappear
“into the blue” for days at a time on work known
only to themselves and headquarters. This was their
especial pride, and their morale was high.
They beat both Turk and Bedouin at their own
games, outfighting and outwitting them —and they
taught the camels a lot about camels. If duty took
them through precipitous country that a camel thought
he couldn’t cross they dismounted and, by pushing
and pulling, persuaded him to excel himself. All this
Robertson describes with a fluent and graphic pen,
but it does not make up the whole of his story.
He took with him to the campaign a good know-
ledge of the history, biblical and other, of the country
fought over, and is able to set incidents of war in an
interesting historic perspective. Describing men bath-
ing and mounts being watered at a pool near the
Plain of Esdraleon he remarks that everything indi-
cates that this is the pool where Saul camped before
his defeat by the Philistines, and where Gideon
selected, by their manner of drinking, 300 men from
10,000 for a night attack on the Midianites and
Amalekites. The pool contained a large number of
fish which the Maorilanders caught with improvised
nets —just as the soldiers of one of the Crusades had
done.
The scholarly and the soldierly mind are nicely
blended in Robertson’s comment before Esdud —
Ashdod of the Philistines and Azotus of Herodotus. It
was besieged by the Egyptian king for 29 years. “A
siege of that length has some advantages; if the sol-
diers brought their wives, recruits could be raised on
the spot.”
At the expense of Australians Robertson observes
that when a detachment of the 10th Light Horse were
sent to camp one night on the Field of the Shepherds
outside Bethlehem he felt that their visit would be
less surprising to the local flockmasters than that of
the visit of the angels to their forefathers, but that
they would watch their sheep more closely. Some
Australians were in high spirits at being sent to Mount
Sinai for reconnaissance work and the disarming of
Bedouins until someone unkindly suggested that they
were being sent for a refresher course in the Ten
Commandments. At Jebel Kuruntal a trooper of
pastoral experience, literal mind and vague biblical
knowledge learned that it was here that the Devil
had tempted Christ, offering Him all the country He
could see. He asked had the offer been taken up, and
on being told that it hadn’t remarked in all seriousness
and quite without irreverent intention, “Well, I
wouldn’t either if the country was like it is now.”
Jerusalem marked the end of country on which
camels could be used to advantage. Six British com-
panies were retained for some time, but in June, 1918,
the Australian and Maoriland Cameliers said good-
bye to their camels and returned to their horses, in
time, as it proved, for the great pursuit up the Jordan
Valley and the race for Damascus. “They left behind
them many advantages in the shape of extra comforts
and equipment, which the camels could carry, but the
restoration of their spurs gave them a sense of dig-
nity they had missed as cameliers.”
The Australians were formed into the 14th and
15th regiments, comprising a new brigade; the Maori-
landers and a French cavalry regiment were bri-
gaded with the sth Light Horse. In a very apprecia-
tive foreword to Robertson’s book General Chauvel,
who commanded all the mounted troops in that theatre
of war, remarks that the cameliers came to know the
wastes of the Sinai Peninsula better than any other
troops.
H.G. Wells Again.
With The Holy Terror (Michael Joseph), H. G.
Wells has returned to the long novel. It is a massive
job, very much in the author’s usual vein, a blend of
novel, romance, satire, prophecy, with a return to old
goals after much brilliant wandering. It is the story
of the last dictator.
With a final glance at the world to-day, Wells
steps out, on page 100, into the future. “Then had
come, not formal war, all declared and set, but a
gradual decline into warlike violence and destruction
all over the world.” Every country was in a state of
discontent and upheaval. Demagogues rose to ex-
ploit the masses. Gangsters fought openly. “Every-
where there were shrinking markets, mounting taxa-
tion and monetary inflation, conscription for military
service and for munition making.” The gangsters
were the extremists of Left and Right. Governments
were enfeebled. “It made one’s mind fret and ache to
open the morning paper.”
That was the world into which Rud Whitlow
grew up. He’d been a monster from the cradle, the
sort of little boy who disciplines kittens with a cricket
bat and dreams of stabbing other little boys with rusty
pen-nibs. He had a grudge against the world, and
he meant to succeed whatever happened. But when he
grew up the world had fallen to pieces. He had a gift
for picking other people’s brains and one for oratory
that sounded inspired and impressed even himself, so
he pirated a political party, the Popular Socialist, or
Purple Shirts.
He found himself on skates. He hadn’t a plat-
form but he had some good phrases —“The man who
speaks English is my brother,” “Commonsense and
the Common Man.” He inveighed against everything
existing. “All Governments are wrong.” The public
liked that almost as much as his appeal to the
“Natural Goodness of the Common Man” as the
foundation of the future. He seized the popular
imagination, gathered talent around him and grew
strong.
The world plunged into war. It was the War of
the Ideologies—and it was a fizzle. Everyone had ex-
pected and dreaded war so long that their emotion
was expended, and the war couldn’t go on without it.
All the combatants were so fully armed that it was
impossible to arm further. There was, in fact, no
incentive to war. It was the complete stalemate. Rud
fished in the troubled waters with success, and when
the war faded out he found himself World Trustee:
While common men were still amenable to the idea
of power, still anxious to say “Yes, sir” to someone
they felt would be protective, the only way of abstract-
ing the commanding quality from ownership, money,
class, rank and elected authority was by concentrating
it for them in this way upon a single individual —who
would at any rate be mortal.
Evolution was using Rud, though he didn’t know
it. He became his own first victim. First megalo-
mania eroded him, then he became frightened and
sickness overtook him. He discarded his only real
friend for telling him the truth and turned to a boy,
Carstall, whom he had admired in his schooldays,
now a doctor. Carstall quietly poisoned him off. This
was Science liquidating the tyrant. Rud had broken
down the barriers of the old world, and with his death
the new, the scientific, world was born.
Rud was a figment of a world’s sick imagination,
a portent. His whole campaign of leadership is
treated with mock seriousness, and then at the end
reduced to perspective. The tragic figure of the frus-
trated man is shown inside the robes of office. It
all goes back to an incident in the nursery and a
nickname, The Stink. Rud had to pull the world down
to efface that insult. Nothing could be more trivial
and bizarre. Yet because he drove absurdity to its
limits he brought the world to saturation point and
a change to better things was made possible.
A great many hares are started in The Holy
Terror, and Wells pursues them with all his customary
zest. Sometimes you feel that the hunt is the thing
and that Wells is just shooting off his little gun in all
directions for the fun of it. He even seems at times
to be in a state of doubt as to whether Rud is his
hero or his villain. The viewpoint seems to change,
and it is hard to say whether this is subtlety or just
high spirits. There even seem to be times when Mr.
Wells is satirising himself.
The Holy Terror is a book full and running over ;
bright reading even if it never gets anywhere in par-
ticular. The beginning and end are best, the middle
struggling just a little too hard to convince itself of
its own reality. Wells still has his gift for touching
off minor characters: “Major Fitzßlessington was a
small but sturdy little man with a hooked red nose
and a tumult of chins in full retreat, dissimilar blue
eyes, a moustache as wild as an excited Persian kitten
and a pipe in the corner of his mouth.”
The War in China.
Though Messrs. Auden and Isherwood, whom
Faber and Faber sent to China, occasionally came into
contact with the war, most of the time they were try-
ing to find out where it was, and then trying to move
heaven and earth and Chinese trains to get there.
But their difficulties, instead of spoiling Journey
to a War, make it all the better. From the absence of
sensational news as well as from their meanderings
arises a complete picture of “The present state of
China.” The scene is vast and complex, the moral
aspect confused by the Chinese who want to be con-
quered, the Chinese who don’t care who rules them,
the smouldering hostility between the forces now un-
easily united against the invader, and by the Chinese
intellectuals who win European sympathy at once and
lose it the moment later when it is discovered that
they regard the war as a “coolies’ war” in which they
would scorn to risk their own skins. They were pre-
serving themselves, Auden and Isherwood were in-
formed, for “the work of reconstruction afterwards.”
The authors are frankly pro-Chinese. When
Japanese businessmen told them in Shanghai “We in
Japan feel absolutely no bitterness towards the Chinese
people,” they retorted, unanswerably, “Why should
they? Had they ever had their towns burnt and
their women raped? Had they ever been bombed?”
But they are aware of the great gulf between what
humanitarians would like China to be and what it is,
with the result that Journey to a War is the sanest
study of the situation that this commentator has seen.
It is also the most human and the most entertain-
ing. Horrors, all the more effective for being so
treated, are kept down to a minimum. Mr. Rewi
Alley, a Maorilander whom they found working as
a factory inspector in Shanghai, introduced them to
some ugly scenes, but also to the complexities that
make the horrors inevitable. That “forty thousand
refugee children must die during the next 12 months
from undernourishment and epidemics,” that in the
refugee camps —“triple tiers of shelves under a straw
roof” —a whole family has to live on each shelf so
that as many as 500 people are packed into a single
hut, and that 14,000 Chinese were crowded into a
street 100 yards long in the International Settlement
is the direct result of the war. But the very nature
of China, they found, made relief difficult, for the
refugees had no inclination at all to move off to the
safety of “distant parts of the country, where their
native dialect is unintelligible, and where they feel
themselves as isolated as an Italian farmer in Wales.”
They found, as any intelligent observer must,
that the picture of a “civilised” China one gains from
a gentle religion, a few paintings and Arthur Waley’s
(“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act.
■THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HOBDEBNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
X,
■ '
Iw-illf
is* '
N
0
■
w
SB
S:W:¥::
Ilf!
■
Vj,
illii
• Men’s Wear Ground,
Floor George St. Freight
paid to all railway stations
in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
I
I
ii
§. i
I
HI
in MEN'S HATS
15'6
Pure Fur Felt
Hats, snap brim
styles, silk
lined. Light and
medium Grey,
Fawn, Brown!
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
each : 19/6
SALE PRICE 15/6
17'6 CARDIGANS
12'6
Wonderful
value an all
Wool Cardigan,
V neck, in the
latest fancy jac-
quard designs
of Grey, Blue Grey and Fawn ton-
ings. Size 36 to 42in. chest. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Prices, 17/6, 19/6
SALE PRICE 12/6
19'6 CARDIGANS
166
Another won-
derful wearing
Cardigan for
those who pre-
fer the plainer
shades. Winter
weight, all wool drop, stitch, V neck.
In .'plain shades, Dark Grey, Blue
Marl, Fawn Marl,. Heather and Navy.
Sizes 36 to 42 ins: Anthony Hor-
derns’ Regular Price 19/6
SALE PRICE 16/6
7'6 MEN'S ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
We feature here two of our many lines of Men's Underwear.
These can be had in short sleeved Singlets or ankle length
Underpants. Size 34 to 44in. chest or waist.
Natural Wool and Cotton, light weight. Price 7/6. SALE 5/3
Natural All Wool, light weight. Price' 7/6. SALE PRICE 5/3
5'3
6 7 tt Men's "Bushman" Work SHIRTS
Featured with collar , and pocket attached, the "Bushman" is a
sturdy British weave,, with double sewn seams in Heather and
Blue shades. Size 14| to 19in. neck.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 6/11. SALE PRICE 6/6
Other reliable' makes. Check Oxford. Regular 5/11. SALE 5/6
Strong Harvard. Regular Price 7/6. SALE PRICE 6/11
6'6
9'6 MEN'S PYJAMA SUITS NOW
Made from British materials that will give you comfortable and
lasting wear, soft and warm British Ceylonette. Sizes Small,
Medium and O.S.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 9/6
SALE PRICE 7/6
7'6
10 x 6 "HORDURA" PYJAMA SUITS
"Hordura" (Regd.) Pyjama Suits are the happy choice of thou-
sands of satisfied customers. The soft, fleecy finish of the
material gives added warmth. Assorted striped designs in Small,
Medium and O.S.
Anthony.Horderns' Regular Price 10/6
SALE PRICE 9/6
96
c\
m
ferns
till
1
II
1
ms
’3
7'6 BUSINESS SHIRTS
British Poplin Shirts, made in our own workrooms. V
cased front, soft double cuffs, two detached collars with
supports. A neat range of Blue and Grey striped
designs. Size 14 to 17£ inch neck.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price . 7/6
SALE PRICE 5/11
51l
11'6 BUSINESS SHIRTS
British Poplin Shirts in a superior quality fabric.
The famous ''Hordura” make. V cased front, soft
double cuffs, two fused starchless collars in a wide
range of neat striped designs. Size 14 to 19in.
neck. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 11/6
SALE PRICE 10/6
Io'6
USE
OUR
DPS.
V. v
'*v.
m?
V
m
l
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
'Phone: M 2401,
Day or Night.


THE HORSE FROM BUNGOWANNAWINNIE
By James Hackston
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
MY father was not going to remain long without
owning another horse. He had tasted the pride
of owning Charlie, and the short-lived joy and
satisfaction that fine animal had given him had
got into his blood. And, besides, he still had the buggy
he had so lovingly repainted and decorated ; and there
was the harness, too —still showing its oily polish.
And so out of a three months’ job on a northern
station came the second horse in our life, a sly, stuck-
up, baleful-eyed, station-bred, bucking, kicking, plung-
ing chestnut.
Maybe he did not like us. He was a station
horse ; he had mixed with classy dogs, champion sheep
and racy horses, and knew a good saddle and men
who could ride ; no station horse of any standing
would have approved of our little farm.
Kyi Y father sprang Chester on the family rather
IVI slyly.
At the end of the three months’ job he drove
back with a man in a jinker who had a horse tied to
the back. When they got to our place my father got
out and was saying good-bye to the driver, when our
half-bred sheep-dog, which for years had poked about
the kindly heels of callers’ nags, got it in the ribs.
“No mong’s going to heel that horse,” my father
said proudly ; “thoroughbreds won’t stand it.”
“The dawg’s ’ad ’is ribs stove in, I think,” said
the man.
“Come inside, children,” said my mother. “What
a murderous horse!”
“One of the chaps on the station told me he’s
treacherous,” said the man ; but my father broke in
slyly, “Oh, they’ll break him where you’re taking him,
all right.”
“Why did you let a terrible animal like that be
brought right up to the front door?” said my mother
crossly when the man had gone. “There’s poor Scotty
half-killed.”
“Oh, he’ll get better,” said my father. “Why, I’ve
had my own ribs stove in a couple of times. Just put
him in his box and he’ll get better.”
Next morning Scotty was dead ; and we hated the
horse that was tied to the man’s jinker. My father,
however, swore that he would get us a real pure-bred
sheep-dog from the owner of Bungowannawinnie sta-
tion, a dog that would be the best dog for hundreds
of miles round.
Two weeks later another man drove up to our
place in a break, and the horse that had killed our dog
was between the long shafts. The horse was in a
lather and foaming at the bit. My father went out
and walked round and round the horse. He then got
up and took the reins, and they drove up the road.
After a while they came back, and the man drove away
again.
“Why did you drive up the road with that man?”
my mother asked.
“Oh, I just wanted to see how well they’d broken
that horse in. It had never been in harness before,
and now a child could drive it. You could see that. ’
“That’s the horse that killed Scotty,” she re-
minded him.
“Yes,” he said evasively, and then changed the
subject.
Next day Chester arrived, and my father broke
the news to my mother.
“It was a good deal I made, Mother,” he said,
broaching the subject gingerly ; “a great deal. It’s a
squatter’s horse. Bought him off Bungowannawinnie.
“Really,” he said, seeing the look in her eyes, “I
got him for nothing in a way. I gave my labor, that
was all—and God knows I’ve been giving that for
years and getting nothing much out of it.”
“Labor,” she repeated absently.
“Yes ; I got him for six weeks’ work out of the
twelve weeks’ work I did.”
“And you worked for six whole weeks for that
murderous thing?” she asked. sorrowfully, and sat
down.
“I know what you are going to say,” he said
sharply, “but I must have a horse to help me in my
business.”
“What business?” she asked.
“What business!” he repeated, suddenly exas-
perated. “Why, goldmining, of course. I’m using
Chester to cart quartz down from One Stump Hill.”
My father said that as Chester had probably had
a rough time being broken in—and especially so as he
was a high-spirited thoroughbred from Bungowanna-
winnie—it would be as well not to break his spirit,
altogether ; so Chester was tucked away temporarily
in the back paddock. My mother said that it might
be as well to keep him there indefinitely, broken in
or not broken in.
Another reason why my father wanted to spell his
new horse was that the wheels of the buggy had warped
a bit, and it needed overhauling.
CT HORTLY after this an offshoot from our old reef
provided the quartz that Chester was to cart down
to our little home battery.
“Now Mother will see how necessary it was for
me to have a horse,” my father beamed.
Chester’s spell was interrupted.
“He may be fresh,” said my father ; “so I want
the buggy to be in good fighting condition.”
We oiled the axles, spun the wheels round and
tightened everything up. “It’s only fair to give a pure-
bred animal like Chester a smoothly-running trap to
pull, isn’t it?” he said, looking nobly at me.
“Yes,” I replied without enthusiasm.
We harnessed Chester for the first time. He
never snorted or pawed the ground, but stood quietly
like a gentleman.
Chester stood on his head, balanced on one
leg, ricocheted off his ear, dug his nostrils in
the- dust, turned somersaults, waltzed, jazzed,
did Catherine wheels and turned himself, trace-
chains and logs into one glorious whirling
maze of complete dizziness.
“Now a squatter’s own horse pulls my buggy,
said my father boasting. “And that’s something for
a poor man to skite about, anyway.”
Our trip up to One Stump Hill passed without
mishap. Several times Chester tried to cannon off the
road and pocket us in the scrub ; but we got there all
right. When we had got the quartz together we put
it in the back of the buggy along with the shovel, the
pick and the axe. We then backed the horse from
Bungowannawinnie into the shafts.
“You get up behind going down the hill,” my
father said, and shook the reins.
I clambered into the back and sat on the quartz.
“Just as well to get him used to rough going,” he
said as we came to the down grade. But he had
hardly spoken when Chester arched his back like a
python, and began to rap his new shoes —our shoes,
which my father had not long paid for —on our home-
polished, gold-decorated dashboard.
“It’s just horseplay,” my father lied bravely and
hopefully. “Real British spirit.”
I don’t know how I heard those words from out
the sudden noise of thundering blows that had begun
to explode on our buggy. I remember seeing a writh-
ing, undulating wave of horse and the glint of flashing
steel as our new shoes pounded a relentless and thank-
less tattoo on our property. Then the world began
to turn upside down and spin round us.
“I must get hold of his head,” my father hissed.
“Hold tight! ” And he sprang out of the buggy, reins
in hand, and pulled and fell along them until he got
to the horse’s head, which he held like grim death.
“I’ll lead him until we get down the hill and on to the
flat road.”
Before us stretched a zigzagging road of gravel
and ruts that led to an almost impenetrable maze of
young saplings, dead trees, logs, stumps and old shafts.
Chester, the buggy and I went into this without say-
ing good-bye to my father ; but I remember seeing
him hurled away from the flying wheels as if he had
been dynamited.
After I had hit the ground, which came at me like
a burst of thunder, I went back to my father, who was
standing ominously still in the middle of the road.
“My God! I’ll bring that mongrel to book for this
day’s dirty work,” my father almost screamed as he
stood there listening to the cracking, smashing, collid-
ing echoes of our stampeding horse and buggy
ricocheting through the exploding scrub.
“I’ll never see that horse alive again,” he said
angrily, “and the buggy will be smashed to smithereens,
I’ll wager. To think I gave six weeks’ sweat of my
brow for that wastrel! Let’s go and find the buggy.”
We found it on the top of a stump.
“We’d better go home at once, my sonny;
Mother will be getting frightened. I promised her I’d
be home before dark. She’s got the laugh on me this
time, all right.”
“What about the horse?” I asked.
“The horse!” he exploded. “I’ll bet that mon-
strosity is lying disembowelled somewhere on a log.”
DUT the horse from Bungowannawinnie station
came to no such violent end. He went straight
back to our own place. We knew of this before we
got home, for my mother had taken the road to One
Stump Hill to see if we had been kicked to death, and
her first words were that Chester had arrived home in
an agitated state and with blood
on him.
“I’ll agitate him!” my father
snarled. “Did you take the harness
off him?”
“Me take the harness off him!”
my mother said, surprised. “Why,
I wouldn’t touch that mad thing
with a forty-foot pole ; but he had
no harness on him to take off.”
“No harness on him! ” my
father almost sobbed, and then sat
down despairingly on a stump near
by.
“Where’s the buggy, Walter?”
my mother asked.
He smiled sickly. “When I saw
it last it was trying to climb a tree.”
“And the quartz with the gold
in?” she asked hopefully.
He laughed hysterically. “Oh,
Chester threw that at the birds on
his way home.”
My mother went over and sat
down beside him on the stump.
“A nice kettle of fish, isn’t it?”
he said, looking at her sheepishly
—and guiltily.
My father mended the buggy
enough for it to be pulled home
but not by Chester. He put himself


in the shafts, and we all helped. He neyer bolted or
shied, but I think he did show the whites of his eyes
a bit when we passed a stranger on the road.
The richest quartz he had ever had was lost. My
father stuck to that statement. As for our harness, the
finding of that turned out to be an almost daily job,
a never-ending hunt. “Have you found any more har-
ness?” was the family’s stock question. Even far-
flung neighbors and passers-by got to hear about it,
and asked after it instead of our health. It became,
almost, that my father searched more for harness than
for gold.
Bit by bit it turned up; one day one of the
traces up a tree, some months later the collar some-
where else, at other odd times straps and buckles in
the grass, all separated by miles. We almost wore a
series of pads through the bush trailing it. I remember
my father would come home all bucked up and say
something like “Found the crupper to-day, Mother.”
And so it went on. In the end all that had not been
found were the winkers, and my father used to say,
“When I find the winkers”
During this harness-less period Chester was kept
in the paddock, but my father soon tired of having a
horse doing nothing while the set of harness was in-
complete.
“I know what I’ll do,” he said. “I’ll put him in
trace-chains to haul wood. That will take all the bad-
ness out of him.”
We borrowed the trace-chains.
Imagine a performing flea as big as a horse and
you can visualise the scene when we put them on him.
Chester stood on his head, balanced on one leg,
ricocheted off his ear, dug his nostrils in the dust,
turned somersaults, waltzed, jazzed, did Catherine
wheels and turned himself, trace-chains and logs into
one glorious whirling maze of complete dizziness. My
father stood spellbound, and the family stood wide-
eyed and open-mouthed.
“My God!” said my father, “the horse is a fiend
incarnate. It’s going to be rather a hard job for me
to get him used to the buggy, after all.”
“Used to the buggy after all,” my mother laughed.
We returned Chester to his paddock and the trace-
chains to their owner.
From then on Chester stayed in his paddock, the
buggy stood in the shed, and the winkers still hid in
the bush.
“Well,” said my father, “as the harness is incom-
plete, he’s going to be a packhorse, and I’ll lead him
like a dog. I’ll win in the end ; it’s my will against
his.” So to One Stump Hill and other places Chester
carried our loads.
| T was summer now, a dry summer. The grass blew
' to heaven and the skin of the earth broke, powdered
and drenched the suffocating trees. It was on one of
these merciless days that my father and I went on a
new expedition to look into an old mine up north. It
was a long trip, and there was not a drop of water nor
a blade of grass for the horse, until we came across a
little haven of green that lay hidden between a circle
of grim hills, like a saucer, and in it a small, clear
spring.
“What a restful little glade! ” said my father, and
he lay back on the soft green grass.
There had been a little home there once. While
we rested, Chester cropped hungrily the sweet grass.
I have never forgotten that little green haven, and
my father always remembered it, too.
Some time after we had made this trip the affairs
of our family took a sudden turn. My father had to
cut out his packhorse trips and get down to some-
thing sound, so he put his shovel and dish aside, and
went off to find work again. Chester had to be put
aside for the time being, too —we couldn’t have sold
him for ten bob at this time —and we gave up hunting
the last of the harness. Even the buggy, which my
father had kept working on in his spare time until it
was its old self again, was forgotten.
As there was practically no feed at all about our
place now, and hardly any water, my father, before
he left, had to find new lodgings for Chester. He was
put in a paddock miles away which my father had
“fixed,” and where there was just enough grass and
water to barely see what had once been a sleek-coated,
well-fed rogue on a station through the dry spell, and
keep his frame together.
The day I left to take the horse to his new quar-
ters, my father laughed and said, “He won’t smash
me up any more.” And he gave the poorly-conditioned
Chester a friendly slap on the rump.
We almost forgot the six weeks’ honest sweat of
my father’s brow that was in the far paddock. Then the
rains came again, and my father finished the job he
had got, and returned to his beloved goldmining. This
meant that he began to look for the winkers again.
Returning one evening from a day’s prospecting
he said to my mother, “Well, Mother, I’ve done the
trick at last.”
“At last! ” she cried joyously.
“Yes, at last,” he beamed ; “I saw it glinting in
the sun—at my very feet.”
“Oh, Walter, a nugget!” she laughed happily.
“No,” he said testily, “not a nugget at all —we’ll
find that later on, all in good time —one of the buckles
Reverently my father removed his hat,
and with equal solemnity I took my cap
off. Then we walked solemnly over the
long grass to the foot of the old dead tree.
on the winkers.”
And he brought
from behind his
back the long-lost
winkers. The har-
ness was complete.
“Now we’ll get
Chester back,” he
said. “He must be
in fair condition by
now. Somehow I
feel that he will
never smash me up
again.”
The buggy was
again overhauled.
Next day I was sent
for Chester.
1Z? OR three weeks
* we sought the
chestnut from
B u ngowannawinnie.
When or how he had
left his paddock no
one knew. My father
swore they’d let him
out because he
hadn’t yet paid the
shilling a week.
“He’s out on the
c o m m o n,” m y
mother suggested.
The common was searched. Inquiries were made ;
passers-by were asked to keep their eyes open. “Horse-
thieves,” my father declared ; “I might have known
they’d steal a valuable horse like Chester.”
More weeks went by, but no Chester turned up.
We spied on all chestnuts that passed our place ; but
they were never Chester. Weeks stretched into months,
months into half a year ; and all this time there was
my father, who owned a horse, without one. “Well,
I found all the harness,” he said sullenly and stub-
bornly, “and, by God! I’ll find Chester yet, mark my
words I will.” And he breathed so furiously that we
all wondered that his lungs had not burst.
But all such vows and declarations came to
nothing, and a long horseless period dragged on. Some-
times my father would say, “You know, I feel at
times that Chester’s put one over me.”
Bit by bit, however, the many changes in our life
tended to obliterate all thoughts of our long-lost horse.
We had to go back to humping our own loads.
Once when we were going on another trip up
north to the same old mine that “was once rich” my
father sat down gloomily on a log. “Remember the
first time we did this trip we had Chester with us,
and we came across that lonely little place with the
spring and the green grass?”
I grunted.
“Well, we’ll go that way again to-day. I think
it’s shorter, and easier going, too.”
I nodded.
“And we’ll strike that boundary-rider’s hut we
passed. There might be somebody there this time, a
station hand maybe who could tell us who used to
live in the lonely place. Might have been the man who
first discovered gold in these parts.”
“The man who found the old mine?” I asked.
“Oh, no,” my father replied with conviction ; “the
man who discovered the old mine must have made a
fortune, I’ll wager. An Englishman I’ll bet, who went
back home to England to live like a gentleman, with
wine on the table and footmen with silver buckles on
their shoes to wait on him, like I hope to do one of
these fine days.”
We found a man at the hut.
“Oh, that place,” he said, replying to my father’s
questions. “Chap came from England is buried there.”
“Chap from England buried there?” my father
repeated in astonishment.
“Yes ; there’s a wooden cross near that old dead
tree, or there was —had a bit of tin with his name
on it. P’raps it’s fallen down and rotted away by now.
The station people buried him ; it’s station property,
you know. Lost everything he had in that dummy
mine over there. Stayed there like a hermit and died
there. There never was any gold about these parts.”
“It’s a pretty little spot where he lies,” said my
father, wishing to change the subject.
“Yes, it’s always green there,” the man continued.
“First time I’ve seen it eaten bare was last drought.
Oh, yes, we lost a good bit of stock.”
“Oh. well, most interesting,” said my father.
“Now we must be getting along.”
“Good luck,” said the man.
“Well, well, well,” said my father when we were
out of earshot, “I must say that fellow was most dis-
heartening. What’s he know about gold! ”
No more was said until we neared the little green
burial ground. “To think that a countryman of mine
should lie here in this forsaken' spot thirteen thousand
miles away from kith and kin unsettles a man.” And
he sighed.
A little farther on he stopped. “Yes, they lost
some stock, alj. right,” he said pointing; “there’s an-
other skeleton. Poor creature must have found this
patch of green during the drought, and stayed here
until it ate itself out of house and home, and then
died.” Then he paused piously, “We had getter go
over and pay our respects to the dead, my sonny.
Take your cap off.”
Reverently my father removed his hat, and with
equal solemnity I took my cap off. Then we walked
solemnly over the long grass to where, at the foot of
the old dead tree, lay the remains of what had once
been a rough wooden cross. With bowed heads we
stood and looked reverently down to where the cross
with the little nameplate lay.
Anybody passing by at that moment, and not
knowing that a human being had been buried in that
lonely spot, might have told the story of a man and a
boy mourning over the remains of a dead animal,
which would have been correct in a way, for the skele-
ton that my father had pointed to lay, strangely
enough, close beside the fallen cross that marked the
dead man’s grave.
Then suddenly my father placed his hand over his
eyes as if some surge of deep emotion had swept over
him. “I’m beaten! ” he said.
“Beaten?” I repeated wonderingly.
“Yes, I might have guessed it.. The mongrel! The
loafer! The skunk! ” He laughed bitterly. “Respect
for the dead!” And with a quick angry movement
he slammed his hat back on his head. “Put your cap
on!”
I thought at this moment that my father must have
lost his senses. The lonely grave of a brother Eng-
lishman who had ruined his life mining, what the
boundary-rider had said about no gold, and the dud
mine—it had all been too much for him.
I stood there in the peace of things and watched
my father behaving like a madman.
“He beat me! ” he almost screamed. “Finished up
on a station, too! And made a fool of me into the
bargain. Respect for the dead! Huh!” And he ran
back a few yards, leapt into the air, and took a run-
ning kick at the skeleton beside the cross. Kick after
kick smashed into it. And as I stood there gazing at
the scattered bones that now lay about me I saw for
the first time what my father had seen —the marked
horseshoe that had the small piece out of it, which was
one of the four my father had paid for, and which
belonged to the left foreleg of Chester from Bungo-
wannawinnie station.


Mrs. Parsley and the Diffident Nobility
NOBLERS OBLIGE
By Harold Mercer
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
. \HEN anybody tells me he has been plough-
YA / i n g the seas,” remarked Mrs. Parsley with-
V V out any apparent cause, “there is no need
to tell me that he is an Ananias and Sap-
phire. Ploughing indeed! As if anyone could do
that with the mighty maim, as it is well named —and
too well I know that it is mighty, since I had a cousin
whose husband was killed by it. Yet that’s what Mr.
Wangledome had the audacity to tell me. ‘l’ve been
ploughing the seas for thirty years,’ says he, ‘and I’m
settling down on shore now.’
“ ‘My terms is rent in advance,’ I says firmly. If
a man who talked like that was going to settle down,
I meant to see that he settled up first.
“ ‘l’ve got a little contract from an American
society. I’m interested in bugs,’ he says.
“ ‘My establishment is no place for people who
are interested in such things. The impertinence!’ I
says. But when he saw how hot I was, he was as
took aback as I had been, which serves him right. He
should have said at once he meant beetles, like a
Christian. And often I wished afterwards that I had
ordered him then and there to decant my premises
before he introduced members of the diffident
nobility, as Mr. Slompack called them, and there was
all that trouble about false pretenders and people
being murdered, and men chasing one another about
the place with resolvers, which is not as respectable
as I like to keep my flats.
“Nohlers oblige, as they say in the books, may
be a good motter,” pursued Mrs. Parsley, “although
to me it seems it might apply more to a public house
than to the aristo-crasey. But experience does it, as
Mr. Slompack says, and my experience is that them
honorables are a bad lot; and I don’t want any more
of them staying here, not if they are dukes and
duchesses, and go down on their bended knees for
a flat. Whenever I read about a belted earl, I always
says to myself that no doubt he deserves it.
(i[T was Mr. Wangledome who brought Lord
1 Snagglepots here.
“ ‘He isn’t well-to-do, by any means, Mrs. Pars-
ley,’ he said. ‘I met him when we were together at
sea ; and when he inherited the title there was no
money with it. But he’s a good chap, and a bit of
a collector like myself; and when he said he wanted
some place to live I suggested that he should come
here.’
“I was quite flustered at the idea of having a
lord, not knowing them as I did later on ; and I was
more flustered still when Mr. Wangledome said that
Lord Snagglepots would bring his valley Hoppit
with him.
“And then next day, Mr. Wangledome being out
at the time, there stood at my door a tall, dark man
miraculously dressed, as they say.
“‘Mrs. Parsley, isn’t it?’ he says. ‘I believe our
flat is number two?”
“‘Lord Snagglepots?’ I says.
“ ‘We have arrived,’ he says.
“It always struck me as funny the way he always
called himself ‘we.’ ‘lf anybody should call, Mrs.
Parsley,’ he says sometimes, ‘we are out.’ But he
made a very good depres-
sion ; a congenital spirit he
seemed, although there
was a little condensation in
his manner, which I sup-
posed that being a lord
made him like that; but
otherwise he was quite like
a huming being. In fact,
after I had introduced
him, he was playing cards
that very evening with
some of the men. Which
they said he had the luck
of the devil, although I
didn’t approve at all of
that being introduced in
my establishment.
“ ‘I had a good long
talk to Lord Snagglepots
last naight. What a faine
man his ludship is,’ says
Mrs. Wassail; which she started to talk like that no
sooner has Lord Snagglepots arrived in the place, and
about her family being ascended from the Earl of
Doodledumble on her mother’s side. ‘Mr. Wassail
and Ai are giving a little party in his ludship’s honor
the naight after next.’
“ ‘A very charming thought by a very charming
lady, I am sure,’ says his lordship.
“‘I daresay Lord Snagglepots will allow his
man to give a hand with handling matters,’ said Mr.
Wassail, who never did like the way Mrs. Wassail
was always finding something for him to pay for.
“‘The night after next?’ says his lordship. ‘l’m
sorry ; but I hardly think that is possible. You see
my friend Mr. Wangledome is going on one of his
beetle-collecting expositions, and I promised him he
could have Hoppit.’
“Which it seemed that Hoppit, which didn’t
depress anyone like Lord Snagglepots had done,
almost belonged to Mr. Wangledome as much as he
did to his lordship, the way he lent him to him. He
didn’t seem much of a man for a lord to have as his
valley. Mr. Slompack said he supposed as Lord
Snagglepots hadn’t got much money he had to take
what he could get. But we didn’t see much of him
outside their flat. Mr. Slompack said he seemed
inclined to keep religiously to himself, though I can’t
say I saw much religion about the way he used to
swear, even to his lordship. Full of naughty-gal
terms, as they call them.
“ ‘He suits me,’ says his lordship. ‘He was a
checkmate of mine on a ship I was on before the
title came to me. A rough diadem, but I overlook
that.’
“I didn’t think much of the way he kept the
flat, or either of them did, for that matter. They had
a troubador in there to spit into, which is a thing I
don’t like ; and with the smell of stale tobacco there
was in the place I had to use diabolic acid when I
did it out.
“But Lord Snagglepots himself was a reg’lar
socialistic lion, as they call it. The party Mrs. Wassail
gave, which the cost of it made Mr. Wassail nearly
commit hurry-skurry, as they used to do in Japan
when anything went wrong, was a big one; and
friends of other people in the house came to visit
them so as to be able to meet a real lord.
“A great fuss they made of him. Then the
trouble began. Churchy la femtne, as they say ; which
that Mr. Nobuck Palmer, which was the most gentle-
manly gentleman that ever stayed here, once told me
meant ‘Women is very religious.’ Which is true,
perhaps, but I don’t see how it applies, the way people
use it.
< t'T'HE first I knew of it was when I caught Mr.
Snoodletap wandering about the place with a
resolver in his hand.
“ ‘Mr. Snoodletap,’ I cries, ‘what is the mean-
ing of this?’
“‘That precious lordling!’ he says. ‘He’s been
talking to my wife about going into a business with
her. I won’t stand it, Mrs. Parsley.’
“ ‘Why, Mr. Snoodletap,’ I
says, ‘everybody knows that
Mrs. Snoodletap is a business-
woman, and she told me her-
self that she thought a millinery
shop with Lord Snagglepots’s
name on it would make a social
few roars, as the saying is. Put
that wepping away!’
“ ‘lt wasn’t loaded, any-
how,’ he says sheepishly;
and he put it in his pocket. ‘I wanted to make
Lord Snagglepots understand that I wouldn’t have
this business ; but there was only his man Hoppit
there. “I want to speak to Lord Snagglepots,” 1 told
him. “Well?” he said. Well, of course, you can’t
talk over things like that with a valley, so I’ll see him
some other time. But I’m very sorry I caused any
upset, Mrs. Parsley. 1 wouldn’t want to cause an
upset, Mrs. Parsley, even if I killed anybody.’
“Which I don’t think Mr. Snoodletap would,
him being as gentle as a babe unborn, and reminding
you of the poem about the muscles of his brawny
arms being as soft as carded wool; but he was
absurdly jealous of his wife. She said he would be
rich beyond the dreams of Harry Rice if he had only
done what she told him to to ; but as far as I could
see he did it, and he wasn’t. He wasn’t a business-
man, she said, and he’d never make much money. But
she didn’t seem to make much money herself, although
she always spoke about being a businesswoman and
making her own income. She said that when the shops
she started shut up it was Mr. Snoodletap’s fault.
“ ‘l’ve always been independent,’ she says ; ‘and
if .1 haven’t got a shop I must get a position.’ When
she got a position, there used to be rows in their flat
about the dresses she wanted to go to it, with her
screaming out about how unfortunate she was in not
having married a businessman who could give her a
little resistance. Then she’d be back in two or three
days, and she’d be after something else.
“ ‘That woman’s determination to earn money is
making poor Snoodletap poor,’ says Mr. Slompack.
‘He’ll be ruined if he doesn’t stop her.’
“Mr. Snoodletap didn’t seem to mind so much,
although there used to be some arguments in their
flat, as long as there wasn’t any other man in it;
but once, when Mrs. Snoodletap talked of getting
Mr. Slompack to put her in a business, which Mr.
Slompack said he wouldn’t do if he owned all the
businesses in Sydney, he talked of shooting Mr.
Slompack.
“And here was Mrs. Snoodletap going about
talking of going into partnership with Lord Snaggle-
pots. It was very upsetting.
“And then, like a bolt from the balloon, the
blow fell.
‘ ‘ j WAS going to tell Lord Snagglepots about Mr.
* Snoodletap, and how I didn’t want any dis-
turbances in my residential; but when he told me
next morning that he had an invitation to spend a
few days away it missed my mind. As he went out
a man who had been standing in the lounge came up
to me.
“‘I want to speak to Lord Snagglepots, who I
understand is staying here,’ he said. ‘Which is his
flat?’
“ ‘That was Lord Snagglepots who just passed you
going out,’ I says.
“‘That?’ he says. ‘That’s not Lord Snagglepots,’
says Mr. Writsley, that being his name, as he soon
told me. ‘lt’s nothing like him,’ he says.
“You could have knocked me down with the last
feather to fly with! Mr. Writsley, who said he had
been Lord Snagglepots’s solicitude in London, and
knew him himself, began to get excited.
“ ‘You mean to tell me that this man has been
dismembering himself as Lord Snagglepots?’ he says.
‘This looks very fishy. Why, those men may have
done away with Lord Snagglepots! Let me see this
Hoppit you talk about! He’ll be in it, too!
“Hoppit wasn’t in the flat either; Miss Perry
said she had seen him go out with Mr. Wangledome.
“‘Wangledome! ’ cried Mr. Writsley. ‘Probably
he’s one of the gang. They may have thrown my
poor friend overboard, and taken his papers. I must
have this investured.’
“It was terrible, gangs being talked about as if
we were living in Chicago or in one of them straits
of America, and with detectives coming in and out
asking questions they didn’t believe the answers to,
like a lot of Doubting Thompsons, as are mentioned
in the Bible. They kept coming back and hanging
about the place.
“Mr. Writsley, however, wouldn’t go away. He
even took a flat which happened to be vacant for a
few days.
“‘I intend to see this through,’ he says. ‘This
rock shall fry on its firm base as soon as I.’ Though
why he should talk about rocks when there were no
such things, and there is no sense in frying rocks
anyway, I don’t know.


u'T'HE news fled like wildflowers all over the flats ;
1 an d there was people all hours of the day asking
me questions as if I was one of those encycling phobias.
‘“What a dreadful thing to happen!’ cried Mrs.
Snoodletap, sinking on a chair and burying her face
in her handkerchief. ‘I was just going to put Lord
Snagglepots’s name over my business and someone
has murdered him! It is dreadful. And I’m sure
that, with Lord Snagglepots’s name and my business
debility, the business would have made a social few
roars.’
“As if there wasn’t enough upset that Mr.
Snoodletap must start a domesticated argument about
that there in the lounge.
“‘Woman!’he says. ‘You love this man! You
are shedding tears for him. I have had enough! I
will not stand in your way. You can have your
divorce, and marry him!’
“ ‘Mr. Snoodletap,’ I says, ‘people will hear
you.’
“ ‘I want everybody to hear me,’ he says waving
his arms like one of them frantics. ‘I have owed rent
for that woman. I have let her lose my money in her
businesses and paid money for befitting her for posi-
tions because she said she had to earn money, which
she never really earned in her life. But no more!
Not another bean for her businesses or to start her
in positions. I’ll buy clothes for myself. Let her get
her money from the man she loves.’
“ ‘Henry! How dare you! ’ she says.
“Mrs. Snoodletap was historical on the lounge
settee while he went upstairs ; and Mr. Writsley came
to talk to me.
“ ‘These Snoodletaps, Mrs. Parsley—who are
they?’ he says. ‘lt looks to me as if they may be in
the gang.’
“ ‘Mr. Writsley,’ I says, ‘what gang? You are
only a tenant here on suffrage, and I will not have
people in my residential classed as gangs.’
“ ‘Well, it looks auspicious to me,’ he says. ‘That
man’s theatrical outburst, and the woman going to
go into business with this man who has claimed to
be Lord Snagglepots. Very auspicious indeed! Well,
there will be an interesting de nude moan.’
“ ‘There will be nothing nude in my establishment,
Mr. Writsley,’ I said firmly. ‘Even if there has been
a murder, I will not tolerate anything being nude.’
“ ‘I mean, these unpressabled scoundrels will be
caught when they come back, unexpecting. Perhaps
a confession where they put the body will be sur-
prised from them.’
“It made me shudder to hear him talk about
a dead corpse like that; and in a way I couldn’t help
feeling sorry for that Lord Snagglepots.
“ ‘There’s a chance that they may not come back,
Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Slompack when he came
down to talk over the matter later. ‘They may sense
something wrong. Or perhaps somebody may warn
them. Mrs. Snoodletap, for instance. She must have
been thicker with this Sweden Lord Snagglepots than
we knew for Mr. Snoodletap to be so inscented.’
“It was Mr. Slompack saying that that made me
go up to see what had happened. And Mrs. Snoodle-
tap was gone! She had told her husband that he
had made an exhibit of her. And there was Mr. S.
sprawled on the couch, defiant, with his boots on the
cushions she was so proud of, and putting his cigar-
ette ash on the floor, which she was always nagging
him about, even when he didn’t do it. He said he
didn’t care if she never came back; he didn’t want
her to come back.
il \/OU never saw such excitement as there was,
1 day after day, waiting for them men to come
back ’ and there was all the people who had made
sacb a f uss about Lord Snagglepots saying t ey
alvVa Y s knew there was something funny a out him.
J d ® n . tbe n *, gbt °f ° ur P arty > sa Y s Mrs.
fife
Hoppit as va j] e y »
„,j wjsh - d ' tho ht o£ that before , had t 0
foot ,he bill for the party,’ says Mr. Wassail. The
man got enough out of me over cards. I had an idea
he was a rook.’
“ ‘You ought to have thought of that before you
played cards with him,’ retortoised Mrs. Wassail
tartly.
“ ‘That Hoppit should have been a dead put-
away with us,’ says the Major.
“You never saw such expressed excitement as
there was. It got round the neighborhood, with all
sorts of silly rumors.
“When none of them men, not even Mr. Wangle-
dome, came back after two days, people said they
had fled to fresh fields and pastors nude, from which
no traveller returns, and that Mr. Wangledome must
have been in the murder ; which it certainly seemed
strange him having come here with a cock and bull’s-
wool story about ploughing the seas; although I
will say that he didn’t tell me the silly story about
having swallowed an anchor which another tenant
that pretended to have been seafaring did.
< < K / R. WRITSLEY was like a cat on hot bricks,
** * wanting them detectives to do something;
but all they did was to come in and out, un-
suspectedly, frightening people. And, after all, they
wasn’t there when that Sweden Lord Snagglepots, as
Mr. Slompack called him, actually did come back.
‘“Lord Snagglepots! You! You are not Lord
Snagglepots! Someone go for the police!’ That
was Mr. Writsley, speaking most excited, that woke
me up ; and when I rushed to get on a wrap and
went out, there was the Sweden Lord Snagglepots,
looking pale but calm, surrounded by a lot of the
tenants, with Mr. Writsley going hammer and tongue
at him.
“ ‘You gentlemen have me at a disadvantage,’
he says, with all that condensation in his voice, as if
he wasn’t being charged with murder. ‘I am not con-
scientious of having met this gentleman before.’
“ ‘Well you should know him,’ says Mr. Slom-
pack drily. ‘He’s supposed to be your family solici-
tude. Obviously you’re not Lord Snagglepots. You’re
an imposture.’
“ ‘You have nothing on me, gentlemen,’ says he,
cool as a concubine. ‘What of it?’
“ ‘You’ll see when the police arrive!’ frothed that
Mr. Writsley. ‘Who are you?’,
“‘I was Lord Snagglepots’s valley. I might as well
admit it now,’ says he.
“‘Was! You hear, gentlemen? He practicably
submits the poor feller is dead!’ cries Mr. Writsley.
‘How dared you posture as Lord Snagglepots!’
“‘Why not?’ he says, calm as one of them
zippers, but getting hot. ‘Didn’t I deserve something
for having been valley to a man like Lord Snagglepots?
A man I dispersed. A man who thought nothing of
wearing made ties, who didn’t care if his clothes were
all crumpled and creased, indeed, preferred them that
way, who’
“‘God dammit, man!’ cried Mr. Writsley. ‘You
wouldn’t kill a man because he wore a made tie?’
“ ‘Men have died for conduct less offensive,’
says he.
“‘By God! So you admit you murdered him?’
“ ‘Murdered! ’he cried. He seemed startled for
the first time. And then Hoppit came. Someone
said, ‘There is Hoppit. He’s in it.’
“ ‘Murder?’ cries Hoppit. ‘Who’s talking of
murder? Bill!’ he calls.
“ ‘Why—Lord Snagglepots! ’ cried Mr. Writsley.
“Well, I must say that man we had all thought of
as Hoppit didn’t look half as like Lord Snagglepots
to my way of thinking as the man who was really
Hoppit. He was in a dirty shirt with a tie half un-
tied and twisted round. And he didn’t have Hoppit’s
—that had been the bogey’s Lord Snagglepots—dig-
nitory.
“ ‘What’s all the so-and-so fuss about?’ he says.
‘Dammit, it’s my so-and-so title, isn’t it? The social
whirl isn’t no so-and-so good to me, and Hoppit liked
it, and seemed able to make it so-and-so well pay, so
why shouldn’t I let him? Someone had to make the
so-and-so rent; and the title didn’t carry a tinker’s
curse. Why should I worry if people are fools enough
to take Hoppit for the so-and-so lord?’
“That there scorn in Egypt that is mentioned in
the Bible was in the real Hoppit’s eyes as he looked
at him.
“‘I fancy it is understood,’ he says, ‘that my
dissociation with his lordship, which I may say has
been rather repugnacious to me for reasons I have
stated, is now severed. I am about to open, in de-
junction with a lady shortly, I
believe, to be divorced from her
husband, and whom I hope one
day to marry, a business. For-
tunately I have the capital saved
from my labors. We have the
right to use the name of Lord
Snagglepots over the door.’
“‘A quid a week, Hoppit,
don’t forget,’ says his lordship.
4 ‘\ WELL, blunders will never
“ cease! But it was all very
upsetting and I was glad to get
rid of the lot of them. I daresay
you saw that prosperous-looking
man who was up to see me this
morning? That’s Mr. Snoodle-
tap, who, in spite of having no
head for business, seemed to get
on when he got rid of a wife who
was determined to earn money.
He told me he had lent that
Lloppit and his wife —that used
to be Mrs. Snoodletap—a hun-
dred pounds to help them on their
feet again. He called it an act of
gratitude to Hoppit.”
“As if there wasn't enough upset Mr. Snoodletap must
start a domesticated argument. ‘Woman!' he says.
You love this man! You are shedding tears for him.
I have had enough! I will not stand in your way.
You can have your divorce, and marry him!”
WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month ‘‘The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short 1500 t'o 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1000 words.
Closing date for the first of these competi-
tions is July 7. The sooner entries are sent in
the sooner they can be read and the judging
completed.


translations from the poets has a background of
immemorial callousness, squalor and misery. When
Isherwood threw a coin to “a very dirty little boy of
five years old,” the scene that followed had nothing
to do with the war:
For a long time he made absolutely no move,
except to glance furtively to left and right. Then, very
slowly, without ever looking downward, he worked the
coin over the ground with his toe into a position from
which he could pick it up. Having pocketed it, he
rose to his feet and toddled off with an air of extreme
unconcern. The perfection of his technique—so matter-
of-fact that it wasn’t even sly—was one of the most
shocking things I have ever seen in my life. It told the
whole story of the coolie’s animal struggle for existence.
Exploring the slums of Shanghai, they came to
the conclusion that —though “genuinely shocked and
indignant”—they themselves belonged to another
world, to the Western community where there were
baths, cocktails, singsong girls, where European busi-
nessmen wrote to the newspapers complaining that
the Chinese were cruel to pigs and saying that the
refugees should be turned out of the Settlement be-
cause they were beginning to smell. When a Japanese
defended the wholesale bombing of Canton on the
ground that it was more humane than a military occu-
pation of the city they felt there was something wrong
somewhere: but the information they give concerning
the Settlement shows where there has been something
very wrong in the cables that have been sent to daily
newspapers on that subject.
The dailies’ picture of the Settlement is of a place
reserved to the European Powers and America, and
every attempt by the Japanese to gain control of it is
represented as an attempt to oust the foreigner. No
doubt that is largely true, and no doubt it would be
disastrous for British interests if the Japanese gained
control: but it is also true that the Settlement is a
stronghold for the Qhinese in the midst of the city
that the Japanese have conquered.
Four hundred new Chinese factories, says Isher-
wood, were opened in the Settlement during the first
four months of 1938. Within the area, Japanese and
Chinese are waging “a deadly, underground political
struggle.” The authors are interesting, too, on the
shipping problem:
Although Wenchow itself was still in Chinese hands
the mouth of the river was guarded by the Japanese
and only vessels of friendly nationality were allowed to
pass in and out unmolested. So the Chinese steamers
had taken on foreign officers and got themselves
denaturalised: some German, some Italian, some Portu-
guese. Our ship had been built in Hong Kong and had
certainly never been outside the China seas: neverthe-
less she was registered at Trieste, had acquired a new
Italian name and had exchanged her Norwegian captain
for an Italian. The old captain remained on board,
however, and continued to navigate in the tricky
channels of the river mouths. He wore civilian clothes
and was, officially, a passenger.
Auden and Isherwood landed at Canton. When
they wanted to go north to see the fighting they sought
W. H. Donald’s advice. “Well,” said Donald, “I wish
you luck. But it’s a hard road, a hard road. You may
have to eat Chinese food." Donald himself, they
record, never touches the stuff ; “it ruins his stomach.”
It was the first comic-opera note in a comic-opera
journey. They met Agnes Smedley, “grim, sour and
passionate,” and met Chiang Kai-shek and his lady
and wondered if Chiang with his long record of
Communist suppression could ever form a permanent
alliance with his present helpers, and if Madame had
any real sympathy for the coolies or if she wanted
them merely to make the country safe for “a con-
tinuance of the rule of the ‘Soong Dynasty,’ the small
and all-powerful clan of bankers to which Madame
herself belongs.”
Travelling by a capricious Chinese train, meeting
bugs, coolies, refugees, soldiers, missionaries, a melan-
choly Japanese prisoner and an old Chinese woman
who told them where to find some bandits’ heads in
a ditch and, when the heads couldn’t be found, said
cheerfully “Oh, the dogs must have got them then,”
they managed at last to get to a front line some-
where away up country—and found themselves dis-
cussing The Testament of Beauty and beginning to
doubt if there were any Japanese in China. Then the
big guns began to go off, Jap aeroplanes came over
and they retired. It seemed that the Chinese would
soon be following them, for a Chinese officer in the
front line had said to them fatalistically, “Over there
are the lines to which we shall retreat.”
When they protested against such happy defeat-
ism, the officer had just smiled, as if they were children.
They came to the conclusion that it was impossible
for foreigners to estimate the Chinese military morale :
“The average Chinese soldier speaks of China’s
chances with an air of gentle depreciation, yet he is
ultimately confident, or, at least, hopeful.”
They were never able to “understand” the
Chinese. They met laughing gentlemen who thought
the whole war was a huge joke and the slaughter of
the coolies the biggest joke of all. They met the
angry gentleman who informed them that Britain was
so decadent that she had let the Germans occupy
Australia without firing a shot. They drank brandy
with Major Yang, and after a lot of brandy Major
Yang spoke to the interpreter and the interpreter trans-
lated, “Major Yang wishes to apologise. Major Yang
wishes to apologise for being alive.” The Major,
somewhat belatedly, was regretting not having stuck
it out at Shanghai. And when Auden and Isherwood
reached that city and met those who had stuck it out
—members of the “Doomed Battalion” who were in
hospital—they received the most disconcerting infor-
mation of all. Asked why they had joined the army, only
23 out of 140 patients gave patriotism as the reason ,
the same number had joined because of “family diffi-
culties” ; 36 for economic reasons ; 26 for economic
reasons plus admiration of a military career ; nine
because they were homeless and seven because they
wanted to suppress local bandits.
For good measure, Journey to a War has an
illuminating photographic section and a sonnet
sequence by Auden. Isherwood is Auden’s “Bozzy,”
and the progress of the poet’s constipation during the
long trek through war-torn China is recorded with
untiring devotion.
Brahms and His Symphonies.
The latest addition to the already fairly extensive
bibliography of Brahms is the work of the English
conductor-composer Julius Harrison. His Brahms and
His Four Symphonies (Chapman and Hall) is primarily
an appreciative analysis —“a detailed account of the
countless hidden beauties that lie, like pearls in the
ocean”—of the four great Brahmsian masterpieces, and
only incidentally biographical and critical. The greater
part of the work, therefore, is of interest mainly to the
theory-grounded musician.
But Mr. Harrison does contribute something to an
understanding of Brahms the man. It was as a young-
ster of 22 that Johannes was introduced to the Schu-
mann household. Robert Schumann was then in his
early forties, and already under the shadow that was
to envelop his few remaining years in tragedy. Harri-
son seems to hint that the affection which sprang up
between Brahms and Clara Schumann —a matter sedu-
lously eschewed by Schumann biographers—antedated
Robert’s death. However that may be, Clara and
Johannes corresponded in ardent terms for 30 years,
and both Robert and Clara must have influenced the
young musician.
But he was not the type that takes imprints readily.
After his first batch of compositions —strangely mature
for so young a composer —he put his work under criti-
cal review, found it unsatisfactory (all except the
“Variations on a Schumann Air” and the “Ballades”)
and decided that instead of being a romanticist he was
cut out to carry forward the classical school of Bach,
Handel, Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, beginning
where the last-named left off.
Brahms-idolators, Mr. Harrison among them,
claim that he fulfilled his self-imposed destiny. Other
commentators, Huneker most bluntly, saw him as a
sly old borrower of dead men’s brains. But none can
deny his mastery of orchestration and his consum-
mate technical skill as a composer. In habit he was
more a Haydn than a Beethoven, a comfortably stout,
bearded man, as fond of a good cigar as Schumann
was, and with a better head for beer. He liked lo
empty steins and argue at the Red Hedgehog when
not exploring the profundities of his own musical mind,
and his motto was “Frei aber froh” (“Free but glad”).
The notes F.A.F. are a characteristic Brahmsian hall-
mark (prolific in the Third Symphony). He detested
Wagner and despised Liszt in his musical mind, though
he appreciated the Abbe’s great generous heart readily
enough on the human side.
Despite his devotion to Clara Schumann, which
seems to have become with him as much a conven-
tional habit as his daily drill in counterpoint, Brahms
had as many flirtations as any other young man of his
class and period. Perhaps some of them have their
reflection in the lieder, those little chips from a great
master’s workshop that are loved by thousands who
find the symphonies and sonatas a too-difficult terrain.
In his most ambitious works Brahms never attained
that element of direct simplicity which sets the Man
of Bonn apart, but he clothed worthy ideas in magnifi-
cent garments. To a better understanding of what the
garments cover Mr. Harrison’s work is a valuable aid.
The "Little Man."
There are two fairytales that appear to give
perennial delight, the Cinderella-King Cophetua tale
of the poor girl who makes a rich and socially glorious
marriage; and the story of the youngest son, the third
prince, who, with everything against him, wins his
way to fame, fortune and love. The second is the
subject of Stephanie Landeis’s The Clerk (Chapman
and Hall). But she goes further. She takes Jack up
the hill and brings him down again, producing that
touch of sadness which also is acceptable.
Arnold Asterdown was a clerk in a firm of
jobbers, Sellers and Co., at four pounds a week. His
wife chivvied him at home, his son and daughter
treated him with impatient contempt, and the manager
at the office bullied him. A more dejected life it would
be hard to imagine ; but Asterdown, who was a fussy,
stupid, sensitive little man, had managed to corner a
little sweetness for himself with Emerald, the motherly
and ill-used wife of the local bus conductor. Things
just held together until one day Emerald’s husband
picked up an incriminating little notebook. Then
Asterdown really learned what trouble was. “It was
dreadful. He was so utterly in the wrong. No matter
what he said, he accentuated his guilt. It felt like
the end of the world.”
His wife, Chloris, went home to mother and
Emerald’s husband whisked her off to a safe distance,
In his misery Asterdown made a serious mistake at the
office and forgot to open a letter that had come for
him. When at last it was discovered it announced
that he had won £3OO in a football competition. An-
other jobber’s clerk, in the know, invested it for him
in African Asphalt. In a few weeks the stock was
booming on a report of diamonds in the vicinity,
Asterdown was worth thousands and, what gave him
greater satisfaction, he was in a position to rescue
his firm from the Stock Exchange hammer. His terms
were a partnership, a seat on ’Change and £15,000.
He was amazed by his own cleverness ; very happy
and very comic
Asterdown had been a corporal during the war in
a company in which Sellers, now his partner, had
been a private. The order was to shoot any man who
tried to desert. Sellers had tried, but Asterdown hadn t
shot. This had resulted in a job and a lifelong hatred.
vr nw A<;tprrlnwn bad the uDDer h&nd.
Mrs. Asterdown and the children returned and
helped spend the money with gusto. The usual adven-
turers appeared to cheat and blackmail the easy prey.
Asterdown was forced to realise that he hadn’t the
gift for operating on ’Change. Misfortune rushed
headlong upon him. Sellers got not only his revenge
but Asterdown’s young daughter. His wife died, and
before long he was down to nothing again, desperate
and unhinged. He waylaid Sellers in the office and,
picking up the old war incident after 20 years, shot
him to death. A few hours after, Asterdown died
himself in the arms of Emerald, who knew nothing
of his rise and fall. He had a flash of happiness at
the end.
In the handling this story is less trite than it
appears. There is more than a touch of real comedy
and pathos, and the picture of the badgered little man,
built up out of a multitude of details, rings true. The
story is perhaps a little ingenuous, too symmetrical, too
crowded. It was hardly necessary to introduce the
daughter’s seduction. Nor, for that matter, need the
Jewish friend have been called Mr. Frankincense.
A Clutch of Corpses.
The trouble with half a dozen new detective
novels is that none of them —though all kill time
pleasantly enough—shows any great ingenuity in kill-
ing its victim. Anyone who wants variety will sigh
for Dorothy Sayers’s lethal peal of bells, or the bullet
of ice, melting after its mission was accomplished,
used by another novelist with ideas.
In the tomes under review, in every case except
one, the cadaver has received its quietus by the ordi-
nary means —pistol, rope, poison or blade. And in
that one exception— Earth to Ashes, by Alan Brock
(Nicholson and Watson) —the author has followed a
famous English murder case of a few years back by
burning his victim to death in a stolen motor-car. Mr.
Brock fellows it so closely, indeed, that his story only
perverts the main facts of the Rouse case by dragging
in a second body whose presence is entirely unneces-
sary and unreasonable.
It purports to tell of the revenge of a convict,
one Charles Rhode, or of his son —or of his ghost —
upon a ferocious and unjust magistrate who had the
said John Rhode hanged at Hobart for a crime with
which the magistrate himself was closely associated.
But whether Charles Rhode got even by murdering
John Volney, or whether that unpleasant person was
murdered by someone else, or whether he was mur-
dered at all is not made clear; the greater portion of
the book is devoted to the mysterious activities of
somebody to keep the great-grandson of the deceased
magistrate out of his ancestral home. But here the
tale becomes so mixed up with chains and hidden
doors and pictures coming to life that one can only
liken the whole thing to the ancestral hall scene in
“Ruddigore,” without the latter’s music and humor.
As with all these overcreepified yarns, the spooks
evoke only laughter and the shudders fail to shud.
The Annulet of Gilt (Wm. Collins, Sons and Co.)
is an American mystery story by Phoebe Atwood
Taylor, whose detective, Asey Mayo, has already ap-
peared in at least two other stories. Miss Taylor cer-
tainly has a vivid imagination: an “exotic blonde,”
bloodstains, a strangled victim, plus a wandering ele-
phant. It is fairly interesting, but the whole thing is
incredible from start to finish. Some of the wise-
cracks are as good as the English is bad.
The three other thrillers are of a much higher
quality than those already discussed, both from a
literary and a story-telling point of view. The Strange
Crime in Bermuda, by Elizabeth Sanxay Holding
(Bodley Head), is excellent reading and excellent writ-
ing. It is, moreover, novel in theme and setting, and
the denouement is as unexpected as the crime. If it
is a first book, as it seems, her future output will be
worth watching. Strange scenes of native life and
superstition are well woven into the narrative ; and,
although the main situations take some swallowing,
their taste is attractive.
Death of the Doctor's Wife, by Whyte Hall
(Quality Press), which is apparently another first book,
conforms more to the usual run of crime novels' than
any of the previous four. It is, in some ways, remini-
scent of the famous Greenwood case, tried in Eng-
land in 1920 (the author refers to that case in the
course of his story), and it is written in a comparatively
calm, straightforward way that compares very favor-
ably with the shrieks and extravagances of The House
Is Haunted and The Annulet of Gilt. No murder is
committed until the very end, although the suspicion
of one and its apparent proof justify the actions of the
law in the earlier chapters.
Finally, Shot in the Pulpit, by S. M. Woodward
(Quality Press), may be summed up as a queer com-
pound of ingenuousness and realism. The style at
times is that of a beginner —almost of a child ; the
matter is sometimes most effectively handled and illus-
trated with graphic and gruesome passages. The
scene in which the murder is committed, or one or
two of them —for there is plenty of homicide before
the end —is quite novel. The parson was shot while
he was actually in the pulpit; he was merely wounded,
but the major crime is only postponed, for within a
few days he is found with his throat cut in the bap-
tistery of the church. One of the deacons * s a “*°
murdered, together with a young girl member of the
choir. The crimes are brought to light by a little out-
of-work printer who happens to be in the vicinity.
The local color should be correct; for the author
(who has published a number of other works of quite
a different nature) is himself a member of the Ameri-
can Baptist pastorate!
This House Is Haunted, by Roy Bridges (Hutchin-
son), is a medley of melodramatic eeriness and mod-
ernistic realism. It is an Australian story, the scenes
being laid firstly in Hobart and secondly in the
vicinity of Melbourne. The tale covers about 100
years, running from the bad old days of “the System”
to the present year.


-
■
I
I
Hi
' ’ :n-;
Mm
mu
* '
:' A
m
■H
n
m
i
B S
m
a
\
■
■
v < 1
/’■
m
■ j ■
§ m
\\mHmmim
\mm
m
■
■ ;£*
I 1 B
%Sss«
.
Wa
Hi
mm
||gS|||§i
■HMHHI
aHi
MBKBras:&-& - .aalßil
s
111
HIM
* —B
/(4, §f«*n |psr; ■ ■
-a *•' , 5 • i j /
1!
iIMMi
11B—
|®||j
Kg
lltlSllHll
W
m
w«
' I >•';_
MM ;
«|| ■ i
■
u
■ s
H 9
ifi:K;:Cv : f f
i * *'
7 O [/ aoi V J x
0F vuk. u -™» CBESS
. . Australia Weamate^
. i ia Amalgamated
i Atistraiia,
n f wireless m £ e very
• Pioneers ot Jevelopment ot
, l, ee n foremost in
Wireless has beer
l,„cl. ol tie i”<l«W-
v jg „u% Jl-e”-* 1 "" 1 “
* T 1" C °” P cO , wl ,c\,» «».,..«»>•
!»«“” 01 "" y „ ,„ meet p.«
. Public ,**» »«•*» Gu .„„ .„J fill •■»
, 1,1 including Papua,
ot the world, i«
lo ,iip.»”**- w „u .».««
. W ,«l«» teWlof* •“”“ <k „J bu,i«» ■“«>*"
Au . W lt-» “ “” Ve, “
abroad.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
y
One of the most famous landmarks of
London is losing its significance. The
Monument, for years and years an object
notably conspicuous in the skyline,
especially when crossing London Bridge
from the south side, gives promise of
being hidden ere long by many-storeyed
modern structures. Adelaide House, the
vast, unlovely, factory-like building which
now rears aloft on the east side where
London Bridge joins the Middlesex shore,
has in a great measure accomplished the
obliteration work, especially from the
situation just indicated. Thus The Monu-
ment in due time may be hidden by soar-
ing structures modern conditions of life
have brought into being. This is a pity
from the assthetical and historical points
of view. Of course, The Monument, even
if “obliterated frbm the skyline,” will
always remain one of the most interest-
ing memorials in London, even if the
visitor of the future has to locate it by
the aid of street plans. It is a column
designed by Wren, and such monuments
in London to commemorate great events
and great persons are only three in num-
ber. This monument is a notable achieve-
ment of art and of the genius of its de-
signer. It stands on the site where stood
the ancient Church of St. Margaret’s
before the Great Fire of London (1666)
in Fish Street Hill, and some 200 feet
from the house in Pudding Lane where
the disastrous conflagration started, to
end, curiously enough, at Pye Corner.
It is a fluted column of the Doric order,
erected in commemoration of the fire
and rebuilding of the city and its public
edifices. The column stands on a Palla-
dian pedestal 21 feet square, the plinth
being 27 feet. Its entire height from the
pavement is 202 feet, and at the time it
was erected was not only the highest but
also the finest isolated column in the
world. It contains a staircase of 345
steps ; on the abacus is a balcony encom-
passing a moulded cylinder which sup-
ports a blazing urn of gilt bronze 42 feet
in height. The basso relievo on the west
side, or front of the pedestal, represent-
ing the King affording protection to the
desolated city, and freedom to its re-
builders, inhabitants, etc., was sculptured
by Cibber, and the four dragons at the
four angles by Pierce. The north side
of the pedestal describes in Latin the
burning of the Metropolis, on the south
side its restoration, and the east the years
it was erecting, 1671-77, and the persons
responsible for the work. A century or
less ago, before adequate protection was
installed in 1842, its summit was a
favorite “jumping-off place” for suicides.
The inscription which formerly ran
around the plinth was not only histori-
cally incorrect but extremely offensive to
THE MONUENT.
citizens of the Roman Catholic faith, and was removed in 1831. Pope’s famed poetic protest is familiar to us all. The Great Fire raged four
days, destroying 89 churches, with St. Paul’s Cathedral, the City Gates, the Exchange, Custom House, Guildhall, Zion College and many other
public buildings, also 13,200 houses and 400 streets. The Monument is still one of the sights of, London, and its summit may be visited on payment
of a small fee. The climbing of the 345 steps is,'however, not an ordeal willingly faced by most.


WRECKED ON A BALTIC BAR.
According to the Estonian Foreign Minister, the Baltic States would regard any guarantee as an act of aggression.
“No; we won’t come under that umbrella. We’ll fight first.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.O.),
Wellington.
Londqn : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on. the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE PRESS: ANNUAL DEFENCE.
This year’s annual defence of the press—nowadays
the main business of presidential addresses at Aus-
tralian newspaper conferences —was delivered in Bris-
bane by Mr. Lloyd Dumas, of Adelaide. Mr. Dumas
dismissed as a “fantastic delusion” the “notion that
newspapers manufacture or exaggerate crises for
their own profit.” He admitted that, “with censorship
and propaganda seeking jointly to confuse the world, it
is inevitable that false news and false impressions will
sometimes seep through.”
But the great mass of Australians know that in the
press of this country they are getting a picture of
events, both at home and abroad, as fair and objective
as is obtainable anywhere in the world.
That could be true without amounting to much.
It could mean no more than that Australians are no
worse off, and no better off, than people of other
countries. But if Mr. Dumas cares to come out
from behind the barricades, he should soon learn that
“the great mass of Australians” do not share his evi-
dent confidence in newspapers —cable columns parti-
cularly—providing a “picture of events” that is “fair
and objective,” or anything like it. How could they,
with the press performance what it has been over the
past few years? And how can they for the future,
when it is evident, both from utterances in its de-
fence and from its continued performance, that the
same daily press which has been bowled out time after
time for trafficking in tendentious and false report,
speculation served up as fact, sensationalism and
scaremongering, not only remains impenitent, but is
prepared to argue its innocence?
Its champions should consult their files, and be
as well-informed as their readers. Of course there
have been manufacturing and exaggerating, and not
only of crises. Over the past five years The Bulletin,
having some regard for journalistic honesty and some
interest in the maintenance of a free press, has been
impelled a score or more times to direct attention to
specific instances of falsification and exaggeration.
It is not here suggested that during last September
—when the crisis did not need to be manufactured
or even much exaggerated —and since then the state of
world affairs has not been pretty rocky. But the files
will show that scaremongering did not begin last
September. A difference was that preceding crises
were false; they were manufactured or exaggerated
products. And if the newspapers trading in them in-
credibly made no profit out of the traffic, they did not
have that on their own. Australian woolgrowers, for
example, also made no profit; on the contrary, War
Scares Buyers Off Merino Wool” was a double-column
heading in Brisbane’s morning daily on the very day
Mr. Dumas was there addressing his press colleagues.
Certainly daily newspapers have recently had
some backing for the flights of fancy in cable columns,
but it was as far back as three years ago that The
Bulletin suggested to them that they had only to
keep on predicting the impending outbreak of world
war long enough and in time they would possibly
bring it off. In all these years the world has once
been within a matter of hours of the horrible catas-
trophe of war, and then partly sane statesmanship,
but much more the dismay of the general run of
people, averted the plunge.
Mr. Dumas declares that “a free press is democ-
racy’s first bulwark, and eternal vigilance is the price
of its maintenance,” and he is right. There is no
vigilance about then doing the ostrich act, and seek-
ing to dismiss all criticism of the press as attempts to
end its freedom. Much of the criticism—and there is
an increasing volume of it —comes from journalists
who would fight control to the last ditch. It was not
Herr Hitler but the president at a journalists’ confer-
ence in England who predicted that unless the press
itself put a stop to its own gross abuses some measure
of control was certain. It was not, Mr. Dumas, a
member of the last Federal Government, “anxious to
assume the robes of a dictator and tell the public
what it may or may not read,” but Mr. Sisley Huddle-
ston, a practising journalist and foreign correspondent
of world-wide reputation, who lately wrote:
It seems to me that, until the new craze for
“ideologies” came in a few years ago, there was an
honest attempt to supply news as distinct from sensa-
tion and propaganda, one-sided reports and downright
lies that to-day appal an old hand like myself.
Mr. Huddleston added:
With regard to the Spanish civil war, there was no
attempt to conceal the propagandist character of the
news that was circulated. I should have thought that
any trained mind would have detected the glaring fa se
hoods that were daily printed; they were contradictory,
incoherent and incredible. I confess I was at a loss to
reconcile my belief in the honesty and intelligence of
the press with the gullibility and recklessness of its
undiscriminating publication of obvious lies. There
was no need for investigation on the spot to discover
their falsity—their inherent rottenness was apparent.
Another English journalist—Mr. Vincent Wright
—exposing the sort of “fair and objective presenta-
tion of events which Australia, through cables, has
enjoyed along with England:
The Propaganda Bureau at Madrid, Valencia and
Barcelona was openly controlled by the international
Communists under Russian-trained publicists, and this
bureau controlled the whole output of news for internal
as well as for foreign consumption. No news left
Republican Spain unless authorised by the bureau.
Correspondents not known or not thought to conform
to Red ideology were not admitted; those not amenable
were driven out. Our Spanish correspondence was a
historical disgrace. A completely false impression was
created of wholesale murder and terrorism, not in
Government Spain, where the worst conceivable perse-
cutions .and bloodshed were taking place, but in
Nationalist Spain, where hundreds of first-hand witnesses
were crying in vain to give their evidence that the whole
campaign was a gigantic and cynical imposture. To
them our press was virtually closed. Not one paper
could be found with a clean record. Not until wider
experience of the truth made it impossible to keep up
the fictitious picture were there admissions of the
Russian and international intervention, which had been
the backbone of the Republican Government, above all
that of the French, concerning which there was a
conspiracy of silence until the war had been in progress
for nearly two years.
One leading Australian newspaper refuses to make
such admissions even now.
Mr. Wright wants to know—perhaps Mr. Dumas
can tell him:
What kind of public opinion is likely to be formed
where this kind of daily “news” is the only informa-
tion for most of the population of this country—where
these “facts” are the facts upon which the public has
to form its judgment? How can it express any judg-
ment on foreign affairs or on political issues?
But apparently the press through its champions
prefers to ignore this sort of criticism, even though it
is journalists, jealous of the freedom of the press and
regardful of their profession’s repute, who are giving
voice to it. Would, for instance, Mr. Dumas or any
other journalist of sense contend that there is any-
body in their profession in this country who does not
regard the long-since-exploded oracle Madame
Tabouis as a journalistic joke? Yet if Mr. Dumas will
turn to last week’s files he will there still find this
“well-known diplomatic correspondent” served up by
“S. M. Herald” and her say-so that “only 12 p.c.” of
Germans have returned to Germany from Spain, “and
even these will be sent back to Spain —in mufti,”
given preference in prominent display over the official
announcement that “the Spanish Government has in-
formed France that all foreign troops have now left
Spain.”
In the face of this sort of common practice can
Mr. Dumas or anybody else hope to uphold the con-
tention that Australians are getting a “fair and ob-
jective” picture of events?
It is not here suggested that the state of world
affairs has not drifted badly. But without minimising
the dangers, and without abating the belief that if
negotiation with other countries is henceforth to be
regarded as impracticable, while at the same time all
the ruinous expenditure on armaments must continue,
then the future of peace is rocky indeed, the fact still
stands that the much-defended press has predicted war
as inevitable time out of number, and has not yet suc-
ceeded in bringing it off, though sections of this press
have done their utmost in the way of inflammatory
writing and tendentious reporting. When it can no
longer be said that criticism such as that voiced by
Mr. Huddleston, Mr. Wright and other journalists is
only too plainly justified in every detail, or when an-
other crisis occurs, and the press comes out as a body
and declares for peace, then there will be some ground
for a defence.
Churchill: A Study.
“I am unable to understand the objection to making
an agreement with Russia on the broad and simple plan
that the Soviet proposes. Why shrink from becoming an
ally of Russia now, when by that very fact we might prevent
war? The massive and solid backing of a friendly Russia
.... the indispensable aid of Russia.... ” Mr. Winston
Churchill in the House of Commons on May 20.
The same Mr. Winston Churchill is described by Mr.
Lloyd George in his Truth About the Peace Treaties
as having, when he was Mr. Lloyd George s War
Secretary (1919-21), been “the most formidable and
irrepressible protagonist of an anti-Bolshevik war.”
And the then Prime Minister explains why the present
enthusiast for Soviet Russia was anti-Bolshevik then.
He had no doubt a genuine distaste for Communism.
He was horrified, as we all were, at the savage murder
of the Tsar, the Tsarina and their helpless children.
His ducal blood revolted against the wholesale elimina-
tion of Grand Dukes.
On the last day of 1918 Mr. Churchill unfolded
his plan for a new war at a meeting of the Imperial
War Cabinet, Mr. W. M. Hughes—very unsym-
pathetic—being among those present. Mr. Lloyd
George gives a brief account of the Churchillian
speech:
He was in favor of joint action by the five great
Powers. Bolshevism in Russia represented a mere
fraction of the population and would be exposed and
swept away by a general election [Russian, of course],
held under Allied auspices In a few months we
should find ourselves compelled to gather our armies
again and summon the Peace Conference anew in order
to deal with the situation.
The Imperial War Cabinet was not impressed. Mr.
Hughes, for his part, was in favor of complete with-
drawal from Russia. Asked whether the Australian
Government would send troops to that country, he
replied most decidedly that the Australian Government
would not. But the hero of the battle of Sidney-street
was not undismayed.
Mr. Churchill threw the whole weight of his dynamic
energy into organising an armed intervention against
the Russian Bolshevik power He very adroitly
seized the opportunity created by the absence of
President Wilson and myself [the President had re-
turned for a time to the U.S.A.] to go over to Paris
and urge his plans with regard to Russia.
For that kind of thing Mr. Churchill had become
notorious. Lord Esher, writing in his Journals and
Letters of Mr. Churchill’s Antwerp fiasco, records
that Mr. Churchill “went straight off to Antwerp,
where he delivered his famous harangue”—it somehow
failed to hold up the German army—“and it then
dawned on him that he had pledged the Government
without authority.” At the time he was First Lord of
the Admiralty, so he had no business interfering in
army affairs.
But he made a nuisance of himself in France as
well as Belgium. Wrote Lord Esher:
Churchill’s visits to General Headquarters are a
deep-seated cause of trouble. He goes over very fre-
quently from London and discusses matters with Sir
John French which should be, and are, exclusively
within the sphere of Lord Kitchener.
At the same time the restless meddler, as Lord Fisher
confided to Lord Esher, was making it “impossible”
for that naval genius “to stay any longer at the Admir-
alty.” Lord Fisher “had disapproved of the Dardan-
elles operations from the beginning.” He had “always
held that the passage of the Dardanelles was a highly
dangerous and almost indeed impossible operation, and
any chances of success were eliminated by the action
of March 17.” Nevertheless, he said,
Churchill is sending everything upon which he can
lay his hands to the Dardanelles, and denuding the
Grand Fleet and our Home Defences The Grand
Fleet has been dangerously weakened; in fact, the
whole margin of preponderance over the Germans has
been sent to the Near East. We have a naval force
in the Dardanelles stronger than the German High Seas
Fleet.
“Beside all this very grave difference of view in matters
of high strategy,” Lord Esher noted, Fisher com-
plained of “Churchill’s methods of corresponding with
the Admirals in the Mediterranean. Nothing would
induce him to remain any longer at the Admiralty.
Churchill had already asked Sir Arthur Wilson to
accept the office of First Sea Lord.” That was in
May, 1915. Fisher resigned that month. The Con-
servatives of the Coalition refusing to have Mr.
Churchill as First Lord, he was retired for a brief space
to the innocuous post of Chancellor of the Duchy of
Lancaster. Two years later, being by that time an
army major whose duties in France permitted him to
make frequent appearances in the House of Commons,
he bobbed up in that Chamber to demand that Fisher
should be recalled to the Admiralty.
Lord Riddell, who was in Mr. Lloyd George’s
confidence throughout the negotiations for peace, is a
witness to Mr. Churchill’s passion for the war against
Soviet Russia. An entry in his Diary of the Peace
Conference, and After, dated January 26, 1919, reads:
“Winston spoke much against the Bolsheviks, against
whom he is very bitter. He would like military inter-
vention in Russia.” And Lord Riddell records a
remark of Mr. Lloyd George: “While we were in
Paris, Winston was very excited about Russia. He
was most insistent, and prepared to sacrifice both
men and money.” Mr. Lloyd George himself has
preserved Mr. Churchill’s memorandum to the Peace
Conference. One extract:
We are helping the anti-Bolshevik forces of Russia
against the Bolsheviks, and with our help their position
is rapidly improving.
“Rapidly improving”! The gentleman clung to this
belief for as long as it was possible for a politician
of his nature to cling to any belief or set of beliefs.
While it dominated his mind he dreamed of descend-
ing on Denikin’s headquarters and placing his mili-
tary genius at the service of that general. He even
toyed with the idea of enlisting Germany in his Grand
Alliance. He was overborne; the Imperial War
Cabinet and the Peace Conference vetoed the whole
fantastic business. But some British blood was spilt
and vast British treasure was lost in backing the
armed mobs of Denikin, Koltchak and Wrangel, mobs
whose methods of warfare were as savage as those
of the Bolsheviks. And by enabling the Bolsheviks
to appeal to Russian patriots to rise and expel the
proteges of foreigners, bent on restoring the old
regime, this British support for the Whites helped
materially to establish Bolshevik supremacy.
And now Mr. Churchill is hot for an alliance
with the Reds whom he wanted to fight 20 years ago,
and whose system he denounced as “horrible and
whose leaders as assassins. What faith can these
Dominions —which will never forget how their best
blood was sacrificed in Gallipoli, because Mr.
Churchill “planned” it—have in the sagacity of sued
a person? Lord Fisher, whom they remember witn
gratitude for the lightning stroke which shattered
Von Spee’s squadron, said Mr. Churchill “has a di -
ferent scheme every day.” As Foch remarked o
Mr. Lloyd George, who backed the Greeks agams
the Turks, Mr. Churchill “changes his opinions as
he changes his shirt.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Turning Away from Moscow.
People with short memories have asked The
Bulletin why it put that “Shaking Hands with
Murder” heading over an article objecting to a British
alliance with Soviet Russia. It was a polite reminder
to British Tories and their imitators in Australia of
the cry they raised when it was proposed merely to
trade with the Moscow Reds and the dumb, driven
cattle they lorded it over. Some of the loudest and
most persistent criers have of recent weeks been
equally vociferous in demanding an alliance with the
unwilling Bolshies —unwilling because they are scared.
They and their queer allies of the Labor and Liberal
parties, whose capacity for eating dirt is evidently as
vast, are ready to concede whatever terms Stalin and
his pals choose to impose.
Mr. Chamberlain is made of different stuff. Lord
Halifax also is not prepared to sacrifice pride of race
and country to the alleged necessities of a situation
which the dirt-eaters have done so much to bring
about.
Knowing that the Baltic States objected to being
guaranteed, Moscow demanded that guarantees should
be thrust upon them. The reply of the Estonian
Foreign Minister was that “if any great Power, with-
out our request, assumes the role of our defender,
either as representative of a collective system or to
defend its own Baltic interests, such assistance will
be regarded as aggression,” and against such aggres-
sion “the Baltic States are prepared to fight with all
their forces.” Estonia and Latvia thereupon signed
non-aggression pacts with Germany.
There was never any doubt about the attitude
of Finland. The Finns won’t even allow Communists
in their territory. Because Finland is the one country
which is paying its interest to the U.S.A., the Finns
are regarded with special favor by the Americans and
to force a guarantee on them would impair the fine
impression made by the visit of th£ King and Queen
to Washington and New York. So the Chamberlain
Government has to be very careful about Finland. It
has to be even more careful about Spain and Portugal.
A Russian alliance of the sort demanded by the
Churchills, Duff Coopers, “News-Chronicles” and
“S. M. Heralds” would be bitterly—and in Spain dan-
gerously—resented by those countries.
Molotov and Potemkin refused to go to Geneva
to see Lord Halifax. Lord Halifax refuses to go to
Moscow to see Molotov and Potemkin. With regard
to the Baltic States he said, “We have never attempted
and we would not think it right to thrust assurances
upon countries which do not want them, or to take
any steps which might compromise in other quarters
the relations of those countries.” He went on to say
that “the British people still earnestly desire, if pos-
sible, to reach an understanding with Germany.” Mr.
Chamberlain, for his part, reiterated that “it is still our
firm desire that our two peoples shall never go to war
with one another again,” and that “we do not desire
to enter into unbridled competition with Germany
either in armaments or economics.”
This is all to the good. Hitherto Australians have
been led to suppose that there was no opposition in
Britain to a Russian alliance. At the week-end
they were permitted to learn that there is opposition,
and that it had been powerfully voiced by Sir Francis
Lindley, a former Consul-General at Moscow, in a
speech to the foreign-affairs committee of Conserva-
tive Commoners. Alliance with Russia would at best
be armed neutrality for an indefinite period with an
indefinite increase in armaments. The alternative is
peace by negotiation. War or no war, it must come
to that in the end. It remains the solemn duty of
those charged with the destinies of nations, and of
those concerned in the moulding of opinion, to strive
for a negotiated peace, whatever grudges are felt
because mad and bad things have been said and done.
Ogilvie Follows Lyons.
Albert George Ogilvie became one of the State
Labor members for Franklin (Tas.) in 1919, when
Joseph Aloysius Lyons, himself elected in 1909, was
leader of the Opposition. Four years later, at 32,
Ogilvie was Lyons’s Attorney-General. In 1927, cir-
cumstances occurred which necessitated his retirement
from the Ministry, but his electorate returned him
in 1928, while rejecting the Government, and that
same year, Lyons having decided to enter Common-
wealth politics, Ogilvie became leader of the Opposi-
tion. In that position he remained while his former
chief became Federal member for Wilmot and Labor
Postmaster-General (1929-31), leader of the Opposi-
tion and of the U.A.P. (1931), Prime Minister and
Treasurer (1932), entering upon a term of seven years.
Ogilvie’s own opportunity came in 1934, when
his party triumphed at the polls. In the Ministry he
formed his brother Eric was named Attorney-General.
Active and enthusiastic, he did considerable things
for Tasmania, and in 1937 the electors gave his Ad-
ministration another lease of office, approving also
of his five-year-Parliaments plan. And his influence
in his native State and his untiring work as cam-
paigner were largely instrumental in Labor’s capture
of three seats in the Senate and four of the five seats
in the House of Representatives, closing with the wrest-
ing of Wilmot from the U.A.P. in the by-election held
on May 27.
Death came to Lyons on April 7, and on June
10 Ogilvie was struck down as suddenly. In each case
an overburdened heart failed. Never before has Tas-
mania suffered such a dual loss, and the loss is shared
by the nation. Had he been spared Ogilvie could
have remained Premier for nearly another four years
at least. He could have become Chief Justice of Tas-
mania. He might have been Prime Minister. In the
last year of his all-too-short life he devoted himself
to the cause of national training, and the party he
led so ably could honor his memory in no more fit-
ting way than to take up that unfinished task and
see it through to the consummation he was fated not
to witness.
A Wool Bonus ?
The Australian wool season has virtually ended, and
the cheque for 11 months’ sales of 2,733,000 bales has
been £36,238,000. During the corresponding period of
last year, 2,582,500 bales brought £41,147,742. The
average has fallen from 12.8 d. per pound to 10.6 d. A
fair summary of the situation is that, except in dis-
tricts growing very high-grade wool under exception-
ally favorable conditions, the price has been at best
enough to meet expenses; at worst, seriously
unpayable.
Districts such as Central and North-western
Queensland and North Westralia have experienced
the decline in prices at a time when they were also
experiencing severe losses of sheep. Even when wool
prices have been high, substantial profits have been
needed to make up for depletion of stock. North
Westralian graziers have had a particularly rough spin,
and bitterly object to profits being taxed before they
have got over their losses.
Every graziers’ body in Australia is busy on the
problem of prices. The executive of the Graziers’
Federal Council has carried a resolution which states
that, “in view of the declining ability of British and
foreign markets to absorb wool” —not evident in this
year’s purchases—a “policy of balanced economy for
the grazing industry will be essential,” and that “the
industry will need a subsidy on export wool and meat.”
All graziers do not approve of the subsidy scheme.
Even its advocates are not enthusiastic about it, recog-
nising the disadvantages and the difficulty of arriving
at a basis fair to growers in six States. Neither is it
certain that by the time such a basis was arrived at
prices would not have soared again.
Wool seems to have ceased to depend on any
statistical laws or on the law of supply and demand.
In a market in which prices could rise from B.Bd. in
1932-33 to 16.2 d. in 1933-34, fall back to 9.9 d. in
1934-35, rise again to 16.8 d. in 1936-37, fall to 12.8 d.
next year —with a threat of shortage on the horizon
through increasing drought—and drop another 2.2 d.
with drought a fact, and with demand increasing in
1938-39, anything might happen.
What is needed is a payable price, paid steadily
so that the industry can budget ahead. That, no sub-
sidy scheme can provide, but the subsidy cry, together
with the very palpable effects of the price-slump in
Australia and overseas, will force politicians and
others to realise that the state of the industry, still
of supreme importance, and hitherto scourged with
terrific taxes and freight-rates, has become a chal-
lenge to statesmanship.
The Shanghai Outrage.
“Feng-Shui” : For the first time in history, anti-
foreignism in China has taken the form of the
bayoneting to death of a Briton in Shanghai by a
Japanese soldier. He was a Great War veteran em-
ployed in a British-owned mill, and on the face of
it —even if, as reported, he struck the first blow —
he was the victim of a barbarous outrage. It is a
most serious matter, and a complete reversal of
tradition.
The Japanese used to share with Europeans in
China the common xenophobia of the native which
has existed from time immemorial. As they became
more and more aggressive the Chinaman came to
regard the white man as his friend and the brown man
as his common enemy, though Chinese children con-
tinue to use the term “fankwei” (foreign devil) —as a
term of endearment. Chinese hatred of the Japanese
came about through perfectly natural causes. The
moment the Japanese laid claim to being the pre-
destined race, predestined to save Asia for the Asiatic,
they aroused the bitterest resentment in China.
Nobody thought it was anything else but a cloak
for Japanese commercial and political expansion.
Europeans, missionaries excepted, never went to
China for anything but business, and missionaries’
claims to being the saviours of China’s soul made
many of them the most hated white men in the
country. As another kind of missionary, Japan has
built up a mountain of hate which will last for cen-
turies, the Chinese having longish memories.
Does "A" Stand for "Austrian"?
Peter Dawson, a singer with an international repu-
tation and a good Australian, is back in his native
country under engagement to Greater Union Theatres.
A.B.C. could have had the contract, but A.B.C. pre-
fers foreigners. Although it negotiated with Mr.
Dawson, it tried to impose terms from which
foreigners are exempt.
As the public has learned from the bitter com-
plaints of Mr. Tauber and Madame Lehmann, singers
object to long winter journeys by rail. Mr. Dawson’s
throat is as valuable to him as the throats of those
singers are to them, but A.B.C. insisted that he should
make long inland journeys which it has not asked
them to make. “It would have been too strenuous,”
Mr. Dawson points out; “and then the tour would
have begun before Easter, which is a bad time for
concerts.” He proposed a 1940 contract, but the
Commission replied that its 1940 programme was full.
Mr. Dawson was a Digger, and he has been
generous to Diggers who have not been fortunate; so
Diggers have read with considerable resentment his
statement of a sequel to the breakdown in negotia-
tions —“a member of the Commission told a news-
paper that the Commission did not want Peter Dawson
on any terms in 1940 or any other year.”
But Miss Marjorie Lawrence’s experience has been
worse than Mr. Dawson’s. Since the young Melba
established herself abroad, no Australian soprano has
made a greater name for herself in the U.S.A. than
Miss Lawrence ; and last year it was arranged that
she should return to Victoria and sing at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall this July. Dates were booked by
her manager, Mr. Longden. Months after these book-
ings were made, A.B.C. came along and booked dates
for the same week for its Mr. Schnabel.
In the result there will be Lawrence concerts and
Schnabel concerts every night in the week, and that
will be more than even Melbourne can stand. A.B.C.
can put up with the certain loss, for it lives on the
proceeds of an excessive impost and doesn’t have to
pay income-tax. The Australian girl is not in this
position, and her venture in the capital of her native
State is bound to suffer as a result of methods which
recall the worst traditions of the cheapest sort of
barnstormers.
Perhaps A.B.C. stands for “Austrian” Broadcast-
ing Commission.
The Need for Electoral Reform.
The U.A.P. candidate for Griffith (Q.), declared the
loser by eight votes in a poll of 55,572, after the ballot-
papers had been counted twice, is appealing. The
first count showed that he was 18 votes down. After
this had been announced several ballot-papers arrived
from distant parts, and jn the re-examination others
were found in the wrong bundles.
Whatever the result of the appeal, there is an
overwhelming case for electoral reform. The Govern-
ment should find time for it this year, even if it has
to make members sit longer—hitherto considered a
grievance at Canberra, especially in the winter.
Commonwealth elections are too long-drawn-out.
It always takes days, and often weeks, for candidates
to learn their fate ; and this is too great a strain on
the worrying kind. It has been the cause of break-
downs, and conceivably of at least one death of an
elected member before he could take his seat.
The absent-voting provision is largely to blame.
Section 113 (1) says:
An elector shall be entitled to vote at any prescribed
polling-place for the subdivision for which he is en-
rolled, or he shall be permitted to vote at any other
polling place within the State for which he is enrolled
and for which a polling-booth is open.
So he (or she) may vote in a polling-booth 100, 500
or 1000 miles from his last place of abode. Ninety-
nine times out of a hundred he (or she) is a total
stranger to the deputy returning officer, and there is
no real check on his (or her) honesty. No statutory
declaration is required.
While the first count of Griffith votes was proceed-
ing an A.L.P. leader was reported to have said that
“more than 500 men had in recent months gone from
the electorate to work in the country under the Gov-
ernment’s re-employment plan,” and that “many others
had gone north to work in the sugar and other indus-
tries.”
He did not know whether these men had recorded
absent votes, .as they were entitled to do, but if a
reasonable proportion had done so they might be a big
factor in deciding the election in favor of Alderman
Conelan.
But Section 39 says: “An elector shall not be entitled
to vote as an elector of the division in respect of which
he is enrolled unless his real place of living was at
some time within three months immediately preceding
polling-day within that division.” If he shifts to
another electorate, a month’s residence qualifies, and
it is an offence punishable with fines (10s. for a first
transgression and £2 for any subsequent one) if trans-
fer of enrolment is not made after the expiration of
another 21 days. So it is questionable whether a lot
of the workers mentioned by the A.L.P. leader were
really entitled to vote for Griffith.
Before absent-voting was thought of, migratory
workers and other people unavoidably absent from
their subdivisions or electorates on polling-day could
vote by post; and they still can. Section 85 ( b )
enables “an elector who will not throughout the hours
of polling on polling-day be within five miles by the
nearest practicable route of any polling-booth open
in the State for which he is enrolled” to “make appli-
cation for a postal-vote certificate and postal ballot-
paper.” The same privilege is conferred on persons
contemplating absence from their States and on others
“seriously ill or infirm.” In these cases there are
real checks. The applicant has to state his (or her)
grounds in writing, and get his application witnessed,
and applications must be in “before six o’clock in the
afternoon of the day immediately preceding polling-
day.” And the penalty for false statement, false wit-
ness or undue persuasion is £5O or a month. Elec-
tors not enrolled may apply for “section” votes, but
here also there are elaborate checks, and the number
of section votes admitted is few.
For every postal vote recorded there are at least
twice as many absent votes, generally more. In little
Tasmania, of 128,679 votes counted at the 1937 elec-
tion, 3520 were postal and 7464 absent.
With little amplification, the postal-voting clauses
would provide for all legitimate cases of unavoidable
absence or infirmity. As things are, absent-voting
unduly prolongs elections, and may, if hanky-panky is
introduced —and there is really nothing to prevent it—
defeat the will of the majority.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“I got this idea off that Zane Grey bloke”
“Hornyhand”: Winter is on us, and
it’s rather less of a joke being out of a
job in Sydney than it was six months
ago. But I’m glad to see some people are
enjoying themselves. Hunting through
the “S.M.H.” for its (to me) most inter-
esting item —the bit headed “The Call-
up”—l waded through the “social sup-
plement,” which leads off with a page of
photographs showing the upper classes
feasting. Fifteen young things are
quaffing wine at one of the most ex-
pensive restaurants. They’re all in even-
ing dress, and the picture is a flashlight,
so I suppose it happened well after 6
p.in. If a working man were found
drinking in a William-street eatery at
that hour the cops would have him in a
Black Maria before you could say knife.
Then there are pictures of other young
sprigs of the new nobility at the “open-
ing of the luncheon season” of a joint
which has figured in sly-grog cases.
Apparently, even in the law-abiding
eyes of Granny, it’s an honor to be found
on the premises. There’s another picture
of four girls inspecting an elaborate
cake which took the chef of another ex-
pensive restaurant three weeks to make,
and which probably cost as much as a
relief-worker will earn right through this
winter. Yes, Sydney’s a nice place for
rich men’s children who don’t have to
work, but not so pleasant for older people
who can’t get work.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Like other
patriotic Australians, I resent the infernal
cheek of Hahllywood’s “Say, bo, that
Austrahlian accent fair sure is the owl’s
bowels.” Apart from a spot of Cockney
and the Yank-negroisms of talkie years.
I’ve never been able to detect much more
than a tendency to speak with too-closed
lips, at least on the mainland. But an
argument between two lads at Hobart —
beg pardon, “ ’Obut” locally—has con-
vinced me that the Speck has verbal
ways of its own. One had waited for
the other to come across in the Bellerive
ferry, and he arrived a trip late. “Yer-
sedd boat wuz foi’ foi’,” he accused his
cobber. “Diddun, tuljer foi’.” “Foi’
foi’, y’ tullme.” “Tellyer tuljer foi’.
Looket toimetible!” Illumination came
from the timetable—it had recently
a it ere( j th e sailing time from 5-5 to 5 p.m.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Australian baritone Peter
Dawson told a Melbourne interviewer
that the radio had made such inroads
intQ profession that singers the world
over were facing a blackout, and young
Australian singers, unless they had ex-
optional qualifications should forget
about warbling as a profession. But does
Mr. Dawson forget that when he was a
very young baritone people said that Mr.
Edison’s invention of the phonograph
would make such inroads on the pro-
fession that singers were in for a bleak
time. It wasn t bleak for Peter Dawson
whose name is now on some millions of
records.
**. * .
D.F. : There is something curious
about the Commonwealth s abolition of
passports. From July 1, according to a
just-issued proclamation, citizens can
leave Australia without having a pass-
port. Presumably this means that out-
siders can also come in without one. If
not, it simply means helping the passport
industry overseas at the expense of local
enterprise. This view is supported by the
semi-official warning that, though out-
going travellers are under no compulsion
to have passports, they would be wise to
secure them before they go, in order to
facilitate their return to Australia. But
if one needs them to return to Australia,
what is the point of letting people go
out without them? There is no sign that
other countries have abolished passports.
This is a matter in which one-sided action
is of little use.
* # * *
“Tuart”: Protestant Labor parties, eh?
There is none in the city that I know
best, but one of its long-distance politi-
cians got his issue without one. A
Protestant from Caledonia stern and wild,
he married late in life for the second
time, the ceremony being performed in
the R.C. church attended by the bride.
The bridegroom, cased in kilts, was played
into the sacred edifice by pipers, and,
though it was not in his electorate, con-
stituents were present in force, ladies
predominating. The happy pair went
abroad for their honeymoon, returning
in time to admit of the kilted laird celebrat-
ing the twenty-fifth anniversary of his
election to Parliament by getting in again
and perhaps ascending to the Ministry.
It didn’t work out that way. The masterly
speeches McFoozle prepared were wasted
on the free and enlightened. Gents
scowled at him and ladies sniffed. And
when the numbers went up the hero of
eight elections was a bad third in a field
of three.
* * * *
“F.S.”: If Dr. Flowers, the English
pedant, thinks that ultra-violet rays
directed on three pages of manuscript
allegedly written by Shakspeare will settle
once for all the Shakspeare-Bacon con-
troversy, he knows nothing about your
true Baconian. If Bacon himself came
back from the shades in person and
swore with hand on heart that he
couldn’t have written the plays and ad-
duced as proof the inferiority of his own
poetry to the Bard’s splendid verses, the
Baconians would not give up their quaint
obsession. The only argument that has
ever convinced a Baconian is one I used
on a member of the fraternity in Mel-
bourne. I said that if Bacon wrote
Shakspeare, then Bacon was Shakspeare.
This convinced the Baconian that I must
be madder than he was.
* * * *
“S.V.”: The deaf and dumb of Aus-
tralia who need it will soon have a
graphic textbook for learning the silent
alphabet as well as the ingenious short-
hand with which good “speakers” com-
municate with one another. Photographs
are being taken of the expressive hands
of E. J. D. Abraham, chief of the Adult
Deaf and Dumb Society. There will be
1500 of these illustrations, and they will
be printed and issued.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne’s Chinatown
has become respectable, and now leaders
of Toorak society can meet on the same
platform with leaders of Little Bourke
society on a footing of equality and
common hatred of the Japanese aggres-
sor. But time was when this inter-
national cement was missing, and Little
Bourke was such a terra incognita to the
average Melburnian that even foot-
binding could have been the fashion there
without the public knowing anything
about it. Actually it was never the
fashion, but there was at least one case
in which a well-meaning, if conservative,
Chinese mother provided her girl baby
with this necessary aid to getting a
Chinese husband. Little Bourke was
shaken to its foundations when it heard
of the old lady’s intention, and the elders
gathered at her home and tried to con-
vince her that Australian conditions
were different. All the old lady did was
to shake her head incredulously and trot
out to the shed where the child was kept
so that its cries, when the bandages were
tightened periodically, would not disturb
the family. The ordeal was ended with
the sudden death of the old lady. The
girl grew up permanently crippled ; but
there was nothing wrong with her intel-
ligence, and she eventually went home
to China and became a medico.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A visiting soprano, not re-
nowned for politeness, had deigned to
sing with the church choir, and was being
resuscitated with tea in the vestry after
the service. “What do you think of
our singing, madam?” asked the parson.
“Not bad, eh, for us humble people?"
“It’s remarkable,” said the prima donna,
sipping her tea with an expression of in-
tense indignation. “Who is your leader?”
“That is Mr. Jones,” replied the parson
proudly. “Our wealthiest parishioner —
not only a leading singer, madam, but a
leading leather merchant.” The diva
closed her eyes wearily. “I thought as
much,” she said. “He must have made
his own lungs.
$ * * *
“Bill O’Costs”: That Latin oration
with which Adelaide Uni. welcomed the
then Duke of York and his Duchess (B.
31/5/’39) contained compliments which
might have done for one of the Caesars.
“Te weer prcestantissimoos et conyooks
prceclahrissimaw,” boomed Classics-pro-
fessor Bensley. The “most illustrious
and “exceedingly beautiful” made the
Duke grin, while his consort blushed
appropriately. The audience giggled, but
the prof., whose voice was on the rolling
deep of immense importance, was proof
against frivolity. Of course, nobody
nowadays knows how Cicero and Augus-
tus spoke their own tongue. It is highly
probable that their pronunciation is
much more nearly approached by that
of the modem Latins and Central Euro-
peans than by the modern Briton or
American, which reminds that at the
Berlin Congress in the ’seventies Dis-
raeli, not a university product, was
puzzled by a Continental statesman who
declared that something or other was
liable to produce a “casoos belly.” Dizzy
appeared to think he meant an inflated
tummy until the more classically edu-
cated Salisbury explained.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: An epidemic of pun-
ning has smitten Melb. “Argus.” It was
started by a scribe who writes a daily
column, and who can put more plays on
words into an inch of space than the late
George Houston Reid could. His
virtuosity in this regard almost amounts
to genius, and is beginning to infect the
rest of the staff. Lately this juvenile
form of wit has crept into the headlines
of the sedate old sheet, and one of these
days an unconscious sub. will slip a pun
into one of the obituaries. In more sober
days the “Argus” was almost an authority
on philology. When it ceased to print a
new word in inverted commas the severest
purist knew it had earned its place in
the Oxford Dictionary.
* * * *
“Ysbrantsz”: I hope that no historical
nark brought up during the royal visit to
U.S.A. the first British attempt to secure
aid from Russia. In 1779 the Empress
Catherine was asked to send 20,000 Rus-
sian soldiers to be used against the Ameri-
can rebels. George the Third was kee r
on the idea, and the British Ambassador
Lord Malmesbury, tried hard to work on
Catherine through her favorite, Potem-
kin (no known relation to Molotov’s off-
sider). The Empress, however, could see
nothing at all to be gained through crush-
ing Britain’s rebellions, and so left the
way clear for Franklin D. Roosevelt.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: There is a certain irony
in the reported stopping of a Japanese
invasion of Swatow by a typhoon, which
is stated to have scattered 20 transports.
The only considerable attempt that the
Chinese emperors made to invade Japan
was dealt with by the same impartial
arbiter. There must have been some-
thing wrong with the Japanese sources
of information in the present instance.
The Jesuit observatories in Manila,
Shanghai and other places keep tab of
the circular disturbances, and the cable
cos. send out information to shipping so
that most skippers manage to avoid them.
The worst cyclone that ever reached
Hong Kong, however, was unheralded,
a harassed telegraph supervisor having
mislaid the advice that a cyclone was
within an hour of the port.
LIFERS.
As the new member for Wilmot, Mr. Spurr, took
his seat in the House of Reps., Mr. Gander shouted,
“You are here for as long as I am, and that is for
life.” —Canberra item.
Less lucky lawmakers may take the knock,
But here are stalwarts twain will hold the
stage,
Wholly impervious to any shock
And armed against debilitating age,
While life exists. Thus, with engaging candor
And noisy self-assurance, Mr. Gander.
In his prophetic calling he abhors
The quaint obscurities on world affairs
Of Delphic oracles —the “ifs” and “ors”
Of racing tipsters and of Mr. Mares.
To ambiguity he’ll never pander;
A plain, blunt man (like Antony) is Gander.
He and his pal will sit as Judges sit,
But even more securely; for there lies
No warning Dum se bene gesserit
(“While one behaves himself”) before their
eyes.
In any paths they choose they may meander
Careless of consequences, Spurr and Gander.
They’ll never need to fear the fickle mob’s
Disfavor or to be perturbed a scrap,
Safe in their cushy, comfortable jobs,
When other mates are shifted off the map.
The tooth of envy and the tongue of slander
Will slip like water off the back of Gander.
Members and Senators will come and go,
Ins will be Outs in turn, and Outs be Ins,
But still they’ll hold their place and hoe their
row,
This gifted pair, these Heaven-favored twins.
Though hostile Governments should gerry-
mander
Electorates, ’twill make no odds to Gander.
Still, forecasts in the Mother Shipton line,
You know, occasionally miss the bus,
Some to be labelled, later, asinine
And others stigmatised as anserous.
Reflections that, I trust, won’t raise the dander
Of the vaticinating Mr. Gander.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ Don't care if you're TEN shire engineers, mister. I ain't shiftin' from 'ere till I dig me ferret out!"
“Q.”: The letter-belts of a generation
ago seem to be coming back as an item
of feminine evening wear. The widow of
an alleged Venezuelan general who
chose one with “Tokio-Berlin-Rome
Axis” on it for her costume at the Biar-
ritz Casino is reported to have been
turfed out of French territory forthwith.
The original ones were of Japanese
origin, and formed by linked metal ideo-
graphs alleged to convey lofty moral
aphorisms, but frequently of positively
arresting meaning when literally trans-
lated. A young matron of my acquaint-
ance wore one to a long-ago Melbourne
ball at which Japanese naval officers were
guests. Noticing their evident interest
in it, she pressed for a literal translation.
With many bows and hisses of polite im-
port, the ranking officer replied: “Please,
beautiful old Japanese wish for young
married lady. It say may I have ten
thousand babies, and may all my hus-
band’s lady friends rot to death.”
# ijc ❖
“X.”: A sad story is told in Mel-
bourne’s inner cinema circles. The
operator of a suburban theatre one
stormy night had occasion, the power
supply having failed, to start the
emergency petrol-generator set. Not
sure of his petrol supply, he un-
screwed the cap of the tank, struck a
match and peered inside. He awoke in
hospital badly burnt and suffering from
shock. On recovering he took up his
duties again, and all went merry as a
marriage bell until a month later, when
the power again failed. This time he
was too wary to strike a match. He took
a lighted candle, and is now at rest.
* Jp % >p
l< 9^ mea d” • The urge of certain com-
munities to get rid of place-names they
regard as invidious or disparaging or mis-
leading looks to be infectious. Though
Blacktown (N.S.W.) has weakened,
Kellyville, a hamlet in the Baulkham
Hills, has now expressed a vehement de-
sire to be rechristened. Kellyville’s ob-
jection to its present name is that it
conveys sinister suggestions of a certain
Ned of that ilk, which makes prospective
buyers of land look sideways at it. I have
a suggestion to offer which ought to meet
the bill without treading on the toes of
historical societies. Why not “Caillagh-
ville”? Caillagh, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, is the Irish way of
spelling the surname which the Sassenach
has distorted into Kelly, and it reads (and
possibly sounds) a whole lot more ro-
mantic. Moreover, nobody could connect
“Caillaghville” with Ned Kelly.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Mr. Brown’s new Pink
Pages Put Pep into Pale Telephone Direc-
tories. Ambitious lads who seek original
and interesting careers need only glance
through them to find a dozen rosy paths
to fame. No mere stodgy jobs like
groceries, or law, or writing for. the press,
either. Mr. Brown’s potential crust-
tickets involve no tests or examinations
or fees, not even a boss. Does the call-
ing of a sandblaster appeal to you? Do
you yearn to manufacture artificial
eyes? Does your soul aspire to the lofty
and venturesome vocation of a steeple-
jack? Or impel you to explore the floor
of the shark-infested ocean as a diver?
Or, perhaps less daring, although packed
with potential interest and incident, to
collect debts —or bottles? All these, and
plenty more of equal diversity, are
amongst the 1100 sorts of vocation cata-
logued for your selection by the thought-
ful Mr. Brown in his Pink Pages Packed
with Pepful Personality by Australia’s
Principal Postal Pundit.
“F.S.”: Work has been started on the
new Royal Melbourne Hospital at the
Pig Market site, and it will be the big-
gest architectural project in the history
of Vic. Architects have been preparing
plans for three years, and their corre-
spondence on the subject already fills 14
drawers. Plans, when completed, will
weigh 701 b., the cost of printing them
will be £lOOO, and an average of 40
draughtsmen have been working on them.
This is all in the way of preparation. All
actual work done so far is excavation.
It will be three years before the vast
sick-bay, with its accommodation for 800
patients, and all the complicated array of
training schools, dietetic school, lecture
rooms and research laboratories will be
ready for the transfer from the brick
fortress in Swanston-street.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A woman who in-
quired if the keep-to-the-left traffic regu-
lation would have the effect of produc-
ing a lot of left-handed babies started a
confused controversy in Melbourne. Tak-
ing her statement with becoming serious-
ness, the Education Department and
doctors replied that they had not suffi-
ciently gone into the matter to pass an
opinion. A correspondent of a daily then
gave it as her opinion, on the strength of
5G years’ observation, that left-handed-
ness in babies came about through the
suckling mother giving it her breast in
such a way that the infant’s left hand
was left dangling and thus learnt to
clutch and hold more quickly than the
right. Then somebody remarked that
since 99 p.c. of Melbourne motorists
made the same signal whether they were
about to turn to the right, turn to the
left, stop, shake the ash off a cigarette
or feel if it was raining, and found the
learning of three signals beyond the
scope of their intelligence, they were all
babies, left-handed or right-handed. The
argument then abruptly ceased.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A young married
couple took apartments in a Melbourne
suburb which included a large studio
just vacated by an artist. Neither of
them had ever thought of themselves as
artists, and for some weeks they lived in
the house without bothering to disturb
the litter the painter had left behind him.
Feeling bored one wet Saturday after-
noon, they started rummaging around the
abandoned studio and stumbled on some
boards, some brushes and the requisite
pigments for painting pictures. “Let’s
have a go at it for fun,” suggested hubby.
They set up a bowl of flowers and started
to paint, giving themselves 20 minutes
in which to do justice to the subject. The
result so charmed them that they took
up the business with enthusiasm, were
accepted as “moderns,” and began to
exhibit. One of the original opuses sub-
sequently sold for 20 guineas.
* * * *
“Key”: I can mention a calling in
which the followers become even more
dour than professional fishermen. It’s
mushrooming. Nothing engenders such
hatred, jealousy and secretiveness. No
professional mushroomer would by word
or sign let another into the know if he
discovered acres of mushrooms, though
he couldn’t possibly gather more than a
small quantity of them himself. Two
professional gatherers live near me, and
they usually set out by car at dawn to
seek fresh fields. The man who knows
a good place in the east turns his car
to the west, and he who has a hunting-
ground in the south turns north. Then
they cross country, frequently on foot, to
get to their goal. I accepted an invita-
tion to go out in one car the other morn-
ing, and as we passed the rival’s house
our driver chuckled, “Bill’ll be after us
to-day. He hasn’t been going too good
lately—he wants to know where I’m pick-
ing.” Sure enough we heard the roar of
another car coming at a good speed
through the dim dawn, and we kept well
ahead. “We must be pretty near now,
Harry,” went on my host to his son.
“The paddocks should be showing up.”
They didn’t, and after another ten miles
it became evident we had overshot the
mushroom patch. Though we tore back
we didn’t get there until the hated rival
horde had accounted for every mush-
room in two paddocks. What they didn’t
gather they, in the beautiful Christian
spirit promoted by mushrooming,
jumped on.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Melbourne Hospital has a
new method of treating drug addicts
which is expected to produce good
results. The patient is given graduated
doses of a new sedative called somnifaine.
The drug first drowsiness, then
sleep for several days, then almost com-
plete somnolence for 14 days, during
which the subject is fed with liquid food.
The drug, if it does that, certainly will
keep the patient comfortable during the
recovery stage, but it is also claimed to
remove the causes which produce ad-
diction to drugs. But I always thought
these were psychological.
"Pardon ME, is that your dog?"
A CHIVALROUS CONTRAPTION.
“A novel weighing device, to spare women’s feel-
ings, has been installed by Imperial Airways at
Victoria Station, London. It does not disclose the
passenger’s weight except to a clerk behind the
counter. ’ ’ —Cable.
It’s an incontrovertible fact, I’ll engage,
That no one will ever refuse
The right to a woman to say that her age
Is—just whatsoever she choose. _
Now a scheme’s been devised, when a trip she
enjoys
Aloft as aerial freight,
Discreetly to curtain her avoirdupois,
So it shouldn’t annoyance create
Or grate
On her feelings, disclosing her weight.
The sylph and the flapper so dainty and svelte,
Well, it really won’t matter to them,
Having no solid flesh that they’re wishful to
melt,
No threatened embonpoint to stem.
But when you’re becoming (say) pleasantly
plump
And rounded, it’s needless to state
You want no significant pointer to jump,
No telltale machine to relate
Out straight
To curious watchers your weight.
A woman’s as old as she looks —or she says—
And as heavy, when taking the air
As she likes to be thought, for, whatever she
weighs,
It’s nobody else’s affair.
It’s a secret ’twixt'her and the carrying line;
There’s nothing to show on the slate
If her poundage (in stones) is eleven or nine,
If fully fourteen she would rate
Or eight,
In the matter of physical weight.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


.¥* ■
■■'if'':
mm
81
me a
cate
CRAVfcNA puMf
nevei vttiki- tketfte,,
etk/MjS smctfetfiestt!
10 for 9d 20 for 1'6
m
m*
m
*%•
BI867
PREVENT
THR
POLITICAL POINTS
Premier Ogilvie is dead, at 48, two
months after Lyons, with whom he was
so closely associated for 20 years. Lyons’s
work was done when the blow fell;
Ogilvie, who went out in much the same
way, seemed destined for years of ser-
vice in another field. Many Tasmanians
expected that he would succeed Harold
Crisp as Chief Justice. Now Dwyer-
Gray, just on 21 years older than Ogilvie,
is Premier.
At the instance of Nairn, of Perth,
wealth questions are to be added to the
national-register cards. The Government
at first objected, but feeling on both sides
ol the House was too strong for it.
Earle Page usefully suggests that the
ordinary census should be taken within
a twelvemonth, and the national-register
questionnaire put on census papers. That
would dish factious opposition and save
the country a lot of money.
National insurance, which was to have
come into force last January, is now to
be postponed again—perhaps until the
decade after next. When Casey was
enthusiastic about it—he made his
second-reading speech on May 4, 1938
“125 officers were assembled,” and it is
costing £540 a week (“excluding rent”)
to keep them doing nothing in particular.
Taxpayers will be glad to learn, on the
authority of Minister Stewart, that “as
soon as ‘work’ began to slacken off offi-
cers who could be spared” (spared !)
were loaned to other departments, and as
much annual recreation leave as possible
was granted.”
Australia has eight more knights. In
two cases, the creations were announced
by newspapers before the list was handed
to them —a new and unpleasant depar-
ture. The Bulletin has no use for
knighthoods, but it has an immense
respect for the Crown, and anticipating
the exercise of a prerogative of the
Crown is a gross impertinence.
In order of precedence, a Knight Com-
mander of St. Michael and St. George
comes before a Knight of the British
Empire or a Knight Bachelor. Two of
the new Australian knights are K.B.Es.
and five are Kt. Baches (you mustn’t
say K. 8.); the eighth, Butler of Adelaide,
is a K.C.M.G. Opinion is divided as to
whether Butler was singled out for this
decoration because his father had it, or
whether it was to console him for being
licked in Wakefield, or to immortalise
him for introducing betting shops.
It has been dolefully admitted by
Nelson, chairman of directors of the
Sydney “Daily News” (“Labor Daily”
that was), that the concern owes £182,912
—£51,161 to the Bank of N.S.W.—and
that assets are valued at £49,300. It
would be interesting to know exactly
how much trade-union money has gone
west in daily newspapers. Half a million
wouldn’t cover it.
The alleged Parliament in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, has gone into retirement
until June 28 to permit Stevens to fasten
his teeth in the Loan Council’s ear with-
out being disturbed by bad news from
headquarters. Its last proceeding was
to “amend” the Monopolies Act, so that
the Government may do something or
other to the brick trade, whose excessive
prices were the simple result of its own
idiotic performances—sale of the State
brickyards and guarantees of building-
society bank overdrafts, unconditional
as to charges for building materials.
Meantime, the Judge it abjectly com-
missioned to fix brick prices has ordered
sweeping reductions.
Dunstan is jibbing at the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment’s building society guarantees as
well as at borrowing by “semi-Government
authorities,” and says there will be a hot
time for Stevens when the Loan Council
gets going. Such threats have been heard
before, and nothing ever came of them.
The Commonwealth flour tax, disputed
by N.S.W. millers and bakers, has been
declared valid by four High Court Jus-
tices ; and though a flour tax can never
be popular the one Parliament that
matters would look a sorry institution
if it had lacked this taxing power.
Unfortunately, the High Court ruled
on the same day that a Milk Board
regulation forbidding the sale of
Victorian cream in N.S.W. is a legitimate
exercise of State power. The judgment
reveals one more weakness in the inter-
state freetrade section of the Constitu-
tion Act, and emphasises once more the
necessity for constitutional amendments
that will make the powers of the national
Parliament supreme.
It’s a pity Cameron ceased to be
P.M.G. just when he was beginning to
do things. He laid his axe at the root
of one unjust provincial anachronism, the
“The Commonwealth Government has been advised not to send as representative to
Japan anyone who is short and stout. Fondness for mutton is another disability.”
“It’s no use, pal, unless they alter the specifications.”
charging of special rates for inter-State
telegrams, and he was holding it poised
over the Performing Rights Association
when Lyons died. In the House last
week the man from Barker had a go at
the A.P.R.A., his mildest terms being
that it was “a taxing authority with
doubtful legal status,” and his speech has
made Copyright Act amendment a live
topic. In its present form the Act is
no use to the Australian author, whose
characters and settings in particular seem
to be everybody’s property.
Cameron’s idea- is that “collection of
copyright fees should be a function of
the Commonwealth Copyright Office, and
fees collected should be disbursed among
actual authors or their dependants.”
Every Australian who has produced
original compositions will say “Hear,
hear!” and the ghosts of the unforgotten
dead will approve. The A.P.R.A.’s
annual income from Australia, reckoned
at Is. Id. per license (Canadians pay 5d.)
is round £60,000. It must be a great thing
for concerns like Alberts, of Sydney, but
it is no use to Australians with minds
above imported mouth-organs and swing
music. Alberts’ share of £26,195 re-
ceived from A.B.C. for the year to June
30 was £2655. Australian composers
(162) divided £l6l 4s. Bd., one man’s
share being one penny.
Bruce put £6,000,000 of Common-
wealth four per cents, on the London
market at £9B 10s., and the underwriters
were left with nearly four-fifths of the
issue. It was a dreadful shock for
Menzies, and a still more dreadful one
for Stevens, who in imagination saw a
river of easy money flowing through
Threadneedle-street and just waiting to
be scooped up by Australian Treasurers.
Just when A.B.C. is about to publish
papers—if Parliament doesn’t, in effect,
veto the projects by insisting on a five-
shilling cut in the outrageous tax on
listeners —“Newspaper News” reports a
bad year for the 8.8. C. publishing
branch. Revenue fell by £114,960, and the
slump in sales was such that the concern
will have to return a 4 p.c. rebate to
advertisers in the “Radio Times,” to
whom it guarantees a circulation of
3,000,000. It is an evil omen for the
A.B.C. sheets, and there could scarcely
be a worse time to thrust them on a
public that hasn’t asked for them.
Menzies is certainly a very unusual
P.M. Told in Wilmot (Tas.), where there
are many potato-growers, that his party
might lose the by-election if he didn’t
promise to restore the embargo, he said
at Launceston that he wouldn’t think of
“trying to give any quick decision on
this matter simply as a vote-catching
stunt.” Returned from Griffith (Q.),
where the U.A.P. man got more than
three-fifths of the Protestant Laborite’s
preferences, and may need more if
another by-election is ordered, Menzies
spoke at the Catholic peace meeting at
Melbourne Exhibition. Back in Can-
berra he invoked support for the R.C.
cathedral building fund, handed in his
own cheque for £5 ss. and declared that
he detested “denominational prejudices.”
Courage and broadmindedness may have
temporary disadvantages, but in Aus-
tralia they tell in the long run.
The Lower House in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, is appointing a select
committee “to inquire into the capacity
of industry to absorb unemployed
youths.” This sagacious step has been
taken eight months after the same Lower
House inquired into the capacity of
N.S.W. to pay members and Ministers
another £14,000 p.a., starting from July
1, 1938. That inquiry was completed
with record rapidity ; second-reading and
committee stages were put through in
16 minutes. Deficit? Only two or three
millions.
It’s “Madame Tabouis alleges” in
“S. M. Herald” now. “The well-known
French diplomatic commentator alleges”
that the Spanish Government was lying
when it “informed France that all
foreign troops have now left Spain.”
Madame may be “a commentator” in
the sense in which the term is applied to
one-eyed radio blah-merchants, but she
is not a bit “diplomatic”; and, since
the “Herald” obviously doesn’t believe
her, it shouldn’t print her stuff.
Dyett, the R.S.L.’s perpetual presi-
dent, has struck trouble at last. Tommy
White, M.H.R., who has become the
Government’s candid friend, said he was
going to move for a select committee to
inquire into “Repatriation Act
anomalies,” and Dyett took upon himself
to write to the P.M. saying that no in-
quiry was necessary. Thousands of
Diggers differ from him and are passing
acidly-worded resolutions. Refusal of
pensions to ex-warriors who cracked up
suddenly in middle life is a sore point
with many of their old companions.
An arresting statement of the case for
the Maori has been made in Auckland
by Apirana Ngata. There are no
Maori land supervisors, the ex-Minister
said; Maoris find it hard to get pro-
motion in the Native Department, and
very few are admitted to the education
service, apparently because “the depart-
ment does not think them- capable of
teaching their own race.” Pakeha psy-
chology does not trust them, and the
pakeha slide to irreligion is all too
closely copied.
To-day, when the pattern of European
civilisation is changing, young Maoris see
Sunday turned into a day of pleasure. The
observances which Samuel Marsden brought
to this country are disregarded, and they
wonder what the religion of the pakeha
really is. For that matter, it is doubtful
whether young pakeha folk know exactly
where they are.
A shrewd thrust that; but Apirana
Ngata is a very able leader of an in-
teresting race.
Views of a wise old Jew, very pertinent
to the present discontents:
The government of the world is not a
mere alternation between abstract right and
overwhelming force The world is
governed by conciliation, compromise, in-
fluence, varied interests and recognition of
the rights of others, coupled with the
assertion of one’s own, and, in addition, a
general conviction, resulting from explana-
tion and good understanding, that it is for
the interests of all parties that matters
should be conducted in a satisfactory and
peaceful manner.
Disraeli said it in the House of Commons
on February 9, 1867.
From Macquarie-street, Sydney:
On one subject all parties in the N.S.W.
Parliament are agreed: their State, one of six,
has a “right” to every pound that the
Treasurer, whoever he may be, chooses to set
down on a loan programme for “works,” and
if the market is reluctant (as it undoubtedly is)
the Commonwealth Bank should come down
with “credits.” Of recent years N.S.W. has
done almost as much borrowing for “works”
as the other States put together, yet it has
almost as many unemployed as all the other
States put together, and it is going to have
a thumping deficit. The same results have
been witnessed before, but N.S.W. parties
always insist on administering greater doses
of their quack medicine. And they always
will until their useless Legislature is wiped out
and Australia is placed under the control of
one Parliament and provincial councils.


SLAVES OF THE LAMP.
" B y installing sodium light, in his poultry runs a Gosford (N.S. Wales) farmer hope, to bluff his hen, into laying twice a day."


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 8 7 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INTEREST RATES:
WHY THEY RISE AND FALL.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITY PRICES.
FINANCING THE DEFENCE PROGRAMME.
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2\- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust :
BOX 402 S V*V, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
PERSONAL ITEMS
The sudden death at 48 of Albert
George Ogilvie, Premier of Tasmania,
brought to a close 20 years of political
service. A lawyer, he graduated at the
Tas. Uni., was called to the Bar in 1914
and subsequently took silk. He was
elected one of the members for Franklin
in the Tas. House of Assembly in 1919
in the Labor interest, and before be-
coming Premier in 1934 had held the
portfolios of Attorney-General, Educa-
tion, Forestry and Mines. He had sen-
sible views on defence, advocating com-
pulsory military training, was an active
worker in the cause of public health,
and extended the closing hour of Tas.
hotel bars, formerly 6 p.m., to 10 p.m.
As a young barrister he was a frequent
contributor to The Bulletin. Experi-
ence with juries made him a sympathetic
and attractive speaker.
The Ma State’s share of King’s Birth-
day knighthoods went to Law and Hard-
ware. Supreme Court Justice Halse
Rogers is Chancellor of Sydney Uni.
Born in N. S. Wales, he won a Rhodes
scholarship at Sydney Uni. and got his
B.C.L. at Oxford. He has presided over
various royal commissions. George
Beeby, Sydney-born, is Chief Judge of
the Arbitration" Court, and has been a
member of the industrial judiciary for 19
years. He had ten years in the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, and The Bulletin has
had many short stories from his pen.
Norman Nock, Sydney-born, is Lord
Mayor of Sydney, managing director of
the hardware firm of Nock and Kirby.
He had experience at Selfridges in Lon-
don and Wanamakers in New York
before he came back to Sydney. South
Australia’s new knight is Richard Butler,
born in S.A., son of knight Richard
Butler, a former Premier of the State, and
has himself been three times Premier of
the State. He resigned last year to con-
test a Federal seat, but was defeated.
Eric Chaseling, nowadays operations
manager of Guinea Airways, is one of
the old hands of the aviation game.
ERIC CHASELING.
Edgar Percival, now a front-rank air-
craft designer, taught him to fly shortly
after the Great War, and he got knock-
about experience barnstorming in N. S.
Wales. When A.N.A. began inter-State
flying its only Australian-born pilots were
Kingsford Smith and Chaseling. When it
went out Chaseling became instructor to
the Victorian Aero Club, then formed a
co. of his own and trained pilots and gave
taxi service at Essendon. In 1937 he
became technical adviser to B.H.P. and
was sent to the U.S.A., where in addition
to other duties he reported on American
airline operations to the Commonwealth
Govt. Guinea Airways claimed him
shortly after his return. He directs all
the co.’s flying, and is in touch with
every one of its ’planes that are in the
air. In 15 years he has done 6700
hours’ flying, without even breaking a
wire, a record which gained for him
membership of America’s Society of
Quiet Birdmen. Kingsford Smith was
the only other Australian so honored.
Chaseling still takes a hand at the con-
trols occasionally, but finds it more ex-
citing to read a book.
Four of the eight new Australian Birth-
day knights are Victorians, and of the four
Victorians one is a politician, two men
of business and affairs and one a his-
torian. Ernest Scott is English-born,
trod the Inky Way in London, came to
Melbourne in 1892 and joined the
“Herald,” and afterwards the State and
Federal “Hansards” kept him busy. He
was made professor of history at Mel-
bourne University in 1914, and retired
in 1937 after having contributed a library
of books and a lot of research into Aus-
tralian origins. Former world-champion
tennis-player Norman Brookes is chair-
man of the Australasian Paper and Pulp
Co., and controls a score of other busi-
nesses. He did great work for the British
Red Cross in the World War in Egypt
and Mesopotamia. In these piping times
of peace he is one of the pillars of high-
brow music in Melbourne. William
Angliss, M.L.C. for the Southern Prov-
ince, is Victoria’s biggest butcher, who,
beginning in a small way in Carlton half
a century ago, started the frozen-meat
trade to the Westralian goldfields. Gerald
Mussen was born in Dunedin (M.L.):
Electrolytic Zinc and Broken Hills are
his chief interests, but he is the author
of a bo k, The
Humanising of
Commerce and In-
dustry. Carl Her-
man Jess, who gets
a C. 8., began as a
Victorian State-
school teacher, but
his brilliant staff
work with the A.I.F.
landed him in the
job of Adjutant-
General of the Aus-
tral i a n Military
Forces. There were no artist
knights this time.
The passing of J. Waldie Forbes
closes the career of one of the best-
known architectural firms in W.A.,
Hobbs, Smith and Forbes. General
Talbot Hobbs was the other part-
ner, Smith having dropped out
many years ago. This firm designed
some of Perth’s finest buildings, among
them such landmarks as the A.M.P.
Promoted to succeed Chief Engineer
Weller (now on leave prior to retiring) is
John Righ.tson Cavanagh, assistant engi-
neer of Perth’s Metropolitan Water
Supply. The new chief, who served with
distinction as an officer of the Engineers
in the Great War and is still in the early
forties, will have the supervision of
Bigjohn Forrest’s project, the Coolgardie
Water Scheme, now known as the Gold-
fields Water Supply, involving the long-
est pipelines in Australia.
Lacey C. Zapf, who comes to Australia
as Uncle Sam’s Senior Trade Commis-
sioner, is a Tennesseean with a law degree
and exceptionally wide experience as an
officer of the Department of Commerce.
Under President Wilson he was engaged
in organising the Foreign Commercial
Service, and supervised the activities of
LACEY C. ZAPE.
commissioners and attaches in 34
countries. Roosevelt made him Assis-
tant Director of the Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce, and it was
this chair he vacated to come to Aus-
tralia. For several years Mr. Zapf has
been secretary of the International
Chamber of Commerce, which he
helped to organise. Takes an interest
in all outdoor sports and used to be
a dab at polo.
At its latest quarterly dinner the Mel-
bourne P.E.N. Club had among its guests
a woman constable who is also an author.
She is Jessie J. Clarey, one of Victoria’s
eight skirted John Hops, and the
author of an essay on “Juvenile Crime:
Its Cause and Treatment.” She won a
gold medal and a prize of 30 guineas for
it in open competition with all the police-
men and policewomen of the Empire and
mandated territories.
Peter Hawker, of the noted S.A.
pastoral family, is dead in Adelaide at
barely 30. His unusual pair of hobbies
were literature and motoring, and still
standing is his two-mile local record in
a sports-car that he had himself helped
to build.
The story of L. E. Bradbury, recently
dead in Adelaide: Born in Christchurch
(M.L.). Trained for the Congregational
ministry in Victoria, and a pastor there,
at Kew. Six years in Papua as
missionary. Since 1927 in S.A., where
he was chairman of the Union and
trustee of Parkin College.
N. S. Wales has some notably old-
standing legal families, but, allowing for
its 70-year handicap, Queensland has
done quite well in that line. Instance
the Corsers. Edward, first of the
dynasty, was the son of an English
solicitor who qualified nearly 120 years
ago, and himself was admitted as Gent.
One in 1845. Coming to Queensland in
1865 he commenced practice in Mary-
borough in the following year. His son
Henry, admitted in June, 1874, founded
the Maryborough firm of Corser, Shel-
don and Gordon. Harold Henry, son of
Henry, was admitted in May, 1910, and
practises in Brisbane. His son Arthur,
fifth in descent in the family legal line,
is now studying for his final examination
as a solicitor.
The passing of Robert Loudon, of Myar-
nong (W.A.), at 86, removes the last of
the three sons of pioneer James Loudon,
who opened up land beyond Port
Augusta (S.A.), which he named Yad-
lamalka, and farther north another
area called Carriewerloo. While on one
of these stations James Loudon enter-
tained Stuart on his expeditionary way
across the continent. All three sons got
their station experience on these runs,
and all eventually became station man-
agers. James, the eldest, moved from
one station to another, putting in the
last 20 years of his life on Booboorowie,
near the Burra. Robert and John, after
managing stations in S.A., moved to
W.A. in the same capacity, and both
later became successful farmers on their
own account.
The recent claim that a great-grandson
of Lieut. George Johnston is the only
living descendant of any member of the
party Governor Phillip landed at Port
Jackson in 1788 won’t hold water. There
is a regiment of them in Australia, and
67 of Lieutenant King’s descendants
served in the World War. A daughter
of one of his grandsons lives in Norfolk
Island, and Allan King, stock and station
agent, of Melbourne, is apother of the
same numerous family.
Dr. Cecil T. Madigan, who set out
last week on a camel trek into the water-
less Simpson Desert, S.A., leading a party
of scientists and two abos., is Adelaide
Uni.’s lecturer in geology. He was born
at Renmark, S.A., 49 years ago, gradu-
ated B.E. at Adelaide Uni., and so to
Oxford, where he collected his M.A.
and D.Sc., on a Rhodes scholarship. He
went with Mawson to the Antarctic in
1911-14, returning in time to serve right
through the Great War, coming out a
captain. Has led several expeditions
into Centralia, that being his idea of a
hobby. A. A. Simpson, after whom
DR. C.T. MADIGAN.
Madigan named the desert in 1929,
finances the present show, and the
patron’s eldest son, R. A. Simpson, goes
as wireless operator. H. O. Fletcher,
of Sydney Museum, and R. L. Crocker,
of the C.S. and 1.R., are with the party.


' ¥
im
“Are you sure
it’s White Horse?"
■MSHH
Of course ! I could
tell it blindfold.
liiiitii
' Mj yf:
i i
"lliwlif
, | VX.
i i s
i
Uj
Js> ll3|
■ 8 ip -ggjW
«•«
m.
y 4 '
There’s no mistaking its distinct-
ive fragrance, its smoothness and
mellowness. This whisky is like a fine liqueur. Of
course it’s White Horse, 1 recognised it at once.”
Screw-cap
flasks of
convenient
sizes on sale
everywhere
A
Gtu
m
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky
matured and maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies.
R3949M.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Now I'll play you ‘The Bells of St. Mary's .”
“Old-timer”: When the mob lined up
at Prill Park the greasies found that one
of the two learners was a cocksure little
beggar who, to hear him talk, knew
more about barbering a jumbuck than
Jackie Howe. The boss of the board, a
dour old-timer who’d done his 180 a day
with the tongs and never pinked a sheep,
paid particular interest to the cocky one,
watching him closely. However, for a
learner he wasn’t too bad, and might
have got through if his overweening
vanity, conscious of the boss’s steady
appraisal and growing approval, hadn’t
betrayed him. Straightening up, he
smiled cheerfully, and remarked, “Bet y’
don’t often watch a learner gettin’ on so
well. What do y’ think of it?” “Not
bad,” said the boss, turning away, “but
I still prefer to watch a shearer!”
* * $ %
“Skiloperende”; Five karri poles
nearly 90-feet long and weighing approxi-
mately five tons each passed through
Armadale (W.A.) recently on their way
to the Pearce aerodrome to serve as
wireless masts. The sticks were brought
from Pemberton on two timber trucks
and trailers. This feat constitutes some-
thing of a record for timber transport
in the West. Can any Aboite go one
better elsewhere?
“Nor’-west”: “Dickie Beech” (B.
17/5/’39) may have a snout on stewed
squid, but I’ll take his share any time —
provided I am allowed to do the cook-
ing. And any spare octopus also. The
first utensil required is a farrier’s rasp.
With the flat of this, pound the squid
well, paying special attention to the
tentacles (this treatment, incidentally, is
excellent also for common butcher’s
steak). Put in stew-pot and cover with
cold water: diluted sea-water will do
nicely. Add onion and a few sprigs of
parsley. Two hours’ simmering is ample.
Thicken with flour a la the ordinary stew,
and serve with pepper. Done thusly I
wouldn’t swap stewed squid for any
boiled scale-fish in Australian waters.
“Chelaka”: Have never tasted a toadie
(B. 31/5/’39), but I do know the Malays
on Far Eastern atolls consider the prickly
chap a delicacy, and so far haven’t
heard of any passing out after dinner.
But they always remove the gall-bag
immediately after skinning, so perhaps
that removes any toxin. The abo. doesn’t
seem to worry much about even that.
Have seen big toadies speared and
thrown into the hot ashes, the skin and
spikes being peeled off later in one piece.
Then Jacky hoes in, apparently also
without any ill-effects.
* * * *
“Bilgebow”: Scattered around the rim
of Australia are other odd heaps of dis-
carded ballast stones (B. 17/5/’39).
Rockingham (W.A.) used to harbor a
fine collection, mostly beautifully round
cobbles from Norwegian fiords, brought
by the windjammers calling for W.A.’s
jar rah. Around the southern part of the
coast stones from New England (U.S.A.)
are still to be found, discharged from
old-time Yankee whalers sailing out
under ballast and empty casks and hom-
ing with holds full to the hatches. But
what is possibly Australia’s strangest
pile lies on the beach just south from
York Sound (nor’-west W.A.). With one
end resting on the beach, the other far
above high-water mark, this pile bears
all the appearance of having been built
by human hands. But it is immense in
bulk, four feet high, five chains long
and quite a chain wide. The top is flat,
the sides neatly battered. Roundish
water-worn stones they are, brown in
color and averaging the size of a child’s
football. How did such a heap get there?
Perhaps just a natural formation, or
maybe a ballast depot for the ancient
Dutchmen or the Arabs or even the
Egyptians. For who knows what ocean
travellers may have touched on our
northern coasts during all the centuries
when this continent lay a no-man’s-
land?
* * * *
“Yarri”: Jacky Martin, a stumpy, one-
eyed abo. with an excessively prominent
bingy, did odd jobs for a selector’s wife
on the Manning (N.S.W.), and as he said
he could shoot she gave him a gun to
get her some pigeons. Jacky went off,
proud and confident, but in half an hour
he returned and threw the weapon on
the sofa that stood on the verandah. “No
good that thing,” he said, while his hand
stole tenderly over his big “corporation.”
Asked what was the matter with it, Jacky
explained: “I been seeum pigeon. Good
one, that pfeller. I putum up gun to
shoot him. Gun tsnap. Pigeon he fly
away. I takeum gun down; then that
pfeller go off too quick behind an’ kick
me longa belly. Kick me over big log,
close up breakum neck.” That ended
Jacky’s shooting expeditions.
* * * *
“Beef Conductor”: While whole-
heartedly endorsing “Col. B.’s” aero-
plane-cow survey plan (B. 17/5/’39), I
respectfully suggest that there would be
no need for anyone to bawl like a hungry
calf in order to guide the bovine mother
back to her offspring. Propelling beef
across Westralia’s dry northern spaces we
quite often found ourselves with breeders
who dropped their calves at most incon-
venient places. Shortage of water and
grass invariably doomed these infants to
an early death. And it took a lot to
prevent the bereaved mothers getting
back to the spot where the lost offspring
had given its last bawl. With cunning
far beyond ordinary beef they would
slip away at night, and every other day
the boss and his nigger would ride back
as much as three camps and bring them
in again. Whether it was instinct alone
that guided them back we could never be
sure, for there was also the wide pad
that the main herd had made.
* * * *
“Same for Me”: When I discovered
that every man who came into my
western N.S.W. office to pay an account
desired my attendance at the bar across
the street, and was hurt if I tried to
make excuses, I went off the hard-tack
(in business hours) and ordered foaming
pots of squash shandy in order to see
the day out on my feet. Paddy, a regu-
lar monthly payee, looked on in astonish-
ment over his nobbier of good, red rum
while I quaffed the flowing pot and sang
its praises as a beverage for he-men. He
didn’t exactly call me a sissy, but I read
it in his faded, 75-year-old eyes, so the
next month I had a pamphlet (issued by
the Drys) which set out in tabulated
form the number of days knocked off the
normal span of life of an average hard-
tack consumer, on the basis of so many
hours for each drink taken. Rum and
whisky headed the list of casualty
causes. This I handed to Paddy with his
nobbier, and watched, over my pot of
squash shandy, while his eyes began to
stick out like beer-corks from a bottle
as he digested the figures. My hurried
calculation, with Paddy at 75, cut him
short of at least 15 years on his daily
issue of rum. Next month I ordered a
squash shandy as usual, and lifted an
inquiring eyebrow at Paddy, who glared
at the barman and said firmly: “The
same for me.” The pamphlet had worked
a permanent cure.
* * * *
“Reef Dodger” (Noumea): Recent
pars, about the flying-fox bring to mind
a ruse I have seen this aerial mammal
adopt which makes one realise the cun-
ning of the species. While cruising about
the islands I have seen the big bat forced
down into the sea far from land. One
would expect him to throw in the towel,
as the sea is an element he is quite un-
suited for, but he makes a bid for life
even there. With one wing spread wide
on the water to assist floating, he raises
the other as a sail, and can travel down-
wind at an amazing speed. He can steer off
the wind quite a little, and will do so to
angle off to an island. He has thus taken
a leaf out of the book of the Portuguese
man-o’-war or “by the winder” of sailors.
How long he can keep afloat I donff
know, but some must win out with a bit
of luck. He doesn’t move a whisker
when sailing this way, and thus passes
for a lump of driftwood, and doubtless
bluffs numerous hungry fish out of a tasty
meal.
“Atrax”: I never thought that I’d be
kidded into eating stewed flying-fox, but
I don’t mind telling you that it will need
no kidding in future. Here’s the recipe.
Chop heads and wings off six of the ugly
brutes, skin them, clean as with a fowl
and soak for an hour in salted water.
The smell has completely gone by then.
Cut the meat in smallish lumps, roll in
flour, pepper to taste, cover with water
in a saucepan or billy, bring slowly to a
boil and simmer for two hours. Salt to
taste, add a teaspoonful of mixed
herbs, a chopped carrot, ditto large
potato and a small onion or shallot cut
fine, simmer for another hour. Serve
with creamy mashed potato, and it’s a
feed for three that no swell city restau-
rant can beat.
* * * ♦
“Give It a Go”: When “Gid-dup” (B.
10/5/’39) next has trouble with a jib let
him double up one of the prad’s fore-
legs and strap it from the fetlock across
the leg above the knee for five minutes
(if he can spare the time), and then take
away the strap and start him. The horse
will pull all right, but why only the horse
himself knows. We who have tried this
dodge can only surmise that the strap
stops the circulation and causes a mild
cramp which produces an urge for the
horse to move his leg.
Sc * * *
“Larrakeah”: From a police point of
view the most accommodating breaker of
the peace must be Black Charlie, alias
Jingalinina, who lately travelled 50 miles
to the 447-mile camp on the Overland
Railway and there awaited the coming of
the policeman from Tarcoola. Trouble
over a dusky maiden culminated in
Charlie playfully tapping one Oldea over
the head with a nulla-nulla. Charlie ap-
parently didn’t know his own strength,
for his rival turned up his toes, and in
the tribal Donnybrook which followed
Charlie emerged with a spear transfixing
his left thigh. Taking this as an indica-
tion that his presence in the locality was
not desirable, he set off on the long hike
to the railway camp, complete with spear.
On arrival the gangers broke the spear
shaft and pulled it back through the
wound. Charlie wasn’t overdistressed,
and was made comfortable while await-
ing the coming of the law.
* * * *
“Cooee”: Choom complained to the
cocky he was working for that the cow
he had to milk was a “holy terror, sir,
for kickin’.” The cocky had never
known old Roanie to kick in her life,
so next morning when Choom started to
milk her he went down to investigate.
The reason for the cow’s restlessness was
soon apparent. Choom was pausing
every few seconds to rub his hands in
the dirt—so as to get a grip on the teats!
* * * *
“W.D.McC.”: Tell “Ex-Cavalryman”
(B. 3/5/’39) that thrift isn’t the only
reason why lots of bushmen use one spur.
I also am an Austral-Scot, and 40 years
ago I bought a pair of spring steel spurs
—I have them still. They have been
plated twice, and I have worn out two
pairs of rowels, but for more than 20
years I have only worn one at a time.
One reason —the paramount one —is that
I am left-handed, and the offsider was
always a nuisance to buckle on; the
other is that I had several narrow escapes
from a bad fall owing to both spurs
stirring my hack to more vigorous efforts
to get rid of me. No doubt other old bush-
men have more reasons for the habit.
* * * *
“D. Eff”: Australia’s first bullock-
teams came from India. On May 31,
1795, the Endeavour, 11 weeks out from
Bombay, arrived with 40 working bul-
locks and 90 other cattle, imported by
Captain Bampton under a contract with
Lieutenant-Governor Grose. The price
of the bullocks was 15 guineas a head.
When the Duke of Portland heard about
it he remarked that it was a strange idea
to select 40 oxen as part of the cargo for
a colony where the increase of cattle
was the main object. Governor Hunter
in his reply stuck up for the bullocks,
stating that they had fully earned their
cost by their services. They had enabled
the Government to get on with public
works that would otherwise have had to
wait.
FOG AT MIDNIGHT.
The gums that march from the uplands shudder
away from the river,
Hearing its brittle music icy as frost on glass;
The rime-wet boughs of the tea-tree heave with
a sudden shiver
As the wind that roams with the water loiters
and will not pass.
Swiftly the fog grows bolder, thrusting with
bone-white fingers
As the faces of tear-drowned wattles. The
mist with the pale tree sags;
With a touch it makes the snake-bush a
huddling waif, who lingers
Under the eaves of the bracken, hugging his
sodden rags.
The rabbit trails are a welter of clamminess
dank and dripping,
And the furred ones cling to their burrows
with a cat’s distaste for the wet;
But the fieldmice, airily dauntless, soundless as
shadows slipping,
Tryst to their sweet-briar larders where a
berried feast is set.
The gold that the gorse has hoarded for months
from the lean wind’s clutches
Is bleached to the hue of wood-ash —the
miser’s dreams are dead.
And fog, the conjuror, chuckles, estranging
each thing it touches,
Till the scrub-lands shrink from its magic
and the chained trees crouch in dread.
Deep ir. the heart of the gully, lost and forlorn
and weary,
A scrub steer calls to his kindred; the fog-
pent hills reply
With a mockery of phantom cattle lowing in
answer eerie
To the whimpering beast as it stumbles, lost
in a smothering sky.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAYIS.


“Gravelsnatcher”: “You c’n talk
about y’r outsize crops,” said Dungaree
Dick, “but I gotter crop o’ punkins out-
side what beats anything I ever see.
There’s one,” he threw out the challenge
slowly, “that none o’ youse blokes cud
lift without breakin’ it.” Muscles, a
powerful nugget of a man, couldn’t let
that pass, and offered to bet on it. Dick
took him up, and then led the mob out-
side to where an immense vine twined
around a dead stump. “That’s the one.”
He pointed to a “punk” which had grown
wedged in a fork at the base of the
stump, and which now almost
surrounded the wood. “See what you
c’n do, Muscles.” Muscles paid up, and
the mob silently trooped inside again,
while Dick explained that that was the
most valuable punkin in Australia. This
made five quid he’d won on it so far.
* * * *
“Wang”: “There’s a sayin’ about
common trouble puttin’ us all on the
same level; it means that, anyway,” said
Dan. “I wus workin’ fer a chap ope
time who was spoony on a good-lookin’
young widder who had a nice little place
about a quarter of a mile from our
place. Whether she thought she wus
above him sosherly, an’ wanted t’ fly
her kite higher, or whether it wus just
female pig-headed kiddin’, I dunno ; but
she wouldn’t up an’ go fer him nohow.
One blazin’ hot day with a strong wind
blowin’, a fire broke out in the scrub
just behind our place an’ the widder’s,
an’ in less than a tick wus roarin’ down
on us. My boss wus in bed asleep, havin’
been up all the previous night with a
sick horse, an’ he had just time t’ hop
outa bunk an’ streak ter the river as
the crib caught fire. We dived inter a
deep hole, an’ then the widder came
tearin’ up an’ hopped in ; her place wus
goin’ up in smoke, too. The fire burnt
right down t’ the river bank, an’ I had
a job tryin’ t’ pacify the widder. She
spots me boss peerin’ over the other side
of a log lyin’ in the hole we wus in, an’
gets hysterical. ‘Oh! Bob,’ she wails,
“Then it goes like this !”
‘forgive me. I shouldn’t have treated yer
like I did. Will yer come t’ me now,
Bob?” Me boss glared at her an’ yelped,
‘Woman, I can’t come t’ yer.’ ‘Oh!
Bob,’ she squeals, ‘don’t say that. We’re
both on the same footin’ now ; we’ve both
lost everythin’. Come t’ me, Bob!
‘Shut hup,’ yelped me boss, ‘I tell yer I
can’t come t’ yer. I’m worse orf than
you are. I’ve lost every damn’ thing,
even me pants.’ ”
* * * *
“Lino”: A country J.P. in S.A. re-
cently went Solomon one better. Two
men were before him, disputing the
ownership of a calf. He asked if the
beast had been hand-fed; one said it
had, the other that it hadn’t. His Wor-
ship left the court, and, returning, decided
for the “Yes” man. The calf had eaten
from his hand.
* * * - *
“Cooee”: Bill and Dave were rivals
for the affections of the same girl, and
when she consented to let him drive her
home after the dance Bill reckoned he
had one up on Dave. His spirits were
somewhat dampened, however, when
Dave asked for a lift as far as his place.
He couldn’t very well refuse, so off they
went. It was a cold night, and Bill was
busy handling the mare until she warmed
up. When Dave slid his arm around
Millie’s waist and clasped a gloved hand
he was thrilled with the demure squeezes
that returned his ardent ones. On reach-
ing his gate, he joyously wished the
young lady good night, and thanked Bill
for the lift. That’s all right, Dave,” Bill
answered. “Thanks for keepin’ me hand
warm.”
* * * *
“Runa, D.Y.”: Probably “Salmon
Gums” (B. 10/5/’39) was too casual
when he “casually mentioned curly
jarrah.” He is doubtless referring to
wavy-grained jarrah, and has probably
noticed the figure on both radially and
tangentially sawn slabs from this species
of acacia (wattle). A better example,
however, and far prettier, is “ringed
gidya,” another species of acacia. Trade
journals often attribute the beautiful
figuring of these woods to the action of
the wind; American scientists to the
overhead weight of the tree ; but most
feasible is the contention that it is the
result of the tree’s desiring greater
strength in the wood to resist longitudinal
shear. Figured blackwood, still another
species of acacia, has this type of figur-
ing, and is much sought after by cabinet-
makers. Logs of this timber that have
been burnt by bushfires and have lain
in Tasmanian forests for many years
often find their way to the Sydney timber-
yards.
* * * *
“Buzzer”: Of all pests the fly that gets
in the pillow is the one to make any but
the saintliest of bushmen swear fearfully.
A man rolls his swag out, arranges his
hipper, fixes his pillow, sets himself for
shut-eye and “B-z-z-z-z-z! ” sounds in
his ear. It does a blast, pauses, gets its
breath, does another prolonged hoot.
There’s nothing to equal it. Most men
start off full of confidence to hunt that
fly and get him. I never heard of one
yet that succeeded. You can pull your
swag to pieces, unroll the pillow, shake
every article in the thing, remake it and
go to burrow again, only to get that pro-
longed saw-grating in the ear just as
you’re set for slumber. You can pound
the thing, jump on it, squeeze it, do what
you like, and that fly looks on it as an
encore. If anyone knows the means to
locate the cuss I’m here to pay attention
to what he says.
“Fore!”
“E.S.S.”: There was a day’s racing,
for horses and bicycles, at a wayside pub
in the north-west corner of N.S.W. when
the neighboring shed
cut out. The shearers’
cook, who was trav-
elling the rounds
with his wife and
daughter in a two-
horse buggy, said he
didn’t know much
about racing, but
entered one of the
buggy horses for the
big handicap, “just
for sport.” The girl
rode him and won.
Flourbags said it
was a pleasant sur-
prise. Then he pro-
duced a bicycle from
the back of the
buggy, rolled his
trousers up, and won
the most important
wheel race. “You
can’t be up to these
racin’ blokes,” said
the publican, who
had dropped his bit
on the double.
“They come at you
in all sorts of ways.”
Most of the dough
was collected by the
cook, who had
speculated “just for
sport.”
“Walkabout”: After the rivers flood in
far sou’-western Q’land and thousands
of ducks of all varieties nest, eggs be-
come first favorite on Binghi’s menu. As
the. harvest gathered daily is more than
the camp, dogs inclusive, can consume,
the gins indulge in a little egg-preserving.
Dipped in melted fat and then rolled
in sand the eggs are buried, their period
of interment depending on circumstances.
I’ve seen eggs unearthed after a month,
but mostly Binghi’s laziness proved too
strong and the eggs would be dug up
after a couple of days ; he preferred to
get his “tuckout” at his front door
rather than walk a mile or two after
ducks’ nests.
* * * *
“Sherwood”: In the battle to secure
spiders to serve as future provender for
her young, Mother Wasp doesn’t always
have it her own way. Watched a wasp
land on the ground close to a spider’s
underground home. Suddenly the lid
of the menage was thrown violently back,
and the inmate emerged to assume a
remarkable pose. The body of the spider
was raised to the full limits of its ex-
tended legs. Mrs. Wasp eyed the new-
comer with a satisfied look, and pro-
ceeded to walk round and round the
elevated spider, then suddenly dashed in
for the kill. The onslaught was met with
calmness and a fluid ejection that seemed
to worry the wasp, which quickly de-
parted to a handy sandbank and pro-
ceeded to roll about with the evident in-
tention of cleaning itself. Then it
returned to the attack. Same result, same
procedure. Meanwhile the spider re-
mained in same position. After the third
attack, when the wasp again hastened to
the sand, the spider went back into its
hole and closed the lid. I went down to
the sandbank and collected a dead wasp.
Now how did that spider know?
* * * *
“Dingo”: Landmen in other countries
seem to go in for specialised boots for
every phase of their work, from lumber-
jacks’ sprigged lace-ups to a dozen
assorted varieties of riding-boots. With
the exception of odd elastic-siders, and
of Wellington boots for cowyards in wet
weather, the Australian depends upon his
bluchers for every occasion. Serviceable
enough for ploughing and walking over
level ground, the blucher is a man-killer
in mud or on dry, grassy hills. I have
seen rabbit-trappers slip back two paces
for one going their rounds in the ranges,
land into camp dogtired with aching
shins and still muster up enough energy
and joviality to roar with laughter at a
newchum laboriously fitting iron sprigs
or strips of leather across his soles. Per-
sonally, I never could see the joke.
* * * *
“E.E.”: The woman who tied a bag
over the about-to-be-executed fowl’s
head (B. 10/5/’39) can claim a medical
precedent. A Macquarie-street (Sydney)
specialist when in g.p. at Hurstville
(N.S.W.) once stopped an ex-patient with
a request that he kill a fowl. After the
chook was duly beheaded the surgeon
said: “I’m very much obliged. You see,
I can’t kill a fowl.” “Can’t kill a fowl!”
echoed the puzzled butcher. “But you
carved me up in rare style.” “That s
quite different,” explained the surgeon,
“but killing a fowl is beyond me. The
only time I managed it was when I tied
a paper bag over the poor thing’s head.”
A LIMITED MENU.
“Whilst dietitians are agreed that the seuoua
deficiency in vitamins of the food favored by bush
men will if not checked, have a deleterious effect on
their health, it is another matter to get them to
adopt a more balanced diet.”— Medical writer.
Their habitat is not where houses cluster
And narrow canyons of cement abound,
But Back-o’-Sunset, where they seek to muster
The cattle with the help of horse and hound;
Where, axe in hand, the giant gums they re
felling.
They live —though dietitians all agree
That this the true outbacker’s doom is
spelling—
On mutton, damper and some inky tea.
It’s sad to think that Sam, who’s only eighty
And can’t ride more than thirteen hours a
day,
Will, if he doesn’t heed this counsel weighty,
Curl up and croak, or slowly fade away.
And Tom, whose beard last century was grizzled
And who on corned “horse” cut his teeth,
must know
He can’t survive that murky tea he’s swizzled
And all the mutton and the half-baked dough.
A singularly complicated science
Is dietetics; and it’s with dismay
They learn that bushmen view it with defiance.
“Well, what the hell are vitamins?” they say.
And so they go their ways, all unenlightened
On “balanced food.” It’s odd —extremely
odd —
These dying bushmen simply won’t be
frightened,
But totter on on mutton, tea and “sod.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
KING THE ROAD
BATTIK I IS
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and Dp-
Ended preciation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
12$ p.e.
£, £ £ £
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 . . 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 . . 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 .. 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6} p.e.
1935 . . 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,039
1936 . . 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.e.
1937 . . 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
7$ p.e.
1938 . . 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 . . 1,005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
Earnings of this large, efficient, highly-
prosperous and well-entrenched indus-
trial organisation are derived in the main
from milling and refining in Australia,
growing and milling in Fiji, refining in
Maoriland and from a wad of invest-
ments (£3,252,177, up £99,587 at the end
of March) outside the business. In Aus-
tralia the sheet-anchor of the co.’s earn-
ings, which accounts for half or more of
the total, is its contract with the Govern-
ment for refining, selling and financing
all but a small fraction (handled by the
Millaquin Co.) of the entire Australian
crop on a commission basis.
The following table shows the raws
bought by the Australian Sugar Board
for home consumption and for export,
and the average price realised:
, Tons (94 n.t.)
Average,
1926-28. 1935. 1937. - 1938.
Aust. consumption 344,000 337,000 355,000 364,000
Export .. .. 143,000 310,000 448,000 458,000
Total .. . . 487,000 647,000 803,000 822,000
Home price £26/12/10 £24/-/- £24/-/- £24/-/-
Export price 11/18/2 7/18/9 8/6/- 8/4/3
Average*.. 22/6/1 16/17/- 17/11/- 16/19/1
* Applies Queensland only, and excludes excess sugar.
In Fiji the quantity and value of raws
exported during the last four years has
been:—•
Tons. Value. ! Tons. Value.
1935.. 135,632 £1,314,128 1937.. 129,693 £1,388,681
1936.. 140,864 1,331,701 | 1938.. 134,414 1,338,813
The co.’s own mills, however, turned out
fewer raws last season —170,819 tons
(down 21,948 tons) Australia, and 134,578
tons (down 5751 tons) Fiji. This and the
lower London price for raws appear to
be mainly responsible for the contraction
of £55,116 in declared net earnings
(£1,005,670), which were 8.5 p.e. on capi-
tal as it now stands, as against 9 p.e. and
8.8 p.e. for the two preceding years. The
profit was written after allowing £341,078
(up £7908) for depreciation and adding
£170,060 net to the replacement reserve,
etc., some or all of which may be genuine
profit. The div. was kept at p.e., which
is equal to 15 p.e. on capital as it stood
before the one-for-one gift scrip issue
in 1934.
The solid nature of the financial struc-
ture and the steady expansion of the
undertaking are illustrated in the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1925. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital . . £4,785,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 1,607,274 2,387,418 2,152,000
Suspense accounts 1,856,909 2,419,159 2,437,456
Employees’ funds 39,545 53,170 55,817
Refineries, mills,
etc 5,670,772 10,150,934 10,478,655
Steamers, etc. . . 1(10,000 176,924 271,877
Distillery .. 86,292 236.153 322,678
Premises .. 52,850 226,302 228.202
Stocks . . . . 3,225,413 4,120,339 4,176,249
Book debts, etc. } , ron .„. f 450,031 415,295
Investments .. j 1,690,484 j 3 >15 2,590 3,252,177
Cash and deposits 1,211,103 3,570,679 3,022,574
To add £511,099 to the book value of
fixed assets, lop £235,418 off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, and add
£55,910 to stocks and £99,587 to invest-
ments, the board drew upon cash for
£548,105, reduced book debts by £34,736,
and added £18,297 to suspense accounts
and £2647 to the employees’ fund ; sur-
plus earnings, including provision for de-
preciation. etc., provided the balance.
Including suspense accounts (some of
them are provision for contingencies
not likely to occur) with liabilities, the
more or less liquid surplus (£6,221,022)
Was £212,870 less than at the previous
balance. Together with other things, :t
all gives the future for the business a
comfortable appearance.
As for the coming season, prospects
are for a still bigger output of raws in
Australia, but hurricanes have caused
some damage to crops in Fiji, and the
recent rise in the world price of raw sugar,
being due to an artificial shortage, “can
only be regarded as temporary,” the
chairman says. Still, the Australian export
quota has been lifted, and that means
much in view of increased output and
the problem of overproduction, mill
quotas, etc., which those in the industry
are not anxious to come to grips with.
Prospects for the new pineapple can-
nery in Fiji, where another complete line
of machines has had to be added sooner
than was expected, are very encouraging,
and good results are expected from the
fibre-board (Cane-ite) factory, scheduled
to begin operations at Sydney before the
end of the year. Cane-ite, which has very
high insulating and sound-absorbing
qualities, is made from megass, hitherto
a waste-cane product burnt in the co.’s
mill furnaces. The co. has also under-
taken to market Masonite, the product
of the Masonite Corp., which recently
put up a factory at Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.).
With a twinkle in its eye, the market
prices the f.-p. £2O shares at £45 155., at
which figure the return is 3.2 p.e. on a
p.e. div. basis. Those who look for
a wink under 4 p.e. on their money count
on a 9. p.e. distribution, which the board
might not be in a hurry to make. Book
value of the net tangible cover is £22
11s. 9d., and there is another £6 12s. 4d.
in the replacement reserve, apart from
suspense account.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£> £ St St
1929.. 52,141 15 p.e. = 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12$ „ ~31,250 242,596
1931.. 1,181 74 „ ~18,750 225,027
1932.. 19,177 6 ~ .. 115,000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ „ 12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ „ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 ~ „ 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ „ 20,000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.e. - 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938.. 36,054 10 „ ~ 37,500 - 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337.. 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 |
1939.. 27,662 7$ p.e. = 30,000 $ 307,948
This co. has been handling wool, grain,
produce and livestock in Victoria and
southern N. S. Wales for the last 50
years ; and for a long time before that
it had been a proprietary concern. For
the dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1930 divs. averaged a shade under 14
p.e. Meanwhile, the business had ex-
panded considerably, and so had the
risks. When slump came the div. dropped
to 5 p.e., and then advanced by irregular
steps to 10 p.e. for the two years to the
close of accounts in ’3B, but fell back
to 74 p.e. last term —interim 3 p.e. and
final 4| p.e.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts unfavorable seasonal
conditions continued throughout the
areas in which the co. operates. This
meant a smaller clip and restricted
stock sales, which were accompanied by
lower prices for wool and produce, but
better figures for stock. Compared with
the corresponding period of the previous
season, the Australian average per bale
for the 11 months to the end of May
was £2 13s. 6d. lighter at £l3 ss. 2d., and
the cheque for the Commonwealth was
£4,908,903 lower at £36,238,839. During
the year to the end of March, the co.
opened three new branches, but put 4765
fewer bales under the hammer, and gross
earnings from all sources were down
£12,782:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.e.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 p.e.
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
1932.. 75,464 92,315 73,138 79.2 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1937.. 81,850 122,821 90,432 73.6 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,446 74.3 „
1939.. 74,750 127,718 100,056 78.3 ~
Including provision for taxation
(£1199, down £5493) and depreciation
(£2972, down £284), exes, were £4390
lower. That left the net result £8392
lighter at 6.9 p.e. on capital as against
9.6, 12.9, 10.7, 4.9, 7.7, 4, 7.6 and 0.4 p.e.
back to the dark days of 1931. That
leaves out of the reckoning non-re-
curring exes, of £2200 in connection
with the establishment of new branches.
However, rains toward the close of
accounts improved the seasonal outlook
for the current term, so the board didn’t
hesitate to pay 7| p.e., though reserves
had to be tapped for £4538 for the pur-
pose.
Although £150,000 of fresh capital,
which brought with it £75,000 of share
premiums, was gathered just after the
close of accounts in 1937, the manage-
ment went outside for an extra £104,054
to help clients last term:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939,
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities . . 364,582 329,371 384,699 488,753
Promises and
plant .. 141,235 162,298 193,465 199,041
Book debts, etc. 722,077 638,262 910,699 1,008,532
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc. . . 9,005 9,005 9,005 9,005
Merchandise .. 3,610 3,217 . 4,015 2,818
Book debts, etc., increased by £97,833,
and £5576 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written off. The con-
traction in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£531,602) was £7418.
The market, which prefers not to
count its chickens too long before they
are hatched these days, prices the pound
shares at 28s. 6d. as against 31s. a year
ago. At the lower figure the return is
5.2 p.e. on al% p.e. div. basis. The
cover is 355. sd. in net tangibles.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends— >,
Pref. To Re—
Jan., Loss. 7* p.e. Ordinary. seizes. Deficit.
1929.. ifil Nil T“ *>2,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 05,000
Written off capital, £63,888 .. '7, p -~ rves
Profit. iteserveb.
1930.. 21,087" 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,012
1931.. 2,525 Nil “ 1 0’395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO ..
Deficit.
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil 1
Profit. c
1934.- Nil
1935.. 19,853 11,110 5 p.e. = 1,065 7,678 711
12 p.e. „ „ ...
1936.. 21,179 12,120 10 „ „ 2,129 6,930 7,641
1937.. 21,230 12,120 10 „ „ 2,130 6,980 14,621
p.e.
1938.. 22,491 12,625 12$ „ „ 2,662 7,204 21,825
1939.. 20,585 12,625 12$ „ ~ 2,662 5,298 27,123
This co. and its two subsidiaries
Overland, Sydney, Ltd., and Overland,
Ltd.—are in the motor distribution
business in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, and they handle the products of
the Willys-Overland, Graham-Paige,
Diamond T. Motors and Singer cos.
Sales, which have steadily climbed for
the last five years, appear to have
reached their peak in N. Si Wales about
the middle of 1938. Comparing the
last with the first half of that year new
registrations of motor vehicles fell away
9.7 p.e. in N. S. Wales and increased
by 13.5 p.e. in Queensland. The effect
on the combined earnings of the Garratt
concerns for the 12 months to the end
of January was a contraction of £1906
in the net result (£20,585), which over
twice covered the prefs.’ annual mini-
mum requirements (£10,100). Allowing
for these, one-half of the balance was
equal to 5.1 p.e. on pref. capital, and the
other half to 24.6 p.e. on ord. capital.
Actually the ords. got p.e., and the
prefs. 12| p.e., of which 2-y p.e. was
in respect of arrears, reducing them to
£37,623, or 7s. sd. per share. The £5298
that remained lifted the carry-forward
to £27,123, which is available for distri-
bution £13,202 (2s. 7d. per £1 share) to
the prefs. and £13,920 (2s. 7d. per 4s.
share) to the ords.
The £122,296 of capital is in 101,000
£1 prefs. and 106,480 ords. of 4s. each.
In a reconstruction about four years ago
capital remained intact, but the pref.
div. (it had been reduced by 22\ p.e.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act) was restored to its original
rate of 10 p.e. cumulative. After that
any distribution of profits is to be in
approximately equal amounts to the
prefs. and the ords. until arrears of pref.
divs. are wiped out. The idea was to
give the ords. —they had gone without
for the seven years to the end of Jan.,
1934, and 16s. had been lopped off each
pound share since 1921 —a chance to
get into the picture again.
The market, mindful of the history
of the business and the risks still in-
herent in the trade, prices the prefs. at
20s. 4d., at which figure the return is
12.2 p.e. on a p.e. distribution.
After sales at 4s. buyers offer 4s. 3d.
and sellers ask ss. Bd. for the ords. At
ss. the return would be 10 p.e. on the
basis of last year’s distribution. The
net tangible cover is 295. 7d. prefs. and
9s. Id. ords.
Here is the position as the consoli-
dated balance-sheet figures of the group
(<Continued from page 24.)


& Ycom^
19Z\
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
OF VICTORIA
Constituted Under Act of Parliament of Victoria
LOAN
£900,000
Issued Under Authority of the
State Electricity Commission (Financial) Act, 1937 of the State of Victoria
RATE OF INTEREST, 4% PER CENT. PER ANNUM
PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR (£10D),
CURRENCY, 10 YEARS
The Loan is Secured Upon the Revenue of the Commission. Principal and Interest are
Guaranteed by the Government of Victoria. The Loan is a Trustee Security in Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania.
APPLICATIONS
Should be lodged with the Commission’s Banker,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, at
any of its offices in Australia, and may be lodged
directly with the Bank or through members of
recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia. Applica-
tions also may be lodged at the Head Office of
the Commission, 22-32 William Street, Melbourne.
Allotments will be made in full fis far as practicable in order
of receipt of applications by the Commission from the National
Bank of Australasia Limited, Melbourne.
Interest will be payable on 15th January and 15th July in
each year, and the Loan will be Repayable at par (£100)
on 15th July, 1949.
Interest will be payable and Principal repayable Free of
Exchange in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart and Canberra. Application Money and all instalments
will be accepted free of exchange in Victoria, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart and Canberra.
Cash subscribed to the Loan may be paid either in full on
application or ten (10) per cent, may be paid on application
and the balance in three equal instalments on 15 th August,
1 sth September, and 1 6th October respectively, with the right
to the holder of paying in full any outstanding balance on any
instalment date.
Stock will be inscribed or Debentures issued at the option of
applicants.
Inscribed Stock and Debentures will be interchangeable free
of charge.
Brokerage at the rate of 5/- per cent, will be paid on all
allotments in respect of applications lodged by and bearing
the stamp of members of recognised Stock Exchanges in
Australia.
Early application will be made for the Listing of the Loan on
the Stock Exchanges of Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Salient details of the functions, activities, and financial position
of the Commission are given in the prospectus.
The Loan has been Underwritten by J. B. Were and Son, Members of
the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, Capel Court, 375 Collins Street,
Melbourne; 44 Martin Place, Sydney; and 39 Lombard Street, London.
COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS, containing
the full terms and conditions of the issue, with
Application Forms, are obtainable from The
National Bank of Australasia Ltd., at any of its
offices in Australia, from members of recognised
Stock Exchanges in Australia, or from the Head
Office of the Commission, 22-32 William Street,
Melbourne.
THE LDM IS NOW OPEN FDR SUBSERIPTIDN
AND WILL CLOSE DAI OR BEFORE SATOHDAY, 15th JULY, 1939
State Electricity Commission of Victoria,
Head Office: 22-32 William Street, Melbourne.
14th June, 1939.
G. G. JOBBINS, Chairman.
R. LIDDELOW , Manager.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET
Bedrooms 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms lor Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
*-" nch ,com 12 ««.« (Snndw. 18.43 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Suna.p. 5.45 p. m ,
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601. '
The Union Trustee Company of Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
„ Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
„ „ N.S.W. DIBECTOKS:
sir E GSham t W^dden ia tri i^ 0 - n 'T Sir Bri } ddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Graham Waddell, K.8.E., James Kidd; ,T. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
<WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET. 1
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZOR
P t(/
r
M
Q
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor— fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits f and J blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654
GEORGE STREET,
SVIINEY.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited 1 , 175 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yeltjab,” Melbourne.
show it —hitherto only the holding co.’s
own figures were sent out:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
Liabilities.
£
Paid capital ..122,296
Undistrib. profits 43,906
Secured creditors 93,37 S
Trade creditors . 46,770
Tax provision .. 14,056
£320,406
Assets.
£
Freeholds . . . . 58,284
Plant, etc. . . 9.872
Stock, etc. . . 165,198
Book debts . . 85,039
Cash, etc 2,013
£320,406
The feature which catches the eye there
is stocks, etc., the etcetera being an un-
specified amount of work in progress.
Whether the item appears at cost or
market price is not stated in the pub-
lished accounts. Including stocks, more
or less liquids exceeded outside liabili-
ties, including provision for taxation, by
£99,046 when the books closed.
Prospects are not so favorable as they
were a year ago.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
This co. amalgamated, in 1926, the old
Larut, Tupai, Kota and Settlement
Dredge cos., all operating in the Taiping
valley (F.M.S.), in exchange for £600,000
of its own scrip. Last term, to reduce the
book value of property to a figure more
in keeping with its considered worth, half
the £600,000 was jettisoned by lopping
10s. off each £1 share, and the 10s. shares
were then split into ss. counters.
First year of the amalgamation pro-
duced the best net result —£ 107,000-odd.
Profits on a declining scale saw divs. cut
out in 1930, when dredging ceased owing
to restriction. With the recommencement
of operations in 1933 shareholders got
back into the picture, and have stayed
there since.
Here is a summary of recent p. and 1.
figures:—
r —Dividends—^
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Share. Amt.
1934.. £38,640 £18,790 £19,850 -/3 £7,500
1935.. 75,317 42,965 32,352 -/6 15,000
iq , fi f 118,793 "82,326 36,467 -/9 22,500
) To bucket-band reserve, £5lOO.
lqq7 ( 190,217 96,203 94,014 2/- 60,000
(To bucket-band reserve, £4900.
Capital written off, £300,000 (= 10/- per £1
share), and 10/- shares subdivided into 5/- counters.
1938.. 67,249 58,233 9,016 -/6f 15,000
* Including- depreciation: 1934, £4393; 1935,
£10.688 ; 1930, £21,219; 1937, £21,400 ;
1938, £lO,OOO. fOld £1 shares.
Last term was a difficult one. Excluding
buffer-stock contributions, average per-
mitted production was only 37.3 p.c. of
assessment (1395 tons t. 0.), as against
77.7 p.c. in the previous term, when earn-
ings also benefited from quota purchases
on the open market, cost of which has
now become prohibitive ; also, there was
a fall of over £6O per ton in the average
market price of tin. After allowing
£11,400 less for depreciation, there was
only £9016 (down £84,998) of profit re-
maining for shareholders. A sixpenny div.
before the capital reconstruction, requir-
ing £15,000, was the only distribution, but
a further per ss. share has gone out
since the close of accounts. During the
year balance of general reserve (£45,000)
was transferred to a depreciation and de-
pletion account, making it, with last
term’s contribution, £55,000. Previously
depreciation allowances were struck off
the assets concerned direct.
All told, the co. owns five dredges,
three being old and comparatively small
diggers, total annual capacity of the lot
being in excess of 8,000,000 c.y. Only
Nos. 2, 4 and 5 plants worked last term,
when poorer wash was encountered;
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic yards dredged 5,717,000 5,755,000 4,321,000
Tin oxide, tons .. 939.1 1,347.7 819.2
Assay value, p.c. .. 74.8 74.5 74.6
Recovery c.y., pound 0.36 0.52 0.42
Costs per c.y., pence 2.48 2.78 3.23
.Net t.o. realn, ton £l2B/1/2 £146/11/4 £ll5/8/1
Av. Singapore price
metallic tin . . £204/12/8 £242/6/7 £lBl/19/4
Part of the rise in working costs reflects
inclusion of provision for bucket-line
renewal in the item for the first time.
In the current term No. 5 plant has been
the only unit to operate, and then only
part-time, recoveries averaging per
c.y. Maximum reserve stocks have been
built up to take immediate advantage of
any improvement in quota releases.
At Dec. 31, 1937, dredging reserves
comprised 44,532,000 c.y. of 0.481 b. wash.
Since, a further 218 acres has been ac-
quired, raising the total undredged area
to 1011 acres. The ground presents no
digging difficulties, and water is plentiful.
The co. also has an equal share with
Rawang and Anglo-Oriental in a Bang
Toe project estimated to contain
55,000,000 c.y. of 0.571 b. ground. Nego-
tiations here with the Siamese Govern-
ment concerning surface rights, etc., are
proving difficult to bring to a head.
Meantime, Rawang is financing the prop-
erty at 5 p.c. interest on moneys ad-
advanced, repayable when the proposi-
tion is floated.
Research into more efficient recovery
practice by Anglo-Oriental (Malaya)
continues, and results are looked for
before long, while prospecting by Anglo-
Malayan Development on behalf of cos.
under Anglo-Malayan management is re-
ported “not without success.” Meantime
the statistical position of tin continues to
improve and prices are again at a satis-
factory level, activity in the tinplate in-
dustry being not the least satisfactory
feature of the outlook. Invisible stocks
also appear to be reaching a low point.
In the sharemarket, Larut’s ss. shares
are around par. Including store and ore
stocks, and buffer-pool contribution at
cost, the co. had £88,622 liquid at Dec.
31 and owed a round £6OOO. Property
then figured at £210,498, and dredge
plant, etc., at the written-down value of
£105,134.
Believing that the early bird catches
the worm, the State Electricity Com-
mission of Victoria is on the market with
£900,000 of 10-year p.c. stock or de-
bentures at par. The loan, which has
been underwritten by J. B. Were and
Son, is secured upon the revenue of the
commission, and is guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria as to principal
and interest. Also, the issue is a trustee
security in Vic., Queensland and Tas.,
which increases the attractiveness of the
issue to investors in these States. The
subscription lists will close on or before
July 15.
* * * *
For the year to March 31, Lake View
South, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), turned the
previous term’s loss of £465 into a profit
of £11,504. Production was 9822 tons for
35200 z. gold, or 7.ldwt. a ton. Formed
1935, the co. is an offshoot of Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, holder of all but
80,000 of the 240,000 ss. shares issued.
The pup crushes at the parent’s mill, and
output is being steadily pushed up, reach-
ing the rate of 12,000 tons p.a. for May.
At this rate ore reserves —28,970 tons,
averaging 6.9dwt., proved, and 5890 tons,
averaging 6.6dwt., probable —are equal
to nearly three years’ mill-feed.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian’s first div. of
p.c. for 1938 disappointed the market,
which expected a 10 p.c. distribution.
The profit claimed was £67,630, and
issued capital is £500,000. The 1\ p.c.
absorbs £37,500, and £21,814 has been
written off prospecting and development
account. The co.’s chief asset is its hold-
ing of the entire issued capital of Moon-
light Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd. ; other
holdings include shares in the Kin-
tore mine, Kunanalling, and in Yellow-
dine. At Moonlight Wiluna satisfactory
developments are reported at depth, and
ore reserves increased during the year
from 409,000 tons to 433,900 tons,
though the grade was o.s7dwt. lower at
5.45dwt.
* * * *
Lake View Investment Trust’s 500 odd
securities stood in its books at March 31
at £2,182,000.; market value was in ex-
cess of that figure. Revenue for the year
was over 14 p.c. lighter at £103,200. The
ord. div. was maintained at 9 p.c., and
the carry-forward is £7lOO higher at
£51,300. Classification of investments
shows little change with 48| p.c. in
ordinary stocks, while 54 p.c. of total in-
vestments is in Great Britain and the
Dominions, 15 p.c. S. America, and 12
p.c. U.S.A. The co. was originally
formed in 1920 to acquire the assets of
Lake View and Oroya, Kalgoorlie
(W.A.).
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) has
decided to increase the capacity of its
8000-ton-a-month treatment plant in
order to handle a larger quantity of low-
grade oxidised ore. It has also decided to
prospect with the diamond drill areas
about a mile away from its main group.
These areas were previously held by
8.A.N.Z., Ltd., and are north of the
northern end of the Golden Mile, The
nearest mine of importance to them is
Croesus Prop., operated by North Kal-
gurli.
* * * afe
Questioned concerning the future of
North Kalgurli (W.A.), chairman C. A.
Whitfield said that they were only just
commencing and that he did not know
what the mine would look like in 50
years’ time, but that shareholders could
regard prospects with every confidence.
Improvements about to be made in
haulage should result in a substantial re-
duction of costs, while the erection of a
mill on the Croesus Prop, should help to
swell revenue.
* * * *
Perth-controlled New Golconda has
moved on again. After dropping its
financial bundle on the Murchison field
it took an option on something at Norse-
man. It has now left there and gone to
Boogardie, where sampling of a property
taken on approval is claimed to have
disclosed a long line of payable reef. The
Boogardie field is noted for small, rich
shallow deposits more than for per-
manency.
* * * *
Emu Mining Co. (W.A.), not to be
confused with Emu Gold Mines, Ltd.,
which last-named is a subsidiary of
Murchison Gold Development, one of the
De Bernales group, is still on the hunt
for something worth while in the West.
It is a prospecting concern, formed in
1934 with an Adelaide address, which
took, and shortly after abandoned, an
option on the Waroonga, at Lawlers.
Atlas, Ltd., one of De Bernales’s West-
ralian gold group, is having another go
at Hack’s old mine at Sandstone. The
co. previously did some diamond-drill-
ing, shaft-sinking and tunnelling, cost-
ing in the aggregate several thousand
pounds, and then halted. A former holder
of Hack’s (an Australian co.) kept a 20-
head mill running for some time and
got over 200,0000 z. of gold. Later two
prospectors took more than IOOOoz. out
of the property. All the Atlas shares are
held by Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, Ltd., the biggest of De
Bernales’s London floats.
« * * #
Paringa (W.A.) estimates its auriferous
ore reserves at 285,323 tons, of which
248,794 tons, averaging 6.03dwt., is
proved, thus placing the mine well ahead
of the mill. During the six months ended
March last, 35,863 tons was milled for
80570 z., valued at £A74,056. Operating
costs were estimated at 235. 2d. a ton in
Australian currency.
H= * * *
Wiluna is doing better. Its estimated
working surplus for April was £A24,166
compared with £A21,462 in March and
£A16,291 in February, and is the best
monthly performance since the first half
of 1938. April working costs were
16s. lOd. a ton.
* * * *
On June 7 Coolgardie (W.A.) cele-
brated with liquor and boost the starting
of Tindals new treatment plant by
Minister of Mines Panton. Some old-
timers were there, and local director J.
McCallum Smith and manager Leo
Gibbons acted as joint hosts. First unit
of the plant has a capacity of 500 tons a
month. Early last year the State Govt,
guaranteed the co. a bank overdraft of
£30,000 at the rate of £2500 a month for
12 months, conditional upon the co.
raising £25,000 sterling.
* * * *
For quarter ended March 31, Youanmi
(W.A.) treated 21,846 tons for £40,028.
Working costs were £28,935, development
took £7289, and capital expenditure,
mostly on a new air compressor, absorbed
£4210. Development work indicates that
all’s well underground.
*•* * *
After extensive sampling, Big Bell
has abandoned its option on Ives
Reward on the Coolgardie (W.A.) field.
It was pointed out on this page soon after
the option was taken that Ives Reward
had failed in the past to live up to ex-
pectations.
* * * *
E. Prothero Jones, who was in his late
seventies, died in London on June 4. He
was well-known in Westralia, being a
director of Gt. Boulder Prop., Boulder
Perseverance, Kalgurli Ore Treatment,
Ltd., Golden Horse Shoe and three of the
principal cos. of De Bernales’s West-
ralian group. In addition he was chair-
man of and principal shareholder in
Hannans Land Co., which owns the
Palace Hotel and Palace Chambers in
Kalgoorlie.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.S.C.: (1) Cheapest method is to purchase
material and assemble on the site. Cost de-
pends largely on locality, nature of material
to be treated, facilities for charging and dis-
charging vats, water supply and other local
aspects. Assuming sands amenable to leach-
ing, plant to treat 100 tons weekly would cost
£B5O. This includes a small laboratory, assay
and melting furnaces, etc. (2) Furnish specifi-
cation of the type of plant required, together
with assays and the necessary preliminary
cyanide tests, to Thompson’s Engineering and
Pipe Co., Ltd., Kembla Building, Margaret-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.; Charles Ruwolt Pty.,
Ltd., Victoria-street, Richmond, E.l, Victoria;
Gibson, Battle and Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent-
street, Sydney, N.S.W G.S.H.: (1) Cannot
say; co. has not yet reached the marketing
stage. (2) See B. 9/11/’38... .C.P.K.: Not
recommended G. Roma : It is a new venture,
and therefore subject to more risks than an
established concern. On the board are some
well-known commercial men, and the venture
appears to have a fair chance of success. (2)
See B. 26/4/’38... .J.P.H.: Morris Hedstrom,
Ballarat Brew, and S. Aust. Brew, are worth
consideration... .J.8.G.: It looks like a gamble
with the odds against you.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
mm
****
H
il* W,U!M
. S :
IS
if'iiiiija
**.
!S*
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per niiht.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Ah, who can resist the charm of Japan?
—“Woman Tourist” in Sydney weekly.
Ah Hoo, apparently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The not inconsiderable physical effort ex-
pended by mannequins in changing into dozens
of different frocks every day contributes in no
small measure to the slimness of their build.”
—Wireless fashion talk.
Constant stripping wears away a stone.
“I hope the Commissioner don't hear o' this."
“Racehorses relish an apple after a race.”
—Sporting paper.
Punters usually get the pip.
•h *l*
Success is when a man has to worry
more about his income tax than his rent,
•h '> 4* •b
“Bishop says paint and powder make a girl
look cheap.”
She thinks they make her a little dear,
•h 4* 4*
“When a man’s tie is greasy, .add a few drops
of ammonia to the washing water.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
And thereafter cut out giving him
soup.
4* 4« 4*
“Despite a lot of trenchant criticism by the
public, modern meteorologists are correct in
their weather forecasts five days out of seven.”
—Weather bureau.
The other two days being Saturdays
and public holidays.
“In their enthusiasm some women are apt to
overdo things.”— Women’s paper.
Chops and steak, for instance.
4* * * *
“Send your skins to be made up.”— Advt.
Surely women haven’t come to this.
•F *F *F *F
“A damp atmosphere is necessary for the
spinning of yarns.” —Weaving article.
A hotel bar, for example.
“Comedians of to-day are not as funny as
those of 40 years ago.”— Veteran actor.
They ought to be ; they tell the same
jokes.
•i •
“New Zealand traffic policemen to be
equipped with cameras.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
This should lead to some interesting
developments.
•Ja •£« •£• «fa
“Could anyone tell a harassed young man
how to cure a girl of infatuation?”
— “D.T.” correspondent.
Give her your honest opinion of her
hat.
•h *l*
“Singing-teacher bankrupt.”— News item.
Couldn’t hold on to his notes.
“Queen Revives Feather Style.”— “Sun.”
Society will be tickled about this.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Scientists are hopeful of perfecting a device
that will enable them to receive wireless pro-
grammes transmitted years ago.”
—Scientific journal.
Why?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every eighty-ninth birth produces twins.”
— Year-book.
Couples not desiring twins should
therefore limit their families to eighty-
eight.
•F *F *F *F
Then there’s the woman who will go
to any lengths in order to wear a dress
that’s too short for her.
•F *F *l* 4*
At a wedding the bride wears a train;
the ’groom is trained later.
Breeding.
“Many children display mulish tendencies.”
—Education Department report.
Why wonder that there is a lag
Made by dull children in our schools ?
Their fathers asses, mothers nags,
The progeny, of course, is mules!
H.M.
Fowl Play.
“In Eastwood (N.S.W.) a poultry farm is
fitted with huge electric lamps which are turned
on at 2 a.m. Thinking it is dawn, the hens
get ready to lay. They get such an early start
that they usually lay two eggs each day in-
stead of one.”— “Daily News.”
My Uncle William tried this system on
his poultry farm at Bullwoggle.
One morning, having switched on the
lights, he crept back to bed, and about
an hour later the current fused. Con-
fronted with sudden darkness, the hens
made a concerted rush back to the roosts,
and several of them broke their necks.
Others, having lost all sense of direction,
climbed up the wires of the coop and,
going to sleep upside down just after
having a drink, died of water on the
brain.
When dawn came, the remainder set
about their day’s work. But the break
had caused such confusion that, instead
of laying the scheduled two eggs, they
laid only one and a half. Uncle had to
clean up the mess.
On another occasion he went on a
bender, and forgot to turn off the lights.
When he sobered up a week later he
found a vast pyramid of eggs in the
centre of the coop. What birds weren’t
dead from exhaustion were on the verge
of collapse.
Even now the survivors still have large,
dark rings under their eyes, and their
chickens have invariably revealed neuro-
tic tendencies.
Uncle has been trying to sell out ever
since.
T.W. NATHAN.
Epistle.
“Dear Brenda, —Just a line to let you
know that I was all wrong about Mrs.
Next-door. She’s not such a bad sort,
after all, so I want you to forget all
those nasty things I said about her.
“You know, the poor little thing lost
her husband the other day, so I thought
it only right for me to offer what con-
solation I could. After all, we’ve been
neighbors a long while, so it’s about time
we got to know each other.
“I’ve discovered that she’s quite a dear,
and I feel sure that those awful rows
which she used to have with her husband
were caused by him, as she’s been as
quiet as a mouse since he’s gone. 1 also
think he was to blame for her having
those other little affairs I told you about
—not that there was any harm in them.
“I did get a surprise when I found out
that he had left her over £3OOO. I had
no idea they were so well-in. Anyhow,
she needs more than money. She needs
real sympathetic help, so I’m going to
do whatever I can for her. —Yours,
"ALICE."
Per T.W.N.
Ceremony.
“We’ll wet the baby’s head,” said he.
And keep on wetting it we did.
So much, in fact, it seemed to me
We must have drowned the blooming
kid!
The Spinners.
Old ladies once were full of zeal
To sit and work their spinning wheel;
Now they’re full of zeal for winning
Where the roulette-wheels are spinning.
McM.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
IX.
It has been truly said that wallpaper
makes the difference between a house
and a home. The permanent record
thereon of baby’s greasy finger-marks
will bring a fond glow of memory to
ageing hearts long after the chick has
flown the parental rooftree.
The need for elaborate preparation of
walls to take paper has long since been
proved a fallacy. You will be putting
an adhesive mixture to the back of the
paper, so why put other glutinous stuff
on the walls as well? After all, when
you put a stamp on you don’t put muci-
lage on the envelope also!
First calculate the number of rolls
you’ll need to each room. There is scope
here for great saving. Being your own
home, your furniture will —or should —
be permanently in place. If your wife
has the annoying habit of getting you
to shift it around every few months in
the endless search for the ideal way the
dressing-table is to face, here is your
chance to kill it for ever.
Take the bedroom, for instance. The
bed, dressing-table, wardrobe and pedes-
tal between them take up a considerable
space. They are all —or can be —pushed
up against the wall, thus making it im-
possible to see behind them. Why waste
good paper, paste and time in covering
wall which can never be seen? Just
allow an inch or two in from the top
and sides in case anyone happens to
glance at it from an angle. Calculate the
square footage of the visible parts of the
walls and order accordingly.
With the choosing of the actual pat-
terns no man on the proper side of
quarter-witted will have anything to do
—leave that part of the job for the wife
to flog the cat over.
Cutting of the edges of the wallpaper
is an important preliminary. Unrolling
it and trying to cut a dead-straight line
with the sharpest kitchen knife, even
when using the broom handle as a straight
edge, isn’t always satisfactory. The best
plan is to roll the paper up as tightly as
you can, put a pencil mark where you
want the edge, and cut it through with
a sharp ripsaw.
Admittedly, it isn’t easy. You obvi-
ously cannot grease the saw and risk
soiling the paper. On the other hand, if
you go at it too fast with a dry saw the
friction against the paper may set it
alight. Just take it easy with a slow,
steady stroke. Should the saw “drag,”
burring the edge of the roll, touch the
paper up before unrolling it with a
second-cut file. But, above all, keep the
paper rolled tightly while handling the
saw.
For the paste use flour —plain, of
course; the self-raising kind might lift
the paper, or at least make it bulge here
and there, especially in hot weather.
Stir in some boiling water to about half
a bucketful of flour, and put it over the
back of the paper, hot and thick.
If you are going to put a frieze on
you can do the two operations in one
by first pasting the frieze on to the width
of the paper. Next measure the “drop”
from picture-rail to skirting, snip off that
length from the roll and slap it on, taking
care to put the end on which the frieze
has been stuck against the picture-rail.
Corners are tricky. Don’t take the
risk of spoiling a good job by trying to
“straddle” them. Work the width of
the paper, even if it means overlapping,
so that you come exactly to the corner,
then start the next width along the ad-
joining wall. Any spaces showing either
here or where the ordinary edges along
the wall have failed to meet accurately
can be patched with a thin strip cut from
a spare roll.
While the paste is still hot, run the
rolling-pin heavily up and down the
paper. This will squash flat any lumps
in the flour which might otherwise show
through when it dried out.
If any creases appear, don’t try to lift
the paper, stretch it taut and reset it.
Just snip all the creased bits out neatly
with sharp-pointed nail-scissors, cut fresh
pieces the exact shape of those cut out
and refit.
You will find that on pressing the
paper on to the wall the surplus paste
on the back will squash out from both
sides as well as top and bottom. On one
side at least it will go over the paper
you had previously hung. On no account
try to rub it off the paper, otherwise a
nasty smear will show. You can
dehydrate it afterwards by playing a
blowlamp slightly away from the paper.
The dried flour remaining can then be
blown off easily. Better still, it can be
scraped into a basin and be used again
for thickening gravy, etc.
S.W.K.


m
m
sag
■■ m.
y.::V
w
m
“I know it’s safer—because I can see so much \
more of the road, so much more of what’s ahead \
and at the sides, all the time! Look! The wind- \
screen’s wider and deeper—the side pillars are \
narrower—corners squared off! There’s every- %
thing to give me the clearest possible view of the \
road all the time! And, parking and turning are \
simpler than ever, too! Drive Oldsmobile yourself \
to-day, and SEE how much more SAFETY you \
can see!” \
Both the new Oldsmobiles the Econo-Master Series '
“60” and the Superlative Series “70”—give you “Obser-
vation Vision,” plus the safety and protection of the
“Unisteel” Turret Top Body by Holden, with Armourplate
Safety Glass in windscreen and all side windows. Come
in and drive one to-day! Let’s show you how different
they are!
ASK ABOUT THE CONFIDENTIAL G.M.A.C.
CONVENIENT PAYMENT PLAN
“YOUR MONEY GOES FARTHER IN A
GM-H CAR”
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Olds mobile Dealers all over Australia
"OBSERVATION VlSlON.”—Here’s range
of vision —see the narrow side pillars,
squared corners, wider view.
These drawings show how
up-and-down, side-to-side
and fore-and-aft move-
ments are prevented,
side-play and body roll
minimised.
eTxttJ
*K<is
nftt
“FOUR-WAY STABILISATION.” These
diagrams show how the Stabilizers and
Stabilizing Arms, combined with Quadri-
Coil Springing, give you the unique
RHYTHMIC RIDE.
HANDI - SHIFT
GEARCONTROL
—gives a com-
pletely clear
floor in front
compartment
df
‘AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO
brings maximum enjoyment to
motoring. There’s a special
model for Oldsmobile. Prices
range from Eighteen Guineas.
Ask for a demonstration. You
will be pleased with “Air
Chief’s" excellent reception.
OC.AP/27
THE
lIM IT Ell INSURANCE
UNI I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
AH classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
Australian Institution.
T O. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
Busines,Rollery,Etc.
Litchfields (A/asia), Ltd.
Litchfields (A/sia), Ltd., of Perth, was
written up in The Bulletin a couple of
years ago in the issue of 7/4/’37,
to be precise. Mr. Claude Osmonde
Barker (he had claims to royal blood,
his family-tree going back—on the
Jameson side—to Bruce the King of
Scotland) was managing director, and he
gave talks over station 6AM on invest-
ments etc.
Litchfields was selling “selective
security investments” on the strength
of a very vague booklet that was the
subject of this page’s criticism. A re-
turn of 5|- p.c. p.a. to certificate-
holders was indicated if and when they
had paid up in full.' Very few appear to
have paid up in full. The general idea
seemed to be to buy stocks and shares
and to pool the income. The certificates
were described in the booklet as “an ideal
form of investment.” But the verdict
here was that the information offered
was “meagre and unsatisfactory.” T. J.
Hughes, Perth barrister and M.L.A., and
secretary of the co. at the time, resigned
two or three months later because “he
just didn’t like the job,” and wasn’t
satisfied with “the rate of expenditure in
relation to the sale of the scrip.”
Apparently the thing that Litchfields
(A/sia) does most efficiently is to lose
money. Between July 16, 1936, and June
30, 1937, Litchfields showed an income
of £3 and a loss of £2s2s—after carrying
forward £1360 of “certificate selling
exes.” and £1395 of preliminary exes,
Paid share capital at this time was £6141,
and £46o ° worth of certificates had been
pl aced (£1043 paid up on them),
Operations were extended to Adelaide,
During the year to June, 1938, an income
£ 146 was received ; exes, were £2417,
deferring some further certificate-
selling costs, and the loss this time was
£2271. At this stage paid capital was
£9410 ; certificates sold totalled £17,090,
/era instalments unpaid, £12,337, making
only £4753 actually paid up. Against these
certificates the co. claimed to have
£4329 of investments. There was also
£616 in cash, £530 in fittings, debtors,
ftc., £1521 in preliminary exes., £3428
selling exes, capitalised and £4793 in
P- and £ debit.
Intangibles (accumulated losses and
expenses) altogether totalled £9741
more than offsetting paid capi-
ta£ R i s . a P d / at shareholders
haven’t a bit of King Bruce s blood in
th e *r veins, because it appears that they
wd J need a lot of patience if they aie
waiting for a return on their money,
Meantime, the versatile Mr. C. O.
Barker has gone into politics ; he became
M.L.A. for Irwin-Moore in the West-
ra£an elections last March. He will
probably agree that Australia is a
wonderful country.
The position of Australia as a whole
is in some respects reminiscent of those
company reconstructions that followed
the 1920 boom and slump. Several cos.
about that time wrote off stock values
against capital when the post-war boom
collapsed. But after a comparatively
short period of time stock values re-
covered, and the cos. were in some cases
persuaded to put new and higher ap-
praisements on stock at the subsequent
valuations, with the result (in such cases)
that surprisingly good profits were
shown —until the benefit of the sacrifice
of capital two or three years earlier ex-
hausted itself. The parallel in regard
to Australia’s present position rises from
the fact that during the stagnation of
slump there was an all-round reduction
of costs and charges —generally by 20
to 25 p.c. After this “reconstruction” of
our economy, which helped private in-
dustry to show profits and Governments
to balance their Budgets, the inevitable
swing of the world trade cycle occurred,
and with higher prices coming in for
our exports during 1934-37 we had a
prosperous four years. Overseas, also,
we had written off part of the value of
our currency, and this helped exporters,
though it put many importers out of
business. It is now approaching 10
years since the Bank of N. S. Wales re-
duced its div. and persuaded Australians
that the boom of the 1920’s was about
to crack ; nearly the same period since
our currency started to slide away from
sterling. It is about eight years since
bondholders, wage-earners, landlords,
etc., sacrificed part of their income in
the interests of general recovery. But
some of the “prosperity” that has fol-
lowed has been make-believe; it has
been due in part to the Spartan constitu-
tion of the rehabilitation period now run-
ning to fat. In other words, excuses have
been made to restore this or that de-
pression cut to someone’s salary, wage
or other remuneration when there was
no real justice behind the “restoration,”
the buying power of our money having
increased to such an extent following
the emergency measures adopted. Be-
cause of these “restorations” the buying
power of money is now on a decline.
In other words, we wrote down costs,
etc., during the slump, only to write
them up again during the recovery
period. And that was what happened
to stock values during and after many
of those 1920 company reconstructions.
Vr *
Bricks are down in Sydney under a
determination of the Industrial Commis-
sion. Common bricks drop 9s. 6d. a
thousand, to 58s. 6d. a thousand maxi-
mum ; face bricks have been reduced by
245., to 945.; callows or clinkers by
9s. 6d., to 535. 6d. Sydney bricks are
now cheaper than in most parts of Aus-
tralasia. They had risen steeply in price
during the “recovery” period.
* * * *
Australian Consolidated Industries
ords. maintained their position best
among the market leaders last week. At
365. 2d. they were 6d. or so below their
highest price. Broken Hill Prop, fully-
paids kept near 635., which is 3s. below’
the peak reached a couple of weeks ago.
British Tobacco was firm at 48s. 3d., and
Henry Jones, after weakening slightly,
recovered to 495. 6d., buyers. Austra-
lasian Paper ords. continued to be bought
steadily at 295. 6d., there being talk of
“something in the wind” as regards
A.P.M. In any case, the yield of 5.4 p.c.
is good, and well protected to boot. Cum-
berland ords., however, at 255. 3d. look
the better buy of the two holding cos.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. (B.
7/6/’39) were sought after at 71s. 6d.,
after sales at 725. No further sellers were
in evidence. Carlton Brewery was firmly
supported at 675. 6d., and Melbourne
Co-op., another holding co. in C.U.8.,
was higher at 58s. In Sydney, Tooth
shares were weak at 525. for a time,- but
on Thursday’s turnover of 785 shares
the price firmed 6d. Kandos Cement
16s. shares reacted Is. 3d., coming back
to 295. 9d. The contribs. held their price
better for a while. Australian Cement
£1 shares remained unchanged at 38s. in
Melbourne. “Truth” ords. were asked
for by buyers at 225. 3d., sellers wanting
255. ; last sale was at 225., following the
drop in the div. to 6 p.c. p.a. Associated
Newspapers ords. were much the same as
last week at 19s. 3d., and in Melbourne
“Herald” shares showed little movement.
Sydney Ferries ss. shares continued to
change hands at a penny or so under par.
Adelaide Steam scrip was firmer at 325.,
and Huddart Parker, North Coast, Illa-
warra and Newcastle were all sought
after.
Castlemaine Perkins 12s. 6d. shares (B.
31/5/’39 at 225.) firmed to 225. 9d. last
week, and buyers were still more in
evidence than sellers.
* * * *
B.H.P, is seeking a duty of £8 a ton
on tinplate prior to going ahead with its
new project. If a 10-year period of pro-
tection is guaranteed, .the plant will go
up at Newcastle or Port Kembla, cost
£2,450,000, with total capital outlay of
£4,290,000. If 15 years of protection is
granted, the co. is prepared to decen-
tralise, and to establish the works at
Whyalla, near its S.A. iron-ore deposits.
Establishment in S.A. would increase
costs, but the co. is prepared to risk it
under the terms asked for. The whole
Australian market for tinplate could be
catered for by the proposed plant.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The last Victorian wool sale of the season
closed with prices “fully firm.” The offerings
were mainly crutchings.
Goldsbrough, Mort announced a final div.
of 2% p.c., making 4\ p.c., compared with
7 p.c. and 8 p.c. in the two preceding years.
Shareholders in H. B. Dickie, the towel-
makers, were asked to increase the div. rate
on the existing pref. shares from S\ p.c. to
6 p.c. A new issue of 35,000 pref. shares
is to be made, which will send the pref. register
total up to £50,000. There is £lOO,OOO of ord.
capital.
The buoyancy in Solomon Islands gold shares
deflated rapidly on ’Change. Solomon
Gold Mines subsided from £22 to £8
in a little over 24 hours, and then crashed
in earnest on the announcement of T. R.
Victor’s recommendation that the option be
“abandoned forthwith.” The source of the
gold in the Tsarivonga and Sorvohio rivers
has been sought many times in the past.
Alluvial Tin had a look at Guadalcanar, and
io did Pioneer Gold interests.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
sdf
df
s
In less than a minute . . . without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Globite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
CLOBITE
df
mi
-9mm
\ ’ -S; 1 * ££ •;
fe .-
r $ : t *“
... : .>.,••••■'•• . • •
■ ... *
.■. , • . . . ~;
'■VV w t sy« ,
mW
1
/
STEEL HAS ITS
The research laboratories behind the Armco-Lysaght organisation # are peopled with explorers—
the Blaxlands and Wentworths of iron and steel. Forever probing, testing, mixing, examining, they
go about their daily work of developing new and better iron and steel sheets, of improving the old
familiar sheets. Their creed is "Nothing stands still. We must constantly adapt our products to the
needs of the hour." This forward-looking policy, based on long and intimate experience of the
applications of steel to a thousand industrial problems, enables the Armco-Lysaght organisation
—operating from its Port Kembla plant—and utilising not only its own knowledge but that of its
parent companies—to offer you genuine and constructive service in connection with the products of
( THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION ) p T Y. LTD. KEMBLA Cr ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
ARMCO-LYSAGHT STEEL
tv
CR-8-9
BORN or RESEARCH
Australia, as Australia, has gone on
the London market for its first big lot oi
new loan money since the depression.
And it hasn’t been cordially received.
There have been conversion-loan opera-
tions in recent years, and some Aus-
tralian public bodies have raised new
‘money in London during the same period,
but this is the first occasion since Aus-
tralia’s credit went west during the Lang
period that the Commonwealth itself has
tackled London and asked for financial
assistance (except for £2,000,000 tagged
on to a conversion operation in 1938).
Last week’s issue is to the extent of
£6,000,000 sterling, price £9B 10s., interest
rate 4 p.c. and term 25 years. The under-
writers were left with 79.8 p.c. of it. The
money is wanted, so they say, for defence
purposes. It is also said that, since a
good deal of our defence equipment will
be coming from abroad, the money was
borrowed in the place where a large por-
tion of it will be spent. That as it may
be, the more obvious reasons for the
step are that the Loan Council is finding
difficulty in raising the money in Aus-
tralia that is necessary to balance Gov-
ernment revenues with expenditure, and
that £6,000,000 sterling added to our
London funds will help to cope with the
present heavy expenditure on imports
when compared with our income from
exports. A London . authority estimates
that Australia’s London funds have fallen
from £62,400,000 sterling to £52,800,000
sterling over the past 12 months. These
funds include the sterling backing for
the Commonwealth note issue.
In plain words, the latest loan operation
in London was an emergency measure.
And in this country, anyway, it should
be acknowledged as such. Borrowing
extensively by Governments anywhere
isn’t a good sign, especially when taxa-
tion is so high, as at present; but Aus-
tralian borrowings in London have in
the past had a particularly disastrous
effect on our economy. Before 1929 Gov-
ernments dipped into the London market
so avidly that we had funds galore in
London —for a time —and the exchange
rate rose, artificially, to favor Australia.
This position encouraged a flood of im-
ports into the Commonwealth, gave our
economy weak knees, and tended to put
our own manufacturers out of business.
But nowadays in England only Lanca-
shire and Yorkshire have any delusions
about the futility of large-scale borrow-
ing by this country in London. Even they
must now be realising that the twenty-
odd millions we have to pay annually in
interest on past overseas borrowings
means just that much less funds available
to Australian importers and that much
less custom for Lancashire, Yorkshire,
etc. Borrowing in Britain carries a sting
in its tail for both the borrowing and
lending countries.
The offering of the new loan depressed
the gilt-edged markets in London,
Dominion issues being all affected by the
reappearance of the Commonwealth in
its old role, however estimable the ex-
cuses for the occasion. There seems to
be a decided limit to the extent we can
pledge our credit anew, and, considering
the alacrity with which Governments
generally are disposed to pledge our
credit, the limitations may be all for the
best in the long run. The new loan was
quoted at 20s. to 30s. discount on the
issue price after the closing of the lists.
* * * *
Australian loans in London for some
time having offered a higher rate of in-
terest than that obtainable in the Com-
monwealth, it appears that a large-scale
change-over from the internal issues to
the London stocks has been going on.
Consols have been sold in the Australian
capitals and the proceeds transferred to
London for reinvestment to an extent
that has given banks and Canberra some
concern. It appears now, however, that
the position has tended to balance itself
up, interest rates having lifted in the
Commonwealth and fallen in London,
thus leaving less margin for “arbitrage”
operations*, of this kind. “Management”
of the Australian bond market must be
growing into a real job.
* ❖ * *
An amalgamation between Bradford
Cotton Mills, Sydney, and Austral Silk
and Cotton Mills, Melbourne, is pro-
posed. Austral Silk was originally an
A.K.M.-Yarra Falls offshoot, but there
has been a good deal of splitting-up of
associations in that group. Bradford
Cotton was formed by the Keighleys,
former Bradford people, in the 1920'5,
and it started off with a small capital
but an efficient plant. It did well almost
from the beginning, and the tariff duties
imposed in 1936 on some British cotton
goods, together with the quota restric-
tions on Japanese products about the
same time, have helped during recent
years. Bradford Cotton has an issued
capital of £222,742 —it has expanded con-
siderably in the last twelve months —
it pays \2\ p.c. divs., and it not long
ago formed C. D. Mills Pty. to turn out
heavy ducks and canvases suitable for
military requirements. Austral Silk has
a paid capital of £215,000, but hasn’t
done nearly so well; its last annual div.
was 2\ p.c. Last sale of its £1 shares
was at 12s. 6d., following Bs. 9d. before
the merger proposal was announced.
The proposed merger follows rumors
that Davies, Coop and Co. (Melb.) is
interested in the possibility of linking up
with Stirling Henry, Ltd., of Sydney.
Both these cos. are engaged in cot-
ton-textile manufacturing, and both have
flourished since introduction of the
cotton duties. Davies, Coop is the
biggest concern of its kind in Australia ;
of recent years capital has expanded by
the following issues:
June, 1935: 69,004 £1 6 p.c. prefs. at par.
Sept., 1938: 70,000 £1 bonus ords.
Oct., 1938 : 50,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. at par.
Paid capital is now around £525,000.
Earnings and divs. over the four years
to June 30, 1938, have been as fol-
lows :
Net Ord.
Profit. Div.
1935 .. £9,931 6 p.c.
1936 .. 21,443 5 „
Net Ord.
Profit. Div.
1937 .. £35,898 6 p.c.
1938 .. 58,024 7* „
The 1937-38 profit represented 21 p.c.
on ord. capital after allowing for the
prefs., and for the term now closing the
interim div. rate has been maintained
on old and new capital. The establish-
ment of branch mills in Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane has been the
latest consideration of the board. De-
fence orders have stimulated the business.
The Stirling Henry concern had a paid
capital of only £50,000 at last balance
day, and on the ord. portion of it earn-
ings amounted to 40.5 p.c. in 1937-38.
Since then a one-for-one ord. bonus issue
has been made, raising capital to
£75,000. The div. rate is still \2\ p.c.,
and the sharemarket pays 12s. 6d. for
the ss. ords.
* * * *
Activity in picture scrip is still re-
markably high. After a large parcel of
Greater J. D. Williams had changed
hands at 55., the market remained firm
above that figure. In 1938 the shares had
fallen as low as 2s. 9d. Wests shares
(B. 24/5/’39) are keeping near 7s. 6d.;
they are probably the best proposition of
the lot, so far as the proposition goes
generally. Spencers last sold at 3s. 3d.,
and Amalgamated Pictures at 6s. There
has been renewed interest in picture
shares since N. B. Rydge, of Greater
Union, visited the U.S.A. What the out-
come of it all is going to be is about as
clear as a winter fog on Sydney Harbor.
Most people think that there should be
good money in the picture business.
But for years there hasn’t been —in Aus-
tralia, anyway.
Cumberland Paper.
In comparison with the keen
demand for Australasian Paper
ords. around 295. 6d., the market
for Cumberland ords. at 255. 3d. is
very quiet. Both issues pay 8 p.c.,
and the return on Cumberland
ords. is now 6.4 p.c., against 5.4 p.c.
from Australasian Paper. Backing
for A.P. and P. ords. is somewhat
the stronger of the two, but the
difference of 4s. 3d. a share in the
market price is not justified.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Franco Over the Spanish Cauldron.
[Though so far General Franco has enjoyed a
run of success, civil as well as military, the job still
facing him—as described in this condensed London
“Times” article by a correspondent lately in Spain—
is one to test his statesmanship very thoroughly.]
By his Decree of Unification, which abolished all
political parties in the country in favor of the single
organisation, the Falange Espanola Tradicionalista,
General Franco placed the lid on the Spanish
cauldron ; but its contents are still seething.
Apart from the few million Republicans recently
incorporated in Nationalist territory, the forces of the
Right are sharply divided. It can hardly benefit Spain
to pretend, as, officially, it is pretended, that a working
compromise has been found between the Monarchists,
Fascists, Traditionalists, and others who supported
General Franco in war. The truth is rather that those
groups agreed and to a surprising extent honored
their agreement to sink their differences for the
duration of hostilities ; and that the time has now
come for the rulers of Spain to find a more permanent
basis for co-operation.
Such is the prevailing state of indecision that
intrigue and rancor are now more rife than in the
darkest moments of the civil war. Unless resolute
leadership is forthcoming now, political animosities
which have been suppressed for nearly three years
must explode with devastating violence.
The political forces of the Old Spain are waiting
in the background. The Traditionalists, who advocate
a return to Catholic Monarchy unrestricted by the
innovations of democracy, are scarcely a political
group in the modern sense of the word. Their pro-
gramme sounds strangely archaic in a country torn by
the twentieth-century creeds of Communism and
Fascism. They act, not as an executive force, but
as an invisible Second Chamber, a check on Fascist
excess. They are profoundly shocked by the neo-
paganism of Nazi Germany, to which even Roundhead
England is thought to be preferable.
The Monarchists have lost all their independent
political organisations and have been relegated, for
the moment, to a relatively unimportant position in
the civil administration, although they can count on
the majority of the trained civil servants. Their
devotion to King Alfonso and lukewarm acceptance
of totalitarian methods expose them to easy criticism.
Their great strength lies in the Army, where they enjoy
the sympathy of many high officers.
The great unknown quantity in contemporary
Spain is the Falange Espanola. This body, founded
by Jose Antonio Primo de Rivera, now has a huge
party membership which has accumulated during the
course of the war. It includes people of every social
class and of almost every shade of political
opinion within the general framework of the Right.
Numerically, it is by far the largest political group
in Spain. It is susceptible to education and leader-
ship ; in the hands of a resolute Caudillo it can pro-
vide the key to the future course of Spanish policy.
Stubborn and high-minded as he is reputed to be,
General Franco’s prudence should be a useful guide to
him. For the moment, it would seem, he steadily
refuses to join the Axis. Material difficulties are in
any case almost enough to preclude his taking the
field in a European conflict, and to these must be
added the tremendous problems of social pacification,
the resettling of emigrants and the policing of a
large semi-hostile population. The dangers of a war
embarked upon against such a background outweigh
the temptation of the possible recovery of Gibraltar
and Tangier, which is being dangled as bait.
The Spanish people know that, should their
nation become involved in a war against the democ-
racies, the weight of Britain and France would fall
more heavily upon them than upon their more shel-
tered totalitarian partners. Naval blockade would
throw the nation back on its own depleted resources;
communications with the colonies would be dis-
rupted ; the great oil refineries in the Canary Islands,
extended and re-equipped during the civil war, would
pass under enemy control. A powerful French army,
reinforced by 250,000 Republican militiamen who are
still concentrated in the Pyrenean area, would hammer
on the northern frontier. It is doubtful whether the
regime would stand the strain of defeat in the early
stages.
Yet the time has come for Spain to take her own
place in world affairs. The new authorities have laid
down and reiterated the general aims of Spanish
foreign policy. General Franco has proclaimed the
territorial integrity of Spain and her colonies, and
many authoritative statements envisage the rebirth of
the Spanish “Imperio,” in the form of a tightening of
the bonds linking Spain with the Spanish countries of
America, or of a reaffirmation of the cultural and
spiritual values given to the world by the Spain of
the sixteenth century. Spain also is committed to the
struggle, real or imaginary, against Communism. She
has signed the Anti-Comintern Pact, whereby she
engages herself, not, indeed, to enter into a political
alliance with the other signatories, but to collaborate
with them in police work and propaganda. The
Spaniards are summoned by geographical necessity to
play an important part in the development of modern
Europe ; and they cannot be ignored.
Understanding Germany.
[Condensed from a “National Review’ article by
H. Powys Greenwood, published with the editorial com-
ment : “There is an idea current in democratic countries
that dictators ignore public opinion m their own lana ,
while being influenced in the right direction by pubhc
indignation abroad. The contrary is true; and for t
reason knowledge of what the average German thinks
of extreme importance. There are all too few Enolisn-
men who go to Germany with the equipment of Mr.
Powys Greenwood, who lived there for considerable
time, and speaks the language perfectly. J
No one can begin to understand Germany who
does not realise the deep-rooted feeling of virtually
every German that his country has never been prop-
erly appreciated or understood by Europe in general
and England in particular. That feeling can be traced
back for a century at least, and it has never been
stronger than it is to-day. .
To the vast majority of Germans the Nazi revo-
lution and its results mean not merely the recovery of
national self-respect and self-confidence after the
humiliation of 1918, but represent above all a real
contribution to the advance of civilisation as a whole.
But when Germans look abroad, they find the atten-
tion of press and public concentrated on the un-
pleasant aspects, with a general tendency to deny
the value or validity of National Socialist achieve-
ments, all of which reinforces their feeling that
Germany is misunderstood.
This attitude is clearly shown in the utterances
of leading Nazis, from Herr Hitler downwards.
Criticism is bitterly resented, the invariable reply being
to point to the deficiencies of the critics, comparing
these with the successes of National Socialism ; and
it is wholly mistaken to imagine that the German
people as a whole do not support iheir leaders m
this respect. If one criticises German economic
methods, for example, almost any German will reply
that the democratic countries have been singularly
unsuccessful in dealing with depression and unem-
ployment, whereas Germany has a trade boom and
a shortage of labor. To allegations of inhumanity
towards the Jews and others, the German retaliates
by pointing to Palestine, India and Ireland under the
Black and Tans, adding that at any rate the Nazi
revolution has secured domestic peace in Germany,
v/hich is more than can be said of British methods in
Palestine.
To suggestions that Christian denominations are
oppressed, the usual answer is that the democracies
tolerate atheistic Communism and the anti-God move-
ment, which, as Russia and Republican Soain have
shown, constitute a far greater menace to Christianity
than anything the Nazis have done. If one points
to German rearmament as the beginning of the arms
race, one is told, not without justice, that the Allies
refused to disarm for 15 years, until disarmed Ger-
many took the law into her own hands.
It is not without significance that nothing arouses
German resentment so much as the statement that
German policy is likely to lead to war. There are,
of course, two ways of looking at this. It may be
said that the accusation is near the truth, and there-
fore causes Germans to “protest too much,” while
on the other hand it can be taken as justifiable anser
at a false imputation and a sign of sincerely pacific
intentions. I believe the truth to be that the average
German is passionately anxious for peace, but is
sometimes assailed by qualms about the policies of
his leaders. Nothing will induce him to admit this,
however, and he puts his faith in the Fiihrer s sincerity.
Since this faith is a psychological necessity for the
vast majority of Germans, attempts to undermine it
from outside only increase their passionate attach-
ment to it.
The continual harping upon Germany as the
potential aggressor, coupled with criticism of her
domestic policy, and alarmist headlines and reports
may be the necessary concomitants of democratic re-
armament, but they cannot fail in the long run to
produce serious effects, and perhaps even to bring
about the very result we are arming to avoid a
general war.
The German people constitute the most funda-
mental factor which British policy, and above all
British propaganda, must take into account. The
threat of a Napoleonic domination of the world must
be faced, and faced to-day, with every ounce of
energy at our command and with the same spirit of
sacrifice as that with which we faced Napoleon, and
Germany in 1914. But there must be no bitterness
against the German people. There could be no
greater mistake than to put them into Coventry now,
for then they will fight to the end.
Invasion of St. John’s Wood.
[This account of the invasion of King’s Cross,
Sydney—no, St. John’s Wood, England, is condensed
from a “Daily Express” article by Horace Thorogood.J
What I am looking for is a good refugee camp
for refugees from the refugees ; and that puzzles
you, then it only proves that you don’t live m St.
John’s Wood. Any resident there will understand.
We British people who live in “the Wood”—the
aborigines, so to speak—are now almost swamped by
foreigners from all parts of Hitler’s wide and ever-
widening dominions. We had no idea, till the Great
Flight from Europe began, how well known our little
suburb was over there. Now we natives are becoming
a minority problem in our own suburb.
It is not because we have no sympathy with the
refugees that we would like to hear of a good place
where we could set up a sort of British national home
and preserve the ancient customs of our race and
religion. On the contrary, we are very sorry for our
visitors, being ourselves now very much in the same
position as they were.
Once it was not necessary to know a foreign
tongue or dialect to dwell in our Wood. Now a mix-
ture of foreign tongues is the common speech of the
buses and the streets. 5
The great strongholds of the refugees in St. John’s
Wood are the flats, numerous blocks of which were
thoughtfully erected just before the New Exodus began.
The local artists and so on who once occupied the
little private houses and gardens that were knocked
down to make room for the new order cannot afford
to move into the flats. But the refugees can.
The flats are full of them, and I often wonder,
when I see them entering those palatial portals and
the British commissionaires touching their hats to
them, how it was that the Germans, in packing them
off so brutally with nothing but the clothes they stood
up in, managed to miss the rent money in the clothes.
Evidently, too, they stood up in very good clothes,
if they were the same clothes they stand up in now.
Not only in language, but in manners, the refugees
bravely struggle to retain their peculiar culture in a
strange land. There is nothing timid or subservient
about them, no weak truckling to our softer social
standards. Their ambition seems to be to build a new
non-Nazi Berlin in St. John’s Wood.
Much as we admire these sturdy qualities sur-
viving in a downtrodden people, we can’t help han-
kering after the disappearing St. John’s Wood that
we grew accustomed to.
“Eastern Front” Prospects.
(Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
Major B. T. Reynolds .)
From the point of view of the Western democ-
racies, the Eastern front is of paramount importance.
The prospect of attacking the Siegfried Line is for
them little more inviting than that of tackling the
Maginot Line to the Germans. If war should come,
and there be no Eastern front, we would probably
find ourselves once more engaged in a contest of
attrition and under conditions in some ways less favor-
able than in 1914-1918. The result might well be a
stalemate, followed by another armed truce.
The Eastern front can be divided into two sectors,
the northern and the southern, separated rather than
joined by a narrow strip of mountainous country on
the Polish-Rumanian frontier. In each case we have
guaranteed the integrity of the principal country con-
cerned ; Poland in the north and Rumania in the
south. It is unlikely, at any rate at the outset of a
war, that Germany could dispose of sufficient troops
to undertake operations in both sectors simultaneously.
The Poles could mobilise an army not greatly
inferior in man-power to any force the Germans could
bring against them. The Polish army is well trained
and led, but inferior in equipment to the German. On
the other hand, the Poles have recently put in a lot
of work on their frontier defences, and it may be
taken that, to-day, the Germans could not simply walk
over the Corridor. It is generally considered that the
most likely line for a German attack would be north
of the Carpathians into Silesia.
One of the chief anxieties of the Polish Hign
Command is that the Germans might use their pre-
ponderant naval position in the Baltic to effect a
landing in their rear. Another source of anxiety is
Royal Tour.
New York “Sun’s” columnist on the itiner-
ary:—
Wednesday, June 7: Royal train will arrive at
Niagara Falls. The King and Queen, now pretty
exhausted , will look at the Falls and envy the
fellows who went over in barrels. Complete
absence of barrels will convince them that there
is no escaping the ordeal that way. While still
meditating they will be met by a welcoming
committee. Expressions on both sides will
register, “I don’t see how they stand all this.
Thursday, June 8: The King and Queen will
arrive at Washington. Being monarchs they will
be denied even an extra hour’s sleep . . . which
comes through the train getting in two hours late.
They will be met in the reception-room of the
Union station by President and Mrs Roosevelt,
the rulers of the two continents exchanging looks
of deep compassion.
Incident en route, as described by a New
York “Daily News” reporter: —
The things we have seen couldn’t have hap-
pened—our commonsense tells us that no matter
what our eyes recorded. Virtually all corre-
spondents, including the Britons who don
morning coats and top-hats to go to the wash-
room to shave, agree it has been too blinking
fantastic to be believed. But probably most unbe-
lievable of all is the thing that happened last
nighl.
At a “little-whistle” stop, called Mactier, 700
schoolchildren were gathered who had been
brought from as far as 50 miles away over roads
that were little more than Indian trails. All
carried Union Jacks. They had been trained for
weeks in the parts they were to play. They
were to cheer the King and Queen when they
appeared on the platform and then. lift their
voices in “The Maple Leaf for Ever."
Then dire news was broken to the children,
who had been waiting on the platform more
than five hours. The youngsters were told that
if the curtains were drawn of the royal sleeping-
car when the train came in they mustn’t make a
sound. Well, the train came in and all was dark,
and, by gosh, those kids did just as they were
told. Just think that one over for a while if you
want to know what tradition and training do for
a people.


the need for more and more modern arms and equip-
ment and for adequate supplies of munitions. The
Polish army, too, is very short of aircraft and trained
pilots. As regards aircraft, munitions and supplies,
and as regards parrying a German landing in the
Baltic States, it is obvious that Russian aid is essential
if Poland is to put up a successful resistance.
In the south we have an alliance with Turkey and
we have guaranteed the integrity of Greece. The re-
lations of these countries with one another are excel-
lent and their armies well trained and comparatively
well-found. Further, they can be assured of British
assistance and supplies by sea. The danger here is of
an Italian thrust from Albania over Yugoslavia
towards Salonika and Bulgaria. The attitude of both
countries is uncertain. The Bulgarian army is small
and ill-equipped, but the Bulgarian is one of the best
fighting men in this part of the world. In the event
of an Italian force reaching Bulgaria, or of the Bul-
garian army being surreptitiously trained and equipped,
the invasion of southern Rumania would be simple.
This southern thrust against Rumania would prob-
ably be accompanied by an attack over Hungary in
the north. Here German and Hungarian minorities
might cause a lot of trouble to the defender.
The Carpathians constitute a strong natural line of
resistance, but the Rumanian army is generally less
highly regarded than that of Poland, and it would
certainly require assistance. It is possible that the
Turks might be able to detach troops for this purpose.
But the obvious source for assistance is Russia. In
any case, the co-operation of Russian aircraft would
be absolutely essential for a successful defence. The
collapse of Rumania would be a serious blow to the
Western democracies. If the Germans were able to
get a footing at the mouth of the Danube on the
Black Sea they would probably find the means of
turning the Turkish flank via the Caucasus, thus open-
ing the way to the same sort of trouble in Persia and
Central Asia that we knew in the last war.
Since German resources would not enable them
at the outset to attempt operations simultaneously on
both the northern and southern sectors of the Eastern
front, the southern sector would probably offer the
greatest possibilities. Present developments in and
around Danzig might well be a blind designed to
cover intentions farther south. However that may be,
the greatest danger to the Eastern front would cer-
tainly arise at the outset of a war, and the position
can never be regarded as satisfactory without the
wholehearted co-operation of Russia.
Another Plan for Palestine.
[The “ten-year” plan for Palestine, as explained by
Mr. M. MacDonald, the Secretary of State for the
Colonies, in the House of Commons on May 22. It
was the announcement of this plan which led to
serious rioting by Jews in- the Mandate last month.
Main points made by Mr. MacDonald were cabled,
but this digest of his speech gives in his own words
a survey of the whole thorny problem from the
British Government point of view, and what is now
proposed towards a solution.]
The royal commission which visited Palestine in
1937 said that the conflict there between Jews and
Arabs was not a conflict between right and wrong. It
was a conflict between right and right. That is true.
To give a judgment between the claims of the two
parties in those circumstances, to find a firm line of
justice between them, is as difficult a task as this
House has ever had to perform.
This critical situation in Palestine was born in
the tumult of war, when the great nations, engaged
in a deadly struggle, were searching around for friends
and allies. The obligations which we contracted
towards the Jews and the Arabs during the war are
therefore debts of honor.
First there was the promise to the Jewish people.
In November, 1917, Mr. Balfour, then Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs, addressed to the Zionist
Organisation the declaration, which promised that his
Majesty’s Government would use its utmost endeavor
to see established a national home for Jewish people
in Palestine.
It has sometimes been suggested that that care-
fully chosen expression, which was without precedent
in constitutional documents, meant definitely that
Palestine should become a Jewish State. Certainly the
possibility of a Jewish State was far from excluded.
Nevertheless, the authors of the Balfour Declaration,
the authors afterwards of the mandate, did not say
“a Jewish State” ; they used a more indefinite expres-
sion. Deliberately they chose a phrase—“a national
home for the Jewish people” —which could mean a
Jewish State in Palestine, but which also might mean
something very much less.
Fifteen hundred years ago Palestine was the home
of the Jewish people, and it was written in their
sacred literature that one day they were to return.
So to them the Balfour Declaration was not a mere
political document; it was the fulfilment of a prophecy.
The manner of their return has indeed been some-
thing of a miracle. There are places where they have
turned the desert into spacious orange groves. Where
there had been a bare seashore they have made a city.
But there was a population living in Palestine of
some 600,000 Arabs, whose ancestors had been in
undisturbed occupation for countless generations.
The Government does not recognise any claim to
Palestine based upon the MacMahon correspondence.
But there was a later promise. When the Balfour
Declaration was published it was a shock to the Arab
world. Our advisers in the Near East were apprehensive
lest it might even make the great Arab revolt hesitate
in its magnificent stride across the desert. They feared
lest its effect would be to damp the enthusiasm of that
valuable ally. So the British Government sent a mes-
senger, Commander Hogarth, to Jeddah to explain to
Sherif Hussein the exact significance of the Balfour
Declaration. He explained very frankly that his
Majesty’s Government looked with favor upon a
return of Jews to Palestine. But he also said that this
would be allowed only so far as it was compatible
with the economic and political freedom of the exist-
ing population. He also added on instructions that
the British Government was determined that no people
in Palestine should be subject to another.
The British Government is often adjured to keep
its promise to the Jews. Certainly it must do that, but
it must also keep faith with the Arab world. Surely
that Hogarth assurance did not mean a Jewish State
in Palestine against the wishes of the Arabs.
The question of immigration is another depart-
ment in which the Government is being charged with
a breach of promise. We said in 1931 that economic
absorptive capacity should be the sole criterion for
measuring immigration. We cannot accept this declara-
tion as meaning that we bound ourselves for all time
and in all circumstances, however different those cir-
cumstances, to maintain that strict economic principle
governing immigration without any qualification.
However, for upwards of a dozen years that principle
guided our practice. Under it the Jewish population
grew from some 80,000 in 1922 to some 450,000 to-day.
The Arabs always objected to this immigration.
From time to time there were violent outbursts against
it. We suppressed them one after another. We did
our duty to the Jewish National Home as it developed,
sometimes at the sacrifice of the lives of our own men.
We were fulfilling our promise to the Jews.
Moreover, we felt justified in encouraging that
immigration from the point of view of the Arabs also.
There was no denying that Jewish immigration and
Jewish development in Palestine were bringing great
material benefit to the country. Industry and em-
ployment increased, and the revenue from this expan-
sion went to create social services such as the country
had not known before, and the Arabs shared the
greater well-being which flowed from these services.
Under the new dispensation the population of the
Arabs increased in something like 20 years from
600,000 to over 1,000,000.
We hoped as they experienced these things that
the Arab fellaheen would be reconciled to this new
and improved state of affairs and that peace would
come between Jew and Arab. But that hope has been
disappointed. Why? The Arabs were not free to
consider dispassionately the benefits which their coun-
try was getting from Jewish capital and activity. The
material improvement was overlaid by a more serious
consideration. The Arabs were not thinking of ma-
terial things at all. They were thinking of their free-
dom ; they were afraid that if Jewish immigration
continued indefinitely this energetic, clever, wealthy
incoming people would dominate them numerically,
economically, politically and in every way in the land
of their birth.
Under the Mandate we have to encourage immi-
gration under suitable conditions. That is our instruc-
tion. I do not think that conditions are suitable for
immigration at the present time if that immigration,
however advantageous it may be in certain other direc-
tions, is the direct cause of disturbance and hatred
which threatens fatally for a long time to come the
welfare of Jews and Arabs alike in Palestine.
There is no knowing how far the conflict will
spread. There are Jews and Arabs in Iraq. There are
Jews and Arabs in Egypt. There are Jews and Arabs
in the Yemen. This House should have a sober sense
of responsibility towards a situation which is pregnant
with tragic possibilities in more countries than one.
Moreover, let me remind the House that the Mandate
lays down another condition which is to govern the
extent to which we permit Jewish immigrants into
Palestine. We are to facilitate immigration so long as
it does not prejudice the rights and position of the
non-Jewish inhabitants in the country.
The Arabs have lived in Palestine for centuries.
Suppose that instead of 1,000,000 Arabs in Palestine
there were 1,000,000 Americans or Englishmen or
Frenchmen whose ancestors had lived in the country
for generations past. Would we say that they had no
rights in this respect?
Nevertheless, we have rejected the Arab demand
that all immigration should stop forthwith. We pro-
pose that the influx of Jews should continue for an-
other five years, even regardless of Arab wishes. Under
our policy the rate of immigration will actually be
higher during the next five years than it has been dur-
ing recent years, and tens of thousands of refugees will
escape from their unhappiness in Europe into the
security of the Jewish National Home in Palestine.
We believe that it is consistent with our obliga-
tions to the Arabs under the Mandate that they should
be given some definite assurance about the future.
Therefore we have decided that after five years a
further expansion of the Jewish National Home by
immigration should depend on the Jews securing the
acquiescence of their Arab fellow-citizens.
One of our obligations under the Mandate is to
secure the development of self-governing institutions.
First there will be a transitional period before the es-
tablishment of an independent Palestine State. During
the transitional period Arabs and Jews are to be
directly associated, if they are willing, with the gov-
ernment of their country. They are to be put in
charge of administrative departments. It is true that
Arabs and Jews are to be appointed In the transitional
period in proportion to their respective populations in
the country, two Arabs to one Jew, but that does not
mean that the Jewish minority is to be at the mercy
of the Arab majority. There are safeguards against
that. The purpose of that beginning is to make them
acquainted with the actual work of government in
Palestine.
If practicable, within 10 years an independent
Palestinian State should be established. It may be a
unitary State. It may be a Federal State. It may be
that it should be a State in which there is a predomi-
nantly Arab province and predominantly Jewish prov-
ince, each enjoying a considerable amount of local
autonomy, but both joined to a Federal Government
dealing with matters of common concern. When the
Constitution-making does take place the British Gov-
ernment must have a part in the work. We shall have
to be satisfied that in the Constitution of the State
there is adequate protection for the special position of
the Jewish National Home in Palestine. The whole
spirit of this arrangement and this declaration is that
the interests of the minority and majority in Palestine
should be adequately secured before we surrender com-
pletely our mandatory control of the country.
We have some interests of our own in Palestine.
We have, for instance, certain vital strategical re-
quirements. We should need to be satisfied that in
our Treaty with the Palestinian State there was pro-
vision for our maintaining in Palestine sufficient mili-
tary and air forces to give security to our interests,
for the use of military facilities such as ports and
aerodromes, for proper consultations on military
matters, and for mutual assistance in case of trouble.
Finally, a unique characteristic of Palestine is
that within its borders are Holy Places, which are dear
to millions of Christians, Moslems and Jews through-
out the world. We could not give up our trust in
Palestine without being assured that everything that
appertains to them and the right of their devotees to
have access to them are preserved for all time. It is
indeed a tragedy that around those sacred shrines
should be repeated in modern times the folly of human
hatred, violence and dispute.
Fascism in U.S.A.
(From a ‘‘Saturday Evening Post” article by Stanley High.)
America’s Fascists lost their prospective man on
horseback when Huey Long was assassinated. They
have been scouring the woods for a new one ever
since. At present, there are several promising pros-
pects and plenty of receptive second-raters. But the
horse is still riderless. That fact has undoubtedly
delayed the Fascists, but it has not stopped them. On
the contrary, one of the ominous distinctions of
American Fascism is that, without benefit of a Musso-
lini, a Hitler or even an Oswald Mosley, it continues
to prosper and spread. The source of the prosperity
is something of a mystery. But of the spread there
can be no doubt. The leader, when or if he comes, is
due to have something to lead.
What he leads will be neither good to look at
nor easy to handle. It will include some sincere citi-
zens and, with them, as unlovely an assortment of
aliens, bigots and malcontents as any that ever abused
the privileges of a democracy. The only comparable
collection is that of the Communists. That partly
accounts for the rivalry between them. The passwords
differ, but the area of operations is virtually the same.
Both work on the lunatic fringe. Between them, they
have organised it, groomed it and promised it the
kingdom. In better-tempered times, that would hardly
alarm anybody. To-day, however, the lunatic fringe
is no laughing matter. In too many places its capers
have proved to be the stuff out of which history is made.
How many organisations in the United States
deserve to rate as Fascist it is impossible to say. The
number has been put as high as 800, which is un-
doubtedly too high. Approximately 100 such organi-
sations have had at least a once-over at the hands of
the Dies Committee. The most authoritative study of
the movement which has been made to date lists be-
tween 150 and 160 groups whose Fascist leanings
appear to be fairly clear, and which, by virtue of
printing and mailing literature with some regularity,
have a more than fly-by-night character.
For all its kinship with the Nazis, Fascism in the
United States is not without authentic American fore-
bears. In fact, the entire movement looks very much
like a streamlined revival of the Ku Klux Klan. That,
to some extent, is what it is.
Anyway, it is clear that America’s Fascist-minded
citizens are going places. Exactly where or how far
is not so clear. At the moment, they appear headed
for trouble. If they keep going that way, they may
involve the nation in serious civil disturbances —par-
ticularly if the United States meets with a major
economic crack-up. Given returning prosperity, that
prospect is likely to fade. Meanwhile, it seems safe to
predict that, thanks to their presence in it, the country
is due for some discomforting, and perhaps prolonged,
attacks of ideological indigestion.
Televised Derby.
[While there seems to be no move to introduce
television in Australia, this is how they are now already
seeing it in England, as described by Hannen Swalfer in
an article here condensed from the “Daily Herald.”]
I saw the Derby for the first time without going.
It came on a full-sized screen, 18 miles away. And I
saw more of the race’s details, grandstand seat though
I have usually occupied, than I have ever seen in years
of memory that go back to Signorinetta’s win in 1908.
Most of the vast crowd, close though they are,
see almost nothing. Two “film magnates,” Sam Eck-
man and Sidney Bernstein, sat near me, calculating the
time when every large cinema will show regularly, every
day, important events, not on a news-reel shown after-
wards, but actually taking place at the same moment,
and therefore full of expectancy of the unknown.
Even on this occasion more than 7000 people saw,
in Central London cinemas, what I saw in the E.M.I.
studio at Hayes, Middlesex. This is the infant stage
of a cinema revolution.
There were, of course, technical faults, some due
to the enlargement of a very small picture. Once or
twice the picture looked billowy, as though it were
seasick. But as the camera roved all over the course,
showing the bookies shouting the odds and the round-
abouts on the hill, and picking up human scenes in
the crowds, it was incredible to think that, because
of our casual acceptance of the miracles of modern
machinery, we were watching without excitement one
of the miracles of the age.
I saw the start of the race more clearly than I
have seen it from the grandstand itself. During its
progress I saw more of the horses. From Tattenham
Corner, and all along the straight, we could follow
it all easily. The finish itself was perfect transmission.
We captured all the excitement of the crowd. I never
want to see more on the course itself. Then, as for
the leading in and the unsaddling of the first three
horses, which we saw as close-ups, that is only seen,
at Epsom, by the privileged few. Why, before
long we shall be seeing in our homes and in the
cinemas things taking place in the United States!


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
The military review and the inter-State
football matches affected the attendance
on the first day of the A.J.C.’s winter
meeting at Randwick, but it panned out
at 23,000. An innovation was a false
rail which keeps gallopers out about 25
feet from the rails. It was introduced to
give the turf a chance to grow before
the spring meetings, and distances in all
races have naturally been made slightly
longer. But some jockeys and trainers
don’t care for it.
The club put up £650 for the A.J.C.
Hurdle and got seven (7) runners. The
race proved a soft snap for J. M. C.
Forsayth’s gelding Cheery Jack, by
David-Cheerio. Though the owner
reckoned Cheery Jack badly handicapped
at 10.6, his horse was made favorite at
3 to 1, and after losing six lengths at the
start, as a result of turning half round, he
won with his head on his chest. Owners
of Jack Mac and Capaneus shared in
the place-money. Masterpiece jumped
badly, and, though he finished fourth, he
was about a furlong from the winner—
anyway, it looked like that. Winning
Post ran off, and Big Thrill lost her rider.
After the autumn meetings St. Con-
stant was kept pottering about the tracks
and given a few fast half-mile spurts.
He did so well that he was placed in
commission for the June Plate and
backed from tens to fives. Desert King
(6 to 1) took charge at the home turn, and
looked like bolting in. But St. Constant,
second-last at the half-mile, and forced
wide at the top of the straight, put in a
grand run and nearly caught the three-
year-old, failing to reach him by half a
neck. Had he not thrown his head to one
side at the crisis he may have won.
Tolerant was a good third, half a length
away. Diamond Wedding was fourth,
being closely followed by Aladdin and
The Squire. Grey Derby was one of the
disappointments.
Offspring of Australian-bred sires were
to the fore in the First Nursery: Dollar
(7 to 2), a well-grown son of Winooka,
and Merry Smile, the small daughter of
Chatham who is so well-looked-after by
handicappers, fought out the finish.
Hickey rode Dollar a good race, coming
with a strong run at the right time.
Opportunist, who started favorite, was
third after having every chance. El Valor
again failed at six furlongs.
Fortune is again smiling on owner-
trainer Mack Sawyer. Dollar is one of
his string, and Fearless, a stablemate, had
a meritorious win in the Ellesmere Han-
dicap, at eights. Hickey rode Fearless.
Again he waited for the last run, and
his mount scored by half a length from
Gold Spark, Vestal being a head away
third. Darby Munro seemed too anxious
to take Gold Spark to the front. She
was beaten at Warwick Farm in similar
circumstances. At the Farm young
Lappin came in for a fair amount of
criticism, and Munro was not spared at
Randwick. Old Cid battled on to run
fourth. The favorite, Amaranthus,
looked dangerous at the Leger, but
quickly dropped back, and beat only
two home.
W. F. Moses got a cheap horse in
Legionilla, who cost him 50 guineas a
few weeks ago. Legionilla, a six-year-
old bay gelding by Legionnaire-Carilla,
romped home in the Amateur Cup, lead-
ing all the way, thanks in part to Les
Quinlan. Sir Land, ridden by young
Weber, was second, and Calruin, from
Cootamundra, third. The winner was
turned out in capital trim by Abbs, and
was well backed at sixes.
• ••••*
The Amberdown gelding Downham
(7 to 4) was not troubled by his 11.7
in the Trial Hurdle. After they had
gone a mile, it was only a question of
whether Downham would stand up, and
he did. Crunatus and Jester’s Lady filled
the places. Dick Wootton backed his
neddy, The Freak, but The Freak jumped
badly and was beaten a mile from home.
Having only his second start in a race,
the Madagascar—Adhere colt Billposter
was best of the youngsters in the Second
Nursery at Randwick. It was the first
race of the meeting from the seven-fur-
longs barrier, and at the start no rider
showed any haste to get over to the rails
till the turn made by the temporary false
rail was passed. It was unusual to see
them cutting straight ahead out in mid-
track. El Valor had control into the
straight, but Lappin, who continues to
ride in capital form, there took Billposter
to the front and was not afterwards
troubled, winning easily from El Valor,
with Hectic third.
After he’d run fifth at Warwick Farm
early in the month, some questions were
asked and explanations accepted regard-
ing Jack Mac. After Saturday’s run at
Randwick there was some criticism of his
rider. With a change of pilots, he looked
a certainty beaten on Monday. He was
up with the leader, Crunatus, with only
a couple of jumps ahead and going like
the winner, when Crunatus fell and in-
terfered with him. Jack Mac dropped
back suddenly behind the next lot, but
the boy got hold of him again, and he
came on to finish third, full of running,
behind Lockslea (first) and Winning Post.
A fast beginner—and stopper —Royal
Prince led the field to the turn in the
Botany Handicap. Aladdin then went
to the front, and was still there with a
furlong to go. Then Rosante shot out,
but at once went wide, giving Cooranga
and Grey Derby a clear run on the in-
side. Cooranga won it—a sterling per-
formance, for she had dropped back to
last when they’d gone about a furlong.
Benefiting by the rails run in the straight
she finished brilliantly. Jocular, after
his win at the Farm in record time over
the same distance (7fur.), looked chucked
into it at 9st. Drawn wide, McCarten
had him lying third, handy to the leaders,
at the turn, but there he dropped out
beaten. Disalto ran another fairly
promising race. Grey Derby got up to
cut Rosante out of second money.
If ever there was a certainty beaten on
a racecourse through no fault of any-
body in particular it was Will Rogers
in the Winter Plate. Ridden by Shean,
he went to the front after they had gone
a couple of furlongs, and was bowling
along nicely from Klemm Eagle, Gimme
and Gold Pan when the saddle slipped.
Shean lost his stirrups, but hung on —
and so did Will Rogers. He was only
half-a-length to the good making the
turn, with his rider hanging on as much
by good luck as anything else, but on
straightening up he bounced out again to
a two-lengths lead. Gold Pan, getting a
nice run along the rails, was overhauling
him, but it took doing, despite the fact
that Will Rogers was virtually running
his own race. Gold Pan succeeded in
heading him off; then Vestal, from well
back, flashed into the picture, but could
not quite make it, Gold Pan winning
narrowly from Riddle’s mare, with the
connections of Will Rogers getting what
consolation they might from third money.
Head Check fell near the new false rail.
* * * *
The three-year-olds looked rather a
poor lot in the spring, but that there are
good ones among them was demon-
strated in the autumn by Mosaic and
Feminist and, of course, Defaulter, and
Trimmer has proved himself a sprinter
above the average. By no means the
worst of her year is a filly called Hash,
by Salmagundi-Miss Glenella, owned
and trained by Wright.
Wright started her at Kensington on
Wednesday, hoping that a long price
would more than compensate him for
the wretched stake-money (“of
£69/8/11 ; second horse £B/6/8 and
third horse £5/11/2 from the prize”);
but the bookmakers knew all about her,
and when the board showed that Knox
had the mount and would start from
No. 1 position the price beefed out was
“threes.”
It was a s|-furlongs race and Hash
was slow to get going, while out in front
was Shackleton. Shackleton can go like
the wind for a few furlongs, though
touched in the wind or something. Hash
made up her ground rapidly and rounded
the home turn third to Shackleton and
Roley’s Choice; in the straight she
came away and beat the pair by lengths.
There were three divisions of the Flying
Welter: hers was the fastest —-1.7 f.
Kensington is not a fast course. Salma-
gundi has sired several daughters that
stayed fairly well, and Hash may be
among them.
M: sf: * *
Restford (Frilford-Soporific) enhanced
his Grand National prospects by a clear-
cut win in the Port Phillip Hurdle at
Williamstown on Saturday. Second
favorite at 11 to 4, he collared Dornford
nearly three furlongs from home. Dorn-
ford tired and was deprived of second
place by Imitari.
Despite his list. 71b., Dornford always
headed the quotes, ending up at 9 to 4.
He would have been still shorter except
for a stable plunge on Imitari. Latter
belongs to The Trump’s trainer, Stan
Reid, who ought to know something
about jumpers, having won the Grand
National Steeple in two successive years
on Mountain God.
Imitari finished like a horse that will
be suited by the extra mile at Flemington.
Earlier in the week he was supported for
the National Hurdle in doubles. Imitari
has a staying pedigree, being by Bara-
long (by a son of Sunstar from a daugh-
ter of Spearmint) from Mimic (by Mag-
pie from a sister to King Ingoda).
Combining the functions of trainer and
jockey, Fullarton will be on the horns
of a dilemma if Methuen as well as Rest-
ford accepts for the National Hurdle. He
trains both these candidates. Restford
seems the logical choice, but Methuen
keeps being nibbled at in doubles.
Restford is raced by his breeder, L. O.
Menck, who landed a Moonee Valley
Cup with Frill Prince, a brother to the
Port Phillip Hurdle winner. Mated with
Spearhead, their dam, Soporific, pro-
duced Yarramba. In 1932 Yarramba cap-
tured the Moonee Valley Cup and Wil-
liamstown Cup, besides being runner-up
to Peter Pan in the Melbourne Cup.
Punters were routed at Williamstown,
where six out of seven events were won
by outsiders, five of them starting at 15
to 1, twelves, 20 to 1, 16 to 1 and tens
respectively. Biggest win div. was £ll 18s.
(nearly 47 to 1), by Sir Trac in the
Maiden Hurdle.
Sir Trac had been tried by J. T. Hayes
as a galloper and rejected because of
unreliability. His new trainer, G.
Redden, offered the gelding for private
sale last week, but no business resulted.
Sir Trac was ridden at Williamstown by
a stable boy, whose previous appearances
in the saddle numbered only three.
Syd Ferguson, a cousin of “Brownie”
Carslake, annexed the Juvenile Handicap
with Chanson (Marconigram-Chanteuse),
who had been solidly backed at Ascot a
month before, but got away badly. On
this occasion the filly went out at twelves.
Luck favored Chanson, as the Adel-
aide filly Dreamsome, whom she de-
feated by half a head, was squeezed when
trying to get through on the rails. How-
ever, Chanson is a smart galloper. Her
dam comes from the famous Chelandry
family, to which Traquair, Magpie and
Heroic belong.
Atoning for many previous disappoint-
ments, Pibroch (Windbag-North Star) put
in a wonderful finishing run to beat Rose
Princess and Peggy O’Neil in the middle-
distance Point Cook Handicap. He had
been a poor second to Millie’s Hope on
May 20, but must have developed by
leaps and bounds.
* * * *
Pibroch (11 to 2) is trained by Elwood
Fisher for R. Turnbull, a consistent turf
supporter, who won the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes of 1930 with Thurlstone
and was the original owner of Moss-
trooper. Disposed of at a low figure,
Mosstrooper became a great jumper.
Through being short of a run French
Gem had to be content with third honors
in her division of the Esplanade Welter,
in which half-heads divided placegetters.
Price Sardis never would have beaten
Keelie if the latter had not got into a
scrimmage.
Second division of the Esplanade
Welter resulted in Plymouth Hoe (tens)
vanquishing his stablemate, Magic Circle
(fives). Both are trained by W. O’Dwyer.
Footmark (2 to 1, favorite) faded out
after disputing control. It was his first
outing since the spring.
A late run on the outside gave victory
to Romany Chief over the Adelaide filly
Dreamsome in the Princess Handicap for
youngsters at the Flemington holiday
meeting. Starting wide out, Dreamsome
was taken to the front when they’d gone
a furlong, and piloted the field all the
way till cut down right on the post. Cape
Sable was third. The ex-Sydney young-
ster Inspector Scott showed out well in
the straight, but quickly turned it in.
A field of 17 went to the post for the
Royal Steeplechase, and in what
amounted to a National trial some of
those remaining on their feet made a
really great race of it. Giant Killer and
Grantley were early leaders, but Deckard,
jumping faultlessly, took the lead at the
“nine.” Continuing his splendid exhi-
bition, Deckard was six lengths out
coming to the last of the abattoirs
treble. At what was formerly called
Jumbo, he blundered, but on the flat got
going again well, and was still leading,
from Turf Boy and Grantley, into the
straight. Over the last jump Turf Boy
drew up to the leader and headed him,
but Deckard came again. For a fur-
long they raced head and head, with
Deckard going the better at the end to
win it narrowly. Grantley was a fair
third.
Given the job of leading all the way
in the Birthday Handicap over lim.,
Mutable stuck to it until half a furlong
from home. He had never been far out,
the field bunched close up, except for
Gay Knight, plodding in the rear, and
Ruckman, also well back. Approaching
the judge Desert Chief had just wrested
the lead from Mutable, when Ruckman
loomed up with a brilliant run to just
get there in time from Desert Chief, with
Minim third.
* * sH *
A. G. Ogilvie, the Tasmanian Premier,
who died suddenly on Saturday, was
fond of racing and trotting. A dozen
years or so ago he punted in a rather big
way, but he lived to learn there was
nothing in punting. His fatal seizure
occurred when he was playing golf at
Warburton (Vic.). His old colleague,
Lyons, who predeceased him by a mere
couple of months, was also a golfer.
Golf seems to be a rather perilous game
for busy politicians unless there is
nothing wrong with their hearts.
iji it* ■>' *•'
Owners of southern horses can’t com-
plain of the way Queensland handi-
cappers treat their steeds. For the
Doomben Newmarket (£3150; July 1)
Aurie’s Star has 9.12, Gold Rod 9.10,
Hamurah 9.2 and St. Constant 9st.; in
the Doomben Cup (£2000; July 8) Gold
Rod has 9.5 and St. Constant 9.2. In
each race there is a 7st. minimum. Gold
Rod, they say, is not to start, but his
owner has Waireka (7.8) in the New-
market and The Squire (7st.) in the Cup.
Hybol, who has already shown form in
Brisbane, is in the Newmarket with 8.1
and in the Cup with a pound less.
Trimmer’s Newmarket weight is 8.1 —
very attractive; but his trainer says he
may not make the trip. Thurles Lad
(8.10 and 8.5) is reckoned about the best
of the Queenslanders. If Trimmer goes
to Brisbane he and Cooranga (8.1) may
be a good double, but St. Constant is
always to be respected in any handicap
up to a mile and a half —the Doomben
Cup distance is, of course, 11 furlongs.
£ * * *
A. E. Blair, the owner of Chatham,
died in Sydney last week, aged 69. A
tall, spare man with small features and
bushy moustache, Blair was one of
Randwick’s identities, and, except during
his rare absences in other States, he could
nearly always be seen lunching or dining
at Adams’s Hotel; for he was a protege
of George Adams and a trustee of the
Adams estate for many years. In other
years he was a yachtsman and a skipper
of fast craft. Ownership of Chatham
brought to him great pleasure as well as
substantial profit, and he lived to see
his favorite racehorse prove himself at
the stud.
{Continued on page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Dundas Handicap: Hamurah;
next, Tolerant.
Three - year - old Handicap:
Trumpeter; next, Tusculum.
June Handicap: Legion Bird;
next, Val William.
Parramatta Mile: Kai Tere ; next,
Cherry Bar.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Toolambool Hurdle: Pooley
Bridge ; next, Imitari.
Richmond Handicap: The
Trump; next, Pantoon.
Wanda Steeplechase: Wakerife ;
next, Deckard.
Cambria Welter: Footmark;
next, Barham.
Rosny Plate: Aurie’s Star ; next,
Stoic.


nTwS «M!TH
i\ the Safi
Safest cab you can drive
mmm
- i •
% . v -
-5«
P!
ss&sis
jki
|g||l
r^ortSJSSSSJ'. 1
ESSS®®
■ c-m
'33oS3fc£S22v
w
£2222Ssw : i*sK3
: >:
1939 Hudson Eight “ One-Twenty-Two” Country Club Sedan.
f§ There isn’t another car on the road with quite this same
style appeal. Fresh, new. . .without a hint of the common-
place. . .Hudson’s own! Nor is there another car so rich
in new and important ideas that add to your comfort,
your satisfaction. . . and your safety . . . while you motor.
Only Hudson gives you the extra protection of Double-
Safe Hydraulics (described at right). Only Hudson pro-
vides Auto-Poise Control to help you hold the wheels to
their course automatically, even if a tyre blows out!
LOWEST PRICED
HUDSONS IN HISTORY
UNDERwiFOOT
Mir SAFE pucf „„
■a®*n«w
}draulics should f t 1
<We he „f f"'’ "«« chance
sl „ PI) Lr ,s f ° r B * /
Hu*o„-_ and J * » "»e? f„ a /
Jnechanical /
“ . be,on « s ~«»rfcr is "We /
Safe Hydraulics. 11, °° l ' Double- ‘
™ ke h "** "»* foc^~*
ii
HOOSOW’S
PATfWrfO
double
SAFE
BRAKES
J
FOR 1939
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Hudson Motor-car Company.
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.,
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.


Under the Whip
Ajax has been nominated again for the
two Cups. If the owners wouldn’t start
him in a King’s Cup with 9.5 they’re un-
likely to start him at Caulfield or Flem-
ington with 10 stone or thereabouts ; but
nominating him gratifies the handi-
cappers. Handicappers always like to
have a champion to work down from.
Ajax is supposed to be having a spell,
but Musgrave, fearful of the chestnut
getting too fat, gives him an occasional
pipe-opener. There will be time enough to
prepare the champion for long-distance
races if that is seriously intended.
* * * *
Horses bred by T. S. Ryder, of South
Australia, furnish sporting scribes with
much “copy” from time to time. Those
that he leases come most under notice.
Dominor was an early pick for the Grand
National Hurdle until it transpired that
he had not even been placed in training.
Last week H. W. Torr, calling at the
V.A.T.C. office to nominate Koke King
for the Australian Hurdle and Steeple,
found that the gelding had been entered
already. Torr was acting for the lessee,
but it transpired that the original lease
had not been renewed. Where the hitch
occurred and why was beyond Torr’s
knowledge ; but it doesn’t matter. After
Koke King raced at Flemington on June 3
Torr discovered that the gelding had be-
come unfit to stand up to a preparation.
* * * *
Success of Grand Tithe (Grand Joy-
Love Time) in a division of the Maiden
Handicap at Ascot (Vic.) on Wednesday
was achieved in remarkable circum-
stances. Early in the morning Grand
Time was so sore that he could hardly
walk.
Fred Foulsham, his trainer, had been
endeavoring for 18 months to conquer
trouble in the near fore hoof of Grand
Time. Veterinary surgeons tried their
skill, and at least a quarter of the hoof
was cut away. Grand Time cannot be
plated in the ordinary way. He raced
with the flimsiest of “tips.”
Grand Time was bought in Sydney as
a yearling by Jack Daniels, the jockey,
a nephew of Foulsham. The intention of
Daniels then was to become a trainer,
and Grand Time was acquired on behalf
of his wife’s mother. Daniels changed
his mind and returned to India to ride.
Melbourne punters had several set-
backs at Ascot. The first was when Sin-
dicada, a stable-companion of Pooley
Bridge, was carried off the course by a
rival competitor at the third obstacle.
Sindicada had started a short-priced
favorite.
An even more annoying happening
from the viewpoint of backers was when
Decurio, a 2-to-l favorite for the Man-
chester Novice, caught the ascending
tapes in his mouth and was thrown to
the ground. Dewhurst, the jockey, nar-
rowly escaped being rolled upon.
• • •
Cecil Godby gave Country Party,
formerly trained in Sydney by J. T.
Jamieson, an outing on the flat at Ascot.
Ridden by Harold Badger, the M.L.-
bred gelding met with fair support, but
did not gain a place, Match King win-
ning from Quicksilver and Lalmoni.
“Sturt”: E. T.
Both, the young
S.A. inventor of the
“iron lung,” was
asked to advise on
an ideal racecourse
starting-machine to
make the starter’s
call of “Go” coin-
cide exactly with the
rising of the barrier—
which doesn’t always
happen. Both’s new
idea is a small suit-
case containing a
battery, and con-
nected with a robot
loudspeaker which
shouts “Go” only
when and as the
barrier release-
handle is pressed.
* *
“Wodgil”: No
wonder the trotting
people want night
racing in Sydney.
Consider what the
W.A.T.A. is arrang-
ing for its next
championship series,
“open to armroved
Australian, N.Z. and
U.S.A. horses able
to trot 2.11 and better.” First night:
three mile races, each worth £375,
and three supporting events of £l5O
each. Second night: three 12-fur-
longs races for the champions, £375 each ;
£450 more to be cut up among second-
and third-raters. Third night: three two-
milers, £375 each, and supporting events
as before. Fourth night: grand final, a
mile and five furlongs, £3000; two con-
solation races, same distance, £2OO each,
and three handicaps for non-champions,
£l5O each. Total for four nights, £8575.
Distribution of the £3OOO is to be decided
on points: three each for a win and
fastest time; two each for second place
and second-fastest; one for third and
third-fastest. Perth is, of course, to be
the scene of the meetings and February
the month.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hall Does a Lot Better
Fresh from two brief interviews with
the business end of Kui Kong Young’s
body wallops, Joe Hall (9st. 21b.) was
again in Sydney Arena ring last week,
this time locking horns with Danny la
Verne (9st. l£lb.), who had been out-
pointed by Frank Farrington. Danny
is credited with having beaten Kui twice
in the U.S.A., but though he’d won a
few easy scraps hereabouts before the
Farrington engagement he had not
proved exactly sensational.
He showed better against Joe, and Joe
certainly did a whole lot better than
against Young. Danny waded in and
hit in all directions from the word go.
He made the fight, kept hustling and
bustling Joe, who evidently rations him-
self to issue a strictly limited number of
punches in each round. So the fight
became a matter of Danny tearing in
and letting off punches that mostly tore
crudely past outside Joe’s arms or around
the back of Joe’s neck, with Joe content
to jab his left into Danny’s mouth, or
"It's Cap’n's orders, lad. ’ E’s goin' t’ make a garden .”
“ Don't move , Dig.—just open y'r mouth!"
perhaps rip a hearty right uppercut into
Danny’s pantry.
Except for Joe’s manner of fighting, it
was not by any means a leisurely affair.
Danny saw to that. Joe hit him, and
hit him hard and often, but he’s tough,
and he kept on wading in and throwing
punches in his singular robot style. Be-
cause of this persistent attack it was quite
a good mill to watch, particularly because
the arrangement suited Joe, enabling
him to display bursts of the clean
and pretty boxing at which he’s an adept,
especially when things are going his way.
Ref. Les Pearson must have allotted
Danny a most generous portion of points
for his attacking. Perhaps he deserved
them, because if it hadn’t been for his
unstoppable aggressiveness it might well
have been a dismal affair to behold. But
a more futile exhibition of aggression
present scribe has never yet witnessed,
and what earthly use is attack if it must
be written down as futile? On the other
hand, Joe made use of his man coming
in to him, and time and again picked
him off with beautiful clean punches.
Joe certainly loafed for a good part of
most rounds, but he was always master
of the situation, and whenever he let
himself go he made Danny look no more
than tough.
Danny troubled him a little in the first
couple of rounds. Evidently impressed
by Kui Kong Young’s conclusive demon-
strations of Joe’s vulnerability about the
middle, Danny aimed his attack at that
sector, and actually got home one or
two really good punches. But Joe cut
loose in the third, won the round hands
down, and thereafter never looked like
suffering defeat. In that round he
allowed Danny to charge right across the
ring, and met him there with one sur-
prising blow—a peach of a right upper-
cut which astonished everybody, and
none more than Danny. Turning aggres-
sive, Joe then shook him up with a fine
clean left to the jaw, and went on scoring
when, where and how he liked, always
with clean punching.
Joe’s next stirring
burst was in the sixth,
in which he cut Danny
about the nose with left
jabs and thumped him
heavily and oft about
the tummy. These two
were easily Joe’s best
rounds, but there was
scarcely a session in
which he failed to
deliver telling punches.
Danny, for his part,
gave the air a frightful
hiding, used the flap
“punch” on the back
of Joe’s neck with a
regularity that would
have called down the
ire of Mr. Wallis and
expended enough
energy to keep a boxer
of Hall’s style going
for the rest of his
career.
Taking Joe’s clean
punching into account,
and assessing Danny’s attack as far more
busy than effective and often of
dubious legality, Joe seemed to win
in a common canter. On this reckoning,
he must have won seven rounds clear,
two even and three to Danny. Mr. Pear-
son called it a draw.
Dundee State Champion
Same night, same address, and in very
short order, Jimmy Dundee (9st.
took the N.S.W. lightweight title from
Bub Anderson (9st. 81b.). In the lan-
guage of some classic or other, the fight
he was over before he begin. Jimmy’s
a very solid hunk of a young fellow, and
the mouthguard jabbed over his teeth
has the effect of transforming his pleasant
expression into one of the most sardonic
sneers that e’er the eye looked on. Bub
looked comparatively fragile and inoffen-
sive, and proved completely innocuous
They boxed the first round, with Bub
nervously darting in and out, and Jimmy
cool and predatory. In the second James
jolted a right-hand punch to Bub’s head
in mid-ring, and as Bub retreated to his
corner James followed him up with a
couple more right and left jolts, and Bub
went down for the count, apparently
dazed.
“Bob Punter”: A handsome tribute
to Jack Carroll, coming from Wesley
Ramey, who took the father of a hid-
ing from Jack in Sydney in 1934,
appears in a May issue of the U.S.A.
“Referee.” As the “Referee” notes, it’s
seldom a fighter goes out of his way to
give an opponent full credit for beating
him, but Ramey declares that Jack gave
him the worst trimming he ever suffered
in the ring. The fight as Ramey recalls
it:
It was a 15-round battle, and Jack was
to come in at 1451 b., while I was around
1351 b., but he weighed 1461 b. when we
stripped. He was rangy and a head taller
than I was; in fact, he appeared rather
awkward, but he was really fast when he
started, and could toss more short- and
long-arm wallops than anyone I ever met.
What he did to me was a shame, at least
I thought so, for I prided myself on being
a bit clever, but when it was over and
Jack had won I felt as though I had
poison ivy all over me. I was never cut
up so in all my career and still I was not
seriously hurt. If ever a fighter had men
buffaloed it was Carroll, with his peculiar
style and sharp jabs. He would have given
any of the Yankee boys a hard battle,
and it was probably just as well that Barney
Ross did not go to Australia at that time
to meet Jack.
Footbrawl
The V.F.L. split its premiership
matches over the week-end, playing three
on Saturday and three on Monday. Satur-
day’s games made no difference to the
table: Collingwood, Richmond and St.
Kilda —second, third and fourth —all had
wins. ’Wood scored heaviest, 123 points,
18-15 to Carlton’s 12-12. The Tigers had
the same number of scoring oppor-
tunities, 33, but their direction was at
fault, and they managed only 93 points
against Hawthorn —12-21 to 7-13. Saints
accounted for North 18-12 to 16-10, but
North contested every inch of ground.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Football League has
had a keen debate on the method of
selecting State teams. The Victorian
system, two men from each club, was
proposed, with these arguments: (1) As
there are only eight clubs, this would
still leave the selectors a margin of
choice; (2) if a team hasn’t two players
of State standard, it ought not to be in
the League ; (3) “anyway, we can’t do
worse than we have done in recent
years.” The main argument in reply was
why compel selectors to pick men they
don’t think the best? The voting was
a tie, and the chairman, O’Halloran,


S4B
1
Advance Australia
on all-Australian
OLYMPIC
TYRES
You do a national service and
secure a personal benefit by fit-
ting Olympic—the all-Australian
tyres. They give you long ser-
vice and trouble-free motoring.
What you save stays in your own
pocket—what you spend stays in
your own country. Olympic Tyres
are owned and produced by Aus-
tralians, financed with Australian
capital, directed by Australian
executives.
Refit with Olympics
at your local dealer
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
PTY. LTD.
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts.
Sydney
Olympic Tyres
****•*£ss
Teeth become pearly white:
Gums Natural colour:
There is no reason why false teeth should
advertise the fact that they are false. Yet they
do when the 'gum’ is dark and unnatural-looking,
and the teeth are dingy and yellow. 'Steradent’
will give your false teeth the clean, attractive
lustre of live teeth on natural-looking gums!
Fill the cap of the tin with 'Steradent’ and
pour the powder into a glass containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to cover the dentures.
Stir well. Put in your dentures and leave while
you dress, or overnight. Take them out and rinse
thoroughly under the tap. All stains vanish.
Dull, dingy teeth become 'live,’ lustrous,
natural-looking. 'Gums’ regain their whole-
some colour. Dentists prescribe 'Steradent’ as
the best denture cleaner ever produced.
Price 2/-. Double size 3/6. At all chemists.
TRIAL OFFER: Send 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515 8.8., G.P.0., Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
Steradent
REGD. TRADE MARK
cleans and sterilises false teeth
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
n
m
f .
m
mmmm
LIONEL BIBDY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on birearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation . Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice .
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
c
No. 45—COOEY “MOHAWK,”
.22-cal., single shot, chambered
for short, long or long-rifle.
Barrel 2 7in., walnut stock, ele-
vating rear sight and silver bead
front sight. Overall length,
43£ inches. Weight, qjj /
61b.
Postage, 2/—; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12 —WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 7in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, VO/in/
about 4*lb. tZ/IU/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 27in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight. *»«ij /■| /> /
weight, 4*lb
Posta.ge, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, ,22-cal., 20-
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine
handles 20
long, or 14
cartridges;
about
5 fib.
Carriage Paid
short, 16
long-rifle
weight,
£5/7/6
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut ct n lin /
stock xlb/lb/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 27—8.5. A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 1 2G
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered fo
3in. cartridges; weight, /- ~ ,
81b. XZI/10 /
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, 1/11/
nitroproof;weight, about 71b. / * */'
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, XM O/i o /
about 71b Xl3/L 6/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons' Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
K.C., having “an open mind,” voted for
No Change.
* * * *
Easily the greatest boon that the Aus-
tralian sporting world offers to foot-
ballers is a trip to Britain (nowadays that
means France as well) with a Union
Rugby team, and scores of anxious young
fellows are busy trying to impress their
worth on the selectors. A series of
matches designed to enlighten those
worthies was begun at Sydney Sports
Ground on Wednesday, when Victorians
played Queenslanders. Comparatively
limited as their opportunities are, the
Victorians were decidedly the better
team on the day. Their forwards were
just as good as the husky lads in maroon,
and they had much the better three-
quarter line —in fact, Sydney hasn’t One
as good. And yet they were beaten —
11-6.
It should have been 11-9 at least, for
Carpenter, the Victorian captain—after
making a try for Cowper and mulling
one by not taking a pass when the
coast was clear —went over, and, in
trying to improve his position so
as to admit of an easy goal, unwit-
tingly crossed the dead-ball line. That
was arranged for League Rugby, which is
not played in Victoria ; Union rules per-
mitted Carpenter to ground the ball
where he did. Had the try been allowed
a goal would very probably have been
kicked, and with an advantage of three
points the Victorians would scarcely
have permitted the Queenslanders to
score in the corner just on the stroke of
time. With the game virtually over, they
relaxed, that try being the result.
5 * * i » i
Carpenter, Cowper and Bridle were
the pick of the Victorians. Queensland
was well served by Wilson, the captain,
and the veteran hooker Bonis, in the
forwards, and by Schulte, a 12st. 71b.
half-back who needs only to improve
his passing to be very good indeed.
Sydney half-backs, insufficiently pro-
tected by their forwards —notably
Ramalli and Gibbons—sometimes get a
fearful hammering. Because Queens-
landers have a better idea of what for-
ward play should be, Schulte doesn’t
have to endure nearly so much. In any
case, he can stand up to hard knocks,
being tough enough for a forward him-
self.
On Saturday Victoria, sadly weakened
by injuries, met the “first” N.S.W. team
at North Sydney. The winger, Dorr,
couldn’t appear, and Carpenter played
with one hand in plaster, Cowper was
carried off with a broken collar-bone,
and the full-back, himself a substitute,
followed him. Bridle went into the
three-quarters, and another forward was
“full.” The Cabbage-Gardeners decided
that pace might do the job, and began
at full lick. At lemons they led 6-5 (a
try and a p.g. to a converted try), and
they kept ahead for part of the second
term. The N.S.W. forwards were still
playing the loose game which lost them
the two Brisbane matches; but as the
pace began to tell on the visitors thev
tightened up. Victoria died on its run,
and N.S.W. began to pile up the points.
At the final bell it was 27-6 ; six tries
to one.
Smith, at centre for N.S.W., tried at
times to do too much with the ball, but
that was the only noticeable fault along
the back line. Hodgson and Malone
were the outstanding forwards. Car-
penter and Hammon did well for Vic-
toria, though their chances were few ;
Bissett and Lang were the best of an
honest forward bunch.
On the same day the N.S.W. “seconds,”
though beaten 21-14 (three tries to two),
often looked like downing the Queens-
landers for the first time this season.
They were ahead four times, but mis-
takes near the goal line gave Queensland
a host of penalties. The N.S.W. forwards
were a more robust lot of workers than
the “first” pack ; they kept the Banana-
landers quiet, and gave Gibbons, at half,
a deal more protection than he had in
Brisbane. Turnbull, Bowrey and Cerutti
were in everything, and Oxenham was
an active breakaway. Ryan, a newcomer
to one of the N.S.W. wings, proved him-
self a speedy and robust youngster with
a good outside chance of making the
boat. But the best winger seen on the
day was easily the Queenslander Nichol-
son. He didn’t score a try, but he was
always on his toes. He takes the ball
well, tackles solidly and has a good turn
of speed.
* * # *
N.S.W. made no bones about matters
in the Rugby League game against
Queensland at the S.C.G. on Saturday.
It slashed the Maroon defence to ribbons,
and romped away to a 50-15 win. The
northerners opened promisingly with a
nice try by Collins, which O’Connor con-
verted. In the first 10 minutes the Blues
played raggedly, mishandling marring
every movement; also they were freely
penalised. But from then on the home
side gradually shook down into a first-
rate combination, and by half-way
through the first half were playing irre-
sistible football. The speed of the backs
became devastating, the tackling of the
forwards resolute, and defence turned to
attack which thereafter never let up.
As N.S.W. improved so Queensland’s
play correspondingly declined. Its van-
guard became lumbering and sluggish ;
its three-quarter line was rendered futile
by the failure of hooker and halves. The
one man who played an outstanding
game for the losers was O’Connor, the
full-back; and even he was outshone
by the N.S.W. “full,” Johnson, who gave
a superb all-round exhibition, which he
capped by scoring one try and unselfishly
giving away another. Nine New South
Welshmen crossed the line. The try by
Thompson, the North Sydney half, was
a classic. Near the half-way line he
recovered from a jolt received in a ruck
which snapped his head back. Then, in
a series of bewildering sidesteps remini-
scent of his namesake of an earlier day,
he weaved his way across. Collins regis-
tered all of Queensland’s three tries.
Despite the big disparity in the scores
the game never lacked interest. Attend-
ance was 32,000.
ifc *
Queensland emerged from a four-
year spell in the Soccer shades to wallop
Noo South 4-2 at Brisbane. Play wasn’t
up to topnotch standard, mostly owing
to ragged team work by the Ma Staters.
Had the northern men not thrown
chances away in the opening session
their tally might have been doubled.
Gibb, the Queensland left half, played
a rattling game. Brittain and Kitching
notched a brace of goals each for the
winners ; Quill, the Wallsend centre for-
ward, landed the points for the visitors.
* * * *
By making the most of their oppor-
tunities in the Soccer trial match, N.S.W.
v. The Rest, several colts have given the
watching selectors furiously to think.
Date, of Wallsend, and Eves, of Leich-
hardt, particularly impressed. In a bright
game the slight superiority of the Rest’s
forwards, who were fed well by their
halves, tipped the scales in otherwise
evenly contested play. The odd goal in
five which spelt defeat for N.S.W. was
slammed in by Monagle right on time
—a gem of a shot. Both goalies, Con-
quest and McNabb, gave fine displays,
and it will be hard to separate them.
Miscellaneous
Norman Brookes has become a K. 8.,
so there is hope for Bradman if his in-
clinations run to knighthoods, and, com-
pared with Norman, who is 62,
“Braddles” is young yet. Along with
brother Ernest, the Victorian lawn-
tennis knight has big business and graz-
ing interests. Three times singles and
twice doubles champion at Wimbledon
and a Davis Cup man on nine occasions,
Brookes was probably the greatest of all
pre-war tennis players. He was 37 when
the war broke out, and his service in
Egypt and Mesopotamia gave him no
opportunities of preserving his form;
but at 43 he was still good enough to
represent Australia in the Davis Cup
competition, though not capable of
coping with Tilden, then at the height
of his powers. There are States that
would like to have him in representative
teams even now.
* * * *
“T.”: Babe Didrikson, the Olympic
track and field athlete of other days, is
in Sydney with her husband, George
Zaharias, who belongs to the Wrestlers’
Union, and is showing her prowess as
a golfer.. The lady can beat most of the
men who take that pastime seriously
instead of making it an excuse for hang-
ing round the clubhouse, and Ferrier,
who can hit a ball a long way himself,
pronounces her driving “magnificent.”
She hopes to play in the Australian Open,
and an official has cautiously observed
that her nomination, if it goes in, will
be considered. In Australia, as else-
where, controllers of golf have had to
retreat before the fiery onset of femi-
ninity, but championships are still under
the direction of diehards whose sotto-voce
judgments on feminine entries are apt to
be that woman’s place is in the home.
An announcer, introducing Miss
Didrikson to a new public in one of
those fatuous interviews that A.B.C. is
going in for, gave her height as sft.
lOin. The interviewee corrected him —
“five-five,” she said. Unless my hear-
ing apparatus has conked, she coyly
added that her weight was 1351 b.
“S. M. Herald,” still unromantic on the
sports pages, although in the women’s
section it has gone flapper, intimated
that she goes eleven-stone six. It is
hazardous to make such assessments
when there is a 16-stone husband in the
case. And if - the point were disputed
Mr. George Zaharias would prove even
more awkward in an argument than Mr.
George Brown, who used to drape
his muffler on Stadium ropes and fight
Les Darcy, and whom Sydney remembers
as George the Greek.


THE
AT
l
1
Twice. Daitu-Z'so-o
“HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD
featuring: ANNA MAY WONG in person
and New Company Of Oversea
Variety Stars.
iiig New Company Oversea Stars in
“BROADWAY HOT SHOTS”
featuring: SENATOR MURPHY, FOUR
FRANKS, and 10 other acts.
SUDRY
SHOWS
Filmed “Mikado.”
Sydney State bagged this first shot at
filming Gilbert and Sullivan (in techni-
color), and has it along with the Derby,
Dawson and Disney, reminders that dull,
dreadful, deadly, direful, dreary, doleful
aren’t the only descriptive duties done
by the doomful letter “D” (demonstrated
beyond doubt by the Downham-Dollar
doubly at the neddies next day).
Dub ’em delightful.
That goes even more for the main
offering. Anyone who wants to have his
entertainment guaranteed before he
coughs up the price of his pew can cough
in perfect safety.
Here we have the first attempt to film
what amounts to established traditional
English theatre —its humor, especially, so
peculiarly English as to be a kind of folk-
lore. It is also a kind of infection, its
victims numerous and widespread. There
is, for example, the keeper of a pub and
wearer of the local rabbitskin robes up
on the Macleay River (N.S.W.) who’ll
dispense you “On a tree by a willow
a little tomtit” with either a whisky-and-
soda or a farthing increase in the rates.
Similarly a banana-grower up on the
Tweed and a Newcastle grocer.
In the city, of course, the victims
are uncountable. They’ll be even more
numerous before the State is through
with “Mikado.” If The Bulletin’s
own secretary isn’t calling on the first
floor to “Behold the Lord High Execu-
tioner ! ” before a week is out it’ll be only
because of a preference for
A wandering minstrel I
A thing of shreds and patches,
Of ballads, songs and snatches....
All of which happy unanimity of
taste is remarkable enough tribute to the
two quarrelsome English gentlemen
originally responsible: one of them a
descendant of a famous Elizabethan
navigator, and the other—son of a Sand-
hurst Military College Band conductor-
born in Lambeth Walk, which is still
inspiring singularly English musical
masterpieces to this present day.
Also touching on the Englishness, it
might be a contribution towards im-
proving foreign affairs at the moment to
point out that the “book” of “The
Mikado” is not satire of anything
singularly Japanese, though to some ex-
tent it is satire of things Oriental. If it
had been aimed at Japanese ways, the
confusing of the pleasant Chinese
customs of “squeeze” and popular be-
heading with the Land of Cherry
Blossom and Hara-kiri would have been
nearly as bad as Shakspeare on the
Bohemian coast. The only peculiarly
Japanese items are the name, the color-
ing and the caricature dressing.
Moreover, though in some measure
Sir William may have been having a
satirical fling at the Oriental outlook on
sudden death, there’s the evidence
running through his entire output sup-
porting the conclusion that in so
dwelling on the most juicy aspects of the
execution theme he was personally en-
joying himself enormously. As a boy
he may have been denied the pleasure of
drowning cats. Certainly he grew up to
gloat over gruesome detail in a degree
unmatched by any other writer of lilting
light verse in the language, or maybe any
language. So honorable Japanese gentle-
men now at work in China shouldn’t
stick any more bayonets into English
residents if it’s by way of criticism of
S’William. If he was satirising any fond-
ness for disembowelling, it was his own
personal fondness. The delicate tender-
ness that gave rise to
Now though you’d have said that head was
dead
(For its owner dead was he),
It stood on its neck with a smile well bred,
And bowed three times to me!
and
Though trunkless, yet
It couldn’t forget
and similar ingenuities of facile rhyme
and accompanying melodiousness, is to
be found throughout S’William’s ex-
quisite compositions. As to institutions
satirised, they are, of course, definitely
English—especially the legal and the
political. The satire has an even more
English turn in the original “book” than
it’s allowed to have in the film, for
though it may be true, as claimed, that
“there is no word sung or spoken in
the film that Gilbert did not write,” it is
certainly true that some of what
S’William wrote in “The Mikado” has
been cut. For example, though there is
the source of “A more humane Mikado
never,” most of the sauce of this much-
parodied outburst of innocent merriment
has been dumped. Only confirmed Gil-
sullivan addicts will object, because at
the best of times it was a somewhat
forced humorous skit, but it has strong
point in regard to the Englishness of the
Gilbertian opus.
In addition to that Englishness there
is the further English hallmark branded
on Gilsullivan by its interpreters. These
are a tradition on their own. There is
a traditional manner of presenting Gil-
bert and Sullivan handed down from the
original Savoyards, and so jealously
guarded to this day by Gilsullivan
addicts that attempts such as those of
Ivan Menzies when he was here to re-
place dated gags with topical wisecracks
Nanki-Poo (imp.—from the U.S.A.), a somewhat startling intrusion to the confirmed Savoyards in the technicolor
filming of “The Mikado,” at Sydney State.
are sternly opposed and condemned. Yet
in making the film the producers, after
gathering their talent from the ranks of
authentic Savoyards, then went and made
a most extraordinary choice for the part
of Nanki-Poo. They imported to Eng-
land the American radio star Kenny
Baker. This was to have a most con-
founding result.
Kenny has a competent vocal equip-
ment ; moreover, he is young and
debonair, as Nanki-Poo should be. But
it must be admitted that he yawps a bit.
Like most Americans, he has the nasal
accompaniment to his vocal utterance,
and, more importantly, he also has the
American manner of mournful intona-
tion employed for giving expression to
joyful emotions. This may be a study
in itself. The words are often the words
of joy and happiness, of gaiety and care-
free feeling, but the intonation is a sort
of amplified moaning. Perhaps the
nearest comparable intonation is that of
an Irish tenor singing sentimental Irish
ballads ; and maybe a prof, of Harvard
will one day compile an opus weighing
two or three pounds and tracing out the
descent —in more senses than one —of
American crooning from the gent, who,
with properly lugubrious distressfulness,
announced his impending departure for
Philadelphia in the mornin’.
Notwithstanding which remarks, Kenny
is by no means unpleasant to listen to,
and if sarcastic Savoyants suggest that
this is because our ears have now been
so assaulted by American singing that
they’re bankrupt of feeling, this is in that
respect a comparatively free country,
But the Kenny intrusion isn’t restricted
to his intonation. He has a vital person-
ality, and he is obviously straining every
sinew to rise to an important occasion;
The rest of the cast, as stated, are dyed-
blue Savoyards, which, among other
things, means that their personality is
completely masked by their roles ; and
the general result of all this is that you
have an authentic Gilbert and Sullivan
background of many Savoyards giving a
stage representation of the original opera
without benefit of film technique (as far
as their acting goes), and in front, against
that background, a young actor giving
a sterling performance which owes every-
thing to film technique.
The general effect might be summed
up to the conclusion that, while the film
would have been more authentic Gilsulli-
van opera without Kenny, it is probably
a much better film because of him.
Taken on their own Savoyardian plane,
the other principals are excellent—
Martyn Green (Ko-Ko), Sydney Gran-
ville (Pooh-Bah), John Barclay (The
Mikado), our old familiar Gregory Stroud
(Pish-Tush), Jean Colin (Yum-Yum),
Kathleen Naylor (Peep-Bo). Green’s per-
formance underlines the permanence of
Gilbert in such matters as bothering the
flowers that bloom in the spring, and the
willow, titwillow, titwillow. The clear-
ness of Green’s enunciation is something
that needs to be heard to be appreciated.
In fact, English words have rarely been
so clearly given to an audience, either
from stage or screen, as in this beautiful
production.
“Farmyard Symphony ”
All rooster-lovers, pig-fans and goat-
fanciers are recommended to attend
Farmer Disney’s exhibition of stud stock
at Sydney State. His bull isn’t quite as
touching as Ferdinand, but it’s a good
second, and his chook, rooster, foal and
calf are as appealing as anything he’s
ever done.
Instead of caricaturing he gives a
natural impression of the gawky grace of
young animals, and an equally faithful
portrayal of the monumental dignity of
their elders. There are umpteen piglets
who spend all their time burrowing for
nourishment under a sow as vast and
sleepy as a mountain range. There are
the calf and foal which, after cautiously
striking up a friendship, go for a mad
race round the paddock, one on each
side of the fence. There are chickens,
lambs and ewes (not very well done) and
the black rooster and the coyest of white
hens whose romance—on the lines of the
chariot race in “Ben Hur”—is the pith
of the story.
It ends with the richest of comedy
when the farmer comes to feed the ani-
mals, and the sow, forgetting sleep, and
the bull, forgetting his problems, and the
rooster, utterly forgetting both love and
manners, all streak for their breakfast
as hard as they can lick.
, . . ~
Made tor hach Uther,
James Stewart, Carole Lombard.
A fair measure of sincerity in most of
the film, very natural acting from Stewart
and some deft comedy touches are the
best of this Sydney Regent offering,
Its story is the one about a young
couple finding that married life is as
much a business as .it is a pleasure,
Their trials are the usual ones—a mother-
in-law, a baby and insufficient oof—and
they face them in the usual way of film
people. It holds interest for most of
the way, but in the final working out
degenerates into the most commonplace
of melodrama.
Husband and wife are estranged,
mother-in-law aloof and cheild danger-
ously ill. Only thing that can save the
babe is serum from a hospital on the
other side of the continent. A ’plane
is needed to bring it, but husband is
broke, and there’s a gale raging from
one end of the country to the other.
Despite how much they give to build-
ing up such a situation it seems that
Hollywood filmsmiths have yet to find a
new solution to it.
Stewart is good all the time, though
the role isn’t worthy of his ability. Miss
Lombard is a little out of her depth
when she can’t be funny, but she commits
no serious histrionic offence. Charles
Coburn offers some guffaws as boss of a
legal firm, and Henry Davenport appears
briefly but well as a medico.
“King of the Turf”
Adolphe Menjou, Dolores Costello.
Hollywood's nothing if not thorough.
Let it decide to explore the depths of
emotion, harrow the feelings, and it will
turn out a job to put up the price of
handkerchiefs from Costa Rica to Tim-
buctoo. Ladies are advised to take along
a reserve supply to this Sydney Mayfair
offering.
The poor-little-rich-girl and little-
orphan-Annie motifs having been done to
death, and mothers having been bereft
of their children so often that it’s har-
rowing no longer, “father love” is now
portrayed to rend the heart. Menjou,
a one-time outstanding owner-trainer
now reduced to two-dollar bets, meets a
youngster whose love of a good horse
is equalled only by Menjou’s own.
Youngster sobers him up, and for two
dollars they buy a racehorse; an outlaw
that can’t be got to the barrier. With
Menjou to train him and the youngster
to ride, they make of him “ f he greatest


FAS
\l/
SERVICE
ST
EAST-W
8.0 p.nv. and 8.50 p.in., Tuesday, 9.45 a.m., Saturday, Monday,
Thursday, Saturday. Wednesday.
hours’ stay in Melbourne.
Stop-over in Melbourne and Adelaide allowed, if desired.
FARES FROM SYDNEY TO PERTH
SINGLE RETURN.
Children four Children four
Adults. & under 14. Adults. & under 14.
Ist Class .. .. £lB 18 6 £ll 16 6 £33 9 0 £2l 9 0
2nd Class .. .. £ll 9 3 £6 12 9 £2O 0 0 £ll 16 3
Including reserved seats, sleeping berths (where provided) for the through
journey (Sydney-Perth), and meals on the Transcontinental and West Aus-
tralian Railways. .... , .
Seats and sleeping berths may be booked four weeks in advance.
Apply at Sydney Station or Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney, for any
further information.
TRAVEL BY RAIL
horse in the country,” for, says Menjou,
“blood must out.”
But the kid has run away from a good
home and when his mother comes to
collect him it’s realised he’s Menjou s son
the lady, formerly Menjou s wife, hav-
ing left without his knowing there was
to be a child. Of course, the boy must
not know his hero is his own father, must
be got away from the racetracks. For
the first time Menjou tells the kid to lose
a race. The boy tries, but can’t do it.
He rides to win, so Menjou has to pub-
licly disown him. Then everything’s all
right, and all of them—father, mother
and kid—can shed a tear.
Menjou tries hard with the depressing
business, but the type of gentleman he
has to be never existed, and he knows it.
The others scarcely matter.
“Midnight.”
Claudette Colbert, Don Ameche.
With Miss Colbert right at the top of
her excellent form, Dahn a little more
acceptable than usual and sundry other
very entertaining persons all turning in
very entertaining work, this main item
at Sydney Prince Edward adds up to a
comedy of fairly laughable dimensions—
less crazy than the usual run of its kind,
but a wild piece nonetheless, <and highly
polished and well written to boot.
Film kicks off with Miss Colbert as a
chorus goil arriving stone motherless
broke in Paris with only an evening
gown and a pawnticket from a Monte
Carlo popshop. Enter Dahn as an
hahnest taxi-driver to tour her around
searching the city’s night clubs for a job.
Nothing offering, Dahn suggests—quite
platonically, of course —that the lady
accept the shelter of his roof, whereupon
Miss Colbert promptly takes her leave
and barges in on an uppah-stratah recital
of Chopin or someone.
Here the film really gets into its stride.
Miss Colbert becomes Baroness Some-
body-or-other, and retires with other
nobility to a quiet hand of bridge, and
within a few hours she has posh apart-
ments at the Ritz, a still more posh Rolls
and a chap to drive it, and a contract to
divert the attentions of a sassiety playboy
from another chap’s spouse to herself.
Other chap’s wife is Mary Astor, other
chap John Barrymore and playboy
Francis Lederer. To recount any de-
velopments would mean spilling the
beans.
Lederer makes a most palatable job
of a role generally distressing to any
normal male film-taster. Miss Colbert
just can’t help being tip-top in this sort
of thing, and Barrymore, too, seems to
be improving now that he doesn’t insist
on continually twisting his profile for
inspection.
“The Duke of West Point.”
Hollywood is on a new tack. First,
a Yank went to Oxford ; in this Sydney
Plaza offering, a Cambridge man goes
to West Point, Uncle Sam’s military
academy; next, Mickey Rooney is to
doff a topper at Eton ; and the filmsmiths
won’t let it rest at a trinity.
Pots of cash appear to have gone into
this West Point opus, but it compares
with the slick-moving Taylor offering as
margarine to butter. Blame the sloshy
scenario for that —boy meets girl; boy,
shielding room-mate, becomes “socially
undesirable” to fellows and girl; boy
turns tables ; boy wins girl.
Of its type, however, it’s not altogether
unacceptable. Louis Hayward, Richard
Carlson and Tom Brown comprise a trio
of screenland’s up-and-coming young
men, and they bring as much verisimili-
tude to the material available as possible.
For adornment there is Joan Fontaine,
a fragment of dimpled femininity every
whit as pleasing to the eye as sister
Olivia de Havilland.
Apart from histrionic ability, his ath-
letic prowess is said to have landed Louis
Hayward the role as “dook.” The
directors haven’t given him much scope
in this direction, except in an ice-hockey
display towards the fadeout. It’s meant
to be the highlight of the piece, but is
so patently faked as to appear tame
stuff alongside the red-blooded variety
the newsreels deal out,
“The Seven Deadly Virtues.”
This play, presented by the Melbourne
Little Theatre, is on a text of Shaw:
“Hell is the home of honor, duty, jus-
tice and the rest of the seven deadly
virtues. All the wickedness on earth is
done in their name.”
What the author, Hugh Ross William-
son, sets out to show is that by follow-
ing the dictates of his tradition a well-
meaning individual like the hero, Francis
Meldreth, produces such dismal results
for himself and everybody he likes that
he ends by losing hope in humanity alto-
gether.
As the schoolboy he can be dutiful
only by playing the sneak to a fellow :
as a soldier he can be a patriot only by
handing his best friend, a German
turned spy, over to a firing squad. As
a country justice of the peace he has to
protect a young poet who has seduced
a village maiden and connive at the con-
viction of a butcher boy who has only a
doubtful connection with the business.
As a sick old man he can get attention
only by tyrannising over his daughter to
the extent that she loses the young man
she is in love with.
It is a bitter, witty play, and, like
most plays of its genus, provides no solu-
tion for the problems which it states so
poignantly. Presumably the playwright
does not regard a solution as possible,
but what he forgets is that what is wrong
with Francis Meldreth is his conception
of what is just, dutiful and patriotic, and
that conceptions can be changed. Con-
sequently, an intensely pessimistic play
—one of the plays which, for some reason
or other, amateur societies delight in.
Moreover, they nearly always do them
well, and this one is done extremely
well, W. G. Southwell as the victim of
his own ignorance, Pat Henry as his
daughter and W. Clarkson as a drunken
major, being more real than most pro-
fessional actors ever succeed in becom-
ing. The play is built on the idea of a
man dreaming in a suburban railway
carriage, and is well constructed. But it’s
as exhilarating as a chapter from the
Book of the prophet Jeremiah.
Richard Crooks.
The Crooks voice continues to draw
the crowds to the Town Hall, Melbourne,
and Szenassy’s fiddling continues to
occupy a good half of the programme
and a large share of the applause.
The violinist lad’s technical resources
are considerable. All he lacks, perhaps,
is the feeling which will push his tech-
nique further. Crooks has both the tech-
nique and the feeling, or at least he can
sing a song he has sung a million times
before and it sounds like a new ex-
perience. He is less dramatic than
Tibbett and less exciting than Tauber,
but suaver and smoother than either.
Items on Saturday night included a
big slice of the classics, vigorously ap-
plauded ; but what his patrons liked most
were the Edwardian encores, which were
popular in drawing-rooms when parting
his hair in the middle was less of a prob-
lem for the American tenor.
Concerts Galore.
The too-many-concerts season con-
tinued in Melbourne last week. There
was a Crooks concert at the Town Hall
on Tuesday, a Szell concert on Wednes-
day and more issues of Crooks on Thurs-
day and Saturday.
In addition, Szell, with his symphonic
cohorts, has been raiding the industrial
suburbs of Coburg, South Melbourne and
Williamstown, repeating the fine pro-
grammes he has been conducting in the
metropolis. The professor first conducted
such concerts in Vienna, where they were
organised by the Social Democrats and
were an immense success. They were
also a success in the Melbourne suburbs,
and the audiences included workmen and
their families who had possibly never
sat through a concerto or a symphony
in their lives before.
At the Wednesday concert the fine
Bruckner symphony was magnificently
rendered, and so was the Concerto No.
22 of Viotti, in which Tossy Spivakov-
sky was solo violinist. Tossy played
better than ever, and received the largest
arboreal horseshoe yet presented to a
virtuoso in Melbourne. It was nearly
as tall as he was, and required a strong
man to lift it.
The Suite on a Theme by Purcell, by
the local composer Margaret Sutherland,
which was first performed at South Mel-
bourne, was repeated and better played
than on the previous occasion.
An excellent performance by the string
section of the Zelman Symphony Orches-
tra under Herbert Davies at the Assem-
bly Hall on the same night increased
the congestion. It was as poorly at-
tended as the Town Hall concert.
Melbourne Midday Concert.
Local composer Margaret Sutherland
ought to have been pleased at the atten-
tion she got last week for the programme
of her works presented at Melbourne
Town Hall. She got more than a house-
ful. Because lunch hours vary, audi-
ence was perforce coming and going, but
in the aggregate it must have been as
large as or larger than the crowd that
attends celebrity concerts of an evening.
Programme included songs, a sonata
and a trio, violinist Violet Palmer,
clarinettist Tom White and baritone
Howard Andrews assisting, with Miss
Sutherland shepherding her flock of
notes at the piano.
The singer’s baritone was unsuited to
some of the songs or they were unsuited
to the singer, but there was fine material
for it in the vigorous “Wind and the
Woods,” which received an ovation from
the audience. The sonata opened calm
and subdued, and was discursive rather
than direct until the final scherzo, which
taxed the resources of the violinist with
its forceful rapidity. There was an air
of quiet distinction about all the music.
Vienna Boys * Choir.
There is nothing in the whole realm
of musical expression quite so fresh and
appealing as the boyish soprano, and the
excellently-trained choir of lads brought
here by its conductor, Dr. Georg
Gruber, has been delighting Sydney for
a week.
Trained in what is traditionally one
of the best music-schools in the world,
and selected with a keen ear for quality
and balance, the youngsters also have
some histrionic talent, and their per-
formances of classical operetta have been
delightful. The soloists are all excellent,
and when they sing Mozart or Johann
Strauss they embody once again the
gaiety and charm that were Vienna.
Delius at Sydney Con.
Sydney Con.’s orcuesirai convert of
last week had as its spearhead the
“North Country Sketches” of Delius —
a first Australian performance.
The idiom is strange, the form vague,
but Dr. Bainton was able to give a read-
ing which promised that more meaning
and greater beauty might appear with
greater familiarity.
Mozart’s “Jupiter” Symphony was
briskly but not very gracefully done.
The choral items, Brahms’s “Song of
Daytime” and Parry’s “Blest Pair of
Sirens,” were the most successful of the
evening’s offerings.
Artbursts.
Sydney
Always a bright show, the sixteenth
annual exhibition of the Australian
Water Color Institute gives evidence of
more rigorous culling than usual, with
a correspondingly higher average stand-
ard of merit.
This year Maud Sherwood, M. J. Mc-
Nally and Harold Herbert are not repre-
sented. Albert Collins is well to the fore,
his “Leeholme Stables, Kelso,” a model
of clean, pure bright color. President
J. W. Maund has a parcel of sound offer-
ings, “Coalcliff” and “Coaldale” being
especially interesting. Norman Lindsay’s
bathing girls, pirates and pastorals
couldn’t have been done by anybody else
on earth. Kenneth Mac Queen is at his
quaintly characteristic best in “Drowsing
Island, Barrier Reef.” J. R. Eldershaw
gets all the richness of oils coupled with
the delicacy of water-color into his Tas-
manian sketches. Fred Leist has a
decorative design of fishes and naiads
which both strikes and pleases the eye.
G. K. Townshend, whose touch grows
surer year by year, excels himself in the
latest offerings. “The Spit Bluff” is a
gem. Margaret Coen breaks new ground
with a couple of splendid aquarium
studies. Joseph Connor’s “Blue Der-
went” is unbelievably blue, and Dora
Jarrett realises the picturesqueness of Syd-
ney’s Bulletin-place. R. H. Stewart shows
strength in some French sketches.
Among non-members Max Ragless, of
S.A., stands out with a massive style ;
Harry Kelly clicks with “Sleepy Bay” and
gets the right light into “Clarence-street,
Early Morning”; Frank Medworth
handles a cold, whitey-blue English style
cleverly in “Towards Chertsey Bridge,”
and G. V. Mann has a couple of quiet
but well-seen landscapes.
John Baird’s lively sketch, “The Sketch
Club,” goes to the N. S. Wales Gallery.
Mary Edwards shows a good portrait of
Treania Smith. Dattilo Rubbo has some
excellent heads on view, and H. R.
Gallop scores a bull’s-eye with “Terrigal
Headland” and an outer with “Cloud
Study.” F. S. Rodriguez deserves men-
tion for a vigorous and unusual essay in
portraiture, Peter Bonsfield eclipses all
previous performances in “Mount Sef-
ton,” and Roy Parkinson touches the
heights in “Headlands, Woolgoolga.”
* * * *
The name of Rupert Bunny used to be
a great one in Australian Art, but the
painter has lived for decades outside this
country. A show of his works at the
Macquarie Galleries, presumably recent
work, disappoints. The landscapes bear
French names, the style is the woolly
French impressionistic one that startled
the world 40 or 50 years ago. Drawing
is purposely bad, coloring is, to this critic,
unimpressive. Some flower pieces, in
more coherent mood than the landscapes,
are competent but undistinguished.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
Om£.JU
Sk.a
0
~<s*r
. .il
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S’pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
MELBOURNE'S
Cjreatedt Motel
Stay at this great hotel in
the heart of Melbourne, near
shops and theatres, con-
venient to trams and trains.
Room-only tariffs: singles, 4/-
to 7/6; doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
VICTORIA
215 Little Collins Street,
(Next Town Hall), Melb.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
From every suburb, by ferry, tram and
taxi, a leaf-brown army emptied itself
into the city last Saturday. Slim, young
and upstanding and of a soldierly bear-
ing that veterans in war might envy, these
lads of our new militia army looked
true successors to the Anzacs. The old-
established regulars of the army, the navy
and the air force were in the thousands
that finally converged on Centennial
Park for the military parade. This was
in honor of the King’s birthday, and it
was the largest since the before-the-war
compulsory training days. Ten thousand
men marched, their spick-and-span uni-
forms, either extremely well tailored or
looking so because of the figures in them,
so many points of fire where the after-
noon sun caught their highly-polished
brass buttons. These, one of the lads
owned, would in time of war service have
to be replaced with the undazzle of
khaki.
In the perfect June day, their regimen-
tal colors leading, the companies
marched. The green of the park and
the blue of the sky seemed to take on
deeper tone from the spirited martial airs
played by many bands of great numbers.
This is a modern army, so the Light
Horse went driving along in high-step-
ping lorries, and there were more cater-
pillars than horses, only about 50 of
these present. And did the 30th Bat-
talion (Scottish) and other Scots get a
loud cheer? There was something daunt-
less in the swing of the kilt below the
short-fitting khaki jacket. There seemed
to be no lack of swords as the officers
smartly saluted the Governor-General
and Lord Wakehurst. And the Navy
(may its shadow never grow less!) was
there in the officers and men from
H.M.A.S. Canberra, from the Sydney
and the Hobart. Over sixty thousand
people, including the two men on their
way to the races who got excited by the
crowds streaming to Centennial and went
there instead, felt the pulse quicken with
national pride.
The Governor-General, in the uniform
of brigadier-general, took the salute. He
arrived mounted with escort, so adding a
bit of equine interest to the scene. . Lady
Gowrie came with Lord Wakehurst in
his car. The Hon. Patrick Hore-Ruthven
and his wife and Captain Bracegirdle
were among the many who marvelled at
the precision of our beginning soldiers.
Major P. J. Manley, the day’s commen-
tator, once again just missed a yarn with
Minister for Defence Street, who was
staff-captain of the 40th Brigade, iri which
the major was signal officer. Mrs. Street,
having successfully launched the Parra-
matta at Cockatoo in the morning,
arrived trig in navy blue, furs and the
new diamond brooch presented to her
before lunch. Mrs. Manley’s lovely
squirrel coat was worn over a sleek black
satin frock.
Admiral Custance was there with his
lady. Mrs. I. G. Mackay, whose hus-
band was in command, wore a berry-red
hat with her brown tweeds. The dark-
blue navy lines were commanded by Lt.-
Commander Hole ; the Air Force blue
were led by Squadron-Leader Seekamp,
and both got the hand of approval.
Among the day’s importants were the
Percy Spenders, the Lionel Hookes,
Group-Commander De la Rue and his
wife and the Lt.-Colonel Stankes.
The launching of H.M.A.S. Parra-
matta at Cockatoo last Saturday by
Mrs. Street revived the first memory
of Australia’s navy. When the origi-
nal Parramatta, the first unit of a
new navy, was being built in Scotland
(it was launched by Margot Asquith),
Mrs. John Waugh, then Mayoress of
Parramatta, organised a fund among the
River people to buy and present to this
torpedo-boat destroyer an ensign and a
set of ship’s flags. The color of the
ensign was a puzzler. Should it be
navy? Should it be white? Prime Min-
ister William Morris Hughes, appealed to,
replied “Suggest so-and-so.” Mrs.
Waugh’s spirited reply, “Refuse to take
suggestions, only obey orders,” brought
George Reid, then in the House of Com-
mons, to his feet to ask the momentous
question.
Blue was decided on, and Mrs. Waugh
had the Union Jack cut out of a solid
piece of silk, same quality as used in
cardinals’ robes. With it went a set of
ship’s flags—five of them, in bunting.
The whole, in an exquisite casket of
Queensland silky-oak, given by the
Queensland Government and carved by
Mary Makinson, a young River girl,
was presented by Mrs. Waugh at
Rushcutter Bay the day the unit arrived
to Commanders Feakes and Hyde, who
had brought the destroyer from England.
Her prophecy of that day came true:
“Before the Parramatta goes out of com-
mission you will both be admirals.”
When the flags were handed over Mrs.
Waugh made stipulation that should the
destroyer be broken up the flags and
casket were to be returned to the city
of Parramatta. This was done, and in
turn the flags (torn and scarred by being
twice in action —once in the night attack
on Rabaul Harbor, 1915, and later at the
taking of Angoram on the Sepik River) —
were housed in the Wgr Museum at Can-
berra. The late Mrs. Waugh’s daughter,
Da Silva, when she heard of the launch-
ing of the new sloop Parramatta, urged
the authorities to have the old colors
presented to her. So the Parramatta flips
her old flag.
Music without tears is Mrs. Ernest
Empson’s slogan. This one-time Maori-
lander is starting a kindergarten of pre-
liminary musical training. Here young-
sters from three to thirteen will be pain-
lessly taught all about rhythm. A series
of well-thought-out games, all concerned
with black and white notes, with minims
and quavers and suchlike imps, have been
made up by Mrs. Empson, so the gram-
mar of notation will be easily acquired. A
rhythm band (soft percussion instruments,
please note) and action songs will also
be part of the routine. Photograph from
Dorothy Welding.
Randwick was plucked of its vice-
regals last Saturday, and evidently the
parade at Centennial had drawn off many
of its usual addicts. Still, there was quite
a company ascending and descending the
stairs to the stands. It was an afternoon
of sunshine and furs, of bell-hop hats, the
tiniest of sailors and an occasional cart-
wheel. Mrs. Cary’s head supported one
of the largest and the flattest of these in
black felt Persian-lamb trimmings made
Pat Salenger’s black coat notable. Joan
McGrath’s coat had whole sleeves of
fur. Mrs. St. Etienne Parsons wore deep
cyclamen, and enjoyed the sun after the
cold of Melbourne. Mrs. Maxwell
Allen’s oatmeal suit was possum-collared.
Barbara Knox’s navy suit was one of
the triggest.
Joy and Noelle Kennedy were with
Sadie and Rosemary Budge. Dulcie Mc-
Whannell’s Breton sailor had its up-
turned brim lined with grey velvet. Joan
Reeves and Margaret Kennedy made an
attractive pair. Margaret’s cape was of
cocoa fox. Pretty Ginnette Scamps’s
black suit was collared in lynx. T. S.
Gordon’s lady covered her black frock
with a sable cape. The McKelvey lady
for once wore a tiny hat. Her suit was
black. Mrs. Roger Forrest Hughes,
Miss Eve Maher and brother Dr. Weston
Maher made a bit on Dollar. Betty
Marr’s mushroomlike black velvet hat
was shirred all over, even to its little
stem crown.
In keeping with the martial tone of
last week, the sth Heavy Brigade held
its yearly ball. It brought 1300 to the
Trocadero, and Australia’s army of youth
was well to the fore, best girl and all.
The regiment’s colors were repeated in
the red of poinsettia, rose or carnation
and violets. The blue and red uniforms
of the Fifth were occasionally varied by
a kilt. James McCloy was one of its
wearers. He was Helen Miln’s escort,
and her black frocking was enlivened
by her pink sari. The Royal Australian
Military Band played the dancers in,
then the stage revolved slowly, and the
dance orchestra came into the scheme
of things. All the brasshats of the three
services were entertained by Lt.-Colonel
Royce Shannon, Major C. A. Ord and
Mrs. Ord. Her black velvet glittered with
black sequins. Mrs. Mollie Grey wore
her black velvets with a delicate air.
Petpr Hirschell’s table was gav with
red and blue satin ribbons. John Sachs’s
table was proudly topped by the brigade’s
badge, a crown surmounting a gun-
carriage, all in silver. Mrs. F. Sachs hos-
tessed among others pretty Jean Kerruish.
Helen Swinbourne and Gwen Jensen,
Joan and Betty Davis, Mrs. C. P. Mere-
dith and Mrs. Quick were among the
blithe and the fair. Yolande Clarkson’s
escort was the red-coated, cream-lapelled
rnlin Dnnelas
* 8 , , ... c
The women s branch of the Sane
Democracy League has a good-looking
as well as a capable president She is
Mrs. A. W. Keighley, of Bowral and of
Rirtley Towers, Elizabeth Bay, and her
latest photograph, taken by Dorothy
Wilding, of London, smiles herewith.
There was quite a gathering of the
lads at the opening of the Water Color
Society’s show last week. Opening speech
and the befores and afters, for once,
were stimulating, and put a curl into
the grey matter that made a girl forget
she needed a permanent on the thatch.
In about six streamlined sentences presi-
dent John Maund whizzed you through
the caveman’s caverns, through the
glory that was Greece, the majesty of
Egypt, and stopped with a flourish at
present times and Marcus Clarke. The
hit of his speech was the quotation from
the original circular sent out when the
first Water Color Society was founded in
England. The great Victorians stepped
in on ghostly toe when Dr. Crossley
mentioned browsing at a water-color
exhibition with novelist George Moore.
Up among the mandarins (fruit and
not potentates) was H. W. Grace, whose
panel with its “Barrington Farm” and
“Gerringong” is full of pastoral grace.
The stage flowered with tall glazed jars of
poinsettia and wattle, and here and there
stood sturdy little trees heavy with man-
darins. On the polished wood table was a
bowl of pink and red hibiscus. If you
know Bathurst you’ll know Albert Collins
has done it proud in “Poplars” and
“Summer Morning.” Hazel Napier-
Thompson’s “Pomegranates” and “Gladi-
oli” brought congratulations to her and
mother. Margaret Coen, slim in
black, is in the true sense a water-colorist
—she’s been painting the fish in the
aquarium.
Norman Lindsay stepped lightly
among the groups. Treania Smith came
in trying to look exactly like Mary
Edwards’s portrait of her. Mary herself
arrived swinging the inevitable cape.
Howard Hinton was there ; so was Mrs.
Nelson Cox, admiring John Magrath’s
“Across the Water” and “Darling Har-
bor.” When John isn’t mixing colors
he’s busy studying the mixing of chemi-
cals. He’s in the same laboratory as
Mrs. Cox’s husband. General Electric
magnate Hirst was in time for the
speeches. Frank Rodriguez’s “Donkeys’
Parade” and Peter Lindsay’s “The Lodge”
were nice moments; another was Dora
Jarrett’s “Bulletin-place.”
Myrine Collins must have earned the
title of “the lady with the pen” on the
Matson liner that took her away from
Sydney to New York and matrimony.
Over four hundred gifts, cables and
messages to acknowledge kept Myrine
practically immersed in a bath of ink
till she made her curtsy to the Statue of
Liberty. Like a wise girl, she was say-
ing all her “thank yous” before her
Jimmy Harten claimed her on the wharf.
Myrine’s wedding date was to have been
June 3, but the royal visit caused it
to be moved to the twelfth, last Monday.
James is attached to the City Hall, New
York, so hell be mixed up in all the
pomps. Australia’s Trade Commissioner
in New York was due to give Myrine
away. . ,
Past pupils of Sydney C. of E. Girls
Grammar sped out to the Grace Audi-
torium for the yearly ball. This was heady
with balloons in the school colors, navy
and white, and there were so many back-
ing the official table that it might easily
have gone, guests and all, wafting up to
the ceiling. Probably the brain weight
around it kept it stable. Miss Dorothy
Wilkinson, principal of the Darlinghurst
branch of the S.C.E.G.G.S., and Mrs.
Arundel, head of the Greenwich branch,
were of its company. So were president
Mrs. M. F. Bruxner, Padre C. A. Lucas
and Mrs. Lucas. Helen Bruxner was also
on the committee, and arrived in a rustle
of black marquisette, having first been
at Elizabeth Bottomley’s dinner-party.
Margaret McArthur and Valda Hoddle
were others busy with committee affairs.
Accompanying the deep blue of
Margaret McArthur’s satin frock with
its wide shoulder-straps was her
affianced, Jim Carruthers.
American novelist Faith Baldwin ar-
rived in Sydney last Monday, and was
stayed with cocktails about five-ish by
Violet Roche in her flat at Greenknowe.
Faith’s come here at the invitation of the
National Travel Association. To-day the
Women Writers succor her with a lamb
chop or maybe a limb of chicken. The
Carlton at one.
Dahl and Geoffrey Collings, who
have been busy for seven years in Lon-
don doing commercial art, are back in
Sydney, and have put on a show of the
sketches and designs which have kept
the wolf from even knowing the number
of their door. These two have done
advertisements for Selfridges, for Jaeger
and for Andrews’ Salts. There’s a lively
air, a touch of fun, in much of the work,
and grace in the fashion designs. There
is nothing (or so it seems) stereotyped
in this show, and students of commercial
art might gain by a visit. The show is
in David Jones’s Market-street gallery.
There are some striking photographs
taken in Spain and in Tahiti, where the
Collings pair put in some weeks before
coming to Sydney. In one of the Spanish
women you feel resentment smouldering
like lava. The older woman suggests
resignation that is spiritual, rather than
that caused by the blows of fate.
Peggy Maclntyre composed the piece
of musical fantasy “The Candleshop,”
and Mary Brett arranged the music. The
play, written for and dedicated to dancer
Stephanie Edye, was presented at the
Grace auditorium in aid of the Far West
Children’s Health Scheme. The part of
Mitzi the dancer was taken by Stephanie
with grace, and in the second part of
the programme she showed she possessed
fire as well by her performance of a
group of Spanish dances. The singer of
the evening was Walter Kingsley.
Stephanie’s mother, Mrs. Ben Edye,
brought the richness of burgundy frock-
ing to a colorful night.
When Dan O’Connor of the Vienna
Boys’ Choir was in Paris during the
crisis, he was taken through one of the
bombproof hospitals underneath the
heart of Paris. This one was capable of
holding a thousand beds, and all the bed-
ding, curtains and furnishings were non-
inflammable. In a newsreel the other
night a girl was holding a blowpipe to
a pair of graceful, softly-hanging curtains.
These refused to ignite. The explanation
was that they were of glass fabric. Sounds
a good idea for the home where there are
babies.


To Ward Off a C01d...
Wolfe’s Schnapps
hot with
lemon!
At the first sign of a cold or the ’flu, drink a glass
of Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon before
going to bed it’s a pleasing, time-proven
remedy for winter ailments. Containing
medicinal properties not found in other spirits,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is unequalled as a health
drink and diuretic to tone and strengthen the
system.
VI
m
/
m
rk
%
\
Keep out Winter
Ills and Chills...
Drink
Wolfe’s Schnapps
WOLFE’S
c z^omdlicddbijzdcm
SCHNAPPS
As Good For Women As For Men
OLFE
HOLLAND
"PRODUCT OF
THIS
ALCOHOLIC
not only pure I
rty Md ingredient,
ociible Quality.*** l
attention of AneMi
(O the SijjnaPure*
1
atfarirwii tUwiift at infrimn
■V-aSTly*aul«U»Ui«l thainfriay
; s obtainable in
olfe’s Schnapp* size bottles
r S e, I “ l, .“ a A Ws keep • bottl.
t all hotels. Alway
B tbe home.


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
JF you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment'another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptiet
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
DoansOintmekt
Missing Friends.
PINNOCK, JOHN D. —Please write Pinnock,
Ballarat, or Brock, Hawthorn, Victoria.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 866 of 1939.
BETWEEN THELMA ELIZABETH LORNA
RILEY Petitioner
And CLIFFORD LLOYD RILEY (also
known as Francis Clifford Lloyd Riley)
Respondent
TO CLIFFORD LLOYD RILEY (also known
as Francis Clifford Lloyd Riley) late of
Harrington in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Thelma
Elizabeth Lorna Riley has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court, and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse have left her continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-fifth day of August 1939
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of May, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. T. BLAKE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every week six to nine
patterns are featured.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Joy Bells Ball was a dose of life
and laughter for the austerity of Menzies.
It descended upon the place with as
much respect as children pulling grand-
father’s whiskers and twanging his bald
head with corkscrew balloons. Part of
the lounge, denuded of its carpet, accom-
modated the dancers; the other half,
plus the raised platform in the banquet-
ing hall, was filled with cabaret tables
and a buy-a-bat game attached to a spin-
ning wheel, the first turn of which
knocked down a bottle of champagne
for Jimmy Watt, which he returned to
the “bank” after using it as an incentive
to other people. Later Marea v Lucas
pursued numbers so consistently but with
never a win that Jack Kaufman, who was
in Mrs. Barry Thomson’s party, came to
her rescue ; he bought all the bats avail-
able for one game, and presented her
with the prize.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who organised
the ball, was cool and collected as ever,
and had her usual smile for everybody
from town and from Frankston (the ball
was in aid of her godchild among chari-
ties, the children’s branch of the Ortho-
pedic Hospital). In salesmanship, Mrs.
Bert Cowen has nothing to learn. No
chosen victims escaped her dangling bells
at 2s. a jingle. Other helpers included
young people like Nancy Alderton, in a
frock that suited her blonde coloring per-
fectly. Of black velvet, it had tiny
sleeves, a square neck edged with guipure
lace and a low-cut back terminating in
a diamente zipper.
Betty Wallace Mitchell and Peggy
Spencer outrivalled nature with their
stripes; not even the vainest member
of the striped-beetle families even had
finer raiment. Shirley McGregor, in
palest blue satin, had an orchid
aloft of her head. Joan Moss also
wore satin of a similar shade. Lois
Robinson chose to be ingenue with her
frock of delphinium chiffon designed
with shirred corsage, puffed sleeves and
the addition of a cyclamen scarf tucked
in at the neck. Mrs. Evan Pearse, who
was one of the evening’s hostesses, chose
from her jewel-box a diamond-studded
cross, its simplicity being particularly
compatible with the severity of her ivory
crepe gown.
Birthday cakes of national flavor and
succulence were brought along to occupy
the positions of honor upon each table
at the American women’s auxiliary birth-
day party at Scott’s. Mrs. Douglas Jeppe
made the angel cake with fairy fingers,
and she used the 11 egg-yolks discarded
from it for the golden cake. Mrs. Charles
Hartman mixed the devil’s food with its
rich chocolate flavoring, and also a
lemon cheesecake, and Mrs. Luigi Luiggi
baked a potato cake (hot mashed potato
does the trick and defies recognition in
the finished article).
Mrs. Richard Crooks, who came to
the party with Mrs. Charles Gamble,
cut one of the birthday cakes and en-
joyed conversation with her many
fellow-countrywomen. The new presi-
dent of the auxiliary, Mrs. Jim Clymer,
was wrapped in a fur coat. She lets her
thoughts escape now and then from
Fiesta preparations for June 30 to winter
sports and some meetings of the Chamois
Club. Among others at the party were
Mrs. Norman Picot, in the organiser’s
chair, Mrs. Wilfred Race, wearing a silver
fox and an intriguing little burgundy hat,
and Mrs. W. J. Gulliver, all in brown.
This will be Mrs. Gulliver’s second
American Ball in Melbourne, for it is just
a year since she and her husband arrived
in Australia from Shanghai. Mrs. C. H.
Deem was at the party, with regrets that
she will miss the ball, for when it takes
place she will be 11 days on her way to
’Frisco. The American auxiliary mem-
bers are delighted at the progress they
have made for the Fiesta. There were
over 900 bookings three weeks before it
was due to take place. Thus hopes are
high for raising £lOOO. The Auxiliary
Ward of six beds and two additional cots
at the Children’s Hospital will benefit.
Thirty nations were represented among
the thousand people who made merry
at the Palais on the occasion of the
International Club Ball. Politics didn’t
come into the picture ; the have-got and
the not-got nations • danced happily to-
gether without a care in the world. Dress
was optional, but a large percentage of
those present wore their national cos-
tumes. Interspersed in the programme of
swing music were national dances per-
formed by Greek, Polish, Scottish,
Welsh, Slovak, Russian and Swedish
groups. The Swedes also added a finger
polka in which they invited the rest of
Europe and Asia to take part. The pace
was fast, but so was the fun, and nearly
everybody did join in amidst much laugh-
ter and some breathlessness. The Lord
Mayor and. Lady Mayoress, guests of
honor, were welcomed by the president,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, secretary Mrs.
M. R. McMillan and other office-bearers
and members of the committee.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Ray Buxton, one of the ticket secre-
taries for the dance for St. Vincent’s
Hospital, to be held on June 22 upon
untrodden territory, the Venetian Court
of the new Hotel Australia, which will
be out of the hands of painters, plasterers
and decorators and ready for the feet of
dancers just in time for the function. At
the party Mrs. Clarence Marriott, Mrs,
Harley Styles and Dr. Deborah Buffer
Murphy will be running a lucky dip.
They assure all-comers that the odds are
attractive, with such prizes as electric
kettles and bottles of wine.
The SOS entertainment at the Princess
for the Children’s Hospital was a great
success, not only financially but as a
stage presentation. Ex-dancers of the
Russian Ballet Tchinarova, Abricossova
and Zeglovsky assisted with fast-moving
choreography, some plums from the Uni-
versity Revue “Getting the Bird” were
repeated, Larry Adler, Senator Murphy
and the Myrons gave their services, and
infant prodigy Moira McCrackett dis-
played her musical virtuosity.
The florists of Melbourne did their act
of charity in providing all the flowers
sold —hundreds of posies carried around
by irresistible young people in the foyer.
Mrs. W. H. Lempriere was noticed help-
ing to replenish their trays, her green-
and-gold lame tunic glittering behind a
trestle table heaped with violets. Among
others kept busy with sales and sales-talk
were Ethel Green, wearing a figured
bolero with her black skirt; Joan Trood,
in fan-pleated white satin; Diana
Stephens, in a little white ermine cape
over a japonica-pink hand-painted frock ;
Mhrgaret Cox, whose green satin gown
was the flying field for a host of white
butterflies; and Gwenda Carney, whose
winning smile seldom met with a refusal.
Beryl Cowper’s dinner frock of leaf-green
woollen Angora was particularly suitable
for her chilly stance behind the pro-
grammes in the downstairs foyer.
During the interval brunette met
blonde when Anna May Wong and Mrs.
Douglas Stephens lit one another’s cigar-
ettes beside Mrs. J. B. Tait’s sweet stall.
Anna May, who is taller than one expects,
wore a long white ermine coat over a
Chinese robe of cream satin.
Bridge sugared with conversation and
served with fluffy cream cakes and other
four-o’clock accompaniments populated
Myer’s grill-room with furred femininity
one cold afternoon last week. The party
was a practical piece of help from the
Central Auxiliary for the Eye and Ear
Hospital. The presence of the president,
Mrs. H. P. Zwar, was marked through
the medium of the orange feathers in
her hat, a cheery stroke of color for a
winter’s day. Secretary Miss C. Haworth
was in black, and the controller of the
treasury, Miss Hogg, was grateful for
the warmth of her silver foxes. The
sweets stall claimed the attention of Mrs.
Eric Gutteridge in tailored check suit, of
Mrs. Spencer Harper, of Mrs. P. Robin-
son and her daughter June, both all in
brown, and of Mrs. Eric Brendan, whose
nut-brown hat was pierced with a teal-
blue feather.
A spot of controversy, like ignition to
the winter mixture, gets things going. In
the art world, though it mightn’t sell
pictures, it’s an antidote for lethargy.
Last week when two shows opened on
the one day it was the Contemporary
Group launched by Justice Evatt that
scored in the number of spectators.
Nearly everybody tramped off to the
National Gallery, meaning to visit the
Sedon locale for Albert Sherman’s dis-
play of flower paintings at a later date.
The old National Gallery must have felt
its ears going back at having truck with
the creative expressionists, who (although
they are in the isolation ward of the
McAllan Wing) are in residence between
its walls until June 25.
The Contemporaries cover a broad
field containing the work of Rupert
Bunny, and also of artists such as
Elma Roach, Madge Freeman, Betty
Kopsen, Sybil Craig and Anne Mont-
gomery. They also include within their
ranks a great number of young triers and
students of varying taste, talent and experi-
ence. Some are surrealists and abstrac-
tionists seeking inspiration in the subcon-
scious, defined as “a place where we
store away our vices for the hour we
need them.” Some of these pictures
were interesting experiments, others were
negative, a few had a kick like the hoof
of a mule. A puzzling piece of work
showed three dark globules of paint with
a face upon each shape apparently
scratched thereon with a pin, though, as
the picture was unframed, this might
have been the work of bad-mannered
little schoolboys who vandalised unde-
tected.
A Jack Cato camera made this por-
trait of Ruth Wettenhall, one of the
young people who will take part in
Terence Crisp’s Provocative Plays season
commencing next Saturday. Hers is a
character role, that of Amy in the one-
acter “Albert Gates.” Ruth, who is
the eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. L.
Wettenhall, is in her first year Arts at
the University.
Brett Randall’s production of “The
Seven Deadly Virtues” enjoyed a booked-
out week’s season at the Little Theatre,
which modest seat of the arts has been
particularly well patronised right through
the year (in spite of the fact that we have
had too much music and that there are
more dramatic shows than .usual in the
city). W. G. Southwell received general
commendation for his study in portraying
Francis Meldreth through many epi-
sodes of a long career. Other members
of the large cast were also competent.
Mr. Randall, as well as producing the
show, was on the job with hammer and
nails creating the inside of a railway
carriage and other bits of scenery.
Stage-manager Henry Allan was on the
job to see to such details as that of steam
rising from the coffee cups in the scene
classified as “Justice,” wherein Meldreth,
the magistrate, plays a game for the
young poet (probably guilty) against
the butcher’s assistant (innocent) who
threatens to cut his throat as he does the
pigs’. Pat Henry, who was cast in two
parts, Fanny, a lady of no morals (she
smoked in 1904), and daughter Frances,
in the deathbed scene in 1950, had the
bad luck to injure her knee skating just
before the season commenced. The
wound gave her some trouble, and she
bravely took a bump or two that couldn't
be avoided in the scene of the fracas
between the lovers Fanny and Meldreth.
After the windy out-of-doors it was
like another world to discover Wanda
Parnes’s exhibition in a room full of
mellow lights and warmed with a con-
cealed kerosene stove. Miss Parnes takes
copies of old prints, attaches them to
vellum and glazes the surface with a
preparation which as it dries gives the
impression of cracks in an ancient ma-
terial. Thus a Leonardo da Vinci pic-
ture is seen in translucent relief upon a
lamp shade. A wooden container for
newspaper leads a dual existence ; its ex-
terior presents a map, or rather a vast
expanse of scenery in Tunis as known
to a seventeenth-century artist. A Medici
lamp (adapted for wall usage) carries a
shade upon which the crest of the Lion
of Venice cavorts.
A flat disk lamp to be used close to
the ceiling presents the signs of
the Zodiac for those who look upwards.
Upon a matchbox there is a glimpse
of old Prague, and a Gothic print
is a reminder of ancient cultures for the
owner of a small notebook. A pair of
German citizens of the Middle Ages walk
upon the sides of a useful little gadget for
the buffet table, a container for paper
napkins. One telephone directory bears
the coat of arms of the old Franco-
German town of Chur; another tele-
phone book is covered with an unusual
print of Martin Luther. The inscriptions
are in Latin, but the evangelist is reading
from a Hebrew script. Miss Parnes has
lived in several countries and speaks
many languages. She came to Australia
five months ago from Paris, where her
father is a journalist. Like her father,
she was born in Russia. Her mother is
from the Italian Tyrol.


Where th
ere s an
■ ■ill <
AGA
(Made in Britain)
■ ■
ere s a happv nousewne
if.
I
m
fev.
..and a happy hushand r too!
FOR AGA-cooked meals have the true,
inimitable flavor of faultlessly cooked
food in every delicious bite. Succulent
juices and health-giving vitamins are re-
tained. An AGA Cooker makes food
preparation a pleasure no basting or
turning of joints—no waiting for a hot
oven—no watching—no hot stove head-
aches.
All surfaces are cool, except the hot
plates, for the AGA is thoroughly in-
sulated. Children are safe in an AGA
kitchen.
Ideal for either city or country, the AGA
is continuously alight day and night. Yet
its economy is amazing. Model C (illus-
trated) is guaranteed to burn not more
than £3 worth of coke a YEAR (with
coke at 30/- a ton).
Investigate! You’ll be thrilled and delighted
by its amazing performance its low cost of
operation. Call at our showrooms for a
demonstration, or write for illustrated AGA
Booklet R 6.
LEVIN & CO., LTD. (Inc. in N.Z.), 4S king street, Sydney.
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, and BOX 1496, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: COLTON. PALMAR P PRI<>TON. LTIL. ADELAIDE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Adventure at the Helm
“X.T.”: There are still a few tough
pioneers round the northern coasts.
A. W. Johnson and his wife are good
examples.
Johnson is a Canadian. A decade and
a half ago he turned up in Townsville,
set up an iron “steamer ’ and a few other
bits of simple equipment, and started to
build a 40ft. boat with no help but his
wife’s.
He soon showed that he knew his job.
He turned out a vessel broad like Nor-
wegian fishing-boats. It took him a year
to find equipment and provisions for her,
and during that time she lay in Swing
Basin. Then she went out under her
own power—a large truck engine.
With this and sail, the Johnsons suc-
ceeded in visiting most of the East
Indies islands, going as far as Singapore.
Early in May they left Sourabaya for
Darwin, with food and water for 16
days.
First they struck a hurricane, in which
their navigating instruments were ruined.
This was followed by a three weeks
calm.
Their ration got down to three parts
of a cup of rice per day between them.
Eventually they found themselves off a
beach, which they thought was Ninety-
mile Beach. But they were about 40
miles north of Broome.
The rest of the story was told in B.
7/6/’39. Beaching their vessel, safe and
sound, they separated, and walked off
into the bush to find help. Rob Hunter,
who carries mail by boat on the n.-w.
coast, found their message, copied it,
and went to Broome. Mrs. Johnson was
found a quarter of a mile from water
(she had been 26 hours without any),
Johnson not far away. The pair arrived
in Broome Hospital quite cheerful, if
somewhat emaciated.
Adventurous youth? Johnson is a
mere 54.
“Scat” : Canberra agrees that Darwin
must have a new hospital, so residents
can expect one within the next few years.
It will be built in accordance with he
findings of the Parliamentary Public
Works Committee, which had a jaunt to
Darwin about the middle of last year.
Frost, of Franklin (Tas.), is a member,
and, according to Frost,
When the committee began its inquiries it
discovered that three plans for a new
hospital had been drawn, one for the
Administrator, one by the engineers, and
one by the Works Branch, ihe original
proposal submitted to the committee was
for the erection of a hospital containing
100 beds at a cost of about £120,000. The
committee decided that a suitable hospital
could be constructed for £67,000.
Very clever, especially as the committee
includes neither a doctor nor an architect.
* * * *
“Gain”: If they are really going to
colonise the Hides country in the New
Guinea ranges, one of the early
steps might be the pegging out of a
summer station and capital there. Asia
can teach us a lot about these things,
Delhi has a magnificent legislative centre,
“Y’ know , there's days I get a great kick out of bein' in the navy."
but Europeans clear out to hills when
summer breaks. The same thing kept
on happening in Bombay until it was
decided to make a permanent move to
Poona, and the other side of the Indian
coast has Ootacamund. Same applies
to Ceylon—there is a periodical rush to
the mountains. The return in health and
efficiency of this movability is uncount-
able. But in New Guinea and Papua,
under our clumsy and unorganised sys-
tems, the population, fever-stricken or
not, sweats on the coast month in and
month out till long leave arrives.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: How we growl about our
blessings! Brisbane’s morning daily re-
marked with gloomy astonishment: “Only
Five Hours’ Sun in City Yesterday.” I’ve
known a London paper to shift the report
of a minor war off its front page to
remark: “Five Hours’ Sun —Holiday
Atmosphere.”
* * * *
“Zedo”: These long-distance aero-
planes make a lot of difference to domes-
tic relations in the tropics. Last week’s
’planes carried four unattended kids, all
under nine years, two bound from
Gordonvale (N.Q.) to Hobart and two
from Wau to Brisbane. ,
* * * *
“Gallery”: Exit Tom Bridges, aged 85.
Tom Bridges was born at German Station
—now Nundah —four years before Sepa-
ration. He used to tell how, while still
in arms, he was taken to the first election
meeting ever held in the district, and to
boast to his fellow-Ms.L.A. “I’m the only
one of you all who knows all there is
to know of Queensland politics from the
beginning.” Actually, he gave little time
to politics till the ’nineties, when he was
elected for Nundah, which he represented
for many years. In the days when Philp,
Kidston and Denham ruled he was Gov-
ernment Whip.
* * * *
“East Point”: A little more compli-
cation now brightens official life in Dar-
win through the transfer of Government
constructional and repair jobs from the
Works to the Administration. Wherever
there is any labor to be done in the
region north of the Adelaide River, Mr.
Abbott has to content himself with look-
ing on, but below that the jobs are now
all his. One of these days I’m going to
endow a course at Darwin school so as
to teach the young of the North exactly
what places their various departments
are governed from and who controls
them. The money won’t be wasted.
When all the other avenues of “expan-
sion” come to a dead-end, somebody is
going to realise the need for a “co-ordina-
tion department where tired residents
can find out whether they must approach
the Customs in Darwin or Brisbane—or
jj Adelaide?—or the post office in
A • - f Melbourne*?
Adelaide or is it JVieioourne.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: If it’s to be a sym-
•)m n f hard graft let me intro-
posium 01 nard grail, let me mu
duce you to toil in a big iron
foundry in places like Kalgoorlie an
Broken Hill. Summertime, with f?p m
90deg. to llOdeg. for weeks on end. Ter-
rific heat coupled with terrific toil. Tons
9 f molten metal carried in hand-ladles.
Other tons carried on hand-cranes. Haul-
ing and carrying tons of box-cramping
weights in between. And all the time
the roaring cupola, with its constant
stream of molten iron, forcing the pace.
I’ve seen the hauling-chains of the cranes
so hot that they had to be run through
cold water before men could grip them.
And those men’s hands were tough, too.
But all that was pie compared with bog-
hng-out” a dead-end at the 2000 ft. Not
50 bad when the truck rails were reason-
ably close to the “face” and the rushing
;ontractors didn’t neglect to lay a few
sollar boards. But when the rails were
.wenty or more feet back (which meant
shovelling the dirt in relays to get it
finally into the truck) and the cows
had been too tired to lay a few boards!
Shovelling the roughest of rubble on the
roughest of floors. Disturbed rubble
pouring out dynamite fumes. The heat,
dust, lack of ventilation! And get the
end cleaned out by the finish of the shut.
Twenty trucks and perhaps 1000 ft. out
to the plat. Failure meant the contrac-
tors whining to the boss —and the bullei
for the laggard bogger. I finally got it;
but I knew scores of poor blokes with
families who stuck it —and still stick it.
* * *
“Nor’-west”: Did the North Aus.
abo. himself invent the dugout canoe
or was he taught the art by visiting
Malays? No question but that a
Kimberley dugout is a real work of art.
I’ve seen them a full 20ft. long by nearly
3ft. beam. And all out of a single tree.
First the tree was selected, a species of
cypress pine being the favorite. Then the
falling, by means of fire and stone axes.
The tree down, it was lopped and
trimmed. Then, laboriously, nearly
half the length of the trunk was chopped
away. This gave the beam width all
along the proposed hull. Burning-out
followed. Half-a-dozen small fires
going, the charred wood being periodi-
cally removed by powdering with the
stone axe. Nearing the sides greater
care needed to be exercised ; white-hot
stones were used, their burning power
being nicely calculated. Finally the hull
was rounded out, quite smooth, with a
mean thickness of from lyin. at the gun-
wale to about 6in. along the keel. While
the interior burning was in progress
shipwrights with stone axes neatly
trimmed the exterior, shaping the cut-
water and limning the lines of the hull.
Launched, the dugout floated on a keel
so even that it would have stood a spirit-
level test. But not yet finished. Free-
board was added by means of long
planks, one to each side, laced into place
with bark rope, threaded through holes
bored as neatly as with a carpenter’s
augur. Seaworthy and lasting for
generations.


Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
The NETWORK
that COVERS—
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental, radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Portable 1.4-volt Superhet
Design.
In past years attempts were made in
Australia to popularise the battery-oper-
ated portable type of broadcast receiver,
with small success. The reason was
mainly that two-volt valves called for a
weighty accumulator for filament power.
With the arrival of the new 1.4-volt
valves, portable receivers are in fair
demand. The portable has its uses as a
car radio installation, one application
recently spotted by the writer being a
four-valve receiver similar to the one
outlined here, with a flex lead to a rear
bumper-bar aerial made from a steel fish-
ing rod. When the receiver is needed
for picnic purposes, it is simply lifted out
of the car, and a vertical rod plugged
into a socket on top of the carrying case.
The circuit diagram of the receiver
Jiere described, with all essential values,
is from Radio-Craft, U.S.A., and is a
serviceman’s guide to a receiver marketed
by the G.E.C. of U.S.A. There are four
An American G.E.C. design for a 1.4-volt loop aerial portable broadcast superhet receiver.
valves namely the IA7G oscillator and
first detector, INSG as I.F. at 465 kc.,
IHSG second detector—A.V.C.—and first
audio, with ICSG output pentode to a
permag. dynamic speaker. Power supply
is a light-duty 90-volt and a 1.5-volt fila-
ment cell.
A loop aerial is used in the input so
that quite good reception can be ob-
How the components are arranged on the chassis of
the portable superhet.
tained from most stations without any
external aerial provided the receiver is
rotated as a whole so that the plane of
the loop is in the direction of the wanted
station. When a signal is tuned in, turn
the receiver until the signal is heard at its
strongest. Dimensions of the loop will
depend upon the dimensions of the case
containing the receiver. Generally
speaking, about 15 turns 2ft. square will
cover the broadcast range with the usual
standard tuning condenser. A 3mmfd.
to 30mmfd. mica compression padder
condenser in shunt with the tuning con-
denser will simplify tracking.
Oscillator grid and plate coil assembly
may be any of the usual coils to suit the
IA7G. If an external aerial is used,
once the loop size is determined, it should
not be too long if connected directly to
the terminal marked antenna. If a long
aerial is desired, however, this may be
used by including in series a midget vari-
able condenser of about 50mmfd. maxi-
mum capacity. Sensitivity will be such
with this receiver that anything more
than 6ft. of external aerial is unnecessary.
With the circuit diagram is given a
plan view of the chassis layout. Dupli-
cation of such a receiver is a simple and
straightforward job.
D.B.K.
Ultra-high-frequency Section
N.S.W. DIVISION W.I.A.
Inaugural Meeting,
First meeting of the newly-formed
u.-h.-f. section of W.1.A., N.S.W. Divi-
sion, was held at the Y.M.C.A., Pitt-
street, Sydney, on June 1. Don B. Knock
(VK2NO) was in the
chair as president,
with C. Horne
(VK2AIK) as secre-
tary and W. Mc-
G o w a n (VK2MQ)
as his assistant.
Licensed expe r i-
menters and listeners
present included
W. M. Moore
(V K 2 H Z), M.
Meyers (VK2VN),M.
Lusby (VK2WN), F.
Carruthers (VK2PF), N. Gough
(VK2NG), H. Ackling (VK2PX), R.
Treharne (VK2IQ), R. Flood (VK2BN),
J. Davey (VK2YE), J. Fraser (VK2AFJ),
E. Dickson (VK2AFM), A. Joscelyne
(VK2AJO) and S. Weston (VK2AJH).
from Taree (N.S.W.) came B. Eagling
(VK2AEY), E. Fallowfield (VK2AKI)
and P. Potts. Sydney u.-h.-f. listeners
were R. Rutherford and C. Bambury.
Others present were K. Woodhouse,
F. Burke (Waverley Radio Club) and
C. Wilson.
The president spoke of the value and
future status of ultra-high-frequency ex-
periments along modern lines, and, with
the object of ensuring that the Sydney
area should have consistent transmissions
from a number of stations, volunteers
were called for the commencement of a
station roster.
Stations scheduled for duty for the
following month are as follows:
Mondays: VK2HZ, 56,000 kc., C.W.
only, from 8 to 9 p.m.
Tuesdays: VK2VN, 56,080 kc., C.W.
only, from 8 to 9 p.m.
Wednesdays: VK2NO, 56,040 kc., 30
minutes ’phone and 30 minutes C.W.,
8 to 9 p.m.
Thursdays: VK2AJH, 58,320 kc„
’phone and C.W., 8 to 9 p.m.
Fridays: VK2MQ, 56,240 kc., C.W.
only, 8 to 9 p.m.
Saturdays: VK2IQ, 56,190 kc., ’phone
and C.W., 8 to 9 p.m.
Sunday nights: Open for general con-
tacts and discussions.
In the daytime on Saturdays and Sun-
days, several stations will be transmit-
ting between the hours of noon and
1 p.m. for the benefit of distant stations
and observers.
R. Rutherford was appointed u.-h.-f.
listener representative for the section.
Vice-presidents appointed are W. M.
Moore (VK2HZ) and R. Treharne
(VK2IQ). A technical committee con-
sists of M. Lusby (VK2WN) and R. Tre-
harne (VK2IQ), with the president as
ex-officio member. It was decided that
meeting nights will be the first Thursday
in each month.
Among matters discussed during the
evening was a proposal that all stations
after completing 'a telephony contact with
other stations should sign off with the
station callsign on C.W. This is con-
sidered essential as a possible means of
identification at distant positions. Where
identification may be rendered difficult
on speech for various reasons, a C.W.
carrier can often be heard at a low-signal
level, and if keyed would be readily iden-
tified.
The need for comprehensive lectures
was stressed, and it is anticipated that no
difficulty will be encountered in this
respect, both in the securing of visiting
lecturers of technical standing and from
the ranks of members.
An important benefit to the u.-h.-f.
section ie the presentation by R. Ruther-
ford of an epidiascope for the projection
of illustrations, diagrams, etc., to assist
lecturers.
A chain of relay stations is one of
the objectives of the section. This will
provide more interest for outlying coun-
try 56mc. experimenters, and will lay the
foundation of what may eventually be a
valuable and more or less secret channel
of communication should the need arise.
Activities will include mobile, portable
and field-day tests. Aircraft co-opera-
tion was offered by Mr. Potts, of Taree.
One important matter for future con-
sideration is the possibility of a special
marine test, involving the co-operation
of VK and ZL experimenters, provided
that arrangements can be made to erect
on board a trans-Tasman vessel 56mc.
equipment with bi-directional radiating
system. Such a test would be of great
interest to amateur radio circles through-
out the world.
It is possible that arrangements will be
made for membership in the section for
those who are not in a position to be-
come W.I.A. members, although it is
desirable that where possible member-
ship should be taken up with the institute
in the interests of the unity of experi-
mental radio affairs in Australia.
Ross Treharne (VK2IQ) announced
on behalf of the Zero Beat Radio Club
a 56mc. field day to be held in Centen-
nial Park, Sydney, on Sunday, June 25.
This will include a hunt for a hidden
transmitter, and provides interesting
scope for the application of D.F. equip-
ment. Many active experimenters ex-
pressed their regret at not being able to
attend this inaugural meeting, these in-
cluding J. Cowan (VK2ZC), E. Treharne
(VK2AFQ), N. Macnaughton (VK2ZH),
R Hart (VK2HO), C. Bischoff (VK2LZ)
and W. Peell (VK2WJ).
D.B.K.
N.S.W. 56mc. Achievement.
the evening of 4/6/39 saw the
efforts to establish two-way communica-
tion on five metres between Singleton and
Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.) crowned with
success.
Experimental stations VK2VU and
VK2LZ tied up for the first two-way
contact at 7.30 p.m. Sydney time. For
some weeks strong signals had been re-
ceived in Singleton from the Blue
Mountains end, but efforts to put a
signal back the other way had failed.
The airline distance between the two
points is 90 miles, nothing remarkable
so far as distances covered on 56mc. in
other parts of the world go, but this
represents the longest two-way contact
yet recorded on that frequency in
N.S.W.
Signals have been heard one way over
greater distances than this in N.S.W.;
VK2NO having been heard in De._ di-
quin, 380 miles distant, and VK2AKI,
of Taree, being logged in Sydney, over
a distance of 160 miles. Those reports,
however, were of reflected-type com-
munication, whereas the- communication
between Wentworth Falls and Singleton
is of the direct-ray type.
VK2LZ reported the C.W. telegraphy
signals from VK2VU at Q 5 R 5 and re-
ceived a Q 5 R 6 report in return.
Aerials are vertically polarised, that at
the Singleton end being a two-section
BJK zepp-fed array. Receiver there is
the converter described in B. 11/l/’39
and made for VK2VU by Don B.
Knock. The converter, comprising an
1851 R.F. amplifier with 6JBG mixer-
oscillator, is used ahead of a Radiotron
Amateur Eight receiver. The transmitter
at VK2VU is the “VK2NO crystal ex-
citer unit” described in B. 19/4/’39. When
a final amplifier stage is added to this
exciter vastly improved results are
certain over this new u.-h.-f. communi-
cation channel. It is a useful step for-
ward in the establishment of a relay
chain network of stations covering a
large area from Sydney.
D.B.K.


Build Your #
Own Radio/
The Special Birthday Number of
“Australasian Radio World,” now on
sale, features full constructional details
of four magnificent receivers. • “Tiny
Tim,” a midget two-valve battery-
operated portable, brings in stations all
over the world. • The “Ultra DX Three”
is designed specially for reception on
the ultra-high frequencies, now being
used overseas for television trans-
missions. • The “Companionette Three”
is cheap, simple to build, and a great
performer. • The “Astra Dual-wave Six”
is an outstanding superhet that will
outperform receivers costing several
times as much.
Hourly Tuning Guide tells you when
and where to listen on the short waves.
GET TOUR COPT NOW
from any newsagent, or send one
shilling in stamps or p.n. to—
“RADIO WORLD,”
214 George Street, Sydney.
1
n-
Every Radiotron valve
undergoes extensive tests
before it is sealed in its
carton •-* sealed for your
protection. It will repay
you to . • •
Wlfti
Revolve
THE W 0 R L D’S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Amateur Chatter.
Immediately the tie-up between VK2LZ
and VK2VU over the 90-mile path
between the Blue Mountains and Single-
ton (N.S.W.) on the night of 4/6/’39 was
completed, the band was alive with Syd-
ney stations calling VK2VU. Writer
heard what might have been a very weak
C.W. signal around 2VU’s frequency, but
identification was impossible. VK2WJ
counted 14 stations active on the 56mc.
band in Sydney.
Among visitors to VK2NO lately have
been Jim Malone, Chief R.I. for Aus-
tralia, R. W. Eagling (VK2AEY) and
K. Fallowfield (VK2AKI). The Chief
R.I. said it is unlikely that any obstacle
will be placed in the way of serious
experimentation on 112mc., a matter
which was on the agenda for the W.I.A.
Convention this year. If the band is
made available for general use, it will
provide a happy hunting-ground for the
users of modulated oscillators and
“squeggers.” Indications are that local
communication should be in every way
comparable to 56mc. work with super-
regen. equipment. Several years ago
stations VK2NO, 2CG, 2SA and 2WJ
used the band over an average distance of
10 miles with results quite equal to 56mc.
New concentric-type vertical aerials
for 56mc. are to be tried at VK2MQ and
VK2NO. These are of the design out-
lined in B. l/3/’39, and according to
theory should constitute the perfect half-
wave radiator. Basis of the construction
is a quarter-wave length of lin. tubing
and concentric feed line. The latter pro-
The two-section rotatable WSJK beam
array for 56mc. at VK2NO. A stout
bamboo forms the main support.
vides no difficulty these days, with the
Bassett-type cable available cheaply from
VK3ML. Tests have been made at
VK2LZ comparing the plain vertical
zepp-fed aerial and the “J” type, so far
with honors to the zepp. A difficulty
with the “J” at 56mc. is that it must be
matched up in situ. If adjustments are
made with the aerial near the earth, the
characteristics change completely when
the aerial is raised 30ft. or so. That does
not occur with the concentric type re-
ferred to, and that aerial can be adjusted
only a half-wave above earth and then
hauled into place with no change in
resonant characteristics.
Regular roster schedules for 56mc.
transmissions from VK2VU, Singleton
(N.S.W.), have been arranged. Trans-
mission will be C.W. telegraphy, with
50 watts input, vertically-polarised radia-
tion from § two-section WBJK beam
array controlled for rotation from the
operating-room. Times of transmission
with frequency of 56,080 kc. are: Tues-
day, 7.15 to 7.30 p.m.; Thursday, 7.15
to 7.30 p.m.; Saturday, 7.15 to 7.30 p.m.;
Sunday, 10 to 10.15 a.m., 1.15 to 1.30
p.m. and 7.15 to 7.30 p.m. VK2VU will
listen for possible calls for a period of
five minutes before commencing trans-
mission. It is anticipated, following the
success of the circuit between VK2VU
and VK2LZ, that when the final ampli-
fier is added, with increased output,
something should be heard of VK2VU in
Sydney.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Most stations logged recently have
been American, but in the amateur 10-
metre band there has been quite a fall-
ing off in signal strength and in the
number of stations. The 11-metre range
now shows only W6XKG, 25,950 kc., who
can be heard as easily as the 19-metre
stations from 8.30 a.m. Varying condi-
tions affect reception of VLR at present,
the station being fair in the daytime on
31 metres, and running from inaudibility
to full strength rapidly at night. On
20/5/’39 a station in Manila, P. 1., was
heard on 9580 kc. asking for reports. The
address was given as Box 119, P. 0.,
Manila, Philippines. VK6ME now has
an excellent signal nightly; it is always
at its best during the winter.
A Chinese station, XGOA, has been
observed well inside the amateur 40-
metre band, and is causing trouble among
amateurs. Another higher-frequency
station is WBXNU on 25,950 kc., recep-
tion being best from noon onwards, but
from 10.30 a.m. W6XKG, on the same
frequency, is the stronger of the two.
Two stations heard on 26,150 kc. are
W4XA and W9XUP. W9XTC is to be
found on 26,050 kc. and W9XJL on
26,100 kc. At present W2XE on 16.82
metres opens strongly at 9.30 p.m., giving
particulars of wave-length, frequency,
schedules and aerial directivity.
Stations giving good reception lately
have been W3XAL, 31.03 metres,
WIXK, 31.35 metres, W2XAF, 31.48
metres, W6XBE, 31.48 metres, and
WBXAL, 49.5 metres.
Night reception on the higher frequen-
cies has been mixed. VK3ME and VLR
are erratic, and VK6ME and VPD2 reli-
ably strong. The Orientals around 40-44
metres are good at times ; so are the 40-
metre amateurs. Most variety is to be
found around 25 metres, although the
19-metre signals are a little stronger. On
24.076 metres HCJB puts over an in-
teresting session at 9.40 p.m., Mondays
excepted, and on 49 metres Noumea can
be heard at 5.30 p.m. on Wednesdays
and Saturdays.
K.B.G. (Thargomindah).
Radio Comment.
“R.H.A.”: When measuring current
flowing in parts of a voltage-divider net-
work it is wise to look for filter con-
densers in circuit likely to draw large
“charge” currents. Writer blew the fuse
in a valuable instrument through failure
to observe this rule. A good idea is to
insert the meter in circuit with the power
off and to place a shorting bar across
the meter terminals. After the power
has been on a few seconds all condensers
should be charged and the current flow
down to normal. The meter can then be
“unshorted” to take readings.
* ❖ * *
“R.N.”: There are 251,379 broadcast
listeners license-holders in the Sydney
metropolitan area, this number, as might
well be expected, being the highest for
any centre in Australia. Still the ratio
of licenses to each 100 of the population
is only 19.59, a figure much lower than
for any other capital city, and also lower
than the average for the metropolitan
areas throughout the Commonwealth.
Adelaide tops the list with 23.52 licenses
to every 100 of its population, and Perth
comes next with 21.71. Little Queens-
town, Tas., can boast that its residents
are the most radio-minded in the whole
of Australia. With a population of
6932 within a radius of 25 miles it has
1607 licenses, representing 23.81 to each
100 of its residents, and 98 out of every
100 homes in the district have radio sets.
Daventry's New Callsigns.
During the last six years Australian
listeners have become familiar with the
callsigns used by the Empire stations at
Daventry (Eng.) to identify the many
frequencies used in the service. Start-
ing with GSA, GSB, etc., there have been
22 callsigns and frequencies made avail-
able, although only 16 of them have actu-
ally been used. Listeners may have
noticed recent announcements referring
to GRY (9.60mc.), 31.32 metres. The
reason for the new series of callsigns is
that with the notification of GSW
(7.23mc.), 41.49 metres, all available call-
signs in the GS series have been allotted,
GSZ, Y and X being used in services
other than broadcasting many years ago.
The British P.O. suggested that all future
Daventry callsigns should be of the type
GR-.
It will be seen that, alphabetically, the
three-letter combination that immediately
precedes GSA is GRZ. This is thus the
first callsign in the new series, and for
future callsigns the final letter will be
taken in reverse alphabetical order, GRY
being followed by GRX, GRZ (21.64mc.),
13.92 metres, although allocated to
Daventry, has not yet been used. GRY
was taken into service on 13/4/’39. Iden-
tification of the callsign GRZ will be
“Zero” and that of GRY js “York.”
In order to avoid confusion in the
spoken announcement of three-letter call-
signs, a word identifying the final letter
is allotted to each. Full list of identifi-
cations is now: —
“GS-” Series— L for Liberty
A for Aerial N „ Nation
B „ Broadcasting O „ Ocean
C „ Corporation P „ Progress
D „ Daventry T „ Transmitter
E „ Empire U „ Unity
F „ Fortune V „ Valor
G Greeting W ,, Westminster
H „ Home “GR-” Series—
I „ Island Z for Zero
J „ Justice Y „ York
The increase in the number of frequen-
cies available illustrates the growth of the
B.B.C.’s short-wave broadcasting activi-
ties since 1927, when the first transmis-
sions were radiated from Chelmsford
under the callsign G5SW.
O.P.B.
Theatre Television Progress
in England.
John Baird, the pioneer of television in
England, claimed at the World Radio .
Convention held in Sydney in 1938 that
in the very near future large-screen tele-
vision for theatres would be possible in
natural color. English publications have
much to say of the progress being made.
Baird Television, Ltd., has during the
past 12 months given many television
demonstrations. The latest apparatus
gives a picture size of 15ft. by 12ft., and
picture brilliancy in the high lights :s
comparable to that obtained by ordinary
cinema film projection. The new equip-
ment has been installed in the Marble
Arch Pavilion, and was used for showing
the Boon-Danahar boxing match on
February 23 this year.
Writer saw a shot of this in a newsreel
in a Sydney cinema, and despite the fact
that the image on the television screen
had to be photographed, and in that pro-
cess some detail was necessarily lost, the
clarity of the television projection at such
large size was most striking. At the
same time as the show in the Marble
Arch Pavilion, the Tatler cinema m
Charing Cross-road featured the same
event, using similar apparatus with a
screen 12ft. 6in. by 10ft.
Research into all the problems asso-
ciated with projection-type cathode-ray
tubes has enabled the Baird Co. to manu-
facture the new type of equipment. The
projection cathode-ray tubes have a
diameter of 16in., but the intensely bright
picture is built up on a fluorescent screen
5.5 in. by 4.4 in. The new projection tubes
have a screen which is mounted inside
in such a manner that its front face is
scanned obliquely by the electron beam.
Distortion is corrected electrically, and
the picture is front-projected on to a
silver-surfaced screen that rises into posi-
tion through a trapdoor on the stage.
The projector is in the centre of the
stalls several feet away from the screen,
the metal housing containing all the con-
trols and meters to enable the operator
to make any adjustments that may be
required during the course of actual
transmission. Each projector unit is of
the twin type, with two cathode-ray tubes
that are kept running continuously. One
of these projects the picture on the screen
and the other serves as a stand-by so
that it can be brought into immediate
use if required.
With the exception of the power supply
all the essential apparatus is accommo-
dated in this single container, to which
an aerial feeder connection is made, so
that signals received from the standard
television aerial on the roof of the theatre
can be fed direct into the vision chassis.
Normally, the cathode-ray tubes are
operated at a voltage between 40,000 and
45,000, while the actual beam current is
300-400 microamperes. A safety cage
cuts off all power when the door is
opened. Total consumption of the whole
equipment is only about two kilowatts,
and it is operated from the 50-cycle 200-
260-volt A.C. mains. The sound instal-
lation has an overall frequency response
from the aerial to the loudspeaker speech
coil of plus and minus 4db from be-
tween 30 cycles to 20,000 cycles.
D.B.K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) For use with the communication receiver
for 9 to 1000 metres described in B.
22/3/’39, what type of condenser obtainable in
Melbourne would be suitable in place of the
Gecophone type specified? (2) Are there any
objections to using an energised speaker with
the field as one of the filter chokes? (3) More
details of the coil drums? (4) Do the nickel-
silver spring contacts function when the drum
assembly is rotated either way? (5) Approxi-
mate size of the chassis? —783.
(1) The Gecophone condenser is no longer
obtainable, and was used in the original re-
ceiver merely because this type was on hand,
and because of the self-contained vernier motion
drive. Any good-quality condenser of the
capacity specified may be used with a vernier
drive. No vernier control is needed on the
R.F. stage, and a plain pointer knob and scale
will do here. (2) No. (3) The drums were
made from bakelite disks 4in. in diameter, with
a space of 3jin. between the two disks com-
prising each section. The coils are mounted
on WT/22 bars (loaded ebonite) carrying the
contact studs. The bars are long enough to
overlap the edges of the disks, and are fastened
in position by |in. Whitworth screws tapped into
the disks, which are £in. thick A considerable
amount of lathe work and fitting is necessary to
make this assembly. (4) Yes. (5) Panel 26in.
by 9in., with chassis 26in. by lOin. Sides and
partitions are fitted for complete screening.
Chassis size and layout can be made to suit
individual requirements so long as there is
enough space for the ganged coil-drum
assembly.


AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN JUNE
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS,
IT was a vigorous and enormously
interesting period, and then, as now,
Australians enjoyed life. They were
great theatregoers, and were much
better acquainted with flesh-and-blood
drama, comedy and musical plays than
are their descendants of the nineteen-
thirties.
In June, 1889, Sydney had “Romany
Rye,” with George Rignold playing lead,
at Her Majesty’s ; “On Change,” “under
the management of Mr. Brough and Mr.
Boucicault,” at the Criterion; Johnny
Sheridan, in “Fun on the Bristol,” at the
Gaiety ; a Bland Holt company, in “The
Ruling Passion,” at the Royal; and “The
Beggar Student,” done by “Mr. John
Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the musical direction of
Mons. Henri Kowalski, the Renowned
Composer and Conductor,” with Henry
Bracy as stage director, at the New Opera
House, King and York streets. All are
gone: Rignold, Brough, Boucicault,
Kowalski, Bracy, Her Majesty’s, the Cri.,
the Gaiety, the Opera House, except the
Royal and Bland Holt —Melbourne is
still the home-town of that fine old actor
and producer.
Melbourne in June, 1889, did itself
better still. The tragedian Miln and
Louise Jordan, “the sylphlike belle
Americaine,” were to be seen and heard
at the Opera House in “Richelieu” and
plays of the kind. At the Royal a new
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove com-
pany was appearing in “The Pointsman,”
“a strong and gloomsome drama from
the allied pens of Messrs. Richard Carton
and Cecil Raleigh.” The Bulletin’s
Melbourne critic, Edmund Fisher, didn’t
care for “the trickily-built” thing, but he
liked Maude Williamson, who played
“the one well-drawn character of the
erring young woman in such finished
style that this tall, graceful and intense
iady became a popular Melbourne favor-
ite at her first attempt.”
Maude Williamson —no relation to
J.C.W.—had a long and fairly prosper-
ous career on the Australian stage. She
married an actor, Alfred Woods, and
with Woods long afterwards toured the
continent with a stage version—her own
—of Conan Doyle’s boxing novel
Rodney Stone, in which Woods went four
brisk rounds with a local “sport” got up
as Crab Wilson. Woods could box a
bit, and he must have knocked out a
couple of hundred Crab Wilsons in his
time.
In Melbourne also they were reviving
Gilbert and Sullivan at the Princess’s, but
the season was not a success, chiefly be-
cause “Nellie Stewart remains, alas! an
invalid,” and “the gap left by Alice Bar-
nett” seemed “to yawn in all the Gilbert
and Sullivan operas produced since she
tore her little self away from us.” The
critic fell heavily on “Patience,” “a
threadbare satire on things forgotten,
wobbling wearily along under the pain-
ful incubus of Mr. Walter Marnock, that
large and inelastic personage being cast
for the role of Archibald Grosvenor.”
Dampier was finishing a season at the
Alexandra in “Shamus O’Brien,” the
Rebel Chief of ’9B, “wept over by every
patriotic Celt in Melbourne.” And there
were two music-hall shows —one headed
by Frank Clark at the Victoria Hall and
the other, with Harry Rickards as lion
comique, at the St. George’s Hall. “Good
old Maccabe,” a one-man entertainer,
very versatile, was at the Athenaeum.
Time has taken away nearly all Mel-
bourne favorites of the period, but it
has not been so hard on Melbourne
theatres as on Sydney theatres.
There were other shows in the two big
cities. In Melbourne “Jo-Jo the dog-
faced man” was “filling the waxworks
day and night.” Cycloramas were draw-
ing steadily: “The Battle of Waterloo”
in Melbourne and “The Battle of Gettys-
burg” in Sydney, “opposite the railway
station.” And Santley, the baritone, was
giving concerts. The Bulletin found
him at times “rather reminiscent of a
voice that is still,” and marvelled at “the
enduring quality of Anglo-Saxon rever-
ence for a noble ruin” ; but Melbourne
“Argus” testified that “in all that be-
longs to the art of singing” Santley pos-
sessed “a complete mastery: perfect con-
trol of voice, clear delivery, declamatory
force and, above all, the most excellent
taste in expression.”
Nor were other cities and towns
neglected. Frank Lincoln was “convuls-
SYDNEY G.P.O. “IMPROVEMENTS.”
Still discussed with animation—and acrimony—after 50 years. A royal commission
is inquiring into the affair of the tenders for budding extensions, and the City
Council is debating whether to plant more trees.
The man with the hoe was Daniel O’Connor, Postmaster-General 1885-86 and
1889-91. “Hop” pictured Daniel carrying out his own (imaginary) suggestion:
“Why not plant praties in the vacant ground in front of the G.P.O., and also
graze a pig upon it to help pay the rent?"
ing the inhabitants of mournful Adel-
aide” at Garner’s with L. J. Lohr, father
of Marie Lohr (Marie has a part in the
“Pygmalion” film), managing the season
and “scooping in the shekels of the
elect.” The Williamson Firm was put-
ting on another Adelaide show, “New
Men and Old Acres” ; but “Miss May
Holt’s struggle to make things go at the
All old Melburnians will recall the original of this Phil May drawing. Politician,
man, about town and prince of good fellows that was Zox.
Adelaide Royal” had no cheerful re-
sults. “Miss May put on ‘Men and
Women,’ but she found in the City of
the Just a superfluity of both sexes not
overburdened with conscience or cash,
so that her new introductions were neither
needful nor acceptable.”
George Darrell was doing the pro-
vinces. But “the floods at Maitland
swept away George’s, Newcastle profits.
George and Christine were billed to open
in ‘The.Sunny South.’ At 6 p.m. Darrell
and his agent were carrying shoes and
socks on their shoulders and , ploughing
knee-deep from the local Drury Lane to
the chief hash-house on the main street.
Next day Darrell borrowed a horse and
rode valiantly through the flood, rescu-
ing stray children, .'dead bullocks, float-
. ing pumpkins and suchlike flotsam and
jetsam. For three days the company
were water-bound at, their pubs. And
when the gong, summoned the hungry
pros, to damper and sardines they had
painful proof that the larder was nearly
empty.”
As for Brisbane, “Miss von Finkel-
stein had captivated the people. Not
the melodramatic acting of Mr. Charles
Warner nor the daring feats of those
children of the air the Silbons nor the
funniments of the Cogill Brothers, all of
whom were in opposition, kept a dollar
out of the Daughter of Zion’s treasury.
For three weeks she lectured every night
to crowded audiences, and one unfortu-
nate son of Israel, who ventured to dis
pute her explanation of Jerusalem being
neither salted nor swaddled, was com-
pletely demolished.”
There was a skating boom in Sydney
then, as there is to-day. “That clever
skater, Mr. Agincourt,” had opened the
Darlinghurst rink, “the largest and best
in the world, with skating capacity for
4000.” The interior was “decorated to
represent the Mikado’s palace,” and there
were “a band and electric lights,” and
buses and trams were “very handy —also
the gaol. The Darlinghurst rink, in fact,
is handier to the gaol than any other
existing, but somehow the management
doesn’t seem to emphasise this fact much.”
In any case, Mr. Agincourt reserved “the
right to refuse admittance to objection-
There were also the Trocadero rink.
in King-street, Newtown ; the Metropoli-
tan, in Harris-street, Ultimo ; the Elite,
in Bedford-street (here you were “sure
to meet the elite of Sydney and suburbs ;
admission, Is.”); and the Crystal Palace,
in York-street. Not yet were real ice
rinks, but the Crystal Palace had “a New
and Beautiful Patent Composition Skat-
ing Surface, equal to any skating surface
in the world and second to none,” and
was “beautifully decorated to imitate the
Ice Palace, Montreal, Canada.” There
was even a Splendid Asphalt Open-air
Skating Rink, Free to Visitors, at the
Bondi Aquarium, but the great attrac-
tion at the Bondi Aquarium was the
Famous Switchback Railway, Convey-
ing Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
For those who didn’t care for plays,
concerts, music-halls, waxworks, skating,
cycloramas or switchback railways there
were always races, football, pedestrian-
ism and sculling. Punters complained of
the prices offered by Sydney bookmakers
—as do their grandsons to-day. At “the
last Canterbury Park races, blatant book-
makers were roaring out ‘three to one the
field’ when twenty horses went to the
post, and offering to ‘take six to four’
when ten started.” The critic added bit-
terly that “these proprietary race meet-
ings are just gambling saloons on a large
scale.” Possibly he has learned in the
world beyond that Canterbury Park now
proudly proclaims itself a non-proprietary
club.
Hanlan the sculler, beaten in Aus-
tralia by Bill Beach, was “off to
America to look for a man good enough
to beat Searle.” Trotting was drawing
crowds in Melbourne, and “at J. J.
Miller’s sale of trotting stock Tom
Alcock bought Lucretia for 600 guineas
and Red Rose for 450 guineas.”
Boxers were then exports, not imports.
“The following Australian boxers” were
“in or on their way to America"’:
Peter Jackson, Sam Fitzpatrick (after-
wards Jack Johnson’s trainer as well as
Jackson’s), George Mulholland, Tom
Meadows, Paddy Gorman, Billy Mc-
Carty, Billy Smith and Billy Murphy. It
was rumored in San Francisco that Jack-
son achieved his victories by mesmeris-
ing his opponents.
There was “a footracing boom in
Sydney. One effect” was “seen every Sun-
day at Randwick, where a number of
youths and children ran off a five-shilling
handicap (entrance, ‘a thrummer’), with
a sixpenny tote, bookmakers, heats and
the usual bad language from dis-
appointed backers.” Other N.S.W. towns
had “footracing booms,” with the fami-
liar accompaniments; but “George C.
Brown, hon. secretary, Broken Hill
Athletic Club,” was thought to have
rather overdone it when he advertised
“Bookmakers’ and Spielers’ Tickets now
ready for issue; price, £1 Is.”


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
■-*?? £ x mt:k ft - *J %,Lii
o
wr
jf3&SSw«as
U
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Season Conditions.
“Ghanam”: The seasonal report of the
Woolgrowers’ Council shows that, in spite
of good weather throughout most of
the wool districts except Central and
Northern Central Queensland, conditions
still give cause for worry.
Three months ago Western Victoria
was trucking 80,000 sheep per week from
Hamilton, but the numbers have fallen
off considerably. Yet, though the district
has shared the seasonal rains, it still
needs more. Feed is short and the out-
look for the winter months not hopeful.
Otherwise, Victoria has abundant feed.
In Queensland the Lower Barcoo is
mostly in a bad way. Graziers are still
sending sheep to agistment from parts of
the Flinders country —between Hughen-
den and Cloncurry—and round Long-
reach.
In W.A. the position is much the same.
The Gascoyne and the Murchison have
been reduced to an almost entirely aged
sheep population, so the continued
drought threatens further very heavy
losses. The agricultural areas of the State,
however, have had the best wet for years,
and a good lambing is promised.
In S.A. rain is still needed in the agri-
cultural and nearer-north districts. The
lower-carrying country has had rain.
The extreme south-east is in good con-
dition, but the whole State would be the
better for a thorough soaking.
In Tasmania, though the north and
north-west coasts have had too much rain,
pasture is short on the midlands, on the
east coast and the south.
N.S.W., with half the Commonwealth’s
sheep, has suffered from an over-abun-
dance of rain in most sheep districts.
The wet has brought fly, and there is
more footrot than usual.
The autumn lambing was well below
normal, but a bumper drop can be ex-
pected in spring if the weather behaves.
Breeding stock is still scarce in many
areas. The chances are that the shear-
ing will cover about the same number of
sheep as last year, and if there isn’t a
rise in wool prices there should be.
Crutching Results.
“Lion”: Fly, which was particularly
bad in central-west N.S.W. during April-
May, is still causing - trouble. I have
crutched 2000 sheep, comprising ewes,
hoggets (mixed sexes) wethers and cross-
bred lambs, cleaned out every wrinkle
while on the board, and dressed every
struck sheep with a dressing which I have
proved over five years of use. It works
out at Is. to 2s. per gallon, according to
severity of fly attack.
Within a week of crutching the wethers
were being struck again. These I had
only three-quarter crutched. It didn’t
pay. Same applies to wether hoggets,
especially when being fattened on lush
feed.
Naturally the ewes and ewe hoggets
were most affected. They have kept me
flat out in spite of crutching so thor-
oughly. Getting them in time, I have lost
little wool, and most of my crutchings
in the shed were clean. Dressing and
constant attention have done the rest. Pos-
sibly jetting would have helped, but I
didn’t have the appliances.
A neighbor crutched after I did. His
men didn’t clean out the wrinkly parts
effectively. He has since lost a lot of
wool in the paddock owing to rapid spread
of maggots via these channels.
Good and bad crutching cost the same
on the board, and undue speed is paid
for a thousand times over in loss.
Crossbreds were not as badly affected
as merinos, and only one out of 20 long-
tailed lambs has been struck to date.
Those being fattened for market were
only just cleaned out, which proved either
that flies don’t like crossbreds or that
the long tail does the trick. I noticed
that sheep with a long butt of tail were
seldom struck. Those most affected were
ewes closely marked as lambs.
I find that it always pays to crutch,
except in drought-time, and even then
sheep manage to get pretty dirty by
shearing-time.
Failure to wig properly, especially in
seedy country, is a great mistake. Sheep
carrying any quantity of wool around
“No, Ma — they're too 'ard on the floor coverin's."
the head and face should always be done.
Once a sheep gets wool-blind it knocks
itself about, loses condition and often
gets cast and dies.
Controlling Worms by Licks.
“J.R.D.”: If a worm cure could be
successfully incorporated in a lick one
of the sheepman’s greatest bugbears
w-ould be overcome.
There are difficulties, of course. Sheep
will take salt when available in varying
quantities according to their needs. The
only other mineral deficiency in the
Eastern States can be .supplied by
dicalcic phosphate or bonemeal. With
the usual remedies in a lick, sheep turn
against it. Most drenches, too, are
poisons, : and have to be given in care-
fully measured doses. To ask a sheep
to dose itself from a block or salt trough
is to look for trouble.
The C.S. and I.R. has recently reported
on a lick containing 10 p.c. nicotine.
Thirty young sheep were divided into
three pens of ten each. At the com-
mencement of the experiment they were
worm-free, but were artificially infected
with Trichostrongylus (black-scour worm)
over a period of two months. Results
were tabulated from egg counts of the
droppings, carried out twice weekly for
five weeks.
Group A (controls) received plain salt
only and no treatment. Three died, and
at the end of the test all showed heavy
worm infestation.
Group B received six parts salt to one
part of ground tobacco leaf (10 p.c. nico-
tine), made available ten days before in-
festation. There was no evidence to
show that the lick prevented or lessened
infestation at the end of the period. All
were heavily worm-infested, and five out
of the ten had died.
Group C were given plain salt,
and each sheep received a daily dose of
one gramme of the tobacco-leaf prepara-
tion. Three sheep died from black scour.
The test might be carried further with
standard licks in use.
Toxaemia of Pregnancy.
“Lion”: The flush of green feed in
most N.S.W. districts has fattened in-
lamb ewes too quickly and made them
lazy. Lambs are being born dead, and
some ewes are dying from t. of p.
The best treatment is to give the ewes
a “walkabout” every day. Where fly
troubles have been bad, exercise is ob-
tained in the mustering and holding. A
daily constitutional stopped t. of p. in all
my mobs two days after it started ; but
they were spotted at once.
Footrot in Cattle.
“Yarrunga”: Because of heavy N.S.W.
rains footrot is unusually prevalent in
cattle, especially dairy cows, in coastal
districts. Treatment differs from that for
sheep (B. 31/5/’39). The foot bath is not
adapted to cattle.
First wash the feet well with warm
water and a coal-tar disinfectant. See
that the space between the claws is thor-
oughly cleansed, and dress any signs of
infection about the hoof with Stockholm
tar or a solution of ylb. bluestone to
one gallon of water. Clean out the hoof
every day and repeat the dressing as
required.
The disease spreads quickly amongst
cows in milk because they are standing
in muddy yards twice - a day, but dry
cows on “clean” runs should also be
examined.
Contagious Abortion in M.L.
“Mookau”: The M.L. Agricultural
Department is doing a lot more to com-
bat contagious abortion than is being
done anywhere in Australia. Dairymen
are not allowed to forget the menace.
The latest departmental pamphlet gives
a clear picture of the disease and sources
of infection. The main points to be
remembered are:
Infection by bulls is of comparatively
minor importance. Most infection of
cows occurs through eating pasture or
cut fodder. Put the germs on a mucous
membrane —on the inside of an animal’s
lip, under the eyelids or in a cut —and
they will infect.
When a pregnant animal is infected
the disease seats itself in the uterus; in
a non-pregnant animal its natural home
is the udder. A calving cow infected can
leave in a pasture the materials to murder
a herd. The calf may even be a source
of infection.
When a cow is infected at calving the
disease may retire to her udder and
return to another attack at the next calv-
ing.
Infected milk may not affect the calf
that drinks it, but that calf may act as
a distributor of disease.
The first evidence that Brucella abortus
is on the job will be a series of abortions
in the herd. If one animal suffers there
are bound to be others. Some cows abort
several times. Gradually general immu-
nity is developed, except in heifers, which
are always most susceptible. There may
be no more symptoms before the dis-
aster than those which presage an ordi-
nary birth.
The main safeguard is the use of the
agglutination test. But it is not effective


t'CvV' •>
1328.
He’s the heaviest and strongest of the Abbey Family. Good strong double
sole, willow calf upper, full leather lining, make him fitted for all types of
country work.
Stocked in full sizes in wide fittings.
Prices: Black, 39/6; Brown, 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ”
Sheep bought ”
Wire netting »»
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Wool values in London are
usually about 5% higher
TT
SAYS "THE YORKSHIRE OBSERVER"
This well known paper, wrote: £C Wool values
in London are usually about 5% higher than
those for similar wool in Australia.”
There are other advantages, too, in selling on
the London market. You can sell just when you
want to, for there is always a spot demand.
Your usual bank or agent will arrange for
advances before shipment, and for proceeds to
be telegraphed from London within 24 hours
of sale. Ask them for full particulars.
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
immediately' before or for a month after
an abortion. It is a safe plan to send
of blood from each animal in
calf to an animal health station for test.
Vaccines so far have given little help.
Full-strength live ones have produced
some results, but there is a suspicion that
they also help to produce sterility.
Various chemicals have been tried. For
a time the M.L. authorities recommended
perchloride of mercury douches. They
have decided that these are of no use,
that “the elimination of the disease from
the average dairy herd is at present im-
practicable, and preventive treatment un-
reliable.”
Yet the disease becomes more wide-
spread every year, and the losses are
heavy. The only possible effective pre-
cautions seem to be isolation of breed-
ing animals in maternity paddocks kept
as clean as possible by liming, and a
range of measures of cleanliness and dis-
infection which, carried out systemati-
cally, would be as expensive as the
disease itself.
Dealing with Skeleton Weed.
“Doitnow”: Start now to tackle
skeleton weed. In most places it has
attained a good growth, and seedlings are
in evidence. They can be got rid of
with sprays.
Keep an eye open whenever you’re
working in the paddocks, and mark every
patch or stray plant with a peg so that
you won’t miss it later.
Spray with sodium chlorate to
lgal. water as soon as rosette is well
formed, and continue until about the
middle of November, when the stem
starts to shoot, after which spraying is
not so effective.
Spraying is best done when the
ground is damp. After the shoot is about
Bin. high, it is better to clean a small
hole about 4in. deep around the root, re-
move plant and fill with a tablespoonful
of crystals and a little water. Cover with
soil and burn plant. If left about, the
plant might shoot again.
In thick patches it is best to rake the
rubbish away and burn it before spray-
ing. Lay two parallel lines of binder
twine across the outer patch and about a
yard between them and spray along this
“lane.” Keep moving the outer line
across the patch until completed. Using
this method I got a 98 per cent, kill in
a thickly-infested patch.
Any odd plants left are better treated
with the crystals.
Last year I got in three sprayings over
quite a large area. Most of the s.w.
that I have left was from patches which
never shot in the drought and odd ones
that were missed. Found the crystal
treatment 100 per cent, effective.
Cost of crystals is about 6d. per lb. in
the drum.
Remember the spray is dangerous, and
so wear rubber gum-boots and overalls,
which should be washed every second
day while working.
If weed patches are large and
numerous it is better to remove stock
until the first rain after spraying.
S.w. has appeared earlier than usual
this year owing to rains and warm
weather, but when heavy frosts set in the
plant will turn from a dark green to dark
purple-mauve color.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Don’t have ewes too
fat before the rams are joined—strong
store condition is best. If jetting is neces-
sary, do the job at least six weeks before
the sheep are mated. Keep a close watch
for signs of internal parasites, so that
systematic drenching can be undertaker
before the lambing season. Crutch the
ewes a month before they are due to
lamb. No feed is too good for the ewes
after the lambs are dropped.
“Lactis”: Turn stock into the last
autumn growth of lucerne, and feed it
off one hour per day. Winter growth
will be quite negligible where heavy
frosts occur, and the cost of harvesting
out of all proportion to its value as dry
feed or ensilage. When fed off completely,
a cover crop—Algerian oats, for prefer-
ence —should be sown as a stand-by
fodder for the winter. One and a half
bushels of seed to the acre will suffice.
“Lactis”: To calculate the amount of
hay in a stack: Multiply the length of
the stack by the breadth in feet; take
the height to the eaves, and add to it half
the height from the eaves to the top for
the taper. Multiply the other product
by this and divide by 27 (the number of
cubic feet in a yard). In every Cubic yard
of new hay there is 1321 b., in old hay
1981 b enough, anyhow.
“Mt. Boppy”: After cutting lucerne
and natural herbage for silage, give them
time to wilt. Choose high ground for
the silage pit, with good drainage, on
land not subject to flooding. A pit 70ft.
long, 14ft. wide and sft. deep will hold
about 70 tons of silage. Make it with
batters of about three to one at the ends,
the sides having a slope of Ift. to 4ft.
Cut the crop in the afternoon to avoid
dampness. Cut only the amount that
can be put in the pit at once. Pack
the material as closely as possible, and
build it 4in. to 6in. above ground level
to allow for sinkage. As the material
settles, build more on top. This will
necessitate refillings spread over a fort-
night. Then stack the material above
ground to a height equal to the depth
of the pit. When covered, a 4ft.-high
stack will sink to a little above ground
level. Avoid a depression on top of the
pit, as water will collect and damage the
silage. Don’t worry about rain on the
material before the pit is covered. After
the final filling, allow three or four days
for settling, and then scoop the excavated
earth on top of the green stuff to a depth
of not more than 18in.
“Cab-bage”: Some animal manures
are good poisons for garden pests. Clean-
ings from the pigsty spread on the soil
effectually banishes the lucerne flea.
Similarly, poultry droppings, particularly
from the duck-pen, will wipe out the red-
legged mite, which in many W.A. market
gardens infests young tender plants.
“Observer”: Despite the abnormalities
of the season, the winter wheats sown
at N.S.W. Government experiment farms
are developing true to character. The first
of their type to be grown in Australia,
they were sown in mid-February, and
are due to run to head with the first signs
of spring. They are making normal
growth, while check-plots of Australian
varieties are already well in ear a com-
mon experience this year with self-sown
crops in the early districts. Some of the
latter were cut for hay at the end of
May.
“Lachlan”: Condobolin (N.S.W.) Ex-
periment Farm has adopted a crop rota-
tion as the basis of more diversified farm-
ing in the marginal wheat areas. This
will permit of 350 acres of wheat and
oats for grain and hay, sown on fallow,
75 acres of oats for grazing and an area
of lucerne to be sown annually on fallow.
With this rotation every acre of culti-
vation on the farm will have been under
lucerne for five years, or will be under
lucerne in 20 years’ time. It is claimed
as the most satisfactory method of re-
taining and improving soil fertility.
One of .the evils of poison-
baiting of ’hoppers emphasised by grazier
opponents of the method (B. 7/6/’39) is
that “wholesale distribution of arsenic is
putting poison into the land for all time.”
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department
denies it. There is not the remotest
danger, it says. The effect of iron and
aluminium in the soil is to fix the
arsenic and render it insoluble, in which
form it can have no ill-effects on soil
fertility.
“HP.”: In four months from the
middle of January D. Bird, of Comobella
(N.S.W.), cultivated and sowed 630 acres
of wheat crop with one team of horses.
“Heresone”: “Gumblegubbin’s” method
of calf-rearing (B. 17/5/’39) may pro-
duce vealers, but not milkers. We have
raised several heifers on cows, and they
were, without exception, as wild as hares
and poor milkers. Strange to say, bull
calves on foster-mothers, if they are
handled when young, are often very tame.
“Lam”: Read back over our early
pastoral history and you’ll find that
pests have always followed one another
in the same rotation. Grasshoppers pre-
cede big droughts; caterpillars, fly,
worms and rot are always waiting for
the lush, after-the-drought abundance.
Why can’t there be organisation to pro-
vide for their coming? It should be a
Commonwealth matter to provide some-
body to watch the seasons as they turn,
and prepare when a season promises in-
vasion by wholesale pests.
“Hog”: Australian pigfarmers might
well turn their attention to the estab-
lishment of District Pig Councils. The
aim would be to standardise breeds and
production to meet export conditions. At
present little regard is paid to the selec-
tion of boars and sows that are climati-
cally suited to a district.


CORRECT EASY ADJUSfMEtfT
INCORPORATED WITH POCKET
s
a
wm.
1: ■
m mam
s
hpeshhii
■ ■
I:
i ■ ■-:■■;
■
pH® papii
*■ - Jgi , :
i dta
® :
3
~
Ml
■NtnHMMI
HHwB
„.f$ ;-V 1
■■■■l
":
l«lll
,-;-:.®.r.:
M
•■ ■
HHml
tSSililllil
IS
®f;®S
* *’ •
8
. ;®
, #;
liliilliW
H
:
*
r»: i 1
K%iSß§k& ■
«£HSigs '■ '
If; ?wm.
Hi
•“Sri:'*:
■
■
■
■
m
:V
!'
i h
HI ill H
V*
V/'
FOR SPORTS AND EVERYDAY WEAR
REG D
*
£ Self-supporting —NO ELASTIC
jf Perfect waist fitting
♦ No puckering—guaranteed
Comfort and ease...for every need
So
Wear BREKS
THE BETTER SPORTSWAIST TROUSER
TO GOLFERS
Reduce your golf handicap by reducing
your waist handicap —
Wear BREKS
NO ELASTIC to pucker or perish
Procurable at all progressive stores. Any difficulty in this direction should be referred to
BOX 1617 88, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W., or
BOX 262, G.P.0., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


CORNS .
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Diuectoks —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager— l) S. FORRES.
With offices at London. Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers. New South Wales, also represent.',
uon through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tms Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all eeneral hanking business
The Woman’s M’rror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
leaders.
Ihe service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Jo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Nursery governess with two girls, 8 and 10,
correspondence course, seeks position. Refs. —
3667.
Lady companion, Sydney, capable, ex-
perienced, offers services to family going
abroad early next year. Refs, exchanged.—
3691.
To buy old book, The Man in the Bottle. —
3732.
Words of verse containing the lines:
Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul
May keep the path but will not reach the goal;
While he who walks in love may wander far,
Vet God will bring him where the blessed are.
—3661.
Words of verse entitled “The Optimist,” con-
taining the lines: —
The station tanks were empty,
The sheep were starving poor.
—3681.
Information Sought.
Meaning and origin of the term “chauvi-
nism” ? —3683.
It is a term for unreasonable and exagger-
ated patriotism, the French equivalent of
“jingoism.” The word originally signified
idolatry of Napoleon, being taken from a much-
wounded veteran, Nicholas Chauvin, who, by his
adoration of the Emperor, became the type of
blind enthusiasm for national military glory.
* * * 4s
What value was the moidore, a coin some-
times mentioned in pirate stories, and where
was it minted? —3634.
Moidore (a corruption of the Portuguese
moeda d’ouro —literally, money of gold) is the
name of a gold Portuguese coin, coined from
1640 to 1732. This was of the sterling value
of 13s. lt is the double moida d’ouro,
of the value of 4800 reis in 1688, that was
current in western Europe and the West Indies
for a long period after it ceased to be struck.
It was the principal coin current in Ireland
at the beginning of the eighteenth century,
and spread to the west of England. At the
same period it was current in the West Indies,
particularly in Barbados. It was rated in
English money at 275.
* * * *
(1) When was Henry Lawson’s poem,
“Wreck of the Derry Castle” printed in The
Bulletin? (2) A few details concerning the
wreck he wrote about? (3) Was “Wreck of
the Derry Castle” Lawson’s first published
verse in The Bulletin?—3626.
(1) December 24, 1887. (2) The Derry
Castle (1307 tons) was stranded and wrecked
on Enderby Island, off Auckland Island, south
of M.L. on March 20, 1887. Sixteen lives
were lost, including the master and all mates.
(3) No, “A Song of The Republic” was
printed in The Bulletin of October 1, 1887.
Another piece, “Golden Gully,” was printed
in the same issue as “Wreck of the Derry
Castle.”
* * * *
Where was Zora Cross, novelist and poet,
born? Where was she educated? List of her
publications? —3623.
Daughter of the late Ernest William Cross,
she was born at Brisbane, and was educated
at the Ipswich Girls’ Grammar School, Bur-
wood (N.S.W.) Public School, Sydney Girls’
High School and the Teachers’ Training Col-
lege (Sydney). She was a public-school teacher
in N. S. Wales for three years, then devoted
herself to writing. Publications include: Songs
of Love and Life, The City of Riddle-Me-Ree,
The Lilt of Life and Elegy on an Australian
Schoolboy (all verse), Daughters of the Seven
Mile and The Lute Girl of Rainyvale (novels),
and An Introduction to the Study of Austra-
lian Literature (criticism).
* * * *
(1) A few details concerning the career of
Arthur Orton, the Tichborne claimant, prior
to his becoming a N. S. Wales butcher? (2)
When did he die? —3627.
Born at Wapping, London, on March 20,
1834, he was the youngest son of a shipping
butcher, who sent him to sea at the age of 14
in a vessel bound for Chile. The boy deserted
at Valparaiso, and lived for some months with
a Chilean family named Castro. In 1851 he
returned to England, in 1852 migrated to Tas-
mania, and in 1864 settled, after a more or less
adventurous career, at Wagga (N.S.W.), where
he traded as a butcher under the name of
Thomas Castro. (2) April 1, 1898.
$ * * *
What early English firearm was known as
"Brown Bess” and how did it get that name?
—3658.
It was a name given in the British Army to
the flintlock musket with which infantry were
armed. The term is applied generally to the
weapon of the eighteenth and early nineteenth
centuries, and became obsolete on the intro-
duction of the rifle. The first part of the name
derives from the color of the wooden stock,
for the name is found much earlier than the
introduction of “browning” the barrel of mus-
kets. “Bess” may be either a humorous
feminine equivalent of the “brown-bill,” the
old weapon of the British infantry, or derived
from “blunderbuss.”
Are sharks regarded as fishes? If not, how
do they differ from fishes? —3640.
Though commonly regarded as fishes, sharks
are more properly ranked with rays as a dis-
tinct class. They differ from the majority
of fishes in that their bony structure is wholly
cartilaginous or incompletely calcified; the
vetebral column is generally prolonged back-
ward into the upper portion of the tailfin,
instead of ending abruptly in a broad fan-
shaped bone. The skin is covered with denticles,
and in some species provides the “shagreen”
of commerce. There is no gill-cover, but five
to seven slits open on each side of the neck
from the gill-chamber. The nostrils open
downward; an opening of varying size on the
upper surface behind the eye (the spiracle)
serves as a supplementary breathing organ.
* * * *
When did the late Ellen Terry and Essie
deny ns appear in a recital in Sydney as Portia
and Nerissa? —3653.
The Actors’ Association of Australia ten-
dered Ellen Terry a benefit matinee at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, on July 28, 1914.
All the companies then appearing in Sydney
contributed acts from various pieces. In the
concluding item, the trial scene from “The
Merchant of Venice,” Ellen Terry appeared
as Portia, Essie Jenyns as Nerissa, George
Titheradge as Shylock and Walter Bentley as
Antonio.
* * * *
For what foreign countries do holders of
Australian passports not require to obtain
foreign Consular visas for travel purposes?
—3692.
Belgium, Cuba, Danzig, Denmark, Domini-
can Republic, France (including French colonies,
but not Syria), Germany, Italy, Luxemburg,
Morocco, Netherlands (including Netherlands
East Indies), Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden
and Switzerland.
* * * *
(1) Total strength of Australian forces sent
to the South African War of 1900 ? (2)
Casualties of Australian forces? (3) Titles
of a few books on the campaign ? —3642.
(1) 848 officers and 15,327 other ranks. (2)
Killed and died of wounds, 29 officers and 222
other ranks; deaths from disease, nine officers
and 258 other ranks; wounded, 77 officers and
658 other ranks; missing and prisoners, five
officers and 142 other ranks. The Times
History of the War in South Africa, Doyle’s
Great Boer War, Wilkinson’s Australia at the
Front, and Abbott’s Tommy Cornstalk.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning a fish known
as the mado ? —3677.
Known scientifically as Atypichthys strigatus,
it is a small fish, very common around wharf-
piles in inlets along the coasts of the southern
half of Australia. It affords sport to juvenile
fishermen, but is too small to be of value as
a table fish, as it rarely attains a length of
lOin. and is usually much smaller. In color
it is yellowish, with several brown longitudinal
bands. An allied species, A. latus, is commonly
known at Lord Howe Island as “leather-jacket,”
but has no relationship to the true leather-
jackets, so plentiful in Australian waters.
* * * H=
Heaviest falls of rain which have occurred
in Queensland within a period of 24 hours and
dates of such occurrences? —3700.
Babinda (Cairns), Mar. 2, 1935, 24. Min.;
Buderim Mountain, Jan. 11, 1898, 26.20 in.;
Crohamhurst (Blackall Range), Feb. 2, 1893,
35.71 in.; • Deeral, Mar. 2, 1935, 27.60 in.;
Goondi, Jan. 30, 1913, 24.10 in.; Harvey Creek,
Jan. 3, 1911, 27.75 in.; Kuranda (Cairns), April
2, 1911, 28.80 in.; Macnade Mill, Jan. 6, 1901,
23.33 in.; Plane Creek (Mackay), Feb. 26, 1913,
27.73 in.; Port Douglas, April 1, 1911, 31.53 in.;
Tully, Jan. 19, 1932, 27.20 in.; Woodlands, Jan.
31, 1893, 23.07 in.; Yarrabah, April 2, 1911,
30.65 in.
* * * *
(1) Total investments of the N.S.W. State
Superannuation Board as at June 30, 1938 ?
(2) Total income for the year ending June 30,
1938? (3) Expenditure for the same period?
(4) Cost of administration for the same period ?
(5) Pensions chargeable to the fund for the
same period? —369o.
(1) £11.542,325. (2) £1,219,251. (3) £573,957.
(4) £11,348. (5) £412,321.
* * * *
Rates of pay of meat inspectors employed by
the N.S.W. Metropolitan Meat Industry Com-
mission ? —3686.
During first year’s service £5 10s., second
year’s service £5 155., third year’s service £6,
fourth year’s service £6 155., fifth year’s service
£7, sixth year’s service £7 7s. 6d., seventh year’s
service £7 155., senior meat inspector £8 2s. 6d.
per week.
* * * *
What are Rontgen rays? —3697.
Phenomena which occur when an electric
charge passes through a highly-rarefied vacuum,
as in a Crookes tube. Rontgen, their dis-
coverer, called them X-rays. These rays were
found to penetrate many substances opaque to
ordinary light, as wood, paper and human
flesh, while other substances, as bone and
metals, were comparatively opaque to the rays.
As the rays affected a photographic plate it
was possible to obtain a photograph of any
part of the human body showing a dim out-
line of the flesh and a strong outline of the
bones or any foreign metallic substance, such
as a bullet.
* * * *
I wish to store a small library of about 200
books for an indefinite period. How should the
books be packed to prevent attack by silver-
fish ?—3659.
Dust freely amongst the books in the pack-
ing-cases about two pounds of naphthaline.
* * * *
Names of Manly ( Sydney ) ferry steamers,
their tonnages, speeds, number of passengers
each can carry and dates of building? —36s2.
South Steyne, built 1937, speed 17.5 knots,
gross tonnage 1203 tons, maximum passengers
1792; Curl Curl, 1927, 17 knots, 799 tons,
1587 pas.; Dee Why, 1927, 17 knots, 799 tons,
1587 pas.; Baragoola, 1921, 15 knots, 498
tons, 1523 pas.; Barrenjoey, 1912, 15 knots,
499 tons, 1520 pas.; Balgowlah, 1911, 15 knots,
499 tons, 1528 pas.; Bellubera, 1909 (rebuilt
1936), 15.5 knots, 499 tons, 1511 pas.; Burra
Bra, 1907, 14.5 knots, 458 tons, 1448 pas.
* * * *
(1) Is there a form of burglar alarm that is
actuated by a beam of light? (2) If so, how
does it work ? —3695.
(1) Yes, the photoelectric relay. (2) A
light source, located on one side of the window
or doorway, is focused into a narrow beam
which is thrown on to a light-sensitive device,
called a photoelectric cell, located on the other
side. So long as the light is focused on this
cell the instrument will remain inactive, but
should someone cross and interrupt the beam,
temporarily placing the cell in darkness, a
bell will immediately ring. This instrument
can also be used for opening doors in a hotel
or restaurant when someone is about to pass
through, for counting objects passing on an
endless belt, and for many other purposes.
.♦ * •:< o
Is the falling Australian birthrate causing a
decrease in attendance of children going to
N.S.W. schools? If so, at what rate? —3s34.
A lower birthrate inevitably must have an
effect on school enrolment, but to what degree
cannot be determined with accuracy. The fol-
lowing figures show enrolments at public and
non-public schools for each of the biennial
periods from 1928 to 1938: 1928,424,783; 1930,
445,085; 1932, 452,521; 1934, 451,438; 1936,
448,411; and 1938, 439,268. It is seen that,
although enrolments in 1938 were much higher
than in 1928, they were considerably lower
than in 1932. A fall in the birthrate in 1931
and subsequently undoubtedly contributed to
this decline, but, owing to the abnormal enrol-
ment position created as the result of children
remaining for longer periods at school during
the depression years, the loss in pupils is not
as real as the above figures appear to indicate.
* H= * *
Do wines, including champagne, improve
or deteriorate with old age, being kept in
bottles ? —3610.
A good vintage wine (which means a wine
originally made from a good-quality grape),
whether foreign or Australian, will, generally
speaking, improve with bottle age. This is
qualified by practice which has been acquired
by cellar-masters through many years of experi-
ence as to which wines should be laid down
with the best possible likelihood of surviving
the period of time for the purpose of matura-
tion. Wine is a living matter, and an ex-
perienced man knows the type likely to be a
long-liver. Champagne loses its naturally-
formed gas after about 10 years.
* * * *
What are the prospects for success in ostrich-
farming in Australia ? —3585.
Not at all bright. At one time the ostrich-
feather-raising industry was very prosperous,
and about 20 years ago the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department spent a considerable sum in import-
ing ostriches and in raising them. At one
period it had a considerable number of
birds. The industry was also taken up by one
or two private people in a large way, but the
prospects were so poor and the returns so low
that the industry was eventually abandoned.
This was due principally to ostrich feathers
going out of fashion. It is a highly speculative
industry, as the demand is dictated by fashion
requirements. A considerable amount of capital
would be required, as it would be necessary, in
addition to providing land and buildings, to
import birds. This would be a very difficult
matter also, as there is a prohibition on the
export of ostriches from South Africa.
* * * *
How to prepare carnations for the show
bench ? —3675.
Leave only one bud on each lateral and
when the bud shows color place it through a
hole in a piece of board (erected on a frame)
and cover with a flower-pot which has been
washed and the drainage hole stopped. Mix
rotted manure with a little blood-and-bone
fertiliser about the base of the plants, and keep
the soil well stirred and slightly damp. To
grow carnations successfully the beds should
be raised above the surrounding pathway and
the plants dusted regularly with lime.
* * * *
A few details concerning a tree known botani-
cally as petalostigma? —366s.
It is a genus of the family Euphorbiacece,
consisting of one species endemic in Australia,
which ranges from N. S. Wales to Q’land and
W.A., and is a moderate-sized tree. The
branches, undersides of the leaves, and small,
clustered flowers are clothed with loose silky
hairs; fruits orange-colored, £in. in diameter.
The stem-bark contains a camphor-like essential
oil and a bitter substance reputed to have
properties like those of quinine. Brownish-
yellow dyes made from the bark have been
experimentally used for dyeing cotton and
woollen fabrics. The hard, brownish wood re-
sembles that of the English laburnum, its wavy
grain giving it a pleasing appearance when
polished.
* * * *
(1) Which are the first-class counties in Eng-
lish cricket ? (2) Definition of first-class
counties? —3662.
(1) Derbyshire, Essex, Glamorgan, Gloucester-
shire, Hampshire, Kent, Lancashire, Leicester-
shire, Middlesex, Northamptonshire, Nottingham-
shire, Somerset, Surrey, Sussex, Warwickshire,
Worcestershire, Yorkshire. (2) First-class
counties are those whose matches, with one
another, with M.C.C. and Ground, with the
Universities, with the Australians and such
other elevens as shall be adjudged “first-class
matches” by the M.C.C. committee, are used
in compilation of first-class batting and bowling
averages.
Brief Answers.
K.J.T.: You would have to write to an art
dealer. John Young, 3 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, would value any works of art for a small
fee, but would, of course, have to inspect
them. At the moment there is not a great
demand for pictures. The market in etchings
is also depressed at present. However, good
work always sells, and it is not advisable to
sacrifice them... .E.C.L.: Principal difference
between the Russian (Soviet) type of govern-
ment and those in Germany and Italy, so far
as they have developed to date, seems to be
that the Nazi and Fascist regimes are more
or less orthodox in their attitude to capitalists
(with certain political and racial exceptions),
whereas the Soviet leaders exercise proprietorial
control over almost all financial and industrial
activities... .E.M.: (1) You 'don’t say what
game it is. If it is poker, all suits rank equally
and the highest card wins. (2) Jan Kiepura
was born May 12, 1902. That’s his right name
so far as all records available g 0... .W.J.T.:
Write War Veterans’ Home Appeal, 428
George-street, Sydney... .P.J.D.: (1) Know of
no one prepared to undertake that work. An
advt. may produce results. (2) N 0....
J.A.0.R.: My Life on the Australian Turf,
by James Scobie (55.) S.E.D.: The maxi-
mum age at which junior clerks are engaged
in the N.S.W. railway service is 18d years.
The Employment Officer at Central Station,
Sydney, is available to give further informa-
tion to applicants for employment... .A.W.E.:
(1) and (2) A “resident” of N. S. Wales is
described in the Income Tax (Management)
Act as a person whose usual or principal place
of abode is within that State. In the strict
legal sense the domicile of a person is where
he has his “true, fixed, permanent home to
which when he is absent he has the intention
of returning.” (3), (4) and (5) Taxation De-
partment, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney (Federal
and State income taxes)... .L.T.L.: The limi-
tation of six years does not apply to the
Crown. The duty will have to be paid
M. : The conviction of the man on a
criminal charge does not deprive you of your
civil rights against him. Probably the Court
of Requests, but it would depend on the
amount claimed... .R.L.C.: Payment was
made for a specified housing, and this was not
supplied. The money should be returned if
the firm cannot comply with the order. A
letter of demand through a solicitor would
probably meet the case R.G.W.: (1) If a
servant or employee leaves his employer’s ser-
vice without notice and for no legitimate cause,
he is entitled to no wages. (2) In the absence
of an expressed agreement a week, month or
quarter’s notice, as the periods of payment
may be, of the determination of the employ-
ment must be given by the employer or em-
ployee as the case may be....F.W.: Write to
him saying that if the drawing is not paid for
—naming your price—you will sue him for it
in the Small Debts Court. If he refuses or
neglects to do so take the necessary proceed-
ings R.W.G.: See Ogden’s A.B.C. of Basic
English (3s. 9d.) and Dictionary of Basic Eng-
lish (3s. 9d.), both obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .A.A.: No difficulty
should be had in finding suitable trapping
grounds along the lower and central North
Coast (N.S.W.). As far as the South Coast
is concerned, it is known that rabbits are fairly
plentiful in the Kiama-Gerringong-Berry area.
If you have not had a great deal of experience
in rabbit trapping you are advised to consult,
if possible, an experienced trapper in the dis-
trict which you select as a trapping ground.
E.A.: Call at the office of the Public
Service Board, Savings Bank Building, 21-23
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and information re-
garding calculating-machine and bookkeeping-
machine operators’ positions in the N.S.W.
public service and full details of educational
requirements and rates of pay will be given....
N. : The court should not be topdressed
until early spring, using very fine, light, sandy
loamy soil of good texture which is thoroughly
free from weeds. A lot depends upon the
growth of the couch and present stand of
grass as to whether heavy or light dressing
should be made. When topdressing is done
the grass should be cut as short as possible
and the surface lightly raked so as to disturb
some of the surface runners, then topdressing
applied and left in this state for a few days
before rolling R.M.T.M.: (1) From 4} to
5 p.c. (2) A leading financial co. says it is
not lending money on this class of security at
present... .D.J.H.: Full particulars from Dept.
of Defence, Melbourne H.S.W.: Rates of
duty on motor-cars and spare parts imported
into Australia too lengthy to print here. Send
full address and details will be posted
E.F.: (1) Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street ; or New Century Press, The
Arches, York-street North —both Sydney. (2)
No disadvantage, except, of course, sales are
likely to be less. (3) Know of no Australian
ones. A noted English agent is Curtis Brown,
6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London
W.J.F.: Write Council for Scientific and In-
dustrial Research, 314 Albert-street, East Mel-
bourne. .. .P.J.C.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Defence, Melbourne C.R.: All
are N.S.W. aboriginal place-names. Mooki
means “stony”; Nabiac, “wild fig-tree”;
Oolong, “swampy plain”; Tambaroora, “home
of the ibis”; Tuggeranong, “a cold plain”;
and Walcha, “the sun” S.C.: Full particu-
lars are obtainable from the Under-Secretary,
Dept, of the Interior, Canberra, A.C.T
W.W.: Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney,
will send you a list on application... .A.M.L.:
The matter is being handled by the Citizens
of Sydney Organising Committee, 14 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney A.M.R.: The Loch
Leven (1200 tons), iron clipper ship, on voy-
age from Geelong to London, was lost on
King Island on October 24, 1871, through the
master neglecting precautions in thick weather.
The captain went back to her to get papers,
but the boat capsized in the surf and he was
drowned. No other lives were lost S.H.S.:
The wombat is unable to climb trees. It is
an active burrower, and during the day it
takes shelter in excavations which it makes,
issuing forth after nightfall in search of food,
which consists of grass, herbage and roots
A.T.: James Rutherford, of Cobb and Co.,
died at Mackay (Q.) on September 13, 1911.


THE
"CRESS-
BROOK"
£147l6/6
(COMPLETE)
Suitable for
park, polo or
ladies’ use. It
is a “Kemp”
type saddle
and has a
narrow non-
chafing grip.
First-class workman-
ship and materials
throughout.
N.S.W. RAIL FREIGHT
PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
WALTHER * STEVEHSOH "
395 CtOBCE ST. SYPKEY
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
s
mm
i
£il
- -
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
L
Sr
A COMPLETE BANKING SERVICE
At each one of its many branches the Bank ot New
South Wales offers every banking service to meet the
needs of primary and secondary industry, professional
men, merchants, traders and travellers.
900
7,500
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, the
Pacific Islands, and in London.
Agents and Correspondents in all parts of the
World.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
465A.1930
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
DR • As you say, “Tch, tch, tch!”
tcm-A ereybeard.... A.L.H.: If the black
J.S.M.. g y . . .
border signifies mourning it p
caution... .H. 8.: “Breezy ballad breezing
b ac k S.P.: Do you really want to die in
thp arms of vour horse? F.E.W.: Becalmed,
SiTVjsu f „ g fiendishly in «
A.F.: Not here G.V.K.. A glimmer.
..W.J.: “Apologies for same” accepted
M.D.McF.: Wouldn’t call him Pegasus, any-
CC V ■it E fooks A froX C tten. PaP Rb P : ei Ke P e S p 'at
it .! .P.H.: Nearly... .Faillite: “Cometh” is
singular E.C.: “My mellowed home is fur-
nished with human hopes and fears.” Which
do you sit on? M.P.: Your cabbage needs
fertiliser K.E.K.: “Yes, I moan and curse
are SULTLiSm. :EndVj r&“
but it sinks beforehand....T.E.P.: Not up.
j.N.: Even at 17 you should know a
stronger phrase than “so injurious” to de-
scribe war R.G.McE.: “Ships” has a horrid
Carg °AM- Cli Tmt" a M 'hnale
Littie Profits is right.’. . .8.G.J.: Not
au ; te the worst ...H.R.N.: “I don’t give a
tinker’s curse what happens to this.” Neither
do we ..8.R.P.: “Quickly, Quickly” went
that way....G.N.P.: If you cut that into little
pieces and put them all together with your eyes
closed, you should get a better result
H.L.1.: “Though the attached all took place
during daylight, I think ‘Nightmare’ is an apt
title ” L It is S ARP • Well, now it has been
rejected lJ S times....V.H.S.: “Now don’t say
this is your oldest friend.” It isn’t, it’s our
oldest enemv TWL • Of all you ve done
yiu should be" sorriest about that 0ne....
RBS • If you write as the mood takes you,
for goodness’ sake get into a cheery m00d....
8.5. D.: You’ll have to paddle in a different
nnnl if vnu want to do any good H.G.T.:
Noreason for “Cheers” . . P.E.L.: Even the
Sp.K yawnS as it gulped down “Love's
Young Dream”....N.T.P.: Despite the facts
“that it has a nrettv Door plot and isn’t very
weU written” we P stilldoS’t think we could use it.
LFW.: Quantity doesn’t compensate for
lack of auality T 0.M.: Well, what would
you think ff something like that was suddenly
sprung on y0u?....5.H.W.: Never again,
please... .8.1. R.: Not even poor enough to be
distinctive D.L.: “Gorblimey!” ’Struth!
-...T.8.E.: Easy now easy....C.T.A.: The
most remarkable thing about it is that anyone
should think we might publish it V.R.P.:
e R now one by heart.. . .5.8. T.: “We
writers have no protection against your com-
ments.” But what protection have we against
= ££ ■ ■■;%>& =
you i ve k.T.: Improving... .F.D.G.:
Trust it is “Only Once In a Lifetime”
_
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
-
W.D.: Pictorial onslaught against the Demon
£ um m j g bt fj n( j a corner in a temperance
journal... .8.W.: A smoother finish and
brighter gags are needed....W.T.: Sorry, but
W e can’t turn our pages into a hospice tor
y Q ur dying stockman... .W.M.C.: The maiden
pass t be office censor... .1.5.: No merit
in that large and untidy batch... .T.M.:
Markings on the cattle-dog about the only
correct feature of the drawing....A.B.. It
finished up among the also-rans . .. .R.D.. Give
the boy a few years at an art school. ...C.R..
Not much use turning in sketches done in
purple ink on pink notepaper . '
Labor see-saw gag is about jie vSietv of
in captivity... G.M.L Admired vanety o
fancy stipples, but little else. ...M.8.. Bocal
mayor hardly important enough for a national
weekly E.S : Lock thought of ffiat search-
light joke about a year ag0....C.A.'C.. Tlhey re
on their way home. ..N.J.. Dull.. .JN.JN.. oar
maid has;a shapely figure, but her caused
no laughter T.Q.. What. Is that milk
still adding to his supply from the s B™l
water-tap?... -A.C.. Send us hundre
and first effort 1.1. A.. Oags nave a musiy
flavor.... H.C.: Large and ambitious drawing
apropos the latest royal com™ n found .
way to the basket. ...G.H. ve declared it
a close season for that type oi gag... .8.A..
You have a freakish, individual style, but very
little idea of the; requirements ofthispaper....
A.T.: Take a few lessons... .N.C.: Tempted
by the newchum playing a mouth-organ at the
top of the gum-tree, but finally decided to let
him stay there.
A MIXED GRILL.
Menzies is not the only head of a
Government who has had to live down
the charge that he was not a soldier. It
was an old accusation against Grover
Cleveland, who, like Menzies, was a bar-
rister of Presbyterian stock —though not
Scotchbyterian. Lincoln’s draft law per-
mitted conscripts to hire substitutes, and
Cleveland hired one. This fact did not
prevent him from becoming Governor of
New York and twice President.
* # *
Melbourne sawbones have been throw-
ing their scalpels up in jubilation over the
most remarkable hat-trick in Australian
medical history, Dr. Edgar Samuel John
King, hon. surgeon at the Royal Mel-
bourne, having won the Jackson Prize
for the third time. The most-wished-for
prize of its sort in the Empire, it has only
gone out of England to one other reci-
pient, and that was Prof. Harold Dew,
of Sydney University. The prize was
founded in 1800 by Samuel Jackson,
F.R.S., and goes to the author of
the best dissertation of the year on
some practical aspect of the dissecting
science. The three-times winner was born
in Mosgiel (M.L.) of N. S. Wales
parents. Educated at University High,
Melbourne, he was admitted M.B. in 1923,
and has since held important surgical
and research jobs in Melbourne. He has
won a mort of other prizes, has contri-
buted to British and American medical
journals, and is still only 39.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: That “Jewsmania”
suggestion (B. 29/I'/’39) for selling Tas-
mania to expatriated Jews seems to be
bearing fruit. The Hobart Government
has been approached with a proposal to
establish a refugee colony on King
Island, a Tasmanian dependency, and the
Minister for Agriculture is thinking it
over.
S;C H* *!'
Trotsky’s advice to Australia that it
should back China against Japan has
been repeated by W. H. Donald, who is
an Australian exile by choice. Mr. Donald
is an excellent press agent, and nothing
could be prettier than the pictures in
which he presents Chiang and Madame
to their public, but no worse advice could
be given to a country with a small popu-
lation than that it should side with one
of the parties to a war whose origins are
obscure in a continent where life is cheap.
It is bad advice for Britain also. In
1927 the British had to shell Nanking to
save the foreign inhabitants, and had to
give up Hankow. Suppose Chiang and
his Kuomintang and Communist armies
drove the Japanese to their ships, how
long would the British keep Hong Kong?
* * * *
Two views of the League have been
receiving local attention. ‘lt has taken
away the roar and claws of the British
lion,” said Herbert Nicholls, sometime
Chief Justice of Tasmania.
If Britain had not been misled into*
almost complete disarmament, the crises
of recent months would not have occurred.
The veteran mentioned that he had been
“in a continuous row for many years
because I would have nothing to do with
the League of Nations Union.” But that
concern claims Menzies as the patron,
and in a telegram read to its Sydney
branch the P.M. declared that “the prin-
ciple of collective security is as strong
to-day as it was in 1919.” Unfortunately
publication of this assurance coincided
with newspaper reports of a wrangle at
Geneva over the fortification of the
Aaland Islands, Finland and Sweden on
the one side and Russia on the other ;
and of Italian, Japanese, Yugoslavian
and Bulgarian participation in the Ger-
man welcome to troops returning from
Spain.
* * * *
“Inki”: Poland’s Colonel Beck is no
more than leading light No. 3 in Poland
to-day. The real power lies in the hands
of Marshal Smigly-Rydz, Pilsudski’s suc-
cessor as military dictator, who exercises
an authority just as great as Mussolini’s
or Hitler’s. The Marshal is not a
speaker, and shuns the platform. Before
the war he was an art student, and in
London’s East End contributed articles
and drawings to a political paper which
voiced Pilsudski’s views. S.-R. signed his
work “Smigly” (Polish for “lightning”)
—and very good cartoons they were.
* * * *
“T.D.”: No student of Australian
history will need to go outside Australia
when the plans which the Mitchell
Library trustees have in hand are carried
out in full. Ida Leeson, the Mitchell
Librarian since 1932, will leave in a
couple of months for Europe via U.S.A.
to set on foot the making, by 35 milli-
metre microfilm, of facsimiles of all docu-
ments relating to Australia and the
South Pacific to be found in the Public
Record Office, London, the British
Museum and elsewhere. Later this work
will be extended to Ireland (there are
some interesting records to be found in
Dublin), Paris, Holland, Spain and else-
where. It is reckoned that altogether
there are at least 200,000 documents to
be photographed.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne artist of much
charm of personality remembers how in
his unsuccessful days he took to drink,
and got on such a bender that his friends
decided that it was absolutely necessary
for* him to enter the well-known institu-
tion on the Geelong-road. After their
work one Saturday they called on
him in a taxi and took him off.
The day was hot, and one of his
escort suggested that the poor chap
might just as well have one last drink
before he went in, so they stopped at a
pub. A couple served to restore the
artist’s spirits, and when he was at his
best his charm was irresistible. So they
halted at more hostelries on their onward
way till they reached the inebriates’ home.
They were standing in a wavering line in
the sitting-room when the matron came in.
“Well, which of you is the patient?” she
asked, sweeping the collection with a
withering glance. The escort was trying
to collect its wits when the artist stepped
forward, steadied himself and, pointing
to the most elevated of his friends, said
solemnly, “That’s your man!” The
accused feebly denied the imputation, and
the dispute was developing into a wrangle
between all concerned when the artist
got a bright idea. “You see, matron,”
he said, “none of them knows which
ought to go in. If you don’t mind, I’ll
take them all home again! ”


hJ 1
m
Z'
m
One ol the problems for those with money
beyond their immediate needs is that of safe,
gainful investment. High yields are tempting,
but often the capital is risked for the expecta-
tion of extra income.
For the shrewd investor, who wants his
money to be safe while it earns him a satis-
factory return—an interest-bearing deposit is
recommended.
Deposits from £5 upwards are accepted by
the Rural Bank for three, six, twelve or twenty-
four months at regular banking rates, and the
money so invested helps the progress of the
State.
Cheque accounts may also be opened at any
branch of the Bank.
This banking service is available to YOU.
Jhe RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney
Three Hew floors of
bedrooms, all with
private bathrooms— 24-
hour hot water service
and telephones.
You
Will
Enjoy
WHS
1*
in
M
Sf?
m
w
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. . You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated position
away from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
— 24-hour hot water service and telephones.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY
c. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director,
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“T.”: Room for the interpreters of
cables! Hitler speaking:—•
“At the head of our defence services there is
not a civilian dressed up as a major, but a
100 per cent, man, a soldier!” [The British War
Minister (Mr. JL- Hore-Belisha) served as a
major in the Great War.] —Sydney “D.T.”
“I have taken care that all in leading
positions are 100 per cent, soldiers and not
civilians dressed up in majors’ uniforms” (a
reference to Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg, Ger-
many’s war-time Chancellor). — “S. M. Herald.”
“At the head of the Reich to-day stands no
longer a civilian, but a soldier who sometimes
wears civilian clothes. All who are concerned
with leadership must be 100 per cent, soldiers.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Cables and Wireless, Ltd.,
has a new house-flag. As the
number of its stations, depots, ships
and cable houses throughout the
world now runs into hundreds,
the bit of bunting will vie for prominence
with the oldest of the shipping cos.’
house-flags. It is a red St. George’s Cross
superimposed on a golden cross on a
dark-blue ground with a golden crown
on it and “C” and “W” inscribed in one
corner. In the old days when the Cable
Co. enjoyed a separate existence, the
Union Jack had to serve as an emblem
to keep it out of trouble —and trouble
was not infrequent. The first cable to be
brought into Shanghai was refused a
landing by the local mandarin, who was
busy fighting the Taping rebels, so the
co. hauled it up to a native tongkong
lying in the river, whence it was worked
by a solitary Australian operator. One
day the operator was sitting musing
over his instrument when a sinister-look-
ing visage wrapped in a dirty coolie-
turban thrust itself over the gunwale.
Having been strictly instructed not to use
firearms in any circumstances, the opera-
tor stood up politely and waited for what
might happen. The apparition was
equally polite. “Pardon my intrusion,”
it said with a slight Australian accent.
“I’m Dr. Morrison. I’ve just come from
Peking and would like to get a message
through to the ‘Times’ in London.”
* * * *
“El V.”: One privilege which the Eng-
lish system of conferring peerages seems
to give is that of living two lives. Before
the Great War everybody in the industrial
world knew the name of H. E. Duke,
K.C., arbitrator for many years under the
conciliation scheme for the Great
Western Railway and its employees, and
one of the foremost English counsel in
matters affecting industrialism and the
liquor laws. But somehow in the murk
of war the name of H. E. Duke, K.C.,
M.P., disappeared from the press. As
an experiment I asked a couple of Syd-
ney counsel if they remembered Duke
and what had become of him, and they
were both sure that he had died years ago.
But he hadn’t—he died only the other
day as Lord Merrivale. He had retired
at 78 in 1933 from the Bench and the
Presidency of the Probate, Divorce and
Admiralty Division, which he held from
1919 onwards. In that period he tried
11,000 divorce cases, and made the prize-
money awards of £22,685 to Jellicoe and
Beatty after Jutland. How those two
admirals must have sighed for the good
old days. Gambier and Cathcart divided
£300,000 for their almost bloodless vic-
tory in Copenhagen in 1807.
* * *. *
Two Australians are to get further
knowledge from the U.S.A. Guinand,
who was the S.A. Rhodes scholar of
1934, goes to Princeton to study the
higher mathematics. Jacobs, also of
S.A., but formerly ab Canberra with the
C.S. and 1.R., goes to Yale as the start of
a forestry course.
* * * *
Diamond production in S. Africa
for the first half of 1938 amounted to
623,560 carats, compared with 1,030,434
carats for the whole of 1937. Sales were
306,093 carats, compared with 949,113
carats for the 12 months of 1937. More
significant was the decline in price, which
fell from 78s. lOd. per carat in 1937 to
295. lid. in 1938. Bookmakers and tired
businessmen are rejoicing.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Sympathy that so
brave an adventurer should have failed
to achieve fortune will be mingled with
the pleasure that many old sea friends
will feel on hearing that an English Civil
List pension has been granted to Frank
Wild. Wild’s first visit to Australia was
in 1889, as a 15-year-old cadet in the
Sobraon. Twelve years later he ac-
companied Scott to Antarctica for 3|
years. In 1907-09 he was with Shackle-
ton, and was one of the sledge party
who got within 97 miles of the Pole,
During the 1911-14 Mawson expedition
Wild was in charge of the western base
whence Queen Mary Land was dis-
covered. War service intervened until
1920 ; then he went as second in com-
mand of the Quest under Shackleton,
and returned in command after the
death of that gallant leader. Now he is
in Zululand.
* * * *
Jan Ignace Paderewski has a way of
defying predictions. He was 68 when
he last appeared in Australia, and people
were saying that his mana was dimin-
ished, his day was done, and this would
be his final appearance. But the veteran
smote the keyboards in Sydney and Mel-
bourne with even more fierceness than
of yore. Forty-five years before that
a world-famous teacher of pianoforte
technique told the young Pole he would
never make a pianist, and advised him to
try the flute. Now, at 78, Paderewski
has given recitals at Madison Square
Garden, New York, to packed houses,
He had a heart attack in his dressing-
room in the middle of the season, and
the rest of the concerts were cancelled,
Perhaps he will reappear as Prime Min-
ister of Poland for another season,
* * * *
“C. : An adjudicator at a Victorian
music competition put over the usual plati-
tudinous remarks in handing out awards
to the winners. One was: “Opportunity
waits on virtue. It depends on what
you call Virtue. Many years ago at a
great Italian opera house a young under-
study had been hanging about night after
night hoping against hope that the lead-
ing tenor would catch the ’flu or break
an ankle. He became discouraged, and
solaced himself with Chianti. He had
been drunk for a week when one night
he suddenly got a call to put in an im-
mediate appearance in “Otello.” He was
hastily hustled into his clobber, dabbed
with make-up and pushed on to the stage,
where he staggered about through the
three acts, sometimes singing at Desde-
mona when the prima donna was behind
him. Next night the leading man had
recovered from his indisposition, but the
moment he went on the stage and opened
his mouth the house yelled for the other
fellow, drunk or sober. After vainly
protesting, the management lowered the
curtain and sent for the young under-
study. His name was Enrico Caruso.
"Hori” in South Australia
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE name of Sir George Grey—
“Hori” Grey, as the Maoris used to
call him—-is bound up in history
with Maoriland, and his great work
as an Empire-builder in South Africa and
Australia is sometimes overlooked.
Grey’s services as Governor of Cape
Colony between 1854 and 1859 were of
great value, especially his instant accept-
ance of responsibility when, in August,
’57, he became aware of the outbreak of
the Indian Mutiny. Immediately he sent
across the Bay of Bengal all the troops,
munitions and stores available in South
Africa. They had hardly been shipped
off when transports conveying troops to
the war in China called at the Cape,
Grey insisted on sending them to Cal-
cutta, and probably these reinforcements
were the means of saving India to
Britain.
However, 16 years before this, sub-
sequent to his series of explorations in
Western Australia, he had been the sal-
vation of the young colony in South
Australia. Landing in Adelaide as
Governor on May 14, 1841, he found
everything in the settlement in a deplor-
able state. Nothing had gone right, and
probably the nickname of “Croweaters”
bestowed upon the settlers by other Aus-
tralians of the period was not much of
an exaggeration of the state of affairs.
The colony was in a very bad way,
Grey’s predecessor, Colonel Gawler, hav-
ing gone in for a wildly extravagant
policy of public works. He immediately
instituted drastic retrenchments, and
appointed a board to find out why more
than 2000 unemployed were loafing
about Adelaide “on the dole.” When
he got its report he reduced the dole
until its recipients had to look for em-
ployment in the country instead of relief
work in and about the capital. He dis-
couraged land speculation, and brought
about the immigration of a good class
of agriculturists. His policy was so
successful that within three years culti-
vation increased in acreage from 2500
to nearly 30,000, and the population of
the country districts from 6121 to 11,259.
The Colonial Office backed up every-
thing he did, and particularly allowed
him the utmost liberty in dealing with
native affairs. He had drawn up a
memorandum for Downing-street con-
cerning the Australian blacks after his
Westralian travels, in which he urged
that British law should not only control
the relationship of blacks and whites, but
should be made to operate amongst the
natives themselves. First offenders
amongst the natives, he suggested, should
be forgiven, but not afterwards. A
mounted police force should be estab-
lished to protect outback settlers and to
prevent the latter taking the law into their
own hands. And he proposed that land
grants should be made to colonists who
took genuine and practical interest in the
welfare of the aboriginals. As a mere
act of justice to natives who were tempted
to attack travellers in the bush, he in-
sisted that every party of pioneers should
be strongly escorted and guarded.
Grey appointed Eyre, the explorer, to
assist in maintaining order amongst the
outlying tribes, and established instruc-
tional centres for young natives at
Walkerville and Encounter Bay. Unfor-
tunately, this part of his policy was
allowed to drop when he relinquished
office and took up the development of
Maoriland. There his real greatness
found its fullest scope, but he had done
much for the “Croweaters” that his later
deeds have overshadowed.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
The amateur spirit is no easy subject for a writer to tackle. Gerald Dillon, of
Kirribilli, Sydney, deals with it in a penetrating contribution which earns this week’s
£3 3s. Mr. Dillon has now won the competition twice, previous success being no bar.
The Amateur Spirit
The amateur spirit is not with us to
the same extent as of old, and part of
the trouble may be due to thinking in
terms of labels about (so-called) sports-
men. We say “X is an amateur,” but
“Y is a professional.” And this label-
ling business absolves us from any
further thinking about the matter.
Actually, however, the amateur spirit
is one of the most delicate and subtle
things in the world. Many “professional”
sportsmen have the amateur spirit, and
many “amateur” sportsmen are without
it It is not something to be assumed
like a patent of nobility or a new frock.
It is an attitude of mind which a person
has or has not. It expresses itself in the
sort of urge which impels a man to do
a thing without any idea of material
gain or of personal advancement.
It is not confined alone to (so-called)
sport. The best type of Australian
pioneer possessed the amateur spirit. The
rarer sorts of clergymen are amateurs in
the same sense. There is probably more
of it amongst doctors than in any other
profession. Some soldiers possess it in a
high degree, and many sailors. Young
Melrose, who was killed flying in 1936,
was a splendid example of an individual
possessed of this amateur spirit.
So steady has been the decline in the
popular conception of the amateur spirit
that the very word “amateur” has be-
come almost a term of reproach. Yet
this amateur spirit has been responsible
for almost every worth-while achieve-
ment the British people have ever accom-
plished, for it constitutes an attitude to-/
wards life and living which is bold, dar-
ing and unselfish. Most great art, litera-
ture and nearly everything of permanent
value in life have been inspired by this
amateur spirit.— Nollid (N.S.W.).
“Nollid” is Gerald Dillon, of Verona,
Waruda-street, Kirribilli, Sydney.
The Art of Conversation
Have we lost it? Walks through city
streets, journeys by train and tram, visits
to social functions, have convinced me
that everyday discourse is on the average
shallow and dull. The weather, sport,
small money matters, a smattering of
politics or “according to the paper” seem
to form the basis of conversation.
I don’t wish to imply that everyone
should meet and converse with profes-
sorial gravity: that would be terrible.
What is needed is a wider range of
themes, with a dash of warm sincerity
and the elimination of much of the slang
and laziness that have crept into our
speech.
By means of an occasional evening de-
voted to conversation, clubs and societies
could do much to revive an art which
has sadly declined since Dr. Johnson and
his friends met at the Mitre Tavern.
Similar meetings would provide a good
antidote to the stresses of this age. —-
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Pictures v. Prose
Are we to lose the ability to read and
write, so that in the distant future his-
tory will be preserved for posterity in
pictures akin to the rock paintings of
the aboriginals?
Judging by the rapid growth in popu-
larity of periodicals composed of 90 p.c.
pictures and 10 p.c. print, such a con-
jecture does not seem so fantastic. The
modern camera expert can picture the
female form far more vividly than did
Byron at his floweriest, and apparently
the finish of a horserace is more easily
followed in photos, than in type. For
newspapers, too, over the past couple of
years have been catching the prad pass-
ing the post and highlights in other
sports through the camera lens to a
greater extent than ever before.
Even fiction in the picture magazines
is presented in photo, form —often
murder mysteries which the reader (or
looker) may attempt to solve before
turning to the denouement on a back
page. Despite publishers’ claims, it is
questionable whether such entertainment
contains a “crime-does-not-pay” moral
or not. —Willair (W.A.).
Anderson and Hitchcock
What’s become of the Anderson and
Hitchcock memorial that was mooted
after they lost their lives in the desert
seeking a j.ilow-flier who was lost? As we
remember it, they were heroes then. The
flier they sought has gone west since,
but he at least lives in our memory, be-
cause a ’drome has been named after
him. Admittedly he was a prince
amongst aviators, but the others were
also very gallant gentlemen.—J. E. B.
(Q-).
Divorce Laws
In France a young man strongly under
the influence of love is, in the eyes of
“Is it all right to park here, constable?”
the law an irresponsive person and t
seems strange ha men. and women dm-
ing this stage m life should be required
to sign a contract of marriage to con-
tinue yritii death do them part.
s h oud etherofthepartes to this
contract fail to with its latel re-
quirements the other may apply
to a Court and have the marriage an-
nulled. But should both parties become
and would debar them from
a divorce.
Why should a man and woman signing
„ marrihop rnntrart more or less in a
a marriage contract more or less in a
state of semi-imbecility be debarred from
t v,pv Uqvp hprnmf
cancelling it when they have become
normal again and are satisfied the whole
thing was a mistake? Of course, they
can and do-ge. a divorce by perpetrat-
S S dotMs“ ’ y
to Seems'Vo me more honesty and com-
nonsense and less make-believe and
hypocrisy in our divorce laws are long
overdue. — Fredk. A. Nelson (N.S.W.).
.
Education
In recent weeks writers have discussed
the value of education, but they have
missed the point. What one does or
does not do with one’s education is not
the fault of the system, but of the indi-
vidua!. We cannot condemn education
because some successful men have not
been well educated—they might have
been even more successful if they had
been—or because some well-educated
people do not seem to have made the
most of their education.
That, actually, is the tragedy of the
educational system. Many of those with
a good education never make use of it,
while others who could and would make
use of it didn’t get it.
No one can say what a boy or girl is
going to be or do on reaching adult life,
and, apart from professional and tech-
nical training, isn't education planned to
give the boy or girl a foundation or
jump,ng-oft place? And the better the
education the better the foundation. It
has been sa;d, rightly, that a man denied
education ts denied in advance any
genuine chance of achieving eminence.
Odin who made some investigations in
typical districts of France found that the
class showing the highest Percentage of
genius was the official class with 30 p.c.,
followed by the nobility 26 p.c., profes-
sional class 23 p.c with the bourgeoisie
12 p.c and manual labor 9 p.c very far
5?, 1 "/- n 1 ,', S K q i reasonable to mfet
that the first three classe had the benefit
of a good education while the others did
" ot - An investigation into thei educa-
tion of 827 men of all classes who had
achieved eminence showed that 811 had
been well educated.
The two wishes one most often hears
expressed are 1 wish 1 had money ana
I wish I had been taught this or that,
and while the State may not be able to
grant the former it can and should see
that there is no need for the latter. No
matter what calling is followed a good
education will make for more efficient
work, greater usefulness as a citizen
and a fuller and richer life generally,
Lubbock hit the nail right on the head
when he said, We advocate education,
not merely to make the man the better
workman, but to make the workman the
better man.”—E. R. S. (Vic.).
The A.B C. Paper .
Am highly amused by press tirades
against the proposed A.B.C. publication.
After dl g e sting the Sunday Bun my
poor Aunt Wistaria thought that the
Broadcasting Commission intended estab-
llshlng free morning and afternoon
papers in every city town and village,
j s tbere a Grisly Plot afoot to strangle
Q Great Dailies? Naturally I’d hate
for
Sale” signs on Fleet-street s journalistic
cast i e<? Beaverbrook and Rothermere
• , T » * KOinermere
sb p make a few bob, Im told. So long
tbe A B c’s babv isn’t fed on a diet
a ~ , e , h °?°y 15> . u l icu uii a uici
0 £ impo rted comic strips and Madame
j abou j s ’ s j n ky nightmares, I think this
countrv will s till be safe ’ for Bulletin
there isn't room for a wort™
WhU l P“ blic f io " by responsible
“S“ ng *
No Women Announcers, Please!
What with long-winded ads., crooners
and la-di-da voices, radio is getting tough
on t be e ar, but it is at least confining
women announcers to children’s and
purely female sessions. And may it ever
be thus!
I heard one lass putting over some
general broadcasting, and I swore
that I’d bury the family radio in the
deepest hole I could dig if women
ever replaced men in general radio an-
nouncing.— Geoffrey Taylor (Vic.).
c _• • i* j v
the * ower °* Disciplined Youth
The dictators Hitler and Mussolini
have realised the power of discipline and
applied it to the youth of their respective
nations. From the flapper press through-
out the British Empire the strongest criti-
cism is aimed at these two dictators for
“robbing the cradles to feed the guns.”
Yet these two men have grasped a
fundamental, no matter what their ob-
jective may be.
Undisciplined youth can be the scourge
of a country—the hothouse which breeds
the worst class of criminal —just as the
reverse represents the power of the
nation. Here in Australia the situation
is particularly serious, and, unless
realised quickly and prompt remedies
applied, we have every likelihood of
being the prey of an underworld similar
to that of U.S.A.
There is a period in the life of every
youth—a turning point—when his
talents, if compulsorily turned to some
purpose, will make man-power of him.
If he is allowed to idle when his school-
days are finished his unemployment will
breed tendencies against which social re-
forms are a weak implement.
The remedy is discipline. This does
not necessarily mean militarism —it means
compulsory activity with a definite ob-
ject. Physical fitness and mental alert-
ness are national necessities, and if these
characteristics can only be successfully
developed through compulsory military
training, why question the means if the
end is assured?
The expenditure of millions upon war
equipment is money wasted unless an
equal amount is spent upon the train-
ing of a body of men capable of not only
manning the equipment but of managing
the affairs of the nation if war does not
come. —H. S. Wynne (Q.).
The Farmer’s Daughter
“E. 0.5.” (B. 31/5/’39) must dwell in
a unique spot in N.S.W. or else the
farmer-lads down south must be very
different from those of Queensland.
I happen to be one of those so-called
“bumpkins” who 1 are driving the country
girls to city jobs. It is a fact that many
are going and have gone to the city from
here, but —here are some more facts.
The young men (as well as the girls)
one sees at a country dance are dressed
every bit as well as
their city brothers. I’ll
bet my boots that
“E. 0.5.” cannot pick
the country from the
city lad, except per-
haps by his bronzed
face and hands.
Now for the con-
versation. I have been
going to dances for a
few years (mostly in
the country) and while
dancing I have heard
many snatches of con-
versation from neighboring dancers, but
I have never heard any beau telling his
belle how Strawberry is milking or how
many acres he ploughed that day.
Anyhow the man is not born yet who
looks much like the usual caricature of
Dave.—M. F. B. (Q.).
Our Lads
We read and hear everywhere that the
Aussie is not what he used to be —in
other words, that we as a nation have
degenerated. Have we?
A lad I know walks five miles across
timbered country to meet a lorry which
takes a number of boys to town. At
1 a.m. he leaves them to return five
miles. His day’s work begins at 2 a.m.
Last Anzac Day elicited the fact that
another’s limping in the march was
brought about by nine boils.
Still another explained his sandshoes
on parade as being substituted for the
heavy issue when swimming the river,
which was in flood. He swam it at
night; few would consider it even in
daylight.
These are not isolated examples but
typical of Queensland bush lads. They
are not different, fundamentally, from
other Australian youngsters, whether
city- or bush-bred.— Fergus (Q.).
The Tas. Teachers’ Fund
Under a “new law” the State teachers'
superannuation fund in Tasmania is to
be distributed. Shades of the original
founders!
Contributions were compulsory.
Women outnumbered men by three
to one. When a woman withdrew
before retiring age she was entitled to a
refund of her payments without interest,
and less any allowance or temporary
annuity paid to her during absence
through illness or incapacitation. If she
remained till retiring age she received
a small annuity. Men were on a rather
better basis.
Now present members, in addition to
receiving back their original contribu-
tions, are to share in the distribution of


the profits (in the form of interest) earned
by the “blood and tears” of the pioneers.
Altogether, £125,000 is to be distributed.
Why were we born twenty years too
soon? — Brer Rabbit (Tas.).
Nations and Individuals
Are not many of the ills that mark
the intercourse of the nations to-day but
large-scale extensions of the same ills that
exist in the more limited sphere of our
community life? The axes and alliances
find their lesser counterparts in the
cliques and circles that exist in any com-
munity. Similarly we might compare
the bickerings between nations with the
purely local and domestic squabbling of
individuals ; the hypocritical amiableness
of diplomats with the toadying and
kowtowing of profit-seeking parasites
who surround the affluent; the treaty-
breaking with the betrayal of friendships
and breaches of trust; the rapacious
ambition of certain nations with the
natural human desire for gain—even at
the expense of others; the propaganda-
mongering of our hysterical press with
the scandal-mongering and backbiting
that cause so much disruption in any
community. Are not war and brawling
both products of the same thing—the
breakdown of intellectual methods of
settling differences? The vices of a
nation are the vices of its people ; and
those vices are much the same the world
over.
War and strife always have been with
us, and always will be. Have-not nations
and have-not men fighting in their mad
desire to have; wealthy nations and
wealthy men fighting to keep what they
have—fighting indeed to gain more ; the
uplookers wanting to be downlookers. It
is all so cruel and so perplexing. And
yet, paradoxically enough, it is progress.
This same force that has caused so much
suffering and misery, that same desire
to be the man or the nation on top, is
responsible for man’s elevation above the
lesser animals, whose only purpose in
life is to be born, live and die. Nature
gives the beasts a certain material con-
tentment as recompense for their lack of
intelligence. Man must pay for his in-
telligence with periods of violence and
hardship.
So why not be philosophic about it
all? Things are much the same now as
they were a thousand years ago, and
will still be much the same a thousand
years hence. And not even the combined
efforts of Messrs. Chamberlain, Musso-
lini, Stalin and Hitler would have much
effect upon them. So let us spend what
time we get to spare between woes
snatching what happiness we can (and
there’s quite a lot of it to be had even
at the worst of times), and, when the bill
comes round, pay up with a grin.—
Emperus (Q.).
Bouquets or Bank Accounts?
“Some day my prince will come” goes
the popular song. For most girls, how-
ever, reality presents them with a hus-
band who is just a good-hearted com-
moner, willing to provide moderate
security.
Yet in the pre-marriage and post-mar-
riage days many women act as if they
really had a prince in tow. Money is
squandered without a thought, weddings
are turned out like musical-comedy com-
panies, and everything is designed to
make a “splash,”
Considering that marriage for most
young couples is a slow climb to security,
how much better it would be if women
husbanded their money more carefully!
Why not substitute a bank account for
a bouquet? So few girls ever walk up
the aisle with a bouquet in one hand and
a bank account in the other. For some
odd reason only the man is expected to
start the partnership with a decent de-
posit—and woe betide him if he doesn’t!
The point is that, as earners, brides-elect
should have something to show for their
years of work instead of an expensive
and ostentatious trousseau.
And after marriage? Too many
women are content with the spectacular
wedding and willing to leave their
economic future to t.p. systems and Pro-
vidence, with the result—bickering
and rows over the pay envelope.— £ove
(S.A.).
“The ‘Old Digger’ Racket”
When Earle Page made his famous
and/or infamous attack on R. G.
Menzies because the latter lacked a war
record the press and its readers labelled
the gibe as “dirty,” “uncalled for” and
“gutter technique.” When I recall how
successful this form of attack is in other
departments of public life I am wonder-
ing why Page got such a negative re-
action.
Few people have not seen the “old
Digger” racket worked successfully
throughout the country. When speakers
get hot under the collar at council meet-
ings the usual defence employed is to
shriek to councillors and gallery that
Councillor Somebody was not at the war.
Usually this arouses all the prejudice
necessary to win a point.
The same attack, although not so
direct, is made on almost every male
applicant for a job, if he happens not
to be eligible for the title “Dig.” Even
the door-knocker exploits the magic
word: “How about buyin’ somethin’ an
helpin’ an old Digger on his way?”
Usually the well-known returned badge
is poked in your eye to give his plea
more weight.
Everywhere the power of the little
badge is being “worked.” Even barbers
and fruit-stall owners still bracket them-
selves “late A.1.F.”
In England and Scotland the returned
soldier’s disk is rarely seen on lapels.
Mention of the fact that one has been
to the war is accepted as a commonplace
happening. This is as it should be. —
War Baby (Vic.).
The Little Fleas
Big fleas have little fleas
Upon their backs to bite ’em;
Little fleas have smaller fleas,
And so ad infinitum.
The big fleas in this instance are the
advertisers who make such papers as
The Bulletin possible at sixpence a time.
They spin their web —or whatever it is
big fleas spin—and then the smaller fleas
hop in for their cut.
Consider the peanut-butter how it
spreads. Two years ago a prominent
firm manufacturing that commodity
awarded this writer a small consolation
prize in a newspaper-advertised compe-
tition. From then on my family would
have no other than that particular brand
of peanut-butter on the table. In other
words, the ad. man’s objective was
achieved ; that brand was firmly estab-
lished in our consciousness.
Now the smaller flea bites. For three
consecutive weeks in the family grocery
order we have been fobbed off with an
unadvertised substitute; quite a good
product, but not what we ordered.
One can object, but that is a time-wast-
ing nuisance.
The same process is repeated with
many other articles. The rag trade is
notorious for it; chemists, I think,
originated it; the whisky trade has had
a nip of it, and in the radio game
big advertisers are having lumps chewed
out of them.
Despite the fact that the substituted
articles are frequently of good quality,
the fact remains that they are living on
the other fellow’s advertising and general
initiative. It is a form of wholesale
parasitism to which it is time national
advertisers woke up. Let no national
advertisers think they are so big that
“It can’t happen here.” It can ; it does;
and it is happening.
Admittedly no newsagent has
attempted, so far, to foist a “Mill Girl’s
Romance” on me as a substitute for the
pink-covered paper. Yet —one never
knows! —T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).
Labor and Defence
Where does the Labor party really
stand in regard to defence? Its leaders
affirm that the party believes in adequate
defence of the Commonwealth, but they
oppose every move to achieve it, includ-
ing the national register and compulsory
military training, which originally was
a Labor measure. Labor leaders have
said a lot about defence, but the average
Australian will doubt their sincerity until
they produce a definite plan. — Bunda-
linga (N.S.W.).
Trained Nurses
It is astonishing to note the readiness
with which many people accept medical
advice from trained nurses. It is even
more astonishing, perhaps, to note the
readiness of trained nurses to give such
advice.
Trained nurses are usually charming
and interesting persons, but they often
seem to develop, in regard to health
matters, a dogmatic assurance that would
outdo any doctor. There is rarely any-
thing humble about them. On the
strength of their slender knowledge they
have little hesitation about diagnosing
and advising upon anything from car-
buncles to cancers.
Occasionally a trained nurse who has
spent a lifetime in some such special work
—as, say, in a children’s ward—builds
up an empirical knowledge that is equal
to a doctor’s in regard to that particular
branch of medicine, but that does not
apply to nurses generally. It must be
remembered that they are trained as
nurses, not as doctors. No matter how
proficient they become in nursing skill,
their knowledge of medical science re-
mains scanty and superficial.
To accept advice from such people re-
garding a pain in the stomach or noises
in the head is not only foolish—it can be
absolutely dangerous. It is a pity more
people, nurses included, do not realise
that. — Heretaunga (M.L.).
Astrology
I join with “Altair” (B. 17/ 5/’39) m
deploring the astrology sections in the
press. But the papers are not entirely to
blame—they have their circulations to
consider; they are supplying a demand,
not creating it. „ . A ~
It would get to the root of the trouble
if astronomy were taught at schools. At
present no schools that I know teach it -
all the children learn is a few elementary
facts about tides and seasons in a
geography class. Even at the Sydney
Uni. there is no astronomy course.
A surprising number of people do not
know the difference between a star and
a planet, or what causes an eclipse. They
have no idea of the vastness of the uni-
verse. Worse still, they will tell you
that when the moon appears to be tilted
it will rain, and a change in the phase
of the moon means a change of weather.
Surely some knowledge of our place
in the universe would be a benefit to the
general public. It might give people a
greater sense of proportion, make them
more self-reliant if they realised then
lives were not ordained by stars, give
them an interest in a very fascinating
science, and, if nothing else, squash this
futile and harmful craze for astrology.
W. N. (N.S.W.).
News or Views
All contributed political articles have
to be signed near election time, thereby
intimating that they are purely the views
of the writer, and may possibly have no
foundation in fact. Cannot something of
the sort be ordered for views expressed
by both radio announcers and newspaper
writers about international affairs? A
radio announcer should be compelled to
preface any statements he may make by
stating that:
(1) It has been officially announced by
the proper authorised authorities that an
occurrence has happened, or
(2) My remarks are purely my personal
views, which may or may not be correct.
They have no official sanction or authority.
(3) The expressions “It is believed” and
“We have on reliable authority” to be
barred altogether. It must be one or the
other: “officially sanctioned news” or
“personal views.”
The same thing could apply to news-
papers.—J. S. Lipscomb (Q.).
We Need Managing
Congratulations to Victoria and to
Hugh Bett, who lives there. At last we
have a man who is man enough to sign
his name to a letter (B. 17 / 5 / ’39) which
discloses one of the most necessary in-
gredients to a successful marriage—
a manageable man.
The average man needs managing,
and the average woman is a good
manager, but unless her man is manage-
able she is condemned to untold suffering
and humiliation.
He’s a wise man who realises that it’s
not unmanly to submit to a reasonable
amount of wifely management. -
Manageress (N.S.W.).
This Birth Control
It’s a pleasant picture of happy mar-
ried life that “C.O’G.” has painted in B.
31/5/’39, but it’s not a very convincing
argument against birth control.
He talks of denying children “the right
to come into the world.” In my opinion,
few of the contracting parties enter upon
marriage with that idea uppermost in
their minds, and few make adequate pro-
vision beforehand for the children’s wel-
fare.
I can paint a picture in contrast to
“C.O’G.’s.” My parents had a family of
equal number, though only six reached
adulthood. Owing to the incompatibility
of father and mother, and especially to
the serious faults and failings of the
former, none of the 10 was born under
healthy, harmonious conditions. Of each
of four of them the epitaph would have
served: —•
As I was so soon to be done for,
I wonder what I was begun for.
Mr. Coates has drawn attention in
the N. S. Wales Leg. Council to the
case of a man and woman who have
seven children, all mentally and physi-
cally deficient. Though poverty, it
seems, is not responsible, the children
run about in rags, and the mother is
also unkempt. People who help them
are repaid in some cases by the boys
breaking into their homes and stealing.
Isn’t it a crime to bring such children
into the world? Isn’t it a crime to bring
any children into the world when sound
parentage and proper upbringing are not
assured to them?
The right of every child is to be well
born, physically and mentally, and to be
ensured a full and abundant life, free
from want and free from the fear of all-
embracing wars. —Roswil (N.S.W.).
Rifle Clubs
During the intensive recruiting cam-
paign of recent months the fact that
there were 43,000 trained riflemen in
Australia ready to fulfil their pledge to
serve in his Majesty’s military forces
in the event of invasion was overlooked,
and “G.V.R.’s” comments in B. 10/5/’39
do not tend to improve matters.
“G.V.R.” is sadly misinformed if he
is serious in his contention that slow,
deliberate marksmanship went out with
the Boer War. Does he know that in
1914-1918 the snipers—most of them
recruited from the ranks of the rifle-
men or trained by them—were so
effective that in the sectors where they
operated the enemy was afraid to show
his head above the trenches? These
men fired from all sorts of positions,
even in trees, hayricks and disused
buildings, fired at unknown distances,
used their intelligence to judge the wind
instead of flags, and did not need to
correct their aim, because they were
issued with special high-power rifles
fitted with telescopic sights.
With regard to the cleverly concealed
foe, how does “G.V.R.*’ suggest one
could hit him if he is concealed? Rifle-
men will agree that training should be
given in distance judging, running to
cover and firing, etc., but holding off,
snap-shooting and indistinct targets are
practised regularly.
Trained riflemen have proved on
every occasion that they can quickly
adapt themselves to any conditions.
They are quite willing to adopt any new
methods of shooting which would im-
prove their efficiency as a defence factor,
and in England (Hythe and Bisley)
specialised training for selected rifle-
men is being introduced with new rifles
and targets, such as engaging dummy
tanks, moving figures and the like. A
suggestion that the riflemen receive in-
struction in the use of machine-guns
and automatic rifles has not been
adopted by the authorities on the
grounds of (a) insufficient ammunition
and (b) automatic rifles not available.
Regarding wastage of expenditure,
reference to the estimates will show that
the rifle club grant last year for the
whole of the Commonwealth, exclusive
of ammunition, was £33,000 odd.
Riflemen in Australia spend nearly
£500,000 a year out of their own
pockets, in becoming what “G.V.R.’
admits are “extremely accurate” marks-
men. —C. H. M. (S.A.).
Press Control
Whilst I agree with James Mahoney
(B. 17/5/’39) that the last thing we want
is Government press control, his idea that
the public can exercise all the censorsihp
necessary is illusory. In the first place it
presupposes the possession of a first-rate
critical faculty in the majority of news-
paper readers. This does not exist, and
never will exist until the present system of
education ceases to make cramming for
examinations its end, instead of teaching
people to think and form their own
opinions.
Secondly, human nature being what it
is, we always make shift with the second-
rate when the best is not available pro-
hibition proved this—and in present-day
society newspapers are a necessity.
If these statements are wrong, then
it means that the public in general
approves of the present tone of our daily
newspapers and does not think any change
is. necessary; in other words, it prefers
sensation. ' and scurrilous attacks on
public men of other countries who have
no legal redress to plain facts.
The only course necessary to ensure
decency is an alteration in our libel laws,
making them available to anyone, irre-
spective of nationality. — J. N. Rook-
ledge (N.S.W.).
Broadcast Parliamentary Debates
A peep into the other fellow’s mind is
always interesting and even desirable
when the other fellow happens to be one s
representative in the Federal Parliament.
The problem is how to get that peep.
Electioneering speeches are notoriously
misleading. “Hansard” is difficult of
access for the ordinary elector, and news-
paper reports are unsatisfactory.
Is there any good reason why A.B.C.
should not give electors the opportunity
of learning what goes on at Canberra by
broadcasting debates on subjects of
national interest? Say, for instance, the
regular debates on international affairs
which an international-minded Prime
Minister has just instituted? Vox
Populi (Vic.).


Mainly Mail-Order
£|Jhe Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work —cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
Artillery Timber Splitting Gun
Postage: N.S.W. 2/—, Vie.
and Q’land 3/6, Elsewhere
51—. (Add exchange)-.
95 per cent,
labour saving
over wedge
driving. Driven
into timber
without boring.
No shattering
of timber. Uses
blasting
powder and
fuse. Av. cost
2d. shot. Steel
Gun is IJin.
diam. 18in. long.
Price 25/-.
rbw
MALRIC CO., 161 River St., Earlwood, SYDNEY
“BIG SIX”
© © ©
ET
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co
189 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
fs
LUMBER SHIRTS
EACH 3/11 EACH
These well-made
CHECK WINTER
EUMBER SHIRTS
usually sell at 7/6
eaeh. Special to
“Bulletin” readers
3/11. Postage 6d.
extra anywhere.
W hen writing
please state neck
measurement.
P. &L.
TRADING CO.
250 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Army Blankets
150 ONLY, 54 x 72
JUST ARRIVED! Mid-grey, special
bright red borders, and all whipped at
both ends; fine soft quality, well-raised
surface, delightfully cosy and warm,
will give every satisfaction.
SALE PRICE, 7/6 each. Post Free.
2 for 13/6, or 3 for 19/6. Post Free.
FREE—with every two or three Blankets,
1 Earge Beautifully-colored Bungalow
Cloth. Only at —
STERNS STERNS
200Z GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: BI234, B7442, B7443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
BANJO MANDOLINS
50/- only
FREE TUITION
An opportunity of a lifetime to acquire
a handsome mahogany professional
model. You. will soon be able to play
and entertain your friends. FREE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE AND
BEAUTIFUIi CASE ALSO FREE. Full
money returnable within seven days if
dissatisfied. Order to-day. Terms are
10/- with order and 10/- monthly.
TALKERIES
Q.V. Bldgs., 451 George St., Sydney.
'mwz r §.
LISTEN TO
EM WHISTLE
WATCH'EM REVERSE
WILL OPERATE OFF
r BATTERIES
(WHISTLING TRAINS EXCBPTtD)
r IScrtj d 7 ta-70
SEND 6?IN STAMPS FOR CATALOGUE
r 4MPLIOH 66,CIARENCE ST. SYDNEY.
I
THE START OF AN
UGLY BALD PATCH
can be arrested by the timely help of
“TASSAN” Reg.
HOME TREATMENT.
Use it in your own home and
WATCH YOUR HAIR GROW!
Join the ranks of satisfied clients.
Send £l/2/- now for SIX MONTHS’ supply.
MISS DICKISON,
Sydney’s Only Baldness Specialist,
903 Commonwealth Savings Bank Building,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Established 1912. 'Phone: 82253.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
df
sdf
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Bedfern, JS'.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
STOPyour Rupture
sd
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/ll/'38
says:—.
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
14 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 271, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BARGAINS IN
Military Surplus Stocks
JUST LANDED 200 Pairs MILITARY
PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-new, made
of the best English leather, size 27 x 17 ins.
Worth £7/10/-. To clear, only 55/- pair.
MILITARY BAYONET SHEATH KNIVES,
best English Steel. Every knife stamped
and guaranteed. Honestly worth 35/-.
TO CLEAR at only 7/6 each or 2 for 14/-.
GENUINE MILITARY B.S.A. RIFLES,
310 cal., single shot, brand-new, special and
extra sights, distance gauge. Original cost
£7/10/-. NOW only 25/-. Genuine Bargain.
CADET B.S.A. 22-cal. RIFLES, 45/- each.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Desk B, 248 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Est. 25 years.
A NEW GIFT for the HOME!
ZCZDXZ E
English Sycamore Bread Board, with
colored edges, 5/6. Posted Free
for cash.
Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free.
W.JNO. BAKER
PTY.
liTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
30/- Value
for 17/6
Gold-mounted “Barling.” Special price to
“Bulletin” Readers? 11/6
Genuine Meerschaum, handsomely packed.
contained in its own case 17/6
HONESTLY WORTH 30/-.
Write for Pipe illustrations.
Send 6s. in stamps for liberal sample of “Levys-
own” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb. Worth 10/- lb.
For cigarette or pipe. Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
SOL LEVY
Esgjggga
■SjkDE&SH
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
HORSE RUGS ,
Made from first-quality cotton
duck with adjustable, leather
leg strap, grey wool lined and
water resisting.
Waterproof Green JJuckj
5ft. 6in. 5ft. 9in.
33/- 34/- ,
6ft. 6ft. 6in. !
35/- 37/-
COXXON DUCK
38/3 39/-
30/6 33/6
Felt Lined 4/6 Extra.
Freight Free in N.8.W.
NEWMARKET
SADDLERY,
for
Saddlery
Cata-
f
WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
SEND YOUR
SKINS
MADE UP
into Furs to Heilmans,
who specialise in this
class of work. Best
workmanship and reason-
able charges. Write for
styles and quotations or
visit our showrooms.
sdf
M. HEILMAN FURS^.;
Bth FLOOR, STATE BUILDING,
49 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BLANKET BALE fSSi
See what Salvage Stores now offer :■
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
2 Heavy—quality Linen-finish?d
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear, 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONLY 35/-
I V/. IL
»L\*AGE STORES
SYDNEY
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT,
SALVAGE STORES, s SI y st "
TILLEY LAMPS
sd
300 Candle Power. British Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1} pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYKEX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 50/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and Other
Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ctrl.,
70 Clarence Street, Sydney.
TeAtj&llfMmtk
J
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing: aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting' rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601K, City Mutual
Building, enr. Hunter & BligJi Sts., Sydney ;
and at U5 Collins Street, Melbourne,
AMAZING
CLIMBING TOMATO
fsd
NOTHING EVER LIKE IT
BEFORE! In a growing
period of A YEAR it climbs
to 20 feet on trellis or fence,
etc. Produces TWO BUSHELS
choice large red Tomatoes
PER PLANT. Being an “ALL-
SEASONS” Variety, it can be
sown NOW. 2/6 packet,
posted.
Also AMAZING NEW 100 PER
CENT. “NON-ACID” PURE
WHITE HEALTH TOMATO! “White Beauty.
Disease and Drought-proof! 2/6 packet, posted.
TIMBER KILLER! Kills largest trees, ROOTS
TO TOP, IN 15 DAYS'. 5/6 tin, posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
"WINCHESTER
SKATES
12/6-18/6
f
COWLES
and DUNN
91 KING STREET, SYDNET
<1
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal —
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrlckville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
Tty
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
Parmak Electric Fencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD.
IBB GEORGE STREET..SYDNEY. N.S.W.
DEAF 2
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
address
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and
Zealand should send 30/-.)
New
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS & BITERS
By Robert Kaleski
The Standard Australian Book on Dogs. 256 Pages (illustrated).
Price, 2/2 (post free).
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.. 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON 14/6/’39 (See Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with
your “Wants” to the Service
Department, “The Bulletin”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


'
mm
-
HI
mu
t
ALFRED J. BRITON
CAMOUS International Physical Direc-
tor, Founder of “Health and Physical
Culture” Magazine, circulating through-
out the Southern Hemisphere. Only
after years of practical experience and
successful practice was Alfred J. Briton
able to publish this amazing book ; it
is just off the press and there is a copy
of it for you—shoot the coupon along—
NOW!
Yours If You Send This Now
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —• Please
send me absolutely
sdf
FREE a copy of your latest book, “The
Secrets of Muscular Strength And
How to Acquire It.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 14/6/’3O.
I Want you *
NEXT!
NEW —Sensational—Extraordinary! The greatest demon-
stration of muscle-building known to the world of
physical culture. YOU can be next. Almost overnight I’ll
transform you into a marvel of muscular power—give you
astounding new health, strength and vitality. Read how!
ILL MAKE YOU FEEL ALIVE!
I’ll give you a new and wonderful THRILL- I’ll put glorious
new LIFE into every cell, nerve and organ of your body. Man,
things happen when I start working on that body of yours—and
they happen FAST. Floods of vitality surge through you, your
vital organs tune up and start hitting on all six; your muscles
begin to GROW. In 30 days you’re a changed man. You feel
better and look better than you ever did in your life. Your body
has been completely rebuilt —you wonder where those big, beauti-
fully-proportioned muscles came from.
Another MIRACLE IN MUSCLE. Yes, and this time it’s YOU.
Just give me a few minutes a day in your own home —and watch
yourself.
MIRACLES IN MUSCLE
YOU hear everybody talking about them.
Physical culture authorities are amazed.
Think of it. Men transformed —almost over-
night. Puny, sickly weaklings transformed
into superb specimens of MANHOOD. Strong
men made STRONGER. This astounding new
method works its wonders for ALL-—young
or old, sick or well. Incredible? Yes; buc
this is in an age of marvels.
We speed across continents by aeroplane,
where once we plodded by stage coach. We
talk through the air by radio, where once
we depended upon slow-footed couriers. And
now BRITON brings to physical culture the
greatest advance of the century.
BRITON, the pioneer—the first in the field
—to-day, as always, is years ahead of his
time, BRITON training—the original, the
genuine, the system that has built the
world’s great strong men—still sets the pace
• —startling new developments make it the
most modern system of body-building in the
world.
Ordinary systems become as old-fashioned
as the one-horse shay in comparison. BRITON
training accomplishes almost overnight what
other systems can never accomplish in
months and years.
The Greatest
Book of the
Century
Is Free!
NEVER before has
any book created
such a sensation.
Never before has it
been possible to show
such overwhelming
PROOF in amazing
photos and letters,
and now you may
get this great book
FREE if you send the
coupon AT ONCE!
R
..SYDNEY
PITT
N.S.W.
DEPT
LETTERS! LETTERS! LETTERS!
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD
“I am fitter than ever before —
your course is doing for me mon
than I ever imagined.”
R. A. NORRIS, C., Sth. Africa.
“The development of my an
and shoulders has been really won
derful, and it does my eyesight
good to look at my biceps and
triceps, which are now becomin
balls of muscle. I wish I ha
taken your course years ago ar
so saved myself much sufferini
and ill-health.”
C. J. CROSBIE, S., Vic.
“Just a few lines in answer tc
your warm and welcome letters,
am also thanking you for your
wonderful course, which is indeed
scientific and rapid in its results.
In five days I have gained three-
quarters of an inch on the chest,
and feel much better physically.”
F. GILL, H., N.Z.
“I have completed the first
course, and I am amazed. I have
gained eight pounds in weight and
Zi inches around chest.”
K. H. FOULIS, T., Fiji.
“I am very pleased with your
course, and I feel wonderfully fit
—in fact, I’ve never felt better in
my life. All my friends are talking
about my wonderful physique. I
thank you again from the bottom
of my heart for what your system
has done for me.”
J. MORRISON, S., Scotland.
“My three months’ course of
Excelding with you is now com-
pleted, and I write to express my
satisfaction and gratitude for the
wonderful difference it has made,
and 1 don’t think you have a more
thankful and satisfied pupil than
I am.”
G. R. EAST, J., Qld.
9
I
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG!
§HiM
wßEji\
§§|«SL I
'i- { Wmmy'
gg
%
; wS' f ’
SajalißßPsBiB&,
vmBBSSBsii£Bm :■
* " §|M§§§i
I
MB&®
i
\C
•o
a
S
C
r 7
<?•
K
V
\
>
Become An Artist-QUIGKLY!
Let Brodie Mack Teach You At Home !
AT last you are able to learn all branches of art under
the supervision of this famous Australian artist.
Amazing short-cut method simplifies art. You learn at
home.
Make Money In Your Spare Time !
"DRODIE MACK has made it possible by means of this remarkable
Course for you to earn money in your spare hours. He shows
you how to “cash in on his experience. He teaches you how to
rapidly develop your latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you reading this
announcement points to you having a desire to be an artist then
send for this amazing book and let us prove that we can make
you a skilled artist.
How To Be An Artist—/S FREE!
XT EVER before lias a book of this nature been offered free. That, is why you
■IN should se nd for your copy now. It shows you how to draw—develop your talent
how to cartoon, the secret of illustrating-, etc. Fill in the coupon and send at
once! NOW!
Tear This Out—Post Now!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School, j
Desk 43, Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. j
Dear Sir, —
Please send me FREE and without obligation my I
copy of your famous book, ‘ How to Be An Artist, j
I enclose stamp to defray postage.
Name j
Address
B. 14/6/’39.
FREE!
SJSU
,
t
1500 FREE BOOKS
ON DANCING!
NOW you can test this wonderful
course on dancing yourself—try
this famous system in your own home,
and if, after 30 days, you have not
become an expert' dancer, popular and
sought after, it COSTS YOU NOTHING
—not one penny! But you must
hurry; this offer may never again be
repeated. It places you under no
obligation whatsoever; all you have to
do is to post the coupon NOW!
SIMPLE AS A.B.C.
T does not matter if you have never
danced a step in your life before—or
if you have been trying for years to
dance—the famous BOLOT System,
the system that has stood the test of
25 years, guarantees to make you an
accomplished dancer in just 30 days
—OR IT COSTS YOU NOT ONE
PENNY. It will teach you all the latest
dances—Slow Fox-trot, Quick Step,
Waltz, Tango, Rhumba, etc. —together
with Modern Old Time. The Bolot
System never fails—you have Professor
Bolot’s personal guarantee.
BECOME POPULAR!
MAGNETIC Personality—Popularity
—Confidence can be obtained with
Professor Bolot’s wonderful course
you will find yourself
sought after admired
by the opposite sex
invited out' to all social
functions—in short, you
will become a “social
lion.” Dancing is the
short cut to good times
non-dancers and bad
dancers miss all the fun
in life—now is the time to start and
take advantage of Professor Bolot’s
wonderful offer. NOW—but' hurry,
this offer is limited.
What This FREE Book
Will Show You!
• How to Eearn at Home.
• How to Hance the Fox-trot.
• How to Hance All Dances.
• How to be Popular.
• How to Improve Conversation.
• How to be a Perfect Dancer.
1500 copies of this famous book will be
sent FREE. Send at once for your copy.
PROFESSOR J. BOLOT,
French Dancing Academy,
Studio 47, 62-64-66 Oxford
St., Sydney.
m
•ivmmm.
m ,4i
m
m m
I! I?
kkwkV
41
{END NO MONEY
Professor J. Bolot, F.A.R.,
French Dancing Academy,
Studio 47, 62-64-66 Oxford St.,
Sydney.
Dear Sir, Please send me
by return post your FREE
BOOK, “DANCING AS A
FINE ART.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 14/6/’39.
