

Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
-
;
rasa
111 -
SSSSSSS
■'. I
1
<>
£ '
«PMB
m
V
.
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY^
&/>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879 .
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
representatives required.
WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
Its Now up to Germany
Vol. 60.—N0. 3099.
Wednesday, July 5, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street# SYDNEY.
L c r : ivl M,
SlOrM ntHOftE
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
My Name •• ••
My Address ■■
s.i!. you •
The Red Page
T. S. ELIOT AND THE FURIES.
There are enough ghosts, witches, fairies and
monsters in Shakspeare’s plays to give warrant for the
ntrusion of almost any oddment from the nether-
world into a verse-play, yet when T. S. Eliot has the
Furies popping into an English drawing-room in The
Family Reunion (Faber ; per F. W. Preece, Ltd., Syd-
ney) one doesn’t need to be a butler to feel slightly
disconcerted. It is very little less perturbing, moreover,
when Ivy, Violet, Gerald and Charles, who have been
chatting away amiably enough in blank verse, sud-
denly transform themselves into a chorus and begin
to declaim:
Why do we feel embarrassed, impatient, fretful, ill at
ease,
Assembled like amateur actors who have not been
assigned their parts?
Both phenomena are a rather unnecessary contri-
bution from —and tribute to —the Greek tradition.
Obviously it was in Eliot’s mind to show the heroic
stature of the trials of a contemporary family by set-
ting them against the classic background of tragedy;
and perhaps he thought, too, to give a more human
significance to the ancient myths and dramas by
demonstrating that they are symbols of common
enough passions and situations. But The Family
Reunion is sufficiently powerful in plot and character
to suggest Greek drama without the aid of either
Eumenides or chorus.
Harry, in whose remorse after murdering his wife
the play centres, conveys more than adequately in
speech and action the impression of a haunted mind.
The appearance of the Furies after he has spoken is
always an anti-climax. Harry, Mary and Agatha,
three intelligent people in a family of sublime stu-
pidity, do much of the work of a chorus in comment-
ing upon the others and analysing the fundamentals
of the situation, and a little more use of them could
have eliminated entirely the necessity for Ivy, Charles
and co. abruptly becoming a church choir and chant-
ing profundities. Eliot had Tempters and a chorus
in Murder in the Cathedral, but the Tempters were
mortals with humanly unscrupulous propositions to
put to the Archbishop, and the chorus of poor women
sounded perfectly natural in the ecclesiastic atmo-
sphere of the play.
The Family Reunion, nevertheless, strikes home
as drama very much more effectively than the latest
manifesto from Auden and Isherwood, On the
Frontier (Faber; per F. W. Preece, Ltd), where the
choruses of workers and soldiers are quite acceptable,
and where the daemonic background, instead of appear-
ing in some incredible shape out of mythology, is the
all-too-credible sound of radios and guns. Though—
in contrast to The Family Reunion, in which one of
the characters even goes to have his bath in Mr.
Eliot’s version of the iambic pentameter —the greater
part of On the Frontier is in prose, it is constructed
as a verse-play. It is about a dictatorship and a
democracy at war, and much of the action takes place
in the “Ostnia-Westland room,” the stage represent-
ing a house in Ostnia and a house in Westland
divided by the frontier, so that two families, which
the audience is to presume are unaware of each other’s
presence, are seen and heard simultaneously.
This serves the authors’ moral purpose very well.
They can show that both are decent, ordinary, fairly
stupid people, at the mercy of nationalist propaganda,
and that the war is caused more by folly and mis-
understanding than by any dark plotting. The senti-
mental young lovers, a girl from one family and a
youth from the other, who are symbols both of the
tragedy of the present and of hope for the future,
are a visible comment on the activities of their elders.
The device is useful, too, for the purposes of satire
when the Westland dictator and the Ostnian king are
declaiming practically identical noble sentiments over
the radio. It might or might not succeed on the stage
(even in the woodland scene in “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” it’s annoying to have to pretend, as is very
often asked, that people who can see each other can’t),
but it would be worth trying.
The play misses because the characters are dum-
mies photographs from a newspaper rather than the
rich oils that Eliot paints. The dictator (producers
are asked to disguise him in a beard) is portrayed as
weak, vainglorious, hysterical, secretly despised by his
associates and openly adored by young men and spin-
sters, simple and kindly enough at heart, fanatically
patriotic. There are a cynical Big Businessman, the
Ordinary People, the Common Soldiers who very
quickly get sick of the war, and there are the Lovers.
How many times has all that this play has to say
been reiterated in newspapers, books, plays, talkies
and speeches over the past few years? It seems to be
the only subject permissible to the Auden group of
poets: he and Isherwood have said something about
it in every one of their plays ; Stephen Spender jumped
in with Trial of a Judge; over in America, Archibald
Macleish does his bit with The Fall of the City. A
great play may very well be written some day about
the fear of war, but a Morality Play such as On the
Frontier, though it approaches its theme with a greater
respect for impartial truth, is less exciting to read
than the average daily newspaper.
The Family Reunion, on the contrary,' is far
more dramatic than any newspaper account of a family
tragedy could be. Its personalities are clear-cut, cred-
ible, sharply alive. Though the ending, when Harry
- who pushed his wife off a ship seven years pre-
viously and came back to let Mr. Eliot talk about sin,
remorse and expiation at the family reunion—goes
off to be haunted again, lacks the neatness of the
death of the Archbishop in Murder in the Cathedral,
it is both moving and plausible, and the play as a
whole has the advantage over the earlier tragedy that
its analysis of the sense of guilt is immediately im-
portant, whereas the study of martyrdom was remote.
With the Furies left out, it is as close to life as
any prose play. Except for Mary and Agatha, the
Family is too respectable to admit that such a thing
as a murder could have stained the escutcheon. Even
when Harry, driven to confession like the Ancient
Mariner, forces upon them the knowledge of his guilt,
they prefer to believe that he is suffering from delu-
sions. Yet the buffoon brothers and the spinster sisters
are desperately inquisitive and cannot resist question-
ing Harry’s servant to find out the truth.
While they, incapable of understanding the depths
of passion, are prying, quarrelling and clowning on
the surface of existence, Harry’s mother, with a cold,
intense, baffled love, and Mary, a distant cousin who
loves him with pitying and pitiful comprehension, are
fighting bitterly to win Harry back to normal life.
Agatha, the one with the clearest intelligence, knows
that the battle is hopeless ; she is his mother’s sister,
and traces Harry’s doom back to an affair she had had
with the husband when the mother was pregnant. Dis-
covered, the affair broke up the marriage, and Agatha
suggests that Harry is the “burnt offering” for old sins:
Harry: Perhaps my life has only been a dream
Dreamt through me by the minds of others. Per-
haps
I only dreamt I pushed her.
Agatha: So I had supposed. What of it?
What we have written is not a story qf detection,
Of crime and punishment, but of sin and
expiation.
It is possible
You arc the consciousness of your unhappy
family,
Its bird sent flying through the purgatorial flame.
Indeed it is possible. You may learn hereafter,
Moving alone through flames of ice, choseri
To resolve the enchantment under which we
suffer.
The versification is brilliant throughout, and occa-
sionally Eliot’s poetry reaches new peaks of icy per-
fection, ranged from vast pronouncements in the mood
of “The Hollow Men” to the simplicity of:
The cold spring now is the time
For the ache in the moving root
The agony in the dark
The slow flow throbbing the trunk
The pain of the breaking bud.
These are the ones that suffer least:
The aconite under the snow .
And the snowdrop crying for a moment in the wood.
But it is not all Furies and weeping snowdrops.
Eliot’s acid wit has never shown to better advantage
than in the family scenes: Charles, groping for under-
standing, admitting, “My mind is not what it was
or was it?”; Violet, who has been utterly bewildered
throughout, deciding: —-
Really, it sometimes seems to me
That I am the only sane person in this house.
Your behavior all seems to me quite unaccountable.
What has happened, Amy?
Leonard Mann's Fine Novel.
Leonard Mann’s new novel, Mountain Flat (Cape),
justifies the interest aroused by his earlier work. It
is a fulfilment.
The war novel. Flesh in Armor, was disrupted
and passionate. The action staggered. It was a prey
to itself. In Human Drift the historical interest cap-
tured the fictional interest; a good book, but disjointed
and dispersed, without the compensating fire of its
predecessor. A Murder in Sydney showed an access of
power, and finished strongly, but change of direction,
perhaps of intention, in the early part marred it as a
whole. .
Mountain Flat has none of these disabilities. It
is a beautifully integrated and modelled piece of work,
one of those books that take the universe in a homely
snare and hold it.
Mountain Flat is a settlement m the Victorian
bush, once the scene of a gold rush. The receding
tide had left a handful of settlers on the land: an
old Italian, Negrelli; a German family, the Seiglers;
George Coburn, Andy Galton and a few others. They
intermarry and form a little close-knit society on land
that cannot quite support it, bound together yet
estranged by their needs. Coburn puts the whole
problem, simple and basic, that colors all their lives
when he says:
If a man had Sutton’s he’d have with his own
almost a farm. A man must have enough land. Up till
the last five years it was easier to get a bit of gold.
There’s only a color left in the sluicings. The mines
don’t work any more where a job could be got. And
when the railway’s finished there’ll be no more sleeper
contracts. There’ll only be scratching on our bits of
land. And all the prices of things are going up. We
can live like the crows, but what’s going to happen to
the children, Beth and Tommy and the others? Even
Vannie, who can have the place when I m gone, how
can he get a decent living here when he marries and has
a family? But if we had Sutton’s he could just about
make a go of it. There’s only a decent farm in the lot
of the Flat. What’s going to happen to the one of us
who doesn’t get Sutton’s? The one who gets buttons
might get Amsley’s, too. The one who doesn t get
Sutton’s will have to walk off like Jim Bashford. And
the one who stays will have old Negrelli s.
That is the web in which they are all caught, the
web of the land and the struggle of survival. George
Coburn and Andy Galton sort themselves out as the
protagonists. The first round goes to Galton, who
buys Bashford’s place when he is forced olf it. But
Coburn gets Sutton’s, and it looks as if he is to be the
one who will survive, when a quarrel between Coburn s
son Vannie and Bob Galton, who are yet too much
individualists to serve the land and the land only as
their fathers do, wrecks everything, and Coburn is
forced to give up and go just as Bashford had been.
The story, which is complex and covers the whole
small community, is clearly imagined to the last detail.
Of every development you feel that it could not be
otherwise; necessity drives it home. Behind the plot,
which can be invented, is motive, which can only be
imagined. Motive provides the nervous system oi
any novel. It is in motive that character expresses
itself, and it is the analysis of motive which carries
the weight of this book. What happens happens
to real people, and therefore it is credible. A nove
built that way is sound to the core. ... c
The action is strung between the departure or
Jim Bashford, driven off the land to take a job in
town by the poverty of his holding and his own
inadequacy, and the departure of Coburn, driven
out by a different kind of inadequacy, a flaw of gree
and passion. One going is an asymetrical echo of
the other. With one something began. The struggle
for land passed over from the implicit to the ex-
plicit stage of rivalry; the issue became concrete ana
hard so that something or somebody would have *°
give way. With the other something ended. Ihe
blind, exasperated misery of the first is carried ove s
into the second. But in defeat Coburn also found
release —release from the land to live his own life.
Behind the struggle there is the uncompromising
spirit of Greek tragedy. The law is fulfilled , greed
has its own punishment; the law is inexorable.
The boy Vannie follows the law of inheritance
for the Garibaldian Negrelli. The consequence is
immanent in every action, and the action springs from
character. Coburn, because of his honest fibre, can
never be quite defeated. There is no pause in the
book from beginning to end. It is swift and certain
all the way. It is the finer man who is sacrificed
to the law, because he acknowledges it.
The portrait of Coburn is masterly in its quiet
terms. He is a man who could not be stampeded by
life; not at all a hero, but a full human being. You
know it when you first see him; there’s something
in him that wins your sympathy though he is doing
something, despite himself, that is just a little shabby.
His face was broad and square, but like bis wide-boned
body it was lean also. His nose was a solid one, his
mouth thin, his eyes a soft blue like the shirt, bleached
pale by weekly washing, that he wore underneath his
waistcoat and old working coat. A light brown stubble,
grown strongly through the tough tanned skin, covered
his hard jaws and compact chin. He was a quiet-spoken,
straight-looking man. _
The background of the small community, the
detail of everyday life, the natural scene, is specific,
transcribed rather than invented. You can smell the
gumleaves and you can catch the slow tempo of
life in the almost ritual conversation disks that every-
one exchanges. “This cold wind’ll put the oats
back.” “They aren’t the first and they won’t be
the last.” The pictures of the Flat, of the neighboring
country town, of the people and their ways are all
cut out of the same piece of reality. _
Mountain Flat is better written than any of its
predecessors, as if its greater integration had inspired
and illuminated its prose style. It is written with
far greater certainty, prose and narrative moving
together like the man and the horse in the centaur.
This Bright Old World.
At a time when the world is generally presented
in mourning Kurt Lubinski’s This Is Our World
(Hodder and Stoughton) comes as quite a pleasant
change. He seems to have been almost everywhere,
and the world for him is a great treasure chest
crammed with an infinite variety of gems and curios.
He undertakes his travels with adventurous zest and
can communicate his feeling to his reader. Being
content with appearances he finds all things excellent.
It is always the oddity that he brings to the surface.
From Iceland, where he is astonished and
charmed to learn that the mosquito is a valued visitor,
he goes, via a sketch, “Red Sea Furnace,” to Altai in
further Mongolia ; afterwards to Abyssinia before the
conquest, when Christianity wore a face more bar-
baric than paganism; to America ; to Spain before
the war ; to Turkey and Holland ; last of all, rolling
a stone against the gate of paradise, to “Austria on
the Eve.”
Here is variety, and the treatment is various.
Some of the sketches verge on the short story, as that
of the half-caste Suzanne, the beautiful girl who re-
verted to her mother's people on the eve of marriage
to a rich and important white man, or the Spanish
interlude with its half-submerged tale of the torrid love
of the beautiful actress Elisa Balar for the toreador
Juan Molino and its dark denouement. A fragment
of autobiography is tucked modestly away towards the
Very interesting are some of his glimpses of
well-known men. He had the curious experience
when travelling on an Italian liner of having his iden-
tity confused with Trotsky’s. Trotsky was living an
exile in Turkey, condemned to death in absentia in
Russia. He was invited to Holland to lecture, and
with his wife, secretary and three strong men smuggled
himself aboard the Italian ship under an assumed
name. All the ship became aware of a mysterious pas-
senger who never left his stateroom and of the three
young men who patrolled the deck outside and never
took their right hands out of their pockets.
One day the purser came to Lubinski with a sheal
of radio messages addressed to him but not for him.
Trotsky’s friends knew that he was travelling but did
{“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act. "THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
HaM 1/ear/i/ 6?«<tf»«SALE
mm
m
m
: : Wm'i
W- Ready to Wear
SAC SUITS
696
Blue, Grey or Brown Worsteds tailored in our
own workrooms, standard quality, with pre-
shrunk British linings and interlinings. We
guarantee all garments to keep their shape
and give the utmost service. Two or three
button models, form fitting or semi-fitting
shapes. Regular, long, short, stout and cor-
pulent fittings enable you to get a perfect
fitting suit instantly. Regular Price 847-
SALE PRICE 69/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor
—George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in NS. W.
and seaports in the Common *
wealth.
W- English Topcoats
English Tweed Topcoats in
the latest green/grey, blue/
grey, fawns and browns.
Neat Herringbones with
smart contrast fine checks,
woven check back inside.
Tailored in our . own work-
/,
rooms faultlessly, so that they are indistinguishable
from a high-class London tailored topcoat, Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price - 1267-
SALE PRICE
75/- Double Breasted
Navy Blue OVERCOATS
All wool, fast dyed Navy,
in a good weight. A smart
Topcoat for evening wear,
tailored in our best pos-
sible manner. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price ... 75/
SALE PRICE 59/6
GF
9 Gns. English MADE
OVERCOATS
This season's coats, made
by J. Barrans. Raglan
styles, English and Scotch
tweeds in fancy check
Greys, Browns or Fawns.
A genuine saving of 21/-.
OGns.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 9 Gns.
SALE PRICE 8 Gns.
®SW
m.
m
1
w.
AX
«
M
n
mm.
m
a
m
|
H
fS
11
1
if
&*3
a
&
H
■I
m
m
%fn:
U
m
HI
se-
tt
I
xmf.
PM
m
&
&M
m
is.
i
rs
>frn
m
m
m
IP
%m
mm
m
v
w
'Mv
iii
m
m
m
}MQi
w
m
Mm
V ! m
m
h&
m
m
WA
Wm-
u
m
m
f
m
m
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Ltd. Sydney
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
'PHONE M 2401
DAy OR NIGHT
52/6 TWEED OVERCOATS AT
Australian tweeds, good quality all wool
fancy Greys or Fawns, tailored in double
breasted form-fitting styles with art. silk lin-
ings. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 52/6
SALE PRICE 39/6
Ƒ


“Dogs Are Intellergenl Animals, like Men, Only They're Faithful ” — Mrs. Parsley
The Doqs of War
BY HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
“IF only I had that Mr. Herr Hitler here in these
flats,” said Mrs. Parsley—“not that he is the
sort of man I would like to have owing me rent
—I would let him have a piece of my mind.
All the upset he is making! Only last night I was
thinking of advertising them empty flats; but when
I read that in the paper about Hitler letting loose the
dogs of war it put me right off.”
The repercussion of world politics upon the affairs
of my landlady was astonishing, as Mrs. Parsley’s
reactions frequently are. Soothingly I suggested that
she might advertise her flats with entire safety. There
might not be a war. “Out of all this turmoil we may
reach a stage when people will refuse to quarrel,” I
suggested comfortingly.
“Not married couples,” retorted Mrs. Parsley
decisively. “It would be too much to expect them
to see the terror of their ways. I suppose it was that
paper talking about dogs that upset me. Well might
they call them the dogs of war, for there’s nothing
people will fight over so easily, as I learnt to my
sorrer. I like them myself ; for dogs are intellergent
animals, like men, only they’re faithful. But never
again will I permit them to be kept in my flats.
“Not now,” corrected Mrs. Parsley. “Once l
thought it didn’t matter; and look what came of it!
With the place full of substitute babies and Mr. Slom-
pack exposed as one of them whitened steeplechases
in wolf’s clothes with a poor abandoned wife crying
on his doorstep, as they say. And everybody saying
ne should provide the girl with a home. The police
here, and everything!”
Mrs. Parsley paused for breath. It seemed a long
way from Hitler ; but the hint about the moral down-
fall of Mr. Slompack, always standing as a rock of
respectability in Mrs. Parsley’s establishment, inter-
ested me.
“I will say that Mr. Slompack brought it on him-
self. ‘Let us all keep dogs,’ he said. Little did he
know that them were fatal words.
“Everybody had always thought Mrs. Fidgett’s
pom, which she called Doodems, was a pest, but when
Mr. Grampy, who was a new tenant, brought Cancan,
which it was kennelled in the yard, the ill-feeling was
distendified, as the saying is. Mrs. Fidgett said
Cancan’s howling at night upset Doodems’s nerves,
and Mr. Grampy said it was Doodems’s yapping that
made Cancan howl.
“They were regular bony distensions, if ever there
were any. Mr. Grampy said Cancan was a goldmine.
It was always going to win some big race; and the
men were on its side because Mr. Grampy gave them
inflammation about dogs that were going to win races,
and they could always lose their money in backing it.
When Cancan didn’t win, Mr. Grampy said it was
because Doodems’s yapping had kept him awake and
spoilt his rendition. But there were others who didn’t
like Cancan’s' howling, like Mrs. Turner, who said,
it was a sign of a death and sent for the doctor to
see whether she was dying. Mrs. Turner always said
she would be better off in heaven; but, although
heaven may be a happy landing, as they say in the
hymn, I’ve never known anyone who wasn’t upset at
the idea of going there.
“It was when I told the men, who put all the
trouble on to Doodems, that I had told Mrs. Fidgett
she could have Doodems in her flat just as any other
tenants who liked could have dogs, and my word was
my bondage, that Mr. Slompack said that about every-
body keeping dogs.
“ J T was no sooner said than done in the eye, as
* the books say; at least some of the tenants got
dogs; and when them dogs started fighting on the
landings, and the owners began quarrelling, I wished
I had put my foot down before it all started. Even
the Major, who had always
been friends with him, was
soon threatening to punch Mr.
Wassail on the nose (which the
word he used was ‘snout,’ but
I won’t demean myself) be-
cause his Airedale had nearly
torn his fox-terrier to pieces.
“Mr. Slompack had had
an inferior motive when he had
said that, so it appears. It
sounded strange to me when
he said he had a dog in quaran-
tine which a friend of his
travelling in Europe had sent
out, asking him to look after it
until his return; and Mr.
Slompack said that as every-
body was keeping dogs he
might as well bring Toby here as put him in a dogs’
home.
“Never in my widest dreams of having rice, as
Mr. Slompack himself says, did I think that there
could be a dog the size of Toby. When I first saw
that dog I nearly fainted ; I thought it was another
lion. And them dogs nearly fainted, too. Doodems
had come to the top of the stairs to yap, as he often
did, as if he owned the place ; but when he saw Toby
he jest gave a yelp and bolted for the flat. It was
the same with the other dogs. One moment you would
see them ; but suddenly they would be gone, and you
knew they had seen Toby. And Cancan, when Toby
went ‘woof!’ got into his kennel as far as he could
go and forgot all about his howling.
“Mr. Slompack brought the dog up the stairs to
show how gentle it was, with all its size. Very proud
of it' he was.
“ ‘Look how he pricks his ears! ’ he says. ‘Listen!
Do you hear that baby crying? Toby hears it. His
filigree is a breed of dogs trained to rescue children
who were lost on the mountains or in the woods. Toby
was only a pup when he left his home ; but the instink
is in him.’
“Mrs. Fidgett said Toby was a scandal; and
some of the men didn’t like it; but the people in the
neighborhood looked upon that dog as an unnatural
curio and used to follow them when Mr. Slompack led
him out for a walk on a leech.
“ I F Mr. Slompack had always kept him on a leech,
' though, all might have been well. Little did I
think that the day when Mr. Slompack thought Toby
might have a run by himself, as he had an appoint-
ment, was going to be the momentary day it proved.
“When Toby found he was free he jumped in
the air with a ‘woof’ which made a horse across the
street look as if it wanted to bolt. He gave a look at
Mr. Slompack as much as to ask wasn’t he coming,
and off he boundered.
“ ‘He’s a great dog,’ says Mr. Slompack proudly.
‘I feel that animal would do a great deal for me.’
“If Mr. Slompack had only known what that dog
was going to do for him he would have turned in
his grave, if he had been in it.
“Before we knew where we were or what was
happening these flats seemed to be full of babies. The
first was outside Mr. Slompack’s door, when Mrs.
Turner came rushing down, all agitated, to call me
up. There was several women there all standing
round, afraid of the dog, and there was a baby be-
tween his paws playing with them, quite happy. Toby’s
tail was banging against the door as if he was knock-
ing to get in. But I was used to feeding him, and it’s
well known that a dog won’t bite the Anne what feeds
him. No sooner had I picked up that baby than Toby
gives a great ‘woof’ and out he boundered again.
“Mrs. Wallsley, when the dog was gone, wanted
me to let her hold the baby, which I was only too
glad to do ; and we were all sitting together in the
lounge at the top of the stairs, saying that that there
instink is a thing that works in a wondrous way its
blunders to perform, and that it was wonderful that
that dog hadn’t been out half an hour before it found
a lost baby, when Toby brings the second baby in.
“ ‘Good heavens,’ cries Mrs. Wassail, ‘babies
can’t be lost at this rate. I wonder if they are really
lost babies. I hope he doesn’t bring back any more.’
“For Toby had no sooner seen me than he plumped
the second baby in my lap, gave a ‘woof’ and out he
went again.
“ ‘Won’t Mr. Slompack be pleased,’ says Mrs.
Fidgett, sarcastic like.
“Mr. Slompack wasn’t pleased; not when he
Knew. At first, when he saw us women with them
two babies, he used some of that Hairy Percy’s flage
that he likes so much. ‘What is it —a mothers’ meet-
ing?’ he asks. But he was took aback when we all
started to tell him about how Toby was bringing in
babies as if the place was one of them screeches.
And just to prove our words there was sounds like a
baby crying ; and up the stairs bounders Toby with a
third. He just put this one in my lap and started to
leap round Mr. Slompack, woofing like anything.
“ ‘Good heavens!’ exclaimed Mr. Slompack. ‘This
is awful. Lie down! Good dog.’
“Mr. Slompack only said that about being a good
dog to quieten Toby ; but the dog must have taken
it for praise and discouragement. Mr. Slompack made
a grab at his collar, but missed, and, in spite of him
calling out to it, tl}e dog went rushing down them
stairs like one of them caravans that crash down the
mounting side. We heard him woof out in the street.
“ ‘This is terrible! ’ cries Mr. Slompack. It was
terrible, too, having babies brought to the establish-
ment not in single flies but in battle lions, as the say-
ing goes. Not that them women seemed to think it
so terrible. They seemed quite pleased to have babies
to nurse, especially that Mrs. Wallsley, though she had
told me once that she and her husband had decided
they couldn’t afford any themselves and, anyway
babies were a lot of bother.
“ ‘We must consider how to get these babies back
to their mothers,’ says Mr. Slompack, worried.
“There wasn’t any occasion to think of that for
long ; it was a case of Mahomets going for the moun-
tains, as the Bible says.
‘ * | T frightened seven monks’ groans out of me, as
* the saying is, when that mob of people came pour-
ing up the stairs, following Toby. He had another baby
in his mouth, but he was growling so that they were
afraid to take it from him. Soon that crowd was
everywhere on the stairs and right out in the street,
so people told me later, going on as if they were going
to pull the place down, and talking about kidnappers
who trained dogs to steal babies. It was as if all
Clapham was let loose. There was so much diffusion
that you could hardly hear them babies howling, let
alone what anyone said, except one man with a gruff
voice who kept saying that a man ought to stoush
’im.
“I must say that not even Horatius who played
bridge while the crusaders attacked Rome could have
been more cool than Mr. Slompack ; he stood there
like Ajax defiling the lightning ; although he might
not have been so good if Toby hadn’t been beside him
growling at them which came too near, which they
didn’t. They was all afraid of Toby, which who
wouldn’t be? But in spite of him some women burst
out of the crowd and seized babies, hugging them.
But they weren’t satisfied with getting their babies
back. They told Mr. Slompack off terribly, all speak-
ing together.
“Confucius was worse, confound it, as the Bible
says, when them firemen came forcing their way up
the stairs, somebody, seeing the crowd, having rung
up the fire brigade. But by-and-bye the tumors die
down, with the crowd satisfied to say ‘Give it to ’im,
missus! Good on you! ’E deserves it all.’
“ ‘Keeping a huge dog what snatches babies out
of their prams when a woman’s back is only turned
for a moment!’ says one of the women.
“ ‘The baby must have cried,’ says poor Mr.
Slompack, ‘and the dog’
“ ‘Can’t a poor mite cry without being kidnapped
by a great caverning animal?’ asks another woman.
“‘A man oughter shoot the beast,’ says the
man with the gruff voice. It gave me a *start, thinking
there’d be shooting ; but I could do nothing. If they
had been tenants I could have given them notice ; but
they weren’t.
“I expect it was that pound each that Mr. Slom-
pack gave the mothers that modified them, after he’d
tried to explain about it being the dog’s instink ; but
I dare say it was the money he gave the man with the
gruff voice, thinking he was a father, which it turned
out he wasn’t, to buy his friends a drink that did most
good.
“ ‘Come on, boys,’ he says. ‘He’s a sport, any-
way. It’s not his fault; and he’s going to keep the
dog chained up.’
“IT was surprising how empty the place seemed
* when that crowd had gone ; and Mr. Slompack
looked quite pleased, in spite of all it had cost him,
tipping the firemen and all. Little did he know that
his troubles was just beginning.
“ ‘Who does this baby belong to?’ asks Mrs.
Turner.
“There it was asleep in her arms and quite un-
conscientious of all the tumors. Mr. Slompack said
probably its mother would turn up soon ; but it was
still there when he came back from chaining up Toby,
which the poor brute looked disappointed at not get-
ting the praise he must have thought he earned. And
by that time Detective Cassidy and a policeman were
there, too, to see what all the rumpus had been about.
“ ‘We’ll have the baby sent to Scarba,’ says Mr.
Cassidy,


“‘I don’t know. The mother may come here. I
feel guilty in a way,’ says Mr. Slompack, ‘and per-
haps’
“ ‘Oh, it would be best to keep it here! I’ll look
after the little darling!’ cried Mrs. Wallsley.
“Everybody thought that was a happy dissolu-
tion ; so the police said the child could stay pro
temper, which was something it certainly showed when
it woke up. But no mother turned up in spite of a
taxfully-worded notice in the paper.
“So the baby stayed. The tenants called it ‘Mr.
Slompack’s baby,’ which he didn’t altogether like, no
doubt thinking it was hardly respectable, him being
a bachelor. The poor man didn’t know that there was
much worse waiting for him in that corney cup-
holder of Time of which the poet sings.
“There wasn’t any trouble about looking after
the baby, except that Mrs. Turner didn’t see why
Mrs. Wallsley should have a monotony of it, and even
Mrs. Fidgett, besides Mrs. Wassail, wanted to have
a share.
“Them women was all against it when Mr. Slom-
pack said that something would have to be done about
the child, and as it was his irresponsibility he thought
he had better send it to Scarba. He said he thought
it would be best to talk it over in his flat. Almost
every woman in the place took that as a generous
invitation.
“But I was downstairs, that being a night new
tenants were to come, when a young woman came to
me and asked if this was the place where the lost
baby was. She seemed weighed down by weighty woe ;
but she was very well dressed.
“ ‘it’s in Mr. Slompack’s flat at this moment,’ I
says.
“ ‘ls that Mr. Tom Slompack?’ she asks ; and
hardly waiting for me to say ‘yes’ and tell her which
flat it was, up she rushes, me after her. She burst
into the flat, which the door was open, like a bolt
from the balloon and dives over to the baby to hug
it and cry ‘Oh, my precious little darling!’ But she
left it in Mrs. Wassail’s arms —which was having it
ror a time. She rushes to Mr. Slompack and throws
her arms round him.
“‘Oh, Tom! Oh, my dear, dear husband!’ she
cries, weeping. ‘Fancy my having found you! Fancy
that dear dog having brought our lovely little baby
to its own father.’
‘‘ IF ever there was a bolt from a bombshell that
1 was! And a pretty kettle of fish and chips it was,
too. You should have seen the way all those women
looked at Mr. Slompack!
“Mr. Slompack might have been as cool as that
Horatius playing bridge before that mob downstairs ;
but he wasn’t that way now, trying to unwrap him-
self from that young woman, which she refused to
be unwrapped, and telling her that she was historical
and he’d never seen her before.
Oh, Tom, Tom!’ she cries, all piteous. ‘ls your
memory gone? Of course, I knew it must have gone,
or you wouldn’t have deserted me the morning after
we were married. But you can’t throw me off now
we’ve met by a coracle.’
“You never saw such a scene! I couldn’t make
heads and tails oi it, what with that woman talking
with tears in her voice, the more so when Mr. Slom-
pack had broken away and got round the other side
of the table, and kept saying that he wasn’t married
and didn’t know her; and the
women saying that they knew all
the time that there was something
queer about Mr. Slompack. They
seemed certain that she really was
his wife.
‘ ‘Oh, how can he say he
never saw me before?’ wails the
woman. ‘I have my marriage
lines in my box which I can show.
It says Thomas Slompack. We
met in the train coming from
Melbourne ; and although it was
all very sudden he made me be-
lieve he had fallen in love with
me at first sigh. And so had I
with him. I had had to leave my
position in the country because
of the way my employer behaved,
without money; and I thought
he pitied me. Directly the train
arrived we got married. Then we
went to a hotel. I trusted him
and was happy; but he went
out after breakfast, and I never
saw him again. Not till now. And
now he’
“ ‘The callow brute! ’ says
Miss Perry; and she was not
the only one who spoke as that
Mrs. Slompack, as it seemed she
was, broke down, weeping.
“ ‘Well might he say he felt
guilty about that baby,’ says Mrs.
Fidgett.
“ ‘lt’s preterposterous! ’ cries
Mr. Slompack. ‘lf a Thomas
Slompack married this woman,
it wasn’t me. She’s a complete
stranger.”
“Mrs. Slompack gave a
moan like a wounded heart, as
the saying is, though, of course,
a heart, being a mere orgy of
the body, can’t speak.
Isn’t it terrible?’ she wails. ‘He seemed such
a kind man ; if he hadn’t made me believe that he
mved me, I wouldn’t have married him. I always put
LoSed^“. mem ° ry - ‘° him ha ™ g been
• . . .
r t ° n the tra,n! ye,,s Mr ’ Slom "
P !° , 8 aS l£ he was gomg t 0 burst
, Yo “ ve 801 B ° ur baby i I’ll be glad if you’ll all
leave my flat,’ he says. ‘l’ve had enough of this. That
woman must take her baby away.’
t< , , _ y y .
Bl f 1 t 0 g 0? Cnes Mrs ‘ Slom P ack -
/ VC WOrked hard to kee P my baby -° ur baby; but
l Was pUt ° Ut ° f my lodglngs because I had no money
7 0r u re ?. t ' 1 was looking for new ones when my dear
babe dlsa PP eared - I’ve been looking for it ever since ;
and “^^r.^r;trt’sd iff ereu t . I
ti
keeping the other side of the table still.
~
You cou l d sta y mmy flat to-night with your
dear baby >’ sa y s Mrs. Turner. ‘That inhuman mon-
ster may think better of b in'the morning.’
4 4 1—} OW Mr. Slompack got them all out of his flat
1 1 I do not know; but I know he slammed the
door very bard - Never i n m y born existence did I
know sucb a hulloobulloo. The news about Mr. Slom-
pack being really a married man was all over the
dats bke w ildflowers. The women had always seemed
an noyed at Mr. Slompack being a bachelor, with the
money he se£med to have whicl f a wife wou i d be able
to spend; and I think they felt a triumph in having
him .
But the things they said about the poor man! 11
Was Mlss Perry who called bim a wbitened steeple-
chase ’ and nearly all tbem women said that they
bad known ab alon § tbat tbere was something queer
about bim> Tbey must have watched him as the
Cat watches tbe mice at P lay > the way they remem-
bered how he had been to Melbourne, and hadn’t come
back here stnd § bt wben be returned, and had looked
as if he had been drinkin S heavily.
“Some were for advising Mrs. Slompack to go
for him for maintenance ; they said she could get five
or six pounds a week and wouldn’t need to be wor-
r^ed wbb hi m - And others thought that Mr. Slom-
pack bad some S ood in him and would do the right
tbing -
“ ‘Especially as you have a dear little baby,’ says
rSI Wassail sedimentally. ‘No man will turn against
b^s own cbdd —*f he is a man.’
“f 1 seemed as if the indignation meetings of
w °men were going on amongst the flats all night long,
ad saying what a brute Mr. Slompack had shown
himself. It must’ve been them that thought there
might be a happy ending which prevailed, for I found
rs - Slompack with the baby in her arms and Mrs.
Turner and Mrs. Wallsley with her tapping at Mr.
Slompack’s door in the morning.
“ ‘Baby wants to say good morning to its daddy,’
sa y s Mrs. Slompack in a cooing voice like one that
wanted to let bygones be bygones.
‘“The pigheaded brulel’ says Mr, Turner.'
‘We’ve been knocking for a quarter of an hour and
he won’t take any notice.’
“Which the reason why was plain that verv
moment, when Mr. Slompack came up the stairs from
the street.
ail »» *nd goes on
speaking. Xm not married to this woman. That’s
Preterposterous But she says she is without money,
“ d sh f, has a , bab y- 1 , ve hr 6" out t 0 cash a cheque,
N ° w > I m willing to gtve her twenty pounds if she
Wld 8° away and find lodgings for herself and the
child.’
„ , T , ,
Tom* child, Tom, she says. Oh, you can’t
mean to cast me off l.ke this.’
If you’ve got any claim against me,’ says Mr.
Slompack, as cold as a bicycle, ‘you can prove it in
court. Meantime, here’s the money ; take it or leave
says Mrs. Turner. ’Hard-bearled
perhaps, I’m 100 damned sof,-headed,’
says-
-7
w „ . ?° k aßer tbe baby for you > says Mrs.
a quiCKiy.
‘ >We will,’ says Mrs - Turner. ‘There’s no need
for yoU t 0 hurry t 0 return ’ dear -’
“5® dldnt e itber - When Mr. Slompack came
back at lunchtime sort of anxious to see that she
bad gone .’ the baby was still here. We were in the
lounge with it; and Mr. Slompack had to stand what
them women said about him changing his mind and
doiag , tbe ngbt . thing. He was so worried that he
couldn’t retortoise anything.
“‘Here she comes!’ he said suddenly.
Th “ But il Was Det^ ctive . Cassidy aad two women,
The y ° Ung ° ne pushed U P in front of hlm-
“There wasn’t any mistake about this young
woman; and if that there Solomon who had to cut
a baby in two to decide which was which had been
present he wouldn’t have had any doubt about who
was a mother. She didn’t take any notice of Mr.
Slompack or any of us. With something like a yell
she rushes forward sudden and grabs the baby from
Mrs. Fidgett’s arms, hugs it to her, then holds it off
!° ook at and then flops into a chair rocking it
her arms like the broken doll of the song. All the
dme ? sbe was cf ying ‘Oh, my baby! My little dar-
Bng! tt
“Detective Cassidy was standing there looking all
soft-like, as even policemen can look, and pleased with
himself as if he was entirely irresponsible for every-
tb*ng ’ including the curse of true love which was run-
? lng t 0 ad f hat smoodge again. And he told us about
lt: “ £tA/r
MrS- Bradley was called away sudden to go to
, tbey thought was dying, and she
as ked her landlady to look after the baby, who was
as ’ e< “P m a pram on the verandah, while she was away
—which, bemg a very motherly woman, she was ready
do ‘ w hen Mrs. Grabbit saw the pram empty she
thought the mother must have tound she couldn’t
" * wX’ IT
th ttx 1 h th L- (^ S ’ Pratdey
" ame back bat , tbey both had the hlstoncs , nearly ’
B u “fs^ til^
(Continued on page 7.)
“Oh, Tom! Oh, my dear, dear husband!”


Pub-crawling with the Reacher-Outer
MURDERERS
DON’T COME BACK
by J. B. BLAIR
/ 1 FTER Eddie Rumpelmayer’s little excursion into politics he seemed to
/ I go a bit cold on the Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer. I made some
V. I tentative advances on the lines of my old plan, but he showed plainly
he was not interested.
“Think of it, Rumpy, old man,” I pleaded. “There’s a fortune in it. Look
how the audiences lapped up those old music-hall programmes at Partiman’s
meetings. We’ll take the new theatre and get”
“Yes, I know,” he interrupted. “We’ll get Melba and Caruso and Henry
Irving and all that lot. Well, if you want to hear them you can come around
to my studio any night you like and I’ll bring ’em all back. But as for hiring
theatres and debasing the Reacher-Outer by sordid commercialism —nothing
doing!”
A few days later I tried another line. “You’ve got a great educational
weapon in the Reacher-Outer,” I told him. “Think what a priceless boon it
would be to the schools if they were able to amplify their history lessons with
authentic voices from the past.”
“Such as?”
“Well, for instance, Elizabeth and Essex, or”
“Education’s right,” chuckled Rumpy. “Let me tell you I’ve brought back
some of Bess’s chats with Essex and I learnt quite a lot —but hardly the sort of
thing for the classroom.”
“Maybe 1 picked a bad subject,” I admitted, “but there are plenty of
others. Give them Captain Cook landing at Botany Bay or Oliver
Cromwell praying before battle.”
“How do you propose to do it?”
“You’d recapture the scenes with the aid of Robbie ; then
we’d run off records for distribution among the schools.”
“I couldn’t afford to do that. It’d cost thousands
to do it thoroughly.”
“Well, of course, we’d have to make a small
charge to cover expenses. Nothing excessive. Just a
nominal”
“I thought so! Another get-rich-quick scheme.
Forget it. Robbie will not be used as an instrument
for money-making.”
I gave up.
NEXT day I happened to run into Detective-
Sergeant Cuffprint in Hopeman’s bar. Cuffprint
has a bigger collection of unsolved crimes to his credit
than any other three detectives in Australia.
“How’s tricks?” I asked.
“Rotten,” he said, giving me a gloomy look.
“There’s a hoodoo on me. Other blokes are put on
a case and they get their evidence served up on a
plate ; someone turns King's evidence or a discarded
lover sends an anonymous letter, and all they gotter
do is nab the suspect. No one ever turns King’s
evidence to get me a conviction. Nobody ever sends
me no anonymous letters.”
“Bad luck,” I murmured.
“Too right it’s bad luck. D’you know I reckon
it’s just about getting that way now that when a mur-
derer reads that I’ve been assigned to his case he
straightway comes out of smoke and starts wearing
normal-sized collars again.”
Two whiskies had been disposed of during this
little outpouring of an injured soul. A couple more
and Cuffprint had produced a notebook.
“Look at these,” he said, turning the pages over.
“Unsolved! Unsolved! Unsolved! They go right
back to 1930. Look! May 6, 1930 —the Clancy case.
That was the first. I always feel that if I could get
that one cleared up it’d sorta ginger me up —restore
my confidence —and the rest’d be easy. There was
a thousand quid reward, too. Then there was the
McCallum case”
“Never mind about that one,” I said. “Tell me
more about the Clancy case.”
“Don’t you remember it? Clancy was found shot
dead in the Domain. We never traced any relations
or found anyone who had ever seen or heard of him.
Our only clue was a letter found in his pocket, which
addressed him as Clancy. It asked him to meet the
writer that night and said ‘Don’t forget what I told
you in my room last night. If you breathe a word
I’ll kill you.’ ”
“Was it signed?”
“No. That phrase ‘in my room’ gave me a hope.
I reasoned the writer must’ve been staying at a pub.
If he’d meant at his house he’d’ve said ‘at my place
last night’ or ‘at home last night.’ ‘ln my room,’ I
reckoned, clearly showed the talk took place in a
hotel.”
“Have another whisky?”
“No, thanks. I never drink on duty. I just
dropped in here on some routine checking-up.”
“Of course. You can pour them this time, Phoebe.”
Phoebe obliged. Cuffprint returned to the Clancy
case.
“Well, I got photos, of the victim —Clancy, that
was —and sent them to every pub in Sydney to see if
AS
UNK WHITE
PICTURES IT
anyone’d recognise him, but, no luck. And from that
day to this nothing further has been discovered.”
“Nothing?”
“Not a thing! And to think that in some room
in some pub in Sydney—perhaps this very pub we’re
in now —on May 5, 1930, a conversation took place
that would hang a man if only I could lay hands on
someone who overheard it.”
“Just a minute!” I asked. “Is that reward still
open?”
“Yes. it’s still on the books. A thousand quid!
Though”
“Phoebe,” I said, “gimme that bbttle again.”
NATURALLY the Clancy case appealed to me as
an ideal job for the Reacher-Outer. All we
would require would be a map setting out the exact
position of every hotel in Sydney. Rumpy could set
his temporal-eliminator for the evening of May 5,
1930, and allow his spatial-positioner to prowl over
the site (in space) of each pub in turn. A tedious
job, but we would be bound to catch the incriminating
conversation sooner or later.
Cuffprint found considerable difficulty in grasping
the idea. He had never heard of Rumpelmayer’s in-
vention, and his mind was not exactly a scientific
one. After I had gone patiently through the theories
of sound and radio waves, the time and space factors
and so on he seemed in two minds whether I was
pulling his leg or was just plain crazy.
“It can’t be done,” he said. “I know you can get
pretty wonderful machines nowadays, but y’ can’t tell
me that y’ can get one that’ll reach out and nab a
bloke for something he did nine years ago without
even knowing who it’s looking for.”
Despite my careful explanation he apparently
envisaged the Reacher-Outer as a very corporeal Arm
of the Law which groped around in space and grabbed
the suspect by the scruff of the neck.
I went patiently over the ground, again relating
a few of the things Robbie had actually achieved, and
at last he began to grasp the idea.
“The machine will bring back that conversation
for you,” I concluded, tying it up to a particular
hotel. Then all you’ll have to do will be to check
up the hotel register for May 5, find out who were
staying there, trail them, and there you are!”
He saw it at last.
“By Jove, you’re right! ” he exclaimed. “Where’s
this chap Rumpelmayer live? Let’s go to him.”
“By the way,” I said to Cuffprint as we neared
Aunt Lucy’s, “my friend Rumpelmayer is a bit
queer where money matters are concerned. He doesn’t
like the subject mentioned at all. Just ask him to
do this as a personal favor or as a national service.
Don’t say a word about the reward.”
“I get you,” replied Cuffprint.
“Good! Not a word, then.”
“No. I won’t trouble his conscience. If the
thing turns out all right I’ll get them to pay the full
reward to you, and then” *
RUMPY fell for the national-service talk much
more readily than I expected. A wave of crusad-
ing zeal swept through him, and he spoke of clearing
up all the unsolved crimes in the police records.
“Why worry about resurrecting that old hotel
conversation?” he asked. “Why not listen in to the
actual murder? Get the victim’s last words! We’d
probably hear him denounce the murderer with his
own lips. Think of the tense drama of the trial.
Cuffprint takes the stand and switches on the record.
Back from the past come the last words of the


“ ‘But,’ I says, ‘what about the other mother?
We was expecting her back any moment.’
“ ‘What! ’ exclaims Mr. Cassidy. ‘What other
mother? I never heard yet of an infant having two
mothers.’
“ ‘Nuisance Nancy, I bet! ’ cries Mr. Cassidy when
we told him ; and the way he described her down to
her peroxide hair and her eyes that looked as if they
couldn’t tell a lie, which I never believe them sort of
eyes myself, was like two peas in a pod. ‘She won't
come back,’ he says. ‘So she put over the tale of a
romance in a train, and a marriage at the end of it,
did she? And then being deserted at the hotel, and
thinking the husband had only lost his memory?’
“ ‘lt was something like that,’ says Mr. Slompack,
very uncomfortable.
“ ‘That’s her lay,’ says Mr. Cassidy. ‘She actually
worked that on a young man who was just going
to go to the church to be married and done for ; how
we heard of it was because, after paying her twenty-
five quid to get rid of her, the chap rang us up in
case there was a scene at the church. He thought she
genuinely believed that what she said was true, y’see.
She seizes on anything that’s going ; makes a nuisance
of herself until she’s given money to get rid of her.
That’s why we call her Nuisance Nancy. I suppose
you gave her some money, Mr. Slompack?’
“ ‘Well—er —I did,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘But I
don’t think we need say anything about that.’
“ ‘There you are, y’see! ’ says Mr. Cassidy, with a
shrug. ‘We could have a lot on Nuisance Nancy only
people who’ve been had won’t go on. We want to
get her. Would you be prepared to lay a charge,
Mr. Slompack?’
“ ‘No, I won’t,’ he says, defiant. And sometimes
I thinks, afterwards, that he’d almost sooner have
been really married to that Nuisance Nancy than have
all the tenants know he had been the victimisation of
a trick like that. Which all that should have cleared
Mr. Slompack from the vile aspershums that had been
cast upon him. But it didn’t. Miss Perry, for instants,
said he must have a guiltless conscientiousness to have
parted with his money like he did. Perhaps he really
did marry a young woman he met in a train under a
name he used as an alibi, and then deserted her;
which would account for him remaining a bachelor.
Them women clid hate that Mr. Slompack being a
bachelor!
“The first thing Mr. Slompack did was to take
Toby out to the Home for Dogs, where if he got out
and started bringing back babies there wouldn’t be
any trouble like we had. And the first thing I did
was to get Sandy, the odd-jobs man, to put up a
notice that no dogs was allowed in the flats.
But it was Mr. Wassail that showed how every-
body was disgusted with dogs.
“ ‘That damned Cancan! ’ he says. ‘We lose our
money on it; and then when we’re too upset here
to think of it, it wins! At ten to one. Damn’ dogs!
I’ve given my Airedale to Detective Cassidy.’
“Which Detective Cassidy didn’t know that that
very morning it had bitten the postman,” concluded
Mrs. Parsley.
murdered man. So you are going to kill me, Wilber-
force, you cur!”
“Who told you Wilberforce did the job?” de-
manded Cuffprint.
“I’m just using that as an example. Call him what
you like. ‘So you’re going to kill me, So-and-so. You
cur!’—the words come back, and the man in the
dock, in whose ears the echo of these words has been
ringing for nine years, breaks down and confesses.”
I was very much taken by the suggestion, but
Cuffprint would have nothing to do with it.
“It ain’t evidence,” he protested. “I’d rather stick
to the first idea. You get us the conversation and
I’ll do the rest. Proper orthodox methods. A fair
chase and a fair trial. You leave that part to me.
Anyway,” he concluded, “we wouldn’t know where to
look. I don’t think the murder was done in the Dom.
at all. The body was taken there afterwards.”
Rumpy reluctantly yielded the point.
P HE job we had set ourselves might sound a simple
one, but when you consider that there are over
five hundred hotels in Sydney and suburbs and each
one has from a dozen to six hundred rooms, in any-
one of which the fateful conversation might have oc-
curred, you will realise what we were up again.
Rumpelmayer explained that, in terms of sound
waves, the voices, clatter, din, jangle and noises of
Sydney at any given moment on May 5, 1930, repre-
sented a definite pattern in space racing towards in-
finity at the speed of sound. Robbie’s task was to
chase after this sound-city at the speed of light and
bring it back to us, delicate adjustments of the
spatial-positioner ensuring that we got the exact spot
we wanted.
“We’ll skip the suburbs for a start,” said Rumpy,
“and concentrate on the city proper.”
He had made all his calculations and had the
exact positions of a long list of hotels tabulated before
him.
We’ll take a run down George-street to start
with, just to get used to it.”
Cuffprint goggled as the familiar clang of tram
bells issued from the amplifier.
“We’ll take a tram,” said Rumpy.
“Fez, please!” “Will this tram get to the
Quay in time to catch the 7.30 Manly boat?”
“This end of the town’ll be ruined when the
bridge is finished.” “Oh, not for a couple of
years yet.”
“Well, here we are at the Quay,” Rumpy an-
nounced. “Might as well start now. Which one first?”
“The Hectagon’s handy,” I suggested.
There’s a nice little girl at Christo’s,” remarked
Cuffprint hopefully.
“We’re back in 1930,” I reminded him.
We re supposed to be looking for murderers, not
barmaids,” said Rumpy, calling us back to the path
ol duty. Let’s be systematic. Come down past the
Customs House and start at the Last and First.”
CTO our strange pub-crawl began appropriately at
one of the city’s oldest hostelries. We spent quite
a time at the Last and First and peeked (scientifically
speaking) into every room. Any conversation that
sounded promising we would follow up until we were
satisfied that no menace was intended. Then we
would readjust our time and try the next room.
Now and again we would intrude on a tete-a-tete
where we were obviously not welcome. My sense of
1 airplay and decorum urged me in such cases to sug-
gest an immediate switchover, but Rumpelmayer’s
scientific thoroughness invariably insisted on eaves-
diopping for a while to make quite sure our man was
not there. In this he was supported by Cuffprint,
whose zeal, I am afraid, was tinged with curiosity.
I felt really sorry for one young fellow we caught
pouring out passionate words of love to his adored.
“Hush, dear,” she warned him. “Someone
might be listening.”
No one can hear, Popsy-Wopsy,” he assured
her. And l wouldn’t care if they could.”
Bold words—but I doubt whether he would have
been so brave had he known that nine years away
three snooping investigators were waiting to hear every
word he said.
It took us a couple of hours to finish all the
hotels at the Quay. Then we began to creep up-town.
By this time our technique was improving, even if our
belief in our fellow-men was fast disappearing.
It is a big blow to one’s faith in human intelli-
gence to hear sober men arguing heatedly over the
horses likely to win races you know were run nine
years ago or wagering money against the happening
of events which you know (and which everyone
knows) have already happened.
It was difficult much of the time to realise that
the voices we were listening to were speaking in 1930
and not this present year of grace, but every now and
then some incongruous remark would bring it home.
“There’s no doubt,” said one worthy patron
of the Hotel Gigantic, “that the world is in for
a long period of peace. Mussolini’s about due
to crack up in Italy, and with Germany now a
democratic country everything in Europe is
likely to stay settled for twenty or thirty years
to come.”
“What about this Hitler fellow?”
‘A nobody! I know a chap that was in
Germany last year and he tells me he’s just a
mob orator. No real strength. They just laugh
at him in Germany, this chap says. No fear!
Germany’s a real democracy now.”
“Nothing doing there,” I said as Rumpelmayer
switched to the next room.
“No,” he answered. “Let me see. Hitler! That
was the fellow that led the rising in Munich in 1923.
I’ve often wondered what became of him. That talk
shows he must’ve still been about in 1930. Interest-
ing, that.”
Robbie was now prying into the past of the Hotel
Metaphor. We could hear a rather attractive female
voice.
“By Jove!” exclaimed Culfprint. “I know that
girl. The Metaphor! That’s Mavis! I’d know her
voice anywhere”
He stopped abruptly, looking rather confused.
Mavis was apparently greeting a newcomer.
“Hullo, Mr. Cuff print. You’re late to-night.
Didn’t think you’d be coming.”
“Y’ didn’t think I’d let y’ down, did you?”
It was Culfprint 1930 speaking. Even if we hadn’t
recognised the voice, the expression on the face of
Culfprint 1939 would have proved that.
“Now we’re going to hear something,” I said,
with a wink at Rumpelmayer.
“It’s a waste of time,” protested Culfprint 1939.
“Y’ won’t hear anything in the bar. The letter said
in his room.”
“Gee ! Is that for me, Mr. Cuff print ?”
“Seems to me we’ll hear quite a lot,” grinned
Rumpy. “What did you give her, Culfprint? Diamonds
or furs?”
“Switch it off,” stormed Culfprint. “Y’ pair of
lowdown pimps, snooping into a man’s private affairs.
Switch it off!”
His angry protests effectually drowned the voice
of his past self, and the next sentence we distingushed
came from someone we had not heard before.
“ Where’s Mavis? ’Strewth, she’s gone off
with that flatfoot again.”
“You’re right, Culfprint,” said Rumpy. “There
doesn’t seem to be much doing in the bar. We’d
better get on to the other rooms.”
The detective shuddered, then pulled himself to-
gether. “Look, we’re only wasting time hanging round
the Metaphor. It’s not likely the murderer would be
in the same pub as me that night. It’d be too much
of a coincidence. Let’s pass on to the next hotel.”
“Oh, you never know,” I told him. “It’s just the
sort of impossible thing that does happen.”
Rumpy agreed. “If we’re going to do this thing
at all we might as well be thorough. I’ll try some
of the private rooms.”
"You can try ’em on your own,” snorted Cuff-
print. “I’m chucking it up.”
He got up and made for the door. I saw my
share of the reward going out with him.
“Wait a bit,” I called to him. “Look here,
Rumpy, Cuffprint’s right. After all, he’s in charge
of the investigation. If he’s satisfied the Metaphor’s
O.K. why should we worry?”
“All right,” agreed Eddie. “He ought to know,
anyway. Sit down, Culfprint, and we’ll try the Dernier.”
Culfprint resumed his seat. “We might get a
line on one of you before we’re through,” he mut-
tered.
“Here’s the Dernier,” Rumpy was saying.
Two voices were talking, both rather heatedly. We
listened intently, and we all three gave a simultaneous
jump when we heard:
Quit arguing, Clancy. You’ve had your cut
and there’s nothing more in it for you.”
“Look here., boss. I’ve had a raw deal. I
done all the work and got nothing for it.”
“You got all that was coming to you.
Or — perhaps — you — didn’t—yet.”
“Gee, boss. What cl’ya mean ? I ain’t”
“You know what I mean. Now, get! And
keep your mouth shut.”
0.K., boss.” There was the sound of a
door slamming.
“We’ve got him,” cried Culfprint. “I’ll get the
guest register from the Dernier and have everyone
checked up in two ticks. Mr. Rumpelmayer, you’re
a”
“Sh!” said Eddie.
1 he “boss” was speaking again, apparently to a
waiter.
“Bring me another whisky. Don’t let anyone
else in to see me to-night, and have me called at
seven in the morning.”
Very good, sir.” Silence for a while.
“Hang it,” complained Rumpy. “I was hoping
the waiter would mention his name.”
“When he comes back, perhaps,” I suggested.
We waited, but heard nothing.
The “boss,” it seems, retired quickly, and shortly
afterwards we heard new voices coming probably
from the next room. After making sure they had
nothing to do with Clancy or the “boss” Rumpy
switched off, but at Cuffprint’s request recaptured the
scene once more to enable the detective to take short-
hand notes of the conversation.
Well satisfied with the night’s work, we parted,
Culfprint promising to let us know as soon as there
were any further developments.
I—IE was as good as his word, though it was several
days before I heard from him. His communica-
tion took the form of a letter from Boggabri.
It was a long letter, and told an interesting story.
It appears that on the morning after our investigation
the Police Commissioner had called Cuffprint in and
suggested that it was time he did something to reduce
his “unsolved” list. The detective, stung to action, had
told him that he had the Clancy case all complete.
Pressed for details he had told the whole story of the
Reacher-Outer s discoveries. The Chief had suggested
(a) that Cuffprint was drunk, ( b ) that he was light-
headed, (c) that he needed a holiday.
“So I said to him,” the letter read, “ ‘Well; perhaps
you d like to step along to the Dernier arid check the
register with me. Ten to one there’ll be a name there
were familiar with.’ ‘l’ll come,’ he said, ‘if only to
find out whether you’re drunk or looney.’ ”
So Cuffprint and the Commissioner went to the
Dernier and asked the manager to produce his register.
‘Not this one,’ I said. ‘lt only goes back to 1935.
Give us the one before.’ ‘There ain’t any,’ he says.
•We only opened in 1935.’ ‘Don’t be silly,’ I told him.
There’s always been a Dernier Hotel.’ He started to
say something, but the Chief interrupted. ‘Just a minute,’
he said. T’ve got an idea.’ He called over a bloke
that was standing at the other end of the bar. ‘Mr.
Fitzhardinge,’ he says. ‘One of our oldest actors.’ We
shook hands. ‘Now read us those notes again.’ I read
them.
“When I finished he said to the actor chap, ‘What
do you think of that, Mr. Fitzhardinge?’
“ ‘Act I, Scene 2, of “The Slasher,” ’ says Fitz-
hardinge, ‘produced about nine years ago in this very
theatre —I mean in the old Dernier, which stood on this
very spot. A sad day for the profession when it was
demolished.’
“ ‘But what about Clancy?’ I asked, knocked all side-
ways, because, of course, I remembered the theatre
now.
“ ‘He was killed, like several others in the cast, with a
filed-down horseshoe. Act 11, I think, “The Slasher”
was’ ‘That’s enough, thanks,’ said the Chief.
’Come on, Cuffprint.’
“When we got outside I tried to convince him that
it was just a coincidence and to get his permission to
continue the investigation, but he wouldn’t have it.
‘There’s a nice quiet relieving job at Boggabri I’m going
to put you on for a few months,’ he said. ‘And when
you come back I hope you’ll have got all this stupid
spiritualist nonsense out of your head. Catch to-day’s
train!’ ”
“Spiritualist!” snorted Rumpelmayer when he
read the letter. “The police needn’t expect me to help
them again. They can solve their own mysteries in
future. I wouldn’t mind betting that man Fitz-
hardinge was hand in glove with the murderer all the
time.”


h
The “Luck”
I, a m b-
marking’
Knife, 10
inches over-
all. 3iin.
blade, 7/0
each.
Postage 6d.
STATION STEELWARE
Triple Crush Emasculator —
Crushes and cuts in one
operation; commends it both
for the novice and expert,
55/-
SEND FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
M3OOO
Baker’s Studlock (Regd.) Sheep Ear
Labels, made of aluminium (round edges),
15/- per 100, including stamping and
numbering.
Midget Scoop Dehorner.
Length 1 6in., 15/-.
Postage 1/-.
W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PTY.,
LTD.,
sin. Dagging
Shear and
strong leather
sheath’ to
carry on
saddle, 13/9.
Postage, 1 /-•
not know his alias. Looking down the passenger list
of the Praga they chose Lubinski as the most likely
alias. The mistake enabled Lubinski to meet Trotsky.
He found him an immaculately dressed and cultivated
man living in a state of primitive terror, revolvers
strewn over his cabin, lying even on the edge of the
bath, so that one was always ready to his hand.
At Naples, where a rumor of his arrival had
spread, the ship was besieged with pressmen and
photographers from all over the world. The Govern-
ment managed that he should visit Pompeii under
escort. It was like a raree show. Round every corner
in the excavated city lurked a newshound. At Mar-
seilles, where he was to disembark, a big demonstra-
tion of the curious was brewing, but the authorities
took him off in a launch outside the harbor at day-
break and the crowd was disappointed.
Lubinski also met Kemal Ataturk, who apparently
had a mania for European dress-suits, and interviewed
Schuschnigg while he was working in the office where
Dollfuss was killed, a grim reminder to the reader —
and the only one —that the world is not only bright.
Napoleon at Bermagui.
In the early ’eighties a Government survey party
left Bermagui, on the South Coast of New South Wales,
to carry out certain work along the coast. Their boat
was subsequently discovered in a cove some distance
away, but no trace of the four men who constituted
the party was ever found. It is somewhat appropriate,
therefore, that this scene of a genuine “Bermagui
Mystery” should be selected by Arthur Upheld as the
venue of his latest yarn, The Mystery of Swordfish
Reef (Angus and Robertson).
In selecting this area for the exploits of Napoleon
Bonaparte, his curiously original half-caste detective,
Upheld has very naturally combined mystery with
the big-game fishing for which Bermagui is famous,
and the result is a book which is in some ways much
more interesting than the usual crime-detection story.
There is the thrill both of mystery and good sport.
Upheld’s detective hero does not show any re-
markable brilliance in solving the mystery. The
lesser characters do most of the work for him. The
problem centres in the disappearance of a hshing
launch and its crew on a day of complete calm, and
the recovery by a trawler, as part of its catch, of the
skull of the big-game angler who had hired the launch.
The book suffers from a lack of incident and ex-
citement in the first three-quarters of its journey, and
from an overdose in the last lap. It leaves the impres-
sion that the author, having suddenly discovered that
he has taken up too much time with his fishing, has
had to rush his crimes and thrills in order to get the
yarn completed within decent limits. But the descrip-
tive passages, especially those relating to the catching
of swordfish, are very well done, and in. bringing
Bonaparte from his usual haunts in the interior of the
continent to its seashore Upfield has produced a book
worth reading for its freshness and vigor.
In Blackshirt Interferes (Hutchinson ; Angus and
Robertson) Bruce Graeme, one of the most prolific
thriller-writers of to-day, gives another typical yarn
of his “Blackshirt” series—typical both in its extrava-
gances and its plot. Blackshirt himself wears that
sombre garment, not because he is a Fascist, but to
make it easier for him to be indistinguishable from the
surrounding blackness in which he prefers to woik.
He’s a combination of Raffles and Bulldog Drummond
a genius who can crack a crib and elude the law and
the wiliest foreign conspirators with equal success.
Breathless adventure and desperate risks crowd thick
and fast upon him.
A Dram of Poison is a rattling good thriller by
Marr Jackson (G. Bell and Sons ; Dymock s). It has
literary merit, its story is well told and its events cred-
ible. The mystery is not solved or solvable until the
last chapter, although when once it is arrived at the
reader sees how well and how smoothly all the pre-
vious incidents fit in.
The author wastes no time in getting down to tin-
tacks. His victim, Sir Ranal Hamer, ninth baronet of
his line, is poisoned in the first chapter at his own
dinner-table, on the occasion of a dinner given to
mark the attainment of his majority and at which only
his own relatives are present. John Appleyard, private
detective, and Clive Lucas, his young assistant, try to
discover the poisoner. Appleyard, in particular, is an
excellently-drawn character, a sleuth with a personality.
There is little novelty in the crime or in the methods
by which it is detected ; the whole merit of the book
—and its merit is considerable —lies in its incident and
in the character drawing.
Patricia Wentworth’s Lonesome Road (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Dymock’s) will add to the reputation
she has already achieved. It has all the merits which a
thriller should possess. It gets off the mark quickly,
its interest is well sustained, its characters well drawn
and pleasingly varied, its incidents exciting while not
incredible, its climax well worked up and the solution
of its problem, while surprising in itself, is reasonable.
The detective is Miss Maud Silver, who has appeared
in earlier yarns. Miss Silver is certainly not common-
place, either in her methods or her results. No thriller
fan could ask for a better tale than this, and, like A
Dram of Poison, it is well-written.
Heaving info Hitler.
Without the German leader the world might be
a happier place, but the publishing industry would be
poorer. The war-book boom of a dozen years back
cannot be compared in either volume or violence to
the present spate of tomes touching on Hitler. He
hogs the literary limelight, mostly in the role of
Aunt Sally.
None of the heavers is more gentle than Philip
Gibbs. Revising and adding 20,000 words to his
Across the Frontiers (Michael Joseph ; Dymock’s) to
make a cheap edition, he has to do a little throwing.
It must not be suggested that he pelts ; he just throws,
lady style, and even for getting close is always ready
to apologise. It appears that “a change took place in
Hitler’s mentality in the early months of last year”; that
at the very time when Mr. Neville Chamberlain took
over the control of foreign affairs and began his policy
of appeasement with Germany and Italy the Fiihrer
turned sour against England and no longer believed
the possibility of friendship between our two countries.
Splendid. And what of Herr Hitler’s protestations
of friendship since then? What of that piece of paper
that Mr. Chamberlain carried back from Munich-
signed on the one hand by a man who, on this apolo-
gist’s showing, had some considerable time before
‘‘turned sour against England” and “no longer believeu
in the possibility of friendship between our two
countries”? S’Philip can’t have it both ways.
According to this authority the change in Hitler’s
mentality was brought about by the spectacle of the
coffins of the 22 German sailors who were killed in
the bombing of a German warship off Spain. He saw
their coffins and was enraged by this tragedy, for which
he demanded punishment.” Having recovered, appar-
ently, he signed at Munich.
At first it was thought that
in millions of little homes haunted still by the fear of
war that bogey would have been banished. But some-
thing happened in the mind of Hitler.
Again? So soon!
He seemed to be angered and soured by criticism
in the British press.
Thus S’Philip. It’s all a matter of Herr Hitler
having somewhat repeatedly got sour. So historians
may in their time turn to the enigma of this raddled
present and find that the answer was a lemon.
For the rest, the book is at any rate lighter read-
ing than most of its kind, perhaps by virtue of the
fact that it stays so resolutely on the surface. In-
cidentally, S’Philip adds:
The British Dominions have adopted a short-
sighted policy in their post-war refusal to open their
doors to the world’s refugees who knocked for
admittance.
Don’t they publish any information from these
parts in the papers S’Philip reads? He makes no
attempt, by the way, to demonstrate that the policy
is short-sighted. It is just part of his own policy of
being gentle about everything—gentle about Hitler ;
gentle about Jews.
Douglas Reed, in Disgrace Abounding (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson) is gentle about neither. He
sheds violence like an electric battery. For nearly
450 pages he spits fire and brimstone, and even at that
isn’t satisfied. He halts on the way to wish he could
set down his feelings in vitriol instead of ink —in-
flammable vitriol that would burn up the pages before
the reader’s eyes. He shouldn’t worry ; all these works
will be for the fire in time.
Meanwhile, Mr. Reed is tolerably certain that
that is where we’re all heading. He has it cut and
dried, and if you don’t believe him you’re a half-
wit. Europe is a bursting volcano and Herr Hitler
is the First Politician disguised as a bird-watcher.
As for poor benighted Fritz: —-
There is in Germany a deadly campaign to inculcate
hatred of England, the like of which has never been
seen. It is kept out of your newspapers, save for scanty
references which mean nothing to you. There has never
been anything so sustained, so laden with hatred, in
the world. In almost every newspaper he picks up, in
almost every newsreel he sees, in almost every radio
programme he hears, the German has this hatred dinned
into his soul.
So evidently it’s no good anybody going to Ger-
many for the sake of a change.
If Mr. Reed is right there can be only one reason
for going there, anyway — i.e., to fight Fritz again ;
indeed, we should have done it long ago. He is a bit
muddled about it; but either he is just spouting hot
air or that is what he means. Herr Horny, Mr. Reed
suggests, has booted the Jews ; this “pestiferous gang”
(Mr. Reed speaking) has invaded and now infests
London ; it won’t enlist, says Mr. Reed, but it tells
and will increasingly be telling you (Mr. Reed likes
addressing you ) to go an’ fight the tirty Chermans.
Well, says Mr. Reed, you shouldn’t do anything so
confoundedly silly. Not at their behest; that would
be fantastic! You should only do it at Mr. Reed’s
behest.
For Mr. Reed’s volume they. ask 12s. If it
were for no other reason than this there ought to be
three hearty wallaby-tail twirls to greet J. C. John-
stone’s Germany —Hammer or Anvil? (Hutchinson).
The enviable English and the grateful Scots get this
paperback for 6d.; here, about 9d. Comparisons
may be odorous, but if Mr. Reed is worth 12s. and
S’Philip is worth 55., this one, at a conservative
reckoning, is worth 1255.
For Mr. Johnstone, too, Herr Hitler is Aunt
Sally; but Mr. Johnstone neither gently throws, with
apologies, nor pelts, with abuse. He happens to pos-
sess a legalistic mind, control of his temper, and a
command of words and logic that makes S’Philip’s
writing seem superficial and Mr. Reed’s seem crude.
His style of writing and his conclusions after
examination of the evidence can be gathered from
this portion of his summing up:
We are confronted in Central Europe to-day by a
handful of men, all exulting to describe themselves as
“fanatics,” the only limit of whose ambition is the
skies. They control a warlike apparatus which, except
on the sea, completely outmatches that of any single
one of their neighbors. By the conquest of Austria
and the domination of Bohemia they have acquired
astride the Continent a strategic position whence they can
launch this apparatus against any selected victim, and they
can launch it at a moment’s notice, such is their mastery
of the art of secreting plans until the moment of striking.
They hold submissive to their command 80,000,000
highly efficient and industrious people, unprecedentedly
organised and perpetually mobilised, and so hard driven
in the output of armaments that a point might well come
where they would regard even war as a lesser evil than
the rigors of peace. Their methods and their temper
have been shown to be no mere adventitious product of
post-war circumstance, but deeply rooted in the spiritual
soil of pre-war Germany. They are men whose ears are
enraptured by the music of marching and deaf to the
promptings of humanity, a name synonymous with
effeminacy and unworthy of the dignity of heroes. Their
pogroms, we may haply suspect, are but a rehearsal of
the fate that awaits anyone else unfortunate enough to
fall into their hands.
It would be profoundly consoling to be able to
believe that this account of the present rulers of Germany
does them an injustice. If it does, then the onus lies
with them to dispel an impression which they have
created by a thousand evidences.
A powerful statement of the position as it seems to
Mr. Johnstone. But would the Swedes, the Danes, the
Dutch or the Finns accept it?
N. C.
WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short—l 500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1000 words.
Closing date for the second monthly com-
petition is August 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.


b
*
m
/
+
M ; MS*
t wmSm
m
»
*
a*
■•' 7
£
*
<s>
C/D
mm
w m
mm
G/D
cS
•s 2
? <
v» K
O
CM
Q. Ul
UD
CM
O
CM
0
0
| -2 TJ
0
0
0
LU „
LLi ~
Q 5
<
Q i
■sf
co
m
o
CM
CM
CM
o
CM
■- <
p >
The Symbol
OBTAINABLE FROM
PHILIPS ACCREDITED RETAILERS IN
CITIES , SUBURBS & COUNTRY TOWNS
IT'S a thrill in store for YOU! New Tonal Realism .. .
Greater Sensitivity and Selectivity . . . Super Efficient
Circuits . . . New "Legi-line" Tuning.
Why not buy a new Philips Radioplayer and give your-
self and your family the thrill of Philips "NEW
LISTENING"? It makes the most of every minute, in
radio programme ... both from Australian and Overseas
stations.
Remember—Radioplayers are backed by the biggest
name in radio—■ PHILIPS.
PHILIPS raamkim
G


*
ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
imil
I . ■
■
: 1
m
■
'■ v ■
ns
■
mmmm
■
i
••.
. .
■hß
■
ss
H
Hi
H
MS
■
■I
■
nwi
Man
■
" v >:
M
Si
I ■ M
L •
. •
The Great Library, British Museum.
London to the student, and especially the antiquarian, is in a great measure comprehended by the British Museum, which contains a
matchless collection of antiquities, Greek, Roman, Scandinavian and British. Then there are the Nineveh and Elgin Marbles, classic vases
and bronzes, unique collections of coins and prints, and of course the great library, one of the largest and most magnificent in the
world, as the institution itself is the most original and romantic ethnographical museum in the globe. But it is the Great Library,
depicted above, that makes the British Museum a centre of universal intellectual life. Here may be found, year in and year out, not
merely the idle curious, a relatively small percentage, but those on research bent from almost every city and country under heaven.
Of course in this great “reading hall” is housed but a fraction of the actual library, which contains more than 4,000,000 printed volumes,
on over 50 miles of shelves, figures that assume almost astronomical proportions. Yet for the research man or woman the Great Library
is “the” place. The bookshelves contain the 1000-volume catalogue besides numerous lesser ones. A visitor from, say, Australia or New
Zealand, anxious to consult some work in the library, hands in, after reference to the catalogue, his annotated slip, and the volume desired is
duly brought by an attendant. This enormous reading room also contains, on the lower shelves round the walls, more than 20,000
dictionaries, encyclopaedias, etc., which can be freely consulted by visitors. The Great Library attached to the splendid Melbourne
institution has been modelled on somewhat similar lines to that of the parent institution in London. This superb domed reading room
was planned by Panizzi, an Italian political refugee, and opened in 1875. The British Museum, and particularly the Libraiy, is not
alone one of the supremest possessions of which the British Empire may boast, but it is a possession shared by intellectuals of every
nation. Its value increases with the passing years, likewise its influence. While it is one of London’s noblest “monuments, it is also
a reservoir from which proceeds unceasingly a stream adding to the intellectual life of the nations.
Him cflate melleimeSSandlwuquet;


BACK TO BULAWAYO.
“Actresses have been permitted to stage nude shows at the World’s Fair, New York, alongside the Southern Rhodesia pavilion. Protesting that they are ‘depraved
obscene,’ the Government of Southern Rhodesia (white population, 56,000) has had the name, flag and crest of that colony removed from its pavilion.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
IT IS UP TO GERMANY.
In a characteristically uncompromising speech at the
beginning of last month, Herr Hitler was heard once
more denouncing the “War-guilt” clause of the Ver-
sailles Treaty. The charge still rankles in Germany, or
can there be made to rankle ; outside Germany it has
long since been dismissed as a matter on which history
may be left to decide.
What is remembered and what cannot be for-
gotten is that it was a foul and evil war, in which
millions of men who might still be living were killed
and millions more mutilated and maimed and blinded.
Herr Hitler’s “War-guilt” speech was, as usual,
badly reported in cables. It was not, for example,
mentioned that he had said: “The years of the war
have made me deeply pacific in the sense that I recog-
nise the frightful horrors of war.” If reporting was as
fair as it ought to be that should have been given
to his credit. But he also said (even this was badly
reported in cables):
The peace treaty of Versailles has shown what the
real aims of French and British encirclement statesmen
then were: the robbery of German colonies, the
annihilation of German trade, the destruction of the
bases of German existence and therefore of German
life, the abolition of German political importance and
power—the same aims, therefore, as French and British
encirclement statesmen have to-day.
Of those sentences the most generous view pos-
sible would be that Herr Hitler was not deliberately
gulling the German nation into more ready support for
a policy of “aggression” or “power politics,” but was
speaking with complete conviction. That, from this
side of the barricades, is putting the matter generously.
Nobody can honestly believe that any such aims, or
anything remotely resembling them, are to-day animat-
ing British or French Ministers. If the contrary is
Herr Hitler’s final conviction, and the German people
believe it, then the outlook is dark indeed. And if
war does come from the present stupid drift a future
leader of Germany will need to be a better spellbinder
than Herr Hitler to argue away the war-guilt charge
next time.
All through last month, after Herr Hitler’s speech,
one leading British statesman after another kept on
with the thankless task of trying to reach through to the
German people to convince them that no outside force
threatened their peace. In the course of the month
Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax each made several
notable speeches to that end. These and other re-
sponsible speakers made Britain’s policy—particularly
in regard to Germany —as clear as words could make
it. In a nutshell that policy is that, while Britain is
determined to meet force with force, if there is no
attempt or intention to resort to force the whole
influence of Britain will be on the side of reaching a
fair settlement by negotiation. Mr. Chamberlain
replied specifically to Herr Hitler’s encirclement
charge: —
The real tragedy of the situation seems to me to be
that the future of Europe is being poisoned to-day
by means of the propagation of false and unfounded
suspicion. The German people are being drenched day
and night with assertions that Great Britain is planning
to encircle them, and encirclement, they arc told, means
the denial to them of the natural and legitimate expan-
sion of their trade and the exercise of a gradually
increasing economic pressure designed to lower their
standards of life till they arc finally crushed and
helpless.
What a grotesque travesty of the attitude of this
country! The aim of our foreign policy is now, as
always, to establish a peaceful world where each nation
can pursue its occupation in security and confidence.
Mr. Chamberlain envisaged Britain and Germany,
“in a world in which confidence was restored, co-
operating in developing resources which still lie latent,
and which would bring in returns of solid value to
both.
But such a happy future must remain a dream until
Germany is ready to drop her unjust suspicions ol others
and show that she is sincerely ready to talk reason with
reasonable people.
Coming from the Prime Minister who has held
to peace in the face of provocation, in spite ot the
events of March, that should have had some effect in
Germany if real desire for peace remains there. Mr.
Chamberlain briefly indicated the daily increasing
strength of Britain which alone made it possible for
him to say that force would be met by force. “These
mighty armaments threaten no one.” He added:
I repeat onee more —and this is my last word —our
opposition is not to change, because in a changing
world there must be adjustments from time to time.
What we are resolved to oppose is the use of force to
bring about changes which should be determined by
discussion and co-operation, and I trust that, in spite
of all the dangerous possibilities which are only too
apparent the people who in all countries cry for peace
may yet find the patience and the will to achieve it.
Mr. Chamberlain was several times on the plat-
form to the same effect in the course of the month
which brought the first half of a threatening year to
an end without war. Lord Halifax and other leading
statesmen were just as clear, and before the month
was out a discussion had been launched in the corre-
spondence columns of the “Times”—the sounding
board of British public opinion—regarding fresh
approaches to Germany with a view to establishing
peace. Mr. Lansbury was there, recommending his
panacea of a roundrtable conference. Sir Arthur
Salter insisted that “the British Government should
immediately and publicly declare what it is prepared
to do to meet Germany’s just complaints.” Others
were arguing that any further approach to Germany
would be regarded “as a further evidence of weak-
ness.”
Even these last, opposed to any further approach
to Germany for the reason given, could at least not be
charged with harboring belligerent designs on that
country. The plain truth is that Germany is in no
danger of attack whatever, and nobody can be more
well aware of this fact than the German leaders. The
tragedy is that from not one of those leaders during
the month came one word that could be accepted as
even a tentative feeler towards peace. If the slightest
sign of goodwill had been given by any of those
leaders it would have been readily accepted in Britain,
where the whole effort of this last month has been to
forestall, if possible, the threatened repetition of 1914.
Last week this effort was brought to the point in
a Note to Germany formally denying that Britain is
pursuing an encirclement policy ; denying also that
there is any ground for the belief expressed by Hen-
Hitler in his last Reichstag speech that it was accepted
in London that Britain must always be against Ger-
many in any war in which the Reich became involved.
It is now up to Germany.
The Expanding Air Services.
The history of air transport in the Commonwealth
and New Guinea is a heartening story of what Aus-
tralians have achieved in discouraging circumstances.
Their countrymen may well be proud of the gallant
pioneers of ventures like West Australian Airways and
Qantas, which carried on in the bad years, though
laboring under immense difficulties, lacking even
serviceable aerodromes as well as beacons and the
like. The Flying Doctor services have added another
grand chapter to a golden book.
Since the institution of the England-Australia
aerial mail, developments have been rapid. In pro-
portion to population, Australia has more air-route
mileage than any other country. Over 30,000 miles
of air routes 9,000,000 miles are flown every year.
The comfort as well as the convenience of travellers
is studied, and complaints such as those of the foot-
ballers from Palestine, who found the second-class
accommodation in the Albury-Sydney train “about
equal to Bulgarian standards,” are never heard.
There are now over 100 major airliners, some of
which make three trips a day between capitals, together
with 200 smaller civil aircraft. The best are the
world’s latest types. In these services 370 pilots are
employed. As the R.A.A.F. adopts machines which
are military counterparts of those which they operate
daily, they will form a war-time reserve force of in-
calculable value.
To the problem of ground organisation, the new
Minister, Mr. Fairbairn, has brought energy and actual
experience. He admits that his aerodrome programme
will cost considerably more than was anticipated. Mili-
tary aerodromes need runways of 1500 feet to get
modern fast heavy craft off the ground with full loads.
And all major civil ’dromes need to have military
facilities.
The Minister has urged municipalities to tackle
the problem of providing local landing grounds; and
the advice might be extended to State Governments.
Apart from sketchy proposals for taxing the aerial
business out of existence, and perennial complaints
about the filching of railway revenue, Government
Railway Departments have shown scarcely any sign
of recognition that flying machines exist. Yet before
long they will have to face the problem of aerial
freight carriage on a large scale. It is bound to come,
and when it does it will come with a bang.
Many countries in the world are now almost
entirely served by air. New Guinea is in that posi-
tion, and the companies operating in the Mandated
Territory have done a big job. In Arctic Canada th
’plane has almost entirely superseded the sledge, and
big mining settlements receive all their requirements
by air. In Central America the Maorilander Yerex,
using reconditioned Ford passenger transports, not only
carries farm produce long distances, but has estab-
lished buying and selling departments of his substanti
business. He shifts hundreds of tons of freight for a
farthing a pound, and hundreds of tons more for
nothing, making his profit on storage and sales.
The Australian outback is peculiarly suitable for
freight-operation of aeroplanes, and it is not hard to
vision the time when fat stock will be transported by
air and station supplies carried as back loading.
How near that time is may be judged by a glance
at the latest British machines, which are designed to
carry up to 150 passengers. A machine of that capa-
city, fitted with pens, could take 500 sheep and
land them from the Riverina at Homebush
(Sydney) in a couple of hours or so. The saving
which would be achieved by cutting out losses in
weight, damage and death would go a long way
towards paying freight-rates.
Long-term organisation of internal passenger
routes and services is under consideration. For this
reason the Commonwealth subsidy agreement about
to be entered into will be limited to six months. Dur-
ing that time the Treasury will provide £85,000 to
help mail services along, apart from its expenditure
on aerodromes, night-flying facilities, general-safety
and reserve-defence provisions. Aerial conditions are
changing so swiftly that it is not easy to plan ahead
except on the most general lines. It will be many
years before limits to the size of ships and the power
of engines can be ultimately defined.
Stripping Britons in China.
Having had considerable acquaintance with foreign
concessions in China, I am not greatly surprised at
what has been happening at Tientsin. The concessions
were wrung from reluctant Chinese, and the Japanese
are now trying to wring them from reluctant
Europeans.
When the Europeans first got the concessions they
did everything in their power to keep the Chinese out.
They wanted absolute possession. In the early days
of Shanghai every Chinese, domestic servants included,
was supposed to vacate the leased territory at night-
fall and return in the morning. The result was that
the Europeans were clanking round their property
in solemn majesty without even giving themselves the
conditions for conducting ordinary trading operations
with their landlords or sitting down to a good dinner.
The position became so ridiculous that gradually the
rule was more honored in the breach than in the obser-
vance, and now there are in the concessions twenty
times more Chinamen than Europeans.
Announcing that efforts were to be made, by way
of conversations at Tokio, to settle “local issues” at
Tientsin, Mr. Chamberlain mentioned that 15 Britons,
one a woman, had been stripped by Japanese soldiers.
When indignation at the stripping was at its height,
the local Japanese commander, speaking to foreign
journalists, asserted that what had been imposed was
not a blockade but merely “traffic regulations, designed
to curb anti-Japanese elements,” and that his sentries
were “simple peasants” whose ideas of modesty dif-
fered from those of foreigners. To show that Japanese
soldiers did not regard stripping as an indignity, he
offered to strip there and then. The pressmen became
embarrassed and assured him that they did not need
a demonstration.
I was at a Japanese bathing resort where it had
been the custom for the British community to indulge
in mixed bathing. The native townsmen respected
British scruples by donning bathing costumes when
they used the same beach. But during an international
crisis much like the present one the British became
unpopular, and whenever a patriotic Japanese wanted
to upset the British he would take his clothes off and
go into the water in the altogether. Then the British,
horrified beyond measure, would rush their women and
children out of sight of the unpleasant spectacle.
European Governments fear that the Japanese
will strip Europeans, not only of their clothes, but of
their prestige in China. Hitherto the Europeans in
China have based their prestige on a belief in their
racial superiority to the Chinese. The Chinese have
never granted their racial superiority because they
couldn’t see why a bank clerk or an indentor from
Birmingham or Hamburg was any better than a bank
clerk or an indentor from Hankow ; and even the bank
clerk or the indentor would scarcely claim to be the
superior of Confucius, Lao-tze, Mencius 01 the
Oriental who discovered the cause of pneumonic
plague.
The Chinese recognise that the prestige of the
European in China really rests, not on racial superior-
ity, but on the fact that he has, or had, bigger guns and
better commercial methods. So long as the European
rests his prestige on his guns and his commercial
methods, the Chinese or the Japanese have only to
build bigger guns and invent more astute methods ot
doing business to destroy that prestige. So long as
this is the suit of clothes in which the European dresses
up his prestige, metaphorically speaking, it is just as
possible for the Asiatic to strip the European as tor
the European to strip the Asiatic.
To make matters worse, the Europeans are in
danger of being stripped of their prestige in China just
when they are busy stripping each other in Europe.
Meanwhile the undeclared war in China proceeds in
a mysterious way, and Japanese imperialism m Man-
chukuo and Russian imperialism in Outer Mongolia
are indulging in aeroplane fights, although the appa-
ratus of peaceful relations between Japan and tne
U.S.S.R. is in every other respect preserved.
Oriental ways are not our ways, and Oriental
complications are things which Australians should
keep out of, if they possibly can.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The American Attitude.
During the Spanish civil war the Reds received finan-
cial and —er —moral support from Hollywood. Holly-
wood now looks like throwing itself body and —er —
soul into the struggle against Hitler. It is natural
enough, for the Nazis hate the Hollywood Jew as
savagely as they hate the European Jew.
Australia might be a detached, and possibly
amused, spectator of the contest between Hollywood
and Hitler but for the danger of false impressions
being fixed in the Australian mind. False impressions
as to German Australians, whose loyalty to Australia
and the Crown stood the fiery test of the German war,
and as to the foreign policy of the United States.
Australia’s strong feeling against dictatorships and
dictators has been worked upon by propagandists and
partisans in films, radio addresses, newspapers—cables,
special articles and editorial columns —pamphlets,
brochures, magazines—especially American magazines
wrapping up Sovietism in smut —and books—particu-
larly books published by Gollancz, praised by Laski
and blessed by Left Book Clubs. Resistance to this
partisanship and propaganda has been difficult,
especially as even the expression of honest doubt brings
the retort that the honest doubter must be Fascist or
in the pay of Germany, Italy and Japan.
In the result Australians were seriously misled
about the strength of Abyssinians, Czechs and Red
Spaniards, the political sentiments of Austrians
and the devotion of the Chinese to the Chiang Kai-
sheks and their Red associates. They have also been
seriously misled about the attitude of the great Ameri-
can Republic. Even now they may be induced
to believe that the voice of Hollywood is the voice
of the United States. Australia has been exposed for
a long time to “March of Time” films in which the
Fascist dogs are never allowed to get the better of
things. Now comes the film called “Confessions of
a Nazi Spy” ; and there will no doubt be others of
the kind.
In “Confessions of a Nazi Spy,” according to a
friendly newspaper review, “a commentator launches
attack after attack on the state of mind which prevails
in Germany to-day.”
Most of the Germans [in the film], are unpleasant-
looking people. Some are obvious weaklings, but
others have the square, brutal, overbearing faces and
figures of the German officers who used to be seen in
films during the Great War.
Germany is at present in a virtual state of war with
the United States, says the commentator —so the parallel
is understandable.
“Germany is at present in a virtual state of war with
the United States.” On another page of the paper in
which the friendly review appeared was a report of a
Congress debate on Neutrality Act revision. There
it was shown, though not clearly, that, so far from “a
virtual state of war” existing, the House of Represen-
tatives had refused the Government power to sell
lethal weapons to the British Empire and France, as
well as the Axis Powers, in the event of their going to
war.
In another paper this unpleasant truth was brought
out more intelligibly.
The Roosevelt Administration suffered a surprising
defeat on the Neutrality Bill during an all-night sitting
of the House of Representatives. By 159 votes to 157.
an amendment was adopted to make the embargo of
lethal weapons to belligerents mandatory.
If the decision is not reversed, Britain and her allies,
as well as their enemies, would be unable to buy arms
and munitions from America.
The decision was not reversed. When the House —
still predominantly Democratic —had done its work
the position, as stated by the first paper quoted, was
as follows:
Upon the President or Congress declaring the exist-
ence of a state of war, it will be forbidden to sell arms
or ammunition to a belligerent or to ship any com-
modities to a belligerent until the title is transferred
to someone other than a United States citizen.
It will also be forbidden to make a loan or credits
to belligerents except ordinary commercial credits and
short-term obligations of not more than 90 days, and
to solicit funds in the United States on behalf of a
belligerent. Further, the President can deny the use
of United States ports or territorial waters to the
submarines or armed merchantmen of a belligerent.
In effect, the House has snubbed the President. If war
breaks out in Europe the United States won’t be in it.
Events might force it to come in, as it did in 1917, but
at the beginning it would be neutral in a far greater
degree than it was neutral in 1914-1917. Congress,
not Hollywood, decides the foreign policy of the
United States.
From the Australian Viewpoint.
The trade agreement with Japan has not been
renewed, but the Japanese Government has “volun-
tarily” agreed to make tivo-thirds of its 1939-40 wool
purchases in Australia, and to limit its exports of
cotton, rayon and staple-fibre piece goods to the quan-
tities specified in the trade agreement. The negotia-
tions were conducted in a friendly spirit, and it is
possible that they contributed to the easing of the
situation at Tientsin, although there is no obvious
connection.
There is an obvious connection between the
British proposal for an alliance with the U.S.S.R.
and the attitude of the Communist party in Australia.
Since London began sounding Moscow, that attitude
has grown increasingly impudent and truculent. To
the Communist “Workers’ Weekly,” Mr. Chamber-
lain is “the plotter with the gamp,” whose Govern-
ment “foully betrayed the Spanish and Czech peoples
to an awful doom.” “Guarantee” (that is, coercion)
“of the Baltic countries” is demanded as the condi-
tion of an alliance, together with extension of the
arrangement to the Far East.
Communism in Australia, always in touch with
Moscow whose Press Chief, Zhdanov, accuses
Britain and France, in “Pravda,” of “delaying the
negotiations with the object ultimately of disrupting
them to serve their own ends”—has been the head
and front of the lawless plan for boycotting the
national register.
Last week the Federal A.L.P. executive “unani-
mously” rejected the boycott, after Mr. Forgan Smith
had pointed out that members of three Labor Govern-
ments had sworn to observe the law, and would expose
themselves to the danger of being dismissed, as Mr.
Lang was in 1932, if they became parties to resisting
it. But Communists and their noisy friends declare
that the boycott will go on.
It was because of such “leadership” that the Ger-
man and Italian trade-unions surrendered without a
struggle. The alternative in those cases was Fascism,
and the German and Italian workers accepted Fascism
rather than follow cowardly and blustering Reds,
slavishly subject to Moscow, into the wilderness of
civil war. The Australian workers are not reduced
to a choice between two evils. Their duty, their
interest and their inclination are to remain within the
law, so much of which they themselves have shaped,
and to follow their well-tried leaders, their Curtins
and Forgan Smiths.
At the week-end, subsequent to the delivery of a
Warning-to-Germany speech by Lord Halifax, a lot
of British and French politicians and newspapermen
had the jitters, and their fears were, of course, com-
municated to Australia.
Strange Germans had been seen in Danzig, which
is 96 per cent. German at any time. It was “believed”
that the Danzig Senate, thus supported, was about to
declare the Free City part of the Reich, in which case
the Poles would “march in immediately” and Britain
and France would come in “immediately” on Poland’s
side.
Nothing happened. On the contrary, Monday’s
papers brought the news that Danzig had “enjoyed a
normal Sunday,” and the Polish Foreign Minister
“strongly discounted rumors of drastic Nazi action,
gas masks and big guns.”
What is disturbing is the suggestion that, if the
Danzigers do what they obviously want to do, it will
be within the power of the military oligarchy at
Warsaw to involve the British Empire in war.
Seventy-six Ministers.
Mr. Richardson, who was Minister of Social Services
in the Sydney Government, has been named Minister
of Labor and Industry in succession to the late Mr.
Hawkins. At the same time, Mr. Stevens, who is
Premier without portfolio (“just like Mr. Chamber-
lain”), has appointed two Assistant Ministers, Mr.
Primrose, M.L.A., and Mr. Manfred, M.L.C. —both
lawyers like Mr. Richardson.
There are thus 15 Ministers in N. S. Wales, and
there are 12 in Victoria, 10 in Queensland, nine in
Westralia, eight in Tasmania (one post is vacant), six
in South Australia and 16 at Canberra. Seventy-six
to minister to the alleged necessities of 6,800,000
people, apart from a crowd of boards, commissions
and industrial courts which exercise executive and even
legislative powers. Britain with 45,000,000 people in
the homelands and a far greater number in overseas
possessions, some held under mandate, for any of
which the Government may be called to account in
the House of Commons, has 29 Ministers. South
Africa (population 10,000,000, four-fifths colored) has
13, one man looking after Railways, Harbors and
Defence.
It is alleged that Assistant Ministers cost the
public nothing, since their colleagues allow them some-
thing out of the Cabinet pool. The oracle can be
worked by increasing the pool. This happened in
N.S.W. last October, when an accommodating Parlia-
ment voted increases for all hands and the cook, and
dated them back to July 1 (there was then to be a
surplus of £BOOO ; it is now admitted that there was
a deficit of £2,801,400). In any case every new
Minister appointed, Cabinet or Assistant, is forthwith
provided with the beginnings of a staff. Government
cars are also placed at his disposal, Cabinet and
Assistant Ministers alike being too busy or too lordly
or something to ride in insolvent Government trains,
though the common herd are compelled to do so by
various devices, and in N.S.W. since the first of March
they have been charged a lot more for the dubious
privilege.
If it were incumbent on the personal staffs of
Australian Ministers to join the army, the A.M.F.
would get an appreciable addition to its strength. For-
merly there was no such thing as a Premier’s Depart-
ment. Now there are Premiers’ Departments all over
the place, and secretaries to Premiers’ secretaries.
Everywhere in Australia higher taxes and service
charges are threatened, though in N.S.W. alone tax-
revenue has reached £l7 16s. 7d. per head. There is
no sign of administrative economy anywhere. It will
come only when a movement for national union under
one Parliament with supreme and unchallengeable
powers is started by people capable of convincing the
army of legislators, administrators and bureaucrats that
they are in grim earnest.
All Converted Now.
It is always interesting to watch the process by which
stoners of prophets convert themselves into prophets.
For years The Bulletin was alone in saying that
Australia must have a battle-cruiser in Australian
waters. Mr. Archdale Parkhill, then Minister of
Defence, did not agree.
From The Bulletin of November 27, 1935:
The same principle that should be, and is not,
applied to the sea needs to be applied to the air. As
the R.A.N. should have (as it did have) at least one
battle-cruiser capable of standing up to any ship
in the Pacific, so there should be a squadron of heavy
bombers and air-torpedo-craft adequately supported by
defensive fighters.... a powerful long-range air force.
Mr. Parkhill’s counter to this was made a week later.
Replying to a question in the House of Representa-
tives he declared that “every statement which The
Bulletin has recently published” was “unreliable.”
Mr. Parkhill lost his seat on October 23, 1937.
In enforced retirement he has seen the programme of
air defence here advocated adopted in every. detail,
and has become a capital-ship man himself.
When he was Defence Minister, his idea was to
“maintain the R.A.N. at a strength which will provide
an effective and fair contribution to Empire naval
defence.” In September, 1936, he had crystallised this
into a three-year plan aimed at giving the Common-
wealth “three cruisers, one flotilla leader, two
destroyers, two sloops and a survey ship,” but he
thought British naval strength “sufficient to render
invasion [of Australia] so hazardous that an enemy
would not undertake it.”
In September last year, Admiral Sir Howard Kelly
advised Australia to get a capital ship. Cabinet re-
jected the proposal as too costly. Now, when Britain
is almost twice as strong navally as it was when Mr.
Parkhill reigned, the reject of Warringah has
begun to demand a battleship fleet at Singapore, sub-
scribed for by Britain and the Pacific Dominions and
colonies:
I hold that the security of Australia can never be
complete without battleships.
Dr. Page, f6r his part, suggests that Australia
should order one or, if possible, two battleships and
begin the construction of docks to accommodate any
Australian or friendly warship.
In the new British conception of a battleship, the
armament and protection of the heaviest capital ships
are combined with the speed and sea-range of a battle-
cruiser. If ships of this type proved too expensive to
build, a battle-cruiser powerfully gunned and with
long sea-ranging ability would serve. It could do
what the first H.M.A.S. Australia did in 1914.
A capital ship is a vital need. Whatever is done,
however, should be done as part of the R.A.N. pro-
gramme. In other words, the capital ship should be
built as an Australian unit in Australia.
Australia in New York.
“Ek D.”: In the Australian pavilion at the New York
World’s Fair a departure has been made from con-
ventions which previously governed advertising
schemes. No red-shirted farmer in a Cape police hat
harvests golden grain ; nor do Greek gods and god-
desses tramp the sands of Bondi.
The Fair celebrates the 150th anniversary of
George Washington’s inauguration. It is spread over
1200 acres within 15 minutes’ ride of the centre of
New York City, and almost every major country on
earth has a pavilion in it. Australia got a picked
position, its arrangements being made in conjunction
with those of Britain.
The British Government, as usual, did things well.
Its exhibit did not cost £1,000,000 sterling, as did
General Motors’ show, but its pageantry seems to
have made everything else look slightly pale. The
band of the Coldstreams was brought over to play in
front of the British and Australian buildings every
day, and one of the three “original” copies of the
Magna Carta was inducted under ceremonious guard.
The cost of the Australian pavilion was £50,000
—not much in a country where £lOOO may be paid
for a full-page advertisement in a weekly magazine.
Color photographs of the display show that the result
is no discredit to the Australian designers, who con-
centrated on bringing out a few facts illustrative of
the Commonwealth’s resources.
In other words, an attempt has really been made
to sell something definite —the power of Australia
to produce wool more cheaply than U.S.A. and other
countries can grow it ; and the virtues of Australia
as a tourist centre. A small show, perhaps, but it puts
those of much more heavily populated countries in
the shade.
A Defence of Absent Voting.
From “Returning Officer”:
There may be need for electoral reform in Australia, but
not on the grounds advanced in B. 14/6/’39.
Before being handed a ballot-paper, the “absent” voter
must sign a statutory declaration, and have his (or her)
signature witnessed by the presiding officer. And before the
vote is allowed the divisional returning officer, under scrutiny,
checks this declaration, which appears on the outside of the
envelope containing the ballot-paper, and crosses the voter’s
name off the certified roll. This not only guards against dual
voting, but saves the elector from, prosecution for having
failed to vote. As there are very few cases of dual voting,
the system is seen to be valuable and effective.
As for the reference of the A.L.P. leader to “more than
500 men” who “had gone from Griffith electorate” being
“entitled to record absent votes,” they would have been unable
to do so unless they came down by motor or ’plane. At a
by-election, booths are open only within the electoral division
concerned.
The article goes on to say that the postal vote gives real
checks. Actual experience shows that the checks are no more
reliable than the checks on absent voting. While State and
Federal Acts are not identical regarding postal votes they are
Not 12 months ago a State election at Gordon
(N.S.W.) was upset by a Court because of technical errors
which had occurred in the postal votes!
Absent voting has justified its inclusion in the Acts.
The Bulletin is not convinced. In 1937 267,682
absent votes were cast at the House of Representatives
elections. How can there be adequate checks when
the number is so enormous, and why should elections
be made so tedious, so expensive and so worrying to
candidates because of a privilege which is so widely
abused? Most of the people who cast absent votes
could vote in their own subdivisions.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“D.E.”: I should like to have been
within earshot when cocktailing flappers
such as those whose photographs adorn
the “society” section of the “new” “S.
M. Herald” discussed Granny’s account
of the treatment to which that Tientsin
matron was subjected by ruffians in uni-
form —“simple peasants” in the Japanese
commander’s version—over the gin and
two:
When Mrs. Finlay had undressed to her
petticoat she refused to* go any further.
Her petticoat was then torn off, leaving
only a very scanty garment. The final and
most intimate search was made by a Chinese
woman.
“A very scanty garment.” The spirit of
Deacon Fairfax, of the Congregational
Church, is not dead yet.
“T ": After reading the umpteenth par.
about the Pyjama Girl and the onety-
oneth “Terewth” compilation of unsolved
crimes in N.S.W., I came upon this
G.H.Q. announcement:
Two men hired a 15ft. half-cabin launch
from Messenger’s boatsheds, Double Bay.
It was found abandoned near the Heads.
The engine, petrol tank, rope, anchor,
tiller and rowlocks had been stolen and
the hull damaged. Detective Blank would
like to hear from the men who hired the
vessel.
There are seven-and-seventy explana-
tions of how that big fish Woolcott-
Forbes got away ; but can anyone now
wonder that he did get away?
“D.”: When giving my order to the
son of my greengrocer I remarked that
it was very windy. “The wind’s fierce,
right enough,” he acknowledged. “I
suppose it’ll mean a shortage of potatoes.”
Asked what influence the wind could have
on the murphy market, he replied in all
seriousness, “It’ll blow them all off the
trees.”
“Nakh": A new decree bans public
executions in France, but no mention is
made of its colonies. Up to a few years
ago, at least, executions were public in
Noumea, and the instrument of Nemesis
used was one of the original ones
designed by Dr. Guillotin. Not only were
executions public spectacles in Noumea,
but on one occasion the guillotining of a
half-caste was an unpremeditated attrac-
tion of one of the mass tours inaugurated
by overseas liners for the convenience
of Melbourne citizens. The liner arrived
in the morning and the execution hap-
pened to be billed for noon. The
tourists were set ashore and returned in
the evening, some of them having looked
at the scenery and a few, somewhat
shaken, having looked at something which
they had never expected to see and which
they are not likely to see again.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Rebuilding of the Hotel Aus-
tralia in Collins-street, Melbourne, has
laid open to the public eye an old hall
with a Gothic roof which has been buried
from sight for so many generations that
even the proprietors had forgotten all
about it. It was the liedertafel hall
which Glens erected when they were
the premier music providers in Mel-
bourne. An Italian artist was brought
out at great expense to paint the frescoes
which the wreckers are removing, and
he covered the walls with scenes from
“Romeo and Juliet.” His employer was
one Mark Moss, a fabulously wealthy
financier of the ’seventies, who also got
the painter to decorate two domestic
palaces he erected, known as Moss’s
Follies. The craze for imported talent
was as great then as it is at present, and
just as many mistakes were perpetrated.
Local artists must have been dead from
the neck up if they could not have
painted better frescoes.
“Lyndo”: Add to eccentricities in
naming youngsters the action of a proud
Maoriland parent who dashed into the
registrar’s office and handed in a list of
20 Christian names. “But you can't
have all these names,” protested the
astonished clerk. “Why not?” demanded
proud parent. “The law does not limit
the number of names I may give my
child. Each one of those names has a
family history, and I mean my son to
have them all.” “Oh, it’s not that,”
replied the agitated clerk. “It’s only that
the column reserved for names won’t
take them.” After long discussion it was
decided to affix a tag to the page and
write the names thereon. In the birth
certificate the reader was asked to P.T.O.
“Sowhelpme”: A Melbourne sneak-
thief received the lesson of his life when
he relieved a man of his suitcase. A
stage comedian, charged with having
attempted to conceal the birth of a child
by disposing of the body, testified that
he took the child’s mother to hospital
and then returned to the room they were
sharing for the body of the child. “On
the way back to the hospital I had
whiskies at three or four hotels to steady
my nerves,” he said. “I didn’t feel well
and went up a lane for a few minutes.
I put the suitcase down, but when I
turned round it had disappeared.”
Police found the case and contents in a
near-by park—and the jury returned a
not-guilty verdict.
* =!• * *
“S.”: If Epstein did get £7OOO from
the “Australian mining magnate” for his
latest epic in stone, Adam’s stocks have
risen quite a bit in the last three centuries.
Milton sold “Paradise Lost” for a fiver.
The cables don’t seem to know whether
or not the sculpture is to be shipped to
Australia. I hope it comes out, for if
it’s as good as Epstein’s “Consummatum
Est” it should not only dispel the popular
illusion that he’s merely a showman
creating freaks and monsters, but it might
be powerful enough to give fresh impetus
to all the arts. 1 saw the Australian
Water-color Institute’s show in Sydney,
and, apart from Lindsay’s sunlit ladies,
none of the paintings seemed to have
been done in the “divine frenzy” Plato
told the artist to cultivate. There’s no
doubt about Epstein’s “frenzy” ; “Con-
summatum Est,” the giant figure taut in
a gesture of agony and triumph, was
passionately alive. Newspaper photo-
graphs can give no idea of the effect of
movement Epstein can achieve in stone
nor of the beauty of the material in
which he works. The Derbyshire ala-
baster in which both “Consummatum
Est” and “Adam” are carved looks
almost translucent, a smooth, icy medium,
softened with veins of rose.
“C.Q.”: The purchaser of Epstein’s
“Adam” is reputed to be mine-financier
Claude de Bernales. There are several of
Jacob’s smaller works already in Australia,
and there is a bust of Mrs. McEvoy, the
wife of the English artist, in the National
Gallery of Victoria. Like almost all works
of the sculptor, it aroused a heated con-
troversy. A local chiseller complained
that the lady had a goitre, and that a
goitre was not a fit subject for an artist.
y. * * *
“C.H.”: The Sino-Japanese scrap has
given Australian Chinese something
more exciting than the price of onions
to talk about. Even in Melbourne’s
Little Bourke-street the daily tempo is
quickening, and there is much coming and
going of committees. The familiar
Chinese pictures which decorate the cafd
walls are disappearing in favor of war
slogans and propaganda. One shop has the
simple notice “Fireworks” on the win-
dow in juxtaposition with scenes from
the war areas; and I saw a barrow in
Victoria Market labelled —somewhat
ambiguously—“ Help China!” I read of
a Jap in Seattle, U.S.A., who tacked
this notice to his vegetable stand:
“Vegetables nice and fresh and do not
care anything about United States
secrets like navy and fortifications.”
“Qwert Yuiop”: A Brisbane woman
recently attained her 338th conviction
for drunkenness, and was welcomed by
name as she entered the familiar watch-
house. As a “regular lodger” she is a
recurring journalistic joke, but she is
also a recurring proof of the cynical
neglect we display towards such social
problems. Detention for compulsory
treatment on modern lines of medicine
and psychology, prohibition orders and
heavy penalties against publicans or
others who supply such cases with drink
would cure the majority and help the
rest. They do it in Sweden.
“X.S.”: A Melbourne man had
served his firm well and faithfully for
30 years and was retired on a pension.
He lived for another 40 years in retire-
ment, drawing more in pension than he
ever did in salary. When he felt death
approaching he went to his lawyers and
fixed up his business affairs, went to the
undertaker and arranged that he should
be cremated and that his obsequies
should be fittingly conducted, left his
only dependant with a few cheque forms
to cover eventualities, and went into
hospital. He had timed it to a nicety,
and died six days afterwards. Another
old fellow in the eighties when he found
himself in the same situation sent for
his son-in-law to tell him his last re-
quirements. He was unable to speak
above a whisper, but he obviously
wanted to communicate something. The
son-in-law bent down and heard the old
man whisper: “Do they take out your
false teeth before they bury you?” “No,
they don’t,” his consoler promptly
assured him. “That’s all right, then,”
said the old gentleman, and died a few
minutes afterwards.
“S.T.S.”: Here is a first-class night-
mare. You are driving a bus-load of
schoolchildren up a steep hill. Ahead
is a motor-lorry heavily laden with wool ;
it gets out of hand and starts to run back
on you. It is 50 yards away, and you
do your best to reverse —but you’re on
a narrow track, with a bank on one side,
a sheer drop on the other, and any speed
is impossible. Then you should wake
up. But a driver near Truro (S.A.) has
had that experience in actual fact. He
took the final unavoidable blow square
on and backing away, so that there was
no upset and little damage to the pas-
sengers except from broken glass.
* V * *
“C.Q.”: The approaching demolition
of the Royal Bank on the corner of
Collins and Elizabeth streets in Mel-
bourne has raised indignant demands for
the salvation for artistic reasons of the
fa9ade of Corinthian columns. The in-
dignant ones have evidently not looked
at the building. Whenever the place was
erected, it was in the period of archi-
tectural decadence which has produced
most of the modern buildings in Collins-
street. The columns in question are not
carved stone, but plaster or concrete, and
the material was evidently run into
moulds so symmetrical that the result is
no more “Grecian” than the imitation
logs in electric fires are faggots. Half a
dozen buildings have got into the
wreckers’ hands in the last few years in
Melbourne which were tributes to the
old craftsmen and stonemasons who
flourished 70 years ago in Victoria, and
the crushing mills have made them into
road metal without any protests from
the public.
* * * *
“Puloh Tikus”: That the navigator of
the flying-boat Guba failed to find the
Cocos atoll at his first attempt will not
come as a shock to the few men in Aus-
tralia who have lived down in that coral
Utopia, especially as there was no ship
in the vicinity from which to obtain a
cross-bearing with Cocos radio. The
low-lying islands —highest point is 16ft.
above high water —are the bugbear
of skippers of relief boats during over-
cast weather when a true shot at the sun
is difficult to obtain. Writer once asked
a worried-looking skipper who had the
night before promised to land us in the
lagoon at daybreak just exactly where wc
were He scratched his head and replied
that, according to the charts, we should
have been piled up on the barrier six
hours before. And one captain sent a
message to Singapore after a fruitless
two-day search for the atoll— he said the
islands had disappeared.
TO BEAT THE BOOKS.
To beat the books! How infinitely fine
It reads and sounds, that lightly luring line
Which sporting tipsters regularly use
To indicate and emphasise their views
On how a speculative soul may get
The rosiest prospect offered by a bet,
And in the bulging bags insert his hooks
To beat the books.
To beat the books! The punter’s orison
Since the seductive pastime was begun,
And on the ambient air there first arose
The clamor of competing Iky Mos.
Tis hard to damp the hope, though unex-
pressed,
That finds a lodgment in so many a breast,
Of young and old, of pigeons and of rooks,
To beat the books.
To beat the books! How steadfastly of old
They sought the stuff that turns all things to
gold,
And the elixir that prolongs the span
Nature and Psalmist have assigned to man!
Vain quests in this enlightened age they seem,
And yet he cherishes a wilder dream,
For any time, by any means, who looks
To beat the books.
To beat the books! P’r’aps in the by-and-bye
When chimpanzees can talk and pigs can fly.
And husky politicians grow afraid
Of naught so much as being overpaid:
“Aim for the back of the ear , Bert."
When brooks flow backwards, bees in winter
swarm,
And prads run ever true to paper form,
Such things may be. But until then, Gadzooks,
’Twill baulk the keenest brains, the cutest
crooks,
To beat the books!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Koura”: Maoriland, with its colder
climate, is worried very much less than
Australia by ants, moths, cockroaches
and other bugs and beasts that harry
the householder; the only serious in-
vaders I battled with there were mos-
quitoes at Taupo and a few million large,
tame fleas in a Maori whare in north
Auckland. But down in the South Island
the occupants of three State houses are
fighting tooth and nail against an army
of earthworms that have been pouring
in through doors and windows for over
two months. What on earth, or under
it, gets into the mind of an earthworm
to set it wriggling after Mr. Savage’s
mod. con.?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Supreme Court has had
an application which it called unique. A
law clerk, in reality a qualified account-
ant and secretary, asked for leave to
enter into legal “articles” without passing
(as is usually required) the matriculation
exam, of Adelaide University, to include
Latin. And the surprising fact came out
that he had passed in Greek, which the
university itself accepted instead. Leave
granted. „
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: We were the usual
homing group at the tram section—the
two nice girls from Bellevue Hill, the
old civil servant, the nondescripts and
Six-twenty Sam, who had emerged at the
last moment from the nearest bar and
was standing in the gutter supporting
himself gingerly with one hand in the
council rubbish basket. Enter a police-
man —not an ordinary copper, but one
"It's no ushe, Alf — they're too Well fed."
“I suggest instead of sherry a spot of Nelson's blood."
about nine feet high and four feet round.
He had stripes and crowns on him, and
a row of ribbons as long and bright as
a film star’s past; in fact, the kind of
copper who makes good men wilt in-
side and search their consciences. He
looked us over carefully with a stare
which said plainly, “Be quiet, now, or
I’ll have them on y’.” and we apparently
passed muster except Sam. The Law
looked on him with sour disapproval
and, disentangling him from the rubbish
basket, stood him on the pavement.
Sam stared in astonishment. He seemed
to wake from a dream. He put his hands
behind his back, walked round the
constabulary and peered at the seat of
its pants. Then he walked to the front
of it, gazed at it carefully from boot to
cap, stood off a foot to get better per-
spective, and finally gave tongue :
“Scushe me,” said Sam in a loud, clear,
polite voice; “scushe me, but are you a
tram conductor?” If Sam had had
reason to resist arrest even the ladies
from Bellevue would have helped him.
* * * *
“Dhas”: The beautiful name of
Wallop (B. 28/6/’39), odd enough as a
family label, is odder still on the Wilt-
shire signposts pointing to the three
villages named after the family—-Over
Wallop, Middle Wallop and, magnifi-
cently, Nether Wallop. The last always
struck me as most appropriate for a
family seat.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Jitter-merchants have been
making the flesh of Australian city-
dwellers creep with horrid accounts of
what gas attacks would do to them, but
discreetly refrain from any drab practical
details as to the extent of an attacker’s
job. Commander Piatt, an expert on the
subject, has worked out the equipment
and personnel necessary for a really effec-
tive effort in air-frightfulness on Bris-
bane’s 320,000 citizens. It would need
4000 ’planes, 17,000 men and 4000 tons of
gas as a start.
* * * *
“Ipso Facto”: Juan, domiciled in Aus-
tralia, is unlucky. His mother wrote
from Barcelona saying she was hard-up
and could he Juan obliged. Some
weeks later his draft was returned;
mother had left the Catalan city prior to
Franco’s forces moving in, and the postal
officials couldn’t find her. Then she
wrote from her new address, again inti-
mating her dire needs. Juan sent the
draft airmail. It travelled by the Cen-
.turion, and the flying-boat was sunk dur-
ing a storm. Juan is still pondering how
to Help Spain.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A messenger boy dropped
a small brown package in Melbourne
containing enough corrosive sublimate to
poison a regiment. No reports were
brought in about it, so it was probably
washed by rain into the gutter. In 1925
the Prince Alfred Hospital gave Sydney
the jitters by announcing that some hares
and guinea-pigs which had been stolen
were experimental cases that had been
infected with deadly microbes. If the
thief ate them, the newspaper announce-
ment must have made him lose his break-
fast, though a subsequent bulletin stated
that the animals had not been inoculated.
The incident recalls a story by H. G.
Wells in which an anarchist steals a tube
of bacteria from a professor and goes
off to infect London’s water. Pursued
by the police, he swallows the contents
of the tube, preferring death to dishonor,
but all he gets is a change in tonal rela-
tionships in his epidermis. The bacilli
are of the kind which produce the blue
behinds in certain species of monkeys.
* * * *
“Plus Fours”: I canvassed for and
did life-size enlargements of deceased
people. Competition was keen, but by
tipping the undertaker you could get in
early. One bereaved one informed me
that the victim had been killed when fell-
ing a tree, and produced a photo, of a
bright seven-year-old. I couldn’t imagine
anyone of that age attacking a tree ; but
then my client asked me to make him
27, with a black whisker as low as the
third button of his vest. The only job
I ever turned down.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: You never seem to get
what you want in this world, as a
Christchurch (M.L.) motor-cyclist has
found out. After he had bumped into a
car they hauled him to the police station.
A doctor examined him and said he was
quite fit to ride. The cyclist said he
wasn’t —that he was intoxicated and
wanted to be sent to gaol as a punish-
ment. The police said “Go home,” but
the culprit flatly refused. In the end,
they kept him under medical observation
for the week-end. The Beak gazed on
him with astonishment. “Do you mean
to say that when you told him to go
he refused to leave?” he asked. “Yes,
sir,” said the inspector, “he wouldn’t
go.” “Most peculiar,” muttered ’Swor-
ship, ordering his man to take out
a prohibition order, come up for sen-
tence when called on and refrain from
motor-biking for three years.
¥ * * *
“Stetsonia”: Re the top-hat (B.
28/6/’39), one of the oldest trade unions
in the U.S.A. is the New York Silk and
Fur Hat Finishers’ Association, which
started life in 1845. Once it had 600
members in New York City alone, but
to-day only about 50 members. Yet
Max Fluegelman, in his Manhattan fac-
tory, still produces more “toppers” than
any other high-hat merchant in the
world. He turns out at least four dozen
a day, so there’s still demand for them
in the U.S.A.
WARE QUACKS!
“Mr. Will Ashton, Director of the N.S.W. National
Art Gallery, warned the public against the quack
artist—-‘a boastful pretender to skill which he does
not possess.’ ”
Though the term was at first to the calling
confined
Which deals with the physical ills of mankind,
There are quacks in all trades whom it’s hard
to suppress,
Pretenders to skill which they fail to possess.
And they’ll make you their dupes, if you give
them a chance,
In science or commerce, in art or finance.
So, whatever you’re after, don’t ever relax
A vigilant outlook for possible quacks.
Beware of quack artists! Remember they
mayn’t
Be all that they’d kid you, these fellows who
paint;
And, instead of a gem to embellish your walls,
You may do your good brass on a daub that
appals
Men better equipped to distinguish than you
The gold from the pinchbeck, the false from
the true.
It matters not whether you’ve boodle in stacks,
If you aim to buy pictures watch out for the
quacks!
Beware of quack poets, you editor chaps—
A gun to kick backwards, you’ll tell me
perhaps,
But it’s simply because I’m a doggerel bard
That I’m running no risk from my little petard.
My warning applies to the voluble birds
Whose melody’s smothered in mountains of
words
And whose meaning the keenest discernment
might tax,
Which is why I adjure you—beware of the
quacks!
Beware of snide surgeons and shoddy physicians,
Of shyster attorneys and quack politicians!
And even professors, in gowns and in hoods,
You know, are not always the genuine goods.
Just think of the crowds who would fain be
admired
For titles to skill which they haven’t acquired,
And, whether it’s singly they hunt or in packs,
Shun noisy pretenders—fight shy of the quacks!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
i
CRAVENA
IfcuJl 6ft/H eciatt that
eutitaiulUtq yu&litu -
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
Vaty.'
.
•x : :
s *
r-i
E SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Eden must have been soaking himself
in horror magazines and gangster films
sincfe his frosty U.S.A. tour. Any-
way, his advice —the latest —to decent
and dignified old J.B. is “Be tough, look
tough, talk tough and act tough.” Tough
guy, Tony, huh?
Professor Roberts, his latest: “If
others make peace with honor impossible,
then we fight.” “We fight.” He must be
going to enlist.
There were angry references to “pres-
tige” in Sydney prints last week. “Pres-
tige?” said Menzies, speaking at the
Women’s U.A.P. “Put prestige in one
scale and a million lives in the other.... ”
The P.M. will get a bad press if he talks
like that. It is not what Sydney prints
expect of him.
Japan has undertaken to get from
Australia two-thirds of the wool it re-
quires in 1939-40. Graziers say they are
HEIL, HITLER!
“A German expedition is going to the Antarctic to claim territory for the Reich.”
satisfied, but “S. M. Herald” sourly ob-
jected to the negotiations, and warned
Japan “not to feel surprised if its goods
prove less popular.” The “Workers’
Weekly” (Communist), which quotes the
“Herald” with vast approval, demands a
boycott.
Since 1918 France has had some very
foolish politicians, but Bonnet, the
Foreign Minister at the moment, is in a
class of his own. Just when
was about to debate Neutrality Act
amendments fathered by Mr. Sol Bloom
(no relation to Mr. Leon Blum, of Paris),
Mr. Bonnet blurted out that if the Ameri-
cans made it known that they would back
the British and French the moment hos-
tilities began “the spectre of war would
be definitely banished.” The immediate
effect was to endanger the amendments,
their supporters being embarrassed and
their opponents incensed, and in the
result they were lost, the position now
being that it is against U.S. law to sell
arms or ammunition to any belligerent.
Hitler himself couldn’t have delivered a
worse blow to the cause of which Bonnet
is such a clumsy champion.
The Sydney afternoon paper discovered
last Wednesday that it was the twentieth
anniversary of the signing of the Ver-
sailles treaties. Tacked on to them was
the Covenant of the League, embodying,
after a fashion, Wilson’s Fourteen Points,
the first of which was “Open Covenants,
openly arrived at after which
diplomacy shall always proceed frankly
and in the public view.” In the same
issue of the afternoon paper there was
an extract from the “Cronk-News” con-
taining Mr. Vernon Bartlett’s way of
“overcoming the difficulty about guaran-
teeing the Baltic States,” which refuse
to be guaranteed-— i.e., “naming them in
an unpublished document separate and
distinct from the treaty” of alliance with
Soviet Russia. So much for “open cove-
nants” ; and where is self-determination
now?
It is now acknowledged that the
N.S.W. financial year closed with a defi-
cit of £2,801,436, which is just about a
pound a head. The story in September
was that there would be a surplus of
£BOOO, and on the strength of that Mr.
Stevens, before relieving himself of the.
Treasury, gave notice of the bill that in-
creased Ministers’ and members’ salaries
by £14,000 p.a., starting from July 1.
Perhaps Mr. Stevens will set a noble
example by handing his poultice back.
Not only British politicians and news-
papers have a contempt for the
Dominions, from which they expect whole-
hearted support in wars. A Godstone
(Surrey, Eng.) bench of magistrates made
it a condition of the granting of two
wine licenses that the applicants should
sell “no Empire wines.” Very good Aus-
tralians, many of whom fought in the
last war, have large quantities of very
good wine to sell; but rubbish from the
Balkans is preferred.
The day of the political lawyer has
evidently returned. Richardson, Manfred
and Primrose, the three N.S.W. Ministers
appointed last week (Richardson was
moved up), are lawyers. Evatt and
Martin, the two new Heffron Labor
Assemblymen, are also lawyers, and
recently they helped to introduce another
wig, Kirby, to the Federal electors of
Martin. In Queensland last month two
barristers stood for the Townsvillle
Assembly by-election. And Parkhill was,
of course, ousted by Spender, now in
training to become Commonwealth
Attorney-General.
A Great Thought of Mr. F. E. Baume,
of Sydney’s “Sunday Sun,” who is sup-
posed to be going to have a cut at
Thorby in Calare:
Posterity can well afford to keep to-day.
Banks live on overdrafts. Let’s have one,
with Australia as security, on primary and
secondary industries alike.
Mr. Baume’s “overdraft” is indistinguish-
able from Jock Garden’s “credits, secured
on the entire public and private wealth
of the country.” As for his notion that
“posterity can well afford to keep to-
day,” yesterday and to-day have
already loaded to-morrow with Common-
wealth and State debts exceeding
£1,300,000,000.
According to Senator Foil, who is
Minister of the Interior or something,
4365 refugees have arrived in Australia
“during the past 12 months.” Seeing that
admission of refugees at the rate of 5000
a year for three years wasn’t supposed
to begin till January 1 this seems a
large number ; and Foil’s confession that
there is “illegal trafficking in landing
permits” suggests that more than 4365
have come in. And A.B.C. can’t employ
them all.
The Menzies Government could have
disarmed opposition to its census by call-
ing it a census, and explaining that since
the last census should have been taken in
1931, instead of 1933, there would be
nothing illogical in taking in 1939 or
1940 the census due in 1941. The
U.S.S.R. and Germany have done much
the same thing.
Communists and their friends are
thundering against the national register,
and plutocrats muttering against the
wealth register. The plutocratic griev-
ance seems to be that the wealth register
will compel the disclosure of Common-
wealth Government securities which have
hitherto been hidden. Hidden so securely
as to be exempt, not only from State
income tax, but from Commonwealth
and State death duties.
m Lord Halifax has replied, very effec-
tively, to the incessant German charge
that Britain’s aim is “to isolate Germany
within a ring of hostile States, to stifle her
natural outlets, to cramp and throttle
her very existence.”
Germany is isolating herself. Economi-
cally by a policy of autarchy, politically
by a policy that causes constant anxiety
to other nations, and culturally by a policy
of racialism. If you deliberately isolate
yourself from others by your own actions,
you can blame nobody but yourself.
That is true of individuals and equally
true of nations.
Increase in the excise on beer is talked
of. It is Is. 9d. a gallon now, and even
that is too much; but on the trial
balloon 2s. is written. It would be fairer
to the men who do the hard work of the
Commonwealth to put something on tea
instead. All the tea is imported, much of
it from bad-customer countries. All the
draught beer and nearly all the bottled
beer are brewed in Australia.
Our friend Hans the Dutchman has
again refused the part periodically
assigned to him by Sydney “D.T.,” and in
the latest offer roughed out in these
terms:
Britain, the U.S.A., France and Holland
buy more than 80 p.c. of Japan’s total
exports. All of them have important inter-
ests in the Far East. With this market
closed, and the supply of British, American
and Dutch oil cut off, Japan could soon
be brought to her senses.
It is assumed that the Japanese would
take these concerted acts of war squatting
on their mats and fluttering fans. Hans,
in turning away once more, explained
that his foreign policy is neutrality.
In politics and political journalism, ex-
tremes have repeatedly met in France
and on rare occasions in Australia. In
these parts, they have never met more
strangely than in recent months. “S. M.
Herald,” for decades the organ of the
Union Club, is now rapturously quoted
by the Communist “Workers’ Weekly,”
and by the A.W.U.’s “Worker,” which
goes into a frenzy of admiration for “the
Great Socialist Republic.” The “Workers’
Weekly” was so delighted with one ex-
tract from a Granny leader that it quoted
the thing in two issues.
Sydney’s Licensing Court sailed into
the news last week by refusing to renew
the licenses of the Plaza Hotel at Wyn-
yard station, “owned by the Chief Com-
missioner and leased to Mr. Reuben Gar-
diner for 60 years,” and the Press Club
in Hamilton-street. The Plaza was dis-
qualified because it lacks the four bed-
rooms required by the Liquor Act
(though it has “Alcohol Alley”), the Press
Club because of poker machines and
trading after hours. In each case there
is to be an appeaj.
After many months, Justice Drake-
Brockman has made a Federal arbitra-
tion award granting the coalminers a five-
day week of 40 hours, with special over-
time and Saturday pay and ten days’
annual holidays. This although “an
examination of the books of the principal
collieries showed that during the last
seven years nearly all consistently made
losses.” Thousands of coalies showed
their appreciation by going on strike.
In Dublin just on 50 years ago, “young
Mr. Gray,” of “Freeman’s Journal,” was
denounced by Parnellites and applauded
by anti-Parnellites. “Young Mr. Gray”
is now Mr. Dwyer-Gray, Labor Premier
of Tasmania. The Premiership is to be
put to the vote at a party meeting to-day,
and friends and unfriends of “young Mr.
Gray” thought he would decline nomina-
tion because he is too old at 70, but he
has changed his mind. The friends point
out that Senator Darcey was not too old
at 68 to come out as a candidate and
stump the State.


LIVING DANGEROUSLY.
“A tiger that escaped from a circus in Liverpool (England) spent an anxious time dodging traffic and pedestrians, and was obviously relieved when recaptured.”


*
you naact nto\&
t/uui i/u moUuttg
shotoel /
Inward freedom from poisonous waste
is even more important than external
cleanliness . . . the morning drink of
Golcryst in warm water surely yet
pleasantly removes energy - sapping
toxins' and gives you abundant vim
. . . improves resistance to winter ills!
All chemists and grocers sell Golcryst
. . . 4d., Bd. and 1/3.
TAKE
Reasons for the Phenomenal Sales of the
IMPERIAL
“Good
Companion
PORTABLE
FREE COURSE IN
TYPEWRITING
—for every purchaser of a type-
writer. A thoroughly complete and
concise Manual. Any student who
conscientiously completes this course
cannot fail to become au expert
typist.
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
it’s the lowest in price. No 20
per cent. DUTY or 1 0 per cent.
PRIMAGE, and this is passed on
to the purchaser,
it’s the best made. Made from
BRITISH steel. We have yet to
hear of an Imperial Portable
that ever let a user down
mechanically.
it’s COMPLETELY Standard.
Special keyboards and any
special type are available at no
extra price.
of its light weight. Weighs
only 12£lb. and yet NO feature
is sacrificed.
BRITISH MADE—and the Best in the World.
DOBELL PTY., LIMITED
107 PITT STREET. SYDNEY’ ... 8W1227
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting ail
(lasses of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Writ* W full particulars to
a t HARRIS, General Manager,
Box J4OCC. C.F.0.. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Keith Virtue and Harry Purvis, of
Australian National Airways, go over to
the Dutch Europe-Australia airlines,
tempted by the offer of double salaries.
Thus the Dutch get two out of the very
best heavy-machine pilots in the Com-
monwealth. Virtue, in 11 years of flying,
has covered half a million miles, includ-
ing 2000 flights between Sydney and
Brisbane. His mileage is a commercial
record for the Commonwealth. Purvis
has 4000 flying hours to his credit.
A few days after the passing of James
Mcßae, formerly Director of Education
in Victoria, Frank
Tate, Mcßae’s pre-
decessor (1902-
1928), died in Mel-
bourne. They were
a brainy pair. Tate
strove to improve
the status and con-
ditions of teachers,
to convert ram-
shackle schools
into properl y-
equipped labora-
tories of learning,
and to forward the
tree-planting move-
ment, which gave
the State 5000 acres
of new gardens
and schoolchildren
an interest in
arboriculture. He
was born in 1863
in Castlemainc,
had a university
training, and was
successively
teacher, inspector
and lecturer. He
figured on commis-
sions ranging as
far as S. Rhodesia,
and three times
was a delegate to
the Imperial Edu-
cation Conference
in London. He
did yeoman ser-
vice as chairman
FRANK TATE as
Low saw him.
of the Australian Educational Research
Council, among other things securing
£BO,OOO of Carnegie Trust money for
Victoria.
Few of the surviving pioneer Aus-
tralian airmen have stuck to it so
tenaciously as Raymond John Paul
Parer. Born in Melbourne and educated
at Xavier, he saw the war through with
the R.F.C. and the A.F.C. In 1920 he
started out from England in an ancient
bus with Mclntosh to make Australia.
After hair-raising adventures they arrived
at Darwin with little of the original
machine left, and what was left patched
like a tramp’s trousers. The two heroes
reached Sydney by short hops along the
beaches. Subsequently, Parer helped to
found and direct the New Guinea air-
lines which were finally amalgamated in
Mandated Airlines.
Harold Clapp, who leaves the chair-
manship of the Victorian Railway Com-
missioners on a five-year contract at
£4OOO p.a. to manage the Bristol Beau-
fort aircraft works, looks anything but a
hard-driving boss. But looks don’t matter
in the Clapp family—brother F. 8., who
runs Australian General Electric, is
ample in form and rounded of visage,
but he has as much energy as Harold.
The Clapps, Melburnians, received their
intensive education with General Electric,
U.S.A. Harold was for a time with
Brisbane Tramways, but in the U.S.A.
he cut a wide electrical swathe across the
continent, converting a number of Uncle
Sam’s suburban railways from coal to
lightning. He is a man who works the
clock round, watches every detail and
succeeds in giving the impression that he
is having a good time. Few can teach
him anything about the arts of conserv-
ing energy and getting the last ounce out
of men while keeping them in good
humor.
Dr. Killian, Catholic Archbishop of
Adelaide, is dead at 66. He succeeded
Dr. Spence, whose coadjutor he was in
1933-34, and continued the fine O’Reily-
Spence tradition. As Father (Andrew)
Killian, the late archbishop came from
St. Patrick’s College, Carlow, in 1898 —-
the same year as Father (Robert Wil-
liam) Spence—and labored in Bourke,
Wilcannia and Broken Hill. He admin-
istered Broken Hill Cathedral, and was
Vicar-General of Wilcannia-Forbes; then
for nine years (1924-33) he was Bishop of
Port Augusta. In 1919 he was named
Domestic Prelate to the Pope.
The Tasmanian citizens’ memorial to
J. A. Lyons is to take the form of a bur-
sary, available to all primary-school
children and tenable in all secondary
schools. It is intended to raise £3OOO.
Retiring after 25 years as secretary of
the Tasmanian Turf Club, Andrew Rae-
burn. He has been a good servant to
the club, and most of the improvements
at Mowbray have risen under his hand.
Two months ago F. E. Thonemann re-
tired from Melbourne Stock Exchange
after 50 years on the floor. Last week
he died, at 76. Thonemann was a man
of many interests. To the
end he sat on half a dozen
boards paper, insurance,
electricity and distilleries.
With his sons he owned
several N. Australian
stations, including Hodgson
Downs on the Roper and
Mrs. Asneas Gunn’s Elsey ;
and, with Alick Hay for
partner, Miranda Downs in
the Gulf Country. Nearer
home, he had a fine Short-
horn stud at Kuyura, Dar-
ling Downs, and Jersey and
Suffolk sheep studs in Vic-
toria. He was an expert
bulb-grower and a member
of the Botanic Gardens Ad-
visory Committee. And for
15 years he sat in Mel-
bourne City Council, and as
chairman of the electricity
supply committee intro-
duced the existing spectacu-
lar system of lighting Mel-
bourne’s showier avenues.
Five sons will carry on his
interests —another son was
killed in the Great War.
Barkie Sailor, the 29-year-
old Palm Island (N.Q.)
policeman who swam three
miles through a shark-
haunted sea at night to
bring help to nine people in a
capsized boat, was asked by the
Queensland Aboriginal Department to
name his choice of a reward for his
bravery. His choice was a church
memorial tablet to his young son, one of
the four drowned. Promised this, and
asked to name a personal gift in addi-
tion, he shyly confided that his wife
would be delighted with a perambulator.
He has been recommended for a Royal
Humane Society award.
Dead in France, Ford Madox Ford,
who was Ford Madox Hueffer. His
chief claim to fame lies in his collabora-
tion with Joseph Conrad. Their first
brain-child was The Inheritors, after
Joyce’s Ulysses the most incomprehen-
sible book written in recent times. Con-
rad said afterwards that he did not know
why he had written it, what it was all
about or how much he had to do with
it. Very little, probably, for their next
joint effort was Romance, which was
pure Conrad. Ford’s own works —bio-
graphy, fiction, criticism and a little verse
—filled more than 40 volumes.
Little Rabbi Freedman is dead in West-
ralia at 65. A native of Budapest, he
arrived in Perth 43 years ago, and soon
made himself at home. In fact, he be-
came so much a Westralian that the
Diggers considered him one of them-
selves. He was an A.I.F. chaplain in
Gallipoli, France, Flanders and Palestine,
and the R.S.L. had no more enthusiastic
member.
One of the most familiar figures at
Sydney Police Depot is Isaac Grosvenor,
who, after 39 years’ service, has been
promoted to the rank of first-class tracker
—the second N.S.W. native to sport a
stripe on his police uniform. A Yass
man, 68 years old, he speaks well, has
seen service throughout the mountain
country between the Goulburn ranges and
the coast, and round Cooma, where, in
an earlier day, he was a terror to sheep-
stealers. He was a shearer and horse-
breaker before he joined the force, and
has put hundreds of police horses through
their paces. He lives in Redfern, Sydney,
and likes it, and the institution in his life
of which he is most proud is his family.
“I have had a good wife,” he says. “I
owe her a great deal. My family of six
are all well educated and all good Aus-
tralians. All those of working age are
ISAAC GROSVENOR, Senior Tracker.
(Modelled by Frith.)
employed in the same kinds of jobs as
other Australians.” The Yass natives
included some of Australia’s finest tribes,
and Tracker Grosvenor is a credit to the
best of them.
H. L. Austin is one of the world’s best
judges of a merino. He made his repu-
tation as manager of Wanganella for 18
years, and classed the stud for 16 years.
In the last two decades he has steadily
built up the reputation of Eli Elwah,
H. L. AUSTIN, of Eli Elwah.
Hay (N.S.W.), which he founded, and
has done much to preserve the big, bold,
clean-lined Peppin type of merino much
favored in the Riverina. Austin is a
Deniliquin councillor and a patron ol
sport. In his youth he played cricket,
tennis and football for Melbourne
Grammar. All three games still interest
him, and he is a member of the V.R.C.
and of every race club within reach of
Hay.
Another Australian goes into a big
British research job when M. L. E. Oli-
phant, Professor of Physics at Birming-
ham University, takes charge of the new
secret laboratory built by Lord Nuffield
to deal with atomic problems. Oliphant
is a South Australian educated at Unlev
High School, Adelaide University and
under Rutherford at Cambridge.
“E.V.”: James Barry Munnik Hert-
zog has completed his fifteenth year as
Prime Minister of the S. African Union.
He is 73, and he has lived a full life. He
graduated in law at Amsterdam Univer-
sity, and at 29 was a Judge of the Orange
Free State. At 33 he was a general in
command of the South-Western Division
during the S. African War. Eight years
afterwards he was Minister for Justice in
the first Union Cabinet. Last time I saw
him he was a lean, hard man of 60 who
was making the English very uncomfort-
able with his uncompromising interpreta-
tions of Dominion status. The guns of
royal dukes, old generals, higher civil ser-
vants were trained on him without avail,
nor did the press barrage worry him.
Other Prime Ministers seemed to live in a
whirl, but you could leave the Australian
suite at the Savoy and find Hertzog con-
templating the lions in Trafalgar-squat e
or wandering through the National Poi-
trait Gallery or the Park. Hertzog’s
favorite among Australian Ministers was
Neville Howse, V.C.—“the best-tempered
man I ever knew,” he said.


F
If you want a Super-Quality Cigarette
m
ssk . <
m
mmmm
tm
m.
ggSg
,
x.'.:
•SSiSSySig;:: :':
SSSgß¥s£s£
I fc:>:
ggP?
P
-
11 §t f i
• :Wi
: ■
f'sM *:,<
, v... /f. m
lllllpll
y< RCi\ <A
fil
i^lH
□£3 »t&
mm :■!
• -f* '•
Now in TINS of 20 for 1/6. Also Laube boxes 10—9 d., flat and round fifties and 100’s.
o132


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat, making north
for Mildura and the fruit-picking, called
at a Wimmera farm for a hand-out, and
was offered a job by the lady of the
house. “What sort of a job?” he asked.
“I want a man handy about the place,”
she said. “He’d keep the wood up, milk
the cows, separate, keep the garden in
order, kill the mutton, clean the car, oil
the windmill and do odd jobs about the
place. Of course, I couldn’t pay much,
but” Mat held up a hand like a
ham and backed off. “Missus,” he said,
“you don’t want a man, you want a
husband!”
* * * *
“No. 1”: A noticeable feature on
many eastern coastal rivers is the way
in which sandspits are rapidly giving
place to unsightly mudflats. Theories to
explain the change range from prawners
dragging mud up over the sand in their
nets to mangrove crabs displacing soldier-
crabs and tunnelling up mud in place of
sand. While there may be a certain
amount of truth in both ideas, my plump
is for our old enemy soil-erosion. Atten-
tion is mostly focused on the denudation
of soil from cultivable slopes at the
moment, but the silt resulting from in-
discriminate tree-ringbarking must land
somewhere at the bottom of a watershed
and choke up streams. Unless erosion
is checked, we stand to lose in tourist
trade as well as cockying.
* * * *
“Muderup”: Talk of conscripting cats
for military service (B. 7/6/’39) reminds
me of the employment of Fells domesti-
cus by an astute fish inspector who
patrolled a W.A. river. Poachers netting
mullet in closed waters were numerous
and clever. Yet despite the most strin-
gent precautions, such as muffled row-
locks and no lights, they kept on being
caught. Then one night, just as the in-
spector was putting off from the town
jetty bound on his usual patrol, a faint
meow in actuality “let the cat out of the
bag.” The poachers’ womenfolk, there
giving the “trap” a good send-off,
tumbled at once —and after that most
poachers carried a cat. Across the dead
night silence of inland waters feline ears
detect sounds inaudible to the crude
human apparatus ; and on the slightest
alarm puss rises, pricks up ears and looks
in the direction from which the sound
comes.
* * * *
“Kesem”: With careful exactness Leich-
hardt in his journal recorded the most
striking features of the landscape as he
passed through each centre, but why,
when passing through west Condamine
(Q.) country, did he omit to mention the
(now übiquitous) wilga, Geigera parvi-
flora ? Was it because the wilga had not
penetrated so far north or east in 1844?
Old hands affirm that the brigalow is
working further in. Where old station
homes once stood the umbrella-like
silvery green tree has taken its stand,
and it is certain it did not grow in those
particular patches in the old days, for
homesteads were always built on clear
land.
* 4c * *
“Mandurah”: “Fisher” (B. 7/6/’39)
makes me burst out laughing when he
laments his cold reception from net
fishermen when running “the full navi-
gable length of a coastal river in a launch
on a working day.” His naivete is
charming. Doesn’t he realise that he
was seriously interfering with those
fishermen’s livelihood, and instead of
giving him a hearty “Good day” most of
them felt like greeting him with a shot-
gun. Reminds me of a swimming pal
of mine, found last summer highly indig-
nant on a lonely beach. “See that cow
out there in that boat fishing? In for
a dip, I thought to swim out to him,
around his boat and back. But do you
know he abused me something awful:
wouldn’t even let me catch hold of his
boat for a bit of a spell. Some blokes
think they own the sea. Good mind to
wait till he comes in and crack him.”
That’s it —some blokes do think they own
the rivers and the sea. Fish love quiet:
their first reaction to any strange noise
or vibrations is flight. The machine-gun
exhaust, the thrashing propeller, the
miniature tidal bore of the average speed
launch sends every fish scurrying for
miles. My name-place is one of the best
fishing spots on the whole Australian
coast —in the non-holiday season. Given
holiday time, with launches threshing
about, and there’s hardly a fish to be got.
% * % . #
“Magnus”: Recent Bulletin talk about
the compass being diverted by counter
attraction reminds me that there are
two spots in W.A. where such influences
can be noticed. Ordinary masses of iron
or iron ore will not affect a properly-
insulated needle, though other magnetised
bodies will. Thus Mt. Magnet, Murchi-
son (W.A.), got its name from that when
Austin in 1854 attempted the journey
inland from Perth to Shark Bay, the com-
passes of the party showing deviations on
approaching the magnetic mount. An-
other spot, noted a century ago by sea-
farers and more recently by airmen, lies
in the seabed just north of the Dampier
Archipelago, in the nor’-west. Here,
though the islands all around are sandy,
must lie submerged a magnetic mass
approaching in bulk that of Yampi
Sound. Airmen say that passing over
Flying Foam Passage, the way by sea
into Nicol Bay from the south, the in-
fluence is so strong as to be felt over a
thousand feet up.
* t * *
“Tom Willie”: The wedge-tailed eagle
caused the dispute. On one side the all-
for-all Aussies said that he was the
biggest eagle in the world. Contenders
on the other side held that he came only
second or third. Can’t remember where
they claimed that the bigger fellows hang
out, and I don’t care much about it
either. But at least he takes the medal
for gameness, as befits a bird that will
tackle a big Douglas airliner. The wedge-
tail has the idea that he can carry that
strange fellow-flyer into the mountains
and there break it up for food. But he
believes in fair hunting, and so attacks
the ’plane head on. He’s not supposed
to know that the propellers are working
like the blades in a chaffcutter, and if
ever he makes the discovery it is after he
is pieced together in a higher life.
* * * *
“W. 8.”: With a mosquito plague,
Birdsville introduced the game of
“Plagues” on the Queensland border over
20 years ago ; horses and cattle got so
poor you could almost shoot peas
through ’em, and houses were smoked
day and night as a policy of appeasement.
Innamincka followed suit with a mouse
plague ; men wore tin-flanged bowyangs
and women stood in tubs of water to
do their chores. Birdsville came in again
with a fly plague, ahd Innamincka coun-
tered with a snake plague that shimmied
and wriggled the country from end to
end. Now they are at it hammer and
tongs to see who can build the biggest
bottle dump. They each have a dump
by the side of their pubs that Mt. Kos-
ciusko wouldn’t be ashamed of. Not
long ago Innamincka was leading by 642
bottles, but, since the two-day Diggers’
Conference at Birdsville, Birdsville is now
well in the lead —so they say.
* * * *
“Oscar”: The tall, sunburned, amiable
Queenslander had taken a job with old
Jackson for the wheat harvest. After
tea the first night Jackson remarked:
“The fellow who was here last year used
to give a hand with the drying-up.” The
long ’un fell for it, just as he let himself
in for half a dozen other odd jobs, all
after doing a good day’s work with the
bag-needle. Always it was the “other
fellow last year.” Came the cut-out. Old
Jackson drove his hand into town and,
when giving him his money, said “The
feller who was here last year shouted a
few drinks before he left.” This was
the last straw. “Well,” said the Queens-
lander, as he shouldered his swag, “you
tell the bloke who comes next year that
the chap who was here this year didn’t
want to hear any more about the fellow
who was here last year,” and he made a
beeline, solo, for Donovan’s pub.
* * * -!=
“De Facto”: What is the audibility
range of a bullfrog chorus? Standing
on the shore of Forestier Peninsula (Tas.),
on the southern side of Blackman’s Bay,
you can on a still evening hear quite
plainly the song of the bullfrogs in the
big marsh at the northern end of the bay,
between five and six miles away across
the water.
o * *
“Wang”: Big timber, is it? Down at
Uwontfindit in south Gippsland a cow
cocky, Dan Harnetty, has something to
show in that line. Visitors to his farm
are puzzled by the style of the pigsties
he has there. They are circular in shape,
about a dozen of them, about sft. high,
measuring from 10ft. to 20ft. across and
of solid wood —not a nail or bolt in any
part of them. They are portions of a
tree which grew on the property about
half a mile away. After the tree fell
Dan found it was hollow from the butt
upwards for a couple of hundred feet.
He cut it into sections and hauled the bits
down to the yards. “The biggest portion
got away,” Dan told me, “and rolled into
the river. But it saved the council a
lot of money. They cut the banks away
about thirty feet on each side and let
it settle down into the bed of the river,
and now we have t’-day what’s probably
the biggest arched bridge anywhere in
the bush in Australia. But,” he added
regretfully, “it wus stiff luck fer me —I
intended usin’ it as a cowyard.”
* * *
“J.R.”: “Flight” (B. 3/5/’39) is only
half-right about scrub turkeys being a
pest in cane country, as the damage they
do to young cane is negligible compared
with the havoc they wreak in a grown
crop. When the turks. get among good
“sugar” they hollow each stick out be-
tween the notches into a succession of
tiny dugout canoes. One of the worst
gashes I ever suffered in many years’
canecutting was due to the knife pass-
ing through the picked shell of a seem-
ingly solid stick, and laying the skin
open for 2in. along my shin. The tur-
key’s lack of brain-power is debatable.
Although I’ve seen one sit ducking his
stupid head at every shot until the fifth
or sixth brought him down, it may be
put to his credit that he can sit perfectly
motionless a bare few feet above a rav-
ing dog with his eye on its questing
master.
* * * #
“Ophir”: A snake can lie submerged
in water for quite a long time ; I saw
one that apparently suffered no ill-effects
after being under for more than two
hours. That would indicate unusual
respiratory powers ; yet the least shortage
of air when on top puts paid to their
account. Here’s an instance, proved a
couple of times. Get Joe in a ship s
tank with an airhole on top. Drop a
handful of burning grass into that tank,
and watch that reptile kick the bucket.
I’ve seen ’em do it. They don t get
burned ; it’s just that the burning grass
eats up all the oxygen. As the only
outlet for the hot air is the manhole on
top, and as the tank is airtight every-
where else no fresh air gets in. Halt
an hour will fix him.
HOW WILDFIRE WON THE
WELTER.
Fair Rosie lived at Dingo Creek,
Hard by the railway siding;
And to her home one twilit eve
Her lover, Bill, came riding.
And when between the twain had passed
A fervid lovers’ greeting,
He murmured, “Sweet, to-morrow is
The local picnic meeting.
“We would have wedded long ago,
Could I have raised the ready—
Now I’ve a chance to make a pile
With Wildfire here, my neddy.
“The stake’s worth five an’ twenty quid—
Soon in my arms you’ll shelter,
For wedding bells will ring for us
When Wildfire wins the Welter.”
The maiden scanned the sorry beast
From tail to rusty snaffle:
“Him win a race!” she cried in scorn;
“He couldn’t win a raffle.”
“Now wait, my life,” her lover spoke
’Twixt swift-implanted kisses;
“To win this race 1 need some aid
From you—my future missus.”
So by the pub next afternoon,
Behind a shelt’ring wattle,
Fair Rosie lurked with matches and
Some petrol in a bottle.
And when at length each steed leapt out,
The turf behind him flinging,
Then loud above the sound of hooves
Young William’s voice went ringing:
“Arise, Sir Fish-head !”
“Hold hard, hold hard, good riders all,”
He yelled as he drew level;
“Look yonder, see, the pub’s on fire —
It’s burning like the devil!”
Then whip and spur were plied amain;
Towards the township turning
With one accord they left the track
To save the pub from burning.
Towards the smoke-pall rising high
They galloped helter-skelter,
As Wildfire cantered on alone
To win—hands down—the Welter.
The moral is: Love conquers all
(Helped out, of course, by arson),
For Rose and Bill that very night
Were married by the parson.
Fair Rosie has no cause to rue
The hand that Fate has dealt her,
For Bill’s in the insurance game
Since Wildfire won the Welter.
VICTORIA.
ELIENVALE.


“Come on—never mind your hat!"
“Logui” (N.G.): An Edie Creek miner
was remonstrating with one of his boys,
and, not having mastered the art of
pidgin, became confused with the mean-
ing of the words kru (brain) and screw
(elbow or kneecap). “You no got screw
belong head belong you?” he asked.
“What name something?” answered the
bewildered native. “Screw !’’ thundered
the irate miner. “You no savvy some-
thing ’e stop along head belong boy?”
A look of understanding slowly spread
over the native’s dusky features, and then
he grinned. “Ah, yes, master, now me
savvy—louse! ”
* * * *
“Dash D.”: Despite “Edjudina’s” re-
marks, the chap who wrote that par.
about the bloke who threw himself across
the windlass handle and jammed it (B.
21/6/’39) still bears the corns on his
horny hands through hauling his mate
from the bottom of many a “duffer,”
perhaps not 50ft. deep—few of the allu-
vial workings go more than half that
depth. As for jamming the handle, 1
once saw an old he-goat, after having
butted the top-man unceremoniously
aside, jump across the windlass and jam
it so tightly that Billy’s broken Carcass
had to be cut free. The rope was easily
taut enough for the man to climb to the
top, but he lost his nerve and hung by
his foot until he was rescued.
* * * *
“Straight”: The newly-installed weigh-
bridge was a novelty and a boon to the
woodyard, and the boss, who’d been in
ihe game all his life and could spot
sodden wood a mile off, walked around
like a bantam cock while the clerk
weighed the loads of 6ft. that came in to
the saw. Came a load that met with
instant disapproval, although the boss
withheld comment until it was weighed.
“How much?” he asked then. The clerk
told him. “H’m! ” He walked all round
the load, surveying it closely. “Now
phwhat?” he asked triumphantly, Wag-
ging a finger at the beams, “phwhat wud
ut weigh if ’tWas dhry?”
* * * *
“First Blue”: “Most cows are stupid
brutes,” said Fiddleback Joe, whittling
busily at a piece of the wood which had
earned him his name. “But now and
agin yer strikes one wot is almost human.
Most intellergent one I ever struck wus
up at Barmiegooma. A skinny-loOkin’
thing she wus, with flamin’ bones stickin’
outa ’er like spikes on a ’at-rack ; yer
never saw such a scarecrow. Well, we’d
bin ’avin’ a bitta trouble keepin’ ’er in
the paddick, so the boss gits the idea of
fixin’ a big forked stick shaped like a
Y around ’er flamin’ neck. The idea
works jake fer a while, but one night
durin’ the big drought I’m drivin’ ’er
’ome along the back road, when all of
a sudden she gives a ’ell of a beller, an’,
kneel in’ on ’er front legs, starts sniffin’
frantic-like at the ground. Coupla times
I tries ter pull ’er to ’er feet, but it ain’t
no go. Every time I gets ’er up down
she flops and starts sniffin’. Once when
I’m tryin’ ter pull ’er up I feels meself
gettin’ pulled down, too. Suddenly 1
wakes up. Yairs ; you could’ve knocked
me down wiv a feather: she’s a water-
divinei, an’ the tug uv the water pullin’
on the forked stick was wot kept pullin’
’er to the ground! Would’ve made a lotta
money on’y fer one thing. One day
passin’ Cassidy’s pub she strikes water
agin, an’, leadin’ us right into the flam-
in’ bar, starts floppin’ down in fronta the
beer-pump. The scene Cassidy makes
when I accuses him of waterin’ the beer
wus her downfall. Yer see, the boss
owes ’im a lotta money, an’ ter keep
sweet with ’im ’as ter kill the poor
creacher!”
* * * *
“Williami”: I’m all for the figures
given by “Nakh” (B. 7/6/’39), but is
there anything so elastic as the height of
trees? I forget how high they grow in
Westralia, but up in N.Q. at least 50
different men have refused anything be-
tween £5OO and £750 for the same red
cedar, a monster of over 500 ft. One
Melbourne paper told us the other day
that stringybarks grow to 400 ft. in Gipps-
land ; everything does in Gippsland, of
course, except the earthworms, which
stop short at Bft., and the mountain ash,
which climbs up and up. Evidently
someone is at fault, because an official
tag on a great ash at Cumberland Creek
gives its height as 301 ft. 6in. —“the tallest
hardwood tree in the world.” Is it, now
“If I winned a first prtze in lot'ry , lad , I'd sit deow'n and take things easy."
that the 331-footer has come down? And
was it 331 ft.? Don’t believe everything
foresters tell you—and, above all, never
believe the height of a tree.
* -4: * -r.
“Dimon”: Some boundary-riders in
lonely parts have queer hobbies. One
whom I sometimes camped with near the
Paroo used to amuse himself by repre-
senting the various periods of settlement
with models of the fences he had
patrolled in different parts of the coun-
try. They began with the dogleg, chock-
and-log, brush and zigzag, and pro-
gressed through the years with the cocka-
too fence, four-rail, three-rail, two-rail,
one-rail and wire, then all wire, and
finally wire-netting. The old fellow
couldn’t read, and, being alone, he spent
many evening hours cutting the material
at his fireside and erecting it on an un-
even plot behind his gunyah. He chose
the lumpy ground because the tiny hills
and miniature gullies gave a better effect
to the fences. He was known as ‘ Jimmy
from the Fence” ; but unkind strangers
who dropped on to his model sheep-run
called him barmy.
* H- :j: *
“Flying-South”: Old Will scorns
“Wippegong’s” robins (B. 3/5/’39) as
sissies. Working on a gold show in the
breeding season, we noticed a swallows’
nest perched precariously in the back of
the crosscut we were toiling in. The
birds took little notice of us, and fluttered
up and down the shaft to the rhythmical
beat of hammer-and-tap. At first, when
we were firing, Old Will and I used to
stand at the mouth of the shaft to
frighten the swallows away. They were
quick to sense impending danger, and
always beat us to the surface and more
open spaces. But when three eggs ap-
peared in the nest we began to doubt
their sagacity. Meanwhile we went on
with the job. Dry-boring and decom-
posed kaolinised mullock made things
pretty dusty, and each round of shots
fairly rocked the eggs. Returning after
a spell in town we were alcoholically
astounded to see two hungry beaks
stretching out. The third egg was a dud.
The young birds were reared in a racket
of explosions and smother of fumes
until they grew old enough to fly the
coop.
* H= * =?
“Ak Shorr”: “That’s your bunk on the
left,” said the cane cocky as he showed
me into the barracks. I shoved my
“port” under the bed and drew out a
stout ash stick about 4ft. long. “What's
this for —snakes?” I inquired. “Oh, no.
I nearly forgot to tell yer. Yer see, old
Jeff sleeps in the other bunk, and he gets
some awful bad nightmares, so if he
wakes you up just poke him in the ribs
till he swears, and you’ll be doing both
of you a good turn.”
* * # *
“Tom Willie”: Tucked away in the far
corner of every' town in Australia, the
village blacksmith used to stand under
the sloping roof of his iron shed. Where
is he now? And what a large commu-
nity he would make if gathered into one
mass! Surely at least 10,000 of him must
have blown his bellows for the last time
in a single year and gone out of busi-
ness simultaneously. Was there anything
more romantic to the kiddies of small
towns than the smithy’s forge? To hear
the soft welt of the hammer on red-
hot steel and the double clang of the
anvil brought the kids around, and there
was always a good type of horse about
tethered to the splinter-free and polished
rail or falling to sleep over the breaking
back of the smithy. We used to burn
charcoal at 9d. a
cornsack, more as
an opportunity to
get into the sacred
citadel of the forge
and be among the
sparks rather than
for the satisfaction
of profiteering in the
fuel business. The
odd smith that you
find now has an un-
romantic establish-
ment in the centre
of the town, and I
doubt if he’d know
how to dump up the
axle of your billy-
cart to take the
wobble out of the
wheel. As for length-
ening a bullock-
bow or shoeing a
horse in such a way
as to cure a split
hoof, many farmers
could show him
points. A working
model of the black-
smith’s forge should
be an exhibit in
every museum, just to make life worth
while to the present generation.
END OF A JOYOUS BARD.
The poor old Bard is dead at last, there’s grief
in all the city.
He didn’t even say good-bye or write a fare-
well ditty;
We found a partly-finished ode amongst his
private papers,
Wedged in between two unpaid bills, the
grocer’s and the draper’s.
And so he’s bade the world farewell and left
us all the poorer—
The tailors, too, they’ll mourn for him, of
that there’s nothing surer.
The city bars won't seem the same, there's no
one to replace him;
He’s gone where critics cannot scoff, nor debt
collectors chase him.
’Twas grand to see him in a bar, a picture of
decorum,
A look of wisdom on his face, a pot of beer
before him,
Monopolising all the talk (except when someone
shouted);
He never paid for one himself and made no
bones about it.
His politics were rather broad, his morals
somewhat broader;
He didn’t hold with Parliament, and queried
law and order:
He had a grudge against the “force,” he’d lift
no hand to save them
(They ran the poet in one night, he never
quite forgave them).
He was a socialist at heart, he called all men
his brothers —
Excepting certain editors, his landlord and
some others.
He held all critics in contempt, for in his own
opinion
He equalled Masefield at his best and had the
call on Binyon.
And now he’s gone—the Lord knows where—
and left us all behind him:
1 hope the angels treat him well —that is, if
they can find him.
I’m sorry that he wasn’t spared to finish off
his poem ;
But here he lies, a poet mourned —by all who
didn’t know him.
VICTORIA.
WDWARD HARRINGTON.


\\\xa\ «««'*
4»'!
If you were suddenly empowered by a deceased
friend’s will to manage bis estate, wbat would
you do?
On tbe other band, wbat would your friend do
if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are avoided
by the appointment of The Trustees Executors &
Agency Company Ltd. as Executor or Co-
Executor. The Company has had over 61 years
experience of estate administration and offers
undoubted security for the performance of its
duties.
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Lid.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
401 & 403 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,810
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0.. D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R- T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
25!) PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, <>/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.15 Dinner from 5.80 p.in. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone • M4(iol.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
Net To Re- Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 23,643 7 p.c. = 13,881 9,763 2,762
1928.. 15,434 7 „ „ 14,164 1,270 4,032
1929.. 26,093 7 „ „ 15.475 10,618 14,660
Added goodwill, £15,350 ) •, 7 0 9
1930.. 2,432 Nil 2,432)
Loss.
1931.. 718 Nil 1,014
Profit.
1932.. 7,116 24 p.c. = 5,200 1,916 2,930
Added goodwill, £650 .. .. 2,280
1933.. 12,571 3 p.c. = 6,120 6,451 8,731
1934.. 23,150 34 „ ~7,130 7 s 757
Bonuses to clients. £7233 ) 8)787 1/)i)18
1935.. 23,862 4 p.c. = 8,148 1 3 106 20,624
Bonuses to clients, £12,608 ) ’
Unexplained addition, £4029 .. 24,653
1936.. 30,539 4 p.c. = 8,089 1 3 393 28,046
Bonuses to clients, £19,057 (
1937.. 40,741 4 p.c.= 8,144 1 14 747 42,793
Bonuses to clients, £17,850 )
1938.. 47.655 4 p.c. = 8,320 ( ,
Bonuses to clients, £23,814 j 15)521 58)314
This is one of a network of co-opera-
tive selling organisations which have done
a lot for the farmer in Australia by more
orderly marketing of his products, by
keeping down the cost of handling them
and by prompt settlement of his
account. It is through the big central
export organisation, Australian Pro-
ducers' Wholesale Co-op. Federation
Pty., and the two associated London cos.,
Overseas Farmers’ Co-op. Federations
and Empire Dairies, that the steadily
expanding flow of dairy and other farm
produce from all over Australia, and from
other parts of the Empire as well, is fed
on to the London market. The smaller
co-operative societies in the various States
of the Commonwealth attend to local
distribution.
This co., which amalgamated the old
Coastal Farmers’ and Berrima cos. in
N. S. Wales in 1925, absorbed the
Farmers’ Co-op. Distribution Associa-
tion of Queensland last term —the last-
named is the biggest thing of its kind
in the northern State, and, since the close
of accounts, has decided to go into the
grain business again. The absorption is
reflected in a sharp spring of £1,110,748
in turnover, which was also assisted by
better prices, the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s index number for farmyard and
dairy produce having advanced from 806
at the beginning of 1938 to 875 nine
months later ; it has since remained fairly
steady:
, —Exes. p.c. of—,
Comm is- Corn-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1927. .4,636,943 206,991 183,358 £3/19/1 88.5 „
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1929. .4,996,990 213,875 187,782 £3/15/2 87.8 „
1930. .4,825,978 198,339 195,907 £4/1/2 98.7 „
1931. .3,973,050 173,006 173,724 £4/7/- 100.1 „
1932. .3,886,358 174,464 167,348 £4/6/- 95.9 ~
1933. .3,801,385 171,194 158,623 £4/3/5 92.6 „
1934. .3,878,792 178,177 155,677 £4/0/3 87.3 „
1935..4,041,691 182,636 158,774 £3/18/6 86.9 „
1936. .4,124,033 207,005 176,466 £4/5/6 85.2 „
1937. .4,605.814 230,795 190,054 £4/2/6 82.3 „
1938. .5,716,562' 261,617 213,962 £3/14/10 81.8 ~
The most pleasing feature there is that
on the average suppliers’ produce was
handled at 7s. Bd. p.c. less cost than
during the previous term, the £3 14s
lOd. p.c. being the lowest ratio of exes
to turnover since 1926, while the ratio
of exes, to commission charges was also
the lowest since the present co. was
formed. Of the growth of £30,822 in
commission and other receipts, exes,
took £23,908, leaving the net result
£6914 stronger at £47,655.
Although the div. was kept steady
at 4 p.c., bonuses to clients, who
are mostly shareholders, were lifted from
20 p.c. to 22y p.c. of the commission on
butter and from p.c. to 15 p.c. of
the commissions on bacon, cheese, fruit,
e §gs, grain, etc. Last year’s div. and
bonuses together were equal to 15.7 p.c.
on capital as against 12.7 p.c. for the
previous term. The £15,521 that re-
mained lifted reserves to £58,314.
Absorption of the Queensland busi-
ness is again reflected in an all-round
expansion of balance-sheet figures :
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £208,294 £203,715 £203,587 £203,914
Share suspense 16,328
Overdraft . . 42,821 2,339 91,655 77,329
Other liabilities 152,984 220,864 226,014 322,657
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 60,387 62,014 66.007 84,254
Plant. . . . 29,680 30,515 35,448 36,033
Shares other cos. 26,543 26,690 26,690 28,516
Stocks . . 49,885 72,345 114,392 146,207
Book debts . . 228,501 259,604 329,701 388,740
Cash .. . . 10,132 17,129 17,805 26,925
When the books closed, the amount com-
mg to consignors (£180,402) was equal
to less than a fortnight’s turnover, while
the amount coming from trade debtors
(£271,858) was less than three weeks’
turnover, and that is as it should be. In-
cluding stocks but not shares in other
cos., the year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£161,886) was
£17,657.
As for the current term, seasonal con-
ditions both in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land are favorable, and the recent reduc-
tion of butter shipments by the Aus-
tralian Dairy Produce Board has helped
to strengthen London prices for this
commodity.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. serves. serves.
• £, & £, £,
1928.. 6.674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 876 8,145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil 480 948
1932.. 1,276 Nil 1,276 2,224
1933.. 11,115 Nil 11,115 13,339
Loss.
1934.. 5,701 Nil —7,63 S
Profit.
1935.. 8,589 4 p.c. = 4724 3,865 11,503
1936.. 8,584 5 „ „ 5905 2,679 14,182
1937.. 6.026 5 ~ ~ 5905 117 14.299
1938.. 8,023 6 ~ ~ 7094 929 15,228
The outlook for shareholders continues
to improve, thanks to an increase in the
quantity of cane coming forward—aver-
age annual crushing for the five years
to the close of last accounts was 73,953
tons as against an average of 56,272 for
the preceding quinquennium—continued
improvement in the financial position and
elimination of sawmilling, etc., which had
been a drag.
During the decade to the close of
accounts in 1925, satisfactory returns
were won, and £56,190 of reserves was capi-
talised. Then, following the doubling of
mill capacity, raising it to 100,000 tons
per annum (the board went to its bankers
for the money), the volume of crushings
fell sharply, costs rose, the debt pressed
heavily and shareholders experienced a
nine-year drought. It broke in 1935,
when a 4 p.c. div. was paid, followed
by 5 p.c. for the next two years and
6 p.c. for the last term.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the crushing (up 44,301
tons) was the best yet:
Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed, factured. By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1927.. 46,355 5,917 £130,266 £22 110
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1930.. 47,990 .6,603 123,206 19 16 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1932.. 52,001 6,824 114,751 16 11 7
1933.. 82,362 10,908 194,647 15 7 7
1934.. 44,849 6,066 105,356 18 4 8
1935 . . 80,086 11,115 189,693 16 0 2
1936.. 68,303 9,924 172,518 16 4 7
1937.. 66,113 8,695 155,379 17 1 9
1938.. 110,414 15,325 230,428 14 7 3
The mill peak of 11,586 tons of sugar
was produced from 83,590 tons of cane,
and 3739 tons of excess sugar went into
No. 2 pool at export prices. The de-
clared price per ton was £l6 19s. Id.
(down 11s. lid.) No. 1 pool and £8 4s. 3d.
(down Is. 9d.) No. 2 pool. The bigger
crushing, however, enabled costs to be
reduced by £2 14s. 6d. per ton ; so, de-
spite the drop in prices, net earnings
improved by £1997, reaching £8023, or
6.7 p.c. on capital as against 5, 7.2, 7.2,
a loss and 9.4 p.c. back to 1933, when
the mill produced approximately its
quota. A point was added to the div.,
making it 6 p.c.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1927. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £118,056 £118,086 £118,191 £118,443
Overdraft .. 124,058 73,649 53,790 59,277
Creditors .. 3,654 12,871 28,298 38,722
Land . . 3,145 3,055 2,980 2,980
Mills, plant, etc. 229,964 181.700 162,261 154,186
Stocks .. 6,760 2,890 3,826 2,817
Book debts .. 20,714 29,431 50,757 83,628
Cash, etc. .. 79 368 834 784
To carry an extra £32,871 of debtors’
balances (mainly advances against No. 2
pool) £15,424 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors and £5487 to
the overdraft. When the books closed, the
outside debt exceeded more or less liquids
by £10,770, an improvement of £10,901
over the twelvemonth, and of £89,389
since 1927.
As for the current term, seasonal con-
ditions have been favorable, and the mill
peak has been lifted to 14,000 tons, which
should mean much so far as earnings are
concerned, especially as growers are ex-
pected to provide enough cane to meet
the quota, and more besides. Maximum
earning capacity and mill quota appear to
be closely related.
Sellers ask 18s. 6d. for the pound
shares. Allowing for the div. (Is. 2d.
per share), the return at this figure is
6.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is 225. 6d., all in fixed
assets, worth what they can earn.
Westralian T., E. and A.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1929.. 8383 15 p.c. = 7439 944 60,197
Written off investments, £2500:. 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931.. 6816 10 p.c. = 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,659
1932.. 3983 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = 2976 1015 64,582
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,682
1934.. 4485 6 p.c. = 2976 1509 65,091
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 64,091
1935.. 4572 6 p.c. = 2976 1596 65,687
Written off investments, £l5OO .. 64,187
1936.. 5069 6 p.c. = 2976 2093 66,280
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 65,280
To- Provident Fund, £l5OO .. 63,780
Lumped with specific res., £2550.. 61,230
1937.. 4402 7 p.c. = 3471 931 62,161
Written off investments, £5OO .. 61,661
To Provident Fund, £5OO .. . . 61,161
1938.. 4479 7 p.c. = 3471 1008 62,169
To Building Renovation Res., £5OO 61,569
To Provident Fund, £5OO .. . . 61,169
1939.. 4654 7 p.c: = 3471 1183 62,352
To Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 61,352
For the first quarter of this century
divs. and bonuses together averaged ap-
proximately 15 p.c. The bonuses (Is. per
share) were mostly capitalised, £ll,OOO
being thus provided during the 15 years
to the end of Oct., 1925, when the gifts
ceased. Then, to provide for erection of
new premises, etc., £19,593 of fresh capi-
tal, which brought with it £24,458 of
share premiums, was gathered, raising
paid capital to £49,593 (its present figure)
in 123,938 £1 shares paid to Bs. each.
Including the Provident Fund, tax re-
serve, etc. (£10,301), capital has the sup-
port and assistance of £71,653 of re-
serves. So the two combined need turn
in only 2.8 p.c. net to pay 7 p.c. on capi-
tal alone; and that disregards whatever
profit there may be from the trust and
agency section of the business, growth of
which can be expected to continue —
there is now a wider and still growing
appreciation of the advantages of the
corporate over the private trustee.
The volume of new business entrusted
to the co. last term was £987,674 (up
£218,714). Capital distributions to bene-
ficiaries aggregated £732,288 (up
£128,972), leaving the net increase in the
volume of trust funds on the books at
£255,386:
Gross Exes, of
April, Trusts. Income.* Exes. Income.
1925.. £4,039,989 £25,548 £18,972 74:2 p.c
1927.. 5,133,894 31,760 23,438 73.7 „
1929.. 6,044,888 37,059 26,936 72.6 „
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8 „
1931.. 6,861,482 36,845 30,029 81.4 „
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,607 87.7 „
1933.. 7,181,905 30,975 26,984 87.1 „
1934.. 7,255,439 32,186 27,701 86.1 „
1935.. 7,337,162 32,986 28,414 86.1 „
1936.. 7,490,145 35,633 30,564 85.7 „
1937.. 7,677,701 37,018 32,616 88.1 „
1938.. 7,843,345 38,751 34,272 88:5 „
1939.. 8,098,731 38,801 34,147 88.0 ~
* After providing for contingencies. .
Returns from the co.’s own funds and
from the trustee section aren’t separated
in the published accounts, but gross earn-
ings from all sources were up only £5O.
But exes, were got back £125, leaving
the net result at 9.3 p.c. on capital as
against 9, 8.8, 10.2, 9.2, 9,8, 8, 13.7 and
17 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was kept
at 7 p.c.—interim 3 p.c. and final 4 p.c.
The co.’s own funds, together with
£1314 coming to outsiders, are repre-
sented by freeholds £62,043, equipment
£6903, investments £48,318, book debts
£3363 and cash, etc., £5717.
The pound shares, paid to Bs., are
backed by 17s. lid. in net tangibles. The
market, uncertain as to the future and
doubtful about the effects of taxation,
prices the scrip at 12s. 3d. or thereabouts,
as against 14s. a year or so ago. The
return at 12s. 3d. on a 7 p.c. div. basis
is 4.5 p.c., which is a very satisfactory
yield from this class of security.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1928.. 8,351 10 p.c. = 7253 1098 17,598
1929.. 9,026 10 „ „ 7253 1773 19,371
1930.. 10,403 10 „ „ 7253 3150 22,521
1931.. 5,215 8 „ „ 5802 21,934
1932.. 2,921 6 „ „ 4352 20,503
1933.. 3,727 6 „ „ 4352 19,878
1934.. 6,335 8 ~ „ 5802 533 20,411
1935.. 6,251 8 „ „ 5802 449 20,860
1936.. 9,938 10 „ „ 7253 2685 23,545
1937.. 13,510 10 „ ~ 7253 6257 29.802
1938.. 15,717 121 „ „ 9067 6650 36,452
1939.. 14,053 10 „ „ 7253 6800 43,252
This little co. has an attractive history
which shows, among other things, that
there is money in the manufacture of soft
drinks as well as hard stuff. The busi-
ness was put on its feet about 28 years
(Continued on page 24.)


iSIAOHS MIV--SMOH3
IHIIWJ HosanH iHI
■naaitfoM
m
4
£?/■£'
\K
J
-■'***.
%.
m
3SS
L' ' -
MS
UNDERmFOOT
"THE ONLY SAFE PLACE FOR
AN EMERGENCY BRAKE!
# If hydraulics should fail, what chance would
there be of reaching for a hand brake and
stopping in time? In a Hudson—and only in
a Hudson—your mechanical emergency brake
is where it belongs —under your footl Double-
Safe Hydraulics! The easy-acting hand brake
is used only for parking
W
3
FINEST lENOIX
HYDRAULICS
PI VS
MECHANICAL
RESERVE
ON SAME fOOT PEDAt
HANDBRAKE FOR PARKING
HUDSON’S PATENTED DODDLE-SAFE DRAKES
Cars shown are (above) new Hudson “ One-Twelve” Roadster; (below) new Hudson “ One *
Eighteen ” Custom Sedan.
The life and go of Hudson performance . . . the roominess and lasting
sturdiness of Hudson bodies . . . the unmatched safety of Hudson’s
Patented Double-Safe Hydraulics these things have long been
recognised. With them to-day, in the 1939 Hudsons, are fresh new
beauty, new interior luxury and a wealth of new features that make
the new Hudsons more desirable than ever before.
Before buying any car, drive a new Hudson. See for yourself why
the Hudson family is so steadily, rapidly growing. See why thousands
of Hudson owners, throughout the world, are saying: “It’s the best
car, in every way, I ever owned!”
New Auto-Poise. Control.
Patented Double-Safe Hydraulics.
New Dash-Locking Safety Bonnet.
New Handy Gear Lever —at the
steering wheel —no extra cost.
New Carry-All Luggage Compart-
ment.
LOWEST PRICED HUDSONS
IN HISTORY
NEW
1939
HUDSON
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE’
HUDSON
“ONE-EIGHTEEN
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
Hudson Motor-car Company.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
[Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, Genera! Manager.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL ...
But even with approx. £2O you
can have o stake to-day in
Australian industry ...
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
*
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Kassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling 'Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
Hi * =H *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * 4*
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. k G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited. 175 Clarence Street. Sydney.— Advt.
A.M.P.
Bonus
Distribution
£5,805,000
THIS week the Society distributes
£5,805,000 in Reversionary Bonuses,
on all participating policies in force
on 31st December last. These bonuses
represent a cash value of £3,444,864.
They mean that participating members in
the ordinary department are receiving
back, in cash or its equivalent reversion-
ary bonuses, an average of over Bs. Bd.
for every £1 paid by them in premiums
last year.
Last year . the Society issued new
policies to the amount of £29,104,683,
bringing the number of policies to
1,441,979, and the sums assured in force
at 31st December to £295,904,973, both
figures being records in the history of the
Society.
The A.M.P. grows from strength to
strength. The members’ policies are
backed by £117,000,000 of conservatively
valued assets. Wise is the member who
adds to his policies, and so uses the
Society’s strength to build up his own
assets. In the past five years the Society
has paid out £33,772,272 to policy-
holders or their representatives; nearly
SEVEN MILLION POUNDS a year.
A.M.P. policies (1) provide for wives
and families in the event of breadwinners’
deaths, (2) provide incomes for old age,
(3) educate children, (4) pay off mort-
gages, (5) make secure the home, (6)
give men and women peace of mind, all
at the lowest possible cost consistent
with impregnable security.
An experienced representative will
gladly be sent to discuss the benefits
of A.M.P. membership with any citizen
living within a reasonable distancb of
any A.M.P. office. Send word to-day
that YOU want to see one.
The Society is purely “mutual.” There
are no shareholders to get dividends.
The Society is conducted for the benefit
of the policy-holders only.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellinglo r.
ago with a capital of £38,507, of
which £21,393 was transferred from
reserves five years later, freehold
and plant being written up £11,444
for the purpose. Although the div.
was then dropped from 10 p.c. to
7 p.c., the lower rate called for more
than the higher one used to. In 1922
a par issue carried paid capital to its
present figure, and another run of 10 p.c.
divs. followed. They were interrupted
by slump, the rate for the two years to
the close of accounts in ’33 being 6 p.c,
p.a., followed by two lots of 8 p.c., and
then 10 p.c. for the last three years, with
a 24 p.c. bonus added in ’3B.
Of recent years the business seems to
have stepped along more briskly than
usual. During the 12 months to the end
of May there was a contraction of £1664
in declared net earnings, but that was
after visibly allowing an extra £1292 for
depreciation (£4198). The £14,053 of
profit claimed was 19.3 p.c. on capital
as against 21.6, 18.6, 13.7, 8.6, 8.7, 5.1
and 4 p.c. back to the dark days of 1932.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., leaving
nearly as much in the business as was
distributed and lifting visible reserves to
11s. lid. per share.
Finances are robust, and earnings sug-
gest that assets, especially fixed assets,
are well worth their book value:
1997 1935 193 S 1939
Paid capital .. £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities .. 1,652 3,216 6,422* 5,283 -
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 40,274 29,499 25,555 28,481
Plant, etc. .. 26,526 5,196 14,569 21.433
Stocks . . . . 13,129 7,488 12,544 15,546
Book debts, etc. ( 12,969 34,200 i 664 532
Consols J X 40,960 40,965
Cash, etc. .. 7,542 23,127 22,375 13,463
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term’s net additions of £2926 to
freehold, etc., and of £6864 to plant, etc.,
suggest preparation for larger trading.
To meet the outlay on fixed assets, add
£3002 to the stocks item and reduce out-
side liabilities, etc., by £1139, the board
drew upon cash for £8912. The year’s
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus was £4803, reducing the figure
to £70,223, equal to 19s. 4d. per share,
of which 16s. 4d. was represented by cash
and Consols.
Buyers offer 325. for the scrip without
attracting sellers. The return at 325.
would be 6.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
with possibilities.
Pungah Tin Dredging, Ltd.
This is the last and biggest tin float of
Austral Malay, by which £98,917 (23 p.c.)
of the £430,000 of issued capital is held.
The property is on the Pungah, West
Siam. Last estimate of dredging reserves
(Dec., 1936) was 37,167,000 c.y. averag-
ing 0.831 b. t.o. Allowing for wash dug
meantime, a remaining life of ten years
is thus indicated for this Pungah co. at
last term’s rate of digging. That excludes
a substantial yardage between a depth of
40ft. and 50ft., where, however, the
bottom is limestone. Overlain by some
15ft. of soft clay and sand, the tin-bear-
ing wash is for the most part free-dredg-
ing ; adequate fuel and water are avail-
able.
The two steam-driven dredges, com-
bined capacity 5,760,000 c.y. annually, have
consistently recovered better values than
indicated by the boreholes. Active opera-
tions commenced in 1930, and a debt of
£62,215 had been cleared and an initial
div. paid three years later. Regular dis-
tributions have been the order since,
while substantial additions to liquid re-
sources have been made. Recent per-
formances :
, Surplus ~ r —Dividends— N
Dec.. Revenue. Amt.* Share. Share. Amt.
1936 £122.627 £53,120 2/4 1/6 £32,250
1937 210,776 98,915 4/7 2/3 48,375
1938 131,156 50,567 2/4 2/9 59,125
* After deducting depreciation—l 936, nil; 1937,
£2869 ; 1938, £5257.
Last term there was a slip of £5O stg. a
ton in the average forward price of tin,
while domestic quotas were at the
reduced rate of 64 p.c. for the first and 50
p.c. for the second half of the year, plus
a 3 p.c. bonus. The result was a slip of
£48,348 in net earnings, which at £50,567
stg. were £8558 less than the 13J p.c. dis-
tribution called for. Over the last half-
dozen years average disbursement has
been 9.6 p.c.
The two dredges worked only half-
time, but better values were encountered:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic yards treated 3,088,000 3,769,000 3,068,000
T. yield (72 p.c.
assay), tons . . 915.0 1189.0 1121.6
Av. per c.y., lb. .. 0.66 0.70 0.82
Recovery p.c. bores ill 105 109
Mine costs, c.y. .. 3.55 d. 3.77 d. 4.08 d.
Forward stg. av.
metallic tin, ton £2OO/5/3 £240/18/-£lB9/18/11
Unit costs include closed-down expendi-
ture. No. 1 plant dug 1,169,000 c.y. for
an average yield of 1.021 b. t. 0.; No. 2,
which is being gradually equipped with
modern jigs, among other things,
1,899,000 c.y., averaging 0.71 b. For the
first five months of the current term com-
bined output has been 441 tons t.o. from
1,244,000 c.y., the recovery being 0.791 b.
per c.y. and working surplus £39,300. A
Is. 6d. div. was sent out in January.
Pungah has a 1305-ton assessment.
Though domestic quotas for the end half
of the current term are down to 48 p.c.,
metal prices are very much higher, the
statistical position of tin has improved
and recent buying would appear to indi-
cate that invisible stocks are reaching a
low ebb. The following table, compiled
by the International Tin Research and
Development Council, shows the encour-
aging upward trend in consumption by
the two principal tin-consuming countries,
U. and Britain, for the first four
months of the current term, thanks to
quickened tinplate and automobile ac-
tivity :
Apparent Tin Consumption, Long Tons.
(Monthly averages.)
-|- Increase
(— —Jan.-Apr.— —Decrease
1938. 1939. p.c.
U.S.A 4,227 4,941 +l7
United Kingdom .. 1,524 1,670 +lO
Japan .. .. 914 935 +2
Germany .. .. 1,123 933 —l7
Russia .. .. 1,348 706 —4B
France .. .. 754 652 —l4
Italy . . . . 385 414 +8
Other countries .. 2,335 2,274 —3
Total world .. 12,610 12,525 . —1
Lessened buying by Russia is due to the
exceptionally heavy purchases made in
1938. Recent lift in the international
quota does not affect producers in Siam,
which is guaranteed a minimum quota of
60 p.c.
At the end of December, Pungah had
practically nothing in the way of debt,
and held liquids of £133,656, including
stores £17,599, metal stocks £9932 and
a £A 12,500 shareholding in Austral
N.Z. Mining. Market for Pungah scrip
is around par.
W. H. (Billy) Clark, now one of the
mining veterans of the Charters Towers
(N.Q.) field, led the intersection-enrich-
ment theory as a forlorn hope 10 years
ago. The success of his theory in the
Black Jack —it has paid three 6d. divi-
depends, with more in the offing—has
secured him followers, and he is now
floating the adjoining 60 acres as the
North Butler Block. The old Butler
shafts lay on the northern end of the
Black Jack lode, and the records of them
regarding production in the golden ’eigh-
ties seem to be blotted out. The deepest
shaft of the three touched 300 ft. The
Butler Block, as pegged out, now lies
within the ramifications of a full-blooded
series of reefs, leaders and dykes, so that
it looks a good speculative proposition,
with surface evidence of probable inter-
sections. In addition to the latest divvies
it should not be forgotten that the Jack
mines paid over £20,000 to shareholders
when first worked.
* * * *
Cooktown natives (N.Q.) were flabber-
gasted a couple of weeks back by the
arrival of a complete geophysical party,
roundly a dozen in number, and scien-
tific impedimenta for a campaign on the
inhospitable Cape York Peninsula. Their
stride over the past three years has taken
in Cloncurry, Croydon, Chillagoe and
Herberton, but has left few omens of
activity behind. Still, time is doubtless
a factor necessary to secure the co-opera-
tion of organised capital, so dear to the
heart of knight Herbert Gepp, the prime
mover in this hobby. . But the North
Queenslander is beginning to ask —when
are these here geophysickers going to pay
a dividend? Another small party is now
at work in the Blair Athol (C.Q.) coal-
field, where the thickest seam of black
coal in the world is reputed to occur. It
was one of the three coalfields of Aus-
tralia mooted for special investigation by
Federal heads in regard to source beds
for translation from coal to oil. The
attack there is on seismic and electro-
magnetic lines.
* * * *
Blue Mountain Gold (N.Q.) has taken
a few years to get to the bedrock of
things, but progress and promising results
are now both appearing together. Power
plant, compressor and machine drills
have just been run in, and work is thus
speeded up 100 p.c. A phenomenal
wet season held back this installation. The
first run-through of 35 tons gave prac-
tically lOdwt. gold per ton from the
Golden Wasp and Sunrise reefs. There
should be another sdwt. at least in the
tails. A further 30 tons is ready for
crushing.
* SfC
Thanks partly to recoveries of 6.4dwt.
as against 6.18dwt., net earnings from
Triton, Cue (W.A.), are up to £116,167
for the year ended March, compared
with £32,997 for the preceding six months.
Costs were got back only Bd. a ton —
disappointing, considering the greatly in-
creased throughput and the fact that exes,
were said to be down to 325. a ton at the
beginning of the term. Production results
under the present co.’s ownership:
Yield,
Ton, Costs, Net f- —Divs. —— %
Sept., Tons. Dwt. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
1936 .. 77,715 6.94 33/11 £91,078 -/6 £24,000
1937 .. 75,825 7.11 37/5 85,228 1/- 48,000
Mar.,
1938*.. 41,242 6.18 35/6 32,997 1/- 48,000
1939 ..111,408 6.4 34/10 116,167 1/- 48,000
* Six months.
Latest profit is struck after allowing
£5322 for taxes, but before appropriating
£11,725 for capital expenditure. Restric-
tion of the div. to Is. a share (last hand-
out was 6d. a share in December) reflects
the big development programme on hand,
including diamond-drilling and the open-
ing-up of two levels in the near-by Rand
leases, which are being worked in asso-
ciation with Western Gold Mines. At
the main mine ore reserves have gone
up from 293,000 tons to 317,000 tons —
grade 7dwt., as against 7.2dwt.
* # * *
At Big Bell (W.A.), Westralia’s largest
low-grade goldmine, about 35,000 tons
of ore, assaying 3.sdwt. gold, is treated
monthly. During 1938 the average
number of men employed was 304, and
ore produced amounted to 400,473 tons,
from which 70,537 fine oz. gold was re-
covered. The average number of tons
handled per man (1315) was the highest
for the State, and so was the gold re-
covery (232 fine oz.) per man. The ore-
body consists of a bed of quartz feldspar
muscovite schist (of sedimentary origin),
lightly impregnated with pyrite and con-
taining small lenses of quartz and veins
of pegmatite.
* * * *
Melbourne is invited to find £25,000
to provide funds for testing a certain
goldmining show at Mt. Monger (W.A.).
Quite a number of rich short shoots have
been worked in this locality during the
past 40 years, but they didn’t go down.
*.* * *
Freney Kimberley Oil (1932), N.L., will
begin drilling at Nerrima Dome,
Kimberley district (W.A.), about the end
of July. The bore site was selected by
Dr.-Arthur Wade. M. L. Waterford is
field superintendent.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
0.H.: Apart from subsidiaries in Maoriland,
none of the chain stores mentioned has any
connections outside the Commonwealth. The
English and American cos. of similar name are
not associated with the Australian c 05.....
FI.S.: N 0... .Hyde‘(Toowoomba): Yes; inter-
est on loan is not subject to State taxation.


COURT
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation wi t h
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
•Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
LMrrr
I
*
a
m
mi
HM
en
CD
as
BJ
m/
ilUa
is
3
an
an
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates from 10/6
per night, single.
Suites from £l/1/-
per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“The new woman is at home in politics,
business, sport and the arts.”
—Feminist lecturer.
There are even a few who are at home
in the home.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Modern girls are well fitted for the battle of
life.” — Women’s mag.
They ought to be. Many of them
survive several engagements.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Travellers in China are handicapped by the
number of officials named Hsu.”
—Newspaper correspondent.
Apparently there is need for a Who’s
Hsu.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If he had not had a habit of using bad
language, he would have been welcome to stay
for a long time.”-'-"Sun.”
He swore out his welcome, so to
speak.
4 1 4* t
“Few men ever achieve their boyish ambition
of owning an island.” —Wireless talk.
Unless some agent sells them a water-
frontage allotment.
•Jt
“Marriage is not a legal ceremony unless the
door of the church is left open.”
— Women’s mag.
Most ’grooms are too scared to notice
this avenue of escape.
*J«I
“Radio Announcer Marries Crooner."
—News item.
Probably considered that he's heard
her at her worst.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average modern swing band has little
reticence in its playing, and this applies equally
to most modern appliances—trams, pneumatic
drills, aeroplanes, etc.” —“Wireless Weekly.”
Pneumatic-drillers will resent this.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jockey Fined for Speeding.” —News item.
Not on a horse, surely.
“Conditions became so bad that it was just
a question of which employee was going to be
fired first.” —“Daily News.”
A kind of sack race?
4* 4* 4* 4*
It is not bad manners to speak with
your mouth full when you’re praising
your wife’s cooking.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Strip-tease Girl to Wear Mask.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
It will certainly stop her seeing herself
as others see her!
“I could do more damage with this, boss!”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It’s nice to think you’re missed.”
— Women’s mag.
Most women are satisfied to be missus.
4* 4* 4*
“His wile was too delicate to manage the
house without some hell.” — “Sun.”
Naturally her husband got it.
4* *l*
“She called him ‘a useless carcass.’ ”
—Divorce report.
And, of course, proceeded to make
mincemeat of him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Neat?
It’s rum how in these wintry days of
chills and ills and sniffly noses and stuffy
heads, of barks and harks and aches in
the legs, of sneezes and rheumy eyes
and tobacco that tastes like burning
chaff, a man will wrap himself dp and
brave the terrors of the street, the
dangers of the weather and the risks of
pneumonia to tramp doggedly to one
particular place and there merely utter
one word It’s “Rum!”
C. S.
“Wireless is a boon for politicians.”
—Wireless mag.
For “boon” read “boom.”
4* 4* 4* 4* . ,
“If a singer can render even the simplest
ballad in ah effective style, he can consider
himself on the road to fam eN—‘Musical mag.
Otherwise his only hope is the radio.
Woodwork.
“Every girl admires the man who can make
his own furniture.” — Women’s paper.
Hoping to carve my name within
The fleshy tables of her heart,
I concentrated awl to win
Her favor by this polished art.
Although it went against the grain,
I sawed to win that dazzling prize;
And she was far from bored —’twas plane
To see the beams within her eyes.
We wed ; and things went smooth enough
While lacking kids to rule the place;
But, oh ! the knotty points and rough
When we at last acquired a brace!
T. W. NATHAN.
The Feline Touch.
“But,” I objected, “why do we want
to go to the Poppinpops? I thought you
hated Mrs. P.?”
“And so I do!” said Maria venom-
ously. “If ever there was a two-faced
detestable cat she is one. The only
reason she invited us to go round to-
night is to see if I’ve heard any of the
mischief she has been making about us.”
“All right then,” I said, with even more
inward relief than I showed, “we won’t
go, of course.”
“Of course we will!” said Maria
firmly. “I’m just going to show that
woman that I don’t care tuppence for
the lies she delights in telling. I’m going
to tell her you’ve got a rise in salary
and”
“But”
“And don’t you put me away! ” threat-
ened Maria. “You watch her face. She’s
positively eaten up with envy. I’ll show
that lying cat . . . yes! I suppose when
we arrive she’ll rush up and kiss me, with
her ‘Oh, darling, 1 have been looking
forward to seeing you.’ ”
There was a lot more of it. I heard
it all the way to the Poppinpops, until it
was with some trepidation that I ap-
proached the door, fearing that Maria,
with that straightness she boasts of, would
flare up almost at once.
But it was Maria who said, “Oh, my
dear Bertha! You don’t know, darling,
how keenly I’ve been looking forward
to coming here to-night.”
When we got home Maria said, “Did
you notice how that deceitful, two-faced
creature rushed up to kiss me? ‘Dar-
ling’ and ‘Dearest’ all the evening! Oh,
how I hate hypocrisy! ”
H.M.
Curse of Verse.
“No aspiring poet should be without a rhyming
dictionary.”— Literary course.
Although I coughed up cash for one ,
It’s the same old stony season ;
For editors now see the rhyme,
But still can’t see the reason.
ELM.
Rough Trot.
“One of Glenlivet's tyres blew out and he
had to be pulled up.”
—Report of trotting meeting.
That’s the trouble with trotters ; when
their inner tubes go they retyre from
the race. In fact, blowouts (both in the
ring and on the track) are so frequent at
the trots these days it’s a wonder the
stipes don’t make all gigs carry a spare
trotter and lifting-jack under the seat.
Speaking of the mechanics of trotters
reminds me of Lizzie, an underslung
pacer I owned which spent more time in
the garage than the stable. A one-lUng,
mule-eared type, she lost her muffler
as a foal and consequently developed
into a roarer. Though slippery off the
mark, she’d always start misfiring when
challenged in the straight. This caused
her to lose compression, and when her
driver’d change into top over the last
bit she’d automatically slip into reverse.
I tried side-valves and upper cylinder
lubrication when she ran in the
Thousand, but she blew a gasket passing
the judge the first time.
But reverting to punctured trotters.
Strikes me that a spot somewhere along
the back ought to make a splendid stand
for a retreading business.
P.C.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPLETE GUIDE.
XII.
Inevitably there will come to the man
who has been married for more years
than he cares to shudder over the aware-
ness that the furniture he has almost
finished paying for is hopelessly out of
date. He will not, of course, make this
discovery himself. His attention will be
drawn to it following his wife’s visit to
her newly-married niece’s place or the
arrival of the removalist’s van next door
with the new tenants’ chattels, and there-
after the lotus and he will be total stran-
gers until he has had a stab at modernis-
ing the bedroom furniture.
When you receive such orders listen
intently, and in complete agreement, to
her instructions as to how to go about it.
This can best be done while studying the
racing form. When you actually start
the work follow carefully the procedure
set out hereunder.
Take the bedstead first. Modern
fashion scorns the top-heavy-looking con-
traption that is so far off the floor that
you get giddy when you look down at
the carpet. The bed that is so low you
can’t get your head under it to look for
the dropped collar-stud is a la mode.
Many men, unthinkingly, would rush
in and start cutting down the legs. What,
then, if the vagaries of fashion should
bring the tall bed back into favor in the
future? It would prove a devil of a job
getting the leg-ends back on again, even
assuming that they hadn’t been used for
kindling wood in the meantime. No ;
there is a better and far less messy way.
Simply mark out with chalk on the
carpet the exact shape of the four legs
as they rest on it. Then push the bed
to one side and, taking your razor, slice
out the marked pieces of carpet. This
will reveal the portion of flooring under-
neath, which will also be a replica of the
shape of the legs. With your keyhole
saw cut these out, too, but make the cut
slightly larger than the marking. This
will allow the legs to more easily sink
down through them.
It is obvious that if the legs are straight
they would, if nothing was done to check
them, go right through until the mattress
rested on the floor. While this would
possess the advantage that you could
walk into bed instead of having to climb
into it, it is very doubtful if it would
meet with the wife’s approval.
To prevent this, therefore, once you
have got the four legs poked down
through the floor drive a long nail
through each leg immedi-
ately above floor level at
the height you want it. If
your wife is in the nine-
stone class, a nail about
14 gauge will do ; if she
runs to beef an eight-
gauge one will be neces-
sary, and if she is a real
XOS-er you’ll have to put
a bolt through.
On the other hand, if they are tapered
legs you will have to keep on gradually
enlarging each hole with a wood rasp
until the leg fits snugly at the right
height.
Another calculation must now be
made. The iron lugs which hold the
mattress bars on the inside of each leg
will naturally have gone down to the
floor level with the lowering of the legs
through the floor, and these will have
to be raised correspondingly. Just mark
otf, say, 2j spans with your hand, bore
the necessary holes with a bradawl, and
shift the lugs into their new positions.
After the job is complete test the
bed with your spirit level. If the head
of the bed is, by some miscalculation,
6in. lower than the foot, get the
wife to make the bed with the pillows
down near the foot-end. If she won’t
do this—and some wives are proper
cranks in this respect —knock the nails
out of the legs at the head of the bed,
hoist the legs through 6in. and renail.
Keep the four pieces of carpet you cut
out in case the wife wants to alter the
room round at any time.
Less intricate are the alterations needed
to modernise the wardrobe. Simply
remove the massive superstructure —it
lifts out —and then, using a straightedge
as a guide, make a pencil mark right
around the wardrobe at the new height it
is to be. After that it is just a matter
of putting the wardrobe on its side and
sawing the unnecessary part clean off—
you’ll have to keep turning it over and
over until you have gone right around
it. Make certain, though, that you don’t
make a mistake and saw off the bottom
half instead.
It will be as well to take everything
out before you start, or at least shift
them all down one end. One man who
failed to accurately follow my advice
forgot to do this, which resulted in his
sawing right through four of his wife’s
hats, two evening frocks and her mink
coat.
Having cut the wardrobe down, it only
remains to upend it again and nail over
the exposed top either some three-ply or
cardboard. Don’t allow any overlap ;
just cut it so that it fits flush with the
edge. Unless you have made a bloomer
and cut it too low, the cover you put
on it could not possibly be seen by other
than a very tall man. As tall men guests
rarely enter the privacy of your boudoir,
and as tall women are rare, don’t worry
that this will ever be noticed.
S. W. K.


Business.Rollery,Etc.
And Now for 1939-40
The old financial year has just closed
and a new one has begun. It starts off in
circumstances under which trade is even
now at a reasonably high level, but be-
cause there has already been some decline
in business the prevailing impression is
that the public is still capable of button-
ing-up further without starving or perish-
ing from cold. Trade activity is yet
high enough to fall further, in other
words.
It is an unpleasant picture to have in
the back of one’s mind at any time, and
particularly depressing in a period like
the present, when export prices are down
and conditions overseas are uncertain.
But it is safe to say that if costs hadn’t
been inflated to their present level within
Australia we wouldn’t need to worry half
so much. As it is, there is no use worry-
ing, anyway; instead of worrying we
should do something—about costs. Ex-
pedients of the borrow-and-stretch order
only delay and aggravate the trouble.
The proposed loan “operation” of
£41,000,000 for 1939-40 has been ex-
plained away as a measure to “offset
possible repercussions of low export
prices on the national income.” Obvi-
ously if as much as £41,000,000 is cap-
able of offsetting such “repercussions,” it
will only do it for one year. Australia
hopes to carry on in 1940-41, 1941-42 and
quite a number of other years besides.
One financial year means nothing, and the
life of one Parliament means little more,
in the lifetime of a young or middle-aged
Australian. A setback to trade, if it be
a world-wide affair, nearly always lasts
more than 12 months, and sometimes
longer than three years. The question
clearly arises in our present case as to
whether the difficulties we are facing now
are going to last for any length of time,
and, if they are going to last for more
than a year or two, whether the measures
so far adopted are anything more than
expediency. If the difficulties do persist,
the n the expedients—borrowing, credit-
stretching, tax-loading, etc.—will not be
available without financial revolution
ater on -
The necessity for bringing costs down,
or at least stabilising them, in this country
is obvious. The Commonwealth Statis-
tician has reported that the cost of food
and groceries throughout Australia
dropped 2 p.c. in. May. If this is an
indicator that costs in general are coming
down it is about the first sign of the
kind. Unfortunately, politicians are
afraid of tackling costs. They are afraid
of administering a dose of medicine to
the national economy lest it should make
them unpopular with voters, however
much the voters might be better off for
the treatment afterwards,
Costs are the vital, long-range problem
to be dealt with. Only slightly less im-
portant are export price levels. The
prices we get for our exports of land and
similar products are principally regulated
by the state of world trade. It fol-
lows that conditions overseas, particularly
in Britain and the U.S.A., have a great
influence on the Australian national in-
come. Our best aid to easier credit con-
ditions comes from bountiful revenue
from exports, particularly if imports are
not too high and costs are reasonable,
Our second-best aid is low costs com-
bined with active industrial production
for home consumption,
Looking at the position of trade over-
sea£, it becomes quickly evident that in
Europe rearmament is having a very pro-
nounced influence. Britain’s case, of
course, is outstanding. In May the United
Kingdom’s output of steel was the highest
ever recorded, and up 50 p.c. on the
figure for January, which was very low.
Government orders for arms have been
especially heavy since the beginning of
the year, and shipbuilding is receiving
a subsidy. But there has been a remark-
able revival in the textile trades, while
motor-car sales have risen, and brewery
outputs, a good indicator of industrial
activity, are keeping up. It is thus hard to
separate rearmament influences from ordi-
nary economic development in Britain,
Still, it is quite certain that trade activity
would be much lower but for rearmament
activity. On the other hand, if there
were no war scares it is equally certain
that ordinary trading conditions would be
more stable. The Old Country’s export
trade has shrunk over the past 12 months,
but on balance, unlike Australia, it is
somewhat better off.
In the United States trade remains very
dull; the recent spurts in some indexes
of business activity have not been long
enough maintained to indicate any sub-
stantial change for the better. The best
that can be said is that there seems to be
a slightly improved feeling prevailing
compared with a year ago. Extensive
public borrowing and spending are con-
templated; in the past this policy has
done the States no permanent good.
Tn France there are indication* that the
economic rot has been steadied for the
present. Industrial activity is increasing,
building is getting a bit of a spread on,
and there has been some repatriation of
capital, as well as a firming of share
’ t-.
better thaif six months ago COnSlderaWy
In Germany and Italy industrial acti-
vity is high, but these countries are not
trading freely with the rest of the world.
Japan, too, is not the buyer it was in the
world s markets, however busy it may
be internally. Its direct purchases of
Australian wool are only a small propor-
fl - „ u
tion of what they used to be.
The world at large doesn’t seem to
offer any clear indication that the general
level nf r»rioe<s k about tn imnrnve After-
levet or prices is about to improve Atte.
the depression the currency position of
various countries gave a comparatively
reliable guide as to hoyv their trade was
going to shape. The political and trade
,• i ■ T ,
blocs on the Continent and in Japan, and
the periodical threats of war, are making
the whole prospect vastly more confus-
ing at the present time. The outlook, in
fact, is so confusing that Australia can-
not with confidence depend on a favor-
able change in world prices for the things
it exports. Since the world won’t guar-
antee salvation from our threatened diffi-
culties, it is up to us to start saving our-
selves. The first step indicated is the
elimination of all waste and inflation, and
a firm but unobtrusive paring-down of
unnecessarily high costs.
Announcement that the Tariff Board
was going to inquire into the profits, etc.,
of Australian Consolidated Industries
(formerly Australian Glass) had—to
start with—a comparatively minor
effect on the market price of the
ord. shares. Their highest price has
been 365. 9d., and the day before
the Tariff Board’s announcement they
stood at 355. 9d. Last Wednesday they
were down to 345., a fall of Is. 9d. in
two days—a period in which the whole
market was weak. But on Friday the
scrip closed at 325. 9d., registering one of
the heaviest falls of the day. The quote,
however, still represented 1245. per old
A.G. share.
„* . ' ‘. * '
,J^.r tti ngs for nine months from the
° ld Australian Glass concern, plus a full
*A’c^w' h « tSfsifto
te f m to Mamh 31 lasi On
£•£.!.» term Jtcreased can tal (h new
* . , , P , ,
ord f* w , en . out P a “ o£ . ea , ch ° ld ° rd ;
m Australian Glass) the disclosed profit
represented 8.8 p.c., after allowing" for
ff/ divs - and f n ord - distribution of
went
In Melbourne last veek:
„ The mental attitude of politicians to this
£41,000,000 loan programme is curious,” said
C. W. Wilson, presiding at a meeting of the
Taxpayers’ Association. “These millions are
treated as money to be spent, not as loans
Which must be repaid. Moreover, the addition
to Australia’s interest bill was cheerfully dis-
regarded.”
Triton Gold Mines (W.A.) announced a
record net fit of £n6 i 6 7.
The directors of Edmenxs> Lxd ., chain-store
proprietors, stated that they have agreed to
acquire the leasehold premises of Ravens, Ltd.,
”f ar the Sydney Town Hall, and so to extend
their organisation to N.S.W. Edments will then
caiX y on business in every State except Queens-
land.
GOLDSBROUGH MORT AND COY. LTD.
OUR GREATEST WEALTH-PRODUCING INDUSTRY
SAFEGUARDS NECESSARY
The Annual Meeting of Goldsbrough, Mort
and Coy., Ltd., was held at the Head Office
of the Company, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
on Wednesday, 28th inst., the Chairman of
Directors, Mr. K. M. Niall, presiding.
The following are some extracts from the
Chairman’s speech in moving the adoption
of the report:
We have pleasure in welcoming to-day Sir
Walter Duncan, who was recently appointed a
Director of the Head Office Board. Sir Walter
Duncan has been Chairman of the Adelaide
Local Board since 1924, and is therefore
already well known to you in this connection
and also as a Director of other important
concerns. We are very glad to have the benefit
of his wide experience, and his knowledge of
South Australian conditions will be particularly
helpful.
We have pleasure in welcoming to-day, Sir
South Australia, where last year we sold 95,680
bales of wool and our stock turnover amounted
to approximately l-£ million sheep and 44,000
cattle.
I would like to apologise for the absence of
my father, Mr. J. M. Niall, who has not been
at all well and his doctor has ordered him to a
warmer climate.
BALANCE SHEET.
As regards the Balance Sheet, the Directors do
not consider that any useful purpose is now
being served by placing the Company’s reserves
under several headings, and it is proposed to
amalgamate all the Reserves under the heading
of a General Reserve. Accordingly, Equalisa-
tion Reserve has been brought in under the
heading of Reserve in this year’s accounts.
The alterations to the Debenture Trust Deeds
have removed the necessity for the Primary
and Secondary Reserves, and, if Shareholders
adopt the proposed new Articles, it is intended
in next year’s accounts to show all these re-
serves as a General Reserve.
Changes in other, items are unimportant and
do not call for comment.
The increase in expenses of management
observable in the Profit and Loss Account is
largely due to increased volume of wool and
stock handled, coupled with the continual
upward trend of Award rates.
In this connection I may remind you that we
have opened a number of Country Branches
during the past few years. Owing to the
drought and low prices ruling for stock, we
could hardly expect to get the full benefit of
this expansion of our activities, but we are
satisfied that, with a return to more normal
conditions, these Branches will quickly show
satisfactory results.
PROFITS.
Latest Statistical returns show that, for the
ten months ended April, exports of greasy wool
were more than 310,000 bales greater than
exports for the corresponding period last year.
Notwithstanding this , increase, however, the
national wool cheque was approximately
£3,000,000 less. Our Balance-sheet tells much
the same story, for, in spite of having, handled
a greater quantity of wool, our profits are
down £71,000' The larger- quantity of wool
does not arise from increased production but
from a large carry-over from the previous i year,
and the fact that growers met the market.
Being growers as well as woolbrokers, we have
suffered in both directions from the extremely
low prices ruling. The results from our Stock
business have also been affected because prices
for sheep have been low in sympathy with
wool and also because of forced selling on
account of drought.
A consolation I can offer shareholders as an
offset to the unsatisfactory trading results is
that these are certainly not due to any decline
in turnover; in this respect the Company has
considerably more than held its own.
THE WOOL MARKET.
With the substantial carry-over of 238,268
bales available from the' preceding season- (the
highest since 1925) the selling season opened
in August last with values in line with those
current at the close of the sales in June,
1938, or 30/35 per cent, below the rates current
for the corresponding period of 1937.
These unsatisfactory prices ruled continuously
from the inception of sales, and, in view of the
disturbed international situations,'we may per-
haps regard ourselves as fortunate that no
further declines occurred. The very limited
extent of price fluctuations has been, in fact,
the most noteworthy feature throughout the
current season’s sales.
The fact that, from the purchaser’s view-
point, wool remained at a reasonable price
level has undoubtedly been the fundamental
factor in the clip’s disposal, and on such a
basis artificial fibres find greater difficulty in
competing with wool. Their production, how-
ever, continues unabated in the main fibre
manufacturing countries. This very natural
conflict of interest between the producers and
purchasers for the establismcnt of remunerative
basis for their respective operations represents
one of our chief problems.
The Australian Mills are fourth on the list
of actual purchasers of the Commonwealth
production, and their support is a most im-
portant factor in our market.
Inquiry from United States is still limited,
but shows improvement.
The immediate trend of the market is impos-
sible to forecast, as it appears to be dependent
upon a restoration of world tranquillity and
a resultant revival of international trade. Mean-
time, reports from overseas indicate that stocks
on hand in the main European consuming
countries are considered to be in the aggregate
above normal, and this may have the effect
of delaying any immediate improvement in the
demand from these quarters. Stocks held c<pn-
sist principally of Merino qualities, types which
form the great bulk of the Australian produc-
L° n TT ( IV h |^t her hai ?. d ’, stocks in Japan and
tbe United States are light, and this, coupled
with the fact that the supplies available in the
primary markets are relatively small, is a
favourable element m the general situation.
THE SEASON.
Generally speaking, the seasonal conditions
in all States are now satisfactory, with the
exception of a large portion of the Central
Distnct in Queensland where the outlook is
still definitely bad, and in Western Australia,
where—speaking as a whole—in the Pastoral
areas the long and severe drought has not
yet generally broken. In the agricultural areas
the 1939 season gives more promise than last,
Before leaving the subject of Western Aus-
tralia, I wonder how many people realise the
extent of the drought losses in the Pastoral
areas of that State. Briefly, the numbers have
declined from approximately 5,600,000 sheep
■ ioQ/1 onnmvimatplu o Qnnnno in 1937
m 1934 to approximately ~,900,000 i .
a percentage decrease of 48 per cent.
rnMPANY’S PROPERTIES
COMPANY S PKOPEKI .
With regard to the Company s own propeitie ,
adverse seasonal conditions over the greater
part of the year were responsible tor reduced
wool clips.
Lambings, though not an absolute failure,
showed low percentages. Surplus sheep met
depressed markets and, in addition, heavy ex-
pense was entailed in feeding stock.
t to sav however ' that early
2TT£££&&&MrS
supplies being ample for many months ahead.
■ 1 , .
THE STOCK MARKET.
The drought made last year a difficult season,
with gradually declining values This; position*
has since entirely' altered, and pi ices in the
values.
RESULTS SUMMARISED,
Summarising the results of the year under
re view, I would say the reduction in our profits
afose from causes ‘beyond our control. One
of these drought—- has largely disappeared,
bu t as regards the other—low wool prices—it
is difficult at the moment to find solid grounds
f or optimism as to the immediate future pros-
pects.
j be root causes of the present disabilities
f rom wb ich the Industry is suffering are plain
tQ see since the depression there has been a
stead y increase in internal costs, and to-day
tbese afe on a par w jth those of pre-depression
times, whilst on the other hand the price
0 £ woo i j s per cent, below the value of those
days. This is a serious adverse combination
in the pastoral budget, and quite outside the
control of the grower.
ASSISTING WOOLGROWERS.
The Government of Queensland is so im-
pressed by the difficulties with which the In-
dustry is beset that it has ordered an investi-
gation to be made by Mr. W. L. Payne, a man
of wide knowledge and experience in the
pastoral affairs of that State. Mr. Payne has
already begun this important work. It is to
be hoped that other Governments will follow
this example and that, as a result, some form
of aid will be afforded W9OI producers. Our
Company and other financial houses have con-
sistently demonstrated their desire to assist
growers by extending to them their fullest
support, but our ability to finance to-day s
requirements of the Industry has its limitations,
M .
We therefore invite the close attention of
all Governments to the representations that
have a , ready been made for a rectification of
present unsatisfactory position. There , can
bg nQ d j^ erence of opinion that. our greatest
wea hh-producing asset must be safeguarded,
xhe credit expansion of the last few years
has had its effect on the Pastoral Industry, as
j t has doubtless augmented the upward Trend
G f internal costs. As it appears likely—m
view of heavy Governmental commitments for
Defence and , Social Services—that this policy
tStSSA necessary
for its healthy functioning.
if these internal matters are attended to,
and I have every confidence that they will be,
I have no hes i ta^ L^jSSstry ll^!? 1 rehabffitete
belief that ffiter-
itself* <Jtid* & , will hp a return
inu y


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G-. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: BWISBI.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
m
j.
t
l
w
and you’ll have it!
A quiet spot in the garden is safe enough
for an old bone, but the Commonwealth
Savings Bank is the safest place to plant
your savings. You know where to find
your money when you need it. You know
that it is gathering interest month by
month—year by year. Unlike the bone
in the garden, it improves as the years
go by.
Save weekly—spend wisely.
Qlommonwcaltf) SavingsJßanfj of Australia
Over 4,000 Branches and Agencies
e J
MODERNISES A LIVING ROOM
"Here's another recent job of mine . . . carried out quickly, satisfactorily
and inexpensively, thanks to Cane-ite. I've reached the definite conclusion
that this easily-worked, strong and white-ant-proofed insulation is the most
versatile and practical interior board I've ever seen. With Cane-ite we
builders can insulate and decorate at one and the same time. We can
cut out noise, neutralise extremes in temperatures AND give you almost
any modern decorative effect you want . . . without big expenditure. To make
it modern . . "make it Cane-ite". BUILDER BROWN
K
'Look at these old weatherboard walls.
They're depressing, shabby; and they
magnify every sound around the house."
'I
5v
r%
wv.
&
In came Builder Brown's men with the
handy sized, durable Cane-ite boards—
sound deadening, temperature-resisting.
m
loto'w*
i
The Cane-ite boards—in ivory finish—were applied over the old walls. Next—a
few items of furniture and—presto! a room as modern as any you see in the
society magazines! Builder Brown is now busy quoting for modernising the rest of
the house. No doubt about Cane-ite.
For beautiful tile effects hi
kitchen and bathroom,
Masonite TEMPRTILE can be
easily and permanently applied
over existing walls. Temprtile
. . . made in sheets of handy
sire . . . does not crack, warp
or buckle. Takes any finish
and is easily washable. Com-
pare the price of Temprtile!
C E
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANy
LIMITED (Building Materials Division)*
Please send me sample and literature on
□ CANE-ITE □ MASONITE
NAME ;
ADDRESS
* Moil to your nearest branch — Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. 3-5-7. CAB-H
Following a weakening on the New
York and London ’Changes, and coincid-
ing with the last day of the financial year,
the Australian sharemarkets were in no
mood for optimism last Friday. They
opened with Broken Hill Prop, fully-paids
down to 595., Australian Consolidated
Industries ords. at 335. (later dropping
to 325. 6d.), British Tobacco ords., ex
6d. div., at 465., and Bank of N. S. Wales
scrip at £2B 10s., sellers.
In Melbourne, Associated Pulp and
Paper ords. dropped to 18s. 6d., which
compares with 225. in May. The scrip
has been weakening for some time. It
appears that the co. has experienced diffi-
culty in making paper wholly from euca-
lyptus pulp, and is using a quantity of
imported pulp. It has asked for tariff
protection lately. No divs. have been
paid so far.
Herald and Weekly Times shares fell to
605., Carlton Brewery was down at 665.
6d., and weakness was evident in Cox
Bros., Yarra Falls, Davies-Coop, Dunlop-
Perdriau and other Victorian issues. Aus-
tralian Cement kept firm at 375. 6d. in
Melbourne, and Kandos was steady at
295. 6d. in Sydney. Mauri Bros, and
Thomson ords. kept up to 735. 6d. Aus-
tral Silk and Cotton, the Melbourne
concern with which a joining of interests
by Bradford Cotton, Sydney, is proposed,
saw 12s. 6d. paid for its £1 shares. If
the merger comes off the shares should
be worth the money. Bradford Cotton,
which is introducing the sanforising (pre-
shrinking) process to Australia, had a
market for its scrip at about 375. 6d. -
* * * *
The tariff hasn’t much to do with the
rising costs of living in Australia. In-
creased duties granted to established in-
dustries during the past 10 years would
be difficult to find. Political expediency
and the search for unearned increment—
such as speculation in shares, land,
houses, etc.-—have been largely to blame,
and the “prosperity” loading of wages
in 1937 stands out prominently. The
handling of many essential services by
Governments, notoriously inefficient as
industrial managers, must also take por-
tion of the responsibility.
H= * * *
During the last twelve months or so
war scares have unduly distracted our
attention from enemies within our own
coastline —impersonal enemies, such as
unemployment, rising living costs, etc.
During the scare period this page fre-
quently drew attention to these over-
looked dangers. It was also emphasised
here that rising costs were more menac-
ing to our economic well-being than were
falling world prices. This argument still
holds good.
# % * *
A parcel of 2000 Australasian Paper
ords. changed hands at 275. 9d. in Sydney
last Thursday afternoon. Only a few
weeks ago the scrip was up to 295. 6d.
Production of woodpulp at A.P.M.’s
Maryvale (Gippsland) mill is now about
due, and if this venture is as successful
as anticipated the foundations of the
business, already solid, should be
strengthened further. On an 8 p.c. div.
basis Australasian Paper ords. return £5
15s. per cent, at 275. 9d. An inactive
market for the scrip is partly responsible
for the comparatively high yield.
❖ $
An interim div. will be due from
Sydney Ferries in August. The share-
market pays below par (55.) for the co.’s
scrip—4s. 9d. was the last quote. The
total div. for the last completed term was
6 p.c., compared with 7 p.c. in 1937.
The co.’s trouble is that its ferry services
are not paying well enough to guarantee
divs. on the 1935-38 scale and at the
same time provide adequately for depre-
ciation of the fleet. Consequently the
co. has had to obtain new vessels in
recent years by raising fresh capital;
retained profits and depreciation allow-
ance haven’t covered such cost. Over
£lOO,OOO has been spent on the fleet since
1935, increasing its book value by 160 p.c.
But profits have hardly responded at all,
though there is now £79,387 more of
share capital to look after. And the
profits, as shown, have borne very light
depreciation charges, though the 1938
allowance was certainly increased.
After all the hullabaloo, circulars, etc.,
resulting from the Great Boulder dis-
pute had been debated by shareholders,
a vote and then a poll were taken at the
annual meeting in London; the De
Bernales contingent was left in charge,
no changes being made in the board,
though knight James Connolly, formerly
Agent-General for W.A. in London, was
one of the nominations by the Grundt
committee. The annual meeting was a
stormy affair, but the report and accounts
were adopted by 403,283 votes to 339,292.
Meanwhile, London Stock Exchange had
refused permission to deal in Common-
wealth Mining and Finance Co. scrip, one
of the De Bernales group.
* * * *
Illawarra Coke, which returned, after
six years’ absence, to the div. list in
1937 with a 3 p.c. distribution, followed
by 6 p.c. in 1938, has shown a loss of
£285 for the year to March 31 last, and
no div. goes out this term. Coal supplies
during the year were inadequate, and the
works operated at only 60 p.c. of capacity.
The loss was arrived at after allowing
£1725 for depreciation and writing off
£2OOO from coke ovens, buildings and
leasehold. The co. spent £8714 net on
new plant during the year. The addi-
tions were mostly of an electrical and
mechanical nature —not coke ovens.
* * * *
After valuing stocks (£138,241) at
£64,915 higher, Consolidated Press (Syd-
ney) showed a net profit of £57,016 in
its last term, compared with £34,307 in
1937-38. Depreciation was provided for
to the extent of £14,029, and taxation to
£15,000. The pref. div. was maintained,
but there was no ord. distribution. Co.
publishes the “Australian Women’s
Weekly” and the “Daily Telegraph.” In
a paid capital of £675,000 intangibles
figure at £387,916 net, and outsiders are
owed r^6,846.
The fact that there was a difference of
over £5 10s. a ton between the spot and
forward prices of tin last week raised a
query in some quarters as to whether the
Buffer Pool was not maintaining the
spot price at a firm level while it dis-
posed of some of its stocks on a forward
basis. The query may be justified. On
the other hand it may be due to an
anticipated increase in production of
the metal following the recent lifting of
the quota from 40 p.c. to 45 p.c., though
actually the quota is really no higher
than it was a year ago. Then it was
35 p.c. free, plus 10 p.c. for the pool.,
* * * *
The gold reserves of the U.S.A. in
June exceeded 16,000,000,000 dollars
(about £3,400,000,000 sterling) for the
first time in history. This fantastic ac-
cumulation represents 60 p.c. of the
world’s monetary gold. During the
1938-39 financial year approximately
£650,000,000 sterling in gold (about a
fifth of the total holding at present) found
its way to the U.S.A. as a direct or in-
direct result of the war scare. Britain
lost 18,579,000 fine oz. of gold between
September, 1938, and March, 1939. It
had about 80,000,0000 z. at the latter date.
H* *i* »l* *!•
There is talk in London of an absorp-
tion by Triplex Safety Glass Co. of the
Lancegaye Safety Glass concern. A
number of Lancegaye shares are held in
Australia. The co. secured the Aus-
tin contract about a year ago.
* * ifi *
The Australian balance of trade with
overseas countries improved by £824,000
sterling during May, making it £10,420,000
for 11 months, as against £12,643,000 for
the same period of the preceding financial
year. Details of trade for the two
periods, with comparisons, are shown in
this tabulation:
1937-38. 1938-39. Movement.
£Stg. 1000. £Stg. 1000. £Stg. 1000.
Exports
Merchandise 105,000 90,222 -14,778
Gold .. 12,537 13,946 +1,409
117,537 104,168 -13,369
Imports —
Merchandise 102,781 91,040 -11,741
Gold .. 2,113 2,708 +595
104,894 93,748 -11,146
Balance .. +12,643 +10,420 -2,223
Our annual overseas interest com-
mitments run to about £22,000,000 ster-
ling a year, so that the 1938-39 favorable
balance isn’t likely to meet the charge to
the extent of more than half. It
means that our London funds will have
been drawn on for about £21,000,000
for interest alone during the past two
years.
In May savings-bank deposits through-
out Australia again took an upward turn.
At £241,860,000 they were £123,000
higher than in April. The January figure
had risen to £243,560,000, from which
point there was a fairly pronounced
decline during the first quarter of this
year.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Who Wants to Fight for Danzig?
('Condensed from a London “Evening Standard’’ article
by George Malcolm Thomson.)
Nobody wants to fight for Danzig. Not even the
Germans.
As for the Poles, they are a spirited nation,
although that is no reason to assume they are deprived
of political sense. It may be that, for reasons which
have nothing to do with Danzig, they are spoiling to
do battle. If they are sufficiently badgered by the
Germans, they may even be persuaded to rush in to
prevent a German seizure of Danzig.
That would be a great misfortune. For Danzig
is not a military objective that wise generals would
choose to fight for. Tf the Poles, defying Hitler,
marched into Danzig, they would pay dearly for their
rashness.
A Polish army, holding Danzig, would be subject
to simultaneous attack from two opposite directions,
from East and West Prussia. It would be in danger
of naval bombardment, for the German fleet is
supreme in the Baltic Sea. In short, that hapless
Polish army would almost certainly be surrounded
and destroyed.
Danzig is not a military stronghold. It is, for
Poland at least, a military trap.
In German hands, it might be a reinforcement of
the defences of East Prussia. That is possible. But
the river Vistula, which the Germans already hold, is
just as good a position on which to prevent an inva-
sion of East Prussia. It is the natural defensive line.
So if the Poles could not, and should not, hold
Danzig in war, why should they make the status of
the city a cause of war? Commonsense says that, since
Danzig is not a prize worth winning, it is not a cause
worth fighting for.
Commonsense does not always rule, however,
especially in the dealings between nations. The most
dangerous situation of all would arise if a Polish occu-
pation of Danzig were followed by a war in which
Danzig became, as it were, a flag which, if hauled
down, would damage Poland’s prestige and inflict
injury on the nations acting in support of Poland.
In the last war, Ypres became such a flag for
Britain. That Belgian town was commanded by the
German guns on three sides. Only one road led into
it. But, said the British generals, if we evacuate
Ypres, our prestige will suffer, the morale of our sol-
diers will be lowered. So, to keep the flag flying at
Ypres, tens of thousands of British soldiers lost their
lives.
With that grim experience in our memory, we
should try to persuade the Poles, our allies, not to
fall into a similar mistake about Danzig. It should be
our object to urge them to take a calm and sensible
attitude over Danzig. It is useful to them as a sea-
port. But that is only another reason for looking at
the question in a businesslike way. If Danzig means
much to Poland, the Polish trade means everything
to Danzig. That being so, there is room for a deal.
The sensible plan would be to recognise the
national spirit of the German population and, on that
basis, to make a new accommodation between Polish
and German claims. The Poles have much Jess to
fear from a Danzig where the citizens dwell in con-
tentment than from a city whose people feel them-
selves deprived of a national right and subject to a
form of administration which they find irksome.
German Morale Rises.
[Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph” article
by Hugh Carleton Greene, till recently that newspaper’s
chief correspondent in Berlin.]
What of the German people on whose morale
Herr Hitler must, in the last resort, rely? Though
the statement may cause surprise, I do not hesitate
to say that morale has never been better, from the
point of view of the present regime, during the five
and a half years I worked in Germany and followed
the ups and downs of public opinion.
The fate of the Sudeten Germans last autumn left
the German man in the street completely indifferent.
The more the German press shrieked about the suf-
ferings of Germans at the hands of the Czechs, the
more incredulous the average German working man
became. By the time the Munich conference brought
the crisis to a temporary conclusion the German
public, which had awakened at the last minute to the
danger of war, was emotionally limp and only able
to appreciate the fact that peace had been preserved.
The pogroms of last November brought the
Nazi regime to the lowest pitch of discredit inside
Germany that it has ever reached.
Germany awoke from the orgy thoroughly
ashamed of herself, and shame is a dangerous senti-
ment for those who arouse it.
At the beginning of this year morale was no
better. Then came March, Herr Hitler’s seizure of
Bohemia and Moravia and a miraculous change.
At first the German public displayed its usual
apathy and was not particularly interested in the news
that Herr Hitler had spent the night in the Hradjin
castle in Prague. Then, as the days passed, Germany
began to realise that her leader had got away with the
biggest coup of his career. The country swung into
line behind him, forgetting the pogroms and even, to
some extent, the everyday hardships which are usually
the chief topic of conversation between those who
trust one another.
Again, the “encirclement” propaganda which is
now an everyday feature of the German press has had
an undeniable success. The belief in “encirclement’ is
something bred in the bone, and it would be a full-
time task for a British Ministry of Information to
counteract it.
Most important of all, the German people are
delighted that Poland is now the immediate enemy.
The conclusion of the pact of friendship with Poland
in January, 1934, was one of Herr Hitler’s most un-
popular actions, and its denunciation on April 28 last
brought really sincere applause in the Reichstag.
This hatred of Poland means —and it is vital that
this point should be understood —that a war over
Danzig or the Polish “corridor,” even though the
result of the most flagrant German aggression, would
be fought by a united German nation.
But what of the economic situation and its effects
on German morale? The food shortage, of which,
in my opinion, a great deal too much has been made,
grows worse by very gradual stages. This means that
the people as a whole have become inured to a cer-
tain degree of hardship, and that in the event of war
they would, at least in the early stages, take even
more stringent rationing as a matter of course.
Accumulation of huge reserves of foodstuffs for
war-time purposes is probably more responsible foi
the shortage than the policy of restricting imports to
the necessary minimum. Exact estimates are, ol
course, impossible, but it is generally thought that
about six months’ supplies have now been stored.
The success with which the “encirclement’’ drum
is now being beaten by Dr. Goebbels has made it
easier to persuade the German people that the “aggres-
sive” plans of the democracies rather than the policy
of their own Government have made it necessary for
them to tighten their belts. But public opinion may
change again, and the fact that Germany might in the
end be the loser in the present “war of nerves” is a
consideration which Herr Hitler cannot ignore.
Another factor making, at least temporarily, for
increased national unity is the lull in the struggle with
the Catholic and Evangelical churches. There is now
less interference with churches than at any time since
the earliest days of the Nazi regime.
Admittedly Herr Hitler has remained inactive for
a few weeks, but any suggestion in the British or
French press that he has been intimidated by the
strength of the combination which has been formed to
resist aggression would have the worst possible effect
on the international situation. For five and a half years
I have tried to understand the mind of the mysterious
man who rules Germany to-day. My conclusions are
that, while hostility to Poland is the motive uppermost
in the Fiihrer’s heart, he would as a good tactician
strike without hesitation at any point of the peace
front where he thought he could discern a weakness.
A German Appreciation of Britain.
[Condensed from J. C. Johnstone’s review in London
“Daily Telegraph” of Count Pueckler’s How Strong
Is Britain?, recently published in Germany and trans-
lated by Edward Fitzgerald (Routledge). Count
Pueckler was formerly London correspondent of the
“Deutsche Allegemeine Zeitung.”]
After remarking that the total strength of British
troop units in the overseas Empire (excluding the
Dominions) is only 30 squadrons of ’planes and about
92,000 men, Count Pueckler goes on:
The fact that an empire with a colored population
of over 400,000,000 souls can be held with such weak
forces is a brilliant testimony to British administrative
talent Such a thing is possible because the British
Empire is not like the old Roman Empire, and has not
to be constantly defended against the insurrections of
oppressed peoples. The existence of the British Emipre
is not daily being called in question from within. With
the exception of chronic skirmishing on the North-
West Frontier, the occasional religious and racial troubles
in India, and the present disturbances in Palestine,
peace reigns throughout the whole vast British Empire.
Great Britain, he says, dare not, under existing
conditions, pursue an aggressive policy even if she
wished. Being an object of envy on account of her
vast possessions, she is compelled willy-nilly to con-
ciliate world opinion “by a strictly ethical use of her
power.” In any case he considers it “highly doubtful
whether the British people would be prepared to take
up arms for any purely egotistical national interest
at the expense of other peoples.”
From this moral check on her policy “it follows
that no country in the world has anything to fear
from her, no matter how strong she may be, pro-
vided its own foreign policy is as strictly ethical as
Great Britain’s is compelled by circumstances to be.”
In his analysis of the material factors affecting
Britain’s warlike strength, Count Pueckler notices on
the economic side certain well-known directions in
which she has suffered some recent decline. Her mer-
cantile marine, her income from banking services
abroad, her overseas investments have all shrunk, her
favorable balance of payments has disappeared and she
is beginning to live on her capital. These develop-
ments he attributes, rightly, of course, to the efforts
of other nations, especially Germany, to “build up
their prosperity” by means of a policy of self-
sufficiency.
In view of these last tendencies, which the Count
foresees as permanent, he thinks that Great Britain
is destined gradually to become poorer. Her vast
accumulated wealth is the product not of any intrinsic
superiority, but of her long monopoly of industrialisa-
tion in the early and middle nineteenth century, which
enabled her to create her immense overseas invest-
ments. The most she can do now is to maintain her
inheritance. Count Pueckler avoids exaggerating the
degree of the deterioration, but he does insist on one
factor of importance.
This is that not only has the capital value of her
overseas investments fallen, but they are less favor-
ably situated from the point of view of mobilisation
for war purposes. For whereas they were formerly
held to a extent in foreign countries, notably the
United States, they are now held predominantly in the
Empire, especially the Dominions. But since the
Dominions would probably help the Mother Country
to the greatest extent of their power in any case, in-
vestments held in these countries cannot be regarded
as an addition to the total economic strength of the
Empire for war purposes.
On the other side of the picture the Count points
out that Britain’s domestic productive capacity has
A Victory Dance.
[The “Saturday Evening Post” —which, like
The Bulletin, is strongly against any stupid
plunging into war —reprints this verse by Alfred
Noyes from its own columns of June 19, 1920,
as a needed corrective for to-day. It is given
here for the same reason, and in the hope that
it may be read in editorial sanctums such as
the “S, M. Herald’s,” where they favor this
sort of thing: “The Chamberlain Government
under the influence of mounting public
indignation, has moved at last from protest
to warning. It is to be hoped that action
will not falter too long in the wake of both.”
— leader, 28/6/’39.]
THE cymbals crash,
And the dancers walk
With long silk stockings
And arms of chalk,
Butterfly skirts,
And white breasts bare,
And shadows of dead men
Watching ’em there.
Shadows of dead men
Stand by the wall,
Watching the fun
Of the Victory Ball.
They do not reproach,
Because they know,
If they’re forgotten,
It’s better so.
Under the dancing
Feet are the graves.
Dazzle and motley,
In long bright waves,
Brushed by the palm fronds,
Grapple and whirl
Ox-eyed matron
And slim white girl.
Fat wet bodies
Go waddling by,
Girded with satin,
Though God knows why;
Gripped by satyrs
In white and black,
With a fat wet hand
On a fat wet back.
See, there is one child
Fresh from school,
Learning the ropes
As the old hands rule.
God, how that dead boy
Gapes and grins
As the tom-toms bang
And the shimmy begins!
‘‘What did you think
We should find,’’ said a shade,
“When the last shot echoed
And peace was made?”
“Christ,” laughed the fleshless
Jaws of his friend;
“I thought they’d be praying
For worlds to mend;
“Making earth better,
Or something silly,
Like whitewashing hell
Or Picca-dam-dilly.
They’ve a sense of humor,
These women of ours,
These exquisite lilies,
These fresh young flowers!”
“Pish,” said a statesman,
Standing near,
“I’m glad they can busy
Their thoughts elsewhere!
We mustn’t reproach ’em.
They’re young, you see.”
“Ah,” said the dead men,
“So were we!”
Victory! Victory!
On with the dance!
Back to the jungle
The new beasts prance!
God, how the dead men
Grin by the wall,
Watching the fun
Of the Victory Ball!


substantially increased, that it is incomparably better
organised for war purposes than ever before, and that
the post-war industrialisation of the Dominions repre-
sents a great potential access of strength. In particular
he mentions the value of Canada as an impregnable
base for aeroplane construction. Moreover, given
command of the seas, the Colonial Empire affords an
immense and readily accessible reservoir for raw
materials. Altogether he regards the total economic
resources of the Empire for war purposes as still ex-
tremely formidable.
From the military standpoint he recpgnises that
the British navy has a much greater preponderance
in European waters than at the outbreak of the last
war, and that the relative strength of the allied French
navy is also greater. On the other hand, Great Britain
has, of course, to reckon with the partial loss of her
island immunity through the development of air power
and also with the danger to merchant shipping as it
approaches the bottleneck of the Channel. “To-day,”
he says, “the danger has arisen that the first battle,
the battle of the air, will be the last battle, and that
by a direct attack on what was formerly an unassail-
able base Great Britain will be deprived' of the ability
to prepare herself for the final battle.”
Moreover, the changed attitude of Italy has
created new difficulties in the Mediterranean:—a dis-
advantage, however, against which he partially offsets
the friendship with Turkey, since consolidated by the
mutual guarantee pact.
On the question whether Great Britain would be
likely to succumb to a knockout blow in the initial
stages of a war, Count Pueckler does not commit him-
self. But his general conclusion is that “although
Great Britain is faced with more difficult strategic
problems to-day than she was in 1914, yet she is mili-
tarily better prepared to cope with them,” and will
become much more so in the near future.
As to the Empire, Count Pueckler .scouts the idea
that it has suffered any weakening from the constitu-
tional changes since the war. On the contrary, it “has
developed into a unique institution whose inner
cohesion is greater than would appear on the surface,
and it faces the world as a united whole.”
Ihe Count warns his readers against the facile
assumption that because on many occasions in recent
years Great Britain has been content to accept changes
detrimental to her interests with nothing more than
vain protests, therefore her star is on the wane. He
points out that in view of her varied and far-flung
responsibilities she cannot possibly exert her full power
every time one of her minor interests is threatened.
Therefore, he says:
It is not true that a country which injures Great
Britain’s interests must necessarily reckon with the full
force of Britain’s might. It is quite possible to pull
a hair or two out of the British Lion’s tail without
any very serious consequences resulting, and the problem
of how many hairs must be pulled out in a bunch
or how often individual hairs can be pulled out before
the Lion turns is almost a problem for a sophist,
something like the problem of how many stones make
a heap.
Uncle Sam’s “Moral Marrow.”
{From an article by Sir Frederick Whyte in the
“Fortnightly.”)
Neutrality has been the historic policy of the
United States ever since Washington delivered his
Farewell Address. The United States has only de-
parted from a neutral position when she believed that
her vital interests were threatened by the action of
belligerents in Europe. And the American of to-day
believes that he can best protect the material interests
of his country and maintain its essential ideals by
remaining- aloof from conflicts arising elsewhere.
But this America, which proclaims neutrality as its
official policy in a European war, is not neutral on
what may be called the moral issues of the present
crisis. The American of to-day completely violates
Washington’s principle of moral neutrality, or neu-
trality in opinion. America has already taken sides ;
and such is the vehemence of the American tempera-
ment that both moral and statutory neutrality might
be submerged overnight in a wave of feeling provoked
by some act of aggression.
It is therefore important for the foreign observer
to watch the working of moral motives in the Ameri-
can mind: more important, indeed, than to try to
strike , a balance between the conflicting ideas that
beset the American mind at any given moment.
America moves by moral judgments ; and is already
far on the way to some simple ethical conclusion on
a great issue before she realises that, officially and by
statute, she is committed to an apparently contrary
course.
This moral marrow of the American spirit is the
key of American action. It lives unimpaired by all
the waywardness of American life. It dictates the
private opinion and the public judgment of the nation ;
and even Hollywood, which in superficial appearance
escapes all Puritan trammels, comes to heel at the
crack of the moral whip. In the field of foreign rela-
tions its power is well-nigh unlimited: for, while in
cold blood the average American believes in isola-
tion and subscribes both in letter and in spirit to all the
maxims of the Farewell Address, he espouses with pas-
sionate conviction those very “antipathies”—“inveter-
ate antipathies and passionate attachments”—against
which he was solemnly warned by his most revered
Elder Statesman.
Europe, to-day, would do well to ponder the sig-
nificance of this quality in the American nature ; for,
just as the attitude of America to any great issue aris-
ing in the foreign field is formed by moral reactions
to events, so, in the end, American foreign policy must
obey the same law. Not for nothing were the founders
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts the children of
Puritan England. And the conscience of that Eng-
land was perhaps the most significant export carried
in the hold of the Mayflower in 1620. To this day
America obeys the dictates of that conscience.
Soviet Pact Drawbacks.
[Cables, in which J. Bull appears to be always in
the wrong, have been full of the censures of “Lettish”
critics, who, of course, put all the blame on J.B. for
the Soviet Pact delays. The aspects of the matter pre-
sented by Edwyn Bevan in this letter in London “Times”
have not been mentioned.]
A letter from a friend of mine, a distinguished
publicist, not British and not German, now in Fin-
land, emphasises a point which I have not seen alluded
to in all the discussion regarding the Russian demand
that Britain should guarantee the Baltic States against
a German aggression.
The population of these States is divided in their
political desires. They contain a native Communist
element which would eagerly grasp an opportunity to
overthrow the Governments in power —Governments
which even when they are Socialist in profession (as
the Finnish Government at any rate is) are bourgeois
and anti-Communist. The ruling bourgeois class be-
lieves that Russia would soon use an international war
to create a civil war in these countries and establish
in them a Communist regime. Rather than be
“liquidated” they would invoke German protection.
This is why they regard with such abhorrence the
possibility of our making a pact with Russia which
would give Russia a pretext for interference in their
internal affairs. Already their Communists are on the
tiptoe of expectation. The possibility we have to con-
template is thus not an aggression by Germany upon
a people against their will, as in the case of the Czechs,
but a voluntary going over of the ruling class into the
German camp as the lesser of two evils.
Bolshevist Russia has so far left the existing Gov-
ernments in these countries in power, content with
their neutrality. But in the event of a world war it
might not be content to let their neutrality rest upon
the precarious basis of their own ability or willingness
to maintain it. It might consider interference a
necessity. We could not say that, if it did so, Russia
would be unreasonable. It would be just as much a
danger to Russia if the Baltic States passed under
German control as it would be to England if Belgium
passed under German control. We know that in 1914
if the Germans had violated Belgian neutrality with
the full consent of the Belgian people Britain would
nevertheless have gone to war.
Russia is demanding that we should undertake to
aid it in expelling the Germans, even if they violated
Finnish, Estonian or Latvian neutrality by the desire
of the present ruling class. That could only mean
that Russia would co-operate with the local Commu-
nists and put them in power. But Britain may natur-
ally shrink from a pact which would bind us in cer-
tain circumstances to help to overthrow a non-Com-
munist Government legally elected in a country which
would prefer to be neutral and substitute a Com-
munist one.
At one and the same time to give Russia an assur-
ance of our military help should any Baltic State pass,
whether by its own will or not, under German control,
and to give the Baltic States an assurance that there ,
will be no interference from the Russian side in their
internal affairs might seem a problem as difficult as
that of squaring the circle. We may hope it will be
solved, but impatience to see the pact concluded seems
to imply an ignorance of the problems which all this
time have been there.
[Noi have cables so largely dedicated to present-
ing the views of the Opposition and the Left in Britain —
given daily newspaper readers a hint of the considerable
doubts and criticisms, not only of the Soviet Pact but of
all the increasing Continental commitments, voiced by
such papers as the “Sunday Express,” from which this
article is condensed.]
Russia says that if she is to enter into a military
alliance with western European Powers, then the three
States, Estonia, Latvia and Finland, must be pro-
tected by those Powers against German aggression.
We are required to keep the Germans out of
those three States whether the Finns, the Latvians or
the Estonians want us to do so or not. If a situation
arises in one of those three States similar to that which
arose in Spain, where there was an armed rebellion
against the Government backed by foreign Powers,
then Britain must go to war, say the Russians. If a’
situation arises similar to the one in Austria, when
citizens of the State invited the Germans to come in
and govern them, then it is “quick march” for us
again, say the Russians.
There would be no case at all for this extension of
our commitments if we had not already undertaken
some liabilities in Eastern Europe.
So far as our guarantees to Rumania are con-
cerned, that is a shadowy proposition. For Rumania
takes any guarantee from any country in any circum-
stances whatsoever.
Poland is a more serious affair. For the Poles are
concerned with the question of Danzig. That is a city
full of Germans demanding a return to their Father-
land, while the Poles insist on maintaining over that
city the rights which were conferred on them by the
League of Nations.
It is only fair to say that Danzig has no military
importance at all. None whatsoever. The men and
women who conduct the pro-Polish propaganda in
Britain declare that Frederick the Great said “Fie who
holds Danzig holds Poland.” Frederick the Great said
no such thing. His words were: “Who rules over the
mouth of the Vistula rules over Poland better than
the King of Poland himself.”
Whether that is true or not, it is certain that the
mouth of the Vistula is to-day dominated by East
Prussia and has been so for a long time.
If the problem of Danzig could be settled by
negotiation between the Poles and the Germans, the
position in Eastern Europe would become simplified.
With this difference out of the way the Poles might
soon clasp hands and become good neighbors with the
Germans. They would no longer need us to act as a
bulwark.
Then the day might come when Britain would
choose to follow the one course that should be fol-
lowed. That course is to concern ourselves with our
own vital interests. To continue to develop and deploy
the limitless strength of the British Empire, secure in
armed might against our enemies.
Views on Tientsin.
[British press views on the Tientsin trouble cannot
be accused of being rash or hotheaded. The extracts
given here from leading articles are typical of what had
appeared up to dispatch of the latest airmails.]
Hitherto the British Government has been willing
to meet a succession of incidents with forbearance
and with the presumption that Japan in her own in-
terests does not desire to add to the immense diffi-
culties with which a recklessly venturesome policy has
burdened her on the mainland of China.
But there is something altogether new in the
present endeavor to compel British compliance with a
policy which Britain, in common with other Powers,
must and will vigorously refuse to share, support or
condone. A local incident is being exploited to secure
British participation in the campaign against China
and British acquiescence in the ultimate extrusion of
all but Japanese interests from Chinese territory. That
is the inevitable reading of events, though they con-
tradict the repeated protestations of Tokio, and it is
upon the confirmation or otherwise of that impres-
sion that British action will depend.— “ Times.”
* * * * *
The recrudescence of incidents appears to have
quite a definite object: it seems that, as at certain
earlier junctures, the slow progress made by Japan’s
attempts to subjugate China is becoming all too notice-
able both in Japanese and in Chinese eyes, and it may
be thought prudent to seek the re-establishment of
“face” at the expense of a third Power. It is now ad-
mitted by an official pamphlet issued by the Japanese
War Office that two years’ hostilities in China are only
the precursors of two or three more years of fighting.
Unpleasant and tragic (in some instances) as have
been the recent anti-British activities, they are a sign of
Japanese weakness rather than Japanese strength. It
is important, however, that the British Government
and its representatives on the spot should not accept
them without protest or allow the withdrawal of the
protection which our forces at hand can exercise. Still
less should any satisfaction be given to Japanese hopes
that we may be bluffed out of the financial and diplo-
matic support afforded to General Chiang Kai-shek’s
Government.
The prudence which has so far kept Japan’s
leaders from promising the “Axis” military assistance
might well be extended to inquiring what economic
help her friends in Germany and Italy can afford her
if the Western Democracies take certain obvious
measures against Japanese trade. For if provocation
of the kind given at Tientsin continues, it is unlikely
that the British Government, for one, will content itself
with protests. —“ Daily Telegraph”
jJ;
Japan, of course, is taking advantage of our weak-
ness in the Far East, but Japan herself has grave weak-
nesses. She is already engaged in a war which she
can neither win nor end. She is constantly exposed
to a threat from Soviet Russia. And she is extremely
vulnerable to economic pressure, especially if that
pressure were to be applid simultaneously by Britain,
France and the United States, the three Powers who
are all equally threatened by her actions. If only
these three Powers stand together the Japanese mili-
tarists will learn the virtues of negotiation and the arts
of diplomacy, which alone they have failed to accept
from the Western world —Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
The Japanese action raises the question of whether
Bi itain is to stand firm in the defence of her own con
cessionary rights in Far Eastern cities. To a Chinese
Government possessing full capacity to maintain law
and order in its domains there would be a good case
for their surrender. To the Japanese wielding the
weapon of blockade, that prospect appears much less
desirable. Failure in the war against China and the
need to blame that failure on the British seems to be
the main reason for the Japanese choice of this
moment to act. Owing to that failure they are prob-
ably unprepared to press their claims very far.
—“Evening Standard.”
* * * * w
Why does Japan look for more trouble in Tientsin,
when she already has so much on her hands?
Obviously she hopes for a diplomatic victory to
cover her military defeats. For her war in China has
so far brought her no profit and no honor.
The incident raises the whole question of our
concessions in China. We should be prepared to give
them up. 1
But we should leave China for the Chinese, not
the Japanese. We will give place to the landlord, but
not to the burglar. —“ Daily Express”
Fed-up.
London “Daily Express” on J. Bull’s worst
headache:—
Mr. Malcolm MacDonald flies to Geneva.
He puts the British plan for Palestine before
the Mandates Commission of the League of
Nations.
If the commission accepts the proposals
Britain should be freed from the burden of
Palestine in ten years.
And if the League doesn’t like our plans
we hope it will take the administration of
Palestine off our hands now.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Green Cape (Ethiopian-Capeless) made
history at Flemington on Saturday. He
is. the first horse to win the Grand
National Steeple and then, switching
back to service over the battens, land
the Grand National Hurdle a year later.
Bill Burke “set” Green Cape for the
first leg of the National double because
of the gelding’s impost being 181 b. less
than in the crosscountry event. Rela-
tively this gave him a 101 b. advantage
over Nevizes, a stablemate, and also
Pooley Bridge.
Nevizes won't run in the Grand
National Steeple, for which Giant Killer
has been regarded as the “pea” of
Burke’s stable. Decision as to whether
Green Cape will start has been reserved
until Thursday, when final acceptances
fall due.
Opening at threes on the course, Green
Cape eased to fours and was in only
half a point better demand than Pooley
Bridge, around whom the public rallied
loyally. Carrying only a pound less than
12st., “Pooley” was set a tremendous
task, especially as the going was heavy—•
so much so that six-, seven- and 12-fur-
long flat races occupied 1.21,
and 2.45 respectively.
From what Bert Foulsham, his
trainer, said after the race Pooley Bridge
ought to have been placed at least. Foul-
sham attributed defeat to Green Cape
keeping Pooley Bridge close company
and compelling him to “carry his
weight.”
Furthermore, said Foulsham, he had
been informed by McKee that at the
second-last obstacle Nevizes jumped out-
wards and Pooley Bridge, on landing,
collided with his hindquarters, thereby
losing much ground.
Coming to the final obstacle the issue
obviously rested between Green Cape.
Restford and Cape Race. Finishing full
of running, Green Cape scored by 3f
lengths from Restford, with Cape Race
two lengths farther off. The time, smin.
49isec., was nearly 20sec. outside Belar’s
(1933) record.
Bought for 25gns. as a yearling, Green
Cape was sold by Burke to a Melbourne
master-baker who races as “L. Street,”
having business associations with Lygon-
street, Carlton. In 1920 Ethiopian, sire
of Green Cape, won the Cantala Stakes.
Bill Burke first came into prominence
as a trainer of jumpers in 1927 by win-
ning the Maiden Hurdle and Grand
National Hurdle on the same day with
Longlands and Coybeau respectively.
Coybeau was followed home by two
good ’uns —Pildin and Rosiel. A pro-
test for interference was dismissed.
Fullarton trains Sir Gordon, who
started at sixes and beat the 3-to-l favor-
ite, Star Lover, very impressively in the
Maiden Hurdle on Saturday. Sir Gordon
was bred by P. G. Hay, the Richmond
brewer, and is by Fourth Hand, an im-
ported stallion that James Scobie trained
for Lord Somers, Vic. Governor at that
period.
The afternoon did not end so well as
it had begun for Fullarton. Beaten into
second place on Restford in the National
Hurdle, he was so exhausted from wast-
ing that another rider had to be secured
for Turf Boy in the Kensington Steeple.
Turf Boy, with Frank Douglas up, ran
an excellent race, but Trentwood, Jack
Fryer’s National Steeple candidate, beat
him by a head for second money. This
pair were fighting it out when Mustella
(eights) put in an overpowering finish.
Through having contracted a chill
Mustella was withdrawn in the previous
week from the Grand National Steeple.
Owner-trainer Jerry Moloney deemed
him fit to compete over a shorter
journey, and he judged rightly. Mustella
is only rising six. All going well he may
yet win a National.
Strategy (fives) vanquished the 5-to-2
favorite, San Carlos, by half a head in the
Myross Handicap for juveniles. Royal
Armour (sevens) led all the way in the
Winter Handicap, of \\ miles, Prince
Sion and Minim being the others most
prominent in the procession in the
straight.
Rambler (eights) dead-heated for first
with Rain Hazard (33 to 1) in the Iramoo
Welter. The bedraggled spectators
wearily wended their way homeward.
Rainy race days are not enjoyable.
* * * *
Alan Cooper has brought off a coup
at last. He bought Talking for £19,000
and lost that colt’s services as a race-
horse before a fourth of the purchase-
money had come back as prizemoney.
He sold St. Constant for a pound, and
saw the pound horse train on rapidly
into one of the best milers and middle-
distance horses in Australia. He bought
Mala for £7OOO and was present a year
ago when Mala fell at Doomben, Bris-
bane, suffered fatal injuries and dam-
aged Fred Shean, the jockey, to whom
Cooper had given a retainer of £lOOO a
year.
After that, Cooper announced his re-
tirement from the game. He came back
“That's ROWIN’”
to it at Randwick last Easter, buying for
£BOO Micawber, who looked to have a
mortgage on the A.J.C. Bronte Handi-
cap. Micawber ran second —to MildUra,
who four days previously had run last in
the Doncaster. “The Cooper hoodoo
again,” muttered backers of Micawber
sadly, and dismissed the subject.
Cooper sent Micawber to Brisbane to
be trained by W. J. Shean, the jockey’s
brother. He nominated Micawber for
the Doomben Newmarket, in which the
son of Tippler—Three Mints had 8.1, and
backed him for £3600 at tens. First prize
was worth £2lOO. On Saturday, from a
position in the pressbox, the hitherto un-
lucky owner, so excited that he never
ceased shouting encouragement to the
horse and jockey (Fred Shean), once
Micawber hit the front, saw that in-
telligent steed vindicate his judgment by-
winning the Doomben Newmarket; and
Micawber had it won half a furlong from
home.
It was a great betting race. Naturally
Trimmer was favorite —at threes —but it
was 8 to 1 bar one. St. Constant and
Micawber being at eights, Thurles Lad
and Bahwing at tens, Aurie’s Star and
Waireka at twelves and Hybol at six-
teens. There were 22 starters. One of
the outsiders was The Albatross, owned
by P. J. O’Shea, who made a great effort
to overhaul Micawber, but was beaten by
a length. Third was Brisbane River, a
two-year-old, who proved much better at
the weights on the day than the Sydney
two-year-old Waireka.
The Albatross is by The Buzzard-
Strongbird, Brisbane River by Spearfelt-
Climond. The race was run at a tick
over “twelve” to the furlong. The Syd-
ney division, Micawber excepted, was
badly beaten. Trimmer led for a time,
but finished ninth.
It was, however, a day on which Syd-
ney horses were in the ascendant for
once. E. J. Watt’s three-year-old gelding
The Squire, by Beau Pere-Helene, a
7-to-4 favorite for the First Welter,
cleared out from his opponents, and his
time, 1.38£, equalled the course record
for a mile. He was ridden by McCarten,
who, as he has been reminded of late
by Sydney crowds, doesn’t often win on
favorites. And Cooranga, after looking
hopelessly out of it, beat 14 opponents
in the Carnival Handicap in a style so
impressive that she immediately became
a warm favorite for the Doomben Cup.
With seven pounds less than she carried
on Saturday and two furlongs more to
travel —the Carnival Handicap distance
was nine furlongs—it is hard to see what
is going to beat the sturdy mare in the
Cup.
They lay great prices at Brisbane.
Cooranga was 5 to 1. In Sydney she
would have been 6 to 4 at most.
Poor prizemoney and poor cattle did
not affect the attendance at Victoria Park
(Sydney), for 10,000 braved the bitter
Wind. Backers got it in the neck, as one
favorite and three outsiders scored. Taxi-
men learned with dismay that the last
winner, Dubonnet, had gone out at
twelves ; and, shivering and gloomy, they
saw punters rush the Government trams.
Royal Prince, a fast young sprinter,
carried 9st. to an all-the-way win in the
Flying Handicap. McMenamin rode a
clever race, slipping his mount away at
the home turn, and getting sufficient of a
break to enable Royal Prince to beat
Rummage by a head. Valhalla, the
favorite, was another half a head away.
The big chestnut had a good position at
the top of the straight, but his run was
delayed too long, and at the crisis of the
race he was squeezed between Royal
Prince and Rummage. Royal Prince
started at fours.
Backed from twos to 6 to 4 Own Folk
won the Victoria Park Handicap, but had
to put up a course record to do it. Sail-
maker’s rider was instructed to try to
steal the race. He was ten lengths in
front in the early stages'and still had a
commanding lead entering on the last
furlong of eleven. He, however, is not a
stayer, and Own Folk soon had him
settled. Tickle came along to beat Sail-
maker for second. Gold Pan and Cable
Boy were disappointments, and Hedonic,
backed for good money, was last.
Own Folk races in the colors of Mrs.
C. H. Hicks. He ran the “eleven” in
2.18|, knocking two seconds off the
record made by Regal Son in a race pre-
ceding his victory in the Metrop. A four-
year-old, attractively bred—by The Buz-
zard-Merle’s Robe —Own Folk is in the
Metrop. with 6.12, the Caulfield Cup
with 6.8 and the Melbourne Cup with 7st.
Queensland pastoralist G. F. W. Good-
rich did the bookies a good turn when
his Heroic colt Red Eagle outstayed
Late Night and Last Chance in the first
division of the Three- and Four-year-old,
for Red Eagle went out at 20 to 1. Rex,
who looked too big, made the running,
but he was beaten in the straight, where
Late Night took charge. Late Night’s
8.10 proved too much for him. Red
Eagle, whose previous win was in a
maiden race at Warwick Farm in Feb-
ruary, beat him comfortably.
The second division brought together a
seedy lot of gallopers. The Brush (12 to
1) romped home from Saratoga and AH
Heroes. His mile took 1.40 —1| seconds
slower than Red Eagle’s. Pygmalion and
Foursome Jack, 6 to 4 and twos respec-
tively, ran like farm horses.
The pony race proved a soft snap for
Edie’s Choice, raced by Mrs. G. B. Wooll.
Lady Gay, one of the first to begin, came
across too sharply, and the favorite.
Uatheon, was knocked back lengths
approaching the five furlongs. Lady Gay
shifted away from the rails at the Leger
and Mills shot Edie’s Choice through the
opening. Her price was 9 to 2.
Dubonnet, who is trained and raced
by G. T. Doyle, of Peak Hill,
neat 15 others in the Welter, a
mile race. For half the journey
Theolos had the field strung 1 out, but,
only a sprinter, he had had enough after
turning for home. Dubonnet flashed up
on the outside, and looked like coming
home on his own till Grey Derby tackled
him. The grey fought on gamely and
was beaten by only half a neck, with
Stalin 1| lengths away. The favorite,
Kai Tere, a stablemate of Late Night,
lost a good possy at the home turn, but
ran on again to finish fifth behind Lucky
Kid —an early winner. Braidwood Boy,
backed at long prices, made a fast run
at the top of the straight, but weakened in
the final furlong. He is not ready.
The trainer of Jack Mac, winner of
the Brush Hurdle, was reminded by the
chief steward, Williams, that the gelding
had eased in the betting—to sevens. This
information leaked out and the price
firmed to 9 to 2. His party protested
that he was a trier, and he must have
been ; anyway, he won in a walk.
* * * *
“T.0.R.”: Going by weights, Ajax is
inferior as a stayer, not only to Phar Lap
(B. 28/6/’39), but to several former
champions handicapped for the Mel-
bourne Cup. Carbine won in 1890 with
10.5, and if he had started in the follow-
ing year he would have had to cairy
10.12. Carbine’s 1890 weight was handed
out to San Fran and Wakeful in 190_,
and in 1903 Wakeful was second with
10st., conceding 481 b. to a clinking good
three-year-old in Lord Cardigan, who was
himself second in 1904 with 9.6. Poitrel
won in 1920 with lOst.; and Eurythmic
had 10.5 in 1921. And Peter Pans
burden was 10.6 when he tried, in 19. j,
to win his third Cup.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Lawn Handicap: Stoic; next,
Manrico.
Steeplechasers’ Flat: Turf Boy;
next, Ben’s Fort.
Gooparle Handicap: Keelie;
next, Panax.
Braybrook Handicap: The
Trump ; next, Gay Knight.
Doutta Galla Hurdle: Pooley
Bridge.
Grand National: Turf Boy, 1 ;
Deckard, 2 ; Giant Killer, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Carlton Mile: Sidcup; next,
Dubonnet or Blinky Bill.
Moorefield Handicap: Kurra-
wid; next, Dubonnet or Morning
Gift
Flying Welter: Politesse; next,
Tolerant.


The wise man says
on an evening gay,
CtT*
Vll see Johnnie Walker
walks my way!”
Stick to Johnnie Walker for an evening
and in the morning you’ll stride as
briskly as Johnnie Walker does himself.
Its specially clean and refreshing taste,
the purity and age of the fine whiskies
from which it is blended, make a meeting
with Johnnie Walker a pleasant one—
and pleasant to look back on.
49HNNIE
WAfcKER
walks away with it!
Obtainable in the famous square bottle
and in handy flasks of smaller size.
n
%
Born 182 0 —
Still Going
Strong!
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., London, Kilmarnock, Sydney
JW.96.8


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
BRITAIN, JAPAN AND CHINA
THE LOAN COUNCIL
AND
SECURITY PRICES
MINES AND METALS
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
T
of
IN
MADE
EFFIELD
M
Position Vacant.
Marine Board of Launceston, Tasmania.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of Harbour and Works Engineer to the above
Board for a term of five (5) years.
Applicants must have had experience in all
Harbour Works, and will be required to furnish
particulars of qualifications and previous ex-
perience.
Applications addressed to the Secretary, and
endorsed “Harbour Engineer,” must reach this
Office not later than noon on the Ist August,
1939. , . ,
Further particulars may be obtained on appli-
cation to the undersigned. irnrmT „
GEO. S. MEREDITH,
Marine Board Office,
Launceston, Tasmania,
28th June, 1939.
Secretary.
Under the Whip
Deckard, who finished second in the
Grand National Steeple of 1938, and is
expected by many to go one better next
Saturday, is a recruit from the ranks of
hunters. Inazuma, winner of the Mel-
bourne Hunt Steeple last Wednesday, is
another crosscountry “find.”
Ridden by Creber, his owner, who has
any amount of gameness but cannot be
termed a really skilful amateur, Inazuma
(tens) beat the heavily-backed Niello by
half a dozen lengths. Niello, a stable-
companion of Deckard, went out next in
demand to F. W. Hoysted’s candidate
Rhymster, who crashed at the first fence.
Inazuma fills the eye as an ideal
timber-topper. His grey color comes
from the sire, Grey Missal, a son of
The Tetrarch. On the other side of his
pedigree, too, Inazuma is attractively
bred. Lanson, the dam, won the Oaks
of 1926. Mated with Frilford, she pro-
duced The K.C., a good winner on the
flat.
Ted Whiley, who trains Inazuma, ran
first and second in the Grand National
Steeple of 1923 with Kunjolio and
Wooloo. That was one of the most sen-
sational Nationals on record. Liberate
and Haoma, each of whom had been
backed for a fortune, fell at the abat-
toirs when struggling for the lead.
Much money was won over Houlettc
(Heroic-La Bergeronette) in the juvenile
event at Moonee Valley. Trained by
S. B. Ferguson, this filly is raced and was
bred by Cecil Denison, of N.S.W. Her
dam produced Veridique to Legionnaire
and Sylvandale to Silvius.
Veridique won several two-year-old
races in Melbourne for Eric Connolly.
Sold to an Adelaide sportsman, she
landed the A.R.C. City Handicap and
other stakes. Sylvandale ran his stable-
mate Theo to a head in the Victoria
Derby, and captured an Australian Cup.
Fifteen to one was laid against
Houlette, but she became favorite, at
9 to 2. Taking charge soon after the
start, Houlette scored by H lengths from
Wyn Gatos, who was only an eyebrow
in advance of W. R. Kemball’s Sieg-
fried gelding Grandson, who impressed
by his stamina.
Harold Badger rode three winners at
the Valley, and is practically sure of
heading the jockeys’ list in Victoria for
the season. Apart from Houlette, he
was first past the post on Rose Princess
and Gay Invader, who were bred at St.
Albans and are raced by Guy Raymond,
of the V.R.C. committee, and H. B.
Ranken.
Four members of the Hoysted clan
figured as owners at Moonee Valley.
Fred saddled-up Rhymster for the Hunt
Steeple ; his younger brother Bob and
his nephew H.J. were represented in the
Ardsley Plate by Double Bard and High
View respectively ; and an elder brother,
H.F., is part-owner of Paljune, who com-
peted in the Ardsley Purse.
Of the horses mentioned Double Bard
alone fulfilled expectations. He an-
nexed the Ardsley Plate, lumping 9st. 91b.
in great style. This made Double Bard’s
tally three wins in four days—a most
noteworthy achievement.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Hunt Club’s last
meeting outdid “Banjo” Paterson’s “Open
Steeplechase” in its casualty list. In the
Maiden Hunters eight (the lot) fell; two
were remounted and were placed first
and second. In the Stirling Steeple only
one of the five got through ; a remounted
animal was second, beaten by six fur-
longs. In the Drag Cup three of the
five made mistakes of some sort. Total,
18 starters, 15 falls. The weather, by
the way, was perfect.
Hunter Bowman must now be satis-
fied that Cherry Bar is superior to Head
Check. At Ascot (Sydney) on Wednes-
day, as at Canterbury Park the previous
Saturday, he started his two elderly
Rossendale mares in the same handicap,
preferred Head Check to Cherry Bar,
and saw the latter again win at 8 to 1.
Head Check, third at Canterbury Park,
was fourth. Little Blinky Bill was
favorite, but after making nearly all the
running he petered out in the last fur-
long (of eight); then Windbird hit the
front, but broke down, though he
finished third. Flamari was second, a
couple of lengths behind Cherry Bar,
who, as at Canterbury Park, was ridden
by Bartle.
There is no busier jockey in Aus-
tralia these days than Lappin. At Ascot
on Wednesday he rode three winners,
two seconds and an unplaced horse.
Booked to leave for Brisbane on Thurs-
day to ride Waireka in the Doomben
Newmarket, he was on the track as
usual in the morning as industrious as
ever. The studious youth’s motto is
“ Tis not in mortals to command
“Now will you sign that non-aggression pact?"
success, but we’ll do more, Mick Poison,
we’ll deserve it.”
Lappin’s winning mounts at Ascot
were in the first three races, divisions
of the Apprentices’ Novice Handicap
and the Fourteen-two. Because of his
skill and experience, compared with the
other apprentices, the Ring took no
risks with Talavera (5 to 2) or Buzzal
(evens) in the races restricted to lads
under indentures, but it offered 20 to 1
about Kentucky in the Fourteen-two,
Kentucky being a pig of a pony at the
barrier. Lappin had to get off him three
times, and then Kentucky was hurdled
off. It made no difference ; he was swift
to leave the webbing, was second at the
half-mile and first into the straight, and
after that there was only a question of
how much Lappin would choose to
win by. The youngster was cheered by
a crowd which for the most part had
lost its money on other starters.
M.Q. and Rafferty
. . ‘
Louis Retains the Title
Some 25,000 reverent souls attended
the ritualistic seance at the Yankee
Stadium, which, as usual, concluded with
Joe Louis retaining the heavyweight title,
Tipsters had foreseen that the affair
“would probably last less than five
rounds for Galento,” and for once they
were right. It ended in the fourth, with
Galento battered to pulp. Nevertheless,
Tony made something of a showing.
After the ceremony of introducing
champions at all weights past and
present, going back to Samson, Galento
heaved his brewery-built bulk through
the ropes, having, at 16st. 9|lb., 2st. 51b.
the better of Louis. He won the first
round easily, attacking and driving Louis
to the ropes and making the title-holder
hold on to him. It had been a long
time since the champion was treated so
disrespectfully, but he evened accounts
in the second, driving a heavy right into
Tony’s beer-vat, cutting him up badly
over the eyes and flooring him with hard
rights and lefts to the jaw. Tony rose
a very sorry spectacle, but hung on and
weathered the round.
In the next he went as near as could
be to collaring the title, landing a right
to the head which toppled Louis. The
champ, was down for two, but Tony
failed to finish him when he rose, and
thereafter it was a brief and conclusive
massacre. Louis drove him to the ropes
in the fourth, and there battered him
with heavy punches, and as Tony’s huge
carcass started to sag to the canvas the
ref. named Louis the winner.
Hackenschmidt (B. 28/6/’39)
was pot above playing light in exhibition
matches. On his visit to Australia in
1904-05 he let Clarrie Weber (husband of
the charming lady who is now M.L.A.
for Nunawading) stay 10 minutes on the
mat with him on one occasion, and 15
minutes on another. But, matched with
Gunga Brahm and Buttan Singh on the
same night at Melbourne Exhibition, he
disposed of Brahm in a minute, and of
Singh in a minute and a half. To give
the crowd a bit more for its money, he
did not claim the Singh fall and allowed
Buttan to go on for a few minutes
longer. Harry Rickards had an interest
in that brief show. It was a hot night
and ’Arry warned the champion of a
possible disadvantage. “ ’Ack.,” he said,
“those Tndoos sweat a lot, and you might
find ’em slippery.” “Ach, Meester
Rickards,” replied .Hackenschmidt—who,
■though born a Russian, was of German
descent—“l vill not dem time to get
schlippery gif.” One Woods, who had
been Hackenschmidt’s wrestling partner,
said Hack, could beat Weber, Brahm,
Singh, Gunner Moir, Gus Rennert (an-
other wrestling partner) and Woods him-
self inside 10 minutes.
Footbraw!
In the sect)nd yictoria-Westralia
matc j l at p er th the Westralians had their
reven g e> defeating the visitors by 11.21
£ 0 jqjs_ They were the superior team
j n everything but kicking for goal,
and the Victorian party set out on the
return journey convinced that Wes-
traiian f orm has rarely been better. In
the grand o j d provincial spirit, “offers”
were made to seV eral of the winners,
and it was g i ee fully reported that one
lad ha d been signed up to play for
a f ew rnatches this season,
••• • .
At Adelaide the Victorians proved too
strong for the South Australians, scor-
ing 21.13 to 15.19. It was a hard match,
and Moller, of the Victorians, came out
with a fractured jaw, while Smith (S.A.)
is nursing a broken cheekbone.
V- * =i ; *
In Melbourne on Saturday it rained
and it blew, and it had been raining and
blowing for a couple of days beforehand.
Mud was everywhere, kicks for goal
were blown astray, scoring was low—
and Footscray won its first match. Play-
ing on its own ground, it entertained
Geelong and scored 40 points to 25;
5.10 to 3.7.
“The four” are now Melbourne, St.
Kilda, Collingwood and Richmond. Carl-
ton is eight points lower down, but still
has a chance. Collingwood accommodated
itself best to Saturday’s boisterous con-
ditions. Its marksmanship was frequent
and accurate, and it ran up the day’s
highest tally—lB.9 to Essendon’s 7.18.
North, stacked up against “Sowth,”
doubled its opponent’s total —14.12 to
7.6. Carlton (15.13) never gave Fitz-
roy (7.18) a hope, and Saints weren't


Who pays
them
after
youre
yone?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
• . . . whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
AND
DO YOU FEEL
DONE UP
?
OUR CRUISES
WILL CUT THE KNOT
NEXT CRUISE LATE JULY
“ORAIVIA” to NOUMEA
By way of Barrier Reef; returns by way of
Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands.
Sailing from:
Adelaide, JULY 22;
Sydney, JULY 28;
Fremantle, JULY 18
Melbourne, JULY 24
Brisbane, JULY 31
LATE AUG. - “OTRANTO” - PAPUA
By way of Barrier Reef
Sailing from: Fremantle, AUG. 15
Adelaide, AUG. 19; Melbourne, AUG. 21
Sydney, AUG. 25; Brisbane, AUG. 28
First Saloon and Tourist ‘B’ Class.
ORIENT LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.. Incorporated in England
m
i-3
li?
US
im
ESTABLISHED
1834
Head Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
Commercialßanking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. £4,739,012,10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3. .
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
troubled much by the Richmond Tigers—
-9.12 to 7.9. Though Melbourne main-
tained its position at the top its confi-
dence was shaken by Hawthorn, which
plays its best football when the opposi-
tion is strong. Hawthorn kicked more
goals than the leaders, but lost on be-
hinds—7.l2 to 8.4.
* * * *
The Palestine Soccer combination
found N.S.W. a vastly different proposi-
tion from what it had been lulled into
expecting on the score of its Victorian
matches. At Sydney C.G. on Saturday
it was beaten 6-4 by superior all-round
play. The visitors relied on a short-
passing game ; but it was exaggeratedly
short, just as their footwork proved too
delicate. Neither phase could stand up
to the home side’s robust game. The
N.S.W. forwards always had the edge
on their opponents in speed, while in the
air they more than held their own. Quill,
leading the vanguard from the centre,
notched three snap goals in tip-top
fashion, and Wynn, the' rugged outside-
left, scored a brace and bottled up his
dangerous opposite number, Alembik.
The home backs defended solidly, and
goalie McNabb overshadowed Sidi, his
more showy vis-d-vis.
The Palestinians, mostly short and
solid of build, are nippy, but in the long
stretches, when the game was made more
open by the longer passing of New
South’s forwards, they were run off their
legs. Early in the game they stormed the
Red citadel (oldest members of the S.C.G.
nearly passed out when the home team,
to avoid clashing with the visitors,
eschewed the traditional blue), and aimed
shot after shot at goal, but their marks-
manship was badly astray. Later, spurred
by the hoisting of N.S.W.’s fourth goal,
the Palestine pack came with irresistible
bursts to make up the leeway, but the
Reds came back with pace that could not
be denied. The match was always in-
teresting, clean and skilful.
The team for the Australia v. Pales-
tine match is all N.S.W. Henwood re-
places Mascord at left-back and Crow-
hurst, instead of Lonergan, goes to the
inside-left position. Three members of
the side were in the N.S.W. eleven licked
4-2 by Queensland on June 10; and
Queensland is without a representative!
* * * *
Gordon now leads in the Sydney
Rugby Union competition—for the first
time. Randwick and Drummoyne are
second and North third. Forwards, batt-
ling hard and together, have played the
chief part in Gordon’s successes, and on
Salui day, against St. George, the backs
did well. St. George led 7-5 at half-
time ; after that, running with the wind,
Gordon piled on four more tries to finish
21-10. Gordon looks a good bet for the
premiership; it loses only one man
Carrick, when the team for England
sails, and Carrick has turned out for
only three of the ten matches played.
Randwick will have to find five
substitutes in a week or two. Four of
Wick’s tourists were in against West, and
they gave the side quality, making the
scores 34-6.
North and East are both slipping.
North cut even with Parramatta in tries,
but_ penalty goals gave the ’Mattans an
11-5 margin. East went down 14-9 to a
revitalised University, and Drummoyne
was too good for Manly, 15-6.
A slice of luck, as well as its own good
play, has put St. George out in front in
the Sydney Rugby League premiership.
On Saturday Balmain, the third rival for
top place, could only manage a draw—
-7 all—against North, and St. George
walloped its other co-leader, Canterbury-
Bankstown, 20-10.
Ihis was a game of missed opportuni-
ties for the losers, the ability to grasp
which is usually the team’s strong suit.
Time after time weak finishes marred-
otherwise solid movements, and at least
two “sitter” tries went begging. The
Dragons’ pack was always on the ball,
and the backs, fed by the übiquitous half,
McAndrew, hammered home the advan-
tage of running first with a high wind.
At the breather they had 17 on the board
with their own line uncrossed. In the
second spell C.-8., even with the aid of
wind and sun in its opponents’ eyes,
couldn’t get within coo-ee of the deficit.
East beat West 19-16 and Newtown,
which still has to open its account, went
down to South after a tough struggle,
13-8.
Miscellaneous
That unlucky young man Quist had
“stomach trouble” when booked to play
in the Davis Cup matches at Mexico City.
He overcame it sufficiently *to defeat
Tapia in straight sets: 6-1, 6-4, 6-2.
Bromwich did better: his contest was
over before Hernandez could win a game
from him. The pair collected the doubles
8-6, 6-0, 6-1 —and thus the tie.
# * * *
Although Cramm has been playing
lawn tennis in London, he wasn’t invited
to appear at Wimbledon, Menzel and
Henkel representing Germany. Menzel
disappeared early, but Henkel survived
three rounds, and then beat Brugnon,
who is in the forties. A new star has
flashed on the centre court —Ghaus
Mohammed, of India. He entered the
semi-finals by defeating Szigeti, the Hun-
garian, in an exhausting five-setter, Szigeti
winning the second 16-14. “Bunnay”
Austin was one of the Indian’s prospec-
tive opponents.
* * * *
When Collins was captain of the
Australian Eleven, and reporters put in-
convenient questions, he used to reply,
“I can’t hear you.” Some such device
should be adopted by the A.L.T.A. when
served with the periodical flapper-press
demand that a team of young women
(“Our Girls”) should be sent abroad to
dazzle them at Wimbledon and in the
U.S.A. The association yielded on the
last occasion, and ruefully announced the
result in presenting its balance-sheet for
1938-39. There was a loss of £2197 on
the tour, and although the Davis Cup
lads brought in a profit of £1077, and
the Australian championships at Koo-
yong turned in £607, the accounts closed
£904 to the bad. There is still £14,159
of accumulated funds in the sock, but a
deficit of, £2197 on one tour of “Our
Girls” is frightful.
* * * *
Marvellous as it sounds nowadays, Eng-
land has had a Test match which was
interesting from the first ball to the last,
and was over on the fourth day. For West
Indies, Headley scored 106 out of 277
and 107 out of 225, and the little darky
didn’t give a chance. But England was
on top with both bat and ball. Thanks
to Hutton (196) and Compton (120, in
115 minutes), Hammond was able to
close the innings with five wickets down
for 404, and when Hutton had gone for
16 and Gimblett for 20 the captain (30
n. 0.) and Paynter (32 n. 0.) knocked up
the rest of the 98 required, adding two
for good measure. The bulk of the bowl-
ing for the winners was done by Copson
(5-85 and 4-67), Wright (2-57 and 3-75)
and Bowes (3-86 and 1-44).
* * * *
“Mat”: Headley’s century in each
innings was the first achievement of the
kind in a Lord’s Test match. The Jamaican
has now scored eight centuries v. England ;
the highest was 270 not out at Kingston
(W. 1.) in 1935. Previous scorers of
a century in each innings in Tests:
Hammond (119 n.o. and 177 at Adelaide
in 1928-29), Sutcliffe (176 and 127 at Mel-
bourne in 1924-25), Bardsley (136
and 130 at the Oval in 1909), Russell
(140 and 111 at Durban in 1922-23) and
Sutcliffe (104 and 109 n.o. at the Oval in
1929) —for England v. S. Africa.
* * He *
There have been two recent cases of
middle-aged men, notables both, suffer-
ing fatal seizures on the links. You
never hear of anything like that happen-
ing to a woman golfer, perhaps because
the girls take the game more placidly.
Mrs. Tregloan, of Manly, is placidity
itself on the links. Last week she won
the Manly club championship for the
twenty-second time in 30 years, beating
Mrs. Clements, previously club cham-
pion for four years, and once holder of
the State title, 5 and 4. One of the com-
petitors in the country women’s cham-
pionship cheerfully owned to 60, and
looked a possible winner in the early
stages.
*** . *
C. L. Jessop, known to everyone in
Adelaide as “Charlie,” is dead. He was
playing golf at Victor Harbor when the
call came. Jessop was for years on
Adelaide City Council, but when about
due for the mayoralty he retired to be-
come City Solicitor. In younger days,
though a lightweight, he played football
for the State and rowed in his university
eight for several years.


WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postag* Sxanip Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Haying an«i
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Hankers: The Union
O-CUW.
ƑG
AT THE.
TTlW€l>i-i
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230 S
“HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD
featuring; ANNA MAY WONG in person
and Netv Company of Oversea
Variety Stars.
BJtr New Company Oversea Stars in
"BBOADWAY hot. SHOTS
featuring SEIfATOK MURPHY l OUK
I'BANKS, amt 10 other acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Confessions of a Nazi Spy”
Edward. G. Robinson. Francis Lederer,
Paul Lukas.
This anti-German outburst at Sydney
Mayfair goes far beyond its ostensible
purpose of documenting the activities of
the Nazi spy-ring. It is hate propaganda,
with the technique of the “March of
Time” and “Crime Doesn’t Pay” series
called in to make an attack on the whole
Nazi regime.
There is no attempt at making a mystery
film. It shows the German agents at
work, Edward G. Robinson asking ques-
tions, and the spies on trial. Paul Lukas,
as a German-American doctor who is
head of the organisation, gives a brilliant
performance, making fiery speeches to
the Bunds and finally crumpling with
terror when he falls into the hands of
the Gestapo after Robinson has extorted
a confession from him. Francis Lederer
does most of the spying, portraying a
petty weakling who gives the whole show
away when Robinson plays on his vanity.
Touches of pathos come in when simple
German-Americans are drawn into the
ring, and fear of the Gestapo is worked
for all it is worth.
If the film had been restricted to the
foregoing it could be considered an effec-
tive piece of reporting, with some claim
to artistic values in the analysis. of
character. But it opens with the excited
voice of a commentator ; the action is
interrupted with flashes of goose-step-
ping troops, of the march into Austria
and the invasion of Czechoslovakia;
melodramatic trick-photography shows a
shower of swastikas deluging Europe and
America ; Hitler and other Nazi leaders
are shown orating ; one of the characters,
when the actual spy-story moves to Ger-
many, is the “double’ of Goebbels and is
pictured with obvious hostility.
It is a deliberate attempt to whip up
hatred against Germany, and it succeeds
to the extent of setting people among an
Australian audience clapping at the bel-
ligerence of the Yankee commentator
who’ll be well out of any war the film
might help to start.
It ends with Robinson and the pro-
secuting attorney wondering what has
come over the world that spies should be
operating all over America. They might
have gone on to reflect that the ousting
of art by propaganda is something else
for a democracy to deplore ; and that,
whatever the state of the world, it’s a hor-
rible thing to invite people to a talkie not
for entertainment but for a feast of
hatred.
“Swing, Sister, Swing.”
Well, what can you say about a fillum
with a name like that, particularly when
it philosophises weightily and exten-
sively on the rise to popularity and de-
cline therefrom of a dance called the
“Baltimore Bubble,” and, more particu-
larly, when it’s peopled with scores of
“jitterbugs”—double-jointed, india-rubber
persons disporting, distorting and con-
torting themselves in and into as many
shapes and postures as possible to the
most awful cacophony ever produced by
the maltreatment of musical instruments?
It might evoke the reflection that the
primitive streak in us is indestructible.
Here we are advanced out of all bounds
socially, intellectually, scientifically and
what you will; and at the same time
here’s a section of us —not a representa-
tive section admittedly, but a section
nevertheless —capable of an emotional
abandon that seems just as instinctive,
just as savage and primitive as, and per-
haps less complex than, abo. or negro
ceremonial dances.
Yet as a film it’s much more bearable
than could be expected. Seen at Sydney
Capitol it’s a not-too-slushy yarn about
three country youngsters who originated
some sort of dance and were taken to
N’Yark to show it off. In the manner of
such things, it caught public fancy for a
week or two and lost it just as quickly,
leaving the youngsters wondering what
had happened.
Film is inhabited by a bunch of happy,
clean-cut kids and moves at a pace in
keeping with their high spirits.
“The Life of Alexander
Graham Bell”
Don Ameclie, Loretta Young.
It can now be conceded to Dahn that,
whatever histrionic ability he has or lacks,
he is at least a trier. In this Sydney Cen-
tury offering it’s almost possible to see
the concentration on his brow and per-
spiration on his neck as he struggles to
bring his role to life.
Even though it’s not a complete suc-
cess, it’s Dahn’s best appearance to date.
There’s a story that holds interest most of
Ed. G. Robinson listening-in to confessions of Nazi spies at Sydney Mayfair.
the way, and there are some excellent
scenes, helping, with Dahn’s energy, to
make some sort of character of A. G.
Bell.
Henry Fonda pinches the stage occa-
sionally as the telephone inventor s
laconic and always hungry assistant, and
Miss Young, as the deaf girl Bell mar-
ried, lends a pretty and competent heart-
interest.
For one scene Dahn can’t be forgiven.
Any man who, when told by his wife that
he will shortly be a father, assumes an
expression identical with that worn by
Disney’s dog Goofy, and remarks in a
tone of voice used by the same animal,
“Ahhoof,” should be barred for ever
from the sight of his fellowmen.
Musical Marathon.
Probably the most remarkable musical
marathon in Australian history com-
menced last Thursday at the Town Hall,
Melbourne.
On that day Marjorie Lawrence sang
the third of her concerts. She passed the
torch on next day to the A.B.C. sym-
phony orchestra, which handed it back
to her on Saturday. On Monday Her-
bert Davis was scheduled to pick it up
with “Elijah,” Horace Stevens, who holds
the world record for the part, being billed
to appear in the title role. Davis was
due to pass it on to Miss Lawrence on
Tuesday, and Miss Lawrence was billed
to play catch-as-catch-can with the flam-
beau with Schnabel nightly and at mati-
nees until the following Tuesday. Then
the Vienna Mozart. Boys’ Choir would
run six laps, plus matinees, until the fol-
lowing Tuesday: in between the muni-
cipal free concerts, totalling in all 21
successive bursts of music.
Marjorie Lawrence.
The amber spotlights continued to
negative one another on Marjorie Law-
rence’s face last week at Melbourne
Town Hall without preventing that
charming vocalist increasing her grip on
a public which has been filling the hall
and the spaces behind the singer with
devotion. Each successive performance
has been better than its predecessor, and
the best up to time of writing was on
Saturday, when she introduced some
more delightful songs by a composer un-
known or little known to Melbourne
named Hans Pitzner.
Another writer who plays right into
her hands is Respighi. Long, sustained
singing is Miss Lawrence’s forte, and in
Respighi’s “Nebbie” are a multitude of
those phrases which rise and rise to a
tremendous climax and keep an audi-
ence in expectation of a tumble. Miss
Lawrence has just the tone necessary to
make these achievements something more
than merely an acrobatic performance.
The same ringing, brilliant tone she
gets into Wagner came out on Saturday
in “To My Son,” a Richard Strauss song,
which necessitated half a dozen return
trips to the platform. The Prologue to
“Pagliacci” seemed to be set too high
for the singer, and when she sang it on
Tuesday she tended to overdramatise it
for platform purposes.
After you have decided that Miss Law-
rence is best in one thing, she suggests
she is better in some other, as when she
produced hitherto unexploited luscious-
ness of tone in the lovely flowing rhythms
of Brahms’s “Erinnerung.” The only
songs in which she displays no artistry
whatever are “Auld Lang Syne,” “Danny
Boy” and their kindred, to present
writer’s way of thinking.
Crooks Concerts.
Richard Crooks gave three concerts at
Sydney Town Hall last week, and biting
westerlies had no effect on the crowds
that packed in to hear him. Despite
programmes swelled to more than twice
their announced size by encores, his voice
each night was still full of fire and reso-
nance when Ernest Truman rescued him
with “God Save.”
Not only his singing, but his songs
have been delightful. Delicate seven-
teenth-century Italian pieces, lusty arias
boasting a high C or two in their make-
up, and the. well-tried and the little -
known, these last including some fine
lieder by Trunk and Weingartner and
some of the best of the modern songs,
particularly those of Frank La Forge.
Crooks’s operatic groups are always
satisfying. He moves without effort from
the weight of the “Farewell” from
Wagner’s “Lohengrin” to the cobweb
traceries of “The Dream” from Mas-
senet’s “Manon.” His appeal rests in
no small measure on excellent enuncia-
tion in each language he sings in—and
his linguistic ability is considerable.
Karoly Szenassy revels in such fiddle-
fireworks as Paganini’s unaccompanied
“Nel Cor Piu Non Mir Sento,” while a
moto per pet uo is meat and drink to him.
Where the tempo is at less breakneck
pace he has conjured a broad tone from
his instrument, and his double-stopping
wouldn’t raise a frown from Kreisler. On
Saturday night he played Corelli’s ‘ La
Folia,” but his talent could have been
better employed on a more interesting
work.
Frederick Schauwecker and Jean Star-
ling have rendered sterling service to
their respective principals as accom-
panists.
Beethoven, Szell and
Schnabel.
A huge crowd milled —a number unsuc-
cessfully—to get into Sydney Town Hall
at the forgathering of the above three
gents —two in the. flesh and one in the
spirit; and if the shade of the master-
composer cavilled at the treatment meted
out to his Concerto in E Flat—the
“Emperor”—it must have been in a fussy
mood.
Schnabel knows Beethoven inside out,
and his simple, lucid, compelling style
admirably suited the solo part of this
monumental work. Under Szell’s baton
the orchestra, led by Lionel Lawson, im-
parted a nice balance to the accompani-
ment.
The steady improvement that has
marked the orchestra’s work of late was
manifested in the Third Symphony (the
“Eroica”), in which wood-wind and horn
have so much play. Attack was crisp,
and the various divisions co-ordinated
well. The stimulating Egmont Overture
is a score beloved of symphony orches-
tras ; Professor Szell succeeded early in
getting a maximum tone in the passages
for the strings, and thereafter the work
was carried along on the floodtide of
mutual confidence.
An Oscar Wilde Survival.
In producing Oscar Wilde’s “The Im-
portance of Being Earnest” at Melbourne
Comedy, Gregan McMahon was obvi-
ously in difficulties.
His normal skill as a caster had de-
parted from him, and there was not much
difference between the blaseness of Gren-
ville Spencer as Algie and the blaseness of
John D’Arcy as John Worthing ; and there
was little to distinguish between the ridi-
culousness of Phoebe Marks s grim dow-
ager and the ridiculousness of her
daughter, Maura Keiran, except that the
former knew how to wear her volumi-
nous costume and the latter looked as
if she would have been more at home in
tennis shorts and a sweater. And as
the Rev. Canon Chasuble Richard Webb
was superfluous without being funny.
A bit of observation, even if it is only
two and two makes four, never becomes
old-fashioned; but a piece of manufac-
tured goods, like this of Oscar s, is dead
from the neck up almost before it is
finished. As the years roll by the
paralysis gradually spreads to the lower
extremities, and there was a corpselike
ghastliness about the attempt to galvanise
it into activity. That it has the tritest
of trite plots does not matter; some of
Shakspeare’s plots were trite enough. But
its quips on marriage, high society and
whatnot, its character-drawing and its
sentiment are of such a commonplace
order that the most surprising thing about
p is that the author of “The Portrait of
Dorian Gray” ever should have written
it Perhaps it is better read than seen
acted.
“Distinguished Gathering”
Sydney Players’ Club, stooping to
murder at St. James Hall, chose an ex-
cellent victim, for James Parrish's
“Distinguished Gathering” is so con-
structed that each of the first two acts


“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information irom
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
F
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
v Z
A- l —
l
k.
. Sk
V
--*& 3
MM
EBV
%s
ends on a note of suspense and the last
act, besides disclosing the identity of the
murderer, has the happy touch of a sui-
cide.
The corpse in chief, played with
appropriate gloom by Charles Kilburn,
had asked for trouble. He’d gratified a
gruuge against society by filling his
memoirs with skeletons from the cup-
boards of former acquaintances—re-
vealing that Sir Brian Howett of the
Home Office takes drugs, that Lady
Thalia’s dead brother should never have
been awarded his V.C., that a famous
aviator had tried to commit suicide, that
Major Pearson is a rogue and that two
women have had interesting pasts. A
publisher with a private grudge against
the author asks all concerned to dinner
and, before the vengeful one arrives,
suggests that the only way out is to
murder him. The company agrees, and
that’s Act I.
In Act II the publisher’s wife warns
victim of his danger. He manages to
telephone the police when he's left alone
for a moment, but magnanimously stays
on to be slain. The light is switched off
and somebody obliges with a dagger
from the mantelpiece. The police arrive
in time to make it probable that every-
body will be hanged in Act 111.
That they weren’t was possibly a re-
ward for having made the plot acceptable
and its development exciting. Noel
Waterworth could perhaps have been
sentenced to a couple of days at Eton or
Dartmoor to pick up an accent suitable
to a Majah, and there should have been
a fine for James Flanagan’s trick of
craning his head out over the front row
and wobbling his lips and eyebrows to
look like a sinister publisher. Charles
Kilburn could well have been cast for
that role and Flanagan could have been
transferred to the police force, where he
has previously scored a success. Valerie
Scanlan was the publisher’s wife and
Mary Hickey a competent Lady Thalia.
Helen McColl, Grace Armstrong and
Jean Banks were each convincing as help-
ful girl, sorrowful girl and flighty girl.
David Seddon was good as the aviator,
and there were two entertaining police-
men and a manservant who was capable
but extraordinarily tearful.
Wigwams for Melbourne.
Musical highlight of Melbourne's
Spring Carnival will be a performance of
Coleridge-Taylor’s “Hiawatha.”
It has been done before in Melbourne,
but with the squaws in the shining white
raiment of the ladies of the Philharmonic
and the braves in the dress-suits of its
gentlemen. This time it will be produced
at the vast Exhibition Building, and will
cost £lO,OOO. There will be campfires
and wigwams, the Philharmonic gents
and ladies will be swathed in beaded
robes, feathered headdresses and moc-
casins, and light and scenic effects are
calculated to reproduce the jubilation of
Laughing Water’s wedding, the changes
of the seasons and the horror of the
famine.
To make it a musical as well as a
dramatic triumph, T. C. Fairbairn, the
originator of the London production, is
coming to Melbourne. The London
event occurs annually at the Albert Hall,
and the promised Melbourne production
will be a similar knockout, according to
its sponsors.
British Art on Tour.
The British contemporary art, now
showing at Adelaide National Gallery
and working its way eastward, is the
biggest thing seen lately. Its 200 pictures,
all lent by artist, owner or some gallery,
vary from Clausen, Cameron and Con-
nard to Lamb and Spencer, from
Augustus John and Orpen to Epstein and
Sickert.
The first thing that strikes one is the
masterly treatment of figures. They are
everywhere, from the challenging Lam-
bert-like portrait of James Pryde to the
strange, almost inlaid, light-textured, but
instantly attractive work of the late Glyn
Philpot. And “Black, White and Silver,’*
by Stanley Cursiter (lent by Liverpool),
which is perhaps the popular pick of the
show, may easily be a portrait of the nice
girl, with her silverware against a dark
background.
Present viewer wondered how one of
John’s patrons liked his portrait, a heavy
figure which at first glance one takes
to be a bit of Belcher’s humor.
Wilfred de Glehn, not as well known
in Australia as he deserves to be, is an-
other master of the figure. Orpen has
an Irish landscape (with bear), Epstein
a modest study of poppies, Munnings his
usual Power-like hunting scene, Lavery
and Oppenheimer fine snow studies.
And then, like the clown at the tail
of the procession, comes the Abnormal.
This handful is grouped as “Surrealist,”
but one or two are just the familiar
modem bluff of Primitive Vision—as a
fact, the style of the clever kiddy who
has yet to learn the art of painting.
Others are the authentic thing—hands
branching into trees, and the like. “Shop-
windows in Trinidad”: an impossibly
thin nude standing to have its hair cut,
while toy soldiers march across its sex-
less body. “The King of the Castle”:
a monster of nightmare, from whose
mouth comes a long scroll, with a golli-
wog (wearing a crown) on the distant end
of it; below, a berth with a tiny mother
and baby in bed. And —such is human
nature —these child’s-comics tend to
attract as much attention as the rest of
the show put together.
ARTRURSTS.
Adelaide
John Longstaff, now becoming almost
an Adelaide resident, has painted three
fine local portraits. Ope, of Chief Justice
Murray, is for the Law Society, hangs at
present in the Nat. Gallery, and may
possibly go to the Supreme Court. The
other two are both of the veteran Lang-
don Bonython ; one for the board-room
of the “Advertiser,” which he nursed
from a second place into Adelaide’s only
morning daily ; the other for Parliament
House, to the completion of which he
has just given what would be for most
men a large fortune.
Longstaff has, of course, had to paint
what he sees; but Bonython, though still
active and in great form at the opening
of the new building, is now over 90. He
might more fairly have been shown to
posterity as he looked a few years back.
* * * *
Sydney
English artist Frank Medworth, a show
of whose works is on view at David
Jones’s galleries, roams wider than most,
painting in oils, tempera and water-colors,
engraving in wood and metal, and
etching.
Oils are not his best. Several water-
colors are richly decorative; but it is in
the woodcuts, engravings and etchings
that his best work is done—a clean-cut
line and sound draughtsmanship are here
apparent.
=l= * * »:
Day-long, at Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries, groups of young men wearing
long hair and flamboyant shirts and
young women wearing short hair and
mannish dress and lumping art satchels
can be seen and, even better, heard
arguing on “soul” and “symbolism” as
applied to the particular polychromatic
riot in paint they happen to be standing
in front of.
Some of them can even tell that a
series of horizontal brush marks, ranging
in color from black through various in-
termediate shades to a deep puce and
shaped like a child’s balloon, represents
a tree. One youth with a beautifully
ruffled mop of hair and a far-away look
may contend that a painting he is point-
ing to is how a modern seascape should
look, while another will claim that it
isn’t a seascape at all—those diagonal
side splashes aren’t hills, but are intended
to be symbols of man’s incessant struggle
for self-expression ; eventually the thing
turns out to be a still-life, even though
the things standing on what looks
vaguely like a table have no known
parallels in the fruit, flower or vegetable
world.
And present visitor learns sadly for
the first time that for years he has
allowed mug painters like Raphael and
Titian to gull him into the belief that a
woman’s breasts are curved. He now is
compelled to admit that they are
octagonal in shape.
But there are a few tasty onions in
the spread. Arnold Shore has a good
suburban street scene and an effective
self-portrait, originally expressed. John
D. Moore and John Eldershaw contri-
bute some neat landscapes; Grace
Cossington Smith has a bowl of roses
that are a faithful representation, and
Thea Proctor turns in one or two nice
sketches.
* * *
Melbourne
A new group, the Independents, has
sprung up in Melbourne, and has exhi-
bited at the Athenaeum.
What it professes to be independent
of is not vouchsafed in its pictures.
James Quinn, Dora Wilson, Dora Serle
and Elina Roach are certainly not in-
dependent of the academic tradition.
Their works could have hung in the late
show of the Academy without arousing
the slightest comment. Others are not
independent of the prevailing modern-
istic fashion and could have hung
amongst the Contemporary Group with-
out making a louder scream than their
next-door neighbors.
Margaret Pestell’s “Winter in the Park”
is nice, and so are Robert Pulleine’s
“Flowers” and “Late Autumn” land-
scape. They are considerably less in-
dependent of Nature than other exhibi-
tors who are more dependent on their
formulas.
* * * *
Mrs. Isabel Hunter Tweddle, who has
a solo exhibition at the Athenaeum,
started out on her artistic career as more
or less of an impressionist. What she
learnt then about Nature hangs like an
uneasy ghost about her present output,
offering momentary suggestions of form
and tone which are contradicted by loud
assertions of modernism. The result is
that the eye, metaphorically speaking, is
constantly being hit in the solar plexus.
The portraits of several engaging young
women and a few male c es are vigor-
ously drawn in cases, but are tonally at-
tenuated. There is more body in the
still-life and landscape.
AGFA PHOTO COMPETITION
RESULTS
Ist PRIZE WINNER L. COLLINGS
2nd PRIZE WINNER J. M. POLAR
3rd PRIZE WINNER J. L. WRAY
BOX CAMERA PRIZES.
Barnes, K. S.
Bishop, A. E.
Briggs, P.
Carney, J. P.
Coates, G. S.
Dobinson, R.
Gadsby, V.
Gilder, D.
Hewett, J.
Holloway, A. S.
Johnston, F. H.
Knabel, Max
McLeod, A.
Millington, F. B.
Mortimer, J. B.
Newman, R.
North, H. B.
Peterson,' J. T.
Selman, N.
Sheppard, E.
Smith, N. A.
Wall, W. B.
Wilson, J. N.
Wilson, T. G.
Woodland, H.
CONSOLATION PRIZES.
Anderson, R. A.
Andrews, K. E.
Barrie, C.
Bennett, F. E.
Best, R.
Broadhead, W.
Bullivant, W.
Carthew, Jnr., J. H.
Cocks, J. W.
Davis, V. C.
Durham, E. D.
Dorman, R.
Early, F. H.
Ewing, J.
Gubby, G. A.
Gould, J. A.
Gill, L. J.
Hall, N.
Henry, F.
Herford, D.
Hanson, K. J.
Jenkins, G. H.
James, J.
Johnston, A. J.
Kenninger, D,
Kirk, K. C.
Lewin, R. O.
Lowry, S.
Liddle, K. D.
Marin, C. F.
McKenna, A. K.
Morrisby, M. R.
Morris, B. S.
McDonnell, R.
McConroy, J. H.
Naylor, E.
Petchell, A. H.
Poland, D. G.
Ross, F.
Roberts, D. B.
Rosenbloom, E. L.
Ryan, C. V.
Robertson, E.
Shepherd, A. J.
Sawkins, E.
Truskett, T. F.
Fait, B. S.
Watts, R. B.
Williams, L. R.
Young, J. B.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
JL.
MH&
fa
ft
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 114771.
To Let.
CORNISH RIVIERA.
WELL-FURNISHED HOUSE, three Bedrooms,
two Reception Rooms, Kitchen, Pantry, Bath-
room (hot and cold water), every modern con-
venience, five minutes main-line station,
churches, beach. Lovely lanes, sea and river
fishing. Three to six guineas per week short
term; reduction lease. —W. 33 Trevarthian Road,
St. Austell, Cornwall, England.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney practically took its meals off a
concert grand last week. Bang in the
midst of the Crooks season came the
symphony orchestral concert, with
Schnabel playing in the Beethoven con-
certo. For eight days before they say
there was not a vacant reserved seat in
the house. These orchestral concerts are
Society’s deep draughts of culture, so
the dressing was a bit super. Mrs. Walter
Swinson, just back from her dash to
Europe, wrapped her enthusiasm in black
moires, vividly flowered, and a cape of
Arctic fox. Behind her sat Ivie Price,
who had been at Dickie Crooks’s song-
burst the night before. Saw the tenor’s
accompanist, Carl Schauwecker, in the
audience, and also Mrs. Charlie Lloyd
Jones’s deep-blue frocking and sable-
edged ermine cape. Mrs. Hope Gibson,
Mrs. Laidley Dowling and Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar were applauders. Mrs.
Schnabel and Mrs. Szell, the wife of the
conductor, sat with Mrs. Himmer.
Grace and precision marked the pres-
entation of the debs, at the Legacy Club
Ball. The ceremony was a triumph
for Mrs. C. A. Burnet. That lady
had trained the girls so that they stepped
forward, curtsied, retired and com-
menced their waltz to the beat, as though
the whole were some evolution in the
ballet. There were 22 pretty youngsters,
their full swaying frocks all white and
all in crinoline fashion. Their posies,
too, were similar, white camellias, with
one touch of pink. There were five girls
just through the well-known school
Wenona in the bevy that curtsied to Lord
Wakehurst.
They were led by Carmen Gundersen,
whose crinoline was trimmed with lace
from one of grandmamma’s party frocks.
Another pretty and poised one was Grace
Prior. The girls were partnered by major-
generals in the making, their red coats
with the cream lapels showing a dashing
spot of color. There was even a special
debutantes’ table, where the girls and
their partners could gaze (if they had the
time) at the baskets of exquisite flowers
with which it was decorated. Deputy-
Premier Bruxner and Mrs. Bruxner and
State president of the R.S.S.I.L.A.
Robb and his wife were important among
the official guests. The Parker lady wore
black lace, and Mrs. F. W. Taylor
flowered chiffons. A group of 18 Legatees
were among the night’s guests. In vivid
contrast were Mrs. Burnet’s old-gold
satins and the red roses she carried.
Mrs. A. J.Malcolmson,of Darling Point,
who is devoted to the cause of the aerial
medical service, is back in Sydney after
her flying trip to Broken Hill to see the
new wireless station opened by Lord
Gowrie. This is a station for the recep-
tion of messages from the pedal wireless
sets that are helping to link up the far-
back homes with some of the amenities
we enjoy as a matter of course. The
station is five miles out of Broken Hill,
right on the rim of civilisation, or so it
seems to the city-dweller. Locally the
station is called “the flying doctor.”
Several Macquarie-street medicals flew
across; Lady Gowrie was with the Gov-
ernor-General, and the Hill made the
occasion gala with civic receptions
(Mayor Lambert presiding) and other
do’s.
The Royal Philharmonics are taking
centre stage at the Conservatorium next
Saturday with a dramatised version of
“Elijah.” Vern Barnett will conduct, and
Humphrey Bishop will produce the ora-
torio in action. Costumes have been de-
signed by Guenda Bainton, and Ethel
Gabriel’s clever needle has been busy on
the principals’ attire. Isolda Hill and
Heather Kinnaird are cast for the women
soloists. Isolda will be an Israelite
woman and The Widow, and Heather
will alternate a guardian angel and Jeze-
bel. Special buses will leave Wynyard
on the four evenings of the performance :
July 8, 11, 13 and 15.
Papal Delegate Archbishop Panico
flew off during the week-end to Batavia.
With him went Monsignor T. King. They
will be away two months, and will visit
the R.C. missions in Java and Sumatra.
Last week the Consul-General for the
Netherlands, Elink Schuurman, and his
wife gave a large dinner party in Dr.
Panico’s honor.
Gladys Coletti, who passed her child-
hood in Sydney, where her late mother
had many relations, has been paying this
city a visit. For many years the Colettis
have made their home in Florence, where
Gladys interests herself in many welfare
movements. Last week before her return
to Italy Miss Coletti said good-bye to
Australian friends at Elizabeth Bay
House. There were about 50 or 60
present, and relations Mrs. Moffitt and
Mrs. Hutchinson were the hostesses. Mrs.
T. IT. Kelly, friend of the Coletti family
since her own Florence days, was at the
party ; so were Barbara and Hilda Lane
Mullins and sister Mrs. Norris, Mrs. Roy
Agnew, Beatrice McDonald and .Sylvia
Bedford telling about sister Ruth’s latest
journey—this year it’s South Africa.
Miss Garran was another of the guests.
Mrs. Mick Dalton, specially down
from Orange to go to the Crooks con-
certs, is still enthralled with the golden
quality of this singer’s voice. Like this
writer, one of her favorites is “The
Dream” from “Manon,” though, of
course, the Crooks voice can turn
any music into a jewelled foun-
tain. Mrs. Dalton, who was at one
of last week’s concerts with the
Bertie Kellys, was cosy, although all
other women went befurred, in a long
gold lame coat fitting to her slim figure.
After the cold of Orange she feels our
temperatures almost torrid. Her address
during this visit is the Macquarie Club.
Elizabeth Eadie doesn’t find the flash-
ing new engagement ring that Jim
Moore placed in position any deterrent
to her volunteer career as a day-nur-
sery assistant. Her particular job of work
is done at the Newtown Nursery. Eliza-
beth’s father is Lt.-Commander Eadie,
R.N. (retired), so it’s not much wonder
that boating is one of her hobbies. Others
are dancing, skating and tennis. Photo-
graph by Monte Luke.
The P.E.N. Club went Bohemian last
week, when it entertained American
novelist Faith Baldwin. The party was
set in a studio over the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, and it must be said that there was
a sofa, also some chairs with a decidedly
nice antique cut about them, among the
studio’s furniture. There were firelight
and one or two corner lights going, other-
wise the room was just one of those songs
at twilight. Faith sat fur-cape-wrapped
part of the evening, but her frock was
one of those long black-skirted, white-
blousey-top affairs, very becoming to her
tiny figure, ’Flu had hit the members
like a battleaxe, and Jeanie Ranken, Elliot
Napier, Dora Payter and others were
among absent friends. There were beer,
bread-and-butter and cheese for supper,
but nobody did a hula. Robert Garran
was there, perhaps that’s why.
In spite of a cold, cold night the Con.
had a packed house for Marjorie Ham-
bridge’s recital. The violinist from Wah-
roonga, who studied her instrument first
at Sydney Conservatorium and later in
Europe with Szigeti, played with equal
fluency and richness of tone sonatas by
Handel, Brahms and others of like
calibre. Keeping to the atmosphere,
Stanley Clarkson, the supporting artist,
sang a group of Handel arias in
the first half of the programme.
Marjorie’s tall figure, golden brown
hair and serene expression were thrown
into strong relief by the deep plum-blue
tones of her long and graceful frock.
After the first number the stage was car-
peted with flower offerings.
Lots of North Shore line people in
the audience; Mrs. Adams brought
daughter Alice; Jocelyn Targett and
uncle-in-law Norman McLeod were to-
gether. Joan and June Prior were
two attractive fledglings; and another
applauder was Phyllis Macdonald. Mrs.
Hambridge was, unfortunately, too ill to
be at the concert, but Marjorie’s father
was being congratulated in the interval
by Hugh Denison and his lady and many
old friends.
A Sydney woman who drifted into the
Cliveden set for one afternoon tells
of grounds so vast that at least one of
the party got lost among their turnings,
and of amazingly tall and profuse
rhododendrons. There are magnificent
kennels, inhabited mostly by French
poodles, and millionaire stables populated
by sleekly handsome hacks and polo
ponies. She was entirely unimpressed by
the bunch of grapes and the two pounds
of hothouse beans being carried reverently
in a garden basket to the kitchens. One
of the consumers of these was presum-
ably Lord Halifax, who had been glimpsed
browsing about the terraces.
Here’s Shirley Ann Richards, busy
once again at Cinesound. This time she’s
to play the charming young girl in “Come
Up Smiling.” Shirley Ann has already
endeared herself to Australia in “It Isn’t
Done,” “Lovers and Luggers” and “Dad
and Dave Come to Town.” Her part, she
tells this Letter, is a dream of lovely
clothes, and —pretty irony—her name is
Eve. Photograph from Bradford, John-
son.
And don’t forget the opening of the
sixtieth exhibition of the Royal Art
Society, which will be done by Direc-
tor of Education Ross Thomas in the
Education Department galleries at three
o’clock Saturday, the Bth.
Marie Houston and accompanist
Adella Anderson held their audience in
thrall at the Con. not only with their
music, but with their varied and brilliant
changes of costume. For her first group
of English songs Marie wore a flowing
robe of thick wine-colored silk such as
a Shakspearean heroine might have
worn. On her dark hair she wore
a little crown. Adella was clad in
like fashion. When French was the
language Marie rustled forward in
a spreading crinoline of blue moire
(Eugenie herself might have owned it)
thickly embroidered with baskets of pink
roses. When the muse of the Red Indian
was the theme, the singer was clad as an
Indian chief’s daughter, wore her dark
hair in two long plaits and had a high
feather in them. Liked the Cuban songs
and the dress that went with them, black
and white, almost to the knees in front,
and then sweeping into a longish train
all black and white frills. Marie’s voice
was clear as crystal, and Adella’s
accompanying and solo work were two
of the joys of the evening.
The Wedgwood Players got their teeth
into “The Best Years,” which is called
an American comedy drama and is by
Raymond Vann. The story centres
around a querulous, octopus type of
imaginary invalid who is determined not
to let her eldest daughter out of her
clutches. She keeps her hand not only
on the girl’s pay envelope, but on all her
spare time, too. Nellie Lamport as the
unlovely mother was convincing, putting
in the right touches of cunning whenever
she felt her will about to be defied. Pre-
ceding the three-acter was a one-act play,
“The Language of Love,” which was pro-
duced by Miss Lamport, and in which
she took a leading part. The Little
Theatre in Phillip-street had not a vacant
chair before eight o’clock, which must
have been gratifying to Paul Johnstone,
who directs the Wedgwood group.
Popular Mrs. Clifford Kitchen popped
back to Sydney last v/eek to get together
her trousseau and furniture for her new
life in Ceylon. She will become Mrs. S.
Chalk in St. Peter’s Church, Ceylon,
early in August, and her wedding frock
and hat are to be in her favorite tones
of blue. Clifford, Mrs. Kitchen’s school-
boy son, is to go to the East for his
Christmas holidays, which he will spend
with mother in Ceylon. Mr. Chalk is an
Englishman, occupation tea merchant.
Pretty Phyllis Mort, of the John Laidley
Mort family, went off to England some
time ago, and became engaged to
clever Douglas Miller, of Macquarie-
street, Sydney. Mother is in England,
and will be a great stand-by on July 19
when Phyllis and her Douglas get married
in the Church of St. Joan of Arc at
Farnham. Phyllis will step into matri-
mony from the threshold of her uncle's
home. He is Padre Ernest Mort, of
Bloomfields, Frensham, Surrey.
Old boys of The King’s and five
present-day senior pupils made merry at
the Trocadero on the night of the 21st
dance of the Old Boys’ Union. There
was a good rally, and the school’s new
principal, H. D. Hake, and his wife
(witty but not perhaps fair to call
him Head Hake) were in the official
party. The D’Arcy Shelleys were the
night’s hosts, and received the repre-
sentatives of Shore, High, Scots, River-
view, St. Joseph’s, Newington, Grammar
and Armidale, the Chief Secretary Gollan
couple and other very important people.
There were posies for all the women in
this group. The pale blue and white of
the school flag and the grey and red of
the school uniforms brought the gleam of
old memories to many eyes. June Lloyd
was one of the night’s beginning butter-
flies. Pink and silver lame were worn
by Mrs. B. B. O’Connor.
A long letter from Mrs. Sterling Levis
tells of Paris, where she and doctor hus-
band and Joan have been disporting
themselves. They got over to France
as quickly as they could with the idea
that they might as well see all they
could before the worst, if it were going
to happen, took the frivol out of Paris.
They arrived in that lovely city when
the chestnuts along the Champs Elysees
were in full bloom. These and the foun-
tains of Lalique with their cunningly-
wrought birds and quaint animals gave
the Australians moments of sheer de-
light. Near the Louvre and in the
Tuileries the tulips blazed magnificently.
In short, the city had all its royal banners
of color out.
Before going to Paris the Levis family
spent a month in London and a week
at Bath. In London they went several
times to the Ballet, and heard Yehudi
Menuhin and Solomon play. In Bath
they visited a cousin who is one of the
leading consulting surgeons. They drank
the waters in the Pump Room, and made
an excursion to the famed Cheddar
Gorge. Enchanted hours were spent in
the galleries of Rosenberg and Helfts
viewing the Cezanne collection, particu-
larly interesting as it includes his first
and his last pictures. The Claude Monet
collection at Tooth’s was another joy.
Joan says that judging by the displays
in the shop windows Sydney girls will
go gaily printed next spring. Bright and
fascinating prints were to be seen every-
where but on the girls. Paris was having
a cold and unseasonable spell.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax has been repre-
senting Australia at the conference of
the Associated Country Women of the
World in London. It fell to her to return
a vote of thanks to Mrs. Neville
Chamberlain when the Prime Minister’s
lady spoke at the conference. Mrs.
Chamberlain is reported much better-
looking than her photographs make her.
Her complexion is beautiful, her voice
melodious. On this occasion her frock-
ing was navy and white, her navy hat
topped by white ostrich feathers. She
remarked how fitting it was that an Aus-
tralian delegate should propose the vote
of thanks to her, as her great-uncle was
Robert O’Hara Burke. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax has resigned her vice-presidency
of the A.C.W.W., which she has held for
five years, in favor of Mrs. W. E. Sar-
good, of Corowa, N.S.W.
At the screening of the last Popular
Science Club’s travelogue film the
audience toured Java, Malta and Mexico
beyond the Rio Grande. A description
by Garnsey Potts of the towns from Bris-
bane to Darwin served by the Qantas
Empire mail service was breezy and
entertaining. Variety was supplied by
“Mr. X,” a former resident of India, who
gave an amusing exhibition of Eastern
magic.


LET SLEEPING COWS LIE.


FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1039 of 1939.
BETWEEN DORIS AMELIA THOMPSON
Petitioner „
And FREDERICK THOMPSON Re-
spondent. , T
TO FREDERICK THOMPSON late of Ncw-
TAKE C ' NOTICE that the said DORIS
AMELIA THOMPSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and has applied for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-sixth day of
September next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined absence not-
withstanding. Copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 29th g BOdV
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHEKKY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
For the first Grand National meeting
the elements were no friends of the
V.R.C. Some people arrived late at
Flemington, having lingered around at
home wondering what to wear ; others
left the course as soon as the National
Hurdle had been run. Luxurious fur
coats were seen in the stands, and there
were also hats to brighten up the rain-
swept vista, hats gay of color and
vivacious of shape. In evidence also were
some veils worn tight over the face,
all a help for the hair in a high wind ;
but it cuts both ways. There’s so much
paraphernalia to undo when a handker-
chief is needed for a tickly winter-weather
nose.
Among the fur-coated were Mrs. Wil-
liam Nevins, Mrs. Alex, Creswick (whose
tall smokestack hat teased the landscape
with its taller orange feather), and Mrs.
Adrian Boccard, who was with her
sister, Mrs. Ted Tronson, and niece Pat
Gray (whose ensemble of butterfly-blue
was even gayer for a dash of petunia
hither and yon upon hat and scarf). Mrs.
Jimmy Watt also chose one of the fash-
ionable purples for frock and feather
to fly with, accessories of her beautiful
shaven-lamb coat. Lorraine Cumming
was all for tweeds and comfort, suit of
green and beige check, shooting stick and
suede puddleproof-soled shoes. A gored
skirt was a feature of Mrs. Dudley
Brunton’s grey-blue tweed ensemble.
Maybe Heaven is a bit like a Council
Chamber during the opening of a Parlia-
mentary session. Those with colored
passports to the realms of the chosen
may sit upon upholstered chairs, but
those who barely make the distance, the
outer fringe with only white pasteboard
entree cards, squirm like sardines in the
gallery squinting over one another’s
shoulders for glimpses of what’s going
on. Ceremonials in the Legislative Coun-
cil Chamber for the third session of the
thirty-third Victorian Parliament hap-
pened with the usual circumstance and
mournful solemnity. An angel’s sneeze
would be no more startling to Paradise
than an expression of good cheer upon
the features of any Governmental person-
age upon the floor of the House.
Afterwards there was the usual gossip
in Queen’s Hall (the coldest place in
Melbourne after the National Gallery),
with groups splitting and re-splitting
themselves so that finally most hosts and
hostesses found their guests and herded
them into the dining-room for strong
tea and hefty sandwiches. Mrs. Tom
Tunnecliffe, wife of the Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly, planned her cam-
paign with method. She kept her guests
under her wing, though it meant squeez-
ing them into one room for a consider-
able time, but she mislaid none of them
among the winding staircases and
draughty passages.
The Clapp family spent a celebratory
day last week, with its climax a cock-
tail cabaret party at the Australia. On
this particular date Mr. Clapp took his
hat off the peg in the Chief Railway Com-
missioner’s office and hung it up in the
sanctum reserved for the general manager
of aircraft construction. Mrs. Clapp
organised the successful cabaret for the
Deaf and Dumb Society, at which
daughter Noel and her husband Geoff
Smith were among the first on the dance
floor.
At this party drinks commenced with
ceremony. Waiters pranced down the
floor with glasses, the head waiter flour-
ished a cocktail-shaker and half a dozen
young women, mannequins for the
moment, put over their personalities with
drinks to match their gowns. Freda
Connolly was the “deep green sea”
flavored with creme-de-menthe, Mrs.
Jack Kemelfield became “hell’s-a-pop-
pin’ ” in three colors, Mary Guy Smith
wore black as a “self-starter,” Yvonne
Atkinson and Marjorie Matear were a
“pink” and a “white” lady respectively.
Betty Fogarty was a “Merry Widow,” all
the merrier for the flower in her bonnet.
As a break in the proceedings Fred
Dennett and Alaric Howitt produced two-
piano rhythm, Marie Burke sang delight-
fully and Karin Neilsen and Alan Cav-
anagh came along to judge the polka
competition, in which the men had long
silky moustachios to assist the spirit of
their prancing. Sellers of the whiskers
were Maisie Cowper, Mrs. Russell Gour-
lay, Barbara Bayles, who wore black
with silver foxes clinging to the sleeves,
and Pen Stead, whose cocktail gown was
an original alliance of black skirt and
turquoise chiffon corsage.
Mrs. Marchant Penfold managed
to do half-a-dozen things at once
at the party, and also persuaded
her husband to stand “on the door”
for the evening (very good of him,
as he’d spent most of the day soliciting
cigarette donations from his men friends).
Among the girls who sold the smokes
(6d. for the packet and 6d. for the
charity) were Yvonne Spry, Joan Ander-
son and Betty Ricketson. Opportunities
for wearing cocktail hats were taken by
Valerie Purves (hers swayed aloft with
jade arid cyclamen ostrich plumes) and
Mary Stephens, whose furry tippets went
to earth under a turquoise ribbon.
Penelope Little’s frock was a piece of
knitted artistry in pastel-pink wool with
the kind of bows upon the shoulders
which the very young can wear.
In Spencer Shier’s photo, is Mrs. C.
K. Gamble, wrio was supervisor of
decorations for the Golden Gate Fiesta.
Mrs. Gamble is herself a painter, and en-
joyed planning for the dance a scheme
of Sun Towers, taken from the San
Francisco Exposition. At one end of
the ballroom was the Statue of Liberty ;
at the other, the Sun Tower, the Golden
Gate bridges and the Stars and Stripes,
as seen through a gauze curtain. Minia-
ture Sun Towers (the original at the
Exposition is of Mayan-Oriental archi-
tecture) were allotted places of honor
upon the tables around the ballroom.
Marjorie Lawrence’s ever-ready sense
of humor came to the surface at one of
her concerts last week, when a sudden
high-pitched sneeze as shrill as an engine
whistle shattered the expectant quiet of
the Town Hall. It came at an inoppor-
tune moment when Miss Lawrence was
taking a breath to commence one of her
songs. Fun-loving Marjorie, who can
never help herself when a joke’s abroad,
nearly choked trying to stifle her
laughter. The delinquent, who was in
one of the stage seats, was overcome with
confusion, but she no doubt appreciated
Miss Lawrence’s gesture of a good-
natured aside in her ear as the singer in
her gown of apple-green marquisette
swept off the platform after her encore.
Accompaniments of this springlike frock
were two golden butterflies worn in the
hair and a beautiful white ermine coat
collared in white fox, which was much
admired as Miss Lawrence took her de-
parture after the concert. Behind her
came Archie Longden carrying an extra
basket or two of flowers.
Congratulations upon the new handle
to their name were forthcoming last
week at the Oriental when Judge Beeby
and his lady entertained their friends at.
a late-afternoon party prior to packing
their suitcases and setting forth for a bit
of sunshine on board the Manoora for
a round trip to Cairns. At the party
there were no daughters present to sup-
port their parents, for Doris, Marjorie
and Mrs. Metcalfe are still abroad.
Among friends noticed were the Ted Rey-
nolds couple, Mrs. Reynolds wearing
violets upon her teal-blue coat, and Dr.
and Mrs. Ray Fox, Mrs. Fox’s botanical
thought being for daphne attached to her
coat. Also in the warmth of a fur coat
was Mrs. R. Guthrie. Miss Miles Cox
wore black and silver foxes, and Mrs.
Neville Mader, who was accompanied by
her husband, combined successfully
shades of fuchsia and purple-grape. Phil
Dethridge wore brown, a frock of dirndl
fullness and a hat high and halo-ish.
Captain and Mrs. B. Y. Knollema were
there. Their son Johann, a “dinkum
Aussie” of two and a half, can sing a
Malay lullaby, but he thinks the Ger-
manic languages are not to be taken seri-
ously. Much loud mirth but no attempts
at imitation are Johann’s reaction to his
father’s attempts to teach him guttural
pronunciation.
Notifications have been drawn up in
legal phrasing by the Law. Students’
Society pertaining to its annual at-home
to be held on July 14 at Tudor Court.
In Broothorn’s photo, is Enez Ainslie,
who is one of the young people from
whom tickets may be obtained. She is
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. Ainslie,
of Jeparit, is an Old Collegian of P.L.C.,
did the University course in Law and
is now serving her articles. She has only
one more subject to get before she’s ad-
mitted to the Bar. Other ticket secre-
taries for the dance are Merna Norris, of
Eaglemont, and Patricia Charlton, who
is at the Women’s College ; also Noel
Bergere and Mervyn Ramsay, a couple
of young men for whom student days
are nearly over.
Colorful as one of the pictures at
Isabel Hunter Tweddle’s exhibition was
Mrs. J. Fell when she entered the
Athenaeum on the opening afternoon of
the show. Her choice lay among vintage-
purples, from the veil which draped her
hat to her suede shoes, and including
her coat, several shades deeper than her
frock. Mrs. Fell’s sister, Mrs. Jack
Edgar, wore black with a wide expanse
of brim upon one side of her hat. Mrs.
Tweddle (who had received during the
morning a cable of felicitations from her
son, who is abroad) was accompanied by
daughters Mrs. J. W. McKay, in beret
and frock of pine-needle green, and
Betty Tweddle, whose ginger-brown suit
had its pockets emphasised with organ-
pipe motifs. Mrs. Tom Holt’s vitalising
addition to her blue coat was .color notes
of fuchsia for hat and scarf. Rupert
Bunny and Harold Holt (who opened the
show) were among the men present.
Clare and Nancy Graham paid a call
with their sister Mrs. Kevin Brennan, of
Ballarat. Clare’s portrait, which was ex-
hibited, amazed the sitter by the speed
at which it was executed —in a session
of little more than two hours’ duration.
The Golden Gate Fiesta produced the
biggest attractions ever seen in the
Palais, two elephants. They made a
grand entrance just as things were
getting wound up. At the door Babe and
Jess made a pass at the orchids in Mrs.
Jud Holt’s hair, but remembered their
manners in time ; in fact, they resisted
the temptation to eat till the conclusion
of their act. They danced to the Irish
jig and “The Blue Danube,” and blew, (or
rather snuffled) into mouth-organs. Then
they were ready for anybody’s flowers
or bottles of champagne, and it was
necessary to make repeated microphone
requests of “ Please, don’t feed the ele-
phants!”
The “Gay Way” under a marquee was
tremendously popular. There Mrs. Earl
Moser ran a souvenir stall with
brooches, dude ranch boys sitting on
stockyard fences, cocktail aprons, etc.
There also were a booth of lucky bats
with various bottled prizes and a “lucky
pull” from which hams, silk stockings
and other worth-while prizes emerged as
from a magician’s hat. For a young
bachelor, Bob Armstrong managed things
badly, finding himself possessed of hand-
knitted baby’s-bonnet, a Boy Scout knife
and a skipping rope. Brett Randall and
his Little Theatre people sold soft drinks
(and they sold out, a great credit to
their histrionics) at Diamond Lil’s, a
tough place populated by slit-eyed cow-
boys and their female counterparts,
whose legs were cased in wicked-look-
ing black lace stockings.
The American women love running
their ball, but the members of the com-
mittee never expect to have time to dance
themselves. Organiser Mrs. Norman
Picot and most of the other office-
bearers were down at the Palais from
early morning till 6 p.m., when they
hurried home to dress and perhaps
swallow an oyster or two before getting
back on the mat by 7.30. Mrs. Jud Holt
and Mrs. Ralph Hunt were at the ticket-
table, where a radiator prevented them
from turning into twin icicles, from 8
p.m. till 2.30 a.m. Mrs. S. J. Prytz didn’t
even see the elephants. Her responsi-
bilities all night were for counting money
in the “strongroom.” Mrs. Chas. Hart-
man, who with Mrs. Douglas Jeppy
satisfied with dexterous speed the clamor-
ing crowd around the “lucky pull,” has
worked on five American Ball com-
mittees and has never yet had a dance at
any of them.
Selling tickets for the “pull,” Mrs. J.
M. Lindsay had a table in the marquee
and an oil stove to save her life. Pre-
siding over the bar from a wickerwork
sedan chair were Mrs. James Welker, a
glimpse of starched petticoat visible at
the hem of her black taffeta frock, arid
Mrs. Herbert Allen, who for the evening
forsook her tailored preferences for a
picture-book impression of Edwardian
curls, black velvet bow at throat and off-
white broderie Anglaise sleeves in a
black velvet gown. Over 1300 merry-
makers were at the ball, and there were
250 disappointeds on the waiting list.
A picture of equanimity, Babe Did-
rikson Zaharias came to the West Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night.
While the rest of the 4000-odd women
present helped the men to yell the place
down Babe placidly smoked cigarettes
and looked around her with interest. She
had a ringside seat just far enough from
the ropes to miss the flying carcasses,
and wore a fur coat and a hat small
enough to escape demands for its re-
moval. Babe seemed mildly amused as
Zaharias balefully glowered at the booing
thousands and took his final bows
among yowls of hatred and a derisive
shower of peanuts (they don’t throw
bottles any more since the 10ft. barbed
fence was put across the area from
which these missiles usually arrived).
As a result of the dust-up on the
previous Saturday, when the afterwards-
disqualified Chief Little Wolf was nearly
torn limb from limb by the adorers of
Vic Christie, an extra squad of police
was in evidence, but there were no pic-
turesque ejections.
The National Theatre had a good
house' for its one-night season of
“Berkeley Square,” an ambitious under-
taking considering the delicacy required
to produce such a whimsical play, and
with memories still fresh of the Leslie
Howard film. The costumes for the
eighteenth-century scenes were elaborate,
and should be a considerable addition to
the theatre’s wardrobe. Nell Hunt and
Jean Douglas, as Helen and Kate re-
spectively, rustled through several
changes of panniers and flounces.
Ronald Mann had a useful span of height
to help him wear Peter Standish’s silk
hose and knee breeches. Jack Lanigan
was Tom, borrower of money and
pursuer of serving wenches.


do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAHDAUKE * CO„ LUL BIKMIHOHAM. ESQ
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
How to keep
False Teeth
REALLY clean
Pour a capful of 'Steradent’ into a
glass containing sufficient warm water
(not hot) to cover the dentures. Stir
well. Put in your dentures and leave
them while you dress or overnight.
Take them out and rinse thoroughly
under the tap.
Every stain vanishes. Mucin film is
removed. Dingy, yellow teeth become
'live/ lustrous, natural-looking. ‘Stera*
dent* is harmless to Dentures. It is
sold at all chemists, 2/- and 3/6.
TRIAL OFFER: Send 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515 8.8., G.P.0., Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
Ƒ
O tANs «* 0 -*vs* TEE^
Sr f«ILlZt S
G
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUB TOUK
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
York Minster don to Edinburgh, 392
lorK minster. mileS( in six hours .
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to-r-
BURNS, FIIILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Rush Days in Rabaul
“Kaloa”: Two years have passed since
Rabaul narrowly missed extermination
through an eruption, and the pace at
which the Government has since acted
to save the inhabitants from further risk
has been breathless.
Dr. Stehn, one of the world’s leading
volcanologists, had a look at Blanche
Bay and its craters in September, 1937,
and condemned the region as unsafe. It
did not occur to the Commonwealth
Government to ask him to choose a safe
area from among half a dozen which
might be suitable as a capital. It left
that to a committee.
The committee chose Lae. Mr. W. M.
Hughes chose Salamaua. A tidal wave
damped the enthusiasm of the Govern-
ment for Salamaua.
Now the project is held up while
another committee tours the islands and
“ Sorry , Bill. You didn't tell me you 'ad a sore toe."
the Commonwealth hearing views as to
whether the Governments of Papua and
New Guinea can be amalgamated. Its
members called at Rabaul the other day
for the first time, and, as nobody arrived
to give evidence, they went for a walk
and looked at the craters.
A few months after the eruption, the
vulcanologist reported that the situation
of the Rabaul native hospital and labor
quarters, from which you can spit into
the heart of Matupi crater, was danger-
ous. It was resolved to move them to
the heart of a busy native centre at
Ratavul, some miles away.
Surveyors and Brown Brothers ever
since have been engaged in a peg-throw-
ing contest. Surveyors put them in,
Brown Brother throws them out. He
won’t even take the Government’s offer
of £4O an acre for ordinary coconut land
—native land is usually paid for at about
3s. per acre, plus the value of the coco-
nuts.
All that is now needed to get things
really moving in Rabaul is another earth-
quake. This would give Canberra an-
other chance to appoint another com-
mittee.
The Flying-Doctor Service
“X.T.”: There has been still another
switch in the North Queensland flying-
doctor plans. The Premier has
decided that the work will be better in
the hands of the new Australian Aerial
Medical Services, the healthy child of
John Flynn’s Australian Inland Mission.
The A.A.M.S. is a company which in-
cludes representatives of the 8.M.A.,
Rotary, the Aero Club, the Bush
Children’s Scheme and Book Club, the
National Council of Women, the
Graziers’ Association and the A.W.U.
The new scheme is much better than
the official one. ATM. already has head -
quarters at Cloncurry, which A.A.M.S.
will take over. With the extra resources
brought in by the members of the
A.A.M.S. and the subsidy which the
Government has promised, it will
be able to intensify its work con-
siderably ; and it has the advantage that
its ambit will not be confined within
State borders as would that of any State-
managed concern.
There will soon be no spot in Aus-
tralia where even one white man lives,
and where a ’plane can land, to which
medical aid will not be available.
“X.T.”: Centre and North are to have
a new air service after July 11, when
E. J. Connellan will begin a regular run
from Alice Springs to Wyndham with
two Percival Gulls. It will be an out-
backers’ service, stopping at 11 stations
and mines, and freight—especially fresh
vegetables—will have a big part in the
traffic. Landing grounds have been made
by local effort. The journey will be
made each way once a fortnight, occupy-
ing three flying days, and the owner will
receive a mail subsidy.
* * *
“Aileron”: Organisation of Pacific air
services is going ahead. Six officials of
Pan-Pacific Airways are now at Noumea
preparing a base. A big ’drome is being
put down at Suva—defensive as well as
commercial. Seventy men have been
working on the seaplane base at Canton
Island. The route is something of a mys-
tery. Apparently it is intended that the
U.S.A. Clippers will fly from Honolulu
to Canton Island, thence to Noumea —
less than 800 miles from the Queensland
coast —and then do a long-distance hop
to Auckland. There mail will be picked
up by Imperial Airways and carried to
Sydney. Evidently the Pan-Americans
have in mind a future short-cut mail to
Australia. If that is in contemplation,
the Government should have something
to say about it: this side of Fiji all mail
routes to Australia need to be kept in
British hands. Imperial Airways Sydney-
to-Auckland service may begin in
October.
* * * *
“Thomson”: Dr. Watson Brown, the
new M.L.A. for Gregory (Q.), has
produced some startling figures affect-
ing the development of inland Australia.
Speaking of Central Queensland, he
pointed out that boys and girls of 15 are
almost equal in numbers, but at 45 there
are 209 males to every 100 females. He
attributes the disparity to poor housing,
lack of protection against heat and flies,
dearth of green vegetables, sketchy meas-
ures to deal with sandy-blight and
barcoo-rot and loneliness. The last few
years of drought have sent many women-
folk to the coast.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The implementing of one of
the most important recommendations of
the Payne Commission —the transfer of
certain areas in Centralia from cattle to
sheep—will begin in September. In that
month 38,000 square miles will be opened
for wool-grazing in blocks of from 22
to 100 sq. miles.
9 * * *
“Gain”: New Guinea is losing one of
its oldest civil servants in Don Waugh,
who, stipendiary magistrate at Rabaul
in recent years, retires to Sydney to live.
Don Waugh has been 25 years in the
Mandate, acting for most of the time as
District Officer —he served in Kaevieng,
Kieta, Morobe, Namatanai and Madang.
A D.O.’s job in an earlier day was not
a bed of roses. He was the policeman
who arrested the evildoer —the latter
sometimes devoid of a word of even
pidgin—the detective who unravelled the
tortuous tale of witchcraft, the magis-
trate who committed the villain to the
Supreme Court, the prosecutor who put
the case against him and the deputy-
sheriff who took him back to his native
haunts and attached him to the deewhai
by his neck. Apart from catching mur-
derers, however, a kiap in Waugh’s
palmy days had nothing to do except
control recruiters, collect all taxes, agree
with the missions, supervise the sanitary
and social arrangements of a few dozen
villages, act as criminal, civil, admiralty,
ecclesiastical and native Judge and magis-
trate, as patrol officer, official host and
inspector of buildings, of licenses, dogs,
schools, native police and harbors and
shipping. And sometimes he was deputy
medical superintendent.
* * *
“Q.C.R.”: J. W. Fletcher, member of
the Payne Commission on the N.T., is
to be general secretary of the Queens-
land U.A.P. Fletcher was a meatworks
manager at Gladstone. In his early
thirties, he found his way into the Assem-
bly. He is a born organiser, and with
Tom Glasgow as president he has a
chance of doing something.
s'* * *
“East Point”: If Defence arrange-
ments keep on swallowing metropoli-
tan blocks at the present rate, Dar-
win (N.T.) will presently be all defences
and no town. The Navy has ejected half
a block of the town’s central amenities,
including the oldest bank, the Church of
England and the biggest Chinese store.
Preparations are going forward for in-
stalling naval oil-tanks, and a £50,000
radio station with 17 surrounding build-
ings a few miles away. Ground is being
cleared for the new military barracks at
Pt. Emery; they will hold 500 men, and
they will be surrounded by playing-fields
and houses for 100 married men. The
only thing now necessary is for the
Navy Department to import wives. The
advent of the Mobile Force and its at-
tendant units has introduced the Golden
Age for the Darwin flapper.
“Rus”: The Torres Strait abo. weaves
a grim legend around the fruit of the
wanghi tree, a shrub indigenous to the
archipelago. The legend decrees that
the white man who partakes of the fruit
inseverably binds himself to the islands
and will assuredly leave his bones there.
I know several instances of white men
who scoffed at the idea of the legend
applying to themselves, since each ex-
pected a transfer after a normal period
of three years. Yet each of them, includ-
ing a trio of suicides, by a macabre co-
incidence lies in Thursday Island ceme-
tery. Wanghi-wood, which when pol-
ished rivals mahogany in lustre, was the
sacred wood out of which Binghi’s tribal
ceremonial instruments were wrought.
“Edjudina”: Two pars, in B. 7/6/’39,
one referring to the “simple peoples of
Arnhem Land,” the other to the bloke
who forgot the word to make his camel
kneel, brought back to mind “Tiger,” of
the Mt. Ida (W.A.) track. “Tiger” be-
longed to a “simple people.” And just
how many of his own simple folk he had
murdered, how many young lubras he
had eaten ; was known only to himself, if
he bothered to keep count. Consensus
of abo. opinion, anyway, readily handed
him the record for the district, and it
was a pretty tough abo. district; the
same place where a mob of over 500
told young John Forrest and his com-
panions, back in the ’sixties, to get going
and keep going while the going was
good. Where, too, Forrest came on the
old abo. crying because the mob had
snatched his young brother for the re-
union banquet. But about “simple”
“Tiger.” When he caught a camel —his
specialty was the stalking of lone swaggie
camel-riders —he didn’t worry about
“Hoostha!” —-he simply chopped the
oont behind the front knees with a toma-
hawk. “Simple peoples” are the words,
all right.


Doctors soy your virility and vig-
- our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY
T.JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST. .314 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
Tm
GUN D
TON (C
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and 1 experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
British Communications
Receiver.
It is only recently that the British radio
engineer has tackled the production of
communication-type receivers, but the
latest design from the Eddystone Co.
(Birmingham), the E.C.R., competes in
both price and performance with the best
American receivers. It incorporates 10
valves, including rectifier for A.C. opera-
tion, and is designed with self-contained
coils, covering from 9.5 to 190 metres.
Cabinet measures 21in. by lOin. high,
with depth of 10|in. Total weight is 501 b.
An important feature is the inclusion
of an R.F. amplifier preceding the
mixer, and a separate oscillator is pro-
vided. The three tuned circuits are
ganged and provided with electrical
bandspread tuning, control knob for the
latter also operating a pointer on the
large horizontal tuning scale. Both main
and bandspread tuning controls have
weighted flywheels for simplification of
rapid and accurate tuning.
There are two I.F. stages at 465 kc.,
with three transformers and quartz
crystal filter unit for C.W. selectivity.
This filter has phasing and selectivity
controls on the front panel with a cut-
off switch. A double diode follows the
second I.F. stage, one diode as detector
and the other giving A.V.C. The latter
is also switched in as needed. A triode
audio stage follows this as driver for the
final audio stage. Included in the coup-
ling between audio stages is a headphone
jack in which insertion of the plug auto-
matically mutes the output valve. A
The British bid for the communicadons-receiver market.
This is the Eddy stone 10-valve E.C.R. model, designed
to tune from 9.5 to 190 metres. The chassis is shown minus
the cabinet.
8.F.0. is provided in the usual manner
with control switch in the H.T. lead.
A useful addition to the panel is a
signal-strength meter which is only in
action when A.V.C. is used, and another
valuable feature is a noise limiter,
brought into action by a switch at the
back of the receiver. The noise limiter
introduces no losses when in circuit and
may be left in action continuously.
At present, no models of this receiver
are available in Australia, but the com-
pany’s representative, R. H. Cunningham,
94 Robinson-road, Hawthorn, E. 2, Vic-
toria, will have full details shortly.
D. B. K.
A Radio Altimeter.
One of the most interesting and use-
ful developments in radio as applied to
aviation is the Terrain Clearance Indi-
cator, or low-altitude altimeter, pro-
duced by Bell Telephone Laboratories,
U.S.A.
The fundamental parts of the alti-
meter are shown in the outlined illus-
tration. An ultra-high-frequency oscil-
lator is provided, the frequency being
varied by a modulator consisting of a
small rotating variable condenser driven
by a motor. The oscillator is connected
through a coaxial transmission line to a
transmitting aerial which is located on
one of the lower surfaces of the aero-
plane. The signal is radiated downward
by this aerial. A radio receiver is con-
nected through a similar coaxial line to
a second aerial, similarly located, but
arranged in such a way that a minimum
of direct signal is
received from the
transmitting aerial,
and as much echo as
possible from the
earth.
The direct and re-
flected signals are
applied to a detector
circuit in the re-
ceiver. The output
of this detector is a
signal of the instan-
taneous difference
existing between the
direct and reflected
signals, and is pro-
portional to the
height of the aircraft
above the earth. The
signal is amplified
by the receiver and
, applied to a fre-
quency meter or
counter circuit which
is so designed that
a current propor-
tional to the fre-
quency, and hence to the height, flows
through a meter calibrated in feet and
located on the instrument panel in the
cockpit.
B. S. J.
Aircraft Static Suppressor.
American Airlines announces the suc-
cessful development of a static suppres-
sor to eliminate aircraft radio static in-
terference which will ensure normal
reception of directive-beam and tele-
phonic signals, irrespective of the inten-
sity of atmospheric conditions. The
device is installed in the tail of the
machine. When the pilot encounters
radio static conditions, he presses a
button which releases a wire in the slip-
stream, extending to its full length and
trailing behind the ’plane. Static elec-
tricity, which formerly leaked off various
parts of the ’plane, then discharges harm-
lessly through a special suppressor, and
leaks off at the end of the trailing wire
some distance from the receiving aerial.
’Planes equipped with the new device
carry a reserve wire. The combination
of the anti-static loop aerial, now in-
stalled on all American transport air-
craft, and the new static suppressor
eliminates all but a negligible percentage
of static interference. The device is suit-
able for all aircraft.
RAGEST.
Relation of Sunspots to
Radio.
Engineers of the Federal Communi-
cations Commission of U.S.A. recently
expressed the view that, because of the
growth and congestion of radio services
owing to the limited frequencies avail-
ably great hope is offered for the im-
provement •of all radio services in the
future by studying the sunspot cycle.
Sunspot activity is one of the most in-
teresting, and at the same time trouble-
some, phases of present-day radio com-
munication. In America, the National
Bureau of Standards, the navy, army and
coastguard service are co-operating with
the F.C.C. in a continuous land and sea
study of the effect of the sunspot cycle
on radio.
The number of sunspots —occasional
dark spots on the sun’s surface—has
been found to vary during an eleven-
year period, and it is believed that they
are the centres of intense electromag-
netic eruptions on the sun’s surface. It
was determined also that a certain re-
lation could be found between the
general course of radio transmission and
the number of sunspots occurring over
the eleven-year period. Short waves
such as those used for overseas broad-
casting are always weakened and are
sometimes completely blotted during the
period of a magnetic storm. Radio
authorities responsible for transmissions
are able, armed with the knowledge of
sunspot-cycle activity, to choose , pro-
gramme time in advance > for inter-
national broadcasts, so as to avoid pos-
sible interruption to the service.
In 1935 the F.C.C. of U.S.A. operated
58 field intensity meters at 11 different
locations for a period of six months in
investigating conditions. More than
4000 continuous 24-hour records were
obtained of field intensities. It took the
engineering department six months to
make a statistical analysis of the most
important part of these data. In recent
years measurements have been made on
a large number of vessels on voyages
throughout the world.
D. B. K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
A number of stations are now available
in daylight hours. W6XKG is heard at
5 p.m., after which there is rapid fading
as with the 19-metre stations. The Ameri-
can u.-h.-f. stations send the best signals
from broadcasters in that part of the
world. Rome, on 16.83 metres, and
XGOX have both been good. W6XBE,
on 19.58 metres, has been weak, but the
German stations come in strongly.
The best of the British 25-metre
stations, GSE, is unfortunately off the
air. An unknown station has appeared
on' almost the same frequency as W3XL,
and it takes some juggling to separate
the two.
K. B. G.
Amateur Chatter.
From VK6FL, Geraldton (W.A.),
comes word that whilst working on 28mc.
on a recent Sunday he heard a signal,
“VKSZU calling test DX 56mc.” at
strength 578 X. Evidently the 28mc.
doubler in the 56mc. transmitter used by
VKSZU at Prospect (S.A.) was respon-
sible for this signal, and VK6FL regrets
that he didn’t have a 56mc. receiver on
hand at the time to look for the signal
on that band. Although isolated from
the rest of the Westralians working on
56mc., VK6FL plans to shortly begin
work on the band.
A slight error occurred in the descrip-
tion of station VK2AFS in B. 21/6/’39.
VK2TN is the station of Ivan Bailue,
now located in Waverley (N.S.W.).
VK2AFS was not himself VK2TN, but
was associated in earlier years in amateur
activity at that station.
Con Bischoff, VK2LZ, of Wentworth
Falls (N.S.W.), reports that his portable
callsign VK2AKM is being pirated.
QSL cards have been received from over-
seas referring to reception of a station
using that call in the 20-metre band.
VK2AKM is used only for mobile 56mc.
transmission.
Zero Beat Radio Club held a 56mc.
field day in Centennial Park, Sydney, on
25/6/’39, members taking part in a
search with D.F. gear for a hidden trans-
mitter signing VK2AEE. Later this
station was communicated with from
VK2NO, and had a strong signal because
of the short range.
A new law governs German amateur
transmitters. Any German citizen may
apply for a transmitting license, pro-
vided he is over 18 years and a member
of the official amateur organisation. A
technical examination is provided for. No
telephony transmission is permitted, and
maximum aerial power is 50 watts, with
100 watts in special cases. Bands for
German amateurs are 3.5-3.6mc.
7-7.3mc., 14-14.4mc. and 28-30mc. There
is no 56mc. band. Cost of a transmit-
ting license is the same as for a receiver,
two Reichsmarks per month. Operation
of an unlicensed transmitter renders the
culprit liable to 15 years’ penal servitude.
The membership in the official organisa-
tion means that all German amateurs
will be of one voice.
A new station appearing on 56mc. is
VK2AJO, of Cheltenham (N.S.W.). At
the writer’s location his ’phone signal
was R 9, and remarkably stable consider-
ing that it comes from a long-lines modu-
lated oscillator using two 45’s in push-
pull. This shows what can be done with
a plain oscillator at these frequencies if
sufficient care is taken with the design
and method of use.
The receiver at VK2NO has been
modified to use one instead of two I.F.
stages to advantage. Ample gain is
available, and powerful signals can be
cut down to comfortable level without
the use of an audio control. Tests dur-
ing the week-end indicate the great
superiority of the coaxial aerial-reflector
system, which is now re-erected 50 feet
high. The gain and directivity is very
marked when checked on strength meters
in receivers at VK2WJ and VK2IQ. A
similar array is to be erected at VK2EM,
Killara. Nothing has been heard for
two weeks of VK2VU, Singleton, re-
peated calls from VK2LZ having had no
result.
The 28mc. band still manages a goodly
quota of trans-Pacific DX during day-
light hours in Eastern Australia. The
expected trouble with sunspot activity
seems to be delayed so far as 28mc. is
concerned, although communication,
from VK is confined to U.S.A., Canada
and M.L. and an occasional PK. Euro-
peans are rare on the band. Most con-
tacts are on ’phone.
VK2NO
W.I.A. (W.A. Division).
The annual general meeting was held
on 13/6/’39. All the previous year’s
councillors (6KS, 6CB, 6WH, 6GM,
688, 6LW, 6CX, 6MW and 6BW)
were returned ; 6CP remains QSL officer,
while 6AF is traffic manager (there has
been no such office of recent years);
publicity is in the hands of 6WZ.
A motion to increase the annual sub-
scription to bring VK6 into line with
other W.I.A. divisions was lost by 18
votes to 12.
The annual dinner (17/6/’39) attracted
about 70 members, including a few from
country districts. The “West Australian"’
Cup was awarded to 6MW for the third
time, and he now holds it permanently ;
6KW won the Senior R.l.’s trophy, 6GM
the Carl Cohen Cup, President’s Cup,
D.F. Field-day Cup and (in association
with 6MW) the Hayman trophy; 6AF
took the 7mc. Field-day (1938) Cup and
7mc. home QSO day trophy, 6IG the
smc. Field-day Cup and 6WZ the 6AB
trophy.
For the coming year two new trophies
—an RCA velocity microphone donated
by Nicholsons, Ltd., and a globe donated
by C. H. Park —together with another
“West Australian” Cup, will be open to
competition.


You Can’t Deny
A FACT!
The coverage, of course, of
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO" (U.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but ‘‘RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most imports ut radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 262 George
Street, Sydney. • •
Experimental Station VK6FL.
“Cot a 'airpin on yer, Bert?"
Situated in Geraldton (W.A.) is the
neat and efficient DX station of Frank
Lambert, VK6FL, one of the old hands
in amateur radio in Westralia. Lambert
has been nushina C.W. sienals around
The rack-and-panel transmitter at
VK6FL, Geraldton ( W.A. ), is a four-
stage type, with Class ABI modulation
for speech.
the globe from various parts of W.A. for
many years, and with the rest of the
early-day gang enjoyed the pre-broad-
cast period of DX work on the old 32-
metre band.
A first-class telegraphist, the key was
once Lambert’s sole interest, but a year
or so ago his signal appeared strongly
in Sydney on 20 metres with telephony.
Because of power limitations somewhere
around 20 watts was the input for some
time, but the fact that the most was made
of the aerial system was evident by the
number of Americans heard calling
VK6FL during early evening hours.
The neatly-designed rack-and-panel
transmitter is a four-stage rig, compris-
ing 6A6, 6P6, RK39 buffer and push-
pull 46’s in the final. Modulation is by
Class ABI 6L6Gs. The receiver, seen
at the operating position, is a six-valve
superhet using metal valves throughout.
Activity at present is confined chiefly to
20- and 10-metre DX, but in the near
future it is planned to make a start on
five metres. Two aerial systems are in
use, one a single-wire-feed type and the
other two-half-waves-in-phase fed with
Belling Lee 80-ohm cable.
D. B. K.
Considerations for
Constructors.
In the course of experimental work
with radio and electrical apparatus
of all kinds, many economical and
time-saving ideas are unearthed. Con-
structional readers are invited to sub-
mit contributions for this new section.
“J.H.”: A small battery-operated
resistance-coupled amplifier was found
to be overloading on a very limited out-
put. Valves were tested and proved satis-
factory, battery voltages were in order,
and all resistances had the correct value.
As the amplifier had been exposed to
damp atmosphere previously, it was
thought that insulation resistance had
suffered. Drying in warm air for some
time showed some improvement, but
there was still evidence of distortion. The
trouble was eventually traced to the
coupling condenser between two stages.
Insulation resistance of this component
had dropped, and consequently a small
Operating position at VK6FL, with six-valve superhet in the centre.
current was flowing from the B battery.
The current path was through the grid
leak, so that the valve grid lost some of
its negative quality. * A temporary cure
was effected by raising the voltage of the
C battery, but it was necessary eventu-
ally to replace the component. It is
better to use good-quality mica con-
densers than tubular-paper types for grid-
coupling. even if it is necessary to con-
nect a few in parallel for a higher capa-
city than is normally available in a single
mica type.
•» ❖ $ *
“VK6WZ”: Certain types of two- and
three-gang condensers are to be had
cheaply these days, and the experimenter
or listener in search of shipping and
other signals lower in frequency than
the broadcast band will find these tuners
excellent for long-wave receivers with the
gang sections in parallel.
“VK6WZ”: Experimenters should
welcome the 1.4-volt valves for one good
reason—they permit at last of really effi-
cient monitors and field-strength meters.
Type ’3o’s and other two-volt valves have
never been very efficient in totally-en-
closed gear working with single dry cells
for filament supply, while the use of two
such cells with a dropping resistor makes
the instrument both wasteful and bulky.
"Australasian Radio World."
June Issue.
Published by A. Earl Read, B.Sc., at
214 George-street, Sydney, the- current
issue of “Australasian Radio World” con-
tains many constructional articles for the
experimenter. The Astra Dual-Wave
Six receiver is further dealt with, giving
hints on assembly, wiring and alignment.
It is a six-valve A.C. receiver. W. Mc-
Gowan, VK2MQ, concludes his descrip-
tion of the Ultra DX Three, a receiver
of the tuned-R.F. type designed mainly
for use on the 56mc. band. This is a
very efficient receiver using 1852-type
valves. Other technical articles include
“A Portable Valve Checker,” “A Test-
bench Multivibrator” and “Economy
High Fidelity Amplifier.” “Australasian
Radio World” costs Is. monthly.
Bassett Concentric Cable.
Details and prices of supplies of Bas-
sett concentric cable are available from
R. H. Cifnningham, 94 Robinson-road,
Hawthorn, E 2, Victoria. Lengths of
50ft. with end-seal are: 64/1000, £3 10s.;
34/1000, £3 7s. 6d. ; 64/500, £2 7s. 6d.:
64/200, £1 9s. 6d.; 28/1000, £2 95.;
13/1000, £1 16s. For example, “64/1000”
denotes a line of 64 ohms impedance
rated at 1000 watts. Tax and freight are
extra.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
Philips 1840 Four-valve D.-W. Battery
Model.
Illustrated is the latest Philips con-
sole model, a four-valve dual-wave
battery-powered superhet similar in
appearance to the 1852 A.C. model. It
is designed around two-volt directly-
heated valves. Power supply consists of
a two-volt accumulator and 135 volts of
Eveready Superdyne B battery. Bands
covered are the broadcast, 540 kc. to
1520 kc., and the short wave range from
Bmc. to 22mc. It lacks nothing in the
way of sensitivity at any frequency
covered, the short-wave stations being
fully audible at peak periods with quite
a small aerial.
Valves are KK2 octode frequency
changer, KF3 I.F. amplifier, IF7G duo-
diode-pentode second detector with
A.V.C. and KL4 power pentode. As
this is a four-valve low-fi lament-drain
receiver, it can be used alternatively
with the Eveready Air Cell in place of
an accumulator, which is a big advantage
where accumulator charging presents
difficulties. The tuning controls are
arranged underneath the horizontal wide-
vision dial, and are from left to right,
combined battery switch and volume,
three-position tone with dial light con-
trol, tuning and wave change. In-
cluded with the receiver is an instal-
lation and maintenance booklet contain-
ing all instructions, with a clear illustra-
tion of how the batteries are connected:
The 1840 is a first-rate economical receiver
for the countryman. Further particulars
can be obtained from Philips Lamps
(Australasia) Pty., Ltd., Philips House,
69 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Question Box.
I have a Dutch-made Philips radio receiver,
type 289/4, at present in use here in N.G. with
250 volts A.C. power. By turning a plug the
set can be switched over from A.C. to D.C.
operation if fitted with a vibrator of type 7890 C
or 7891 C. As I have a 6v. or I2v. lighting
set available, what would you advise me to do
about getting a vibrator fitted? Valves are
EK2, EFS, EF6, EF9, EAB\, ELI, AZI and
4496.—791.
Communicate with the receiver division of
Philips Lamps, Philips House, Clarence-street,
Sydney, which will best be able to advise. Some
of the valve types quoted are not yet available
in Australia.


AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN JUNE
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
FIFTY years ago Henry Lawson.was
writing for The Bulletin, and in
the' course of a few months A. B!
Paterson and Randolph Bedford
had joined him as contributors. All three
were very young, but from the beginning
they proved themselves “performers,” as
Harry Rickards used to say. Lawson’s
“Story of Malachi” (‘‘very tall, very thin
and very round-shouldered,” and very
devoted to his “blind brother Jim”) ap-
peared in The Bulletin, of June 22, 1889.
Perhaps some slick radior gentleman will:
now discover it and borrow the charac-
ters and the setting.
j. Sydney Jephcott and Fred Bloomfield
—both,, like Paterson arid Bedford,', still,
on deck—were writing verse, and verse,
stories and .articles flowed from! Victor
Daley’s pen. Another prolific writer, and
a very good one, was; Francis Adams.
And graphic bush sketches were appear-
irig over the pseudonym “Scotty , the
Wrihkler”—a queer character who was.
afterwards a mainstay of the “Aborigin-
alities” column. . , :;
' Lawson and other young writers were
ardent, admirers of Bret Harte. • Para-;
graphists reproduced, with no mean skill,’
the style of Mark Twain. R. L.'Steven-
son was another strorig influence.
An R.S.L. yarn was preserved.' He was
in Honolulu when he heard .of- the death’
of Matthew Arnold. “Well, well, so Mat-
thew’s dead and gone at last!” he said
with a sigh. • “Poor fellow, he’ll never
get on. with God ! ” :
- Sir Julius Vogel, sometime Premier of
New Zealand, had written a novel,*
A.D. 2000. “He has made but £5O out
of it,” a commentator wrote. “Litera-
ture does not pay so well as politics.”
In Melbourne the Rev. Fitchett was
editing the long-dead “Daily Telegraph,”
with which Archibald, of The Bulletin,
had been associated. A stonemason be-
fore he turned minister, Fitchett wrote
brilliant articles for the Wesleyan “Spec-
tator”-—“My Easy Chair,” by “XYZ” —
but demanded payment, which was re-
fused. So the “Spectator” got no more
of his work.
“Fitchett,” The Bulletin of July 6,
1889, said, “is disliked for his brains. He
used to edit the ‘Southern Cross,’ and
write terrible things about the swells who
went to church in carriages on Sundays
and the common people who used the
trains. Then he went to England. On
returning he set up a pony-carriage and
pair and drove to church in it on Sun-
days. Also he became president of the
Melbourne Methodist Ladies’ College.”
Afterwards he edited “Life,” and wrote
Deeds that Won the Empire, a best-seller.
In that July 6 issue there was a note
on Sydney journalism, with surprisingly
modern touches.
“The ‘Tribune,’ which was started by
the Sydney ‘D.T.’ proprietors with v a
view, among other things, of ‘putting a
head’ on ‘the nasty. Bulletin,’ died last
week, aged seven years. Its proprietors
say that they found they could not, in
these days of quick communication, run
from one office two competitive news-
papers.' As it has been with the ‘D.T.’
and the ‘Tribune,’ so it will, we predict,
ultimately be with all publications occu-
pying similar positions with respect, to
one another. Look at the Fairfaxes!
With all their colossal wealth, they
haven’t been able to make their later-
established newspapers successes in the
same _ sense as their original paper, the
‘Herald,’ is a success. The Bulletin has
lived because, dependent on no daily
paper and on no daily-newspaper pro-
prietary, it has. fought for its own hand,-
and has been nobody’s slave, nobodyts
enemy and nobody’s pal. Within the
next few. years most of the newspapers
now in existence in Sydney will be as
dead as the Marble- Man.” ,
“It is proposed to grant self-government to Westralia, England reserving the right tc
‘dictate upon all matters concerning the exclusion of emigrants.’”
J. BULL : “I intend to keep tight hold of this bit of red tape.”
Walter Hall had bought an interest in
the “D.T.” Once a clerk to Cobb and
Co., Walter Hall was “an enormously
wealthy man, altogether apart from the
colossal fortune represented by his Mt.
Morgan interest, which turns him in
£15,000 a month. Tom Hall, his brother,
has £30,000 a month from the same
source, but chooses to retain a bank
billet at £6OO a year.”
Melba had made her name and was
singing at the Paris Opera, haying been
“engaged for the season at £240 a month.”
That was “just twelve times the salary
of Mile. Eames, the American prima
donna, whose debut was such a striking
success.’-’
The London “Era” had pronounced
Melba “rather awkward as an actress.”
Other publications objected to her “very
marked Australian accent”; but these
detractors made no difference.
At Covent Garden, De Reszke was the
Romeo to Melba’s Juliet, and the “Hawk”
certified that she was an ideal Juliet,
“her clear method of attack being a great
relief from that of the nervous type of
prima donna who never hits a note fair
till she is half-through the opera.”
The administration of Sydney’s Royal
North Shore Hospital, with particular
reference to the appointment of honor-
aries, is being investigated at vast ex-
pense. In July, 1889, “Dr. O’Connor’s
motion to have all honorary medical
officers of the Sydney Hospital elected by
open .Voting was defeated by seven votes
to four.” It was “understood” that the
subject would be “opened afresh at an
early date.”
- In Victoria Chief Justice.Stawell had
died and left a will written on a sheet
of notepaper, ' containing . only - these
words: “This is my’will., I. give all my
property,' both real. and * personal, trust
estate only excepted, ; to my _ dear wife
Mary, whom I appoint executrix and
guardian of my children. I revoke all
previous • wills.” The estate was worth
£15,000. - - \ .
' . In Queensland “plain, practical, clear-
headed, self-made little Jack Macros-
san” was “standing up to the lofty lawyer
Griffith in the Assembly and washing the
nisi ■ prius starch out of that dignitary.”
And Queensland had acquired a new
Governor —“Sir Thingumbob' Norman,
an average'specimen of the genus British
official, sub-species Anglo-Indian officer.”
He was “cold and reserved in mannah,”
and had “a dim notipn that, divinity
hedges Governors as well as kings and
queens, don’tcherknow.” To his friends
he was “a simple old buffer of strictly
limited 'ideas,' with a> partiality for the
old style of novel and hot whisky and
water,(with sugar).” But it was allowed
that he might “make as good a patent
figurehead, paint and all, as any average
specimen of the common domestic Brit-
ish Governor-man.” .
A fine character of the period was “De
Freitas, the said-to-be Portuguese noble-
,man,? who came to Melbourne without
a copper,” put his savings into “the big
Mechanics’ Restaurant” in Bourke-street,
and, when paying customers had been at-
tended to, fed the hungry free at 8 p.m.
He gave away about 600 meals a week.
“The only pious publican in Melbourne,”
he had a picture of .the Savior hanging
beside the desk ,at which he took thfe
money, and ■,a statue .of the Madonna
;and Child in the dining-room. Thou-
sands of Australians still living have
grateful memories of De Freitas and “the
Eight O'Clock Rush.”
Those were great days for Australian
boxers; and there were great boxers
among j them. “Peter Jackson, with
Naughton and Sam Fitzpatrick, all pugil-
ists,” was “on the show through the
principal American cities on their way
east.” According to the ’Frisco “News-
letter,” Peter was to get “10,000 dollars
for a : fortnight at the Westminster
Aquarium.”
Naughton was no pugilist. Born a
Maorilander, he was a boxing. reporter,
and no. more graphic chronicler of the
Ring has ever turned in “copy.” It was
largely because of the American sporting
world’s great respect for Bill Naughton
as journalist and authority on the Game
that Bill Squires got his unfortunate fight
with Tommy Burns without having to
prove himself worthy in previous bouts.
Naughton never imagined that Australian
form had deteriorated so much in a
decade, and, slumped down in his seat, he
was a picture of misery when Squires was
knocked put in half a round.
An impression of Jackson: “He is
tall and strong, with a tremendous
reach, and possesses a panther-like
activity which is really marvellous in so
big a man. He can use both hands well,
and being one of the Mace school, his
SIR ALFRED STEPHEN, 1802-1894.
Member of a distinguished Australian
family which has been associated with
the N.S.W. Bar and Bench for upwards
of a century. Given- a tempo-rary ap-
pointment on the Bench in 1839, he
became a puisne Judge in 1841, and was
C.J. for 29 years (1844-1873). He was
Lieutenant-Governor in 1889.
straight left gives him an enormous ad-
vantage oyer those modern boxers who
rush in and depend on the right hand
for a chance knockout. Compared with
the clever West Indian, the strong and
savage Slavin is, slow.”
The Port Melbourne team had visited
Sydney “to give N. S. Wales a beating
at football under Victorian rules” —which
it did. Comparing Rugby—all Union
then —with the Victorian game, The Bul-
letin said there could be “no doubt of
the superiority of the latter from a spec-
tator’s point of view. The ball flies all
ever the ground, the rules are simple
and the proficiency in drop-kicking and
catching is something wonderful. When
the English players were in Victoria,
Stoddart [representative cricketer as well
as footballer] said he had never seen such
drop-kicking anywhere.”
But the Sydney exhibition was wit-
nessed by “a pitifully small crowd,” and
the appearance and manners of the teams
were unpleasing. The Bulletin inquired
whether there was “anything in the rules
prohibiting players from ever having their
clothing washed, or compelling them to
play in dirty sleeveless jerseys, exposing
an unpleasant amount of bare armpit
and chestbone, or, to grease themselves
with nasty-smelling oil, or to go in for
vulgar showing off, or to curse loud
enough to be heard all over the ground.
The most ‘offside’ Rugby club about Syd-
ney could hardly improve upon what
Port Melbourne and N. S. Wales showed
us.”
Yet “they got it down pretty fine at
the Rugby game about Sydney. In one
suburb, which shall be nameless, it was
the fashion for a few of the hangers-on
of the local team to go through the
clothes of the visiting side while the
game was in progress. They used to
‘cop-out’ with watches, pins and such
trifles, so that whatever way the game
went they were ‘a bit ahead of it,’ so to
speak.”
“There were two deaf and dumb
players with Port Melbourne. This must
have been rather a loss to their side, as
it meant that two men were quite unable
to do their share of cursing the umpire
and could not constantly sing out, ‘Hi,
kick her this way, Bill; yer, why
don’t ver play the game?’ The rest of
the team made up for the deficiency very
well.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head. Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Are you feeding the best mineral supplement?
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
is the most reliable source of calcium and phosphorus
for sheep, cattle, pigs, etc. It ensures early maturity,
maintains good health and increases production.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70 per cent, tri-calcic
phosphate ... it costs the farmer less and goes further.
All particulars- from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 3583S, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
/.
if
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St')
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Bungaree”: Entries for this year’s
Sheep Show have not been bettered for a
decade. Types, too, were close to the
general ideal. Density has been in-
creased, and, if this was effected by
highly-developed sires, the wrinkles
are not overdone on the progeny.
Superfine and fine merinos showed no
advance on previous years. Many stud
flocks seem to be losing density on top
although well covered below.
Eshcol collected three of four cham-
pionships—superfine ewe and both fine-
wool honors. Merryville took the super-
fine ram sash and fine-wool reserve cham-
pionship.
Medium-wool merinos were a good lot,
and the class for rams over two and
under three years brought a splendid
field, including the breed champion and
reserve. Bibbenluke’s Tiger, which won,
is a big-framed ram with an even and
dense fleece.
A Merryville ewe which won last year.
repeated its success, and went on to win
the grand championship. Its fleece is
dense and even, and it is plain-bodied—
if anything, a trifle lacking in develop-
ment in front. Egelabra took the medium
champion ewe ribbon.
In the strong-wool classes, the cham-
pion and reserve went on to win against
all other classes. Raby’s grand cham-
pion ram has a splendid head and face
and a wonderfully even fleece of typical
strong wool, densely packed on. The
Egelabra ram is a bigger animal, and
there was very little between them.
Egelabra carried off the Stonehaven
Cup, and provided the second team aNo.
The sires’ progeny group was won by
Bundemar. Merryville was again the
most successful exhibitor.
Some breeders and judges do not seem
to regard black spots on the nose as a
drawback. One ewe awarded a cham-
pionship had a large black spot on one
ear.
Novice and small-graziers’ sections
contained many splendid sheep. Coo-
long stud, making its first appearance,
showed one ewe which would have held
its own in open company—nicely de-
veloped with an even, dense fleece of
stylish 70’s. Wootton also showed
several nice sheep, and won the novice
ram championship.
Eschol, Somerset and Murlingbun,
from districts as far. apart as Gunning,
Jerilderie and the Monaro, had a ding-
dong contest in the small-graziers’ sec-
tion. Eshcol collected ram championship
honors, Somerset gained the ewe ribbons.
Corriedales were stronger, notwith-
standing the hard year. J. F. Guthrie,
with a big team, won the bulk of the
ribbons, but C. E. Prell gained the cham-
pionship with a splendid and character-
istic ram, with a dense fleece of 50’s
quality. The champion ewe came from
a newcomer —J. M. Phelan, Tamworth.
All the sheep exhibited by this breeder
are outstanding for the beautiful char-
acter of their wool. Many sheep were
weak about the head, and had long, nar-
row faces, leaning too far to the merino.
Romney classes were strong. The
feature was a duel between Gamboola
(N.S.W.) and A. E. T. Payne (Victoria).
The latter stud shared championship
honors with W. R. Glasson. Judging did
not favor the improved type of Romney,
size and conformation being the accepted
criterions.
Border Leicester awards were widely
distributed, but W. A. O’Neill, of
Cowra, got the lion’s share. Although
exhibitors came from M.L., Victoria and
various districts of N.S.W., the types are
coming closer together.
Keen interest followed the Southdown
judging, and the open classes were even
and good. Some sheep were on the small
side, and one or two breeders appeared
to be trying to evolve a bigger animal,
but the judging kept strictly to proved
standards. Brunskill’s Inglewood stud
gained most of the ribbons, including
“Yair , a record spud crop! Some like eggs , some as big as marbles —and a lot o' little ones!”
both grand championships. The sound
characteristics of their imported Sand-
ringham ram are stamped on all his;
progeny. • • - . '
Dorset Horns were of good, even
quality throughout.. There was keen
inter-State competition, and the cham-
pion ram was a very fine sheep, long and
low-set.
Wool at Sydney Show.
“Murrawong”: The Sheep Show
attracted enough fleeces to make a
competitive exhibit.
Some fleeces were far below show
standard —short in staple, lacking in style
and dusty—but their exhibitors should
profit by comparison. A number were
not true to type.
Grand championship fleeces were judged
on a commercial basis. This has its good
points, but it would be better to stick
to the usual point scale. Credit should
be given for quality, style and breeding.
Now a big, heavy fleece lacking these
qualities stands a better chance of gain-
ing the grand championship than a well-
bred fleece, a couple of pounds lighter.
Only two fleeces competed in the all-
breeds class, judged on commercial value
—a Polwarth against a merino. The
latter had an easy win.
The grand champion fleeces, both ram
and ewe or wether, came from Merry-
ville. They are both excellent commer-
cial fleeces, but the ram’s fleece came
only third in the class in which it was
originally entered. Merryville also took
the fine-wool championships.
Medium and strong wools attracted
good competition. Fleeces from W. R.
Scott, Egelabra, Dalkeith and Ulah were
outstanding. Many exhibits were not true
to type. What constitutes a typical
medium-wool fleece is always in dispute.
Strictly, it may be anything between a
60’s and a 70’s, but the general concep-
tion of a medium wool is the 64’s to 66’s
range.
Although colors on the whole were
very good, both extremes were to be
found. One fleece was chalky white, and
several were yellow and heavy in condi-
tion.
Some excellent Corriedale lots were
shown, but there was a distinct “tail” in
this class. The entries of J. M. Phelan,
whose sheep did well in the show, were
of excellent . quality, showing splendid
character and with very good staple for-
mation and length.
Wool and the Future.
“Ghariam”: Norman Wright, of
Matong (Monaro), a well-known merino
stud breeder, has told “S. M. Herald”
that “nothing could be further from the
truth than to suggest that the wool in-.
dustry is in a parlous state and facing a
very doubtful future.”
The fact that sheepmen throughout the
Commonwealth are continuing to carry on
after one of the worst depressions Australia
has experienced and the worst drought in
the history of N. S. Wales is indisputable
evidence that “the backbone of Australia”
still has a strong heart in front of it and
a keen will to overcome even the extreme
handicaps.
He repeats almost word for word The
Bulletin’s assertion during the scares
about wollstra and other substitutes that
“the only way to meet this competition
is by improving the quality and quantity
of the Australian woolclip.” He in-
stances what can be done by quoting the
results of the shearing tests carried out
in conjunction with the Sydney Sheep
Show, in which a pen of Killen Pty.’s
wethers cut 16s. fleeces, the carcasses
being valued at 15s. 4d. on current
Homebush prices. Bibbenluke ewes cut
15s. 9d. worth of wool, leaving carcasses
worth 14s.
This shows what selection can do when
combined with improved pasture and
proper care in flocks which are main-
tained at a high breeding standard.
There are some districts where the
position of the woolgrower is precari-
ous —Central Queensland is one —but not
for any reason not curable. So far as the
world outlook for wool is concerned,
there is nothing to fear. War or peace,
depression or no, there is no sign that
there will not continue to be a market
for all the wool we can produce.
The Australian grower’s problem is to
produce at a cost per pound within
world price. And the better his sheep,
the bigger his carrying capacity per acre ;
and the higher in quality his wool, the
stronger the grazier’s chances of meeting
all competition.
One factor which Mr. Wright dwells
upon is the drift to crossbreds.
With high-class merinos we can have
almost a world monopoly. With medium
crossbreds we face a competitive world
market, with results that menace the
general average price of the clip. There
is a limit, fortunately, to possible pro-
duction of crossbreds for mutton pur-
poses, since the fat-lamb export market
is not far off saturation point.
But there is another aspect. In de-
veloping the lamb trade and medium- and
low-count wool-production we are turn-
ing out types of sheep which are capable
both of being fined down in wool type
and acclimatised to country not suitable
to the merino. The count of much
Corriedale wool has been fined down
several degrees in the last few years.
And, thanks to export both from Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, which is still going
on, the Corriedale has been introduced
to both American continents. Japan, too,
(“Man on the Land” continued on
next page.)


1
3248.
Hvv.'
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 47/6 in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, S 3 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY”
CONCRETE SILOS
INCREASE FARM PROFITS
Ensilage and
fodder con-
servation in-
crease the
profits derived
from the
farm. The
dangers
of crop and
pasture short-
age through
drought are
nearly entirely
eliminated by
the possession
of a perma-
nent concrete
silo, and its
owner is also
protected
against loss
of stored feed
supply
through fire
or storm.
m
■ Hm!
Because of its
freedom from
m a i ntenance
the first cost
of a concrete
silo is the
only cost. For
satis factory
service over
the longest
period of
time the con-
crete silo is
s u pre m e.
There are
three com-
mon types of
concrete Silos
monolithic,
block and
concrete
stave.
Write to Us or to Individual Member Cement Companies for the following
Booklets:
CONCRETE FOR FARM AND
STATION
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS
CONCRETE REPAIRS LEAKING TANKS
CONCRETE TROUGHS, TANKS AND
WELLS
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 82471.
ffie'fy'allelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-COS TAIN ED SANITARY &Y STEM—ARE ROVED RY HOARD Ob' HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It— Automatic Overflow—Does _No
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold —Shell Co., 60 Repeat Orders, Bank ot N.5.W.,15.
in
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS •
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
fully guaranteed.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
mm
has a much greater opportunity of mak-
ing a success with these .sheep than with
merinos, which are hopeless for Man-
churian conditions.
If we do not go carefully, we may find
a really dangerous “substitute” compet-
ing with us overseas —a wool bred up to
the 64’s-66’s class developed to compete
against us from descendants of our own
exports. Some attempt should be made
to come to an agreement with Maoriland
to stop all overseas stud-sheep traffic.
Wrinkles or No Wrinkles.
“Damram”: “Wrinkles in modera-
tion” have brought the Australian clip
to its present high standard of weight
and quality, and a radical departure,
either way, would result in lesser weights
and a smaller net return per head, the
supreme test for any flock.
“Peppin” (B. 24/5/’39) overlooks the
fact that plain-bodied flocks can retain
reasonable wool weights only by the
recurring introduction of blood from
studs which produce highly-developed
and dense-woolled sheep. The welfare
of the industry is dependent upon the
maintenance by our studs of this type of
sheep. Necessarily different types of
country call for different types of sheep,
so we can only deal in averages.
Jetting is effective for at least four
weeks, even during bad waves of fly and
on sheep that are most attractive to the
fly. That much is borne out by results
consistently obtained by stud- and flock-
masters in N.S.W. and Queensland, and
by Government entomologists. Many
studmasters secure immunity from fly
loss by consistent jetting.
The risk of loss or damage through
jetting is next to nothing if operators
know and do their jobs thoroughly. For
the benefit of “Sheepo” (B. 7/6/’39), I
would mention that stud sheep have for
many years been jetted here —in one of
the oldest studs in N.S.W. —within a fort-
night of crutching without loss or
damage. Sheep are yarded for jetting
only four or five times a year. The fre-
quent musterings and yardings needed
to keep flystrike under control by hand-
dressing in conjunction with crutching
are avoided.
If “Peaton” (B. 24/5/’39) has evolved
a base fluid that will hold the poison on
the sheep’s skin for about 12 months he
has achieved something of great benefit
to the pastoral industry. Let’s hear
about it.
Pigs and Wheat.
“Pappamosca”: The general advice to
feed surplus wheat to pigs needs to be
received cautiously. Wheat is a splendid
pig feed —but not alone. Meatmeal or
skim needs to be added.
An all-grain-and-green ration may pro-
duce a pig which looks right and, per-
haps, weighs right, but almost invariably
he is overfat.
Westralia is having a sad experience
with wheat-fed pigs. The wheat districts
turned to Dennis affectionately when
wheat prices fell. The result is that
hundreds of pigs received at the Perth
abattoirs every week are too fat for the
export trade, and realise under 6d. per
pound against the 7d. paid for dairy-fed
animals.
“Goulburn”: Ten years ago, C. F. T.
Anderson, Hillview, Swan Vale (northern
N.S.W.), decided to try pigs. By selling
his wheat as pork, he has averaged 4s. sd.
per bushel during the past six years.
Anderson runs the pigs on grass and 11
acres of lucerne. He grinds the wheat
and soaks it before feeding to his Berk-
shire-Tamworth crosses, and feeds no
concentrates or milk. His pigs realise
top prices at Inverell. The experiment
won’t work everywhere—it all depends
on the supplements to the wheat avail-
able.
Clearing Jungle.
“W.J.C.”: Can any M.O.L. reader give any
hints regarding methods of clearing jungle and
coastal forest for the plough?
The general practice is as follows:
After removing marketable timbers,
the undergrowth and vines are brushed
with a hook —cost usually from 15s. to
30s. per acre. Remaining trees are then
felled —all in one direction. It’s a job
for springboard experts in heavy country.
The objective is to obtain a dense pack
for a fierce-burning fire. Usually a num-
ber of hardwoods are allowed to stand,
and are killed later when the area is
fired. The cost of failing varies from
£2 10s. to £5 per acre.
The felled area is left until twigs and
lighter branches are dry enough to burn
freely. When the wind and weather are
right the area is set alight all round the
edges.
This first burn does not make a com-
plete clearance, the charred stumps and
tree trunks and heavier branches being
left. Logging begins immediately after
the burn, and is followed by the sowing
of grass seed, if the area is to be used
for grazing.
Weed and sucker growth follow. This
is controlled by periodic burning of dried
grasses.
Periodic fires and decay, which soon
affect the soft scrub timbers, gradually
bring the area to a state where, by the
use of stumpjumps, it may be cultivated.
On newly-burned scrub land, intended
for grazing, a good stand of grass must
be sown to keep out weeds and under-
growth.
To prepare newly-felled heavily-
timbered scrub lands for the plough is
costly, and the usual practice is to sow
or plant among the logs and stumps for
a few years. Sugarcane, maize and
bananas are often grown in this way.
If the land is needed immediately for
the plough, the stumps can be removed
only by hand grubbing, explosives and
the use of mechanical pullers.
Cultivating Native Trees.
“Wandi”: On Bundemar and Butta-
bone, central-western N.S.W., myall plan-
tations have long been fostered. The
trees provide excellent fodder for sheep
in dry times. In some places they are
attacked by a caterpillar which builds a
big silken bag to camp in during the day.
These have to be cut off and burnt, an
unpleasant job, for dust and shed hairs
set up a skin rash.
On Mungeribar (N.S.W.), kurrajongs
are largely grown, both on ridges and flat
country. These trees provide choice
fodder for all kinds of stock, and are
not subject to caterpillar attacks. When
feed is needed, the trees are carefully
lopped.
If all stations followed these examples,
there would be less loss in severe drought.
Many other good trees and shrubs, be-
sides kurrajong and myall, are easily pro-
pagated and are suitable to different parts
of the country. State nurseries in suit-
able districts wouldn’t be a bad idea.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Don’t feed saccaline to
stock until it comes into head. Best way
is to chaff the saccaline and feed as part
of a ration. Feeding in the paddock is
wasteful. Good daily rations for dairy
cows are 151 b. chaffed saccaline, 151 b.
oaten chaff, 61b. bran and 21b. linseed
meal; or 251 b. chaffed saccaline, 101 b.
lucerne chaff (or its equivalent), 21b.
bran and 21b. linseed meal. Sup-
plement with good grazing.
“Bluetongue”: Sheepskins and other
hides should never be dried in the sun,
but should be laid on a flat surface under
a roof and dressed with some solution to
prevent weevils. A good solution is4oz.
white arsenic to four gallons of water,
with enough soda-ash to dissolve the
arsenic. Ordinary wood ashes will do if'
soda is not available.
“A.A.D.”: A variety of watermelon
named Hawkesbury, evolved from a
farmer’s field selection in the . Maitland
district (N.S.W.) and developed at
Hawkesbury College, has been hailed in
U.S.A. as the salvation of the melon in-
dustry. It is resistant to fusarium wilt,
and is now first favorite with farmers in
the principal producing centres. The
U.S.A. Department of Agriculture re-
ports that by 1937 wilt was spreading so
rapidly that it soon became impossible to
grow watermelons profitably.
“Lam”: The release of lantana bugs
on Kairi State farm (N. Queensland)
seems to be having promising results.
The destroyers soon spread over a 24-
acre test block. Leaves and flowers and
young shoots were quickly destroyed, and
the plants are rapidly drying back from
the tips of the branches. At Rockhampton
(C.Q.), also, the experiment is a success,
but the bug does not seem to act in
northern N. S. Wales. Lantana in some
northern districts was getting almost as
much out of hand as prickly pear had a
few years previously.
“Zedo”: Camden Park, which can
claim to be about the oldest cattle graz-
ing country still in use —the Government
wild cattle were there 20 years before the
Macarthurs—won the N. S. Wales South
Coast fodder championship this month
with 192 points out of 200. The farm
(No. 6) comprises 1324 acres, on which
240 cattle are run and an average of 175
milked. There have been silos at Cam-
den Park since 1903, and throughout the
recent dry years the animals on six farms
have been hand-fed for 40 months out of
48. On the winning farm, the work has
been done so well that there has been
scarcely any winter drop in production.
Apart from ample stocks of silage, a
quarter of the farm is under lucerne, and
all the land which needs it, including
natural herbage on the flats, is treated
to an annual dose of super, and some of
it to lime.
“B-gar”: Sheep which have been run-
ning on swampy country around the
Lachlan (N.S.W.) show no evidence of
footrot about the hooves, but whai
appear to be abscesses formed about the
coronet. The lower part of the leg be-
comes swollen, and there is a discharge.
The affected parts seem very painful.
Opening the abscesses and dressing with
bluestone is giving a slow cure. Any
suggestions?


After Years of Extensive Research
m
MM
FROM THE
810 Laboratories
comes the quickest, cheapest and most effective
cure that has ever been discovered for
FOOT ROT
RO'T DRESSING became famous years ago as the one outstanding
product for hand-dressing. Results have been sensational. Badly crippled
sheep within 24 hours after treatment became sound and well.
WE WISH TO ANNOUNCE that, after years of research and experimenting,
*. Veterinary Surgeons of the 810 Institute have at last discovered the
perfect FOOT BATH. No other product can give anything like the satisfactory
results achieved by 810 FOOT BATH.
INSIST ON 810 THE SCIENTIFIC REMEDY
Obtainable from your local chemist, store or agent, or direct from
THE BIOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF AUSTRALASIA PTY.,
LIMITED,
Phone: FA2607. Telegrams: “BIO,” Sydney.
RUSHCUTTERS BAY & RANDWICK • SYDNEY
Practical Comfort
plus Reliable Wear..
JUL
m
:
Long association with the needs of the
country man has given Peapes an accurate
knowledge of the practical, hard-wearing
clothing necessary for country wear.
Careful trial and experiment have dis-
closed the right styles and materials; it
only remains for you to take
full advantage of Peapes ex-
perience and skill.
“WARREGO”
SHIRTS
JBl—The original, strong pinhead
checks of reliable British manu-
facture. Ample pockets have
inverted pleat, and button-down flap.
Long sleeves with single button
wristband can be worn full length
or elbow rolled.
Price 10/6 each
3 for 30/-
JODHPURS
JB2—Comfortable to ride in and
cut on clean smart lines from English
Khaki Drill. Strapped knees. A
hard day in the saddle will convince
you of their reliability and the skill
of Peapes cutters.
READY TO WEAR,
30/- pr., 3 prs. for 85/-
by
PEAPES
At Wynyard Station,
GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOMAN'S MIRROR” COOKERY BOOK
400 Pages
3000 Recipes
Acclaimed by Australian Housewives
“THE BEST RECIPE BOOK EVER”
OVER 15,000 COPIES SOLD!
aWMHBIM gjgj|
iyf*
BIR
■
Hi
:. v : r'
hh
m
£
*
■H
m
A
U
$4B
m
K
ft
;
V "# i '
I
;
.
■■ &
m
Well bound with a stiff cover* of
washable Fabrex Leather-cloth, this
book has been made possible by the
accumulated experience of “Mirror”
cooks. Every recipe in the book has
been tested and in most cases the
food value of the dishes has been
calculated by a well-known Woman
Doctor and is shown alongside the
recipe. Thus in addition to being
the most complete and reliable
cookery book ever offered to the
housewives of Australia and New
Zealand it is also invaluable to those
whose health demands a measured
or balanced diet.
Price
(postage extra)
from all Booksellers and Newsagents,
or direct from the Publishers.
Mark envelope “Mirror Cookery Book”
and address to the Manager, The
Australian Woman’s Mirror, Box 252 188,
Sydney, N.S.W. (Post free, 3/8).
New Zealand readers should send their
orders to the “Mirror’s” Wellington office,
Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington. (Post free, 3/8.)


PAINFUL CORNS,
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet, will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
(id. Packed by FELTON, GRIM WADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) : W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORRES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
-dfices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cms Bank offers the fuMest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You vcill learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
,1
OurServiceDepartment
readers' S * S Set a P art or service of Bulletin
'itiarh ti, SerV ’ Ce ' s e, ! tire ly f ree - All you have to do is to
bSlltin to Sdl m inside back covcr o£ last
mus^be^onfinetfto’one'subject. a ” d SCarCh ’ ' Very imUky
of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young Sydney man (25) wants work as
theatre-cleaner or assistant, or as steward on
overseas passenger liner. Will accept other
positions anywhere. No previous experience,
but willing worker. —3923.
Words of poem “How the Five Queens
Crossed the Swamp.”—39s7.
To get in touch with relatives of G. H.
Gibson (“Ironbark”), one-time Bulletin “Back-
block Bard.” —3962.
Sydney music-lover would like to exchange
gramophone records.—394l.
To buy early Australian books and colored
prints.—3B73.
Whereabouts of Fred C. Woods, recently
retired from the service of the Midland Railway
Company, W.A. —3878.
Handbook for 1926 Crossley, 15 h.p.—3894.
Seat in car or truck from Melbourne to
Brisbane and return. —3890.
Information Sought.
Any figures relative to the settlement on the
land of returned soldiers in New South Wales ?
—3969.
At June 30, 1937, the area set apart for
soldiers was 9,755,264 acres, of which 1,710,272
acres comprised land bought at a cost of
£8,113,956. The number of settlers to whom
farms, etc., had been allotted up to June 30,
1937, was 9668; 4805 soldiers have either
transferred or abandoned their farms, leaving
4863 in occupation of 7,500,085 acres, of which
6,209,893 acres were Crown lands (including
3,790,795 acres in the Western Division taken
up under the Western Lands Act), 1,290,192
acres acquired lands, and 89,917 acres within
irrigation areas. These totals exclude 703
discharged soldiers who bought privately-
owned land with their own capital and were
granted advances to buy stock and plant or
make improvements.
* * * *
(1) In criminal and civil trials in N.S.W.,
how many jurors can be challenged? (2) Must
juries in both criminal and civil trials register
a unanimous verdict, and is there any time •
limit on their deliberations? —3946.
(1) Accused persons and the Crown each
have the right to challenge eight jurors in
criminal cases and 20 in capital cases without
assigning reasons. In civil cases twice the
number of jurors required are summoned,
and one-fourth of the number may be struck off
by each party to the case. (2) In criminal cases
the verdict of the jury must be unanimous.
Where agreement is not reached within 12
hours the jury may be discharged, and the
accused tried before another jury. In civil
cases a verdict of three-fourths of the jury
may be accepted after six hours’ deliberation.
Failing agreement within 12 hours, the jury is
discharged and a new trial held.
sj« Jfc Jfc
What is the status of an Australian married
woman whose husband, also Australian, takes
out a divorce at Reno, Nevada, U.S.A., and
marries another woman? —3B7l.
A divorce in Nevada, U.S.A., is not recog-
nised in Australia. The Australian woman re-
mains his wife, and her status as such is not
affected so far as Australia is concerned.
* * * *
What Australian writers were born during
1840-49 ?—3924.
Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”), author of
Such Is Life, born Yering, Upper Yarra (Vic.),
September 26, 1843 ; Garnet Walch (his drama-
tisation of Robbery Under Arms had great
popularity), born Broadmarsh (Tas.), October 1,
1843; Thomas Bracken (author of “Not Under-
stood” and other poems), born Ireland, De-
cember 21, 1843; Ada Cambridge, poetess and
novelist, born St. Germains, Norfolk (England),
November 21, 1844; Marcus Clarke, born Ken-
nington, London, April 21, 1846; G. H. Gibson
( Ironbark Chips and Stockwhip Cracks), born
August 24, 1846; Ernest Favenc, explorer,
historian and short-story writer, born London,
October 21, 1846; Louisa Lawson, poetess,
mother of Henry Lawson, born Guntawang
(N.S.W.), February 17, 1848; Phil J. Holds-
worth ( Station Hunting on the Warrego), born
Balmain (N.S.W.), January 12, 1849.
* * * *
(1) Author and (2) translation of “O vita:
philosophia dux! O virtutis indagatrix, ex-
pul trixque vitiorum ! Quid non modo nos, sed
omnino vita hominum sine te esse potuisset?
Tu urbes peperisti; tu dissipatos homines in
societatem vitas convocasti” ? —3922.
(1) Cicero. (2) “O philosophy, life’s guide!
O searcher-out of virtue and expeller of vices!
What could we and every age of men have
been without thee?, Thou hast produced cities;
thou hast called men scattered about into the
social enjoyment of life.”
* >i= * *
Can you supply English and French words
of Montaigne’s remarks regarding concealment
of private and public actions? —3939.
You probably refer to the following extract
from his essay “Of the Duty of Historians”:
“On peult couvrir les actions secrettes; mais
de taire ce que tout le monde sgait et les
choses qui ont tird des effects publics et de
telle consequence, c’est ten default inexcusable.”
English translation is: “One may cover over
secret actions, but to be silent on what all
the world knows, and things which have had
effects which are public and of so much con-
sequence, is an inexcusable defect.”
%
About 25 years ago The Bulletin conducted,
each month, a competition for the best Aus-
tralian sonnet describing that month. Who were
the winners, and where can the sonnets be
read ?— 3965.
The competition was conducted during 1913
and 1914, and results were: January, C. E.
Moore; February, S. Elliott Napier; March,
Mary A. K. Robb; April, Herbert Tracey;
May, Nina Murdoch; June, Helen Power; July,
Nina Murdoch; August, Nina Murdoch; Sep-
tember, Charles F. Pettinger; October, A.
Gladys Kernot; November, Nina Murdoch;
December, S. Elliott Napier. (2) The 12 winning
sonnets were printed on the Red Page of The
Bulletin of October 15, 1914.
* * * *
Name and author of verse which begins :—
The brundub thunder snarehed above
The svvisslembift'erous sea.
While drimbled Mugfrubs boofkutunked
And Swunklers clunked in glee.
It was the Biunkencrungercrob
That shoddled in the blast.
The Mugfrubs fierce had blocked the screw
And swongleeranked the mast.
—3961.
“The Wreck of the Brunkencrungercrob,”
by Henry Tate. It was first published in The
Bulletin of December 13, 1910, page 27.
* * * *
I often hear such expressions as “l will lay
down for a while,” "We laid out in the park,
and could have laid there all day," and "He
is laying on the bed.” Right or wrong ? —3959.
All wrong. Confusion between the verbs
lie and lay is still common. The essential
point to remember is that lie (“to recline”) is
an intransitive verb, and therefore does not
require an object; whereas lay (“to cause to
lie”) is a transitive verb, and therefore requires
an object— i.e., you lay something. The prin-
cipal parts of the intransitive verb are lie
(present), lay (past), lain (past participle) and
lying (present participle); the corresponding
parts of the transitive verb are lay, laid, laid
and laying. These latter should be replaced
in the sentences cited by lie, lay, lain and
lying.
* * * *
How to prepare charcoal in 40-gallon drums?
—3738.
Remove the top of the drum, cut four holes
in the bottom and then fill with 4ft. split timber.
Plane the drum over a small trench to permit
a draught passing up through the wood. Light
the wood, and when the fire is burning' freely
turn the drum upside down and leave until the
smoke clears off. The fire is then smothered
and, when out, the charcoal riddled.
# * * *
Are Chinese azaleas easily grown, are they
double- or single-flowering, what colors do they
cover? Can you give a list of the different
varieties ? —3863.
The Chinese azaleas are free-flowering, easily
grown and cover a wide range of color, in-
cluding white, pale pink, deep pink, bright red,
orange-scariet, deep rose, magenta and purple.
There are both single- and double-flowering
varieties, a full list of which, together with
colors, will be found in nurserymen’s cata-
logues. The list is too lengthy to include here
in detail, but Deutsch Perle (double white),
Hinode-girl (fiery red), Kaempferi (single
salmon-scarlet), Charmer (single amaranth),
Dame Melaine (single bright pink bordered
With white), Empress of India (double white,
rose and salmon intermingled), Jubilee (double
rosy crimson) and Vervaeeana Alba (double
white striped) can be recommended.
* * * *
(1) At what hour did the attack on the
Eureka Stockade take place? (2) What were
the casualties among (a) diggers and (b)
soldiers? (3) Did any diggers die afterwards
of wounds? —3723.
(1) At 6.20 a.m. on December 3, 1854.
(2) (a) Twenty-four; ( b ) six. (3) Several died
of wounds afterwards, but there is no record
of the number.
* * * +
(1) Who designed the triangular Cape of
Good Hope postage stamps? (2) When were
they first issued? (3) By whom printed? (4)
Particulars of issue? —39so.
(1) Charles Bell, the Surveyor-General. (2)
September 1, 1853. (3) First by Perkins, Bacon
and Co., but early in 1863 this company handed
over the plates to De La Rue and Co.,
which made all subsequent printings. (4) Four
values were issued: Id. red, 4d. blue, 6d. lilac
and Is. green. There are numerous shades.
A local provisional issue, printed by Saul
Solomon and Co., of Cape Town, in 1861,
was called the “woodblock” issue and is very
rare.
* * * *
Value of Japanese imports and exports for
1936 and 1937. including value of trade with
United Kingdom? —3972.
1936: Imports 2,764,000,000 yen, exports
2,693,000,000 yen; imports from United King-
dom £3,657,000, exports to United Kingdom
£9,805,000. 1937: Imports 3,954,000,000 yen,
exports 3,318,000,000 yen; imports from United
Kingdom £5,222,000, exports to United King-
dom £11,860,000. The Japanese yen was
quoted in London (1937) at about Is. 2d.
* * * *
How is air speed measured? —3744.
By means of an anemometer, the best-known
type being the Robinson cup anemometer.
This consists of a vertical shaft on the top of
wh'ch are four light arms forming a cross
in the horizontal plane. Each arm terminates
m a hemispherical cup with its base vertical.
Opposite cups are arranged so that the concave
side of one member of the pair is presented to
“J® air current at the same time as the convex
side of the other. As the aero-dynamic force
on a cup with its concave face presented to the
wind is greater than when the wind is blow-
ing on its convex face, rotation will ensue at
a rate depending on the wind speed. The
base of the vertical shaft is connected by gear-
ing to an indicating mechanism which may
either show revolutions or, as is more usual,
units of distance travelled by the wind.
* * * *
Using the same h.p., which system would
deliver the greater quantity of water during
a given period of time and under similar con-
ditions —a double-acting piston pump or an
elevator employing an endless chain with
buckets ? —3779.
A double-acting piston pump would deliver
the greater quantity of water, and would be
much cheaper and more easily maintained.
* * * «
What are ant-lions, and how do they capture
their prey? —39s4.
Strictly speaking, “ant-lion” applies only to the
larvae of a family (Myrmeleontides) of insects
which are generally short, oval, insectivorous
grubs with prominent mandibles, commonly
found in sandy soil or on sea beaches, where
they form conical pits. At the apex of each
pit lies a single larva on the watch. Should
an ant fall into the pit, the larva’s mandibles
quickly seize it; if it struggles to climb the
shifting pitsides, the larva flicks up sand to
pelt it and bring it down within reach. The
adults resemble dragonflies, with which they
were formerly classified. Their powers of flight
are comparatively feeble. Australia has a large
number of species, particularly in the dry central
districts.
* * * *
A few hints on planting and raising the tree
peony? —3932.
It is quite hardy and grows well out in the
open garden, but requires a cool, moist situa-
tion sheltered from hot winds and from too
direct sunshine during the summer. As plants
do not benefit from moving, they should be
planted where they can be left undisturbed for
several years. Best results will be obtained in
a very rich, calcareous, loamy soil, which should
not be deficient in lime. If lime must be
added, work it well into the surface soil and
then thoroughly trench the ground, adding a
liberal quantity of well-decayed manure at the
same time. A little bonedust added to the
manure will be found very beneficial later on,
owing to its more lasting effects. If plenty of
water is available, the plants may be put in
any time except during hot summer months.
Give them a mulch of well-decayed manure
twice a year, about the middle of April and
early in October.
* * *
How to prepare and apply lawn sand as a
fertiliser and to destroy trefoils and clover ?
—3859.
Take sulphate of ammonia, sul-
phate of iron and 151 b. clean sand. Grind
the sulphate of ammonia and the sulphate of
iron to a fine powder (both preparations can
usually be bought already ground), add the
sand and mix thoroughly. Spread the mixture
evenly over the lawn in dry weather at a rate
of from 2oz. to 3oz. per square yard. Water
in thoroughly if no rain comes within 48 hours.
H* H* *!•
(1) Can satisfactory cement be made with sea
water? (2) Can salt sand be used? —3958.
(1) Sea water can be used for mixing concrete,
provided it is free from organic matter — i.e.,
small traces of seaweed —and reinforcement is
not used in the concrete. There are occasions
when reinforcement is all right, but its use calls
for expert knowledge and experience. (2) Yes,
except for interior work. Traces of salt are
likely to absorb moisture and cause unsightly
patches on the wall. For such exterior pur-
poses as paths, etc., salt sand can be used
with success.
* * * *
How long has Mickey Miller been boxing,
and how many fights has he had? (2) From
whom did he win the Australian bantamweight
and featherweight championship? (3) Was
Miller ever knocked out except by Kui Kong
Young at the Sydney Sports Arena on June
14 last?— 3B33.
(1) Miller began boxing early in 1932, and
has had 107 contests. (2) He won the Aus-
tralian bantamweight championship by beating
Ron Leonard on July 3, 1935, when it was
thought that making the bantam limit (8.6)
would weaken him too much. He weighed
8.5, and technically knocked out Norm Green
in three rounds on June 4, 1937. When Merv
Blandon retired in 1936, the featherweight
championship reverted to Joe Hall, who had
held it previously. Critics and promoters
agreed that Hall could not make the feather
limit (9.0), and Miller was recognised as Aus-
tralian featherweight champion when he out-
pointed Spider Roach in 15 rounds at Brisbane
on September 5, 1936. (3) Before Kui Kong
Young knocked him out in 10 rounds at the
Arena on June 14, Miller was stopped by
Claude Varner in eight rounds at the Sydney
Stadium on March 11, 1935, and was knocked
out by Varner in eight rounds at the Mel-
bourne Stadium on November 4, 1938. Jackie
Wilson also knocked Miller out in four rounds
at the Melbourne Stadium on February 4 last,
and Henry Moreno stopped him in four rounds
at Brisbane on March 17.
* * * *
(1) In what Australian Elevens did Billy
Murdoch go to England? (2) In what teams
did he top the batting averages, and his figures
for the tours? —3781.
(1) Murdoch went to England with the 1878,
1880, 1882, 1884 and 1890 teams. (2) He was
captain, and topped the averages in all except
the 1878 team, his figures being:
M. I. N.O. H.S. R. Av.
1878 .. 39 62 8 73 755 13.98
1880.. 37 60 5 153* 1218 22.14
1882.. 37 61 5 286* 1711 . 30.55
1884.. 31 50 5 211 1378 30.62
1890 .. 36 64 2 158* 1459 23.53
* Not out.
What is the general rule regarding the issue
of complimentary tickets for representative foot-
ball and cricket matches in Australia ? —3479.
It is a matter of mutual arrangement between
the various inter-State football codes. In
Sheffield Shield cricket (Rule 24) 50 tickets per
match that will admit to the grandstand on any
one day are issued to the manager of the visit-
ing team prior to the commencement of the
match. The question of tickets to members’ stands
is left to the discretion of the local association.
The Board of Control deals with the distribution
of complimentary tickets for Test matches.
Brief Answers.
. C.A.P.: Worth about two or three times its
published price. A private collector might pay
55., but you wouldn’t get more than 2s. for
a copy from a bookseller E.J.V.: (1) Write
captions on back of drawing. (2) Approxi-
mately four Or five times larger than published
size J.J.D.: Yes R.S.: Manuscripts need
not be typewritten E.T.: (1) The Act pro-
vides that the pension shall not exceed £52
p.a. nor be at such a rate as will make the
pensioner’s income, together with the pension,
exceed £B4 10s. p.a. Your pension would,
therefore, be reduced to bring it within the
limits of this provision. (2) Probate duty (Q.)
where the net value of the estate amounts to
£3OO and upwards, then for every £lOO or part
thereof £l. Succession duty is also charged
on all estates over £2OO, the scale ranging
from 1 p.c. in the case of an estate not
exceeding £5OO passing to a widow domiciled
outside the Commonwealth to 30 p.c. in the
case of an estate of £120,000 passing to a
stranger in blood also domiciled outside the
Commonwealth... .M.M.: (1) and (2) Trouble
is generally hereditary and does not benefit by
treatment, though sunshine and massage may
help. (3) Kerosene may cause irritation and
dermatitis. (4) Dr. Kelly, 63 Collins-street, or
Dr. Wettenhall, 85 Spring-street—both Mel-
bourne E.S.: Cannot advise unless you state
for what purpose the preparation is to be
used N.H.: Disturbances of the kind are
very common in elderly people after meals.
Distension of the stomach with food, especially
of a “windy” nature, or if anything more than
moderate quantities of fluids are taken at the
same time, is likely to cause some temporary
distress to the heart. Restrict liquids at meals,
and lie down for half an hour after eating
M. (1) Appears to be no legal bar to your
engaging in this pursuit either in Australia or in
England. (2) Neither “registration” nor
“diploma” seems to carry much weight, since
anybody at all can set up in the business. Be
careful you don’t burn somebody. (3) Know
nothing of the .lady you mention, nor of her
methods. Why not write to her direct?
P.W.M.: The State Theatre, 154 Flinders-street,
Melbourne E.J.P.: At the 1933 census the
population of Adelaide was 312,619, and of
Brisbane 299,748 M R.: Johannesburg
(South Africa) time is eight hours behind the
standard time of the Eastern States of Aus-
tralia, seven and a half hours behind South
Australian standard time and six hours behind
Western Australian standard time F.T.:
J. A. Lyons held office as Prime Minister from
January 6, 1932, until his death on April 7,
1939... .A.G.: The Universal Provider, by
R. S. Lambert, 165., post. 6d., from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney K.H.V.: All claims duly
received and admitted in the Dame Eadith
Walker Estate have been dealt with. You
probably refer to the Thomas Walker estate;
if so, you are rather late. Write to the
Perpetual Trustee Company, Hunter-street, Syd-
ney... .J.T.J.: The location of the proposed
B.H.P. tinplate plant has not yet been definitely
decided. If at Whyalla the S.A. Government
suggests that water be drawn from the Murray
River to serve this industry and the require-
ments of the district J. 8.: Breadcraft, by
J. R. Irons, 385., post. Bd., from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney R.T.: Get in touch with
the advertising manager, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer,
20 Chalmers-street, Sydney H.G.G.: It is
not compulsory in N.S.W. for an engine-
driver to hold a certificate. The N.S.W. De-
partment of Labor and Industry issues certifi-
cates in respect of driving cranes, hoists and
similar appliances operated by steam, electricity
and other power. The N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment issues certificates in respect of "winding
engines and electric motors used in connection
with mines. Write Under-Secretary, Department
of Mines, Sydney E.W.C.: The Education
Department, Sydney, which administers the
N. Trustees of Schools of Arts (Enabling)
Act may be able to supply the required
information... .H.M.K.: Standard time became
operative throughout Australia on February 1,
1895. Until then the time corresponding to
12 noon at Sydney was 11.35 a.m. Melbourne
and 12.17 p.m. Brisbane... .F.D.J.: Unable to
find “Taabinga” or “Tabinga” in any dictionary
or list of aboriginal words J.R.S.: The
N.S.W. Irrigation Commission knows of no
automatic apparatus for finding underground
water J.H.: (1) No sale for Philippine
butterflies in Australia. (2) Know of no firm
dealing in insect specimens in Australia—there
might be a better market in America. (3)
Directions for preserving insects will be found
in the “Australian Museum Magazine,” volume
IV., part 5, January-March, 1931, or in Water-
house’s What Butterfly Is That? (4) Average
price for insect specimens is 2d. each, Is. or
2s. for rarer specimens and more for some-
thing very exceptional C.S.: Largest cities
of the British Empire are London 8,202,818,
Calcutta 1,485,582, Sydney 1,235,367, Bombay
1,161,383, Montreal 1,098,409, Glasgow,
1,088,417, Birmingham 1,002,413, Melbourne
992,048, Liverpool 855,539, Manchester 766,333,
Toronto 653,000, Madras 647,230... .M.M.G.:
Carawatha is a N.S.W. abo. place-name mean-
ing “pine-trees” L.S.S.: Cinesound Pro-
ductions, Ebley-street, Waverley (N.S.W.)
F.T.: Line, by Edmund Sullivan (175.), Illus-
tration in Wash and Line, by Stephen Spurrier
(15s), Drawing for Art Students and Illus-
trators, by Allan Seaby (175.) 8.J.: At the
first Federal general election of 1901 the State
of Tasmania polled as one division, and the
members returned were Edward Braddon, King
O’Malley, Donald Cameron, Frederick Piesse
and Phillip Fysh.


Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA” and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
THE BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER
Makes a One Strand
Wire Fence Stock-
proof for Cattle —
Horses—Sheep—Pigs
aa*' •
f? j/^VvVr
JißSfit BXIB
WWBEESsBSS
SSBfflfflfflP®* - 1
g -s
lii: 5 *
M
«!•
HOW IT WORKS.
The Charger measures 1 Oin. x 7in. and can be fixed anywhere.
Connect it up to dry or wet batteries with one line leading to the
earth and the other to the fence.
The charger steps up the voltage for a fraction of a second and
delivers a sting, quite harmless. Animals, however, fear it and
keep away from the fence; even persistent fence-breakers become
cured.
A safety lightning arrestor is built in the charger.
Safe, harmless, economical.
WRITE FOR FREE DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET.
Cli!
&
'N
//T
ONE CHARGER ONLY IS NEEDED FOR 20 MILES OF WIRE.
JOHN DARIKS »»» SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED I INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA )
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. M 6505.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. M 2381.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
N.K.: The chief of “Love’s Torments” was
the attempt to rhyme “unknown” and “home.”
....W.M. and A.F.W.: A glimmer....
T.E.McC.: Sorry about Molly C.F.L.:
“Lost, lost, for ever lost!” is what you say when
she skips with the _ lodger; you need a milder
expression for rain disappearing down the
drain... .R.E.R.: Interesting, but you fell flat
when you jumped out of the window R.W.S.:
It’s a bit odd to burst into song because a
chartered accountant certifies you're sane....
G.E.T.: “You ask wot Ido with my evenings.”
No, we don’t A.M.: “Rams” securely
penned in the w.p.b D.8.0’C.: “Inmost
bosoms” seems to touch the depths H.S.:
Try some prose if you like, but don’t let
mother’s wandering boy wander this way again.
A.N.: It saunters and saunters and
saunters... .J.A.P.: The rhymes also seem to
have departed “for destinations unknown”....
A.S.S.: That, too, is a tale “which each in
turn relates”.. . .H.J.R.: After reading 192
lines about nothing at all we’re grateful to the
pumpkins that left you “lost for words”....
A.L.H.: Deafening T.L.S.: Too many roses
and tombstones L.H.: Might make a par.
. ...W.8.C.: Doesn’t quite click A.D.8.:
Hackneyed... .A.T.: Try the children’s page of
a daily J.W.H.: Much too mild W.J.W.:
Away with those worms M.V.: Might score
elsewhere E.H.M.: Watery M.S.: Merely
a morning.... P.R.8.: Cheer up S.F.:—
Once more into the Swirl
Once more into the Whirl
Once more into the Twirl
and headlong into the iv.p.b M.C.8.: “Lay
of the Shellback” sounds like a geography
lesson F.L.: A sad subject very sadly
treated F.W.D.: Admired the asterisks after
“bliss”... .A.K.: Boggled even at the beer.
. ...E.L.R.: The Latin tag doesn’t help it
W.H.McC.: Well, if it’s any consolation, your
handwriting’s fairly legible J.W.8.: “I
bubble, I stretch, I kick and I crow.” See a
doctor... .W.S.F.: “Ode to an Athlete” reads
as if you had tennis-elbow G.T.8.: That’s
the 794,298 th time that a mountain of gold
has been found and lost again by a newchum.
W.J.T.: Might be “Told in the Train,”
but not here E.W.: Old stuff... .E.E.: It
seems that half our time is taken up with
“Interludes”... .8.R.C.R.: Not for us
A.W.: Slight... .D.M.W.: Those prospectors
are new to us and, anyway, Tennant Creek
isn’t in South Australia K..P.R.: “Fledglings”
hardly fluttered J.N.R.: Can’t you think of
anything else but murders?... .T.P.R.: An
excellent sleeping draught... .H.N.D.: If you
go on improving at this rate, our successors
will probably be able to tell you when you’re
nearing publication standard... .V. 5.1.: Calf-
lurv never was on our beat H.P.R.: Come
again when you have something worth saying.
N.H.T.: Nothing in that batch G.T.P.:
And that clutch is too stale to hatch out any-
thing 8.R.P.: At least your next effort
couldn’t be worse than that one P. 8.5.:
Try to think of something original 8.T.P.:
Your verbosity is a long way ahead of your
skill... .N.H.W.: Don’t do that again if you
value our friendship T.E.W.: We’ve turned
down “Bargain Sale” a thousand times....
L.P.C.: And we’ve never even considered “The
Prospector’s Ghost” J.T.L.: It just doesn’t
make the grade 8.M.R.: Nothing funny
about that “humorous storyette”... .8.R.P.:
“Smoke Without a Fire” joined our collection of
literary phenomena... .T.P.L.: A sixth-standard
essay J.8.K.: Can’t accept “Stolen Goods.”
B.R.A.: Try some of the English monthly
magazines... .R.1.F.: They’re all well written,
but they all lack plots... .T.N.S.: Threw
“Fragments” into the w.p.b G.R.L.: It
bubbles for a while, but collapses near the
finish C.L.E.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENT.
L.W.: No space for that jerry-built sky-
scraper here D.R.: We were present at the
funeral of that gag about 40 years ago S.L.:
That’s not a caricature, it is a very wooden
portrait.. . .A.W.: Freaks, every one of them,
and the jests were doing the rounds during
the ’nineties... .E.S.: Your sketches grow no
better with the passing years... .R. 8.: Not
quite certain what you’re driving at, and we
doubt whether you know yourself 8.H.: Has
all the faults of the usual first effort... .A.T.J.:
The barber’s cat passed muster, but the rest is
awful H.L.: If you continue at the rate
you’re going you’ll need a fair-size lumber-
room to store your rejects P.D.: What the
profane parrot said to the visiting curate failed
to raise a smile R.G.: Glad to hear that it
took third prize at the local show, but it’s
not for us A.M.: You’re a bit late in the
year with your Empire Day cartoon
E.C.C.: It needs a more practised hand to
carry economy of line as far as that....
A.S.W.: Keep on as you are going; you
should reach publication level soon N.S.:
Muddled drawing and obscure joke...
Norman Eindsay beat you to that poker-game
idea P.D.M.: They won’t cause our cashier
to unlock the cashbox... .G.H.: No good
trying to use a mapping nib for that class of
work E.J.N.: If you can’t draw, just send
along the jokes. We pay 7s. 6d. each for suit-
able ones.
POVERTY BAY
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
IN July, 1868, the schooner Rifleman
arrived at the Chatham Islands with
supplies for the Maori prisoners of
war and their guardians.
The prisoners captured the vessel,
after overpowering the garrison, forced
the crew into their service, and sailed for
Maoriland under the leadership of the
aggrieved Te Kooti, who was bitterly
resentful of his exile, and swore fiercely
that he would “take it out of” the
Poverty Bay pakehas whom he blamed
for it. He had with him 160 warriors
and a number of women and children.
They landed on the Maoriland coast
about 15 miles from Poverty Bay, and
the schooner was handed back to her
crew. After a couple of skirmishes in
which the whites had serious losses and
doubtful success, Te Kooti was able to
rouse the tribes, and after three months
of recruiting and preparation he made
the revengeful swoop in which he
massacred with merciless slaughter 33
white people—men, women and children
—and exacted bloody satisfaction for his
exile to the Chathams. Lieutenant Gas-
coigne, with a contingent of friendly
natives, set out after the raiders, but was
badly defeated at Makeretu, where Te
Kooti made invaluable capture of an
ammunition column.
He took up a strongly entrenched
position on a steep, bush-clad hill, but a
famous Maori warrior attacked him. This
was Ropata Te Wahawaha, one of the
old type of chieftains, with a reputation
for invincibility, and when he rushed Te
Kooti’s stronghold with his Ngatiporou
braves the rout was complete. But Ro-
pata was checked when he attacked the
fortified hill of Ngatapa. However, a
month later he was joined by the fiery
little Colonel Whitmore with strong rein-
forcements, and presently they made a
combined assault on Te Kooti’s almost
impregnable position.
Te Kooti’s men were running short of
food and water and attempted to get
away. But there was no escape, and the
famished and thirsty fugitives were over-
taken by Ropata and mercilessly
butchered, the Government having de-
creed that the Poverty Bay massacre must
be atoned for in blood. Every prisoner
was shot, and Te Kooti lost 136 men
killed outright besides those who faced the
firing squads. This was the last real fight
between Maoris and Europeans, and the
British success put an end to all fears of
another native rising.
However, the victory was incomplete,
for Te Kooti himself managed to escape.
He reached the fastnesses of the Urewera
tribe, whence he launched more than one
bloody raid, before he was compelled to
fall back into the country about Lake
Taupo. At last he became a hunted and
harassed fugitive, chased backwards and
forwards over the wildest country by the
unforgiving Ropata and his brother
Maori warrior Major Kemp (Meiha
Kepa Te Rangi-Hiwinui). For three
years they kept up a relentless pursuit,
in which his wife was captured and his
principal lieutenant, Kereopa, caught and
hanged. Almost without a follower, he
sought refuge at length in the wilderness
of the King Country. Some years later,
in spite of widespread agitation against
such a measure, the Government offered
him a pardon, and he survived for
another twenty years.
The year 1870 marks the end of the
wars between the Maoris and white New
Zealanders, and since then they have
lived together in friendship and mutual
respect—but Te Kooti and Poverty Bay
are still bitter traditions.
“X.S.”: An argument developed in a
Carlton pub on a subject which causes
more heat in Melbourne than the question
of peace or war in the Pacific—foot-
ball. In a few minutes the contestants
were fighting on the pavement. A cop
arrived, and the controversialists went
off to count their wounds up different
lanes, accompanied by their several
backers. “What did you do it for?”
said a friend of the one who had ap-
parently got the worst of it. “All you’ve
done for yourself is to get three perfectly
good teeth knocked out.” “Yes,” said
the alleged loser. “But he doesn’t know
yet that his false ones fell out and I
put my foot on them.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The gubernatorial position
in Melbourne, whereby it will come
about that the Kents will share Govern-
ment House with the Winston Dugans,
reminds me of an apartment-house I
lived in where I paid an exorbitant rent
for one small room plus the privilege of
cooking my sausage in the communal
kitchen. The one and only topic of
conversation was the rapacity of the
landlord. When Sir Winston and
the Duke are cooking their sausages in
Government House kitchen I daresay
hey will find a certain satisfaction in
doing the same thing. Not that there
would be the least privation if a dozen
families occupied the huge institution in
M. Kilda-road ; but the respective
Governments are whales on dignity and
official importance.
“vc». tu *, , . * . * .
• ft ' } j • , est craze in Victoria
is food and drink contests. A modest
example was provided when a country-
man at Diamond Creek devoured 12
threepenny meatpies while his opponents
were surrounding three. When these
records are established somebody invari-
ably sets a new standard, and pie-eating
contests will probably continue until
some champion bursts and the Govern-
ment puts a stop to the business. When
the depression, instead of the crisis, was
giving Melbourne the jitters, long-dis-
tance dancing began with the modest
achievement of ten hours by a hero at
a dance palais. This record was broken
again and again, until a young man at
the Green Hill danced for 48 hours with
a succession of girl partners. Stimulated
by the publicity given by the dailies, a
girl at another dancehall set out to break
that record, but the spectacle of a bone-
weary, half-paralysed, red-eyed, be-
draggled damsel tottering about in a
dreadful trance with a succession of
healthy, robust, unfatigued male com-
panions was too much for the public, and
the egregious display was brought to an
abrupt conclusion by the police. Then
a young man started to dance from Mel-
bourne to Geelong, by way of variation,
He was arrested as a lunatic by a police-
man who had not read the metropolitan
papers.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
This week’s prize goes to a New South Wales writer who, advocating unification,
makes a good point, whether you are for unification or against it.
NOW the Time for Union
Although it is generally conceded that
Australia would be better off as a Union
than as a Federation, no one seems to
be doing much about it.
If Australia is to have union the
sooner we start the job the better. At
present the vast majority of Australians
are of British blood, with a community
of interest and a similar outlook whether
they cut cane in North Queensland or
jarrah in South Westralia. It seems cer-
tain that the next few years will see an
influx of immigrants from various Euro-
pean countries, many of whom will
qualify as Australian electors, and whose
children will be Australians by birth. We
are assured by various people that no
alien groups or communities will be
formed, but commonsense and historical
precedent tell us they will be formed. If,
as seems likely, Australia is to be the
new melting-pot, a generation or so will
see us with groups of Jewish-Australians,
Czecho-Australians, Italo-Australians and
so on.
If a nation of Britons cannot unite it is
unlikely that union will be achieved after
the British stock is diluted and alien and
opposed groups are created within the
community. The time for a determined
campaign for unification is now. — Xie
(N.S.W.).
Three guineas and space rates for “Xie”
—Roger Christie, of Lue, N.S.W.
Nurses’ “Keep”
It seems a pity that with so much
money being spent on hospitals there is
not some responsible person or persons
to see that the nurses and domestic mem-
bers of hospital staffs get adequate meals.
Nurses are rather poorly paid, and if
they break a thermometer they have to
replace it. In many hospitals, both public
and private, the meals provided are so
scanty that they spend some of their
hard-earned money on cakes, etc., to
allay hunger.
I know of one private hospital where
the members of the staff even club to-
gether to buy firewood for the quarters.
I’ll bet if men were nurses things would
soon have to be altered or there’d be a
strike, and consequently no one to nurse
the sick. — May E. Woolley (Q.).
“The Olrf Digger Racket”
If “War Baby” (B. 14/6/’39) had been
thought of a few years earlier he might
perhaps have been able to appreciate the
“Old Diggers’ ” viewpoint.
With regard to Earle Page’s attack on
Menzies, nine out of ten old Diggers
would agree that it was unnecessary and
futile. The general public would think
the same, only in’ greater proportion, so
it is nothing to wonder at that Earle
Page’s supporters would be hard to find.
The vast majority of Diggers are quite
satisfied if they get a fair deal, which is
all they ask. They don’t talk about their
war services, and they wear the badge
mainly as a gentle reminder to war-
babies and others that certain promises
were made, and the fact should not be
forgotten.
The R.S. and S.I.L. has done a good
job up to now, and the more badges that
are worn the more chance there will be
for the League to carry on with the good
work. — Pozzy (S.A.).
Those Facts of Life
One does not need to be a psycholo-
gist or to have read their works to know
that sex education begins long before
the kindergarten age. It is inherent and
continuous right throughout life. Judges
in our criminal courts have not sounded
the depths that lie hidden beneath the
calm surface presented by the mass of
humanity.
“Teetchem” (B. 21/6/’39) advocates
Y.W.C.A. and other religious bodies giv-
ing lectures on biology and “sex matters.”
I disagree. These mass lectures are more
likely to lead to Marie Stopes and her
teachings than to a sane view of a natural
sex life.
Thirty-five years ago earnest young
men, whose motives I have long since
suspected, caused me the utmost misery.
As a potential brand to be saved from
the sexual burning, I was continually
dampened by their gifts of small pam-
phlets. I still shudder when I think of
the life that these obscene papers mapped
out for me if I did not cease from my
“practices.” Books were wished on me
telling me “what I ought to know.”
Words that I had never heard and prac-
tices that I knew nothing of were ex-
plained very clearly.
Luckily my father had been a student
of medicine. He found me wading
through his text- and casebooks, and he
told me all that I wanted to know.
“Judith” (B. 7/6/’39) hits the mark
exactly. To her remarks I can only add
that the instruction which a child really
needs is about the danger of promiscu-
ous intercourse. — Lisab (N.S.W.).
Girls’ High schools in N.S.W. provide
yearly lectures in hygiene. Some of the
lectures are on sexual matters, but as
one who successfully saw three girls
through their high school course the lec-
tures are unnecessary.
As one 15-year-old girl put it: “I felt
sorry for poor old Miss B. to-day. She
had to tell us about marriage and babies.
As though the class didn’t know more
about the subject than she did!”
“How did you know?” was my natural
question. “Did other girls tell you?”
“Certainly not.” This most emphati-
cally. “We never talk about such things,
and we don’t need to be told. We just
know.”
There is the matter in a nutshell. That
is the attitude of practically every clean-
minded young Australian girl. There
will always exist the few who ask ridicu-
lous questions (often purely for effect)
and the others who love to attribute their
“fall” to ignorance. Both can be taken
with a grain of salt. Every generation
produces a small proportion of sub-
normal .people; their ignorance is not
confined to matters of sex. —E. E.
(N.S.W.).
Are You Popular?
If not, try to make yourself unpopular.
If you’re unpopular already, make your-
self more so. In so doing you will assume
such a marked and outstanding individu-
ality that you will become popular. This
recipe has been thoroughly tested. G. B.
Shaw used it, and look how popular he
is to-day.
The truth about popularity is that you
must be yourself, retain and develop
your own personality and individuality.
That’s the secret of being popular, but it
really is no secret at all. Everyone knows
it but not everyone does it. Popularity
doesn’t need such extremes as saintliness
or heroism before it can make itself felt.
It’s all a matter of making life for your
fellow-men more interesting, more bear-
able. Do this, forgetting your ego, and
you cannot fail to be popular. And even
if your popularity arrives posthumously
it’s comforting to know that after you’ve
departed this mortal coil people will con-
tinue to speak well of you. —J. F. Hogan
(S.A.). .
“Let’s Laugh It Off”
I agree with “The Grin” (B. 21 /6/’39)
that a sense of humor is invaluable, but
I’m not sure that the idea of laughing
things off in big politics would work.
Laughter, like everything else, has its time
and place. Leaders of nations have the
lives and welfare of millions as their
responsibility. A big problem cannot be
dismissed with a laugh. And the sugges-
tion by “The Grin” that a knotty situa-
tion could be straightened out by a funny
Prime Minister making a joke of it with
his equally funny adversaries sounds to
me like balderdash.
Admittedly humor is a great weapon and
a golden gift in dark days, but I defy it
to solve such problems as the Polish Cor-
ridor or the Australian lack of popula-
tion. — Arthur Falk (Vic.)
Old-time Songs
The other night I heard Peter Dawson
sing a “pioneer’s song” about bullock-
driving which mentioned a “clarion call.”
It didn’t sound quite like the stuff that
the old-time bushies used to sing.
Couldn’t the genuine old bush songs be
collected before it is too late —if it is
not too late now? Like the sailing-ship
chanteys, they began long ago to die out
with the passing of the conditions in
w'hich they flourished, but there are some
memories of them still in odd corners,
and perhaps something could be saved
from the wreck. Fragments are still
afloat, like that lament which begins:
For they yoked us up like horses,
To plough Van Diemen’s Land.
And of course there are “The Wild
Colonial Boy,” “Bold Jack Donohoo”
and other occasional pieces, but these are
only the fringe of the subject.— Balada
(N.S.W.).
Doctors’ Travelling Fees
In country districts doctors still charge
7s. 6d. a mile when they go to visit a
patient, which is very nice for the doctor
but rather hard on the patient, often a
poor farmer struggling to make both ends
meet.
This rate of charge was inaugu-
rated in the days when horse and buggy
was the mode of travel, and travelling
was consequently slow. Time meant
money, so the doctors argued, and hence
heavy charges were made. Now it takes
ten minutes, if one travels slowly, to go
five miles in a car (cost of petrol about
sixpence), yet the unfortunate patient
pays up to the tune of 375. 6d. for travel-
ling expenses. The anomaly certainly
needs rectifying.— Coll (Q.).
Wool Marketing
Why not a crusade to alter the anti-
quated Australian method of market-
ing wool? Can anyone picture a
concern with a very valuable commodity
to sell adopting this rather curious
method of building up a good sale price:
“We will circularise all likely clients ad-
vising them that we have such-and-such
a quantity of goods to sell, and all must
be sold ; we will further appoint a day or
days suitable to the prospective buyers on
which they may call and inspect our
wares, which will be laid out for their
criticism in a way rather to facilitate the
discovery of faults than to emphasise
quality or worth, and we will then invite
them to offer us whatever price seems
good to them.”
The devastating effect of carefully-
organised buying rings operating against
this utterly defenceless and long out-of-
date system is reflected in the current
prices of best Australian wool. Would
it not be saner and more profitable to say,
“We have wool for sale, quantity un-
specified ; you want it, we will sell —at a
reserve. Step up and buy briskly to avoid
disappointment”? In any case, it could
not do more harm than the present way.
—R. H. Gordon (W.A.).
Foreign Agitators
One of the most remarkable things in
this country is the power that a handful
of agitators exercise. They have an in-
fluence in Australian politics out of all
proportion to their numerical strength.
These demagogues, claiming to
represent tens of thousands of workers,
are advocating a boycott of the National
Register. As a unionist, I would like to
know what authority they possess to
speak on behalf of trade-unionism.
We are informed that they are pre-
paring to suffer imprisonment rather than
obey the country’s laws. The average
Australian is law-abiding, and mock
heroics have no appeal for him.
Is it not significant that Mr. Curtin
and his supporters are at variance with
the A.C.T.U. over the National Register?
When will the extremists realise that all
grievances can be remedied more
certainly and much more easily through
the ballot-box? Parliament, the law and
public opinion are quite adequate to de-
fend the liberty either of trade-unionists
or of individuals!
The threatened boycott of the National
Register will prove but another chain in
a series of defeats—J. Arthur (S.A.).
About Dogs
A friend of mine recently lost a dog
through poisoning, and while sympathis-
ing with him I wondered whether he was
guiltless of the dog’s death.
The majority of persons claiming to be
civilised abhor the idea of poisoning or
maiming a dog. Perhaps to some extent
because of this, some people’s idea
of “keeping a dog” is to turn it loose
on the community, to roam gardens and
backyards and chase cars, bicycles and
other vehicles, becoming a menace to life
and traffic, and, incidentally, turning the
vicinity into a bedlam. It’s great fun
for the dogs until a car gets them.
People in this country are very tolerant
of dogs, but there is a limit to their en-
durance. If owners of dogs were to
exercise the care and restraint —compelled
by law in other parts —necessary to pre-
vent their animals from becoming very
often an intolerable nuisance, there
would be fewer poisonings.—Dog-lover
(N.S.W.).
“Bouquets or Bank Accounts?”
I agree with him of the cynical nom-de-
plume (“£ove,” B. 14/6/’39) regarding
the attitude of many women in pre- and-
post-marriage days towards money mat-
ters, but is not the remedy largely in the
hands of the sterner sex themselves?
So long as men pass over the steady,
thrifty, thoughtful girls—none the less
physically attractive for these qualities—
in favor of the flighty flapper type who
want (and generally get from these same
men) everything they see, just so long will
this state of affairs exist. There are still
many of the former about; they would
“thank Heaven fasting for a good man’s
love” with or (believe it or not) without
his banking account.
The onlooker does not always see most
of the game. Just as the blazoning of one
divorce can obscure from the memory
(however temporarily) the thousands of
quiet, happy marriages that endure to the
end, so the garish public weddings,, staged
by a small minority, can overshadow the
many simple, sanctified ceremonies of
girls who do bring, besides the bouquet,
a bank account and, best of all, the stead-
fastness of purpose that enabled them to
accumulate it. —Miss W. (S.A.).
“£ove,” although a fellow-South Aus-
tralian, seems to have the wrong idea
about pre-marriage women (B. 14/6/’39).
I am one of the many now engaged
in building up a bank account, plus pro-
viding the barest necessities of a trousseau
•—at present insured for £l5O.
I am a journalist, and find keeping
respectably clad a difficult job. By con-
triving and renovating, I’ve managed to
get through the past twelve months with
very little dress expense other than (1)
hat, (2) pair of shoes and (3) five pairs
stockings—notwithstanding that fiance is
at hand daily.
A young woman acquaintance, re-
cently wed to a farmer, had a supply of
at least seven years’ linen and house-
hold goods, which, estimated conser-
vatively, was worth £2OO. Her argu-
ment: “We’re going to have a struggle
at first and won’t want to pay for towels
and things.” She worked for hers, too.
Father, a draper, helped, and, like most
fathers, footed the wedding bill.
There’s not much wrong with the
romantic notions of young women who
spend all their savings on household
goods, as so many do. Although taking
no actual cash to their new homes, they
must have acquired in buying a know-
ledge of merchandise values which will
be a material asset to the family purse
for life —Nota Bene (S.A.).
“The Farmer’s Daughter”
Can a farmer’s daughter express her
mind, in the “Other Fellow’s” column,
about the comparative culture of country
blokes?
A study of The Bulletin itself may
help to solve the problem. The Bulletin
has always appealed to the men on the
land, and its columns have to a great ex-
tent been filled by their writings.
There is no need to give the names of
its star contributors. They are engraved on
the roll of fame. Their owners have set
the standard of Australian literature in
verse and prose, classic and vernacular.
Stockmen, farmers, prospectors, ■ swag-
men —they have penned words of wit and
wisdom to delight and edify all classes of
readers of both town and country. From
the evidence of Australian books it would
appear that most of our romantic history
was made and written by country blokes.
The real reason why farmers’ daughters
leave the farm is not hard to find. Our
politicians have decreed that the single
young man in the city must have a wage
to support a purely imaginary wife and
family. At the same time they ignore the
existence of the actual wife and family


of the farmer who produces the wealth
from which the basic wage is drawn.
There is no basic wage for the farmer,
nor dole for his daughter. The poor girl
is not lured to the city by the glamor of
its boys. She is often driven from home
by the necessity of finding a job. She
knows that culture does not consist in the
nice conduct of a cocktail glass, the cut
of a coat or the sound of an aspirate.
C. J. Dennis was a country bloke who
was neither uncouth nor unkind. He
understood the men in the towns and the
men outback, and everyone who has
mixed much with the opposite sex will
agree with him when he says:—•
l have studied them in bunches,
An’ I’ve read ’em one by one;
An’ there ain’t much between them
When the whole thing’s said an’ done.
•—Mary Daid (S.A.).
Training of Volunteers
Whilst evading the issue of reintro-
ducing universal training, the Govern-
ment has done little to speed up the train-
ing of our volunteer forces.
This could be accomplished by hav-
ing two nights a week drill-hall instruc-
tion and two camps a year. It would
also ensure our having an efficient and
formidable army at all times.
Much of the drill-hall instruction, par-
ticularly of the technical type, is for-
gotten by recruits in the course of a
week. This is very trying to
already-overworked n.c.os.
The majority of our present
militiamen are very keen, are
eager for advancement, and
would not object to the extra
training entailed. — Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Local Color
Is not the publishers’ (The Bulletin’s
included) cry “Give us stories with a
strong Australian background” rather
overinsistent? When a naturalised Aus-
tralian writer has assimilated the charac-
teristics of the country, an Australian
atmosphere must naturally creep into any-
thing he writes, if only through the use
of colloquialisms. But surely his work
need not be generously peppered with
gumtrees and goannas, kangaroos, koalas
and kookaburras to take its place among
Australian literature?
A young Scotch friend of mine has
been in this country 15 years, and is as
dinkum an Aussie in outlook and charac-
ter as the Digger whose fbrebears were
among the first to ply Binghi with
bacca. But are his literary endeavors to
be discouraged because he has never been
far from Perth, and wouldn’t know a
dingo from a dingbat or how to make a
damper? Everything he’s written could
have happened anywhere in the world,
and proof that" his stuff is acceptable is
the fact that most of it has been printed
in minor Australian publications which
do not pursue a fanatically pro-Australian
policy.
Of course there’s the other extreme.
The other day I read in a magazine, pub-
lished in Sydney, and a self-styled dyed-
in-the-wool Aussie, a yarn employing the
dialogue of American tough guys —and
the currency was in dollars! — Willair
(W.A.).
A South African in Australia
It is, in my opinion, a thousand pities
that Australians do not let the outside
world know more about the wonderful
country they are privileged to live in. As
a South African visitor, I am delighted
with all I have seen in Australia. Syd-
ney surpassed in size my wildest expec-
tations ; bridge, Blue Mountains, beaches
are outstanding. And Canberra is the
best-planned city I have ever visited.
The warm hospitality and friendliness
of the Aussies have to be experienced to
be appreciated. I came here for three
months to get thoroughly acquainted with
Australians and Australia at first-hand ;
therefore I have done house-to-house
canvassing for a charitable institution,
have slept in a Salvation Army shelter,
and have stayed in some of the best
hotels in Australia. I have spoken to
Cabinet Ministers and to tramps, and I
agree with Zane Grey (whom I had the
good fortune to meet over here) that
Australians are a fine lot
There is just one bit of criticism;
quite frankly, I think Australians are far
too interested in horseracing.—G. N. L.
(N.S.W).
Earning Two Guineas
The A.B.C. is often accused of being
extravagant.
Here in Melbourne if you happen to
think of anything which the A.B.C. de-
cides will not bore listeners any more
than the average talk which goes over,
you will, in due course, get a cheque for
two guineas. You will first have written
two thousand words on your subject, and
made required alterations. You will have
taken time off to practise speaking at a
microphone, and later —nervous, with
your voice three keys higher than normal
—you will have spoken your little piece
for 20 minutes.
Two guineas for 2000 printed words is
below A.J.A. rates. — Blah (Vic.).
Control of the Press
J. N. Rookledge (B. 14/6/’39) presents
a true bill against the community when
he states that the majority of newspaper
readers lack “a first-rate critical faculty,”
but he is a little too hard on a long-suffer-
ing profession when he attributes this
to the fact that teachers do not “teach
people to think and form their own
opinions.” Apparently he imagines that
first-rate critical faculties can be de-
veloped in those who do not possess first-
rate brains ; or else he believes that most
people have first-rate brains.
If thinking could be taught in schools
we should have entered the millennium
long ago, but the sad fact is that the
ability to think is native and not to be
acquired, as the Athenians demonstrated
when, because he tried to make them
think, they handed Socrates the fatal cup.
No amount of teaching will ever make
the community as a whole capable of
intelligent criticism and independent judg-
ment. The majority will always take
“ Shoo! ”
their opinions ready-made from their
favorite newspaper or radio. It follows
then that the community will always be
at the mercy of the disseminators of news
and views, and that we can prevent the
debauching of the public mind only by
keeping editorial positions for men of
the highest intelligence and integrity and
by giving them a great measure of inde-
pendence in the conduct of their journals.
A physician who cares for the bodies
of a limited number of people, and so
has comparatively limited opportunities
of doing harm, is expected to subscribe
to a very high and a very strict code.
A journalist whose writings may affect
the social and mental welfare of hundreds
of thousands may have the ethics of an
astrologer and the morals of a Port Said
postcard-seller—and it’s nobody’s busi-
ness.
If an editor guilty of “infamous con-
duct in a professional sense ” could be
dealt with by a tribunal of his fellow-
craftsmen and debarred from the prac-
tice of his profession, we should soon
have an end of the warmonger and the
mud-slinger.— lchabod Crane (N.S.W.).
Wool Bounty-
Sounds all right: everybody else is
subsidised, why not woolgrowers? But
already taxation is excessive in Australia,
and a wool bonus would mean increased
taxation, on primary production as well
as any other. The bulk of Australians,
including woolgrowers, would actually
be worse off, because the taxgatherer
would take his cut of the bonus in tran-
sit from one pocket to the other of the
primary producer.
Examine the question of costs. In my
own case I can save 18s. Id. per ton by
sending wool (from Julia Creek, N.Q.)
via Normanton, and can also effect little
savings here and there in insurance, for-
warding charges, etc. The first saving
cuts out the railways, and the second
cuts out financial firms. The rail freights
are exorbitant, and a better administra-
tion could easily cut its charges to meet
me. The financial firms, however, are in
no happier position than I am. They
take enormous risks, and, considering
that risk, interest and commission charges
are reasonable.
My case may represent only a small
portion of the north-west of Queensland.
Taking the whole industry throughout
Australia, it seems quite obvious that our
main troubles are subsidies, whether by
high tariffs or bad political administra-
tion and sinful waste of other people’s
money. The cost of all this is passed on
to the woolgrower, who is the end of a
long line, with no one to pass the buck to.
It would appear to me that industries
which have been subsidised, direct and
by way of high tariffs, are making exces-
sive profits and also causing reprisals
from foreign woolbuying countries. We
should either lessen these subsidies or
charge excess profits tax. Truly, a lot
could be done in the way of costs with-
out worrying about bonuses. —J. S. Lips-
comb (N.Q.).
Dead-end Jobs
A radio commentator recently criti-
cised youth welfare organisations for re-
fusing numerous offers of work for boys
owing to the positions offered being only
“dead-end” jobs. His argument was that
any kind of employment was surely better
for the boy than idleness. This may
look all right on the face of it, but it
won’t bear analysis.
It would be true if refusing the “dead-
end” job was certain to result in idleness,
but it does not necessarily mean idleness.
A “bird in the hand” is not always worth
“two in the bush,” especially if the bird
is sure to peg out before it has been long
enough in hand to prove worth having.
The boy still has a chance of something
that will not be a “dead-end” job. But
once he takes the “dead-end” job he
is doomed. Surely we have seen enough
of the tragedy of lads thrown out at the
end of the “dead-end” job—too old for
any position, and with the opportunity
to train for a trade quite gone.
Instead of scornfully contrasting idle-
ness with the virtues of a “dead-end”
job, every voice should be raised to de-
mand regulation to control an evil sys-
tem which not only sweats a youth’s
labor, but robs him of his future man-
hood.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
The Simple Things
Where are the musical evenings of the
past? Those jolly evenings full of fun
when we invited our friends along and
everyone did his or her bit, with or with-
out the necessary talent and tuition.
“How awful!” from you, perhaps.
No ; they were jolly good fun. Especially
when Aunt Kate hoisted her 15 stone
out of the best armchair and recited “The
Song of the Shirt” and Uncle Anthony
sang “Asleep in the Deep,” the accom-
panist losing the place four times and
finishing a bad second.
We all laughed at one another, but it
was all good fun. Nowadays I’m invited
to a bridge evening and sit yawning and
straining my eyes over the cards with
other people who play as badly as I do.
The other alternative is dancing, which
I loathe.
And where are the jolly parties of
yesteryear? Watching a children’s birth-
day party the other day in a public res-
taurant, I looked at the bored faces of
the kiddies and thought of all the jolly,
happy family parties of my own child-
hood.
Then ornate birthday cakes and deco-
rations were non-existent, and elaborate
savories and things to eat were also
absent. But there were simple homely
things, and lots of fun and games, mother
and father joining in and enjoying them-
selves as much as the kids.
Have children really altered so much?
I don’t think so. — Cityite (N.S.W.).
Are Politicians Above the Law?
Why are politicians and aspiring ones
immune from common laws? If I go
about hawking shares in Moonbeams
Unlimited, I have to produce the goods
or stand before the Beak, but a political
candidate can stand on a public plat-
form, offer to deliver the moon wrapped
in tissue paper, give all sorts of weird
promises, and then forget them after he
is elected.
Surely the common law should protect
us to the extent that, when we buy some-
thing with our votes, we have the right
to expect delivery of it. A man seeking
election and speaking in a public place
before witnesses should be held respon-
sible for what he promises ; if he is speak-
ing for his party’s pledge, then that
should be held responsible. Lang, for
example, promised growers 7s. 6d. a
bushel for their wheat, but he wasn’t de-
clared bankrupt for failing to fulfil his
promise.
Every election sees dozens of other
instances. Politicians hawk their
services and we pay with our votes.
Surely a public deal of that sort is bind-
ing and has its obligations in common
law. — Pol (Q.).
These Knighthoods
What has one to do in this country
to earn a knighthood? So few poor men
are ever knighted that one would almost
think that knighthood is an empty honor
restricted almost entirely to the wealthy
class. A man becomes a Lord Mayor
and does the ordinary things expected
of him, another sends a few big cheques
to charities, and they are well on the
road to knighthood.
A man without money might give all
that it is possible for him to give to his
country, but he has no more chance of
getting a knighthood than he has of
jumping over the moon. A working
man who gives an occasional pound or
shilling to charity often makes a fat-
greater sacrifice than the man who gives
in thousands.
The knighthood business in this coun-
try seems to be a farce which is likely
to develop into a kind of class hatred.
It is a plaything for politicians and a
drawcard for party funds. If we must
have honor lists, then institute a body on
similar lines to the Lifesaving Society,
and let it decide who are to be honored.
Everyone knows that the King has little
or nothing to do with the matter. —
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Another Asks for It
It has repeatedly been said that elec-
tors —particularly the younger generation
—take little or no interest in politics. To
counteract this indifference, why not
broadcast from Parliament all important
debates?
Besides giving listeners an insight into
Parliamentary procedure, it would en-
able electors to judge their members'
ability. What is more, knowing the de-
bate is on the air, politicians would
naturally endeavor to give a good im-
pression of themselves, and instead of
wasting time hurling flippant remarks at
one another might get on with urgent
national problems. At any rate, the
debates couldn’t be any more boring than
some of the talks at present coming over
the radio.—V. A. K. (W.A.).
One Member—Two Electorates
One of the best alibis of the member
for Woop Woop around about election
time is that his city brethren, united by
a common interest and numerically
stronger, can outvote him every time.
The result is that the city boys can build
bridges, parks and magnificent public
buildings for their constituents, while
the folk at Woop Woop continue to
grumble in vain about impossible roads,
comic-opera railways, etc., etc.
Though good Australians, we are
afraid to advocate the complete
scrapping of State Governments. Can-
berra has made such a bungle of *the
Northern Territory that we know only
too well what would happen to Woop


Woop after a few Royal Commissions
had sympathised with us and departed.
A better plan would be to reduce the
number of seats in our State Parliaments
by half, pair off the old electorates so
that each city division is coupled with
an outback division and regard these two
as one. For instance, Woop Woop and
Park-avenue would become the one
electorate, although they may be
separated by a thousand miles.
In these circumstances we would
each be represented by only half a
member, but would he dare neglect out-
back development in favor of city
beautification? Of course, if he did, we
would have a very reliable remedy—on
polling day! —J. Me. (Q.).
“Isms”
“Isms” are delightful playthings. Adopt
one and you have a “cause” and, what
is more, a reading public.
“Isms,” for their acceptance, require
nothing more than a childlike faith;
their strength is not derived from any
great philosophic truth; Communism,
Fascism and Liberalism did not impress
by their philosophies alone, but by that
might which lends no small aid to any
philosophic prayer.
But “impartial” historians, “disinter-
ested” economists and “impersonal”
novelists still cross pens in the battle of
“isms.” Each proclaims his reality, and
each calls upon the others to be realists,
but, in a crisis, all of them are lost in a
maze of terminology and rely upon the
“isms” to muddle through.
Maybe, someday, they will learn the
meaning of impartiality, and then we
may expect some commonsense.—W.
Luchetti (N.S.W.).
Leaders and Leadership
We do not need men trained for
leadership ; we need men who are able
to fill the ranks behind the leader. We
need honest, conscientious workingmen,
the successful family men who are the
very fibre of the nation ; men trained
from their earliest boyhood to be men, real
men, whose education has been directed
in the development of character. We
need men who have been taught the best
uses of their spare time, who can hang
a picture on a wall without occasioning
a domestic upheaval. Men who are
ambitious for their families’ welfare, for
the family is the essential unit in our
form of government.
The young man must be given a
chance. Any man who works a reason-
able number of hours is surely entitled
to a wage sufficient to support a wife.
I am thinking particularly of farmhands.
At the moment we are breeding a race
of social rebels and sightseeing politi-
cians. Eliminate the latter and you will
remove the greatest cause for the former.
It is not that we lack potential leaders
or do not give them sufficient opportu-
nities. A man destined to be a leader
does not need to be given chances; he
makes them. But we all cannot be
leaders, and those who cannot come to
the front are the ones who require en-
couragement.
Our educational systems (and most cer-
tainly we must abolish the necessity for
the plural) need to be brought into line
with present-day requirements. Schools
should give a greater education in ethics
and social science, particularly to that
section which pertains to family Ife. I
do not mean sex educaton ; I mean the
responsibilities and duties that a man
owes his wife, a father his children and
a son his sire. Even to-day the Aris-
totelian philosophy is as true as ever. The
fundamental, the essential, unit is the
family unit.— Martin Brady (Vic.).
Free Speech and Slums
Of late the question of democracy has
been exercising the minds of quite a
number of writers to the “0.F.M.” pages.
They all seem to agree that totalitarian-
ism can be credited with a number of
laudable achievements, including youth
welfare, training of young manhood, the
abolition of slums and the creation of
garden cities, just to mention a few.
Nevertheless, these results are contemptu-
ously dismissed as possessing little value
compared with liberty and freedom.
Subjected to closer analysis, it would
seem that in these writers’ minds democ-
racy means nothing more than the right
of free speech. There we have it. Un-
dernourished children, slums, wasting
manhood, the extremes of wealth and
poverty and the greed of money-power
must be endured rather than that the right
of free speech be curtailed or denied. If
that right is the only justification for the
continued existence of democracy, then
it is not worth all the portentous warn-
ings that vigilance is necessary for its
preservation. Furthermore, where are
the multitudes thirsting for the right of
free speech? “R.H.M.” (B. 17/5/’39),
another of the solemn warners, admits
that this right is being challenged because
of the apathy of the people. Exactly.
The great masses of the people do not
care a tuppenny damn for this much-
vaunted privilege. Hence it is probable
that Mutability, the policeman of Time,
will shortly charge democracy with being
without visible means of support. —
Memoros (W.A.).
But What Do WE Want?
Apparently the attainment of some of
the Nazi objectives would be at our ex-
pense ; and if this is so we are right in
taking counter-measures. The first neces-
sity is to arm, as we are doing, but it is
not sufficient. The really effective oppo-
nent of one set of ideas is another set of
ideas. We must strengthen our own
ideology until it has the force and clarity
of Nazism. We must shift the focus so
that it is no longer on what Hitler wants,
but on what we want. Democracy must
again take the dominant position.
This does not mean that the ideology
of democracy must set itself at the
throat of the totalitarian ideology as one
dog at another ; but it does mean that
democracy must be revitalised so that, in
every way, it is obviously superior to any
other political system, it means also that
those who come under its aegis must have
a wholehearted belief in it —a belief that
can only become general when it begins
to work better than it does now.
To bring this about we, as a people,
need a clearer conception of what democ-
racy is. We must be able, for instance,
to distinguish between democracy and
laissez-faire, to know when liberty be-
comes license, and to recognise where
the balance should be struck between the
common good and that of the individual.
Knowing concertedly what we want is
the important thing. To be mesmerised
by what someone else wants without any
clear objectives of our own is the surest
way to defeat. —T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Cure or Prevention
Under the heading “Gangster Crime
and Cure,” a section of the “Daily Yell”
charges the Police Commissioner with
whimsicality when he says that the crime
wave is due to the going to gaol and the
getting out of gaol of bands of criminals.
Then the “Yell” goes blithely on to sub-
mit that “a few heavy sentences would
take the glamor out of the juvenile Ned
Kelly business.”
Modern psychologists claim that crime
begins in the cradle and that its causes
are manifold, ranging from inherited
physical flaws to influences of environ-
ment. Before a child has reached adoles-
cence he or she will havq already de-
veloped traits of character which are both
permanent and fateful, and no amount
of subsequent “splinting” can satisfac-
torily straighten the bent twig.
Reformatories are breeding places for
crime, and our gaols are full of men who
passed through these so-called “correc-
tive” institutions. What qualifications
are imposed upon those seeking appoint-
ments as reformatory officers? Not
many years ago N.S.W. had a “home”
ruled by a person who was subse-
quently dismissed for brutality.
The Government would do well to
discover and treat the causes of crime
rather than bemoaning the effects of it.
A body of psychologists and psychiatrists
should be appointed to investigate the
position, and seminaries should be set up
scientifically to explore and to treat
juvenile delinquency. If a lad is a thief
it is obvious that he lacks a sense of
meum and team, and it is absurd to sug-
gest that the imposition of a long gaol
sentence will supply the deficiency.
Gaol is only for “incorrigibles,” and
that word does not appear in the psycholo-
gists’ dictionary.— Willyn (N.S.W.).
Young Women’s Welfare
One of the most neglected of Govern-
ment or voluntary sociological duties is
that of the promotion of organised effort
to help the working girl. Particularly
the young women —there are thousands
—who for numerous reasons are re-
quired to live away from home. Not
only those who have to fend for them-
selves in such circumstances, but the
thousands who are at home with parents
whose positions in society leave the
daughters bereft of opportunity to
further their cultural, social and eco-
nomic welfare.
The means to overcome the disabilities
of a neglected education or a poor train-
ing in domestics are denied them ; they
are burdened by what Lord Lytton
calls:
Those twin gaolers of the daring heart,
Low birth and iron fortune.
The girl on a small wage who can
barely subsist, and the girl on a better
salary who has dependents, should, in
“the few pauses and intervals of a life
toil,” be able to have a full-blooded,
active participation in numerous help-
ful social harbors.
It is important from a national and
citizenship standpoint that the future
mothers of the Commonwealth should
have access to some organised society
where they may employ their leisure
hours. It is a national matter, and should
be sponsored by the Government, on
similar lines to the “youth movements’
in Germany and Italy and to a lesser
degree in Britain.
With the aid of some paid organisers,
and many who would be willing to lend
their service, branches of a girls’ wel-
fare movement could be established
throughout the country in cities and
towns (using State school buildings for
headquarters or branches), where girls
of any creed or class could get vocational
guidance, advice and help on any sub-
ject. Eventually libraries, sewing and
mending equipment, sports material and
musical instruments, etc., might become
available to them. And the initial work
of competent organisers in each capital
city could be greatly assisted by pub-
licity from A.B.C. — Lesley Lewis (Vic.).
Art for Art’s Sake
Having read with keen interest the
complaints from time to time between
the red covers of lack of appreciation of
Australian literature by the public with
the money, I rise to remark that I don’t
blame the public a bit. As a reader I’ve
got plenty of drought and misery,
half-caste kids, metho. addicts, un-
employment and other ills inside
my own particular little circle of
acquaintances or personal experience
(as the case may be), and I bar
these and similar subjects from the book-
seller’s stock of entertainment. I want
to forget ’em and go for the hair-raising,
sizzling, breath-taking tale-tellers whose
livers are in good order and whose imagi-
nations are well oiled up, whether they
are classed as classics or yellowbacks.
As a writer I don’t expect or want any
patriotic sentiment in favor of Australian
literature to give me the returns which
are my bread and butter. All I ask is
a tip as to what the public wants, so that
I can give it to ’em as Dickens, Zola,
“O. Henry,” and others who are still
amongst the literary gods, in spite of
their commercial leanings, did.
First, any Australian writer to succeed
must get the public with him, or at least
the particular section he caters for.
11l Australia the population is not big
enough for any particular section of
literature of the Art-for-Art’s-sake
variety to yield him a return large enough
to keep him away from more remunera-
tive occupations while he lives in his
garret waiting for the success which
means fame and fortune. We haven’t
enough realists amongst our readers
to provide more than the basic wage for
authors who stick to realism. When we
get that 100,000,000 population we prob-
ably will have ’em, but in the meantime
the key to the writing game is summed
up in the philosophy of the fellow who
makes us forget that Australia is a place
where life is mostly froth and bubble,
with a mortgage on it, and a drought set-
ting in.
Anyhow, my choice as a reader is
something that keeps me so excited that
I never think of all the miseries we have
in Australia, the finest country on earth,
but makes me laugh with the author and
his characters, gets me angry with them
and lets me forget that the grave or gaol
or the tax-collector or Hitler is wait-
ing round the corner for me. As my sole
recreation is reading books, bought or
hired, the authors might do worse than
give me consideration. As a writer I
have no complaints at all. Father’s
Voice (N.S.W.).
Beaches and Beauties
The belle of the ballroom has passed
into oblivion. There is no room for her
in the hurly-burly of the modern dance-
hall, where people jig up and down a
floor together, everyone being doomed to
do this with the same few partners the
night through.
For a substitute we have the belle of
the beach, and the beach, offering no
setting for its belles as does the ball-
room, it is necessary to make the whole
affair competitive. Thus beauty is be-
coming blazoned and commercialised.
In former days girls earned husbands
with their beauty, fragile and befrilled
as it was. To-day they earn hard cash
with it by strutting up and down plat-
forms in beauty contests. Half the time
their beauty is not even skin-deep —it
comes off in the first wave. Figures are
sometimes good; mostly not so good.
Perhaps if the affairs were run on a
grand scale the spectacle would be worth
seeing. If there was a weeding-out of
hopeless competitors before the final
grand show; if those privileged to enter
the finals were drilled and given some
idea of deportment and of displaying
their beauty to the best advantage; if
standards were generally raised and the
interest of responsible citizens gained,
then the name beauty contest and the
actual event might be synonymous.
There is no reason why a beach-beauty
contest should not be the event of the
season. The competitors should be will-
ing to pay an entrance fee, and also the
onlookers. The funds gained thereby
would be a welcome supplement to those
of the local lifesaving club. — Conrad
Child (Q.).
“Yes, Please”
“That shop-assistant was positively
rude to me.” Perhaps you have heard
a woman pass that remark at some time
or other.
I am a shop-assistant, and I’d like to
state that it is very difficult at times not
to be “positively rude” to some of the
customers that I encounter.
This is an example of 80 per cent, of
the women making a purchase: “I’d like
a packet of kalsomine,” says the cus-
tomer. “Er—that’s the stuff you do the
walls with, isn’t it? Mrs. Jones bought a
packet last week, and she was telling
me”
“Yes, yes,” I break in, .handing her
a color chart; “what color would you
like?”
“Color? Oh, really, I haven’t given
that much thought. Color? Goodness,
I wonder what would look nice?”
She studies the chart for about ten
minutes, meanwhile keeping up an end-
less chatter, then says:
“Green, how would a nice green look?
No ... I don’t think I’d like green.
Too Irish, isn’t it? I know, a pale'blue.
That’s it—a pale blue. It would match
the curtains.” She continues in the same
vein for another five minutes, then defi-
nitely decides on a mauve.
I wrap up, the packet, make a neat
parcel and tie a loop in the string and
inquire if that will be all.
But the woman is studying the color
card again, and she goes on:
“I wonder if that mauve would be all
right? I’ve got pink in the carpet. Do
you think it would clash? Now, there’s
a nice pink. A more delicate shade, isn’t
it? And it would match the quilt, too.
I think I’ll have the pink.”
Well, I wrap this one up (not forgetting
to tie a loop in the string ; it makes it
easier to carry, you.know), while the
lady fumbles in her purse for the money.
Another five minutes pass, and after
groping to the depths of her shopping-
bag and tipping the whole of the con-
tents of both purse and bag on the
counter she finally produces the money.
This is only one example of the people
(both sexes) that shop-assistants have to
contend with. There are hundreds of
similar cases during the day, so can you
blame us if sometimes we may become
“positively rude”? —D. Ryland (N.S.W.).
The Greatest Dictator!
We’ve heard of several dictators in this
world of ours to-day, but strange to say
the “greatest” of them all has never been
mentioned as one. I refer to Chamber-
lain of England.
When I make this statement I do so
with reservations. He is a democrat to
my mind, a dictator in the other fellow s
mind.” He has been accused of “appeas-
ing” the totalitarian States, refusing to
sign pacts with “democratic nations, mis-
leading Parliament, and several other
misdemeanors. Whilst this is going on
his accusers still speak of our de-
mocracy.” Never once has his party or
even Cabinet come in for censure. So
one is safe in saying he is a dictator.
The press and radio have been very
severe in their condemnation. If Cham-
berlain’s policy did not suit his party I
venture to suggest he would be replaced.
Nothing has been done, so evidently the
policy suits England. Again let me say it
is all right to my mind, but the “other
fellow’s mind” seems my especial care.
One of our “national” commentators (1
was about to say “condemnators”) is
consistent in his denunciation. It’s a pity
he isn’t once again in Parliament, so
that we might have the benefit of his
knowledge! — Argus (S.A.).


3
A
m
<HL OAZ>
6. (fOfttCUV
juuuL UuA
I®)
Mirrors Tell—
If you are a woman, you
peer in the mirror often. That’s
natural. You want to look your
best at all times. But your
mirror can tell you more than
you think.
The next time you look in
your mirror, put out your
tongue. Not because you don’t
like yourself—but because you
do. Now examine your tongue.
Is it coated with a furry, white
or yellowish substance?
A Sure Sign—
A coated tongue is an almost
positive sign of constipation.
Remember how the doctor
says, "Let me see your
tongue." He knows that a
coated tongue usually means
constipation. And he knows
that constipation is the most
common cause of headaches,
dizziness, biliousness, blotched
skin, ‘‘that tired feeling," and
many worse ailments.
Nature’s Remedy—
When a coated tongue tells
you of constipation, act at
once. Don’t wait for something
worse to happen. Help nature
back to normal with a natural
laxative —with a good gentle
laxative with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
You will like the way Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills act.
There is no griping pain, no
depressing sickness. Swiftly
and smoothly the herbal in-
gredients stir the intestines into
activity. Soon the poisonous
wastes that were coating your
tongue are gone. Then consti-
pation cannot endanger your
health.
For coated tongue, for any
of the symptoms of common
constipation, four generations
of women have preferred the
natural remedy—Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Dr. Morses
m\ttmwwww<<4ttH4ttww
►
s.
L^nssa
Ay
QwtkLiver PILLS
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills are a high gri
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
'right.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
md general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
F
TO “TTHE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-J
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
' BITERS
M Robert KtthttA
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb, 4s^
Bush Greyhounds, Fox
terriers and many
others m this
m
splendid book
on Dogs.
-Now reduced
to 2/2 _
(post cP
?<
&
4
0
o
0°
io © A 6 ’
5©
IlffrtV*
,^V/°
\\© V *\
# s ‘


Stops Coughs in 30 Seconds!
KILLS Colds in ONE Day!
New TRIPLE -ACIINC Treatment
COUGHS.CeUS.FU.
Whooping Cough , Croup , Bronchitis , Catarrh
10 Vital Benefits!
1. Stops pain in throat and
chest.
2. Reduces temperature
eases headaches.
3. Loosens phlegm.
4. Stops the spasms of
coughing.
5. Ends sniffling.
6. Clears nose, throat and
bronchial tubes of germ-
laden mucus.
7. Soothes and heals the
inflamed mucous mem-
branes.
8. Makes breathing easy and
clear.
9. Assists digestion.
10. Soothes tickling nerves
—brings sweet sleep.
TAXI DRIVER'S PRAISE
“I am a taxi driver—always risking
infection from passengers. I got
a really bad cold recently and took
Mountain Peppermint Mixture. The
cold went quickly and the cough
I usually have afterwards dis-
appeared. Mountain Peppermint
is quick and thorough.”
(Sgd.) W.R.S., Sydney. 16/3/39.
Scientific Control
m
Manufactured in the
Bidomak Laboratories
— one of the most
up - to - date hygienic
Laboratories in the
Southern Hemis-
phere, to which is
attached a fully
qualified Doctor of
Medicine, and under
the control of
Chemists who were trained in the most
modern and largest English Laboratories
in the world.
Triple-acting Mountain Peppermint Mixture, compound of demulcent Carrageen,
Peppermint and Thymus, acts through the blood-stream—therefore it’s faster in
banishing Coughs, Colds and ’Flu. Hacking, dry, hard Coughs stop in 30 seconds.
Colds are killed in one day. You enjoy IMMEDIATE benefit!
Mountain Mixture combines preventative, nutritive ingredients for
the lungs, bronchial tubes, mucous membranes, with anti-germ
properties which penetrate and impregnate the membrane cells.
It soothes, it heals, it DEFENDS!
Pain goes, coughing stops, accumulated
phlegm rapidly disappears under its
beneficial action.
Get Mountain Mixture TO-DAY! It’s as
safe for babies as for grown-ups. The
ideal economical, fast-acting family
treatment. All chemists and stores stock
Mountain Mixture, and recommend its
safe, rapid, soothing, healing help.
mi
M
I
*? ,m
lil
| «7
5# J
W\
m
m
iiilplilll
5 ' ■," " 5
Quick Relief
Delights Child's Mother
“Your wonderful mixture, Mountain Peppermint,
was recommended by my chemist for my little
girl, who had a very severe attack of bronchitis.
Besides a heavy cough she was suffering
from a sore throat, aches, pains and a very
high temperature.
“Right from the first dose she showed a big
improvement and after three days the only sign
of her complaint was a very slight cough.
“She has had this dreadful complaint before
and has never got relief for a week or longer.
This time, thanks to your wonderful remedy,
relief was almost instantaneous. Mountain
Peppermint will always be in my home.”
(Sgd.) Mrs. M. L—., C—,113.1*39.
Obtainable at ALL
Chemists and Stores
Double-size
Family Bottle
36
4 oz. Bottle
2/3
Manufactured
in the famous
BIDOMAK
Pharmaceutical
Laboratories
mmM
s ha«™L Bo Jxie
8 FLUID BZS
■ ERE!
DEFENCE
a
WHOOPING COUGH
CROUP
t BRONCHITIS
VCOUGHSeCOLDSJ
ere.
DOSE: Adu
Ammonium,
0
S&SSSSSSSS:
P liPi
: J?-.\ ■.■• A'’
W
*^l
--
£
/?f£f
M
9
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
Product of the Douglas Dr«r Company, Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Sole Wholesale Agents for Tasman...
Fairthorne & Son Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
